CHAPTER I.
THE NEW MEN AT THE WHEEL.

It was on the first of October, 1791, that the new Legislative Assemblywas to be inaugurated over France.
King Louis XVI., captured with Queen Marie Antoinette and the royalfamily, while attempting to escape from the kingdom and join hisbrothers and the other princes abroad, was held in a kind of detention,like imprisonment without hard labor, in the Tuileries Palace in Paris.
His fate hung on the members of the new House of Representatives. Letus hasten to see what they were.
The Congress was composed of seven hundred and forty-five members: fourhundred lawyers of one kind or another; some seventy literary men;seventy priests who had taken the oath to abide by the Constitution,not yet framed, but to which the king had subscribed on the sketch. Theremaining two hundred odd were landholders, farming their own estatesor hiring them out to others.
Among these was François Billet, a robust peasant of forty-five,distinguished by the people of Paris and France as a hero, from havingbeen mainly instrumental in the taking of the Bastile, regarded as theembodiment of the ancient tyranny, now almost leveled with the dust.
Billet had suffered two wrongs at the hands of the king's men and thenobles, which he had sworn to avenge as well on the classes as on theindividuals.
His farm-house had been pillaged by Paris policemen acting under ablank warrant signed by the king and issued at the request of Andreade Taverney, Countess of Charny, the queen's favorite, as her husbandthe count was reckoned, too. She had a spite against Billet's friend,Dr. Honore Gilbert, a noted patriot and politician. In his youth, thisafterward distinguished physician had taken advantage of her sensesbeing steeped in a mesmeric swoon, to lower her pride. Thanks to thistrance and from his overruling love, he was the progenitor of her son,Sebastian Emile Gilbert; but with all the pride of this paternity, hewas haunted by unceasing remorse. Andrea could not forgive this crime,all the more as it was a thorn in her side since her marriage.
It was a marriage enforced on her, as the Count of Charny had beencaught by the king on his knees to the queen; and to prevent thestupid monarch being convinced by this scene that there was truth inthe tattle at court that Count Charny was Marie Antoinette's paramour,she had explained that he merely was suing for the hand of her friendAndrea. The king's consent given, this marriage took place, but forsix years the couple dwelt apart; not that mutual love did not prevailbetween them, but neither was aware of the affection each had inspiredin the other at first sight.
The new countess thought that Charny's affection for the queen was aguilty and durable one; while he, believing his wife, by compulsion,a saint on earth, dared not presume on the position which fate anddevotion to their sovereign had imposed on them both.
This devotion was confirmed on the count's part, cemented by blood;for his two brothers, Valence and Isidore, had lost their lives indefending the king and queen from the revolutionists.
Andrea had a brother, Philip, who also loved the queen, but he had beenoffended by her amour with Charny; and, being touched by an Americanrepublican fever while fighting with Lafayette for the liberation ofthe thirteen colonies, he had quitted the court of France.
On his way he had wounded Gilbert, whom he learned to be his sister'swronger, as well as having stolen away her infant son; but althoughthe wound would have been mortal under other treatment, it had beenhealed by the wondrous medicaments of Joseph Balsamo, _alias_ CountCagliostro, the celebrated head of the Invisibles, a branch of theOrient Freemasons, dedicated to overthrow the monarchy and set up arepublic, after the United States model, in France, if not in Europe.
Gilbert and Cagliostro were therefore fast friends, to say nothing ofthe latter's regret that he should have set temptation in the youngman's way; it was he who had plunged Andrea into the magnetic slumberfrom which she had awakened a maid no longer.
But some recompense had come to the proud lady, after the sixyears' wedded life to the very man she adored, though fate andmisunderstanding had estranged them. On learning what a martyr shehad been through the unconscious motherhood, Count George had morethan forgiven her--he worshiped her; and in their country seat atBoursonnes, eighteen miles from Paris, he was forgetting, in her lovelyarms the demands of his queen, his king, and his caste, to use hisinfluence in the political arena.
This silence on his part led to the candidature of Farmer Billet beingunimpeded.
Besides, Charny would hardly have moved in opposition to the latter,as one cause of the enmity of the peasant was his daughter's ruin byViscount Isidore Charny. The death of the latter, not being by Billet'shand, had not appeased the grudge. He was a stern, unrelenting man; andjust as he would not forgive his daughter Catherine for her dishonor,or even look upon her son, he stood out uncompromisingly against thenobles and the priests.
Charny had stolen his daughter; the clergy, in the person of his parishpriest, Father Fortier, had refused burial to his wife.
On her grave he had vowed eternal hostility to the nobles and theclericals.
The farmers had great power at election time, as they employed ten,twenty, or thirty hands; and though the suffrage was divided into twoclasses at the period, the result depended on the rural vote.
As each man quitted Billet at the grave, he shook him by the hand,saying:
"It is a sure thing, brother."
Billet had gone home to his lonely farm, easy on this score; for thefirst time he saw a plain way of returning the noble class and royaltyall the harm they had done him. He felt, but did not reason, and histhirst for vengeance was as blind as the blows he had received.
His daughter had come home to nurse her mother, and receive at the lastgasp her blessing and for her son, born in shame; but Billet had saidnever a word to her; none could tell if he were aware of her flittingthrough the farm. Since a year he had not uttered her name, and it wasthe same as if she had never existed.
Her only friend was Ange Pitou, a poor peasant lad whom Billet hadharbored when he was driven from home by his Aunt Angelique.
As Catherine was really the ruler of the roast on the farm, it was butnatural that Pitou should offer her some part of the gratitude Billethad earned. This excellent feeling expanded into love; but there waslittle chance for the peasant when the girl had been captivated by theelegant young lord, although the elevation common during revolution hadexalted Ange into a captaincy of the National Guards.
But Pitou had never swerved in his love for the deluded girl. He had aheart of gold; he was deeply sorry that Catherine had not loved him,but on comparing himself with young Charny, he acknowledged that shemust prefer him. He envied Isidore, but he bore Catherine no ill-will;quite otherwise, he still loved her with profound and entire devotion.
To say this dedication was completely exempt from anguish, is going toofar; but the pangs which made Pitou's heart ache at each new token ofCatherine's love for her dead lover, showed his ineffable goodness.
All his feeling for Catherine when Isidore was slain at Varennes,where Billet arrested the king in his flight, was of utter pity.Quite contrary to Billet, he did justice to the young noble in theway of grace, generosity, and kindness, though he was his rivalwithout knowing it. Like Catherine, he knew that the barriers of castewere insurmountable, and that the viscount could not have made hissweetheart his wife.
The consequence was that Pitou perhaps more loved the widow in hersorrow than when she was the coquettish girl, but it came to pass thathe almost loved the little orphan boy like his own.
Let none be astonished, therefore, that after taking leave of Billetlike the others, Ange went toward Haramont instead of Billet's farm,which might also be his home.
But he had lodgings at Haramont village, where he was born, and he waschief of the National Guards there.
They were so accustomed to his sudden departures and unexpectedreturns, that nobody was worried at them. When he went away, they saidto one another: "He has gone to town to confer with General Lafayette,"for the French lieutenant of General Washington was the friend, here asthere, of Dr. Gilbert, who was their fellow-peasants' patron, and hadfurnished the funds to equip the Haramont company of volunteers.
On their commander's return they asked news of the capital; and ashe could give the freshest and truest, thanks to Dr. Gilbert, who wasan honorary physician to the king as well as friend of Cagliostro--inother words, the communicator between the two Leyden jars of therevolution--Pitou's predictions were sure to be realized in a few days,so that all continued to show him blind trust, as well as militarycaptain as political prophet.
On his part, Gilbert knew all that was good and self-sacrificing inthe peasant; he felt that he was a man to whom he might at the scratchintrust his life or Sebastian's--a treasure or a commission, anythingconfided to strength and loyalty. Every time Pitou came to Paris, thedoctor would ask him if he stood in need of anything, without the youngman coloring up; and while he would always say, "Nothing, thank you,Doctor Gilbert," this did not prevent the physician giving him somemoney, which Pitou ingulfed in his pocket.
A few gold pieces, with what he picked up in the game shot or trappedin the Duke of Orleans' woods, were a fortune; so, rarely did he findhimself at the end of his resources when he met the doctor and had hissupply renewed.
Knowing, then, how friendly Pitou was with Catherine and her baby, itwill be understood that he hastily separated from Billet, to know howhis cast-off daughter was getting on.
His road to Haramont took him past a hut in the woods where lived aveteran of the wars, who, on a pension and the privilege of killing ahare or a rabbit each day, lived a happy hermit's life, remote fromman. Father Clovis, as this old soldier was called, was a great friendof Pitou. He had taught the boy to go gunning, and also the militarydrill by which he had trained the Haramont Guards to be the envy of thecounty. When Catherine was banished from her father's, after Billet hadtried to shoot Isidore, his hut sheltered her till after the birth ofher son. On her applying once more for the like hospitality, he hadnot hesitated; and when Pitou came along, she was sitting on the bed,with tears on her cheek at the revival of sad memories, and her boy inher arms.
On seeing the new-comer, Catherine set down the child and offeredher forehead for Pitou's kiss; he gladly took her two hands, kissedher, and the child was sheltered by the arch formed with his stoopingfigure. Dropping on his knees to her and kissing the baby's littlehands, he exclaimed:
"Never mind, I am rich; Master Isidore shall never come to want."
Pitou had twenty-five gold louis, which he reckoned to make him rich.Keen of wit and kind of heart, Catherine appreciated all that is good.
"Thank you, Captain Pitou," she said; "I believe you, and I am happy inso believing, for you are my only friend, and if you were to cast meoff, we should stand alone in the world; but you never will, will you?"
"Oh, don't talk like that," cried Pitou, sobbing; "you will make mepour out all the tears in my body."
"I was wrong; excuse me," she said.
"No, no, you are right; I am a fool to blubber."
"Captain Pitou," said Catherine, "I should like an airing. Give me yourarm for a stroll under the trees. I fancy it will do me good."
"I feel as if I were smothering myself," added Pitou.
The child had no need of air, nothing but sleep; so he was laid abed,and Catherine walked out with Pitou.
Five minutes after they were in the natural temple, under the hugetrees.
Without being a philosopher on a level with Voltaire or Rousseau,Pitou understood that he and Catherine were atoms carried on by thewhirlwind. But these atoms had their joy and grief just like the otheratoms called king, queen, nobles; the mill of God, held by fatality,ground crowns and thrones to dust at the same time, and crushedCatherine's happiness no less harshly than if she wore a diadem.
Two years and a half before, Pitou was a poor peasant lad, hunted fromhome by his Aunt Angelique, received by Billet, feasted by Catherine,and "cut out" by Isidore.
At present, Ange Pitou was a power; he wore a sword by his sideand epaulets on his shoulders; he was called a captain, and he wasprotecting the widow and son of the slain Viscount Isidore.
Relatively to Pitou the expression was exact of Danton, who, when askedwhy he was making the revolution, replied: "To put on high what wasundermost, and send the highest below all."
But though these ideas danced in his head, he was not the one to profitby them, and the good and modest fellow went on his knees to begCatherine to let him shield her and the boy.
Like all suffering hearts, Catherine had a finer appreciation in griefthan in joy. Pitou, who was in her happy days a lad of no consequence,became the holy creature he really was; in other words, a man ofgoodness, candor, and devotion. The result was that, unfortunate andin want of a friend, she understood that Pitou was just the friend shewished; and so, always received by Catherine with one hand held out tohim, and a witching smile, Pitou began to lead a life of bliss of whichhe never had had the idea even in dreams of paradise.
During this time, Billet, still mute as regarded his daughter, pursuedhis idea of being nominated for the House while getting in his harvest.Only one man could have beaten him, if he had the same ambition; but,entirely absorbed in his love and happiness, the Count of Charny, theworld forgetting, believed himself forgotten by the world. He did notthink of the matter, enjoying his unexpected felicity.
Hence, nothing opposed Billet's election in Villers Cotterets district,and he was elected by an immense majority.
As soon as chosen, he began to turn everything into money; it had beena good year. He set aside his landlord's share, reserved his own, putaside the grain for sowing, and the fodder for his live stock, and thecash to keep the work-folks going, and one morning sent for Pitou.
Now and then Pitou paid him a visit. Billet always welcomed him withopen hand, made him take meals, if anything was on the board, or wineor cider, if it was the right time for drinks. But never had Billetsent for Pitou. Hence, it was not without disquiet that the young manproceeded to the farm.
Billet was always grave; nobody could say that he had seen a smile passover his lips since his daughter had left the farm. This time he wasgraver than usual.
Still he held out his hand in the old manner to Pitou, shook his withmore vigor than usual, and kept it in his, while the other looked athim with wonder.
"Pitou, you are an honest fellow," said the farmer.
"Faith, I believe I am," replied Pitou.
"I am sure of it."
"You are very good, Master Billet."
"It follows that, as I am going away, I shall leave you at the head ofmy farm."
"Impossible! There are a lot of petty matters for which a woman's eyeis indispensable."
"I know it," replied Billet; "you can select the woman to share thesuperintendence with you. I shall not ask her name; I don't want toknow it; and when I come down to the farm, I shall notify you a weekahead, so she will have time to get out of the way if she ought not tosee me or I see her."
"Very well, Master Billet," said the new steward.
"Now, in the granary is the grain for sowing; also the hay and otherfodder for the cattle, and in this drawer you see the cash to pay thehands." He opened a drawer full of hard money.
"Stop a bit, master. How much is in this drawer?"
"I do not know," rejoined Billet, locking the drawer and giving the keyto Pitou, with the words; "When you want more, ask for it."
Pitou felt all the trust in this speech and put out his hand to graspthe other's, but was checked by his humility.
"Nonsense," said Billet; "why should not honest men grasp hands?"
"If you should want me in town?"
"Rest easy; I shall not forget you. It is two o'clock; I shall startfor Paris at five. At six, you might be here with the woman you chooseto second you."
"Right; but then, there is no time to lose," said Pitou. "I hope weshall soon meet again, dear Master Billet."
Billet watched him hurrying away as long as he could see him, and whenhe disappeared, he said: "Now, why did not Catherine fall in love withan honest chap like that, rather than one of those noble vermin wholeaves her a mother without being a wife, and a widow without her beingwed."
It is needless to say that Billet got upon the Villers Cotterets stageto ride to Paris at five, and that at six Catherine and little Isidorere-entered the farm.
Billet found himself among young men in the House, not merelyrepresentatives, but fighters; for it was felt that they had to wrestlewith the unknown.
They were armed against two enemies, the clergy and the nobility. Ifthese resisted, the orders were for them to be overcome.
The king was pitied, and the members were left free to treat him asoccasion dictated. It was hoped that he might escape the threefoldpower of the queen, the clergy, and the aristocracy; if they upheldhim, they would all be broken to pieces with him. They moved that thetitle of majesty should be suppressed.
"What shall we call the executive power, then?" asked a voice.
"Call him 'the King of the French,'" shouted Billet. "It is a prettytitle enough for Capet to be satisfied with."
Moreover, instead of a throne, the King of the French had to contenthimself with a plain arm-chair, and that was placed on the left of thespeaker's, so that the monarch should be subordinated.
In the absence of the king, the Constitution was sworn to by the sad,cold House, all aware that the impotent laws would not endure a year.
As these motions were equivalent to saying, "there is no longer aking." Money, as usual, took fright; down went the stocks dreadfully,and the bankers took alarm.
There was a revulsion in favor of the king, and his speech in the Housewas so applauded that he went to the theater that evening in high glee.That night he wrote to the powers of Europe that he had subscribed tothe Constitution.
So far, the House had been tolerant, mild to the refractory priests,and paying pensions to the princes and nobles who had fled abroad.
We shall see how the nobles recompensed this mildness.
When they were debating on paying the old and infirm priests, thoughthey might be opposed to the Reformation, news came from Avignon ofa massacre of revolutionists by the religious fanatics, and a bloodyreprisal of the other party.
As for the runaway nobles, still drawing revenue from their country,this is what they were doing.
They reconciled Austria with Prussia, making friends of two enemies.They induced Russia to forbid the French embassador going about the St.Petersburg streets, and sent a minister to the refugees at Coblentz.They made Berne punish a town for singing the "It shall go on."They led the kings to act roughly; Russia and Sweden sent back withunbroken seals Louis XVI.'s dispatches announcing his adhesion to theConstitution.
Spain refused to receive it, and a French revolutionist would have beenburned by the Inquisition only for his committing suicide.
Venice threw on St. Mark's Place the corpse of a man strangled in thenight by the Council of Ten, with the plain inscription: "This was aFreemason."
The Emperor and the King of Prussia did answer, but it was by a threat:"We trust we shall not have to take precautions against the repetitionof events promising such sad auguries."
Hence there was a religious war in La Vendee and in the south, withprospective war abroad.
At present the intention of the crowned heads was to stifle therevolution rather than cut its throat.
The defiance of aristocratic Europe was accepted, and instead ofwaiting for the attack, the orator of the House cried for France tobegin the movement.
The absentee princes were summoned home on penalty of losing all rightsto the succession; the nobles' property was seized, unless they tookthe oath of allegiance to the country. The priests were granted a weekto take the oath, or to be imprisoned, and no churches could be usedfor worship unless by the sworn clergy.
Lafayette's party wished the king to oppose his veto to these acts,but the queen so hated Lafayette that she induced the Court party tosupport Petion instead of the general for the post of mayor of Paris.Strange blindness, in favor of Petion, her rude jailer, who had broughther back from the flight to Varennes.
On the nineteenth of December the king vetoed the bill against thepriests.
That night, at the Jacobin Club, the debate was hot. Virchaux, aSwiss, offered the society a sword for the first general who shouldvanquish the enemies of freedom. Isnard, the wrath of the House, asoutherner, drew the sword, and leaped up into the rostrum, crying:
"Behold the sword of the exterminating angel! It will be victorious!France will give a loud call, and all the people will respond; theearth will then be covered with warriors, and the foes of liberty willbe wiped out from the list of men!"
Ezekiel could not have spoken better. This drawn sword was not to besheathed, for war broke out within and without. The Switzer's sword wasfirst to smite the King of France, the foreign sovereigns afterward.



CHAPTER II.
GILBERT'S CANDIDATE.

Dr. Gilbert had not seen the queen for six months, since he had let herknow that he was informed by Cagliostro that she was deceiving him.
He was therefore astonished to see the king's valet enter his roomone morning. He thought the king was sick and had sent for him, butthe messenger reassured him. He was wanted in the palace, whither hehastened to go.
He was profoundly attached to the king; he pitied Marie Antoinette moreas a woman than a queen. It was profound pity, for she inspired neitherlove nor devotion.
The lady waiting to greet Gilbert was the Princess Elizabeth. Neitherking nor queen, after his showing them he saw they were playing himfalse, had dared to send directly to him; they put Lady Elizabethforward.
Her first words proved to the doctor that he was not mistaken in hissurmise.
"Doctor Gilbert," said she, "I do not know whether others haveforgotten the tokens of interest you showed my brother on our returnfrom Versailles, and those you showed my sister on our return fromVarennes, but I remember."
"Madame," returned Gilbert, bowing, "God, in His wisdom, hath decidedthat you should have all the merits, memory included--a scarce virtuein our days, and particularly so among royal personages."
"I hope you are not referring to my brother, who often speaks of you,and praises your experience."
"As a medical adviser," remarked Gilbert, smiling.
"Yes; but he thinks you can be a physician to the realm as well as tothe ruler."
"Very kind of the king. For which case is he calling me in at present?"
"It is not the king who calls you, sir, but I," responded the lady,blushing; for her chaste heart knew not how to lie.
"You? Your health worries me the least; your pallor arises from fatigueand disquiet, not from bad health."
"You are right; I am not trembling for myself, but my brother, whomakes me fret."
"So he does me, madame."
"Oh, our uneasiness does not probably spring from the same cause, as Iam concerned about his health. I do not mean that he is unwell, but heis downcast and disheartened. Some ten days ago--I am counting the daysnow--he ceased speaking, except to me, and in his favorite pastime ofbackgammon he only utters the necessary terms of the game."
"It is eleven days since he went to the House to present his veto. Whywas he not mute that day instead of the next?"
"Is it your opinion that he should have sanctioned that impiousdecree?" demanded the princess, quickly.
"My opinion is, that to put the king in front of the priests in thecoming tide, the rising storm, is to have priests and king broken bythe same wave."
"What would you do in my poor brother's place, doctor?"
"A party is growing, like those genii of the Arabian Nights, whichbecomes a hundred cubits high an hour after release from theimprisoning bottle."
"You allude to the Jacobins?"
Gilbert shook his head.
"No; I mean the Girondists, who wish for war, a national desire."
"But war with whom? With the emperor, our brother? The King of Spain,our nephew? Our enemies, Doctor Gilbert, are at home, and not outsideof France, in proof of which--" She hesitated, but he besought her tospeak.
"I really do not know that I can tell you, though it is the reason ofmy asking you here."
"You may speak freely to one who is devoted and ready to give his lifeto the king."
"Do you believe there is any counterbane?" she inquired.
"Universal?" queried Gilbert, smiling. "No, madame; each venomoussubstance has its antidote, though they are of little avail generally."
"What a pity!"
"There are two kinds of poisons, mineral and vegetable--of what sortwould you speak?"
"Doctor, I am going to tell you a great secret. One of our cooks, wholeft the royal kitchen to set up a bakery of his own, has returned toour service, with the intention of murdering the king. This red-hotJacobin has been heard crying that France would be relieved if the kingwere put out of the way."
"In general, men fit for such a crime do not go about braggingbeforehand. But I suppose you take precautions?"
"Yes; it is settled that the king shall live on roast meat, with atrusty hand to supply the bread and wine. As the king is fond ofpastry, Madame Campan orders what he likes, as though for herself. Weare warned especially against powdered sugar."
"In which arsenic might be mixed unnoticed?"
"Exactly. It was the queen's habit to use it for her lemonade, but wehave entirely given up the use of it. The king, the queen, and I takemeals together, ringing for what we want. Madame Campan brings us whatwe like, secretly, and hides it under the table; we pretend to eat theusual things while the servants are in the room. This is how we live,sir; and yet the queen and I tremble every instant lest the king shouldturn pale and cry out he was in pain."
"Let me say at once, madame," returned the doctor, "that I do notbelieve in these threats of poisoning; but in any event, I am underhis majesty's orders. What does the king desire? That I should havelodgings in the palace? I will stay here in such a way as to be at handuntil the fears are over."
"Oh, my brother is not afraid!" the princess hastened to say.
"I did not mean that. Until your fears are over. I have some practicein poisonings and their remedies. I am ready to baffle them in whatevershape they are presented; but allow me to say, madame, that all fearsfor the king might be removed if he were willing."
"Oh, what must be done for that?" intervened a voice, not the LadyElizabeth's, and which, by its emphatic and ringing tone, made Gilbertturn.
It was the queen, and he bowed.
"Has the queen doubted the sincerity of my offers?"
"Oh, sir, so many heads and hearts have turned in this tempestuouswind, that one knows not whom to trust."
"Which is why your majesty receives from the Feuillants Club a Premiershaped by the Baroness de Stael?"
"You know that?" cried the royal lady, starting.
"I know your majesty is pledged to take Count Louis de Narbonne."
"And, of course, you blame me?"
"No; it is a trial like others. When the king shall have tried all, hemay finish by the one with whom he should have commenced."
"You know Madame de Stael? What do you think of her?"
"Physically, she is not altogether attractive."
The queen smiled; as a woman, she was not sorry to hear another womandecried who just then was widely talked about.
"But her talent, her parts, her merits?"
"She is good and generous, madame; none of her enemies would remain soafter a quarter of an hour's conversation."
"I speak of her genius, sir; politics are not managed by the heart."
"Madame, the heart spoils nothing, not even in politics; but let usnot use the word genius rashly. Madame de Stael has great and immensetalent, but it does not rise to genius; she is as iron to the steel ofher master, Rousseau. As a politician, she is given more heed than shedeserves. Her drawing-room is the meeting-place of the English party.Coming of the middle class as she does, and that the money-worshipingmiddle class, she has the weakness of loving a lord; she admiresthe English from thinking that they are an aristocratic people.Being ignorant of the history of England, and the mechanism of itsgovernment, she takes for the descendants of the Norman Conquerors thebaronets created yesterday. With old material, other people make a newstock; with the new, England often makes the old."
"Do you see in this why Baroness de Stael proposes De Narbonne to us?"
"Hem! This time, madame, two likings are combined: that for thearistocracy and the aristocrat."
"Do you imagine that she loves Louis de Narbonne on account of hisdescent?"
(Louis de Narbonne was supposed to be an incestuous son of King LouisXV.)
"It is not on account of any ability, I reckon?"
"But nobody is less well-born than Louis de Narbonne; his father is noteven known."
"Only because one dares not look at the sun."
"So you do not believe that De Narbonne is the outcome of the SwedishEmbassy, as the Jacobins assert, with Robespierre at the head?"
"Yes; only he comes from the wife's boudoir, not the lord's study. Tosuppose Lord de Stael has a hand in it, is to suppose he is master inhis own house. Goodness, no; this is not an embassador's treachery,but a loving woman's weakness. Nothing but Love, the great, eternalmagician, could impel a woman to put the gigantic sword of therevolution in that frivolous rake's hands."
"Do you allude to the demagogue Isnard kissed at the Jacobin Club?"
"Alas, madame, I speak of the one suspended over your head."
"Therefore, it is your opinion that we are wrong to accept De Narbonneas Minister of War?"
"You would do better to take at once his successor, Dumouriez."
"A soldier of fortune?"
"Ha! the worst word is spoken; and it is unfair any way."
"Was not Dumouriez a private soldier?"
"I am well aware that Dumouriez is not of that court nobility to whicheverything is sacrificed. Of the rustic nobility, unable to obtaina rank, he enlisted as a common soldier. At twenty years he foughtfive or six troopers, though hacked badly, and despite this proof ofcourage, he languished in the ranks."
"He sharpened his wits by serving Louis XV. as spy."
"Why do you call that spying in him which you rate diplomacy in others?I know that he carried on correspondence with the king without theknowledge of the ministers; but what noble of the court does not do thesame?"
"But, doctor, this man whom you recommend is essentially a most immoralone," exclaimed the queen, betraying her deep knowledge of politicsby the details into which she went. "He has no principles--no idea ofhonor. The Duke of Choiseul told me that he laid before him two plansabout Corsica--one to set her free, the other to subdue her."
"Quite true; but Choiseul failed to say that the former was preferred,and that Dumouriez fought bravely for its success."
"The day when we accept him for minister it will be equivalent to adeclaration of war to all Europe."
"Why, madame, this declaration is already made in all hearts," retortedGilbert. "Do you know how many names are down in this district asvolunteers to start for the campaign? Six hundred thousand. In theJura, the women have proposed all the men shall march, as they, withpikes, will guard their homes."
"You have spoken a word which makes me shudder--pikes! Oh, the pikesof '89! I can ever see the heads of my Life Guardsmen carried on thepikes' point."
"Nevertheless, it was a woman, a mother, who suggested a nationalsubscription to manufacture pikes."
"Was it also a woman who suggested your Jacobins adopting the red capof liberty, the color of blood?"
"Your majesty is in error on that point," said Gilbert, although hedid not care to enlighten the queen wholly on the ancient head-gear."A symbol was wanted of equality, and as all Frenchmen could not welldress alike, a part of a dress was alone adopted: the cap such as thepoor peasant wears. The red color was preferred, not as it happens tobe that of blood, but because gay, bright, and a favorite with themasses."
"All very fine, doctor," sneered the queen. "I do not despair of seeingsuch a partisan of novelties coming some day to feel the king's pulse,with the red cap on your head and a pike in your hand."
Seeing that she could not win with such a man, the queen retired, halfjesting, half bitter.
Princess Elizabeth was about to do the same, when Gilbert appealed toher:
"You love your brother, do you not?"
"Love? The feeling is of adoration."
"Then you are ready to transmit good advice to him, coming from afriend?"
"Then, speak, speak!"
"When his Feuillant Ministry falls, which will not take long, let himtake a ministry with all the members wearing this red cap, though it soalarms the queen." And profoundly bowing, he went out.



CHAPTER III.
POWERFUL, PERHAPS; HAPPY, NEVER.

The Narbonne Ministry lasted three months. A speech of Vergniaudblasted it. On the news that the Empress of Russia had made a treatywith Turkey, and Austria and Prussia had signed an alliance, offensiveand defensive, he sprung into the rostrum and cried:
"I see the palace from here where this counter-revolution is schemingthose plots which aim to deliver us to Austria. The day has come whenyou must put an end to so much audacity, and confound the plotters. Outof that palace have issued panic and terror in olden times, in thename of despotism--let them now rush into it in the name of the law!"
Dread and terror did indeed enter the Tuileries, whence De Narbonne,wafted thither by a breath of love, was expelled by a gust of storm.This downfall occurred at the beginning of March, 1792.
Scarce three months after the interview of Gilbert and the queen, asmall, active, nervy little man, with flaming eyes blazing in a brightface, was ushered into King Louis' presence. He was aged fifty-six, butappeared ten years younger, though his cheek was brown with camp-firesmoke; he wore the uniform of a camp-marshal.
The king cast a dull and heavy glance on the little man, whom he hadnever met; but it was not without observation. The other fixed on him ascrutinizing eye full of fire and distrust.
"You are General Dumouriez? Count de Narbonne, I believe, called you toParis?"
"To announce that he gave me a division in the army in Alsace."
"But you did not join, it appears?"
"Sire, I accepted; but I felt that I ought to point out that as warimpended"--Louis started visibly--"and threatened to become general,"went on the soldier, without appearing to remark the emotion, "I deemedit good to occupy the south, where an attack might come unawares;consequently, it seemed urgent to me that a plan for movements thereshould be drawn up, and a general and army sent thither."
"Yes; and you gave this plan to Count de Narbonne, after showing it tomembers of the Gironde?"
"They are friends of mine, as I believe they are of your majesty."
"Then I am dealing with a Girondist?" queried the monarch, smiling.
"With a patriot, and faithful subject of his king."
Louis bit his thick lips.
"Was it to serve the king and the country the more efficaciously thatyou refused to be foreign minister for a time?"
"Sire, I replied that I preferred, to being any kind of minister, thecommand promised me. I am a soldier, not a statesman."
"I have been assured, on the contrary, that you are both," observed thesovereign.
"I am praised too highly, sire."
"It was on that assurance that I insisted."
"Yes, sire; but in spite of my great regret, I was obliged to persistin refusing."
"Why refuse?"
"Because it is a crisis. It has upset De Narbonne and compromisesLessart. Any man has the right to keep out of employment or beemployed, according to what he thinks he is fitted for. Now, my liege,I am good for something or for nothing. If the latter, leave me in myobscurity. Who knows for what fate you draw me forth? If I am good forsomething, do not give me power for an instant, the premier of a day,but place some solid footing under me that I may be your support atanother day. Our affairs--your majesty will pardon me already regardinghis business as mine--our affairs are in too great disfavor abroad forcourts to deal with an _ad interim_ ministry; this interregnum--youwill excuse the frankness of an old soldier"--no one was less frankthan Dumouriez, but he wanted to appear so at times--"this intervalwill be a blunder against which the House will revolt, and it will makeme disliked there; more, I must say that it will injure the king, whowill seem still to cling to his former Cabinet, and only be waiting fora chance to bring it back."
"Were that my intention, do you not believe it possible, sir?"
"I believe, sire, that it is full time to drop the past."
"And make myself a Jacobin, as you have said to my valet, Laporte?"
"Forsooth, did your majesty this, it would perplex all the parties, andthe Jacobins most of all."
"Why not straightway advise me to don the red cap?"
"I wish I saw you in it," said Dumouriez.
For an instant the king eyed with distrust the man who had thus repliedto him; and then he resumed:
"So you want a permanent office?"
"I am wishing nothing at all, only ready to receive the king's orders;still, I should prefer them to send me to the frontier to retaining mein town."
"But if I give you the order to stay, and the foreign office portfolioin permanency, what will you say?"
"That your majesty has dispelled your prejudices against me," returnedthe general, with a smile.
"Well, yes, entirely, general; you are my premier."
"Sire, I am devoted to your service; but--"
"Restrictions?"
"Explanations, sire. The first minister's place is not what it was.Without ceasing to be your majesty's faithful servant on entering thepost, I become the man of the nation. From this day, do not expectthe language my predecessors used; I must speak according to theConstitution and liberty. Confined to my duties, I shall not play thecourtier; I shall not have the time, and I drop all etiquette so as tobetter serve the king. I shall only work with you in private or at thecouncil--and I warn you that it will be hard work."
"Hard work--why?"
"Why, it is plain; almost all your diplomatic corps areanti-revolutionists. I must urge you to change them, cross your tasteson the new choice, propose officials of whom your majesty never so muchas heard the names, and others who will displease."
"In which case?" quickly interrupted Louis.
"Then I shall obey when your majesty's repugnance is too strong andwell-founded, as you are the master; but if your choice is suggestedby your surroundings, and is clearly made to get me into trouble, Ishall entreat your majesty to find a successor for me. Sire, think ofthe dreadful dangers besieging your throne, and that one must have thepublic confidence in support; sire, this depends on you."
"Let me stay you a moment; I have long pondered over these dangers."He stretched out his hand to the portrait of Charles I. of England,by Vandyke, and continued, while wiping his forehead with hishandkerchief: "This would remind me, if I were to forget them. It isthe same situation, with similar dangers; perhaps the scaffold ofWhitehall is erecting on City Hall Place."
"You are looking too far ahead, my lord."
"Only to the horizon. In this event, I shall march to the scaffoldas Charles I. did, not perhaps as knightly, but at least as like aChristian. Proceed, general."
Dumouriez was checked by this firmness, which he had not expected.
"Sire, allow me to change the subject."
"As you like; I only wish to show that I am not daunted by the prospectthey try to frighten me with, but that I am prepared for even thisemergency."
"If I am still regarded as your Minister of Foreign Affairs, I willbring four dispatches to the first consul. I notify your majesty thatthey will not resemble those of previous issue in style or principles;they will suit the circumstances. If this first piece of work suitsyour majesty, I will continue; if not, my carriage will be waiting tocarry me to serve king and country on the border; and, whatever may besaid about my diplomatic ability," added Dumouriez, "war is my trueelement, and the object of my labors these thirty-six years."
"Wait," said the other, as he bowed before going out; "we agree on onepoint, but there are six more to settle."
"My colleagues?"
"Yes; I do not want you to say that you are hampered by such a one.Choose your Cabinet, sir."
"Sire, you are fixing grave responsibility on me."
"I believe I am meeting your wishes by putting it on you."
"Sire, I know nobody at Paris save one, Lacoste, whom I propose for thenavy office."
"Lacoste? A clerk in the naval stores, I believe?" questioned the king.
"Who resigned rather than connive at some foul play."
"That's a good recommendation. What about the others?'"
"I must consult Petion, Brissot, Condorcet--"
"The Girondists, in short?"
"Yes, sire."
"Let the Gironde pass; we shall see if they will get us out of theditch better than the other parties."
"We have still to learn if the four dispatches will suit."
"We might learn that this evening; we can hold an extraordinarycouncil, composed of yourself, Grave, and Gerville--Duport hasresigned. But do not go yet; I want to commit you."
He had hardly spoken before the queen and Princess Elizabeth stood inthe room, holding prayer-books.
"Ladies," said the king, "this is General Dumouriez, who promises toserve us well, and will arrange a new Cabinet with us this evening."
Dumouriez bowed, while the queen looked hard at the little man who wasto exercise so much influence over the affairs of France.
"Do you know Doctor Gilbert?" she asked. "If not, make his acquaintanceas an excellent prophet. Three months ago he foretold that you wouldbe Count de Narbonne's successor."
The main doors opened, for the king was going to mass. Behind himDumouriez went out; but the courtiers shunned him as though he had theleprosy.
"I told you I should get you committed," whispered the monarch.
"Committed to you, but not to the aristocracy," returned the warrior;"it is a fresh favor the king grants me." Whereupon he retired.
At the appointed hour he returned with the four dispatchespromised--for Spain, Prussia, England, and Austria. He read them tothe king and Messieurs Grave and Gerville, but he guessed that he hadanother auditor behind the tapestry by its shaking.
The new ruler spoke in the king's name, but in the sense of theConstitution, without threats, but also without weakness. He discussedthe true interests of each power relatively to the French Revolution.As each had complained of the Jacobin pamphlets, he ascribed thedespicable insults to the freedom of the press, a sun which made weedsto grow as well as good grain to flourish. Lastly, he demanded peacein the name of a free nation, of which the king was the hereditaryrepresentative.
The listening king lent fresh interest to each paper.
"I never heard the like, general," he said, when the reading was over.
"That is how ministers should speak and write in the name of rulers,"observed Gerville.
"Well, give me the papers; they shall go off to-morrow," the king said.
"Sire, the messengers are waiting in the palace yard," said Dumouriez.
"I wanted to have a duplicate made to show the queen," objected theking, with marked hesitation.
"I foresaw the wish, and have copies here," replied Dumouriez.
"Send off the dispatches," rejoined the king.
The general took them to the door, behind which an aid was waiting.Immediately the gallop of several horses was heard leaving theTuileries together.
"Be it so," said the king, replying to his mind, as the meaning soundsdied away. "Now, about your Cabinet?"
"Monsieur Gerville pleads that his health will not allow him to remain,and Monsieur Grave, stung by a criticism of Madame Roland, wishes tohold office until his successor is found. I therefore pray your majestyto receive Colonel Servan, an honest man in the full acceptation of thewords, of a solid material, pure manners, philosophical austerity, anda heart like a woman's, withal an enlightened patriot, a courageoussoldier, and a vigilant statesman."
"Colonel Servan is taken. So we have three ministers: Dumouriez for theForeign Office, Servan for War, and Lacoste for the Navy. Who shall bein the Treasury?"
"Clavieres, if you will. He is a man with great financial friends andsupreme skill in handling money."
"Be it so. As for the Law lord?"
"A lawyer of Bordeaux has been recommended to me--Duranthon."
"Belonging to the Gironde party, of course?"
"Yes, sire, but enlightened, upright, a very good citizen, though slowand feeble; we will infuse fire into him and be strong enough for allof us."
"The Home Department remains."
"The general opinion is that this will be fitted to Roland."
"You mean Madame Roland?"
"To the Roland couple. I do not know them, but I am assured that theone resembles a character of Plutarch and the other a woman from Livy."
"Do you know that your Cabinet is already called the BreechlessMinistry?"
"I accept the nickname, with the hope that it will be found without_breaches_."
"We will hold the council with them the day after to-morrow."
General Dumouriez was going away with his colleagues, when a valetcalled him aside and said that the king had something more to say tohim.
"The king or the queen?" he questioned.
"It is the queen, sir; but she thought there was no need for thosegentlemen to know that."
And Weber--for this was the Austrian foster-brother of MarieAntoinette--conducted the general to the queen's apartments, where heintroduced him as the person sent for.
Dumouriez entered, with his heart beating more violently than when heled a charge or mounted the deadly breach. He fully understood that hehad never stood in worse danger. The road he traveled was strewn withcorpses, and he might stumble over the dead reputations of premiers,from Calonne to Lafayette.
The queen was walking up and down, with a very red face. She advancedwith a majestic and irritated air as he stopped on the sill where thedoor had been closed behind him.
"Sir, you are all-powerful at this juncture," she said, breaking theice with her customary vivacity. "But it is by favor of the populace,who soon shatter their idols. You are said to have much talent. Havethe wit, to begin with, to understand that the king and I will notsuffer novelties. Your constitution is a pneumatic machine; royaltystifles in it for want of air. So I have sent for you to learn, beforeyou go further, whether you side with us or with the Jacobins."
"Madame," responded Dumouriez, "I am pained by this confidence,although I expected it, from the impression that your majesty wasbehind the tapestry."
"Which means that you have your reply ready?"
"It is that I stand between king and country, but before all I belongto the country."
"The country?" sneered the queen. "Is the king no longer anything, thateverybody belongs to the country and none to him?"
"Excuse me, lady; the king is always the king, but he has taken oathto the Constitution, and from that day he should be one of the firstslaves of the Constitution."
"A compulsory oath, and in no way binding, sir!"
Dumouriez held his tongue for a space, and, being a consummate actor,he regarded the speaker with deep pity.
"Madame," he said, at length, "allow me to say that your safety, theking's, your children's, all, are attached to this Constitution whichyou deride, and which will save you, if you consent to be saved by it.I should serve you badly, as well as the king, if I spoke otherwise toyou."
The queen interrupted him with an imperious gesture.
"Oh, sir, sir, I assure you that you are on the wrong path!" shesaid; adding, with an indescribable accent of threat: "Take heed foryourself!"
"Madame," replied Dumouriez, in a perfectly calm tone, "I am over fiftyyears of age; my life has been traversed with perils, and on taking theministry I said to myself that ministerial responsibility was not theslightest danger I ever ran."
"Fy, sir!" returned the queen, slapping her hands together; "you havenothing more to do than to slander me?"
"Slander you, madame?"
"Yes; do you want me to explain the meaning of the words I used? It isthat I am capable of having you assassinated. For shame, sir!"
Tears escaped from her eyes. Dumouriez had gone as far as she wanted;he knew that some sensitive fiber remained in that indurated heart.
"Lord forbid I should so insult my queen!" he cried. "The nature ofyour majesty is too grand and noble for the worst of her enemies to beinspired with such an idea, she has given heroic proofs which I haveadmired, and which attached me to her."
"Then excuse me, and lend me your arm. I am so weak that I often fear Ishall fall in a swoon."
Turning pale, she indeed drooped her head backward. Was it reality, oronly one of the wiles in which this fearful Medea was so skilled? Keenthough the general was, he was deceived; or else, more cunning than theenchantress, he feigned to be caught.
"Believe me, madame," he said, "that I have no interest in cheatingyou. I abhor anarchy and crime as much as yourself. Believe, too,that I have experience, and am better placed than your majesty to seeevents. What is transpiring is not an intrigue of the Duke of Orleans,as you are led to think; not the effect of Pitt's hatred, as you havesupposed; not even the outcome of popular impulse, but the almostunanimous insurrection of a great nation against inveterate abuses.I grant that there is in all this great hates which fan the flames.Leave the lunatics and the villains on one side; let us see nothing inthis revolution in progress but the king and the nation, all tendingto separate them brings about their mutual ruin. I come, my lady, towork my utmost to reunite them; aid me, instead of thwarting me. Youmistrust me? Am I an obstacle to your anti-revolutionary projects? Tellme so, madame, I will forthwith hand my resignation to the king, and goand wail the fate of my country and its ruler in some nook."
"No, no," said the queen; "remain, and excuse me."
"Do you ask me to excuse you? Oh, madame, I entreat you not to humbleyourself thus."
"Why should I not be humble? Am I still a queen? am I yet treated likea woman?"
Going to the window, she opened it in spite of the evening coolness;the moon silvered the leafless trees of the palace gardens.
"Are not the air and the sunshine free to all? Well, these are refusedto me; I dare not put my head out of window, either on the street orthe gardens. Yesterday I did look out on the yard, when a Guards gunnerhailed me with an insulting nickname, and said: 'How I should like tocarry your head on a bayonet-point.' This morning, I opened the gardenwindow. A man standing on a chair was reading infamous stuff againstme; a priest was dragged to a fountain to be ducked; and meanwhile,as though such scenes were matters of course, children were sailingtheir balloons and couples were strolling tranquilly. What times we areliving in--what a place to live in--what a people! And would you haveme still believe myself a queen, and even feel like a woman?"
She threw herself on a sofa, and hid her face in her hands.
Dumouriez dropped on one knee, and taking up the hem of her dressrespectfully, he kissed it.
"Lady," he said, "from the time when I undertake this struggle, youwill become the mighty queen and the happy woman once more, or I shallleave my life on the battle-field."
Rising, he saluted the lady and hurried out. She watched him go with ahopeless look, repeating:
"The mighty queen? Perhaps, thanks to your sword--for it is possible;but the happy woman--never, never, never!"
She let her head fall between the sofa cushions, muttering the namedearer every day and more painful:
"Charny!"
The Dumouriez Cabinet might be called one of war.
On the first of March, the Emperor Leopold died in the midst of hisItalian harem, slain by self-compounded aphrodisiacs. The queen, whohad read in some lampoon that a penny pie would settle the monarchy,and who had called Dr. Gilbert in to get an antidote, cried aloud thather brother was poisoned. With him passed all the halting policy ofAustria.
Francis II., who mounted the throne, was of mixed Italian and Germanblood. An Austrian born at Florence, he was weak, violent, and tricky.The priests reckoned him an honest man; his hard and bigoted soulhid its duplicity under a rosy face of dreadful sameness. He walkedlike a stage ghost; he gave his daughter to a conqueror rather thanpart with his estate, and then stabbed him in the back at his firstretreating step in the snows. Francis II. remains in history the tyrantof the Leads of Venice and the Spitzberg dungeons, and the torturer ofAndryane and Silvio Pellico.
This was the protector of the French fugitives, the ally of Prussiaand the enemy of France. He held Embassador Noailles as a prisoner atVienna.
The French embassador to Berlin, Segur, was preceded by a rumor that heexpected to gain the secrets of the King of Prussia by making love tohis mistresses--this King of Prussia was a lady-killer! Segur presentedhimself at the same time as the envoy from the self-exiled princes atCoblentz.
The king turned his back on the French representative, and askedpointedly after the health of the Prince of Artois.
These were the two ostensible foes; the hidden ones were Spain, Russia,and England. The chief of the coalition was to be the King of Sweden,that dwarf in giant's armor whom Catherine II. held up in her hand.
With the ascension of Francis, the diplomatic note came: Austria was torule in France, Avignon was to be restored to the pope, and things inFrance were to go back to where they stood in June, 1789.
This note evidently agreed with the secret wishes of the king and thequeen. Dumouriez laughed at it. But he took it to the king.
As much as Marie Antoinette, the woman for extreme measures, desireda war which she believed one of deliverance for her, the king fearedit, as the man for the medium, slowness, wavering, and crooked policy.Indeed, suppose a victory in the war, he would be at the mercy of thevictorious general; suppose a defeat, and the people would hold himresponsible, cry treason, and rush on the palace!
In short, should the enemy penetrate to Paris, what would it bring?The king's brother, Count Provence, who aimed to be regent of therealm. The result of the return of the runaway princes would be theking deposed, Marie Antoinette pronounced an adulteress, and the royalchildren proclaimed, perhaps, illegitimate.
The king trusted foreigners, but not the princes of his own blood andkingdom.
On reading the note, he comprehended that the hour to draw the swordfor France had come, and that there was no receding.
Who was to bear the flag of the revolution? Lafayette, who had lost hisfame by massacring the populace on the Paris parade-ground; Luckner,who was known only by the mischief he wrought in the Seven Years' War,and old Rochambeau, the French naval hero in the American Revolution,who was for defensive war, and was vexed to see Dumouriez promote youngblood over his head without benefiting by his experience.
It was expected that Lafayette would be victorious in the north; whenhe would be commander-in-chief, Dumouriez would be the Minister of War;they would cast down the red cap and crush Jacobins and Girondists withthe two hands.
The counter-revolution was ready.
But what were Robespierre and the Invisibles doing--that great secretsociety which held the agitators in its grasp as Jove holds thewrithing thunder-bolts? Robespierre was in the shade, and many assertedthat he was bribed by the royal family.
At the outset all went well for the Royalists; Lafayette's lieutenants,two Royalists, Dillon and Biron, headed a rout before Lille; thescouts, dragoons, still the most aristocratic arm of the service,turned tail and started a panic. The runaways accused the captains oftreachery, and murdered Dillon and other officers. The Gironde accusedthe queen and Court party of organizing the flight.
The popular clamor compelled Marie Antoinette to let the ConstitutionalGuard be abolished--another name for a royal life-guard--and it wassuperseded by the Paris National Guards.
Oh! Charny, Charny, where were you?--you who, at Varennes, nearlyrescued the queen with but three hundred horsemen--what would you nothave done at Paris with six thousand desperadoes?
Charny was happy, forgetting everything in the arms of his countess.



CHAPTER IV.
THE FOES FACE TO FACE.

While the queen was looking from the palace to see the Austrianscoming, another was watching in her little reception-rooms. One wasrevolution embodied, the other its opponents intensified; that wasMadame Roland, this the queen from Austria.
The real war at this period was between this pair.
A singular thing, both had such influence over their husbands as tolead them to death, although by different roads.
Dumouriez had thrown a sop to the Jacobins without knowing who theColonel Servan was whom he took for Minister of War. He was a favoriteof Madame Roland. Like all the Girondists, of whom she was the light,the fire, the egeria, he was inspired by that valiant spirit.
But he and Roland were neutralized at the council by Dumouriez. Theyhad forced the Royalist Constitutional Guards to disband, but they hadmerely changed their uniform for that of the Swiss Guards, the sworndefenders of royalty, and swaggered about the streets more insolentlythan before.
Madame Roland suggested that, on the occasion of the July festivals,a camp of twenty thousand volunteers should be established in Paris.Servan was to present this as a citizen, apart from his being aminister. In the same way, Roland was to punish the rebellious priestswho were preaching from the pulpits that taxpayers would be damned, byordering their exile.
Dumouriez supported the volunteer proposition at the council, in thehope that the new-comers would be Jacobins; that is, the Invisibles, bywhom neither the Girondists nor the Feuillants would profit.
"If your majesty vetoes it," he said, firmly, "instead of the twentythousand authorized, we shall have forty thousand unruly spirits intown, who may with one rush upset Constitution, Assembly, and thethrone. Had we been vanquishers--But we must give in--I say accept."
But the queen urged the king to stand firm. As we know, she wouldrather be lost than be saved by Lafayette.
As for the decree against the priests, it was another matter. The kingsaid that he wavered in temporal questions as he judged them with hismind, which was fallible; but he tried religious matters with hisconscience, which was infallible!
But they could not dispense with Dumouriez at this juncture.
"Accept the volunteer act," said the queen, at last; "let the camp beat Soissons, where the general says he will gradually draft them offout of the way; and--well, we will see about the decree aimed at thepriests. Dumouriez has your promise, but there must be some way ofevading the issue when you are the Jesuits' pupil!"
Roland, Servan, and Clavieres resigned, and the Assembly applaudedtheir act as deserving the thanks of the country.
Hearing of this, and that Dumouriez was badly compromised, the pupil ofVauguyon agreed to the Volunteer Camp Bill, but pleading conscientiousscruples, deferred signing the decree banishing the refractorypriests. This made the new ministers wince, and Dumouriez went awaysore at heart. The king had almost succeeded in baffling him, thefine diplomatist, sharp politician, and the general whose courage wasdoubled by intrigue!
He found at home the spies' reports that the Invisibles were holdingmeetings in the working quarters, and openly at Santerre's brewery. Hewrote to warn the king, whose answer was:
"Do not believe that I can be bullied; my mind is made up."
Dumouriez replied, asking for an audience, and requested his successorto be sought for. It was clear that the anti-revolutionist party feltstrong.
Indeed, they were reckoning on the following forces:
The Constitutional Guards, six thousand strong, disbanded, but readyto fly to arms at the first call; seven or eight thousand Knights ofthe Order of St. Louis, whose red ribbon was the rallying token; threebattalions of Switzers, sixteen hundred men, picked soldiers, unshakenas the old Helvetic rocks.
Better than all, Lafayette had written: "Persist, sire; fortified withthe authority the National Assembly has delegated to you, you will findall good citizens on your side!"
The plan was to gather all the forces at a given signal, seize thecannon of each section of Paris, shut up the Jacobin's Club-house andthe Assembly, add all the Royalists in the National Guard, say, acontingent of fifteen thousand men, and wait for Lafayette, who mightmarch up in three days.
The misfortune was that the queen would not hear of Lafayette.Lafayette was merely the Revolution moderated, and might prolong it andlead to a republic like that he had brought round in America; while theJacobins' outrageous rule would sicken the people and could not endure.
Oh, had Charny been at hand! But it was not even known where he was;and were it known, it would be too low an abasement for the woman, ifnot the queen, to have recourse to him.
The night passed tumultuously at the palace, where they had the meansof defense and attack, but not a hand strong enough to grasp and hurlthem.
Dumouriez and his colleagues came to resign. They affirmed they werewilling to die for the king, but to do this for the clergy would onlyprecipitate the downfall of the monarchy.
"Sire," pleaded Dumouriez, "your conscience is misled; you are beguiledinto civil war. Without strength, you must succumb, and history, whilesorrowing for you, will blame you for causing the woes of France."
"Heaven be my witness that I wished but her happiness!"
"I do not doubt that; but one must account to the King of kings notonly for purity of intentions, but the enlightened use of intentions.You suppose you are saving religion, but you will destroy it; yourpriests will be massacred; your broken crown will roll in your blood,the queen's, your children's, perhaps--oh, my king, my king!"
Choking, he applied his lips to the royal hand. With perfect serenity,and a majesty of which he might not be believed capable, Louis replied.
"You are right, general. I expect death, and forgive my murderersbeforehand. You have well served me; I esteem you, and am affected byyour sympathy. Farewell, sir!"
With Dumouriez going, royalty had parted with its last stay. The kingthrew off the mask, and stood with uncovered face before the people.
Let us see what the people were doing on their side.



CHAPTER V.
THE UNINVITED VISITORS.

All day long a man in general's uniform was riding about the St.Antoine suburb, on a large Flanders horse, shaking hands right andleft, kissing the girls and treating the men to drink. This was one ofLafayette's half dozen heirs, the small-change of the commander of theNational Guard--Battalion Commander Santerre.
Beside him rode, on a fiery charger, like an aid next his general, astout man who might by his dress be taken to be a well-to-do farmer. Ascar tracked his brow, and he had as gloomy an eye and scowling a faceas the battalion commander had an open countenance and frank smile.
"Get ready, my good friends; watch over the nation, against whichtraitors are plotting. But we are on guard," Santerre kept saying.
"What are we to do, friend Santerre?" asked the working-men. "You knowthat we are all your own. Where are the traitors? Lead us at them!"
"Wait; the proper time has not come."
"When will it strike?"
Santerre did not know a word about it; so he replied at a hazard, "Keepready; we'll let you know."
But the man who rode by his knee, bending down over the horse's neck,would make signs to some men, and whisper:
"June twenty."
Whereupon these men would call groups of twenty or so around each, andrepeat the date to them, so that it would be circulated. Nobody knewwhat would be done on the twentieth of June, but all felt sure thatsomething would happen on that day.
By whom was this mob moved, stirred, and excited? By a man of powerfulbuild, leonine mane, and roaring voice, whom Santerre was to findwaiting in his brewery office--Danton.
None better than this terrible wizard of the Revolution could evoketerror from the slums and hurl it into the old palace of Catherine diMedicis. Danton was the gong of riots; the blow he received he impartedvibratingly to all the multitude around him. Through Hebert he waslinked to the populace, as by the Duke of Orleans he was affixed to thethrone.
Whence came his power, doomed to be so fatal to royalty? To the queen,the spiteful Austrian who had not liked Lafayette to be mayor of Paris,but preferred Petion, the Republican, who had no sooner brought backthe fugitive king to the Tuileries than he set to watch him closely.
Petion had made his two friends, Manuel and Danton, the PublicProsecutor and the Vice, respectively.
On the twentieth of June, under the pretext of presenting a petition tothe king and raising a liberty pole, the palace was to be stormed.
The adepts alone knew that France was to be saved from the Lafayettesand the Moderates, and a warning to be given to the incorrigiblemonarch that there are some political tempests in which a vessel maybe swamped with all hands aboard; that is, a king be overwhelmed withthrone and family as in the oceanic abysses.
Billet knew more than Santerre when he accompanied him on his tour,after presenting himself as from the committee.
Danton called on the brewer to arrange for the meeting of the popularleaders that night at Charenton for the march on the morrow, presumablyto the House, but really to the Tuileries.
The watchword was, "Have done with the palace!" but the way remainedvague.
On the evening of the nineteenth, the queen saw a woman clad inscarlet, with a belt full of pistols, gallop, bold and terrible, alongthe main streets. It was Theroigne Mericourt, the beauty of Liege, whohad gone back to her native country to help its rebellion; but theAustrians had caught her and kept her imprisoned for eighteen months.
She returned mysteriously to be at the bloody feast of the coming day.The courtesan of opulence, she was now the beloved of the people; fromher noble lovers had come the funds for her costly weapons, which werenot all for show. Hence the mob hailed her with cheers.
From the Tuileries garret, where the queen had climbed on hearing theuproar, she saw tables set out in the public squares and wine broached;patriotic songs were sung and at every toast fists were shaken at thepalace.
Who were the guests? The Federals of Marseilles, led by Barbaroux, whobrought with them the song worth an army--"the Marseillaise Hymn ofLiberty."
Day breaks early in June. At five o'clock the battalions weremarshaled, for the insurrection was regularized by this time and had amilitary aspect. The mob had chiefs, submitted to discipline, and fellinto assigned places under flags.
Santerre was on horseback, with his staff of men from the workingdistrict. Billet did not leave him, for the occult power of theInvisibles charged him to watch over him.
Of the three corps into which the forces were divided, Santerrecommanded the first, St. Huruge the second, and Theroigne the last.
About eleven, on an order brought by an unknown man, the immense massstarted out. It numbered some twenty thousand when it left the BastileSquare.
It had a wild, odd, and horrible look.
Santerre's battalion was the most regular, having many in uniform, andmuskets and bayonets among the weapons. But the other two were armedmobs, haggard, thin, and in rags from three years of revolutions andfour of famine.
Neither had uniforms nor muskets, but tattered coats and smocks; quaintarms snatched up in the first impulse of self-defense and anger: pikes,cooking-spits, jagged spears, hiltless swords, knives lashed to longpoles, broad-axes, stone-masons' hammers and curriers' knives.
For standards, a gallows with a dangling doll, meant for the queen; abull's head, with an obscene card stuck on the horns; a calf's hearton a spit, with the motto: "An Aristocrat's;" while flags showed thelegends: "Sanction the decrees, or death!"--"Recall the patrioticministers!"--"Tremble, tyrant; your hour has come!"
At every crossing and from each by-way the army was swollen.
The mass was silent, save now and then when a cheer burst from themidst, or a snatch of the "It shall go on" was sung, or cries went upof "The nation forever!"--"Long live the Breechless!"--"Down with OldVeto and Madame Veto!"
They came out for sport--to frighten the king and queen, and did notmean murdering. They demanded to march past the Assembly throughthe Hall, and for three hours they defiled under the eyes of theirrepresentatives.
It was three o'clock. The mob had obtained half their programme, theplacing of their petition before the Assembly. The next thing was tocall on the king for his sanction to the decree.
As the Assembly had received them, how could the king refuse? Surely hewas not a greater potentate than the Speaker of the House, whose chairwas like his and in the grander place?
In fact, the king assented to receiving their deputation of twenty.
As the common people had never entered the palace, they merely expectedtheir representatives would be received while they marched by under thewindows. They would show the king their banners with the odd devicesand the gory standards.
All the palace garden gates were closed; in the yards and gardenswere soldiers with four field-pieces. Seeing this apparently ampleprotection, the royal family might be tranquil.
Still without any evil idea, the crowd asked for the gates to be openedwhich allowed entrance on the Feuillants Terrace.
Three municipal officers went in and got leave from the king forpassage to be given over the terrace and out by the stable doors.
Everybody wanted to go in as soon as the gates were open, and thethrong spread over the lawn; it was forgotten to open the outlet by thestables, and the crush began to be severe. They streamed before theNational Guards in a row along the palace wall to the Carrousel gates,by which they might have resumed the homeward route. They were lockedand guarded.
Sweltering, crushed, and turned about, the mob began to be irritated.Before its growls the gates were opened and the men spread over thecapacious square.
There they remembered what the main affair was--to petition the kingto revoke his veto. Instead of continuing the road, they waited in thesquare for an hour, when they grew impatient.
They might have gone away, but that was not the aim of the agitators,who went from group to group, saying:
"Stay; what do you want to sneak away for? The king is going to givehis sanction; if we were to go home without that, we should have allour work to do over again."
The level-headed thought this sensible advice, but at the same timethat the sanction was a long time coming. They were getting hungry, andthat was the general cry.
Bread was not so dear as it had been, but there was no work going on,and however cheap bread may be, it is not made for nothing.
Everybody had risen at five, workmen and their wives, with theirchildren, and come to the palace with the idea that they had but to getthe royal sanction to have hard times end. But the king did not seem tobe at all eager to give his sanction.
It was hot, and thirst began to be felt. Hunger, thirst, and heat drivedogs mad; yet the poor people waited and kept patient. But those nextto the railings set to shaking them. A municipal officer made a speechto them:
"Citizens, this is the king's residence, and to enter with arms is toviolate it. The king is quite ready to receive your petition, but onlyfrom twenty deputies bearing it."
What! had not their deputation, sent in an hour ago, been attended toyet?
Suddenly loud shouts were heard on the streets. It was Santerre,Billet, and Huruge on their horses, and Theroigne riding on her cannon.
"What are you fellows hanging round this gate for?" queried Huruge."Why do you not go right in?"
"Just so; why haven't we?" said the thousands.
"Can't you see it is fast?" cried several voices.
Theroigne jumped off her cannon, saying:
"The barker is full to the muzzle; let's blow the old gate open."
"Wait! wait!" shouted two municipal officers; "no roughness. It shallbe opened to you."
Indeed, by pressing on the spring-catch they released the two gates,which drew aside, and the mass rushed through.
Along with them came the cannon, which crossed the yard with them,mounted the steps, and reached the head of the stairs in their company.Here stood the city officials in their scarfs of office.
"What do you intend doing with a piece of artillery?" they challenged."Great guns in the royal apartments! Do you believe anything is to begained by such violence?"
"Quite right," said the ringleaders, astonished themselves to see thegun there; and they turned it round to get it down-stairs. The hubcaught on the jamb, and the muzzle gaped on the crowd.
"Why, hang them all, they have got cannon all over the palace!"commented the new-comers, not knowing their own artillery.
Police-Magistrate Mouchet, a deformed dwarf, ordered the men to chopthe wheel clear, and they managed to hack the door-jamb away so asto free the piece, which was taken down to the yard. This led to thereport that the mob were smashing all the doors in.
Some two hundred noblemen ran to the palace, not with the hope ofdefending it, but to die with the king, whose life they deemed menaced.Prominent among these was a man in black, who had previously offeredhis breast to the assassin's bullet, and who always leaped like a lastLife-Guard between danger and the king, from whom he had tried toconjure it. This was Gilbert.
After being excited by the frightful tumult, the king and queen becameused to it.
It was half past three, and it was hoped that the day would close withno more harm done.
Suddenly, the sound of the ax blows was heard above the noise ofclamor, like the howling of a coming tempest. A man darted into theking's sleeping-room and called out:
"Sire, let me stand by you, and I will answer for all."
It was Dr. Gilbert, seen at almost periodical intervals, and in all the"striking situations" of the tragedy in play.
"Oh, doctor, is this you? What is it?" King and queen spoke together.
"The palace is surrounded, and the people are making this uproar inwanting to see you."
"We shall not leave you, sire," said the queen and Princess Elizabeth.
"Will the king kindly allow me for an hour such power as a captain hasover his ship?" asked Gilbert.
"I grant it," replied the monarch. "Madame, hearken to Doctor Gilbert'sadvice, and obey his orders, if needs must." He turned to the doctor:"Will you answer to me for the queen and the dauphin?"
"I do, or I shall die with them; it is all a pilot can say in thetempest!"
The queen wished to make a last effort, but Gilbert barred the way withhis arms.
"Madame," he said, "it is you and not the king who run the realdanger. Rightly or wrongly, they accuse you of the king's resistance,so that your presence will expose him without defending him. Be thelightning-conductor--divert the bolt, if you can!"
"Then let it fall on me, but save my children!"
"I have answered for you and them to the king. Follow me."
He said the same to Princess Lamballe, who had returned lately fromLondon, and the other ladies, and guided them to the Council Hall,where he placed them in a window recess, with the heavy table beforethem.
The queen stood behind her children--Innocence protecting Unpopularity,although she wished it to be the other way.
"All is well thus," said Gilbert, in the tone of a general commanding adecisive operation; "do not stir."
There came a pounding at the door, which he threw open with both folds,and as he knew there were many women in the crowd, he cried:
"Walk in, citizenesses; the queen and her children await you."
The crowd burst in as through a broken dam.
"Where is the Austrian? where is the Lady Veto?" demanded five hundredvoices.
It was the critical moment.
"Be calm," said Gilbert to the queen, knowing that all was in Heaven'shand, and man was as nothing. "I need not recommend you to be kind."
Preceding the others was a woman with her hair down, who brandished asaber; she was flushed with rage--perhaps from hunger.
"Where is the Austrian cat? She shall die by no hand but mine!" shescreamed.
"This is she," said Gilbert, taking her by the hand and leading her upto the queen.
"Have I ever done you a personal wrong?" demanded the latter, in hersweetest voice.
"I can not say you have," faltered the woman of the people, amazed atthe majesty and gentleness of Marie Antoinette.
"Then why should you wish to kill me?"
"Folks told me that you were the ruin of the nation," faltered theabashed young woman, lowering the point of her saber to the floor.
"Then you were told wrong. I married your King of France, and ammother of the prince whom you see here. I am a French woman, one whowill nevermore see the land where she was born; in France alone I mustdwell, happy or unhappy. Alas! I was happy when you loved me." And shesighed.
The girl dropped the sword, and wept.
"Beg your pardon, madame, but I did not know what you were like. I seeyou are a good sort, after all."
"Keep on like that," prompted Gilbert, "and not only will you be saved,but all these people will be at your feet in an hour."
Intrusting her to some National Guardsmen and the War Minister, whocame in with the mob, he ran to the king.
Louis had gone through a similar experience. On hastening toward thecrowd, as he opened the Bull's-eye Room, the door panels were dashedin, and pikes, bayonets, and axes showed their points and edges.
"Open the doors!" cried the king.
Servants heaped up chairs before him, and four grenadiers stood infront, but he made them put up their swords, as the flash of steelmight seem a provocation.
A ragged fellow, with a knife-blade set in a pole, darted at the king,yelling:
"Take that for your veto!"
One grenadier, who had not yet sheathed his sword, struck down thestick with the blade. But it was the king who, entirely recoveringself-command, put the soldier aside with his hand, and said:
"Let me stand forward, sir. What have I to fear amid my people?"
Taking a forward step, Louis XVI., with a majesty not expected in him,and a courage strange heretofore in him, offered his breast to theweapons of all sorts directed against him.
"Hold your noise!" thundered a stentorian voice in the midst of theawful din. "I want a word in here."
A cannon might have vainly sought to be heard in this clamor, but atthis voice all the vociferation ceased. This was the butcher Legendre.He went up almost to touching the king, while they formed a ring roundthe two.
Just then, on the outer edge of the circle, a man made his appearance,and behind the dread double of Danton, the king recognized Gilbert,pale and serene of face. The questioning glance implying: "What haveyou done with the queen?" was answered by the doctor's smile to theeffect that she was in safety. He thanked him with a nod.
"Sirrah," began Legendre.
This expression, which seemed to indicate that the sovereign wasalready deposed, made the latter turn as if a snake had stung him.
"Yes, sir, I am talking to you, Veto," went on Legendre. "Just listento us, for it is our turn to have you hear us. You are a double-dealer,who have always cheated us, and would try it again, so look out foryourself. The measure is full, and the people are tired of being yourplaything and victim."
"Well, I am listening to you, sir," rejoined the king.
"And a good thing, too. Do you know what we have come here for? To askthe sanction of the decrees and the recall of the ministers. Here isour petition--see!"
Taking a paper from his pocket, he unfolded it, and read the samemenacing lines which had been heard in the House. With his eyes fixedon the speaker, the king listened, and said, when it was ended, withoutthe least apparent emotion:
"Sir, I shall do what the laws and the Constitution order me to do!"
"Gammon!" broke in a voice; "the Constitution is your high horse, whichlets you block the road of the whole country, to keep France in-doors,for fear of being trampled on, and wait till the Austrians come up tocut her throat."
The king turned toward this fresh voice, comprehending that it was aworse danger. Gilbert also made a movement and laid his hand on thespeaker's shoulder.
"I have seen you somewhere before, friend," remarked the king. "Who areyou?"
He looked with more curiosity than fear, though this man wore a frontof terrible resolution.
"Ay, you have seen me before, sire. Three times: once, when you werebrought back from Versailles; next at Varennes; and the last time,here. Sire, bear my name in mind, for it is of ill omen. It is Billet."
At this the shouting was renewed, and a man with a lance tried to stabthe king; but Billet seized the weapon, tore it from the wielder'sgrip, and snapped it across his knee.
"No foul play," he said; "only one kind of steel has the right to touchthis man: the ax of the executioner! I hear that a King of England hadhis head cut off by the people whom he betrayed--you ought to know hisname, Louis. Don't you forget it."
"'Sh, Billet!" muttered Gilbert.
"Oh, you may say what you like," returned Billet, shaking his head;"this man is going to be tried and doomed as a traitor."
"Yes, a traitor!" yelled a hundred voices; "traitor, traitor!"
Gilbert threw himself in between.
"Fear nothing, sire, and try by some material token to givesatisfaction to these mad men."
Taking the physician's hand, the king laid it on his heart.
"You see that I fear nothing," he said; "I received the sacraments thismorning. Let them do what they like with me. As for the material signwhich you suggest I should display--are you satisfied?"
Taking the red cap from a by-stander, he set it on his own head. Themultitude burst into applause.
"Hurrah for the king!" shouted all the voices.
A fellow broke through the crowd and held up a bottle.
"If fat old Veto loves the people as much as he says, prove it bydrinking our health."
"Do not drink," whispered a voice. "It may be poisoned."
"Drink, sire, I answer for the honesty," said Gilbert.
The king took the bottle, and saying, "To the health of the people," hedrank. Fresh cheers for the king resounded.
"Sire, you have nothing to fear," said Gilbert; "allow me to return tothe queen."
"Go," said the other, gripping his hand.
More tranquil, the doctor hastened to the Council Hall, where hebreathed still easier after one glance. The queen stood in the samespot; the little prince, like his father, was wearing the red cap.
In the next room was a great hubbub; it was the reception of Santerre,who rolled into the hall.
"Where is this Austrian wench?" demanded he.
Gilbert cut slanting across the hall to intercept him.
"Halloo, Doctor Gilbert!" said he, quite joyfully.
"Who has not forgotten that you were one of those who opened theBastile doors to me," replied the doctor. "Let me present you to thequeen."
"Present me to the queen?" growled the brewer.
"You will not refuse, will you?"
"Faith, I'll not. I was going to introduce myself; but as you are inthe way--"
"Monsieur Santerre needs no introduction," interposed the queen. "Iknow how at the famine time he fed at his sole expense half the St.Antoine suburb."
Santerre stopped, astonished; then, his glance happening to fall,embarrassed, on the dauphin, whose perspiration was running down hischeeks, he roared:
"Here, take that sweater off the boy--don't you see he is smothering?"
The queen thanked him with a look. He leaned on the table, and bendingtoward her, he said in an under-tone:
"You have a lot of clumsy friends, madame. I could tell you of some whowould serve you better."
An hour afterward all the mob had flowed away, and the king,accompanied by his sister, entered the room where the queen and hischildren awaited him.
She ran to him and threw herself at his feet, while the childrenseized his hands, and all acted as though they had been saved from ashipwreck. It was only then that the king noticed that he was wearingthe red cap.
"Faugh!" he said; "I had forgotten!"
Snatching it off with both hands, he flung it far from him with disgust.
The evacuation of the palace was as dull and dumb as the taking hadbeen gleeful and noisy. Astonished at the little result, the mob said:
"We have not made anything; we shall have to come again."
In fact, it was too much for a threat, and not enough for an attempt onthe king's life.
Louis had been judged on his reputation, and recalling his flight toVarennes, disguised as a serving-man, they had thought that he wouldhide under a table at the first noise, and might be done to death inthe scuffle, like Polonius behind the arras.
Things had happened otherwise; never had the monarch been calmer, neverso grand. In the height of the threats and the insults he had notceased to say: "Behold your king!"
The Royalists were delighted, for, to tell the truth, they had carriedthe day.



CHAPTER VI.
"THE COUNTRY IS IN DANGER!"

The king wrote to the Assembly to complain of the violation of hisresidence, and he issued a proclamation to "his people." So it appearedthere were two peoples--the king's, and those he complained of.
On the twenty-fourth, the king and queen were cheered by the NationalGuards, whom they were reviewing, and on this same day, the ParisDirectory suspended Mayor Petion, who had told the king to his facethat the city was not riotous.
Whence sprung such audacity?
Three days after, the murder was out.
Lafayette came to beard the Assembly in its House, taunted by a member,who had said, when he wrote to encourage the king in his opposition andto daunt the representatives:
"He is very saucy in the midst of his army; let us see if he would talkas big if he stood among us."
He escaped censure by a nominal majority--a victory worse than a defeat.
Lafayette had again sacrificed his popularity for the Royalists.
He cherished a last hope. With the enthusiasm to be kindled amongthe National Guards by the king and their old commander, he proposedto march on the Assembly and put down the Opposition, while in theconfusion the king should gain the camp at Maubeuge.
It was a bold scheme, but was almost sure in the state of minds.
Unfortunately, Danton ran to Petion at three in the morning with thenews, and the review was countermanded.
Who had betrayed the king and the general? The queen, who had said shewould rather be lost than owe safety to Lafayette.
She was helping fate, for she was doomed to be slain by Danton.
But supposing she had less spite, and the Girondists might have beencrushed. They were determined not to be caught napping another time.
It was necessary to restore the revolutionary current to its oldcourse, for it had been checked and was running up-stream.
The soul of the party, Mme. Roland, hoped to do this by rousing theAssembly. She chose the orator Vergniaud to make the appeal, andin a splendid speech, he shouted from the rostrum what was alreadycirculating in an under-tone:
"The country is in danger!"
The effect was like a waterspout; the whole House, even to theRoyalists, spectators, officials, all were enveloped and carried awayby this mighty cyclone; all roared with enthusiasm.
That same evening Barbaroux wrote to his friend Rebecqui, at Marseilles:
"Send me five hundred men eager to die."
On the eleventh of July, the Assembly declared the country to be indanger, but the king withheld his authorization until the twenty-first,late at night. Indeed, this call to arms was an admission that theruler was impotent, for the nation would not be asked to help herselfunless the king could or would do nothing.
Great terror made the palace quiver in the interval, as a plot wasexpected to break out on the fourteenth, the anniversary of the takingof the Bastile--a holiday.
Robespierre had sent an address out from the Jacobin Club whichsuggested regicide.
So persuaded was the Court party, that the king was induced to wear ashirt of mail to protect him against the assassin's knife, and Mme.Campan had another for the queen, who refused to don it.
"I should be only too happy if they would slay me," she observed, ina low voice. "Oh, God, they would do me a greater kindness than Thoudidst in giving me life! they would relieve me of a burden!"
Mme. Campan went out, choking. The king, who was in the corridor, tookher by the hand and led her into the lobby between his rooms and hisson's, and stopping, groped for a secret spring; it opened a press,perfectly hidden in the wall, with the edges guarded by the moldings.A large portfolio of papers was in the closet, with gold coin on theshelves.
The case of papers was so heavy that the lady could not lift it, andthe king carried it to her rooms, saying that the queen would tell herhow to dispose of it. She thrust it between the bed and the mattress,and went to the queen, who said:
"Campan, those are documents fatal to the king if he were placed ontrial, which the Lord forbid. Particularly--which is why, no doubt, heconfides it all to you--there is a report of a council, in which theking gave his opinion against war; he made all the ministers sign it,and reckons on this document being as beneficial in event of a trial asthe others may be hurtful."
The July festival arrived. The idea was to celebrate the triumph ofPetion over the king--that of murdering the latter not being probablyentertained.
Suspended in his functions by the Assembly, Petion was restored to themon the eve of the rejoicings.
At eleven in the morning, the king came down the grand staircase withthe queen and the royal children. Three or four thousand troops, ofunknown tendencies, escorted them. In vain did the queen seek on theirfaces some marks of sympathy; the kindest averted their faces.
There was no mistaking the feeling of the crowd, for cheers for Petionrose on all sides. As if, too, to give the ovation a more durable stampthan momentary enthusiasm, the king and the queen could read on allhats a lettered ribbon: "Petion forever!"
The queen was pale and trembling. Convinced that a plot was aimed ather husband's life, she started at every instant, fancying she saw ahand thrust out to bring down a dagger or level a pistol.
On the parade-ground, the monarch alighted, took a place on the left ofthe Speaker of the House, and with him walked up to the Altar of theCountry. The queen had to separate from her lord here to go into thegrand stand with her children; she stopped, refusing to go any furtheruntil she saw how he got on, and kept her eyes on him.
At the foot of the altar, one of those rushes came which is common togreat gatherings. The king disappeared as though submerged.
The queen shrieked, and made as if to rush to him; but he rose intoview anew, climbing the steps of the altar.
Among the ordinary symbols figuring in these feasts, such as justice,power, liberty, etc., one glittered mysteriously and dreadfully underblack crape, carried by a man clad in black and crowned with cypress.This weird emblem particularly caught the queen's eyes. She was rivetedto the spot, and, while encouraged a little by the king's fate, shecould not take her gaze from this somber apparition. Making an effortto speak, she gasped, without addressing any one specially:
"Who is that man dressed in mourning?"
"The death's-man," replied a voice which made her shudder.
"And what has he under the veil?" continued she.
"The ax which chopped off the head of King Charles I."
The queen turned round, losing color, for she thought she recognizedthe voice. She was not mistaken; the speaker was the magician who hadshown her the awful future in a glass at Taverney, and warned her atSèvres and on her return from Varennes--Cagliostro, in fact.
She screamed, and fell fainting into Princess Elizabeth's arms.
One week subsequently, on the twenty-second, at six in the morning, allParis was aroused by the first of a series of minute guns. The terriblebooming went on all through the day.
At day-break the six legions of the National Guards were collected atthe City Hall. Two processions were formed throughout the town andsuburbs to spread the proclamation that the country was in danger.
Danton had the idea of this dreadful show, and he had intrusted thedetails to Sergent, the engraver, an immense stage-manager.
Each party left the Hall at six o'clock.
First marched a cavalry squadron, with the mounted band playinga funeral march, specially composed. Next, six field-pieces,abreast where the road-way was wide enough, or in pairs.Then four heralds on horseback, bearing ensigns labeled"Liberty"--"Equality"--"Constitution"--"Our Country." Then came twelvecity officials, with swords by the sides and their scarfs on. Then,all alone, isolated like France herself, a National Guardsman, in thesaddle of a black horse, holding a large tri-color flag, on which waslettered:
     "CITIZENS, THE COUNTRY IS IN DANGER!"
In the same order as the preceding, rolled six guns with weightyjolting and heavy rumbling, National Guards and cavalry at the rear.
On every bridge, crossing, and square, the party halted, and silencewas commanded by the ruffling of the drums. The banners were waved, andwhen no sound was heard and the crowd held their peace, the grave voiceof the municipal crier arose, reading the proclamation, and adding:
"The country is in danger!"
This last line was dreadful, and rang in all hearts. It was the shriekof the nation, of the motherland, of France. It was the parent callingon her offspring to help her.
And ever and anon the guns kept thundering.
On all the large open places platforms were run up for the voluntaryenlistments. With the intoxication of patriotism, the men rushed to puttheir names down. Some were too old, but lied to be inscribed; some tooyoung, but stood on tiptoe and swore they were full sixteen.
Those who were accepted leaped to the ground, waving their enrollmentpapers, and cheering or singing the "Let it go on," and kissing thecannon's mouth.
It was the betrothal of the French to war--this war of twenty oddyears, which will result in the freedom of Europe, although it may notaltogether be in our time.
The excitement was so great that the Assembly was appalled by its ownwork; it sent men through the town to cry out: "Brothers, for the sakeof the country, no rioting! The court wishes disorder as an excuse fortaking the king out of the city, so give it no pretext. The king shouldstay among us."
These dread sowers of words added in a deep voice:
"He must be punished."
They mentioned nobody by name, but all knew who was meant.
Every cannon-report had an echo in the heart of the palace. Thosewere the king's rooms where the queen and the rest of the family weregathered. They kept together all day, from feeling that their fate wasdecided this time, so grand and solemn. They did not separate untilmidnight, when the last cannon was fired.
On the following night Mme. Campan was aroused; she had slept in thequeen's bedroom since a fellow had been caught there with a knife, whomight have been a murderer.
"Is your majesty ill?" she asked, hearing a moan.
"I am always in pain, Campan, but I trust to have it over soon now.Yes," and she held out her pale hand in the moonbeam, making it seemall the whiter, "in a month this same moonlight will see us free anddisengaged from our chains."
"Oh, you have accepted Lafayette's offers," said the lady, "and youwill flee?"
"Lafayette's help? Thank God, no," said the queen, with repugnancethere was no mistaking; "no, but in a month, my nephew, Francis, willbe in Paris."
"Is your majesty quite sure?" asked the royal governess, alarmed.
"Yes, all is settled," returned the sovereign; "alliance is madebetween Austria and Prussia, two powers who will march upon Paris incombination. We have the route of the French princes and their alliedarmies, and we can surely say that on such and such a day they will behere or there."
"But do you not fear--"
"Murder?" The queen finished the phrase. "I know that might befall; butthey may hold us as hostages for their necks when vengeance impends.However, nothing venture, nothing win."
"And when do the allied sovereigns expect to be in Paris?" inquiredMme. Campan.
"Between the fifteenth and twentieth of August," was the reply.
"God grant it!" said the lady.
But the prayer was not granted; or, if heard, Heaven sent France thesuccor she had not dreamed of--the Marseillaise Hymn of Liberty.



CHAPTER VII.
THE MEN FROM MARSEILLES.

We have said that Barbaroux had written to a friend in the south tosend him five hundred men willing to die.
Who was the man who could write such lines? and what influence had heover his friends?
Charles Barbaroux was a very handsome young man of barely twenty-five,who was reproached for his beauty, and considered by Mme. Roland asfrivolous and too generally amorous. On the contrary, he loved hiscountry alone, or must have loved her best, for he died for her.
Son of a hardy sea-faring man, he was a poet and orator when quiteyoung--at the breaking out of trouble in his native town during theelection of Mirabeau. He was then appointed secretary to the Marseillestown board. Riots at Arles drew him into them; but the seething caldronof Paris claimed him; the immense furnace which needed perfume, thehuge crucible hissing for purest metal.
He was Roland's correspondent at the south, and Mme. Roland hadpictured from his regular, precise, and wise letters, a man of forty,with his head bald from much thinking, and his forehead wrinkledwith vigils. The reality of her dream was a young man, gay, merry,light, fond of her sex, the type of the rich and brilliant generationflourishing in '92, to be cut down in '93.
It was in this head, esteemed too frivolous by Mme. Roland, that thefirst thought of the tenth of August was conceived, perhaps.
The storm was in the air, but the clouds were tossing about in alldirections for Barbaroux to give them a direction and pile them up overthe Tuileries.
When nobody had a settled plan, he wrote for five hundred determinedmen.
The true ruler of France was the man who could write for such men andbe sure of their coming.
Rebecqui chose them himself out of the revolutionists who had foughtin the last two years' popular affrays, in Avignon and the other fierytowns; they were used to blood; they did not know what fatigue was byname.
On the appointed day they set out on the two hundred league tramp, asif it were a day's strolling. Why not? They were hardy seamen, ruggedpeasants, sunburned by the African simoom or the mountain gale, withhands callous from the spade or tough with tar.
Wherever they passed along they were hailed as brigands.
In a halt they received the words and music of Rouget de l'Isle's "Hymnto Liberty," sent as a viaticum by Barbaroux to shorten the road. Thelips of the Marseilles men made it change in character, while the wordswere altered by their new emphasis. The song of brotherhood became oneof death and extermination--forever "the Marseillaise."
Barbaroux had planned to head with the Marseilles men some fortythousand volunteers Santerre was to have ready to meet them, overwhelmthe City Hall and the House, and then storm the palace. But Santerrewent to greet them with only two hundred men, not liking to let thestrangers have the glory of such a rush.
With ardent eyes, swart visages, and shrill voices, the little bandstrode through all Paris to the Champs Elysées, singing the thrillingsong. They camped there, awaiting the banquet on the morrow.
It took place, but some grenadiers were arrayed close to the spot, aRoyalist guard set as a rampart between them and the palace.
They divined they were enemies, and commencing by insults, they wenton to exchanging fisticuffs. At the first blood the Marseillaiseshouted "To arms!" raided the stacks of muskets, and sent thegrenadiers flying with their own bayonets. Luckily, they had theTuileries at their backs and got over the draw-bridge, finding shelterin the royal apartments. There is a legend that the queen bound up thewounds of one soldier.
The Federals numbered five thousand--Marseilles men, Bretons, andDauphinois. They were a power, not from their number, but their faith.The spirit of the revolution was in them.
They had fire-arms but no ammunition; they called for cartridges, butnone were supplied. Two of them went to the mayor and demanded powder,or they would kill themselves in the office.
Two municipal officers were on duty--Sergent, Danton's man, and Panis,Robespierre's.
Sergent had artistic imagination and a French heart; he felt that theyoung men spoke with the voice of the country.
"Look out, Panis," he said; "if these youths kill themselves, the bloodwill fall on our heads."
"But if we deliver the powder without authorization, we risk our necks."
"Never mind. I believe the time has come to risk our necks. In thatcase, everybody for himself," replied Sergent. "Here goes for mine; youcan do as you like."
He signed the delivery note, and Panis put his name to it.
Things were easier now; when the Marseilles men had powder and shotthey would not let themselves be butchered without hitting back.
As soon as they were armed, the Assembly received their petition, andallowed them to attend the session. The Assembly was in great fear, somuch so as to debate whether it ought not to transfer the meetings tothe country. For everybody stood in doubt, feeling the ground to quakeunderfoot and fearing to be swallowed.
This wavering chafed the southerners. No little disheartened, Barbarouxtalked of founding a republic in the south.
He turned to Robespierre, to see if he would help to set the ballrolling. But the Incorruptible's conditions gave him suspicions, and heleft him, saying:
"We will no more have a dictator than a king."



CHAPTER VIII.
THE FRIEND IN NEED.

The very thing encouraging the Tuileries party was what awed the rebels.
The palace had become a formidable fortress, with a dreadful garrison.
During the night of the fourth of August, the Swiss battalions had beendrawn from out of town into the palace. A few companies were left atGaillon, where the king might take refuge.
Three reliable leaders were beside the queen: Maillardet with hisSwitzers, Hervilly with the St. Louis Knights and the ConstitutionalGuard, and Mandat, who, as National Guard commander, promised twentythousand devoted and resolute fighting men.
On the evening of the eighth a man penetrated the fort; everybody knewhim, so that he had no difficulty in passing to the queen's rooms,where they announced "Doctor Gilbert."
"Ah, welcome, welcome, doctor!" said the royal lady, in a feverishvoice, "I am happy to see you."
He looked sharply at her, for on the whole of her face was suchgladness and satisfaction that it made him shudder. He would soonerhave seen her pale and disheartened.
"I fear I have arrived too late," he said.
"It is just the other way, doctor," she replied, with a smile, anexpression her lips had almost forgotten how to make; "you come at theright time, and you are welcome. You are going to see what I have longyearned to show you--a king really royal."
"I am afraid, madame, that you are deceiving yourself," he returned,"and that you will exhibit rather the commandant of a fort."
"Perhaps, Doctor Gilbert, we can never come to a closer understandingon the symbolical character of royalty than on other matters. For me aking is not solely a man who may say, 'I do not wish,' but one who cansay, 'Thus I will.'"
She alluded to the famous veto which led to this crisis.
"Yes, madame," said Gilbert, "and for your majesty, a king is a rulerwho takes revenge."
"Who defends himself," she retorted; "for you know we are openlythreatened, and are to be attacked by an armed force. We are assuredthat five hundred desperadoes from Marseilles, headed by one Barbaroux,took an oath on the ruins of the Bastile, not to go home until they hadcamped on the ruins of the Tuileries."
"Indeed, I have heard something of the kind," remarked Gilbert.
"Which only makes you laugh?"
"It alarms me for the king and yourself, madame."
"So that you come to propose that we should resign, and place ourselvesat the mercy of Messieurs Barbaroux and his Marseilles bullies?"
"I only wish the king could abdicate and guarantee, by the sacrifice ofhis crown, his life and yours, and the safety of your children."
"Is this the advice you give us, doctor?"
"It is; and I humbly beseech you to follow it."
"Monsieur Gilbert, let me say that you are not consistent in youropinions."
"My opinions are always the same, madame. Devoted to king and country,I wished him to be in accord with the Constitution; from this desiresprings the different pieces of counsel which I have submitted."
"What is the one you fit to this juncture?"
"One that you have never had such a good chance to follow. I say, getaway."
"Flee?"
"Ah, you well know that it is possible, and never could be carriedout with greater facility. You have nearly three thousand men in thepalace."
"Nearer five thousand," said the queen, with a smile of satisfaction,"with double to rise at the first signal we give."
"You have no need to give a signal, which may be intercepted; the fivethousand will suffice."
"What do you think we ought to do with them?"
"Set yourself in their midst, with the king and your august children;dash out when least expected; at a couple of leagues out, take to horseand ride into Normandy, to Gaillon, where you are looked for."
"You mean, place ourselves under the thumb of General Lafayette?"
"At least, he has proved that he is devoted to you."
"No, sir, no! With my five thousand in hand, and as many more ready tocome at the call, I like another course better--to crush this revoltonce for all."
"Oh, madame, how right he was who said you were doomed."
"Who was that, sir?"
"A man whose name I dare not repeat to you; but he has spoken threetimes to you."
"Silence!" said the queen, turning pale; "we will try to give the lieto this prophet of evil."
"Madame, I am very much afraid that you are blinded."
"You think that they will venture to attack us?"
"The public spirit turns to this quarter."
"And they reckon on walking in here as easily as they did in June?"
"This is not a stronghold."
"Nay; but if you will come with me, I will show you that we can holdout some time."
With joy and pride she showed him all the defensive measures of themilitary engineers and the number of the garrison whom she believedfaithful.
"That is a comfort, madame," he said, "but it is not security."
"You frown on everything, let me tell you, doctor."
"Your majesty has taken me round where you like; will you let me takeyou to your own rooms, now?"
"Willingly, doctor, for I am tired. Give me your arm."
Gilbert bowed to have this high favor, most rarely granted by thesovereign, even to her intimate friends, especially since hermisfortune.
When they were in her sitting-room he dropped on one knee to her as shetook a seat in an arm-chair.
"Madame," said he, "let me adjure you, in the name of your augusthusband, your dear ones, your own safety, to make use of the forcesabout you, to flee and not to fight."
"Sir," was the reply, "since the fourteenth of July, I have beenaspiring for the king to have his revenge; I believe the time hascome. We will save royalty, or bury ourselves under the ruins of theTuileries."
"Can nothing turn you from this fatal resolve?"
"Nothing."
She held out her hand to him, half to help him to rise, half to sendhim away. He kissed her hand respectfully, and rising, said:
"Will your majesty permit me to write a few lines which I regard as sourgent that I do not wish to delay one instant?"
"Do so, sir," she said, pointing to a writing-table, where he sat downand wrote these lines:
     "MY LORD,--Come! the queen is in danger of death, if a     friend does not persuade her to flee, and I believe you are the     only one who can have that influence over her."
"May I ask whom you are writing to, without being too curious?"demanded the lady.
"To the Count of Charny, madame," was Gilbert's reply.
"And why do you apply to him?"
"For him to obtain from your majesty what I fail to do."
"Count Charny is too happy to think of his unfortunate friends; he willnot come," said the queen.
The door opened, and an usher appeared.
"The Right Honorable, the Count of Charny," he announced, "desiring tolearn if he may present his respects to your majesty."
The queen had been pale, and now became corpse-like, as she stammeredsome unintelligible words.
"Let him enter," said Gilbert; "Heaven hath sent him."
Charny appeared at the door in naval officer's uniform.
"Oh, come in, sir; I was writing for you," said the physician, handinghim the note.
"Hearing of the danger her majesty was incurring, I came," said thenobleman, bowing.
"Madame, for Heaven's sake, hear and heed what Count Charny says," saidGilbert; "his voice will be that of France."
Respectfully saluting the lord and the royal lady, Gilbert went out,still cherishing a last hope.



CHAPTER IX.
CHARNY ON GUARD.

On the night of the ninth of August, the royal family supped as usual;nothing could disturb the king in his meals. But while PrincessElizabeth and Lady Lamballe wept and prayed, the queen prayed withoutweeping. The king withdrew to go to confession.
At this time the doors opened, and Count Charny walked in, pale, butperfectly calm.
"May I have speech with the king?" he asked, as he bowed.
"At present I am the king," answered Marie Antoinette.
Charny knew this as well as anybody, but he persisted.
"You may go up to the king's rooms, count, but I protest that you willvery much disturb him."
"I understand; he is with Mayor Petion."
"The king is with his ghostly counselor," replied the lady, with anindescribable expression.
"Then I must make my report to your majesty as major-general of thecastle," said the count.
"Yes, if you will kindly do so."
"I have the honor to set forth the effective strength of our forces.The heavy horse-guards, under Rulhieres and Verdiere, to the numberof six hundred, are in battle array on the Louvre grand square; theParis City foot-guards are barracked in the stables; a hundred andfifty are drawn from them to guard at Toulouse House, at need, theTreasury and the discount and extra cash offices; the Paris MountedPatrol, only thirty men, are posted in the princes' yard, at the footof the king's back stairs; two hundred officers and men of the old LifeGuards, a hundred young Royalists, as many noblemen, making some fourhundred combatants, are in the Bull's-eye Hall and adjoining rooms;two or three hundred National Guards are scattered in the gardensand court-yards; and lastly, fifteen hundred Swiss, the backbone ofresistance, are taking position under the grand vestibule and thestaircases which they are charged to defend."
"Do not all these measures set you at ease, my lord?" inquired thequeen.
"Nothing can set me at ease when your majesty's safety is at stake,"returned the count.
"Then your advice is still for flight?"
"My advice, madame, is that you ought, with the king and the royalchildren, be in the midst of us."
The queen shook her head.
"Your majesty dislikes Lafayette? Be it so. But you have confidencein the Duke of Liancourt, who is in Rouen, in the house of an Englishgentleman of the name of Canning. The commander of the troops in thatprovince has made them swear allegiance to the king; the Salis-ChamadeSwiss regiment is echeloned across the road, and it may be relied on.All is still quiet. Let us get out over the swing-bridge, and reachthe Etoille bars, where three hundred of the horse-guards await us. AtVersailles, we can readily get together fifteen hundred noblemen. Withfour thousand, I answer for taking you wherever you like to go."
"I thank you, Lord Charny. I appreciate the devotion which made youleave those dear to you, to offer your services to a foreigner."
"The queen is unjust toward me," replied Charny. "My sovereign'sexistence is always the most precious of all in my eyes, as duty isalways the dearest of virtues."
"Duty--yes, my lord," murmured the queen; "but I believe I understandmy own when everybody is bent on doing theirs. It is to maintainroyalty grand and noble, and to have it fall worthily, like theancient gladiators, who studied how to die with grace."
"Is this your majesty's last word?"
"It is--above all, my last desire."
Charny bowed, and as he met Mme. Campan by the door, he said to her:
"Suggest to the princesses that they should put all their valuablesin their pockets, as they may have to quit the palace without furtherwarning."
While the governess went to speak to the ladies, he returned to thequeen, and said:
"Madame, it is impossible that you should not have some hope beyond thereliance on material forces. Confide in me, for you will please bear inmind that at such a strait, I will have to give an account to the Makerand to man for what will have happened."
"Well, my lord," said the queen, "an agent is to pay Petion two hundredthousand francs, and Danton fifty thousand, for which sums the latteris to stay at home and the other is to come to the palace."
"Are you sure of the go-betweens?"
"You said that Petion had come, which is something toward it."
"Hardly enough; as I understood that he had to be sent for three times."
"The token is, in speaking to the king, he is to touch his righteyebrow with his forefinger--"
"But if not arranged?"
"He will be our prisoner, and I have given the most positive ordersthat he is not to be let quit the palace."
The ringing of a bell was heard.
"What is that?" inquired the queen.
"The general alarm," rejoined Charny.
The princesses rose in alarm.
"What is the matter?" exclaimed the queen. "The tocsin is always thetrumpet of rebellion."
"Madame," said Charny, more affected by the sinister sound than thequeen, "I had better go and learn whether the alarm means anythinggrave."
"But we shall see you again?" asked she, quickly.
"I came to take your majesty's orders, and I shall not leave you untilyou are out of danger."
Bowing, he went out. The queen stood pensive for a space, murmuring: "Isuppose we had better see if the king has got through confessing."
While she was going out, Princess Elizabeth took some garments off asofa in order to lie down with more comfort; from her fichu she removeda cornelian brooch, which she showed to Mme. Campan; the engravedstone had a bunch of lilies and the motto: "Forget offenses, forgiveinjuries."
"I fear that this will have little influence over our enemies," sheremarked; "but it ought not be the less dear to us."
As she was finishing the words, a gunshot was heard in the yard.
The ladies screamed.
"There goes the first shot," said Lady Elizabeth. "Alas! it will not bethe last."
Mayor Petion had come into the palace under the followingcircumstances. He arrived about half past ten. He was not made towait, as had happened before, but was told that the king was ready tosee him; but to arrive, he had to walk through a double row of Swissguards, National Guards, and those volunteer royalists called Knightsof the Dagger. Still, as they knew he had been sent for, they merelycast the epithets of "traitor" and "Judas" in his face as he went upthe stairs.
Petion smiled as he went in at the door of the room, for here the kinghad given him the lie on the twentieth of June; he was going to haveample revenge.
The king was impatiently awaiting.
"Ah! so you have come, Mayor Petion?" he said. "What is the good wordfrom Paris?"
Petion furnished the account of the state of matters--or, at least, anaccount.
"Have you nothing more to tell me?" demanded the ruler.
"No," replied Petion, wondering why the other stared at him. Louiswatched for the signal that the mayor had accepted the bribe.
It was clear that the king had been cheated; some swindler had pocketedthe money. The queen came in as the question was put to Petion.
"How does our friend stand?" she whispered.
"He has not made any sign," rejoined the king.
"Then he is our prisoner," said she.
"Can I retire?" inquired the mayor.
"For God's sake, do not let him go!" interposed the queen.
"Not yet, sir; I have something yet to say to you," responded the king,raising his voice. "Pray step into this closet."
This implied to those in the inner room that Petion was intrusted tothem, and was not to be allowed to go.
Those in the room understood perfectly, and surrounded Petion, who feltthat he was a prisoner. He was the thirtieth in a room where there wasnot elbow-room for four.
"Why, gentlemen, we are smothering here," he said; "I propose a changeof air."
It was a sentiment all agreed with, and they followed him out of thefirst door he opened, and down into the walled-in garden, where he wasas much confined as in the closet. To kill time, he picked up a pebbleor two and tossed them over the walls.
While he was playing thus, and chatting with Roederer, attorney of theprovince, the message came twice that the king wanted to see him.
"No," replied Petion; "it is too hot quarters up there. I remember thecloset, and I have no eagerness to be in it again. Besides, I have anappointment with somebody on the Feuillants' Quay."
He went on playing at clearing the wall with stones.
"With whom have you an appointment?" asked Roederer.
At this instant the Assembly door on the Feuillants' Quay opened.
"I fancy this is just what I was waiting for," remarked the mayor.
"Order to let Mayor Petion pass forth," said a voice; "the Assemblydemands his presence at the bar of the House, to give an account of thestate of the city."
"Just the thing," muttered Petion. "Here I am," he replied, in a loudvoice; "I am ready to respond to the quips of my enemies."
The National Guards, imagining that Petion was to be berated, let himout.
It was nearly three in the morning; the day was breaking. A singularthing, the aurora was the hue of blood.



CHAPTER X.
BILLET AND PITOU.

On being called by the king, Petion had foreseen that he might moreeasily get into the palace than out, so he went up to a hard-faced manmarred by a scar on the brow.
"Farmer Billet," said he, "what was your report about the House?"
"That it would hold an all-night sitting."
"Very good; and what did you say you saw on the New Bridge?"
"Cannon and Guards, placed by order of Colonel Mandat."
"And you also stated that a considerable force was collected under St.John's Arcade, near the opening of St. Antoine Street?"
"Yes; again, by order of Colonel Mandat."
"Well, will you listen to me? Here you have an order to Manuel andDanton to send back to barracks the troops at St. John's Arcade, andto remove the guns from the bridge; at any cost, you will understand,these orders must be obeyed."
"I will hand it to Danton myself."
"Good. You are living in St. Honore Street?"
"Yes, mayor."
"When you have given Danton the order, get home and snatch a bit ofrest. About two o'clock, go out to the Feuillants' Quay, where youwill stand by the wall. If you see or hear stones falling over fromthe other side of the wall, it will mean that I am a prisoner in theTuileries, and detained by violence."
"I understand."
"Present yourself at the bar of the House, and ask my colleagues toclaim me. You understand, Farmer Billet, I am placing my life in yourhands."
"I will answer for it," replied the bluff farmer; "take it easy."
Petion had therefore gone into the lion's den, relying on Billet'spatriotism.
The latter had spoken the more firmly, as Pitou had come to town. Hedispatched the young peasant to Danton, with the word for him not toreturn without him. Lazy as the orator was, Pitou had a prevailing way,and he brought Danton with him.
Danton had seen the cannon on the bridge, and the National Guards atthe end of the popular quarter, and he understood the urgency of notleaving such forces on the rear of the people's army. With Petion'sorder in hand, he and Manuel sent the Guards away and removed the guns.
This cleared the road for the Revolution.
In the meantime, Billet and Pitou had gone to their old lodging in St.Honore Street, to which Pitou bobbed his head as to an old friend. Thefarmer sat down, and signified the young man was to do the same.
"Thank you, but I am not tired," returned Pitou; but the otherinsisted, and he gave way.
"Pitou, I sent for you to join me," said the farmer.
"And you see I have not kept you waiting," retorted the National Guardscaptain, with his own frank smile, showing all his thirty-two teeth.
"No. You must have guessed that something serious is afoot."
"I suspected as much. But, I say, friend Billet, I do not see anythingof Mayor Bailly or General Lafayette."
"Bailly is a traitor, who nearly murdered the lot of us on theparade-ground."
"Yes, I know that, as I picked you up there, almost swimming in yourown blood."
"And Lafayette is another traitor, who wanted to take away the king."
"I did not know that. Lafayette a traitor, eh? I never would havethought of that. And the king?"
"He is the biggest traitor of the lot, Pitou."
"I can not say I am surprised at that," said Pitou.
"He conspires with the foreigner, and wants to deliver France to theenemy. The Tuileries is the center of the conspiracy, and we havedecided to take possession of the Tuileries. Do you understand this,Pitou?"
"Of course I understand. But, look here, Master Billet; we took theBastile, and this will not be so hard a job."
"That's where you are out."
"What, more difficult, when the walls are not so high?"
"That's so; but they are better guarded. The Bastile had but a hundredold soldiers to guard it, while the palace has three or four thousandmen; this is saying nothing of the Bastile having been carried bysurprise, while the Tuileries folk must know we mean to attack, andwill be on the lookout."
"They will defend it, will they?" queried Pitou.
"Yes," replied Billet--"all the more as the defense is trusted to CountCharny, they say."
"Indeed. He did leave Boursonnes with his lady by the post," observedPitou. "Lor', is he a traitor, too?"
"No; he is an aristocrat, that is all. He has always been for thecourt, so that he is no traitor to the people; he never asked us to putany faith in him."
"So it looks as though we will have a tussle with Lord Charny?"
"It is likely, friend Ange."
"What a queer thing it is, neighbors clapper-clawing!"
"Yes--what is called civil war, Pitou; but you are not obliged to fightunless you like."
"Excuse me, farmer, but it suits me from the time when it is to yourtaste."
"But I should even like it better if you did not fight."
"Why did you send for me, Master Billet?"
"I sent for you to give you this paper," replied Billet, with his faceclouding.
"What is this all about?"
"It is the draft of my will."
"Your will?" cried Pitou, laughing. "Hang me, if you look like a manabout to die!"
"No; but I may be a man who will get killed," returned therevolutionist, pointing to his gun and cartridge-box hanging on thewall.
"That's a fact," said Ange Pitou; "we are all mortal."
"So that I have come to place my will in your hands as the solelegatee."
"No, I thank you. But you are only saying this for a joke?"
"I am telling you a fact."
"But it can not be. When a man has rightful heirs he can not give awayhis property to outsiders."
"You are wrong, Pitou; he can."
"Then he ought not."
"I have no heirs," replied Billet, with a dark cloud passing over hisface.
"No heirs? How about heiresses, then? What do you call Miss Catherine?"
"I do not know anybody of that name, Pitou."
"Come, come, farmer, do not say such things; you make me sad."
"Pitou, from the time when something is mine, it is mine to give away;in the same way, should I die, what I leave to you will be yours, todeal with as you please, to be given away as freely."
"Ha! Good--yes," exclaimed the young man, who began to understand;"then, if anything bad happens to you--But how stupid I am; nothing badcould happen to you."
"You yourself said just now that we are all mortal."
"So I did; but--well, I do not know but that you are right. I take thewill, Master Billet; but is it true that if I fall heir, I can do as Iplease with the property?"
"No doubt, since it will be yours. And, you understand, you are a soundpatriot, Pitou; they will not stand you off from it, as they might folkwho have connived with the aristocrats."
"It's a bargain," said Pitou, who was getting it into his brain; "Iaccept."
"Then that is all I have to say to you. Put the paper in your pocketand go to sleep."
"What for?"
"Because we shall have some work to do to-morrow--no, this day, for itis two in the morning."
"Are you going out, Master Billet?"
"Only as far as the river."
"You are sure you do not want me?"
"On the other hand, you would be in my way."
"I suppose I might have a bite and a sup, then?"
"Of course. I forgot to ask if you might not be hungry."
"Because you know I am always hungry," said Pitou, laughing.
"I need not tell you where the larder is."
"No, no, master; do not worry about me. But you are going to come backhere?"
"I shall return."
"Or else tell me where we are to meet?"
"It is useless, for I shall be home in an hour."
Pitou went in search of the eatables with an appetite which in him, asin the case of the king, no events could alter, however serious theymight be, while Billet proceeded to the water-side to do what we know.
He had hardly arrived on the spot before a pebble fell, followed byanother, and some more, teaching him that what Petion apprehendedhad come to pass, and that he was a prisoner to the Royalists. So hehad flown, according to his instructions, to the Assembly, which hadclaimed the mayor, as we have described.
Petion, liberated, had only to walk through the House to get back tothe mayor's office, leaving his carriage in the Tuileries yard torepresent him.
For his part, Billet went home, and found Ange finishing his supper.
"Any news?" asked he.
"Nothing, except that day is breaking and the sky is the color ofblood."



CHAPTER XI.
IN THE MORNING.

The early sunbeams shone on two horsemen riding at a walking pace alongthe deserted water-side by the Tuileries. They were Colonel Mandat andhis aid.
At one A. M. he was summoned to the City Hall, and refused togo; but on the order being renewed more peremptorily at two, AttorneyRoederer said to him:
"Mark, colonel, that under the law the commander of the National Guardis to obey the City Government."
He decided to go, ignorant of two things.
In the first place, forty-seven sections of the forty-eight had joinedto the town rulers each three commissioners, with orders to work withthe officials and "save the country." Mandat expected to see the oldboard as before, and not at all to behold a hundred and forty-one freshfaces. Again, he had no idea of the order from this same board toclear the New Bridge of cannon and vacate St. John's Arcade, an orderso important that Danton and Manuel personally had superintended itsexecution.
Consequently, on reaching the Pont Neuf, Mandat was stupefied to findit utterly deserted. He stopped and sent his aid to scout. In tenminutes this officer returned with the word that he saw no guns orNational Guards, while the neighborhood was as lonesome as the bridge.
Mandat continued his way, though he perhaps ought to have gone backto the palace; but men, like things, must wend whither their destinyimpels.
Proportionably to his approach to the City Hall, he seemed to enterinto liveliness. In the same way as the blood in some organizationsleaves the extremities cold and pale on rushing back to fortify theheart, so all the movement and heat--the Revolution, in short--wasaround the City Hall, the seat of popular life, the heart of that greatbody, Paris.
He stopped to send his officer to the Arcade; but the National Guardhad been withdrawn from there, too. He wanted to retrace his steps; butthe crowd had packed in behind him, and he was carried, like a waif onthe wave, up the Hall steps.
"Stay here," he said to his follower, "and if evil befalls me, run andtell them at the palace."
Mandat yielded to the mob, and was floated into the grand hall, wherehe met strange and stern faces. It was the insurrection complete,demanding an account of the conduct of this man, who had not only triedto crush it in its development, but to strangle it in its birth.
One of the members of the Commune, the dread body which was to stiflethe Assembly and struggle with the Convention, advanced and in thegeneral's name asked:
"By whose order did you double the palace guard?"
"The Mayor of Paris'."
"Show that order."
"I left it at the Tuileries, so that it might be carried out during myabsence."
"Why did you order out the cannon?"
"Because I set the battalion on the march, and the field-pieces movewith the regiment."
"Where is Petion?"
"He was at the palace when I last saw him."
"A prisoner?"
"No; he was strolling about the gardens."
The interrogation was interrupted here by a new member bringing anunsealed letter, of which he asked leave to make communication. Mandathad no need to do more than cast a glance on this note to acknowledgethat he was lost; he recognized his own writing. It was his orderto the commanding officer at St. John's Arcade, sent at one in themorning, for him to attack in the rear the mob making for the palace,while the battalion on New Bridge attacked it in flank. This order hadfallen into the Commune's hands after the dismissal of the soldiers.
The examination was over; for what could be more damning than thisletter in any admissions of the accused?
The council decided that Mandat should be imprisoned in the abbey.The tale goes that the chairman of the board, in saying, "Remove theprisoner," made a sweep of the hand, edge downward, like chopping withan ax. As the guillotine was not in use then, it must have been anarranged sign--perhaps by the Invisibles, whose Grand Copt had divinedthat instrument.
At all events, the result showed that the sign was taken to imply death.
Hardly had Mandat gone down three of the City Hall steps before apistol-shot shattered his skull, at the very instant when his son rantoward him. Three years before, the same reception had met Flesselles.
Mandat was only wounded, but as he rose, he fell again with a score ofpike-wounds. The boy held out his hands and wailed for his father, butnone paid any heed to him. Presently, in the bloody ring, where barearms plunged amid flashing pikes and swords, a head was seen to surgeup, detached from the trunk.
The boy swooned.
The aid-de-camp galloped back to the Tuileries to report what he hadwitnessed.
The murderers went off in two gangs: one took the body to the river, tothrow it in, the other carried the head through the streets.
This was going on at four in the morning.
Let us precede the aid to the Tuileries, and see what was happening.
Having confessed, and made easy about matters since his conscience wastranquilized, the king, unable to resist the cravings of nature, wentto bed. But we must say that he lay down dressed.
On the alarm-bells ringing more loudly, and the roll of the drumsbeating the reveille, he was roused.
Colonel Chesnaye, to whom Mandat had left his powers, awoke the monarchto have him address the National Guards, and by his presence and sometimely words revive their enthusiasm.
The king rose, but half awake, dull and staggering. He was wearing apowdered wig, and he had flattened all the side he had lain upon. Thehair-dresser could not be found, so he had to go out with the wig outof trim.
Notified that the king was going to show himself to the defenders, thequeen ran out from the council hall where she was.
In contrast with the poor sovereign, whose dim sight sought noone's glance, whose mouth-muscles were flabby and palpitating withinvoluntary twitches, while his violet coat suggested he was wearingmourning for majesty, the queen was burning with fever, although pale.Her eyes were red, though dry.
She kept close to this phantom of monarchy, who came out in the dayinstead of midnight, with owlish, blinking eyes. She hoped to inspirehim with her overflow of life, strength, and courage.
All went well enough while this exhibition was in the rooms, though theNational Guards, mixed in with the noblemen, seeing their ruler closeto this poor, flaccid, heavy man, who had so badly failed on a similaroccasion at Varennes, wondered if this really was the monarch whosepoetical legend the women and the priests were already beginning toweave.
This was not the one they had expected to see.
The aged Duke of Mailly--with one of those good intentions destined tobe another paving-stone for down below--drew his rapier, and sinkingdown at the foot of the king, vowed in a quavering voice to die, heand the old nobility which he represented, for the grandson of HenryIV. Here were two blunders: the National Guards had no great sympathyfor the old nobility, and they were not here to defend the descendantof Henry IV., but the constitutional king.
So, in reply to a few shouts of "Hail to the king!" cheers for thenation burst forth on all sides.
Something to make up for this coolness was sought. The king was urgedto go down into the royal yard. Alas! the poor potentate had no willof his own. Disturbed at his meals, and cheated, with only one hour'ssleep instead of seven, he was but an automaton, receiving impetus fromoutside its material nature.
Who gave this impetus? The queen, a woman of nerve, who had neitherslept nor eaten.
Some unhappy characters fail in all they undertake, when circumstancesare beyond their level. Instead of attracting dissenters, Louis XVI.,in going up to them, seemed expressly made to show how little glamourmajesty can lend a man who has no genius or strength of mind.
Here, as in the rooms, when the Royalists managed to get up a shout of"Long live the king!" an immense hurrah for the nation replied to them.
The Royalists being dull enough to persist, the patriots overwhelmedthem with "No, no, no; no other ruler than the nation!"
And the king, almost supplicating, added: "Yes, my sons, the nation andthe monarch make but one henceforward."
"Bring the prince," whispered Marie Antoinette to Princess Elizabeth;"perhaps the sight of a child may touch them."
While they were looking for the dauphin, the king continued the sadreview. The bad idea struck him to appeal to the artillerists, whowere mainly Republicans. If the king had the gift of speech-making,he might have forced the men to listen to him, though their belief ledthem astray, for it would have been a daring step, and it might havehelped him to face the cannon; but there was nothing exhilarating inhis words or gesture; he stammered.
The Royalists tried to cover his stammerings with the luckless hail of"Long live the king!" already twice a failure, and it nearly broughtabout a collision.
Some cannoniers left their places and rushed over to the king,threatening him with their fists, and saying:
"Do you think that we will shoot down our brothers to defend a traitorlike you?"
The queen drew the king back.
"Here comes the dauphin!" called out voices. "Long live the hope of therealm!"
Nobody took up the cry. The poor boy had come in at the wrong time; astheatrical language says, he had missed his cue.
The king went back into the palace, a downright retreat--almost aflight. When he got to his private rooms he dropped, puffing andblowing, into an easy-chair.
Stopping by the door, the queen looked around for some support. Shespied Charny standing up by the door of her own rooms, and she wentover to him.
"Ah, all is lost!" she moaned.
"I am afraid so, my lady," replied the Life Guardsman.
"Can we not still flee?"
"It is too late."
"What is left for us to do, then?"
"We can but die," responded Charny, bowing.
The queen heaved a sigh, and went into her own rooms.



CHAPTER XII.
THE FIRST MASSACRE.

Mandat had hardly been slain, before the Commune nominated Santerreas commanding general in his stead, and he ordered the drums to beatin all the town and the bells to be rung harder than ever in all thesteeples. He sent out patrols to scour the ways, and particularly toscout around the Assembly.
Some twenty prowlers were made prisoners, of whom half escaped beforemorning, leaving eleven in the Feuillants' guard-house. In their midstwas a dandified young gentleman in the National Guard uniform, thenewness of which, the superiority of his weapons, and the elegance ofhis style, made them suspect he was an aristocrat. He was quite calm.He said that he went to the palace on an order, which he showed theexamining committee of the Feuillants' ward. It ran:
     "The National Guard, bearer of this paper, will go to the palace     to learn what the state of affairs is, and return to report to the     Attorney-and-Syndic-General of the Department.
                             (Signed)                "BOIRIE,                                                     "LEROULX,                                          "Municipal Officers."
The order was plain enough, but it was thought that the signatures wereforged, and it was sent to the City Hall by a messenger to have themverified.
This last arrest had brought a large crowd around the place, and somesuch voices as are always to be heard at popular gatherings yelled forthe prisoner's death.
An official saw that this desire must not spread, and was making aspeech, to which the mob was yielding, when the messenger came backfrom the Hall to say the order was genuine, and they ought to set atliberty the prisoner named Suleau.
At this name, a woman in the mob raised her head and uttered a screamof rage.
"Suleau?" she cried. "Suleau, the editor of the 'Acts of the Apostles'newspaper, one of the slayers of Liege independence? Let me at thisSuleau! I call for the death of Suleau!"
The crowd parted to let this little, wiry woman go through. She worea riding-habit of the national colors, and was carrying a sword in across-belt. She went up to the city official and forced him to give herthe place on the stand. Her head was barely above the concourse, beforethey all roared:
"Bravo, Theroigne!"
Indeed, Theroigne was a most popular woman, so that Suleau had madea hit when he said she was the bride of Citizen Populus, as well asreferring to her free-and-easy morals.
Besides, he had published at Brussels the "Alarm for Kings," and thushelped the Belgian outbreak, and to replace under the Austrian cane andthe priestly miter a noble people wishing to be free and join France.
At this very epoch Theroigne was writing her memoirs, and had read thepart about her arrest there to the Jacobin Club.
She claimed the death of the ten other prisoners along with Suleau.
Through the door he heard her ringing voice, amid applause. He calledthe captain of the guard to him, and asked to be turned loose to themob, that by his sacrifice he might save his fellow-prisoners. They didnot believe he meant it. They refused to open the door to him, and hetried to jump out of the window, but they pulled him back. They did notthink that they would be handed over to the slaughterers in cold blood;they were mistaken.
Intimidated by the yells, Chairman Bonjour yielded to Theroigne'sdemand, and bid the National Guardsman stand aloof from resisting thepopular will. They stepped aside, and the door was left free. The mobburst into the jail and grabbed the first prisoner to hand.
It was a priest, Bonyon, a playwright noted for his failures and hisepigrams. He was a large-built man, and fought desperately with thebutchers, who tore him from the arms of the commissioner who tried tosave him; though he had no weapon but his naked fists, he laid out twoor three of the ruffians. A bayonet pinned him to the wall, so that heexpired without being able to hit with his last blows.
Two of the prisoners managed to escape in the scuffle.
The next to the priest was an old Royal Guardsman, whose defense wasnot less vigorous; his death was but the more cruel. A third was cut topieces before Suleau's turn came.
"There is your Suleau," said a woman to Theroigne.
She did not know him by sight; she thought he was a priest, and scoffedat him as the Abbe Suleau. Like a wild cat, she sprung at his throat.He was young, brave, and lusty; with a fist blow he sent her ten pacesoff, shook off the men who had seized him, and wrenching a saber from ahand, felled a couple of the assassins.
Then commenced a horrible conflict. Gaining ground toward the door,Suleau cut himself three times free; but he was obliged to turn roundto get the cursed door open, and in that instant twenty blades ranthrough his body. He fell at the feet of Theroigne, who had the crueljoy of inflicting his last wound.
Another escaped, another stoutly resisted, but the rest were butcheredlike sheep. All the bodies were dragged to Vendome Place, where theirheads were struck off and set on poles for a march through the town.
Thus, before the action, blood was spilled in two places; on the CityHall steps and in Feuillants' yard. We shall presently see it flow inthe Tuileries; the brook after the rain-drops, the river after thebrook.
While this massacre was being perpetrated, about nine A. M.,some eleven thousand National Guards, gathered by the alarm-bell ofBarbaroux and the drum-beat of Santerre, marched down the St. Antoineward and came out on the Strand. They wanted the order to assail theTuileries.
Made to wait for an hour, two stories beguiled them: either concessionswere hoped from the court, or the St. Marceau ward was not ready, andthey could not fall on without them.
A thousand pikemen waxed restless; as ever, the worst armed wanted tobegin the fray. They broke through the ranks of the Guard, saying thatthey were going to do without them and take the palace.
Some of the Marseilles Federals and a few French Guards--of the sameregiments which had stormed the Bastile three years before--took thelead and were acclaimed as chiefs. These were the vanguard of theinsurrection.
In the meanwhile, the aid who had seen Mandat murdered had raced backto the Tuileries; but it was not till after the king and the queen hadreturned from the fiasco of a review that he announced the ghastly news.
The sound of a disturbance mounted to the first floor and entered bythe open windows.
The City and the National Guards and the artillerists--the patriots, inshort--had taunted the grenadiers with being the king's tools, sayingthat they were bought up by the court; and as they were ignorant oftheir commander's murder by the mob, a grenadier shouted:
"It looks as though that shuffler Mandat had sent few aristocrats here."
Mandat's eldest son was in the Guards' ranks--we know where the otherboy was, uselessly trying to defend his father on the City Hall steps.At this insult to his absent sire, the young man sprung out of theline with his sword flourished. Three or four gunners rushed to meethim. Weber, the queen's attendant, was among the St. Roch districtgrenadiers, dressed as a National Guardsman. He flew to the young man'shelp. The clash of steel was heard as the quarrel spread between thetwo parties.
Drawn to the window by the noise, the queen perceived herfoster-brother, and she sent the king's valet to bring him to her.
Weber came up and told what was happening, whereupon she acquainted himwith the death of Mandat.
The uproar went on beneath the windows.
"The cannoniers are leaving their pieces," said Weber, looking out;"they have no spikes, but they have driven balls home without powder,so that they are rendered useless!"
"What do you think of all this?"
"I think your majesty had better consult Syndic Roederer, who seems themost honest man in the palace."
Roederer was brought before the queen in her private apartment as theclock struck nine.



CHAPTER XIII.
THE REPULSE.

At this point, Captain Durler, of the Switzers, went up to the king toget orders from him or the major-general. The latter perceived the goodcaptain as he was looking for some usher to introduce him.
"What do you want, captain?" he inquired.
"You, my Lord Charny, as you are the garrison commander. I want thefinal orders, as the head of the insurrectionary column appears on theCarrousel."
"You are not to let them force their way through, the king havingdecided to die in the midst of us."
"Rely on us, major-general," briefly replied Captain Durler, going backto his men with this order, which was their death-sentence.
As he said, the van of the rebels was in sight. It was the thousandpikemen, at the head of whom marched some twenty Marseilles men andfifteen French Guardsmen; in the ranks of the latter gleamed thebullion epaulets of a National Guards captain. This young officer wasAnge Pitou, who had been recommended by Billet, and was charged with amission of which we shall hear more.
Behind these, at a quarter-mile distance, came a considerable body ofNational Guards and Federals, preceded by a twelve-gun battery.
When the garrison commandant's order was transmitted to them, the Swissfell silently into line and resolutely stood, with cold and gloomyfirmness.
Less severely disciplined, the National Guards took up their post moredisorderly and noisily, but with equal resolution.
The nobles, badly marshaled, and armed with striking weapons only, asswords or short-range pistols, and aware that the combat would be tothe death, saw the moment approach with feverish glee when they couldgrapple with their ancient adversary, the people, the eternal athletealways thrown, but growing the stronger during eight centuries.
While the besieged were taking places, knocking was heard at the royalcourt-yard gate, and many voices shouting: "A flag of truce!" Over thewall at this spot was seen a white handkerchief tied to the tip of apike-staff.
Roederer was on his way to the king when he saw this at the gate andordered it to be opened. The janitor did so, and then ran off as fastas he could. Roederer confronted the foremost of the revolutionists.
"My friends," said he, "you wanted the gates open to a flag of truce,and not to an army. Who wants to hold the parley?"
"I am your man," said Pitou, with his sweet voice and bland smile.
"Who are you?"
"Captain Ange Pitou, of the Haramont Federal Volunteers."
Roederer did not know who the Haramont Federals were, but he judged itnot worth while to inquire when time was so precious.
"What are you wanting?"
"I want way through for myself and my friends."
Pitou's friends, who were in rags, brandished their pikes, and lookedwith their savage eyes like dangerous enemies indeed.
"What do you want to go through here for?"
"To go and surround the Assembly. We have twelve guns, but shall notuse e'er a one if you do as we wish."
"What do you wish?"
"The dethronement of the king."
"This is a grave question, sir," observed Roederer.
"Very grave," replied Pitou, with his customary politeness.
"It calls for some debate."
"That is only fair," returned Ange. "It is going on ten o'clock, lessthe quarter," said he; "if we do not have an answer by ten as itstrikes, we shall begin our striking, too."
"Meanwhile, I suppose you will let us shut the door?"
Pitou ordered his crowd back; and the door was closed; but throughthe momentarily open door the besiegers had caught a glimpse of theformidable preparations made to receive them.
As soon as the door was closed, Pitou's followers had a keen desire tokeep on parleying.
Some were hoisted upon their comrades' shoulders, so that they couldbestride the wall, where they began to chat with the National Guardsmeninside. These shook hands with them, and they were merry together asthe quarter of an hour passed.
Then a man came from the palace with the word that they were to be letin.
The invaders believed that they had their request granted, and theyflocked in as soon as the doors were opened, like men who had beenkept waiting--all in a heap. They stuck their caps on their pikes andwhooped "Hurrah for the nation!"--"Long live the National Guard!"--"TheSwiss forever!"
The National Guard echoed the shout of the nation, but the Swiss kept agloomy and sinister muteness.
The inrush only ceased when the intruders were up to the cannonmuzzles, where they stopped to look around.
The main vestibule was crammed with Swiss, three deep; on each step wasa rank, so that six could fire at once.
Some of the invaders, including Pitou, began to consider, although itwas rather late to reflect.
But though seeing the danger, the mob did not think of running away;it tried to turn it by jesting with the soldiers. The Guards took thejoking as it was made, but the Swiss looked glum, for something hadhappened five minutes before the insurrectionary column marched up.
In the quarrel between the Guards and the grenadiers over the insultto Mandat, the former had parted from the Royalist guards, and as theywent off they said good-bye to the Swiss, whom they wanted to go awaywith them.
They said that they would receive in their own homes as brothers any ofthe Swiss who would come with them.
Two from the Waldenses--that is, French Swiss--replied to the appealmade in their own tongue, and took the French by the hand. At the sameinstant two shots were fired up at the palace windows, and bulletsstruck the deserters in the very arms of those who decoyed them away.
Excellent marksmen as chamois-hunters, the Swiss officers had nippedthe mutiny thus in the bud. It is plain now why the other Swiss weremute.
The men who had rushed into the yard were such as always oddlyrun before all outbreaks. They were armed with new pikes and oldfire-arms--that is, worse than unarmed.
The cannoniers had come over to their side, as well as the NationalGuards, and they wanted to induce the Switzers to do the same.
They did not notice that time was passing and that the quarter of anhour Pitou had given Roederer had doubled; it was now a quarter pastten. They were having a good time; why should they worry?
One tatterdemalion had not a sword or a pike, but a pruning-hook, andhe said to his next neighbor:
"Suppose I were to fish for a Swiss?"
"Good idea! Try your luck," said the other.
So he hooked a Swiss by the belt and drew him toward him, the soldierresisting just enough to make out that he was dragged.
"I have got a bite," said the fisher for men.
"Then, haul him in, but go gently," said his mate.
The man with the hook drew softly indeed, and the guardsman was drawnout of the entrance into the yard, like a fish from the pond onto thebank. Up rose loud whoops and roars of laughter.
"Try for another," said the crowd.
The fisherman hooked another, and jerked him out like the first. And soit went on to the fourth and the fifth, and the whole regiment mighthave melted away but for the order, "Make ready--take aim!"
On seeing the muskets leveled with the regular sound and precisemovement marking evolutions of regular troops, one of theassailants--there is always some crazy-head to give the signal forslaughter under such circumstances--fired a pistol at the palacewindows.
During the short space separating "Make ready" and "Fire" in thecommand, Pitou guessed what was going to happen.
"Flat on your faces!" he shouted to his men; "down flat, or you are alldead men!"
Suiting the action to the word, he flung himself on the ground.
Before there was time for his advice to be generally followed, the word"Fire!" rang in the entrance-way, which was filled with a crashingnoise and smoke, while a hail of lead was spit forth as from one hugeblunderbuss.
The compact mass--for perhaps half the column had entered theyard--swayed like the wheat-field before the gust, then like the samecropped by the scythe, reeled and fell down. Hardly a third was leftalive.
These few fled, passing under the fire from two lines of guns and thebarracks firing at close range. The musketeers would have killed eachother but for the thick screen of fugitives between.
This curtain was ripped in wide places; four hundred men were stretchedon the ground pavement, three hundred slain outright.
The hundred, more or less badly injured, groaned and tried to rise, butfalling, gave part of the field of corpses a movement like the oceanswell, frightful to behold.
But gradually all died out, and apart from a few obstinate fellows whopersisted in living, all fell into immobility.
The fugitives scattered over the Carrousel Square, and flowed out onthe water-side on one hand and on the street by the other, yelling,"Murder--help! we were drawn into a death-trap."
On the New Bridge, they fell in with the main body. The bulk wascommanded by two men on horseback, closely attended by one on foot, whoseemed to have a share in the command.
"Help, Citizen Santerre!" shouted the flyers, recognizing in one ofthe riders the big brewer of St. Antoine, by his colossal stature, forwhich his huge Flemish horse was but a pedestal in keeping; "help! theyare slaughtering our brothers."
"Who are?" demanded the brewer-general.
"The Swiss--they shot us down while we were cheek by jowl with them,a-kissing them."
"What do you think of this?" asked Santerre of the second horseman.
"Vaith, me dink of dot milidary broverb which it say: 'De soldier oughtto march to where he hear dot gun-firing going on,'" replied the otherrider, who was a small, fair man, with his hair cropped short, speakingwith a strong German accent. "Zubbose we go where de goons go off, eh?"
"Hi! you had a young officer with you," called out the leader on footto one of the runaways; "I don't see anything of him."
"He was the first to be dropped, citizen representative; and the more'sthe pity, for he was a brave young chap."
"Yes, he was a brave young man," replied, with a slight loss of color,the man addressed as a member of the House, "and he shall be bravelyavenged. On you go, Citizen Santerre!"
"I believe, my dear Billet," said the brewer, "that in such a pinch wemust call experience into play as well as courage."
"As you like."
"In consequence, I propose to place the command in the hands of CitizenWesterman--a real general and a friend of Danton--offering to obey himlike a common soldier."
"I do not care what you do if you will only march right straightahead," said the farmer.
"Do you accept the command, Citizen Westerman?" asked Santerre.
"I do," said the Russian, laconically.
"In that case give your orders."
"Vorwarts!" shouted Westerman, and the immense column, only halted fora breathing-spell, resumed the route.
As its pioneers entered at the same time the Carrousel by all gates,eleven struck on the Tuileries clocks.



CHAPTER XIV.
THE LAST OF THE CHARNYS.

When Roederer entered the queen's apartments behind Weber, that ladywas seated by the fire-place, with her back to the door; but she turnedround on hearing it open.
"Well, sir?" she asked, without being very pointed in her inquiry.
"The honor has been done me of a call," replied Roederer.
"Yes, sir; you are one of the principal magistrates of the town,and your presence here is a shield for royalty. I wish to ask you,therefore, whether we have most to hope or to fear?"
"Little to hope, madame, and everything to fear."
"The mob is really marching upon the palace?"
"The front of the column is in the Carrousel, parleying with the SwissGuards."
"Parleying? but I gave the Swiss the express order to meet brute forcewith force. Are they disobeying?"
"Nay, madame; the Swiss will die at their posts."
"And we at ours. The same as the Swiss are soldiers at the service ofkings, kings are the soldiers at the beck of royalty."
Roederer held his peace.
"Have I the misfortune to entertain an opinion not agreeing with yours,sir?" asked the queen.
"Madame, I have no opinion unless I am asked for it."
"I do ask for it, sir."
"Then I shall state with the frankness of a believer. My opinion isthat the king is ruined if he stays in the Tuileries."
"But if we do not stay here, where shall we go?" cried the queen,rising in high alarm.
"At present, there is no longer but one place of shelter for the royalfamily," responded the attorney-syndic.
"Name it, sir."
"The National Assembly."
"What do you say, sir?" demanded the queen, snapping her eyes andquestioning like one who had not understood.
He repeated what he had said.
"Do you believe, sir, that I would ask a favor of those fellows?"
He was silent again.
"If we must meet enemies, I like those better who attack us in thebroad day and in front, than those who wish to destroy us in the darkand from behind."
"Well, madame, it is for you to decide; either go and meet the people,or beat a retreat into the Assembly Hall."
"Beat a retreat? Are we so deprived of defenders that we must retreatbefore we have tried the exchange of shots?"
"Perhaps you will take the report, before you come to a conclusion, ofsome competent authority who knows the forces you have to dispose of?"
"Weber, bring me one of the principal officers--Maillardet, orChesnaye, or--" she stopped on the point of saying "the Count ofCharny."
Weber went out.
"If your majesty were to step up to the window, you would be able tojudge for yourself."
With visible repugnance the lady took the few steps to the window, and,parting the curtains, saw the Carrousel Square, and the royal yard aswell, crowded with ragged men bearing pikes.
"Good God! what are those fellows doing in here?" she exclaimed.
"I told your majesty--they are parleying."
"But they have entered the inner yards?"
"I thought I had better gain the time somehow for your majesty to cometo a resolution."
The door opened.
"Come, come," cried the queen, without knowing that it would be Charnywho appeared.
"I am here, madame," he said.
"Oh, is it you? Then I have nothing to say, as you told me a while agowhat you thought should be done."
"Then the gentleman thought that the only course was--" said Roederer.
"To die," returned the queen.
"You see that what I propose is preferable, madame."
"Oh! on my soul, I do not know whether it is or not," groaned the queen.
"What does the gentleman suggest?"
"To take the king under the wing of the House."
"That is not death, but shame," said Charny.
"You hear that, sir?" cried the lady.
"Come, come," said the lawyer; "may there not be some middle course?"
Weber stepped forward.
"I am of very little account," he said, "and I know that it is verybold of me to speak in such company; but my devotion may inspire me.Suppose that your majesty only requested a deputation to watch over thesafety of the king?"
"Well, I will consent to that. Lord Charny, if you approve of thissuggestion, will you pray submit it to the king?"
Charny bowed and went out.
"Follow the count, Weber, and bring me the king's answer."
Weber went out after the nobleman.
Charny's presence, cold, stern and devoted, was so cruel a reproachto her as a woman, if not as a sovereign, that she shuddered in it.Perhaps she had some terrible forewarning of what was to happen.
Weber came back to say that the king accepted the idea.
"Two gentlemen are going to take his majesty's request to the Assembly."
"But look what they are doing!" exclaimed the queen.
The besiegers were busy fishing for Switzers.
Roederer looked out; but he had not the time to see what was inprogress before a pistol-shot was followed by the formidable discharge.The building shook as though smitten to its foundations.
The queen screamed and fell back a step, but returned to the window,drawn by curiosity.
"Oh, see, see!" she cried, with flaring eyes, "they fly! they arerouted! Why did you say, that we had no resource but in the Assembly?"
"Will your majesty be good enough to come with me," said the official.
"See, see," continued the queen, "there go the Swiss, making a sortie,and pursuing them! Oh, the Carrousel is swept free! Victory, victory!"
"In pity for yourself, madame, follow me," persisted Roederer.
Returning to her senses, she went with the attorney-syndic to theLouvre gallery, where he learned the king was, and which suited hispurpose.
The queen had not an idea of it.
The gallery was barricaded half down, and it was cut through at a thirdof the way, where a temporary bridge was thrown across the gap; thefoot of a fugitive might send it down, and so prevent the pursuersfollowing into the Tuileries.
The king was in a window recess with his captains and some courtiers,and he held a spy-glass in his hand.
The queen had no need for it as she ran to the balcony.
The army of the insurrection was approaching, long and dense, coveringthe whole of the wide street along the riverside, and extending as faras the eye could reach.
Over the New Bridge, the southern districts effected a junction withthe others.
All the church-bells of the town were frenziedly swinging out thetocsin, while the big bell of Notre Dame Cathedral overawed all themetallic vibrations with its bronze boom.
A burning sun sparkled in myriad points from the steel of gun-barrelsand lance-points.
Like the rumblings of a storm, cannon was heard rolling on the pavement.
"What now, madame?" said Roederer.
Some fifty persons had gathered round the king.
The queen cast a long look on the group to see how much devotionlingered. Then, mute, not knowing to whom to turn, the poor creaturetook up her son and showed him to the officers of the court and armyand National Guard, no longer the sovereign asking the throne for herheir, but the mother suing for protection for her boy.
During this time, the king was speaking in a low voice with the Communeattorney, or rather, the latter was repeating what he had said to thequeen.
Two very distinct groups formed around the two sovereigns. The king'swas cold and grave, and was composed of counselors who appeared ofRoederer's opinion. The queen's was ardent, numerous, and enthusiasticyoung military men, who waved their hats, flourished their swords,raised their hands to the dauphin, kissed the hem of the queen's robe,and swore to die for both of them.
Marie Antoinette found some hope in this enthusiasm.
The king's party melted into the queen's, and with his usualimpassibility, the monarch found himself the center of the twocommingled. His unconcern might be courage.
The queen snatched a pair of pistols from Colonel Maillardet.
"Come, sire," she cried; "this is the time for you to show yourself anddie in the midst of your friends!"
This action had carried enthusiasm to its height, and everybody waitedfor the king's reply, with parted lips and breath held in suspense.
A young, brave, and handsome king, who had sprung forward with blazingeye and quivering lip, to rush with the pistols in hand into the thickof the fight, might have recalled fortune to his crown.
They waited and they hoped.
Taking the pistols from the queen's hands, the king returned them tothe owner.
"Monsieur Roederer," he said, "you were observing that I had better goover to the House?"
"Such is my advice," answered the legal agent of the Commune, bowing.
"Come away, gentlemen; there is nothing more to be done here," said theking.
Uttering a sigh, the queen took up her son in her arms, and said to herladies:
"Come, ladies, since it is the king's desire," which was as much as tosay to the others, "Expect nothing more from me."
In the corridor where she would have to pass through, Mme. Campan waswaiting. She whispered to her: "How I wish I dwelt in a tower by thesea!"
The abandoned attendants looked at each other and seemed to say, "Isthis the monarch for whom we came here to die?"
Colonel Chesnaye understood this mute inquiry, for he answered:
"No, gentlemen, it was for royalty. The wearer of the crown is mortal,but the principle imperishable."
The queen's ladies were terrified. They looked like so many marblestatues standing in the corners and along the lobbies.
At last the king condescended to remember those he was casting off. Atthe foot of the stairs, he halted.
"But what will befall all those I leave behind?" he inquired.
"Sire," replied Roederer, "it will be easy enough for them to followyou out. As they are in plain dress, they can slip out through thegardens."
"Alas," said the queen, seeing Count Charny waiting for her by thegarden gate, with his drawn sword, "I would I had heeded you when youadvised me to flee."
The queen's Life Guardsman did not respond, but he went up to the king,and said:
"Sire, will you please exchange hats, lest yours single out yourmajesty?"
"Oh, you are right, on account of the white feather," said Louis."Thank you, my lord." And he took the count's hat instead of his own.
"Does the king run any risk in this crossing?" inquired the queen.
"You see, madame, that if so, I have done all I could to turn thedanger aside from the threatened one."
"Is your majesty ready?" asked the Swiss captain charged to escort theking across the gardens.
The king advanced between two rows of Swiss, keeping step with him,till suddenly they heard loud shouting on the left.
The door near the Flora restaurant had been burst through by the mob,and they rushed in, knowing that the king was going to the Assembly.
The leader of the band carried a head on a pole as the ensign.
The Swiss captain ordered a halt and called his men to get their gunsready.
"My Lord Charny," said the queen, "if you see me on the point offalling into those ruffians' hands, you will kill me, will you not?"
"I can not promise you that, for I shall be dead before they touch you."
"Bless us," said the king; "this is the head of our poor ColonelMandat. I know it again."
The band of assassins did not dare to come too near, but theyoverwhelmed the royal pair with insults. Five or six shots were fired,and two Swiss fell--one dead.
"Do not fire," said Charny; "or not one of us will reach the Housealive."
"That is so," observed the captain; "carry arms."
The soldiers shouldered their guns and all continued crossingdiagonally. The first heats of the year had yellowed thechestnut-trees, and dry leaves were strewing the earth. The littleprince found some sport in heaping them up with his foot and kickingthem on his sister's.
"The leaves are falling early this year," observed the king.
"Did not one of those men write that royalty will not outlast the fallof the leaf?" questioned the queen.
"Yes, my lady," replied Charny.
"What was the name of this cunning prophet?"
"Manuel."
A new obstacle rose in the path of the royal family: a numerouscrowd of men and women, who were waiting with menacing gestures andbrandished weapons on the steps and the terrace which had to be goneover to reach the riding-school.
The danger was the worse from the Swiss being unable to keep in rank.The captain tried in vain to get through, and he showed so much ragethat Roederer cried:
"Be careful, sir--you will lead to the king being killed."
They had to halt, but a messenger was sent to the Assembly to pleadthat the king wanted asylum.
The House sent a deputation, at the sight of whom the mob's fury wasredoubled.
Nothing was to be heard but these shouts yelled with wrath:
"Down with Veto!"--"Over with the Austrian!"--"Dethronement or death!"
Understanding that it was in particular their mother who wasthreatened, the two children huddled up to her. The little dauphinasked:
"Lord Charny, why do these naughty people want to hurt my mamma?"
A gigantic man, armed with a pike, and roaring louder than the rest,"Down with Veto--death to the Austrian!" kept trying to stab the kingand the queen.
The Swiss escort had gradually been forced away, so that the royalfamily had by them only the six noblemen who had left the palace withthem, Charny, and the Assembly deputation.
There were still some thirty paces to go in the thick crowd.
It was evident that the lives of the pair were aimed at, and chieflythe queen's.
The struggle began at the staircase foot.
"If you do not sheathe your sword," said Roederer, "I will answer fornothing."
Without uttering a word, Charny put up his sword.
The party was lifted by the press as a skiff is tossed in a gale by thewaves, and drawn toward the Assembly. The king was obliged to push awaya ruffian who stuck his fist in his face. The little dauphin, almostsmothered, screamed and held out his hands for help.
A man dashed forward and snatched him out of his mother's arms.
"My Lord Charny, my son!" she shrieked; "in Heaven's name, save my boy!"
Charny took a couple of steps in chase of the fellow with the prince,but as soon as he unmasked the queen, two or three hands dragged hertoward them, and one clutched the neckerchief on her bosom. She sent upa scream.
Charny forgot Roederer's advice, and his sword disappeared its fulllength in the body of the wretch who had dared to lay hands on thequeen.
The gang howled with rage on seeing one of their number slain, andrushed all the more fiercely on the group.
Highest of all the women yelled: "Why don't you kill theAustrian?"--"Give her to us to have her throat slit!"--"Death toher--death!"
Twenty naked arms were stretched out to seize her. Maddened by grief,thinking nothing of her own danger, she never ceased to cry:
"My son--save my son!"
They touched the portals of the Assembly, but the mob doubled theirefforts for fear their prey would escape.
Charny was so closely pressed that he could only ply the handle ofhis sword. Among the clinched and menacing fists, he saw one holdinga pistol and trying to get a shot at the queen. He dropped his sword,grasped the pistol by both hands, wrenched it from the holder, anddischarged it into the body of the nearest assailant. The man fell asthough blasted by lightning.
Charny stooped in the gap to regain his rapier.
At this moment, the queen entered the Assembly vestibule in the retinueof the king.
Charny's sword was already in a hand that had struck at her.
He flew at the murderer, but at this the doors were slammed, and on thestep he dropped, at the same time felled by an iron bar on his head anda spear right through his heart.
"As fell my brothers," he muttered. "My poor Andrea!"
The fate of the Charnys was accomplished with the last one, as in thecase of Valence and Isidore. That of the queen, for whom their liveswere laid down, was yet to be fulfilled.
At this time, a dreadful discharge of great guns announced that thebesiegers and the garrison were hard at work.



CHAPTER XV.
THE BLOOD-STAINS.

For a space, the Swiss might believe that they had dealt with an armyand wiped it off the earth. They had slain nearly four hundred men inthe royal yard, and almost two hundred in the Carrousel; seven gunswere the spoils.
As far as they could see, no foes were in sight.
One small isolated battery, planted on the terrace of a house facingthe Swiss guard-house, continued its fire without their being able tosilence it. As they believed they had suppressed the insurrection, theywere taking measures to finish with this battery at any cost, when theyheard on the water-side the rolling of drums and the much more awfulrolling of artillery over the stones.
This was the army which the king was watching through his spy-glassfrom the Louvre gallery.
At the same time the rumor spread that the king had quitted the palaceand had taken refuge in the House of Representatives.
It is hard to tell the effect produced by this news, even on the mostfirm adherents.
The monarch, who had promised to die at his royal post, desertingit and passing over to the enemy, or at least surrendering withoutstriking a blow!
Thereupon the National Guards regarded themselves as released fromtheir oath, and almost all withdrew.
Several noblemen followed them, thinking it foolish to die for a causewhich acknowledged itself lost.
Alone the Swiss remained, somber and silent, the slaves of discipline.
From the top of the Flora terrace and the Louvre gallery windows, couldbe seen coming those heroic working-men whom no army had ever resisted,and who had in one day brought low the Bastile, though it had beentaking root during four centuries.
These assailants had their plan; believing the king in his castle, theysought to encompass him so as to take him in it.
The column on the left bank had orders to get in by the river gates;that coming down St. Honore Street to break in the Feuillants' gates,while the column on the right bank were to attack in front, led byWesterman, with Santerre and Billet under his orders.
The last suddenly poured in by all the small entrances on theCarrousel, singing the "It shall go on."
The Marseilles men were in the lead, dragging in their midst twofour-pounders loaded with grape-shot.
About two hundred Swiss were ranged in order of battle on CarrouselSquare.
Straight to them marched the insurgents, and as the Swiss leveled theirmuskets, they opened their ranks and fired the pieces.
The soldiers discharged their guns, but they immediately fell back tothe palace, leaving some thirty dead and wounded on the pavement.
Thereupon, the rebels, headed by the Breton and Marseilles Federals,rushed on the Tuileries, capturing the two yards--the royal, in thecenter, where there were so many dead, and the princes', near the riverand the Flora restaurant.
Billet had wished to fight where Pitou fell, with a hope that he mightbe only wounded, so that he might do him the good turn he owed forpicking him up on the parade-ground.
So he was one of the first to enter the center court. Such was the reekof blood that one might believe one was in the shambles; it rose fromthe heap of corpses, visible as a smoke in some places.
This sight and stench exasperated the attackers, who hurled themselveson the palace.
Besides, they could not have hung back had they wished, for they wereshoved ahead by the masses incessantly spouted forth by the narrowdoors of the Carrousel.
But we hasten to say that, though the front of the pile resembled aframe of fire-works in a display, none had the idea of flight.
Nevertheless, once inside the central yard, the insurgents, like thosein whose gore they slipped, were caught between two fires: that fromthe clock entrance and from the double row of barracks.
The first thing to do was stop the latter.
The Marseillais threw themselves at the buildings like mad dogs on abrasier, but they could not demolish a wall with hands; they called forpicks and crows.
Billet asked for torpedoes. Westerman knew that his lieutenant hadthe right idea, and he had petards made. At the risk of having thesecannon-cartridges fired in their hands, the Marseilles men carriedthem with the matches lighted and flung them into the apertures. Thewoodwork was soon set aflame by these grenades, and the defenders wereobliged to take refuge under the stairs.
Here the fighting went on with steel to steel and shot for shot.
Suddenly Billet felt hands from behind seize him, and he wheeled round,thinking he had an enemy to grapple: but he uttered a cry of delight.It was Pitou; but he was pretty hard to identify, for he was smotheredin blood from head to foot; but he was safe and sound and without asingle wound.
When he saw the Swiss muskets leveled, he had called out for all todrop flat, and he had set the example.
But his followers had not time to act like him. Like a monstrousscythe, the fusillade had swept along at breast-high, and laid twothirds of the human field, another volley bending and breaking theremainder.
Pitou was literally buried beneath the swathe, and bathed by the warmand nauseating stream. Despite the profoundly disagreeable feeling,Pitou resolved not to make any move, while bathed in the blood of thebodies stifling him, and to wait for a favorable time to show tokens oflife.
He had to wait for over an hour, and every minute seemed an hour. Buthe judged he had the right cue when he heard his side's shouts ofvictory, and Billet's voice, among the many, calling him.
Thereupon, like the Titan under the mountain, he shook off the moundof carcasses covering him, and ran to press Billet to his heart, onrecognizing him, without thinking that he might soil his clothes,whichever way he took him.
A Swiss volley, which sent a dozen men to the ground, recalled them tothe gravity of the situation.
Two thousand yards of buildings were burning on the sides of thecentral court. It was sultry weather, without the least breath;like a dome of lead the smoke of the fire and powder pressed on thecombatants; the smoke filled up the palace entrances. Each windowflamed, but the front was sheeted in smoke; no one could tell whodelivered death or who received it.
Pitou and Billet, with the Marseillais at the fore, pushed through thevapor into the vestibule. Here they met a wall of bayonets--the Swiss.
The Swiss commenced their retreat, a heroic one, leaving a rank of deadon each step, and the battalion most slowly retiring.
Forty-eight dead were counted that evening on those stairs.
Suddenly the cry rang through the rooms and corridors:
"Order of the king--the Swiss will cease firing."
It was two in the afternoon.
The following had happened in the House to lead to the order proclaimedin the Tuileries; one with the double advantage of lessening theassailants' exasperation and covering the vanquished with honor.
As the doors were closing behind the queen, but still while she couldcatch a glimpse of the bars, bayonets, and pikes menacing Charny, shehad screamed and held her hands out toward the opening; but draggedaway by her companions, at the same time by her maternal instinct, shehad to enter the Assembly Hall.
There she had the great relief afforded her of seeing her son seated onthe speaker's desk; the man who had carried him there waved his red captriumphantly over the boy's head and shouted gladly:
"I have saved the son of my master--long live the dauphin!"
But a sudden revulsion of feeling made Marie Antoinette recur to Charny.
"Gentlemen," she said, "one of my bravest officers, most devoted offollowers, has been left outside the door, in danger of death. I begsuccor for him."
Five or six members sprung away at the appeal.
The king, the queen, and the rest of the royal family, with theirattendants, proceeded to the seats intended for the cabinet officers,and took places there.
The Assembly received them standing, not from etiquette, but therespect misfortune compelled.
Before sitting down, the king held up his hand to intimate that hewished to speak.
"I came here to prevent a great crime," he said, in the silence; "Ithought I could not be in safety anywhere else."
"Sire," returned Vergniaud, who presided, "you may rely on the firmnessof the National Assembly; its members are sworn to die in defending thepeople's rights and the constitutional authorities."
As the king was taking his seat, a frightful musketry dischargeresounded at the doors. It was the National Guards firing, intermingledwith the insurgents, from the Feuillants' terrace, on the Swissofficers and soldiers forming the royal escort.
An officer of the National Guard, probably out of his senses, ran in inalarm, and only stopped by the bar, cried: "The Swiss--the Swiss arecoming--they have forced past us!"
For an instant the House believed that the Swiss had overcome theoutbreak and were coming to recover their master; for at the time LouisXVI. was much more the king to the Swiss than to any others.
With one spontaneous movement the House rose, all of a mind, and therepresentatives, spectators, officials, and guards, raising theirhands, shouted, "Come what may, we vow to live and die free men!"
In such an oath the royals could take no part, so they remained seated,as the shout passed like a whirlwind over their heads from threethousand mouths. The error did not last long, but it was sublime.
In another quarter of an hour the cry was: "The palace is overrun--theinsurgents are coming here to take the king!"
Thereupon the same men who had sworn to die free in their hatred ofroyalty, rose with the same spontaneity to swear they would defend theking to the death. The Swiss captain, Durler, was summoned outside tolay down his arms.
"I serve the king and not the House," he said. "Where is the royalorder?"
They brought him into the Assembly by force; he was black with powderand red with blood.
"Sire," he said, "they want me to lay down arms. Is it the king'sorder?"
"Yes," said Louis; "hand your weapons to the National Guard. I do notwant such brave men to perish."
Durler lowered his head with a sigh, but he insisted on a writtenorder. The king scribbled on a paper: "The king orders the Swiss to laydown their arms and return into barracks."
This was what voices were crying throughout the Tuileries, on thestairs, and in the rooms and halls. As this order restored some quietto the House, the speaker rang his bell and called for the debating tobe resumed.
A member rose and pointed out that an article of the Constitutionforbade debates in the king's presence.
"Quite so," said the king; "but where are you going to put us?"
"Sire," said the speaker, "we can give you the room and box of the'Logographe,' which is vacant owing to the sheet having ceased toappear."
The ushers hastened to show the party where to go, and they had toretrace some of the path they had used to enter.
"What is this on the floor?" asked the queen. "It looks like blood!"
The servants said nothing; for while the spots might be blood, theywere ignorant where they came from.
Strange to say, the stains grew larger and nearer together as theyapproached the box. To spare her the sight, the king quickened thepace, and opening the box door himself, he bid her enter.
The queen sprung forward; but even as she set foot on the sill, sheuttered a scream of horror and drew back, with her hands covering hereyes. The presence of the blood-spots was explained, for a dead bodyhad been placed in the room.
It was her almost stepping upon this which had caused her to leap back.
"Bless us," said the king, "it is poor Count Charny's body!" in thesame tone as he had said to the gory relic on the pike, "This is poorMandat's head."
Indeed, the deputies had snatched the body from the cutthroats, andordered it to be taken into the empty room, without the least ideathat the royal family would be consigned to this room in the next tenminutes. It was now carried out and the guests installed. They talkedof cleaning up, but the queen shook her head in opposition, and was thefirst to take a place over the blood-stains. No one noticed that sheburst her shoe-laces and dabbled her foot in the red, still warm blood.
"Oh, Charny, Charny!" she murmured; "why does not my life-blood oozeout here to the last drop to mingle with yours unto all eternity?"
Three P. M. struck.
The last of her Life Guards was no more, for in and about her palacenearly a thousand nobles and Swiss had fallen.



CHAPTER XVI.
THE WIDOW.

During the slaying of the last of his adherents, what was the monarchdoing? Being hungry, he called for his dinner.
Bread and wine, cold fowl, and meat, and fruit were brought him. He setto eating as if he were at a hunting-party, without noticing how he wasstared at.
Among the eyes fixed on him was a pair burning because tears would notcome. They were the queen's. It seemed to her that she could stay thereforever, with her feet in her beloved's blood, living like a flower onthe grave, with no nourishment but such as death affords.
She had suffered much lately, but never so as to see the king eating,for the position of affairs was serious enough to take away a man'sappetite.
The Assembly, rather than protect him, had need of protection foritself. It was threatened by a formidable multitude roaring for thedethronement, and they obeyed by a decree. It proposed a NationalConvention, the head of the executive power being temporarily suspendedfrom his functions. The Civil List was not to be paid. The king andfamily were to remain with the Assembly until order was restored; thenthey were to be placed in the Luxembourg Palace. Vergniaud told thedeposed sovereign that it was the only way to save his neck.
This decree was proclaimed by torch-light that night.
The lights at the Tuileries fell on the ghastly scenes of thesearchers and the mourners among the dead. Three thousand five hundredinsurgents--to omit two hundred thieves shot by the rioters--hadperished. This supposes as many wounded at the least. As the tumbrelsrolled with the corpses to the working quarters, a chorus of curseswent up against the king, the queen, their foreign _camerilla_, thenobles who had counseled them. Some swore revenge, and they had it inthe coming massacres; others took up weapons and ran to the palace tovent their spite on the dead Swiss; others again crowded round theAssembly and the abbey where were prisoners, shouting "Vengeance."
The Tuileries presented an awful sight: smoking and bloody, desertedby all except the military posts which watched lest, under pretense offinding their dead, pillagers robbed the poor royal residence with itsbroken doors and smashed windows.
The post under the great clock, the main stairs, was commanded by ayoung captain of the National Guard, who was no doubt inspired by deeppity by the disaster, if one might judge by the expression of hiscountenance as each cart-load of dead was removed.
But the dreadful events did not seem to affect him a whit more thanthey had the deposed king. For, about eleven at night, he was busy insatisfying a monstrous appetite at the expense of a quartern loaf heldunder his left arm, while his knife-armed right hand unceasingly slicedoff hunks of goodly size, which he inserted into a mouth opening tosuit the dimensions of the piece.
Leaning against a vestibule pillar, he was watching the silentprocession go by, like shades of mothers, wives and daughters, in theglare of torches set up here and there; they were asking of the extinctcrater for the remains of their dear ones.
Suddenly the young officer started at the sight of one veiled phantom.
"It is the Countess of Charny," he muttered.
The shadow passed without seeing or hearing him.
The captain beckoned to his lieutenant.
"Desire," he said to him, on coming up, "yonder goes a poor lady ofDoctor Gilbert's acquaintance, who is no doubt looking for her husbandamong the dead. I think of following her, in case she should need helpand advice. I leave the command to you; keep good guard for both of us."
"Hang me if Doctor Gilbert's acquaintance has not a deucedlyaristocratic bearing," remarked Lieutenant Desire Maniquet.
"Because she is an aristocrat--she is a countess," replied the officer.
"Go along; I will look out."
The Countess of Charny had already turned the first corner of thestairs, when the captain, detaching himself from his men, began tofollow her at the respectful distance of fifteen paces. He was notmistaken. Poor Andrea was looking for her husband, not with the anxiousthrill of doubt, but with the dull conviction of despair.
When Charny had been aroused in the midst of his joy and happiness bythe echo of deeds in Paris, he had come, pale but resolute, to say tohis wife:
"Dear Andrea, the King of France runs the risk of his life, and needsall his defenders. What ought I do?"
"Go where duty calls you, my dear George," she had replied, "and diefor the king if you must."
"But how about you?" he asked.
"Do not be uneasy about me," she said. "As I live but in you, God mayallow that we shall die together."
That settled all between those great hearts; they did not exchange aword further. When the post-horses came to the door, they set out, andwere in town in five hours.
That same evening, we have seen Charny present himself for duty in hisnaval uniform at the same time that Dr. Gilbert was going to send forhim.
Since that hour we know that he never quitted the queen.
Andrea had remained alone, shut in, praying; for a space sheentertained the idea of imitating her husband, and claiming herstation beside the queen, as he had beside the king; but she had notthe courage.
The day of the ninth passed for her in anguish, but without anythingpositive. At nine in the morning next day she heard the cannon; it isneedless to say that each echo of the war-like thunder thrilled her tothe inmost fiber of her heart. The firing died out about two o'clock.
Were the people defeated, or the victors? she questioned, and was toldthat the people had won the day.
What had become of Charny in this terrible fray? She was sure that hehad taken a leading part. On making inquiries again, she was told thatthe Swiss were slain, but most of the noblemen had got away.
But the night passed without his coming. In August, night comes late.
Not till ten o'clock did Andrea lose hope, when she drew a veil overher face and went out.
All along the road she met clusters of women wringing their hands andbands of men howling for revenge. She passed among them, protectedby the grief of one and the rage of the other; besides, they wereman-hunting that night, and not for women.
The women of both parties were weeping.
Arriving on the Carrousel, Andrea heard the proclamation that therulers were deposed and safe under the wing of the Assembly, which wasall she understood.
Seeing some carts go by, she asked what they carried, and was told thedead from the palace yards. Only the dead were being removed; the turnof the wounded would come later.
She thought that Charny would have fallen at the door of the rooms ofthe king or the queen, so she entered the palace. It was at the momentwhen Pitou, commanding the main entrance as the captain, saw, and,recognizing her, followed.
It is not possible to give an idea of the devastation in the Tuileries.
Blood poured out of the rooms and spouted like cascades down thestairs. In some of the chambers the bodies yet lay.
Like the other searchers, Andrea took a torch and looked at body afterbody. Thus she made her way to the royal rooms. Pitou still followedher.
Here, as in the other rooms, she sought in vain; she paused, undecidedwhither to turn. Seeing her embarrassment, the soldier went up to her.
"Alas, I suspect what your ladyship is seeking!" he said.
"Captain Pitou?" Andrea exclaimed.
"At your service."
"Yes, yes, I have great need of you," she said. Going to him, she tookboth his hands, and continued: "Do you know what has become of theCount of Charny?"
"I do not, my lady; but I can help you to look for him."
"There is one person who can tell us whether he is dead or alive, andwhere he is in either case," observed Andrea.
"Who is that, my lady?" queried the peasant.
"The queen," muttered Andrea.
"Do you know where she is?" inquired Pitou.
"I believe she is in the House, and I have still the hope that my LordCharny is with her."
"Why, yes, yes," said Pitou, snatching at the hope for the mourner'ssake; "would you like to go into the House?"
"But they may refuse me admission."
"I'll undertake to get the doors to open."
"Come, then."
Andrea flung the flambeau from her at the risk of setting fire to theplace, for what mattered the Tuileries to her in such desperation? sodeep that she could not find tears.
From having lived in the palace as the queen's attendant, she knew allthe ways, and she led them back by short cuts to the grand entrancewhere Maniquet was on the lookout.
"How is your countess getting on?" he inquired.
"She hopes to find her lord in the House, where we are going. As we mayfind him," he added, in a low voice, "but dead, send me four stout ladsto the Feuillants' gate, whom I may rely on to defend the body of anaristocrat as well as though a good patriot's."
"All right; go ahead with your countess; I will send the men."
Andrea was waiting at the garden end, where a sentry was posted; but asthat was done by Pitou, he naturally let his captain pass.
The palace gardens were lighted by lamps set mostly on the statuepedestals. As it was almost as warm as in the heat of the day, and theslight breeze barely ruffled the leaves, the lamp-flames rose straight,like spear-heads, and lighted up the corpses strewn under the trees.
But Andrea felt so convinced that she should find her husband where thequeen had taken refuge, that she walked on, without looking to eitherright or left. Thus they reached the Feuillants' gate.
The royal family had been gone an hour, and were in the record office,for the time. To reach them, there were two obstacles to pass: theguards and the royal attendants.
Pitou, as commanding the Tuileries, had the password, and couldtherefore conduct the lady up to the line of gentlemen.
The former favorite of the queen had but to use her name to take thenext step.
On entering the little room reserved for her, the queen had thrownherself on the bed, and bit the pillow amid sobs and tears.
Certainly, one who had lost a throne and liberty, and perhaps wouldlose her life, had lost enough for no one to chaffer about the degreeof her despair, and not to seek behind her deep abasement if somekeener sorrow still did not draw these tears from her eyes and sobsfrom her bosom.
Owing to the respect inspired by this supreme grief, she had been leftalone at the first.
She heard the room door open, but as it might be that from the king's,she did not turn; though she heard steps approaching her pillow, shedid not lift her head from it.
But suddenly she sprung up, as though a serpent had stung her.
A well-known voice had simply uttered the single word, "Madame."
"Andrea?" cried Marie Antoinette, rising on her elbow. "What do youwant?"
"I want the answer God demanded of Cain when He said, 'What have youdone with your brother'?"
"With this difference," returned the queen, "That Cain had killed hisbrother; whereas I--so gladly--would give not only my existence, butten lives, to save his dear one."
Andrea staggered; a cold sweat burst out on her forehead, and her teethchattered.
"Then he was killed?" she faltered, making a great effort.
"Do you think I am wailing for my crown?" demanded the fallenmajesty, looking hard at her. "Do you believe that if this blood weremine"--here she showed her dyed foot--"I should not have washed it off?"
Andrea became lividly pale.
"Then you know where his body is?" she said.
"I could take you to it, if I were allowed to go forth," said theprisoner.
Andrea went out at the door by which Pitou was waiting.
"Captain," she said, "one of my friends, a lady of the queen's, offersto take me where the count's body is. May she go out with me?"
"On condition that you bring her back whence she came," said theofficer.
"That will do."
"Comrade," said Pitou to his sentry, "one of the queen's women wants togo out to help us find the body of a brave officer of whom this lady isthe widow. I will answer for her with my head."
"That is good enough for me, captain," was the reply.
The anteroom door opened and the queen appeared, but she had a veilwound round her head. They went down the stairs, the queen leading.
After a twenty-seven hours' session, the House had adjourned, andthe immense hall, where so much noise and so many events had beencompressed, was dumb, void, and somber as a sepulcher.
The queen called for a light. Pitou picked up an extinguished link,lighted it at a lantern, and handed it to her, and she resumed themarch. As they passed the entrance door, the queen pointed to it.
"He was killed there," she said.
Andrea did not reply; she seemed a specter haunting one who had calledher up.
The queen lowered the torch to the floor in the lobby, saying: "Beholdhis blood."
Andrea remained mute.
The conductress went straight to a closet attached to the "Logographe"box, pulled the door open, and said, as she held up the light toillumine the interior:
"Here is his body."
Andrea entered the room, knelt down, and taking the head upon her knee,she said:
"Madame, I thank you; this is all I wanted of you."
"But I have something to ask you--won't you forgive me?"
There fell a short silence, as though Andrea were reflecting.
"Yes," she replied, at length, "for I shall be with him on the morrow."
The queen drew a pair of scissors from her bosom, where they werehidden like a weapon to be used in an extremity.
"Then would you kindly--" She spoke almost supplicatingly, as she heldout the joined blades to the mourner.
Andrea cut a lock of hair from the corpse's brow, and handed it andthe instrument to the other. She caught her hand and kissed it, butAndrea snatched away hers, as though the lips of her royal mistress hadscorched her.
"Ah!" muttered the queen, throwing a last glance on the remains, "whocan tell which of us loved him the most?"
"Oh, my darling George," retorted Andrea, in the same low tone, "Itrust that you at least know now that I loved you the best!"
The queen went back on the way to her prison, leaving Andrea with theremains of her husband, on which a pale moonbeam fell through a smallgrated window, like the gaze of a friend.
Without knowing who she was, Pitou conducted Marie Antoinette, and sawher safely lodged. Relieved of his responsibility toward the soldier onguard, he went out on the terrace to see if the squad he had asked ofManiquet had arrived. The four were waiting.
"Come in," said Pitou.
Using the torch which he had taken from the queen's hands, he led hismen to the room where Andrea was still gazing on her husband's whitebut still handsome face in the moonshine. The torch-light made her lookup.
"What do you want?" she challenged of the Guards, as though she thoughtthey came to rob her of the dead.
"My lady," said Pitou, "we come to carry the body of Count Charny tohis house in Coq-Heron Street."
"Will you swear to me that it is purely for that?" Andrea asked.
Pitou held out his hand over the dead body with a dignity of which hemight be believed incapable.
"Then I owe you apology, and I will pray God," said Andrea, "in my lastmoments, to spare you and yours such woe as He hath afflicted me with."
The four men took up the warrior on their muskets, and Pitou, with hisdrawn sword, placed himself at the head of the funeral party. Andreawalked beside the corpse, holding the cold and rigid hand in her own.They put the body on the countess's bed, when that lady said to theNational Guardsmen:
"Receive the blessings of one who will pray to God for you to-morrowbefore Him. Captain Pitou," she added, "I owe you more than I ever canrepay you. May I rely on you for a final service?"
"Order me, madame."
"Arrange that Doctor Gilbert shall be here at eight o'clock in themorning."
Pitou bowed and went out. Turning his head as he did so, he saw Andreakneel at the bed as at an altar.



CHAPTER XVII.
WHAT ANDREA WANTED OF GILBERT.

At eight precisely next day, Gilbert knocked at the house-door of theCountess of Charny.
On hearing of her request made to Pitou, he had asked him for fullparticulars of the occurrence, and he had pondered over them.
As he went out in the morning, he sent for Pitou to go to the collegewhere his son and Andrea's, Sebastian, was being educated, and bringhim to Coq-Heron Street. He was to wait at the door there for thephysician to come out.
No doubt the old janitor had been informed of the doctor's visit, forhe showed him at once into the sitting-room.
Andrea was waiting, clad in full mourning. It was clear that she hadneither slept nor wept all the night through; her face was pale and hereyes dry. Never had the lines of her countenance, always indicative ofwillfulness carried to the degree of stubbornness, been more firmlyfixed.
It was hard to tell what resolution that loving heart had settled on,but it was plain that it had come to one. This was comprehended byGilbert at a first glance, as he was a skilled observer and a reasoningphysician.
He bowed and waited.
"I asked you to come because I want a favor done, and it must be put toone who can not refuse it me."
"You are right, madame; not, perhaps, in what you are about to ask, butin what you have done; for you have the right to claim of me anything,even to my life."
She smiled bitterly.
"Your life, sir, is one of those so precious to mankind that I shouldbe the first to pray God to prolong it and make it happy, far fromwishing it abridged. But acknowledge that yours is placed under happyinfluences, as there are others seemingly doomed beneath a fatal star."
Gilbert was silent.
"Mine, for instance," went on Andrea; "what do you say about mine? Letme recall it briefly," she said, as Gilbert lowered his eyes. "I wasborn poor. My father was a ruined spendthrift before I was born. Mychildhood was sad and lonesome. You knew what my father was, as youwere born on his estate and grew up in our house, and you can measurethe little affection he had for me.
"Two persons, one of whom was bound to be a stranger to me, while theother was unknown, exercised a fatal and mysterious sway over me, inwhich my will went for naught. One disposed of my soul, the other of mybody. I became a mother without ceasing to be a virgin. By this horridevent I nearly lost the love of the only being who ever loved me--mybrother Philip.
"I took refuge in the idea of motherhood, and that my babe would loveme; but it was snatched from me within an hour of its birth. I wastherefore a wife without a husband, a mother without a child.
"A queen's friendship consoled me.
"One day chance sent me in a public vehicle with the queen and ahandsome young gallant, whom fatality caused me to love, though I hadnever loved a soul.
"He fell in love with the queen. I became the confidante in this amour.As I believe you have loved without return, Doctor Gilbert, you canunderstand what I suffered. Yet this was not enough. It happened on aday that the queen came to me to say: 'Andrea, save my life; more thanlife--my honor!' It was necessary that I should become the bride of theman I had loved three years without becoming his wife. I agreed. Fiveyears I dwelt beside that man, flame within, but ice without; a statuewith a burning heart. Doctor, as a doctor, can you understand what myheart went through?
"One day--day of unspeakable bliss--my self-sacrifice, silence, anddevotion touched that man. For six years I loved him without lettinghim suspect it by a look, when he came all of a quiver to throw himselfat my feet and cry: 'I know all, and I love you!'
"Willing to recompense me, God, in giving me my husband, restored me mychild. A year flew by like a day--nay, an hour, a minute. This year isall I call my life.
"Four days ago the lightning fell at my feet. The count's honor bid himgo to Paris, to die there. I did not make any remark, did not shed atear; I went with him. Hardly had we arrived before he parted from me.Last night I found him, slain. There he rests, in the next room.
"Do you think I am too ambitious to crave to lie in the same grave? Doyou believe you can refuse the request I make to you?
"Doctor Gilbert, you are a learned physician and a skillful chemist.You have been guilty of great wrongs to me, and you have much toexpiate as regards me. Well, give me a swift sure poison, and I shallnot merely forgive you all, but die with a heart full of gratitude toyou."
"Madame," replied Gilbert, "as you say, your life has been one long,dolorous trial, and for it all glory be yours, since you have borne itnobly and saintly, like a martyr."
She gave an impatient toss of the head, as if she wanted a directanswer.
"Now you say to your torturer: 'You made my life a misery; give mea sweet death.' You have the right to do this, and there is reasonin your adding: 'You must do it, for you have no right to refuse meanything,' Do you still want the poison?"
"I entreat you to be friend enough to give it me."
"Is life so heavy to you that it is impossible for you to support it?"
"Death is the sweetest boon man can give me; the greatest blessing Godmay grant me."
"In ten minutes you shall have your wish, madame," responded Gilbert,bowing and taking a step toward the door.
"Ah!" said the lady, holding out her hand to him, "you do me morekindness in an instant than you did harm in all your life. God blessyou, Gilbert!"
He hurried out. At the door he found Pitou and Sebastian, waiting in ahack.
"Sebastian," he said to the youth, drawing a small vial attached to agold chain from inside his clothes at his breast, "take this flask ofliquor to the Countess of Charny."
"How long am I to stay with her?"
"As long as you like."
"Where am I to find you?"
"I shall be waiting here."
Taking the small bottle, the young man went in-doors. In a quarter ofan hour he came forth. Gilbert cast on him a rapid glance. He broughtback the tiny flask untouched.
"What did she say?" asked Gilbert.
"'Not from your hand, my child!'"
"What did she do then?"
"She fell a-weeping."
"She is saved," said Gilbert. "Come, my boy," and he embraced him moretenderly than ever before. In clasping him to his heart, he heard thecrackling of paper.
"What is that?" he asked, with a nervous laugh of joy. "Do you bychance carry your compositions in your breast-pocket?"
"There, I had forgotten," said the youth, taking a parchment from hispocket. "The countess gave it me, and says it is to be deposited in theproper registry."
The doctor examined the paper. It was a document which empowered, indefault of heirs male, to the titles of Philip de Taverney, Knight ofRedcastle, Sebastian Emile Gilbert, son of Andrea Taverney, Countessof Charny, to wear that title honorarily until the king should make itgood to him by favor of his mother's service to the Crown, and perhapsaward him the estates to maintain the dignity.
"Keep it," said Gilbert, with a melancholy smile; "as well date itfrom the Greek kalends! The king, I fear, will nevermore dispose ofmore than six-feet-by-three of landed property in his once kingdom ofFrance."
Gilbert could jest, for he believed Andrea saved.
He had reckoned without Marat. A week after, he learned that thescoundrel had denounced the favorite of the queen, and that the widowedCountess of Charny had been arrested and lodged in the old Abbey Prison.



CHAPTER XVIII.
THE ASSEMBLY AND THE COMMUNE.

It was the Commune which had caused the attack on the palace, which theking must have seen, for he took refuge in the House, and not in theCity Hall. The Commune wanted to smother the wolf--the she-wolf and thewhelps--between two blankets in their den.
This shelter to the royals converted the Assembly into Royalists. Itwas asserted that the Luxembourg Palace, assigned to the king as aresidence, had a secret communication with those catacombs which burrowunder Paris, so that he might get away at any hour.
The Assembly did not want to quarrel with the Commune over such atrifle, and allowed it to choose the royal house of detention.
The city pitched on the temple. It was not a palace, but a prison,under the town's hand; an old, lonely tower, strong, heavy, lugubrious.In it Philip the Fair broke up the Middle Ages revolting against him,and was royalty to be broken down in it now?
All the houses in the neighborhood were illuminated as the royalcaptives were taken hither to the part called "the palace," from CountArtois making it his city residence. They were happy to hold inbondage the king no more, but the friend of the foreign foe, the greatenemy of the Revolution, and the ally of the nobles and the clergy.
The royal servants looked at the lodgings with stupefaction. In theirtearful eyes were still the splendors of the kingly dwellings, whilethis was not even a prison into which was flung their master, but akennel! Misfortune was not to have any majesty.
But, through strength of mind or dullness, the king remainedunaffected, and slept on the poverty-stricken bed as tranquilly as inhis palace, perhaps more so.
At this time, the king would have been the happiest man in the worldhad he been given a country cottage with ten acres, a forge, a chapeland a chaplain, and a library of travel-books, with his wife andchildren. But it was altogether different with the queen.
The proud lioness did not rage at the sight of her cage, but that wasbecause so sharp a sorrow ached in her heart that she was blind andinsensible to all around her.
The men who had done the fighting in the capture of the Royaliststronghold were willing that the prisoners, Swiss and gentlemen, shouldbe tried by court-martial. But Marat shrieked for massacre, as makingshorter work than even a drum-head court.
Danton yielded to him. Before the snake the lion was cowed, and slunkaway, trying to act the fox.
The city wards pressed the Assembly to create an extraordinarytribunal. It was established on the twentieth, and condemned a Royalistto death. The execution took place by torch-light, with such horribleeffect, that the executioner, in the act of holding up the lopped-offhead to the mob, yelled and fell dead off upon the pavement.
The Revolution of 1789, with Necker, Bailly, and Sieyes, ended in1790; that of Barnave, Lafayette, and Mirabeau in 1792, while theRed Revolution, the bloody one of Danton, Marat, and Robespierre, wascommencing.
Lafayette, repulsed instinctively by the army, which he had called uponin an address to march on Paris and restore the king, had fled abroad.
Meanwhile, the Austrians, whom the queen had prayed to see in themoonlight from her palace windows, had captured Longwy. The otherextremity of France, La Vendee, had risen on the eve of this surrender.
To meet this condition of affairs, the Assembly assigned Dumouriez tothe command of the Army of the East; ordered the arrest of Lafayette;decreed the razing of Longwy when it should be retaken; banishedall priests who would not take the oath of allegiance; authorizedhouse-to-house visits for aristocrats and weapons, and sold all theproperty of fugitives.
The Commune, with Marat as its prophet, set up the guillotine onCarrousel Square, with an apology that it could only send one victim aday, owing to the trouble of obtaining convictions.
On the 28th of August, the Assembly passed the law on domiciliaryvisits. The rumor spread that the Austrian and Prussian armies hadeffected their junction, and that Longwy had fallen.
It followed that the enemy, so long prayed for by the king, the nobles,and the priests, was marching upon Paris, and might be here in sixstages, if nothing stopped him.
What would happen then to this boiling crater from which the shocks hadmade the Old World quake the last three years?
The insolent jest of Bouille would be realized, that not one stonewould be left upon another.
It was considered a sure thing that a general, terrible, and inexorabledoom was to fall on the Parisians after their city was destroyed. Aletter found in the Tuileries had said:
"In the rear of the army will travel the courts, informed on thejourney by the fugitives of the misdeeds and their authors, so that notime will be lost in trying the Jacobins in the Prussian king's camp,and getting their halters ready."
The stories also came of the Uhlans seizing Republican local worthiesand cropping their ears. If they acted thus on the threshold, whatwould they do when within the gates?
It was no longer a secret.
A great throne would be erected before the heap of ruins which wasParis. All the population would be dragged and beaten into passingbefore it; the good and the bad would be sifted apart as on thelast judgment day. The good--in other words, the religious and theRoyalists--would pass to the right, and France would be turned over tothem for them to work their pleasure; the bad, the rebels, would besent to the left, where would be waiting the guillotine, invented bythe Revolution, which would perish by it.
But to face the foreign invader, had this poor people any self-support?Those whom they had worshiped, enriched, and paid to defend her, wouldthey stand up for her now? No.
The king conspired with the enemy, and from the temple, where he wasconfined, continued to correspond with the Prussians and Austrians: thenobility marched against France, and were formed in battle array by herprinces; her priests made the peasants revolt. From their prison cells,the Royalist prisoners cheered over the defeats of the French by thePrussians, and the Prussians at Longwy were hailed by the captives inthe abbey and the temple.
In consequence, Danton, the man for extremes, rushed into the rostrum.
"When the country is in danger, everything belongs to the country," hesaid.
All the dwellings were searched, and three thousand persons arrested;two thousand guns were taken.
Terror was needed; they obtained it. The worst mischief from the searchwas one not foreseen; the mob had entered rich houses, and the sightof luxuries had redoubled their hatred, though not inciting them topillage. There was so little robbery that Beaumarchais, then in jail,said that the crowd nearly drowned a woman who plucked a rose in hisgardens.
On this general search day, the Commune summoned before its bar aGirondist editor, Girey-Dupre, who took refuge at the War Ministry,from not having time to get to the House. Insulted by one of itsmembers, the Girondists summoned the Commune's president, Huguenin,before its bar for having allowed the Ministry to take Girey by force.
Huguenin would not come, and he was ordered to be arrested by mainforce, while a fresh election for a Commune was decreed.
The present one determined to hold office, and thus was civil warset going. No longer the mob against the king, citizens againstaristocrats, the cottage against the castle; but hovels against houses,ward against ward, pike to pike, and mob to mob.
Marat called for the massacre of the Assembly; that was nothing,as people were used to his shrieks for wholesale slaughter. ButRobespierre, the prudent, wary, vague, and double-meaning denunciator,came out boldly for all to fly to arms, not merely to defend, but toattack. He must have judged the Commune was very strong to do this.
The physician who might have his fingers on the pulse of France at thisperiod must have felt the circulation run up at every beat.
The Assembly feared the working-men, who had broken in the Tuileriesgates and might dash in the Assembly doors. It feared, too, that if ittook up arms against the Commune, it would not only be abandoned by theRevolutionists, but be bolstered up by the moderate Royalists. In thatcase it would be utterly lost.
It was felt that any event, however slight, might lead this disturbanceto colossal proportions. The event, related by one of our characters,who has dropped from sight for some time, and who took a share in it,occurred in the Chatelet Prison.



CHAPTER XIX.
CAPTAIN BEAUSIRE APPEARS AGAIN.

After the capture of the Tuileries, a special court was institutedto try cases of theft committed at the palace. Two or three hundredthieves, caught red-handed, had been shot off-hand, but there were asmany more who had contrived to hide their acts.
Among the number of these sly depredators was "Captain" Beausire, acorporal of the French Guards once on a time, but more conspicuous asa card-sharper and for his hand in the plot of robbers by which thecourt jewelers were nearly defrauded of the celebrated set of diamondswhich we have written about under their historic name of "The Queen'sNecklace."
This Beausire had entered the palace, but in the rear of theconquerors. He was too full of sense to be among the first where dangerlay in taking the lead.
It was not his political opinions that carried him into the king'shome, to weep over the fall of monarchy or to applaud the triumph ofthe people; bless your innocence, no! Captain Beausire came as a meresight-seer, soaring above those human weaknesses known as opinions, andhaving but one aim in view, to wit, to ascertain whether those who losta throne might not have lost at the same time some article of valuerather more portable and easy to put out of sight.
To be in harmony with the situation, Beausire had clapped on anenormous red cap, was armed with the largest-sized saber, and hadsplashed his shirt-front and hands with blood from the first quite deadman he stumbled upon. Like the wolf skulking round the edge and thevulture hovering over the battle-field, perhaps taken for having helpedin the slaughter, some believed he had been one of the vanquishers.
The most did so accept him as they heard him bellow "Death to thearistocrats!" and saw him poke under beds, dash open cupboards, andeven bureau drawers, in order to make sure that no aristocrat hadhidden there.
However, for the discomfiture of Captain Beausire, at this time, aman was present who did not peep under beds or open drawers, but who,having entered while the firing was hot, though he carried no armswith the conquerors, though he did no conquering, walked about withhis hands behind his back, as he might have done in a public park on aholiday. Cold and calm in his threadbare but well-brushed black suit,he was content to raise his voice from time to time to say:
"Do not forget, citizens, that you are not to kill women and not totouch the jewels."
He did not seem to feel any right to censure those who were killing menand throwing the furniture out of the windows.
At the first glance he had distinguished that Captain Beausire was notone of the storming-parties.
The consequence was that, about half past nine, Pitou, who had thepost of honor, as we know, guarding the main entrance, saw a sort ofwoe-begone and slender giant stalk toward him from the interior of thepalace, who said to him with politeness, but also with firmness, as ifhis mission was to modify disorder with order and temper vengeancewith justice:
"Captain, you will see a fellow swagger down the stairs presently,wearing a red cap, swinging a saber and making broad gestures. Arresthim and have your men search him, for he has picked up a case ofdiamonds."
"Yes, Master Maillard," replied Pitou, touching his cap.
"Aha! so you know me, my friend?" said the ex-usher of the ChateletPrison.
"I rather think I do know you," exclaimed Pitou. "Don't you rememberme, Master Maillard? We took the Bastile together."
"That's very likely."
"We also marched to Versailles together in October."
"I did go there at that time."
"Of course you did; and the proof is that you shielded the ladies whowent to call on the queen, and you had a duel with a janitor who wouldnot let you go in."
"Then, for old acquaintance' sake, you will do what I say, eh?"
"That, and anything else--all you order. You are a regular patriot, youare."
"I pride myself on it," replied Maillard, "and that is why I can notpermit the name we bear to be sullied. Attention! this is our man."
In fact, at this time, Beausire stamped down the grand stairs, wavinghis large sword and shouting: "The nation forever!"
Pitou made a sign to Maniquet and another, who placed themselves at thedoor without any parade, and he went to wait for the sham rioter at thefoot of the stairs.
With a glance, the suspicious character noticed the movements, and asthey no doubt disquieted him, he stopped, and made a turn to go back,as if he had forgotten something.
"Beg pardon, citizen," said Pitou; "this is the way out."
"Oh, is it?"
"And as the order is to vacate the Tuileries, out you go, if youplease."
Beausire lifted his head and continued his descent.
At the last step he touched his hand to his red cap, and in anemphasized military tone, said:
"I say, brother-officer, can a comrade go out or not?"
"You are going out," returned Pitou; "only, in the first place, youmust submit to a little formality."
"Hem! what is it, my handsome captain?"
"You will have to be searched."
"Search a patriot, a capturer of the tyrants' den, a man who has beenexterminating aristocrats?"
"That's the order; so, comrade, since you are a fellow-soldier," saidthe National Guardsman, "stick your big toad-sticker in its sheath,now that all the aristos are slain, and let the search be done in goodpart, or, if not, I shall be driven to employ force."
"Force?" said Beausire. "Ha! you talk in this strain because you havetwenty men at your back, my pretty captain; but if you and I were alonetogether--"
"If we were alone together, citizen," returned the man from thecountry, "I'd show you what I should do. In this way, I should seizeyour left wrist with my right hand; with my left, I should wrench yoursaber from your grasp, like this, and I should snap it under my foot,just like this, as being no longer worthy of handling by an honest manafter a thief."
Putting into practice the theory he announced, Pitou disarmed the shampatriot, and breaking the sword, tossed the hilt afar.
"A thief? I, Captain de Beausire, a thief?" thundered the conqueror inthe red cap.
"Search Captain Beausire with the _de_," said Pitou, pushing thecard-sharper into the midst of his men.
"Well, go ahead with your search," replied the victim of suspicion,meekly dropping his arms.
They had not needed his permission to proceed with the ferreting;but to the great astonishment of Pitou, and especially of Maillard,all their searching was in vain. Whether they turned the pocketsinside out, or examined the hems and linings, all they found on theex-corporal was a pack of playing-cards so old that the faces werehardly to be told from the backs, as well as the sum of eleven cents.
Pitou looked at Maillard, who shrugged his shoulders as much as to say,"I have missed it somehow, but I do not know what I can do about itnow."
"Go through him again," said Pitou, one of whose principal traits waspatience.
They tried it again, but the second search was as unfruitful as theformer; they only found the same pack of cards and eleven cents.
"Well," taunted Beausire, triumphantly, "is a sword still disgraced byhaving been handled by me?"
"No," replied Pitou; "and to prove it, if you are not satisfied withthe excuses I tender you, one of my men shall lend you his, and I willgive you any other satisfaction you may like."
"Thanks, no, young sir," said the other, drawing himself up to his fullheight; "you acted under orders, and an old veteran like me knows thatan order is sacred. Now I beg to remark that Madame de Beausire must beanxious about my long absence, and if I am allowed to retire--"
"Go, sir," responded Pitou; "you are free."
Beausire saluted in a free-and-easy style and took himself out of thepalace. Pitou looked round for Maillard, but he was not by.
"I fancy I saw him go up the stairs," said one of the Haramont men.
"You saw clearly, for he is coming down," observed Pitou.
Maillard was in fact descending, and as his long legs took the stepstwo by two, he was soon on the landing.
"Well, did you find anything?" he inquired.
"No," rejoined the captain.
"Then, I have been luckier than you, for I lighted on the case."
"So we were wrong, eh?"
"No; we were right."
Maillard opened the case and showed the old setting from which had beenprized all the stones.
"Why, what does this mean?" Pitou wanted to know.
"That the scamp guessed what might happen, picked out the diamonds, andas he thought the setting would be in his way, he threw it with thecase into the closet where I found it."
"That's clear enough. But what has become of the stones?"
"He found some means of juggling them away."
"The trickster!"
"Has he been long gone?" inquired Maillard.
"As you came down, he was passing through the middle yard."
"Which way did he take?"
"He went toward the water-side."
"Good-bye, captain."
"Are you going after him, Master Maillard?"
"I want to make a thorough job of it," returned the ex-usher.
And unfolding his long legs like a pair of compasses, he set off inpursuit of Captain Beausire.
Pitou was thinking the matter over when he recognized the Countess ofCharny, and the events occurred which we have related in their propertime and place. Not to mix them up with this present matter, we think,falls into line here.



CHAPTER XX.
THE EMETIC.

Rapid as was Maillard's gait, he could not catch up with his quarry,who had three things in his favor, namely: ten minutes' start, thedarkness, and the number of passengers on the Carrousel, in the thickof whom he disappeared.
But when he got out upon the Tuileries quay, the ex-usher kept on, forhe lived in the working-quarter, and it was not out of his way home tokeep to the water-side.
A great concourse was upon the bridges, flocking to the open spacebefore the Palace of Justice, where the dead were laid out foridentification, and people sought for their dear ones, with hope, or,rather, fear.
Maillard followed the crowd.
At a corner there he had a friend in a druggist, or apothecary, asthey said in those days. He dropped in there, sat down, and chatted ofwhat had gone on, while the surgeons rushed in and about to get thematerials they wanted for the injured; for among the corpses a moan,a scream, or palpable breathing showed that some wretch still lived,and he was hauled out and carried to the great hospital, after roughdressing.
So there was a great hubbub in the worthy chemist's store; but Maillardwas not in the way; on such occasions they were delighted to see apatriot of the degree of a hero of the Bastile, who was balm itself tothe lovers of liberty.
He had been there upward of a quarter of an hour, with his long legstucked well under him and taking up as little room as possible, whena woman, of the age of thirty-eight or so, came in. Under the garb ofmost abject poverty, she preserved a vestige of former opulence, and abearing of studied aristocracy, if not natural.
But what particularly struck Maillard was her marked likeness to thequeen; he would have cried out with amaze but for his having greatpresence of mind. She held a little boy by the hand, and came up to thecounter with an odd timidity, veiling the wretchedness of her garmentsas much as she could, though that was the more manifest from her takingextreme care of her face and her hands.
For some time it was impossible for her to make herself heard owing tothe uproar; but at last she addressed the master of the establishment,saying:
"Please, sir, I want an emetic for my husband, who is ill."
"What sort do you want, citizeness?" asked the dispenser of drugs.
"Any sort, as long as it does not cost more than eleven cents."
This exact amount struck Maillard, for it will be remembered thateleven coppers were the findings in Beausire's pockets.
"Why should it not cost more than that?" inquired the chemist.
"Because that is all the small change my man could give me."
"Put up some tartar emetic," said the apothecary to an assistant, "andgive it to the citizeness."
He turned to attend to other demands while the assistant made up thepowder. But Maillard, who had nothing to do to distract his attention,concentrated all his wits on the woman who had but eleven cents.
"There you are, citizeness; here's your physic," said the drug clerk.
"Now, then, Toussaint," said the woman, with a drawl habitual to her,"give the gentleman the eleven cents, my boy."
"There it is," replied the boy, putting the pile of coppers on thecounter. "Come home quick, Mamma Oliva, for papa is waiting."
He tried to drag her away, repeating, "Why don't you come quick? Papais in such a hurry."
"Hi! hold on, citizeness!" cried the budding druggist; "you have onlygiven me nine cents."
"What do you mean by only nine?" exclaimed the woman.
"Why, look here; you can reckon for yourself."
The woman did so, and saw there were just nine.
"What have you done with the other two coins, you wicked boy?" sheasked.
"Me not know nothing about 'em," whimpered the child. "Do come home,Mamma Oliva!"
"You must know, for I let you carry the money."
"I must have lost 'em. But come along home," whined the boy.
"You have a bewitching little fellow there, citizeness," remarkedMaillard; "he appears sharp-witted, but you will have to take care lesthe become a thief."
"How dare you, sir!--a thief?" cried the woman called Oliva. "Why doyou say such a thing, I should like to know?"
"Only because he has not lost the two cents, but hid them in his shoe."
"Me?" retorted the boy. "What a lie!"
"In the left shoe, citizeness--in the left," said Maillard.
In spite of the yell of young Toussaint, Mme. Oliva took off his leftshoe and found the coppers in it. She handed them to the apothecary'sclerk, and dragged away the urchin with threats of punishment whichwould have appeared terrible to the by-standers, if they had notbeen accompanied by soft words which no doubt sprung from maternalaffection. Unimportant as the incident was in itself, it certainlywould have passed without comment amid the surrounding gravecircumstances, if the resemblance of the heroine to the queen had notimpressed the witness. The result of his pondering over this was thathe went up to his friend in drugs, and said to him, in a respite fromtrade:
"Did you not notice the likeness of that woman who just went out to--"
"The queen?" said the other, laughing.
"Yes; so you remarked it the same as I?"
"Oh, ever so long ago. It is a matter of history."
"I do not understand."
"Do you not remember the celebrated trial of 'The Queen's Necklace'?"
"Oh, you must not put such a question to an usher of the law courts--hecould not forget that."
"Well, you must recall one Nicole Legay, _alias_ Oliva."
"Oh, of course; you are right. She played herself as the queen upon thePrince Cardinal Rohan."
"While she was living with a discharged soldier, a bully andcard-cheat, a spy and recruiter, named Beausire."
"What do you say?" broke out Maillard, as though snake-bitten.
"A rogue named Beausire," repeated the druggist.
"Is it he whom she styles her husband?" asked Maillard.
"Yes."
"And for whom she came to get the physic?"
"The rascal has been drinking too hard."
"An emetic?" continued Maillard, as one on the track of an importantsecret and did not wish to be turned astray.
"A vomitory--yes."
"By Jupiter, I have nailed my man!" exclaimed the visitor.
"What man?"
"The man who had only eleven cents--Captain de Beausire, in short. Thatis, if I knew where he lives."
"Well, I know if you do not; it is close by, No. 6 Juiverie Street."
"Then I am not astonished at young Beausire stealing two cents from hismother, for he is the son of the cheat."
"No cheat there--his living likeness."
"A chip of the old block. My dear friend," continued Maillard,"straight as a die, how long does your dose take to operate?"
"Immediately after taking; but these fellows fight shy of medicine. Hewill play fast and loose before he takes it, and his wife will have tomake a cup of soup to wash the taste out of his mouth."
"You mean I may have time to do what I have to do?"
"I hope so; you seem to feel great interest in our Captain Beausire?"
"So much so that, for fear he will be very bad, I am going to get acouple of male nurses for him."
Leaving the drug store with a silent laugh, the only one he indulgedin, Maillard hurried back to the Tuileries.
Pitou was absent, for we know he was attending on the Countess ofCharny, but Lieutenant Maniquet was guarding the post. They recognizedeach other.
"Well, Citizen Maillard, did you overtake the fellow?" asked Maniquet.
"No; but I am on his track."
"Faith, it is a blessing; for though we did not find the diamonds onthe knave, somehow I am ready to bet that he has them."
"Make the bet, citizen, and you will win," said the usher.
"Good; and can we help you catch him?"
"You can."
"In what way, Citizen Maillard? We are under your orders."
"I want a couple of honest men."
"You can take at random, then. Boulanger and Molicar, step out thisway."
That was all the usher desired; and with the two soldiers of Haramonthe proceeded at the double-quick to the residence of Beausire.
In the house they were guided by the cries of young Toussaint, stillsuffering from a correction, not maternal, as Papa Beausire, on accountof the gravity of the misdemeanor, had deemed it his duty to interveneand add some cuffs from his hard hand to the gentle slap which Olivahad administered much against her will with her softer one to herbeloved offspring.
The door was locked.
"In the name of the law, open!" called out Maillard.
A conversation in a low voice ensued, during which young Toussaint washushed, as he thought that the abstraction of the two cents from hismother was a heinous crime for which Justice had risen in her wrath;while Beausire, who attributed it to the domiciliary visits, triedto tranquilize Oliva, though he was not wholly at his ease. He had,moreover, gulped down the tartar as soon as he had chastised his son.
Mme. Beausire had to take her course, and she opened the door just asMaillard was going to knock for a second time.
The three men entered, to the great terror of Oliva and MasterToussaint, who ran to hide under a ragged straw-bottomed chair.
Beausire had thrown himself on the bed, and Maillard had thesatisfaction of seeing by the light of a cheap candle smoking inan iron holder that the physic paper was flat and empty on thenight-table. The potion was swallowed, and they had only to abide theeffects.
On the march, Maillard had related to the volunteers what had happened,so that they were fully cognizant of the state of matters.
"Citizens," he restricted himself to saying, "Captain Beausire isexactly like that princess in the Arabian Nights' Entertainment,who never spoke unless compelled, but who, whenever she opened hermouth, let fall a diamond. Do not, therefore, let Beausire spit outa word unless learning what it contains. I will wait for you at theMunicipality offices. When the gentleman has nothing more to say toyou, take him to the Chatelet Prison, where you will say CitizenMaillard sent him for safe keeping, and you will join me at the CityHall with what he shall have delivered."
The National Guards nodded in token of passive obedience, and placedthemselves with Beausire between them. The apothecary had given goodmeasure for eleven cents, and the effect of the emetic was mostsatisfactory.
About three in the morning, Maillard saw his two soldiers coming tohim. They brought a hundred thousand francs' worth of diamonds of thepurest water, wrapped in a copy of the prison register, stating thatBeausire was under ward and lock. In his name and the two Haramontese,Maillard placed the gems in charge of the Commune attorney, who gavethem a certificate that they had deserved the thanks of the country.



CHAPTER XXI.
BEAUSIRE'S BRAVADO.

Imprisoned in the Chatelet, Beausire was brought before the juryspecially charged to deal with thefts committed in the taking of theTuileries. He could not deny what was only too clearly brought forth,so he most humbly confessed his deed and sued for clemency.
His antecedents being looked up, they so little edified the court onhis moral character, that he was condemned to five years in the hulksand transportation to the plantations.
In vain did he allege that he had been led into crime by the mostcommendable feelings, namely, to provide a peaceful future for hiswife and child; nothing could alter the doom, and as the court was onewithout appeal, and the sentences active, it was likely to be executedimmediately.
Better for him had it not been deferred for a day. Fate would have itthat one of his old associates was put in prison with him on the eve ofhis sentence being carried out. They renewed acquaintance and exchangedconfidences.
The new-comer was, he said, concerned in a well-matured plot which wasto burst on Strand Place or before the Justice Hall. The conspiratorswere to gather in a considerable number, as if to see the executionstaking place at either spot, and, raising shouts of "Long live theking!" "The Prussians are coming, hurrah!" "Death to the nation!" theywere to storm the City Hall, call to their help the National Guards,two thirds Royalist, or at least Constitutional, maintain the abolitionof the Commune, and, in short, accomplish the loyal counter-revolution.
The mischief was that Beausire's old partner was the very man who wasto give the signal. The others in the plot, ignorant of his arrest,would hie to the place of execution, and the rising would fall to theground from nobody being there to start the cries.
This was the more lamentable, added the friend, from there never beinga better arranged plot, and one that promised a more certain result.
His arrest was the more regrettable still as, in the turmoil, theprisoner would most certainly be rescued and get away, so that he wouldelude the branding-iron and the galleys.
Though Captain Beausire had no settled opinions, he leaned towardroyalty, so he began to deplore the check to the scheme, in the firstplace for the king's sake, and then for his own.
All at once he struck his brow, for he was illumined with a bright idea.
"Why, this first execution is to be mine!" he said.
"Of course, and it would have been a rich streak of luck for you."
"But you say that it will not matter who gives the cue, for the plotwill burst out?"
"Yes. But who will do this, when I am caged, and can not communicatewith the lads outside?"
"I," replied Beausire in lofty, tragic tones. "Will I not be on thespot, since it is I whom they are to put in the pillory? So I am theman who will cry out the arranged shouts; it is not so very hard atask, methinks."
"I always said you were a genius," remarked the captain's friend, afterbeing wonder-struck.
Beausire bowed.
"If you do this," continued the Royalist plotter, "you will not onlybe delivered and pardoned, but still further, when I proclaim thatthe success of the outbreak is due to you, you can shake hands withyourself beforehand on the great reward you will earn."
"I am not going to do the deed for anything like lucre," said theadventurer, with the most disinterested of manners.
"We all know that," rejoined the friend; "but when the reward comesalong, I advise you not to refuse it."
"Oh, if you think I ought to take it--" faltered the gambler.
"I press you to, and if I had any power over you, I should order you,"resumed the companion, majestically.
"I give in," said Beausire.
"Well, to-morrow we will breakfast together, for the governor of thejail will not refuse this favor to two old 'pals,' and we will crack ajolly good bottle of the rosy to the success of this plot."
Though Beausire may have had his doubts on the kindness of prisongovernors, the request was granted, to his great satisfaction. It wasnot one bottle they drained, but several. At the fourth, Beausirewas a red-hot Royalist. Luckily, the warders came to take him to theStrand before he emptied the fifth. He stepped into the cart as into atriumphal chariot, disdainfully surveying the throng for whom he wasstoring up such a startling surprise.
On Notre Dame Bridge, a woman and a little boy were waiting for him tocome along. He recognized poor Oliva, in tears, and young Toussaint,who, on beholding his father among the soldiers, said:
"Serves him right; what did he beat me for?"
The proud father smiled protectingly, and would have waved a blessingbut his hands were tied behind his back.
The City Hall Square was crammed with people. They knew that this felonhad robbed in the palace, and they had no pity for him. Hence, theGuards had their work cut out to keep them back when the cart stoppedat the pillory foot.
Beausire looked on at the uproar and scuffling, as much as to say: "Youshall see some fun in awhile; this is nothing to the joker I have up mysleeve!"
When he appeared on the pillory platform, there was general hooting;but at the supreme moment, when the executioner opened the culprit'sshirt and pulled down the sleeve to bare the shoulder, and then stoopeddown to take the red-hot brand, that happened which always does--allwas silent before the majesty of the law.
Beausire snatched at this lull, and gathering all his powers, heshouted in a full, ringing and sonorous voice:
"Long live the king! Hurrah for the Prussians! Down with the nation!"
However great a tumult the prisoner may have expected, the one thisraised much exceeded it; the protest was not in shouts, but howls. Thewhole gathering uttered an immense roar and rushed on the pillory.
This time the guards were insufficient to protect their man. Theirranks were broken, the scaffold swarmed upon, the executioner thrownover, and the condemned one torn from the stand and flung into thesurging mob.
He would have been flayed, dismembered, and torn to pieces but for oneman, arrayed in his scarf as a town officer, who luckily saw it allfrom the City Hall steps.
It was the Commune attorney, Manuel. He had strongly humane feelings,which he often had to keep hidden, but they moved him at such times.
With great difficulty he fought his way to Beausire, and laying hold ofhim, said in a loud voice:
"In the name of the law, I claim this man!"
There was hesitation; he unloosed his scarf, floating it like a flag,and called for all good citizens to assist him.
A score clustered round him and drew Beausire, half dead, from thecrowd. Manuel had him carried into the Hall, which was seriouslythreatened, so deep was the exasperation. Manuel came out on thebalcony.
"This man is guilty," he said, "but of a crime for which he has notbeen tried. Let us select a jury from among us to assemble in a room ofthe City Hall. Whatever the sentence, it shall be executed; but let ushave a legal sentence."
Is it not curious that such language should be used on the eve ofthe massacre of the prisoners, by one of the men accused of havingorganized it, at the peril of his life?
This pledge appeased the mob. Beausire was dragged before theimprovised jury. He tried to defend himself, but his second crime wasas patent as the first; only in the popular eye it was much graver.
Was it not a dreadful crime and deserving of condign punishment tocheer the king who was put in prison as a traitor, to hurrah for thePrussians who had captured a French town, and to wish death to thenation, in agony on a bed of pain?
So the jury decided not only that the culprit deserved the capitalpenalty, but that to mark the shame which the law had sought to defineby substituting the guillotine for the gallows, that he should behanged, and on the spot where he committed the offense.
Consequently the headsman of Paris had his orders to erect a gibbet onthe pillory stand.
The view of this work and the certainty that the prisoner could notescape them, pacified the multitude.
This was the matter which the Assembly was busied with. It saw thateverything tended to a massacre--a means of spreading terror andperpetuating the Commune. The end was that they voted that the Communehad acted to merit the gratitude of the country, and Robespierre, afterpraising it, asserted that the House had lost the public confidence,and that the only way for the people to save themselves was to retaketheir powers.
So the masses were to be without check, but with a heart full ofvengeance, and charged to continue the August massacre of those who hadfought for the palace on the tenth, by following them into the prisons.
It was the first of September, and a storm seemed to oppress everybodywith its suspended lightning.



CHAPTER XXII.
SET UPON DYING.

Thus stood matters, when Dr. Gilbert's "officiator"--the word servantwas abolished as non-republican--announced at nine in the evening thathis carriage was at the door.
He donned his hat, buttoned up his outer coat, and was going out, whenhe saw the door-way blocked by a man in a cloak and a slouch hat.Gilbert recoiled a step, for all was hostile that came in the dark atsuch a period.
"It is I, Gilbert," said a kindly voice.
"Cagliostro!" exclaimed the doctor.
"Good; there you are forgetting again that I am no longer under thatname, but bear that of Baron Zannone. At the same time, Gilbert, foryou I am changed in neither name nor heart, and am ever your JosephBalsamo, I hope."
"Yes; and the proof is that I was going to find you."
"I suspected as much, and that is what has brought me," said themagician. "For you can imagine that in such times I do not go into thecountry, as Robespierre is doing."
"That is why I feared that I should not find you at home, and I amhappy to meet you. But come in, I beg."
"Well, here I am. Say your wish," said Cagliostro, following the masterinto the most retired room.
"Do you know what is going on?" asked the host, as soon as both wereseated.
"You mean what is going to happen; for at present nothing is doing,"observed the other.
"No, you are right; but something dreadful is brewing, eh?"
"Dreadful, in sooth; but such is sometimes needful."
"Master, you make me shudder," said Gilbert, "when you utter suchsayings with your inexorable coolness."
"I can not help it. I am but the echo of fate."
Gilbert hung his head.
"Do you recall what I told you when I warned you of the fate of MarquisFavras?"
The physician started; strong in facing most men, he felt weak as achild before this mysterious character.
"I told you," went on the enigma, "that if the king had a grain ofcommon sense, which I hoped he had not, he would exercise the wish forself-preservation to flee."
"He did so."
"Yes; but I meant while it was in good time; it was, you know, too latewhen he went. I added, you may remember, that if he and the queen andthe nobles remained, I would bring on the Revolution."
"You are right again, for the Revolution rules," said Gilbert, with asigh.
"Not completely, but it is getting on. Do you further recall thatI showed you an instrument invented by a friend of mine, DoctorGuillotin? Well, that beheading machine, which I exhibited in adrinking-glass to the future queen at Taverney Manor, you willremember, though you were but a boy at the time--no higher thanthat--yet already courting Nicole--the same Nicole whose husband,Beausire, by the way, is being hung at the present speaking--not beforehe deserved it! Well, that machine is hard at work."
"Too slowly, since swords and pikes have to be supplementing itsblade," said Gilbert.
"Listen," said Cagliostro; "you must grant that we have a mostblock-headed crew to deal with. We gave the aristocrats, the court, andthe monarchs all sorts of warnings without their profiting or beingadvised by them. We took the Bastile, their persons from Versailles,their palace in Paris; we shut up their king in the temple, and thearistocrats in the other prisons; and all serves for no end. The king,under lock and bolt, rejoices at the Prussians taking his towns, andthe lords in the abbey cheer the Germans. They drink wine under thenoses of poor people who can not get wholesome water, and eat trufflepies before beggars who can not get bread. On King Wilhelm of Prussiabeing notified that if he passes Longwy into French territory, asit will be the warrant for the king's death, he replies: 'Howeverimbittered may be the fate of the royal family, our armies must notretrograde. I hope with all my heart to arrive in time to save the Kingof France, but my duty before all is to save Europe.' And he marchesforward to Verdun. It is fairly time to end this nonsense."
"End with whom?" cried Gilbert.
"With the king, the queen, and their following."
"Would you murder a king and a queen?"
"Oh, no; that would be a bad blunder. They must be publicly tried,condemned, and executed, as we have the example set by the execution ofCharles I. But, one way or another, doctor, we must get rid of them,and the sooner the better."
"Who has decided this?" protested Gilbert. "Let me hear. Is it theintelligence, the honor, and the conscience of the people of whom youspeak? When genius, loyalty, and justice were represented by Mirabeau,Lafayette, and Vergniaud, if you had said 'Louis must die,' in thename of those three I should still have shuddered, but I should doubt.In whose name do you pronounce now? Hissed actors, paltry editors,hot-heads like Marat, who have to be bled to cool them when they shriekfor thousands of heads. Leave these failures who think they are wondersbecause they can undo in a stroke the work which it has taken nature afew score years, for they are villains, master, and you ought not toassociate with such burlesques of men."
"My dear Gilbert, you are mistaken again," said the prime mover; "theyare not villains; you misuse the word. They are mere instruments."
"Of destruction."
"Ay; but for the benefit of an idea. The enfranchisement of the people,Gilbert; liberty, the Republic--not merely French--God forbid me havingso selfish an idea! but universal, the federation of the free world.No, these men have not genius, or honor, or conscience, but somethingstronger, more inexorable, less resistible--they have instinct."
"Like Attila's."
"You have hit it. Of Attila, who called himself the Scourge of God, andcame with the barbaric blood of the north to redeem Roman civilization,corrupted by the feasting, debauched emperors."
"But, in brief, to sum up instead of generalizing, whither will tend amassacre?" asked Gilbert.
"To a plain issue. We will compromise the Assembly and Commune and thepeople of Paris. We must soak Paris in blood; for you understand thatParis is the brain of France, or of Europe, so that Paris, feeling thatthere is no forgiveness possible for her, will rise like one man, urgeFrance before her, and hurl the enemy off the sacred soil."
"But you are not a Frenchman; what odds is it to you?" asked Gilbert.
"You were not an American, but you were glad to have the rebel PaulJones take you to America and aid the rebels to free the Colonies fromthe British yoke. How can a man of superior mettle and intelligencesay to another: 'Do not meddle with us, for you are not French?' Arenot the affairs of France those of the world? Is France working solelyfor herself now, think you? Hark you, Gilbert; I have debated allthese points with a mind far stronger than yours--the man or devilnamed Althotas; and one day he made a calculation of the quantity ofblood which must be shed before the sun rises on the free world. Hisreasonings did not shake my conviction. I marched on, I march on, andon I shall march, overturning all that stands in my path, and saying tomyself, in a calm voice, as I look around with a serene look: Woe tothe obstacle, for this is the future which is coming! Now you have thepardon of some one to ask? I grant it beforehand. Tell me the name ofthe man or the woman?"
"I wish to save a woman whom neither of us, master, can allow to die."
"The Countess of Charny?"
"The mother of Sebastian Gilbert."
"You know that it is Danton who, as Minister of Justice, has the prisonkeys."
"Yes; but I also know that the chief of the Invisibles can say toDanton, 'Open or shut that door.'"
Cagliostro rose, and going over to a writing-desk, wrote a cabalisticsign on a small square of paper. Presenting this to Gilbert, he said:
"Go and find Danton, and ask him anything you like." Gilbert rose.
"What are you going to do when the king's turn comes?"
"I intend to be elected to the convention, so as to vote with all mypower against his death."
"Be it so; I can understand that," said the leader. "Act as yourconscience dictates, but promise me one thing."
"What is it?"
"There was a time when you would have promised without a condition,Gilbert."
"At that time you would not have told me that a nation could healitself by murdering, or a people gain by massacre."
"Have it your own way. Only promise me that, when the king shall beexecuted, you will follow the advice I give you."
"Any advice from the master will be precious," he said, holding out hishand.
"And will be followed?" persisted Cagliostro.
"I swear, if not hurtful to my conscience."
"Gilbert, you are unjust. I have offered you much; have I ever requiredaught of you?"
"No, master," was Gilbert's reply; "and now, furthermore, you give me alife dearer than mine own."
"Go," said the arch-revolutionist, "and may the genius of France, oneof whose noblest sons you are, ever guide you."
The count went out, and Gilbert followed him, stepping into thecarriage still waiting, to be driven to the Minister of Justice.
Danton was waiting for one of two things: if he turned to the Commune,he and Marat and Robespierre would rule, and he wanted neither of them.Unfortunately, the Assembly would not have him, and its support to rulealone was the other alternative.
When Gilbert came, he had been wrestling with his wife, who guessedthat the massacre was determined upon. He had told her that she talkedlike a woman in asking him to die rather than let the red tide flow on.
"You say that you will die of the stain, and that my sons will blushfor me. No; they will be men some day, and if true Dantons, they willcarry their heads high; if weak, let them deny me. If I let themcommence the massacre by me, for opposing it, do you know what willbecome of the revolution between that blood-thirsty maniac, Marat, andthat sham utopist, Robespierre? I will stay the bloodshed if I can, andif not, I will take all the guilt on my shoulders. The burden will notprevent me marching to my goal, only I shall be the more terrible."
Gilbert entered.
"Come, Doctor Gilbert, I have a word for you."
Opening a little study door, he led the visitor into it.
"How can I be useful to you?" he asked.
Gilbert took out the paper the Invisible had given him and presented itto Danton.
"Ha! you come on _his_ account, do you? What do you desire?"
"The liberation of a woman prisoned in the abbey."
"The name?"
"The Countess of Charny."
Danton took a sheet of paper and wrote the release.
"There it is," he said; "are there others you would wish to save?Speak; I should like to save some of the unfortunates."
"I have all my desire," said Gilbert, bowing.
"Go, doctor," said the minister; "and when you need anything of me,apply direct. I am happy to do anything for you, man to man. Ah,"he muttered at the door, in showing him out, "if I had only yourreputation, doctor, as an honorable man!"
Bearer of the precious paper which assured Andrea's life, the fatherof her son hastened to the abbey. Though nearly midnight, threateninggroups still hung round the door. Gilbert passed through the midst ofthem and knocked at it. The gloomy panel in the low arched way wasopened. Gilbert shuddered as he went through--it was to be the way tothe tomb.
The order, presented to the warden, stated that instant release was tobe given to the person whom Dr. Gilbert should point out. He named theCountess of Charny, and the governor ordered a turnkey to lead Gilbertto the prisoner's cell.
The doctor followed the man up three flights of a spiral staircase,where he entered a cell lighted by a lamp.
Pale as marble, in mourning, a woman sat at a table bearing the lamp,reading a shagreen prayer-book adorned with a silver cross. A brandof fire burned in the fire-place. In spite of the sound of the dooropening, she did not lift her eyes; the steps approaching did not moveher; she appeared absorbed in her book, but it was absence of mind,for Gilbert stood several minutes without her turning a leaf.
The warder had closed the door, with himself on the outer side.
"My lady the countess," ventured Gilbert, after awhile.
Raising her eyes, Andrea looked without perceiving at first; the veilof her mind was between her and the speaker, but it was graduallywithdrawn.
"Ah, and is it you, Doctor Gilbert--what do you want?" she inquired.
"Madame, very ugly rumors are afloat about what is going to happen inthe prisons."
"Yes; it is said that the prisoners are to be slaughtered," rejoinedAndrea; "but you know, Doctor Gilbert, that I am ready to die."
"I come to take you away madame," he continued, bowing.
"Whither would you take me, doctor?" she asked, in surprise.
"Wherever you like, madame; you are free."
He showed her the release order signed by Danton, which she read; butinstead of returning it, she kept it in her hand.
"I might have suspected this," she observed, trying to smile, but shehad forgotten the way. "You were sure to try to prevent me dying."
"Madame, there is but one existence which would be dearer to me than myparents', had I ever known my parents--it is yours."
"Yes; and that is why you broke your promise to me."
"I did not, madame, for I sent you the poison."
"By my son?"
"I did not tell you by what hand I should send it."
"In short, you have thought of me, Gilbert. So you entered the lion'sden for my sake, and came forthwith the talisman which unseals doors?"
"I told you, madame, that as long as I lived you should not die."
"Nay, Doctor Gilbert, I believe that this time I hold death by thehand," said Andrea, with something more like a smile than her previousattempt.
"Madame, I declare to you that I will stay you from dying, even thoughI have to employ force."
Without replying, Andrea tore the order into pieces and tossed theminto the fire.
"Try it," she said.
Gilbert uttered an outcry.
"Doctor Gilbert," said she, "I have given up the idea of suicide, butnot of dying. I long for death."
Gilbert let a groan escape him.
"All that I ask of you is that you will save my body from outrage afterdeath--it has not escaped it in life. Count Charny rests in the familyvault at Boursonnes. There I spent the happiest days of my life, and Iwish to repose by him."
"Oh, in Heaven's name, I implore you--"
"And I implore you in the name of my sorrow--"
"It is well, lady; you were right in saying that I am bound to obey youin all points. I go, but I am not vanquished."
"Do not forget my last wish."
"If I do not save you in spite of yourself, it shall be accomplished,"replied Gilbert.
Saluting her for the last time, he went forth, and the door banged towith that lugubrious sound peculiar to prison doors.



CHAPTER XXIII.
THE DEATH OF THE COUNTESS.

In the night, while Gilbert was vainly trying to save Andrea, theCommune, unable to secure Danton's help, formed a committee ofvigilance, including Marat, though he was not a member of the Commune.But his name enthroned murder, and showed the frightful development ofhis power.
The first order of this committee was to have twenty-four prisonersremoved from the abbey, and brought before them at the mayor'soffices--now the police prefecture building.
It was expected that they would be set upon in the streets, and thebutchery there begun would be introduced into the prisons.
Marat's "barkers," as they were called, in vain, however, shouted asthe hacks went along:
"Look at the traitors--the accomplices of the Prussians! There they gowho are surrendering our towns, slaying our wives and babes, and willdo it here if you leave them in the rear when you march to the border."
But, as Danton said, massacres are a scarce bird, and the incitementonly brought out more uproar.
Fortune came to the ruffians' assistance.
At a crossing was a stage run up for the voluntary enlistments. Thecabs had to stop. A man pushed through the escort and plunged his swordseveral times inside a carriage, drawing it out dripping with blood. Aprisoner had a cane, and trying to parry the steel, he struck one ofthe guards.
"Why, you brigands," said the struck man, "we are protecting you andyou strike us! Lay on, friends!"
Twenty scoundrels, who only waited for the call, sprung out of thethrong, armed with knives tied to poles in the way of spears, andstabbed through the carriage windows. The screams arose from insidethe conveyances, and the blood trickled out and left a track on theroad-way.
Blood calls for blood, and the massacre commenced which was to lastfour days.
It was regularized by Maillard, who wanted to have every act done inlegal style. His registry exists, where his clear, steady handwritingis perfectly calm and legible in the two notes and the signature."Executed by the judgment of the people," or "Acquitted by the people,"and "Maillard."
The latter note appears forty-three times, so that he saved that number.
After the fourth of September he disappeared, swallowed up in the seaof blood.
Meanwhile, he presided over the court. He had set up a table and calledfor a blank book; he chose a jury, or rather assistant judges, to thenumber of twelve, who sat six on either side of him.
He called out the prisoner's name from a register; while the turnkeyswent for the person, he stated the case, and looked for a decisionfrom his associates as soon as the accused appeared. If condemned, hesaid: "To Laforce!" which seemed to mean the prison of that name; butthe grim pun, understood, was that he was to be handed over to "bruteforce."
Beyond the outer door the wretch fell under the blows of the butchers.
If the prisoner was absolved, the black phantom rose, laid his hand onthe person's head, and said, "Put him out!" and the prisoner was freed.
When Maillard arrived at the Abbey Prison, a man, also in black, whowas waiting by the wall, stepped forward to meet him. On the firstwords exchanged between them, Maillard recognized this man, and bowedhis tall figure to him in condescension, if not submission. He broughthim into the prison, and when the tribunal was arranged, he said:
"Stand you there, and when the person comes out in whom you areinterested, make me a sign."
The man rested his elbow against the wall and stood mute, attentive,and motionless as when outside.
It was Honore Gilbert, who had sworn that he would not let Andrea die,and was still trying to fulfill his oath.
Between four and six in the morning, the judges and butchers took arest, and at six had breakfast.
At half past the horrid work was resumed.
In that interval such of the prisoners as could see the slaughter outof a window reported by which mode death came swiftest and with theleast suffering; they concluded it was by a stab to the heart.
Thereupon, some took turn after turn with a pocket-knife to cheat theslaughterers.
In the midst of this dreadful ante-chamber of death, one woman in deepmourning was kneeling in prayer and smiling.
It was the Countess of Charny.
Two hours yet passed before she was called as "Citizeness Andrea ofTaverney, previously known as the Countess of Charny."
At the name, Gilbert felt his legs yield under him and his heart weaken.
A life, more important than his own, was to be debated, tried, anddoomed or spared.
"Citizens," said Maillard, "the person about to appear before you isa poor woman who was devoted formerly to the Austrian, but with trulyroyal ingratitude, she paid her with sorrow; to that friendship shegave all--her property and her husband. You will see her come in,dressed in mourning, which she owes to the prisoner in the temple.Citizens, I ask you for the life of this woman."
The bench of judges nodded; but one said the prisoner ought to appearbefore them.
"Then, look," said the chief.
The door opening, they saw in the corridor depths a woman clad whollyin black, with her head crowned with a black veil, who walked forwardalone without support, with a steady step. She seemed an apparitionfrom another world, at the sight of which even those justicesshuddered.
Arriving at the table, she lifted her veil. Never had beauty lessdisputable but none more pale met the eyes of man; it was a goddess inmarble.
All eyes were fixed upon her, while Gilbert panted.
"Citizen"--she addressed Maillard in a voice as sweet as firm--"you arethe president?"
"Yes, citizeness," replied the judge, startled at his being questioned.
"I am the Countess of Charny, wife of the count of that house, killedon the infamous tenth of August; an aristocrat and the bosom friend ofthe queen, I have deserved death, and I come to seek it."
The judges uttered a cry of surprise, and Gilbert turned pale andshrunk as far as he could back into the angle by the door to escapeAndrea's gaze.
"Citizens," said Maillard, who saw the doctor's plight, "this creaturehas gone mad through the death of her husband; let us pity her, and lether senses have a chance to come back. The justice of the people doesnot fall on the insane."
He rose and was going to lay his hands on Andrea's head as he did whenhe pronounced those innocent; but she pushed aside his hand.
"I have my full reason," she said; "and if you want to pardon any one,let it be one who craves it and merits it, but not I, who deserve itnot and reject it."
Maillard turned to Gilbert and saw that he was wringing his claspedhands.
"This woman is plainly mad," he said; "put her out."
He waved his hand to a member of the court, who shoved the countesstoward the door of safety.
"Innocent," he called out; "let her go out."
They who had the weapons ready parted before Andrea, lowered them untothis image of mourning. But, after having gone ten paces, and whileGilbert, clinging to the window bars, saw her going forth, she stopped.
"God save the king!" she cried. "Long live the queen, and shame on thetenth of August!"
Gilbert uttered a shriek and darted out into the yard. For he had seena sword glitter, and swift as a lightning flash, the blade disappearedin Andrea's bosom. He arrived in time to catch her in his arms, and asshe turned on him her dying gaze she recognized him.
"I told you that I would die in spite of you," she muttered. "LoveSebastian for both of us," she added, in a barely intelligible voice,and still more faintly continued: "You will have me laid to rest byhim--next my George, my husband, for time everlasting?"
And she expired.
Gilbert raised her up in his arms, while fifty blood-smeared handsmenaced him all at once.
But Maillard appeared behind him and said, as he spread his hands overhis head:
"Make way for the true citizen Gilbert, carrying out the body of a poorcrazed woman slain by mistake."
They stepped aside, and carrying the corpse of Andrea, the man whohad first loved her, even to committing crime to triumph over her,passed amid the murderers without one thinking of barring the way, sosovereign was Maillard's words over the multitude.



CHAPTER XXIV.
THE ROYAL MARTYR.

Let us return to the somber edifice confining a king become mere man,a queen still a queen, a maid who would be a martyr, and two poorchildren innocent, from age if not by birth.
The king was in the temple, not the temple tower, but the palace ofthe Knights Templars, which had been used by Artois as a pleasureresort.
The Assembly had not haggled about his keep, but awarded a handsome sumfor the table of one who was a hearty eater, like all the Bourbons.Not only did the judges reprimand him for his untimely gluttony duringhis trial, but they had a note made of the fact to be on record to ourtimes.
In the temple he had three servants and thirteen attendants connectedwith the table. Each day's dinner was composed of four _entrées_--sixvarieties of roast meat, four fancy dishes, three kinds of stews, threedishes of fruit, and Bordeaux, Madeira, and Malvoisie wine.
He and his son alone drank wine, as the queen and the princesses usedwater.
On the material side, he had nothing to complain of; but he lacked air,exercise, sunshine, and shady trees.
Habituated by hunting in the royal forests to glade and covert, hehad to content himself with a green yard, where a few withered treesscattered prematurely blighted leaves on four parterres of yellowedgrass.
Every day at four, the royal family were "walked out" here, as if theywere so many head of stall-fed cattle.
This was mean, unkind, ferocious in its cruelty; but less cruel andferocious than the cells of the pope's dungeons where they had triedto drive Cagliostro to death, or the leads of Venice, or the Spielbergdungeons.
We are not excusing the Commune, and not excusing kings; we are boundto say that the temple was a retaliation, terrible and fatal, butclumsy, for it was making a prosecution a persecution and a criminal amartyr.
What did they look like now--those whom we have seen in their glory?
The king, with his weak eyes, flabby cheeks, hanging lips, and heavy,carefully poised step, seemed a good farmer upset by a great disaster;his melancholy was that of an agriculturist whose barn had been burnedby lightning or his fields swept by a cyclone. The queen's attitude wasas usual, stiff, proud, and dreadfully irritating. Marie Antoinette hadinspired love of grandeur in her time; in her decline, she inspireddevotion, but never pity; that springs from sympathy, and she was neverone for fellow-feeling.
The guardian angel of the family was Princess Elizabeth, in herwhite dress, symbol of her purity of body and soul; her fair hairwas the handsomer from the disuse of powder. The princess royal,notwithstanding the charm of youth, little interested any one; athorough Austrian like her mother, her look had already the scorn andarrogance of vultures and royal races. The little dauphin was morewinning from his sickly white complexion and golden hair; but his eyewas a hard raw blue, with an expression at times older than his age.He understood things too well, caught the idea from a glance of hismother's eye, and showed politic cunning which sometimes wrung tearsfrom those who tormented him.
The Commune were cruel and imprudent; they changed the watchersdaily, and sent spies, under the guise of town officers. These wentin sworn enemies to the king and came out enemies to the death ofMarie Antoinette, but almost all pitying the king, sorrowing for thechildren, and glorifying the Lady Elizabeth. Indeed, what did they seeat the prison? Instead of the wolf, the she-wolf and the whelps--anordinary middle-class family, with the mother rather the gray mare andspitfire, who would not let any one touch the hem of her dress, but ofa brood of tyrants not a trace.
The king had taken up Latin again in order to educate his son, whilethe queen occupied herself with her daughter. The link of communicationbetween the couple was the valet, Clery, attached to the prince royal,but from the king's own servant, Hue, being dismissed, he waited onboth. While hair-dressing for the ladies, he repeated what the kingwanted to transmit, quickly and in undertones.
The queen would often interrupt her reading to her daughter by plunginginto deep and gloomy musing; the princess would steal away on tiptoe tolet her enjoy a new sorrow, which at least had the benefit of tears,and make a hushing sign to her brother. When the tear fell on her ivoryhand, beginning to yellow, the poor prisoner would start back fromher dream, her momentary freedom in the immense domain of thought andmemories, and look round her prison with a lowered head and brokenheart.
Weather permitting, the family had a walk in the garden at one o'clock,with a corporal and his squad of the National Guard to watch them. Thenthe king went up to his rooms on the third story to dine. It was thenthat Santerre came for his rigorous inspection. The king sometimesspoke with him; the queen never; she had forgotten what she owed tothis man on the twentieth of June.
As we have stated, bodily needs were tyrannical in the king, who alwaysindulged in an after-dinner nap; during this, the others remainedsilent around his easy-chair. Only when he woke was the chat resumed.
When the newsboys called out the news items in the evening, Clerylistened, and repeated what he caught to the king.
After supper, the king went into the queen's room to bid hergood-night, as well as his sister, by a wave of the hand, and goinginto his library, read till midnight. He waited before going off tosleep to see the guards changed, to know whether he had a strange facefor the night-watcher.
This unchanging life lasted till the king left the small tower--thatis, up to September 30th.
It was a dull situation, and the more worthy of pity as it wasdignifiedly supported. The most hostile were softened by the sight.They came to watch over the abominable tyrant who had ruined France,massacred Frenchmen, and called the foreigners in; over the queen whohad united the lubricities of Messalina to the license of CatherineII.; but they found a plain old fellow whom they could not tell fromhis valet, who ate and drank heartily and slept soundly, playing piquetor backgammon, teaching Latin and geography to his boy, and puttingpuzzles to his children out of old newspapers; and a wife, proud andhaughty, one must admit, but calm, dignified, resigned, still handsome,teaching her daughter tapestry-work and her son his prayers, speakinggently to the servants and calling them "friends."
The result was that the more the Commune abased the prisoner, and themore he showed that he was like any other man, the more other men tookpity on their fellow-man.
Still, all who came into contact with the royal family did not feelthe same respect and pity. Hatred and revenge were so deeply rootedin these, that the sight of the regal misery supported with domesticvirtues, only brought out rudeness, insults, and actual indignities.
On the king saying that he thought a sentry was tired, the soldierpressed his hat on the more firmly, and said, in the teeth of themonarch:
"My place here is to keep an eye on you and not for you to criticiseme. Nobody has the right to meddle with my business, and you least ofall."
Once the queen ventured to ask a town officer where he came from.
"I belong to the country," he loftily replied, "at least, as much of itas your foreign friends have not taken possession of."
One day a municipal officer said to Clery, loud enough for the kingto overhear: "I would guillotine the lot of them if the regularexecutioner backed out."
The sentinels decked the walls, where the royals came along to gointo the garden, with lines in this style: "The guillotine is astanding institution and is waiting for the tyrant Louis."--"MadameVeto will soon dance on nothing."--"The fat hog must be put on shortrations."--"Pull off the red ribbon he wears--it will do to stranglehis cubs with."
One drawing represented a man hanging, and was labeled: "Louis takingan air-bath."
The worst tormentors were two lodgers in the temple, Rocher,the sapper, and Simon, the notorious cobbler. The latter, whoseharsh treatment of the royal child has made him noted, was insultpersonified. Every time he saw the prisoners, it was to inflict a freshoutrage.
Rocher was the man whom we saw take up the dauphin when Charny fell,and carry him into the House; yet he, placed by Manuel to prevent harmbefalling the captives, resembled those boys who are given a bird tokeep--they kill time by plucking out the feathers one by one.
But, however unhappy the prisoners were, they had yet the comfort thatthey were under the same roof.
The Commune resolved to part the king from his family.
Clery had an inkling of the intention, but he could not get atthe exact date until a general searching of the prisoners on thetwenty-ninth of September gave him a hint. That night, indeed, theytook away the king into rooms in the great tower which were wet withplaster and paint and the smell was unbearable.
But the king lay down to sleep without complaining, while the valetpassed the night on a chair.
When he was going out to attend to the prince, whose attendant hestrictly was, the guard stopped him, saying:
"You are no longer to have communications with the other prisoners;the king is not to see his children any more."
As they omitted to bring special food for the servant, the king brokehis bread with him, weeping while the man sobbed.
When the workmen came to finish the rooms, the town officer whosuperintended them came up to the king with some pity, and said:
"Citizen, I have seen your family at breakfast, and I undertake to saythat all were in health."
The king's heart ached at this kind feeling.
He thanked the man, and begged him to transmit the report of hishealth to his dear ones. He asked for some books, and as the man couldnot read, he accompanied Clery down into the other rooms to let himselect the reading matter. Clery was only too glad, as this gave anopportunity of seeing the queen. He could not say more than a fewwords, on account of the soldiers being present.
The queen could not hold out any longer, and she besought to let themall have a meal in company.
The municipal officers weakened, and allowed this until further orders.One of them wept, and Simon said:
"Hang me if these confounded women will not get the water-works runningin my eyes. But," he added, addressing the queen, "you did not do anyweeping when you shot down the people on the tenth of August."
"Ah!" said the queen; "the people have been much misled about ourfeelings toward them. If you knew us better, you would be sorry, likethis gentleman."
So the dinner was served in the old place; it was a feast, for theygained so much in one day, they thought. They gained everything, fornothing more was heard of the Commune's new regulation; the kingcontinued to see his family daily, and to take his meals with them.
One of these days, when he went in, he found the queen sweeping up thedauphin's room, who was unwell. He stopped on the sill, let his headsink on his breast, and sighed:
"Ah, my lady, this is sorry work for a Queen of France, and if theycould see from Vienna what you are doing here! Who would have thoughtthat, in uniting you to my fate, I should ever bring you so low?"
"Do you reckon it as nothing," replied Marie Antoinette, "this glory ofbeing the wife of the best and most persecuted of men?"
This was spoken without an idea there were hearers; but all suchsayings were picked up and diffused to embroider with gold the darklegend of the martyr king.



CHAPTER XXV.
MASTER GAMAIN TURNS UP.

One morning, while these events were occurring at the temple, a manwearing a red shirt and cap to match, leaning on a crutch to help himto hobble along, called on the Home Secretary, Roland. The ministerwas most accessible; but even a republican official was forced to haveushers in his ante-chamber, as went on in monarchical governments.
"What do you want?" challenged the servant of the man on the crutch.
"I want to speak with the Citizen Minister," replied the cripple.
Since a fortnight, the titles of citizen and citizeness had officiallyreplaced all others.
"You will have to show a letter of audience," replied the domestic.
"Halloo! I thought that was all very fine fun in the days when thetyrant ruled, but folks ought to be equals under the Republic, or atleast not so aristocratic."
This remark set the servant thinking.
"I can tell you that it is no joke," continued the man in red, "todrag all the way from Versailles to do the Secretary of State a serviceand not to get a squint of him."
"Oh, you come to do Citizen Roland a service, do you?"
"To show up a conspiracy."
"Pooh! we are up to our ears in conspiracies. If that is all you camefrom Versailles for, I suggest you get back."
"I don't mind; but your minister will be deuced sorry for not seeingme."
"It is the rule. Write to him and get a letter of audience; then youwill get on swimmingly."
"Hang me if it is not harder to get a word in to Minister Roland thanto his majesty Louis XVI. that was."
"What do you know about that?"
"Lord help your ignorance, young man; there was a time when I saw theking whenever I pleased; my name would tell you that."
"What is your name? Are you King Frederick William or the EmperorFrancis?"
"No; I am not a tyrant or a slave-driver--no aristo--but just NicholasClaude Gamain, master of the masters of my trade of locksmithery. Didyou never hear of Master Gamain who taught the craft to old Capet?"
The footman looked questioningly at his fellows, who nodded.
"Then it is another pair of shoes. Write your name on a sheet of paper,and I will send it in to the Home Secretary."
"Write? It is all very easy to say write, but I was no dabster at thepen before these villains tried to poison me; and it is far worse now.Just look how they doubled me up with arsenic."
He showed his twisted legs, deviated spine, and hand curled up like aclaw.
"What! did they serve you out thus, poor old chap?"
"They did. And that is what I have come to show the Citizen Minister,along with other matters. As I hear they are getting up the indictmentagainst old Capet, what I have to tell must not be lost for the nation."
Five minutes afterward, the locksmith was shown into the official'spresence.
The master locksmith had never, at the height of his fortune and in thebest of health, worn a captivating appearance; but the malady to whichhe was a prey, articular rheumatism in plain, while twisting his limbsand disfiguring his features, had not added to his embellishments. Theoutcome was that never had an honest man faced a more ruffianly lookingrogue than Roland when left alone with Gamain.
The minister's first feeling was of repugnance; but seeing how hetrembled from head to foot, pity for a fellow-man, always supposingthat a wretch like Gamain is a fellow to a Roland, led him to use ashis first words:
"Take a seat, citizen; you seem in pain."
"I should rather think I am in pain," replied Gamain, dropping on achair; "and I have been so ever since the Austrian poisoned me."
At these words a profound expression of disgust passed over thehearer's countenance, while he exchanged a glance with his wife, halfhidden in the window recess.
"And you came to denounce this poisoning?"
"That and other things."
"Do you bring proof of your accusations?"
"For that matter, you have only to come with me to the Tuileries and Iwill give you piles of it. I will show you the secret hole in the wallwhere the brigand hid his hoard. I ought to have guessed that the winewas poisoned that the Austrian sneaked out to offer me, a-saying, withher wheedling voice: 'Here you are, Gamain! drink this glass of wine;it will do you good now the work is done.'"
"Poisoned?"
"Yes; everybody knows," continued Gamain, with sullen hate, "that thosewho help kings to conceal treasures never make old bones."
"There is something at the bottom of this," said Mme. Roland, comingforward at his glance; "this was the smith who was the king's tutor.Ask him about the hole in the wall."
"The press?" said Gamain, who had overheard. "Why, I am here to laythat open. It is an iron safe, with a lock-bolt working both ways, inwhich Citizen Capet hid his private papers and savings."
"How did you come to know about it?"
"Did he not send for me to show him how to finish the lock, one he madehimself, and of course would not work smoothly?"
"But this press would be smashed and rifled in the capture of theTuileries."
"There is no danger of that. I defy anybody in the world to get theidea of it, barring him and me."
"Are you sure?"
"Sure and certain. It is just the same as when he left the Tuileries."
"What do you say to all this, Madeleine?" asked Roland of his wife,when they had listened to Gamain's story, told in his prolix style.
"I say the revelation is of the utmost importance, and no time must belost in verifying it."
The secretary rang for his carriage, whereupon Gamain stood up sulkily.
"I see you have had enough of me," he grumbled.
"Why, no; I only ring for my carriage."
"What! do ministers have carriages under the Republic?"
"They have to do so, to save time, my friend. I call the carriage sothat we shall be quickly at the Tuileries. But what about the key tothe safe?--it is not likely Louis XVI. left it in the key-hole."
"Why, certainly not, for our fat Capet is not such a fool as he looks.Here is a duplicate," he continued, drawing a new key from his pocket;"I made it from memory. I tell you I am the master of my craft. Istudied the lock, fancying some day--"
"This is an awful scoundrel," said Roland to his wife.
"Yes; but we have no right to reject any information coming to us inthe present state of affairs in order to arrive at a knowledge of thetruth. Am I to go with you?" asked the lady.
"Certainly, as there are papers in the case. Are you not the mosthonest _man_ I know?"
Gamain followed them to the door, mumbling:
"I always said that I would pay old Capet out for what he did to me.What Louis XVI. did was kindness."



CHAPTER XXVI.
THE TRIAL OF THE KING.

On the seventh of November the Girondists began the indictment againstthe king, assisted by the fatal deposit of papers in the iron safe,although those were missing which were confided to Mme. Campan. AfterGamain's opening the press, which was to have so severe an effect onthe prisoners in the temple, Roland had taken them all to his office,where he read them and docketed them, though he vainly searched for theevidence of Danton's oft-cited venality. Besides, Danton had resignedas Minister of Justice.
This great trial was to crown the victory of Valmy, which had madethe defeated King of Prussia almost as angry as the news of theproclamation of the Republic in Paris.
This trial was another step toward the goal to which men blundered likethe blind, always excepting the Invisibles; they saw things in themass, but not in detail. Alone on the horizon stood the red guillotine,with the king at the foot of the scaffold on which it rose.
In a materialistic era, when such a man as Danton was the head of theindulgent party, it was difficult for the wish not to be outrun by thedeed; yet only a few of the Convention comprehended that royalty shouldbe extirpated, and not the royal person slain.
Royalty was a somber abstraction, a menacing mystery of which men wereweary, a whited sepulcher, fair without, but full of rottenness.
But the king was a different matter; a man who was far from interestingin his prosperity, but purified by misfortune and made great bycaptivity. Even on the queen the magic of adversity was such that shehad learned, not to love--for her broken heart was a shattered vasefrom which the precious ointment had leaked out--but to venerate andadore, in the religious sense of the word, this prince, though a manwhose bodily appetite and vulgar instincts had so often caused her toblush.
Royalty smitten with death, but the king kept in perpetualimprisonment, was a conception so grand and mighty that but fewentertained it.
"The king must stand trial," said the ex-priest Gregoire to theConvention; "but he has done so much to earn scorn that we have no roomfor hatred."
And Tom Paine wrote:
"I entreat you to go on with the trial, not so much of this king as thewhole band of them; the case of this individual whom you have in yourpower will put you on the track of all. Louis XVI. is useful as showingthe necessity of revolutions."
So great minds like Paine and great hearts like Gregoire were in tuneon this point. The kings were to be tried, and Louis might even beallowed to turn state's evidence.
This has never been done, but it is good yet to do. Suppose the chargeagainst the Empress Catherine, Pasiphæ of the north; who will say therewould not come out instruction to the world from such a revelation?
To the great disappointment of the Rolands, we repeat, the papers inthe iron safe did not compromise Dumouriez and Danton, while theyearned Gamain a pension, little alleviating the pangs of his ailment,which made him a thousand times regret the guillotine to which heconsigned his master. But they injured the king and the priests,showing up the narrow mind, sharp and ungrateful, of Louis, who onlyhated those who wanted to save him--Necker, Lafayette, and Mirabeau.There was nothing detrimental to the Girondists.
Who was to read the dread indictment? Who was to be the sword-bearerand float over the court like the destroying angel? St. Just, the petof Robespierre, a pale young man with womanly lips, who uttered theatrocious words. The point was that the king must be killed. The speechmade a terrible impression; not one of the judges but felt the repeatedword enter his soul like steel. Robespierre was appalled to see hisdisciple plant the red flag of revolution so far ahead of the mostadvanced outposts of republicanism.
As time progressed, the watch over the prisoners was closer, andClery could learn nothing; but he picked up a newspaper stating thatLouis would be brought before the bar of the House on the eleventh ofDecember.
Indeed, at five that morning the reveille was beaten all over Paris.The temple gates were opened to bring in cannon; but no one would tellthe captives the meaning of the unusual stir.
Breakfast was the last meal they partook of in company; when theyparted, the prince was left playing a numerical game with his father,who kept the truth from him.
"Curse sixteen," said the boy, on losing three times running; "Ibelieve you are bad luck!"
The king was struck by the figure.
At eleven the dauphin was removed and the king left in silence, as theofficials did not intrude, for fear he would question them. At oneo'clock Santerre arrived with officers, and a registrar who read thedecree calling "the prisoner Louis Capet" before the House.
The king interrupted to say that Capet was not his name, but that of anancestor. He stopped the reading on the grounds that he had read it inthe papers.
As it was raining, they had a carriage in which to carry him.
On alighting, Santerre laid his hand on his shoulder and led him to thesame spot at the bar, by the same chair, where he had taken the oath tothe Constitution.
All the members save one had kept their seats as he entered; this onesaluted him. The astonished king recognized Gilbert. He wished himgood-day.
"Are you acquainted with Doctor Gilbert?" asked Santerre.
"He was my physician once, so I hope no ill feeling will be harboredbecause he was polite to me."
The examination began. Unfortunately, the glamour of misfortunevanished before duplicity; not only did the king answer the questionsput to him, but he did so badly, stammering, hesitating, trying toevade direct issues, chaffering for his life like a pettifogger arguinga party-fence case in a county court.
The king did not appear at his best in broad day.
The examination lasted five hours. Though he refused refreshmentoffered, he asked a grenadier for a piece of the bread he saw himeating.
On crossing the yard to step into the carriage, the mob sung withmarked emphasis the line of the "Marseillaise" about "the impure bloodshould fertilize our furrows."
This made him lose color.
The return was miserable. In the public hack, swaying on the black,pestiferous, vile pavement, while the mob surged up to the windows tosee him, he blinked his eyes at the daylight; his beard was long, andhis thin hair of a dirty yellow hue; his thin cheeks fell in folds onhis wrinkled neck; clad in a gray suit, with a dark-brown overcoat, hemumbled with the Bourbon's automatic memory: "This is such and such astreet."
On remarking that Orleans Street had been changed to Egalite, onaccount of the duke having dropped his titles, though that did not savehim from the guillotine, he fell into silence, and so returned intoprison.
He was not allowed to see his family, and had to go to bed without themeal with them.
"Ah, Clery!" he said to his man, as he undressed him, "I little dreamedwhat questions they were going to put to me."
Indeed, almost all the inquiry was based on the contents of the ironsafe, which he did not suspect was discovered, from having no idea thatGamain had betrayed him.
Nevertheless, he soon sunk to sleep with that tranquillity of which hehad given so many proofs, and which might be taken for lethargy.
But the other prisoners did not bear the separation and the secrecy sotamely.
In the morning the queen asked to see her husband, but the onlyarrangement offered was that the king might see his children oncondition that they should not see their mother or aunt any more. Theking refused this plan.
Consequently, the queen had her son's bed put in her rooms, and she didnot quit him till removed for trial by the Revolutionary Tribunal, asher husband was by the Convention.
Clery, however, worked communications with a servant of the princessesnamed Turgy. They exchanged a few words, and passed notes scratchedwith pins on scraps of paper, on the ladies' side; the king couldwrite properly, as he had writing materials supplied since his trialcommenced.
By means of a string, collected from the pieces around the packets ofcandles, Clery lowered pens, ink, and paper to Princess Elizabeth,whose window was below that of the valet's room.
Hence the family had news of one another daily.
On the other hand, the king's position was morally much worse since hehad appeared before the Convention.
It had been surmised that he would either refuse to answer anyinterrogation, like Charles I., whose history he knew so well; or elsethat he would answer proudly and loftily in the name of royalty, notlike an accused criminal, but a knight accepting the gage of battle.
Unfortunately, Louis was not regal enough to do either act. He soentangled himself that he had to ask for counsel. The one he namedfearing to accept the task, it fell to Malesherbes, who had been inthe Turgot Ministry, a commonplace man in whom little did any suspectcontempt for death. (On the day of his execution, for he was beheaded,he wound up his watch as usual.) Throughout the trial he styled theking "Sire."
Attacked by a flow of blood to the head, the king asked for Dr. Gilbertto be allowed to attend him, but the application was refused, and hewas brutally told that if he drank cold water he would not have sucha fullness of blood. As he was not allowed a knife to carve his food,unless a servant did it before the guards, so he was not let shave butin the presence of four municipal officers.
On the evening of the twenty-fifth he wrote his will, in which he saidthat he did not blame himself for any of the crimes of which he wasaccused. He did not say that they were false. This evasive responsewas worthy the pupil of the Duke of Vauguyon.
In any case, the twenty-sixth found him ready for any fate, deathincluded.
His counsel read the defense, which was a purely legal document. Itseems to us that if we had been charged with it, we should not havespoken for the law, but let St. Louis and Henry IV. defend theirdescendants from the crimes of their intermediate successors.
The more unjust the accusation, the more eloquent should have been therejoinder.
Hence the Convention asked, in astonishment:
"Have you nothing more to say in your defense?"
He had nothing to say, and went back to the temple. When his defendercalled in the evening, he told him of a number of gentlemen who werepledged to prevent the execution.
"If you do not know them personally," said the king to LamoignonMalesherbes, "try to come in touch with them and tell them that I willnever forgive myself for blood shed on my behalf. I would not have itspilled to save my throne and life, when that was possible; all themore reason for me not allowing it now."
The voting on the 16th of January, 1793, was on three points:
Is Louis guilty? Shall there be an appeal from the Convention to thepeople? State the penalty.
To the first question was the answer of 683 voices, "Yes."
To the appeal question, 281 ayes and 423 noes.
The third decision of the penalty was subdivided into death,imprisonment, banishment, or death, with the people allowed to reduceit to imprisonment.
All tokens of approval or displeasure were prohibited, but when amember said anything but death, murmurs arose.
Once there were groans and hisses when a member spoke for death--whenPhilippe Egalite cast his vote for the execution of his kinsman.
The majority for death was seven, and Vergniaud uttered the sentencewith deep emotion.
It was three on the morning of the twentieth, Sunday.
The illustrious culprit was up when Malesherbes bore him the news.
"I was sure of it," he said, shaking hands with his defender. "For twodays I have been trying to find if I have merited my subjects' reproachfor what I have done in the course of my reign. I swear to you in allsincerity, as a man about to appear before his Maker, that I havealways wished the happiness of my people, and have not framed a wishcontrary to it."
The death-warrant was officially read to him, and he was allowed tochoose his own confessor.
The name of one had been already written down by Princess Elizabeth,whose confessor this Abbe Edgeworth was.



CHAPTER XXVII.
THE PARALLEL TO CHARLES I.

This worthy priest, of English origin, had escaped the Septembermassacres and was hiding out at Choisy, under the name of Essex, as thePrincess Elizabeth knew, and where to find him.
He came to the call, though he believed that he would be killed withinan hour of the dreadful scene.
He was not to quit the prisoner till he quitted the world.
The king was allowed to take farewell of his family in the dining-room,where the glass door allowed the guards still to keep him in sight.They knew the trial had taken place, but not the particulars, withwhich he supplied them. He dwelt particularly on the fact that Petionhad not pressed for the death penalty, and that Gilbert had voted tospare his life.
Heaven owed the poor prisoner some comfort, and it came in the love ofthe queen.
As has been seen in our story, the queen easily let the picturesqueside of life attract her. She had that vivid imagination which makeswomen imprudent even more than disposed; she had been imprudent all herlife in her friendship and in her loving.
Her captivity saved her in a moral point of view; she returned to thepure and holy domestic virtues from which youthful passions had ledher; and as she could do nothing without extravagance, she fell toloving passionately, in his distress, this royal consort whose vulgartraits were all she could see in the days of felicity. In their firstdisasters she saw a dullard, almost cowardly, without impulse orresolution; at the temple she began to see that the wife had not onlymisjudged the husband, but the queen the monarch. She beheld one calmand patient, meek but firm under outrages; all the worldly dryness inher was melted, and turned to the profit of better sentiments.
The same as she had scorned too deeply, she loved too fondly.
"Alas!" the king said to his confessor, "to think that I love so dearlyand am loved so much."
In their last interview, the queen seemed to yield to a feeling akin toremorse. When she found that she could not be alone with her lord, shedrew him into a window recess, where she would have fallen on her kneesat his feet; but he understood that she wanted to ask his forgiveness,so he stayed her and drew his will from his pocket to show her thelines:
     "I pray my wife to forgive all the woes I have led her to suffer     and the sorrows caused her in the course of our union, as she may     be sure that I cherish no ill feeling toward her, if she should     think that she had reason to blame herself in any way."
Marie kissed his hands, for while there was full pardon, there wasgreat delicacy, too, in the rest of the phrase.
So this royal Magdalen might die tranquil, late as came her love forher husband, it won her divine and human mercy, and her pardon wasbestowed on earth, not in a mysterious whisper as an indulgence, ofwhich the king felt ashamed, but openly and publicly.
Who would reproach her who went toward posterity with the double crownof the martyr and her husband's forgiveness?
The poignant farewell lasted nearly two hours before the condemned wentout to his priest.
As day began to break, the drums were beaten throughout the town; thebustle and the sound penetrated the old tower and chilled the blood ofthe priest and Clery.
At nine o'clock the noise increased and the doors were loudly flungopen. Santerre came in, followed by town officers and soldiers, whoformed a double row.
The king received the priest's blessing and a prayer for support, andcalled for his hat, as all the others had kept their hats on. Seeingthat Clery had his overcoat ready for fear he would be cold, and theshiver would be taken for that of fright, he said:
"No; nothing but my hat."
He took advantage of the act to shake his hand for the last time.
"Let us go, gentlemen," he said, with the tone of command so rarelyused by him.
In crossing the first yard, he turned two or three times to wave afarewell to his dear ones.
With the priest he stepped into a hack, and the procession started,leaving the queen no hope save for a rescue on the road. That of arespite had already vanished.
She fell into a chair, sobbing: "To think of his going without sayinggood-bye!"
The streets were foggy and deserted, as all citizens were forbidden tobe about unless belonging to the armed militia, and there were no facesup at the windows.
All the prisoner saw was a forest of pikes and bayonets, with a largedrum corps before the party and cavalry around.
The clamor prevented the king talking with the confessor, who read hisprayer-book.
At St. Denis Gate the king lifted his head, for the uproar was markedby a change in the shouts. A dozen young men, sword in hand, rushedthrough the retinue and shouted:
"Rescue! This way, those who would save the king!"
One Baron de Batz, an adventurer, had engaged three thousand bravoesto make this attempt, but only a handful responded when he sounded thesignal-cry. This forlorn hope of royalty, meeting no reply, retreatedand slipped away in the confusion.
The incident was of such slight importance that the carriage did notstop; it was at its journey's end when it did.
One of the three brothers Sanson, the Paris executioners, came to openthe door.
Laying his hand on the abbe's knee, the king said, in the tone of amaster:
"Gentlemen, I recommend this gentleman to you. Take care of him aftermy death, for he has done nobody harm."
He threw off his coat, not to be touched by the headsman. One hada rope to bind his hands, but he said he would not submit to it. Ahand-to-hand fight would rob the victim of all the merit of six months'calmness, courage, and resignation, so the confessor advised him toyield, particularly as one of the Sansons, moved with pity, offered tosubstitute a handkerchief.
He held out his hands resignedly, saying:
"Do as you like. I shall drain the chalice to the dregs."
The scaffold steps were high and slippery, and he had the priest'sarm for support, but on the top step he escaped, so to say, from thespiritual guide, and went to the further end of the platform.
He was flushed in the face, and had never appeared more hale oranimated.
The drums began to beat, but he imposed silence by a look as, with alusty voice, he said:
"I die innocent of all the crimes imputed to me. I forgive the authorsof my death, and I pray God that this blood shall not fall on France."
"Strike up, drums!" roared a voice long believed to be Santerre's, butwas that of Beaufranchet, Count Oyat, illegitimate son of Louis XV.,and a courtesan, the prisoner's natural uncle.
The drums beat, and the king stamped his foot in vain.
"Do your duty!" yelled the pikemen to the executioners, who threwthemselves on the king.
He returned with slow steps under the knife, of which he had designedthe proper shape only a year ago.
He glanced at the priest who was praying at a corner of the scaffold.
Behind the two upright beams a scuffle went on. The tilting flap fellinto place, and the prisoner's head appeared in the ominous gap. Aflash, a dull, chopping sound was heard, and a large jet of bloodspouted forth.
Then, one of the death's-men taking up the head, sprinkled theby-standers with the dripping fluid. At this sight the pikemen whoopedand rushed to dye their weapons in the blood, which they ran to showthe town, with shouts of "Long live the Republic!"
For the first time this cry found no echo, though it had oft thrilledhearers with joy. The Republic had a stain on the brow which nothingever could efface. As a great diplomatist said, it had committed worsethan a crime--a blunder.
Thus died, on the 21st of January, 1793, King Louis XVI. He was agedthirty-nine years. He had reigned eighteen, and was over five months aprisoner. His last wish was not accomplished, for his blood not onlyfell on France, but over the whole of Europe.



CHAPTER XXVIII.
CAGLIOSTRO'S ADVICE.

On the evening of this awful day, while the pike-bearers were scouringParis through streets illuminated but deserted, to exhibit rags dyed inblood, with shouts of "The tyrant is dead! behold his blood!" two menwhose dress was different, sat in silence in a room in a house in St.Honore Street.
Dressed in black, one was sitting at a table, with his head resting onhis hand, plunged into deep reverie, if not grief. The other, wearing acountryman's dress, strode up and down, with wrinkled forehead, gloomyeye, and folded arms. Every time his crossing line brought him by thetable, he cast a glance on the thinker.
At last the countryman stopped and said, as he fixed his eye on theother:
"Come, now, Citizen Gilbert, am I a brigand because I voted for theking's death?"
The man in black raised his head, shook his melancholy brow, and said,holding out his hand to his companion:
"No, Billet, you are no more a brigand for that than I am an aristocratfor voting the other way. You voted according to your conscience, and Ito mine. It is a terrible thing to take away from man that which youcan not restore."
"So it is your opinion that despotism is inviolable," returned Billet,"liberty is revolt, and there is no justice on earth except such askings, that is, tyrants, dispense? Then what remains for the people,the right to serve and obey? Do you, Gilbert, the pupil of Rousseau,say that?"
"No, Billet, for that would be an impiety against the people."
"Come," said the farmer, "I am going to talk to you with the roughnessof my plain good sense, to which I do not mind your answering with allthe sharpness of your fine wit. Do you admit that a nation, believingitself oppressed, should have the right to disestablish its church,lower or even demolish the throne, fight and make itself free?"
"Not a doubt of it."
"Then it has the right to gather in the spoils of the victory?"
"Yes, Billet; but not to compass such things with murder and violence.Remember that it is written, 'Thou shalt not kill thy neighbor.'"
"But the king was no neighbor of mine," returned Billet; "he was myenemy. I remember what my poor mother read me in the Bible of whatSamuel said to the Israelites who asked him to appoint a king."
"So do I, Billet; and Samuel anointed Saul--he did not kill him.
"Oh, I know that if I get to arguing with you in book learning, I shalllose. So I simply ask you, were we right to take the Bastile?"
"Yes."
"When the king took away our right to hold a meeting, were we right tomeet in another place?"
"You were."
"Had we the right, when the king gathered foreign troops at Versaillesto feast them and overawe us, to take him away from among them andlodge him in Paris?"
"Yes."
"To bring him back when he tried to run away from the country?"
"Yes."
"Then we had a right to shut him up where he was so little out ofmischief that he continued to correspond with the invader. Ought we nothave brought him before the court for trial, to doom him, and--"
"Ay, to banish, to perpetually imprison, all except death, because,guilty in the result, he was not so in the intention. You judge himfrom the people's standing, Billet; but he acted like the son of kings.Was he a tyrant, as you call him? No. An oppressor of the people? No.An accomplice of aristocrats and an enemy of freedom? No."
"Then you judge him as royalty would?"
"No; for then he would have been acquitted."
"But you did so by voting for his life."
"No; with life imprisonment. Granting he was not your neighbor, butyour enemy, he was a vanquished one, and ought not to have beenslain in cold blood. That is not execution, but immolation. You haveconferred on royalty something like martyrdom, and made justice seemvengeance. Take care! In doing too much, you have not done enough.Charles of England was executed, but his son reigned. But James II.was banished, and his sons died in exile. Human nature is humane, andyou have alienated from the Republic for fifty or a hundred years theimmense proportion of the population judging revolutions by theirfeelings. Believe me, my friend, Republicans ought most to bewail thedeath of Louis, for the blood will fall on them, and cost the Republicits life."
"There is some truth in what you say, Gilbert," said a voice at thedoor.
"Cagliostro!" exclaimed both debaters, turning with the same impulse.
"Yes; but there is also truth in what Billet said."
"That is the trouble in it," sighed Gilbert; "the cause we plead hastwo faces, and each, as he looks upon it, can say he is right."
"But he ought also to admit that he may be wrong."
"What is your opinion, master?" asked the doctor.
"Yes, your opinion?" said Billet.
"You have been trying the accused over again, but you should test thesentence. Had you doomed the king, you would have been right. Youdoomed the man, and you were wrong."
"I don't understand," said Billet.
"You ought to have slain the king amid his guards and courtiers, whileunknown to the people--when he was to them a tyrant. But, after havinglet him live and dwell under the eyes of the private soldier, the pettycivil servant, the workman, as a man, this sham abasement elevated him,and he ought to have been banished or locked up, as happens to any man."
"I did not understand you," said Billet to the doctor, "but I do theCitizen Cagliostro."
"Just think of their five months' captivity molding this lump--who wasborn to be a parish beadle--into a statue of courage, patience, andresignation, on a pedestal of sorrow; you sanctified him so that hiswife adored him. Who would have dreamed, my dear Gilbert," said themagician, bursting into laughter, "that Marie Antoinette would everhave loved her mate?"
"Oh, if I had only guessed this," muttered Billet, "I would have slainhim before! I could have done it easily."
These words were spoken with such intense patriotism that Gilbertpardoned them, while Cagliostro admired.
"But you did not do it," said the latter. "You voted for death; andyou, Gilbert, for life. Now, let me give you a last piece of advice.You, Gilbert, strove to be a member of the convention to accomplish aduty; you, Billet, to fulfill vengeance; both are realized. You havenothing more to do here. Be gone."
The two stared at him.
"To-morrow, your indulgence will be regarded as a crime, and on thenext day your severity as bad. Believe me, in the mortal strifepreparing between hatred, fear, revenge, fanaticism, few will remainunspotted; some will be fouled with mud, some with blood. Go, myfriends, go!"
"But France?" said the doctor.
"Yes, France?" echoed Billet.
"Materially," said Cagliostro, "France is saved; the external enemy isbaffled, the home one dead. The Revolution holds the ax in one hand andthe tri-colored flag in the other. Go in tranquillity, for before shelays them down, the aristocracy will be beheaded, and Europe conquered.Go, my friends, go to your second country, America!"
"Will you go with me, Billet?" asked the doctor.
"Will you forgive me?" asked Billet.
The two clasped hands.
"You must go at once. The ship 'Franklin' is ready to sail."
"But my son?"
Cagliostro had opened the door.
"Come in, Sebastian," he said; "your father calls you."
The young man rushed into his father's arms, while Billet sighed.
"My carriage is at the door," said Cagliostro. Then, in a whisperto the doctor while Billet was asking news of the youth, he said,emphatically:
"Take him away; he must not know how he lost his mother. He mightthirst for revenge."
Gilbert nodded and opened a money drawer.
"Fill your pockets," he said to Billet.
"Will there be enough in a strange country?" he asked.
"Bless you! with land at five dollars an acre, cleared, we can buy acounty. But what are you looking round for?"
"For what would be no use to me, who can not write."
"I see; you want to send good-bye to Pitou. Let me."
"What have you written?"
     "MY DEAR PITOU,--We are leaving France--Billet,     Sebastian, and I--and send you our united love. We think that as     you are manager of Billet's farm, you do not need anything. One of     these days we may write for you to come over and join us.
                                   "Your friend,                                             "GILBERT."
"Is that all?" asked the farmer.
"There is a postscript," said the writer, looking the farmer in theface as he said:
"Billet hopes you will take the best of care of Catherine."
Billet uttered a cry of gratitude and shook Gilbert's hand again.
Ten minutes afterward, the post-chaise carried far from Paris Gilbertand his friend and the son of Andrea of Charny.



CHAPTER XXIX.
THE CROWN OF ANGE'S LOVE.

A little over a year after the execution of the king and the departureof Gilbert, his son, and Billet, on a fine, cold morning of the hardwinter of 1794, three or four hundred persons--that is, a sixth ofthe population of Villers Cotterets--waited on the square before themanor-house and in the mayor's yard for the coming out of two marriedfolks whom Mayor Longpre was uniting in the holy bonds. These were AngePitou and Catherine Billet.
Alas! it had taken many grave events to bring the flame of ViscountCharny, the mother of little Isidore, to become Mistress Pitou.
Everybody was chattering over these events; but in whatever manner theyrelated and discussed them, there was always something to the greaterglory of the devotion of Ange Pitou and the good behavior of Billet'sdaughter.
Only, the more interesting the couple were, the more they were pitied.
Perhaps they were happier than any in the crowd; but human nature isinclined that way--it must pity or applaud!
On this occasion it was in the compassionate vein.
Indeed, what Cagliostro had foreseen, had come on rapidly, leaving along track of blood after it.
On the 1st of February, 1793, the issue of more paper money was agreed.In March, the fugitive nobles were perpetually banished and theirproperty confiscated. In November, a new kind of religion was proposedinstead of the established church.
The result of the confiscation decree was, that Billet and Gilbertbeing considered fugitives, their lands were seized for the publicgood. The same fate befell the estates of the Charnys, the count havingbeen killed and the countess murdered in prison.
The consequence to Catherine was that she was turned out of Billet'sfarm, which was national property. Pitou wanted to protest, but Pitouwas a moderate and a "suspect," and wise souls advised him not tooppose the orders of the nation in will or deed.
So Catherine and Pitou had gone over to Haramont.
She had thought of taking refuge in Daddy Clovis's lodge, but heappeared at the door to lay his finger on his lips and shake his headin token of impossibility; the place was already occupied.
The law on the banishment of refractory priests was still in force,and it is easy to understand that Father Fortier had banished himself,as he would not take the oath. But he had not felt like passing thefrontier, and his exile was limited to his leaving his house in chargeof his sister, to see the furniture was not stolen, and asking Clovisfor shelter, which was granted.
This retreat was only a cave, and it would with difficulty hold, inaddition to the corpulent priest, Catherine, little Isidore, and Pitou.
Besides, we recall the refusal of the priest to bury Mrs. Billet.Catherine was not good Christian enough to overlook the unkindness, andhad she been so, the Abbe Fortier was too good a Catholic to forgiveher.
So they had to give up the idea of staying with old Clovis.
This choice lay between Aunt Angelique's house and Pitou's lodgings atHaramont.
They dared not think of the former. As the revolution had followedits course, Angelique had become more and more diabolic, which seemsincredible, and thinner, which seems impossible.
This change in her temper and her physique arose from the fact that thechurches were closed at Villers as elsewhere, awaiting the inventionof a reasonable and civic cult, according to the Board of PublicInstruction. The churches being shut, Aunt Angelique's principalrevenue, from letting seats, fell into disuse.
It was the drying up of her income which made her Tartar--we begpardon, tarter and bonier than ever.
Let us add that she had so often heard the story of Pitou and Billetcapturing the Bastile, and had so often seen them start off for Pariswhenever any great event was to take place, that she did not in theleast doubt that the French Revolution was led by Ange Pitou and FarmerBillet, with Citizens Danton, Marat, Robespierre & Co., playing thesecondary parts.
The priest's sister fostered her in these somewhat erroneous opinions,to which the regicidal vote of Billet had given the seal on heatedfanaticism.
Pitou ought not to think of placing the regicide's daughter underAngelique's roof.
As for the petty accommodation at Haramont, how could he think ofinstalling two--there were three--souls in two rooms; while if theywere comfortable, it would set evil tongues wagging?
It was more out of the question than Clovis's hut.
So Pitou made up his mind to beg shelter for himself of DesireManiquet. That worthy son of Haramont gave the hospitality which Pitoupaid for in kind; but all this did not provide Catherine with a fixedhabitation.
Pitou showed her all the attentions of a loving friend and theaffection of a brother; but poor Catherine was well aware that he didnot love her like friend or brother.
Little Isidore had something of the same idea; for the poor child,having never known the Viscount of Charny, loved him more perhaps, forPitou was not merely the sweetheart of Catherine, but his slave.
A skillful strategist must have understood that the way to winCatherine's heart was through the help of the little one.
But we hasten to say that no such calculation tarnished the purity ofPitou's sentiments. He was just the simple fellow we met him at thefirst, unless, on becoming a man, he became simpler than ever.
All his good gifts touched Catherine. She saw that Pitou adored herardently, to the point of fanaticism, and she caught herself wishingthat she could repay so great a love and utter devotion with somethingbetter than friendship.
Gradually, by dint of dwelling on her isolation from all the world,Pitou excepted, and on her boy being left alone if she were to die,Pitou again excepted, she came to giving Pitou the only reward in herpower--her hand.
Alas, her first love, that perfumed flower of youth, was in heaven!
For six months Catherine had been nourishing this conclusion withoutPitou suspecting that the wind was blowing up in his favor, though herwelcoming was a shade warmer and her parting a trifle more lingeringeach time; so she was forced to speak the first--but women take thelead in such matters.
One evening, instead of offering her hand, she held up her cheek fora kiss. Pitou thought she had forgot, and was too honest to takeadvantage of a mistake.
But Catherine had not let go his hand, and she drew him closer to her.Seeing him still hesitate, little Isidore joined in, saying:
"Why won't you kiss Mamma Catherine, Papa Pitou?"
"Good gracious!" gasped Pitou, turning pale as if about to die, butletting his cold and trembling lip touch her cheek.
Taking the boy up, she put him in Pitou's arms, and said:
"I give you the boy, Ange; will you have the mother?"
This time, it was too much for the swain, whose head swam; he shut hiseyes, and while he hugged the child, he dropped on a chair, and pantedwith the delicacy which only a delicate heart could appreciate:
"Oh, Master Isidore, how very fond I am of you!"
Isidore called Pitou "Papa Pitou," but Pitou called him "MasterIsidore."
That is why, as he felt that love for her son had made Catherine loveAnge, he did not say:
"Oh, how dearly I love you, Catherine!"
This point settled that Pitou thought more of Isidore than ofCatherine, they spoke of marriage.
"I don't want to seem in a hurry," said the man, "but if you mean tomake me happy, do not be too long about it."
Catherine took a month.
At the end of three weeks Ange, in full regimentals, went respectfullyto pay a visit to Aunt Angelique, with the aim to inform her of hisnear at hand union with Catherine Billet.
Seeing her nephew from afar, she hastened to shut her door. But hedid not hold back from the inhospitable door whence he had once beenexpelled.
He rapped gently.
"Who is there?" snarled Angelique, in her sourest voice.
"I--your dutiful nephew, Ange Pitou."
"Go on your bloody way, you September man of massacre!" cried AuntAngelique.
"Auntie, I come to tell you of a bit of news which can not fail to makeyou jolly, because it is my happiness."
"What is the news, you red-capped Jacobin?"
"I will tell you if you open the door."
"Say it through the door; I shall not open it to a breechless outlawlike you."
"If there is no other way, here you have it--I am going to get married."
The door flew open as by magic.
"Who are you going to marry, you wretched fellow?" asked the oldspinster.
"Catherine Billet, please."
"Oh, the villain, the scamp, the regicide!" said the good soul; "hemarries a ruined girl! Get you gone, scapegrace; I curse you!"
With a gesture quite noble, she held up her dry and yellow hands towardher nephew.
"Dear aunt," replied the young man, "you ought to know that I am toowell hardened to your maledictions to care a fig for them. I onlywanted to do the proper thing by inviting you to dance at my wedding;if you won't come, still I have asked you to shake a leg--"
"Shake a--fy, for shame!"
"Fare thee well, sweet Aunt Angelique!"
Touching his cocked hat in the military manner, Pitou made a salute tohis relative and hurried away.



CHAPTER XXX.
THE EFFECT OF HAPPY NEWS.

Pitou had to tell his intended marriage to Mayor Longpre, who livedhard by. Less set against the Billet family than Aunt 'Gelique, hecongratulated Pitou on the match.
Pitou listened to his praise without seeing where he was doing verymuch of a noble action.
By the way, as a pure Republican, Pitou was delighted to find thatthe Republic had done away with the publication of the banns and otherecclesiastical trammels which had always galled true lovers.
It was, therefore, settled between the mayor and the suitor that thewedding should take place on the following Saturday, at the town hall.
Next day, Sunday, the sale of the Charny estate and the Billet farm wasto come off. The latter, at the upset price of four hundred thousandand the other at six hundred thousand in paper money; assignats weredropping fearfully; the gold louis was worth nine hundred and twentyfrancs in paper.
But, then, nobody ever saw a gold piece nowadays.
Pitou had run all the way back to acquaint Catherine with the goodnews. He had ventured to anticipate the marriage-day by forty-eighthours, and he was afraid he should vex Catherine.
She did not appear vexed, and he was lifted up among the angels--hisnamesakes.
But she insisted on his going once more to Aunt Angelique's, toannounce the exact date of the wedding-day and invite her to be at theceremony. She was the bridegroom's sole relative, and though not at alltender toward him, he ought to do the proper thing on his side.
The consequence was that on Thursday morning, Pitou went over toVillers Cotterets to repeat the visit.
Nine o'clock was striking as he got in sight of the house.
The aunt was not on the door-step, but the door was closed any way, asif she expected his call.
He thought that she had stepped out, and he was delighted.
He would have paid the visit, and a polite note with a piece ofwedding-cake after the ceremony would acquit the debt to courtesy.
Still, as he was a conscientious fellow, he went up to the door andknocked; as no answer came to his raps, he called.
At the double appeal of knuckle and voice, a neighbor appeared at herown door.
"Do you know whether or no my aunt has gone out, eh, Mother Fagot?"asked Pitou.
"Has she not answered?" asked Dame Fagot.
"No; she has not, as you see; so I guess she has gone out for a gossip."
Mother Fagot shook her head.
"I should have seen her go out," she said; "my door opens the sameway as hers, and it is pretty seldom that in getting up of a morningshe does not drop into our house to get some warm ashes to put in hershoes, with which the poor dear lamb keeps her toes warm all the day.Ain't that so, Neighbor Farolet?"
This question was addressed to a fresh character, who likewise openinghis door, shoved his conversational oar into the parley.
"What are you talking about, Madame Fagot?"
"I was a-saying that Aunt Angelique had not gone out. Have you seenanything of her?"
"That I hain't, and I am open to wager that she has not gone out,otherwise her shutters would not be open, d'ye see."
"By all that is blue, that is true enough," remarked Pitou. "Heavens, Ihope nothing unfortunate has happened to my poor aunt."
"I should not wonder," said Mother Fagot.
"It is more than possible, it is probable," said Farolet, sententiously.
"To tell the truth, she was not over-tender to me," went on Pitou; "butI do not want harm to befall her for all that. How are we going to findout the state of things?"
"That is not a puzzle," suggested a third neighbor, joining in; "sendfor Rigolot, the locksmith."
"If it is to open the door, he is not wanted," said Pitou; "I know alittle trick of prying the bolt with a knife."
"Well, go ahead, my lad," said Farolet; "we are all witnesses that youpicked the lock with the best intentions and your pocket-knife."
Pitou had taken out his knife, and in the presence of a dozen persons,attracted by the occurrence, he slipped back the bolt with a dexterityproving that he had used this means of opening the way more than oncein his youth.
The door was open, but the interior was plunged into complete darkness.As the daylight gradually penetrated and was diffused, they coulddescry the form of the old girl on her bed.
Pitou called her by name twice. But she remained motionless and withoutresponse. He went in and up to the couch.
"Halloo!" he exclaimed, touching the hands; "she is cold and stark."
They opened the windows. Aunt Angelique was dead.
"What a misfortune!" said Pitou.
"Tush," said Farolet; "a hard winter is coming, and wood never so dear.She saves by departing where the firing is plentiful. Besides, youraunt did not dote on you."
"Maybe so," said Pitou, with tears as big as walnuts, "but I liked herpretty well. Oh, my poor auntie!" said the big baby, falling on hisknees by the bed.
"I say, Captain Pitou," said Mme. Fagot, "if you want anything, justlet us know. If we ain't good neighbors, we ain't good for anything."
"Thank you, mother. Is that boy of yours handy?"
"Yes. Hey, Fagotin!" called the good woman.
A boy of fourteen stood frightened at the door.
"Here I am, mother," he said.
"Just bid him trot over to Haramont to tell Catherine not to be uneasyabout me, as I have found my Aunt 'Gelique dead. Poor aunt!" He wipedaway fresh tears. "That is what is keeping me here."
"You hear that, Fagotin? Then off you go."
"Go through Soissons Street," said the wise Farolet, "and notifyCitizen Raynal that there is a case of sudden death to record at oldMiss Pitou's."
The boy darted off on his double errand.
The crowd had kept increasing till there were a hundred before thedoor. Each had his own opinion on the cause of the decease, and allwhispered among themselves.
"If Pitou is no fool, he will find some hoard smuggled away in an oldsock, or in a crock, or in a hole in the chimney."
Dr. Raynal arrived in the midst of this, preceded by the headtax-gatherer.
The doctor went up to the bed, examined the corpse, and declared to theamaze of the lookers-on that the death was due to cold and starvation.This redoubled Pitou's tears.
"Oh, poor aunt!" he wailed, "and I thought she was so rich. I am avillain for having left her to poverty. Oh, had I only known this! Itcan not be, Doctor Raynal!"
"Look into the hutch and see if there is any bread; in the wood-boxand see if there is any fire-wood. I have always foretold that the oldmiser would end in this way."
Searching, they found not a crumb or a splinter.
"Oh, why did she not tell me this?" mourned Pitou. "I would havechopped up some wood for her and done some poaching to fill the larder.It is your fault, too," the poor fellow added, accusing the crowd; "youought to have told me that she was in want."
"We did not tell you that she was in want," returned wiseacre Farolet,"for the plain reason that everybody believed that she was rolling inriches."
Dr. Raynal had thrown the sheet over the cold face, and proceeded tothe door, when Pitou intercepted him.
"Are you going, doctor?"
"Why, what more do you expect me to do here?"
"Then she is undoubtedly dead? Dear me, to die of cold and hunger, too!"
Raynal beckoned him.
"Boy, I am of the opinion that you should none the less seek high andlow," he said.
"But, doctor, after your saying she died of want--"
"Misers have been known to die the same way, lying on their treasures.Hush!" he said, laying a finger on his lips, and going out-doors.



CHAPTER XXXI.
THE EASY-CHAIR.

Pitou would have pondered more deeply on what the doctor told him, onlyhe spied Catherine running up, with her boy in her arms.
Since there was no doubt that Aunt Angelique had died of privation,the eagerness of the neighbors to help her nephew had lessened. SoCatherine arrived most timely. As she might be considered the wife ofPitou, it was her place to attend to his aunt, which the good creatureset about doing with the same tenderness she had shown awhile before toher own mother.
Meanwhile, Pitou ran out to arrange for the funeral, which would be attwo days' time, as the suddenness of the death compelled retention ofthe remains forty-eight hours. Religious ceremonies being suppressedfor funerals as for marriages, he had only to do business with thesexton and the grave digger, after the mayor.
Before he departed, Catherine suggested that the marriage should bedeferred for a day or two, as it would look strange for an act soimportant and joyous as a wedding to be performed on the same day as heconducted his aunt's remains to the cemetery.
"Besides, my dear, it is bad luck to have a wedding while a grave isopen."
"Stuff," said Pitou; "from the moment I am your husband, I defymisfortune to get a grip on me."
"Dear Pitou, let us put it off till Monday," said the bride, holdingup her hand to him; "you see that I am trying to make your wishes suitproprieties."
"But two days is a deuce of a long time, Catherine."
"Not when you have been waiting five years."
"A lot of things may happen in forty-eight hours," moaned Pitou.
"My falling off in love can not happen, Ange; and as you pretend thatis the only thing in the world which concerns you--"
"Lord, yes, Catherine; the only--only thing!"
"Why, then, look here, Isidore, say to Papa Pitou: 'Do not be afraid,Papa Pitou; mamma loves you dearly, and will always love you.'"
The child repeated this in his pretty voice.
On this assurance, Pitou made no difficulty about going to the mayor's.He returned in about an hour, with all settled and paid for. With whatmoney he had left he laid in a stock of wood and food for a couple ofdays.
It was high time that the firing had come into the old, weather-wornhouse, where the wind poured in at many a chink, and they might perishof cold. Pitou had found Catherine half frozen when he got back.
According to Catherine's wish, the marriage was postponed until Monday.
The intermediate time passed with the pair mourning by the death-bed.
Despite the huge fire Pitou kept roaring, the wind came in so sharp andchill that Pitou acknowledged that if his aunt had not died of hungershe must have been carried off by cold.
The time came for the removal of the corpse, the transit not takinglong, as Aunt Angelique's dwelling adjoined the burial-ground.
All of that quarter and other representatives of the town went to thefuneral, which Pitou and Catherine led as the chief mourners.
When the ceremony terminated, Pitou thanked those attending in his nameand that of the dead, and they all filed before him, throwing holywater into the old maid's grave.
When left alone, Pitou looked round for Catherine, and saw her andIsidore kneeling on another grave where cypresses were planted. Itwas Mother Billet's. Pitou had dug those four cypresses in the woodsand transplanted them. He did not care to disturb them in this piousoccupation, but thinking that Catherine would be very cold at the endof her devotions, he determined to run on before and have a good fireblazing at her return.
Unfortunately, one thing opposed the realization of this goodintention--they were out of wood. Pitou was in a pinch, for he was outof money, too.
He looked around him to see if there was nothing good to burn. Therewas Aunt Angelique's bread-safe, bed, and easy-chair. The bed andcupboard were not unworn, but they were still good; while the arm-chairwas so rickety that nobody but the owner had ever risked themselves init. It was therefore condemned.
Like the Revolutionary Tribunal, Pitou had no sooner condemned a thingthan he proceeded to execute it.
Pitou set his knee to the seat, and seizing one of the sides, gavea pull. At the third of such tugs, it gave way at the joints. Ituttered a kind of squeak, as if an animal capable of feeling pain andexpressing emotion. If Pitou had been superstitious, he might haveimagined that the aunt's spirit had located itself in her old arm-chair.
But Pitou had no superstition except his love for Catherine. Thisarticle of furniture was doomed to warm her, and though it had bled ineach limb like an enchanted tree, it would have been rent to pieces.
He grasped the other arm with the same fierceness, and tore that fromthe carcass, which began to look dismantled.
Again the chair sent forth a sound strange and metallic.
Pitou remained insensible. He took up the chair by one leg, andswinging the whole round his head, he brought it down on the floor.
This split the seat in half, and to the great astonishment of thedestroyer, out of the yawning chasm spouted torrents of gold.
Our readers will remember that it was Angelique's habit to change allher coppers into silver, and them into gold pieces, which she stowedaway inside her chair.
When Pitou recovered from his surprise and dismay, his first impulsewas to run out to Catherine and little Isidore and bring them in toview the riches he had discovered.
But the dreadful terror seized him that Catherine would not marry himif he were a rich man, and he shook his head.
"No," he said, "she would refuse me."
After reflecting for an instant, careworn and motionless, a smilepassed over his face. No doubt he had hit on a means of surmounting theobstacle which this sudden wealth had raised. He gathered up the coinscattered on the floor and poked about in the cushion with his knifefor still more of the golden eggs. They were literally crammed into thelining.
He reckoned, and there were fifteen hundred and fifty louis, otherwise,thirty-seven thousand and two hundred livres or francs, and at thediscount in the favor of gold, he was the master of one million threehundred and twenty-six thousand livres!
And at what a moment had this slice of good luck befallen him! When hewas obliged to smash up the furniture from having no means to buy fuelfor his wife.
What a lucky thing that Pitou was so poor, the weather was so cold, andthe old chair so rotten!
Who knows what would have happened but for this happy conjunction ofcircumstances?
He stuffed the coin away in all his pockets, and scraping the splinterstogether he built a fire, which he managed to kindle with the unusedflint and steel.
He was no more than in time, for in came Catherine and little Isidore,shivering with cold.
Pitou gave the boy a hug, kissed the woman's icy hands, and dashed out,crying:
"Get warm. I have a piece of business to go through."
"Where does Papa Pitou go?" asked the boy.
"I do not know, but judging by the gait he is going at, it is for youor me."
She might have said, "For you _and_ me."



CHAPTER XXXII.
WHAT PITOU DID WITH THE FIND.

It has not been forgotten that the Charny estate and the Gilbert andBillet farms were in the market at a price. On the sale day, MayorLongpre bought for "Mr. Cash" the properties at the price of 1,350 goldlouis, for the equivalent of assignats.
This happened on Sunday, the eve of the day when Catherine and Pitouwere married.
At eleven on the following day, all the crowd were grieving that a finefellow like Pitou should throw himself away upon a girl who was ruinedutterly, with a child who was even more poverty-stricken than herself.
When Mayor Longpre had pronounced Citizen Pierre Ange Pitou andCitizeness Anne Catherine Billet united in wedlock, he beckoned littleIsidore to him. The youngster had been sitting upon the desk, whence heslipped down and came to him.
"My boy," he said, "here are some papers which you will please giveyour Mamma Catherine when Papa Pitou takes her home."
"Yes, sir," said the little fellow, taking two papers in his littlehand.
All was finished, only, to the great astonishment of the spectators,Pitou pulled out five gold pieces and handed them to the mayor, saying:
"For the poor of the parish."
"Are we rich?" asked Catherine, smiling.
"Happy folks are always rich," returned Pitou, "and you have made methe happiest man in creation."
He offered his arm to the wife, who leaned on it affectionately.
On going forth, they found the crowd to which we have alluded.
Unanimous cheers greeted the couple. Pitou saluted his friends and gavemany hand-shakes; Catherine nodded to hers and gave many smiles.
Pitou turned to the right.
"Why, where are you going, dearest?" asked Madame Pitou.
"Come, my dearly beloved," he replied, "to a place you will be glad tosee again."
"Why, you are going toward our old farm," she said.
"Come on, all the same," he persisted.
"Oh, Pitou!" she sighed, as he brought her over the well-remembered way.
"And I thought to make you happy," he sighed, too.
"How could you think to make me happy by taking me again to a placewhich was my parents', and might have been mine, but which was soldyesterday to some stranger whose name even I do not know."
"Only a couple of steps farther; that is all I ask of you."
They turned the corner of the wall, and had the farm entrance beforethem.
All the farm-hands, carters, cow-men, dairy-maids, plowmen, were there,with Father Clovis marshaling them, a bunch of flowers in his hand.
"I understand; you wanted me to be welcomed once more in the old homeby those who, like me, will leave it forever. I thank you, dear."
Leaving her husband's arm and Isidore's hand, she ran forward to meetthe people, who surrounded her and bore her into the house.
Pitou led Isidore, who was still carrying the papers, into thedoor-way, and they saw Catherine seated in the main room, staring abouther as in a dream.
"In Heaven's name, tell me what they are saying!" she cried. "I do notunderstand a bit of what they are saying."
"Perhaps these papers which the child has for you will make it allclear, dear Catherine," replied the husband.
She took the papers from the little hand, and read one by chance:
     "I acknowledge that the manor-house of Boursonnes and the lands     dependent were bought and paid for by me, yesterday, on behalf of     Jacques Philip Isidore, minor son of Catherine Billet, and that     consequently said house and lands are the property of the said son.
                                  "LONGPRE, Mayor of Villers Cotterets."
"What does this mean, Pitou? You must understand that I can not makehead or tail of it."
"Better read the other document," suggested the husband.
Unfolding the second paper, Catherine read as follows:
     "I hereby acknowledge that the farm called Billet's, with the     lands and buildings thereon and the appurtenances thereof, were     bought and paid for by me, on behalf and for the account of     Citizeness Anne Catherine Billet, and that it follows the said     farm and lands and buildings belong to the said Citizeness Ann     Catherine Billet.
                                "LONGPRE, Mayor of Villers Cotterets."
"In Heaven's name, tell me what this all means, or I shall go mad!"said Catherine.
"The meaning is," rejoined Pitou, "that thanks to some gold found inmy Aunt Angelique's old easy-chair, which I broke up to warm you, thehouse and manor of Charny will not go out of the family, or the farmfrom the Billets."
Catherine understood all at last. She opened her arms to Pitou, but hepushed Isidore into them. But she leaned forward and infolded husbandand child in the same embrace.
"Oh, God!" exclaimed Pitou, stifling with bliss and yet unable torepress one tear for the old maid, "to think there are people who dieof hunger and cold, like poor Aunt Angelique!"
"Faith!" said a stout teamster, nudging a rosy milk-maid for her totake particular heed of their new master and mistress, "I do not thinkthat pair is going to die in any such way."
       *       *       *       *       *
Let us turn from these truly happy ones, in the peaceful country, tothe bereaved widow of Louis XVI. In her lonesome jail she mourns overthe loss of all--husband, lover, friend. What can replace a Charny oran Andrea? She thinks there is no champion of the blood of either, forshe knows not that Cagliostro's surmise was not baseless. When the sonof Andrea shall know how his mother fell, he will fly to arms to avengethat loss and to spite her foes, who are also the queen's! We shalltrace his gallant, and desperate attempts to rescue the royal captivein the pages of the conclusion of this series, entitled: "The Knight ofRedcastle: or, The Captivity of Marie Antoinette."