I.

Hegel says somewhere that that great historic facts and personagesrecur twice. He forgot to add: “Once as tragedy, and again as farce.”Caussidiere for Danton, Louis Blanc for Robespierre, the “Mountain” of1848-51 for the “Mountain” of 1793-05, the Nephew for the Uncle. Theidentical caricature marks also the conditions under which the secondedition of the eighteenth Brumaire is issued.
Man makes his own history, but he does not make it out of the wholecloth; he does not make it out of conditions chosen by himself, but outof such as he finds close at hand. The tradition of all pastgenerations weighs like an alp upon the brain of the living. At thevery time when men appear engaged in revolutionizing things andthemselves, in bringing about what never was before, at such veryepochs of revolutionary crisis do they anxiously conjure up into theirservice the spirits of the past, assume their names, their battlecries, their costumes to enact a new historic scene in suchtime-honored disguise and with such borrowed language Thus did Luthermasquerade as the Apostle Paul; thus did the revolution of 1789-1814drape itself alternately as Roman Republic and as Roman Empire; nor didthe revolution of 1818 know what better to do than to parody at onetime the year 1789, at another the revolutionary traditions of 1793-95.Thus does the beginner, who has acquired a new language, keep ontranslating it back into his own mother tongue; only then has hegrasped the spirit of the new language and is able freely to expresshimself therewith when he moves in it without recollections of the old,and has forgotten in its use his own hereditary tongue.
When these historic configurations of the dead past are closelyobserved a striking difference is forthwith noticeable. CamilleDesmoulins, Danton, Robespierre, St. Juste, Napoleon, the heroes aswell as the parties and the masses of the old French revolution,achieved in Roman costumes and with Roman phrases the task of theirtime: the emancipation and the establishment of modern bourgeoissociety. One set knocked to pieces the old feudal groundwork and moweddown the feudal heads that had grown upon it; Napoleon brought about,within France, the conditions under which alone free competition coulddevelop, the partitioned lands be exploited, the nation’s unshackledpowers of industrial production be utilized; while, beyond the Frenchfrontier, he swept away everywhere the establishments of feudality, sofar as requisite, to furnish the bourgeois social system of France withfit surroundings of the European continent, and such as were in keepingwith the times. Once the new social establishment was set on foot, theantediluvian giants vanished, and, along with them, the resuscitatedRoman world—the Brutuses, Gracchi, Publicolas, the Tribunes, theSenators, and Caesar himself. In its sober reality, bourgeois societyhad produced its own true interpretation in the Says, Cousins,Royer-Collards, Benjamin Constants and Guizots; its real generals satbehind the office desks; and the mutton-head of Louis XVIII was itspolitical lead. Wholly absorbed in the production of wealth and in thepeaceful fight of competition, this society could no longer understandthat the ghosts of the days of Rome had watched over its cradle. Andyet, lacking in heroism as bourgeois society is, it nevertheless hadstood in need of heroism, of self-sacrifice, of terror, of civil war,and of bloody battle fields to bring it into the world. Its gladiatorsfound in the stern classic traditions of the Roman republic the idealsand the form, the self-deceptions, that they needed in order to concealfrom themselves the narrow bourgeois substance of their own struggles,and to keep their passion up to the height of a great historic tragedy.Thus, at another stage of development a century before, did Cromwelland the English people draw from the Old Testament the language,passions and illusions for their own bourgeois revolution. When thereal goal was reached, when the remodeling of English society wasaccomplished, Locke supplanted Habakuk.
Accordingly, the reviving of the dead in those revolutions served thepurpose of glorifying the new struggles, not of parodying the old; itserved the purpose of exaggerating to the imagination the given task,not to recoil before its practical solution; it served the purpose ofrekindling the revolutionary spirit, not to trot out its ghost.
In 1848-51 only the ghost of the old revolution wandered about, fromMarrast the “Republicain en gaunts jaunes,” [#1 Silk-stockingrepublican] who disguised himself in old Bailly, down to theadventurer, who hid his repulsively trivial features under the irondeath mask of Napoleon. A whole people, that imagines it has impartedto itself accelerated powers of motion through a revolution, suddenlyfinds itself transferred back to a dead epoch, and, lest there be anymistake possible on this head, the old dates turn up again; the oldcalendars; the old names; the old edicts, which long since had sunk tothe level of the antiquarian’s learning; even the old bailiffs, who hadlong seemed mouldering with decay. The nation takes on the appearanceof that crazy Englishman in Bedlam, who imagines he is living in thedays of the Pharaohs, and daily laments the hard work that he must doin the Ethiopian mines as gold digger, immured in a subterraneanprison, with a dim lamp fastened on his head, behind him the slaveoverseer with a long whip, and, at the mouths of the mine a mob ofbarbarous camp servants who understand neither the convicts in themines nor one another, because they do not speak a common language.“And all this,” cries the crazy Englishman, “is demanded of me, thefree-born Englishman, in order to make gold for old Pharaoh.” “In orderto pay off the debts of the Bonaparte family”—sobs the French nation.The Englishman, so long as he was in his senses, could not rid himselfof the rooted thought making gold. The Frenchmen, so long as they werebusy with a revolution, could not rid then selves of the Napoleonicmemory, as the election of December 10th proved. They longed to escapefrom the dangers of revolution back to the flesh pots of Egypt; the 2dof December, 1851 was the answer. They have not merely the character ofthe old Napoleon, but the old Napoleon himself—caricatured as he needsmust appear in the middle of the nineteenth century.
The social revolution of the nineteenth century can not draw its poetryfrom the past, it can draw that only from the future. It cannot startupon its work before it has stricken off all superstition concerningthe past. Former revolutions require historic reminiscences in order tointoxicate themselves with their own issues. The revolution of thenineteenth century must let the dead bury their dead in order to reachits issue. With the former, the phrase surpasses the substance; withthis one, the substance surpasses the phrase.
The February revolution was a surprisal; old society was takenunawares; and the people proclaimed this political stroke a greathistoric act whereby the new era was opened. On the 2d of December, theFebruary revolution is jockeyed by the trick of a false player, andwhat seems to be overthrown is no longer the monarchy, but the liberalconcessions which had been wrung from it by centuries of struggles.Instead of society itself having conquered a new point, only the Stateappears to have returned to its oldest form, to the simply brazen ruleof the sword and the club. Thus, upon the “coup de main” of February,1848, comes the response of the “coup de tete” December, 1851. So won,so lost. Meanwhile, the interval did not go by unutilized. During theyears 1848-1851, French society retrieved in abbreviated, becauserevolutionary, method the lessons and teachings, which—if it was to bemore than a disturbance of the surface—should have preceded theFebruary revolution, had it developed in regular order, by rule, so tosay. Now French society seems to have receded behind its point ofdeparture; in fact, however, it was compelled to first produce its ownrevolutionary point of departure, the situation, circumstances,conditions, under which alone the modern revolution is in earnest.
Bourgeois revolutions, like those of the eighteenth century, rushonward rapidly from success to success, their stage effects outbid oneanother, men and things seem to be set in flaming brilliants, ecstasyis the prevailing spirit; but they are short-lived, they reach theirclimax speedily, then society relapses into a long fit of nervousreaction before it learns how to appropriate the fruits of its periodof feverish excitement. Proletarian revolutions, on the contrary, suchas those of the nineteenth century, criticize themselves constantly;constantly interrupt themselves in their own course; come back to whatseems to have been accomplished, in order to start over anew; scornwith cruel thoroughness the half measures, weaknesses and meannesses oftheir first attempts; seem to throw down their adversary only in orderto enable him to draw fresh strength from the earth, and again, to riseup against them in more gigantic stature; constantly recoil in fearbefore the undefined monster magnitude of their own objects—untilfinally that situation is created which renders all retreat impossible,and the conditions themselves cry out:
“Hic Rhodus, hic salta!”[#2 Here is Rhodes, leap here! An allusion to Aesop’s Fables.]

Every observer of average intelligence; even if he failed to followstep by step the course of French development, must have anticipatedthat an unheard of fiasco was in store for the revolution. It wasenough to hear the self-satisfied yelpings of victory wherewith theMessieurs Democrats mutually congratulated one another upon the pardonsof May 2d, 1852. Indeed, May 2d had become a fixed idea in their heads;it had become a dogma with them—something like the day on which Christwas to reappear and the Millennium to begin had formed in the heads ofthe Chiliasts. Weakness had, as it ever does, taken refuge in thewonderful; it believed the enemy was overcome if, in its imagination,it hocus-pocused him away; and it lost all sense of the present in theimaginary apotheosis of the future, that was at hand, and of the deeds,that it had “in petto,” but which it did not yet want to bring to thescratch. The heroes, who ever seek to refute their establishedincompetence by mutually bestowing their sympathy upon one another andby pulling together, had packed their satchels, taken their laurels inadvance payments and were just engaged in the work of gettingdiscounted “in partibus,” on the stock exchange, the republics forwhich, in the silence of their unassuming dispositions, they hadcarefully organized the government personnel. The 2d of December struckthem like a bolt from a clear sky; and the peoples, who, in periods oftimid despondency, gladly allow their hidden fears to be drowned by theloudest screamers, will perhaps have become convinced that the days aregone by when the cackling of geese could save the Capitol.
The constitution, the national assembly, the dynastic parties, the blueand the red republicans, the heroes from Africa, the thunder from thetribune, the flash-lightnings from the daily press, the wholeliterature, the political names and the intellectual celebrities, thecivil and the criminal law, the “liberte’, egalite’, fraternite’,”together with the 2d of May 1852—all vanished like a phantasmagoriabefore the ban of one man, whom his enemies themselves do not pronouncean adept at witchcraft. Universal suffrage seems to have survived onlyfor a moment, to the end that, before the eyes of the whole world, itshould make its own testament with its own hands, and, in the name ofthe people, declare: “All that exists deserves to perish.”
It is not enough to say, as the Frenchmen do, that their nation wastaken by surprise. A nation, no more than a woman, is excused for theunguarded hour when the first adventurer who comes along can doviolence to her. The riddle is not solved by such shifts, it is onlyformulated in other words. There remains to be explained how a nationof thirty-six millions can be surprised by three swindlers, and takento prison without resistance.
Let us recapitulate in general outlines the phases which the Frenchrevolution of February 24th, 1848, to December, 1851, ran through.
Three main periods are unmistakable:
First—The February period;
Second—The period of constituting the republic, or of the constitutivenational assembly (May 4, 1848, to May 29th, 1849);
Third—The period of the constitutional republic, or of the legislativenational assembly (May 29, 1849, to December 2, 1851).
The first period, from February 24, or the downfall of Louis Philippe,to May 4, 1848, the date of the assembling of the constitutiveassembly—the February period proper—may be designated as the prologueof the revolution. It officially expressed its own character in this,that the government which it improvised declared itself “provisional;”and, like the government, everything that was broached, attempted, oruttered, pronounced itself provisional. Nobody and nothing dared toassume the right of permanent existence and of an actual fact. All theelements that had prepared or determined the revolution—dynasticopposition, republican bourgeoisie, democratic-republican smalltraders’ class, social-democratic labor element—all found“provisionally” their place in the February government.
It could not be otherwise. The February days contemplated originally areform of the suffrage laws, whereby the area of the politicallyprivileged among the property-holding class was to be extended, whilethe exclusive rule of the aristocracy of finance was to be overthrown.When however, it came to a real conflict, when the people mounted thebarricades, when the National Guard stood passive, when the armyoffered no serious resistance, and the kingdom ran away, then therepublic seemed self-understood. Each party interpreted it in its ownsense. Won, arms in hand, by the proletariat, they put upon it thestamp of their own class, and proclaimed the social republic. Thus thegeneral purpose of modern revolutions was indicated, a purpose,however, that stood in most singular contradiction to every thing that,with the material at hand, with the stage of enlightenment that themasses had reached, and under existing circumstances and conditions,could be immediately used. On the other hand, the claims of all theother elements, that had cooperated in the revolution of February, wererecognized by the lion’s share that they received in the government.Hence, in no period do we find a more motley mixture of high-soundingphrases together with actual doubt and helplessness; of moreenthusiastic reform aspirations, together with a more slavish adherenceto the old routine; more seeming harmony permeating the whole ofsociety together with a deeper alienation of its several elements.While the Parisian proletariat was still gloating over the sight of thegreat perspective that had disclosed itself to their view, and wasindulging in seriously meant discussions over the social problems, theold powers of society had groomed themselves, had gathered together,had deliberated and found an unexpected support in the mass of thenation—the peasants and small traders—all of whom threw themselves on asudden upon the political stage, after the barriers of the Julymonarchy had fallen down.
The second period, from May 4, 1848, to the end of May, 1849, is theperiod of the constitution, of the founding of the bourgeois republicimmediately after the February days, not only was the dynasticopposition surprised by the republicans, and the republicans by theSocialists, but all France was surprised by Paris. The nationalassembly, that met on May 4, 1848, to frame a constitution, was theoutcome of the national elections; it represented the nation. It was aliving protest against the assumption of the February days, and it wasintended to bring the results of the revolution back to the bourgeoismeasure. In vain did the proletariat of Paris, which forthwithunderstood the character of this national assembly, endeavor, a fewdays after its meeting; on May 15, to deny its existence by force, todissolve it, to disperse the organic apparition, in which the reactingspirit of the nation was threatening them, and thus reduce it back toits separate component parts. As is known, the 15th of May had no otherresult than that of removing Blanqui and his associates, i.e. the realleaders of the proletarian party, from the public scene for the wholeperiod of the cycle which we are here considering.
Upon the bourgeois monarchy of Louis Philippe, only the bourgeoisrepublic could follow; that is to say, a limited portion of thebourgeoisie having ruled under the name of the king, now the wholebourgeoisie was to rule under the name of the people. The demands ofthe Parisian proletariat are utopian tom-fooleries that have to be doneaway with. To this declaration of the constitutional national assembly,the Paris proletariat answers with the June insurrection, the mostcolossal event in the history of European civil wars. The bourgeoisrepublic won. On its side stood the aristocracy of finance, theindustrial bourgeoisie; the middle class; the small traders’ class; thearmy; the slums, organized as Guarde Mobile; the intellectualcelebrities, the parsons’ class, and the rural population. On the sideof the Parisian proletariat stood none but itself. Over 3,000insurgents were massacred, after the victory 15,000 were transportedwithout trial. With this defeat, the proletariat steps to thebackground on the revolutionary stage. It always seeks to crowdforward, so soon as the movement seems to acquire new impetus, but withever weaker effort and ever smaller results; So soon as any of theabove lying layers of society gets into revolutionary fermentation, itenters into alliance therewith and thus shares all the defeats whichthe several parties successively suffer. But these succeeding blowsbecome ever weaker the more generally they are distributed over thewhole surface of society. The more important leaders of theProletariat, in its councils, and the press, fall one after anothervictims of the courts, and ever more questionable figures step to thefront. It partly throws itself it upon doctrinaire experiments,“co-operative banking” and “labor exchange” schemes; in other words,movements, in which it goes into movements in which it gives up thetask of revolutionizing the old world with its own large collectiveweapons and on the contrary, seeks to bring about its emancipation,behind the back of society, in private ways, within the narrow boundsof its own class conditions, and, consequently, inevitably fails. Theproletariat seems to be able neither to find again the revolutionarymagnitude within itself nor to draw new energy from the newly formedalliances until all the classes, with whom it contended in June, shalllie prostrate along with itself. But in all these defeats, theproletariat succumbs at least with the honor that attaches to greathistoric struggles; not France alone, all Europe trembles before theJune earthquake, while the successive defeats inflicted upon the higherclasses are bought so easily that they need the brazen exaggeration ofthe victorious party itself to be at all able to pass muster as anevent; and these defeats become more disgraceful the further removedthe defeated party stands from the proletariat.
True enough, the defeat of the June insurgents prepared, leveled theground, upon which the bourgeois republic could be founded and erected;but it, at the same time, showed that there are in Europe other issuesbesides that of “Republic or Monarchy.” It revealed the fact that herethe Bourgeois Republic meant the unbridled despotism of one class overanother. It proved that, with nations enjoying an older civilization,having developed class distinctions, modern conditions of production,an intellectual consciousness, wherein all traditions of old have beendissolved through the work of centuries, that with such countries therepublic means only the political revolutionary form of bourgeoissociety, not its conservative form of existence, as is the case in theUnited States of America, where, true enough, the classes alreadyexist, but have not yet acquired permanent character, are in constantflux and reflux, constantly changing their elements and yielding themup to one another where the modern means of production, instead ofcoinciding with a stagnant population, rather compensate for therelative scarcity of heads and hands; and, finally, where thefeverishly youthful life of material production, which has toappropriate a new world to itself, has so far left neither time noropportunity to abolish the illusions of old. [#3 This was written atthe beginning of 1852.]
All classes and parties joined hands in the June days in a “Party ofOrder” against the class of the proletariat, which was designated asthe “Party of Anarchy,” of Socialism, of Communism. They claimed tohave “saved” society against the “enemies of society.” They gave outthe slogans of the old social order—“Property, Family, Religion,Order”—as the passwords for their army, and cried out to thecounter-revolutionary crusaders: “In this sign thou wilt conquer!” Fromthat moment on, so soon as any of the numerous parties, which hadmarshaled themselves under this sign against the June insurgents,tries, in turn, to take the revolutionary field in the interest of itsown class, it goes down in its turn before the cry: “Property, Family,Religion, Order.” Thus it happens that “society is saved” as often asthe circle of its ruling class is narrowed, as often as a moreexclusive interest asserts itself over the general. Every demand forthe most simple bourgeois financial reform, for the most ordinaryliberalism, for the most commonplace republicanism, for the flattestdemocracy, is forthwith punished as an “assault upon society,” and isbranded as “Socialism.” Finally the High Priests of “Religion andOrder” themselves are kicked off their tripods; are fetched out oftheir beds in the dark; hurried into patrol wagons, thrust into jail orsent into exile; their temple is razed to the ground, their mouths aresealed, their pen is broken, their law torn to pieces in the name ofReligion, of Family, of Property, and of Order. Bourgeois, fanatic onthe point of “Order,” are shot down on their own balconies by drunkensoldiers, forfeit their family property, and their houses are bombardedfor pastime—all in the name of Property, of Family, of Religion, and ofOrder. Finally, the refuse of bourgeois society constitutes the “holyphalanx of Order,” and the hero Crapulinsky makes his entry into theTuileries as the “Savior of Society.”



II.

Let us resume the thread of events.
The history of the Constitutional National Assembly from the June dayson, is the history of the supremacy and dissolution of the republicanbourgeois party, the party which is known under several names of“Tricolor Republican,” “True Republican,” “Political Republican,”“Formal Republican,” etc., etc. Under the bourgeois monarchy of LouisPhilippe, this party had constituted the Official RepublicanOpposition, and consequently had been a recognized element in the thenpolitical world. It had its representatives in the Chambers, andcommanded considerable influence in the press. Its Parisian organ, the“National,” passed, in its way, for as respectable a paper as the“Journal des Debats.” This position in the constitutional monarchycorresponded to its character. The party was not a fraction of thebourgeoisie, held together by great and common interests, and marked byspecial business requirements. It was a coterie of bourgeois withrepublican ideas—writers, lawyers, officers and civil employees, whoseinfluence rested upon the personal antipathies of the country for LouisPhilippe, upon reminiscences of the old Republic, upon the republicanfaith of a number of enthusiasts, and, above all, upon the spirit ofFrench patriotism, whose hatred of the treaties of Vienna and of thealliance with England kept them perpetually on the alert. The“National” owed a large portion of its following under Louis Philippeto this covert imperialism, that, later under the republic, could standup against it as a deadly competitor in the person of Louis Bonaparte.The paper fought the aristocracy of finance just the same as did therest of the bourgeois opposition. The polemic against the budget, whichin France, was closely connected with the opposition to the aristocracyof finance, furnished too cheap a popularity and too rich a materialfor Puritanical leading articles, not to be exploited. The industrialbourgeoisie was thankful to it for its servile defense of the Frenchtariff system, which, however, the paper had taken up, more out ofpatriotic than economic reasons; the whole bourgeois class was thankfulto it for its vicious denunciations of Communism and Socialism. For therest, the party of the “National” was purely republican, i.e. itdemanded a republican instead of a monarchic form of bourgeoisgovernment; above all, it demanded for the bourgeoisie the lion’s shareof the government. As to how this transformation was to beaccomplished, the party was far from being clear. What, however, wasclear as day to it and was openly declared at the reform banquetsduring the last days of Louis Philippe’s reign, was its unpopularitywith the democratic middle class, especially with the revolutionaryproletariat. These pure republicans, as pure republicans go, were atfirst on the very point of contenting themselves with the regency ofthe Duchess of Orleans, when the February revolution broke out, andwhen it gave their best known representatives a place in theprovisional government. Of course, they enjoyed from the start theconfidence of the bourgeoisie and of the majority of the ConstitutionalNational Assembly. The Socialist elements of the Provisional Governmentwere promptly excluded from the Executive Committee which the Assemblyhad elected upon its convening, and the party of the “National”subsequently utilized the outbreak of the June insurrection to dismissthis Executive Committee also, and thus rid itself of its nearestrivals—the small traders’ class or democratic republicans(Ledru-Rollin, etc.). Cavaignac, the General of the bourgeoisrepublican party, who commanded at the battle of June, stepped into theplace of the Executive Committee with a sort of dictatorial power.Marrast, former editor-in-chief of the “National”, became permanentPresident of the Constitutional National Assembly, and theSecretaryship of State, together with all the other important posts,devolved upon the pure republicans.
The republican bourgeois party, which since long had looked upon itselfas the legitimate heir of the July monarchy, thus found itselfsurpassed in its own ideal; but it came to power, not as it had dreamedunder Louis Philippe, through a liberal revolt of the bourgeoisieagainst the throne, but through a grape-shot-and-canistered mutiny ofthe proletariat against Capital. That which it imagined to be the mostrevolutionary, came about as the most counter-revolutionary event. Thefruit fell into its lap, but it fell from the Tree of Knowledge, notfrom the Tree of Life.
The exclusive power of the bourgeois republic lasted only from June 24to the 10th of December, 1848. It is summed up in the framing of arepublican constitution and in the state of siege of Paris.
The new Constitution was in substance only a republicanized edition ofthe constitutional charter of 1830. The limited suffrage of the Julymonarchy, which excluded even a large portion of the bourgeoisie frompolitical power, was irreconcilable with the existence of the bourgeoisrepublic. The February revolution had forthwith proclaimed direct anduniversal suffrage in place of the old law. The bourgeois republiccould not annul this act. They had to content themselves with tackingto it the limitation a six months’ residence. The old organization ofthe administrative law, of municipal government, of court procedures ofthe army, etc., remained untouched, or, where the constitution didchange them, the change affected their index, not their subject; theirname, not their substance.
The inevitable “General Staff” of the “freedoms” of 1848—personalfreedom, freedom of the press, of speech, of association and ofassemblage, freedom of instruction, of religion, etc.—received aconstitutional uniform that rendered them invulnerable. Each of thesefreedoms is proclaimed the absolute right of the French citizen, butalways with the gloss that it is unlimited in so far only as it be notcurtailed by the “equal rights of others,” and by the “public safety,”or by the “laws,” which are intended to effect this harmony. Forinstance:
“Citizens have the right of association, of peaceful and unarmedassemblage, of petitioning, and of expressing their opinions throughthe press or otherwise. The enjoyment of these rights has no limitationother than the equal rights of others and the public safety.” (Chap.II. of the French Constitution, Section 8.)
“Education is free. The freedom of education shall be enjoyed under theconditions provided by law, and under the supervision of the State.”(Section 9.)
“The domicile of the citizen is inviolable, except under the formsprescribed by law.” (Chap. I., Section 3), etc., etc.
The Constitution, it will be noticed, constantly alludes to futureorganic laws, that are to carry out the glosses, and are intended toregulate the enjoyment of these unabridged freedoms, to the end thatthey collide neither with one another nor with the public safety. Lateron, the organic laws are called into existence by the “Friends ofOrder,” and all the above named freedoms are so regulated that, intheir enjoyment, the bourgeoisie encounter no opposition from the likerights of the other classes. Wherever the bourgeoisie whollyinterdicted these rights to “others,” or allowed them their enjoymentunder conditions that were but so many police snares, it was alwaysdone only in the interest of the “public safety,” i. e., of thebourgeoisie, as required by the Constitution.
Hence it comes that both sides—the “Friends of Order,” who abolishedall those freedoms, as, well as the democrats, who had demanded themall—appeal with full right to the Constitution: Each paragraph of theConstitution contains its own antithesis, its own Upper and LowerHouse—freedom as a generalization, the abolition of freedom as aspecification. Accordingly, so long as the name of freedom wasrespected, and only its real enforcement was prevented in a legal way,of course the constitutional existence of freedom remained uninjured,untouched, however completely its common existence might beextinguished.
This Constitution, so ingeniously made invulnerable, was, however, likeAchilles, vulnerable at one point: not in its heel, but in its head, orrather, in the two heads into which it ran out—the LegislativeAssembly, on the one hand, and the President on the other. Run throughthe Constitution and it will be found that only those paragraphswherein the relation of the President to the Legislative Assembly isdefined, are absolute, positive, uncontradictory, undistortable.
Here the bourgeois republicans were concerned in securing their ownposition. Articles 45-70 of the Constitution are so framed that theNational Assembly can constitutionally remove the President, but thePresident can set aside the National Assembly only unconstitutionally,he can set it aside only by setting aside the Constitution itself.Accordingly, by these provisions, the National Assembly challenges itsown violent destruction. It not only consecrates, like the character of1830, the division of powers, but it extends this feature to anunbearably contradictory extreme. The “play of constitutional powers,”as Guizot styled the clapper-clawings between the legislative and theexecutive powers, plays permanent “vabanque” in the Constitution of1848. On the one side, 750 representatives of the people, elected andqualified for re-election by universal suffrage, who constitute anuncontrollable, indissoluble, indivisible National Assembly, a NationalAssembly that enjoys legislative omnipotence, that decides in the lastinstance over war, peace and commercial treaties, that alone has thepower to grant amnesties, and that, through its perpetuity, continuallymaintains the foreground on the stage; on the other, a President, cladwith all the attributes of royalty, with the right to appoint andremove his ministers independently from the national assembly, holdingin his hands all the means of executive power, the dispenser of allposts, and thereby the arbiter of at least one and a half millionexistences in France, so many being dependent upon the 500,000 civilemployees and upon the officers of all grades. He has the whole armedpower behind him. He enjoys the privilege of granting pardons toindividual criminals; suspending the National Guards; of removing withthe consent of the Council of State the general, cantonal and municipalCouncilmen, elected by the citizens themselves. The initiative anddirection of all negotiations with foreign countries are reserved tohim. While the Assembly itself is constantly acting upon the stage, andis exposed to the critically vulgar light of day, he leads a hiddenlife in the Elysian fields, only with Article 45 of the Constitutionbefore his eyes and in his heart daily calling out to him, “Frere, ilfaut mourir!” [#1 Brother, you must die!] Your power expires on thesecond Sunday of the beautiful month of May, in the fourth year afteryour election! The glory is then at an end; the play is not performedtwice; and, if you have any debts, see to it betimes that you pay themoff with the 600,000 francs that the Constitution has set aside foryou, unless, perchance, you should prefer traveling to Clichy [#2 Thedebtors’ prison.] on the second Monday of the beautiful month of May.
While the Constitution thus clothes the President with actual power, itseeks to secure the moral power to the National Assembly. Apart fromthe circumstance that it is impossible to create a moral power throughlegislative paragraphs, the Constitution again neutralizes itself inthat it causes the President to be chosen by all the Frenchmen throughdirect suffrage. While the votes of France are splintered to piecesupon the 750 members of the National Assembly they are here, on thecontrary, concentrated upon one individual. While each separateRepresentative represents only this or that party, this or that city,this or that dunghill, or possibly only the necessity of electing someone Seven-hundred-and-fiftieth or other, with whom neither the issuenor the man is closely considered, that one, the President, on thecontrary, is the elect of the nation, and the act of his election isthe trump card, that, the sovereign people plays out once every fouryears. The elected National Assembly stands in a metaphysical, but theelected President in a personal, relation to the nation. True enough,the National Assembly presents in its several Representatives thevarious sides of the national spirit, but, in the President, thisspirit is incarnated. As against the National Assembly, the Presidentpossesses a sort of divine right, he is by the grace of the people.
Thetis, the sea-goddess, had prophesied to Achilles that he would diein the bloom of youth. The Constitution, which had its weak spot, likeAchilles, had also, like Achilles, the presentiment that it woulddepart by premature death. It was enough for the pure republicans,engaged at the work of framing a constitution, to cast a glance fromthe misty heights of their ideal republic down upon the profane worldin order to realize how the arrogance of the royalists, of theBonapartists, of the democrats, of the Communists, rose daily, togetherwith their own discredit, and in the same measure as they approachedthe completion of their legislative work of art, without Thetis havingfor this purpose to leave the sea and impart the secret to them. Theyought to outwit fate by means of constitutional artifice, throughSection 111 of the Constitution, according to which every motion torevise the Constitution had to be discussed three successive timesbetween each of which a full month was to elapse and required at leasta three-fourths majority, with the additional proviso that not lessthan 500 members of the National Assembly voted. They thereby only madethe impotent attempt, still to exercise as a parliamentary minority, towhich in their mind’s eye they prophetically saw themselves reduced, apower, that, at this very time, when they still disposed over theparliamentary majority and over all the machinery of government, wasdaily slipping from their weak hands.
Finally, the Constitution entrusts itself for safe keeping, in amelodramatic paragraph, “to the watchfulness and patriotism of thewhole French people, and of each individual Frenchman,” after havingjust before, in another paragraph entrusted the “watchful” and the“patriotic” themselves to the tender, inquisitorial attention of theHigh Court, instituted by itself.
That was the Constitution of 1848, which on, the 2d of December, 1851,was not overthrown by one head, but tumbled down at the touch of a merehat; though, true enough, that hat was a three-cornered Napoleon hat.
While the bourgeois’ republicans were engaged in the Assembly with thework of splicing this Constitution, of discussing and voting,Cavaignac, on the outside, maintained the state of siege of Paris. Thestate of siege of Paris was the midwife of the constitutional assembly,during its republican pains of travail. When the Constitution is lateron swept off the earth by the bayonet, it should not be forgotten thatit was by the bayonet, likewise—and the bayonet turned against thepeople, at that—that it had to be protected in its mother’s womb, andthat by the bayonet it had to be planted on earth. The ancestors ofthese “honest republicans” had caused their symbol, the tricolor, tomake the tour of Europe. These, in their turn also made a discovery,which all of itself, found its way over the whole continent, but, withever renewed love, came back to France, until, by this time, if hadacquired the right of citizenship in one-half of her Departments—thestate of siege. A wondrous discovery this was, periodically applied ateach succeeding crisis in the course of the French revolution. But thebarrack and the bivouac, thus periodically laid on the head of Frenchsociety, to compress her brain and reduce her to quiet; the sabre andthe musket, periodically made to perform the functions of judges and ofadministrators, of guardians and of censors, of police officers and ofwatchmen; the military moustache and the soldier’s jacket, periodicallyheralded as the highest wisdom and guiding stars of society;—were notall of these, the barrack and the bivouac, the sabre and the musket,the moustache and the soldier’s jacket bound, in the end, to hit uponthe idea that they might as well save society once for all, byproclaiming their own regime as supreme, and relieve bourgeois societywholly of the care of ruling itself? The barrack and the bivouac, thesabre and the musket, the moustache and the soldier’s jacket were allthe more bound to hit upon this idea, seeing that they could then alsoexpect better cash payment for their increased deserts, while at themerely periodic states of siege and the transitory savings of societyat the behest of this or that bourgeois faction, very little solidmatter fell to them except some dead and wounded, besides some friendlybourgeois grimaces. Should not the military, finally, in and for itsown interest, play the game of “state of siege,” and simultaneouslybesiege the bourgeois exchanges? Moreover, it must not be forgotten,and be it observed in passing, that Col. Bernard, the same President ofthe Military Committee, who, under Cavaignac, helped to deport 15,000insurgents without trial, moves at this period again at the head of theMilitary Committees now active in Paris.
Although the honest, the pure republicans built with the state of siegethe nursery in which the Praetorian guards of December 2, 1851, were tobe reared, they, on the other hand, deserve praise in that, instead ofexaggerating the feeling of patriotism, as under Louis Philippe, now;they themselves are in command of the national power, they crawl beforeforeign powers; instead of making Italy free, they allow her to bereconquered by Austrians and Neapolitans. The election of LouisBonaparte for President on December 10, 1848, put an end to thedictatorship of Cavaignac and to the constitutional assembly.
In Article 44 of the Constitution it is said “The President of theFrench Republic must never have lost his status as a French citizen.”The first President of the French Republic, L. N. Bonaparte, had notonly lost his status as a French citizen, had not only been an Englishspecial constable, but was even a naturalized Swiss citizen.
In the previous chapter I have explained the meaning of the election ofDecember 10. I shall not here return to it. Suffice it here to say thatit was a reaction of the farmers’ class, who had been expected to paythe costs of the February revolution, against the other classes of thenation: it was a reaction of the country against the city. It met withgreat favor among the soldiers, to whom the republicans of the“National” had brought neither fame nor funds; among the greatbourgeoisie, who hailed Bonaparte as a bridge to the monarchy; andamong the proletarians and small traders, who hailed him as a scourgeto Cavaignac. I shall later have occasion to enter closer into therelation of the farmers to the French revolution.
The epoch between December 20, 1848, and the dissolution of theconstitutional assembly in May, 1849, embraces the history of thedownfall of the bourgeois republicans. After they had founded arepublic for the bourgeoisie, had driven the revolutionary proletariatfrom the field and had meanwhile silenced the democratic middle class,they are themselves shoved aside by the mass of the bourgeoisie whojustly appropriate this republic as their property. This bourgeois masswas Royalist, however. A part thereof, the large landed proprietors,had ruled under the restoration, hence, was Legitimist; the other part,the aristocrats of finance and the large industrial capitalists, hadruled under the July monarchy, hence, was Orleanist. The highfunctionaries of the Army, of the University, of the Church, in thecivil service, of the Academy and of the press, divided themselves onboth sides, although in unequal parts. Here, in the bourgeois republic,that bore neither the name of Bourbon, nor of Orleans, but the name ofCapital, they had found the form of government under which they couldall rule in common. Already the June insurrection had united them allinto a “Party of Order.” The next thing to do was to remove thebourgeois republicans who still held the seats in the NationalAssembly. As brutally as these pure republicans had abused their ownphysical power against the people, so cowardly, low-spirited,disheartened, broken, powerless did they yield, now when the issue wasthe maintenance of their own republicanism and their own legislativerights against the Executive power and the royalists I need not herenarrate the shameful history of their dissolution. It was not adownfall, it was extinction. Their history is at an end for all time.In the period that follows, they figure, whether within or without theAssembly, only as memories—memories that seem again to come to life sosoon as the question is again only the word “Republic,” and as often asthe revolutionary conflict threatens to sink down to the lowest level.In passing, I might observe that the journal which gave to this partyits name, the “National,” goes over to Socialism during the followingperiod.
Before we close this period, we must look back upon the two powers, oneof destroys the other on December 2, 1851, while, from December 20,1848, down to the departure of the constitutional assembly, they livemarital relations. We mean Louis Bonaparte, on the-one hand, on theother, the party of the allied royalists; of Order, and of the largebourgeoisie.
At the inauguration of his presidency, Bonaparte forthwith framed aministry out of the party of Order, at whose head he placed OdillonBarrot, be it noted, the old leader of the liberal wing of theparliamentary bourgeoisie. Mr. Barrot had finally hunted down a seat inthe ministry, the spook of which had been pursuing him since 1830; andwhat is more, he had the chairmanship in this ministry, although not,as he had imagined under Louis Philippe, the promoted leader of theparliamentary opposition, but with the commission to kill a parliament,and, moreover, as an ally of all his arch enemies, the Jesuits and theLegitimists. Finally he leads the bride home, but only after she hasbeen prostituted. As to Bonaparte, he seemed to eclipse himselfcompletely. The party of Order acted for him.
Immediately at the first session of the ministry the expedition to Romewas decided upon, which it was there agreed, was to be carried outbehind I the back of the National Assembly, and the funds for which, itwas equally agreed, were to be wrung from the Assembly under falsepretences. Thus the start was made with a swindle on the NationalAssembly, together with a secret conspiracy with the absolute foreignpowers against the revolutionary Roman republic. In the same way, andwith a similar maneuver, did Bonaparte prepare his stroke of December 2against the royalist legislature and its constitutional republic. Letit not be forgotten that the same party, which, on December 20, 1848,constituted Bonaparte’s ministry, constituted also, on December 2,1851, the majority of the legislative National Assembly.
In August the constitutive assembly decided not to dissolve until ithad prepared and promulgated a whole series of organic laws, intendedto supplement the Constitution. The party of Order proposed to theassembly, through Representative Rateau, on January 6, 1849, to let theOrganic laws go, and rather to order its own dissolution. Not theministry alone, with Mr. Odillon Barrot at its head, but all theroyalist members of the National Assembly were also at this timehectoring to it that its dissolution was necessary for the restorationof the public credit, for the consolidation of order, to put an end tothe existing uncertain and provisional, and establish a definite stateof things; they claimed that its continued existence hindered theeffectiveness of the new Government, that it sought to prolong its lifeout of pure malice, and that the country was tired of it. Bonapartetook notice of all these invectives hurled at the legislative power, helearned them by heart, and, on December 21, 1851, he showed theparliamentary royalists that he had learned from them. He repeatedtheir own slogans against themselves.
The Barrot ministry and the party of Order went further. They calledall over France for petitions to the National Assembly in which thatbody was politely requested to disappear. Thus they led the people’sunorganic masses to the fray against the National Assembly, i.e., theconstitutionally organized expression of people itself. They taughtBonaparte, to appeal from the parliamentary body to the people.Finally, on January 29, 1849, the day arrived when the constitutionalassembly was to decide about its own dissolution. On that day the bodyfound its building occupied by the military; Changarnier, the Generalof the party of Order, in whose hands was joined the supreme command ofboth the National Guards and the regulars, held that day a greatmilitary review, as though a battle were imminent; and the coalizedroyalists declared threateningly to the constitutional assembly thatforce would be applied if it did not act willingly. It was willing, andchaffered only for a very short respite. What else was the 29th ofJanuary, 1849, than the “coup d’etat” of December 2, 1851, onlyexecuted by the royalists with Napoleon’s aid against the republicanNational Assembly? These gentlemen did not notice, or did not want tonotice, that Napoleon utilized the 29th of January, 1849, to cause apart of the troops to file before him in front of the Tuileries, andthat he seized with avidity this very first open exercise of themilitary against the parliamentary power in order to hint at Caligula.The allied royalists saw only their own Changarnier.
Another reason that particularly moved the party of Order forcibly toshorten the term of the constitutional assembly were the organic laws,the laws that were to supplement the Constitution, as, for instance,the laws on education, on religion, etc. The allied royalists had everyinterest in framing these laws themselves, and not allowing them to beframed by the already suspicious republicans. Among these organic laws,there was, however, one on the responsibility of the President of therepublic. In 1851 the Legislature was just engaged in framing such alaw when Bonaparte forestalled that political stroke by his own ofDecember 2. What all would not the coalized royalists have given intheir winter parliamentary campaign of 1851, had they but found this“Responsibility law” ready made, and framed at that, by the suspicious,the vicious republican Assembly!
After, on January 29, 1849, the constitutive assembly had itself brokenits last weapon, the Barrot ministry and the “Friends of Order”harassed it to death, left nothing undone to humiliate it, and wrungfrom its weakness, despairing of itself, laws that cost it the lastvestige of respect with the public. Bonaparte, occupied with his ownfixed Napoleonic idea, was audacious enough openly to exploit thisdegradation of the parliamentary power: When the National Assembly, onMay 8, 1849, passed a vote of censure upon the Ministry on account ofthe occupation of Civita-Vecchia by Oudinot, and ordered that the Romanexpedition be brought back to its alleged purpose, Bonaparte publishedthat same evening in the “Moniteur” a letter to Oudinot, in which hecongratulated him on his heroic feats, and already, in contrast withthe quill-pushing parliamentarians, posed as the generous protector ofthe Army. The royalists smiled at this. They took him simply for theirdupe. Finally, as Marrast, the President of the constitutionalassembly, believed on a certain occasion the safety of the body to bein danger, and, resting on the Constitution, made a requisition upon aColonel, together with his regiment, the Colonel refused obedience,took refuge behind the “discipline,” and referred Marrast toChangarnier, who scornfully sent him off with the remark that he didnot like “bayonettes intelligentes.” [#1 Intelligent bayonets] InNovember, 1851, as the coalized royalists wanted to begin the decisivestruggle with Bonaparte, they sought, by means of their notorious“Questors Bill,” to enforce the principle of the right of the Presidentof the National Assembly to issue direct requisitions for troops. Oneof their Generals, Leflo, supported the motion. In vain did Changarniervote for it, or did Thiers render homage to the cautious wisdom of thelate constitutional assembly. The Minister of War, St. Arnaud, answeredhim as Changarnier had answered Marrast—and he did so amidst theplaudits of the Mountain.
Thus did the party of Order itself, when as yet it was not the NationalAssembly, when as yet it was only a Ministry, brand the parliamentaryregime. And yet this party objects vociferously when the 2d ofDecember, 1851, banishes that regime from France!
We wish it a happy journey.



III.

On May 29, 1849, the legislative National Assembly convened. OnDecember 2, 1851, it was broken up. This period embraces the term ofthe Constitutional or Parliamentary public.
In the first French revolution, upon the reign of theConstitutionalists succeeds that of the Girondins; and upon the reignof the Girondins follows that of the Jacobins. Each of these parties insuccession rests upon its more advanced element. So soon as it hascarried the revolution far enough not to be able to keep pace with,much less march ahead of it, it is shoved aside by its more daringallies, who stand behind it, and it is sent to the guillotine. Thus therevolution moves along an upward line.
Just the reverse in 1848. The proletarian party appears as an appendageto the small traders’ or democratic party; it is betrayed by the latterand allowed to fall on April 16, May 15, and in the June days. In itsturn, the democratic party leans upon the shoulders of the bourgeoisrepublicans; barely do the bourgeois republicans believe themselvesfirmly in power, than they shake off these troublesome associates forthe purpose of themselves leaning upon the shoulders of the party ofOrder. The party of Order draws in its shoulders, lets the bourgeoisrepublicans tumble down heels over head, and throws itself upon theshoulders of the armed power. Finally, still of the mind that it issustained by the shoulders of the armed power, the party of Ordernotices one fine morning that these shoulders have turned intobayonets. Each party kicks backward at those that are pushing forward,and leans forward upon those that are crowding backward; no wonderthat, in this ludicrous posture, each loses its balance, and, afterhaving cut the unavoidable grimaces, breaks down amid singularsomersaults. Accordingly, the revolution moves along a downward line.It finds itself in this retreating motion before the lastFebruary-barricade is cleared away, and the first governmentalauthority of the revolution has been constituted.
The period we now have before us embraces the motliest jumble of cryingcontradictions: constitutionalists, who openly conspire against theConstitution; revolutionists, who admittedly are constitutional; aNational Assembly that wishes to be omnipotent yet remainsparliamentary; a Mountain, that finds its occupation in submission,that parries its present defeats with prophecies of future victories;royalists, who constitute the “patres conscripti” of the republic, andare compelled by the situation to uphold abroad the hostile monarchichouses, whose adherents they are, while in France they support therepublic that they hate; an Executive power that finds its strength inits very weakness, and its dignity in the contempt that it inspires; arepublic, that is nothing else than the combined infamy of twomonarchies—the Restoration and the July Monarchy—with an imperiallabel; unions, whose first clause is disunion; struggles, whose firstlaw is in-decision; in the name of peace, barren and hollow agitation;in the name of the revolution, solemn sermonizings on peace; passionswithout truth; truths without passion; heroes without heroism; historywithout events; development, whose only moving force seems to be thecalendar, and tiresome by the constant reiteration of the same tensionsand relaxes; contrasts, that seem to intensify themselves periodically,only in order to wear themselves off and collapse without a solution;pretentious efforts made for show, and bourgeois frights at the dangerof the destruction of the world, simultaneous with the carrying on ofthe pettiest intrigues and the performance of court comedies by theworld’s saviours, who, in their “laisser aller,” recall the Day ofJudgment not so much as the days of the Fronde; the official collectivegenius of France brought to shame by the artful stupidity of a singleindividual; the collective will of the nation, as often as it speaksthrough the general suffrage, seeking its true expression in theprescriptive enemies of the public interests until it finally finds itin the arbitrary will of a filibuster. If ever a slice from history isdrawn black upon black, it is this. Men and events appear as reversed“Schlemihls,” [#1 The hero In Chamisso’s “Peter Schiemihi,” who loseshis own shadow.] as shadows, the bodies of which have been lost. Therevolution itself paralyzes its own apostles, and equips only itsadversaries with passionate violence. When the “Red Spectre,”constantly conjured up and exorcised by the counter-revolutionistsfinally does appear, it does not appear with the Anarchist Phrygian capon its head, but in the uniform of Order, in the Red Breeches of theFrench Soldier.
We saw that the Ministry, which Bonaparte installed on December 20,1849, the day of his “Ascension,” was a ministry of the party of Order,of the Legitimist and Orleanist coalition. The Barrot-Falloux ministryhad weathered the republican constitutive convention, whose term oflife it had shortened with more or less violence, and found itselfstill at the helm. Changamier, the General of the allied royalistscontinued to unite in his person the command-in-chief of the FirstMilitary Division and of the Parisian National Guard. Finally, thegeneral elections had secured the large majority in the NationalAssembly to the party of Order. Here the Deputies and Peers of LouisPhillipe met a saintly crowd of Legitimists, for whose benefit numerousballots of the nation had been converted into admission tickets to thepolitical stage. The Bonapartist representatives were too thinly sowedto be able to build an independent parliamentary party. They appearedonly as “mauvaise queue” [#2 Practical joke] played upon the party ofOrder. Thus the party of Order was in possession of the Government, ofthe Army, and of the legislative body, in short, of the total power ofthe State, morally strengthened by the general elections, that causedtheir sovereignty to appear as the will of the people, and by thesimultaneous victory of the counter-revolution on the whole continentof Europe.
Never did party open its campaign with larger means at its disposal andunder more favorable auspices.
The shipwrecked pure republicans found themselves in the legislativeNational Assembly melted down to a clique of fifty men, with theAfrican Generals Cavaignac, Lamorciere and Bedeau at its head. Thegreat Opposition party was, however, formed by the Mountain. Thisparliamentary baptismal name was given to itself by the SocialDemocratic party. It disposed of more than two hundred votes out of theseven hundred and fifty in the National Assembly, and, hence, was atleast just as powerful as any one of the three factions of the party ofOrder. Its relative minority to the total royalist coalition seemedcounterbalanced by special circumstances. Not only did the Departmentalelection returns show that it had gained a considerable following amongthe rural population, but, furthermore, it numbered almost all theParis Deputies in its camp; the Army had, by the election of threeunder-officers, made a confession of democratic faith; and the leaderof the Mountain, Ledru-Rollin had in contrast to all therepresentatives of the party of Order, been raised to the rank of the“parliamentary nobility” by five Departments, who combined theirsuffrages upon him. Accordingly, in view of the inevitable collisionsof the royalists among themselves, on the one hand, and of the wholeparty of Order with Bonaparte, on the other, the Mountain seemed on May29,1849, to have before it all the elements of success. A fortnightlater, it had lost everything, its honor included.
Before we follow this parliamentary history any further, a fewobservations are necessary, in order to avoid certain common deceptionsconcerning the whole character of the epoch that lies before us.According to the view of the democrats, the issue, during the period ofthe legislative National Assembly, was, the same as during the periodof the constitutive assembly, simply the struggle between republicansand royalists; the movement itself was summed up by them in thecatch-word Reaction—night, in which all cats are grey, and allows themto drawl out their drowsy commonplaces. Indeed, at first sight, theparty of Order presents the appearance of a tangle of royalistfactions, that, not only intrigue against each other, each aiming toraise its own Pretender to the throne, and exclude the Pretender of theOpposite party, but also are all united in a common hatred for andcommon attacks against the “Republic.” On its side, the Mountainappears, in counter-distinction to the royalist conspiracy, as therepresentative of the “Republic.” The party of Order seems constantlyengaged in a “Reaction,” which, neither more nor less than in Prussia,is directed against the press, the right of association and the like,and is enforced by brutal police interventions on the part of thebureaucracy, the police and the public prosecutor—just as in Prussia;the Mountain on the contrary, is engaged with equal assiduity inparrying these attacks, and thus in defending the “eternal rights ofman”—as every so-called people’s party has more or less done for thelast hundred and fifty years. At a closer inspection, however, of thesituation and of the parties, this superficial appearance, which veilsthe Class Struggle, together with the peculiar physiognomy of thisperiod, vanishes wholly.
Legitimists and Orleanists constituted, as said before, the two largefactions of the party of Order. What held these two factions to theirrespective Pretenders, and inversely kept them apart from each other,what else was it but the lily and the tricolor, the House of Bourbonand the house of Orleans, different shades of royalty? Under theBourbons, Large Landed Property ruled together with its parsons andlackeys; under the Orleanist, it was the high finance, large industry,large commerce, i.e., Capital, with its retinue of lawyers, professorsand orators. The Legitimate kingdom was but the political expressionfor the hereditary rule of the landlords, as the July monarchy was burthe political expression for the usurped rule of the bourgeoisupstarts. What, accordingly, kept these two factions apart was noso-called set of principles, it was their material conditions forlife—two different sorts of property—; it was the old antagonism of theCity and the Country, the rivalry between Capital and Landed property.That simultaneously old recollections; personal animosities, fears andhopes; prejudices and illusions; sympathies and antipathies;convictions, faith and principles bound these factions to one House orthe other, who denies it? Upon the several forms of property, upon thesocial conditions of existence, a whole superstructure is reared ofvarious and peculiarly shaped feelings, illusions, habits of thoughtand conceptions of life. The whole class produces and shapes these outof its material foundation and out of the corresponding socialconditions. The individual unit to whom they flow through tradition andeducation, may fancy that they constitute the true reasons for andpremises of his conduct. Although Orleanists and Legitimists, each ofthese factions, sought to make itself and the other believe that whatkept the two apart was the attachment of each to its respective royalHouse; nevertheless, facts proved later that it rather was theirdivided interest that forbade the union of the two royal Houses. As, inprivate life, the distinction is made between what a man thinks ofhimself and says, and that which he really is and does, so, all themore, must the phrases and notions of parties in historic struggles bedistinguished from the real organism, and their real interests, theirnotions and their reality. Orleanists and Legitimists found themselvesin the republic beside each other with equal claims. Each side wishing,in opposition to the other, to carry out the restoration of its ownroyal House, meant nothing else than that each of the two greatInterests into which the bourgeoisie is divided—Land and Capital—soughtto restore its own supremacy and the subordinacy of the other. We speakof two bourgeois interests because large landed property, despite itsfeudal coquetry and pride of race, has become completely bourgeoisthrough the development of modern society. Thus did the Tories ofEngland long fancy that they were enthusiastic for the Kingdom, theChurch and the beauties of the old English Constitution, until the dayof danger wrung from them the admission that their enthusiasm was onlyfor Ground Rent.
The coalized royalists carried on their intrigues against each other inthe press, in Ems, in Clarmont—outside of the parliament. Behind thescenes, they don again their old Orleanist and Legitimist liveries, andconduct their old tourneys; on the public stage, however, in theirpublic acts, as a great parliamentary party, they dispose of theirrespective royal houses with mere courtesies, adjourn “in infinitum”the restoration of the monarchy. Their real business is transacted asParty of Order, i. e., under a Social, not a Political title; asrepresentatives of the bourgeois social system; not as knights oftraveling princesses, but as the bourgeois class against the otherclasses; not as royalists against republicans. Indeed, as party ofOrder they exercised a more unlimited and harder dominion over theother classes of society than ever before either under the restorationor the July monarchy-a thing possible only under the form of aparliamentary republic, because under this form alone could the twolarge divisions of the French bourgeoisie be united; in other words,only under this form could they place on the order of business thesovereignty of their class, in lieu of the regime of a privilegedfaction of the same. If, this notwithstanding, they are seen as theparty of Order to insult the republic and express their antipathy forit, it happened not out of royalist traditions only: Instinct taughtthem that while, indeed, the republic completes their authority, it atthe same time undermined their social foundation, in that, withoutintermediary, without the mask of the crown, without being able to turnaside the national interest by means of its subordinate struggles amongits own conflicting elements and with the crown, the republic iscompelled to stand up sharp against the subjugated classes, and wrestlewith them. It was a sense of weakness that caused them to recoil beforethe unqualified demands of their own class rule, and to retreat to theless complete, less developed, and, for that very reason, lessdangerous forms of the same. As often, on the contrary, as the alliedroyalists come into conflict with the Pretender who stands beforethem—with Bonaparte—, as often as they believe their parliamentaryomnipotence to be endangered by the Executive, in other words, as oftenas they must trot out the political title of their authority, they stepup as Republicans, not as Royalists—and this is done from the OrleanistThiers, who warns the National Assembly that the republic divides themleast, down to Legitimist Berryer, who, on December 2, 1851, the scarfof the tricolor around him, harangues the people assembled before theMayor’s building of the Tenth Arrondissement, as a tribune in the nameof the Republic; the echo, however, derisively answering back to him:“Henry V.! Henry V!” [#3 The candidate of the Bourbons, or Legitimists,for the throne.]
However, against the allied bourgeois, a coalition was made between thesmall traders and the workingmen—the so-called Social Democratic party.The small traders found themselves ill rewarded after the June days of1848; they saw their material interests endangered, and the democraticguarantees, that were to uphold their interests, made doubtful. Hence,they drew closer to the workingmen. On the other hand, theirparliamentary representatives—the Mountain—, after being shoved asideduring the dictatorship of the bourgeois republicans, had, during thelast half of the term of the constitutive convention, regained theirlost popularity through the struggle with Bonaparte and the royalistministers. They had made an alliance with the Socialist leaders. DuringFebruary, 1849, reconciliation banquets were held. A common program wasdrafted, joint election committees were empanelled, and fusioncandidates were set up. The revolutionary point was thereby broken offfrom the social demands of the proletariat and a democratic turn givento them; while, from the democratic claims of the small traders’ class,the mere political form was rubbed off and the Socialist point waspushed forward. Thus came the Social Democracy about. The new Mountain,the result of this combination, contained, with the exception of somefigures from the working class and some Socialist sectarians, theidentical elements of the old Mountain, only numerically stronger. Inthe course of events it had, however, changed, together with the classthat it represented. The peculiar character of the Social Democracy issummed up in this that democratic-republican institutions are demandedas the means, not to remove the two extremes—Capital and Wage-slavery—,but in order to weaken their antagonism and transform them into aharmonious whole. However different the methods may be that areproposed for the accomplishment of this object, however much the objectitself may be festooned with more or less revolutionary fancies, thesubstance remains the same. This substance is the transformation ofsociety upon democratic lines, but a transformation within theboundaries of the small traders’ class. No one must run away with thenarrow notion that the small traders’ class means on principle toenforce a selfish class interest. It believes rather that the specialconditions for its own emancipation are the general conditions underwhich alone modern society can be saved and the class struggle avoided.Likewise must we avoid running away with the notion that the DemocraticRepresentatives are all “shopkeepers,” or enthuse for these. Theymay—by education and individual standing—be as distant from them asheaven is from earth. That which makes them representatives of thesmall traders’ class is that they do not intellectually leap the boundswhich that class itself does not leap in practical life; that,consequently, they are theoretically driven to the same problems andsolutions, to which material interests and social standing practicallydrive the latter. Such, in fact, is at all times the relation of the“political” and the “literary” representatives of a class to the classthey represent.
After the foregoing explanations, it goes with-out saying that, whilethe Mountain is constantly wrestling for the republic and the so-called“rights of man,” neither the republic nor the “rights of man” is itsreal goal, as little as an army, whose weapons it is sought to depriveit of and that defends itself, steps on the field of battle simply inorder to remain in possession of implements of warfare.
The party of Order provoked the Mountain immediately upon the conveningof the assembly. The bourgeoisie now felt the necessity of disposing ofthe democratic small traders’ class, just as a year before it hadunderstood the necessity of putting an end to the revolutionaryproletariat.
But the position of the foe had changed. The strength of theproletarian party was on the streets; that of the small traders’ classwas in the National Assembly itself. The point was, accordingly, towheedle them out of the National Assembly into the street, and to havethem break their parliamentary power themselves, before time andopportunity could consolidate them. The Mountain jumped with loosereins into the trap.
The bombardment of Rome by the French troops was the bait thrown at theMountain. It violated Article V. of the Constitution, which forbade theFrench republic to use its forces against the liberties of othernations; besides, Article IV. forbade all declaration of war by theExecutive without the consent of the National Assembly; furthermore,the constitutive assembly had censured the Roman expedition by itsresolution of May 8. Upon these grounds, Ledru-Rollin submitted on June11, 1849, a motion impeaching Bonaparte and his Ministers. Instigatedby the wasp-stings of Thiers, he even allowed himself to be carriedaway to the point of threatening to defend the Constitution by allmeans, even arms in hand. The Mountain rose as one man, and repeatedthe challenge. On June 12, the National Assembly rejected the notion toimpeach, and the Mountain left the parliament. The events of June 13are known: the proclamation by a part of the Mountain pronouncingNapoleon and his Ministers “outside the pale of the Constitution”; thestreet parades of the democratic National Guards, who, unarmed as theywere, flew apart at contact with the troops of Changarnier; etc., etc.Part of the Mountain fled abroad, another part was assigned to the HighCourt of Bourges, and a parliamentary regulation placed the rest underthe school-master supervision of the President of the NationalAssembly. Paris was again put under a state of siege; and thedemocratic portion of the National Guards was disbanded. Thus theinfluence of the Mountain in parliament was broken, together with thepower; of the small traders’ class in Paris.
Lyons, where the 13th of June had given the signal to a bloody laboruprising, was, together with the five surrounding Departments, likewisepronounced in state of siege, a condition that continues down to thismoment. [#4 January, 1852]
The bulk of the Mountain had left its vanguard in the lurch by refusingtheir signatures to the proclamation; the press had deserted: only twopapers dared to publish the pronunciamento; the small traders hadbetrayed their Representatives: the National Guards stayed away, or,where they did turn up, hindered the raising of barricades; theRepresentatives had duped the small traders: nowhere were the allegedaffiliated members from the Army to be seen; finally, instead ofgathering strength from them, the democratic party had infected theproletariat with its own weakness, and, as usual with democratic feats,the leaders had the satisfaction of charging “their people” withdesertion, and the people had the satisfaction of charging theirleaders with fraud.
Seldom was an act announced with greater noise than the campaigncontemplated by the Mountain; seldom was an event trumpeted ahead withmore certainty and longer beforehand than the “inevitable victory ofthe democracy.” This is evident: the democrats believe in the trombonesbefore whose blasts the walls of Jericho fall together; as often asthey stand before the walls of despotism, they seek to imitate themiracle. If the Mountain wished to win in parliament, it should notappeal to arms; if it called to arms in parliament, it should notconduct itself parliamentarily on the street; if the friendlydemonstration was meant seriously, it was silly not to foresee that itwould meet with a warlike reception; if it was intended for actual war,it was rather original to lay aside the weapons with which war had tobe conducted. But the revolutionary threats of the middle class and oftheir democratic representatives are mere attempts to frighten anadversary; when they have run themselves into a blind alley, when theyhave sufficiently compromised themselves and are compelled to executetheir threats, the thing is done in a hesitating manner that avoidsnothing so much as the means to the end, and catches at pretexts tosuccumb. The bray of the overture, that announces the fray, is lost ina timid growl so soon as this is to start; the actors cease to takethemselves seriously, and the performance falls flat like an inflatedballoon that is pricked with a needle.
No party exaggerates to itself the means at its disposal more than thedemocratic, none deceives itself with greater heedlessness on thesituation. A part of the Army voted for it, thereupon the Mountain isof the opinion that the Army would revolt in its favor. And by whatoccasion? By an occasion, that, from the standpoint of the troops,meant nothing else than that the revolutionary soldiers should take thepart of the soldiers of Rome against French soldiers. On the otherhand, the memory of June, 1848, was still too fresh not to keep alive adeep aversion on the part of the proletariat towards the NationalGuard, and a strong feeling of mistrust on the part of the leaders ofthe secret societies for the democratic leaders. In order to balancethese differences, great common interests at stake were needed. Theviolation of an abstract constitutional paragraph could not supply suchinterests. Had not the constitution been repeatedly violated, accordingto the assurances of the democrats themselves? Had not the most popularpapers branded them as a counter-revolutionary artifice? But thedemocrat—by reason of his representing the middle class, that is tosay, a Transition Class, in which the interests of two other classesare mutually dulled—, imagines himself above all class contrast. Thedemocrats grant that opposed to them stands a privileged class, butthey, together with the whole remaining mass of the nation, constitutethe “PEOPLE.” What they represent is the “people’s rights”; theirinterests are the “people’s interests.” Hence, they do not considerthat, at an impending struggle, they need to examine the interests andattitude of the different classes. They need not too seriously weightheir own means. All they have to do is to give the signal in order tohave the “people” fall upon the “oppressors” with all its inexhaustibleresources. If, thereupon, in the execution, their interests turn out tobe uninteresting, and their power to be impotence, it is ascribedeither to depraved sophists, who split up the “undivisible people” intoseveral hostile camps; or to the army being too far brutalized andblinded to appreciate the pure aims of the democracy as its own best;or to some detail in the execution that wrecks the whole plan; or,finally, to an unforeseen accident that spoiled the game this time. Atall events, the democrat comes out of the disgraceful defeat asimmaculate as he went innocently into it, and with the refreshedconviction that he must win; not that he himself and his party mustgive up their old standpoint, but that, on the contrary, conditionsmust come to his aid.
For all this, one must not picture to himself the decimated, broken,and, by the new parliamentary regulation, humbled Mountain altogethertoo unhappy. If June 13 removed its leaders, it, on the other hand,made room for new ones of inferior capacity, who are flattered by theirnew position. If their impotence in parliament could no longer bedoubted, they were now justified to limit their activity to outburstsof moral indignation. If the party of Order pretended to see in them,as the last official representatives of the revolution, all the horrorsof anarchy incarnated, they were free to appear all the more flat andmodest in reality. Over June 13 they consoled themselves with theprofound expression: “If they but dare to assail universal suffrage . .. then . . . then we will show who we are!” Nous verrons. [#5 We shallsee.]
As to the “Mountaineers,” who had fled abroad, it suffices here to saythat Ledru-Rollin—he having accomplished the feat of hopelesslyruining, in barely a fortnight, the powerful party at whose head hestood—, found himself called upon to build up a French government “inpartibus;” that his figure, at a distance, removed from the field ofaction, seemed to gain in size in the measure that the level of therevolution sank and the official prominences of official France becamemore and more dwarfish; that he could figure as republican Pretenderfor 1852, and periodically issued to the Wallachians and other peoplescirculars in which “despot of the continent” is threatened with thefeats that he and his allies had in contemplation. Was Proudhon whollywrong when he cried out to these gentlemen: “Vous n’êtes que desblaqueurs”? [#6 You are nothing but fakirs.]
The party of Order had, on June 13, not only broken up the Mountain, ithad also established the Subordination of the Constitution to theMajority Decisions of the National Assembly. So, indeed, did therepublic understand it, to—wit, that the bourgeois ruled here inparliamentary form, without, as in the monarchy, finding a check in theveto of the Executive power, or the liability of parliament todissolution. It was a “parliamentary republic,” as Thiers styled it.But if, on June 13, the bourgeoisie secured its omnipotence within theparliament building, did it not also strike the parliament itself, asagainst the Executive and the people, with incurable weakness byexcluding its most popular part? By giving up numerous Deputies,without further ceremony to the mercies of the public prosecutor, itabolished its own parliamentary inviolability. The humiliatingregulation, that it subjected the Mountain to, raised the President ofthe republic in the same measure that it lowered the individualRepresentatives of the people. By branding an insurrection in defenseof the Constitution as anarchy, and as a deed looking to the overthrowof society, it interdicted to itself all appeal to insurrectionwhenever the Executive should violate the Constitution against it. And,indeed, the irony of history wills it that the very General, who byorder of Bonaparte bombarded Rome, and thus gave the immediate occasionto the constitutional riot of June 13, that Oudinot, on December 22,1851, is the one imploringly and vainly to be offered to the people bythe party of Order as the General of the Constitution. Another hero ofJune 13, Vieyra, who earned praise from the tribune of the NationalAssembly for the brutalities that he had committed in the democraticnewspaper offices at the head of a gang of National Guards in the hireof the high finance—this identical Vieyra was initiated in theconspiracy of Bonaparte, and contributed materially in cutting off allprotection that could come to the National Assembly, in the hour of itsagony, from the side of the National Guard.
June 13 had still another meaning. The Mountain had wanted to placeBonaparte under charges. Their defeat was, accordingly, a directvictory of Bonaparte; it was his personal triumph over his democraticenemies. The party of Order fought for the victory, Bonaparte neededonly to pocket it. He did so. On June 14, a proclamation was to be readon the walls of Paris wherein the President, as it were, without hisconnivance, against his will, driven by the mere force ofcircumstances, steps forward from his cloisterly seclusion likemisjudged virtue, complains of the calumnies of his antagonists, and,while seeming to identify his own person with the cause of order,rather identifies the cause of order with his own person. Besides this,the National Assembly had subsequently approved the expedition againstRome; Bonaparte, however, had taken the initiative in the affair. Afterhe had led the High Priest Samuel back into the Vatican, he could hopeas King David to occupy the Tuileries. He had won the parson-interestsover to himself.
The riot of June 13 limited itself, as we have seen, to a peacefulstreet procession. There were, consequently, no laurels to be won fromit. Nevertheless, in these days, poor in heroes and events, the partyof Order converted this bloodless battle into a second Austerlitz.Tribune and press lauded the army as the power of order against thepopular multitude, and the impotence of anarchy; and Changarnier as the“bulwark of society”—a mystification that he finally believed inhimself. Underhand, however, the corps that seemed doubtful wereremoved from Paris; the regiments whose suffrage had turned out mostdemocratic were banished from France to Algiers the restless headsamong the troops were consigned to penal quarters; finally, theshutting out of the press from the barracks, and of the barracks fromcontact with the citizens was systematically carried out.
We stand here at the critical turning point in the history of theFrench National Guard. In 1830, it had decided the downfall of therestoration. Under Louis Philippe, every riot failed, at which theNational Guard stood on the side of the troops. When, in the Februarydays of 1848, it showed itself passive against the uprising anddoubtful toward Louis Philippe himself, he gave himself up for lost.Thus the conviction cast root that a revolution could not win without,nor the Army against the National Guard. This was the superstitiousfaith of the Army in bourgeois omnipotence. The June days of 1548, whenthe whole National Guard, jointly with the regular troops, threw downthe insurrection, had confirmed the superstition. After theinauguration of Bonaparte’s administration, the position of theNational Guard sank somewhat through the unconstitutional joining oftheir command with the command of the First Military Division in theperson of Changarnier.
As the command of the National Guard appeared here merely an attributeof the military commander-in-chief, so did the Guard itself appear onlyas an appendage of the regular troops. Finally, on June 13, theNational Guard was broken up, not through its partial dissolution only,that from that date forward was periodically repeated at all points ofFrance, leaving only wrecks of its former self behind. Thedemonstration of June 13 was, above all, a demonstration of theNational Guards. True, they had not carried their arms, but they hadcarried their uniforms against the Army—and the talisman lay just inthese uniforms. The Army then learned that this uniform was but awoolen rag, like any other. The spell was broken. In the June days of1848, bourgeoisie and small traders were united as National Guard withthe Army against the proletariat; on June 13, 1849, the bourgeoisie hadthe small traders’ National Guard broken up; on December 2, 1851, theNational Guard of the bourgeoisie itself vanished, and Bonaparteattested the fact when he subsequently signed the decree for itsdisbandment. Thus the bourgeoisie had itself broken its last weaponagainst the army, from the moment when the small traders’ class nolonger stood as a vassal behind, but as a rebel before it; indeed, itwas bound to do so, as it was bound to destroy with its own hand allits means of defence against absolutism, so soon as itself wasabsolute.
In the meantime, the party of Order celebrated the recovery of a powerthat seemed lost in 1848 only in order that, freed from its trammels in1849, it be found again through invectives against the republic and theConstitution; through the malediction of all future, present and pastrevolutions, that one included which its own leaders had made; and,finally, in laws by which the press was gagged, the right ofassociation destroyed, and the stage of siege regulated as an organicinstitution. The National Assembly then adjourned from the middle ofAugust to the middle of October, after it had appointed a PermanentCommittee for the period of its absence. During these vacations, theLegitimists intrigued with Ems; the Orleanists with Claremont;Bonaparte through princely excursions; the Departmental Councilmen inconferences over the revision of the Constitution;—occurrences, all ofwhich recurred regularly at the periodical vacations of the NationalAssembly, and upon which I shall not enter until they have matured intoevents. Be it here only observed that the National Assembly wasimpolitic in vanishing from the stage for long intervals, and leavingin view, at the head of the republic, only one, however sorry,figure—Louis Bonaparte’s—, while, to the public scandal, the party ofOrder broke up into its own royalist component parts, that pursuedtheir conflicting aspirations after the restoration. As often as,during these vacations the confusing noise of the parliament washushed, and its body was dissolved in the nation, it was unmistakablyshown that only one thing was still wanting to complete the true figureof the republic: to make the vacation of the National Assemblypermanent, and substitute its inscription—“Liberty, Equality,Fraternity”—by the unequivocal words, “Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery”.



IV.

The National Assembly reconvened in the middle of October. On November1, Bonaparte surprised it with a message, in which he announced thedismissal of the Barrot-Falloux Ministry, and the framing of a new.Never have lackeys been chased from service with less ceremony thanBonaparte did his ministers. The kicks, that were eventually destinedfor the National Assembly, Barrot & Company received in the meantime.
The Barrot Ministry was, as we have seen, composed of Legitimists andOrleanists; it was a Ministry of the party of Order. Bonaparte neededthat Ministry in order to dissolve the republican constituent assembly,to effect the expedition against Rome, and to break up the democraticparty. He had seemingly eclipsed himself behind this Ministry, yieldedthe reins to the hands of the party of Order, and assumed the modestmask, which, under Louis Philippe, had been worn by the responsibleoverseer of the newspapers—the mask of “homme de paille.” [#1 Man ofstraw] Now he threw off the mask, it being no longer the light curtainbehind which he could conceal, but the Iron Mask, which prevented himfrom revealing his own physiognomy. He had instituted the BarrotMinistry in order to break up the republican National Assembly in thename of the party of Order; he now dismissed it in order to declare hisown name independent of the parliament of the party of Order.
There was no want of plausible pretexts for this dismissal. The BarrotMinistry had neglected even the forms of decency that would haveallowed the president of the republic to appear as a power along withthe National Assembly. For instance, during the vacation of theNational Assembly, Bonaparte published a letter to Edgar Ney, in whichhe seemed to disapprove the liberal attitude of the Pope, just as, inopposition to the constitutive assembly, he had published a letter, inwhich he praised Oudinot for his attack upon the Roman republic; whenthe National Assembly came to vote on the budget for the Romanexpedition, Victor Hugo, out of pretended liberalism, brought up thatletter for discussion; the party of Order drowned this notion ofBonaparte’s under exclamations of contempt and incredulity as thoughnotions of Bonaparte could not possibly have any political weight;—andnone of the Ministers took up the gauntlet for him. On anotheroccasion, Barrot, with his well-known hollow pathos, dropped, from thespeakers’ tribune in the Assembly, words of indignation upon the“abominable machinations,” which, according to him, went on in theimmediate vicinity of the President. Finally, while the Ministryobtained from the National Assembly a widow’s pension for the Duchessof Orleans, it denied every motion to raise the Presidential civillist;—and, in Bonaparte, be it always remembered, the ImperialPretender was so closely blended with the impecunious adventurer, thatthe great idea of his being destined to restore the Empire was eversupplemented by that other, to-wit, that the French people was destinedto pay his debts.
The Barrot-Falloux Ministry was the first and last parliamentaryMinistry that Bonaparte called into life. Its dismissal marks,accordingly, a decisive period. With the Ministry, the party of Orderlost, never to regain, an indispensable post to the maintenance of theparliamentary regime,—the handle to the Executive power. It is readilyunderstood that, in a country like France, where the Executive disposesover an army of more than half a million office-holders, and,consequently, keeps permanently a large mass of interests andexistences in the completest dependence upon itself; where theGovernment surrounds, controls, regulates, supervises and guardssociety, from its mightiest acts of national life, down to its mostinsignificant motions; from its common life, down to the private lifeof each individual; where, due to such extraordinary centralization,this body of parasites acquires a ubiquity and omniscience, a quickenedcapacity for motion and rapidity that finds an analogue only in thehelpless lack of self-reliance, in the unstrung weakness of the bodysocial itself;—that in such a country the National Assembly lost, withthe control of the ministerial posts, all real influence; unless itsimultaneously simplified the administration; if possible, reduced thearmy of office-holders; and, finally, allowed society and publicopinion to establish its own organs, independent of governmentcensorship. But the Material Interest of the French bourgeoisie is mostintimately bound up in maintenance of just such a large and extensivelyramified governmental machine. There the bourgeoisie provides for itsown superfluous membership; and supplies, in the shape of governmentsalaries, what it can not pocket in the form of profit, interest, rentand fees. On the other hand, its Political Interests daily compel it toincrease the power of repression, i.e., the means and the personnel ofthe government; it is at the same time forced to conduct anuninterrupted warfare against public opinion, and, full of suspicion,to hamstring and lame the independent organs of society—whenever itdoes not succeed in amputating them wholly. Thus the bourgeoisie ofFrance was forced by its own class attitude, on the one hand, todestroy the conditions for all parliamentary power, its own included,and, on the other, to render irresistible the Executive power thatstood hostile to it.
The new Ministry was called the d’Hautpoul Ministry. Not that Generald’Hautpoul had gained the rank of Ministerial President. Along withBarrot, Bonaparte abolished this dignity, which, it must be granted,condemned the President of the republic to the legal nothingness of aconstitutional kind, of a constitutional king at that, without throneand crown, without sceptre and without sword, without irresponsibility,without the imperishable possession of the highest dignity in theState, and, what was most untoward of all—without a civil list. Thed’Hautpoul Ministry numbered only one man of parliamentary reputation,the Jew Fould, one of the most notorious members of the high finance.To him fell the portfolio of finance. Turn to the Paris stockquotations, and it will be found that from November 1, 1849, Frenchstocks fall and rise with the falling and rising of the Bonapartistshares. While Bonaparte had thus found his ally in the Bourse, he atthe same time took possession of the Police through the appointment ofCarlier as Prefect of Police.
But the consequences of the change of Ministry could reveal themselvesonly in the course of events. So far, Bonaparte had taken only one stepforward, to be all the more glaringly driven back. Upon his harshmessage, followed the most servile declarations of submissiveness tothe National Assembly. As often as the Ministers made timid attempts tointroduce his own personal hobbies as bills, they themselves seemedunwilling and compelled only by their position to run the comicerrands, of whose futility they were convinced in advance. As often asBonaparte blabbed out his plans behind the backs of his Ministers, andsported his “idees napoleoniennes,” [#2 Napoleonic ideas.] his ownMinisters disavowed him from the speakers’ tribune in the NationalAssembly. His aspirations after usurpation seemed to become audibleonly to the end that the ironical laughter of his adversaries shouldnot die out. He deported himself like an unappreciated genius, whom theworld takes for a simpleton. Never did lie enjoy in fuller measure thecontempt of all classes than at this period. Never did the bourgeoisierule more absolutely; never did it more boastfully display the insigniaof sovereignty.
It is not here my purpose to write the history of its legislativeactivity, which is summed up in two laws passed during this period: thelaw reestablishing the duty on wine, and the laws on education, tosuppress infidelity. While the drinking of wine was made difficult tothe Frenchmen, all the more bounteously was the water of pure lifepoured out to them. Although in the law on the duty on wine thebourgeoisie declares the old hated French tariff system to beinviolable, it sought, by means of the laws on education, to secure theold good will of the masses that made the former bearable. One wondersto see the Orleanists, the liberal bourgeois, these old apostles ofVoltarianism and of eclectic philosophy, entrusting the supervision ofthe French intellect to their hereditary enemies, the Jesuits. But,while Orleanists and Legitimists could part company on the question ofthe Pretender to the crown, they understood full well that their jointreign dictated the joining of the means of oppression of two distinctepochs; that the means of subjugation of the July monarchy had to besupplemented with and strengthened by the means of subjugation of therestoration.
The farmers, deceived in all their expectations, more than ever grounddown by the law scale of the price of corn, on the one hand, and, onthe other, by the growing load of taxation and mortgages, began to stirin the Departments. They were answered by the systematic baiting of theschool masters, whom the Government subjected to the clergy; by thesystematic baiting of the Mayors, whom it subjected to the Prefects;and by a system of espionage to which all were subjected. In Paris andthe large towns, the reaction itself carries the physiognomy of its ownepoch; it irritates more than it cows; in the country, it becomes low,moan, petty, tiresome, vexatious,—in a word, it becomes “gensdarme.” Itis easily understood how three years of the gensdarme regime,sanctified by the regime of the clergyman, was bound to demoralizeunripe masses.
Whatever the mass of passion and declamation, that the party of Orderexpended from the speakers’ tribune in the National Assembly againstthe minority, its speech remained monosyllabic, like that of theChristian, whose speech was to be “Aye, aye; nay, nay.” It wasmonosyllabic, whether from the tribune or the press; dull as aconundrum, whose solution is known beforehand. Whether the question wasthe right of petition or the duty on wine, the liberty of the press orfree trade, clubs or municipal laws, protection of individual freedomor the regulation of national economy, the slogan returns ever again,the theme is monotonously the same, the verdict is ever ready andunchanged: Socialism! Even bourgeois liberalism is pronouncedsocialistic; socialistic, alike, is pronounced popular education; and,likewise, socialistic national financial reform. It was socialistic tobuild a railroad where already a canal was; and it was socialistic todefend oneself with a stick when attacked with a sword.
This was not a mere form of speech, a fashion, nor yet party tactics.The bourgeoisie perceives correctly that all the weapons, which itforged against feudalism, turn their edges against itself; that all themeans of education, which it brought forth, rebel against its owncivilization; that all the gods, which it made, have fallen away fromit. It understands that all its so-called citizens’ rights andprogressive organs assail and menace its class rule, both in its socialfoundation and its political superstructure—consequently, have become“socialistic.” It justly scents in this menace and assault the secretof Socialism, whose meaning and tendency it estimates more correctlythan the spurious, so-called Socialism, is capable of estimatingitself, and which, consequently, is unable to understand how it is thatthe bourgeoisie obdurately shuts up its ears to it, alike whether itsentimentally whines about the sufferings of humanity; or announces inChristian style the millennium and universal brotherhood; or twaddleshumanistically about the soul, culture and freedom; or doctrinallymatches out a system of harmony and wellbeing for all classes. What,however, the bourgeoisie does not understand is the consequence thatits own parliamentary regime, its own political reign, is also ofnecessity bound to fall under the general ban of “socialistic.” So longas the rule of the bourgeoisie is not fully organized, has not acquiredits purely political character, the contrast with the other classescannot come into view in all its sharpness; and, where it does comeinto view, it cannot take that dangerous turn that converts everyconflict with the Government into a conflict with Capital. When,however, the French bourgeoisie began to realize in every pulsation ofsociety a menace to “peace,” how could it, at the head of society,pretend to uphold the regime of unrest, its own regime, theparliamentary regime, which, according to the expression of one of itsown orators, lives in struggle, and through struggle? The parliamentaryregime lives on discussion,—how can it forbid discussion? Every singleinterest, every single social institution is there converted intogeneral thoughts, is treated as a thought,—how could any interest orinstitution claim to be above thought, and impose itself as an articleof faith? The orators’ conflict in the tribune calls forth the conflictof the rowdies in the press the debating club in parliament isnecessarily supplemented by debating clubs in the salons and thebarrooms; the representatives, who are constantly appealing to popularopinion, justify popular opinion in expressing its real opinion inpetitions. The parliamentary regime leaves everything to the decisionof majorities,—how can the large majorities beyond parliament beexpected not to wish to decide? If, from above, they hear the fiddlescreeching, what else is to be expected than that those below shoulddance?
Accordingly, by now persecuting as Socialist what formerly it hadcelebrated as Liberal, the bourgeoisie admits that its own interestorders it to raise itself above the danger of self government; that, inorder to restore rest to the land, its own bourgeois parliament must,before all, be brought to rest; that, in order to preserve its socialpower unhurt, its political power must be broken; that the privatebourgeois can continue to exploit the other classes and rejoice in“property,” “family,” “religion” and “order” only under the conditionthat his own class be condemned to the same political nullity of theother classes, that, in order to save their purse, the crown must beknocked off their heads, and the sword that was to shield them, must atthe same time be hung over their heads as a sword of Damocles.
In the domain of general bourgeois interests, the National Assemblyproved itself so barren, that, for instance, the discussion over theParis-Avignon railroad, opened in the winter of 1850, was not yet ripefor a vote on December 2, 1851. Wherever it did not oppress or wasreactionary, the bourgeoisie was smitten with incurable barrenness.
While Bonaparte’s Ministry either sought to take the initiative of lawsin the spirit of the party of Order, or even exaggerated their severityin their enforcement and administration, he, on his part, sought to winpopularity by means of childishly silly propositions, to exhibit thecontrast between himself and the National Assembly, and to hint at asecret plan, held in reserve and only through circumstances temporarilyprevented from disclosing its hidden treasures to the French people. Ofthis nature was the proposition to decree a daily extra pay of foursous to the under-officers; so, likewise, the proposition for a “wordof honor” loan bank for working-men. To have money given and moneyborrowed—that was the perspective that he hoped to cajole the masseswith. Presents and loans—to that was limited the financial wisdom ofthe slums, the high as well as the low; to that were limited thesprings which Bonaparte knew how to set in motion. Never did Pretenderspeculate more dully upon the dullness of the masses.
Again and again did the National Assembly fly into a passion at theseunmistakable attempts to win popularity at its expense, and at thegrowing danger that this adventurer, lashed on by debts andunrestrained by reputation, might venture upon some desperate act. Thestrained relations between the party of Order and the President hadtaken on a threatening aspect, when an unforeseen event threw him back,rueful into its arms. We mean the supplementary elections of March,1850. These elections took place to fill the vacancies created in theNational Assembly, after June 13, by imprisonment and exile. Pariselected only Social-Democratic candidates; it even united the largestvote upon one of the insurgents of June, 1848,—Deflotte. In this waythe small traders’ world of Paris, now allied with the proletariat,revenged itself for the defeat of June 13, 1849. It seemed to havedisappeared from the field of battle at the hour of danger only to stepon it again at a more favorable opportunity, with increased forces forthe fray, and with a bolder war cry. A circumstance seemed to heightenthe danger of this electoral victory. The Army voted in Paris for aJune insurgent against Lahitte, a Minister of Bonaparte’s, and, in theDepartments, mostly for the candidates of the Mountain, who, therealso, although not as decisively as in Paris, maintained the upper handover their adversaries.
Bonaparte suddenly saw himself again face to face with the revolution.As on January 29, 1849, as on June 13, 1849, on May 10, 1850, hevanished again behind the party of Order. He bent low; he timidlyapologized; he offered to appoint any Ministry whatever at the behestof the parliamentary majority; he even implored the Orleanist andLegitimist party leaders—the Thiers, Berryers, Broglies, Moles, inshort, the so-called burgraves—to take hold of the helm of State inperson. The party of Order did not know how to utilize thisopportunity, that was never to return. Instead of boldly takingpossession of the proffered power, it did not even force Bonaparte torestore the Ministry dismissed on November 1; it contented itself withhumiliating him with its pardon, and with affiliating Mr. Baroche tothe d’Hautpoul Ministry. This Baroche had, as Public Prosecutor,stormed before the High Court at Bourges, once against therevolutionists of May 15, another time against the Democrats of June13, both times on the charge of “attentats” against the NationalAssembly. None of Bonaparte’s Ministers contributed later more towardsthe degradation of the National Assembly; and, after December 2, 1851,we meet him again as the comfortably stalled and dearly paidVice-President of the Senate. He had spat into the soup of therevolutionists for Bonaparte to eat it.
On its part, the Social Democratic party seemed only to look forpretexts in order to make its own victory doubtful, and to dull itsedge. Vidal, one of the newly elected Paris representatives, wasreturned for Strassburg also. He was induced to decline the seat forParis and accept the one for Strassburg. Thus, instead of giving adefinite character to their victory at the hustings, and therebycompelling the party of Order forthwith to contest it in parliament;instead of thus driving the foe to battle at the season of popularenthusiasm and of a favorable temper in the Army, the democratic partytired out Paris with a new campaign during the months of March andApril; it allowed the excited popular passions to wear themselves outin this second provisional electoral play it allowed the revolutionaryvigor to satiate itself with constitutional successes, and lose itsbreath in petty intrigues, hollow declamation and sham moves; it gavethe bourgeoisie time to collect itself and make its preparationsfinally, it allowed the significance of the March elections to find asentimentally weakening commentary at the subsequent April election inthe victory of Eugene Sue. In one word, it turned the 10th of Marchinto an April Fool.
The parliamentary majority perceived the weakness of its adversary. Itsseventeen burgraves—Bonaparte had left to it the direction of andresponsibility for the attack—, framed a new election law, the movingof which was entrusted to Mr. Faucher, who had applied for the honor.On May 8, he introduced the new law whereby universal suffrage wasabolished; a three years residence in the election district imposed asa condition for voting; and, finally, the proof of this residence madedependent, for the working-man, upon the testimony of his employer.
As revolutionarily as the democrats had agitated and stormed during theconstitutional struggles, so constitutionally did they, now, when itwas imperative to attest, arms in hand, the earnestness of their lateelectoral victories, preach order, “majestic calmness,” lawful conduct,i. e., blind submission to the will of the counter-revolution, whichrevealed itself as law. During the debate, the Mountain put the partyof Order to shame by maintaining the passionless attitude of thelaw-abiding burger, who upholds the principle of law againstrevolutionary passions; and by twitting the party of Order with thefearful reproach of proceeding in a revolutionary manner. Even thenewly elected deputies took pains to prove by their decent andthoughtful deportment what an act of misjudgment it was to decry themas anarchists, or explain their election as a victory of therevolution. The new election law was passed on May 31. The Mountaincontented itself with smuggling a protest into the pockets of thePresident of the Assembly. To the election law followed a new presslaw, whereby the revolutionary press was completely done away with. Ithad deserved its fate. The “National” and the “Presse,” two bourgeoisorgans, remained after this deluge the extreme outposts of therevolution.
We have seen how, during March and April, the democratic leaders dideverything to involve the people of Paris in a sham battle, and how,after May 8, they did everything to keep it away from a real battle. Wemay not here forget that the year 1850 was one of the most brilliantyears of industrial and commercial prosperity; consequently, that theParisian proletariat was completely employed. But the election law ofMay 31, 1850 excluded them from all participation in political power;it cut the field of battle itself from under them; it threw theworkingmen back into the state of pariahs, which they had occupiedbefore the February revolution. In allowing themselves, in sight ofsuch an occurrence, to be led by the democrats, and in forgetting therevolutionary interests of their class through temporary comfort, theworkingmen abdicated the honor of being a conquering power; theysubmitted to their fate; they proved that the defeat of June, 1848, hadincapacitated them from resistance for many a year to come finally,that the historic process must again, for the time being, proceed overtheir heads. As to the small traders’ democracy, which, on June 13, hadcried out: “If they but dare to assail universal suffrage . . . then .. . then we will show who we are!”—they now consoled themselves withthe thought that the counter-revolutionary blow, which had struck them,was no blow at all, and that the law of May 31 was no law. On May 2,1852, according to them, every Frenchman would appear at the hustings,in one hand the ballot, in the other the sword. With this prophecy theyset their hearts at ease. Finally, the Army was punished by itssuperiors for the elections of May and April, 1850, as it was punishedfor the election of May 29, 1849. This time, however, it said to itselfdeterminately: “The revolution shall not cheat us a third time.”
The law of May 31, 1850, was the “coup d’etat” of the bourgeoisie. Allits previous conquests over the revolution had only a temporarycharacter: they became uncertain the moment the National Assemblystepped off the stage; they depended upon the accident of generalelections, and the history of the elections since 1848 provedirrefutably that, in the same measure as the actual reign of thebourgeoisie gathered strength, its moral reign over the masses woreoff. Universal suffrage pronounced itself on May 10 pointedly againstthe reign of the bourgeoisie; the bourgeoisie answered with thebanishment of universal suffrage. The law of May 31 was, accordingly,one of the necessities of the class struggle. On the other hand, theconstitution required a minimum of two million votes for the validejection of the President of the republic. If none of the Presidentialcandidates polled this minimum, then the National Assembly was to electthe President out of the three candidates polling the highest votes. Atthe time that the constitutive body made this law, ten million voterswere registered on the election rolls. In its opinion, accordingly,one-fifth of the qualified voters sufficed to make a choice forPresident valid. The law of May 31 struck at least three million votersoff the rolls, reduced the number of qualified voters to sevenmillions, and yet, not withstanding, it kept the lawful minimum at twomillions for the election of a President. Accordingly, it raised thelawful minimum from a fifth to almost a third of the qualified voters,i.e., it did all it could to smuggle the Presidential election out ofthe hands of the people into those of the National Assembly. Thus, bythe election law of May 31, the party of Order seemed to have doublysecured its empire, in that it placed the election of both the NationalAssembly and the President of the republic in the keeping of the stableportion of society.



V.

The strife immediately broke out again between the National Assemblyand Bonaparte, so soon as the revolutionary crisis was weathered, anduniversal suffrage was abolished.
The Constitution had fixed the salary of Bonaparte at 600,000 francs.Barely half a year after his installation, he succeeded in raising thissum to its double: Odillon Barrot had wrung from the constitutiveassembly a yearly allowance of 600,000 francs for so-calledrepresentation expenses. After June 13, Bonaparte hinted at similarsolicitations, to which, however, Barrot then turned a deaf ear. Now,after May 31, he forthwith utilized the favorable moment, and causedhis ministers to move a civil list of three millions in the NationalAssembly. A long adventurous, vagabond career had gifted him with thebest developed antennae for feeling out the weak moments when he couldventure upon squeezing money from his bourgeois. He carried on regularblackmail. The National Assembly had maimed the sovereignty of thepeople with his aid and his knowledge: he now threatened to denounceits crime to the tribunal of the people, if it did not pull out itspurse and buy his silence with three millions annually. It had robbedthree million Frenchmen of the suffrage: for every Frenchman thrown“out of circulation,” he demanded a franc “in circulation.” He, theelect of six million, demanded indemnity for the votes he had beensubsequently cheated of. The Committee of the National Assembly turnedthe importunate fellow away. The Bonapartist press threatened: Couldthe National Assembly break with the President of the republic at atime when it had broken definitely and on principle with the mass ofthe nation? It rejected the annual civil list, but granted, for thisonce, an allowance of 2,160,000 francs. Thus it made itself guilty ofthe double weakness of granting the money, and, at the same time,showing by its anger that it did so only unwillingly. We shallpresently see to what use Bonaparte put the money. After thisaggravating after-play, that followed upon the heels of the abolitionof universal suffrage, and in which Bonaparte exchanged his humbleattitude of the days of the crisis of March and April for one ofdefiant impudence towards the usurping parliament, the NationalAssembly adjourned for three months, from August 11, to November 11. Itleft behind in its place a Permanent Committee of 18 members thatcontained no Bonapartist, but did contain a few moderate republicans.The Permanent Committee of the year 1849 had numbered only men of orderand Bonapartists. At that time, however, the party of Order declareditself in permanence against the revolution; now the parliamentaryrepublic declared itself in permanence against the President. After thelaw of May 31, only this rival still confronted the party of Order.
When the National Assembly reconvened in November, 1850, instead of itsformer petty skirmishes with the President, a great headlong struggle,a struggle for life between the two powers, seemed to have becomeinevitable.
As in the year 1849, the party of Order had during this year’svacation, dissolved into its two separate factions, each occupied withits own restoration intrigues, which had received new impetus from thedeath of Louis Philippe. The Legitimist King, Henry V, had evenappointed a regular Ministry, that resided in Paris, and in which satmembers of the Permanent Committee. Hence, Bonaparte was, on his part,justified in making tours through the French Departments, and—accordingto the disposition of the towns that he happened to be gladdening withhis presence—some times covertly, other times more openly blabbing outhis own restoration plans, and gaining votes for himself On theseexcursions, which the large official “Moniteur” and the small private“Moniteurs” of Bonaparte were, of course, bound to celebrate astriumphal marches, he was constantly accompanied by affiliated membersof the “Society of December 10” This society dated from the year 1849.Under the pretext of founding a benevolent association, theslum-proletariat of Paris was organized into secret sections, eachsection led by Bonapartist agents, with a Bonapartist General at thehead of all. Along with ruined roues of questionable means of supportand questionable antecedents, along with the foul andadventures-seeking dregs of the bourgeoisie, there were vagabonds,dismissed soldiers, discharged convicts, runaway galley slaves,sharpers, jugglers, lazzaroni, pickpockets, sleight-of-hand performers,gamblers, procurers, keepers of disorderly houses, porters, literati,organ grinders, rag pickers, scissors grinders, tinkers, beggars—inshort, that whole undefined, dissolute, kicked-about mass that theFrenchmen style “la Boheme” With this kindred element, Bonaparte formedthe stock of the “Society of December 10,” a “benevolent association”in so far as, like Bonaparte himself, all its members felt the need ofbeing benevolent to themselves at the expense of the toiling nation.The Bonaparte, who here constitutes himself Chief of theSlum-Proletariat; who only here finds again in plenteous form theinterests which he personally pursues; who, in this refuse, offal andwreck of all classes, recognizes the only class upon which he candepend unconditionally;—this is the real Bonaparte, the Bonapartewithout qualification. An old and crafty roue, he looks upon thehistoric life of nations, upon their great and public acts, as comediesin the ordinary sense, as a carnival, where the great costumes, wordsand postures serve only as masks for the pettiest chicaneries. So, onthe occasion of his expedition against Strassburg when a trained Swissvulture impersonated the Napoleonic eagle; so, again, on the occasionof his raid upon Boulogne, when he struck a few London lackeys intoFrench uniform: they impersonated the army; [#1 Under the reign ofLouis Philippe, Bonaparte made two attempts to restore the throne ofNapoleon: one in October, 1836, in an expedition from Switzerland uponStrassburg and one in August, 1840, in an expedition from England uponBoulogne.] and so now, in his “Society of December 10,” he collects10,000 loafers who are to impersonate the people as Snug the Joinerdoes the lion. At a period when the bourgeoisie itself is playing thesheerest comedy, but in the most solemn manner in the world, withoutdoing violence to any of the pedantic requirements of French dramaticetiquette, and is itself partly deceived by, partly convinced of, thesolemnity of its own public acts, the adventurer, who took the comedyfor simple comedy, was bound to win. Only after he has removed hissolemn opponent, when he himself takes seriously his own role ofemperor, and, with the Napoleonic mask on, imagines he impersonates thereal Napoleon, only then does he become the victim of his own peculiarconception of history—the serious clown, who no longer takes historyfor a comedy, but a comedy for history. What the national work-shopswere to the socialist workingmen, what the “Gardes mobiles” were to thebourgeois republicans, that was to Bonaparte the “Society of December10,”—a force for partisan warfare peculiar to himself. On his journeys,the divisions of the Society, packed away on the railroads, improvisedan audience for him, performed public enthusiasm, shouted “vivel’Empereur,” insulted and clubbed the republicans,—all, of course,under the protection of the police. On his return stages to Paris, thisrabble constituted his vanguard, it forestalled or dispersedcounter-demonstrations. The “Society of December 10” belonged to him,it was his own handiwork, his own thought. Whatever else heappropriates, the power of circumstances places in his hands; whateverelse he does, either circumstances do for him, or he is content to copyfrom the deeds of others, but he posing before the citizens with theofficial phrases about “Order,” “Religion,” “Family,” “Property,” and,behind him, the secret society of skipjacks and picaroons, the societyof disorder, of prostitution, and of theft,—that is Bonaparte himselfas the original author; and the history of the “Society of December 10”is his own history. Now, then, it happened that Representativesbelonging to the party of order occasionally got under the clubs of theDecembrists. Nay, more. Police Commissioner Yon, who had been assignedto the National Assembly, and was charged with the guardianship of itssafety, reported to the Permanent Committee upon the testimony of oneAlais, that a Section of the Decembrists had decided on the murder ofGeneral Changarnier and of Dupin, the President of the NationalAssembly, and had already settled upon the men to execute the decree.One can imagine the fright of Mr. Dupin. A parliamentary inquest overthe “Society of December 10,” i. e., the profanation of the Bonapartistsecret world now seemed inevitable. Just before the reconvening of theNational Assembly, Bonaparte circumspectly dissolved his Society, ofcourse, on paper only. As late as the end of 1851, Police PrefectCarlier vainly sought, in an exhaustive memorial, to move him to thereal dissolution of the Decembrists.
The “Society of December 10” was to remain the private army ofBonaparte until he should have succeeded in converting the public Armyinto a “Society of December 10.” Bonaparte made the first attempt inthis direction shortly after the adjournment of the National Assembly,and he did so with the money which he had just wrung from it. As afatalist, he lives devoted to the conviction that there are certainHigher Powers, whom man, particularly the soldier, cannot resist. Firstamong these Powers he numbers cigars and champagne, cold poultry andgarlic-sausage. Accordingly, in the apartments of the Elysee, hetreated first the officers and under-officers to cigars and champagne,to cold poultry and garlic-sausage. On October 3, he repeats thismanoeuvre with the rank and file of the troops by the review of St.Maur; and, on October 10, the same manoeuvre again, upon a largerscale, at the army parade of Satory. The Uncle bore in remembrance thecampaigns of Alexander in Asia: the Nephew bore in remembrance thetriumphal marches of Bacchus in the same country. Alexander was,indeed, a demigod; but Bacchus was a full-fledged god, and the patrondeity, at that, of the “Society of December 10.”
After the review of October 3, the Permanent Committee summoned theMinister of War, d’Hautpoul, before it. He promised that such breachesof discipline should not recur. We have seen how, on October 10th,Bonaparte kept d’Hautpoul’s word. At both reviews Changarnier hadcommanded as Commander-in-chief of the Army of Paris. He, at oncemember of the Permanent Committee, Chief of the National Guard, the“Savior” of January 29, and June 13, the “Bulwark of Society,”candidate of the Party of Order for the office of President, thesuspected Monk of two monarchies,—he had never acknowledged hissubordination to the Minister of War, had ever openly scoffed at therepublican Constitution, and had pursued Bonaparte with a protectionthat was ambiguously distinguished. Now he became zealous for thediscipline in opposition to Bonaparte. While, on October 10, a part ofthe cavalry cried: “Vive Napoleon! Vivent les saucissons;” [#2 Longlive Napoleon! Long live the sausages!] Changarnier saw to it that atleast the infantry, which filed by under the command of his friendNeumeyer, should observe an icy silence. In punishment, the Minister ofWar, at the instigation of Bonaparte, deposed General Neumeyer from hispost in Paris, under the pretext of providing for him asCommander-in-chief of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Military Divisions.Neumeyer declined the exchange, and had, in consequence, to give hisresignation. On his part, Changarnier published on November 2, anorder, wherein he forbade the troops to indulge, while under arms, inany sort of political cries or demonstrations. The papers devoted tothe Elysee interests attacked Changarnier; the papers of the party ofOrder attacked Bonaparte; the Permanent Committee held frequent secretsessions, at which it was repeatedly proposed to declare the fatherlandin danger; the Army seemed divided into two hostile camps, with twohostile staffs; one at the Elysee, where Bonaparte, the other at theTuileries, where Changarnier resided. All that seemed wanting for thesignal of battle to sound was the convening of the National Assembly.The French public looked upon the friction between Bonaparte andChangarnier in the light of the English journalist, who characterizedit in these words: “The political servant girls of France are moppingaway the glowing lava of the revolution with old mops, and they scoldeach other while doing their work.”
Meanwhile, Bonaparte hastened to depose the Minister of War,d’Hautpoul; to expedite him heels over head to Algiers; and to appointin his place General Schramm as Minister of War. On November 12, hesent to the National Assembly a message of American excursiveness,overloaded with details, redolent of order, athirst for conciliation,resignful to the Constitution, dealing with all and everything, onlynot with the burning questions of the moment. As if in passing hedropped the words that according to the express provisions of theConstitution, the President alone disposes over the Army. The messageclosed with the following high-sounding protestations:
“France demands, above all things, peace . . . Alone bound by an oath,I shall keep myself within the narrow bounds marked out by it to me . .. As to me, elected by the people, and owing my power to it alone, Ishall always submit to its lawfully expressed will. Should you at thissession decide upon the revision of the Constitution, a ConstitutionalConvention will regulate the position of the Executive power. If you donot, then, the people will, in 1852, solemnly announce its decision.But, whatever the solution may be that the future has in store, let usarrive at an understanding to the end that never may passion, surpriseor violence decide over the fate of a great nation. . . . That which,above all, bespeaks my attention is, not who will, in 1852, rule overFrance, but to so devote the time at my disposal that the interval maypass by with-out agitation and disturbance. I have straightforwardlyopened my heart to you, you will answer my frankness with yourconfidence, my good efforts with your co-operation. God will do therest.”
The honnete, hypocritically temperate, commonplace-virtuous language ofthe bourgeoisie reveals its deep meaning in the mouth of theself-appointed ruler of the “Society of December 10,” and of thepicnic-hero of St. Maur and Satory.
The burgraves of the party of Order did not for a moment deceivethemselves on the confidence that this unbosoming deserved. They werelong blase on oaths; they numbered among themselves veterans andvirtuosi of perjury. The passage about the army did not, however,escape them. They observed with annoyance that the message, despite itsprolix enumeration of the lately enacted laws, passed, with affectedsilence, over the most important of all, the election law, and,moreover, in case no revision of the Constitution was held, left thechoice of the President, in 1852, with the people. The election law wasthe ball-and-chain to the feet of the party of Order, that hinderedthem from walking, and now assuredly from storming. Furthermore, by theofficial disbandment of the “Society of December 10,” and the dismissalof the Minister of War, d’Hautpoul, Bonaparte had, with his own hands,sacrificed the scapegoats on the altar of the fatherland. He had turnedoff the expected collision. Finally, the party of Order itselfanxiously sought to avoid every decisive conflict with the Executive,to weaken and to blur it over. Fearing to lose its conquests over therevolution, it let its rival gather the fruits thereof. “Francedemands, above all things, peace,” with this language had the party ofOrder been apostrophizing the revolution, since February; with thislanguage did Bonaparte’s message now apostrophize the party of Order:“France demands, above all things, peace.” Bonaparte committed actsthat aimed at usurpation, but the party of Order committed a“disturbance of the peace,” if it raised the hue and cry, and explainedthem hypochrondriacally. The sausages of Satory were mouse-still whennobody talked about them;—France demands, above all things, “peace.”Accordingly, Bonaparte demanded that he be let alone; and theparliamentary party was lamed with a double fear: the fear ofre-conjuring up the revolutionary disturbance of the peace, and thefear of itself appearing as the disturber of the peace in the eyes ofits own class, of the bourgeosie. Seeing that, above all things, Francedemanded peace, the party of Order did not dare, after Bonaparte hadsaid “peace” in his message, to answer “war.” The public, who hadpromised to itself the pleasure of seeing great scenes of scandal atthe opening of the National Assembly, was cheated out of itsexpectations. The opposition deputies, who demanded the submission ofthe minutes of the Permanent Committee over the October occurrences,were outvoted. All debate that might excite was fled from on principle.The labors of the National Assembly during November and December, 1850,were without interest.
Finally, toward the end of December, began a guerilla warfare aboutcertain prerogatives of the parliament. The movement sank into the mireof petty chicaneries on the prerogative of the two powers, since, withthe abolition of universal suffrage, the bourgeoisie had done away withthe class struggle.
A judgment for debt had been secured against Mauguin, one of theRepresentatives. Upon inquiry by the President of the Court, theMinister of Justice, Rouher, declared that an order of arrest should bemade out without delay. Manguin was, accordingly, cast into thedebtors’ prison. The National Assembly bristled up when it heard of the“attentat.” It not only ordered his immediate release, but had himforcibly taken out of Clichy the same evening by its own greffier. Inorder, nevertheless, to shield its belief in the “sacredness of privateproperty,” and also with the ulterior thought of opening, in case ofneed, an asylum for troublesome Mountainers, it declared theimprisonment of a Representative for debt to be permissible upon itsprevious consent. It forgot to decree that the President also could belocked up for debt. By its act, it wiped out the last semblance ofinviolability that surrounded the members of its own body.
It will be remembered that, upon the testimony of one Allais, PoliceCommissioner Yon had charged a Section of Decembrists with a plan tomurder Dupin and Changarnier. With an eye upon that, the questorsproposed at the very first session, that the parliament organize apolice force of its own, paid for out of the private budget of theNational Assembly itself, and wholly independent of the PolicePrefects. The Minister of the Interior, Baroche, protested against thistrespass on his preserves. A miserable compromise followed, accordingto which the Police Commissioner of the Assembly was to be paid out ofits own private budget and was to be subject to the appointment anddismissal of its own questors, but only upon previous agreement withthe Minister of the Interior. In the meantime Allais had beenprosecuted by the Government. It was an easy thing in Court, to presenthis testimony in the light of a mystification, and, through the mouthof the Public Prosecutor, to throw Dupin, Changarnier, Yon, togetherwith the whole National Assembly, into a ridiculous light. Thereupon,on December 29, Minister Baroche writes a letter to Dupin, in which hedemands the dismissal of Yon. The Committee of the National Assemblydecides to keep Yon in office; nevertheless, the National Assembly,frightened by its own violence in the affair of Mauguin, andaccustomed, every time it has shied a blow at the Executive, to receiveback from it two in exchange, does not sanction this decision. Itdismisses Yon in reward for his zeal in office, and robs itself of aparliamentary prerogative, indispensable against a person who does notdecide by night to execute by day, but decides by day and executes bynight.
We have seen how, during the months of November and December, undergreat and severe provocations, the National Assembly evaded and refusedthe combat with the Executive power. Now we see it compelled to acceptit on the smallest occasions. In the affair of Mauguin, it confirms inprinciple the liability of a Representative to imprisonment for debt,but to itself reserves the power of allowing the principle to beapplied only to the Representatives whom it dislikes,-and for thisinfamous privilege we see it wrangling with the Minister of Justice.Instead of utilizing the alleged murder plan to the end of fastening aninquest upon the “Society of December 10,” and of exposing Bonapartebeyond redemption before France and his true figure, as the head of theslum-proletariat of Paris, it allows the collision to sink to a pointwhere the only issue between itself and the Minister of the Interioris. Who has jurisdiction over the appointment and dismissal of a PoliceCommissioner? Thus we see the party of Order, during this whole period,compelled by its ambiguous position to wear out and fritter away itsconflict with the Executive power in small quarrels about jurisdiction,in chicaneries, in pettifogging, in boundary disputes, and to turn thestalest questions of form into the very substance of its activity. Itdares not accept the collision at the moment when it involves aprinciple, when the Executive power has really given itself a blank,and when the cause of the National Assembly would be the cause of thenation. It would thereby have issued to the nation an order of march;and it feared nothing so much as that the nation should move. Hence, onthese occasions, it rejects the motions of the Mountain, and proceedsto the order of the day. After the issue has in this way lost allmagnitude, the Executive power quietly awaits the moment when it cantake it up again upon small and insignificant occasions; when, so tosay, the issue offers only a parliamentary local interest. Then doesthe repressed valor of the party of Order break forth, then it tearsaway the curtain from the scene, then it denounces the President, thenit declares the republic to be in danger,—but then all its pathosappears stale, and the occasion for the quarrel a hypocritical pretext,or not at all worth the effort. The parliamentary tempest becomes atempest in a tea-pot, the struggle an intrigue, the collision ascandal. While the revolutionary classes gloat with sardonic laughterover the humiliation of the National Assembly—they, of course, being asenthusiastic for the prerogatives of the parliament as that body is forpublic freedom—the bourgeoisie, outside of the parliament, does notunderstand how the bourgeoisie, inside of the parliament, can squanderits time with such petty bickerings, and can endanger peace by suchwretched rivalries with the President. It is puzzled at a strategy thatmakes peace the very moment when everybody expects battles, and thatattacks the very moment everybody believes peace has been concluded.
On December 20, Pascal Duprat interpellated the Minister of theInterior on the “Goldbar Lottery.” This lottery was a “Daughter fromElysium”; Bonaparte, together with his faithful, had given her birth;and Police Prefect Carlier had placed her under his officialprotection, although the French law forbade all lotteries, with theexception of games for benevolent purposes. Seven million tickets, afranc a piece, and the profit ostensibly destined to the shipping ofParisian vagabonds to California. Golden dreams were to displace theSocialist dreams of the Parisian proletariat; the tempting prospect ofa prize was to displace the doctrinal right to labor. Of course, theworkingmen of Paris did not recognize in the lustre of the Californiagold bars the lack-lustre francs that had been wheedled out of theirpockets. In the main, however, the scheme was an unmitigated swindle.The vagabonds, who meant to open California gold mines without takingthe pains to leave Paris, were Bonaparte himself and his Round Table ofdesperate insolvents. The three millions granted by the NationalAssembly were rioted away; the Treasury had to be refilled somehow oranother. In vain did Bonaparte open a national subscription, at thehead of which he himself figured with a large sum, for theestablishment of so-called “cites ouvrieres.” [#3 Work cities.] Thehard-hearted bourgeois waited, distrustful, for the payment of his ownshares; and, as this, of course, never took place, the speculation inSocialist castles in the air fell flat. The gold bars drew better.Bonaparte and his associates did not content themselves with puttinginto their own pockets part of the surplus of the seven millions overand above the bars that were to be drawn; they manufactured falsetickets; they sold, of Number 10 alone, fifteen to twenty lots—afinancial operation fully in the spirit of the “Society of December10”! The National Assembly did not here have before it the fictitiousPresident of the Republic, but Bonaparte himself in flesh and blood.Here it could catch him in the act, not in conflict with theConstitution, but with the penal code. When, upon Duprat’sinterpellation, the National Assembly went over to the order of theday, this did not happen simply because Girardin’s motion to declareitself “satisfied” reminded the party of Order of its own systematiccorruption: the bourgeois, above all the bourgeois who has beeninflated into a statesman, supplements his practical meanness withtheoretical pompousness. As statesman, he becomes, like the Governmentfacing him, a superior being, who can be fought only in a higher, moreexalted manner.
Bonaparte-who, for the very reason of his being a “bohemian,” aprincely slum-proletarian, had over the scampish bourgeois theadvantage that he could carry on the fight after the Assembly itselfhad carried him with its own hands over the slippery ground of themilitary banquets, of the reviews, of the “Society of December 10,”and, finally, of the penal code-now saw that the moment had arrivedwhen he could move from the seemingly defensive to the offensive. Hewas but little troubled by the intermediate and trifling defeats of theMinister of Justice, of the Minister of War, of the Minister of theNavy, of the Minister of Finance, whereby the National Assemblyindicated its growling displeasure. Not only did he prevent theMinisters from resigning, and thus recognizing the subordination of theexecutive power to the Parliament; he could now accomplish what duringthe vacation of the National Assembly he had commenced, the separationof the military power from the Assembly—the deposition of Changarnier.
An Elysee paper published an order, issued during the month of May,ostensibly to the First Military Division, and, hence, proceeding fromChangarnier, wherein the officers were recommended, in case of anuprising, to give no quarter to the traitors in their own ranks, toshoot them down on the spot, and to refuse troops to the NationalAssembly, should it make a requisition for such. On January 3, 1851,the Cabinet was interpellated on this order. The Cabinet demands forthe examination of the affair at first three months, then one week,finally only twenty-four hours’ time. The Assembly orders an immediateexplanation Changarnier rises and declares that this order neverexisted; he adds that he would ever hasten to respond to the calls ofthe National Assembly, and that, in case of a collision, they couldcount upon him. The Assembly receives his utterances with inexpressibleapplause, and decrees a vote of confidence to him. It thereby resignits own powers; it decrees its own impotence and the omnipotence of theArmy by committing itself to the private protection of a general. Butthe general, in turn, deceives himself when he places at the Assembly’sdisposal and against Bonaparte a power that he holds only as a fieffrom that same Bonaparte, and when, on his part, he expects protectionfrom this Parliament, from his protege’, itself needful of protection.But Changarnier has faith in the mysterious power with which sinceJanuary, 1849, he had been clad by the bourgeoisie. He takes himselffor the Third Power, standing beside the other Powers of Government. Heshares the faith of all the other heroes, or rather saints, of thisepoch, whose greatness consists but in the interested good opinion thattheir own party holds of them, and who shrink into every-day figures sosoon as circumstances invite them to perform miracles. Infidelity is,indeed, the deadly enemy of these supposed heroes and real saints.Hence their virtuously proud indignation at the unenthusiastic wits andscoffers.
That same evening the Ministers were summoned to the Elysee; Bonapartepresses the removal of Changarnier; five Ministers refuse to sign theorder; the “Moniteur” announces a Ministerial crisis; and the party ofOrder threatens the formation of a Parliamentary army under the commandof Changarnier. The party of Order had the constitutional power hereto.It needed only to elect Changarnier President of the National Assemblyin order to make a requisition for whatever military forces it neededfor its own safety. It could do this all the more safely, seeing thatChangarnier still stood at the head of the Army and of the ParisianNational Guard, and only lay in wait to be summoned, together with theArmy. The Bonapartist press did not even dare to question the right ofthe National Assembly to issue a direct requisition for troops;—a legalscruple, that, under the given circumstances, did not promise success.That the Army would have obeyed the orders of the National Assembly isprobable, when it is considered that Bonaparte had to look eight daysall over Paris to find two generals—Baraguay d’Hilliers and St. Jeand’Angley—who declared themselves ready to countersign the ordercashiering Changamier. That, however, the party of Order would havefound in its own ranks and in the parliament the requisite vote forsuch a decision is more than doubtful, when it is considered that,eight days later, 286 votes pulled away from it, and that, as late asDecember, 1851, at the last decisive hour, the Mountain rejected asimilar proposition. Nevertheless, the burgraves might still havesucceeded in driving the mass of their party to an act of heroism,consisting in feeling safe behind a forest of bayonets, and inaccepting the services of the Army, which found itself deserted in itscamp. Instead of this, the Messieurs Burgraves betook themselves to theElysee on the evening of January 6, with the view of inducingBonaparte, by means of politic words and considerations, to drop theremoval of Changarnier. Him whom we must convince we recognize as themaster of the situation. Bonaparte, made to feel secure by this step,appoints on January 12 a new Ministry, in which the leaders of the old,Fould and Baroche, are retained. St Jean d’Angley becomes Minister ofWar; the “Moniteur” announces the decree cashiering Changarnier; hiscommand is divided up between Baraguay d’Hilliers, who receives theFirst Division, and Perrot, who is placed over the National Guard. The“Bulwark of Society” is turned down; and, although no dog barks overthe event, in the Bourses the stock quotations rise.
By repelling the Army, that, in Changarnier’s person, put itself at itsdisposal, and thus irrevocably stood up against the President, theparty of Order declares that the bourgeoisie has lost its vocation toreign. Already there was no parliamentary Ministry. By losing,furthermore, the handle to the Army and to the National Guard, whatinstrument of force was there left to the National Assembly in order tomaintain both the usurped power of the parliament over the people, andits constitutional power over the President? None. All that was left toit was the appeal to peaceful principles, that itself had alwaysexplained as “general rules” merely, to be prescribed to third parties,and only in order to enable itself to move all the more freely. Withthe removal of Changarnier, with the transfer of the military power toBonaparte, closes the first part of the period that we are considering,the period of the struggle between the party of Order and the Executivepower. The war between the two powers is now openly declared; it isconducted openly; but only after the party of Order has lost both armsand soldier. With-out a Ministry, without any army, without a people,without the support of public opinion; since its election law of May31, no longer the representative of the sovereign nation sans eyes,sans ears, sans teeth, sans everything, the National Assembly hadgradually converted itself into a French Parliament of olden days, thatmust leave all action to the Government, and content itself withgrowling remonstrances “post festum.” [#4 After the act is done; afterthe fact.]
The party of Order receives the new Ministry with a storm ofindignation. General Bedeau calls to mind the mildness of the PermanentCommittee during the vacation, and the excessive prudence with which ithad renounced the privilege of disclosing its minutes. Now, theMinister of the Interior himself insists upon the disclosure of theseminutes, that have now, of course, become dull as stagnant waters,reveal no new facts, and fall without making the slightest effect uponthe blase public. Upon Remusat’s proposition, the National Assemblyretreats into its Committees, and appoints a “Committee onExtraordinary Measures.” Paris steps all the less out of the ruts ofits daily routine, seeing that business is prosperous at the time, themanufactories busy, the prices of cereals low, provisions abundant, thesavings banks receiving daily new deposits. The “extraordinarymeasures,” that the parliament so noisily announced fizzle out onJanuary 18 in a vote of lack of confidence against the Ministry,without General Changarnier’s name being even mentioned. The party ofOrder was forced to frame its motion in that way so as to secure thevotes of the republicans, because, of all the acts of the Ministry,Changarnier’s dismissal only was the very one they approved, while theparty of Order cannot in fact, condemn the other Ministerial acts whichit had itself dictated. The January 18 vote of lack of confidence wasdecided by 415 ayes against 286 nays. It was, accordingly put throughby a coalition of the uncompromising Legitimists and Orleanists withthe pure republicans and the Mountain. Thus it revealed the fact that,in its conflicts with Bonaparte, not only the Ministry, not only theArmy, but also its independent parliamentary majority; that a troop ofRepresentatives had deserted its camp out of a fanatic zeal forharmony, out of fear of fight, out of lassitude, out of familyconsiderations for the salaries of relatives in office, out ofspeculations on vacancies in the Ministry (Odillon Barrot), or out ofthat unmitigated selfishness that causes the average bourgeois to beever inclined to sacrifice the interests of his class to this or thatprivate motive. The Bonapartist Representatives belonged from the startto the party of Order only in the struggle against the revolution. Theleader of the Catholic party, Montalembert, already then threw hisinfluence in the scale of Bonaparte, since he despaired of the vitalityof the parliamentary party. Finally, the leaders of this party itself,Thiers and Berryer—the Orleanist and the Legitimist—were compelled toproclaim themselves openly as republicans; to admit that their heartfavored royalty, but their head the republic; that their parliamentaryrepublic was the only possible form for the rule of the bourgeoisieThus were they compelled to brand, before the eyes of the bourgeoisclass itself, as an intrigue—as dangerous as it was senseless—therestoration plans, which they continued to pursue indefatigably behindthe back of the parliament.
The January 18 vote of lack of confidence struck the Ministers, not thePresident. But it was not the Ministry, it was the President who haddeposed Changarnier. Should the party of Order place Bonaparte himselfunder charges? On account of his restoration hankerings? These onlysupplemented their own. On account of his conspiracy at the militaryreviews and of the “Society of December 10”? They had long since buriedthese subjects under simple orders of business. On account of thedischarge of the hero of January 29 and June 13, of the man who, inMay, 1850, threatened, in case of riot, to set Paris on fire at all itsfour corners? Their allies of the Mountain and Cavaignac did not evenallow them to console the fallen “Bulwark of Society” with an officialtestimony of their sympathy. They themselves could not deny theconstitutional right of the President to remove a General. They stormedonly because he made an unparliamentary use of his constitutionalright. Had they not themselves constantly made an unconstitutional useof their parliamentary prerogative, notably by the abolition ofuniversal suffrage? Consequently they were reminded to move exclusivelywithin parliamentary bounds. Indeed, it required that peculiar disease,a disease that, since 1848, has raged over the whole continent,“Parliamentary Idiocy,”—that fetters those whom it infects to animaginary world, and robs them of all sense, all remembrance, allunderstanding of the rude outside world;—it required this“Parliamentary Idiocy” in order that the party of Order, which had,with its own hands, destroyed all the conditions for parliamentarypower, and, in its struggle with the other classes, was obliged todestroy them, still should consider its parliamentary victories asvictories, and imagine it hit the President by striking his Ministers.They only afforded him an opportunity to humble the National Assemblyanew in the eyes of the nation. On January 20, the “Moniteur” announcedthat the whole the dismissal of the whole Ministry was accepted. Underthe pretext that none of the parliamentary parties had any longer themajority—as proved by the January 18 vote, that fruit of the coalitionbetween mountain and royalists—, and, in order to await there-formation of a majority, Bonaparte appointed a so-called transitionMinistry, of whom no member belonged to the parliament-altogetherwholly unknown and insignificant individuals; a Ministry of mere clerksand secretaries. The party of Order could now wear itself out in thegame with these puppets; the Executive power no longer considered itworth the while to be seriously represented in the National Assembly.By this act Bonaparte concentrated the whole executive power all themore securely in his own person; he had all the freer elbow-room toexploit the same to his own ends, the more his Ministers became meresupernumeraries.
The party of Order, now allied with the Mountain, revenged itself byrejecting the Presidential endowment project of 1,800.000 francs, whichthe chief of the “Society of December 10” had compelled his Ministerialclerks to present to the Assembly. This time a majority of only 102votes carried the day accordingly since January 18, 27 more votes hadfallen off: the dissolution of the party of Order was making progress.Lest any one might for a moment be deceived touching the meaning of itscoalition with the Mountain, the party of Order simultaneously scornedeven to consider a motion, signed by 189 members of the Mountain, for ageneral amnesty to political criminals. It was enough that the Ministerof the Interior, one Baisse, declared that the national tranquility wasonly in appearance, in secret there reigned deep agitation, in secret,ubiquitous societies were organized, the democratic papers werepreparing to reappear, the reports from the Departments wereunfavorable, the fugitives of Geneva conducted a conspiracy via Lyonsthrough the whole of southern France, France stood on the verge of anindustrial and commercial crisis, the manufacturers of Roubaix wereworking shorter hours, the prisoners of Belle Isle had mutinied;—it wasenough that even a mere Baisse should conjure up the “Red Spectre” forthe party of Order to reject without discussion a motion that wouldhave gained for the National Assembly a tremendous popularity, andthrown Bonaparte back into its arms. Instead of allowing itself to beintimidated by the Executive power with the perspective of freshdisturbances, the party of Order should rather have allowed a littleelbow-room to the class struggle, in order to secure the dependence ofthe Executive upon itself. But it did not feel itself equal to the taskof playing with fire.
Meanwhile, the so-called transition Ministry vegetated along until themiddle of April. Bonaparte tired out and fooled the National Assemblywith constantly new Ministerial combinations. Now he seemed to intendconstructing a republican Ministry with Lamartine and Billault; then, aparliamentary one with the inevitable Odillon Barrot, whose name mustnever be absent when a dupe is needed; then again, a Legitimist, withBatismenil and Lenoist d’Azy; and yet again, an Orleansist, withMalleville. While thus throwing the several factions of the party ofOrder into strained relations with one another, and alarming them allwith the prospect of a republican Ministry, together with thethere-upon inevitable restoration of universal suffrage, Bonapartesimultaneously raises in the bourgeoisie the conviction that hissincere efforts for a parliamentary Ministry are wrecked upon theirreconcilable antagonism of the royalist factions. All the while thebourgeoisie was clamoring louder and louder for a “strong Government,”and was finding it less and less pardonable to leave France “without anadministration,” in proportion as a general commercial crisis seemed tobe under way and making recruits for Socialism in the cities, as didthe ruinously low price of grain in the rural districts. Trade becamedaily duller; the unemployed hands increased perceptibly; in Paris, atleast 10,000 workingmen were without bread; in Rouen, Muehlhausen,Lyons, Roubaix, Tourcoign, St. Etienue, Elbeuf, etc., numerousfactories stood idle. Under these circumstances Bonaparte could ventureto restore, on April 11, the Ministry of January 18; Messieurs Rouher,Fould, Baroche, etc., reinforced by Mr. Leon Faucher, whom theconstitutive assembly had, during its last days, unanimously, with theexception of five Ministerial votes, branded with a vote of censure forcirculating false telegraphic dispatches. Accordingly, the NationalAssembly had won a victory on January 18 over the Ministry, it had, forthe period of three months, been battling with Bonaparte, and all thismerely to the end that, on April 11, Fould and Baroche should be ableto take up the Puritan Faucher as third in their ministerial league.
In November, 1849, Bonaparte had satisfied himself with anUnparliamentary, in January, 1851, with an Extra-Parliamentary, onApril 11, he felt strong enough to form an Anti-Parliamentary Ministry,that harmoniously combined within itself the votes of lack ofconfidence of both assemblies-the constitutive and the legislative, therepublican and the royalist. This ministerial progression was athermometer by which the parliament could measure the ebbingtemperature of its own life. This had sunk so low by the end of Aprilthat, at a personal interview, Persigny could invite Changarnier to goover to the camp of the President. Bonaparte, he assured Changarnier,considered the influence of the National Assembly to be whollyannihilated, and already the proclamation was ready, that was to bepublished after the steadily contemplated, but again accidentallypostponed “coup d’etat.” Changarnier communicated this announcement ofits death to the leaders of the party of Order; but who was there tobelieve a bed-bug bite could kill? The parliament, however beaten,however dissolved, however death-tainted it was, could not persuadeitself to see, in the duel with the grotesque chief of the “Society ofDecember 10,” anything but a duel with a bed-bug. But Bonaparteanswered the party of Order as Agesilaus did King Agis: “I seem to youan ant; but shall one day be a lion.”



VI.

The coalition with the Mountain and the pure republicans, to which theparty of Order found itself condemned in its fruitless efforts to keeppossession of the military and to reconquer supreme control over theExecutive power, proved conclusively that it had forfeited itsindependent parliamentary majority. The calendar and clock merely gave,on May 29, the signal for its complete dissolution. With May 29commenced the last year of the life of the National Assembly. It nowhad to decide for the unchanged continuance or the revision of theConstitution. But a revision of the Constitution meant not only thedefinitive supremacy of either the bourgeoisie of the small traders’democracy, of either democracy or proletarian anarchy, of either aparliamentary republic or Bonaparte, it meant also either Orleans orBourbon! Thus fell into the very midst of the parliament the apple ofdiscord, around which the conflict of interests, that cut up the partyof Order into hostile factions, was to kindle into an openconflagration. The party of Order was a combination of heterogeneoussocial substances. The question of revision raised a politicaltemperature, in which the product was reduced to its originalcomponents.
The interest of the Bonapartists in the revision was simple: they wereabove all concerned in the abolition of Article 45, which forbadeBonaparte’s reelection and the prolongation of his term. Not lesssimple seemed to be the position of the republicans; they rejected allrevision, seeing in that only a general conspiracy against therepublic; as they disposed over more than one-fourth of the votes inthe National Assembly, and, according to the Constitution, athree-fourths majority was requisite to revise and to call a revisoryconvention, they needed only to count their own votes to be certain ofvictory. Indeed, they were certain of it.
Over and against these clear-cut positions, the party of Order founditself tangled in inextricable contradictions. If it voted against therevision, it endangered the “status quo,” by leaving to Bonaparte onlyone expedient—that of violence and handing France over, on May 2, 1852,at the very time of election, a prey to revolutionary anarchy, with aPresident whose authority was at an end; with a parliament that theparty had long ceased to own, and with a people that it meant tore-conquer. If it voted constitutionally for a revision, it knew thatit voted in vain and would constitutionally have to go under before theveto of the republicans. If, unconstitutionally, it pronounced a simplemajority binding, it could hope to control the revolution only in caseit surrendered unconditionally to the domination of the Executivepower: it then made Bonaparte master of the Constitution, of therevision and of itself. A merely partial revision, prolonging the termof the President, opened the way to imperial usurpation; a generalrevision, shortening the existence of the republic, threw the dynasticclaims into an inevitable conflict: the conditions for a Bourbon andthose for an Orleanist restoration were not only different, theymutually excluded each other.
The parliamentary republic was more than a neutral ground on which thetwo factions of the French bourgeoisie—Legitimists and Orleanists,large landed property and manufacture—could lodge together with equalrights. It was the indispensable condition for their common reign, theonly form of government in which their common class interest coulddominate both the claims of their separate factions and all the otherclasses of society. As royalists, they relapsed into their oldantagonism into the struggle for the overlordship of either landedproperty or of money; and the highest expression of this antagonism,its personification, were the two kings themselves, their dynasties.Hence the resistance of the party of Order to the recall of theBourbons.
The Orleanist Representative Creton moved periodically in 1849, 1850and 1851 the repeal of the decree of banishment against the royalfamilies; as periodically did the parliament present the spectacle ofan Assembly of royalists who stubbornly shut to their banished kingsthe door through which they could return home. Richard III murderedHenry VI, with the remark that he was too good for this world, andbelonged in heaven. They declared France too bad to have her kings backagain. Forced by the power of circumstances, they had becomerepublicans, and repeatedly sanctioned the popular mandate that exiledtheir kings from France.
The revision of the Constitution, and circumstances compelled itsconsideration, at once made uncertain not only the republic itself, butalso the joint reign of the two bourgeois factions; and it revived,with the possibility of the monarchy, both the rivalry of interestswhich these two factions had alternately allowed to preponderate, andthe struggle for the supremacy of the one over the other. The diplomatsof the party of Order believed they could allay the struggle by acombination of the two dynasties through a so-called fusion of theroyalist parties and their respective royal houses. The true fusion ofthe restoration and the July monarchy was, however, the parliamentaryrepublic, in which the Orleanist and Legitimist colors were dissolved,and the bourgeois species vanished in the plain bourgeois, in thebourgeois genus. Now however, the plan was to turn the OrleanistLegitimist and the Legitimist Orleanist. The kingship, in which theirantagonism was personified, was to incarnate their unity, theexpression of their exclusive faction interests was to become theexpression of their common class interest; the monarchy was toaccomplish what only the abolition of two monarchies—the republic couldand did accomplish. This was the philosopher’s stone, for the findingof which the doctors of the party of Order were breaking their heads.As though the Legitimate monarchy ever could be the monarchy of theindustrial bourgeoisie, or the bourgeois monarchy the monarchy of thehereditary landed aristocracy! As though landed property and industrycould fraternize under one crown, where the crown could fall only uponone head, the head of the older or the younger brother! As thoughindustry could at all deal upon a footing of equality with landedproperty, so long as landed property did not decide itself to becomeindustrial. If Henry V were to die tomorrow, the Count of Paris wouldnot, therefore, become the king of the Legitimists, unless he ceased tobe the King of the Orleanists. Nevertheless, the fusion philosophers,who became louder in the measure that the question of revision steppedto the fore, who had provided themselves with a daily organ in the“Assemblee Nationale,” who, even at this very moment (February, 1852)are again at work, explained the whole difficulty by the opposition andrivalries of the two dynasties. The attempts to reconcile the family ofOrleans with Henry V., begun since the death of Louis Philippe, but, asall these dynastic intrigues carried on only during the vacation of theNational Assembly, between acts, behind the scenes, more as asentimental coquetry with the old superstition than as a seriousaffair, were now raised by the party of Order to the dignity of a greatState question, and were conducted upon the public stage, instead of,as heretofore in the amateurs’ theater. Couriers flew from Paris toVenice, from Venice to Claremont, from Claremont to Paris. The Duke ofChambord issues a manifesto in which he announces not his own, but the“national” restoration, “with the aid of all the members of hisfamily.” The Oleanist Salvandy throws himself at the feet of Henry V.The Legitimist leaders Berryer, Benoit d’Azy, St. Priest travel toClaremont, to persuade the Orleans; but in vain. The fusionists learntoo late that the interests of the two bourgeois factions neither losein exclusiveness nor gain in pliancy where they sharpen to a point inthe form of family interests, of the interests of the two royal houses.When Henry V. recognized the Count of Paris as his successor—the onlysuccess that the fusion could at best score—the house of Orleansacquired no claim that the childlessness of Henry V. had not alreadysecured to it; but, on the other hand, it lost all the claims that ithad conquered by the July revolution. It renounced its original claims,all the title, that, during a struggle nearly one hundred years long,it had wrested from the older branch of the Bourbons; it bartered awayits historic prerogative, the prerogative of its family-tree. Fusion,accordingly, amounted to nothing else than the resignation of the houseof Orleans, its Legitimist resignation, a repentful return from theProtestant State Church into the Catholic;—a return, at that, that didnot even place it on the throne that it had lost, but on the steps ofthe throne on which it was born. The old Orleanist Ministers Guizot,Duchatel, etc., who likewise hastened to Claremont, to advocate thefusion, represented in fact only the nervous reaction of the Julymonarchy; despair, both in the citizen kingdom and the kingdom ofcitizens; the superstitious belief in legitimacy as the last amuletagainst anarchy. Mediators, in their imagination, between Orleans andBourbon, they were in reality but apostate Orleanists, and as such werethey received by the Prince of Joinville. The virile, bellicose part ofthe Orleanists, on the contrary—Thiers, Baze, etc.—, persuaded thefamily of Louis Philippe all the easier that, seeing every plan for theimmediate restoration of the monarchy presupposed the fusion of the twodynasties, and every plan for fusion the resignation of the house ofOrleans, it corresponded, on the contrary, wholly with the tradition ofits ancestors to recognize the republic for the time being, and to waituntil circumstances permitted I the conversion of the Presidentialchair into a throne. Joinville’s candidacy was set afloat as a rumor,public curiosity was held in suspense, and a few months later, afterthe revision was rejected, openly proclaimed in September.
Accordingly, the essay of a royalist fusion between Orleanists andLegitimists did not miscarry only, it broke up their parliamentaryfusion, the republican form that they had adopted in common, and itdecomposed the party of Order into its original components. But thewider the breach became between Venice and Claremont, the further theydrifted away from each I other, and the greater the progress made bythe Joinville agitation, all the more active and earnest became thenegotiations between Faucher, the Minister of Bonaparte, and theLegitimists.
The dissolution of the party of Order went beyond its originalelements. Each of the two large factions fell in turn into newfragments. It was as if all the old political shades, that formerlyfought and crowded one another within each of the two circles—be itthat of the Legitimists or that of the Orleanists—, had been thawed outlike dried infusoria by contact with water; as if they had recoveredenough vitality to build their own groups and assert their ownantagonisms. The Legitimists dreamed they were back amidst the quarrelsbetween the Tuileries and the pavilion Marsan, between Villele andPolignac; the Orleanists lived anew through the golden period of thetourneys between Guizot, Mole, Broglie, Thiers, and Odillon Barrot.
That portion of the party of Order—eager for a revision of theConstitution but disagreed upon the extent of revision—made up of theLegitimists under Berryer and Falloux and of those under LarocheJacquelein, together with the tired-out Orleanists under Mole, Broglie,Montalembert and Odillon Barrot, united with the BonapartistRepresentatives in the following indefinite and loosely drawn motion:
“The undersigned Representatives, with the end in view of restoring tothe nation the full exercise of her sovereignty, move that theConstitution be revised.”
At the same time, however, they unanimously declared through theirspokesman, Tocqueville, that the National Assembly had not the right tomove the abolition of the republic, that right being vested only in aConstitutional Convention. For the rest, the Constitution could berevised only in a “legal” way, that is to say, only in case athree-fourths majority decided in favor of revision, as prescribed bythe Constitution. After a six days’ stormy debate, the revision wasrejected on July 19, as was to be foreseen. In its favor 446 votes werecast, against it 278. The resolute Oleanists, Thiers, Changarnier,etc., voted with the republicans and the Mountain.
Thus the majority of the parliament pronounced itself against theConstitution, while the Constitution itself pronounced itself for theminority, and its decision binding. But had not the party of Order onMay 31, 1850, had it not on June 13, 1849, subordinated theConstitution to the parliamentary majority? Did not the whole republicthey had been hitherto having rest upon the subordination of theConstitutional clauses to the majority decisions of the parliament? Hadthey not left to the democrats the Old Testament superstitious beliefin the letter of the law, and had they not chastised the democratstherefor? At this moment, however, revision meant nothing else than thecontinuance of the Presidential power, as the continuance of theConstitution meant nothing else than the deposition of Bonaparte. Theparliament had pronounced itself for him, but the Constitutionpronounced itself against the parliament. Accordingly, he acted both inthe sense of the parliament when he tore up the Constitution, and inthe sense of the Constitution when he chased away the parliament.
The parliament pronounced the Constitution, and, thereby, also, its ownreign, “outside of the pale of the majority”; by its decision, itrepealed the Constitution, and continued the Presidential power, and itat once declared that neither could the one live nor the other die solong as itself existed. The feet of those who were to bury it stood atthe door. While it was debating the subject of revision, Bonaparteremoved General Baraguay d’Hilliers, who showed himself irresolute,from the command of the First Military Division, and appointed in hisplace General Magnan, the conqueror of Lyon; the hero of the Decemberdays, one of his own creatures, who already under Louis Philippe, onthe occasion of the Boulogne expedition, had somewhat compromisedhimself in his favor.
By its decision on the revision, the party of Order proved that it knewneither how to rule nor how to obey; neither how to live nor how todie; neither how to bear with the republic nor how to overthrow it;neither how to maintain the Constitution nor how to throw it overboard;neither how to co-operate with the President nor how to break with him.From what quarter did it then, look to for the solution of all theexisting perplexities? From the calendar, from the course of events. Itceased to assume the control of events. It, accordingly, invited eventsto don its authority and also the power to which in its struggle withthe people, it had yielded one attribute after another until it finallystood powerless before the same. To the end that the Executive be ableall the more freely to formulate his plan of campaign against it,strengthen his means of attack, choose his tools, fortify hispositions, the party of Order decided, in the very midst of thiscritical moment, to step off the stage, and adjourn for three months,from August 10 to November 4.
Not only was the parliamentary party dissolved into its two greatfactions, not only was each of these dissolved within itself, but theparty of Order, inside of the parliament, was at odds with the party ofOrder, outside of the parliament. The learned speakers and writers ofthe bourgeoisie, their tribunes and their press, in short, theideologists of the bourgeoisie and the bourgeoisie itself, therepresentatives and the represented, stood estranged from, and nolonger understood one another.
The Legitimists in the provinces, with their cramped horizon and theirboundless enthusiasm, charged their parliamentary leaders Berryer andFalloux with desertion to the Bonapartist camp, and with apostacy fromHenry V. Their lilymind [#1 An allusion to the lilies of the Bourboncoat-of-arms] believed in the fall of man, but not in diplomacy.
More fatal and completer, though different, was the breach between thecommercial bourgeoisie and its politicians. It twitted them, not as theLegitimists did theirs, with having apostatized from their principle,but, on the contrary, with adhering to principles that had becomeuseless.
I have already indicated that, since the entry of Fould in theMinistry, that portion of the commercial bourgeoisie that had enjoyedthe lion’s share in Louis Philippe’s reign, to-wit, the aristocracy offinance, had become Bonapartist. Fould not only represented Bonaparte’sinterests at the Bourse, he represented also the interests of theBourse with Bonaparte. A passage from the London “Economist,” theEuropean organ of the aristocracy of finance, described most strikinglythe attitude of this class. In its issue of February 1, 1851, its Pariscorrespondent writes: “Now we have it stated from numerous quartersthat France wishes above all things for repose. The President declaresit in his message to the Legislative Assembly; it is echoed from thetribune; it is asserted in the journals; it is announced from thepulpit; it is demonstrated by the sensitiveness of the public funds atthe least prospect of disturbance, and their firmness the instant it ismade manifest that the Executive is far superior in wisdom and power tothe factious ex-officials of all former governments.”
In its issue of November 29, 1851, the “Economist” declareseditorially: “The President is now recognized as the guardian of orderon every Stock Exchange of Europe.” Accordingly, the Aristocracy ofFinance condemned the parliamentary strife of the party of Order withthe Executive as a “disturbance of order,” and hailed every victory ofthe President over its reputed representatives as a “victory of order.”Under “aristocracy of finance” must not, however, be understood merelythe large bond negotiators and speculators in government securities, ofwhom it may be readily understood that their interests and theinterests of the Government coincide. The whole modern money trade, thewhole banking industry, is most intimately interwoven with the publiccredit. Part of their business capital requires to be invested ininterest-bearing government securities that are promptly convertibleinto money; their deposits, i. e., the capital placed at their disposaland by them distributed among merchants and industrial establishments,flow partly out of the dividends on government securities. The wholemoney market, together with the priests of this market, is part andparcel of this “aristocracy of finance” at every epoch when thestability of the government is to them synonymous with “Moses and hisprophets.” This is so even before things have reached the present stagewhen every deluge threatens to carry away the old governmentsthemselves.
But the industrial Bourgeoisie also, in its fanaticism for order, wasannoyed at the quarrels of the Parliamentary party of Order with theExecutive. Thiers, Anglas, Sainte Beuve, etc., received, after theirvote of January 18, on the occasion of the discharge of Changarnier,public reprimands from their constituencies, located in the industrialdistricts, branding their coalition with the Mountain as an act of hightreason to the cause of order. Although, true enough, the boastful,vexatious and petty intrigues, through which the struggle of the partyof Order with the President manifested itself, deserved no betterreception, yet notwithstanding, this bourgeois party, that expects ofits representatives to allow the military power to pass withoutresistance out of the hands of their own Parliament into those of anadventurous Pretender, is not worth even the intrigues that were wastedin its behalf. It showed that the struggle for the maintenance of theirpublic interests, of their class interests, of their political poweronly incommoded and displeased them, as a disturbance of their privatebusiness.
The bourgeois dignitaries of the provincial towns, the magistrates,commercial judges, etc., with hardly any exception, received Bonaparteeverywhere on his excursions in the most servile manner, even when, asin Dijon, he attacked the National Assembly and especially the party ofOrder without reserve.
Business being brisk, as still at the beginning of 1851, the commercialbourgeoisie stormed against every Parliamentary strife, lest businessbe put out of temper. Business being dull, as from the end of February,1851, on, the bourgeoisie accused the Parliamentary strifes as thecause of the stand-still, and clamored for quiet in order that businessmay revive. The debates on revision fell just in the bad times. Seeingthe question now was the to be or not to be of the existing form ofgovernment, the bourgeoisie felt itself all the more justified indemanding of its Representatives that they put an end to thistormenting provisional status, and preserve the “status quo.” This wasno contradiction. By putting an end to the provisional status, itunderstood its continuance, the indefinite putting off of the momentwhen a final decision had to be arrived at. The “status quo” could bepreserved in only one of two ways: either by the prolongation ofBonaparte’s term of office or by his constitutional withdrawal and theelection of Cavaignac. A part of the bourgeoisie preferred the lattersolution, and knew no better advice to give their Representatives thanto be silent, to avoid the burning point. If their Representatives didnot speak, so argued they, Bonaparte would not act. They desired anostrich Parliament that would hide its head, in order not to be seen.Another part of the bourgeoisie preferred that Bonaparte, being once inthe Presidential chair, be left in the Presidential chair, in orderthat everything might continue to run in the old ruts. They feltindignant that their Parliament did not openly break the Constitutionand resign without further ado. The General Councils of theDepartments, these provisional representative bodies of the largebourgeoisie, who had adjourned during the vacation of the NationalAssembly since August 25, pronounced almost unanimously for revision,that is to say, against the Parliament and for Bonaparte.
Still more unequivocally than in its falling out with its ParliamentaryRepresentatives, did the bourgeoisie exhibit its wrath at its literaryRepresentatives, its own press. The verdicts of the bourgeois juries,inflicting excessive fines and shameless sentences of imprisonment forevery attack of the bourgeois press upon the usurping aspirations ofBonaparte, for every attempt of the press to defend the politicalrights of the bourgeoisie against the Executive power, threw, notFrance alone, but all Europe into amazement.
While on the one hand, as I have indicated, the Parliamentary party ofOrder ordered itself to keep the peace by screaming for peace; andwhile it pronounced the political rule of the bourgeoisieirreconcilable with the safety and the existence of the bourgeoisie, bydestroying with its own hands in its struggle with the other classes ofsociety all the conditions for its own, the Parliamentary regime; onthe other hand, the mass of the bourgeoisie, outside of the Parliament,urged Bonaparte—by its servility towards the President, by its insultsto the Parliament, by the brutal treatment of its own press—to suppressand annihilate its speaking and writing organs, its politicians and itsliterati, its orators’ tribune and its press, to the end that, underthe protection of a strong and unhampered Government, it might ply itsown private pursuits in safety. It declared unmistakably that it longedto be rid of its own political rule, in order to escape the troublesand dangers of ruling.
And this bourgeoisie, that had rebelled against even the Parliamentaryand literary contest for the supremacy of its own class, that hadbetrayed its leaders in this contest, it now has the effrontery toblame the proletariat for not having risen in its defence in a bloodystruggle, in a struggle for life! Those bourgeois, who at every turnsacrificed their common class interests to narrow and dirty privateinterests, and who demanded a similar sacrifice from their ownRepresentatives, now whine that the proletariat has sacrificed theiridea-political to its own material interests! This bourgeois class nowstrikes the attitude of a pure soul, misunderstood and abandoned, at acritical moment, by the proletariat, that has been misled by theSocialists. And its cry finds a general echo in the bourgeois world. Ofcourse, I do not refer to German crossroad politicians and kindredblockheads. I refer, for instance, to the “Economist,” which, as lateas November 29, 1851, that is to say, four days before the “coupd’etat” pronounced Bonaparte the “Guardian of Order” and Thiers andBerryer “Anarchists,” and as early as December 27, 1851, afterBonaparte had silenced those very Anarchists, cries out about thetreason committed by “the ignorant, untrained and stupid proletairesagainst the skill, knowledge, discipline, mental influence,intellectual resources an moral weight of the middle and upper ranks.”The stupid, ignorant and contemptible mass was none other than thebourgeoisie itself.
France had, indeed; experienced a sort of commercial crisis in 1851. Atthe end of February, there was a falling off of exports as comparedwith 1850; in March, business languished and factories shut down; inApril, the condition of the industrial departments seemed as desperateas after the February days; in May, business did not yet pick up; aslate as June 28, the reports of the Bank of France revealed through atremendous increase of deposits and an equal decrease of loans onexchange notes, the standstill of production; not until the middle ofOctober did a steady improvement of business set in. The Frenchbourgeoisie accounted for this stagnation of business with purelypolitical reasons; it imputed the dull times to the strife between theParliament and the Executive power, to the uncertainty of a provisionalform of government, to the alarming prospects of May 2, 1852. I shallnot deny that all these causes did depress some branches of industry inParis and in the Departments. At any rate, this effect of politicalcircumstances was only local and trifling. Is there any other proofneeded than that the improvement in business set in at the very timewhen the political situation was growing worse, when the politicalhorizon was growing darker, and when at every moment a stroke oflightning was expected out of the Elysee—in the middle of October? TheFrench bourgeois, whose “skill, knowledge, mental influence andintellectual resources,” reach no further than his nose, could,moreover, during the whole period of the Industrial Exposition inLondon, have struck with his nose the cause of his own business misery.At the same time that, in France, the factories were being closed,commercial failures broke out in England. While the industrial panicreached its height during April and May in France, in England thecommercial panic reached its height in April and May. The same as theFrench, the English woolen industries suffered, and, as the French, sodid the English silk manufacture. Though the English cotton factorieswent on working, it, nevertheless, was not with the same old profit of1849 and 1850. The only difference was this: that in France, the crisiswas an industrial, in England it was a commercial one; that while inFrance the factories stood still, they spread themselves in England,but under less favorable circumstances than they had done the yearsjust previous; that, in France, the export, in England, the importtrade suffered the heaviest blows. The common cause, which, as a matterof fact, is not to be looked for with-in the bounds of the Frenchpolitical horizon, was obvious. The years 1849 and 1850 were years ofthe greatest material prosperity, and of an overproduction that did notmanifest itself until 1851. This was especially promoted at thebeginning of 1851 by the prospect of the Industrial Exposition; and, asspecial causes, there were added, first, the failure of the cotton cropof 1850 and 1851; second, the certainty of a larger cotton crop thanwas expected: first, the rise, then the sudden drop; in short, theoscillations of the cotton market. The crop of raw silk in France hadbeen below the average. Finally, the manufacture of woolen goods hadreceived such an increment since 1849, that the production of woolcould not keep step with it, and the price of the raw material rosegreatly out of proportion to the price of the manufactured goods.Accordingly, we have here in the raw material of three staple articlesa threefold material for a commercial crisis. Apart from these specialcircumstances, the seeming crisis of the year 1851 was, after all,nothing but the halt that overproduction and overspeculation makeregularly in the course of the industrial cycle, before pulling alltheir forces together in order to rush feverishly over the laststretch, and arrive again at their point of departure—the GeneralCommercial Crisis. At such intervals in the history of trade,commercial failures break out in England, while, in France, industryitself is stopped, partly because it is compelled to retreat throughthe competition of the English, that, at such times becomes resistlessin all markets, and partly because, as an industry of luxuries, it isaffected with preference by every stoppage of trade. Thus, besides thegeneral crisis, France experiences her own national crises, which,how-ever, are determined by and conditioned upon the general state ofthe world’s market much more than by local French influences. It willnot be devoid of interest to contrast the prejudgment of the Frenchbourgeois with the judgment of the English bourgeois. One of thelargest Liverpool firms writes in its yearly report of trade for 1851:“Few years have more completely disappointed the expectationsentertained at their beginning than the year that has just passed;instead of the great prosperity, that was unanimously looked forwardto, it proved itself one of the most discouraging years during the lastquarter of a century. This applies, of course, only to the mercantile,not to the industrial classes. And yet, surely there were grounds atthe beginning of the year from which to draw a contrary conclusion; thestock of products was scanty, capital was abundant, provisions cheap, arich autumn was assured, there was uninterrupted peace on the continentand no political and financial disturbances at home; indeed, never werethe wings of trade more unshackled. . . . What is this unfavorableresult to be ascribed to? We believe to excessive trade in imports aswell as exports. If our merchants do not themselves rein in theiractivity, nothing can keep us going, except a panic every three years.”
Imagine now the French bourgeois, in the midst of this business panic,having his trade-sick brain tortured, buzzed at and deafened withrumors of a “coup d’etat” and the restoration of universal suffrage;with the struggle between the Legislature and the Executive; with theFronde warfare between Orleanists and Legitimists; with communisticconspiracies in southern France; with alleged Jacqueries [#2 Peasantrevolts] in the Departments of Nievre and Cher; with the advertisementsof the several candidates for President; with “social solutions”huckstered about by the journals; with the threats of the republicansto uphold, arms in hand, the Constitution and universal suffrage; withthe gospels, according to the emigrant heroes “in partibus,” whoannounced the destruction of the world for May 2,—imagine that, and onecan understand how the bourgeois, in this unspeakable and noisyconfusion of fusion, revision, prorogation, constitution, conspiracy,coalition, emigration, usurpation and revolution, blurts out at hisparliamentary republic: “Rather an End With Fright, Than a FrightWithout End.”
Bonaparte understood this cry. His perspicacity was sharpened by thegrowing anxiety of the creditors’ class, who, with every sunset, thatbrought nearer the day of payment, the 2d of May, 1852, saw in themotion of the stars a protest against their earthly drafts. They hadbecome regular astrologers The National Assembly had cut offBonaparte’s hope of a constitutional prolongation of his term; thecandidature of the Prince of Joinville tolerated no furthervacillation.
If ever an event cast its shadow before it long before its occurrence,it was Bonaparte’s “coup d’etat.” Already on January 29, 1849, barely amonth after his election, he had made to Changarnier a proposition tothat effect. His own Prime Minister. Odillon Barrot, had covertly, in1849, and Thiers openly in the winter of 1850, revealed the scheme ofthe “coup d’etat.” In May, 1851, Persigny had again sought to winChangarnier over to the “coup,” and the “Miessager de l’Assemblee”newspaper had published this conversation. At every parliamentarystorm, the Bonapartist papers threatened a “coup,” and the nearer thecrisis approached, all the louder grew their tone. At the orgies, thatBonaparte celebrated every night with a swell mob of males and females,every time the hour of midnight drew nigh and plenteous libations hadloosened the tongues and heated the minds of the revelers, the “coup”was resolved upon for the next morning. Swords were then drawn, glassesclinked, the Representatives were thrown out at the windows, theimperial mantle fell upon the shoulders of Bonaparte, until the nextmorning again drove away the spook, and astonished Paris learned, fromnot very reserved Vestals and indiscreet Paladins, the danger it hadonce more escaped. During the months of September and October, therumors of a “coup d’etat” tumbled close upon one another’s heels. Atthe same time the shadow gathered color, like a confused daguerreotype.Follow the issues of the European daily press for the months ofSeptember and October, and items like this will be found literally:
“Rumors of a ‘coup’ fill Paris. The capital, it is said, is to befilled with troops by night and the next morning decrees are to beissued dissolving the National Assembly, placing the Department of theSeine in state of siege restoring universal suffrage, and appealing tothe people. Bonaparte is rumored to be looking for Ministers to executethese illegal decrees.”
The newspaper correspondence that brought this news always closeominously with “postponed.” The “coup” was ever the fixed idea ofBonaparte. With this idea he had stepped again upon French soil. It hadsuch full possession of him that he was constantly betraying andblabbing it out. He was so weak that he was as constantly giving it upagain. The shadow of the “coup” had become so familiar a spectre to theParisians, that they refused to believe it when it finally did appearin flesh and blood. Consequently, it was neither the reticentbackwardness of the chief of the “Society of December 10,” nor anunthought of surprise of the National Assembly that caused the successof the “coup.” When it succeeded, it did so despite his indiscretionand with its anticipation—a necessary, unavoidable result of thedevelopment that had preceded.
On October 10, Bonaparte announced to his Ministers his decision torestore universal suffrage; on the 16th day they handed in theirresignations; on the 26th Paris learned of the formation of theThorigny Ministry. The Prefect of Police, Carlier, was simultaneouslyreplaced by Maupas; and the chief of the First Military DivisionMagnan, concentrated the most reliable regiments in the capital. OnNovember 4, the National Assembly re-opened its sessions. There wasnothing left for it to do but to repeat, in short recapitulation, thecourse it had traversed, and to prove that it had been buried onlyafter it had expired. The first post that it had forfeited in thestruggle with the Executive was the Ministry. It had solemnly to admitthis loss by accepting as genuine the Thorigny Ministry, which was buta pretence. The permanent Committee had received Mr. Giraud withlaughter when he introduced himself in the name of the new Ministers.So weak a Ministry for so strong a measure as the restoration ofuniversal suffrage! The question, however, then was to do nothing in,everything against the parliament.
On the very day of its re-opening, the National Assembly received themessage from Bonaparte demanding the restoration of universal suffrageand the repeal of the law of May 31, 1850. On the same day, hisMinisters introduced a decree to that effect. The Assembly promptlyrejected the motion of urgency made by the Ministers, but repealed thelaw itself, on November 13, by a vote of 355 against 348. Thus it oncemore tore to pieces its own mandate, once more certified to the factthat it had transformed itself from a freely chosen representative bodyof the nation into the usurpatory parliament of a class; it once moreadmitted that it had itself severed the muscles that connected theparliamentary head with the body of the nation.
While the Executive power appealed from the National Assembly to thepeople by its motion for the restoration of universal suffrage, theLegislative power appealed from the people to the Army by its“Questors’ Bill.” This bill was to establish its right to immediaterequisitions for troops, to build up a parliamentary army. By thusappointing the Army umpire between itself and the people, betweenitself and Bonaparte; by thus recognizing the Army as the decisivepower in the State, the National Assembly was constrained to admit thatit had long given up all claim to supremacy. By debating the right tomake requisitions for troops, instead of forthwith collecting them, itbetrayed its own doubts touching its own power. By thus subsequentlyrejecting the “Questors’ Bill,” it publicly confessed it impotence. Thebill fell through with a minority of 108 votes; the Mountain had,accordingly, thrown the casting vote It now found itself in thepredicament of Buridan’s donkey, not, indeed, between two sacks of hay,forced to decide which of the two was the more attractive, but betweentwo showers of blows, forced to decide which of the two was the harder;fear of Changarnier, on one side, fear of Bonaparte, on the other. Itmust be admitted the position was not a heroic one.
On November 18, an amendment was moved to the Act, passed by the partyof Order, on municipal elections to the effect that, instead of threeyears, a domicile of one year should suffice. The amendment was lost bya single vote—but this vote, it soon transpired, was a mistake. Owingto the divisions within its own hostile factions, the party of Orderhad long since forfeited its independent parliamentary majority. It wasnow plain that there was no longer any majority in the parliament. TheNational Assembly had become impotent even to decide. Its atomic partswere no longer held together by any cohesive power; it had expended itslast breath, it was dead.
Finally, the mass of the bourgeoisie outside of the parliament was oncemore solemnly to confirm its rupture with the bourgeoisie inside of theparliament a few days before the catastrophe. Thiers, as aparliamentary hero conspicuously smitten by that incurabledisease—Parliamentary Idiocy—, had hatched out jointly with the Councilof State, after the death of the parliament, a new parliamentaryintrigue in the shape of a “Responsibility Law,” that was intended tolock up the President within the walls of the Constitution. The sameas, on September 15, Bonaparte bewitched the fishwives, like a secondMassaniello, on the occasion of laying the corner-stone for the Marketof Paris,—though, it must be admitted, one fishwife was equal toseventeen Burgraves in real power—; the same as, after the introductionof the “Questors’ Bill,” he enthused the lieutenants, who were beingtreated at the Elysee;—so, likewise, did he now, on November 25, carryaway with him the industrial bourgeoisie, assembled at the Circus, toreceive from his hands the prize-medals that had been awarded at theLondon Industrial Exposition. I here reproduce the typical part of hisspeech, from the “Journal des Debats”:
“With such unhoped for successes, I am justified to repeat how greatthe French republic would be if she were only allowed to pursue herreal interests, and reform her institutions, instead of beingconstantly disturbed in this by demagogues, on one side, and, on theother, by monarchic hallucinations. (Loud, stormy and continuedapplause from all parts of the amphitheater). The monarchichallucinations hamper all progress and all serious departments ofindustry. Instead of progress, we have struggle only. Men, formerly themost zealous supporters of royal authority and prerogative, become thepartisans of a convention that has no purpose other than to weaken anauthority that is born of universal suffrage. (Loud and prolongedapplause). We see men, who have suffered most from the revolution andcomplained bitterest of it, provoking a new one for the sole purpose ofputting fetters on the will of the nation. . . . I promise you peacefor the future.” (Bravo! Bravo! Stormy bravos.)
Thus the industrial bourgeoisie shouts its servile “Bravo!” to the“coup d’etat” of December 2, to the destruction of the parliament, tothe downfall of their own reign, to the dictatorship of Bonaparte. Therear of the applause of November 25 was responded to by the roar ofcannon on December 4, and the house of Mr. Sallandrouze, who had beenloudest in applauding, was the one demolished by most of the bombs.
Cromwell, when he dissolved the Long Parliament, walked alone into itsmidst, pulled out his watch in order that the body should not continueto exist one minute beyond the term fixed for it by him, and drove outeach individual member with gay and humorous invectives. Napoleon,smaller than his prototype, at least went on the 18th Brumaire into thelegislative body, and, though in a tremulous voice, read to it itssentence of death. The second Bonaparte, who, moreover, found himselfin possession of an executive power very different from that of eitherCromwell or Napoleon, did not look for his model in the annals ofuniversal history, but in the annals of the “Society of December 10,”in the annals of criminal jurisprudence. He robs the Bank of France oftwenty-five million francs; buys General Magnan with one million andthe soldiers with fifteen francs and a drink to each; comes secretlytogether with his accomplices like a thief by night; has the houses ofthe most dangerous leaders in the parliament broken into; Cavalignac,Lamorciere, Leflo, Changarnier, Charras, Thiers, Baze, etc., taken outof their beds; the principal places of Paris, the building of theparliament included, occupied with troops; and, early the next morning,loud-sounding placards posted on all the walls proclaiming thedissolution of the National Assembly and of the Council of State, therestoration of universal suffrage, and the placing of the Department ofthe Seine under the state of siege. In the same way he shortly aftersneaked into the “Moniteur” a false document, according to whichinfluential parliamentary names had grouped themselves round him in aCommittee of the Nation.
Amidst cries of “Long live the Republic!”, the rump-parliament,assembled at the Mayor’s building of the Tenth Arrondissement, andcomposed mainly of Legitimists and Orleanists, resolves to deposeBonaparte; it harangues in vain the gaping mass gathered before thebuilding, and is finally dragged first, under the escort of Africansharpshooters, to the barracks of Orsay, and then bundled intoconvicts’ wagons and transported to the prisons of Mazas, Ham andVincennes. Thus ended the party of Order, the Legislative Assembly andthe February revolution.
Before hastening to the end, let us sum up shortly the plan of itshistory:
I.—First Period. From February 24 to May 4, 1848. February period.Prologue. Universal fraternity swindle.
II.—Second Period. Period in which the republic is constituted, and ofthe Constitutive National Assembly.
1. May 4 to June 25, 1848. Struggle of all the classes against thehouse of Mr. proletariat. Defeat of the proletariat in the June days.
2. June 25 to December 10, 1848. Dictatorship of the pure bourgeoisrepublicans. Drafting of the Constitution. The state of siege hangsover Paris. The Bourgeois dictatorship set aside on December 10 by theelection of Bonaparte as President.
3. December 20, 1848, to May 20, 1849. Struggle of the ConstitutiveAssembly with Bonaparte and with the united party of Order. Death ofthe Constitutive Assembly. Downfall of the republican bourgeoisie.
III.—Third Period. Period of the constitutional republic and of theLegislative National Assembly.
1. May 29 to June 13, 1849. Struggle of the small traders’, middleclass with the bourgeoisie and with Bonaparte. Defeat of the smalltraders’ democracy.
2. June 13, 1849, to May, 1850. Parliamentary dictatorship of the partyof Order. Completes its reign by the abolition of universal suffrage,but loses the parliamentary Ministry.
3. May 31, 1850, to December 2, 1851. Struggle between theparliamentary bourgeoisie and Bonaparte.
a. May 31, 1850, to January 12, 1851. The parliament loses the supremecommand over the Army.
b. January 12 to April 11, 1851. The parliament succumbs in theattempts to regain possession of the administrative power. The party ofOrder loses its independent parliamentary majority. Its coalition withthe republicans and the Mountain.
c. April 11 to October 9, 1851. Attempts at revision, fusion andprorogation. The party of Order dissolves into its component parts. Thebreach between the bourgeois parliament and the bourgeois press, on theone hand, and the bourgeois mass, on the other, becomes permanent.
d. October 9 to December 2, 1851. Open breach between the parliamentand the executive power. It draws up its own decree of death, and goesunder, left in the lurch by its own class, by the Army, and by all theother classes. Downfall of the parliamentary regime and of the reign ofthe bourgeoisie. Bonaparte’s triumph. Parody of the imperialistrestoration.



VII.

The Social Republic appeared as a mere phrase, as a prophecy on thethreshold of the February Revolution; it was smothered in the blood ofthe Parisian proletariat during the days of 1848 but it stalks about asa spectre throughout the following acts of the drama. The DemocraticRepublic next makes its bow; it goes out in a fizzle on June 13, 1849,with its runaway small traders; but, on fleeing, it scatters behind itall the more bragging announcements of what it means do to. TheParliamentary Republic, together with the bourgeoisie, thenappropriates the whole stage; it lives its life to the full extent ofits being; but the 2d of December, 1851, buries it under theterror-stricken cry of the allied royalists: “Long live the Republic!”
The French bourgeoisie reared up against the reign of the workingproletariat;—it brought to power the slum-proletariat, with the chiefof the “Society of December 10” at its head. It kept France inbreathless fear over the prospective terror of “red anarchy;”—Bonapartediscounted the prospect when, on December 4, he had the leadingcitizens of the Boulevard Montmartre and the Boulevard des Italiensshot down from their windows by the grog-inspired “Army of Order.” Itmade the apotheosis of the sabre; now the sabre rules it. It destroyedthe revolutionary press;—now its own press is annihilated. It placedpublic meetings under police surveillance;—now its own salons aresubject to police inspection. It disbanded the democratic NationalGuards;—now its own National Guard is disbanded. It instituted thestate of siege;—now itself is made subject thereto. It supplanted thejury by military commissions;—now military commissions supplant its ownjuries. It subjected the education of the people to the parsons’interests;—the parsons’ interests now subject it to their own systems.It ordered transportations without trial;—now itself is transportedwithout trial. It suppressed every movement of society with physicalforce;—now every movement of its own class is suppressed by physicalforce. Out of enthusiasm for the gold bag, it rebelled against its ownpolitical leaders and writers;—now, its political leaders and writersare set aside, but the gold hag is plundered, after the mouth of thebourgeoisie has been gagged and its pen broken. The bourgeoisietirelessly shouted to the revolution, in the language of St. Orseniusto the Christians: “Fuge, Tace, Quiesce!”—flee, be silent, submit!—;Bonaparte shouts to the bourgeoisie: “Fuge, Tace, Oniesce!”—flee, besilent, submit!
The French bourgeoisie had long since solved Napoleon’s dilemma: “Danscinquante ans l’Europe sera republicaine ou cosaque.” [#1 Within fiftyyears Europe will be either republican or Cossack.] It found thesolution in the “republique cosaque.” [#2 Cossack republic.] No Circedistorted with wicked charms the work of art of the bourgeois republicinto a monstrosity. That republic lost nothing but the appearance ofdecency. The France of to-day was ready-made within the womb of theParliamentary republic. All that was wanted was a bayonet thrust, inorder that the bubble burst, and the monster leap forth to sight.
Why did not the Parisian proletariat rise after the 2d of December?
The downfall of the bourgeoisie was as yet merely decreed; the decreewas not yet executed. Any earnest uprising of the proletariat wouldhave forthwith revived this bourgeoisie, would have brought on itsreconciliation with the army, and would have insured a second June routto the workingmen.
On December 4, the proletariat was incited to fight by Messrs.Bourgeois & Small-Trader. On the evening of that day, several legionsof the National Guard promised to appear armed and uniformed on theplace of battle. This arose from the circumstance that Messrs.Bourgeois & Small-Trader had got wind that, in one of his decrees ofDecember 2, Bonaparte abolished the secret ballot, and ordered them toenter the words “Yes” and “No” after their names in the officialregister. Bonaparte took alarm at the stand taken on December 4. Duringthe night he caused placards to be posted on all the street corners ofParis, announcing the restoration of the secret ballot. Messrs.Bourgeois & Small-Trader believed they had gained their point. Theabsentees, the next morning, were Messieurs. Bourgeois & Small-Trader.
During the night of December 1 and 2, the Parisian proletariat wasrobbed of its leaders and chiefs of barricades by a raid ofBonaparte’s. An army without officers, disinclined by the recollectionsof June, 1848 and 1849, and May, 1850, to fight under the banner of theMontagnards, it left to its vanguard, the secret societies, the work ofsaving the insurrectionary honor of Paris, which the bourgeoisie hadyielded to the soldiery so submissively that Bonaparte was laterjustified in disarming the National Guard upon the scornful ground thathe feared their arms would be used against themselves by theAnarchists!
“C’est Ic triomphe complet et definitif du Socialism!” Thus did Guizotcharacterize the 2d of December. But, although the downfall of theparliamentary republic carries with it the germ of the triumph of theproletarian revolution, its immediate and tangible result was thetriumph of Bonaparte over parliament, of the Executive over theLegislative power, of force without phrases over the force of phrases.In the parliament, the nation raised its collective will to the dignityof law, i.e., it raised the law of the ruling class to the dignity ofits collective will. Before the Executive power, the nation abdicatesall will of its own, and submits to the orders of an outsider ofAuthority. In contrast with the Legislative, the Executive powerexpresses the heteronomy of the nation in contrast with its autonomy.Accordingly, France seems to have escaped the despotism of a class onlyin order to fall under the despotism of an individual, under theauthority, at that of an individual without authority The struggleseems to settle down to the point where all classes drop down on theirknees, equally impotent and equally dumb.
All the same, the revolution is thoroughgoing. It still is on itspassage through purgatory. It does its work methodically: Down toDecember 2, 1851, it had fulfilled one-half of its programme, it nowfulfils the other half. It first ripens the power of the Legislatureinto fullest maturity in order to be able to overthrow it. Now that ithas accomplished that, the revolution proceeds to ripen the power ofthe Executive into equal maturity; it reduces this power to its purestexpression; isolates it; places it before itself as the sole subjectfor reproof in order to concentrate against it all the revolutionaryforces of destruction. When the revolution shall have accomplished thissecond part of its preliminary programme, Europe will jump up from herseat to exclaim: “Well hast thou grubbed, old mole!”
The Executive power, with its tremendous bureaucratic and militaryorganization; with its wide-spreading and artificial machinery ofgovernment—an army of office-holders, half a million strong, togetherwith a military force of another million men—; this fearful body ofparasites, that coils itself like a snake around French society,stopping all its pores, originated at the time of the absolutemonarchy, along with the decline of feudalism, which it helped tohasten. The princely privileges of the landed proprietors and citieswere transformed into so many at-tributes of the Executive power; thefeudal dignitaries into paid office-holders; and the confusing designof conflicting medieval seigniories, into the well regulated plan of agovernment, work is subdivided and centralized as in the factory. Thefirst French revolution, having as a mission to sweep away all local,territorial, urban and provincial special privileges, with the objectof establishing the civic unity of the nation, was hound to developwhat the absolute monarchy had begun—the work of centralization,together with the range, the attributes and the menials of government.Napoleon completed this governmental machinery. The Legitimist and theJuly Monarchy contribute nothing thereto, except a greater subdivisionof labor, that grew in the same measure as the division and subdivisionof labor within bourgeois society raised new groups and interests,i.e., new material for the administration of government. Each Commoninterest was in turn forthwith removed from society, set up against itas a higher Collective interest, wrested from the individual activityof the members of society, and turned into a subject for governmentaladministration, from the bridges, the school house and the communalproperty of a village community, up to the railroads, the nationalwealth and the national University of France. Finally, theparliamentary republic found itself, in its struggle against therevolution, compelled, with its repressive measures, to strengthen themeans and the centralization of the government. Each overturn, insteadof breaking up, carried this machine to higher perfection. The parties,that alternately wrestled for supremacy, looked upon the possession ofthis tremendous governmental structure as the principal spoils of theirvictory.
Nevertheless, under the absolute monarchy, was only the means wherebythe first revolution, and under Napoleon, to prepare the class rule ofthe bourgeoisie; under the restoration, under Louis Philippe, and underthe parliamentary republic, it was the instrument of the ruling class,however eagerly this class strained after autocracy. Not before theadvent of the second Bonaparte does the government seem to have madeitself fully independent. The machinery of government has by this timeso thoroughly fortified itself against society, that the chief of the“Society of December 10” is thought good enough to be at its head; afortune-hunter, run in from abroad, is raised on its shield by adrunken soldiery, bought by himself with liquor and sausages, and whomhe is forced ever again to throw sops to. Hence the timid despair, thesense of crushing humiliation and degradation that oppresses the breastof France and makes her to choke. She feels dishonored.
And yet the French Government does not float in the air. Bonaparterepresents an economic class, and that the most numerous in thecommonweal of France—the Allotment Farmer. [#4 The first FrenchRevolution distributed the bulk of the territory of France, held at thetime by the feudal lords, in small patches among the cultivators of thesoil. This allotment of lands created the French farmer class.]
As the Bourbons are the dynasty of large landed property, as theOrleans are the dynasty of money, so are the Bonapartes the dynasty ofthe farmer, i.e. of the French masses. Not the Bonaparte, who threwhimself at the feet of the bourgeois parliament, but the Bonaparte, whoswept away the bourgeois parliament, is the elect of this farmer class.For three years the cities had succeeded in falsifying the meaning ofthe election of December 10, and in cheating the farmer out of therestoration of the Empire. The election of December 10, 1848, is notcarried out until the “coup d’etat” of December 2, 1851.
The allotment farmers are an immense mass, whose individual memberslive in identical conditions, without, however, entering into manifoldrelations with one another. Their method of production isolates themfrom one another, instead of drawing them into mutual intercourse. Thisisolation is promoted by the poor means of communication in France,together with the poverty of the farmers themselves. Their field ofproduction, the small allotment of land that each cultivates, allows noroom for a division of labor, and no opportunity for the application ofscience; in other words, it shuts out manifoldness of development,diversity of talent, and the luxury of social relations. Every singlefarmer family is almost self-sufficient; itself produces directly thegreater part of what it consumes; and it earns its livelihood more bymeans of an interchange with nature than by intercourse with society.We have the allotted patch of land, the farmer and his family;alongside of that another allotted patch of land, another farmer andanother family. A bunch of these makes up a village; a bunch ofvillages makes up a Department. Thus the large mass of the Frenchnation is constituted by the simple addition of equal magnitudes—muchas a bag with potatoes constitutes a potato-bag. In so far as millionsof families live under economic conditions that separate their mode oflife, their interests and their culture from those of the otherclasses, and that place them in an attitude hostile toward the latter,they constitute a class; in so far as there exists only a localconnection among these farmers, a connection which the individualityand exclusiveness of their interests prevent from generating among themany unity of interest, national connections, and politicalorganization, they do not constitute a class. Consequently, they areunable to assert their class interests in their own name, be it by aparliament or by convention. They can not represent one another, theymust themselves be represented. Their representative must at the sametime appear as their master, as an authority over them, as an unlimitedgovernmental power, that protects them from above, bestows rain andsunshine upon them. Accordingly, the political influence of theallotment farmer finds its ultimate expression in an Executive powerthat subjugates the commonweal to its own autocratic will.
Historic tradition has given birth to the superstition among the Frenchfarmers that a man named Napoleon would restore to them all manner ofglory. Now, then, an individual turns I up, who gives himself out asthat man because, obedient to the “Code Napoleon,” which provides that“La recherche de la paternite est interdite,” [#5 The inquiry intopaternity is forbidden.] he carries the name of Napoleon. [#6 L. N.Bonaparte is said to have been an illegitimate son.] After avagabondage of twenty years, and a series of grotesque adventures, themyth is verified, and that man becomes the Emperor of the French. Therooted thought of the Nephew becomes a reality because it coincidedwith the rooted thought of the most numerous class among the French.
“But,” I shall be objected to, “what about the farmers’ uprisings overhalf France, the raids of the Army upon the farmers, the wholesaleimprisonment and transportation of farmers?”
Indeed, since Louis XIV., France has not experienced such persecutionsof the farmer on the ground of his demagogic machinations.
But this should be well understood: The Bonaparte dynasty does notrepresent the revolutionary, it represents the conservative farmer; itdoes not represent the farmer, who presses beyond his own economicconditions, his little allotment of land it represents him rather whowould confirm these conditions; it does not represent the ruralpopulation, that, thanks to its own inherent energy, wishes, jointlywith the cities to overthrow the old order, it represents, on thecontrary, the rural population that, hide-bound in the old order, seeksto see itself, together with its allotments, saved and favored by theghost of the Empire; it represents, not the intelligence, but thesuperstition of the farmer; not his judgment, but his bias; not hisfuture, but his past; not his modern Cevennes; [#7 The Cevennes werethe theater of the most numerous revolutionary uprisings of the farmerclass.] but his modern Vendee. [#8 La Vendee was the theater ofprotracted reactionary uprisings of the farmer class under the firstRevolution.]
The three years’ severe rule of the parliamentary republic had freed apart of the French farmers from the Napoleonic illusion, and, thougheven only superficially; had revolutionized them The bourgeoisie threwthem, however, violently back every time that they set themselves inmotion. Under the parliamentary republic, the modern wrestled with thetraditional consciousness of the French farmer. The process went on inthe form of a continuous struggle between the school teachers and theparsons;—the bourgeoisie knocked the school teachers down. For thefirst time, the farmer made an effort to take an independent stand inthe government of the country; this manifested itself in the prolongedconflicts of the Mayors with the Prefects;—the bourgeoisie deposed theMayors. Finally, during period of the parliamentary republic, thefarmers of several localities rose against their own product, theArmy;—the bourgeoisie punished them with states of siege andexecutions. And this is the identical bourgeoisie, that now howls overthe “stupidity of the masses,” over the “vile multitude,” which, itclaims, betrayed it to Bonaparte. Itself has violently fortified theimperialism of the farmer class; it firmly maintained the conditionsthat Constitute the birth-place of this farmer-religion. Indeed, thebourgeoisie has every reason to fear the stupidity of the masses—solong as they remain conservative; and their intelligence—so soon asthey become revolutionary.
In the revolts that took place after the “coup d’etat” a part of theFrench farmers protested, arms in hand, against their own vote ofDecember 10, 1848. The school house had, since 1848, sharpened theirwits. But they had bound themselves over to the nether world ofhistory, and history kept them to their word. Moreover, the majority ofthis population was still so full of prejudices that, just in the“reddest” Departments, it voted openly for Bonaparte. The NationalAssembly prevented, as it thought, this population from walking; thefarmers now snapped the fetters which the cities had struck upon thewill of the country districts. In some places they even indulged thegrotesque hallucination of a “Convention together with a Napoleon.”
After the first revolution had converted the serf farmers intofreeholders, Napoleon fixed and regulated the conditions under which,unmolested, they could exploit the soil of France, that had just falleninto their hands, and expiate the youthful passion for property. Butthat which now bears the French farmer down is that very allotment ofland, it is the partition of the soil, the form of ownership, whichNapoleon had consolidated. These are the material condition that turnedFrench feudal peasant into a small or allotment farmer, and Napoleoninto an Emperor. Two generations have sufficed to produce theinevitable result the progressive deterioration of agriculture, and theprogressive encumbering of the agriculturist The “Napoleonic” form ofownership, which, at the beginning of the nineteenth century was thecondition for the emancipation and enrichment of the French ruralpopulation, has, in the course of the century, developed into the lawof their enslavement and pauperism. Now, then, this very law is thefirst of the “idees Napoleoniennes,” which the second Bonaparte mustuphold. If he still shares with the farmers the illusion of seeking,not in the system of the small allotment itself, but outside of thatsystem, in the influence of secondary conditions, the cause of theirruin, his experiments are bound to burst like soap-bubbles against themodern system of production.
The economic development of the allotment system has turned bottomupward the relation of the farmer to the other classes of society.Under Napoleon, the parceling out of the agricultural lands into smallallotments supplemented in the country the free competition and theincipient large production of the cities. The farmer class was theubiquitous protest against the aristocracy of land, just thenoverthrown. The roots that the system of small allotments cast into thesoil of France, deprived feudalism of all nutriment. Its boundary-postsconstituted the natural buttress of the bourgeoisie against everystroke of the old overlords. But in the course of the nineteenthcentury, the City Usurer stepped into the shoes of the Feudal Lord, theMortgage substituted the Feudal Duties formerly yielded by the soil,bourgeois Capital took the place of the aristocracy of Landed Property.The former allotments are now only a pretext that allows the capitalistclass to draw profit, interest and rent from agricultural lands, and toleave to the farmer himself the task of seeing to it that he knock outhis wages. The mortgage indebtedness that burdens the soil of Franceimposes upon the French farmer class they payment of an interest asgreat as the annual interest on the whole British national debt. Inthis slavery of capital, whither its development drives itirresistibly, the allotment system has transformed the mass of theFrench nation into troglodytes. Sixteen million farmers (women andchildren included), house in hovels most of which have only oneopening, some two, and the few most favored ones three. Windows are toa house what the five senses are to the head. The bourgeois socialorder, which, at the beginning of the century, placed the State as asentinel before the newly instituted allotment, and that manured thiswith laurels, has become a vampire that sucks out its heart-blood andits very brain, and throws it into the alchemist’s pot of capital. The“Code Napoleon” is now but the codex of execution, of sheriff’s salesand of intensified taxation. To the four million (children, etc.,included) official paupers, vagabonds, criminals and prostitutes, thatFrance numbers, must be added five million souls who hover over theprecipice of life, and either sojourn in the country itself, or floatwith their rags and their children from the country to the cities, andfrom the cities back to the country. Accordingly, the interests of thefarmers are no longer, as under Napoleon, in harmony but in conflictwith the interests of the bourgeoisie, i.e., with capital; they findtheir natural allies and leaders among the urban proletariat, whosemission is the overthrow of the bourgeois social order. But the “strongand unlimited government”—and this is the second of the “ideesNapoleoniennes,” which the second Napoleon has to carried out—, has forits mission the forcible defence of this very “material” social order,a “material order” that furnishes the slogan in Bonaparte’sproclamations against the farmers in revolt.
Along with the mortgage, imposed by capital upon the farmer’sallotment, this is burdened by taxation. Taxation is the fountain oflife to the bureaucracy, the Army, the parsons and the court, in shortto the whole apparatus of the Executive power. A strong government, andheavy taxes are identical. The system of ownership, involved in thesystem of allotments lends itself by nature for the groundwork of apowerful and numerous bureaucracy: it produces an even level ofconditions and of persons over the whole surface of the country; it,therefore, allows the exercise of an even influence upon all parts ofthis even mass from a high central point downwards: it annihilates thearistocratic gradations between the popular masses and the Government;it, consequently, calls from all sides for the direct intervention ofthe Government and for the intervention of the latter’s immediateorgans; and, finally, it produces an unemployed excess of population,that finds no room either in the country or in the cities, that,consequently, snatches after public office as a sort of dignified alms,and provokes the creation of further offices. With the new markets,which he opened at the point of the bayonet, and with the plunder ofthe continent, Napoleon returned to the farmer class with interest thetaxes wrung from them. These taxes were then a goad to the industry ofthe farmer, while now, on the contrary, they rob his industry of itslast source of support, and completely sap his power to resist poverty.Indeed, an enormous bureaucracy, richly gallooned and well fed is that“idee Napoleonienne” that above all others suits the requirements ofthe second Bonaparte. How else should it be, seeing he is forced toraise alongside of the actual classes of society, an artificial class,to which the maintenance of his own regime must be a knife-and-forkquestion? One of his first financial operations was, accordingly, theraising of the salaries of the government employees to their formerstandard and the creation of new sinecures.
Another “idee Napoleonienne” is the rule of the parsons as aninstrument of government. But while the new-born allotment, in harmonywith society, in its dependence upon the powers of nature, and in itssubordination to the authority that protected it from above, wasnaturally religious, the debt-broken allotment, on the contrary, atodds with society and authority, and driven beyond its own narrowbounds, becomes as naturally irreligious. Heaven was quite a prettygift thrown in with the narrow strip of land that had just been won,all the more as it makes the weather; it, however, becomes an insultfrom the moment it is forced upon the farmer as a substitute for hisallotment. Then the parson appears merely as the anointed blood-houndof the earthly police,—yet another “idee Napoleonienne.” The expeditionagainst Rome will next time take place in France, but in a reversesense from that of M. de Montalembert.
Finally, the culminating point of the “idees Napoleoniennes” is thepreponderance of the Army. The Army was the “point of honor” with theallotment farmers: it was themselves turned into masters, defendingabroad their newly established property, glorifying their recentlyconquered nationality, plundering and revolutionizing the world. Theuniform was their State costume; war was their poetry; the allotment,expanded and rounded up in their phantasy, was the fatherland; andpatriotism became the ideal form of property. But the foe, against whomthe French farmer must now defend his property, are not the Cossacks,they are the sheriffs and the tax collectors. The allotment no longerlies in the so-called fatherland, but in the register of mortgages. TheArmy itself no longer is the flower of the youth of the farmers, it isthe swamp-blossom of the slum-proletariat of the farmer class. Itconsists of “remplacants,” substitutes, just as the second Bonapartehimself is but a “remplacant,” a substitute, for Napoleon. Its feats ofheroism are now performed in raids instituted against farmers and inthe service of the police;—and when the internal contradictions of hisown system shall drive the chief of the “Society of December 10” acrossthe French frontier, that Army will, after a few bandit-raids, gatherno laurels but only hard knocks.
It is evident that all the “idees Napoleoniennes” are the ideas of theundeveloped and youthfully fresh allotment; they are an absurdity forthe allotment that now survives. They are only the hallucinations ofits death struggle; words turned to hollow phrases, spirits turned tospooks. But this parody of the Empire was requisite in order to freethe mass of the French nation from the weight of tradition, and toelaborate sharply the contrast between Government and Society. Alongwith the progressive decay of the allotment, the governmentalstructure, reared upon it, breaks down. The centralization ofGovernment, required by modern society, rises only upon the ruins ofthe military and bureaucratic governmental machinery that was forged incontrast to feudalism.
The conditions of the French farmers’ class solve to us the riddle ofthe general elections of December 20 and 21, that led the secondBonaparte to the top of Sinai, not to receive, but to decree laws.
The bourgeoisie had now, manifestly, no choice but to elect Bonaparte.When at the Council of Constance, the puritans complained of the sinfullife of the Popes, and moaned about the need of a reform in morals,Cardinal d’Ailly thundered into their faces: “Only the devil in his Ownperson can now save the Catholic Church, and you demand angels.” So,likewise, did the French bourgeoisie cry out after the “coup d’etat”:“Only the chief of the ‘Society of December 10’ can now save bourgeoissociety, only theft can save property, only perjury religion, onlybastardy the family, only disorder order!”
Bonaparte, as autocratic Executive power, fulfills his mission tosecure “bourgeois order.” But the strength of this bourgeois order liesin the middle class. He feels himself the representative of the middleclass, and issues his decrees in that sense. Nevertheless, he issomething only because he has broken the political power of this class,and daily breaks it anew. Hence he feels himself the adversary of thepolitical and the literary power of the middle class. But, byprotecting their material, he nourishes anew their political power.Consequently, the cause must be kept alive, but the result, wherever itmanifests itself, swept out of existence. But this procedure isimpossible without slight mistakings of causes and effects, seeing thatboth, in their mutual action and reaction, lose their distinctivemarks. Thereupon, new decrees, that blur the line of distinction.Bonaparte, furthermore, feels himself, as against the bourgeoisie, therepresentative of the farmer and the people in general, who, withinbourgeois society, is to render the lower classes of society happy. Tothis end, new decrees, intended to exploit the “true Socialists,”together with their governmental wisdom. But, above all, Bonapartefeels himself the chief of the “Society of December 10,” therepresentative of the slum-proletariat, to which he himself, hisimmediate surroundings, his Government, and his army alike belong, themain object with all of whom is to be good to themselves, and drawCalifornian tickets out of the national treasury. An he affirms hischieftainship of the “Society of December 10” with decrees, withoutdecrees, and despite decrees.
This contradictory mission of the man explains the contradictions ofhis own Government, and that confused groping about, that now seeks towin, then to humiliate now this class and then that, and finishes byarraying against itself all the classes; whose actual insecurityconstitutes a highly comical contrast with the imperious, categoricstyle of the Government acts, copied closely from the Uncle.
Industry and commerce, i.e., the business of the middle class, are tobe made to blossom in hot-house style under the “strong Government.”Loans for a number of railroad grants. But the Bonapartistslum-proletariat is to enrich itself. Peculation is carried on withrailroad concessions on the Bourse by the initiated; but no capital isforthcoming for the railroads. The bank then pledges itself to makeadvances upon railroad stock; but the bank is itself to be exploited;hence, it must be cajoled; it is released of the obligation to publishits reports weekly. Then follows a leonine treaty between the bank andthe Government. The people are to be occupied: public works areordered; but the public works raise the tax rates upon the people;thereupon the taxes are reduced by an attack upon the nationalbond-holders through the conversion of the five per cent “rentes” [#9The name of the French national bonds.] into four-and-halves. Yet themiddle class must again be tipped: to this end, the tax on wine isdoubled for the people, who buy it at retail, and is reduced toone-half for the middle class, that drink it at wholesale. Genuinelabor organizations are dissolved, but promises are made of futurewonders to accrue from organization. The farmers are to be helped:mortgage-banks are set up that must promote the indebtedness; of thefarmer and the concentration of property but again, these banks are tobe utilized especially to the end of squeezing money out of theconfiscated estates of the House of Orleans; no capitalist will listento this scheme, which, moreover, is not mentioned in the decree; themortgage bank remains a mere decree, etc., etc.
Bonaparte would like to appear as the patriarchal benefactor of allclasses; but he can give to none without taking from the others. As wassaid of the Duke of Guise, at the time of the Fronde, that he was themost obliging man in France because he had converted all his estatesinto bonds upon himself for his Parisians, so would Napoleon like to bethe most obliging man in France and convert all property and all laborof France into a personal bond upon himself. He would like to steal thewhole of France to make a present thereof to France, or rather to beable to purchase France back again with French money;—as chief of the“Society of December 10,” he must purchase that which is to be his. Allthe State institutions, the Senate, the Council of State, theLegislature, the Legion of Honor, the Soldiers’ decorations, the publicbaths, the public buildings, the railroads, the General Staff of theNational Guard, exclusive of the rank and file, the confiscated estatesof the House of Orleans,—all are converted into institutions forpurchase and sale. Every place in the Army and the machinery ofGovernment becomes a purchasing power. The most important thing,however, in this process, whereby France is taken to be given back toherself, are the percentages that, in the transfer, drop into the handsof the chief and the members of the “Society of December 10.” Thewitticisms with which the Countess of L., the mistress of de Morny,characterized the confiscations of the Orleanist estates: “C’est lepremier vol de l’aigle,” [#10 “It is the first flight of the eagle” TheFrench word “vol” means theft as well as flight.] fits every fight ofthe eagle that is rather a crow. He himself and his followers dailycall out to themselves, like the Italian Carthusian monk in the legenddoes to the miser, who displayfully counted the goods on which he couldlive for many years to come: “Tu fai conto sopra i beni, bisogna primafar il conto sopra gli anni.” [#11 “You count your property you shouldrather count the years left to you.”] In order not to make a mistake inthe years, they count by minutes. A crowd of fellows, of the best amongwhom all that can be said is that one knows not whence he comes—anoisy, restless “Boheme,” greedy after plunder, that crawls about ingallooned frocks with the same grotesque dignity as Soulonque’s [#12Soulonque was the negro Emperor of the short-lived negro Empire ofHayti.] Imperial dignitaries—, thronged the court crowded theministries, and pressed upon the head of the Government and of theArmy. One can picture to himself this upper crust of the “Society ofDecember 10” by considering that Veron Crevel [#13 Crevel is acharacter of Balzac, drawn after Dr. Veron, the proprietor of the“Constitutional” newspaper, as a type of the dissolute ParisianPhilistine.] is their preacher of morality, and Granier de Cassagnactheir thinker. When Guizot, at the time he was Minister, employed thisGranier on an obscure sheet against the dynastic opposition, he used topraise him with the term: “C’est le roi des droles.” [#14 “He Is theking of the clowns.”] It were a mistake to recall the days of theRegency or of Louis XV. by the court and the kit of Louis Bonaparte’s:“Often did France have a mistress-administration, but never yet anadministration of kept men.” [#15 Madame de Girardin.]
Harassed by the contradictory demands of his situation, and compelled,like a sleight-of-hands performer, to keep, by means of constantsurprises, the eyes of the public riveted upon himself as thesubstitute of Napoleon, compelled, consequently, everyday to accomplisha sort of “coup” on a small scale, Bonaparte throws the whole bourgeoissocial system into disorder; he broaches everything that seemedunbroachable by the revolution of 1848; he makes one set people patientunder the revolution and another anxious for it; he produces anarchyitself in the name of order by rubbing off from the whole machinery ofGovernment the veneer of sanctity, by profaning it, by rendering it atonce nauseating and laughable. He rehearses in Paris the cult of thesacred coat of Trier with the cult of the Napoleonic Imperial mantle.But when the Imperial Mantle shall have finally fallen upon theshoulders of Louis Bonaparte, then will also the iron statue ofNapoleon drop down from the top of the Vendome column. [#16 A prophecythat a few years later, after Bonaparte’s coronation as Emperor, wasliterally fulfilled. By order of Emperor Louis Napoleon, the militarystatue of the Napoleon that originally surmounted the Vendome was takendown and replaced by one of first Napoleon in imperial robes.]