Chapter 1--Two Girls
Rose sat all alone in the big best parlor, with her little handkerchieflaid ready to catch the first tear, for she was thinking of hertroubles, and a shower was expected. She had retired to this room as agood place in which to be miserable; for it was dark and still, full ofancient furniture, sombre curtains, and hung all around with portraitsof solemn old gentlemen in wigs, severe-nosed ladies in top-heavy caps,and staring children in little bob-tailed coats or short-waisted frocks.It was an excellent place for woe; and the fitful spring rain thatpattered on the window-pane seemed to sob, “Cry away: I'm with you.”
Rose really did have some cause to be sad; for she had no mother, andhad lately lost her father also, which left her no home but this withher great-aunts. She had been with them only a week, and, though thedear old ladies had tried their best to make her happy, they had notsucceeded very well, for she was unlike any child they had ever seen,and they felt very much as if they had the care of a low-spiritedbutterfly.
They had given her the freedom of the house, and for a day or twoshe had amused herself roaming all over it, for it was a capital oldmansion, and was full of all manner of odd nooks, charming rooms, andmysterious passages. Windows broke out in unexpected places, littlebalconies overhung the garden most romantically, and there was a longupper hall full of curiosities from all parts of the world; for theCampbells had been sea-captains for generations.
Aunt Plenty had even allowed Rose to rummage in her great china closeta spicy retreat, rich in all the “goodies” that children love; but Roseseemed to care little for these toothsome temptations; and when thathope failed, Aunt Plenty gave up in despair.
Gentle Aunt Peace had tried all sorts of pretty needle-work, and planneda doll's wardrobe that would have won the heart of even an older child.But Rose took little interest in pink satin hats and tiny hose, thoughshe sewed dutifully till her aunt caught her wiping tears away with thetrain of a wedding-dress, and that discovery put an end to the sewingsociety.
Then both old ladies put their heads together and picked out the modelchild of the neighbourhood to come and play with their niece. ButAriadne Blish was the worst failure of all, for Rose could not bear thesight of her, and said she was so like a wax doll she longed to giveher a pinch and see if she would squeak. So prim little Ariadne was senthome, and the exhausted aunties left Rose to her own devices for a dayor two.
Bad weather and a cold kept her in-doors, and she spent most of her timein the library where her father's books were stored. Here she read agreat deal, cried a little, and dreamed many of the innocent brightdreams in which imaginative children find such comfort and delight. Thissuited her better than anything else, but it was not good for her, andshe grew pale, heavy-eyed and listless, though Aunt Plenty gave her ironenough to make a cooking-stove, and Aunt Peace petted her like a poodle.
Seeing this, the poor aunties racked their brains for a new amusementand determined to venture a bold stroke, though not very hopeful of itssuccess. They said nothing to Rose about their plan for this Saturdayafternoon, but let her alone till the time came for the grand surprise,little dreaming that the odd child would find pleasure for herself in amost unexpected quarter.
Before she had time to squeeze out a single tear a sound broke thestillness, making her prick up her ears. It was only the soft twitterof a bird, but it seemed to be a peculiarly gifted bird, for while shelistened the soft twitter changed to a lively whistle, then a trill, acoo, a chirp, and ended in a musical mixture of all the notes, as if thebird burst out laughing. Rose laughed also, and, forgetting her woes,jumped up, saying eagerly,
“It is a mocking-bird. Where is it?”
Running down the long hall, she peeped out at both doors, but sawnothing feathered except a draggle-tailed chicken under a burdock leaf.She listened again, and the sound seemed to be in the house. Away shewent, much excited by the chase, and following the changeful song, itled her to the china-closet door.
“In there? How funny!” she said. But when she entered, not a birdappeared except the everlastingly kissing swallows on the Canton chinathat lined the shelves. All of a sudden Rose's face brightened, and,softly opening the slide, she peered into the kitchen. But the musichad stopped, and all she saw was a girl in a blue apron scrubbing thehearth. Rose stared about her for a minute, and then asked abruptly,
“Did you hear that mocking-bird?”
“I should call it a phebe-bird,” answered the girl, looking up with atwinkle in her black eyes.
“Where did it go?”
“It is here still.”
“Where?”
“In my throat. Do you want to hear it?”
“Oh, yes! I'll come in.” And Rose crept through the slide to the wideshelf on the other side, being too hurried and puzzled to go round bythe door.
The girl wiped her hands, crossed her feet on the little island ofcarpet where she was stranded in a sea of soap-suds, and then, sureenough, out of her slender throat came the swallow's twitter, therobin's whistle, the blue-jay's call, the thrush's song, the wood-dove'scoo, and many another familiar note, all ending as before with themusical ecstacy of a bobolink singing and swinging among the meadowgrass on a bright June day.
Rose was so astonished that she nearly fell off her perch, and when thelittle concert was over clapped her hands delightedly.
“Oh, it was lovely! Who taught you?”
“The birds,” answered the girl, with a smile, as she fell to work again.
“It is very wonderful! I can sing, but nothing half so fine as that.What is your name, please?”
“Phebe Moore.”
“I've heard of phebe-birds; but I don't believe the real ones could dothat,” laughed Rose, adding, as she watched with interest the scatteringof dabs of soft soap over the bricks, “May I stay and see you work? Itis very lonely in the parlor.”
“Yes, indeed, if you want to,” answered Phebe, wringing out her cloth ina capable sort of way that impressed Rose very much.
“It must be fun to swash the water round and dig out the soap. I'd loveto do it, only aunt wouldn't like it, I suppose,” said Rose, quite takenwith the new employment.
“You'd soon get tired, so you'd better keep tidy and look on.”
“I suppose you help your mother a good deal?”
“I haven't got any folks.”
“Why, where do you live, then?”
“I'm going to live here, I hope. Debby wants some one to help round, andI've come to try for a week.”
“I hope you will stay, for it is very dull,” said Rose, who had taken asudden fancy to this girl, who sung like a bird and worked like a woman.
“Hope I shall; for I'm fifteen now, and old enough to earn my ownliving. You have come to stay a spell, haven't you?” asked Phebe,looking up at her guest and wondering how life could be dull to a girlwho wore a silk frock, a daintily frilled apron, a pretty locket, andhad her hair tied up with a velvet snood.
“Yes, I shall stay till my uncle comes. He is my guardian now, and Idon't know what he will do with me. Have you a guardian?”
“My sakes, no! I was left on the poor-house steps a little mite ofa baby, and Miss Rogers took a liking to me, so I've been there eversince. But she is dead now, and I take care of myself.”
“How interesting! It is like Arabella Montgomery in the 'Gypsy's Child.'Did you ever read that sweet story?” asked Rose, who was fond of talesof found-lings, and had read many.
“I don't have any books to read, and all the spare time I get I run offinto the woods; that rests me better than stories,” answered Phebe, asshe finished one job and began on another.
Rose watched her as she got out a great pan of beans to look over, andwondered how it would seem to have life all work and no play. PresentlyPhebe seemed to think it was her turn to ask questions, and said,wistfully,
“You've had lots of schooling, I suppose?”
“Oh, dear me, yes! I've been at boarding school nearly a year, and I'malmost dead with lessons. The more I got, the more Miss Power gave me,and I was so miserable that I 'most cried my eyes out. Papa never gaveme hard things to do, and he always taught me so pleasantly I loved tostudy. Oh, we were so happy and so fond of one another! But now he isgone, and I am left all alone.”
The tear that would not come when Rose sat waiting for it came now ofits own accord two of them in fact and rolled down her cheeks, tellingthe tale of love and sorrow better than any words could do it.
For a minute there was no sound in the kitchen but the little daughter'ssobbing and the sympathetic patter of the rain. Phebe stopped rattlingher beans from one pan to another, and her eyes were full of pity asthey rested on the curly head bent down on Rose's knee, for she saw thatthe heart under the pretty locket ached with its loss, and the daintyapron was used to dry sadder tears than any she had ever shed.
Somehow, she felt more contented with her brown calico gown andblue-checked pinafore; envy changed to compassion; and if she had daredshe would have gone and hugged her afflicted guest.
Fearing that might not be considered proper, she said, in her cheeryvoice,
“I'm sure you ain't all alone with such a lot of folks belonging toyou, and all so rich and clever. You'll be petted to pieces, Debby says,because you are the only girl in the family.”
Phebe's last words made Rose smile in spite of her tears, and she lookedout from behind her apron with an April face, saying in a tone of comicdistress,
“That's one of my troubles! I've got six aunts, and they all wantme, and I don't know any of them very well. Papa named this place theAunt-hill, and now I see why.”
Phebe laughed with her as she said encouragingly,
“Everyone calls it so, and it's a real good name, for all the Mrs.Campbells live handy by, and keep coming up to see the old ladies.”
“I could stand the aunts, but there are dozens of cousins, dreadfulboys all of them, and I detest boys! Some of them came to see me lastWednesday, but I was lying down, and when auntie came to call me I wentunder the quilt and pretended to be asleep. I shall have to see themsome time, but I do dread it so.” And Rose gave a shudder, for, havinglived alone with her invalid father, she knew nothing of boys, andconsidered them a species of wild animal.
“Oh! I guess you'll like 'em. I've seen 'em flying round when theycome over from the Point, sometimes in their boats and sometimeson horseback. If you like boats and horses, you'll enjoy yourselffirst-rate.”
“But I don't! I'm afraid of horses, and boats make me ill, and I hateboys!” And poor Rose wrung her hands at the awful prospect before her.One of these horrors alone she could have borne, but all together weretoo much for her, and she began to think of a speedy return to thedetested school.
Phebe laughed at her woe till the beans danced in the pan, but tried tocomfort her by suggesting a means of relief.
“Perhaps your uncle will take you away where there ain't any boys. Debbysays he is a real kind man, and always bring heaps of nice things whenhe comes.”
“Yes, but you see that is another trouble, for I don't know Uncle Alecat all. He hardly ever came to see us, though he sent me pretty thingsvery often. Now I belong to him, and shall have to mind him, till I ameighteen. I may not like him a bit, and I fret about it all the time.”
“Well, I wouldn't borrow trouble, but have a real good time. I'm sure Ishould think I was in clover if I had folks and money, and nothing todo but enjoy myself,” began Phebe, but got no further, for a sudden rushand tumble outside made them both jump.
“It's thunder,” said Phebe.
“It's a circus!” cried Rose, who from her elevated perch had caughtglimpses of a gay cart of some sort and several ponies with flying manesand tails.
The sound died away, and the girls were about to continue theirconfidences when old Debby appeared, looking rather cross and sleepyafter her nap.
“You are wanted in the parlor, Miss Rose.”
“Has anybody come?”
“Little girls shouldn't ask questions, but do as they are bid,” was allDebby would answer.
“I do hope it isn't Aunt Myra; she always scares me out of my witsasking how my cough is, and groaning over me as if I was going to die,” said Rose, preparing to retire the way she came, for the slide, beingcut for the admission of bouncing Christmas turkeys and puddings, wasplenty large enough for a slender girl.
“Guess you'll wish it was Aunt Myra when you see who has come. Don'tnever let me catch you coming into my kitchen that way again, or I'llshut you up in the big b'iler,” growled Debby, who thought it her dutyto snub children on all occasions.


Chapter 2--The Clan
Rose scrambled into the china-closet as rapidly as possible, and thererefreshed herself by making faces at Debby, while she settled herplumage and screwed up her courage. Then she crept softly down the halland peeped into the parlor. No one appeared, and all was so still shefelt sure the company was upstairs. So she skipped boldly through thehalf-open folding-doors, to behold on the other side a sight that nearlytook her breath away.
Seven boys stood in a row all ages, all sizes, all yellow-haired andblue-eyed, all in full Scotch costume, and all smiling, nodding, andsaying as with one voice, “How are you, cousin?”
Rose gave a little gasp, and looked wildly about her as if ready to fly,for fear magnified the seven and the room seemed full of boys. Beforeshe could run, however, the tallest lad stepped out of the line, sayingpleasantly,
“Don't be frightened. This is the Clan come to welcome you; and I'm thechief, Archie, at your service.”
He held out his hand as he spoke, and Rose timidly put her own into abrown paw, which closed over the white morsel and held it as the chiefcontinued his introductions.
“We came in full rig, for we always turn out in style on grandoccasions. Hope you like it. Now I'll tell you who these chaps are, andthen we shall be all right. This big one is Prince Charlie, Aunt Clara'sboy. She has but one, so he is an extra good one. This old fellow isMac, the bookworm, called Worm for short. This sweet creature is Stevethe Dandy. Look at his gloves and top-knot, if you please. They are AuntJane's lads, and a precious pair you'd better believe. These are theBrats, my brothers, Geordie and Will, and Jamie the Baby. Now, my men,step out and show your manners.”
At this command, to Rose's great dismay, six more hands were offered,and it was evident that she was expected to shake them all. It was atrying moment to the bashful child; but, remembering that they were herkinsmen come to welcome her, she tried her best to return the greetingcordially.
This impressive ceremony being over, the Clan broke ranks, and bothrooms instantly appeared to be pervaded with boys. Rose hastily retiredto the shelter of a big chair and sat there watching the invaders andwondering when her aunt would come and rescue her.
As if bound to do their duty manfully, yet rather oppressed by it, eachlad paused beside her chair in his wanderings, made a brief remark,received a still briefer answer, and then sheered off with a relievedexpression.
Archie came first, and, leaning over the chair-back, observed in apaternal tone,
“I'm glad you've come, cousin, and I hope you'll find the Aunt-hillpretty jolly.”
“I think I shall.”
Mac shook his hair out of his eyes, stumbled over a stool, and askedabruptly,
“Did you bring any books with you?”
“Four boxes full. They are in the library.”
Mac vanished from the room, and Steve, striking an attitude whichdisplayed his costume effectively, said with an affable smile,
“We were sorry not to see you last Wednesday. I hope your cold isbetter.”
“Yes, thank you.” And a smile began to dimple about Rose's mouth, as sheremembered her retreat under the bed-cover.
Feeling that he had been received with distinguished marks of attention,Steve strolled away with his topknot higher than ever, and PrinceCharlie pranced across the room, saying in a free and easy tone,
“Mamma sent her love and hopes you will be well enough to come over fora day next week. It must be desperately dull here for a little thinglike you.”
“I'm thirteen and a half, though I do look small,” cried Rose,forgetting her shyness in indignation at this insult to her newlyacquired teens.
“Beg pardon, ma'am; never should have guessed it.” And Charlie went offwith a laugh, glad to have struck a spark out of his meek cousin.
Geordie and Will came together, two sturdy eleven and twelve yearolders, and, fixing their round blue eyes on Rose, fired off a questionapiece, as if it was a shooting match and she the target.
“Did you bring your monkey?”
“No; he is dead.”
“Are you going to have a boat?”
“I hope not.”
Here the two, with a right-about-face movement, abruptly marched away,and little Jamie demanded with childish frankness,
“Did you bring me anything nice?”
“Yes, lots of candy,” answered Rose, whereupon Jamie ascended into herlap with a sounding kiss and the announcement that he liked her verymuch.
This proceeding rather startled Rose, for the other lads looked andlaughed, and in her confusion she said hastily to the young usurper,
“Did you see the circus go by?”
“When? Where?” cried all the boys in great excitement at once.
“Just before you came. At least I thought it was a circus, for I saw ared and black sort of cart and ever so many little ponies, and--”
She got no farther, for a general shout made her pause suddenly, asArchie explained the joke by saying in the middle of his laugh,
“It was our new dog-cart and the Shetland ponies. You'll never hear thelast of your circus, cousin.”
“But there were so many, and they went so fast, and the cart was so veryred,” began Rose, trying to explain her mistake.
“Come and see them all!” cried the Prince. And before she knew what washappening, she was borne away to the barn and tumultuously introduced tothree shaggy ponies and the gay new dog-cart.
She had never visited these regions before, and had her doubts as to thepropriety of her being there now, but when she suggested that “Auntiemight not like it,” there was a general cry of,
“She told us to amuse you, and we can do it ever so much better out herethan poking round in the house.”
“I'm afraid I shall get cold without my sacque,” began Rose, who wantedto stay, but felt rather out of her element.
“No, you won't! We'll fix you,” cried the lads, as one clapped his capon her head, another tied a rough jacket round her neck by the sleeves,a third neatly smothered her in a carriage blanket, and a fourth threwopen the door of the old barouche that stood there, saying with aflourish,
“Step in, ma'am, and make yourself comfortable while we show you somefun.”
So Rose sat in state enjoying herself very much, for the lads proceededto dance a Highland Fling with a spirit and skill that made her clap herhands and laugh as she had not done for weeks.
“How is that, my lassie?” asked the Prince, coming up all flushed andbreathless when the ballet was over.
“It was splendid! I never went to the theatre but once, and the dancingwas not half so pretty as this. What clever boys you must be!” saidRose, smiling upon her kinsmen like a little queen upon her subjects.
“Ah, we're a fine lot, and that is only the beginning of our larks. Wehaven't got the pipes here or we'd,
    'Sing for you, play for you     A dulcy melody,'”
answered Charlie, looking much elated at her praise.
“I did not know we were Scotch; papa never said anything about it, orseemed to care about Scotland, except to have me sing the old ballads,” said Rose, beginning to feel as if she had left America behind hersomewhere.
“Neither did we till lately. We've been reading Scott's novels, and allof a sudden we remembered that our grandfather was a Scotchman. So wehunted up the old stories, got a bagpipe, put on our plaids, and wentin, heart and soul, for the glory of the Clan. We've been at it sometime now, and it's great fun. Our people like it, and I think we are apretty canny set.”
Archie said this from the other coach-step, where he had perched,while the rest climbed up before and behind to join in the chat as theyrested.
“I'm Fitzjames and he's Roderick Dhu, and we'll give you the broadswordcombat some day. It's a great thing, you'd better believe,” added thePrince.
“Yes, and you should hear Steve play the pipes. He makes 'em skirl likea good one,” cried Will from the box, eager to air the accomplishmentsof his race.
“Mac's the fellow to hunt up the old stories and tell us how to dressright, and pick out rousing bits for us to speak and sing,” put inGeordie, saying a good word for the absent Worm.
“And what do you and Will do?” asked Rose of Jamie, who sat beside heras if bound to keep her in sight till the promised gift had been handedover.
“Oh, I'm the little foot-page, and do errands, and Will and Geordie arethe troops when we march, and the stags when we hunt, and the traitorswhen we want to cut any heads off.”
“They are very obliging, I'm sure,” said Rose, whereat the “utility men” beamed with modest pride and resolved to enact Wallace and Montrose assoon as possible for their cousin's special benefit.
“Let's have a game of tag,” cried the Prince, swinging himself up to abeam with a sounding slap on Stevie's shoulder.
Regardless of his gloves, Dandy tore after him, and the rest swarmed inevery direction as if bent on breaking their necks and dislocating theirjoints as rapidly as possible.
It was a new and astonishing spectacle to Rose, fresh from a primboarding-school, and she watched the active lads with breathlessinterest, thinking their antics far superior to those of Mops, the deardeparted monkey.
Will had just covered himself with glory by pitching off a high lofthead first and coming up all right, when Phebe appeared with a cloak,hood, and rubbers, also a message from Aunt Plenty that “Miss Rose wasto come in directly.”
“All right; we'll bring her!” answered Archie, issuing some mysteriousorder, which was so promptly obeyed that, before Rose could get out ofthe carriage, the boys had caught hold of the pole and rattled her outof the barn, round the oval and up to the front door with a cheer thatbrought two caps to an upper window, and caused Debby to cry aloud fromthe back porch,
“Them harum-scarum boys will certainly be the death of that delicatelittle creter!”
But the “delicate little creter” seemed all the better for her trip, andran up the steps looking rosy, gay, and dishevelled, to be received withlamentation by Aunt Plenty, who begged her to go and lie down at once.
“Oh, please don't! We have come to tea with our cousin, and we'll be asgood as gold if you'll let us stay, auntie,” clamoured the boys, whonot only approved of “our cousin” but had no mind to lose their tea, forAunt Plenty's name but feebly expressed her bountiful nature.
“Well, dears, you can; only be quiet, and let Rose go and take her ironand be made tidy, and then we will see what we can find for supper,” said the old lady as she trotted away, followed by a volley ofdirections for the approaching feast.
“Marmalade for me, auntie.”
“Plenty of plum-cake, please.”
“Tell Debby to trot out the baked pears.”
“I'm your man for lemon-pie, ma'am.”
“Do have fritters; Rose will like 'em.”
“She'd rather have tarts, I know.”
When Rose came down, fifteen minutes later, with every curl smoothed andher most beruffled apron on, she found the boys loafing about the longhall, and paused on the half-way landing to take an observation, fortill now she had not really examined her new-found cousins.
There was a strong family resemblance among them, though some of theyellow heads were darker than others, some of the cheeks brown insteadof rosy, and the ages varied all the way from sixteen-year-old Archieto Jamie, who was ten years younger. None of them were especiallycomely but the Prince, yet all were hearty, happy-looking lads, and Rosedecided that boys were not as dreadful as she had expected to find them.
They were all so characteristically employed that she could not helpsmiling as she looked. Archie and Charlie, evidently great cronies, werepacing up and down, shoulder to shoulder, whistling “Bonnie Dundee”; Macwas reading in a corner, with his book close to his near-sighted eyes;Dandy was arranging his hair before the oval glass in the hat-stand;Geordie and Will investigating the internal economy of the moon-facedclock; and Jamie lay kicking up his heels on the mat at the foot of thestairs, bent on demanding his sweeties the instant Rose appeared.
She guessed his intention, and forestalled his demand by dropping ahandful of sugar-plums down upon him.
At his cry of rapture the other lads looked up and smiled involuntarily,for the little kinswoman standing there above was a winsome sight withher shy, soft eyes, bright hair, and laughing face. The black frockreminded them of her loss, and filled the boyish hearts with a kindlydesire to be good to “our cousin,” who had no longer any home but this.
“There she is, as fine as you please,” cried Steve, kissing his hand toher.
“Come on, Missy; tea is ready,” added the Prince encouragingly.
“I shall take her in.” And Archie offered his arm with great dignity, anhonour that made Rose turn as red as a cherry and long to run upstairsagain.
It was a merry supper, and the two elder boys added much to the fun bytormenting the rest with dark hints of some interesting event which wasabout to occur. Something uncommonly fine, they declared it was, butenveloped in the deepest mystery for the present.
“Did I ever see it?” asked Jamie.
“Not to remember it; but Mac and Steve have, and liked it immensely,” answered Archie, thereby causing the two mentioned to neglect Debby'sdelectable fritters for several minutes, while they cudgelled theirbrains.
“Who will have it first?” asked Will, with his mouth full of marmalade.
“Aunt Plenty, I guess.”
“When will she have it?” demanded Geordie, bouncing in his seat withimpatience.
“Sometime on Monday.”
“Heart alive! what is the boy talking about?” cried the old lady frombehind the tall urn, which left little to be seen but the topmost bow ofher cap.
“Doesn't auntie know?” asked a chorus of voices.
“No; and that's the best of the joke, for she is desperately fond ofit.”
“What colour is it?” asked Rose, joining in the fun.
“Blue and brown.”
“Is it good to eat?” asked Jamie.
“Some people think so, but I shouldn't like to try it,” answeredCharlie, laughing so he split his tea.
“Who does it belong to?” put in Steve.
Archie and the Prince stared at one another rather blankly for a minute,then Archie answered with a twinkle of the eye that made Charlie explodeagain,
“To Grandfather Campbell.”
This was a poser, and they gave up the puzzle, though Jamie confidedto Rose that he did not think he could live till Monday without knowingwhat this remarkable thing was.
Soon after tea the Clan departed, singing “All the blue bonnets are overthe border,” at the tops of their voices.
“Well, dear, how do you like your cousins?” asked Aunt Plenty, as thelast pony frisked round the corner and the din died away.
“Pretty well, ma'am; but I like Phebe better.” An answer which causedAunt Plenty to hold up her hands in despair and trot away to tell sisterPeace that she never should understand that child, and it was a mercyAlec was coming soon to take the responsibility off their hands.
Fatigued by the unusual exertions of the afternoon, Rose curled herselfup in the sofa corner to rest and think about the great mystery, littleguessing that she was to know it first of all.
Right in the middle of her meditations she fell asleep and dreamed shewas at home again in her own little bed. She seemed to wake and see herfather bending over her; to hear him say, “My little Rose”; to answer,“Yes, papa”; and then to feel him take her in his arms and kiss hertenderly. So sweet, so real was the dream, that she started up with acry of joy to find herself in the arms of a brown, bearded man, who heldher close, and whispered in a voice so like her father's that she clungto him involuntarily,
“This is my little girl, and I am Uncle Alec.”


Chapter 3--Uncles
When Rose woke next morning, she was not sure whether she had dreamedwhat occurred the night before, or it had actually happened. So shehopped up and dressed, although it was an hour earlier than she usuallyrose, for she could not sleep any more, being possessed with a strongdesire to slip down and see if the big portmanteau and packing caseswere really in the hall. She seemed to remember tumbling over them whenshe went to bed, for the aunts had sent her off very punctually, becausethey wanted their pet nephew all to themselves.
The sun was shining, and Rose opened her window to let in the soft Mayair fresh from the sea. As she leaned over her little balcony, watchingan early bird get the worm, and wondering how she should like UncleAlec, she saw a man leap the garden wall and come whistling up the path.At first she thought it was some trespasser, but a second look showedher that it was her uncle returning from an early dip into the sea. Shehad hardly dared to look at him the night before, because whenever shetried to do so she always found a pair of keen blue eyes looking at her.Now she could take a good stare at him as he lingered along, lookingabout him as if glad to see the old place again.
A brown, breezy man, in a blue jacket, with no hat on the curly head,which he shook now and then like a water dog; broad-shouldered, alert inhis motions, and with a general air of strength and stability about himwhich pleased Rose, though she could not explain the feeling of comfortit gave her. She had just said to herself, with a sense of relief, “Iguess I shall like him, though he looks as if he made people mind,” whenhe lifted his eyes to examine the budding horse-chestnut overhead,and saw the eager face peering down at him. He waved his hand to her,nodded, and called out in a bluff, cheery voice,
“You are on deck early, little niece.”
“I got up to see if you had really come, uncle.”
“Did you? Well, come down here and make sure of it.”
“I'm not allowed to go out before breakfast, sir.”
“Oh, indeed!” with a shrug. “Then I'll come aboard and salute,” headded; and, to Rose's great amazement, Uncle Alec went up one of thepillars of the back piazza hand over hand, stepped across the roof,and swung himself into her balcony, saying, as he landed on the widebalustrade: “Have you any doubts about me now, ma'am?”
Rose was so taken aback, she could only answer with a smile as she wentto meet him.
“How does my girl do this morning?” he asked, taking the little coldhand she gave him in both his big warm ones.
“Pretty well, thank you, sir.”
“Ah, but it should be very well. Why isn't it?”
“I always wake up with a headache, and feel tired.”
“Don't you sleep well?”
“I lie awake a long time, and then I dream, and my sleep does not seemto rest me much.”
“What do you do all day?”
“Oh, I read, and sew a little, and take naps, and sit with auntie.”
“No running about out of doors, or house-work, or riding, hey?”
“Aunt Plenty says I'm not strong enough for much exercise. I drive outwith her sometimes, but I don't care for it.”
“I'm not surprised at that,” said Uncle Alec, half to himself, adding,in his quick way: “Who have you had to play with?”
“No one but Ariadne Blish, and she was such a goose I couldn't bearher. The boys came yesterday, and seemed rather nice; but, of course, Icouldn't play with them.”
“Why not?”
“I'm too old to play with boys.”
“Not a bit of it; that's just what you need, for you've beenmolly-coddled too much. They are good lads, and you'll be mixed up withthem more or less for years to come, so you may as well be friends andplaymates at once. I will look you up some girls also, if I can find asensible one who is not spoilt by her nonsensical education.”
“Phebe is sensible, I'm sure, and I like her, though I only saw heryesterday,” cried Rose, waking up suddenly.
“And who is Phebe, if you please?”
Rose eagerly told all she knew, and Uncle Alec listened, with an oddsmile lurking about his mouth, though his eyes were quite sober as hewatched the face before him.
“I'm glad to see that you are not aristocratic in your tastes, but Idon't quite make out why you like this young lady from the poor-house.”
“You may laugh at me, but I do. I can't tell why, only she seems sohappy and busy, and sings so beautifully, and is strong enough to scruband sweep, and hasn't any troubles to plague her,” said Rose, making afunny jumble of reasons in her efforts to explain.
“How do you know that?”
“Oh, I was telling her about mine, and asked if she had any, and shesaid, 'No, only I'd like to go to school, and I mean to some day.”
“So she doesn't call desertion, poverty, and hard work, troubles? She'sa brave little girl, and I shall be proud to know her.” And Uncle Alecgave an approving nod, that made Rose wish she had been the one to earnit.
“But what are these troubles of yours, child?” he asked, after a minuteof silence.
“Please don't ask me, uncle.”
“Can't you tell them to me as well as to Phebe?”
Something in his tone made Rose feel that it would be better to speakout and be done with it, so she answered, with sudden colour and avertedeyes,
“The greatest one was losing dear papa.”
As she said that, Uncle Alec's arm came gently round her, and he drewher to him, saying, in the voice so like papa's,
“That is a trouble which I cannot cure, my child; but I shall try tomake you feel it less. What else, dear?”
“I am so tired and poorly all the time, I can't do anything I want to,and it makes me cross,” sighed Rose, rubbing the aching head like afretful child.
“That we can cure and we will,” said her uncle, with a decided nodthat made the curls bob on his head, to that Rose saw the gray onesunderneath the brown.
“Aunt Myra says I have no constitution, and never shall be strong,” observed Rose, in a pensive tone, as if it was rather a nice thing to bean invalid.
“Aunt Myra is a ahem! an excellent woman, but it is her hobby to believethat everyone is tottering on the brink of the grave; and, upon my life,I believe she is offended if people don't fall into it! We will show herhow to make constitutions and turn pale-faced little ghosts into rosy,hearty girls. That's my business, you know,” he added, more quietly, forhis sudden outburst had rather startled Rose.
“I had forgotten you were a doctor. I'm glad of it, for I do want to bewell, only I hope you won't give me much medicine, for I've taken quartsalready, and it does me no good.”
As she spoke, Rose pointed to a little table just inside the window, onwhich appeared a regiment of bottles.
“Ah, ha! Now we'll see what mischief these blessed women have been at.” And, making a long arm, Dr. Alec set the bottles on the wide railingbefore him, examined each carefully, smiled over some, frowned overothers, and said, as he put down the last: “Now I'll show you the bestway to take these messes.” And, as quick as a flash, he sent one afteranother smashing down into the posy-beds below.
“But Aunt Plenty won't like it; and Aunt Myra will be angry, for shesent most of them!” cried Rose, half frightened and half pleased at suchenergetic measures.
“You are my patient now, and I'll take the responsibility. My way ofgiving physic is evidently the best, for you look better already,” hesaid, laughing so infectiously that Rose followed suit, saying saucily,
“If I don't like your medicines any better than those, I shall throwthem into the garden, and then what will you do?”
“When I prescribe such rubbish, I'll give you leave to pitch itoverboard as soon as you like. Now what is the next trouble?”
“I hoped you would forget to ask.”
“But how can I help you if I don't know them? Come, let us have No. 3.”
“It is very wrong, I suppose, but I do sometimes wish I had not quite somany aunts. They are all very good to me, and I want to please them; butthey are so different, I feel sort of pulled to pieces among them,” saidRose, trying to express the emotions of a stray chicken with six hensall clucking over it at once.
Uncle Alec threw back his head and laughed like a boy, for he couldentirely understand how the good ladies had each put in her oar andtried to paddle her own way, to the great disturbance of the waters andthe entire bewilderment of poor Rose.
“I intend to try a course of uncles now, and see how that suits yourconstitution. I'm going to have you all to myself, and no one is to givea word of advice unless I ask it. There is no other way to keep orderaboard, and I am captain of this little craft, for a time at least. Whatcomes next?”
But Rose stuck there, and grew so red, her uncle guessed what thattrouble was.
“I don't think I can tell this one. It wouldn't be polite, and I feelpretty sure that it isn't going to be a trouble any more.”
As she blushed and stammered over these words, Dr. Alec turned his eyesaway to the distant sea, and said so seriously, so tenderly, that shefelt every word and long remembered them,
“My child, I don't expect you to love and trust me all at once, but I dowant you to believe that I shall give my whole heart to this new duty;and if I make mistakes, as I probably shall, no one will grieve overthem more bitterly than I. It is my fault that I am a stranger to you,when I want to be your best friend. That is one of my mistakes, and Inever repented it more deeply than I do now. Your father and I had atrouble once, and I thought I could never forgive him; so I kept awayfor years. Thank God, we made it all up the last time I saw him, and hetold me then, that if he was forced to leave her he should bequeath hislittle girl to me as a token of his love. I can't fill his place, butI shall try to be a father to her; and if she learns to love me half aswell as she did the good one she has lost, I shall be a proud and happyman. Will she believe this and try?”
Something in Uncle Alec's face touched Rose to the heart, and when heheld out his hand with that anxious troubled look in his eyes, she wasmoved to put up her innocent lips and seal the contract with a confidingkiss. The strong arm held her close a minute, and she felt the broadchest heave once as if with a great sigh of relief; but not a word wasspoken till a tap at the door made both start.
Rose popped her head through the window to say “come in,” while Dr. Alechastily rubbed the sleeve of his jacket across his eyes and began towhistle again.
Phebe appeared with a cup of coffee.
“Debby told me to bring this and help you get up,” she said, opening herblack eyes wide, as if she wondered how on earth “the sailor man” gotthere.
“I'm all dressed, so I don't need any help. I hope that is good andstrong,” added Rose, eyeing the steaming cup with an eager look.
But she did not get it, for a brown hand took possession of it as heruncle said quickly,
“Hold hard, my lass, and let me overhaul that dose before you take it.Do you drink all this strong coffee every morning, Rose?”
“Yes, sir, and I like it. Auntie says it 'tones' me up, and I alwaysfeel better after it.”
“This accounts for the sleepless nights, the flutter your heart getsinto at the least start, and this is why that cheek of yours is paleyellow instead of rosy red. No more coffee for you, my dear, and by andby you'll see that I am right. Any new milk downstairs, Phebe?”
“Yes, sir, plenty right in from the barn.”
“That's the drink for my patient. Go bring me a pitcherful, and anothercup; I want a draught myself. This won't hurt the honeysuckles, for theyhave no nerves to speak of.” And, to Rose's great discomfort, the coffeewent after the medicine.
Dr. Alec saw the injured look she put on, but took no notice, andpresently banished it by saying pleasantly,
“I've got a capital little cup among my traps, and I'll give it to youto drink your milk in, as it is made of wood that is supposed to improvewhatever is put into it something like a quassia cup. That reminds me;one of the boxes Phebe wanted to lug upstairs last night is for you.Knowing that I was coming home to find a ready-made daughter, I pickedup all sorts of odd and pretty trifles along the way, hoping she wouldbe able to find something she liked among them all. Early to-morrowwe'll have a grand rummage. Here's our milk! I propose the health ofMiss Rose Campbell and drink it with all my heart.”
It was impossible for Rose to pout with the prospect of a delightfulboxful of gifts dancing before her eyes; so, in spite of herself, shesmiled as she drank her own health, and found that fresh milk was not ahard dose to take.
“Now I must be off, before I am caught again with my wig in a toss,” said Dr. Alec, preparing to descend the way he came.
“Do you always go in and out like a cat, uncle?” asked Rose, much amusedat his odd ways.
“I used to sneak out of my window when I was a boy, so I need notdisturb the aunts, and now I rather like it, for it's the shortest road,and it keeps me limber when I have no rigging to climb. Good-bye tillbreakfast.” And away he went down the water-spout, over the roof, andvanished among the budding honey-suckles below.
“Ain't he a funny guardeen?” exclaimed Phebe, as she went off with thecups.
“He is a very kind one, I think,” answered Rose, following, to prowlround the big boxes and try to guess which was hers.
When her uncle appeared at sound of the bell, he found her surveyingwith an anxious face a new dish that smoked upon the table.
“Got a fresh trouble, Rosy?” he asked, stroking her smooth head.
“Uncle, are you going to make me eat oatmeal?” asked Rose, in a tragictone.
“Don't you like it?”
“I de-test it!” answered Rose, with all the emphasis which a turned-upnose, a shudder, and a groan could give to the three words.
“You are not a true Scotchwoman, if you don't like the 'parritch.' It'sa pity, for I made it myself, and thought we'd have such a good timewith all that cream to float it in. Well, never mind.” And he sat downwith a disappointed air.
Rose had made up her mind to be obstinate about it, because she didheartily “detest” the dish; but as Uncle Alec did not attempt to makeher obey, she suddenly changed her mind and thought she would.
“I'll try to eat it to please you, uncle; but people are always sayinghow wholesome it is, and that makes me hate it,” she said, half-ashamedat her silly excuse.
“I do want you to like it, because I wish my girl to be as well andstrong as Jessie's boys, who are brought up on this in the good oldfashion. No hot bread and fried stuff for them, and they are the biggestand bonniest lads of the lot. Bless you, auntie, and good morning!”
Dr. Alec turned to greet the old lady, and, with a firm resolve to eator die in the attempt, Rose sat down.
In five minutes she forgot what she was eating, so interested was she inthe chat that went on. It amused her very much to hear Aunt Plenty callher forty-year-old nephew “my dear boy”; and Uncle Alec was so fullof lively gossip about all creation in general, and the Aunt-hill inparticular, that the detested porridge vanished without a murmur.
“You will go to church with us, I hope, Alec, if you are not too tired,” said the old lady, when breakfast was over.
“I came all the way from Calcutta for that express purpose, ma'am. OnlyI must send the sisters word of my arrival, for they don't expect metill to-morrow, you know, and there will be a row in church if thoseboys see me without warning.”
“I'll send Ben up the hill, and you can step over to Myra's yourself; itwill please her, and you will have plenty of time.”
Dr. Alec was off at once, and they saw no more of him till the oldbarouche was at the door, and Aunt Plenty just rustling downstairs inher Sunday best, with Rose like a little black shadow behind her.
Away they drove in state, and all the way Uncle Alec's hat was more offhis head than on, for everyone they met smiled and bowed, and gave himas blithe a greeting as the day permitted.
It was evident that the warning had been a wise one, for, in spite oftime and place, the lads were in such a ferment that their elders satin momentary dread of an unseemly outbreak somewhere. It was simplyimpossible to keep those fourteen eyes off Uncle Alec, and the dreadfulthings that were done during sermon-time will hardly be believed.
Rose dared not look up after a while, for these bad boys vented theiremotions upon her till she was ready to laugh and cry with mingledamusement and vexation. Charlie winked rapturously at her behind hismother's fan; Mac openly pointed to the tall figure beside her; Jamiestared fixedly over the back of his pew, till Rose thought his roundeyes would drop out of his head; George fell over a stool and droppedthree books in his excitement; Will drew sailors and Chinamen on hisclean cuffs, and displayed them, to Rose's great tribulation; Stevenearly upset the whole party by burning his nose with salts, as hepretended to be overcome by his joy; even dignified Archie disgracedhimself by writing in his hymn book, “Isn't he blue and brown?” andpassing it politely to Rose.
Her only salvation was trying to fix her attention upon Uncle Maca portly, placid gentleman, who seemed entirely unconscious of theiniquities of the Clan, and dozed peacefully in his pew corner. This wasthe only uncle Rose had met for years, for Uncle Jem and Uncle Steve,the husbands of Aunt Jessie and Aunt Clara, were at sea, and Aunt Myrawas a widow. Uncle Mac was a merchant, very rich and busy, and as quietas a mouse at home, for he was in such a minority among the women folkhe dared not open his lips, and let his wife rule undisturbed.
Rose liked the big, kindly, silent man who came to her when papa died,was always sending her splendid boxes of goodies at school, and ofteninvited her into his great warehouse, full of teas and spices, wines andall sorts of foreign fruits, there to eat and carry away whatever sheliked. She had secretly regretted that he was not to be her guardian;but since she had seen Uncle Alec she felt better about it, for she didnot particularly admire Aunt Jane.
When church was over, Dr. Alec got into the porch as quickly aspossible, and there the young bears had a hug all round, while thesisters shook hands and welcomed him with bright faces and glad hearts.Rose was nearly crushed flat behind a door in that dangerous passagefrom pew to porch; but Uncle Mac rescued her, and put her into thecarriage for safe keeping.
“Now, girls, I want you to come and dine with Alec; Mac also, of course.But I cannot ask the boys, for we did not expect this dear fellow tilltomorrow, you know, so I made no preparations. Send the lads home, andlet them wait till Monday, for really I was shocked at their behaviourin church,” said Aunt Plenty, as she followed Rose.
In any other place the defrauded boys would have set up a howl; as itwas, they growled and protested till Dr. Alec settled the matter bysaying,
“Never mind, old chaps, I'll make it up to you to-morrow, if you sheeroff quietly; if you don't, not a blessed thing shall you have out of mybig boxes.”


Chapter 4--Aunts
All dinner-time Rose felt that she was going to be talked about, andafterward she was sure of it, for Aunt Plenty whispered to her as theywent into the parlour,
“Run up and sit awhile with Sister Peace, my dear. She likes to have youread while she rests, and we are going to be busy.”
Rose obeyed, and the quiet rooms above were so like a church that shesoon composed her ruffled feelings, and was unconsciously a littleminister of happiness to the sweet old lady, who for years had sat therepatiently waiting to be set free from pain.
Rose knew the sad romance of her life, and it gave a certain tendercharm to this great-aunt of hers, whom she already loved. When Peace wastwenty, she was about to be married; all was done, the wedding dress layready, the flowers were waiting to be put on, the happy hour at hand,when word came that the lover was dead. They thought that gentle Peacewould die, too; but she bore it bravely, put away her bridal gear, tookup her life afresh, and lived on a beautiful, meek woman, with hair aswhite as snow and cheeks that never bloomed again. She wore no black,but soft, pale colours, as if always ready for the marriage that hadnever come.
For thirty years she had lived on, fading slowly, but cheerful, busy,and full of interest in all that went on in the family; especially thejoys and sorrows of the young girls growing up about her, and to themshe was adviser, confidante, and friend in all their tender trials anddelights. A truly beautiful old maiden, with her silvery hair, tranquilface, and an atmosphere of repose about her that soothed whoever came toher!
Aunt Plenty was utterly dissimilar, being a stout, brisk old lady, witha sharp eye, a lively tongue, and a face like a winter-apple. Alwaystrotting, chatting, and bustling, she was a regular Martha, cumberedwith the cares of this world and quite happy in them.
Rose was right; and while she softly read psalms to Aunt Peace, theother ladies were talking about her little self in the frankest manner.
“Well, Alec, how do you like your ward?” began Aunt Jane, as they allsettled down, and Uncle Mac deposited himself in a corner to finish hisdoze.
“I should like her better if I could have begun at the beginning, andso got a fair start. Poor George led such a solitary life that the childhas suffered in many ways, and since he died she has been going on worsethan ever, judging from the state I find her in.”
“My dear boy, we did what we thought best while waiting for you to windup your affairs and get home. I always told George he was wrong to bringher up as he did; but he never took my advice, and now here we are withthis poor dear child upon our hands. I, for one, freely confess thatI don't know what to do with her any more than if she was one of thosestrange, outlandish birds you used to bring home from foreign parts.” And Aunt Plenty gave a perplexed shake of the head which caused greatcommotion among the stiff loops of purple ribbon that bristled all overthe cap like crocus buds.
“If my advice had been taken, she would have remained at the excellentschool where I placed her. But our aunt thought best to remove herbecause she complained, and she has been dawdling about ever since shecame. A most ruinous state of things for a morbid, spoilt girl likeRose,” said Mrs. Jane, severely.
She had never forgiven the old ladies for yielding to Rose's patheticpetition that she might wait her guardian's arrival before beginninganother term at the school, which was a regular Blimber hot-bed, andturned out many a feminine Toots.
“I never thought it the proper school for a child in good circumstancesan heiress, in fact, as Rose is. It is all very well for girls who areto get their own living by teaching, and that sort of thing; but allshe needs is a year or two at a fashionable finishing school, so that ateighteen she can come out with eclat,” put in Aunt Clara, who had been abeauty and a belle, and was still a handsome woman.
“Dear, dear! how short-sighted you all are to be discussing educationand plans for the future, when this unhappy child is so plainly markedfor the tomb,” sighed Aunt Myra, with a lugubrious sniff and a solemnwag of the funereal bonnet, which she refused to remove, being afflictedwith a chronic catarrh.
“Now, it is my opinion that the dear thing only wants freedom, rest, andcare. There is look in her eyes that goes to my heart, for it shows thatshe feels the need of what none of us can give her a mother,” said AuntJessie, with tears in her own bright eyes at the thought of her boysbeing left, as Rose was, to the care of others.
Uncle Alec, who had listened silently as each spoke, turned quicklytowards the last sister, and said, with a decided nod of approval,
“You've got it, Jessie; and, with you to help me, I hope to make thechild feel that she is not quite fatherless and motherless.”
“I'll do my best, Alec; and I think you will need me, for, wise as youare, you cannot understand a tender, timid little creature like Rose asa woman can,” said Mrs. Jessie, smiling back at him with a heart full ofmotherly goodwill.
“I cannot help feeling that I, who have had a daughter of my own, canbest bring up a girl; and I am very much surprised that George didnot entrust her to me,” observed Aunt Myra, with an air of melancholyimportance, for she was the only one who had given a daughter tothe family, and she felt that she had distinguished herself, thoughill-natured people said that she had dosed her darling to death.
“I never blamed him in the least, when I remember the perilousexperiments you tried with poor Carrie,” began Mrs. Jane, in her hardvoice.
“Jane Campbell, I will not hear a word! My sainted Caroline is a sacredobject,” cried Aunt Myra, rising as if to leave the room.
Dr. Alec detained her, feeling that he must define his position at once,and maintain it manfully if he hoped to have any success in his newundertaking.
“Now, my dear souls, don't let us quarrel and make Rose a bone ofcontention though, upon my word, she is almost a bone, poor little lass!You have had her among you for a year, and done what you liked. I cannotsay that your success is great, but that is owing to too many fingers inthe pie. Now, I intend to try my way for a year, and if at the end of itshe is not in better trim than now, I'll give up the case, and hand herover to someone else. That's fair, I think.”
“She will not be here a year hence, poor darling, so no one need dreadfuture responsibility,” said Aunt Myra, folding her black gloves as ifall ready for the funeral.
“By Jupiter! Myra, you are enough to damp the ardour of a saint!” criedDr. Alec, with a sudden spark in his eyes. “Your croaking will worrythat child out of her wits, for she is an imaginative puss, and willfret and fancy untold horrors. You have put it into her head that shehas no constitution, and she rather likes the idea. If she had not had apretty good one, she would have been 'marked for the tomb' by thistime, at the rate you have been going on with her. I will not have anyinterference please understand that; so just wash your hands of her, andlet me manage till I want help, then I'll ask for it.”
“Hear, hear!” came from the corner where Uncle Mac was apparently wraptin slumber.
“You were appointed guardian, so we can do nothing. But I predict thatthe girl will be spoilt, utterly spoilt,” answered Mrs. Jane, grimly.
“Thank you, sister. I have an idea that if a woman can bring up two boysas perfectly as you do yours, a man, if he devotes his whole mind to it,may at least attempt as much with one girl,” replied Dr. Alec, with ahumorous look that tickled the others immensely, for it was a well-knownfact in the family that Jane's boys were more indulged than all theother lads put together.
“I am quite easy, for I really do think that Alec will improve thechild's health; and by the time his year is out, it will be quite soonenough for her to go to Madame Roccabella's and be finished off,” saidAunt Clara, settling her rings, and thinking, with languid satisfaction,of the time when she could bring out a pretty and accomplished niece.
“I suppose you will stay here in the old place, unless you think ofmarrying, and it's high time you did,” put in Mrs. Jane, much nettled ather brother's last hit.
“No, thank you. Come and have a cigar, Mac,” said Dr. Alec, abruptly.
“Don't marry; women enough in the family already,” muttered Uncle Mac;and then the gentlemen hastily fled.
“Aunt Peace would like to see you all, she says,” was the message Rosebrought before the ladies could begin again.
“Hectic, hectic! dear me, dear me!” murmured Aunt Myra, as the shadowof her gloomy bonnet fell upon Rose, and the stiff tips of a black glovetouched the cheek where the colour deepened under so many eyes.
“I am glad these pretty curls are natural; they will be invaluable byand by,” said Aunt Clara, taking an observation with her head on oneside.
“Now that your uncle has come, I no longer expect you to review thestudies of the past year. I trust your time will not be entirely wastedin frivolous sports, however,” added Aunt Jane, sailing out of the roomwith the air of a martyr.
Aunt Jessie said not a word, but kissed her little niece, with a lookof tender sympathy that made Rose cling to her a minute, and follow herwith grateful eyes as the door closed behind her.
After everybody had gone home, Dr. Alec paced up and down the lowerhall in the twilight for an hour, thinking so intently that sometimeshe frowned, sometimes he smiled, and more than once he stood still in abrown study. All of a sudden he said, half aloud, as if he had made uphis mind,
“I might as well begin at once, and give the child something new tothink about, for Myra's dismals and Jane's lectures have made her asblue as a little indigo bag.”
Diving into one of the trunks that stood in a corner, he brought up,after a brisk rummage, a silken cushion, prettily embroidered, and aquaint cup of dark carved wood.
“This will do for a start,” he said, as he plumped up the cushion anddusted the cup. “It won't do to begin too energetically, or Rose will befrightened. I must beguile her gently and pleasantly along till I've wonher confidence, and then she will be ready for anything.”
Just then Phebe came out of the dining-room with a plate of brown bread,for Rose had been allowed no hot biscuit for tea.
“I'll relieve you of some of that,” said Dr. Alec, and, helping himselfto a generous slice, he retired to the study, leaving Phebe to wonder athis appetite.
She would have wondered still more if she had seen him making that brownbread into neat little pills, which he packed into an attractive ivorybox, out of which he emptied his own bits of lovage.
“There! if they insist on medicine, I'll order these, and no harm willbe done. I will have my own way, but I'll keep the peace, if possible,and confess the joke when my experiment has succeeded,” he said tohimself, looking very much like a mischievous boy, as he went on withhis innocent prescriptions.
Rose was playing softly on the small organ that stood in the upper hall,so that Aunt Peace could enjoy it; and all the while he talked with theold ladies, Uncle Alec was listening to the fitful music of the child,and thinking of another Rose who used to play for him.
As the clock struck eight, he called out,
“Time for my girl to be abed, else she won't be up early, and I'm fullof jolly plans for to-morrow. Come and see what I've found for you tobegin upon.”
Rose ran in and listened with bright attentive face, while Dr. Alec saidimpressively,
“In my wanderings over the face of the earth, I have picked up someexcellent remedies, and, as they are rather agreeable ones, I think youand I will try them. This is a herb-pillow, given to me by a wise oldwoman when I was ill in India. It is filled with saffron, poppies, andother soothing plants; so lay your little head on it to-night, sleepsweetly without a dream, and wake to-morrow without a pain.”
“Shall I really? How nice it smells.” And Rose willingly receivedthe pretty pillow, and stood enjoying its faint, sweet odour, as shelistened to the doctor's next remedy.
“This is the cup I told you of. Its virtue depends, they say, on thedrinker filling it himself; so you must learn to milk. I'll teach you.”
“I'm afraid I never can,” said Rose; but she surveyed the cup withfavour, for a funny little imp danced on the handle, as if all ready totake a header into the white sea below.
“Don't you think she ought to have something more strengthening thanmilk, Alec? I really shall feel anxious if she does not have a tonic ofsome sort,” said Aunt Plenty, eyeing the new remedies suspiciously, forshe had more faith in her old-fashioned doses than all the magic cupsand poppy pillows of the East.
“Well, ma'am, I'm willing to give her a pill, if you think best. It isa very simple one, and very large quantities may be taken without harm.You know hasheesh is the extract of hemp? Well, this is a preparation ofcorn and rye, much used in old times, and I hope it will be again.”
“Dear me, how singular!” said Aunt Plenty, bringing her spectacles tobear upon the pills, with a face so full of respectful interest that itwas almost too much for Dr. Alec's gravity.
“Take one in the morning, and a good-night to you, my dear,” he said,dismissing his patient with a hearty kiss.
Then, as she vanished, he put both hands into his hair, exclaiming, witha comical mixture of anxiety and amusement,
“When I think what I have undertaken, I declare to you, aunt, I feellike running away and not coming back till Rose is eighteen!”


Chapter 5--A Belt and a Box
When Rose came out of her chamber, cup in hand, next morning, the firstperson she saw was Uncle Alec standing on the threshold of the roomopposite, which he appeared to be examining with care. When he heard herstep, he turned about and began to sing,
“Where are you going, my pretty maid?”
“I'm going a-milking, sir, she said,” answered Rose, waving the cup; andthen they finished the verse together in fine style.
Before either spoke, a head, in a nightcap so large and beruffled thatit looked like a cabbage, popped out of a room farther down the hall,and an astonished voice exclaimed,
“What in the world are you doing about so early?”
“Clearing our pipes for the day, ma'am. Look here, auntie, can I havethis room?” said Dr. Alec, making her a sailor's bow.
“Any room you like, except sister's.”
“Thanks. And may I go rummaging round in the garrets and glory-holes tofurnish it as I like?”
“My dear boy, you may turn the house upside down if you will only stayin it.”
“That's a handsome offer, I'm sure. I'll stay, ma'am; here's my littleanchor, so you will get more than you want of me this time.”
“That's impossible! Put on your jacket, Rose. Don't tire her outwith antics, Alec. Yes, sister, I'm coming!” and the cabbage vanishedsuddenly.
The first milking lesson was a droll one; but after several scares andmany vain attempts, Rose at last managed to fill her cup, while Benheld Clover's tail so that it could not flap, and Dr. Alec kept herfrom turning to stare at the new milkmaid, who objected to both theseproceedings very much.
“You look chilly in spite of all this laughing. Take a smart run roundthe garden and get up a glow,” said the doctor, as they left the barn.
“I'm too old for running, uncle; Miss Power said it was not lady-likefor girls in their teens,” answered Rose, primly.
“I take the liberty of differing from Madame Prunes and Prisms, and, asyour physician, I order you to run. Off with you!” said Uncle Alec, witha look and a gesture that made Rose scurry away as fast as she could go.
Anxious to please him, she raced round the beds till she came back tothe porch where he stood, and, dropping down upon the steps, she satpanting, with cheeks as rosy as the rigolette on her shoulders.
“Very well done, child; I see you have not lost the use of your limbsthough you are in your teens. That belt is too tight; unfasten it, thenyou can take a long breath without panting so.”
“It isn't tight, sir; I can breathe perfectly well,” began Rose, tryingto compose herself.
Her uncle's only answer was to lift her up and unhook the new belt ofwhich she was so proud. The moment the clasp was open the belt flewapart several inches, for it was impossible to restrain the involuntarysigh of relief that flatly contradicted her words.
“Why, I didn't know it was tight! it didn't feel so a bit. Of course itwould open if I puff like this, but I never do, because I hardly everrun,” explained Rose, rather discomfited by this discovery.
“I see you don't half fill your lungs, and so you can wear this absurdthing without feeling it. The idea of cramping a tender little waistin a stiff band of leather and steel just when it ought to be growing,” said Dr. Alec, surveying the belt with great disfavour as he put theclasp forward several holes, to Rose's secret dismay, for she was proudof her slender figure, and daily rejoiced that she wasn't as stoutas Luly Miller, a former schoolmate, who vainly tried to repress herplumpness.
“It will fall off if it is so loose,” she said anxiously, as she stoodwatching him pull her precious belt about.
“Not if you keep taking long breaths to hold it on. That is what I wantyou to do, and when you have filled this out we will go on enlarging ittill your waist is more like that of Hebe, goddess of health, and lesslike that of a fashion-plate the ugliest thing imaginable.”
“How it does look!” and Rose gave a glance of scorn at the loose belthanging round her trim little waist. “It will be lost, and then I shallfeel badly, for it cost ever so much, and is real steel and Russialeather. Just smell how nice.”
“If it is lost I'll give you a better one. A soft silken sash is muchfitter for a pretty child like you than a plated harness like this; andI've got no end of Italian scarfs and Turkish sashes among my traps. Ah!that makes you feel better, doesn't it?” and he pinched the cheek thathad suddenly dimpled with a smile.
“It is very silly of me, but I can't help liking to know that” here shestopped and blushed and held down her head, ashamed to add, “you think Iam pretty.”
Dr. Alec's eyed twinkled, but he said very soberly,
“Rose, are you vain?”
“I'm afraid I am,” answered a very meek voice from behind the veil ofhair that hid the red face.
“That is a sad fault.” And he sighed as if grieved at the confession.
“I know it is, and I try not to be; but people praise me, and I can'thelp liking it, for I really don't think I am repulsive.”
The last word and the funny tone in which it was uttered were toomuch for Dr. Alec, and he laughed in spite of himself, to Rose's greatrelief.
“I quite agree with you; and in order that you may be still lessrepulsive, I want you to grow as fine a girl as Phebe.”
“Phebe!” and Rose looked so amazed that her uncle nearly went off again.
“Yes, Phebe; for she has what you need health. If you dear little girlswould only learn what real beauty is, and not pinch and starve andbleach yourselves out so, you'd save an immense deal of time and moneyand pain. A happy soul in a healthy body makes the best sort of beautyfor man or woman. Do you understand that, my dear?”
“Yes, sir,” answered Rose, much taken down by this comparison with thegirl from the poor-house. It nettled her sadly, and she showed that itdid by saying quickly,
“I suppose you would like to have me sweep and scrub, and wear an oldbrown dress, and go round with my sleeves rolled up, as Phebe does?”
“I should very much, if you could work as well as she does, and show asstrong a pair of arms as she can. I haven't seen a prettier picture forsome time than she made of herself this morning, up to the elbows insuds, singing like a blackbird whilst she scrubbed on the back stoop.”
“Well, I do think you are the queerest man that ever lived!” was allRose could find to say after this display of bad taste.
“I haven't begun to show you my oddities yet, so you must make up yourmind to worse shocks than this,” he said, with such a whimsical lookthat she was glad the sound of a bell prevented her showing more plainlywhat a blow her little vanities had already received.
“You will find your box all open up in auntie's parlor, and there youcan amuse her and yourself by rummaging to your heart's content; I'vegot to be cruising round all the morning getting my room to rights,” said Dr. Alec, as they rose from breakfast.
“Can't I help you, uncle?” asked Rose, quite burning to be useful.
“No, thank you, I'm going to borrow Phebe for a while, if Aunt Plentycan spare her.”
“Anybody anything, Alec. You will want me, I know, so I'll give ordersabout dinner and be all ready to lend a hand”; and the old lady bustledaway full of interest and good-will.
“Uncle will find that I can do some things that Phebe can't, so now!” thought Rose, with a toss of the head as she flew to Aunt Peace and thelong-desired box.
Every little girl can easily imagine what an extra good time she haddiving into a sea of treasures and fishing up one pretty thing afteranother, till the air was full of the mingled odours of musk andsandalwood, the room gay with bright colours, and Rose in a rapture ofdelight. She began to forgive Dr. Alec for the oatmeal diet when she sawa lovely ivory workbox; became resigned to the state of her belt whenshe found a pile of rainbow-coloured sashes; and when she came to somedistractingly pretty bottles of attar of rose, she felt that they almostatoned for the great sin of thinking Phebe the finer girl of the two.
Dr. Alec meanwhile had apparently taken Aunt Plenty at her word, and wasturning the house upside down. A general revolution was evidently goingon in the green-room, for the dark damask curtains were seen bundlingaway in Phebe's arms; the air-tight stove retiring to the cellar onBen's shoulder; and the great bedstead going up garret in a fragmentarystate, escorted by three bearers. Aunt Plenty was constantly on the trotamong her store-rooms, camphor-chests, and linen-closets, looking as ifthe new order of things both amazed and amused her.
Half the peculiar performances of Dr. Alec cannot be revealed; but asRose glanced up from her box now and then she caught glimpses of himstriding by, bearing a bamboo chair, a pair of ancient andirons, a queerJapanese screen, a rug or two, and finally a large bathing-pan upon hishead.
“What a curious room it will be,” she said, as she sat resting andrefreshing herself with “Lumps of Delight,” all the way from Cairo.
“I fancy you will like it, deary,” answered Aunt Peace, looking up witha smile from some pretty trifle she was making with blue silk and whitemuslin.
Rose did not see the smile, for just at that moment her uncle pausedat the door, and she sprang up to dance before him, saying, with a facefull of childish happiness,
“Look at me! look at me! I'm splendid I don't know myself. I haven't putthese things on right, I dare say, but I do like them so much!”
“You look as gay as a parrot in your fez and cabaja, and it does myheart good to see the little black shadow turned into a rainbow,” said Uncle Alec, surveying the bright figure before him with greatapprobation.
He did not say it, but he thought she made a much prettier picture thanPhebe at the wash-tub, for she had stuck a purple fez on her blondehead, tied several brilliant scarfs about her waist, and put on a trulygorgeous scarlet jacket with a golden sun embroidered on the back, asilver moon on the front, and stars of all sizes on the sleeves. A pairof Turkish slippers adorned her feet, and necklaces of amber, coral, andfiligree hung about her neck, while one hand held a smelling-bottle, andthe other the spicy box of oriental sweetmeats.
“I feel like a girl in the 'Arabian Nights,' and expect to find a magiccarpet or a wonderful talisman somewhere. Only I don't see how I evercan thank you for all these lovely things,” she said, stopping herdance, as if suddenly oppressed with gratitude.
“I'll tell you how by leaving off the black clothes, that never shouldhave been kept so long on such a child, and wearing the gay ones I'vebrought. It will do your spirits good, and cheer up this sober oldhouse. Won't it, auntie?”
“I think you are right, Alec, and it is fortunate that we have notbegun on her spring clothes yet, for Myra thought she ought not to wearanything brighter than violet, and she is too pale for that.”
“You just let me direct Miss Hemming how to make some of these things.You will be surprised to see how much I know about piping hems andgathering arm-holes and shirring biases,” began Dr. Alec, patting a pileof muslin, cloth and silk with a knowing air.
Aunt Peace and Rose laughed so that he could not display his knowledgeany farther, till they stopped, when he said good-naturedly,
“That will go a great way toward filling out the belt, so laugh away,Morgiana, and I'll go back to my work, or I never shall be done.”
“I couldn't help it, 'shirred biases' were so very funny!” Rose said,as she turned to her box after the splendid laugh. “But really, auntie,” she added soberly, “I feel as if I ought not to have so many nicethings. I suppose it wouldn't do to give Phebe some of them? Uncle mightnot like it.”
“He would not mind; but they are not suitable for Phebe. Some of thedresses you are done with would be more useful, if they can be made overto fit her,” answered Aunt Peace in the prudent, moderate tone which isso trying to our feelings when we indulge in little fits of charitableenthusiasm.
“I'd rather give her new ones, for I think she is a little bit proudand might not like old things. If she was my sister it would do, becausesisters don't mind, but she isn't, and that makes it bad, you see. Iknow how I can manage beautifully; I'll adopt her!” and Rose lookedquite radiant with this new idea.
“I'm afraid you could not do it legally till you are older, but youmight see if she likes the plan, and at any rate you can be very kind toher, for in one sense we are all sisters, and should help one another.”
The sweet old face looked at her so kindly that Rose was fired with adesire to settle the matter at once, and rushed away to the kitchen,just as she was. Phebe was there, polishing up the antique andirons sobusily that she started when a voice cried out: “Smell that, taste this,and look at me!”
Phebe sniffed attar of rose, crunched the “Lump of Delight” tucked intoher mouth, and stared with all her eyes at little Morgiana prancingabout the room like a brilliant paroquet.
“My stars, ain't you splendid!” was all she could say, holding up twodusty hands.
“I've got heaps of lovely things upstairs, and I'll show them all toyou, and I'd go halves, only auntie thinks they wouldn't be useful, soI shall give you something else; and you won't mind, will you? because Iwant to adopt you as Arabella was in the story. Won't that be nice?”
“Why, Miss Rose, have you lost your wits?”
No wonder Phebe asked, for Rose talked very fast, and looked so odd inher new costume, and was so eager she could not stop to explain. SeeingPhebe's bewilderment, she quieted down and said, with a pretty air ofearnestness,
“It isn't fair that I should have so much and you so little, and I wantto be as good to you as if you were my sister, for Aunt Peace says weare all sisters really. I thought if I adopted you as much as I can now,it would be nicer. Will you let me, please?”
To Rose's great surprise, Phebe sat down on the floor and hid her facein her apron for a minute without answering a word.
“Oh, dear, now she's offended, and I don't know what to do,” thoughtRose, much discouraged by this reception of her offer.
“Please, forgive me; I didn't mean to hurt your feelings, and hope youwon't think--” she faltered presently, feeling that she must undo themischief, if possible.
But Phebe gave her another surprise, by dropping the apron and showinga face all smiles, in spite of tears in the eyes, as she put both armsround Rose and said, with a laugh and sob,
“I think you are the dearest girl in the world, and I'll let you doanything you like with me.”
“Then you do like the plan? You didn't cry because I seemed to be kindof patronising? I truly didn't mean to be,” cried Rose, delighted.
“I guess I do like it! and cried because no one was ever so good to mebefore, and I couldn't help it. As for patronising, you may walk on meif you want to, and I won't mind,” said Phebe, in a burst of gratitude,for the words, “we are sisters” went straight to her lonely heart andnestled there.
“Well, now, we can play I'm a good sprite out of the box, or, what isbetter, a fairy godmother come down the chimney, and you are Cinderella,and must say what you want,” said Rose, trying to put the questiondelicately.
Phebe understood that, for she had a good deal of natural refinement,though she did come from the poor-house.
“I don't feel as if I wanted anything now, Miss Rose, but to find someway of thanking you for all you've done,” she said, rubbing off a tearthat went rolling down the bridge of her nose in the most unromanticway.
“Why, I haven't done anything but given you a bit of candy! Here, havesome more, and eat 'em while you work, and think what I can do. I mustgo and clear up, so good-bye, and don't forget I've adopted you.”
“You've given me sweeter things than candy, and I'm not likely to forgetit.” And carefully wiping off the brick-dust, Phebe pressed the littlehand Rose offered warmly in both her hard ones, while the black eyesfollowed the departing visitor with a grateful look that made them verysoft and bright.


Chapter 6--Uncle Alec's Room
Soon after dinner, and before she had got acquainted with half hernew possessions, Dr. Alec proposed a drive, to carry round the firstinstalment of gifts to the aunts and cousins. Rose was quite ready togo, being anxious to try a certain soft burnous from the box, whichnot only possessed a most engaging little hood, but had funny tasselsbobbing in all directions.
The big carriage was full of parcels, and even Ben's seat was loadedwith Indian war clubs, a Chinese kite of immense size, and a pair ofpolished ox-horns from Africa. Uncle Alec, very blue as to his clothes,and very brown as to his face, sat bolt upright, surveying wellknown places with interest, while Rose, feeling unusually elegant andcomfortable, leaned back folded in her soft mantle, and played she wasan Eastern princess making a royal progress among her subjects.
At three of the places their calls were brief, for Aunt Myra's catarrhwas unusually bad; Aunt Clara had a room full of company; and AuntJane showed such a tendency to discuss the population, productions, andpolitics of Europe, Asia and Africa, that even Dr. Alec was dismayed,and got away as soon as possible.
“Now we will have a good time! I do hope the boys will be at home,” saidRose, with a sigh of relief, as they wound yet higher up the hill toAunt Jessie's.
“I left this for the last call, so that we might find the lads just infrom school. Yes, there is Jamie on the gate watching for us; now you'llsee the Clan gather; they are always swarming about together.”
The instant Jamie saw the approaching guests he gave a shrill whistle,which was answered by echoes from meadow, house and barn, as the cousinscame running from all directions, shouting, “Hooray for Uncle Alec!” They went at the carriage like highwaymen, robbed it of every parcel,took the occupants prisoners, and marched them into the house with greatexultation.
“Little Mum! little Mum! here they are with lots of goodies! Come downand see the fun right away! Quick!” bawled Will and Geordie amidst ageneral ripping off of papers and a reckless cutting of strings thatsoon turned the tidy room into a chaos.
Down came Aunt Jessie with her pretty cap half on, but such a beamingface below it that one rather thought the fly-away head-gear animprovement than otherwise. She had hardly time to greet Rose and thedoctor before the boys were about her, each clamouring for her to seehis gift and rejoice over it with him, for “little Mum” went halves ineverything. The great horns skirmished about her as if to toss her tothe ceiling; the war clubs hurtled over her head as if to annihilateher; an amazing medley from the four quarters of the globe filled herlap, and seven excited boys all talked to her at once.
But she liked it; oh dear, yes! and sat smiling, admiring, andexplaining, quite untroubled by the din, which made Rose cover up herears and Dr. Alec threaten instant flight if the riot was not quelled.That threat produced a lull, and while the uncle received thanks in onecorner, the aunt had some little confidences made to her in the other.
“Well, dear, and how are things going with you now? Better, I hope, thanthey were a week ago.”
“Aunt Jessie, I think I'm going to be very happy, now uncle has come.He does the queerest things, but he is so good to me I can't helploving him”; and, nestling closer to little Mum, Rose told all that hadhappened, ending with a rapturous account of the splendid box.
“I am very glad, dear. But, Rose, I must warn you of one thing; don'tlet uncle spoil you.”
“But I like to be spoilt, auntie.”
“I don't doubt it; but if you turn out badly when the year is over hewill be blamed, and his experiment prove a failure. That would be apity, wouldn't it? when he wants to do so much for you, and can do it ifhis kind heart does not get in the way of his good judgment.”
“I never thought of that, and I'll try not to be spoilt. But how can Ihelp it?” asked Rose anxiously.
“By not complaining of the wholesome things he wants you to do; bygiving him cheerful obedience as well as love; and even making somesmall sacrifices for his sake.”
“I will, I truly will! and when I get in a worry about things may I cometo you? Uncle told me to, and I feel as if I shouldn't be afraid.”
“You may, darling; this is the place where little troubles are bestcured, and this is what mothers are for, I fancy”; and Aunt Jessie drewthe curly head to her shoulder with a tender look that proved how wellshe knew what medicine the child most needed.
It was so sweet and comfortable that Rose sat still enjoying it till alittle voice said,
“Mamma, don't you think Pokey would like some of my shells? Rose gavePhebe some of her nice things, and it was very good of her. Can I?”
“Who is Pokey?” asked Rose, popping up her head, attracted by the oddname.
“My dolly; do you want to see her?” asked Jamie, who had been muchimpressed by the tale of adoption he had overheard.
“Yes; I'm fond of dollies, only don't tell the boys, or they will laughat me.”
“They don't laugh at me, and they play with my dolly a great deal; butshe likes me best”; and Jamie ran away to produce his pet.
“I brought my old doll, but I keep her hidden because I am too big toplay with her, and yet I can't bear to throw her away, I'm so fond ofher,” said Rose, continuing her confidences in a whisper.
“You can come and play with Jamie's whenever you like, for we believe indollies up here,” began Aunt Jessie, smiling to herself as if somethingamused her.
Just then Jamie came back, and Rose understood the smile, for his dollyproved to be a pretty four-year-old little girl, who trotted in as fastas her fat legs would carry her, and making straight for the shells,scrambled up an armful, saying, with a laugh that showed her littlewhite teeth,
“All for Dimmy and me, for Dimmy and me!”
“That's my dolly; isn't she a nice one?” asked Jamie, proudly surveyinghis pet with his hands behind him and his short legs rather far apart amanly attitude copied from his brothers.
“She is a dear dolly. But why call her Pokey?” asked Rose, charmed withthe new plaything.
“She is such an inquisitive little body she is always poking that miteof a nose into everything; and as Paul Pry did not suit, the boys fellto calling her Pokey. Not a pretty name, but very expressive.”
It certainly was, for, having examined the shells, the busy tot laidhold of everything she could find, and continued her researches tillArchie caught her sucking his carved ivory chessmen to see if they werenot barley sugar. Rice paper pictures were also discovered crumpled upin her tiny pocket, and she nearly smashed Will's ostrich egg by tryingto sit upon it.
“Here, Jim, take her away; she's worse than the puppies, and we can'thave her round,” commanded the elder brother, picking her up and handingher over to the little fellow, who received her with open arms and thewarning remark,
“You'd better mind what you do, for I'm going to 'dopt Pokey likeRose did Phebe, and then you'll have to be very good to her, you bigfellows.”
“'Dopt away, baby, and I'll give you a cage to keep her in, or you won'thave her long, for she is getting worse than a monkey”; and Archie wentback to his mates, while Aunt Jessie, foreseeing a crisis, proposed thatJamie should take his dolly home, as she was borrowed, and it was timeher visit ended.
“My dolly is better than yours, isn't she? 'cause she can walk and talkand sing and dance, and yours can't do anything, can she?” asked Jamiewith pride, as he regarded his Pokey, who just then had been moved toexecute a funny little jig and warble the well-known couplet,
    “'Puss-tat, puss-tat, where you been?'     'I been Lunnin, to saw a Tween.”'
After which superb display she retired, escorted by Jamie, both making afearful din blowing on conch shells.
“We must tear ourselves away, Rose, because I want to get you homebefore sunset. Will you come for a drive, Jessie?” said Dr. Alec, as themusic died away in the distance.
“No, thank you; but I see the boys want a scamper, so, if you don'tmind, they may escort you home, but not go in. That is only allowed onholidays.”
The words were hardly out of Aunt Jessie's mouth when Archie said, in atone of command,
“Pass the word, lads. Boot and saddle, and be quick about it.”
“All right!” And in a moment not a vestige of boy remained but thelitter on the floor.
The cavalcade went down the hill at a pace that made Rose cling to heruncle's arm, for the fat old horses got excited by the antics of theponies careering all about them, and went as fast as they could pelt,with the gay dog-cart rattling in front, for Archie and Charlie scornedshelties since this magnificent equipage had been set up. Ben enjoyedthe fun, and the lads cut up capers till Rose declared that “circus” wasthe proper name for them after all.
When they reached the house they dismounted, and stood, three on eachside the steps, in martial attitudes, while her ladyship was handed outwith great elegance by Uncle Alec. Then the Clan saluted, mounted atword of command, and with a wild whoop tore down the avenue in what theyconsidered the true Arab style.
“That was splendid, now it is safely ended,” said Rose, skipping upthe steps with her head over her shoulder to watch the dear tassels bobabout.
“I shall get you a pony as soon as you are a little stronger,” said Dr.Alec, watching her with a smile.
“Oh, I couldn't ride one of those horrid, frisky little beasts! Theyroll their eyes and bounce about so, I should die of fright,” criedRose, clasping her hands tragically.
“Are you a coward?”
“About horses I am.”
“Never mind, then; come and see my new room”; and he led the wayupstairs without another word.
As Rose followed she remembered her promise to Aunt Jessie, and wassorry she had objected so decidedly. She was a great deal more sorryfive minutes later, and well she might be.
“Now, take a good look, and tell me what you think of it,” said Dr.Alec, opening the door and letting her enter before him, while Phebe wasseen whisking down the backstairs with a dust-pan.
Rose walked to the middle of the room, stood still, and gazed about herwith eyes that brightened as they looked, for all was changed.
This chamber had been built out over the library to suit some fancy, andhad been unused for years, except at Christmas times, when the old houseoverflowed. It had three windows one to the east, that overlooked thebay; one to the south, where the horse-chestnuts waved their greenfans; and one to the west, towards the hill and the evening sky. A ruddysunset burned there now, filling the room with an enchanted glow; thesoft murmur of the sea was heard, and a robin chirped “Good-night!” among the budding trees.
Rose saw and heard these things first, and felt their beauty with achild's quick instinct; then her eye took in the altered aspect of theroom, once so shrouded, still and solitary, now so full of light andwarmth and simple luxury.
India matting covered the floor, with a gay rug here and there;the antique andirons shone on the wide hearth, where a cheery blazedispelled the dampness of the long-closed room. Bamboo lounges andchairs stood about, and quaint little tables in cosy corners; onebearing a pretty basket, one a desk, and on a third lay severalfamiliar-looking books. In a recess stood a narrow white bed, with alovely Madonna hanging over it. The Japanese screen half-folded backshowed a delicate toilet service of blue and white set forth on a marbleslab, and near by was the great bath-pan, with Turkish towels and asponge as big as Rose's head.
“Uncle must love cold water like a duck,” she thought, with a shiver.
Then her eye went on to the tall cabinet, where a half-open doorrevealed a tempting array of the drawers, shelves and “cubby holes,” which so delight the hearts of children.
“What a grand place for my new things,” she thought, wondering what heruncle kept in that cedar retreat.
“Oh me, what a sweet toilet table!” was her next mental exclamation, asshe approached this inviting spot.
A round old-fashioned mirror hung over it, with a gilt eagle a-top,holding in his beak the knot of blue ribbon that tied up a curtainof muslin falling on either side of the table, where appeared littleivory-handled brushes, two slender silver candle-sticks, a porcelainmatch-box, several pretty trays for small matters, and, most imposing ofall, a plump blue silk cushion, coquettishly trimmed with lace, and pinkrose-buds at the corners.
That cushion rather astonished Rose; in fact, the whole table did, andshe was just thinking, with a sly smile,
“Uncle is a dandy, but I never should have guessed it,” when he openedthe door of a large closet, saying, with a careless wave of the hand,
“Men like plenty of room for their rattle-traps; don't you think thatought to satisfy me?”
Rose peeped in and gave a start, though all she saw was what one usuallyfinds in closets clothes and boots, boxes and bags. Ah! but you seethese clothes were small black and white frocks; the row of little bootsthat stood below had never been on Dr. Alec's feet; the green bandboxhad a gray veil straying out of it, and yes! the bag hanging on the doorwas certainly her own piece-bag, with a hole in one corner. She gavea quick look round the room and understood now why it had seemed toodainty for a man, why her Testament and Prayer Book were on the tableby the bed, and what those rose-buds meant on the blue cushion. It cameupon her in one delicious burst that this little paradise was all forher, and, not knowing how else to express her gratitude, she caught Dr.Alec round the neck, saying impetuously,
“O uncle, you are too good to me! I'll do anything you ask me; ride wildhorses and take freezing baths and eat bad-tasting messes, and let myclothes hang on me, to show how much I thank you for this dear, sweet,lovely room!”
“You like it, then? But why do you think it is yours, my lass?” askedDr. Alec, as he sat down looking well pleased, and drew his excitedlittle niece to his knee.
“I don't think, I know it is for me; I see it in your face, and I feelas if I didn't half deserve it. Aunt Jessie said you would spoil me, andI must not let you. I'm afraid this looks like it, and perhaps oh me!perhaps I ought not to have this beautiful room after all!” and Rosetried to look as if she could be heroic enough to give it up if it wasbest.
“I owe Mrs. Jessie one for that,” said Dr. Alec, trying to frown, thoughin his secret soul he felt that she was quite right. Then he smiled thatcordial smile, which was like sunshine on his brown face, as he said,
“This is part of the cure, Rose, and I put you here that you might takemy three great remedies in the best and easiest way. Plenty of sun,fresh air, and cold water; also cheerful surroundings, and some work;for Phebe is to show you how to take care of this room, and be yourlittle maid as well as friend and teacher. Does that sound hard anddisagreeable to you, dear?”
“No, sir; very, very pleasant, and I'll do my best to be a good patient.But I really don't think anyone could be sick in this delightfulroom,” she said, with a long sigh of happiness as her eye went from onepleasant object to another.
“Then you like my sort of medicine better than Aunt Myra's, and don'twant to throw it out of the window, hey?”


Chapter 7--A Trip to China
“Come, little girl, I've got another dose for you. I fancy you won'ttake it as well as you did the last, but you will like it better after awhile,” said Dr. Alec, about a week after the grand surprise.
Rose was sitting in her pretty room, where she would gladly have spentall her time if it had been allowed; but she looked up with a smile, forshe had ceased to fear her uncle's remedies, and was always ready to trya new one. The last had been a set of light gardening tools, with whichshe had helped him put the flower-beds in order, learning all sorts ofnew and pleasant things about the plants as she worked, for, though shehad studied botany at school, it seemed very dry stuff compared withUncle Alec's lively lesson.
“What is it now?” she asked, shutting her work-box without a murmur.
“Salt-water.”
“How must I take it?”
“Put on the new suit Miss Hemming sent home yesterday, and come down tothe beach; then I'll show you.”
“Yes, sir,” answered Rose obediently, adding to herself, with a shiver,as he went off: “It is too early for bathing, so I know it is somethingto do with a dreadful boat.”
Putting on the new suit of blue flannel, prettily trimmed with white,and the little sailor-hat with long streamers, diverted her mind fromthe approaching trial, till a shrill whistle reminded her that her unclewas waiting. Away she ran through the garden, down the sandy path, outupon the strip of beach that belonged to the house, and here she foundDr. Alec busy with a slender red and white boat that lay rocking on therising tide.
“That is a dear little boat; and 'Bonnie Belle' is a pretty name,” shesaid, trying not to show how nervous she felt.
“It is for you; so sit in the stern and learn to steer, till you areready to learn to row.”
“Do all boats wiggle about in that way?” she asked, lingering as if totie her hat more firmly.
“Oh, yes, pitch about like nutshells when the sea is a bit rough,” answered her sailor uncle, never guessing her secret woe.
“Is it rough to-day?”
“Not very; it looks a trifle squally to the eastward, but we are allright till the wind changes. Come.”
“Can you swim, uncle?” asked Rose, clutching at his arm as he took herhand.
“Like a fish. Now then.”
“Oh, please hold me very tight till I get there! Why do you have thestern so far away?” and, stifling several squeaks of alarm in herpassage, Rose crept to the distant seat, and sat there holding on withboth hands and looking as if she expected every wave to bring a suddenshipwreck.
Uncle Alec took no notice of her fear, but patiently instructed her inthe art of steering, till she was so absorbed in remembering which wasstarboard and which larboard, that she forgot to say “OW!” every time abig wave slapped against the boat.
“Now where shall we go?” she asked, as the wind blew freshly in herface, and a few, long swift strokes sent them half across the littlebay.
“Suppose we go to China?”
“Isn't that rather a long voyage?”
“Not as I go. Steer round the Point into the harbour, and I'll give youa glimpse of China in twenty minutes or so.”
“I should like that!” and Rose sat wondering what he meant, while sheenjoyed the new sights all about her.
Behind them the green Aunt-hill sloped gently upward to the grove atthe top, and all along the seaward side stood familiar houses, stately,cosy, or picturesque. As they rounded the Point, the great bay openedbefore them full of shipping, and the city lay beyond, its spires risingabove the tall masts with their gay streamers.
“Are we going there?” she asked, for she had never seen this aspect ofthe rich and busy old city before.
“Yes. Uncle Mac has a ship just in from Hong Kong, and I thought youwould like to go and see it.”
“Oh, I should. I love dearly to go poking about in the warehouses withUncle Mac; everything is so curious and new to me; and I'm speciallyinterested in China because you have been there.”
“I'll show you two genuine Chinamen who have just arrived. You will liketo welcome Whang Lo and Fun See, I'm sure.”
“Don't ask me to speak to them, uncle; I shall be sure to laugh at theodd names and the pig-tails and the slanting eyes. Please let me justtrot round after you; I like that best.”
“Very well; now steer toward the wharf where the big ship with the queerflag is. That's the 'Rajah,' and we will go aboard if we can.”
In among the ships they went, by the wharves where the water was greenand still, and queer barnacles grew on the slippery piles. Odd smellssaluted her nose, and odd sights met her eyes, but Rose liked it all,and played she was really landing in Hong Kong when they glided up tothe steps in the shadow of the tall “Rajah.” Boxes and bales were risingout of the hold and being carried into the warehouse by stout porters,who tugged and bawled and clattered about with small trucks, or workedcranes with iron claws that came down and clutched heavy weights,whisking them aloft to where wide doors like mouths swallowed them up.
Dr. Alec took her aboard the ship, and she had the satisfaction ofpoking her inquisitive little nose into every available corner, at therisk of being crushed, lost, or drowned.
“Well, child, how would you like to take a voyage round the world withme in a jolly old craft like this?” asked her uncle, as they rested aminute in the captain's cabin.
“I should like to see the world, but not in such a small, untidy, smellyplace as this. We would go in a yacht all clean and comfortable;Charlie says that is the proper way,” answered Rose, surveying the closequarters with little favour.
“You are not a true Campbell if you don't like the smell of tar andsalt-water, nor Charlie either, with his luxurious yacht. Now comeashore and chin-chin with the Celestials.”
After a delightful progress through the great warehouse, peeping andpicking as they went, they found Uncle Mac and the yellow gentlemen inhis private room, where samples, gifts, curiosities, and newly arrivedtreasures of all sorts were piled up in pleasing pro-fusion andcon-fusion.
As soon as possible Rose retired to a corner, with a porcelain godon one side, a green dragon on the other, and, what was still moreembarrassing, Fun See sat on a tea-chest in front, and stared at herwith his beady black eyes till she did not know where to look.
Mr. Whang Lo was an elderly gentleman in American costume, with hispig-tail neatly wound round his head. He spoke English, and was talkingbusily with Uncle Mac in the most commonplace way so Rose considered hima failure. But Fun See was delightfully Chinese from his junk-like shoesto the button on his pagoda hat; for he had got himself up in style, andwas a mass of silk jackets and slouchy trousers. He was short and fat,and waddled comically; his eyes were very “slanting,” as Rose said; hisqueue was long, so were his nails; his yellow face was plump and shiny,and he was altogether a highly satisfactory Chinaman.
Uncle Alec told her that Fun See had come out to be educated and couldonly speak a little pigeon English; so she must be kind to the poorfellow, for he was only a lad, though he looked nearly as old as Mr.Whang Lo. Rose said she would be kind; but had not the least idea how toentertain the queer guest, who looked as if he had walked out of one ofthe rice-paper landscapes on the wall, and sat nodding at her so like atoy Mandarin that she could hardly keep sober.
In the midst of her polite perplexity, Uncle Mac saw the two youngpeople gazing wistfully at one another, and seemed to enjoy the jokeof this making acquaintance under difficulties. Taking a box from histable, he gave it to Fun See, with an order that seemed to please himvery much.
Descending from his perch, he fell to unpacking it with great neatnessand despatch, while Rose watched him, wondering what was going tohappen. Presently, out from the wrappings came a teapot, which causedher to clasp her hands with delight, for it was made in the likeness ofa plump little Chinaman. His hat was the cover, his queue the handle,and his pipe the nose. It stood upon feet in shoes turned up at thetoes, and the smile on the fat, sleepy face was so like that on Fun'swhen he displayed the teapot, that Rose couldn't help laughing, whichpleased him much.
Two pretty cups with covers, and a fine scarlet tray completed theset, and made one long to have a “dish of tea,” even in Chinese style,without cream or sugar.
When he had arranged them on a little table before her, Fun signified inpantomime that they were hers, from her uncle. She returned her thanksin the same way, whereupon he returned to his tea-chest, and, havingno other means of communication, they sat smiling and nodding at oneanother in an absurd sort of way till a new idea seemed to strikeFun. Tumbling off his seat, he waddled away as fast as his petticoatspermitted, leaving Rose hoping that he had not gone to get a roastedrat, a stewed puppy, or any other foreign mess which civility wouldoblige her to eat.
While she waited for her funny new friend, she improved her mind in away that would have charmed Aunt Jane. The gentlemen were talking overall sorts of things, and she listened attentively, storing up muchof what she heard, for she had an excellent memory, and longed todistinguish herself by being able to produce some useful informationwhen reproached with her ignorance.
She was just trying to impress upon her mind that Amoy was two hundredand eighty miles from Hong Kong, when Fun came scuffling back, bearingwhat she thought was a small sword, till he unfurled an immense fan, andpresented it with a string of Chinese compliments, the meaning ofwhich would have amused her even more than the sound, if she could haveunderstood it.
She had never seen such an astonishing fan, and at once became absorbedin examining it. Of course, there was no perspective whatever, whichonly gave it a peculiar charm to Rose, for in one place a lovely lady,with blue knitting-needles in her hair, sat directly upon the spire of astately pagoda. In another charming view a brook appeared to flow in atthe front door of a stout gentleman's house, and out at his chimney. Ina third a zig-zag wall went up into the sky like a flash of lightning,and a bird with two tails was apparently brooding over a fisherman whoseboat was just going aground upon the moon.
It was altogether a fascinating thing, and she would have sat wafting itto and fro all the afternoon, to Fun's great satisfaction, if Dr. Alec'sattention had not suddenly been called to her by a breeze from the bigfan that blew his hair into his eyes, and reminded him that they mustgo. So the pretty china was repacked, Rose furled her fan, and withseveral parcels of choice teas for the old ladies stowed away in Dr.Alec's pockets, they took their leave, after Fun had saluted them with“the three bendings and the nine knockings,” as they salute the Emperor,or “Son of Heaven,” at home.
“I feel as if I had really been to China, and I'm sure I look so,” saidRose, as they glided out of the shadow of the “Rajah.”
She certainly did, for Mr. Whang Lo had given her a Chinese umbrella;Uncle Alec had got some lanterns to light up her balcony; the great fanlay in her lap, and the tea-set reposed at her feet.
“This is not a bad way to study geography, is it?” asked her uncle, whohad observed her attention to the talk.
“It is a very pleasant way, and I really think I have learned more aboutChina to-day than in all the lessons I had at school, though I used torattle off the answers as fast as I could go. No one explained anythingto us, so all I remember is that tea and silk come from there, and thewomen have little bits of feet. I saw Fun looking at mine, and he musthave thought them perfectly immense,” answered Rose, surveying her stoutboots with sudden contempt.
“We will have out the maps and the globe, and I'll show you some of myjourneys, telling stories as we go. That will be next best to doing itactually.”
“You are so fond of travelling, I should think it would be very dull foryou here, uncle. Do you know, Aunt Plenty says she is sure you will beoff in a year or two.”
“Very likely.”
“Oh, me! what shall I do then?” sighed Rose, in a tone of despair thatmade Uncle Alec's face brighten with a look of genuine pleasure as hesaid significantly,
“Next time I go I shall take my little anchor with me. How will thatsuit?”
“Really, uncle?”
“Really, niece.”
Rose gave a little bounce of rapture which caused the boat to “wiggle” in a way that speedily quieted her down. But she sat beaming joyfullyand trying to think which of some hundred questions she would ask first,when Dr. Alec said, pointing to a boat that was coming up behind them ingreat style,
“How well those fellows row! Look at them, and take notes for your ownuse by and by.”
The “Stormy Petrel” was manned by half a dozen jaunty looking sailors,who made a fine display of blue shirts and shiny hats, with stars andanchors in every direction.
“How beautifully they go, and they are only boys. Why, I do believe theyare our boys! Yes, I see Charlie laughing over his shoulder. Row, uncle,row! Oh, please do, and not let them catch up with us!” cried Rose, insuch a state of excitement that the new umbrella nearly went overboard.
“All right, here we go!” and away they did go with a long steady sweepof the oars that carried the “Bonnie Belle” through the water with arush.
The lads pulled their prettiest, but Dr. Alec would have reached thePoint first, if Rose, in her flurry, had not retarded him by jerking therudder ropes in a most unseamanlike way, and just as she got right againher hat blew off. That put an end to the race, and while they were stillfishing for the hat the other boat came alongside, with all the oars inthe air, and the jolly young tars ready for a frolic.
“Did you catch a crab, uncle?”
“No, a blue-fish,” he answered, as the dripping hat was landed on a seatto dry.
“What have you been doing?”
“Seeing Fun.”
“Good for you, Rose! I know what you mean. We are going to have him upto show us how to fly the big kite, for we can't get the hang of it.Isn't he great fun, though?”
“No, little Fun.”
“Come, stop joking, and show us what you've got.”
“You'd better hoist that fan for a sail.”
“Lend Dandy your umbrella; he hates to burn his pretty nose.”
“I say, uncle, are you going to have a Feast of Lanterns?”
“No, I'm going to have a feast of bread and butter, for it's tea-time.If that black cloud doesn't lie, we shall have a gust before long,so you had better get home as soon as you can, or your mother will beanxious, Archie.”
“Ay, ay, skipper. Good-night, Rose; come out often, and we'll teach youall there is to know about rowing,” was Charlie's modest invitation.
Then the boats parted company, and across the water from the “Petrel's” crew came a verse from one of the Nonsense songs in which the boysdelighted.
    “Oh, Timballoo! how happy we are,     We live in a sieve and a crockery jar!     And all night long, in the starlight pale,     We sail away, with a pea-green sail,     And whistle and warble a moony song     To the echoing sound of a coppery gong.     Far and few, far and few     Are the lands where the Jumblies live;     Their heads are green, and their hands are blue,     And they went to sea in a sieve.”


Chapter 8--And what came of it
“Uncle, could you lend me a ninepence? I'll return it as soon as I getmy pocket-money,” said Rose, coming into the library in a great hurrythat evening.
“I think I could, and I won't charge any interest for it, so you neednot be in any hurry to repay me. Come back here and help me settle thesebooks if you have nothing pleasanter to do,” answered Dr. Alec, handingout the money with that readiness which is so delightful when we asksmall loans.
“I'll come in a minute; I've been longing to fix my books, but didn'tdare to touch them, because you always shake your head when I read.”
“I shall shake my head when you write, if you don't do it better thanyou did in making out this catalogue.”
“I know it's bad, but I was in a hurry when I did it, and I am in onenow.” And away went Rose, glad to escape a lecture.
But she got it when she came back, for Uncle Alec was still knittinghis brows over the list of books, and sternly demanded, pointing to atipsy-looking title staggering down the page,
“Is that meant for 'Pulverized Bones,' ma'am?”
“No, sir; it's 'Paradise Lost.'”
“Well, I'm glad to know it, for I began to think you were planning tostudy surgery or farming. And what is this, if you please? 'Babies'Aprons' is all I can make of it.”
Rose looked hard at the scrawl, and presently announced, with an air ofsuperior wisdom,
“Oh, that's 'Bacon's Essays.'”
“Miss Power did not teach anything so old-fashioned as writing, I see.Now look at this memorandum Aunt Plenty gave me, and see what a handsomeplain hand that is. She went to a dame-school and learnt a few usefulthings well; that is better than a smattering of half a dozen so-calledhigher branches, I take the liberty of thinking.”
“Well, I'm sure I was considered a bright girl at school, and learnedeverything I was taught. Luly and me were the first in all our classes,and 'specially praised for our French and music and those sort ofthings,” said Rose, rather offended at Uncle Alec's criticism.
“I dare say; but if your French grammar was no better than your English,I think the praise was not deserved, my dear.”
“Why, uncle, we did study English grammar, and I could parsebeautifully. Miss Power used to have us up to show off when people came.I don't see but I talk as right as most girls.”
“I dare say you do, but we are all too careless about our English. Now,think a minute, and tell me if these expressions are correct 'Luly andme,' 'those sort of things,' and 'as right as most girls.'”
Rose pulled her pet curl and put up her lip, but had to own that she waswrong, and said meekly, after a pause which threatened to be sulky,
“I suppose I should have said 'Luly and I,' in that case, and 'that sortof things' and 'rightly,' though 'correctly' would have been a betterword, I guess.”
“Thank you; and if you will kindly drop 'I guess,' I shall like mylittle Yankee all the better. Now, see here, Rosy, I don't pretendto set myself up for a model in anything, and you may come down on mygrammar, manners or morals as often as you think I'm wrong, and I'llthank you. I've been knocking about the world for years, and have gotcareless, but I want my girl to be what I call well-educated, even ifshe studies nothing but the three 'Rs' for a year to come. Let us bethorough, no matter how slowly we go.”
He spoke so earnestly and looked so sorry to have ruffled her thatRose went and sat on the arm of his chair, saying, with a pretty air ofpenitence,
“I'm sorry I was cross, uncle, when I ought to thank you for takingso much interest in me. I guess no, I think you are right about beingthorough, for I used to understand a great deal better when papa taughtme a few lessons than when Miss Power hurried me through so many. Ideclare my head used to be such a jumble of French and German, historyand arithmetic, grammar and music, I used to feel sometimes as if itwould split. I'm sure I don't wonder it ached.” And she held on to it asif the mere memory of the “jumble” made it swim.
“Yet that is considered an excellent school, I find, and I dare say itwould be if the benighted lady did not think it necessary to cram herpupils like Thanks-giving turkeys, instead of feeding them in a naturaland wholesome way. It is the fault with most American schools, and thepoor little heads will go on aching till we learn better.”
This was one of Dr. Alec's hobbies, and Rose was afraid he was off fora gallop, but he reined himself in and gave her thoughts a new turn bysaying suddenly, as he pulled out a fat pocket-book,
“Uncle Mac has put all your affairs into my hands now, and here is yourmonth's pocket money. You keep your own little accounts, I suppose?”
“Thank you. Yes, Uncle Mac gave me an account book when I went toschool, and I used to put down my expenses, but I couldn't make them govery well, for figures are the one thing I am not at all clever about,” said Rose, rummaging in her desk for a dilapidated little book, whichshe was ashamed to show when she found it.
“Well, as figures are rather important things to most of us, and you mayhave a good many accounts to keep some day, wouldn't it be wise tobegin at once and learn to manage your pennies before the pounds come toperplex you?”
“I thought you would do all that fussy part and take care of the pounds,as you call them. Need I worry about it? I do hate sums, so!”
“I shall take care of things till you are of age, but I mean that youshall know how your property is managed, and do as much of it as you canby and by; then you won't be dependent on the honesty of other people.”
“Gracious me! as if I wouldn't trust you with millions of billions if Ihad them,” cried Rose, scandalised at the mere suggestion.
“Ah, but I might be tempted; guardians are sometimes; so you'd betterkeep your eye on me, and in order to do that you must learn all aboutthese affairs,” answered Dr. Alec, as he made an entry in his own veryneat account-book.
Rose peeped over his shoulder at it, and then turned to the arithmeticalpuzzle in her hand with a sigh of despair.
“Uncle, when you add up your expenses do you ever find you have got moremoney than you had in the beginning?”
“No; I usually find that I have a good deal less than I had in thebeginning. Are you troubled in the peculiar way you mention?”
“Yes; it is very curious, but I never can make things come out square.”
“Perhaps I can help you,” began Uncle Alec, in the most respectful tone.
“I think you had better, for if I have got to keep accounts I may aswell begin in the right way. But please don't laugh! I know I'm verystupid, and my book is a disgrace, but I never could get it straight.” And with great trepidation, Rose gave up her funny little accounts.
It really was good in Dr. Alec not to laugh, and Rose felt deeplygrateful when he said in a mildly suggestive tone,
“The dollars and cents seem to be rather mixed, perhaps if I juststraightened them out a bit we should find things all right.”
“Please do, and then show me on a fresh leaf how to make mine look niceand ship-shape as yours do.”
As Rose stood by him watching the ease with which he quickly broughtorder out of chaos, she privately resolved to hunt up her old arithmeticand perfect herself in the four first rules, with a good tug atfractions, before she read any more fairy tales.
“Am I a rich girl, uncle?” she asked suddenly, as he was copying acolumn of figures.
“Rather a poor one, I should say, since you had to borrow a ninepence.”
“That was your fault, because you forgot my pocket-money. But, really,shall I be rich by and by?”
“I am afraid you will.”
“Why afraid, uncle?”
“Too much money is a bad thing.”
“But I can give it away, you know; that is always the pleasantest partof having it I think.”
“I'm glad you feel so, for you can do much good with your fortune if youknow how to use it well.”
“You shall teach me, and when I am a woman we will set up a school wherenothing but the three R's shall be taught, and all the children liveon oatmeal, and the girls have waists a yard round,” said Rose, with asudden saucy smile dimpling her cheeks.
“You are an impertinent little baggage, to turn on me in that way rightin the midst of my first attempt at teaching. Never mind, I'll have anextra bitter dose for you next time, miss.”
“I knew you wanted to laugh, so I gave you a chance. Now, I will begood, master, and do my lesson nicely.”
So Dr. Alec had his laugh, and then Rose sat down and took a lesson inaccounts which she never forgot.
“Now come and read aloud to me; my eyes are tired, and it is pleasant tosit here by the fire while the rain pours outside and Aunt Jane lecturesupstairs,” said Uncle Alec, when last month's accounts had been put ingood order and a fresh page neatly begun.
Rose liked to read aloud, and gladly gave him the chapter in “NicholasNickleby” where the Miss Kenwigses take their French lesson. She did hervery best, feeling that she was being criticised, and hoping that shemight not be found wanting in this as in other things.
“Shall I go on, sir?” she asked very meekly, when the chapter ended.
“If you are not tired, dear. It is a pleasure to hear you, for you readremarkably well,” was the answer that filled her heart with pride andpleasure.
“Do you really think so, uncle? I'm so glad! Papa taught me, and I readfor hours to him, but I thought perhaps, he liked it because he was fondof me.”
“So am I; but you really do read unusually well, and I'm very glad ofit, for it is a rare accomplishment, and one I value highly. Come herein this cosy, low chair; the light is better, and I can pull these curlsif you go too fast. I see you are going to be a great comfort as wellas a great credit to your old uncle, Rosy.” And Dr. Alec drew her closebeside him with such a fatherly look and tone that she felt it wouldbe very easy to love and obey him, since he knew how to mix praise andblame so pleasantly together.
Another chapter was just finished, when the sound of a carriage warnedthem that Aunt Jane was about to depart. Before they could go to meether, however, she appeared in the doorway looking like an unusually tallmummy in her waterproof, with her glasses shining like cat's eyes fromthe depths of the hood.
“Just as I thought! petting that child to death and letting her sit uplate reading trash. I do hope you feel the weight of the responsibilityyou have taken upon yourself, Alec,” she said, with a certain grim sortof satisfaction at seeing things go wrong.
“I think I have a very realising sense of it, sister Jane,” answeredDr. Alec, with a comical shrug of the shoulders and a glance at Rose'sbright face.
“It is sad to see a great girl wasting these precious hours so. Now, myboys have studied all day, and Mac is still at his books, I've no doubt,while you have not had a lesson since you came, I suspect.”
“I've had five to-day, ma'am,” was Rose's very unexpected answer.
“I'm glad to hear it; and what were they, pray?” Rose looked very demureas she replied,
“Navigation, geography, grammar, arithmetic, and keeping my temper.”
“Queer lessons, I fancy; and what have you learned from this remarkablemixture, I should like to know?”
A naughty sparkle came into Rose's eyes as she answered, with a drolllook at her uncle,
“I can't tell you all, ma'am, but I have collected some usefulinformation about China, which you may like, especially the teas. Thebest are Lapsing Souchong, Assam Pekoe, rare Ankoe, Flowery Pekoe,Howqua's mixture, Scented Caper, Padral tea, black Congou, and greenTwankey. Shanghai is on the Woosung River. Hong Kong means 'Island ofSweet waters.' Singapore is 'Lion's Town.' 'Chops' are the boats theylive in; and they drink tea out of little saucers. Principal productionsare porcelain, tea, cinnamon, shawls, tin, tamarinds and opium. Theyhave beautiful temples and queer gods; and in Canton is the Dwelling ofthe Holy Pigs, fourteen of them, very big, and all blind.”
The effect of this remarkable burst was immense, especially the factlast mentioned. It entirely took the wind out of Aunt Jane's sails; itwas so sudden, so varied and unexpected, that she had not a word to say.The glasses remained fixed full upon Rose for a moment, and then, witha hasty “Oh, indeed!” the excellent lady bundled into her carriage anddrove away, somewhat bewildered and very much disturbed.
She would have been more so if she had seen her reprehensiblebrother-in-law dancing a triumphal polka down the hall with Rose inhonour of having silenced the enemy's battery for once.


Chapter 9--Phebe's Secret
“Why do you keep smiling to yourself, Phebe?” asked Rose, as they wereworking together one morning, for Dr. Alec considered house-work thebest sort of gymnastics for girls; so Rose took lessons of Phebe insweeping, dusting and bed-making.
“I was thinking about a nice little secret I know, and couldn't helpsmiling.”
“Shall I know it, sometime?”
“Guess you will.”
“Shall I like it?”
“Oh, won't you, though!”
“Will it happen soon?”
“Sometime this week.”
“I know what it is! The boys are going to have fireworks on the fourth,and have got some surprise for me. Haven't they?”
“That's telling.”
“Well, I can wait; only tell me one thing is uncle in it?”
“Of course he is; there's never any fun without him.”
“Then it's all right, and sure to be nice.”
Rose went out on the balcony to shake the rugs, and, having given thema vigorous beating, hung them on the balustrade to air, while she took alook at her plants. Several tall vases and jars stood there, and a monthof June sun and rain had worked wonders with the seeds and slips she hadplanted. Morning-glories and nasturtiums ran all over the bars, makinghaste to bloom. Scarlet beans and honeysuckles were climbing up frombelow to meet their pretty neighbours, and the woodbine was hanging itsgreen festoons wherever it could cling.
The waters of the bay were dancing in the sunshine, a fresh wind stirredthe chestnut-trees with a pleasant sound, and the garden below was fullof roses, butterflies and bees. A great chirping and twittering went onamong the birds, busy with their summer house-keeping, and, far away,the white-winged gulls were dipping and diving in the sea, where ships,like larger birds, went sailing to and fro.
“Oh, Phebe, it's such a lovely day, I do wish your fine secret was goingto happen right away! I feel just like having a good time; don't you?” said Rose, waving her arms as if she was going to fly.
“I often feel that way, but I have to wait for my good times, and don'tstop working to wish for 'em. There, now you can finish as soon as thedust settles; I must go do my stairs,” and Phebe trudged away with thebroom, singing as she went.
Rose leaned where she was, and fell to thinking how many good timesshe had had lately, for the gardening had prospered finely, and she waslearning to swim and row, and there were drives and walks, and quiethours of reading and talk with Uncle Alec, and, best of all, the oldpain and ennui seldom troubled her now. She could work and play allday, sleep sweetly all night, and enjoy life with the zest of a healthy,happy child. She was far from being as strong and hearty as Phebe, butshe was getting on; the once pale cheeks had colour in them now, thehands were growing plump and brown, and the belt was not much too loose.No one talked to her about her health, and she forgot that she had “noconstitution.” She took no medicine but Dr. Alec's three great remedies,and they seemed to suit her excellently. Aunt Plenty said it was thepills; but, as no second batch had ever followed the first, I think theold lady was mistaken.
Rose looked worthy of her name as she stood smiling to herself overa happier secret than any Phebe had a secret which she did not knowherself till she found out, some years later, the magic of good health.
    “'Look only,' said the brownie,     'At the pretty gown of blue,     At the kerchief pinned about her head,     And at her little shoe,”'
said a voice from below, as a great cabbage-rose came flying against hercheek.
“What is the princess dreaming about up there in her hanging-garden?” added Dr. Alec as she flung back a morning-glory.
“I was wishing I could do something pleasant this fine day; somethingvery new and interesting, for the wind makes me feel frisky and gay.”
“Suppose we take a pull over to the Island? I intended to go thisafternoon; but if you feel more like it now, we can be off at once.”
“I do! I do! I'll come in fifteen minutes, uncle. I must just scrabblemy room to rights, for Phebe has got a great deal to do.”
Rose caught up the rugs and vanished as she spoke, while Dr. Alec wentin, saying to himself, with an indulgent smile,
“It may upset things a trifle, but half a child's pleasure consists inhaving their fun when they want it.”
Never did duster flap more briskly than the one Rose used that day, andnever was a room “scrabbled” to rights in such haste as hers. Tables andchairs flew into their places as if alive; curtains shook as if a galewas blowing; china rattled and small articles tumbled about as if ayoung earthquake was playing with them. The boating suit went on in atwinkling, and Rose was off with a hop and a skip, little dreaming howmany hours it would be before she saw her pretty room again.
Uncle Alec was putting a large basket into the boat when she arrived,and before they were off Phebe came running down with a queer, knobbybundle done up in a water-proof.
“We can't eat half that luncheon, and I know we shall not need so manywraps. I wouldn't lumber the boat up so,” said Rose, who still hadsecret scares when on the water.
“Couldn't you make a smaller parcel, Phebe?” asked Dr. Alec, eyeing thebundle suspiciously.
“No, sir, not in such a hurry,” and Phebe laughed as she gave aparticularly large knob a good poke.
“Well, it will do for ballast. Don't forget the note to Mrs. Jessie, Ibeg of you.”
“No, sir. I'll send it right off,” and Phebe ran up the bank as if shehad wings to her feet.
“We'll take a look at the lighthouse first, for you have not been thereyet, and it is worth seeing. By the time we have done that it will bepretty warm, and we will have lunch under the trees on the Island.”
Rose was ready for anything, and enjoyed her visit to the lighthouse onthe Point very much, especially climbing up the narrow stairs and goinginside the great lantern. They made a long stay, for Dr. Alec seemed inno hurry to go, and kept looking through his spy-glass as if he expectedto discover something remarkable on sea or land. It was past twelvebefore they reached the Island, and Rose was ready for her lunch longbefore she got it.
“Now this is lovely! I do wish the boys were here. Won't it be nice tohave them with us all their vacation? Why, it begins to-day, doesn't it?Oh, I wish I'd remembered it sooner, and perhaps they would have comewith us,” she said, as they lay luxuriously eating sandwiches under theold apple-tree.
“So we might. Next time we won't be in such a hurry. I expect the ladswill take our heads off when they find us out,” answered Dr. Alec,placidly drinking cold tea.
“Uncle, I smell a frying sort of a smell,” Rose said, pausing suddenlyas she was putting away the remains of the lunch half an hour later.
“So do I; it is fish, I think.”
For a moment they both sat with their noses in the air, sniffing likehounds; then Dr. Alec sprang up, saying with great decision,
“Now, this won't do! No one is permitted on this island without askingleave. I must see who dares to fry fish on my private property.”
Taking the basket on one arm and the bundle on the other, he strode awaytowards the traitorous smell, looking as fierce as a lion, while Rosemarched behind under her umbrella.
“We are Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday going to see if the savageshave come,” she said presently, for her fancy was full of the dear oldstories that all children love so well.
“And there they are! Two tents and two boats, as I live! These rascalsmean to enjoy themselves, that's evident.”
“There ought to be more boats and no tents. I wonder where the prisonersare?”
“There are traces of them,” and Dr. Alec pointed to the heads and tailsof fishes strewn on the grass.
“And there are more,” said Rose, laughing, as she pointed to a scarletheap of what looked like lobsters.
“The savages are probably eating their victims now; don't you hear theknives rattle in that tent?”
“We ought to creep up and peep; Crusoe was cautious, you know, andFriday scared out of his wits,” added Rose, still keeping up the joke.
“But this Crusoe is going to pounce upon them, regardless ofconsequences. If I am killed and eaten, you seize the basket and run forthe boat; there are provisions enough for your voyage home.”
With that Uncle Alec slipped round to the front of the tent and, castingin the big bundle like a bomb-shell, roared out, in a voice of thunder,
“Pirates, surrender!”
A crash, a shout, a laugh, and out came the savages, brandishing knivesand forks, chicken bones, and tin mugs, and all fell upon the intruder,pommelling him unmercifully as they cried,
“You came too soon! We are not half ready! You've spoilt it all! Whereis Rose?”
“Here I am,” answered a half-stifled voice, and Rose was discoveredsitting on the pile of red flannel bathing clothes, which she hadmistaken for lobsters, and where she had fallen in a fit of merrimentwhen she discovered that the cannibals were her merry cousins.
“You good-for-nothing boys! You are always bursting out upon me in someridiculous way, and I always get taken in because I'm not used to suchpranks. Uncle is as bad as the rest, and it's great fun,” she said,as the lads came round her, half scolding, half welcoming, and whollyenjoying the double surprise.
“You were not to come till afternoon, and mamma was to be here toreceive you. Everything is in a mess now, except your tent; we got thatin order the first thing, and you can sit there and see us work,” saidArchie, doing the honours as usual.
“Rose felt it in her bones, as Dolly says, that something was in thewind, and wanted to be off at once. So I let her come, and shouldhave kept her away an hour longer if your fish had not betrayed you,” explained Uncle Alec, subsiding from a ferocious Crusoe into hisgood-natured self again.
“As this seat is rather damp, I think I'll rise,” said Rose, as theexcitement lessened a little.
Several fishy hands helped her up, and Charlie said, as he scattered thescarlet garments over the grass with an oar,
“We had a jolly good swim before dinner, and I told the Brats to spreadthese to dry. Hope you brought your things, Rose, for you belong to theLobsters, you know, and we can have no end of fun teaching you to diveand float and tread water.”
“I didn't bring anything--” began Rose, but was interrupted by the Brats(otherwise Will and Geordie), who appeared bearing the big bundle, somuch demoralised by its fall that a red flannel tunic trailed out at oneend and a little blue dressing-gown at the other, while the knobs provedto be a toilet-case, rubbers, and a silver mug.
“Oh, that sly Phebe! This was the secret, and she bundled up thosethings after I went down to the boat,” cried Rose, with sparkling eyes.
“Guess something is smashed inside, for a bit of glass fell out,” observed Will, as they deposited the bundle at her feet.
“Catch a girl going anywhere without a looking-glass. We haven't got oneamong the whole lot of us,” added Mac, with masculine scorn.
“Dandy has; I caught him touching up his wig behind the trees after ourswim,” cut in Geordie, wagging a derisive finger at Steve, who promptlysilenced him by a smart rap on the head with the drum-stick he had justpolished off.
“Come, come, you lazy lubbers, fall to work, or we shall not be readyfor mamma. Take Rose's things to her tent, and tell her all about it,Prince. Mac and Steve, you cut away and bring up the rest of the straw;and you small chaps, clear off the table, if you have stuffed all youcan. Please, uncle, I'd like your advice about the boundary lines andthe best place for the kitchen.”
Everyone obeyed the chief, and Rose was escorted to her tent by Charlie,who devoted himself to her service. She was charmed with her quarters,and still more so with the programme which he unfolded before her asthey worked.
“We always camp out somewhere in vacation, and this year we thought we'dtry the Island. It is handy, and our fireworks will show off well fromhere.”
“Shall we stay over the Fourth? Three whole days! Oh, me! what a frolicit will be!”
“Bless your heart, we often camp for a week, we big fellows; but thisyear the small chaps wanted to come, so we let them. We have greatlarks, as you'll see; for we have a cave and play Captain Kidd, and haveshipwrecks, and races, and all sorts of games. Arch and I are ratherpast that kind of thing now, but we do it to please the children,” addedCharlie, with a sudden recollection of his sixteen years.
“I had no idea boys had such good times. Their plays never seemed a bitinteresting before. But I suppose that was because I never knew any boysvery well, or perhaps you are unusually nice ones,” observed Rose, withan artless air of appreciation that was very flattering.
“We are a pretty clever set, I fancy; but we have a good manyadvantages, you see. There are a tribe of us, to begin with; then ourfamily has been here for ages, and we have plenty of 'spondulics,' sowe can rather lord it over the other fellows, and do as we like. There,ma'am, you can hang your smashed glass on that nail and do up your backhair as fine as you please. You can have a blue blanket or a red one,and a straw pillow or an air cushion for your head, whichever you like.You can trim up to any extent, and be as free and easy as squaws in awigwam, for this corner is set apart for you ladies and we never crossthe line uncle is drawing until we ask leave. Anything more I can do foryou, cousin?”
“No, thank you. I think I'll leave the rest till auntie comes, and goand help you somewhere else, if I may.”
“Yes, indeed, come on and see to the kitchen. Can you cook?” askedCharlie, as he led the way to the rocky nook where Archie was putting upa sail-cloth awning.
“I can make tea and toast bread.”
“Well, we'll shew you how to fry fish, and make chowder. Now you justset these pots and pans round tastefully, and sort of tidy up a bit,for Aunt Jessie insists on doing some of the work, and I want it to bedecent here.”
By four o'clock the camp was in order, and the weary workers settleddown on Lookout Rock to watch for Mrs. Jessie and Jamie, who was neverfar from mamma's apron string. They looked like a flock of blue-birds,all being in sailor rig, with blue ribbon enough flying from the sevenhats to have set up a milliner. Very tuneful blue-birds they were, too,for all the lads sang, and the echo of their happy voices reached Mrs.Jessie long before she saw them.
The moment the boat hove in sight up went the Island flag, and theblue-jackets cheered lustily, as they did on every possible occasion,like true young Americans. This welcome was answered by the flapping ofa handkerchief and the shrill “Rah! Rah! Rah!” of the one small tarwho stood in the stern waving his hat manfully, while a maternal handclutched him firmly in the rear.
Cleopatra landing from her golden galley never received a heartiergreeting than “Little Mum” as she was borne to her tent by the youngfolk, for love of whom she smilingly resigned herself to three days ofdiscomfort; while Jamie immediately attached himself to Rose, assuringher of his protection from the manifold perils which might assail them.
Taught by long experience that boys are always hungry, Aunt Jessie soonproposed supper, and proceeded to get it, enveloped in an immense apron,with an old hat of Archie's stuck atop of her cap. Rose helped, andtried to be as handy as Phebe, though the peculiar style of table shehad to set made it no easy task. It was accomplished at last, and avery happy party lay about under the trees, eating and drinking out ofanyone's plate and cup, and quite untroubled by the frequent appearanceof ants and spiders in places which these interesting insects are notexpected to adorn.
“I never thought I should like to wash dishes, but I do,” said Rose,as she sat in a boat after supper lazily rinsing plates in the sea, androcking luxuriously as she wiped them.
“Mum is mighty particular; we just give 'em a scrub with sand, and dust'em off with a bit of paper. It's much the best way, I think,” repliedGeordie, who reposed in another boat alongside.
“How Phebe would like this! I wonder uncle did not have her come.”
“I believe he tried to, but Dolly was as cross as two sticks, and saidshe couldn't spare her. I'm sorry, for we all like the Phebe bird, andshe'd chirp like a good one out here, wouldn't she?”
“She ought to have a holiday like the rest of us. It's too bad to leaveher out.”
This thought came back to Rose several times that evening, for Phebewould have added much to the little concert they had in the moonlight,would have enjoyed the stories told, been quick at guessing theconundrums, and laughed with all her heart at the fun. The merry goingto bed would have been the best of all, for Rose wanted someone tocuddle under the blue blanket with her, there to whisper and giggle andtell secrets, as girls delight to do.
Long after the rest were asleep, Rose lay wide awake, excited by thenovelty of all about her, and a thought that had come into her mind. Faraway she heard a city clock strike twelve; a large star like a mild eyepeeped in at the opening of the tent, and the soft plash of the wavesseemed calling her to come out. Aunt Jessie lay fast asleep, with Jamierolled up like a kitten at her feet, and neither stirred as Rose in herwrapper crept out to see how the world looked at midnight.
She found it very lovely, and sat down on a cracker keg to enjoy it witha heart full of the innocent sentiment of her years. Fortunately, Dr.Alec saw her before she had time to catch cold, for coming out to tieback the door-flap of his tent for more air, he beheld the smallfigure perched in the moonlight. Having no fear of ghosts, he quietlyapproached, and, seeing that she was wide awake, said, with a hand onher shining hair,
“What is my girl doing here?”
“Having a good time,” answered Rose, not at all startled.
“I wonder what she was thinking about with such a sober look.”
“The story you told of the brave sailor who gave up his place on theraft to the woman, and the last drop of water to the poor baby. Peoplewho make sacrifices are very much loved and admired, aren't they?” sheasked, earnestly.
“If the sacrifice is a true one. But many of the bravest never areknown, and get no praise. That does not lessen their beauty, thoughperhaps it makes them harder, for we all like sympathy,” and Dr. Alecsighed a patient sort of sigh.
“I suppose you have made a great many? Would you mind telling me one ofthem?” asked Rose, arrested by the sigh.
“My last was to give up smoking,” was the very unromantic answer to herpensive question.
“Why did you?”
“Bad example for the boys.”
“That was very good of you, uncle! Was it hard?”
“I'm ashamed to say it was. But as a wise old fellow once said, 'It isnecessary to do right; it is not necessary to be happy.'”
Rose pondered over the saying as if it pleased her, and then said, witha clear, bright look,
“A real sacrifice is giving up something you want or enjoy very much,isn't it?”
“Yes.”
“Doing it one's own self because one loves another person very much andwants her to be happy?”
“Yes.”
“And doing it pleasantly, and being glad about it, and not minding thepraise if it doesn't come?”
“Yes, dear, that is the true spirit of self-sacrifice; you seem tounderstand it, and I dare say you will have many chances in your life totry the real thing. I hope they won't be very hard ones.”
“I think they will,” began Rose, and there stopped short.
“Well, make one now, and go to sleep, or my girl will be ill to-morrow,and then the aunts will say camping out was bad for her.”
“I'll go good night!” and throwing him a kiss, the little ghostvanished, leaving Uncle Alec to pace the shore and think about some ofthe unsuspected sacrifices that had made him what he was.


Chapter 10--Rose's Sacrifice
There certainly were “larks” on Campbell's Island next day, as Charliehad foretold, and Rose took her part in them like one intent on enjoyingevery minute to the utmost. There was a merry breakfast, a successfulfishing expedition, and then the lobsters came out in full force, foreven Aunt Jessie appeared in red flannel. There was nothing Uncle Aleccould not do in the water, and the boys tried their best to equal him instrength and skill, so there was a great diving and ducking, for everyone was bent on distinguishing himself.
Rose swam out far beyond her depth, with uncle to float her back; AuntJessie splashed placidly in the shallow pools, with Jamie paddling nearby like a little whale beside its mother; while the lads careered about,looking like a flock of distracted flamingoes, and acting like thefamous dancing party in “Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.”
Nothing but chowder would have lured them from their gambols in thebriny deep; that time-honoured dish demanded the concentrated actionof several mighty minds; so the “Water Babies” came ashore and fell tocooking.
It is unnecessary to say that, when done, it was the most remarkablechowder ever cooked, and the quantity eaten would have amazed theworld if the secret had been divulged. After this exertion a siestawas considered the thing, and people lay about in tents or out as theypleased, the boys looking like warriors slumbering where they fell.
The elders had just settled to a comfortable nap when the youngstersrose, refreshed and ready for further exploits. A hint sent them all offto the cave, and there were discovered bows and arrows, battle clubs,old swords, and various relics of an interesting nature. Perched upona commanding rock, with Jamie to “splain” things to her, Rose behelda series of stirring scenes enacted with great vigour and historicalaccuracy by her gifted relatives.
Captain Cook was murdered by the natives of Owhyhee in the mostthrilling manner. Captain Kidd buried untold wealth in the chowderkettle at the dead of night, and shot both the trusting villains whoshared the secret of the hiding place. Sinbad came ashore there and hadmanifold adventures, and numberless wrecks bestrewed the sands.
Rose considered them by far the most exciting dramas she had everwitnessed; and when the performance closed with a grand ballet of FeejeeIslanders, whose barbaric yells alarmed the gulls, she had no words inwhich to express her gratification.
Another swim at sunset, another merry evening on the rocks watching thelighted steamers pass seaward and the pleasure-boats come into port,ended the second day of the camping out, and sent everyone to bed earlythat they might be ready for the festivities of the morrow.
“Archie, didn't I hear uncle ask you to row home in the morning forfresh milk and things?”
“Yes, why?”
“Please, may I go too? I have something of great importance to arrange;you know I was carried off in a hurry,” Rose said in a confidentialwhisper as she was bidding her cousins good night.
“I'm willing, and I guess Charlie won't mind.”
“Thank you; be sure you stand by me when I ask leave in the morning, anddon't say anything till then, except to Charlie. Promise,” urged Rose,so eagerly, that Archie struck an attitude and cried dramatically,
“By yonder moon I swear!”
“Hush! it's all right, go along”; and Rose departed as if satisfied.
“She's a queer little thing, isn't she, Prince?”
“Rather a nice little thing, I think. I'm quite fond of her.”
Rose's quick ears caught both remarks, and she retired to her tent,saying to herself with sleepy dignity,
“Little thing, indeed! Those boys talk as if I was a baby. They willtreat me with more respect after to-morrow, I guess.”
Archie did stand by her in the morning, and her request was readilygranted, as the lads were coming directly back. Off they went, and Rosewaved her hand to the islanders with a somewhat pensive air, for anheroic purpose glowed within her, and the spirit of self-sacrifice wasabout to be illustrated in a new and touching manner.
While the boys got the milk Rose ran to Phebe, ordered her to leave herdishes, to put on her hat, and take a note back to Uncle Alec, whichwould explain this somewhat mysterious performance. Phebe obeyed, andwhen she went to the boat Rose accompanied her, telling the boys she wasnot ready to go yet, but they could, some of them, come for her when shehung a white signal on her balcony.
“But why not come now? What are you about, miss? Uncle won't like it,” protested Charlie, in great amazement.
“Just do as I tell you, little boy; uncle will understand and explain.Obey, as Phebe does, and ask no questions. I can have secrets as wellas other people”; and Rose walked off with an air of lofty independencethat impressed her friends immensely.
“It's some plot between uncle and herself, so we won't meddle. Allright, Phebe? Pull away, Prince”; and off they went to be received withmuch surprise by the islanders.
This was the note Phebe bore:
“Dear Uncle, I am going to take Phebe's place to-day, and let her haveall the fun she can. Please don't mind what she says, but keep her, andtell the boys to be very good to her for my sake. Don't think it is easyto do this; it is very hard to give up the best day of all, but I feelso selfish to have all the pleasure and Phebe none, that I wish to makethis sacrifice. Do let me, and don't laugh at it; I truly do not wish tobe praised, and I truly want to do it. Love to all from,
“Rose.”
“Bless the little dear, what a generous heart she has! Shall we go afterher, Jessie, or let her have her way?” said Dr. Alec, after the firstmingled amusement and astonishment had subsided.
“Let her alone, and don't spoil her little sacrifice. She means it, Iknow, and the best way in which we can show our respect for her effortis to give Phebe a pleasant day. I'm sure she has earned it”; and Mrs.Jessie made a sign to the boys to suppress their disappointment andexert themselves to please Rose's guest.
Phebe was with difficulty kept from going straight home, and declaredthat she should not enjoy herself one bit without Miss Rose.
“She won't hold out all day, and we shall see her paddling back beforenoon, I'll wager anything,” said Charlie; and the rest so stronglyinclined to his opinion that they resigned themselves to the loss of thelittle queen of the revels, sure that it would be only a temporary one.
But hour after hour passed, and no signal appeared on the balcony,though Phebe watched it hopefully. No passing boat brought the truantback, though more than one pair of eyes looked out for the bright hairunder the round hat; and sunset came, bringing no Rose but the lovelycolour in the western sky.
“I really did not think the child had it in her. I fancied it was a bitof sentiment, but I see she was in earnest, and means that her sacrificeshall be a true one. Dear little soul! I'll make it up to her a thousandtimes over, and beg her pardon for thinking it might be done foreffect,” Dr. Alec said remorsefully, as he strained his eyes through thedusk, fancying he saw a small figure sitting in the garden as it had saton the keg the night before, laying the generous little plot that hadcost more than he could guess.
“Well, she can't help seeing the fireworks, any way, unless she isgoose enough to think she must hide in a dark closet and not look,” saidArchie, who was rather disgusted at Rose's seeming ingratitude.
“She will see ours capitally, but miss the big ones on the hill, unlesspapa has forgotten all about them,” added Steve, cutting short theharangue Mac had begun upon the festivals of the ancients.
“I'm sure the sight of her will be better than the finest fireworksthat ever went off,” said Phebe, meditating an elopement with one of theboats if she could get a chance.
“Let things work; if she resists a brilliant invitation we give her shewill be a heroine,” added Uncle Alec, secretly hoping that she wouldnot.
Meanwhile Rose had spent a quiet, busy day helping Dolly, waiting onAunt Peace, and steadily resisting Aunt Plenty's attempts to send herback to the happy island. It had been hard in the morning to comein from the bright world outside, with flags flying, cannon booming,crackers popping, and everyone making ready for a holiday, and go towashing cups, while Dolly grumbled and the aunts lamented. It was veryhard to see the day go by, knowing how gay each hour must have beenacross the water, and how a word from her would take her where shelonged to be with all her heart. But it was hardest of all when eveningcame and Aunt Peace was asleep, Aunt Plenty seeing a gossip in theparlor, Dolly established in the porch to enjoy the show, and nothingleft for the little maid to do but sit alone in her balcony and watchthe gay rockets whizz up from island, hill, and city, while bands playedand boats laden with happy people went to and fro in the fitful light.
Then it must be confessed that a tear or two dimmed the blue eyes, andonce, when a very brilliant display illuminated the island for a moment,and she fancied she saw the tents, the curly head went down on therailing, and a wide-awake nasturtium heard a little whisper,
“I hope someone wishes I was there!”
The tears were all gone, however, and she was watching the hill andisland answer each other with what Jamie called “whizzers, whirligigsand busters,” and smiling as she thought how hard the boys must beworking to keep up such a steady fire, when Uncle Mac came walking inupon her, saying hurriedly,
“Come, child, put on your tippet, pelisse, or whatever you call it, andrun off with me. I came to get Phebe, but aunt says she is gone, so Iwant you. I've got Fun down in the boat, and I want you to go with usand see my fireworks. Got them up for you, and you mustn't miss them, orI shall be disappointed.”
“But, uncle,” began Rose, feeling as if she ought to refuse even aglimpse of bliss, “perhaps--”
“I know, my dear, I know; aunt told me; but no one needs you now so muchas I do, and I insist on your coming,” said Uncle Mac, who seemed in agreat hurry to be off, yet was unusually kind.
So Rose went and found the little Chinaman with a funny lantern waitingto help her in and convulse her with laughter trying to express hisemotions in pigeon English. The city clocks were striking nine as theygot out into the bay, and the island fireworks seemed to be over, for norocket answered the last Roman candle that shone on the Aunt-hill.
“Ours are done, I see, but they are going up all round the city, and howpretty they are,” said Rose, folding her mantle about her, and surveyingthe scene with pensive interest.
“Hope my fellows have not got into trouble up there,” muttered UncleMac, adding with a satisfied chuckle, as a spark shone out, “No; thereit goes! Look, Rosy, and see how you like this one; it was orderedespecially in honour of your coming.”
Rose looked with all her eyes, and saw the spark grow into the likenessof a golden vase, then green leaves came out, and then a crimson flowerglowing on the darkness with a splendid lustre.
“Is it a rose, uncle?” she asked, clasping her hands with delight as sherecognised the handsome flower.
“Of course it is! Look again, and guess what those are,” answered UncleMac, chuckling and enjoying it all like a boy.
A wreath of what looked at first like purple brooms appeared below thevase, but Rose guessed what they were meant for, and stood straight up,holding by his shoulder, and crying excitedly,
“Thistles, uncle, Scotch thistles! There are seven of them one for eachboy! Oh, what a joke!” and she laughed so that she plumped into thebottom of the boat and stayed there till the brilliant spectacle wasquite gone.
“That was rather a neat thing, I flatter myself,” said Uncle Mac, inhigh glee at the success of his illumination. “Now, shall I leave youon the Island or take you home again, my good little girl?” he added,lifting her up with such a tone of approbation in his voice that Rosekissed him on the spot.
“Home, please uncle; and I thank you very very much for the beautifulfirework you got up for me. I'm so glad I saw it; and I know I shalldream about it,” answered Rose steadily, though a wistful glance wenttoward the Island, now so near that she could smell powder and seeshadowy figures flitting about.
Home they went; and Rose fell asleep saying to herself, “It was harderthan I thought, but I'm glad I did it, and I truly don't want any rewardbut Phebe's pleasure.”


Chapter 11--Poor Mac
Rose's sacrifice was a failure in one respect, for, though the eldersloved her the better for it, and showed that they did, the boys were notinspired with the sudden respect which she had hoped for. In fact, herfeelings were much hurt by overhearing Archie say that he couldn't seeany sense in it; and the Prince added another blow by pronouncing her“the queerest chicken ever seen.”
It is apt to be so, and it is hard to bear; for, though we do not wanttrumpets blown, we do like to have our little virtues appreciated, andcannot help feeling disappointed if they are not.
A time soon came, however, when Rose, quite unconsciously, won not onlythe respect of her cousins, but their gratitude and affection likewise.
Soon after the Island episode, Mac had a sunstroke, and was very illfor some time. It was so sudden that everyone was startled, and for somedays the boy's life was in danger. He pulled through, however; and then,just as the family were rejoicing, a new trouble appeared which cast agloom over them all.
Poor Mac's eyes gave out; and well they might, for he had abused them,and never being very strong, they suffered doubly now.
No one dared to tell him the dark predictions of the great oculist whocame to look at them, and the boy tried to be patient, thinking that afew weeks of rest would repair the overwork of several years.
He was forbidden to look at a book, and as that was the one thing hemost delighted in, it was a terrible affliction to the Worm. Everyonewas very ready to read to him, and at first the lads contended for thishonour. But as week after week went by, and Mac was still condemned toidleness and a darkened room, their zeal abated, and one after the otherfell off. It was hard for the active fellows, right in the midst oftheir vacation; and nobody blamed them when they contented themselveswith brief calls, running of errands, and warm expressions of sympathy.
The elders did their best, but Uncle Mac was a busy man, Aunt Jane'sreading was of a funereal sort, impossible to listen to long, and theother aunties were all absorbed in their own cares, though they suppliedthe boy with every delicacy they could invent.
Uncle Alec was a host in himself, but he could not give all his time tothe invalid; and if it had not been for Rose, the afflicted Wormwould have fared ill. Her pleasant voice suited him, her patience wasunfailing, her time of no apparent value, and her eager good-will wasvery comforting.
The womanly power of self-devotion was strong in the child, and sheremained faithfully at her post when all the rest dropped away. Hourafter hour she sat in the dusky room, with one ray of light on her book,reading to the boy, who lay with shaded eyes silently enjoying the onlypleasure that lightened the weary days. Sometimes he was peevish andhard to please, sometimes he growled because his reader could not managethe dry books he wished to hear, and sometimes he was so despondent thather heart ached to see him. Through all these trials Rose persevered,using all her little arts to please him. When he fretted, she waspatient; when he growled, she ploughed bravely through the hard pagesnot dry to her in one sense, for quiet tears dropped on them now andthen; and when Mac fell into a despairing mood, she comforted him withevery hopeful word she dared to offer.
He said little, but she knew he was grateful, for she suited him betterthan anyone else. If she was late, he was impatient; when she had to go,he seemed forlorn; and when the tired head ached worst, she could alwayssoothe him to sleep, crooning the old songs her father used to love.
“I don't know what I should do without that child,” Aunt Jane oftensaid.
“She's worth all those racketing fellows put together,” Mac would add,fumbling about to discover if the little chair was ready for her coming.
That was the sort of reward Rose liked, the thanks that cheered her;and whenever she grew very tired, one look at the green shade, the curlyhead so restless on the pillow, and the poor groping hands, touched hertender heart and put new spirit into the weary voice.
She did not know how much she was learning, both from the books she readand the daily sacrifices she made. Stories and poetry were her delight,but Mac did not care for them; and since his favourite Greeks and Romanswere forbidden, he satisfied himself with travels, biographies, and thehistory of great inventions or discoveries. Rose despised this tasteat first, but soon got interested in Livingstone's adventures, Hobson'sstirring life in India, and the brave trials and triumphs of Watt andArkwright, Fulton, and “Palissy, the Potter.” The true, strong bookshelped the dreamy girl; her faithful service and sweet patience touchedand won the boy; and long afterward both learned to see how useful thoseseemingly hard and weary hours had been to them.
One bright morning, as Rose sat down to begin a fat volume entitled“History of the French Revolution,” expecting to come to great griefover the long names, Mac, who was lumbering about the room like a blindbear, stopped her by asking abruptly,
“What day of the month is it?”
“The seventh of August, I believe.”
“More than half my vacation gone, and I've only had a week of it! I callthat hard,” and he groaned dismally.
“So it is; but there is more to come, and you may be able to enjoythat.”
“May be able! I will be able! Does that old noodle think I'm going tostay stived up here much longer?”
“I guess he does, unless your eyes get on faster than they have yet.”
“Has he said anything more lately?”
“I haven't seen him, you know. Shall I begin? this looks rather nice.”
“Read away; it's all one to me.” And Mac cast himself down upon the oldlounge, where his heavy head felt easiest.
Rose began with great spirit, and kept on gallantly for a coupleof chapters, getting over the unpronounceable names with unexpectedsuccess, she thought, for her listener did not correct her once, and layso still she fancied he was deeply interested. All of a sudden she wasarrested in the middle of a fine paragraph by Mac, who sat bolt upright,brought both feet down with a thump, and said, in a rough, excited tone,
“Stop! I don't hear a word, and you may as well save your breath toanswer my question.”
“What is it?” asked Rose, looking uneasy, for she had something on hermind, and feared that he suspected what it was. His next words provedthat she was right.
“Now, look here, I want to know something, and you've got to tell me.”
“Please, don't--” began Rose, beseechingly.
“You must, or I'll pull off this shade and stare at the sun as hard asever I can stare. Come now!” and he half rose, as if ready to executethe threat.
“I will! oh, I will tell, if I know! But don't be reckless and doanything so crazy as that,” cried Rose, in great distress.
“Very well; then listen, and don't dodge, as everyone else does. Didn'tthe doctor think my eyes worse the last time he came? Mother won't say,but you shall.”
“I believe he did,” faltered Rose.
“I thought so! Did he say I should be able to go to school when itbegins?”
“No, Mac,” very low.
“Ah!”
That was all, but Rose saw her cousin set his lips together and takea long breath, as if she had hit him hard. He bore the disappointmentbravely, however, and asked quite steadily in a minute,
“How soon does he think I can study again?”
It was so hard to answer that! Yet Rose knew she must, for Aunt Jane haddeclared she could not do it, and Uncle Mac had begged her to break thetruth to the poor lad.
“Not for a good many months.”
“How many?” he asked with a pathetic sort of gruffness.
“A year, perhaps.”
“A whole year! Why, I expected to be ready for college by that time.” And, pushing up the shade, Mac stared at her with startled eyes, thatsoon blinked and fell before the one ray of light.
“Plenty of time for that; you must be patient now, and get themthoroughly well, or they will trouble you again when it will be harderto spare them,” she said, with tears in her own eyes.
“I won't do it! I will study and get through somehow. It's all humbugabout taking care so long. These doctors like to keep hold of a fellowif they can. But I won't stand it I vow I won't!” and he banged his fistdown on the unoffending pillow as if he were pommelling the hard-hearteddoctor.
“Now, Mac, listen to me,” Rose said very earnestly, though her voiceshook a little and her heart ached. “You know you have hurt your eyesreading by fire-light and in the dusk, and sitting up late, and nowyou'll have to pay for it; the doctor said so. You must be careful, anddo as he tells you, or you will be blind.”
“No!”
“Yes, it is true, and he wanted us to tell you that nothing but entirerest would cure you. I know it's dreadfully hard, but we'll all helpyou; I'll read all day long, and lead you, and wait upon you, and try tomake it easier.”
She stopped there, for it was evident that he did not hear a sound; theword “blind” seemed to have knocked him down, for he had buried hisface in the pillow, and lay so still that Rose was frightened. She satmotionless for many minutes, longing to comfort him, but not knowinghow, and wishing Uncle Alec would come, for he had promised to tell Mac.
Presently, a sort of choking sound came out of the pillow, and wentstraight to her heart the most pathetic sob she ever heard, for, thoughit was the most natural means of relief, the poor fellow must notindulge in it because of the afflicted eyes. The “French Revolution” tumbled out of her lap, and, running to the sofa, she knelt down byit, saying, with the motherly sort of tenderness girls feel for anysorrowing creature,
“Oh, my dear, you mustn't cry! It is so bad for your poor eyes. Takeyour head out of that hot pillow, and let me cool it. I don't wonder youfeel so, but please don't cry. I'll cry for you; it won't hurt me.”
As she spoke she pulled away the cushion with gentle force, and saw thegreen shade all crushed and stained with the few hot tears that told howbitter the disappointment had been. Mac felt her sympathy, but, beinga boy, did not thank her for it; only sat up with a jerk, saying, ashe tried to rub away the tell-tale drops with the sleeve of his jacket,“Don't bother; weak eyes always water. I'm all right.”
But Rose cried out, and caught his arm, “Don't touch them with thatrough woollen stuff! Lie down and let me bathe them, there's a dear boy;then there will be no harm done.”
“They do smart confoundedly. I say, don't you tell the other fellowsthat I made a baby of myself, will you?” he added, yielding with a sighto the orders of his nurse, who had flown for the eye-wash and linencambric handkerchief.
“Of course I won't; but anyone would be upset at the idea of being welltroubled in this way. I'm sure you bear it splendidly, and you know itisn't half so bad when you get used to it. Besides, it is only for atime, and you can do lots of pleasant things if you can't study. You'llhave to wear blue goggles, perhaps; won't that be funny?”
And while she was pouring out all the comfortable words she could thinkof, Rose was softly bathing the eyes and dabbing the hot forehead withlavender-water, as her patient lay quiet with a look on his face thatgrieved her sadly.
“Homer was blind, and so was Milton, and they did something to beremembered by, in spite of it,” he said, as if to himself, in a solemntone, for even the blue goggles did not bring a smile.
“Papa had a picture of Milton and his daughters writing for him. Itwas a very sweet picture, I thought,” observed Rose in a serious voice,trying to meet the sufferer on his own ground.
“Perhaps I could study if someone read and did the eye part. Do yousuppose I could, by and by?” he asked, with a sudden ray of hope.
“I dare say, if your head is strong enough. This sunstroke, you know, iswhat upset you, and your brain needs rest, the doctor says.”
“I'll have a talk with the old fellow next time he comes, and find outjust what I may do; then I shall know where I am. What a fool I was thatday to be stewing my brains and letting the sun glare on my book tillthe letters danced before me! I see 'em now when I shut my eyes; blackballs bobbing round, and stars and all sorts of queer things. Wonder ifall blind people do?”
“Don't think about them; I'll go on reading, shall I? We shall cometo the exciting part soon, and then you'll forget all this,” suggestedRose.
“No, I never shall forget. Hang the old 'Revolution'! I don't want tohear another word of it. My head aches, and I'm hot. Oh, wouldn't I liketo go for a pull in the 'Stormy Petrel!”' and poor Mac tossed about asif he did not know what to do with himself.
“Let me sing, and perhaps you'll drop off; then the day will seemshorter,” said Rose, taking up a fan and sitting down beside him.
“Perhaps I shall; I didn't sleep much last night, and when I did Idreamed like fun. See here, you tell the people that I know, and it'sall right, and I don't want them to talk about it or howl over me.That's all; now drone away, and I'll try to sleep. Wish I could for ayear, and wake up cured.”
“Oh, I wish, I wish you could!”
Rose said it so fervently that Mac was moved to grope for her apron andhold on to a corner of it, as if it was comfortable to feel her nearhim. But all he said was,
“You are a good little soul, Rosy. Give us 'The Birks'; that is a drowsyone that always sends me off.”
Quite contented with this small return for all her sympathy, Rose wavedher fan and sang, in a dreamy tone, the pretty Scotch air, the burden ofwhich is,
    “Bonny lassie, will ye gang, will ye gang     To the Birks of Aberfeldie?”
Whether the lassie went or not I cannot say, but the laddie was off tothe land of Nod, in about ten minutes, quite worn out with hearing thebad tidings and the effort to bear them manfully.


Chapter 12--“The Other Fellows”
Rose did tell “the people” what had passed, and no one “howled” overMac, or said a word to trouble him. He had his talk with the doctor, andgot very little comfort out of it, for he found that “just what he mightdo” was nothing at all; though the prospect of some study by and by, ifall went well, gave him courage to bear the woes of the present.Having made up his mind to this, he behaved so well that everyone wasastonished, never having suspected so much manliness in the quiet Worm.
The boys were much impressed, both by the greatness of the afflictionwhich hung over him and by his way of bearing it. They were very goodto him, but not always particularly wise in their attempts to cheerand amuse; and Rose often found him much downcast after a visit ofcondolence from the Clan. She still kept her place as head-nurse andchief-reader, though the boys did their best in an irregular sort ofway. They were rather taken aback sometimes at finding Rose's servicespreferred to their's, and privately confided to one another that “OldMac was getting fond of being molly-coddled.” But they could not helpseeing how useful she was, and owning that she alone had remainedfaithful a fact which caused some of them much secret compunction nowand then.
Rose felt that she ruled in that room, if nowhere else, for Aunt Janeleft a great deal to her, finding that her experience with her invalidfather fitted her for a nurse, and in a case like this, her youth wasan advantage rather than a drawback. Mac soon came to think that no onecould take care of him so well as Rose, and Rose soon grew fond ofher patient, though at first she had considered this cousin the leastattractive of the seven. He was not polite and sensible like Archie, norgay and handsome like Prince Charlie, nor neat and obliging like Steve,nor amusing like the “Brats,” nor confiding and affectionate likelittle Jamie. He was rough, absent-minded, careless, and awkward, ratherpriggish, and not at all agreeable to a dainty, beauty-loving girl likeRose.
But when his trouble came upon him, she discovered many good things inthis cousin of hers, and learned not only to pity but to respect andlove the poor Worm, who tried to be patient, brave, and cheerful, andfound it a harder task than anyone guessed, except the little nurse, whosaw him in his gloomiest moods. She soon came to think that his friendsdid not appreciate him, and upon one occasion was moved to free her mindin a way that made a deep impression on the boys.
Vacation was almost over, and the time drawing near when Mac would beleft outside the happy school-world which he so much enjoyed. This madehim rather low in his mind, and his cousins exerted themselves to cheerhim up, especially one afternoon when a spasm of devotion seemedto seize them all. Jamie trudged down the hill with a basket ofblackberries which he had “picked all his ownself,” as his scratchedfingers and stained lips plainly testified. Will and Geordie broughttheir puppies to beguile the weary hours, and the three elder ladscalled to discuss baseball, cricket, and kindred subjects, eminentlyfitted to remind the invalid of his privations.
Rose had gone to drive with Uncle Alec, who declared she was getting aspale as a potato sprout, living so much in a dark room. But her thoughtswere with her boy all the while, and she ran up to him the moment shereturned, to find things in a fine state of confusion.
With the best intentions in life, the lads had done more harm thangood, and the spectacle that met Nurse Rose's eye was a trying one.The puppies were yelping, the small boys romping, and the big boys alltalking at once; the curtains were up, the room close, berries scatteredfreely about, Mac's shade half off, his cheeks flushed, his temperruffled, and his voice loudest of all as he disputed hotly with Steveabout lending certain treasured books which he could no longer use.
Now Rose considered this her special kingdom, and came down upon theinvaders with an energy which amazed them and quelled the riot at once.They had never seen her roused before, and the effect was tremendous;also comical, for she drove the whole flock of boys out of the room likean indignant little hen defending her brood. They all went as meekly assheep; the small lads fled from the house precipitately, but the threeelder ones only retired to the next room, and remained there hoping fora chance to explain and apologise, and so appease the irate young lady,who had suddenly turned the tables and clattered them about their ears.
As they waited, they observed her proceedings through the half-opendoor, and commented upon them briefly but expressively, feeling quitebowed down with remorse at the harm they had innocently done.
“She's put the room to rights in a jiffey. What jacks we were to letthose dogs in and kick up such a row,” observed Steve, after a prolongedpeep.
“The poor old Worm turns as if she was treading on him instead ofcuddling him like a pussy cat. Isn't he cross, though?” added Charlie,as Mac was heard growling about his “confounded head.”
“She will manage him; but it's mean in us to rumple him up and thenleave her to smooth him down. I'd go and help, but I don't know how,” said Archie, looking much depressed, for he was a conscientious fellow,and blamed himself for his want of thought.
“No, more do I. Odd, isn't it, what a knack women have for taking careof sick folks?” and Charlie fell a-musing over this undeniable fact.
“She has been ever so good to Mac,” began Steve, in a self-reproachfultone.
“Better than his own brother, hey?” cut in Archie, finding relief forhis own regret in the delinquencies of another.
“Well, you needn't preach; you didn't any of you do any more, and youmight have, for Mac likes you better than he does me. I always fret him,he says, and it isn't my fault if I am a quiddle,” protested Steve, inself-defence.
“We have all been selfish and neglected him, so we won't fight aboutit, but try and do better,” said Archie, generously taking more thanhis share of blame, for he had been less inattentive than either of theothers.
“Rose has stood by him like a good one, and it's no wonder he likes tohave her round best. I should myself if I was down on my luck as he is,” put in Charlie, feeling that he really had not done “the little thing” justice.
“I'll tell you what it is, boys we haven't been half good enough toRose, and we've got to make it up to her somehow,” said Archie, who hada very manly sense of honour about paying his debts, even to a girl.
“I'm awfully sorry I made fun of her doll when Jamie lugged it out; andI called her 'baby bunting' when she cried over the dead kitten. Girlsare such geese sometimes, I can't help it,” said Steve, confessing histransgressions handsomely, and feeling quite ready to atone for them ifhe only knew how.
“I'll go down on my knees and beg her pardon for treating her as if shewas a child. Don't it make her mad, though? Come to think of it, she'sonly two years or so younger than I am. But she is so small and pretty,she always seems like a dolly to me,” and the Prince looked down fromhis lofty height of five feet five as if Rose was indeed a pygmy besidehim.
“That dolly has got a real good little heart, and a bright mind of herown, you'd better believe. Mac says she understands some things quickerthan he can, and mother thinks she is an uncommonly nice girl, thoughshe don't know all creation. You needn't put on airs, Charlie, thoughyou are a tall one, for Rose likes Archie better than you; she said shedid because he treated her respectfully.”
“Steve looks as fierce as a game-cock; but don't you get excited, myson, for it won't do a bit of good. Of course, everybody likes the Chiefbest; they ought to, and I'll punch their heads if they don't. So calmyourself, Dandy, and mend your own manners before you come down on otherpeople's.”
Thus the Prince with great dignity and perfect good nature, while Archielooked modestly gratified with the flattering opinions of his kinsfolk,and Steve subsided, feeling he had done his duty as a cousin and abrother. A pause ensued, during which Aunt Jane appeared in the otherroom, accompanied by a tea-tray sumptuously spread, and prepared to feedher big nestling, as that was a task she allowed no one to share withher.
“If you have a minute to spare before you go, child, I wish you'd justmake Mac a fresh shade; this has got a berry stain on it, and he mustbe tidy, for he is to go out to-morrow if it is a cloudy day,” said Mrs.Jane, spreading toast in a stately manner, while Mac slopped his teaabout without receiving a word of reproof.
“Yes, aunt,” answered Rose, so meekly that the boys could hardly believeit could be the same voice which had issued the stern command, “Out ofthis room, every one of you!” not very long ago.
They had not time to retire, without unseemly haste, before she walkedinto the parlour and sat down at the work-table without a word. It wasfunny to see the look the three tall lads cast at the little personsedately threading a needle with green silk. They all wanted to saysomething expressive of repentance, but no one knew how to begin, and itwas evident, from the prim expression of Rose's face, that she intendedto stand upon her dignity till they had properly abased themselves. Thepause was becoming very awkward, when Charlie, who possessed all thepersuasive arts of a born scapegrace, went slowly down upon his kneesbefore her, beat his breast, and said, in a heart-broken tone,
“Please forgive me this time, and I'll never do so any more.”
It was very hard to keep sober, but Rose managed it and answered gravely,
“It is Mac's pardon you should ask, not mine, for you haven't hurt me,and I shouldn't wonder if you had him a great deal, with all that lightand racket, and talk about things that only worry him.”
“Do you really think we've hurt him, cousin?” asked Archie, with atroubled look, while Charlie settled down in a remorseful heap among thetable legs.
“Yes, I do, for he has got a raging headache, and his eyes are as red asas this emery bag,” answered Rose, solemnly plunging her needle into afat flannel strawberry.
Steve tore his hair, metaphorically speaking, for he clutched hischerished top-knot, and wildly dishevelled it, as if that was theheaviest penance he could inflict upon himself at such short notice.Charlie laid himself out flat, melodramatically begging someone to takehim away and hang him; but Archie, who felt worst of all, said nothingexcept to vow within himself that he would read to Mac till his own eyeswere as red as a dozen emery bags combined.
Seeing the wholesome effects of her treatment upon these culprits, Rosefelt that she might relent and allow them a gleam of hope. She foundit impossible to help trampling upon the prostrate Prince a little, inwords at least, for he had hurt her feelings oftener than he knew; soshe gave him a thimble-pie on the top of his head, and said, with an airof an infinitely superior being,
“Don't be silly, but get up, and I'll tell you something much better todo than sprawling on the floor and getting all over lint.”
Charlie obediently sat himself upon a hassock at her feet; the othersinners drew near to catch the words of wisdom about to fall from herlips, and Rose, softened by this gratifying humility, addressed them inher most maternal tone.
“Now, boys, if you really want to be good to Mac, you can do it in thisway. Don't keep talking about things he can't do, or go and tell whatfun you have had batting your ridiculous balls about. Get some nice bookand read quietly; cheer him up about school, and offer to help him studyby and by; you can do that better than I, because I'm only a girl, anddon't learn Greek and Latin and all sorts of headachy stuff.”
“Yes, but you can do heaps of things better than we can; you've provedthat,” said Archie, with an approving look that delighted Rose, thoughshe could not resist giving Charlie one more rebuke, by saying, with alittle bridling of the head, and a curl of the lip that wanted to smileinstead,
“I'm glad you think so, though I am a 'queer chicken.”'
This scathing remark caused the Prince to hide his face for shame, andSteve to erect his head in the proud consciousness that this shot wasnot meant for him. Archie laughed, and Rose, seeing a merry blueeye winking at her from behind two brown hands, gave Charlie's ear afriendly tweak, and extended the olive-branch of peace.
“Now we'll all be good, and plan nice things for poor Mac,” she said,smiling so graciously that the boys felt as if the sun had suddenlyburst out from behind a heavy cloud and was shining with greatbrilliancy.
The storm had cleared the air, and quite a heavenly calm succeeded,during which plans of a most varied and surprising sort were laid, foreveryone burned to make noble sacrifices upon the shrine of “poorMac,” and Rose was the guiding star to whom the others looked with mostgratifying submission. Of course, this elevated state of things couldnot endure long, but it was very nice while it lasted, and left anexcellent effect upon the minds of all when the first ardour hadsubsided.
“There, that's ready for to-morrow, and I do hope it will be cloudy,” said Rose, as she finished off the new shade, the progress of which theboys had watched with interest.
“I'd bespoken an extra sunny day, but I'll tell the clerk of the weatherto change it. He's an obliging fellow, and he'll attend to it, so makeyourself easy,” said Charlie, who had become quite perky again.
“It is very easy for you to joke, but how would you like to wear ablinder like that for weeks and weeks, sir?” and Rose quenched hisrising spirits by slipping the shade over his eyes, as he still sat onthe cushion at her feet.
“It's horrid! Take it off, take it off! I don't wonder the poor old boyhas the blues with a thing like that on”; and Charlie sat looking atwhat seemed to him an instrument of torture, with such a sober face thatRose took it gently away, and went in to bid Mac good-night.
“I shall go home with her, for it is getting darkish, and she is rathertimid,” said Archie, forgetting that he had often laughed at this verytimidity.
“I think I might, for she's taking care of my brother,” put in Steve,asserting his rights.
“Let's all go, that will please her”; proposed Charlie, with a burst ofgallantry which electrified his mates.
“We will!” they said with one voice, and they did, to Rose's greatsurprise and secret contentment; though Archie had all the care ofher, for the other two were leaping fences, running races, and havingwrestling matches all the way down.
They composed themselves on reaching the door, however; shook handscordially all round, made their best bows, and retired with greatelegance and dignity, leaving Rose to say to herself, with girlishsatisfaction, as she went in,
“Now, that is the way I like to be treated.”


Chapter 13--Cosey Corner
Vacation was over, the boys went back to school, and poor Mac was leftlamenting. He was out of the darkened room now, and promoted to bluegoggles, through which he took a gloomy view of life, as might have beenexpected; for there was nothing he could do but wander about, and try toamuse himself without using his eyes. Anyone who has ever been condemnedto that sort of idleness knows how irksome it is, and can understand thestate of mind which caused Mac to say to Rose in a desperate tone oneday,
“Look here, if you don't invent some new employment or amusement for me,I shall knock myself on the head as sure as you live.”
Rose flew to Uncle Alec for advice, and he ordered both patient andnurse to the mountains for a month, with Aunt Jessie and Jamie asescort. Pokey and her mother joined the party, and one bright Septembermorning six very happy-looking people were aboard the express train forPortland two smiling mammas, laden with luncheon baskets and wraps; apretty young girl with a bag of books on her arm; a tall thin lad withhis hat over his eyes; and two small children, who sat with their shortlegs straight out before them, and their chubby faces beaming with thefirst speechless delight of “truly travelling.”
An especially splendid sunset seemed to have been prepared to welcomethem when, after a long day's journey, they drove into a wide, greendoor-yard, where a white colt, a red cow, two cats, four kittens,many hens, and a dozen people, old and young, were gaily disportingthemselves. Everyone nodded and smiled in the friendliest manner, and alively old lady kissed the new-comers all round, as she said heartily,
“Well, now, I'm proper glad to see you! Come right in and rest, andwe'll have tea in less than no time, for you must be tired. Lizzie, youshow the folks upstairs; Kitty, you fly round and help father in withthe trunks; and Jenny and I will have the table all ready by the timeyou come down. Bless the dears, they want to go see the pussies, and sothey shall!”
The three pretty daughters did “fly round,” and everyone felt at home atonce, all were so hospitable and kind. Aunt Jessie had raptures over thehome-made carpets, quilts and quaint furniture; Rose could not keep awayfrom the windows, for each framed a lovely picture; and the little folksmade friends at once with the other children, who filled their arms withchickens and kittens, and did the honours handsomely.
The toot of a horn called all to supper, and a goodly party, includingsix children besides the Camp-bells, assembled in the long dining-room,armed with mountain appetites and the gayest spirits. It was impossiblefor anyone to be shy or sober, for such gales of merriment arose theyblew the starch out of the stiffest, and made the saddest jolly. MotherAtkinson, as all called their hostess, was the merriest there, and thebusiest; for she kept flying up to wait on the children, to bring outsome new dish, or to banish the live stock, who were of such a socialturn that the colt came into the entry and demanded sugar; the cats satabout in people's laps, winking suggestively at the food; and speckledhens cleared the kitchen floor of crumbs, as they joined in the chatwith a cheerful clucking.
Everybody turned out after tea to watch the sunset till all the lovelyred was gone, and mosquitoes wound their shrill horns to sound theretreat. The music of an organ surprised the new-comers, and inthe parlor they found Father Atkinson playing sweetly on the littleinstrument made by himself. All the children gathered about him, and,led by the tuneful sisters, sang prettily till Pokey fell asleep behindthe door, and Jamie gaped audibly right in the middle of his favourite,
    “Coo,” said the little doves: “Coo,” said she,    “All in the top of the old pine-tree.”
The older travellers, being tired, went to “bye low” at the same time,and slept like tops in home-spun sheets, on husk mattresses made byMother Atkinson, who seemed to have put some soothing powder among them,so deep and sweet was the slumber that came.
Next day began the wholesome out-of-door life, which works such wonderswith tired minds and feeble bodies. The weather was perfect, and themountain air made the children as frisky as young lambs; while theelders went about smiling at one another, and saying, “Isn't itsplendid?” Even Mac, the “slow coach,” was seen to leap over a fenceas if he really could not help it; and when Rose ran after him with hisbroad-brimmed hat, he made the spirited proposal to go into the woodsand hunt for a catamount.
Jamie and Pokey were at once enrolled in the Cosey Corner Light Infantrya truly superb company, composed entirely of officers, all wearingcocked hats, carrying flags, waving swords, or beating drums. It was aspectacle to stir the dullest soul when this gallant band marched out ofthe yard in full regimentals, with Captain Dove a solemn, big-headedboy of eleven issuing his orders with the gravity of a general, and hisFalstaffian regiment obeying them with more docility than skill. Thelittle Snow children did very well, and Lieutenant Jack Dove was fineto see; so was Drummer Frank, the errand-boy of the house, as herub-a-dub-dubbed with all his heart and drumsticks. Jamie had “trained” before, and was made a colonel at once; but Pokey was the best of all,and called forth a spontaneous burst of applause from the spectatorsas she brought up the rear, her cocked hat all over one eye, her flagtrailing over her shoulder, and her wooden sword straight up in the air;her face beaming and every curl bobbing with delight as her fat legstottered in the vain attempt to keep step manfully.
Mac and Rose were picking blackberries in the bushes beside the roadwhen the soldiers passed without seeing them, and they witnessed a sightthat was both pretty and comical. A little farther on was one of thefamily burial spots so common in those parts, and just this side of itCaptain Fred Dove ordered his company to halt, explaining his reason forso doing in the following words,
“That's a graveyard, and it's proper to muffle the drums and lower theflags as we go by, and we'd better take off our hats, too; it's morerespectable, I think.”
“Isn't that cunning of the dears?” whispered Rose, as the little troopmarched slowly by to the muffled roll of the drums, every flag and swordheld low, all the little heads uncovered, and the childish faces verysober as the leafy shadows flickered over them.
“Let's follow and see what they are after,” proposed Mac, who foundsitting on the wall and being fed with blackberries luxurious buttiresome.
So they followed and heard the music grow lively, saw the banners wavein the breeze again when the graveyard was passed, and watched thecompany file into the dilapidated old church that stood at the corner ofthree woodland roads. Presently the sound of singing made the outsidersquicken their steps, and, stealing up, they peeped in at one of thebroken windows.
Captain Dove was up in the old wooden pulpit, gazing solemnly down uponhis company, who, having stacked their arms in the porch, now sat in thebare pews singing a Sunday-school hymn with great vigour and relish.
“Let us pray,” said Captain Dove, with as much reverence as an armychaplain; and, folding his hands, he repeated a prayer which he thoughtall would know an excellent little prayer, but not exactly appropriateto the morning, for it was,
    “Now I lay me down to sleep.”
Everyone joined in saying it, and it was a pretty sight to see thelittle creatures bowing their curly heads and lisping out the words theyknew so well. Tears came into Rose's eyes as she looked; Mac took hishat off involuntarily, and then clapped it on again as if ashamed ofshowing any feeling.
“Now I shall preach you a short sermon, and my text is, 'Littlechildren, love one another.' I asked mamma to give me one, and shethought that would be good; so you all sit still and I'll preach it. Youmustn't whisper, Marion, but hear me. It means that we should be good toeach other, and play fair, and not quarrel as we did this very day aboutthe wagon. Jack can't always drive, and needn't be mad because I liketo go with Frank. Annette ought to be horse sometimes and not alwaysdriver; and Willie may as well make up his mind to let Marion build herhouse by his, for she will do it, and he needn't fuss about it. Jamieseems to be a good boy, but I shall preach to him if he isn't. No,Pokey, people don't kiss in church or put their hats on. Now you mustall remember what I tell you, because I am the captain, and you shouldmind me.”
Here Lieutenant Jack spoke right out in meeting with the rebelliousremark,
“Don't care if you are; you'd better mind yourself, and tell how youtook away my strap, and kept the biggest doughnut, and didn't draw fairwhen we had the truck.”
“Yes, and you slapped Frank; I saw you!” bawled Willie Snow, bobbing upin his pew.
“And you took my book away and hid it 'cause I wouldn't go and swingwhen you wanted me to,” added Annette, the oldest of the Snow trio.
“I shan't build my house by Willie's if he don't want me to, so now!” put in little Marion, joining the mutiny.
“I will tiss Dimmy! and I tored up my hat 'tause a pin picked me,” shouted Pokey, regardless of Jamie's efforts to restrain her.
Captain Dove looked rather taken aback at this outbreak in the ranks;but, being a dignified and calm personage, he quelled the risingrebellion with great tact and skill, by saying, briefly,
“We'll sing the last hymn; 'Sweet, sweet good-by' you all know that, sodo it nicely, and then we will go and have luncheon.”
Peace was instantly restored, and a burst of melody drowned thesuppressed giggles of Rose and Mac, who found it impossible to keepsober during the latter part of this somewhat remarkable service.Fifteen minutes of repose rendered it a physical impossibility for thecompany to march out as quietly as they had marched in. I grieve tostate that the entire troop raced home as hard as they could pelt, andwere soon skirmishing briskly over their lunch, utterly oblivious ofwhat Jamie (who had been much impressed by the sermon) called “thecaptain's beautiful teck.”
It was astonishing how much they all found to do at Cosey Corner;and Mac, instead of lying in a hammock and being read to, as he hadexpected, was busiest of all. He was invited to survey and lay outSkeeterville, a town which the children were getting up in a huckleberrypasture; and he found much amusement in planning little roads, stakingoff house-lots, attending to the water-works, and consulting with the“selectmen” about the best sites for public buildings; for Mac was a boystill, in spite of his fifteen years and his love of books.
Then he went fishing with a certain jovial gentleman from the West; andthough they seldom caught anything but colds, they had great fun andexercise chasing the phantom trout they were bound to have. Mac alsodeveloped a geological mania, and went tapping about at rocks andstones, discoursing wisely of “strata, periods, and fossil remains”;while Rose picked up leaves and lichens, and gave him lessons in botanyin return for his lectures on geology.
They led a very merry life; for the Atkinson girls kept up a sort ofperpetual picnic; and did it so capitally, that one was never tired ofit. So their visitors throve finely, and long before the month was outit was evident that Dr. Alec had prescribed the right medicine for hispatients.


Chapter 14--A Happy Birthday
The twelfth of October was Rose's birthday, but no one seemed toremember that interesting fact, and she felt delicate about mentioningit, so fell asleep the night before wondering if she would have anypresents. That question was settled early the next morning, for she wasawakened by a soft tap on her face, and opening her eyes she beheld alittle black and white figure sitting on her pillow, staring at her witha pair of round eyes very like blueberries, while one downy paw pattedher nose to attract her notice. It was Kitty Comet, the prettiest of allthe pussies, and Comet evidently had a mission to perform, for a pinkbow adorned her neck, and a bit of paper was pinned to it bearing thewords, “For Miss Rose, from Frank.”
That pleased her extremely, and that was only the beginning of thefun, for surprises and presents kept popping out in the most delightfulmanner all through the day, the Atkinson girls being famous jokers andRose a favourite. But the best gift of all came on the way to MountWindy-Top, where it was decided to picnic in honour of the greatoccasion. Three jolly loads set off soon after breakfast, for everybodywent, and everybody seemed bound to have an extra good time, especiallyMother Atkinson, who wore a hat as broad-brimmed as an umbrella, andtook the dinner-horn to keep her flock from straying away.
“I'm going to drive auntie and a lot of the babies, so you must ride thepony. And please stay behind us a good bit when we go to the station,for a parcel is coming, and you are not to see it till dinner-time. Youwon't mind, will you?” said Mac, in a confidential aside during the wildflurry of the start.
“Not a bit,” answered Rose. “It hurts my feelings very much to be toldto keep out of the way at any other time, but birthdays and Christmas itis part of the fun to be blind and stupid, and poked into corners. I'llbe ready as soon as you are, Giglamps.”
“Stop under the big maple till I call then you can't possibly seeanything,” added Mac, as he mounted her on the pony his father had sentup for his use. “Barkis” was so gentle and so “willin',” however, thatRose was ashamed to be afraid to ride him; so she had learned, that shemight surprise Dr. Alec when she got home; meantime she had many afine canter “over the hills and far away” with Mac, who preferred Mr.Atkinson's old Sorrel.
Away they went, and, coming to the red maple, Rose obediently paused;but could not help stealing a glance in the forbidden direction beforethe call came. Yes, there was a hamper going under the seat, and thenshe caught sight of a tall man whom Mac seemed to be hustling intothe carriage in a great hurry. One look was enough, and with a cry ofdelight, Rose was off down the road as fast as Barkis could go.
“Now I'll astonish uncle,” she thought. “I'll dash up in grand style,and show him that I am not a coward, after all.”
Fired by this ambition, she startled Barkis by a sharp cut, and stillmore bewildered him by leaving him to his own guidance down the steep,stony road. The approach would have been a fine success if, just as Rosewas about to pull up and salute, two or three distracted hens had notscuttled across the road with a great squawking, which caused Barkisto shy and stop so suddenly that his careless rider landed in anignominious heap just under old Sorrel's astonished nose.
Rose was up again before Dr. Alec was out of the carryall, and threw twodusty arms about his neck crying with a breathless voice,
“O uncle, I'm so glad to see you! It is better than a cart-load ofgoodies, and so dear of you to come!”
“But aren't you hurt, child! That was a rough tumble, and I'm afraid youmust be damaged somewhere,” answered the Doctor, full of fond anxiety,as he surveyed his girl with pride.
“My feelings are hurt, but my bones are all safe. It's too bad! I wasgoing to do it so nicely, and those stupid hens spoilt it all,” saidRose, quite crestfallen, as well as much shaken.
“I couldn't believe my eyes when I asked 'Where is Rose?' and Macpointed to the little Amazon pelting down the hill at such a rate. Youcouldn't have done anything that would please me more, and I'm delightedto see how well you ride. Now, will you mount again, or shall we turnMac out and take you in?” asked Dr. Alec, as Aunt Jessie proposed astart, for the others were beckoning them to follow.
“Pride goeth before a fall better not try to show off again, ma'am,” said Mac, who would have been more than mortal if he had refrained fromteasing when so good a chance offered.
“Pride does go before a fall, but I wonder if a sprained ankle alwayscomes after it?” thought Rose, bravely concealing her pain, as sheanswered, with great dignity,
“I prefer to ride. Come on, and see who will catch up first.”
She was up and away as she spoke, doing her best to efface the memoryof her downfall by sitting very erect, elbows down, head well up, andtaking the motion of the pony as Barkis cantered along as easily as arocking-chair.
“You ought to see her go over a fence and race when we ride together.She can scud, too, like a deer when we play 'Follow the leader,' andskip stones and bat balls almost as well as I can,” said Mac, in replyto his uncle's praise of his pupil.
“I'm afraid you will think her a sad tomboy, Alec; but really she seemsso well and happy, I have not the heart to check her. She has brokenout in the most unexpected way, and frisks like a colt; for she says shefeels so full of spirits she must run and shout whether it is proper ornot,” added Mrs. Jessie, who had been a pretty hoyden years ago herself.
“Good good! that's the best news you could tell me,” and Dr. Alec rubbedhis hands heartily. “Let the girl run and shout as much as she will itis a sure sign of health, and as natural to a happy child as frisking isto any young animal full of life. Tomboys make strong women usually, andI had far rather find Rose playing football with Mac than puttering overbead-work like that affected midget, Ariadne Blish.”
“But she cannot go on playing football very long, and we must not forgetthat she has a woman's work to do by and by,” began Mrs. Jessie.
“Neither will Mac play football much longer, but he will be all thebetter fitted for business, because of the health it gives him. Polishis easily added, if the foundations are strong; but no amount of gildingwill be of use if your timber is not sound. I'm sure I'm right, Jessie;and if I can do as well by my girl during the next six months as I havethe last, my experiment will succeed.”
“It certainly will; for when I contrast that bright, blooming facewith the pale, listless one that made my heart ache a while ago, I canbelieve in almost any miracle,” said Mrs. Jessie, as Rose looked roundto point out a lovely view, with cheeks like the ruddy apples in theorchard near by, eyes clear as the autumn sky overhead, and vigour inevery line of her girlish figure.
A general scramble among the rocks was followed by a regular gypsylunch, which the young folks had the rapture of helping to prepare.Mother Atkinson put on her apron, turned up her sleeves, and fell towork as gaily as if in her own kitchen, boiling the kettle slung onthree sticks, over a fire of cones and fir boughs; while the girlsspread the mossy table with a feast of country goodies, and the childrentumbled about in everyone's way till the toot of the horn made themsettle down like a flock of hungry birds.
As soon as the merry meal and a brief interval of repose were over,it was unanimously voted to have some charades. A smooth, green spotbetween two stately pines was chosen for the stage; shawls hung up,properties collected, audience and actors separated, and a word quicklychosen.
The first scene discovered Mac in a despondent attitude and shabbydress, evidently much troubled in mind. To him entered a remarkablecreature with a brown paper bag over its head. A little pink nose peepedthrough one hole in the middle, white teeth through another, and abovetwo eyes glared fiercely. Spires of grass stuck in each side of themouth seemed meant to represent whiskers; the upper corners of the bagwere twisted like ears, and no one could doubt for a moment that theblack scarf pinned on behind was a tail.
This singular animal seemed in pantomime to be comforting his master andoffering advice, which was finally acted upon, for Mac pulled off hisboots, helped the little beast into them, and gave him a bag; then,kissing his paw, with a hopeful gesture, the creature retired, purringso successfully that there was a general cry of “Cat, puss, boots!”
“Cat is the word,” replied a voice, and the curtain fell.
The next scene was a puzzler, for in came another animal, on all-foursthis time, with a new sort of tail and long ears. A gray shawl concealedits face, but an inquisitive sunbeam betrayed the glitter as of gogglesunder the fringe. On its back rode a small gentleman in Eastern costume,who appeared to find some difficulty in keeping his seat as his steedjogged along. Suddenly a spirit appeared, all in white, with longnewspaper wings upon its back and golden locks about its face.Singularly enough, the beast beheld this apparition and backedinstantly, but the rider evidently saw nothing and whipped upunmercifully, also unsuccessfully, for the spirit stood directly in thepath, and the amiable beast would not budge a foot. A lively skirmishfollowed, which ended in the Eastern gentleman being upset into asweet-fern bush, while the better bred animal abased itself before theshining one.
The children were all in the dark till Mother Atkinson said, in aninquiring tone,
“If that isn't Balaam and the ass, I'd like to know what it is. Rosemakes a sweet angel, doesn't she?”
“Ass” was evidently the word, and the angel retired, smiling withmundane satisfaction over the compliment that reached her ears.
The next was a pretty little scene from the immortal story of “Babes inthe Wood.” Jamie and Pokey came trotting in, hand in hand, and, havingbeen through the parts many times before, acted with great ease and muchfluency, audibly directing each other from time to time as theywent along. The berries were picked, the way lost, tears shed, babyconsolation administered, and then the little pair lay down among thebrakes and died with their eyes wide open and the toes of their fourlittle boots turned up to the daisies in the most pathetic manner.
“Now the wobins tum. You be twite dead, Dimmy, and I'll peep in and see'em,” one defunct innocent was heard to say.
“I hope they'll be quick, for I'm lying on a stone, and ants are walkingup my leg like fury,” murmured the other.
Here the robins came flapping in with red scarves over their breastsand leaves in their mouths, which they carefully laid upon the babeswherever they would show best. A prickly blackberry leaf placed directlyover Pokey's nose caused her to sneeze so violently that her little legsflew into the air; Jamie gave a startled “Ow!” and the pitying fowlsfled giggling.
After some discussion it was decided that the syllable must be “strew orstrow” and then they waited to see if it was a good guess.
This scene discovered Annette Snow in bed, evidently very ill; MissJenny was her anxious mamma, and her merry conversation amused theaudience till Mac came in as a physician, and made great fun with hisbig watch, pompous manner, and absurd questions. He prescribed onepellet with an unpronounceable name, and left after demanding twentydollars for his brief visit.
The pellet was administered, and such awful agonies immediately set inthat the distracted mamma bade a sympathetic neighbour run for MotherKnow-all. The neighbour ran, and in came a brisk little old lady incap and specs, with a bundle of herbs under her arm, which she at onceapplied in all sorts of funny ways, explaining their virtues as sheclapped a plantain poultice here, put a pounded catnip plaster there,or tied a couple of mullein leaves round the sufferer's throat. Instantrelief ensued, the dying child sat up and demanded baked beans. Thegrateful parent offered fifty dollars; but Mother Know-all indignantlyrefused it and went smiling away, declaring that a neighbourly turnneeded no reward, and a doctor's fee was all a humbug.
The audience were in fits of laughter over this scene, for Rose imitatedMrs. Atkinson capitally, and the herb cure was a good hit at theexcellent lady's belief that “yarbs” would save mankind if properlyapplied. No one enjoyed it more than herself, and the saucy childrenprepared for the grand finale in high feather.
This closing scene was brief but striking, for two trains of carswhizzed in from opposite sides, met with a terrible collision inthe middle of the stage, and a general smash-up completed the wordcatastrophe.
“Now let us act a proverb. I've got one all ready,” said Rose, who wasdying to distinguish herself in some way before Uncle Alec.
So everyone but Mac, the gay Westerner, and Rose, took their places onthe rocky seats and discussed the late beautiful and varied charade, inwhich Pokey frankly pronounced her own scene the “bestest of all.”
In five minutes the curtain was lifted; nothing appeared but a verylarge sheet of brown paper pinned to a tree, and on it was drawn aclock-face, the hands pointing to four. A small note below informed thepublic that 4 A.M. was the time. Hardly had the audience grasped thisimportant fact when a long waterproof serpent was seen uncoilingitself from behind a stump. An inch-worm, perhaps, would be a betterdescription, for it travelled in the same humpy way as that pleasingreptile. Suddenly a very wide-awake and active fowl advanced, pecking,chirping, and scratching vigorously. A tuft of green leaves waved uponhis crest, a larger tuft of brakes made an umbrageous tail, and a shawlof many colours formed his flapping wings. A truly noble bird, whoselegs had the genuine strut, whose eyes shone watchfully, and whose voicehad a ring that evidently struck terror into the catterpillar's soul, ifit was a catterpillar. He squirmed, he wriggled, he humped as fast ashe could, trying to escape; but all in vain. The tufted bird espiedhim, gave one warbling sort of crow, pounced upon him, and flappedtriumphantly away.
“That early bird got such a big worm he could hardly carry him off,” laughed Aunt Jessie, as the children shouted over the joke suggested byMac's nickname.
“That is one of uncle's favourite proverbs, so I got it up for hisespecial benefit,” said Rose, coming up with the two-legged worm besideher.
“Very clever; what next?” asked Dr. Alec as she sat down beside him.
“The Dove boys are going to give us an 'Incident in the Life ofNapoleon,' as they call it; the children think it very splendid, and thelittle fellows do it rather nicely,” answered Mac with condescension.
A tent appeared, and pacing to and fro before it was a little sentinel,who, in a brief soliloquy, informed the observers that the elements werein a great state of confusion, that he had marched some hundred milesor so that day, and that he was dying for want of sleep. Then hepaused, leaned upon his gun, and seemed to doze; dropped slowly down,overpowered with slumber, and finally lay flat, with his gun beside him,a faithless little sentinel. Enter Napoleon, cocked hat, gray coat, highboots, folded arms, grim mouth, and a melodramatic stride. Freddy Dovealways covered himself with glory in this part, and “took the stage” with a Napoleonic attitude that brought down the house; for thebig-headed boy, with solemn, dark eyes and square brow, was “the verymoral of that rascal, Boneyparty,” Mother Atkinson said.
Some great scheme was evidently brewing in his mighty mind a trip acrossthe Alps, a bonfire at Moscow, or a little skirmish at Waterloo perhaps,for he marched in silent majesty till suddenly a gentle snore disturbedthe imperial reverie. He saw the sleeping soldier and glared upon him,saying in an awful tone,
“Ha! asleep at his post! Death is the penalty he must die!”
Picking up the musket, he is about to execute summary justice, asemperors are in the habit of doing, when something in the face of theweary sentinel appears to touch him. And well it might, for a mostengaging little warrior was Jack as he lay with his shako half off, hischildish face trying to keep sober, and a great black moustache over hisrosy mouth. It would have softened the heart of any Napoleon, and theLittle Corporal proved himself a man by relenting, and saying, with alofty gesture of forgiveness,
“Brave fellow, he is worn out; I will let him sleep, and mount guard inhis place.”
Then, shouldering the gun, this noble being strode to and fro with adignity which thrilled the younger spectators. The sentinel awakes,sees what has happened, and gives himself up for lost. But the Emperorrestores his weapon, and, with that smile which won all hearts, says,pointing to a high rock whereon a crow happens to be sitting, “Be brave,be vigilant, and remember that from yonder Pyramid generations arebeholding you,” and with these memorable words he vanishes, leaving thegrateful soldier bolt upright, with his hand at his temple and deathlessdevotion stamped upon his youthful countenance.
The applause which followed this superb piece had hardly subsided,when a sudden splash and a shrill cry caused a general rush toward thewaterfall that went gambolling down the rocks, singing sweetly as itran. Pokey had tried to gambol also, and had tumbled into a shallowpool, whither Jamie had gallantly followed, in a vain attempt to fishher out, and both were paddling about half frightened, half pleased withthe unexpected bath.
This mishap made it necessary to get the dripping infants home as soonas possible; so the wagons were loaded up, and away they went, as merryas if the mountain air had really been “Oxygenated Sweets not Bitters,” as Dr. Alec suggested when Mac said he felt as jolly as if he had beendrinking champagne instead of the current wine that came with a greatfrosted cake wreathed with sugar roses in Aunt Plenty's hamper ofgoodies.
Rose took part in all the fun, and never betrayed by look or word thetwinges of pain she suffered in her ankle. She excused herself from thegames in the evening, however, and sat talking to Uncle Alec in a livelyway, that both amazed and delighted him; for she confided to him thatshe played horse with the children, drilled with the light infantry,climbed trees, and did other dreadful things that would have caused theaunts to cry aloud if they knew of them.
“I don't care a pin what they say if you don't mind, uncle,” sheanswered, when he pictured the dismay of the good ladies.
“Ah, it's all very well to defy them, but you are getting so rampant,I'm afraid you will defy me next, and then where are we?”
“No, I won't! I shouldn't dare; because you are my guardian, and can putme in a strait-jacket if you like;” and Rose laughed in his face, evenwhile she nestled closer with a confiding gesture pleasant to see.
“Upon my word, Rosy, I begin to feel like the man who bought anelephant, and then didn't know what to do with him. I thought I had gota pet and plaything for years to come; but here you are growing up likea bean-stalk, and I shall find I've got a strong-minded little woman onmy hands before I can turn round. There's predicament for a man and anuncle!”
Dr. Alec's comic distress was mercifully relieved for the time beingby a dance of goblins on the lawn, where the children, with pumpkinlanterns on their heads, frisked about like will-o'-the-wisps, as aparting surprise.
When Rose went to bed, she found that Uncle Alec had not forgotten her;for on the table stood a delicate little easel, holding two miniaturesset in velvet. She knew them both, and stood looking at them till hereyes brimmed over with tears that were both sweet and sad; for they werethe faces of her father and mother, beautifully copied from portraitsfast fading away.
Presently, she knelt down, and, putting her arms round the littleshrine, kissed one after the other, saying with an earnest voice, “I'lltruly try to make them glad to see me by and by.”
And that was Rose's little prayer on the night of her fourteenthbirthday.
Two days later the Campbells went home, a larger party than when theycame; for Dr. Alec was escort and Kitty Comet was borne in state in abasket, with a bottle of milk, some tiny sandwiches, and a doll's dishto drink out of, as well as a bit of carpet to lie on in her palace car,out of which she kept popping her head in the most fascinating manner.
There was a great kissing and cuddling, waving of handkerchiefs, andlast good-byes, as they went; and when they had started, Mother Atkinsoncame running after them, to tuck in some little pies, hot from the oven,“for the dears, who might get tired of bread and butter during that longday's travel.”
Another start, and another halt; for the Snow children came shriekingup to demand the three kittens that Pokey was cooly carrying off ina travelling bag. The unhappy kits were rescued, half smothered, andrestored to their lawful owners, amid dire lamentation from the littlekidnapper, who declared that she only “tooked um 'cause they'd want togo wid their sister Tomit.”
Start number three and stoppage number three, as Frank hailed themwith the luncheon basket, which had been forgotten, after everyone hadprotested that it was safely in.
All went well after that, and the long journey was pleasantly beguiledby Pokey and Pussy, who played together so prettily that they wereconsidered public benefactors.
“Rose doesn't want to go home, for she knows the aunts won't let herrampage as she did up at Cosey Corner,” said Mac, as they approached theold house.
“I can't rampage if I want to for a time, at least; and I'll tell youwhy. I sprained my ankle when I tumbled off of Barkis, and it gets worseand worse; though I've done all I know to cure it and hide it, so itshouldn't trouble anyone,” whispered Rose, knitting her brows with pain,as she prepared to descend, wishing her uncle would take her instead ofher bundles.
How he did it, she never knew; but Mac had her up the steps and on theparlour sofa before she could put her foot to the ground.
“There you are right side up with care; and mind, now, if your anklebothers you, and you are laid up with it, I am to be your footman. It'sonly fair, you know; for I don't forget how good you have been to me.” And Mac went to call Phebe, so full of gratitude and good-will that hisvery goggles shone.


Chapter 15--Ear-Rings
Rose's sprain proved to be a serious one, owing to neglect, and Dr. Alecordered her to lie on the sofa for a fortnight at least; whereat shegroaned dismally, but dared not openly complain, lest the boys turnupon her with some of the wise little sermons on patience which she haddelivered for their benefit.
It was Mac's turn now, and honourably did he repay his debt; for, asschool was still forbidden, he had plenty of leisure, and devoted mostof it to Rose. He took many steps for her, and even allowed her to teachhim to knit, after assuring himself that many a brave Scotchman knew howto “click the pricks.” She was obliged to take a solemn vow of secrecy,however, before he would consent; for, though he did not mind beingcalled “Giglamps,” “Granny” was more than his boyish soul could bear,and at the approach of any of the Clan his knitting vanished as if bymagic, which frequent “chucking” out of sight did not improve the stripehe was doing for Rose's new afghan.
She was busy with this pretty work one bright October afternoon, allnicely established on her sofa in the upper hall, while Jamie and Pokey(lent for her amusement) were keeping house in a corner, with Comet andRose's old doll for their “childerns.”
Presently, Phebe appeared with a card. Rose read it, made a grimace,then laughed and said,
“I'll see Miss Blish,” and immediately put on her company face, pulledout her locket, and settled her curls.
“You dear thing, how do you do? I've been trying to call every day sinceyou got back, but I have so many engagements, I really couldn't manageit till to-day. So glad you are alone, for mamma said I could sitawhile, and I brought my lace-work to show you, for it's perfectlylovely.” cried Miss Blish, greeting Rose with a kiss, which was not verywarmly returned, though Rose politely thanked her for coming, and bidPhebe roll up the easy chair.
“How nice to have a maid!” said Ariadne, as she settled herself withmuch commotion. “Still, dear, you must be very lonely, and feel the needof a bosom friend.”
“I have my cousins,” began Rose, with dignity, for her visitor'spatronising manner ruffled her temper.
“Gracious, child! you don't make friends of those great boys, do you?Mamma says she really doesn't think it's proper for you to be with themso much.”
“They are like brothers, and my aunts do think it's proper,” repliedRose, rather sharply, for it struck her that this was none of MissBlish's business.
“I was merely going to say I should be glad to have you for my bosomfriend, for Hatty Mason and I have had an awful quarrel, and don'tspeak. She is too mean to live, so I gave her up. Just think, she neverpaid back one of the caramels I've given her, and never invited me toher party. I could have forgiven the caramels, but to be left out inthat rude way was more than I could bear, and I told her never to lookat me again as long as she lived.”
“You are very kind, but I don't think I want a bosom friend, thank you,” said Rose, as Ariadne stopped to bridle and shake her flaxen head overthe delinquent Hatty Mason.
Now, in her heart Miss Blish thought Rose “a stuck-up puss,” butthe other girls wanted to know her and couldn't, the old house was acharming place to visit, the lads were considered fine fellows, andthe Campbells “are one of our first families,” mamma said. So Ariadneconcealed her vexation at Rose's coolness, and changed the subject asfast as possible.
“Studying French, I see; who is your teacher?” she asked, flitting overthe leaves of “Paul and Virginia,” that lay on the table.
“I don't study it, for I read French as well as English, and uncle andI often speak it for hours. He talks like a native, and says I have aremarkably good accent.”
Rose really could not help this small display of superiority, for Frenchwas one of her strong points, and she was vain of it, though she usuallymanaged to hide this weakness. She felt that Ariadne would be the betterfor a little crushing, and could not resist the temptation to patronisein her turn.
“Oh, indeed!” said Miss Blish, rather blankly, for French was not herstrong point by any means.
“I am to go abroad with uncle in a year or two, and he knows howimportant it is to understand the languages. Half the girls who leaveschool can't speak decent French, and when they go abroad they areso mortified. I shall be very glad to help you, if you like, for, ofcourse, you have no one to talk with at home.”
Now Ariadne, though she looked like a wax doll, had feelings within herinstead of sawdust, and these feelings were hurt by Rose's lofty tone.She thought her more “stuck up” than ever, but did not know how to bringher down, yet longed to do it, for she felt as if she had received abox on the ear, and involuntarily put her hand up to it. The touch of anear-ring consoled her, and suggested a way of returning tit for tat in atelling manner.
“Thank you, dear; I don't need any help, for our teacher is from Paris,and of course he speaks better French than your uncle.” Then she added,with a gesture of her head that set the little bells on her ears totingling: “How do you like my new ear-rings? Papa gave them to me lastweek, and everyone says they are lovely.”
Rose came down from her high horse with a rapidity that was comical,for Ariadne had the upper hand now. Rose adored pretty things, longedto wear them, and the desire of her girlish soul was to have her earsbored, only Dr. Alec thought it foolish, so she never had done it. Shewould gladly have given all the French she could jabber for a pair ofgolden bells with pearl-tipped tongues, like those Ariadne wore; and,clasping her hands, she answered, in a tone that went to the hearer'sheart,
“They are too sweet for anything! If uncle would only let me wear some,I should be perfectly happy.”
“I wouldn't mind what he says. Papa laughed at me at first, but he likesthem now, and says I shall have diamond solitaires when I am eighteen,” said Ariadne, quite satisfied with her shot.
“I've got a pair now that were mamma's, and a beautiful little pair ofpearl and turquoise ones, that I am dying to wear,” sighed Rose.
“Then do it. I'll pierce your ears, and you must wear a bit of silk inthem till they are well; your curls will hide them nicely; then, someday, slip in your smallest ear-rings, and see if your uncle don't likethem.”
“I asked him if it wouldn't do my eyes good once when they were red, andhe only laughed. People do cure weak eyes that way, don't they?”
“Yes, indeed, and yours are sort of red. Let me see. Yes, I really thinkyou ought to do it before they get worse,” said Ariadne, peering intothe large clear eye offered for inspection.
“Does it hurt much?” asked Rose, wavering.
“Oh dear, no; just a prick and a pull, and it's all over. I've donelots of ears, and know just how. Come, push up your hair and get a bigneedle.”
“I don't quite like to do it without asking uncle's leave,” falteredRose, when all was ready for the operation.
“Did he ever forbid it?” demanded Ariadne, hovering over her prey like avampire.
“No, never!”
“Then do it, unless you are afraid,” cried Miss Blish, bent onaccomplishing the deed.
That last word settled the matter, and, closing her eyes, Rose said“Punch!” in the tone of one giving the fatal order “Fire!”
Ariadne punched, and the victim bore it in heroic silence, though sheturned pale and her eyes were full of tears of anguish.
“There! Now pull the bits of silk often, and cold-cream your ears everynight, and you'll soon be ready for the rings,” said Ariadne, wellpleased with her job, for the girl who spoke French with “a fine accent” lay flat upon the sofa, looking as exhausted as if she had had both earscut off.
“It does hurt dreadfully, and I know uncle won't like it,” sighed Rose,as remorse began to gnaw. “Promise not to tell, or I shall be teasedto death,” she added, anxiously, entirely forgetting the two littlepitchers gifted with eyes as well as ears, who had been watching thewhole performance from afar.
“Never. Mercy me, what's that?” and Ariadne started as a sudden sound ofsteps and voices came up from below.
“It's the boys! Hide the needle. Do my ears show? Don't breathe a word!” whispered Rose, scrambling about to conceal all traces of their iniquityfrom the sharp eyes of the Clan.
Up they came, all in good order, laden with the proceeds of a nuttingexpedition, for they always reported to Rose and paid tribute to theirqueen in the handsomest manner.
“How many, and how big! We'll have a grand roasting frolic after tea,won't we?” said Rose, plunging both hands into a bag of glossy brownnuts, while the Clan “stood at ease” and nodded to Ariadne.
“That lot was picked especially for you, Rosy. I got every one myself,and they are extra whackers,” said Mac, presenting a bushel or so.
“You should have seen Giglamps when he was after them. He pitched outof the tree, and would have broken his blessed old neck if Arch hadnot caught him,” observed Steve, as he lounged gracefully in the windowseat.
“You needn't talk, Dandy, when you didn't know a chestnut from a beech,and kept on thrashing till I told you of it,” retorted Mac, festooninghimself over the back of the sofa, being a privileged boy.
“I don't make mistakes when I thrash you, old Worm, so you'd better mindwhat you are about,” answered Steve, without a ray of proper respect forhis elder brother.
“It is getting dark, and I must go, or mamma will be alarmed,” saidAriadne, rising in sudden haste, though she hoped to be asked to remainto the nut-party.
No one invited her; and all the while she was putting on her things andchatting to Rose the boys were telegraphing to one another the sad factthat someone ought to escort the young lady home. Not a boy felt heroicenough to cast himself into the breach, however; even polite Archieshirked the duty, saying to Charlie, as they quietly slipped into anadjoining room,
“I'm not going to do all the gallivanting. Let Steve take that chit homeand show his manners.”
“I'll be hanged if I do!” answered Prince, who disliked Miss Blishbecause she tried to be coquettish with him.
“Then I will,” and, to the dismay of both recreant lads, Dr. Alec walkedout of the room to offer his services to the “chit.”
He was too late, however, for Mac, obeying a look from Rose, had alreadymade a victim of himself, and trudged meekly away, wishing the gentleAriadne at the bottom of the Red Sea.
“Then I will take this lady down to tea, as the other one has found agentleman to go home with her. I see the lamps are lighted below, and Ismell a smell which tells me that auntie has something extra nice for usto-night.”
As he spoke, Dr. Alec was preparing to carry Rose downstairs as usual;but Archie and Prince rushed forward, begging with penitent eagernessfor the honour of carrying her in an arm-chair. Rose consented, fearingthat her uncle's keen eye would discover the fatal bits of silk; so theboys crossed hands, and, taking a good grip of each curly pate, she wasborne down in state, while the others followed by way of the banisters.
Tea was ordered earlier than usual, so that Jamie and his dolly couldhave a taste, at least, of the holiday fun, for they were to stay tillseven, and be allowed twelve roasted chestnuts apiece, which they wereunder bonds not to eat till next day.
Tea was despatched rapidly, therefore, and the party gathered round thewide hearth in the dining-room, where the nuts were soon dancing gailyon hot shovels or bouncing out among the company, thereby causingdelightful panics among the little ones.
“Come, Rosy, tell us a story while we work, for you can't help much,and must amuse us as your share,” proposed Mac, who sat in the shadepricking nuts, and who knew by experience what a capital littleScheherazade his cousin was.
“Yes, we poor monkeys can't burn our paws for nothing, so tell away,Pussy,” added Charlie, as he threw several hot nuts into her lap andshook his fingers afterwards.
“Well, I happen to have a little story with a moral to it in my mind,and I will tell it, though it is intended for younger children thanyou,” answered Rose, who was rather fond of telling instructive tales.
“Fire away,” said Geordie, and she obeyed, little thinking what adisastrous story it would prove to herself.
“Well, once upon a time, a little girl went to see a young lady who wasvery fond of her. Now, the young lady happened to be lame, and hadto have her foot bandaged up every day; so she kept a basketful ofbandages, all nicely rolled and ready. The little girl liked to playwith this basket, and one day, when she thought no one saw her, she tookone of the rolls without asking leave, and put it in her pocket.”
Here Pokey, who had been peering lovingly down at the five warm nutsthat lay at the bottom of her tiny pocket, suddenly looked up and said,“Oh!” in a startled tone, as if the moral tale had become intenselyinteresting all at once.
Rose heard and saw the innocent betrayal of the small sinner, and wenton in a most impressive manner, while the boys nudged one another andwinked as they caught the joke.
“But an eye did see this naughty little girl, and whose eye do you thinkit was?”
“Eye of Dod,” murmured conscience-stricken Pokey, spreading two chubbylittle hands before the round face, which they were not half big enoughto hide.
Rose was rather taken aback by this reply, but, feeling that she wasproducing a good effect, she added seriously,
“Yes, God saw her, and so did the young lady, but she did not sayanything; she waited to see what the little girl would do about it. Shehad been very happy before she took the bandage, but when it was in herpocket she seemed troubled, and pretty soon stopped playing, and satdown in a corner looking very sober. She thought a few minutes, and thenwent and put back the roll very softly, and her face cleared up, andshe was a happy child again. The young lady was glad to see that, andwondered what made the little girl put it back.”
“Tonscience p'icked her,” murmured a contrite voice from behind thesmall hands pressed tightly over Pokey's red face.
“And why did she take it, do you suppose?” asked Rose, in aschool-marmish tone, feeling that all the listeners were interested inher tale and its unexpected application.
“It was so nice and wound, and she wanted it deffly,” answered thelittle voice.
“Well, I'm glad she had such a good conscience. The moral is that peoplewho steal don't enjoy what they take, and are not happy till they putit back. What makes that little girl hide her face?” asked Rose, as sheconcluded.
“Me's so 'shamed of Pokey,” sobbed the small culprit, quite overcome byremorse and confusion at this awful disclosure.
“Come, Rose, it's too bad to tell her little tricks before everyone,and preach at her in that way; you wouldn't like it yourself,” began Dr.Alec, taking the weeper on his knee and administering consolation in theshape of kisses and nuts.
Before Rose could express her regret, Jamie, who had been reddeningand ruffling like a little turkey-cock for several minutes, burst outindignantly, bent on avenging the wound given to his beloved dolly.
“I know something bad that you did, and I'm going to tell right out. Youthought we didn't see you, but we did, and you said uncle wouldn't likeit, and the boys would tease, and you made Ariadne promise not to tell,and she punched holes in your ears to put ear-rings in. So now! andthat's much badder than to take an old piece of rag; and I hate you formaking my Pokey cry.”
Jamie's somewhat incoherent explosion produced such an effect thatPokey's small sin was instantly forgotten, and Rose felt that her hourhad come.
“What! what! what!” cried the boys in a chorus, dropping their shovelsand knives to gather round Rose, for a guilty clutching at her earsbetrayed her, and with a feeble cry of “Ariadne made me!” she hid herhead among the pillows like an absurd little ostrich.
“Now she'll go prancing round with bird cages and baskets and carts andpigs, for all I know, in her ears, as the other girls do, and won't shelook like a goose?” asked one tormentor, tweaking a curl that strayedout from the cushions.
“I didn't think she'd be so silly,” said Mac, in a tone ofdisappointment that told Rose she had sunk in the esteem of her wisecousin.
“That Blish girl is a nuisance, and ought not to be allowed to come herewith her nonsensical notions,” said the Prince, feeling a strong desireto shake that young person as an angry dog might shake a mischievouskitten.
“How do you like it, uncle?” asked Archie, who, being the head of afamily himself, believed in preserving discipline at all costs.
“I am very much surprised; but I see she is a girl, after all, and musthave her vanities like all the rest of them,” answered Dr. Alec, witha sigh, as if he had expected to find Rose a sort of angel, above allearthly temptations.
“What shall you do about it, sir?” inquired Geordie, wondering whatpunishment would be inflicted on a feminine culprit.
“As she is fond of ornaments, perhaps we had better give her a nose-ringalso. I have one somewhere that a Fiji belle once wore; I'll look itup,” and, leaving Pokey to Jamie's care, Dr. Alec rose as if to carryout his suggestion in earnest.
“Good! good! We'll do it right away! Here's a gimlet, so you holdher, boys, while I get her dear little nose all ready,” cried Charlie,whisking away the pillow as the other boys danced about the sofa in trueFiji style.
It was a dreadful moment, for Rose could not run away she could onlygrasp her precious nose with one hand and extend the other, cryingdistractedly,
“O uncle, save me, save me!”
Of course he saved her; and when she was securely barricaded by hisstrong arm, she confessed her folly in such humiliation of spirit, thatthe lads, after a good laugh at her, decided to forgive her and lay allthe blame on the tempter, Ariadne. Even Dr. Alec relented so far as topropose two gold rings for the ears instead of one copper one for thenose; a proceeding which proved that if Rose had all the weakness ofher sex for jewellery, he had all the inconsistency of his in giving apretty penitent exactly what she wanted, spite of his better judgment.


Chapter 16--Bread and Button-Holes
“What in the world is my girl thinking about all alone here, with sucha solemn face?” asked Dr. Alec, coming into the study, one Novemberday, to find Rose sitting there with folded hands and a very thoughtfulaspect.
“Uncle, I want to have some serious conversation with you, if you havetime,” she said, coming out of a brown study, as if she had not heardhis question.
“I'm entirely at your service, and most happy to listen,” he answered,in his politest manner, for when Rose put on her womanly little airs healways treated her with a playful sort of respect that pleased her verymuch.
Now, as he sat down beside her, she said, very soberly,
“I've been trying to decide what trade I would learn, and I want you toadvise me.”
“Trade, my dear?” and Dr. Alec looked so astonished that she hastened toexplain.
“I forgot that you didn't hear the talk about it up at Cosey Corner. Yousee we used to sit under the pines and sew, and talk a great deal allthe ladies, I mean and I liked it very much. Mother Atkinson thoughtthat everyone should have a trade, or something to make a living out of,for rich people may grow poor, you know, and poor people have to work.Her girls were very clever, and could do ever so many things, and AuntJessie thought the old lady was right; so when I saw how happy andindependent those young ladies were, I wanted to have a trade, and thenit wouldn't matter about money, though I like to have it well enough.”
Dr. Alec listened to this explanation with a curious mixture ofsurprise, pleasure, and amusement in his face, and looked at his littleniece as if she had suddenly changed into a young woman. She had grown agood deal in the last six months, and an amount of thinking had gone onin that young head which would have astonished him greatly could he haveknown it all, for Rose was one of the children who observe and meditatemuch, and now and then nonplus their friends by a wise or curiousremark.
“I quite agree with the ladies, and shall be glad to help you decide onsomething if I can,” said the Doctor seriously. “What do you incline to?A natural taste or talent is a great help in choosing, you know.”
“I haven't any talent, or any especial taste that I can see, and that iswhy I can't decide, uncle. So, I think it would be a good plan to pickout some very useful business and learn it, because I don't do it forpleasure, you see, but as a part of my education, and to be ready incase I'm ever poor,” answered Rose, looking as if she rather longed fora little poverty so that her useful gift might be exercised.
“Well, now, there is one very excellent, necessary, and womanlyaccomplishment that no girl should be without, for it is a help to richand poor, and the comfort of families depends upon it. This fine talentis neglected nowadays, and considered old-fashioned, which is a sadmistake, and one that I don't mean to make in bringing up my girl.It should be a part of every girl's education, and I know of a mostaccomplished lady who will teach you in the best and pleasantestmanner.”
“Oh, what is it?” cried Rose eagerly, charmed to be met in this helpfuland cordial way.
“Housekeeping!” answered Dr. Alec.
“Is that an accomplishment?” asked Rose, while her face fell, for shehad indulged in all sorts of vague, delightful dreams.
“Yes; it is one of the most beautiful as well as useful of all thearts a woman can learn. Not so romantic, perhaps, as singing,painting, writing, or teaching, even; but one that makes many happy andcomfortable, and home the sweetest place in the world. Yes, you mayopen your big eyes; but it is a fact that I had rather see you a goodhousekeeper than the greatest belle in the city. It need not interferewith any talent you may possess, but it is a necessary part of yourtraining, and I hope that you will set about it at once, now that youare well and strong.”
“Who is the lady?” asked Rose, rather impressed by her uncle's earnestspeech.
“Aunt Plenty.”
“Is she accomplished?” began Rose in a wondering tone, for thisgreat-aunt of hers had seemed the least cultivated of them all.
“In the good old-fashioned way she is very accomplished, and has madethis house a happy home to us all, ever since we can remember. She isnot elegant, but genuinely good, and so beloved and respected that therewill be universal mourning for her when her place is empty. No one canfill it, for the solid, homely virtues of the dear soul have gone out offashion, as I say, and nothing new can be half so satisfactory, to me atleast.”
“I should like to have people feel so about me. Can she teach me to dowhat she does, and to grow as good?” asked Rose, with a little prick ofremorse for even thinking that Aunt Plenty was a commonplace old lady.
“Yes, if you don't despise such simple lessons as she can give. I knowit would fill her dear old heart with pride and pleasure to feel thatanyone cared to learn of her, for she fancies her day gone by. Lether teach you how to be what she has been a skilful, frugal, cheerfulhousewife; the maker and the keeper of a happy home, and by and by youwill see what a valuable lesson it is.”
“I will, uncle. But how shall I begin?”
“I'll speak to her about it, and she will make it all right with Dolly,for cooking is one of the main things, you know.”
“So it is! I don't mind that a bit, for I like to mess, and used to tryat home; but I had no one to tell me, so I never did much but spoil myaprons. Pies are great fun, only Dolly is so cross, I don't believe shewill ever let me do a thing in the kitchen.”
“Then we'll cook in the parlour. I fancy Aunt Plenty will manage her,so don't be troubled. Only mind this, I'd rather you learned how to makegood bread than the best pies ever baked. When you bring me a handsome,wholesome loaf, entirely made by yourself, I shall be more pleased thanif you offered me a pair of slippers embroidered in the very lateststyle. I don't wish to bribe you, but I'll give you my heartiest kiss,and promise to eat every crumb of the loaf myself.”
“It's a bargain! it's a bargain! Come and tell aunty all about it, forI'm in a hurry to begin,” cried Rose, dancing before him toward theparlor, where Miss Plenty sat alone knitting contentedly, yet ready torun at the first call for help of any sort, from any quarter.
No need to tell how surprised and gratified she was at the invitationshe received to teach the child the domestic arts which were her onlyaccomplishments, nor to relate how energetically she set about herpleasant task. Dolly dared not grumble, for Miss Plenty was the oneperson whom she obeyed, and Phebe openly rejoiced, for these new lessonsbrought Rose nearer to her, and glorified the kitchen in the good girl'seyes.
To tell the truth, the elder aunts had sometimes felt that they did nothave quite their share of the little niece who had won their hearts longago, and was the sunshine of the house. They talked it over togethersometimes, but always ended by saying that as Alec had all theresponsibility, he should have the larger share of the dear girl's loveand time, and they would be contented with such crumbs of comfort asthey could get.
Dr. Alec had found out this little secret, and, after reproachinghimself for being blind and selfish, was trying to devise some way ofmending matters without troubling anyone, when Rose's new whim suggestedan excellent method of weaning her a little from himself. He did notknow how fond he was of her till he gave her up to the new teacher, andoften could not resist peeping in at the door to see how she got on,or stealing sly looks through the slide when she was deep in dough, orlistening intently to some impressive lecture from Aunt Plenty. Theycaught him at it now and then, and ordered him off the premises at thepoint of the rolling-pin; or, if unusually successful, and, therefore,in a milder mood, they lured him away with bribes of ginger-bread, astray pickle, or a tart that was not quite symmetrical enough to suittheir critical eyes.
Of course he made a point of partaking copiously of all the delectablemesses that now appeared at table, for both the cooks were on theirmettle, and he fared sumptuously every day. But an especial relishwas given to any dish when, in reply to his honest praise of it, Rosecoloured up with innocent pride, and said modestly,
“I made that, uncle, and I'm glad you like it.”
It was some time before the perfect loaf appeared, for bread-makingis an art not easily learned, and Aunt Plenty was very thorough in herteaching; so Rose studied yeast first, and through various stages ofcake and biscuit came at last to the crowning glory of the “handsome,wholesome loaf.” It appeared at tea-time, on a silver salver, proudlyborne in by Phebe, who could not refrain from whispering, with a beamingface, as she set it down before Dr. Alec,
“Ain't it just lovely, sir?”
“It is a regularly splendid loaf! Did my girl make it all herself?” heasked, surveying the shapely, sweet-smelling object with real interestand pleasure.
“Every particle herself, and never asked a bit of help or advicefrom anyone,” answered Aunt Plenty, folding her hands with an air ofunmitigated satisfaction, for her pupil certainly did her great credit.
“I've had so many failures and troubles that I really thought I nevershould be able to do it alone. Dolly let one splendid batch burn upbecause I forgot it. She was there and smelt it, but never did a thing,for she said, when I undertook to bake bread I must give my whole mindto it. Wasn't it hard? She might have called me at least,” said Rose,recollecting, with a sigh, the anguish of that moment.
“She meant you should learn by experience, as Rosamond did in thatlittle affair of the purple jar, you remember.”
“I always thought it very unfair in her mother not to warn the poorthing a little bit; and she was regularly mean when Rosamond asked for abowl to put the purple stuff in, and she said, in such a provoking way,'I did not agree to lend you a bowl, but I will, my dear.' Ugh! I alwayswant to shake that hateful woman, though she was a moral mamma.”
“Never mind her now, but tell me all about my loaf,” said Dr. Alec, muchamused at Rose's burst of indignation.
“There's nothing to tell, uncle, except that I did my best, gave my mindto it, and sat watching over it all the while it was in the oven till Iwas quite baked myself. Everything went right this time, and it came outa nice, round, crusty loaf, as you see. Now taste it, and tell me if itis good as well as handsome.”
“Must I cut it? Can't I put it under a glass cover and keep it in theparlor as they do wax flowers and fine works of that sort?”
“What an idea, uncle! It would mould and be spoilt. Besides, peoplewould laugh at us, and make fun of my old-fashioned accomplishment. Youpromised to eat it, and you must; not all at once, but as soon as youcan, so I can make you some more.”
Dr. Alec solemnly cut off his favourite crusty slice, and solemnly ateit; then wiped his lips, and brushing back Rose's hair, solemnly kissedher on the forehead, saying, heartily,
“My dear, it is perfect bread, and you are an honour to your teacher.When we have our model school I shall offer a prize for the best bread,and you will get it.”
“I've got it already, and I'm quite satisfied,” said Rose, slipping intoher seat, and trying to hide her right hand which had a burn on it.
But Dr. Alec saw it, guessed how it came there, and after tea insistedon easing the pain which she would hardly confess.
“Aunt Clara says I am spoiling my hands, but I don't care, for I've hadsuch good times with Aunt Plenty, and I think she has enjoyed it asmuch as I have. Only one thing troubles me, uncle, and I want to askyou about it,” said Rose, as they paced up and down the hall in thetwilight, the bandaged hand very carefully laid on Dr. Alec's arm.
“More little confidences? I like them immensely, so tell away, my dear.”
“Well, you see I feel as if Aunt Peace would like to do something forme, and I've found out what it can be. You know she can't go about likeAunty Plen, and we are so busy nowadays that she is rather lonely,I'm afraid. So I want to take lessons in sewing of her. She works sobeautifully, and it is a useful thing, you know, and I ought to be agood needlewoman as well as housekeeper, oughtn't I?”
“Bless your kind little heart, that is what I was thinking of the otherday when Aunt Peace said she saw you very seldom now, you were so busy Iwanted to speak of it, but fancied you had as much on your hands asyou could manage. It would delight the dear woman to teach you all herdelicate handicraft, especially button-holes, for I believe that iswhere young ladies fail; at least, I've heard them say so. So, do youdevote your mind to button-holes; make 'em all over my clothes if youwant something to practice on. I'll wear any quantity.”
Rose laughed at this reckless offer, but promised to attend to thatimportant branch, though she confessed that darning was her weak point.Whereupon Uncle Alec engaged to supply her with socks in all stages ofdilapidation, and to have a new set at once, so that she could run theheels for him as a pleasant beginning.
Then they went up to make their request in due form, to the greatdelight of gentle Aunt Peace, who got quite excited with the fun thatwent on while they would yarn, looked up darning needles, and fitted outa nice little mending basket for her pupil.
Very busy and very happy were Rose's days now, for in the morning shewent about the house with Aunt Plenty attending to linen-closets andstore-rooms, pickling and preserving, exploring garret and cellar to seethat all was right, and learning, in the good old-fashioned manner, tolook well after the ways of the household.
In the afternoon, after her walk or drive, she sat with Aunt Peaceplying her needle, while Aunt Plenty, whose eyes were failing, knittedand chatted briskly, telling many a pleasant story of old times, tillthe three were moved to laugh and cry together, for the busy needleswere embroidering all sorts of bright patterns on the lives of theworkers, though they seemed to be only stitching cotton and darninghose.
It was a pretty sight to see the rosy-faced little maid sitting betweenthe two old ladies, listening dutifully to their instructions, andcheering the lessons with her lively chatter and blithe laugh. If thekitchen had proved attractive to Dr. Alec when Rose was there at work,the sewing-room was quite irresistible, and he made himself so agreeablethat no one had the heart to drive him away, especially when he readaloud or spun yarns.
“There! I've made you a new set of warm night-gowns with fourbutton-holes in each. See if they are not neatly done,” said Rose, oneday, some weeks after the new lessons began.
“Even to a thread, and nice little bars across the end so I can't tearthem when I twitch the buttons out. Most superior work, ma'am, and I'mdeeply grateful; so much so, that I'll sew on these buttons myself, andsave those tired fingers from another prick.”
“You sew them on?” cried Rose, with her eyes wide open in amazement.
“Wait a bit till I get my sewing tackle, and then you shall see what Ican do.”
“Can he, really?” asked Rose of Aunt Peace, as Uncle Alec marched offwith a comical air of importance.
“Oh, yes, I taught him years ago, before he went to sea; and I supposehe has had to do things for himself, more or less, ever since; so he haskept his hand in.”
He evidently had, for he was soon back with a funny little work-bag, outof which he produced a thimble without a top; and, having threaded hisneedle, he proceeded to sew on the buttons so handily that Rose was muchimpressed and amused.
“I wonder if there is anything in the world that you cannot do,” shesaid, in a tone of respectful admiration.
“There are one or two things that I am not up to yet,” he answered,with a laugh in the corner of his eye, as he waxed his thread with aflourish.
“I should like to know what?”
“Bread and button-holes, ma'am.”


Chapter 17--Good Bargains
It was a rainy Sunday afternoon, and four boys were trying to spend itquietly in the “liberry,” as Jamie called the room devoted to books andboys, at Aunt Jessie's. Will and Geordie were sprawling on the sofa,deep in the adventures of the scapegraces and ragamuffins whosehistories are now the fashion. Archie lounged in the easy chair,surrounded by newspapers; Charlie stood upon the rug, in an Englishman'sfavourite attitude, and, I regret to say, both were smoking cigars.
“It is my opinion that this day will never come to an end,” said Prince,with a yawn that nearly rent him asunder.
“Read and improve your mind, my son,” answered Archie, peering solemnlyover the paper behind which he had been dozing.
“Don't you preach, parson, but put on your boots and come out for atramp, instead of mulling over the fire like a granny.”
“No, thank you, tramps in an easterly storm don't strike me as amusing.” There Archie stopped and held up his hand, for a pleasant voice washeard saying outside,
“Are the boys in the library, auntie?”
“Yes, dear, and longing for sunshine; so run in and make it for them,” answered Mrs. Jessie.
“It's Rose,” and Archie threw his cigar into the fire.
“What's that for?” asked Charlie.
“Gentlemen don't smoke before ladies.”
“True; but I'm not going to waste my weed,” and Prince poked his intothe empty inkstand that served them for an ash tray.
A gentle tap at the door was answered by a chorus of “Come in,” and Roseappeared, looking blooming and breezy with the chilly air.
“If I disturb you, say so, and I'll go away,” she began, pausing on thethreshold with modest hesitation, for something in the elder boys' facesexcited her curiosity.
“You never disturb us, cousin,” said the smokers, while the readers torethemselves from the heroes of the bar-room and gutter long enough to nodaffably to their guest.
As Rose bent to warm her hands, one end of Archie's cigar stuck out ofthe ashes, smoking furiously and smelling strongly.
“Oh, you bad boys, how could you do it, to-day of all days?” she saidreproachfully.
“Where's the harm?” asked Archie.
“You know as well as I do; your mother doesn't like it, and it's a badhabit, for it wastes money and does you no good.”
“Fiddlesticks! every man smokes, even Uncle Alec, whom you think soperfect,” began Charlie, in his teasing way.
“No, he doesn't! He has given it up, and I know why,” cried Roseeagerly.
“Now I think of it, I haven't seen the old meerschaum since he camehome. Did he stop it on our account?” asked Archie.
“Yes,” and Rose told the little scene on the seashore in the camping-outtime.
Archie seemed much impressed, and said manfully, “He won't have donethat in vain so far as I'm concerned. I don't care a pin about smoking,so can give it up as easy as not, and I promise you I will. I only do itnow and then for fun.”
“You too?” and Rose looked up at the bonny Prince, who never looked lessbonny than at that moment, for he had resumed his cigar just to tormenther.
Now Charlie cared as little as Archie about smoking, but it would notdo to yield too soon: so he shook his head, gave a great puff, and saidloftily,
“You women are always asking us to give up harmless little things justbecause you don't approve of them. How would you like it if we did thesame by you, miss?”
“If I did harmful or silly things, I'd thank you for telling me of them,and I'd try to mend my ways,” answered Rose heartily.
“Well, now, we'll see if you mean what you say. I'll give up smoking toplease you, if you will give up something to please me,” said Prince,seeing a good chance to lord it over the weaker vessel at small cost tohimself.
“I'll agree if it is as foolish as cigars.”
“Oh, it's ever so much sillier.”
“Then I promise; what is it?” and Rose quite trembled with anxiety toknow which of her pet habits or possessions she must lose.
“Give up your ear-rings,” and Charlie laughed wickedly, sure that shewould never hold to that bargain.
Rose uttered a cry and clapped both hands to her ears where the goldrings hung.
“Oh, Charlie, wouldn't anything else do as well? I've been through somuch teasing and trouble, I do want to enjoy my pretty ear-rings, for Ican wear them now.”
“Wear as many as you like, and I'll smoke in peace,” returned this badboy.
“Will nothing else satisfy you?” imploringly.
“Nothing,” sternly.
Rose stood silent for a minute, thinking of something Aunt Jessie oncesaid “You have more influence over the boys than you know; use it fortheir good, and I shall thank you all my life.” Here was a chance todo some good by sacrificing a little vanity of her own. She felt it wasright to do it, yet found it very hard, and asked wistfully,
“Do you mean never wear them, Charlie?”
“Never, unless you want me to smoke.”
“I never do.”
“Then clinch the bargain.”
He had no idea she would do it, and was much surprised when she tookthe dear rings from her ears, with a quick gesture, and held them out tohim, saying, in a tone that made the colour come up to his brown cheek,it was so full of sweet good will,
“I care more for my cousins than for my ear-rings, so I promise, andI'll keep my word.”
“For shame, Prince! let her wear her little danglers if she likes, anddon't bargain about doing what you know is right,” cried Archie, comingout of his grove of newspapers with an indignant bounce.
But Rose was bent on showing her aunt that she could use her influencefor the boys' good, and said steadily,
“It is fair, and I want it to be so, then you will believe I'm inearnest. Here, each of you wear one of these on your watch-guardto remind you. I shall not forget, because very soon I cannot wearear-rings if I want to.”
As she spoke, Rose offered a little ring to each cousin, and the boys,seeing how sincere she was, obeyed her. When the pledges were safe, Rosestretched a hand to each, and the lads gave hers a hearty grip, halfpleased and half ashamed of their part in the compact.
Just at that moment Dr. Alec and Mrs. Jessie came in.
“What's this? Dancing Ladies' Triumph on Sunday?” exclaimed Uncle Alec,surveying the trio with surprise.
“No, sir, it is the Anti-Tobacco League. Will you join?” said Charlie,while Rose slipped away to her aunt, and Archie buried both cigarsbehind the back log.
When the mystery was explained, the elders were well pleased, and Rosereceived a vote of thanks, which made her feel as if she had done aservice to her country, as she had, for every boy who grows up free frombad habits bids fair to make a good citizen.
“I wish Rose would drive a bargain with Will and Geordie also, for Ithink these books are as bad for the small boys as cigars for the largeones,” said Mrs. Jessie, sitting down on the sofa between the readers,who politely curled up their legs to make room for her.
“I thought they were all the fashion,” answered Dr. Alec, settling inthe big chair with Rose.
“So is smoking, but it is harmful. The writers of these popular storiesintend to do good, I have no doubt, but it seems to me they fail becausetheir motto is, 'Be smart, and you will be rich,' instead of 'Be honest,and you will be happy.' I do not judge hastily, Alec, for I have read adozen, at least, of these stories, and, with much that is attractive toboys, I find a great deal to condemn in them, and other parents say thesame when I ask them.”
“Now, Mum, that's too bad! I like 'em tip-top. This one is a regularscreamer,” cried Will.
“They're bully books, and I'd like to know where's the harm,” addedGeordie.
“You have just shown us one of the chief evils, and that is slang,” answered their mother quickly.
“Must have it, ma'am. If these chaps talked all right, there'd be no funin 'em,” protested Will.
“A boot-black mustn't use good grammar, and a newsboy must swear alittle, or he wouldn't be natural,” explained Geordie, both boys readyto fight gallantly for their favourites.
“But my sons are neither boot-blacks nor newsboys, and I object tohearing them use such words as 'screamer,' 'bully,' and 'buster.' Infact, I fail to see the advantage of writing books about such peopleunless it is done in a very different way. I cannot think they will helpto refine the ragamuffins if they read them, and I'm sure they can do nogood to the better class of boys, who through these books are introducedto police courts, counterfeiters' dens, gambling houses, drinkingsaloons, and all sorts of low life.”
“Some of them are about first-rate boys, mother; and they go to sea andstudy, and sail round the world, having great larks all the way.”
“I have read about them, Geordie, and though they are better than theothers, I am not satisfied with these optical delusions, as I callthem. Now, I put it to you, boys, is it natural for lads from fifteento eighteen to command ships, defeat pirates, outwit smugglers, andso cover themselves with glory, that Admiral Farragut invites them todinner, saying, 'Noble boy, you are an honour to your country!' Or,if the hero is in the army, he has hair-breadth escapes and adventuresenough in one small volume to turn his hair white, and in the endhe goes to Washington at the express desire of the President orCommander-in-chief to be promoted to no end of stars and bars. Even ifthe hero is merely an honest boy trying to get his living, he is notpermitted to do so in a natural way, by hard work and years of patienteffort, but is suddenly adopted by a millionaire whose pocket-book hehas returned; or a rich uncle appears from sea just in the nick of time;or the remarkable boy earns a few dollars, speculates in pea-nuts orneckties, and grows rich so rapidly that Sinbad in the diamond valley isa pauper compared to him. Isn't it so, boys?”
“Well, the fellows in these books are mighty lucky, and very smart, Imust say,” answered Will, surveying an illustration on the open pagebefore him, where a small but virtuous youth is upsetting a tipsy giantin a bar-room, and under it the elegant inscription, “Dick Dauntlesspunches the head of Sam Soaker.”
“It gives boys such wrong ideas of life and business; shows them somuch evil and vulgarity that they need not know about, and makes theone success worth having a fortune, a lord's daughter, or some worldlyhonour, often not worth the time it takes to win. It does seem to methat some one might write stories that should be lively, natural andhelpful tales in which the English should be good, the morals pure, andthe characters such as we can love in spite of the faults that all mayhave. I can't bear to see such crowds of eager little fellows at thelibraries reading such trash; weak, when it is not wicked, and totallyunfit to feed the hungry minds that feast on it for want of somethingbetter. There! my lecture is done; now I should like to hear what yougentlemen have to say,” and Aunt Jessie subsided with a pretty flush onthe face that was full of motherly anxiety for her boys.
“Tom Brown just suits mother, and me too, so I wish Mr. Hughes wouldwrite another story as good,” said Archie.
“You don't find things of this sort in Tom Brown; yet these books areall in the Sunday-school libraries” and Mrs. Jessie read the followingparagraph from the book she had taken from Will's hand,
“'In this place we saw a tooth of John the Baptist. Ben said he couldsee locust and wild honey sticking to it. I couldn't. Perhaps John useda piece of the true cross for a tooth-pick.'”
“A larky sort of a boy says that, Mum, and we skip the parts where theydescribe what they saw in the different countries,” cried Will.
“And those descriptions, taken mostly from guidebooks, I fancy, are theonly parts of any real worth. The scrapes of the bad boys make up therest of the story, and it is for those you read these books, I think,” answered his mother, stroking back the hair off the honest little facethat looked rather abashed at this true statement of the case.
“Anyway, mother, the ship part is useful, for we learn how to sailher, and by and by that will all come handy when we go to sea,” put inGeordie.
“Indeed, then you can explain this manoeuvre to me, of course,” and Mrs.Jessie read from another page the following nautical paragraph,
“The wind is south-south-west, and we can have her up four points closerto the wind, and still be six points off the wind. As she luffs up weshall man the fore and main sheets, slack on the weather, and haul onthe lee braces.”
“I guess I could, if I wasn't afraid of uncle. He knows so muchmore than I do, he'd laugh,” began Geordie, evidently puzzled by thequestion.
“Ho, you know you can't, so why make believe? We don't understand halfof the sea lingo, Mum, and I dare say it's all wrong,” cried Will,suddenly going over to the enemy, to Geordie's great disgust.
“I do wish the boys wouldn't talk to me as if I was a ship,” said Rose,bringing forward a private grievance. “Coming home from church thismorning, the wind blew me about, and Will called out, right in thestreet, 'Brail up the foresail, and take in the flying-jib, that willease her.'”
The boys shouted at the plaintive tone in which Rose repeated the wordsthat offended her, and Will vainly endeavoured to explain that he onlymeant to tell her to wrap her cloak closer, and tie a veil over thetempest-tossed feathers in her hat.
“To tell the truth, if the boys must have slang, I can bear the 'sealingo,' as Will calls it, better than the other. It afflicts me less tohear my sons talk about 'brailing up the foresail' than doing as they'darn please,' and 'cut your cable' is decidedly preferable to 'let herrip.' I once made a rule that I would have no slang in the house. I giveit up now, for I cannot keep it; but I will not have rubbishy books; so,Archie, please send these two after your cigars.”
Mrs. Jessie held both the small boys fast with an arm round each neck,and when she took this base advantage of them they could onlysquirm with dismay. “Yes, right behind the back log,” she continued,energetically. “There, my hearties (you like sea slang, so I'll giveyou a bit) now, I want you to promise not to read any more stuff for amonth, and I'll agree to supply you with wholesome fare.”
“Oh, mother, not a single one?” cried Will.
“Couldn't we just finish those?” pleaded Geordie.
“The boys threw away half-smoked cigars; and your books must go afterthem. Surely you would not be outdone by the 'old fellows,' as you callthem, or be less obedient to little Mum than they were to Rose.”
“Course not! Come on, Geordie,” and Will took the vow like a hero. Hisbrother sighed and obeyed, but privately resolved to finish his storythe minute the month was over.
“You have laid out a hard task for yourself, Jessie, in trying toprovide good reading for boys who have been living on sensation stories.It will be like going from raspberry tarts to plain bread and butter;but you will probably save them from a bilious fever,” said Dr. Alec,much amused at the proceedings.
“I remember hearing grandpa say that a love for good books was oneof the best safeguards a man could have,” began Archie, staringthoughtfully at the fine library before him.
“Yes, but there's no time to read nowadays; a fellow has to keepscratching round to make money or he's nobody,” cut in Charlie, tryingto look worldly-wise.
“This love of money is the curse of America, and for the sake of it menwill sell honour and honesty, till we don't know whom to trust, and itis only a genius like Agassiz who dares to say, 'I cannot waste my timein getting rich,'” said Mrs. Jessie sadly.
“Do you want us to be poor, mother?” asked Archie, wondering.
“No, dear, and you never need be, while you can use your hands; but I amafraid of this thirst for wealth, and the temptations it brings. O, myboys! I tremble for the time when I must let you go, because I think itwould break my heart to have you fail as so many fail. It would be fareasier to see you dead if it could be said of you as of Sumner 'No mandared offer him a bribe.'”
Mrs. Jessie was so earnest in her motherly anxiety that her voicefaltered over the last words, and she hugged the yellow heads closer inher arms, as if she feared to let them leave that safe harbour for thegreat sea where so many little boats go down. The younger lads nestledcloser to her, and Archie said, in his quiet, resolute way,
“I cannot promise to be an Agassiz or a Sumner, mother; but I do promiseto be an honest man, please God.”
“Then I'm satisfied!” and holding fast the hand he gave her, she sealedhis promise with a kiss that had all a mother's hope and faith in it.
“I don't see how they ever can be bad, she is so fond and proud ofthem,” whispered Rose, quite touched by the little scene.
“You must help her make them what they should be. You have begunalready, and when I see those rings where they are, my girl is prettierin my sight than if the biggest diamonds that ever twinkled shone in herears,” answered Dr. Alec, looking at her with approving eyes.
“I'm so glad you think I can do anything, for I perfectly ache to beuseful; everyone is so good to me, especially Aunt Jessie.”
“I think you are in a fair way to pay your debts, Rosy, for when girlsgive up their little vanities, and boys their small vices, and try tostrengthen each other in well-doing, matters are going as they ought.Work away, my dear, and help their mother keep these sons fit friendsfor an innocent creature like yourself; they will be the manlier men forit, I can assure you.”


Chapter 18--Fashion and Physiology
“Please, sir, I guess you'd better step up right away, or it will be toolate, for I heard Miss Rose say she knew you wouldn't like it, and she'dnever dare to let you see her.”
Phebe said this as she popped her head into the study, where Dr. Alecsat reading a new book.
“They are at it, are they?” he said, looking up quickly, and givinghimself a shake, as if ready for a battle of some sort.
“Yes, sir, as hard as they can talk, and Miss Rose don't seem to knowwhat to do, for the things are ever so stylish, and she looks elegant in'em; though I like her best in the old ones,” answered Phebe.
“You are a girl of sense. I'll settle matters for Rosy, and you'll lenda hand. Is everything ready in her room, and are you sure you understandhow they go?”
“Oh, yes, sir; but they are so funny! I know Miss Rose will think it's ajoke,” and Phebe laughed as if something tickled her immensely.
“Never mind what she thinks so long as she obeys. Tell her to do it formy sake, and she will find it the best joke she ever saw. I expect tohave a tough time of it, but we'll win yet,” said the Doctor, as hemarched upstairs with the book in his hand, and an odd smile on hisface.
There was such a clatter of tongues in the sewing-room that no one heardhis tap at the door, so he pushed it open and took an observation. AuntPlenty, Aunt Clara, and Aunt Jessie were all absorbed in gazing at Rose,who slowly revolved between them and the great mirror, in a full wintercostume of the latest fashion.
“Bless my heart! worse even than I expected,” thought the Doctor, withan inward groan, for, to his benighted eyes, the girl looked like atrussed fowl, and the fine new dress had neither grace, beauty, norfitness to recommend it.
The suit was of two peculiar shades of blue, so arranged that patches oflight and dark distracted the eye. The upper skirt was tied so lightlyback that it was impossible to take a long step, and the under onewas so loaded with plaited frills that it “wobbled” no other wordwill express it ungracefully, both fore and aft. A bunch of folds wasgathered up just below the waist behind, and a great bow rode a-top. Asmall jacket of the same material was adorned with a high ruff at theback, and laid well open over the breast, to display some lace and alocket. Heavy fringes, bows, puffs, ruffles, and revers finished off thedress, making one's head ache to think of the amount of work wasted,for not a single graceful line struck the eye, and the beauty of thematerial was quite lost in the profusion of ornament.
A high velvet hat, audaciously turned up in front, with a bunch of pinkroses and a sweeping plume, was cocked over one ear, and, with her curlsbraided into a club at the back of her neck, Rose's head looked morelike that of a dashing young cavalier than a modest little girl's.High-heeled boots tilted her well forward, a tiny muff pinioned herarms, and a spotted veil, tied so closely over her face that hereyelashes were rumpled by it, gave the last touch of absurdity to herappearance.
“Now she looks like other girls, and as I like to see her,” Mrs. Clarawas saying, with an air of great satisfaction.
“She does look like a fashionable young lady, but somehow I miss mylittle Rose, for children dressed like children in my day,” answeredAunt Plenty, peering through her glasses with a troubled look, forshe could not imagine the creature before her ever sitting in her lap,running to wait upon her, or making the house gay with a child's blithepresence.
“Things have changed since your day, Aunt, and it takes time to get usedto new ways. But you, Jessie, surely like this costume better than thedowdy things Rose has been wearing all summer. Now, be honest, and ownyou do,” said Mrs. Clara, bent on being praised for her work.
“Well, dear to be quite honest, then, I think it is frightful,” answeredMrs. Jessie, with a candour that caused revolving Rose to stop indismay.
“Hear, hear,” cried a deep voice, and with a general start the ladiesbecame aware that the enemy was among them.
Rose blushed up to her hat brim, and stood, looking, as she felt, like afool, while Mrs. Clara hastened to explain.
“Of course, I don't expect you to like it, Alec, but I don't consideryou a judge of what is proper and becoming for a young lady. Therefore,I have taken the liberty of providing a pretty street suit for Rose.She need not wear it if you object, for I know we promised to let you dowhat you liked with the poor dear for a year.”
“It is a street costume, is it?” asked the Doctor, mildly. “Do you know,I never should have guessed that it was meant for winter weather andbrisk locomotion. Take a turn, Rosy, and let me see all its beauties andadvantages.”
Rose tried to walk off with her usual free tread, but the under-skirtgot in her way, the over-skirt was so tight she could not take a longstep, and her boots made it impossible to carry herself perfectly erect.
“I haven't got used to it yet,” she said, petulantly, kicking at hertrain, as she turned to toddle back again.
“Suppose a mad dog or a runaway horse was after you, could you get outof the way without upsetting, Colonel,” asked the Doctor, with a twinklein the eyes that were fixed on the rakish hat.
“Don't think I could, but I'll try,” and Rose made a rush across theroom. Her boot-heels caught on a rug, several strings broke, her hattipped over her eyes, and she plunged promiscuously into a chair, whereshe sat laughing so infectiously that all but Mrs. Clara joined in hermirth.
“I should say that a walking suit in which one could not walk, and awinter suit which exposes the throat, head, and feet to cold and damp,was rather a failure, Clara, especially as it has no beauty to reconcileone to its utter unfitness,” said Dr. Alec, as he helped Rose undo herveil, adding, in a low tone, “Nice thing for the eyes; you'll soon seespots when it's off as well as when it's on, and, by and by, be a casefor an oculist.”
“No beauty!” cried Mrs. Clara, warmly, “Now, that is just a man'sblindness. This is the best of silk and camel's hair, real ostrichfeathers, and an expensive ermine muff. What could be in better taste,or more proper for a young girl?”
“I'll shew you, if Rose will go to her room and oblige me by putting onwhat she finds there,” answered the Doctor, with unexpected readiness.
“Alec, if it is a Bloomer, I shall protest. I've been expecting it, butI know I cannot bear to see that pretty child sacrificed to your wildideas of health. Tell me it isn't a Bloomer!” and Mrs. Clara clasped herhands imploringly.
“It is not.”
“Thank Heaven!” and she resigned herself with a sigh of relief, addingplaintively, “I did hope you'd accept my suit, for poor Rose has beenafflicted with frightful clothes long enough to spoil the taste of anygirl.”
“You talk of my afflicting the child, and then make a helpless guy likethat of her!” answered the Doctor, pointing to the little fashion platethat was scuttling out of sight as fast as it could go.
He closed the door with a shrug, but before anyone could speak, hisquick eye fell upon an object which caused him to frown, and demand inan indignant tone,
“After all I have said, were you really going to tempt my girl withthose abominable things?”
“I thought we put them away when she wouldn't wear them,” murmured Mrs.Clara, whisking a little pair of corsets out of sight with guilty haste.“I only brought them to try, for Rose is growing stout, and will haveno figure if it is not attended to soon,” she added, with an air of calmconviction that roused the Doctor still more, for this was one of hisespecial abominations.
“Growing stout! Yes, thank Heaven, she is, and shall continue to do it,for Nature knows how to mould a woman better than any corset-maker,and I won't have her interfered with. My dear Clara, have you lost yoursenses that you can for a moment dream of putting a growing girl into aninstrument of torture like this?” and with a sudden gesture he pluckedforth the offending corsets from under the sofa cushion, and held themout with the expression one would wear on beholding the thumbscrews orthe rack of ancient times.
“Don't be absurd, Alec. There is no torture about it, for tight lacingis out of fashion, and we have nice, sensible things nowadays. Everyonewears them; even babies have stiffened waists to support their weaklittle backs,” began Mrs. Clara, rushing to the defence of the petdelusion of most women.
“I know it, and so the poor little souls have weak backs all their days,as their mothers had before them. It is vain to argue the matter, and Iwon't try, but I wish to state, once for all, that if I ever see a pairof corsets near Rose, I'll put them in the fire, and you may send thebill to me.”
As he spoke the corsets were on their way to destruction, but Mrs.Jessie caught his arm, exclaiming merrily, “Don't burn them, for mercysake, Alec; they are full of whalebones, and will make a dreadful odour.Give them to me. I'll see that they do no harm.”
“Whalebones, indeed! A regular fence of them, and metal gate-posts infront. As if our own bones were not enough, if we'd give them achance to do their duty,” growled the Doctor, yielding up the boneof contention with a last shake of contempt. Then his face clearedsuddenly, and he held up his finger, saying, with a smile, “Hear thosegirls laugh; cramped lungs could not make hearty music like that.”
Peals of laughter issued from Rose's room, and smiles involuntarilytouched the lips of those who listened to the happy sound.
“Some new prank of yours, Alec?” asked Aunt Plenty, indulgently, for shehad come to believe in most of her nephew's odd notions, because theyseemed to work so well.
“Yes, ma'am, my last, and I hope you will like it. I discovered whatClara was at, and got my rival suit ready for to-day. I'm not going to'afflict' Rose, but let her choose, and if I'm not entirely mistaken,she will like my rig best. While we wait I'll explain, and then you willappreciate the general effect better. I got hold of this little book,and was struck with its good sense and good taste, for it suggests away to clothe women both healthfully and handsomely, and that is a greatpoint. It begins at the foundations, as you will see if you will lookat these pictures, and I should think women would rejoice at thislightening of their burdens.”
As he spoke, the Doctor laid the book before Aunt Plenty, who obedientlybrought her spectacles to bear upon the illustrations, and after a longlook exclaimed, with a scandalised face,
“Mercy on us, these things are like the night-drawers Jamie wears! Youdon't mean to say you want Rose to come out in this costume? It's notproper, and I won't consent to it!”
“I do mean it, and I'm sure my sensible aunt will consent when sheunderstands that these well I'll call them by an Indian name, and saypajamas are for underwear, and Rose can have as pretty frocks as shelikes outside. These two suits of flannel, each in one piece from headto foot, with a skirt or so hung on this easily-fitting waist, willkeep the child warm without burdening her with belts, and gathers, andbuckles, and bunches round the waist, and leave free the muscles thatneed plenty of room to work in. She shall never have the back-ache if Ican help it, nor the long list of ills you dear women think you cannotescape.”
“I don't consider it modest, and I'm sure Rose will be shocked at it,” began Mrs. Clara, but stopped suddenly, as Rose appeared in the doorway,not looking shocked a bit.
“Come on, my hygienic model, and let us see you,” said her uncle, withan approving glance, as she walked in, looking so mischievously merry,that it was evident she enjoyed the joke.
“Well, I don't see anything remarkable. That is a neat, plain suit; thematerials are good, and it's not unbecoming, if you want her to looklike a little school-girl; but it has not a particle of style, and noone would ever give it a second glance,” said Mrs. Clara, feeling thather last remark condemned the whole thing.
“Exactly what I want,” answered the provoking Doctor, rubbing his handswith a satisfied air. “Rosy looks now like what she is, a modest littlegirl, who does not want to be stared at. I think she would get a glanceof approval, though, from people who like sense and simplicity ratherthan fuss and feathers. Revolve, my Hebe, and let me refresh my eyes bythe sight of you.”
There was very little to see, however, only a pretty Gabrielle dress, ofa soft warm shade of brown, coming to the tops of a trim pair of bootswith low heels. A seal-skin sack, cap, and mittens, with a glimpse ofscarlet at the throat, and the pretty curls tied up with a bright velvetof the same colour, completed the external adornment, making her looklike a robin redbreast wintry, yet warm.
“How do you like it, Rosy?” asked the Doctor, feeling that her opinionwas more important to the success of his new idea than that of all theaunts on the hill.
“I feel very odd and light, but I'm warm as a toast, and nothing seemsto be in my way,” answered Rose, with a skip which displayed shapelygaiters on legs that now might be as free and active as a boy's underthe modest skirts of the girl.
“You can run away from the mad dogs, and walk off at a smart pacewithout tumbling on your nose, now, I fancy?”
“Yes, uncle! suppose the dog coming, I just hop over a wall so and whenI walk of a cold day, I go like this.”
Entering fully into the spirit of the thing, Rose swung herself overthe high back of the sofa as easily as one of her cousins, and thenwent down the long hall as if her stout boots were related to the famousseven-leaguers.
“There! you see how it will be; dress her in that boyish way and shewill act like a boy. I do hate all these inventions of strong-mindedwomen!” exclaimed Mrs. Clara, as Rose came back at a run.
“Ah, but you see some of these sensible inventions come from the brainof a fashionable modiste, who will make you more lovely, or what youvalue more 'stylish' outside and comfortable within. Mrs. Van Tasselhas been to Madame Stone, and is wearing a full suit of this sort. Vanhimself told me, when I asked how she was, that she had given up lyingon the sofa, and was going about in a most astonishing way, consideringher feeble health.”
“You don't say so! Let me see that book a moment,” and Aunt Claraexamined the new patterns with a more respectful air, for if the elegantMrs. Van Tassel wore these “dreadful things” it would never do to beleft behind, in spite of her prejudices.
Dr. Alec looked at Mrs. Jessie, and both smiled, for “little Mum” hadbeen in the secret, and enjoyed it mightily.
“I thought that would settle it,” he said with a nod.
“I didn't wait for Mrs. Van to lead the way, and for once in my life Ihave adopted a new fashion before Clara. My freedom suit is ordered, andyou may see me playing tag with Rose and the boys before long,” answeredMrs. Jessie, nodding back at him.
Meantime Aunt Plenty was examining Rose's costume, for the hat and sackwere off, and the girl was eagerly explaining the new under-garments.
“See, auntie, all nice scarlet flannel, and a gay little petticoat, andlong stockings, oh, so warm! Phebe and I nearly died laughing when I putthis rig on, but I like it ever so much. The dress is so comfortable,and doesn't need any belt or sash, and I can sit without rumpling anytrimming, that's such a comfort! I like to be tidy, and so, when I wearfussed-up things, I'm thinking of my clothes all the time, and that'stiresome. Do say you like it. I resolved I would, just to please uncle,for he does know more about health than anyone else, I'm sure, and I'dwear a bag if he asked me to do it.”
“I don't ask that, Rose, but I wish you'd weigh and compare thetwo suits, and then choose which seems best. I leave it to your owncommonsense,” answered Dr. Alec, feeling pretty sure he had won.
“Why, I take this one, of course, uncle. The other is fashionable, andyes I must say I think it's pretty but it's very heavy, and I shouldhave to go round like a walking doll if I wore it. I'm much obliged toauntie, but I'll keep this, please.”
Rose spoke gently but decidedly, though there was a look of regret whenher eye fell on the other suit which Phebe had brought in; and it wasvery natural to like to look as other girls did. Aunt Clara sighed;Uncle Alec smiled, and said heartily,
“Thank you, dear; now read this book and you will understand why I askit of you. Then, if you like, I'll give you a new lesson; you asked forone yesterday, and this is more necessary than French or housekeeping.”
“Oh, what?” and Rose caught up the book which Mrs. Clara had thrown downwith a disgusted look.
Though Dr. Alec was forty, the boyish love of teasing was not yet deadin him, and, being much elated at his victory, he could not resist thetemptation of shocking Mrs. Clara by suggesting dreadful possibilities,so he answered, half in earnest, half in jest, “Physiology, Rose.Wouldn't you like to be a little medical student, with Uncle Doctor forteacher, and be ready to take up his practice when he has to stop? Ifyou agree, I'll hunt up my old skeleton to-morrow.”
That was too much for Aunt Clara, and she hastily departed, with hermind in a sad state of perturbation about Mrs. Van Tassel's new costumeand Rose's new study.


Chapter 19--Brother Bones
Rose accepted her uncle's offer, as Aunt Myra discovered two or threedays later. Coming in for an early call, and hearing voices in thestudy, she opened the door, gave a cry and shut it quickly, looking agood deal startled. The Doctor appeared in a moment, and begged to knowwhat the matter was.
“How can you ask when that long box looks so like a coffin I thought itwas one, and that dreadful thing stared me in the face as I opened thedoor,” answered Mrs. Myra, pointing to the skeleton that hung from thechandelier cheerfully grinning at all beholders.
“This is a medical college where women are freely admitted, so walk in,madam, and join the class if you'll do me the honour,” said the Doctor,waving her forward with his politest bow.
“Do, auntie, it's perfectly splendid,” cried Rose's voice, and Rose'sblooming face was seen behind the ribs of the skeleton, smiling andnodding in the gayest possible manner.
“What are you doing, child?” demanded Aunt Myra, dropping into a chairand staring about her.
“Oh, I'm learning bones to-day, and I like it so much. There are twelveribs, you know, and the two lower ones are called floating ribs, becausethey are not fastened to the breastbone. That's why they go in so easilyif you lace tight and squeeze the lungs and heart in the let me see,what was that big word oh, I know thoracic cavity,” and Rose beamed withpride as she aired her little bit of knowledge.
“Do you think that is a good sort of thing for her to be poking over?She is a nervous child, and I'm afraid it will be bad for her,” saidAunt Myra, watching Rose as she counted vertebrae, and waggled ahip-joint in its socket with an inquiring expression.
“An excellent study, for she enjoys it, and I mean to teach her howto manage her nerves so that they won't be a curse to her, as many awoman's become through ignorance or want of thought. To make a mysteryor terror of these things is a mistake, and I mean Rose shall understandand respect her body so well that she won't dare to trifle with it asmost women do.”
“And she really likes it?”
“Very much, auntie! It's all so wonderful, and so nicely planned, youcan hardly believe what you see. Just think, there are 600,000,000 aircells in one pair of lungs, and 2,000 pores to a square inch of surface;so you see what quantities of air we must have, and what care we shouldtake of our skin so all the little doors will open and shut right. Andbrains, auntie, you've no idea how curious they are; I haven't got tothem yet, but I long to, and uncle is going to show me a manikin thatyou can take to pieces. Just think how nice it will be to see all theorgans in their places; I only wish they could be made to work as oursdo.”
It was funny to see Aunt Myra's face as Rose stood before her talkingrapidly with one hand laid in the friendliest manner on the skeleton'sshoulder. Every word both the Doctor and Rose uttered hit the good ladyin her weakest spot, and as she looked and listened a long array ofbottles and pill-boxes rose up before her, reproaching her with the“ignorance and want of thought” that made her what she was, a nervous,dyspeptic, unhappy old woman.
“Well, I don't know but you may be right, Alec, only I wouldn't carryit too far. Women don't need much of this sort of knowledge, and are notfit for it. I couldn't bear to touch that ugly thing, and it gives methe creeps to hear about 'organs,'” said Aunt Myra, with a sigh and herhand on her side.
“Wouldn't it be a comfort to know that your liver was on the right side,auntie, and not on the left!” asked Rose with a naughty laugh in hereyes, for she had lately learnt that Aunt Myra's liver complaint was notin the proper place.
“It's a dying world, child, and it don't much matter where the painis, for sooner or later we all drop off and are seen no more,” was AuntMyra's cheerful reply.
“Well, I intend to know what kills me if I can, and meantime, I'm goingto enjoy myself in spite of a dying world. I wish you'd do so too, andcome and study with uncle, it would do you good, I'm sure,” and Rosewent back to counting vertebrae with such a happy face, that Aunt Myrahad not the heart to say a word to dampen her ardour.
“Perhaps it's as well to let her do what she likes the little whileshe is with us. But pray be careful of her, Alec, and not allow her tooverwork,” she whispered as she went out.
“That's exactly what I'm trying to do, ma'am, and rather a hard jobI find it,” he added, as he shut the door, for the dear aunts weredreadfully in his way sometimes.
Half an hour later came another interruption in the shape of Mac, whoannounced his arrival by the brief but elegant remark,
“Hullo! what new game is this?”
Rose explained, Mac gave a long whistle of surprise, and then took apromenade round the skeleton, observing gravely,
“Brother Bones looks very jolly, but I can't say much for his beauty.”
“You mustn't make fun of him, for he's a good old fellow, and you'd bejust as ugly if your flesh was off,” said Rose, defending her new friendwith warmth.
“I dare say, so I'll keep my flesh on, thank you. You are so busy youcan't read to a fellow, I suppose?” asked Mac, whose eyes were better,but still too weak for books.
“Don't you want to come and join my class? Uncle explains it all to us,and you can take a look at the plates as they come along. We'll giveup bones today and have eyes instead; that will be more interesting toyou,” added Rose, seeing no ardent thirst for physiological informationin his face.
“Rose, we must not fly about from one thing to another in this way,” began Dr. Alec, but she whispered quickly, with a nod towards Mac, whosegoggles were turned wistfully in the direction of the forbidden books,
“He's blue to-day, and we must amuse him; give a little lecture on eyes,and it will do him good. No matter about me, uncle.”
“Very well; the class will please be seated,” and the Doctor gave asounding rap on the table.
“Come, sit by me, dear, then we can both see the pictures; and if yourhead gets tired you can lie down,” said Rose, generously opening herlittle college to a brother, and kindly providing for the weaknessesthat all humanity is subject to.
Side by side they sat and listened to a very simple explanation of themechanism of the eye, finding it as wonderful as a fairy tale, for fineplates illustrated it, and a very willing teacher did his best to makethe lesson pleasant.
“Jove! if I'd known what mischief I was doing to that mighty delicatemachine of mine, you wouldn't have caught me reading by firelight,or studying with a glare of sunshine on my book,” said Mac, peeringsolemnly at a magnified eye-ball; then, pushing it away, he addedindignantly, “Why isn't a fellow taught all about his works, and howto manage 'em, and not left to go blundering into all sorts of worries?Telling him after he's down isn't much use, for then he's found it outhimself and won't thank you.”
“Ah, Mac, that's just what I keep lecturing about, and people won'tlisten. You lads need that sort of knowledge so much, and fathers andmothers ought to be able to give it to you. Few of them are able, andso we all go blundering, as you say. Less Greek and Latin and moreknowledge of the laws of health for my boys, if I had them. Mathematicsare all very well, but morals are better, and I wish, how I wish that Icould help teachers and parents to feel it as they ought.”
“Some do; Aunt Jessie and her boys have capital talks, and I wish wecould; but mother's so busy with her housekeeping, and father with hisbusiness, there never seems to be any time for that sort of thing; evenif there was, it don't seem as if it would be easy to talk to them,because we've never got into the way of it, you know.”
Poor Mac was right there, and expressed a want that many a boy and girlfeels. Fathers and mothers are too absorbed in business and housekeepingto study their children, and cherish that sweet and natural confidencewhich is a child's surest safeguard, and a parent's subtlest power. Sothe young hearts hide trouble or temptation till the harm is done, andmutual regret comes too late. Happy the boys and girls who tell allthings freely to father or mother, sure of pity, help, and pardon; andthrice happy the parents who, out of their own experience, and bytheir own virtues, can teach and uplift the souls for which they areresponsible.
This longing stirred in the hearts of Rose and Mac, and by a naturalimpulse both turned to Dr. Alec, for in this queer world of ours,fatherly and motherly hearts often beat warm and wise in the breastsof bachelor uncles and maiden aunts; and it is my private opinion thatthese worthy creatures are a beautiful provision of nature for thecherishing of other people's children. They certainly get great comfortout of it, and receive much innocent affection that otherwise would belost.
Dr. Alec was one of these, and his big heart had room for every one ofthe eight cousins, especially orphaned Rose and afflicted Mac; so, whenthe boy uttered that unconscious reproach to his parents, and Rose addedwith a sigh, “It must be beautiful to have a mother!” the good Doctoryearned over them, and, shutting his book with a decided slam, said inthat cordial voice of his,
“Now, look here, children, you just come and tell me all your worries,and with God's help, I'll settle them for you. That is what I'm herefor, I believe, and it will be a great happiness to me if you can trustme.”
“We can, uncle, and we will!” both answered, with a heartiness thatgratified him much.
“Good! now school is dismissed, and I advise you to go and refresh your600,000,000 air cells by a brisk run in the garden. Come again wheneveryou like, Mac, and we'll teach you all we can about your 'works,' as youcall them, so you can keep them running smoothly.”
“We'll come, sir, much obliged,” and the class in physiology went out towalk.
Mac did come again, glad to find something he could study in spite ofhis weak eyes, and learned much that was of more value than anything hisschool had ever taught him.
Of course, the other lads made great fun of the whole thing, andplagued Dr. Alec's students half out of their lives. But they kepton persistently, and one day something happened which made the otherfellows behave themselves for ever after.
It was a holiday, and Rose up in her room thought she heard the voicesof her cousins, so she ran down to welcome them, but found no one there.
“Never mind, they will be here soon, and then we'll have a frolic,” shesaid to herself, and thinking she had been mistaken she went into thestudy to wait. She was lounging over the table looking at a map when anodd noise caught her ear. A gentle tapping somewhere, and following thesound it seemed to come from the inside of the long case in which theskeleton lived when not professionally engaged. This case stood uprightin a niche between two book-cases at the back of the room, a darkishcorner, where Brother Bones, as the boys would call him, was out of theway.
As Rose stood looking in that direction, and wondering if a rat had gotshut in, the door of the case swung slowly open, and with a great startshe saw a bony arm lifted, and a bony finger beckon to her. For a minuteshe was frightened, and ran to the study door with a fluttering heart,but just as she touched the handle a queer, stifled sort of giggle madeher stop short and turn red with anger. She paused an instant to collectherself, and then went softly toward the bony beckoner. A nearer lookrevealed black threads tied to the arm and fingers, the ends of threadsdisappearing through holes bored in the back of the case. Peeping intothe dark recess, she also caught sight of the tip of an elbow coveredwith a rough gray cloth which she knew very well.
Quick as a flash she understood the joke, her fear vanished, and witha wicked smile, she whipped out her scissors, cut the threads, andthe bony arm dropped with a rattle. Before she could say, “Come out,Charlie, and let my skeleton alone,” a sudden irruption of boys, all ina high state of tickle, proclaimed to the hidden rogue that his joke wasa failure.
“I told him not to do it, because it might give you a start,” explainedArchie, emerging from the closet.
“I had a smelling bottle all ready if she fainted away,” added Steve,popping up from behind the great chair.
“It's too bad of you not to squawk and run; we depended on it, it's suchfun to howl after you,” said Will and Geordie, rolling out from underthe sofa in a promiscuous heap.
“You are getting altogether too strong-minded, Rose; most girls wouldhave been in a jolly twitter to see this old fellow waggling his fingerat them,” complained Charlie, squeezing out from his tight quarters,dusty and disgusted.
“I'm used to your pranks now, so I'm always on the watch and prepared.But I won't have Brother Bones made fun of. I know uncle wouldn't likeit, so please don't,” began Rose just as Dr. Alec came in, and, seeingthe state of the case at a glance, he said quietly,
“Hear how I got that skeleton, and then I'm sure you will treat it withrespect.”
The boys settled down at once on any article of furniture that wasnearest and listened dutifully.
“Years ago, when I was in the hospital, a poor fellow was brought therewith a rare and very painful disease. There was no hope for him, but wedid our best, and he was so grateful that when he died he left us hisbody that we might discover the mysteries of his complaint, and so beable to help others afflicted in the same way. It did do good, and hisbrave patience made us remember him long after he was gone. He thoughtI had been kind to him, and said to a fellow-student of mine, 'Tell theDoctor I lave him me bones, for I've nothing else in the wide world, andI'll nos be wanting 'em at all, at all, when the great pain hat kilt meentirely.' So that is how they came to be mine, and why I've kept themcarefully, for, though only a poor, ignorant fellow, Mike Nolan did whathe could to help others, and prove his gratitude to those who tried tohelp him.”
As Dr. Alec paused, Archie closed the door of the case as respectfullyas if the mummy of an Egyptian king was inside; Will and Geordie lookedsolemnly at one another, evidently much impressed, and Charlie pensivelyremarked from the coal-hod where he sat,
“I've often heard of a skeleton in the house, but I think few peoplehave one as useful and as interesting as ours.”


Chapter 20--Under The Mistletoe
Rose made Phebe promise that she would bring her stocking into the“Bower,” as she called her pretty room, on Christmas morning, becausethat first delicious rummage loses half its charm if two littlenight-caps at least do not meet over the treasures, and two happy voicesOh and Ah together.
So when Rose opened her eyes that day they fell upon faithful Phebe,rolled up in a shawl, sitting on the rug before a blazing fire, with heruntouched stocking laid beside her.
“Merry Christmas!” cried the little mistress smiling gaily.
“Merry Christmas!” answered the little maid, so heartily that it did onegood to hear her.
“Bring the stockings right away, Phebe, and let's see what we've got,” said Rose, sitting up among the pillows, and looking as eager as achild.
A pair of long knobby hose were laid out upon the coverlet, and theircontents examined with delight, though each knew every blessed thingthat had been put into the other's stocking.
Never mind what they were; it is evident that they were quitesatisfactory, for as Rose leaned back, she said, with a luxurious sighof satisfaction, “Now, I believe I've got everything in the world that Iwant,” and Phebe answered, smiling over a lapful of treasures, “This isthe most splendid Christmas I ever had since I was born.” Then she addedwith an important air,
“Do wish for something else, because I happen to know of two morepresents outside the door this minute.”
“Oh, me, what richness!” cried Rose, much excited. “I used to wish fora pair of glass slippers like Cinderella's, but as I can't have them, Ireally don't know what to ask for.”
Phebe clapped her hands as she skipped off the bed and ran to the door,saying merrily, “One of them is for your feet, anyway. I don't know whatyou'll say to the other, but I think it's elegant.”
So did Rose, when a shining pair of skates and a fine sled appeared.
“Uncle sent those; I know he did; and, now I see them, I remember thatI did want to skate and coast. Isn't it a beauty? See! they fit nicely,” and, sitting on the new sled, Rose tried a skate on her little barefoot, while Phebe stood by admiring the pretty tableau.
“Now we must hurry and get dressed, for there is a deal to do to-day,and I want to get through in time to try my sled before dinner.”
“Gracious me, and I ought to be dusting my parlors this blessed minute!” and mistress and maid separated with such happy faces that anyone wouldhave known what day it was without being told.
“Birnam Wood has come to Dunsinane, Rosy,” said Dr. Alec, as he left thebreakfast table to open the door for a procession of holly, hemlock, andcedar boughs that came marching up the steps.
Snowballs and “Merry Christmases!” flew about pretty briskly for severalminutes; then all fell to work trimming the old house, for the familyalways dined together there on that day.
“I rode miles and mileses, as Ben says, to get this fine bit, and I'mgoing to hang it there as the last touch to the rig-a-madooning,” saidCharlie, as he fastened a dull green branch to the chandelier in thefront parlor.
“It isn't very pretty,” said Rose, who was trimming the chimney-piecewith glossy holly sprays.
“Never mind that, it's mistletoe, and anyone who stands under it willget kissed whether they like it or not. Now's your time, ladies,” answered the saucy Prince, keeping his place and looking sentimentallyat the girls, who retired precipitately from the dangerous spot.
“You won't catch me,” said Rose, with great dignity.
“See if I don't!”
“I've got my eye on Phebe,” observed Will, in a patronising tone thatmade them all laugh.
“Bless the dear; I shan't mind it a bit,” answered Phebe, with such amaternal air that Will's budding gallantry was chilled to death.
“Oh, the mistletoe bough,” sang Rose.
“Oh, the mistletoe bough!” echoed all the boys, and the teasing ended inthe plaintive ballad they all liked so well.
There was plenty of time to try the new skates before dinner, and thenRose took her first lesson on the little bay, which seemed to havefrozen over for that express purpose. She found tumbling down andgetting up again warm work for a time, but with six boys to teach her,she managed at last to stand alone; and, satisfied with that success,she refreshed herself with a dozen grand coasts on the Amazon, as hersled was called.
“Ah, that fatal colour! it breaks my heart to see it,” croaked AuntMyra, as Rose came down a little late, with cheeks almost as ruddyas the holly berries on the wall, and every curl as smooth as Phebe'scareful hands could make it.
“I'm glad to see that Alec allows the poor child to make herself prettyin spite of his absurd notions,” added Aunt Clara, taking infinitesatisfaction in the fact that Rose's blue silk dress had three frills onit.
“She's a very intelligent child, and has a nice little manner of herown,” observed Aunt Jane, with unusual affability; for Rose had justhanded Mac a screen to guard his eyes from the brilliant fire.
“If I had a daughter like that to show my Jem when he gets home, Ishould be a very proud and happy woman,” thought Aunt Jessie, and thenreproached herself for not being perfectly satisfied with her four bravelads.
Aunt Plenty was too absorbed in the dinner to have an eye for anythingelse; if she had not been, she would have seen what an effect her newcap produced upon the boys. The good lady owned that she did “love adressy cap,” and on this occasion her head gear was magnificent; forthe towering structure of lace was adorned with buff ribbons to such anextent that it looked as if a flock of yellow butterflies had settled onher dear old head. When she trotted about the rooms the ruches quivered,the little bows all stood erect, and the streamers waved in the breezeso comically that it was absolutely necessary for Archie to smother theBrats in the curtains till they had had their first laugh out.
Uncle Mac had brought Fun See to dinner, and it was a mercy he did,for the elder lads found a vent for their merriment in joking the youngChinaman on his improved appearance. He was in American costume now,with a cropped head, and spoke remarkably good English after six monthsat school; but, for all that, his yellow face and beady eyes made acurious contrast to the blonde Campbells all about him. Will called himthe “Typhoon,” meaning Tycoon, and the name stuck to him to his greatdisgust.
Aunt Peace was brought down and set in the chair of state at table, forshe never failed to join the family on this day, and sat smiling at themall, “like an embodiment of Peace on earth,” Uncle Alec said, as he tookhis place beside her, while Uncle Mac supported Aunt Plenty at the otherend.
“I ate hardly any breakfast, and I've done everything I know to makemyself extra hungry, but I really don't think I can eat straightthrough, unless I burst my buttons off,” whispered Geordie to Will, ashe surveyed the bounteous stores before him with a hopeless sigh.
“A fellow never knows what he can do till he tries,” answered Will,attacking his heaped-up plate with an evident intention of doing hisduty like a man.
Everybody knows what a Christmas dinner is, so we need waste no words indescribing this one, but hasten at once to tell what happened at theend of it. The end, by the way, was so long in coming that the gas waslighted before dessert was over, for a snow flurry had come on and thewintry daylight faded fast. But that only made it all the jollier in thewarm, bright rooms, full of happy souls. Everyone was very merry, butArchie seemed particularly uplifted so much so, that Charlie confided toRose that he was afraid the Chief had been at the decanters.
Rose indignantly denied the insinuation, for when healths were drunkin the good old-fashioned way to suit the elders, she had observed thatAunt Jessie's boys filled their glasses with water, and had done thesame herself in spite of the Prince's jokes about “the rosy.”
But Archie certainly was unusually excited, and when someone rememberedthat it was the anniversary of Uncle Jem's wedding, and wished he wasthere to make a speech, his son electrified the family by trying to doit for him. It was rather incoherent and flowery, as maiden speeches areapt to be, but the end was considered superb; for, turning to his motherwith a queer little choke in his voice, he said that she “deserved to beblessed with peace and plenty, to be crowned with roses and lads'-love,and to receive the cargo of happiness sailing home to her in spite ofwind or tide to add another Jem to the family jewels.”
That allusion to the Captain, now on his return trip, made Mrs. Jessiesob in her napkin, and set the boys cheering. Then, as if that was notsensation enough, Archie suddenly dashed out of the room, as if he hadlost his wits.
“Too bashful to stay and be praised,” began Charlie, excusing thepeculiarities of his chief as in duty bound.
“Phebe beckoned to him; I saw her,” cried Rose, staring hard at thedoor.
“Is it more presents coming?” asked Jamie, just as his brotherre-appeared, looking more excited than ever.
“Yes; a present for mother, and here it is!” roared Archie, flingingwide the door to let in a tall man, who cried out,
“Where's my little woman? The first kiss for her, then the rest may comeon as fast as they like.”
Before the words were out of his mouth, Mrs. Jessie was half-hiddenunder his rough great-coat, and four boys were prancing about himclamouring for their turn.
Of course, there was a joyful tumult for a time, during which Roseslipped into the window recess and watched what went on, as if it werea chapter in a Christmas story. It was good to see bluff Uncle Jem lookproudly at his tall son, and fondly hug the little ones. It was betterstill to see him shake his brothers' hands as if he would never leaveoff, and kiss all the sisters in a way that made even solemn Aunt Myrabrighten up for a minute. But it was best of all to see him finallyestablished in grandfather's chair, with his “little woman” beside him,his three youngest boys in his lap, and Archie hovering over him like alarge-sized cherub. That really was, as Charlie said, “A landscape to doone's heart good.”
“All hearty and all here, thank God!” said Captain Jem in the firstpause that came, as he looked about him with a grateful face.
“All but Rose,” answered loyal little Jamie, remembering the absent.
“Faith, I forgot the child! Where is George's little girl?” asked theCaptain, who had not seen her since she was a baby.
“You'd better say Alec's great girl,” said Uncle Mac, who professed tobe madly jealous of his brother.
“Here I am, sir,” and Rose appeared from behind the curtains, looking asif she had rather have stayed there.
“Saint George Germain, how the mite has grown!” cried Captain Jem, as hetumbled the boys out of his lap, and rose to greet the tall girl, likea gentleman as he was. But, somehow, when he shook her hand it looked sosmall in his big one, and her face reminded him so strongly of his deadbrother, that he was not satisfied with so cold a welcome, and witha sudden softening of the keen eyes he took her up in his arms,whispering, with a rough cheek against her smooth one,
“God bless you, child! forgive me if I forgot you for a minute, and besure that not one of your kinsfolk is happier to see you here than UncleJem.”
That made it all right; and when he set her down, Rose's face wasso bright it was evident that some spell had been used to banish thefeeling of neglect that had kept her moping behind the curtain so long.
That everyone sat round and heard all about the voyage home how theCaptain had set his heart on getting there in time to keep Christmas;how everything had conspired to thwart his plan; and how, at the verylast minute, he had managed to do it, and had sent a telegram to Archie,bidding him keep the secret, and be ready for his father at any moment,for the ship got into another port, and he might be late.
Then Archie told how that telegram had burnt in his pocket alldinner-time; how he had to take Phebe into his confidence, and howclever she was to keep the Captain back till the speech was over and hecould come in with effect.
The elders would have sat and talked all the evening, but the youngfolks were bent on having their usual Christmas frolic; so, after anhour of pleasant chat, they began to get restless, and having consultedtogether in dumb show, they devised a way to very effectually break upthe family council.
Steve vanished, and, sooner than the boys imagined Dandy could gethimself up, the skirl of the bag-pipe was heard in the hall, and thebonny piper came to lead Clan Campbell to the revel.
“Draw it mild, Stevie, my man; ye play unco weel, but ye mak a mostinfernal din,” cried Uncle Jem, with his hands over his ears, for thisaccomplishment was new to him, and “took him all aback,” as he expressedit.
So Steve droned out a Highland reel as softly as he could, and the boysdanced it to a circle of admiring relations. Captain Jem was a truesailor, however, and could not stand idle while anything lively wasgoing on; so, when the piper's breath gave out, he cut a splendidpigeon-wing into the middle of the hall, saying, “Who can dance a Foreand After?” and, waiting for no reply, began to whistle the air soinvitingly that Mrs Jessie “set” to him laughing like a girl; Rose andCharlie took their places behind, and away went the four with a spiritand skill that inspired all the rest to “cut in” as fast as they could.
That was a grand beginning, and they had many another dance beforeanyone would own they were tired. Even Fun See distinguished himselfwith Aunt Plenty, whom he greatly admired as the stoutest lady in thecompany; plumpness being considered a beauty in his country. The merryold soul professed herself immensely flattered by his admiration, andthe boys declared she “set her cap at him,” else he would never havedared to catch her under the mistletoe, and, rising on the tips of hisown toes, gallantly salute her fat cheek.
How they all laughed at her astonishment, and how Fun's little blackeyes twinkled over this exploit! Charlie put him up to it, and Charliewas so bent on catching Rose, that he laid all sorts of pitfalls forher, and bribed the other lads to help him. But Rose was wide-awake,and escaped all his snares, professing great contempt for such foolishcustoms. Poor Phebe did not fare so well, and Archie was the only onewho took a base advantage of her as she stood innocently offering tea toAunt Myra, whom she happened to meet just under the fatal bough. Ifhis father's arrival had not rather upset him, I doubt if the dignifiedChief would have done it, for he apologized at once in the handsomestmanner, and caught the tray that nearly dropped from Phebe's hands.
Jamie boldly invited all the ladies to come and salute him; and as forUncle Jem, he behaved as if the entire room was a grove of mistletoe.Uncle Alec slyly laid a bit of it on Aunt Peace's cap, and then softlykissed her; which little joke seemed to please her very much, for sheliked to have part in all the home pastimes, and Alec was her favouritenephew.
Charlie alone failed to catch his shy bird, and the oftener she escapedthe more determined he was to ensnare her. When every other wile hadbeen tried in vain, he got Archie to propose a game with forfeits.
“I understand that dodge,” thought Rose, and was on her guard socarefully that not one among the pile soon collected belonged to her.
“Now let us redeem them and play something else,” said Will, quiteunconscious of the deeply-laid plots all about him.
“One more round and then we will,” answered the Prince, who had nowbaited his trap anew.
Just as the question came to Rose, Jamie's voice was heard in the hall,crying distressfully, “Oh, come quick, quick!” Rose started up, missedthe question, and was greeted with a general cry of “Forfeit! forfeit!” in which the little traitor came to join.
“Now I've got her,” thought the young rascal, exulting in his fun-lovingsoul.
“Now I'm lost,” thought Rose, as she gave up her pin-cushion with asternly defiant look that would have daunted anyone but the recklessPrince. In fact, it made even him think twice, and resolve to “let Roseoff easy,'' she had been so clever.
“Here's a very pretty pawn, and what shall be done to redeem it?” askedSteve, holding the pin-cushion over Charlie's head, for he had insistedon being judge, and kept that for the last.
“Fine or superfine?”
“Super.”
“Hum, well, she shall take old Mac under the mistletoe, and kiss himprettily. Won't he be mad, though?” and this bad boy chuckled over thediscomfort he had caused two harmless beings.
There was an impressive pause among the young folks in their corner, forthey all knew that Mac would “be mad,” since he hated nonsense of thissort, and had gone to talk with the elders when the game began. Atthis moment he was standing before the fire, listening to a discussionbetween his uncles and his father, looking as wise as a young owl, andblissfully unconscious of the plots against him.
Charlie expected that Rose would say, “I won't!” therefore he was ratherastonished, not to say gratified, when, after a look at the victim,she laughed suddenly, and, going up to the group of gentlemen, drew heruncle Mac under the mistletoe and surprised him with a hearty kiss.
“Thank you, my dear,” said the innocent gentleman, looking much pleasedat the unexpected honour.
“Oh, come; that's not fair,” began Charlie. But Rose cut him short bysaying, as she made him a fine courtesy,
“You said 'Old Mac,' and though it was very disrespectful, I did it.That was your last chance, sir, and you've lost it.”
He certainly had, for, as he spoke, Rose pulled down the mistletoe andthrew it into the fire, while the boys jeered at the crestfallen Prince,and exalted quick-witted Rose to the skies.
“What's the joke?” asked young Mac, waked out of a brown study by thelaughter, in which the elders joined.
But there was a regular shout when, the matter having been explained tohim, Mac took a meditative stare at Rose through his goggles, and saidin a philosophical tone, “Well, I don't think I should have minded muchif she had done it.”
That tickled the lads immensely, and nothing but the appearance of aslight refection would have induced them to stop chaffing the poor Worm,who could not see anything funny in the beautiful resignation he hadshown on this trying occasion.
Soon after this, the discovery of Jamie curled up in the sofa corner, assound asleep as a dormouse, suggested the propriety of going home, and ageneral move was made.
They were all standing about the hall lingering over the good-nights,when the sound of a voice softly singing “Sweet Home,” made them pauseand listen. It was Phebe, poor little Phebe, who never had a home, neverknew the love of father or mother, brother or sister; who stood allalone in the wide world, yet was not sad nor afraid, but took her bitsof happiness gratefully, and sung over her work without a thought ofdiscontent.
I fancy the happy family standing there together remembered this andfelt the beauty of it, for when the solitary voice came to the burden ofits song, other voices took it up and finished it so sweetly, that theold house seemed to echo the word “Home” in the ears of both the orphangirls, who had just spent their first Christmas under its hospitableroof.


Chapter 21--A Scare
“Brother Alec, you surely don't mean to allow that child to go out sucha bitter cold day as this,” said Mrs. Myra, looking into the study,where the Doctor sat reading his paper, one February morning.
“Why not? If a delicate invalid like yourself can bear it, surelymy hearty girl can, especially as she is dressed for cold weather,” answered Dr. Alec with provoking confidence.
“But you have no idea how sharp the wind is. I am chilled to the verymarrow of my bones,” answered Aunt Myra, chafing the end of her purplenose with her sombre glove.
“I don't doubt it, ma'am, if you will wear crape and silk instead of furand flannel. Rosy goes out in all weathers, and will be none the worsefor an hour's brisk skating.”
“Well, I warn you that you are trifling with the child's health, anddepending too much on the seeming improvement she has made this year.She is a delicate creature for all that, and will drop away suddenly atthe first serious attack, as her poor mother did,” croaked Aunt Myra,with a despondent wag of the big bonnet.
“I'll risk it,” answered Dr. Alec, knitting his brows, as he always didwhen any allusion was made to that other Rose.
“Mark my words, you will repent it,” and with that awful prophecy, AuntMyra departed like a black shadow.
Now it must be confessed that among the Doctor's failings and he had hisshare was a very masculine dislike of advice which was thrust upon himunasked. He always listened with respect to the great-aunts, and oftenconsulted Mrs. Jessie; but the other three ladies tried his patiencesorely, by constant warnings, complaints and counsels. Aunt Myra was anespecial trial, and he always turned contrary the moment she beganto talk. He could not help it, and often laughed about it with comicfrankness. Here now was a sample of it, for he had just been thinkingthat Rose had better defer her run till the wind went down and the sunwas warmer. But Aunt Myra spoke, and he could not resist the temptationto make light of her advice, and let Rose brave the cold. He had nofear of its harming her, for she went out every day, and it was a greatsatisfaction to him to see her run down the avenue a minute afterward,with her skates on her arm, looking like a rosy-faced Esquimaux in herseal-skin suit, as she smiled at Aunt Myra stalking along as solemnly asa crow.
“I hope the child won't stay out long, for this wind is enough to chillthe marrow in younger bones than Myra's,” thought Dr. Alec, half anhour later, as he drove toward the city to see the few patients he hadconsented to take for old acquaintance' sake.
The thought returned several times that morning, for it was truly abitter day, and, in spite of his bear-skin coat, the Doctor shivered.But he had great faith in Rose's good sense, and it never occurredto him that she was making a little Casabianca of herself, with thedifference of freezing instead of burning at her post.
You see, Mac had made an appointment to meet her at a certain spot, andhave a grand skating bout as soon as the few lessons he was allowed wereover. She had promised to wait for him, and did so with a faithfulnessthat cost her dear, because Mac forgot his appointment when the lessonswere done, and became absorbed in a chemical experiment, till a generalcombustion of gases drove him out of his laboratory. Then he suddenlyremembered Rose, and would gladly have hurried away to her, but hismother forbade his going out, for the sharp wind would hurt his eyes.
“She will wait and wait, mother, for she always keeps her word, andI told her to hold on till I came,” explained Mac, with visions of ashivering little figure watching on the windy hill-top.
“Of course, your uncle won't let her go out such a day as this. If hedoes, she will have the sense to come here for you, or to go home againwhen you don't appear,” said Aunt Jane, returning to her “Watts on theMind.”
“I wish Steve would just cut up and see if she's there, since I can'tgo,” began Mac, anxiously.
“Steve won't stir a peg, thank you. He's got his own toes to thawout, and wants his dinner,” answered Dandy, just in from school, andwrestling impatiently with his boots.
So Mac resigned himself, and Rose waited dutifully till dinner-timeassured her that her waiting was in vain. She had done her best to keepwarm, had skated till she was tired and hot, then stood watching otherstill she was chilled; tried to get up a glow again by trotting up anddown the road, but failed to do so, and finally cuddled disconsolatelyunder a pine-tree to wait and watch. When she at length started forhome, she was benumbed with cold, and could hardly make her way againstthe wind that buffeted the frost-bitten rose most unmercifully.
Dr. Alec was basking in the warmth of the study fire, after his drive,when the sound of a stifled sob made him hurry to the door and lookanxiously into the hall. Rose lay in a shivering bunch near theregister, with her things half off, wringing her hands, and tryingnot to cry with the pain returning warmth brought to her half-frozenfingers.
“My darling, what is it?” and Uncle Alec had her in his arms in aminute.
“Mac didn't come I can't get warm the fire makes me ache!” and with along shiver Rose burst out crying, while her teeth chattered, and herpoor little nose was so blue, it made one's heart ache to see it.
In less time than it takes to tell it, Dr. Alec had her on the sofarolled up in the bear-skin coat, with Phebe rubbing her cold feet whilehe rubbed the aching hands, and Aunt Plenty made a comfortable hotdrink, and Aunt Peace sent down her own foot-warmer and embroideredblanket “for the dear.”
Full of remorseful tenderness, Uncle Alec worked over his new patienttill she declared she was all right again. He would not let her get upto dinner, but fed her himself, and then forgot his own while he satwatching her fall into a drowse, for Aunt Plenty's cordial made hersleepy.
She lay so several hours for the drowse deepened into a heavy sleep, andUncle Alec, still at his post, saw with growing anxiety that a feverishcolour began to burn in her cheeks, that her breathing was quick anduneven, and now and then she gave a little moan, as if in pain. Suddenlyshe woke up with a start, and seeing Aunt Plenty bending over her, putout her arms like a sick child, saying wearily,
“Please, could I go to bed?”
“The best place for you, deary. Take her right up, Alec; I've got thehot water ready, and after a nice bath, she shall have a cup of my sagetea, and be rolled up in blankets to sleep off her cold,” answered theold lady, cheerily, as she bustled away to give orders.
“Are you in pain, darling?” asked Uncle Alec, as he carried her up.
“My side aches when I breathe, and I feel stiff and queer; but it isn'tbad, so don't be troubled, uncle,” whispered Rose, with a little hothand against his cheek.
But the poor doctor did look troubled, and had cause to do so, forjust then Rose tried to laugh at Dolly charging into the room with awarming-pan, but could not, for the sharp pain took her breath away andmade her cry out.
“Pleurisy,” sighed Aunt Plenty, from the depths of the bath-tub.
“Pewmonia!” groaned Dolly, burrowing among the bedclothes with thelong-handled pan, as if bent on fishing up that treacherous disease.
“Oh, is it bad?” asked Phebe, nearly dropping a pail of hot water in herdismay, for she knew nothing of sickness, and Dolly's suggestion had apeculiarly dreadful sound to her.
“Hush!” ordered the Doctor, in a tone that silenced all furtherpredictions, and made everyone work with a will.
“Make her as comfortable as you can, and when she is in her little bedI'll come and say good-night,” he added, when the bath was ready and theblankets browning nicely before the fire.
Then he went away to talk quite cheerfully to Aunt Peace about its being“only a chill”; after which he tramped up and down the hall, pulling hisbeard and knitting his brows, sure signs of great inward perturbation.
“I thought it would be too good luck to get through the year without adownfall. Confound my perversity! Why couldn't I take Myra's advice andkeep Rose at home. It's not fair that the poor child should sufferfor my sinful over-confidence. She shall not suffer for it! Pneumonia,indeed! I defy it,” and he shook his fist in the ugly face of an Indianidol that happened to be before him, as if that particularly hideous godhad some spite against his own little goddess.
In spite of his defiance his heart sunk when he saw Rose again, forthe pain was worse, and the bath and blankets, the warming-pan andpiping-hot sage tea, were all in vain. For several hours there was norest for the poor child, and all manner of gloomy forebodings hauntedthe minds of those who hovered about her with faces full of thetenderest anxiety.
In the midst of the worst paroxysm Charlie came to leave a message fromhis mother, and was met by Phebe coming despondently downstairs with amustard plaster that had brought no relief.
“What the dickens is the matter? You look as dismal as a tombstone,” hesaid, as she held up her hand to stop his lively whistling.
“Miss Rose is dreadful sick.”
“The deuce she is!”
“Don't swear, Mr. Charlie; she really is, and it's Mr. Mac's fault,” andPhebe told the sad tale in a few sharp words, for she felt at war withthe entire race of boys at that moment.
“I'll give it to him, make your mind easy about that,” said Charlie,with an ominous doubling up of his fist. “But Rose isn't dangerouslyill, is she?” he added anxiously, as Aunt Plenty was seen to trot acrossthe upper hall, shaking a bottle violently as she went.
“Oh, but she is though. The Doctor don't say much, but he don't call ita 'chill' any more. It's 'pleurisy' now, and I'm so afraid it will bepewmonia to-morrow,” answered Phebe, with a despairing glance at theplaster.
Charlie exploded into a stifled laugh at the new pronunciation ofpneumonia, to Phebe's great indignation.
“How can you have the heart to do it, and she in such horrid pain? Harkto that, and then laugh if you darst,” she said with a tragic gesture,and her black eyes full of fire.
Charlie listened and heard little moans that went to his heart and madehis face as sober as Phebe's. “O uncle, please stop the pain, and let merest a minute! Don't tell the boys I wasn't brave. I try to bear it, butit's so sharp I can't help crying.”
Neither could Charlie, when he heard the broken voice say that; but,boy-like, he wouldn't own it, and said pettishly, as he rubbed hissleeve across his eyes,
“Don't hold that confounded thing right under my nose; the mustard makesmy eyes smart.”
“Don't see how it can, when it hasn't any more strength in it than meal.The Doctor said so, and I'm going to get some better,” began Phebe,not a bit ashamed of the great tears that were bedewing the condemnedplaster.
“I'll go!” and Charlie was off like a shot, glad of an excuse to get outof sight for a few minutes.
When he came back all inconvenient emotion had been disposed of, and,having delivered a box of the hottest mustard procurable for money, hedeparted to “blow up” Mac, that being his next duty in his opinion. Hedid it so energetically and thoroughly that the poor Worm was cast intothe depths of remorseful despair, and went to bed that evening feelingthat he was an outcast from among men, and bore the mark of Cain uponhis brow.
Thanks to the skill of the Doctor, and the devotion of his helpers, Rosegrew easier about midnight, and all hoped that the worst was over. Phebewas making tea by the study fire, for the Doctor had forgotten to eatand drink since Rose was ill, and Aunt Plenty insisted on his havinga “good cordial dish of tea” after his exertions. A tap on the windowstartled Phebe, and, looking up, she saw a face peering in. She wasnot afraid, for a second look showed her that it was neither ghost norburglar, but Mac, looking pale and wild in the wintry moonlight.
“Come and let a fellow in,” he said in a low tone, and when he stood inthe hall he clutched Phebe's arm, whispering gruffly, “How is Rose?”
“Thanks be to goodness, she's better,” answered Phebe, with a smile thatwas like broad sunshine to the poor lad's anxious heart.
“And she will be all right again to-morrow?”
“Oh, dear no! Dolly says she's sure to have rheumatic fever, if shedon't have noo-monia!” answered Phebe, careful to pronounce the wordrightly this time.
Down went Mac's face, and remorse began to gnaw at him again as he gavea great sigh and said doubtfully,
“I suppose I couldn't see her?”
“Of course not at this time of night, when we want her to go to sleep!”
Mac opened his mouth to say something more, when a sneeze came upon himunawares, and a loud “Ah rash hoo!” awoke the echoes of the quiet house.
“Why didn't you stop it?” said Phebe reproachfully. “I dare say you'vewaked her up.”
“Didn't know it was coming. Just my luck!” groaned Mac, turning to gobefore his unfortunate presence did more harm.
But a voice from the stair-head called softly, “Mac, come up; Rose wantsto see you.”
Up he went, and found his uncle waiting for him.
“What brings you here at this hour, my boy?” asked the Doctor in awhisper.
“Charlie said it was all my fault, and if she died I'd killed her. Icouldn't sleep, so I came to see how she was, and no one knows it butSteve,” he said with such a troubled face and voice that the Doctor hadnot the heart to blame him.
Before he could say anything more a feeble voice called “Mac!” and witha hasty “Stay a minute just to please her, and then slip away, for Iwant her to sleep,” the Doctor led him into the room.
The face on the pillow looked very pale and childish, and the smile thatwelcomed Mac was very faint, for Rose was spent with pain, yet could notrest till she had said a word of comfort to her cousin.
“I knew your funny sneeze, and I guessed that you came to see how I did,though it is very late. Don't be worried, I'm better now, and it is myfault I was ill, not yours; for I needn't have been so silly as to waitin the cold just because I said I would.”
Mac hastened to explain, to load himself with reproaches, and to begher not to die on any account, for Charlie's lecture had made a deepimpression on the poor boy's mind.
“I didn't know there was any danger of my dying,” and Rose looked up athim with a solemn expression in her great eyes.
“Oh, I hope not; but people do sometimes go suddenly, you know, and Icouldn't rest till I'd asked you to forgive me,” faltered Mac, thinkingthat Rose looked very like an angel already, with the golden hair looseon the pillow, and the meekness of suffering on her little white face.
“I don't think I shall die; uncle won't let me; but if I do, remember Iforgave you.”
She looked at him with a tender light in her eyes, and, seeing howpathetic his dumb grief was, she added softly, drawing his head down, “Iwouldn't kiss you under the mistletoe, but I will now, for I want you tobe sure I do forgive and love you just the same.”
That quite upset poor Mac; he could only murmur his thanks and get outof the room as fast as possible, to grope his way to the couch at thefar end of the hall, and lie there till he fell asleep, worn out withtrying not to “make a baby” of himself.


Chapter 22--Something to do
Whatever danger there might have been from the effects of that suddenchill, it was soon over, though, of course, Aunt Myra refused tobelieve it, and Dr. Alec cherished his girl with redoubled vigilance andtenderness for months afterward. Rose quite enjoyed being sick, becauseas soon as the pain ended the fun began, and for a week or two she ledthe life of a little princess secluded in the Bower, while every oneserved, amused, and watched over her in the most delightful manner. Butthe doctor was called away to see an old friend, who was dangerouslyill, and then Rose felt like a young bird deprived of its mother'ssheltering wing; especially on one afternoon when the aunts were takingtheir naps, and the house was very still within while snow fell softlywithout.
“I'll go and hunt up Phebe, she is always nice and busy, and likes tohave me help her. If Dolly is out of the way we can make caramels andsurprise the boys when they come,” Rose said to herself, as she threwdown her book and felt ready for society of some sort.
She took the precaution to peep through the slide before she entered thekitchen, for Dolly allowed no messing when she was round. But the coastwas clear, and no one but Phebe appeared, sitting at the table with herhead on her arms apparently asleep. Rose was just about to wake herwith a “Boo!” when she lifted her head, dried her wet eyes with herblue apron, and fell to work with a resolute face on something she wasevidently much interested in. Rose could not make out what it was,and her curiosity was greatly excited, for Phebe was writing with asputtering pen on some bits of brown paper, apparently copying somethingfrom a little book.
“I must know what the dear thing is about, and why she cried, and thenset her lips tight and went to work with all her might,” thought Rose,forgetting all about the caramels, and, going round to the door, sheentered the kitchen, saying pleasantly,
“Phebe, I want something to do. Can't you let me help you aboutanything, or shall I be in the way?”
“Oh, dear no, miss; I always love to have you round when things aretidy. What would you like to do?” answered Phebe, opening a drawer asif about to sweep her own affairs out of sight; but Rose stopped her,exclaiming, like a curious child,
“Let me see! What is it? I won't tell if you'd rather not have Dollyknow.”
“I'm only trying to study a bit; but I'm so stupid I don't get on much,” answered the girl reluctantly, permitting her little mistress to examinethe poor contrivances she was trying to work with.
A broken slate that had blown off the roof, an inch or two of pencil, anold almanac for a reader, several bits of brown or yellow paper ironedsmoothly and sewn together for a copy-book, and the copies sundryreceipts written in Aunt Plenty's neat hand. These, with a small bottleof ink and a rusty pen, made up Phebe's outfit, and it was little wonderthat she did not “get on” in spite of the patient persistence that driedthe desponding tears and drove along the sputtering pen with a will.
“You may laugh if you want to, Miss Rose, I know my things are queer,and that's why I hide 'em; but I don't mind since you've found me out,and I ain't a bit ashamed except of being so backward at my age,” saidPhebe humbly, though her cheeks grew redder as she washed out somecrooked capitals with a tear or two not yet dried upon the slate.
“Laugh at you! I feel more like crying to think what a selfish girl Iam, to have loads of books and things and never remember to give yousome. Why didn't you come and ask me, and not go struggling along alonein this way? It was very wrong of you, Phebe, and I'll never forgive youif you do so again,” answered Rose, with one hand on Phebe's shoulder,while the other gently turned the leaves of the poor little copy-book.
“I didn't like to ask for anything more when you are so good to me allthe time, miss, dear,” began Phebe, looking up with grateful eyes.
“O you proud thing! just as if it wasn't fun to give away, and I had thebest of it. Now, see here, I've got a plan and you mustn't say no, orI shall scold. I want something to do, and I'm going to teach you allI know; it won't take long,” and Rose laughed as she put her arm aroundPhebe's neck, and patted the smooth dark head with the kind little handthat so loved to give.
“It would be just heavenly!” and Phebe's face shone at the mere idea;but fell again as she added wistfully, “Only I'm afraid I ought notto let you do it, Miss Rose. It will take time, and maybe the Doctorwouldn't like it.”
“He didn't want me to study much, but he never said a word aboutteaching, and I don't believe he will mind a bit. Anyway, we can try ittill he comes, so pack up your things and go right to my room and we'llbegin this very day; I'd truly like to do it, and we'll have nice times,see if we don't!” cried Rose eagerly.
It was a pretty sight to see Phebe bundle her humble outfit into herapron, and spring up as if the desire of her heart had suddenly beenmade a happy fact to her; it was a still prettier sight to see Rose rungaily on before, smiling like a good fairy as she beckoned to the other,singing as she went,
    “The way into my parlour is up a winding stair,     And many are the curious things I'll show you when you're there.     Will you, will you walk in, Phebe dear?”
“Oh, won't I!” answered Phebe fervently, adding, as they entered theBower, “You are the dearest spider that ever was, and I'm the happiestfly.”
“I'm going to be very strict, so sit down in that chair and don't saya word till school is ready to open,” ordered Rose, delighted with theprospect of such a useful and pleasant “something to do.”
So Phebe sat demurely in her place while her new teacher laid forthbooks and slates, a pretty inkstand and a little globe; hastily tore abit off her big sponge, sharpened pencils with more energy than skill,and when all was ready gave a prance of satisfaction that set the pupillaughing.
“Now the school is open, and I shall hear you read, so that I may knowin which class to put you, Miss Moore,” began Rose with great dignity,as she laid a book before her scholar, and sat down in the easy chairwith a long rule in her hand.
Phebe did pretty well, only tripping now and then over a hard word, andpronouncing identical “identickle,” in a sober way that tickled Rose,though never a smile betrayed her. The spelling lesson which followedwas rather discouraging; Phebe's ideas of geography were very vague, andgrammar was nowhere, though the pupil protested that she tried so hardto “talk nice like educated folks” that Dolly called her “a stuck-uppiece who didn't know her place.”
“Dolly's an old goose, so don't you mind her, for she will say 'nater,''vittles,' and 'doos' as long as she lives, and insist that they areright. You do talk very nicely, Phebe, I've observed it, and grammarwill help you, and show you some things are right and others ain't arenot, I mean,” added Rose, correcting herself, and feeling that shemust mind her own parts of speech if she was to serve as an example forPhebe.
When the arithmetic came, the little teacher was surprised to find herscholar quicker in some things than herself, for Phebe had worked awayat the columns in the butcher's and baker's books till she could add soquickly and correctly that Rose was amazed, and felt that in this branchthe pupil would soon excel the teacher if she kept on at the same pace.Her praise cheered Phebe immensely, and they went bravely on, bothgetting so interested that time flew unheeded till Aunt Plenty appeared,exclaiming, as she stared at the two heads bent over one slate,
“Bless my heart, what is going on now?”
“School, aunty. I'm teaching Phebe, and it's great fun!” cried Rose,looking up with a bright face.
But Phebe's was brighter, though she added with a wistful look,
“Maybe I ought to have asked leave first; only when Miss Rose proposedthis, I was so happy I forgot to. Shall I stop, ma'am?”
“Of course not, child; I'm glad to see you fond of your book, and tofind Rose helping you along. My blessed mother used to sit at work withher maids about her, teaching them many a useful thing in the good oldfashion that's gone by now. Only don't neglect your work, dear, or letthe books interfere with the duties.”
As Aunt Plenty spoke, with her kind old face beaming approvingly uponthe girls, Phebe glanced at the clock, saw that it pointed to five, knewthat Dolly would soon be down, expecting to find preparations for supperunder way, and, hastily dropping her pencil, she jumped up, saying,
“Please, can I go? I'll clear up after I've done my chores.”
“School is dismissed,” answered Rose, and with a grateful “Thank you,heaps and heaps!” Phebe ran away singing the multiplication table as sheset the tea ditto.
That was the way it began, and for a week the class of one went onwith great pleasure and profit to all concerned; for the pupil proveda bright one, and came to her lessons as to a feast, while the youngteacher did her best to be worthy the high opinion held of her, forPhebe firmly believed that Miss Rose knew everything in the way oflearning.
Of course the lads found out what was going on, and chaffed the girlsabout the “Seminary,” as they called the new enterprise; but theythought it a good thing on the whole, kindly offered to give lessons inGreek and Latin gratis, and decided among themselves that “Rose was alittle trump to give the Phebe-bird such a capital boost.”
Rose herself had some doubts as to how it would strike her uncle, andconcocted a wheedlesome speech which should at once convince him thatit was the most useful, wholesome, and delightful plan ever devised. Butshe got no chance to deliver her address, for Dr. Alec came upon her sounexpectedly that it went out of her head entirely. She was sitting onthe floor in the library, poring over a big book laid open in her lap,and knew nothing of the long-desired arrival till two large, warm handsmet under her chin and gently turned her head back, so that someonecould kiss her heartily on either cheek, while a fatherly voice said,half reproachfully, “Why is my girl brooding over a dusty Encyclopediawhen she ought to be running to meet the old gentleman who couldn't geton another minute without her?”
“O uncle! I'm so glad! and so sorry! Why didn't you let us know whattime you'd be here, or call out the minute you came? Haven't I beenhome-sick for you? and now I'm so happy to have you back I could hugyour dear old curly head off,” cried Rose, as the Encyclopedia went downwith a bang, and she up with a spring that carried her into Dr. Alec'sarms, to be kept there in the sort of embrace a man gives to the dearestcreature the world holds for him.
Presently he was in his easy chair with Rose upon his knee smiling upin his face and talking as fast as her tongue could go, while he watchedher with an expression of supreme content, as he stroked the smoothround cheek, or held the little hand in his, rejoicing to see how rosywas the one, how plump and strong the other.
“Have you had a good time? Did you save the poor lady? Aren't you gladto be home again with your girl to torment you?”
“Yes, to all those questions. Now tell me what you've been at, littlesinner? Aunty Plen says you want to consult me about some new andremarkable project which you have dared to start in my absence.”
“She didn't tell you, I hope?”
“Not a word more expect that you were rather doubtful how I'd take it,and so wanted to 'fess' yourself and get round me as you always tryto do, though you don't often succeed. Now, then, own up and take theconsequences.”
So Rose told about her school in her pretty, earnest way, dwellingon Phebe's hunger for knowledge, and the delight it was to help her,adding, with a wise nod,
“And it helps me too, uncle, for she is so quick and eager I have to domy best or she will get ahead of me in some things. To-day, now, she hadthe word 'cotton' in a lesson and asked all about it, and I was ashamedto find I really knew so little that I could only say that it was aplant that grew down South in a kind of a pod, and was made into cloth.That's what I was reading up when you came, and to-morrow I shall tellher all about it, and indigo too. So you see it teaches me also, and isas good as a general review of what I've learned, in a pleasanter waythan going over it alone.”
“You artful little baggage! that's the way you expect to get round me,is it? That's not studying, I suppose?”
“No, sir, it's teaching; and please, I like it much better than having agood time by myself. Besides, you know, I adopted Phebe and promised tobe a sister to her, so I am bound to keep my word, am I not?” answeredRose, looking both anxious and resolute as she waited for her sentence.
Dr. Alec was evidently already won, for Rose had described the old slateand brown paper copy-book with pathetic effect, and the excellent manhad not only decided to send Phebe to school long before the story wasdone, but reproached himself for forgetting his duty to one little girlin his love for another. So when Rose tried to look meek and failedutterly, he laughed and pinched her cheek, and answered in that genialway which adds such warmth and grace to any favour,
“I haven't the slightest objection in the world. In fact, I wasbeginning to think I might let you go at your books again, moderately,since you are so well; and this is an excellent way to try your powers.Phebe is a brave, bright lass, and shall have a fair chance in theworld, if we can give it to her, so that if she ever finds her friendsthey need not be ashamed of her.”
“I think she has found some already,” began Rose eagerly.
“Hey? what? has anyone turned up since I've been gone?” asked Dr. Alecquickly, for it was a firm belief in the family that Phebe would proveto be “somebody” sooner or later.
“No, her best friend turned up when you came home, uncle,” answered Rosewith an approving pat, adding gratefully, “I can't half thank you forbeing so good to my girl, but she will, because I know she is going tomake a woman to be proud of, she's so strong and true, and loving.”
“Bless your dear heart, I haven't begun to do anything yet, more shameto me! But I'm going at it now, and as soon as she gets on a bit,she shall go to school as long as she likes. How will that do for abeginning?”
“It will be 'just heavenly,' as Phebe says, for it is the wish of herlife to 'get lots of schooling,' and she will be too happy when I tellher. May I, please? it will be so lovely to see the dear thing open herbig eyes and clap her hands at the splendid news.”
“No one shall have a finger in this nice little pie; you shall do it allyourself, only don't go too fast, or make too many castles in the air,my dear; for time and patience must go into this pie of ours if it is toturn out well.”
“Yes, uncle, only when it is opened won't 'the birds begin to sing?”'laughed Rose, taking a turn about the room as a vent for the joyfulemotions that made her eyes shine. All of a sudden she stopped and askedsoberly,
“If Phebe goes to school who will do her work? I'm willing, if I can.”
“Come here and I'll tell you a secret. Dolly's 'bones' are getting sotroublesome, and her dear old temper so bad, that the aunts have decidedto pension her off and let her go and live with her daughter, who hasmarried very well. I saw her this week, and she'd like to have hermother come, so in the spring we shall have a grand change, and geta new cook and chamber-girl if any can be found to suit our honouredrelatives.”
“Oh, me! how can I ever get on without Phebe? Couldn't she stay, just soI could see her? I'd pay her board rather than have her go, I'm so fondof her.”
How Dr. Alec laughed at that proposal, and how satisfied Rose was whenhe explained that Phebe was still to be her maid, with no duties exceptsuch as she could easily perform between school-hours.
“She is a proud creature, for all her humble ways, and even from uswould not take a favour if she did not earn it somewhere. So thisarrangement makes it all square and comfortable, you see, and she willpay for the schooling by curling these goldilocks a dozen times a day ifyou let her.”
“Your plans are always so wise and kind! That's why they work so well,I suppose, and why people let you do what you like with them. I reallydon't see how other girls get along without an Uncle Alec!” answeredRose, with a sigh of pity for those who had missed so great a blessing.
When Phebe was told the splendid news, she did not “stand on her headwith rapture,” as Charlie prophesied she would, but took it quietly,because it was such a happy thing she had no words “big and beautifulenough to thank them in,” she said; but every hour of her day wasbrightened by this granted wish, and dedicated to the service of thosewho gave it.
Her heart was so full of content that if overflowed in music, and thesweet voice singing all about the house gave thanks so blithely thatno other words were needed. Her willing feet were never tired of takingsteps for those who had smoothed her way; her skilful hands were alwaysbusy in some labour of love for them, and on the face fast growing incomeliness there was an almost womanly expression of devotion, whichproved how well Phebe had already learned one of life's great lessonsgratitude.


Chapter 23--Peace-Making
“Steve, I want you to tell me something,” said Rose to Dandy, who wasmaking faces at himself in the glass, while he waited for an answer tothe note he brought from his mother to Aunt Plenty.
“P'raps I will, and p'raps I won't. What is it?”
“Haven't Arch and Charlie quarrelled?”
“Dare say; we fellows are always having little rows, you know. I dobelieve a sty is coming on my star-board eye,” and Steve affected to beabsorbed in a survey of his yellow lashes.
“No, that won't do; I want to know all about it; for I'm sure somethingmore serious than a 'little row' is the matter. Come, please tell me,Stenie, there's a dear.”
“Botheration! you don't want me to turn telltale, do you?” growledSteve, pulling his top-knot, as he always did when perplexed.
“Yes, I do,” was Rose's decided answer for she saw from his manner thatshe was right, and determined to have the secret out of him if coaxingwould do it. “I don't wish you to tell things to everyone, of course,but to me you may, and you must, because I have a right to know. Youboys need somebody to look after you, and I'm going to do it, for girlsare nice peacemakers, and know how to manage people. Uncle said so, andhe is never wrong.”
Steve was about to indulge in a derisive hoot at the idea of her lookingafter them, but a sudden thought restrained him, and suggested a way inwhich he could satisfy Rose, and better himself at the same time.
“What will you give me if I'll tell you every bit about it?” he asked,with a sudden red in his cheeks and an uneasy look in his eyes, for hewas half ashamed of the proposition.
“What do you want?” and Rose looked up rather surprised at his question.
“I'd like to borrow some money. I shouldn't think of asking you, onlyMac never has a cent. since he's set up his old chemical shop, wherehe'll blow himself to bits some day, and you and uncle will have the funof putting him together again,” and Steve tried to look as if the ideaamused him.
“I'll lend it to you with pleasure, so tell away,” said Rose, bound toget at the secret.
Evidently much relieved by the promise, Steve set his top-knotcheerfully erect again, and briefly stated the case.
“As you say, it's all right to tell you, but don't let the boys knowI blabbed, or Prince will take my head off. You see, Archie don't likesome of the fellows Charlie goes with, and cuts 'em. That makes Princemad, and he holds on just to plague Arch, so they don't speak to oneanother, if they can help it, and that's the row.”
“Are those boys bad?” asked Rose, anxiously.
“Guess not, only rather wild. They are older than our fellows, butthey like Prince, he's such a jolly boy; sings so well, dances jigs andbreakdowns, you know, and plays any game that's going. He beat Morse atbilliards, and that's something to brag of, for Morse thinks he knowseverything. I saw the match, and it was great fun!”
Steve got quite excited over the prowess of Charlie, whom he admiredimmensely, and tried to imitate. Rose did not know half the dangerof such gifts and tastes as Charlie's, but felt instinctively thatsomething must be wrong if Archie disapproved.
“If Prince likes any billiard-playing boy better than Archie, I don'tthink much of his sense,” she said severely.
“Of course he doesn't; but, you see, Charlie and Arch are both as proudas they can be, and won't give in. I suppose Arch is right, but I don'tblame Charlie a bit for liking to be with the others sometimes, they aresuch a jolly set,” and Steve shook his head morally, even while his eyetwinkled over the memory of some of the exploits of the “jolly set.”
“Oh, dear me!” sighed Rose, “I don't see what I can do about it, butI wish the boys would make up, for Prince can't come to any harm withArchie, he's so good and sensible.”
“That's the trouble; Arch preaches, and Prince won't stand it. Hetold Arch he was a prig and a parson, and Arch told him he wasn't agentleman. My boots! weren't they both mad, though! I thought for aminute they'd pitch into one another and have it out. Wish they had, andnot gone stalking round stiff and glum ever since. Mac and I settle ourrows with a bat or so over the head, and then we are all right.”
Rose couldn't help laughing as Steve sparred away at a fat sofa-pillow,to illustrate his meaning; and, having given it several scientificwhacks, he pulled down his cuffs and smiled upon her with benign pityfor her feminine ignorance of this summary way of settling a quarrel.
“What droll things boys are!” she said, with a mixture of admiration andperplexity in her face, which Steve accepted as a compliment to his sex.
“We're a pretty clever invention, miss, and you can't get on withoutus,” he answered, with his nose in the air. Then, taking a sudden plungeinto business, he added, “How about that bit of money you were going tolend me? I've told, now you pay up.”
“Of course I will! How much do you want?” and Rose pulled out her purse.
“Could you spare five dollars? I want to pay a little debt of honourthat is rather pressing,” and Steve put on a mannish air that wascomical to see.
“Aren't all debts honourable?” asked innocent Rose.
“Yes, of course; but this is a bet I made, and it ought to be settled upat once,” began Steve, finding it awkward to explain.
“Oh, don't bet, it's not right, and I know your father wouldn't like it.Promise you won't do so again; please promise!” and Rose held fast thehand into which she had just put the money.
“Well, I won't. It's worried me a good deal, but I was joked into it.Much obliged, cousin, I'm all right now,” and Steve departed hastily.
Having decided to be a peace-maker, Rose waited for an opportunity, andvery soon it came.
She was spending the day with Aunt Clara, who had been entertaining someyoung guests, and invited Rose to meet them, for she thought it hightime her niece conquered her bashfulness and saw a little of society.Dinner was over, and everyone had gone. Aunt Clara was resting beforegoing out to an evening party, and Rose was waiting for Charlie to comeand take her home.
She sat alone in the elegant drawing-room, feeling particularly nice andpretty, for she had her best frock on, a pair of gold bands her aunt hadjust given her, and a tea-rose bud in her sash, like the beautiful MissVan Tassel, whom everyone admired. She had spread out her little skirtsto the best advantage, and, leaning back in a luxurious chair, satadmiring her own feet in new slippers with rosettes almost as big asdahlias. Presently Charlie came lounging in, looking rather sleepy andqueer, Rose thought. On seeing her, however, he roused up and said witha smile that ended in a gape,
“I thought you were with mother, so I took forty winks after I got thosegirls off. Now, I'm at your service, Rosamunda, whenever you like.”
“You look as if your head ached. If it does, don't mind me. I'm notafraid to run home alone, it's so early,” answered Rose, observing theflushed cheeks and heavy eyes of her cousin.
“I think I see myself letting you do it. Champagne always makes myheadache, but the air will set me up.”
“Why do you drink it, then?” asked Rose, anxiously.
“Can't help it, when I'm host. Now, don't you begin to lecture; I've hadenough of Archie's old-fashioned notions, and I don't want any more.”
Charlie's tone was decidedly cross, and his whole manner so unlike hisusual merry good-nature, that Rose felt crushed, and answered meekly,
“I wasn't going to lecture, only when people like other people, theycan't bear to see them suffer pain.”
That brought Charlie round at once, for Rose's lips trembled a little,though she tried to hide it by smelling the flower she pulled from hersash.
“I'm a regular bear, and I beg your pardon for being so cross, Rosy,” hesaid in the old frank way that was so winning.
“I wish you'd beg Archie's too, and be good friends again. You neverwere cross when he was your chum,” Rose said, looking up at him as hebent toward her from the low chimney-piece, where he had been leaninghis elbows.
In an instant he stood as stiff and straight as a ramrod, and the heavyeyes kindled with an angry spark as he said, in his high and mightymanner,
“You'd better not meddle with what you don't understand, cousin.”
“But I do understand, and it troubles me very much to see you so coldand stiff to one another. You always used to be together, and now youhardly speak. You are so ready to beg my pardon I don't see why youcan't beg Archie's, if you are in the wrong.”
“I'm not!” this was so short and sharp that Rose started, and Charlieadded in a calmer but still very haughty tone: “A gentleman always begspardon when he has been rude to a lady, but one man doesn't apologize toanother man who has insulted him.”
“Oh, my heart, what a pepperpot!” thought Rose, and, hoping to make himlaugh, she added slyly: “I was not talking about men, but boys, and oneof them a Prince, who ought to set a good example to his subjects.”
But Charlie would not relent, and tried to turn the subject by sayinggravely, as he unfastened the little gold ring from his watch-guard,
“I've broken my word, so I want to give this back and free you from thebargain. I'm sorry, but I think it a foolish promise, and don't intendto keep it. Choose a pair of ear-rings to suit yourself, as my forfeit.You have a right to wear them now.”
“No, I can only wear one, and that is no use, for Archie will keep hisword I'm sure!” Rose was so mortified and grieved at this downfallof her hopes that she spoke sharply, and would not take the ring thedeserter offered her.
He shrugged his shoulders, and threw it into her lap, trying to lookcool and careless, but failing entirely, for he was ashamed of himself,and out of sorts generally. Rose wanted to cry, but pride would notlet her, and, being very angry, she relieved herself by talk instead oftears. Looking pale and excited, she rose out of her chair, cast awaythe ring, and said in a voice that she vainly tried to keep steady,
“You are not at all the boy I thought you were, and I don't respect youone bit. I've tried to help you be good, but you won't let me, and Ishall not try any more. You talk a great deal about being a gentleman,but you are not, for you've broken your word, and I can never trustyou again. I don't wish you to go home with me. I'd rather have Mary.Good-night.”
And with that last dreadful blow, Rose walked out of the room, leavingCharlie as much astonished as if one of his pet pigeons had flown in hisface and pecked at him. She was so seldom angry, that when her temperdid get the better of her it made a deep impression on the lads, forit was generally a righteous sort of indignation at some injustice orwrong-doing, not childish passion.
Her little thunderstorm cleared off in a sob or two as she put on herthings in the entry-closet, and when she emerged she looked the brighterfor the shower. A hasty good-night to Aunt Clara now under the hands ofthe hairdresser and then she crept down to find Mary the maid. ButMary was out, so was the man, and Rose slipped away by the back-door,flattering herself that she had escaped the awkwardness of havingCharlie for escort.
There she was mistaken, however, for the gate had hardly closed behindher when a well-known tramp was heard, and the Prince was beside her,saying in a tone of penitent politeness that banished Rose's wrath likemagic,
“You needn't speak to me if you don't choose, but I must see you safelyhome, cousin.”
She turned at once, put out her hand, and answered heartily,
“I was the cross one. Please forgive me, and let's be friends again.”
Now that was better than a dozen sermons on the beauty of forgiveness,and did Charlie more good, for it showed him how sweet humility was, andproved that Rose practised as she preached.
He shook the hand warmly, then drew it through his arm and said, as ifanxious to recover the good opinion with the loss of which he had beenthreatened,
“Look here, Rosy, I've put the ring back, and I'm going to try again.But you don't know how hard it is to stand being laughed at.”
“Yes, I do! Ariadne plagues me every time I see her, because I don'twear ear-rings after all the trouble I had getting ready for them.”
“Ah, but her twaddle isn't half as bad as the chaffing I get. It takesa deal of pluck to hold out when you are told you are tied to an apronstring, and all that sort of thing,” sighed Charlie.
“I thought you had a 'deal of pluck,' as you call it. The boys all sayyou are the bravest of the seven,” said Rose.
“So I am about some things, but I cannot bear to be laughed at.”
“It is hard, but if one is right won't that make it easier?”
“Not to me; it might to a pious parson like Arch.”
“Please don't call him names! I guess he has what is called moralcourage, and you physical courage. Uncle explained the difference tome, and moral is the best, though often it doesn't look so,” said Rosethoughtfully.
Charlie didn't like that, and answered quickly, “I don't believe he'dstand it any better than I do, if he had those fellows at him.”
“Perhaps that's why he keeps out of their way, and wants you to.”
Rose had him there, and Charlie felt it, but would not give in justyet, though he was going fast, for somehow, in the dark he seemed tosee things clearer than in the light, and found it very easy to beconfidential when it was “only Rose.”
“If he was my brother, now, he'd have some right to interfere,” beganCharlie, in an injured tone.
“I wish he was!” cried Rose.
“So do I,” answered Charlie, and then they both laughed at hisinconsistency.
The laugh did them good, and when Prince spoke again, it was in adifferent tone pensive, not proud nor perverse.
“You see, it's hard upon me that I have no brothers and sisters. Theothers are better off and needn't go abroad for chums if they don'tlike. I am all alone, and I'd be thankful even for a little sister.”
Rose thought that very pathetic, and, overlooking the uncomplimentaryword “even” in that last sentence, she said, with a timid sort ofearnestness that conquered her cousin at once,
“Play I was a little sister. I know I'm silly, but perhaps I'm betterthan nothing, and I'd dearly love to do it.”
“So should I! and we will, for you are not silly, my dear, but a verysensible girl, we all think, and I'm proud to have you for a sister.There, now!” and Charlie looked down at the curly head bobbing alongbeside him with real affection in his face.
Rose gave a skip of pleasure, and laid one seal-skin mitten over theother on his arm, as she said happily,
“That's so nice of you! Now, you needn't be lonely any more, and I'lltry to fill Archie's place till he comes back, for I know he will, assoon as you let him.”
“Well, I don't mind telling you that while he was my mate I never missedbrothers and sisters, or wanted anyone else; but since he cast me off,I'll be hanged if I don't feel as forlorn as old Crusoe before Fridayturned up.”
This burst of confidence confirmed Rose in her purpose of winningCharlie's Mentor back to him, but she said no more, contented to havedone so well. They parted excellent friends, and Prince went home,wondering why “a fellow didn't mind saying things to a girl or womanwhich they would die before they'd own to another fellow.”
Rose also had some sage reflections upon the subject, and fell asleepthinking that there were a great many curious things in this world, andfeeling that she was beginning to find out some of them.
Next day she trudged up the hill to see Archie, and having told himas much as she thought best about her talk with Charlie, begged him toforget and forgive.
“I've been thinking that perhaps I ought to, though I am in the right.I'm no end fond of Charlie, and he's the best-hearted lad alive; but hecan't say No, and that will play the mischief with him, if he does nottake care,” said Archie in his grave, kind way.
“While father was home, I was very busy with him, so Prince got into aset I don't like. They try to be fast, and think it's manly, and theyflatter him, and lead him on to do all sorts of things play for money,and bet, and loaf about. I hate to have him do so, and tried to stop it,but went to work the wrong way, so we got into a mess.”
“He is all ready to make up if you don't say much, for he owned to mehe was wrong; but I don't think he will own it to you, in words,” beganRose.
“I don't care for that; if he'll just drop those row-dies and come back,I'll hold my tongue and not preach. I wonder if he owes those fellowsmoney, and so doesn't like to break off till he can pay it. I hope not,but don't dare to ask; though, perhaps, Steve knows, he's always afterPrince, more's the pity,” and Archie looked anxious.
“I think Steve does know, for he talked about debts of honour the day Igave him--” There Rose stopped short and turned scarlet.
But Archie ordered her to “fess,” and had the whole story in fiveminutes, for none dared disobey the Chief. He completed her afflictionby putting a five-dollar bill into her pocket by main force, lookingboth indignant and resolute as he said,
“Never do so again; but send Steve to me, if he is afraid to go to hisfather. Charlie had nothing to do with that; he wouldn't borrow a pennyof a girl, don't think it. But that's the harm he does Steve, who adoreshim, and tries to be like him in all things. Don't say a word; I'll makeit all right, and no one shall blame you.”
“Oh me! I always make trouble by trying to help, and then letting outthe wrong thing,” sighed Rose, much depressed by her slip of the tongue.
Archie comforted her with the novel remark that it was always best totell the truth, and made her quite cheerful by promising to heal thebreach with Charlie as soon as possible.
He kept his word so well that the very next afternoon, as Rose lookedout of the window, she beheld the joyful spectacle of Archie and Princecoming up the avenue, arm-in-arm, as of old, talking away as if to makeup for the unhappy silence of the past weeks.
Rose dropped her work, hurried to the door, and, opening it wide, stoodthere smiling down upon them so happily, that the faces of the ladsbrightened as they ran up the steps eager to show that all was well withthem.
“Here's our little peace-maker!” said Archie, shaking hands with vigour.
But Charlie added, with a look that made Rose very proud and happy, “Andmy little sister.”


Chapter 24--Which?
“Uncle, I have discovered what girls are made for,” said Rose, the dayafter the reconciliation of Archie and the Prince.
“Well, my dear, what is it?” asked Dr. Alec, who was “planking thedeck,” as he called his daily promenade up and down the hall.
“To take care of boys,” answered Rose, quite beaming with satisfactionas she spoke. “Phebe laughed when I told her, and said she thought girlshad better learn to take care of themselves first. But that's becauseshe hasn't got seven boy-cousins as I have.”
“She is right, nevertheless, Rosy, and so are you, for the two things gotogether, and in helping seven lads you are unconsciously doing muchto improve one lass,” said Dr. Alec, stopping to nod and smile at thebright-faced figure resting on the old bamboo chair, after a livelygame of battledore and shuttlecock, in place of a run which a stormprevented.
“Am I? I'm glad of that; but really, uncle, I do feel as if I must takecare of the boys, for they come to me in all sorts of troubles, and askadvice, and I like it so much. Only I don't always know what to do,and I'm going to consult you privately and then surprise them with mywisdom.”
“All right, my dear; what's the first worry? I see you have something onyour little mind, so come and tell uncle.”
Rose put her arm in his, and, pacing to and fro, told him all aboutCharlie, asking what she could do to keep him straight, and be a realsister to him.
“Could you make up your mind to go and stay with Aunt Clara a month?” asked the Doctor, when she ended.
“Yes, sir; but I shouldn't like it. Do you really want me to go?”
“The best cure for Charlie is a daily dose of Rose water, or Rose andwater, or Rose and water; will you go and see that he takes it?” laughedDr. Alec.
“You mean that if I'm there and try to make it pleasant, he will stay athome and keep out of mischief?”
“Exactly.”
“But could I make it pleasant? He would want the boys.”
“No danger but he'd have the boys, for they swarm after you like beesafter their queen. Haven't you found that out?”
“Aunt Plen often says they never used to be here half so much before Icame, but I never thought I made the difference, it seemed so natural tohave them round.”
“Little modesty doesn't know what a magnet she is; but she will find itout some day,” and the Doctor softly stroked the cheek that had grownrosy with pleasure at the thought of being so much loved. “Now, you see,if I move the magnet to Aunt Clara's, the lads will go there as sure asiron to steel, and Charlie will be so happy at home he won't care forthese mischievous mates of his I hope,” added the Doctor, well knowinghow hard it was to wean a seventeen-year-old boy from his first taste ofwhat is called “seeing life,” which, alas! often ends in seeing death.
“I'll go, uncle, right away! Aunt Clara is always asking me, and willbe glad to get me. I shall have to dress and dine late, and see lots ofcompany, and be very fashionable, but I'll try not to let it hurt me;and if I get in a puzzle or worried about anything I can run to you,” answered Rose, good-will conquering timidity.
So it was decided, and without saying much about the real reason forthis visit, Rose was transplanted to Aunt Clara's, feeling that she hada work to do, and very eager to do it well.
Dr. Alec was right about the bees, for the boys did follow their queen,and astonished Mrs. Clara by their sudden assiduity in making calls,dropping in to dinner, and getting up evening frolics. Charlie was adevoted host, and tried to show his gratitude by being very kind to his“little sister,” for he guessed why she came, and his heart was touchedby her artless endeavours to “help him be good.”
Rose often longed to be back in the old house with the simpler pleasuresand more useful duties of the life there; but, having made up her mind,in spite of Phebe, that “girls were made to take care of boys,” heremotherly little soul found much to enjoy in the new task she hadundertaken.
It was a pretty sight to see the one earnest, sweet-faced girl among theflock of tall lads, trying to understand, to help and please them witha patient affection that worked many a small miracle unperceived. Slang,rough manners, and careless habits were banished or bettered by thepresence of a little gentlewoman; and all the manly virtues cropping upwere encouraged by the hearty admiration bestowed upon them by one whosegood opinion all valued more than they confessed; while Rose tried toimitate the good qualities she praised in them, to put away her girlishvanities and fears, to be strong and just, and frank and brave, as wellas modest, kind, and beautiful.
This trial worked so well that when the month was over, Mac and Stevedemanded a visit in their turn, and Rose went, feeling that she wouldlike to hear grim Aunt Jane say, as Aunt Clara did at parting, “I wish Icould keep you all my life, dear.”
After Mac and Steve had had their turn, Archie and Company bore her awayfor some weeks; and with them she was so happy, she felt as if she wouldlike to stay for ever, if she could have Uncle Alec also.
Of course, Aunt Myra could not be neglected, and, with secret despair,Rose went to the “Mausoleum,” as the boys called her gloomy abode.Fortunately, she was very near home, and Dr. Alec dropped in so oftenthat her visit was far less dismal than she expected. Between them, theyactually made Aunt Myra laugh heartily more than once; and Rose did herso much good by letting in the sunshine, singing about the silent house,cooking wholesome messes, and amusing the old lady with funny littlelectures on physiology, that she forgot to take her pills and gave up“Mum's Elixir,” because she slept so well, after the long walks anddrives she was beguiled into taking, that she needed no narcotic.
So the winter flew rapidly away, and it was May before Rose was fairlysettled again at home. They called her the “Monthly Rose,” becauseshe had spent a month with each of the aunts, and left such pleasantmemories of bloom and fragrance behind her, that all wanted the familyflower back again.
Dr. Alec rejoiced greatly over his recovered treasure; but as the timedrew near when his year of experiment ended, he had many a secret fearthat Rose might like to make her home for the next twelve month withAunt Jessie, or even Aunt Clara, for Charlie's sake. He said nothing,but waited with much anxiety for the day when the matter should bedecided; and while he waited he did his best to finish as far aspossible the task he had begun so well.
Rose was very happy now, being out nearly all day enjoying the beautifulawakening of the world, for spring came bright and early, as if anxiousto do its part. The old horse-chestnuts budded round her windows, greenthings sprung up like magic in the garden under her hands, hardy flowersbloomed as fast as they could, the birds sang blithely overhead, andevery day a chorus of pleasant voices cried, “Good morning, cousin,isn't it jolly weather?”
No one remembered the date of the eventful conversation which resultedin the Doctor's experiment (no one but himself at least); so when theaunts were invited to tea one Saturday they came quite unsuspiciously,and were all sitting together having a social chat, when Brother Alecentered with two photographs in his hand.
“Do you remember that?” he said, showing one to Aunt Clara, who happenedto be nearest.
“Yes, indeed; it is very like her when she came. Quite her sad,unchildlike expression, and thin little face, with the big dark eyes.”
The picture was passed round, and all agreed that “it was very likeRose a year ago.” This point being settled, the Doctor showed the secondpicture, which was received with great approbation, and pronounced a“charming likeness.”
It certainly was, and a striking contrast to the first one, for it was ablooming, smiling face, full of girlish spirit and health, with no signof melancholy, though the soft eyes were thoughtful, and the lines aboutthe lips betrayed a sensitive nature.
Dr. Alec set both photographs on the chimneypiece, and, falling backa step or two, surveyed them with infinite satisfaction for severalminutes, then wheeled round, saying briefly, as he pointed to the twofaces,
“Time is up; how do you think my experiment has succeeded, ladies?”
“Bless me, so it is!” cried Aunt Plenty, dropping a stitch in hersurprise.
“Beautifully, dear,” answered Aunt Peace, smiling entire approval.
“She certainly has improved, but appearances are deceitful, and she hadno constitution to build upon,” croaked Aunt Myra.
“I am willing to allow that, as far as mere health goes, the experimentis a success,” graciously observed Aunt Jane, unable to forget Rose'skindness to her Mac.
“So am I; and I'll go farther, for I really do believe Alec has donewonders for the child; she will be a beauty in two or three years,” added Aunt Clara, feeling that she could say nothing better than that.
“I always knew he would succeed, and I'm so glad you all allow it, forhe deserves more credit than you know, and more praise than he willever get,” cried Aunt Jessie, clapping her hands with an enthusiasm thatcaused Jamie's little red stocking to wave like a triumphal banner inthe air.
Dr. Alec made them a splendid bow, looking much gratified, and then saidsoberly,
“Thank you; now the question is, shall I go on? for this is only thebeginning. None of you know the hindrances I've had, the mistakes I'vemade, the study I've given the case, and the anxiety I've often felt.Sister Myra is right is one thing Rose is a delicate creature, quick toflourish in the sunshine, and as quick to droop without it. She has nospecial weakness, but inherits her mother's sensitive nature, and needsthe wisest, tenderest care, to keep a very ardent little soul fromwearing out a finely organised little body. I think I have found theright treatment, and; with you to help me, I believe we may build up alovely and a noble woman, who will be a pride and comfort to us all.”
There Dr. Alec stopped to get his breath, for he had spoken veryearnestly, and his voice got a little husky over the last words. Agentle murmur from the aunts seemed to encourage him, and he went onwith an engaging smile, for the good man was slyly trying to win all theladies to vote for him when the time came.
“Now, I don't wish to be selfish or arbitrary, because I am herguardian, and I shall leave Rose free to choose for herself. We all wanther, and if she likes to make her home with any of you rather than withme, she shall do so. In fact, I encouraged her visits last winter, thatshe might see what we can all offer her, and judge where she will behappiest. Is not that the fairest way? Will you agree to abide by herchoice, as I do?”
“Yes, we will,” said all the aunts, in quite a flutter of excitement atthe prospect of having Rose for a whole year.
“Good! she will be here directly, and then we will settle the questionfor another year. A most important year, mind you, for she has got agood start, and will blossom rapidly now if all goes well with her. SoI beg of you don't undo my work, but deal very wisely and gently withmy little girl, for if any harm come to her, I think it would break myheart.”
As he spoke, Dr. Alec turned his back abruptly and affected to beexamining the pictures again; but the aunts understood how dear thechild was to the solitary man who had loved her mother years ago, andwho now found his happiness in cherishing the little Rose who was solike her. The good ladies nodded and sighed, and telegraphed to oneanother that none of them would complain if not chosen, or ever try torob Brother Alec of his “Heart's Delight,” as the boys called Rose.
Just then a pleasant sound of happy voices came up from the garden, andsmiles broke out on all serious faces. Dr. Alec turned at once, saying,as he threw back his head, “There she is; now for it!”
The cousins had been a-Maying, and soon came flocking in laden with thespoils.
“Here is our bonny Scotch rose with all her thorns about her,” said Dr.Alec, surveying her with unusual pride and tenderness, as she went toshow Aunt Peace her basket full of early flowers, fresh leaves, andcurious lichens.
“Leave your clutter in the hall, boys, and sit quietly down if youchoose to stop here, for we are busy,” said Aunt Plenty, shaking herfinger at the turbulent Clan, who were bubbling over with the jollityborn of spring sunshine and healthy exercise.
“Of course, we choose to stay! Wouldn't miss our Saturday high tea foranything,” said the Chief, as he restored order among his men with anod, a word, and an occasional shake.
“What is up? a court-martial?” asked Charlie, looking at the assembledladies with affected awe and real curiosity, for these faces betrayedthat some interesting business was afloat.
Dr. Alec explained in a few words, which he made as brief and calm as hecould; but the effect was exciting, nevertheless, for each of the ladsbegan at once to bribe, entice, and wheedle “our cousin” to choose hishome.
“You really ought to come to us for mother's sake, as a relish, youknow, for she must be perfectly satiated with boys,” began Archie, usingthe strongest argument he could think of at the moment.
“Oh, do! we'll never slam, or bounce at you or call you 'fraid cat,' if youonly will,” besought Geordie and Will, distorting their countenances in theattempt to smile with overpowering sweetness.
“And I'll always wash my hands 'fore I touch you, and you shall be my dolly,'cause Pokey's gone away, and I'll love you _hard_,” cried Jamie, clingingto her with his chubby face full of affection.
“Brothers and sister ought to live together; especially when the brotherneeds some one to make home pleasant for him,” added Charlie, with thewheedlesome tone and look that Rose always found so difficult to resist.
“You had her longest, and it's our turn now; Mac needs her more than you do,Prince, for she's 'the light of his eyes,' he says. Come, Rose, choose us,and I'll never use the musky pomade you hate again as long as I live,” saidSteve, with his most killing air, as he offered this noble sacrifice.
Mac peered wistfully over his goggles, saying in an unusually wide-awake andearnest way, --
“Do, cousin, then we can study chemistry together. My experiments don't blowup very often now, and the gases aren't at all bad when you get used tothem.”
Rose meantime had stood quite still, with the flowers dropping from herhands as her eyes went from one eager face to another, while smiles rippledover her own at the various enticements offered her. During the laugh thatfollowed Mac's handsome proposition, she looked at her uncle, whose eyeswere fixed on her with an expression of love and longing that went to herheart.
“Ah! yes,” she thought, “he wants me most! I've often longed to give himsomething that he wished for very much, and now I can.”
So, when, at a sudden gesture from Aunt Peace, silence fell, Rose saidslowly, with a pretty colour in her cheeks, and a beseeching look aboutthe room, as if asking pardon of the boys,
“It's very hard to choose when everybody is so fond of me; therefore Ithink I'd better go to the one who seems to need me most.”
“No, dear, the one you love the best and will be happiest with,” saidDr. Alec quickly, as a doleful sniff from Aunt Myra, and a murmur of “Mysainted Caroline,” made Rose pause and look that way.
“Take time, cousin; don't be in a hurry to make up your mind, andremember, 'Codlin's your friend,'” added Charlie, hopeful still.
“I don't want any time! I know who I love best, who I'm happiestwith, and I choose uncle. Will he have me?” cried Rose, in a tone thatproduced a sympathetic thrill among the hearers, it was so full oftender confidence and love.
If she really had any doubt, the look in Dr. Alec's face banished itwithout a word, as he opened wide his arms, and she ran into them,feeling that home was there.
No one spoke for a minute, but there were signs of emotion among theaunts, which warned the boys to bestir themselves before the water-worksbegan to play. So they took hands and began to prance about uncle andniece, singing, with sudden inspiration, the nursery rhyme,
    “Ring around a Rosy!”
Of course that put an end to all sentiment, and Rose emerged laughingfrom Dr. Alec's bosom, with the mark of a waistcoat button nicelyimprinted on her left cheek. He saw it, and said with a merry kiss thathalf effaced it, “This is my ewe lamb, and I have set my mark on her, sono one can steal her away.”
That tickled the boys, and they set up a shout of,
    “Uncle had a little lamb!”
But Rose hushed the noise by slipping into the circle, and making themdance prettily like lads and lasses round a May-pole; while Phebe,coming in with fresh water for the flowers, began to twitter, chirp, andcoo, as if all the birds of the air had come to join in the spring revelof the eight cousins.