THE STORY OF ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA

Of all love stories that are known to human history, the love storyof Antony and Cleopatra has been for nineteen centuries the mostremarkable. It has tasked the resources of the plastic and the graphicarts. It has been made the theme of poets and of prose narrators. It hasappeared and reappeared in a thousand forms, and it appeals as muchto the imagination to-day as it did when Antony deserted his almostvictorious troops and hastened in a swift galley from Actium in pursuitof Cleopatra.
The wonder of the story is explained by its extraordinary nature. Manymen in private life have lost fortune and fame for the love of woman.Kings have incurred the odium of their people, and have cared nothingfor it in comparison with the joys of sense that come from the lingeringcaresses and clinging kisses. Cold-blooded statesmen, such as Parnell,have lost the leadership of their party and have gone down in historywith a clouded name because of the fascination exercised upon them bysome woman, often far from beautiful, and yet possessing the mysteriouspower which makes the triumphs of statesmanship seem slight incomparison with the swiftly flying hours of pleasure.
But in the case of Antony and Cleopatra alone do we find a man flingingaway not merely the triumphs of civic honors or the headship of astate, but much more than these--the mastery of what was practically theworld--in answer to the promptings of a woman's will. Hence the storyof the Roman triumvir and the Egyptian queen is not like any otherstory that has yet been told. The sacrifice involved in it was sooverwhelming, so instantaneous, and so complete as to set this narrativeabove all others. Shakespeare's genius has touched it with the gloryof a great imagination. Dryden, using it in the finest of his plays,expressed its nature in the title "All for Love."
The distinguished Italian historian, Signor Ferrero, the author of manybooks, has tried hard to eliminate nearly all the romantic elementsfrom the tale, and to have us see in it not the triumph of love, butthe blindness of ambition. Under his handling it becomes almost a sordiddrama of man's pursuit of power and of woman's selfishness. Let usreview the story as it remains, even after we have taken full accountof Ferrero's criticism. Has the world for nineteen hundred years beenblinded by a show of sentiment? Has it so absolutely been misled bythose who lived and wrote in the days which followed closely on theevents that make up this extraordinary narrative?
In answering these questions we must consider, in the first place,the scene, and, in the second place, the psychology of the two centralcharacters who for so long a time have been regarded as the veryembodiment of unchecked passion.
As to the scene, it must be remembered that the Egypt of those dayswas not Egyptian as we understand the word, but rather Greek. Cleopatraherself was of Greek descent. The kingdom of Egypt had been created by ageneral of Alexander the Great after that splendid warrior's death.Its capital, the most brilliant city of the Greco-Roman world, had beenfounded by Alexander himself, who gave to it his name. With hisown hands he traced out the limits of the city and issued the mostperemptory orders that it should be made the metropolis of the entireworld. The orders of a king cannot give enduring greatness to a city;but Alexander's keen eye and marvelous brain saw at once that the siteof Alexandria was such that a great commercial community planted therewould live and flourish throughout out succeeding ages. He was right;for within a century this new capital of Egypt leaped to the forefrontamong the exchanges of the world's commerce, while everything that artcould do was lavished on its embellishment.
Alexandria lay upon a projecting tongue of land so situated that thewhole trade of the Mediterranean centered there. Down the Nile therefloated to its gates the barbaric wealth of Africa. To it came thetreasures of the East, brought from afar by caravans--silks from China,spices and pearls from India, and enormous masses of gold and silverfrom lands scarcely known. In its harbor were the vessels of everycountry, from Asia in the East to Spain and Gaul and even Britain in theWest.
When Cleopatra, a young girl of seventeen, succeeded to the throne ofEgypt the population of Alexandria amounted to a million souls. Thecustoms duties collected at the port would, in terms of modern money,amount each year to more than thirty million dollars, even though theimposts were not heavy. The people, who may be described as Greek atthe top and Oriental at the bottom, were boisterous and pleasure-loving,devoted to splendid spectacles, with horse-racing, gambling, anddissipation; yet at the same time they were an artistic people, lovingmusic passionately, and by no means idle, since one part of the city wasdevoted to large and prosperous manufactories of linen, paper, glass,and muslin.
To the outward eye Alexandria was extremely beautiful. Through itsentire length ran two great boulevards, shaded and diversified bymighty trees and parterres of multicolored flowers, amid which fountainsplashed and costly marbles gleamed. One-fifth of the whole city wasknown as the Royal Residence. In it were the palaces of the reigningfamily, the great museum, and the famous library which the Arabs laterburned. There were parks and gardens brilliant with tropical foliage andadorned with the masterpieces of Grecian sculpture, while sphinxesand obelisks gave a suggestion of Oriental strangeness. As one lookedseaward his eye beheld over the blue water the snow-white rocks of thesheltering island, Pharos, on which was reared a lighthouse four hundredfeet in height and justly numbered among the seven wonders of the world.Altogether, Alexandria was a city of wealth, of beauty, of stirringlife, of excitement, and of pleasure. Ferrero has aptly likened it toParis--not so much the Paris of to-day as the Paris of forty years ago,when the Second Empire flourished in all its splendor as the home of joyand strange delights.
Over the country of which Alexandria was the capital Cleopatra came toreign at seventeen. Following the odd custom which the Greek dynasty ofthe Ptolemies had inherited from their Egyptian predecessors, she wasbetrothed to her own brother. He, however, was a mere child of less thantwelve, and was under the control of evil counselors, who, in his name,gained control of the capital and drove Cleopatra into exile. Until thenshe had been a mere girl; but now the spirit of a woman who was wrongedblazed up in her and called out all her latent powers. Hastening toSyria, she gathered about herself an army and led it against her foes.
But meanwhile Julius Caesar, the greatest man of ancient times, hadarrived at Alexandria backed by an army of his veterans. Against himno resistance would avail. Then came a brief moment during which theEgyptian king and the Egyptian queen each strove to win the favor ofthe Roman imperator. The king and his advisers had many arts, and so hadCleopatra. One thing, however, she possessed which struck the balance inher favor, and this was a woman's fascination.
According to the story, Caesar was unwilling to receive her. There cameinto his presence, as he sat in the palace, a group of slaves bearinga long roll of matting, bound carefully and seeming to contain someprecious work of art. The slaves made signs that they were bearing agift to Caesar. The master of Egypt bade them unwrap the gift that hemight see it. They did so, and out of the wrapping came Cleopatra--aradiant vision, appealing, irresistible. Next morning it became knowneverywhere that Cleopatra had remained in Caesar's quarters through thenight and that her enemies were now his enemies. In desperation theyrushed upon his legions, casting aside all pretense of amity. Thereensued a fierce contest, but the revolt was quenched in blood.
This was a crucial moment in Cleopatra's life. She had sacrificed allthat a woman has to give; but she had not done so from any love ofpleasure or from wantonness. She was queen of Egypt, and she hadredeemed her kingdom and kept it by her sacrifice. One should notcondemn her too severely. In a sense, her act was one of heroism likethat of Judith in the tent of Holofernes. But beyond all question itchanged her character. It taught her the secret of her own great power.Henceforth she was no longer a mere girl, nor a woman of the ordinarytype. Her contact with so great a mind as Caesar's quickened herintellect. Her knowledge that, by the charms of sense, she had masteredeven him transformed her into a strange and wonderful creature. Shelearned to study the weaknesses of men, to play on their emotions, toappeal to every subtle taste and fancy. In her were blended mental powerand that illusive, indefinable gift which is called charm.
For Cleopatra was never beautiful. Signor Ferrero seems to think thisfact to be discovery of his own, but it was set down by Plutarch in avery striking passage written less than a century after Cleopatra andAntony died. We may quote here what the Greek historian said of her:
Her actual beauty was far from being so remarkable that none could becompared with her, nor was it such that it would strike your fancy whenyou saw her first. Yet the influence of her presence, if you lingerednear her, was irresistible. Her attractive personality, joined with thecharm of her conversation, and the individual touch that she gave toeverything she said or did, were utterly bewitching. It was delightfulmerely to hear the music of her voice, with which, like an instrument ofmany strings, she could pass from one language to another.
Caesar had left Cleopatra firmly seated on the throne of Egypt. Forsix years she reigned with great intelligence, keeping order in herdominions, and patronizing with discrimination both arts and letters.But ere long the convulsions of the Roman state once more caused herextreme anxiety. Caesar had been assassinated, and there ensued aperiod of civil war. Out of it emerged two striking figures which wereabsolutely contrasted in their character. One was Octavian, the adoptedson of Caesar, a man who, though still quite young and possessed ofgreat ability, was cunning, cold-blooded, and deceitful. The otherwas Antony, a soldier by training, and with all a soldier's bluntness,courage, and lawlessness.
The Roman world was divided for the time between these two men, Antonyreceiving the government of the East, Octavian that of the West. In theyear which had preceded this division Cleopatra had wavered between thetwo opposite factions at Rome. In so doing she had excited the suspicionof Antony, and he now demanded of her an explanation.
One must have some conception of Antony himself in order to understandthe events that followed. He was essentially a soldier, of excellentfamily, being related to Caesar himself. As a very young man he wasexceedingly handsome, and bad companions led him into the pursuit ofvicious pleasure. He had scarcely come of age when he found that he owedthe enormous sum of two hundred and fifty talents, equivalent to half amillion dollars in the money of to-day. But he was much more than a mereman of pleasure, given over to drinking and to dissipation. Men mighttell of his escapades, as when he drove about the streets of Rome in acommon cab, dangling his legs out of the window while he shouted forthdrunken songs of revelry. This was not the whole of Antony. Joining theRoman army in Syria, he showed himself to be a soldier of great personalbravery, a clever strategist, and also humane and merciful in the hourof victory.
Unlike most Romans, Antony wore a full beard. His forehead was large,and his nose was of the distinctive Roman type. His look was so bold andmasculine that people likened him to Hercules. His democratic mannersendeared him to the army. He wore a plain tunic covered with alarge, coarse mantle, and carried a huge sword at his side, despisingostentation. Even his faults and follies added to his popularity. Hewould sit down at the common soldiers' mess and drink with them, tellingthem stories and clapping them on the back. He spent money like water,quickly recognizing any daring deed which his legionaries performed. Inthis respect he was like Napoleon; and, like Napoleon, he had a vein offlorid eloquence which was criticized by literary men, but which wentstraight to the heart of the private soldier. In a word, he was apowerful, virile, passionate, able man, rough, as were nearly all hiscountrymen, but strong and true.
It was to this general that Cleopatra was to answer, and with a firmreliance on the charms which had subdued Antony's great commander,Caesar, she set out in person for Cilicia, in Asia Minor, sailing upthe river Cydnus to the place where Antony was encamped with his army.Making all allowance for the exaggeration of historians, there can beno doubt that she appeared to him like some dreamy vision. Her barge wasgilded, and was wafted on its way by swelling sails of Tyrian purple.The oars which smote the water were of shining silver. As she drewnear the Roman general's camp the languorous music of flutes and harpsbreathed forth a strain of invitation.
Cleopatra herself lay upon a divan set upon the deck of the bargebeneath a canopy of woven gold. She was dressed to resemble Venus, whilegirls about her personated nymphs and Graces. Delicate perfumes diffusedthemselves from the vessel; and at last, as she drew near the shore, allthe people for miles about were gathered there, leaving Antony to sitalone in the tribunal where he was dispensing justice.
Word was brought to him that Venus had come to feast with Bacchus.Antony, though still suspicious of Cleopatra, sent her an invitationto dine with him in state. With graceful tact she sent him acounter-invitation, and he came. The magnificence of his receptiondazzled the man who had so long known only a soldier's fare, or atmost the crude entertainments which he had enjoyed in Rome. A marvelousdisplay of lights was made. Thousands upon thousands of candles shonebrilliantly, arranged in squares and circles; while the banquet itselfwas one that symbolized the studied luxury of the East.
At this time Cleopatra was twenty-seven years of age--a period of lifewhich modern physiologists have called the crisis in a woman's growth.She had never really loved before, since she had given herself toCaesar, not because she cared for him, but to save her kingdom. She nowcame into the presence of one whose manly beauty and strong passionswere matched by her own subtlety and appealing charm.
When Antony addressed her he felt himself a rustic in her presence.Almost resentful, he betook himself to the coarse language of the camp.Cleopatra, with marvelous adaptability, took her tone from his, and thusin a moment put him at his ease. Ferrero, who takes a most unfavorableview of her character and personality, nevertheless explains the secretof her fascination:
Herself utterly cold and callous, insensitive by nature to the flame oftrue devotion, Cleopatra was one of those women gifted with an unerringinstinct for all the various roads to men's affections. She could be theshrinking, modest girl, too shy to reveal her half-unconscious emotionsof jealousy and depression and self-abandonment, or a woman carried awayby the sweep of a fiery and uncontrollable passion. She could tickle theesthetic sensibilities of her victims by rich and gorgeous festivals,by the fantastic adornment of her own person and her palace, or bybrilliant discussions on literature and art; she could conjure up alltheir grossest instincts with the vilest obscenities of conversation,with the free and easy jocularity of a woman of the camps.
These last words are far too strong, and they represent only Ferrero'spersonal opinion; yet there is no doubt that she met every mood ofAntony's so that he became enthralled with her at once. No such woman asthis had ever cast her eyes on him before. He had a wife at home--a mostdisreputable wife--so that he cared little for domestic ties. Later,out of policy, he made another marriage with the sister of his rival,Octavian, but this wife he never cared for. His heart and soul weregiven up to Cleopatra, the woman who could be a comrade in the camp anda fount of tenderness in their hours of dalliance, and who possessed thekeen intellect of a man joined to the arts and fascinations of a woman.
On her side she found in Antony an ardent lover, a man of vigorousmasculinity, and, moreover, a soldier whose armies might well sustainher on the throne of Egypt. That there was calculation mingled with herlove, no one can doubt. That some calculation also entered into Antony'saffection is likewise certain. Yet this does not affect the truth thateach was wholly given to the other. Why should it have lessened her lovefor him to feel that he could protect her and defend her? Why should ithave lessened his love for her to know that she was queen of the richestcountry in the world--one that could supply his needs, sustain hisarmies, and gild his triumphs with magnificence?
There are many instances in history of regnant queens who loved and yetwhose love was not dissociated from the policy of state. Such were Anneof Austria, Elizabeth of England, and the unfortunate Mary Stuart. Such,too, we cannot fail to think, was Cleopatra.
The two remained together for ten years. In this time Antony wasseparated from her only during a campaign in the East. In Alexandria heceased to seem a Roman citizen and gave himself up wholly to the charmsof this enticing woman. Many stories are told of their good fellowshipand close intimacy. Plutarch quotes Plato as saying that there are fourkinds of flattery, but he adds that Cleopatra had a thousand. She wasthe supreme mistress of the art of pleasing.
Whether Antony were serious or mirthful, she had at the instant some newdelight or some new charm to meet his wishes. At every turn she was withhim both day and night. With him she threw dice; with him she drank;with him she hunted; and when he exercised himself in arms she was thereto admire and applaud.
At night the pair would disguise themselves as servants and wander aboutthe streets of Alexandria. In fact, more than once they were set upon inthe slums and treated roughly by the rabble who did not recognize them.Cleopatra was always alluring, always tactful, often humorous, and fullof frolic.
Then came the shock of Antony's final breach with Octavian. EitherAntony or his rival must rule the world. Cleopatra's lover once morebecame the Roman general, and with a great fleet proceeded to the coastof Greece, where his enemy was encamped. Antony had raised a hundred andtwelve thousand troops and five hundred ships--a force far superior tothat commanded by Octavian. Cleopatra was there with sixty ships.
In the days that preceded the final battle much took place which stillremains obscure. It seems likely that Antony desired to become againthe Roman, while Cleopatra wished him to thrust Rome aside and return toEgypt with her, to reign there as an independent king. To her Rome wasalmost a barbarian city. In it she could not hold sway as she couldin her beautiful Alexandria, with its blue skies and velvet turf andtropical flowers. At Rome Antony would be distracted by the cares ofstate, and she would lose her lover. At Alexandria she would have himfor her very own.
The clash came when the hostile fleets met off the promontory of Actium.At its crisis Cleopatra, prematurely concluding that the battle waslost, of a sudden gave the signal for retreat and put out to sea withher fleet. This was the crucial moment. Antony, mastered by hislove, forgot all else, and in a swift ship started in pursuit of her,abandoning his fleet and army to win or lose as fortune might decide.For him the world was nothing; the dark-browed Queen of Egypt, imperiousand yet caressing, was everything. Never was such a prize and neverwere such great hopes thrown carelessly away. After waiting seven daysAntony's troops, still undefeated, finding that their commander wouldnot return to them, surrendered to Octavian, who thus became the masterof an empire.
Later his legions assaulted Alexandria, and there Antony was twicedefeated. At last Cleopatra saw her great mistake. She had made herlover give up the hope of being Rome's dictator, but in so doing she hadalso lost the chance of ruling with him tranquilly in Egypt. She shutherself behind the barred doors of the royal sepulcher; and, lest sheshould be molested there, she sent forth word that she had died. Herproud spirit could not brook the thought that she might be seized andcarried as a prisoner to Rome. She was too much a queen in soul tobe led in triumph up the Sacred Way to the Capitol with golden chainsclanking on her slender wrists.
Antony, believing the report that she was dead, fell upon his sword; butin his dying moments he was carried into the presence of the woman forwhom he had given all. With her arms about him, his spirit passed away;and soon after she, too, met death, whether by a poisoned draught or bythe storied asp no one can say.
Cleopatra had lived the mistress of a splendid kingdom. She hadsuccessively captivated two of the greatest men whom Rome had ever seen.She died, like a queen, to escape disgrace. Whatever modern criticsmay have to say concerning small details, this story still remains thestrangest love story of which the world has any record.




ABELARD AND HELOISE
Many a woman, amid the transports of passionate and languishing love,has cried out in a sort of ecstasy:
"I love you as no woman ever loved a man before!"
When she says this she believes it. Her whole soul is aflame with theardor of emotion. It really seems to her that no one ever could haveloved so much as she.
This cry--spontaneous, untaught, sincere--has become almost one of thoseconventionalities of amorous expression which belong to the vocabularyof self-abandonment. Every woman who utters it, when torn by the almostterrible extravagance of a great love, believes that no one before herhas ever said it, and that in her own case it is absolutely true.
Yet, how many women are really faithful to the end? Very many, indeed,if circumstances admit of easy faithfulness. A high-souled, generous,ardent nature will endure an infinity of disillusionment, of misfortune,of neglect, and even of ill treatment. Even so, the flame, though itmay sink low, can be revived again to burn as brightly as before. Butin order that this may be so it is necessary that the object of such awonderful devotion be alive, that he be present and visible; or, ifhe be absent, that there should still exist some hope of renewing theexquisite intimacy of the past.
A man who is sincerely loved may be compelled to take long journeyswhich will separate him for an indefinite time from the woman whohas given her heart to him, and she will still be constant. He maybe imprisoned, perhaps for life, yet there is always the hope of hisrelease or of his escape; and some women will be faithful to him andwill watch for his return. But, given a situation which absolutely barsout hope, which sunders two souls in such a way that they can never beunited in this world, and there we have a test so terribly severe thatfew even of the most loyal and intensely clinging lovers can endure it.
Not that such a situation would lead a woman to turn to any other manthan the one to whom she had given her very life; but we might expectthat at least her strong desire would cool and weaken. She might cherishhis memory among the precious souvenirs of her love life; but that sheshould still pour out the same rapturous, unstinted passion as beforeseems almost too much to believe. The annals of emotion record only onesuch instance; and so this instance has become known to all, and hasbeen cherished for nearly a thousand years. It involves the story of awoman who did love, perhaps, as no one ever loved before or since; forshe was subjected to this cruel test, and she met the test not alonecompletely, but triumphantly and almost fiercely.
The story is, of course, the story of Abelard and Heloise. It has manytimes been falsely told. Portions of it have been omitted, and otherportions of it have been garbled. A whole literature has grown uparound the subject. It may well be worth our while to clear away theambiguities and the doubtful points, and once more to tell it simply,without bias, and with a strict adherence to what seems to be the truthattested by authentic records.
There is one circumstance connected with the story which we mustspecially note. The narrative does something more than set forth the onequite unimpeachable instance of unconquered constancy. It shows how, inthe last analysis, that which touches the human heart has more vitalityand more enduring interest than what concerns the intellect or thoseachievements of the human mind which are external to our emotionalnature.
Pierre Abelard was undoubtedly the boldest and most creative reasonerof his time. As a wandering teacher he drew after him thousands ofenthusiastic students. He gave a strong impetus to learning. He was amarvelous logician and an accomplished orator. Among his pupils were menwho afterward became prelates of the church and distinguished scholars.In the Dark Age, when the dictates of reason were almost whollydisregarded, he fought fearlessly for intellectual freedom. He waspractically the founder of the University of Paris, which in turn becamethe mother of medieval and modern universities.
He was, therefore, a great and striking figure in the history ofcivilization. Nevertheless he would to-day be remembered only byscholars and students of the Middle Ages were it not for the fact thathe inspired the most enduring love that history records. If Heloisehad never loved him, and if their story had not been so tragic and sopoignant, he would be to-day only a name known to but a few. His finalresting-place, in the cemetery of Pere Lachaise, in Paris, would notbe sought out by thousands every year and kept bright with flowers, thegift of those who have themselves both loved and suffered.
Pierre Abelard--or, more fully, Pierre Abelard de Palais--was a nativeof Brittany, born in the year 1079. His father was a knight, the lord ofthe manor; but Abelard cared little for the life of a petty noble; andso he gave up his seigniorial rights to his brothers and went forth tobecome, first of all a student, and then a public lecturer and teacher.
His student days ended abruptly in Paris, where he had enrolled himselfas the pupil of a distinguished philosopher, Guillaume de Champeaux; butone day Abelard engaged in a disputation with his master. His wonderfulcombination of eloquence, logic, and originality utterly routedChampeaux, who was thus humiliated in the presence of his disciples. Hewas the first of many enemies that Abelard was destined to make in hislong and stormy career. From that moment the young Breton himself setup as a teacher of philosophy, and the brilliancy of his discourses soondrew to him throngs of students from all over Europe.
Before proceeding with the story of Abelard it is well to reconstruct,however slightly, a picture of the times in which he lived. It was anage when Western Europe was but partly civilized. Pedantry and learningof the most minute sort existed side by side with the most violentexcesses of medieval barbarism. The Church had undertaken the gigantictask of subduing and enlightening the semi-pagan peoples of France andGermany and England.
When we look back at that period some will unjustly censure Rome for notcontrolling more completely the savagery of the medievals. More fairlyshould we wonder at the great measure of success which had alreadybeen achieved. The leaven of a true Christianity was working in thehalf-pagan populations. It had not yet completely reached the nobles andthe knights, or even all the ecclesiastics who served it and who wereconsecrated to its mission. Thus, amid a sort of political chaoswere seen the glaring evils of feudalism. Kings and princes and theirfollowers lived the lives of swine. Private blood-feuds were regardedlightly. There was as yet no single central power. Every man carried hislife in his hand, trusting to sword and dagger for protection.
The cities were still mere hamlets clustered around great castles orfortified cathedrals. In Paris itself the network of dark lanes,ill lighted and unguarded, was the scene of midnight murder andassassination. In the winter-time wolves infested the town by night.Men-at-arms, with torches and spears, often had to march out from theirbarracks to assail the snarling, yelping packs of savage animals thathunger drove from the surrounding forests.
Paris of the twelfth century was typical of France itself, which washarried by human wolves intent on rapine and wanton plunder. There weregreat schools of theology, but the students who attended them fought andslashed one another. If a man's life was threatened he must protect itby his own strength or by gathering about him a band of friends. Noone was safe. No one was tolerant. Very few were free from the grosservices. Even in some of the religious houses the brothers would meetat night for unseemly revels, splashing the stone floors with wine andshrieking in a delirium of drunkenness. The rules of the Church enjoinedtemperance, continence, and celibacy; but the decrees of Leo IX. andNicholas II. and Alexander II. and Gregory were only partially observed.
In fact, Europe was in a state of chaos--political and moral and social.Only very slowly was order emerging from sheer anarchy. We must rememberthis when we recall some facts which meet us in the story of Abelard andHeloise.
The jealousy of Champeaux drove Abelard for a time from Paris. He taughtand lectured at several other centers of learning, always admired, andyet at the same time denounced by many for his advocacy of reason asagainst blind faith. During the years of his wandering he came to havea wide knowledge of the world and of human nature. If we try to imaginehim as he was in his thirty-fifth year we shall find in him a remarkablecombination of attractive qualities.
It must be remembered that though, in a sense, he was an ecclesiastic,he had not yet been ordained to the priesthood, but was rather acanon--a person who did not belong to any religious order, though he wassupposed to live according to a definite set of religious rules and as amember of a religious community. Abelard, however, made rather lightof his churchly associations. He was at once an accomplished man of theworld and a profound scholar. There was nothing of the recluse abouthim. He mingled with his fellow men, whom he dominated by the charm ofhis personality. He was eloquent, ardent, and persuasive. He could turna delicate compliment as skilfully as he could elaborate a syllogism.His rich voice had in it a seductive quality which was never without itseffect.
Handsome and well formed, he possessed as much vigor of body as of mind.Nor were his accomplishments entirely those of the scholar. He wrotedainty verses, which he also set to music, and which he sang himselfwith a rare skill. Some have called him "the first of the troubadours,"and many who cared nothing for his skill in logic admired him forhis gifts as a musician and a poet. Altogether, he was one to attractattention wherever he went, for none could fail to recognize his power.
It was soon after his thirty-fifth year that he returned to Paris, wherehe was welcomed by thousands. With much tact he reconciled himself tohis enemies, so that his life now seemed to be full of promise and ofsunshine.
It was at this time that he became acquainted with a very beautifulyoung girl named Heloise. She was only eighteen years of age, yetalready she possessed not only beauty, but many accomplishments whichwere then quite rare in women, since she both wrote and spoke a numberof languages, and, like Abelard, was a lover of music and poetry.Heloise was the illegitimate daughter of a canon of patrician blood; sothat she is said to have been a worthy representative of the noble houseof the Montmorencys--famous throughout French history for chivalry andcharm.
Up to this time we do not know precisely what sort of life Abelardhad lived in private. His enemies declared that he had squandered hissubstance in vicious ways. His friends denied this, and representedhim as strict and chaste. The truth probably lies between these twoassertions. He was naturally a pleasure-loving man of the world, who mayvery possibly have relieved his severer studies by occasional revelryand light love. It is not at all likely that he was addicted to grosspassions and low practices.
But such as he was, when he first saw Heloise he conceived for hera violent attachment. Carefully guarded in the house of her uncle,Fulbert, it was difficult at first for Abelard to meet her save in themost casual way; yet every time that he heard her exquisite voice andwatched her graceful manners he became more and more infatuated. Hisstudies suddenly seemed tame and colorless beside the fierce scarletflame which blazed up in his heart.
Nevertheless, it was because of these studies and of his greatreputation as a scholar that he managed to obtain access to Heloise. Heflattered her uncle and made a chance proposal that he should himselfbecome an inmate of Fulbert's household in order that he might teachthis girl of so much promise. Such an offer coming from so brilliant aman was joyfully accepted.
From that time Abelard could visit Heloise without restraint. He washer teacher, and the two spent hours together, nominally in the study ofGreek and Hebrew; but doubtless very little was said between themupon such unattractive subjects. On the contrary, with all his wideexperience of life, his eloquence, his perfect manners, and hisfascination, Abelard put forth his power to captivate the senses ofa girl still in her teens and quite ignorant of the world. As Remusatsays, he employed to win her the genius which had overwhelmed all thegreat centers of learning in the Western world.
It was then that the pleasures of knowledge, the joys of thought, theemotions of eloquence, were all called into play to charm and move andplunge into a profound and strange intoxication this noble and tenderheart which had never known either love or sorrow.... One can imaginethat everything helped on the inevitable end. Their studies gave themopportunities to see each other freely, and also permitted them to bealone together. Then their books lay open between them; but either longperiods of silence stilled their reading, or else words of deepeningintimacy made them forget their studies altogether. The eyes of the twolovers turned from the book to mingle their glances, and then to turnaway in a confusion that was conscious.
Hand would touch hand, apparently by accident; and when conversationceased, Abelard would often hear the long, quivering sigh which showedthe strange, half-frightened, and yet exquisite joy which Heloiseexperienced.
It was not long before the girl's heart had been wholly won. Transportedby her emotion, she met the caresses of her lover with those asunrestrained as his. Her very innocence deprived her of the protectionwhich older women would have had. All was given freely, and evenwildly, by Heloise; and all was taken by Abelard, who afterward himselfdeclared:
"The pleasure of teaching her to love surpassed the delightful fragranceof all the perfumes in the world."
Yet these two could not always live in a paradise which was entirelytheir own. The world of Paris took notice of their close association.Some poems written to Heloise by Abelard, as if in letters of fire, werefound and shown to Fulbert, who, until this time, had suspected nothing.Angrily he ordered Abelard to leave his house. He forbade his niece tosee her lover any more.
But the two could not be separated; and, indeed, there was good reasonwhy they should still cling together. Secretly Heloise left her uncle'shouse and fled through the narrow lanes of Paris to the dwelling ofAbelard's sister, Denyse, where Abelard himself was living. There,presently, the young girl gave birth to a son, who was named Astrolabe,after an instrument used by astronomers, since both the father andthe mother felt that the offspring of so great a love should have noordinary name.
Fulbert was furious, and rightly so. His hospitality had been outragedand his niece dishonored. He insisted that the pair should at oncebe married. Here was revealed a certain weakness in the character ofAbelard. He consented to the marriage, but insisted that it should bekept an utter secret.
Oddly enough, it was Heloise herself who objected to becoming the wifeof the man she loved. Unselfishness could go no farther. She saw that,were he to marry her, his advancement in the Church would be almostimpossible; for, while the very minor clergy sometimes married in spiteof the papal bulls, matrimony was becoming a fatal bar to ecclesiasticalpromotion. And so Heloise pleaded pitifully, both with her uncle andwith Abelard, that there should be no marriage. She would rather bearall manner of disgrace than stand in the way of Abelard's advancement.
He has himself given some of the words in which she pleaded with him:
What glory shall I win from you, when I have made you quite ingloriousand have humbled both of us? What vengeance will the world inflict onme if I deprive it of one so brilliant? What curses will follow such amarriage? How outrageous would it be that you, whom nature created forthe universal good, should be devoted to one woman and plunged into suchdisgrace? I loathe the thought of a marriage which would humiliate you.
Indeed, every possible effort which another woman in her place wouldemploy to make him marry her she used in order to dissuade him. Finally,her sweet face streaming with tears, she uttered that tremendoussentence which makes one really think that she loved him as no otherwoman ever loved a man. She cried out, in an agony of self-sacrifice:
"I would rather be your mistress than the wife even of an emperor!"
Nevertheless, the two were married, and Abelard returned to hislecture-room and to his studies. For months they met but seldom.Meanwhile, however, the taunts and innuendos directed against Heloiseso irritated Fulbert that he broke his promise of secrecy, and told hisfriends that Abelard and Heloise were man and wife. They went to Heloisefor confirmation. Once more she showed in an extraordinary way the depthof her devotion.
"I am no wife," she said. "It is not true that Abelard has married me.My uncle merely tells you this to save my reputation."
They asked her whether she would swear to this; and, without a moment'shesitation, this pure and noble woman took an oath upon the Scripturesthat there had been no marriage.
Fulbert was enraged by this. He ill-treated Heloise, and, furthermore,he forbade Abelard to visit her. The girl, therefore, again left heruncle's house and betook herself to a convent just outside of Paris,where she assumed the habit of a nun as a disguise. There Abelardcontinued from time to time to meet her.
When Fulbert heard of this he put his own interpretation on it. Hebelieved that Abelard intended to ignore the marriage altogether, andthat possibly he might even marry some other woman. In any case, he nowhated Abelard with all his heart; and he resolved to take a fearful andunnatural vengeance which would at once prevent his enemy from makingany other marriage, while at the same time it would debar him fromecclesiastical preferment.
To carry out his plot Fulbert first bribed a man who was thebody-servant of Abelard, watching at the door of his room each night.Then he hired the services of four ruffians. After Abelard had retiredand was deep in slumber the treacherous valet unbarred the door. Thehirelings of Fulbert entered and fell upon the sleeping man. Three ofthem bound him fast, while the fourth, with a razor, inflicted on himthe most shameful mutilation that is possible. Then, extinguishingthe lights, the wretches slunk away and were lost in darkness, leavingbehind their victim bound to his couch, uttering cries of torment andbathed in his own blood.
It is a shocking story, and yet it is intensely characteristic of thelawless and barbarous era in which it happened. Early the next morningthe news flew rapidly through Paris. The city hummed like a bee-hive.Citizens and students and ecclesiastics poured into the street andsurrounded the house of Abelard.
"Almost the entire city," says Fulques, as quoted by McCabe, "wentclamoring toward his house. Women wept as if each one had lost herhusband."
Unmanned though he was, Abelard still retained enough of the spirit ofhis time to seek vengeance. He, in his turn, employed ruffians whom heset upon the track of those who had assaulted him. The treacherous valetand one of Fulbert's hirelings were run down, seized, and mutilatedprecisely as Abelard had been; and their eyes were blinded. A third waslodged in prison. Fulbert himself was accused before one of the Churchcourts, which alone had power to punish an ecclesiastic, and all hisgoods were confiscated.
But, meantime, how did it fare with Heloise? Her grief was greater thanhis own, while her love and her devotion were absolutely undiminished.But Abelard now showed a selfishness--and indeed, a meanness--far beyondany that he had before exhibited. Heloise could no more be his wife.He made it plain that he put no trust in her fidelity. He was unwillingthat she should live in the world while he could not; and so he toldher sternly that she must take the veil and bury herself for ever in anunnery.
The pain and shame which she experienced at this came wholly from thefact that evidently Abelard did not trust her. Long afterward she wrote:
God knows I should not have hesitated, at your command, to precede or tofollow you to hell itself!
It was his distrust that cut her to the heart. Still, her love for himwas so intense that she obeyed his order. Soon after she took the vows;and in the convent chapel, shaken with sobs, she knelt before the altarand assumed the veil of a cloistered nun. Abelard himself put on theblack tunic of a Benedictine monk and entered the Abbey of St. Denis.
It is unnecessary here to follow out all the details of the lives ofAbelard and Heloise after this heart-rendering scene. Abelardpassed through many years of strife and disappointment, and even ofhumiliation; for on one occasion, just as he had silenced Guillaumede Champeaux, so he himself was silenced and put to rout by Bernard ofClairvaux--"a frail, tense, absorbed, dominant little man, whose facewas white and worn with suffering," but in whose eyes there was alight of supreme strength. Bernard represented pure faith, as Abelardrepresented pure reason; and the two men met before a great council tomatch their respective powers.
Bernard, with fiery eloquence, brought a charge of heresy againstAbelard in an oration which was like a charge of cavalry. When he hadconcluded Abelard rose with an ashen face, stammered out a few words,and sat down. He was condemned by the council, and his works wereordered to be burned.
All his later life was one of misfortune, of humiliation, and even ofpersonal danger. The reckless monks whom he tried to rule rose fiercelyagainst him. His life was threatened. He betook himself to a desolateand lonely place, where he built for himself a hut of reeds and rushes,hoping to spend his final years in meditation. But there were many whohad not forgotten his ability as a teacher. These flocked by hundredsto the desert place where he abode. His hut was surrounded by tents andrude hovels, built by his scholars for their shelter.
Thus Abelard resumed his teaching, though in a very different frame ofmind. In time he built a structure of wood and stone, which he calledthe Paraclete, some remains of which can still be seen.
All this time no word had passed between him and Heloise. But presentlyAbelard wrote and gave to the world a curious and exceedingly frankbook, which he called The Story of My Misfortunes. A copy of it reachedthe hands of Heloise, and she at once sent to Abelard the first of aseries of letters which have remained unique in the literature of love.
Ten years had passed, and yet the woman's heart was as faithful and asfull of yearning as on the day when the two had parted. It has beensaid that the letters are not genuine, and they must be read with thisassertion in mind; yet it is difficult to believe that any one saveHeloise herself could have flung a human soul into such franklypassionate utterances, or that any imitator could have done the work.
In her first letter, which was sent to Abelard written upon parchment,she said:
At thy command I would change, not merely my costume, but my very soul,so entirely art thou the sole possessor of my body and my spirit. Never,God is my witness, never have I sought anything in thee but thyself;I have sought thee, and not thy gifts. I have not looked to themarriage-bond or dowry.
She begged him to write to her, and to lead her to God, as once he hadled her into the mysteries of pleasure. Abelard answered in a letter,friendly to be sure, but formal--the letter of a priest to a cloisterednun. The opening words of it are characteristic of the whole:
To Heloise, his sister in Christ, from Abelard, her brother in Him.
The letter was a long one, but throughout the whole of it the writer'stone was cold and prudent. Its very coldness roused her soul to apassionate revolt. Her second letter bursts forth in a sort of anguish:
How hast thou been able to frame such thoughts, dearest? How hast thoufound words to convey them? Oh, if I dared but call God cruel to me!Oh, most wretched of all creatures that I am! So sweet did I find thepleasures of our loving days that I cannot bring myself to rejectthem or to banish them from my memory. Wheresoever I go, they thrustthemselves upon my vision, and rekindle the old desire.
But Abelard knew only too well that not in this life could there beanything save spiritual love between himself and Heloise. He wrote toher again and again, always in the same remote and unimpassioned way.He tells her about the history of monasticism, and discusses with hermatters of theology and ethics; but he never writes one word to feedthe flame that is consuming her. The woman understood at last; and bydegrees her letters became as calm as his--suffused, however, with atenderness and feeling which showed that in her heart of hearts she wasstill entirely given to him.
After some years Abelard left his dwelling at the Paraclete, and therewas founded there a religious house of which Heloise became the abbess.All the world respected her for her sweetness, her wisdom, and thepurity of her character. She made friends as easily as Abelard madeenemies. Even Bernard, who had overthrown her husband, sought outHeloise to ask for her advice and counsel.
Abelard died while on his way to Rome, whither he was journeyingin order to undergo a penalty; and his body was brought back to theParaclete, where it was entombed. Over it for twenty-two years Heloisewatched with tender care; and when she died, her body was laid besidethat of her lover.
To-day their bones are mingled as she would have desired them to bemingled. The stones of their tomb in the great cemetery of Pere Lachaisewere brought from the ruins of the Paraclete, and above the sarcophagusare two recumbent figures, the whole being the work of the artistAlexandra Lenoir, who died in 1836. The figure representing Heloiseis not, however, an authentic likeness. The model for it was a ladybelonging to a noble family of France, and the figure itself was broughtto Pere Lachaise from the ancient College de Beauvais.
The letters of Heloise have been read and imitated throughout the wholeof the last nine centuries. Some have found in them the utterances ofa woman whose love of love was greater than her love of God and whoseintensity of passion nothing could subdue; and so these have condemnedher. But others, like Chateaubriand, have more truly seen in them a pureand noble spirit to whom fate had been very cruel; and who was, afterall, writing to the man who had been her lawful husband.
Some of the most famous imitations of her letters are those in theancient poem entitled, "The Romance of the Rose," written by Jean deMeung, in the thirteenth century; and in modern times her first letterwas paraphrased by Alexander Pope, and in French by Colardeau. Thereexist in English half a dozen translations of them, with Abelard'sreplies. It is interesting to remember that practically all the otherwritings of Abelard remained unpublished and unedited until a veryrecent period. He was a remarkable figure as a philosopher and scholar;but the world cares for him only because he was loved by Heloise.




QUEEN ELIZABETH AND THE EARL OF LEICESTER

History has many romantic stories to tell of the part which womenhave played in determining the destinies of nations. Sometimes it isa woman's beauty that causes the shifting of a province. Again it isanother woman's rich possessions that incite invasion and lead to bloodywars. Marriages or dowries, or the refusal of marriages and the lackof dowries, inheritance through an heiress, the failure of a malesuccession--in these and in many other ways women have set their markindelibly upon the trend of history.
However, if we look over these different events we shall find that itis not so much the mere longing for a woman--the desire to have her as aqueen--that has seriously affected the annals of any nation. Kings, likeordinary men, have paid their suit and then have ridden away repulsed,yet not seriously dejected. Most royal marriages are made either tosecure the succession to a throne by a legitimate line of heirs or elseto unite adjoining states and make a powerful kingdom out of two thatare less powerful. But, as a rule, kings have found greater delight insome sheltered bower remote from courts than in the castled halls andwell-cared-for nooks where their own wives and children have been rearedwith all the appurtenances of legitimacy.
There are not many stories that hang persistently about the love-makingof a single woman. In the case of one or another we may find an episodeor two--something dashing, something spirited or striking, somethingbrilliant and exhilarating, or something sad. But for a woman's wholelife to be spent in courtship that meant nothing and that was only aclever aid to diplomacy--this is surely an unusual and really wonderfulthing.
It is the more unusual because the woman herself was not intended bynature to be wasted upon the cold and cheerless sport of chancellorsand counselors and men who had no thought of her except to use her asa pawn. She was hot-blooded, descended from a fiery race, and one whosetemper was quick to leap into the passion of a man.
In studying this phase of the long and interesting life of Elizabeth ofEngland we must notice several important facts. In the first place,she gave herself, above all else, to the maintenance of England--not anEngland that would be half Spanish or half French, or even partly Dutchand Flemish, but the Merry England of tradition--the England that wasone and undivided, with its growing freedom of thought, its bows andbills, its nut-brown ale, its sturdy yeomen, and its loyalty to crownand Parliament. She once said, almost as in an agony:
"I love England more than anything!"
And one may really hold that this was true.
For England she schemed and planned. For England she gave up many of herroyal rights. For England she descended into depths of treachery. ForEngland she left herself on record as an arrant liar, false, perjured,yet successful; and because of her success for England's sake hercountrymen will hold her in high remembrance, since her scheming and herfalsehood are the offenses that one pardons most readily in a woman.
In the second place, it must be remembered that Elizabeth's courtshipsand pretended love-makings were almost always a part of her diplomacy.When not a part of her diplomacy they were a mere appendage to hervanity. To seem to be the flower of the English people, and to besurrounded by the noblest, the bravest, and the most handsome cavaliers,not only of her own kingdom, but of others--this was, indeed, a choicemorsel of which she was fond of tasting, even though it meant nothingbeyond the moment.
Finally, though at times she could be very cold, and though she madeherself still colder in order that she might play fast and loose withforeign suitors who played fast and loose with her--the King ofSpain, the Duc d'Alencon, brother of the French king, with an Austrianarchduke, with a magnificent barbarian prince of Muscovy, with Eric ofSweden, or any other Scandinavian suitor--she felt a woman's need forsome nearer and more tender association to which she might give freerplay and in which she might feel those deeper emotions without thedanger that arises when love is mingled with diplomacy.
Let us first consider a picture of the woman as she really was in orderthat we may understand her triple nature--consummate mistress of everyart that statesmen know, and using at every moment her person as a lure;a vain-glorious queen who seemed to be the prey of boundless vanity;and, lastly, a woman who had all a woman's passion, and who could castsuddenly aside the check and balance which restrained her before thepublic gaze and could allow herself to give full play to the emotionthat she inherited from the king, her father, who was himself a marvelof fire and impetuosity. That the daughter of Henry VIII. and AnneBoleyn should be a gentle, timid maiden would be to make heredity afarce.
Elizabeth was about twenty-five years of age when she ascended thethrone of England. It is odd that the date of her birth cannot be givenwith precision. The intrigues and disturbances of the English court,and the fact that she was a princess, made her birth a matter of lessaccount than if there had been no male heir to the throne. At any rate,when she ascended it, after the deaths of her brother, King EdwardVI., and her sister, Queen Mary, she was a woman well trained both inintellect and in physical development.
Mr. Martin Hume, who loves to dwell upon the later years of QueenElizabeth, speaks rather bitterly of her as a "painted old harridan";and such she may well have seemed when, at nearly seventy years of age,she leered and grinned a sort of skeleton smile at the handsome youngcourtiers who pretended to see in her the queen of beauty and to bedying for love of her.
Yet, in her earlier years, when she was young and strong and impetuous,she deserved far different words than these. The portrait of her byZucchero, which now hangs in Hampton Court, depicts her when she musthave been of more than middle age; and still the face is one of beauty,though it be a strange and almost artificial beauty--one that draws,attracts, and, perhaps, lures you on against your will.
It is interesting to compare this painting with the frank word-pictureof a certain German agent who was sent to England by his emperor, andwho seems to have been greatly fascinated by Queen Elizabeth. She was atthat time in the prime of her beauty and her power. Her complexion wasof that peculiar transparency which is seen only in the face of goldenblondes. Her figure was fine and graceful, and her wit an accomplishmentthat would have made a woman of any rank or time remarkable. The Germanenvoy says:
She lives a life of such magnificence and feasting as can hardly beimagined, and occupies a great portion of her time with balls, banquets,hunting, and similar amusements, with the utmost possible display, butnevertheless she insists upon far greater respect being shown her thanwas exacted by Queen Mary. She summons Parliament, but lets them knowthat her orders must be obeyed in any case.
If any one will look at the painting by Zucchero he will see how much ismade of Elizabeth's hands--a distinctive feature quite as noble with theTudors as is the "Hapsburg lip" among the descendants of the house ofAustria. These were ungloved, and were very long and white, and shelooked at them and played with them a great deal; and, indeed,they justified the admiration with which they were regarded by herflatterers.
Such was the personal appearance of Elizabeth. When a young girl, wehave still more favorable opinions of her that were written by those whohad occasion to be near her. Not only do they record swift glimpses ofher person, but sometimes in a word or two they give an insight intocertain traits of mind which came out prominently in her later years.
It may, perhaps, be well to view her as a woman before we regard hermore fully as a queen. It has been said that Elizabeth inherited manyof the traits of her father--the boldness of spirit, the rapidity ofdecision, and, at the same time, the fox-like craft which often showeditself when it was least expected.
Henry had also, as is well known, a love of the other sex, which hasmade his reign memorable. And yet it must be noted that while he lovedmuch, it was not loose love. Many a king of England, from Henry II. toCharles II., has offended far more than Henry VIII. Where Henry loved,he married; and it was the unfortunate result of these royal marriagesthat has made him seem unduly fond of women. If, however, we examineeach one of the separate espousals we shall find that he did not enterinto it lightly, and that he broke it off unwillingly. His ardenttemperament, therefore, was checked by a certain rational orconventional propriety, so that he was by no means a loose liver, asmany would make him out to be.
We must remember this when we recall the charges that have been madeagainst Elizabeth, and the strange stories that were told of hertricks--by no means seemly tricks--which she used to play with herguardian, Lord Thomas Seymour. The antics she performed with him in herdressing-room were made the subject of an official inquiry; yet it cameout that while Elizabeth was less than sixteen, and Lord Thomas was verymuch her senior, his wife was with him on his visits to the chamber ofthe princess.
Sir Robert Tyrwhitt and his wife were also sent to question her,Tyrwhitt had a keen mind and one well trained to cope with any other'swit in this sort of cross-examination. Elizabeth was only a girl offifteen, yet she was a match for the accomplished courtier in diplomacyand quick retort. He was sent down to worm out of her everything thatshe knew. Threats and flattery and forged letters and false confessionswere tried on her; but they were tried in vain. She would tell nothingof importance. She denied everything. She sulked, she cried, she availedherself of a woman's favorite defense in suddenly attacking those whohad attacked her. She brought counter charges against Tyrwhitt, and puther enemies on their own defense. Not a compromising word could theywring out of her.
She bitterly complained of the imprisonment of her governess, Mrs.Ashley, and cried out:
"I have not so behaved that you need put more mistresses upon me!"
Altogether, she was too much for Sir Robert, and he was wise enough torecognize her cleverness.
"She hath a very good wit," said he, shrewdly; "and nothing is to begotten of her except by great policy." And he added: "If I had to saymy fancy, I think it more meet that she should have two governesses thanone."
Mr. Hume notes the fact that after the two servants of the princess hadbeen examined and had told nothing very serious they found that theyhad been wise in remaining friends of the royal girl. No sooner hadElizabeth become queen than she knighted the man Parry and made himtreasurer of the household, while Mrs. Ashley, the governess, wastreated with great consideration. Thus, very naturally, Mr. Hume says:"They had probably kept back far more than they told."
Even Tyrwhitt believed that there was a secret compact between them, forhe said, quaintly: "They all sing one song, and she hath set the notefor them."
Soon after this her brother Edward's death brought to the throne herelder sister, Mary, who has harshly become known as Bloody Mary. Duringthis time Elizabeth put aside her boldness, and became apparently a shyand simple-minded virgin. Surrounded on every side by those who soughtto trap her, there was nothing in her bearing to make her seem the headof a party or the young chief of a faction. Nothing could exceed her inmeekness. She spoke of her sister in the humblest terms. She exhibitedno signs of the Tudor animation that was in reality so strong a part ofher character.
But, coming to the throne, she threw away her modesty and brawled andrioted with very little self-restraint. The people as a whole foundlittle fault with her. She reminded them of her father, the bluff KingHal; and even those who criticized her did so only partially. Theythought much better of her than they had of her saturnine sister, thefirst Queen Mary.
The life of Elizabeth has been very oddly misunderstood, not so much forthe facts in it as for the manner in which these have been arranged andthe relation which they have to one another. We ought to recollect thatthis woman did not live in a restricted sphere, that her life was nota short one, and that it was crowded with incidents and full of vividcolor. Some think of her as living for a short period of time and speakof the great historical characters who surrounded her as belonging to asingle epoch. To them she has one set of suitors all the time--the Ducd'Alencon, the King of Denmark's brother, the Prince of Sweden, therussian potentate, the archduke sending her sweet messages fromAustria, the melancholy King of Spain, together with a number of herown brilliant Englishmen--Sir William Pickering, Sir Robert Dudley, LordDarnley, the Earl of Essex, Sir Philip Sidney, and Sir Walter Raleigh.
Of course, as a matter of fact, Elizabeth lived for nearly seventyyears--almost three-quarters of a century--and in that long time therecame and went both men and women, those whom she had used and castaside, with others whom she had also treated with gratitude, and who haddied gladly serving her. But through it all there was a continual changein her environment, though not in her. The young soldier went to thebattle-field and died; the wise counselor gave her his advice, andshe either took it or cared nothing for it. She herself was a curiousblending of forwardness and folly, of wisdom and wantonness, offrivolity and unbridled fancy. But through it all she loved her people,even though she often cheated them and made them pay her taxes in theharsh old way that prevailed before there was any right save the king'swill.
At the same time, this was only by fits and starts, and on the wholeshe served them well. Therefore, to most of them she was always the goodQueen Bess. What mattered it to the ditcher and yeoman, far from thecourt, that the queen was said to dance in her nightdress and to swearlike a trooper?
It was, indeed, largely from these rustic sources that such stories werescattered throughout England. Peasants thought them picturesque. Moreto the point with them were peace and prosperity throughout the country,the fact that law was administered with honesty and justice, and thatEngland was safe from her deadly enemies--the swarthy Spaniards and thescheming French.
But, as I said, we must remember always that the Elizabeth of one periodwas not the Elizabeth of another, and that the England of one periodwas not the England of another. As one thinks of it, there is somethingwonderful in the almost star-like way in which this girl flittedunharmed through a thousand perils. Her own countrymen were at firstdivided against her; a score of greedy, avaricious suitors sought herdestruction, or at least her hand to lead her to destruction; all thegreat powers of the Continent were either demanding an alliance withEngland or threatening to dash England down amid their own dissensions.
What had this girl to play off against such dangers? Only an undauntedspirit, a scheming mind that knew no scruples, and finally her ownperson and the fact that she was a woman, and, therefore, might giveherself in marriage and become the mother of a race of kings.
It was this last weapon, the weapon of her sex, that proved, perhaps,the most powerful of all. By promising a marriage or by denying it, orby neither promising nor denying but withholding it, she gave forth athousand wily intimations which kept those who surrounded her at bayuntil she had made still another deft and skilful combination, escapinglike some startled creature to a new place of safety.
In 1583, when she was fifty years of age, she had reached a point whenher courtships and her pretended love-making were no longer necessary.She had played Sweden against Denmark, and France against Spain, and theAustrian archduke against the others, and many suitors in her own landagainst the different factions which they headed. She might have satherself down to rest; for she could feel that her wisdom had led herup into a high place, whence she might look down in peace and withassurance of the tranquillity that she had won. Not yet had the greatArmada rolled and thundered toward the English shores. But she wascertain that her land was secure, compact, and safe.
It remains to see what were those amatory relations which she may besaid to have sincerely held. She had played at love-making with foreignprinces, because it was wise and, for the moment, best. She had playedwith Englishmen of rank who aspired to her hand, because in that way shemight conciliate, at one time her Catholic and at another her Protestantsubjects. But what of the real and inward feeling of her heart, when shewas not thinking of political problems or the necessities of state!
This is an interesting question. One may at least seek the answer,hoping thereby to solve one of the most interesting phases of thisperplexing and most remarkable woman.
It must be remembered that it was not a question of whether Elizabethdesired marriage. She may have done so as involving a brilliant strokeof policy. In this sense she may have wished to marry one of the twoFrench princes who were among her suitors. But even here she hesitated,and her Parliament disapproved; for by this time England had becomelargely Protestant. Again, had she married a French prince and hadchildren, England might have become an appanage of France.
There is no particular evidence that she had any feeling at all for herFlemish, Austrian, or Russian suitors, while the Swede's pretensionswere the laughing-stock of the English court. So we may set aside thisquestion of marriage as having nothing to do with her emotional life.She did desire a son, as was shown by her passionate outcry when shecompared herself with Mary of Scotland.
"The Queen of Scots has a bonny son, while I am but a barren stock!"
She was too wise to wed a subject; though, had she married at all, herchoice would doubtless have been an Englishman. In this respect, as inso many others, she was like her father, who chose his numerous wives,with the exception of the first, from among the English ladies ofthe court; just as the showy Edward IV. was happy in marrying "DameElizabeth Woodville." But what a king may do is by no means so easy fora queen; and a husband is almost certain to assume an authority whichmakes him unpopular with the subjects of his wife.
Hence, as said above, we must consider not so much whom she would haveliked to marry, but rather to whom her love went out spontaneously, andnot as a part of that amatory play which amused her from the time whenshe frisked with Seymour down to the very last days, when she could nolonger move about, but when she still dabbled her cheeks with rouge andpowder and set her skeleton face amid a forest of ruffs.
There were many whom she cared for after a fashion. She would not letSir Walter Raleigh visit her American colonies, because she could notbear to have him so long away from her. She had great moments of passionfor the Earl of Essex, though in the end she signed his death-warrantbecause he was as dominant in spirit as the queen herself.
Readers of Sir Walter Scott's wonderfully picturesque novel, Kenilworth,will note how he throws the strongest light upon Elizabeth's affectionfor Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester. Scott's historical instinct isunited here with a vein of psychology which goes deeper than is usualwith him. We see Elizabeth trying hard to share her favor equallybetween two nobles; but the Earl of Essex fails to please her because helacked those exquisite manners which made Leicester so great a favoritewith the fastidious queen.
Then, too, the story of Leicester's marriage with Amy Robsart issomething more than a myth, based upon an obscure legend and an ancientballad. The earl had had such a wife, and there were sinister storiesabout the manner of her death. But it is Scott who invents thevillainous Varney and the bulldog Anthony Foster; just as he broughtthe whole episode into the foreground and made it occur at a period muchlater than was historically true. Still, Scott felt--and he was imbuedwith the spirit and knowledge of that time--a strong conviction thatElizabeth loved Leicester as she really loved no one else.
There is one interesting fact which goes far to convince us. Just asher father was, in a way, polygamous, so Elizabeth was even more trulypolyandrous. It was inevitable that she should surround herself withattractive men, whose love-locks she would caress and whose flatteriesshe would greedily accept. To the outward eye there was very littledifference in her treatment of the handsome and daring nobles of hercourt; yet a historian of her time makes one very shrewd remark whenhe says: "To every one she gave some power at times--to all saveLeicester."
Cecil and Walsingham in counsel and Essex and Raleigh in the field mighthave their own way at times, and even share the sovereign's power, butto Leicester she intrusted no high commands and no important mission.Why so? Simply because she loved him more than any of the rest; and,knowing this, she knew that if besides her love she granted him anymeasure of control or power, then she would be but half a queen andwould be led either to marry him or else to let him sway her as hewould.
For the reason given, one may say with confidence that, whileElizabeth's light loves were fleeting, she gave a deep affection tothis handsome, bold, and brilliant Englishman and cherished him in a fardifferent way from any of the others. This was as near as she ever cameto marriage, and it was this love at least which makes Shakespeare'sfamous line as false as it is beautiful, when he describes "the imperialvotaress" as passing by "in maiden meditation, fancy free."




MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS AND LORD BOTHWELL

Mary Stuart and Cleopatra are the two women who have most attracted thefancy of poets, dramatists, novelists, and painters, from their own timedown to the present day.
In some respects there is a certain likeness in their careers. Eachwas queen of a nation whose affairs were entangled with those of a muchgreater one. Each sought for her own ideal of love until she found it.Each won that love recklessly, almost madly. Each, in its attainment,fell from power and fortune. Each died before her natural life wasended. One caused the man she loved to cast away the sovereignty ofa mighty state. The other lost her own crown in order that she mightachieve the whole desire of her heart.
There is still another parallel which may be found. Each of these womenwas reputed to be exquisitely beautiful; yet each fell short of beauty'shighest standards. They are alike remembered in song and story becauseof qualities that are far more powerful than any physical charm can be.They impressed the imagination of their own contemporaries just as theyhad impressed the imagination of all succeeding ages, by reason of astrange and irresistible fascination which no one could explain, butwhich very few could experience and resist.
Mary Stuart was born six days before her father's death, and when thekingdom which was her heritage seemed to be almost in its death-throes.James V. of Scotland, half Stuart and half Tudor, was no ordinarymonarch. As a mere boy he had burst the bonds with which a regency hadbound him, and he had ruled the wild Scotland of the sixteenth century.He was brave and crafty, keen in statesmanship, and dissolute inpleasure.
His first wife had given him no heirs; so at her death he sought outa princess whom he pursued all the more ardently because she was alsocourted by the burly Henry VIII. of England. This girl was Marie ofLorraine, daughter of the Duc de Guise. She was fit to be the mother ofa lion's brood, for she was above six feet in height and of proportionsso ample as to excite the admiration of the royal voluptuary who satupon the throne of England.
"I am big," said he, "and I want a wife who is as big as I am."
But James of Scotland wooed in person, and not by embassies, and hetriumphantly carried off his strapping princess. Henry of England gnawedhis beard in vain; and, though in time he found consolation in anotherwoman's arms, he viewed James not only as a public but as a privateenemy.
There was war between the two countries. First the Scots repelled anEnglish army; but soon they were themselves disgracefully defeated atSolway Moss by a force much their inferior in numbers. The shame of itbroke King James's heart. As he was galloping from the battle-field thenews was brought him that his wife had given birth to a daughter.He took little notice of the message; and in a few days he had died,moaning with his last breath the mysterious words:
"It came with a lass--with a lass it will go!"
The child who was born at this ill-omened crisis was Mary Stuart, whowithin a week became, in her own right, Queen of Scotland. Her motheracted as regent of the kingdom. Henry of England demanded that theinfant girl should be betrothed to his young son, Prince Edward, whoafterward reigned as Edward VI., though he died while still a boy. Theproposal was rejected, and the war between England and Scotland went onits bloody course; but meanwhile the little queen was sent to France,her mother's home, so that she might be trained in accomplishments whichwere rare in Scotland.
In France she grew up at the court of Catherine de' Medici, thatimperious intriguer whose splendid surroundings were tainted with thecorruption which she had brought from her native Italy. It was, indeed,a singular training-school for a girl of Mary Stuart's character. Shesaw about her a superficial chivalry and a most profound depravity.Poets like Ronsard graced the life of the court with exquisite verse.Troubadours and minstrels sang sweet music there. There were fetes andtournaments and gallantry of bearing; yet, on the other hand, there wasevery possible refinement and variety of vice. Men were slain beforethe eyes of the queen herself. The talk of the court was of intrigue andlust and evil things which often verged on crime. Catherine de' Mediciherself kept her nominal husband at arm's-length; and in order tomaintain her grasp on France she connived at the corruption of her ownchildren, three of whom were destined in their turn to sit upon thethrone.
Mary Stuart grew up in these surroundings until she was sixteen, eatingthe fruit which gave a knowledge of both good and evil. Her intelligencewas very great. She quickly learned Italian, French, and Latin. She wasa daring horsewoman. She was a poet and an artist even in her teens. Shewas also a keen judge of human motives, for those early years of hershad forced her into a womanhood that was premature but wonderful. It hadbeen proposed that she should marry the eldest son of Catherine, sothat in time the kingdom of Scotland and that of France might be united,while if Elizabeth of England were to die unmarried her realm also wouldfall to this pair of children.
And so Mary, at sixteen, wedded the Dauphin Francis, who was a year herjunior. The prince was a wretched, whimpering little creature, with acankered body and a blighted soul. Marriage with such a husband seemedabsurd. It never was a marriage in reality. The sickly child would cryall night, for he suffered from abscesses in his ears, and his manhoodhad been prematurely taken from him. Nevertheless, within a twelvemonththe French king died and Mary Stuart was Queen of France as well as ofScotland, hampered only by her nominal obedience to the sick boy whomshe openly despised. At seventeen she showed herself a master spirit.She held her own against the ambitious Catherine de' Medici, whom shecontemptuously nicknamed "the apothecary's daughter." For the briefperiod of a year she was actually the ruler of France; but then herhusband died and she was left a widow, restless, ambitious, and yet nolonger having any of the power she loved.
Mary Stuart at this time had become a woman whose fascination wasexerted over all who knew her. She was very tall and very slim, withchestnut hair, "like a flower of the heat, both lax and delicate." Herskin was fair and pale, so clear and so transparent as to make the storyplausible that when she drank from a flask of wine, the red liquid couldbe seen passing down her slender throat.
Yet with all this she was not fine in texture, but hardy as a man. Shecould endure immense fatigue without yielding to it. Her supple form hadthe strength of steel. There was a gleam in her hazel eyes that showedher to be brimful of an almost fierce vitality. Young as she was,she was the mistress of a thousand arts, and she exhaled a sort ofatmosphere that turned the heads of men. The Stuart blood made herimpatient of control, careless of state, and easy-mannered. The Frenchand the Tudor strain gave her vivacity. She could be submissive inappearance while still persisting in her aims. She could be languorousand seductive while cold within. Again, she could assume the haughtinesswhich belonged to one who was twice a queen.
Two motives swayed her, and they fought together for supremacy. One wasthe love of power, and the other was the love of love. The first wasnatural to a girl who was a sovereign in her own right. The second wasinherited, and was then forced into a rank luxuriance by the sortof life that she had seen about her. At eighteen she was a strangelyamorous creature, given to fondling and kissing every one about her,with slight discrimination. From her sense of touch she receivedemotions that were almost necessary to her existence. With her slender,graceful hands she was always stroking the face of some favorite--itmight be only the face of a child, or it might be the face of somecourtier or poet, or one of the four Marys whose names are linked withhers--Mary Livingstone, Mary Fleming, Mary Beaton, and Mary Seton, thelast of whom remained with her royal mistress until her death.
But one must not be too censorious in thinking of Mary Stuart. She wassurrounded everywhere by enemies. During her stay in France she washated by the faction of Catherine de' Medici. When she returned toScotland she was hated because of her religion by the Protestant lords.Her every action was set forth in the worst possible light. The mostsinister meaning was given to everything she said or did. In truth, wemust reject almost all the stories which accuse her of anything morethan a certain levity of conduct.
She was not a woman to yield herself in love's last surrender unless herintellect and heart alike had been made captive. She would listen to thepassionate outpourings of poets and courtiers, and she would plunge hereyes into theirs, and let her hair just touch their faces, and give themher white hands to kiss--but that was all. Even in this she was onlyfollowing the fashion of the court where she was bred, and she wasnot unlike her royal relative, Elizabeth of England, who had the sameexternal amorousness coupled with the same internal self-control.
Mary Stuart's love life makes a piteous story, for it is the life of onewho was ever seeking--seeking for the man to whom she could look up, whocould be strong and brave and ardent like herself, and at the same timebe more powerful and more steadfast even than she herself in mind andthought. Whatever may be said of her, and howsoever the facts may becolored by partisans, this royal girl, stung though she was by passionand goaded by desire, cared nothing for any man who could not match herin body and mind and spirit all at once.
It was in her early widowhood that she first met the man, and when theirunion came it brought ruin on them both. In France there came to herone day one of her own subjects, the Earl of Bothwell. He was but a fewyears older than she, and in his presence for the first time shefelt, in her own despite, that profoundly moving, indescribable, andnever-to-be-forgotten thrill which shakes a woman to the very center ofher being, since it is the recognition of a complete affinity.
Lord Bothwell, like Queen Mary, has been terribly maligned. Unlike her,he has found only a few defenders. Maurice Hewlett has drawn a pictureof him more favorable than many, and yet it is a picture that repels.Bothwell, says he, was of a type esteemed by those who pronounce viceto be their virtue. He was "a galliard, flushed with rich blood,broad-shouldered, square-jawed, with a laugh so happy and so prompt thatthe world, rejoicing to hear it, thought all must be well whereverhe might be. He wore brave clothes, sat a brave horse, and kept bravecompany bravely. His high color, while it betokened high feeding, gothim the credit of good health. His little eyes twinkled so merrily thatyou did not see they were like a pig's, sly and greedy at once, andbloodshot. His tawny beard concealed a jaw underhung, a chin jutting anddangerous. His mouth had a cruel twist; but his laughing hid that too.The bridge of his nose had been broken; few observed it, or guessedat the brawl which must have given it to him. Frankness was his greatcharm, careless ease in high places."
And so, when Mary Stuart first met him in her eighteenth year, LordBothwell made her think as she had never thought of any other man, andas she was not to think of any other man again. She grew to look eagerlyfor the frank mockery "in those twinkling eyes, in that quick mouth";and to wonder whether it was with him always--asleep, at prayers,fighting, furious, or in love.
Something more, however, must be said of Bothwell. He was undoubtedly aroisterer, but he was very much a man. He made easy love to women. Hissword leaped quickly from its sheath. He could fight, and he could alsothink. He was no brawling ruffian, no ordinary rake. Remembering whatScotland was in those days, Bothwell might well seem in reality aprincely figure. He knew Italian; he was at home in French; he couldwrite fluent Latin. He was a collector of books and a reader of themalso. He was perhaps the only Scottish noble of his time who had abook-plate of his own. Here is something more than a mere reveler. Hereis a man of varied accomplishments and of a complex character.
Though he stayed but a short time near the queen in France, he kindledher imagination, so that when she seriously thought of men she thoughtof Bothwell. And yet all the time she was fondling the young pages inher retinue and kissing her maids of honor with her scarlet lips, andlying on their knees, while poets like Ronsard and Chastelard wroteardent love sonnets to her and sighed and pined for something more thanthe privilege of kissing her two dainty hands.
In 1561, less than a year after her widowhood, Mary set sail forScotland, never to return. The great high-decked ships which escortedher sailed into the harbor of Leith, and she pressed on to Edinburgh. Adepressing change indeed from the sunny terraces and fields of France!In her own realm were fog and rain and only a hut to shelter her uponher landing. When she reached her capital there were few welcomingcheers; but as she rode over the cobblestones to Holyrood, the squalidwynds vomited forth great mobs of hard-featured, grim-visaged men andwomen who stared with curiosity and a half-contempt at the girl queenand her retinue of foreigners.
The Scots were Protestants of the most dour sort, and they distrustedtheir new ruler because of her religion and because she loved tosurround herself with dainty things and bright colors and exoticelegance. They feared lest she should try to repeal the law ofScotland's Parliament which had made the country Protestant.
The very indifference of her subjects stirred up the nobler part ofMary's nature. For a time she was indeed a queen. She governed wisely.She respected the religious rights of her Protestant subjects. Shestrove to bring order out of the chaos into which her country hadfallen. And she met with some success. The time came when her peoplecheered her as she rode among them. Her subtle fascination was hergreatest source of strength. Even John Knox, that iron-visaged,stentorian preacher, fell for a time under the charm of her presence.She met him frankly and pleaded with him as a woman, instead ofcommanding him as a queen. The surly ranter became softened for a time,and, though he spoke of her to others as "Honeypot," he ruled his tonguein public. She had offers of marriage from Austrian and Spanish princes.The new King of France, her brother-in-law, would perhaps have weddedher. It mattered little to Mary that Elizabeth of England was hostile.She felt that she was strong enough to hold her own and govern Scotland.
But who could govern a country such as Scotland was? It was a land ofbroils and feuds, of clan enmities and fierce vendettas. Its nobles werehalf barbarous, and they fought and slashed at one another with drawndirks almost in the presence of the queen herself. No matter whom shefavored, there rose up a swarm of enemies. Here was a Corsica of thenorth, more savage and untamed than even the other Corsica.
In her perplexity Mary felt a woman's need of some man on whom shewould have the right to lean, and whom she could make king consort.She thought that she had found him in the person of her cousin, LordDarnley, a Catholic, and by his upbringing half an Englishman. Darnleycame to Scotland, and for the moment Mary fancied that she had forgottenBothwell. Here again she was in love with love, and she idealized theman who came to give it to her. Darnley seemed, indeed, well worthy tobe loved, for he was tall and handsome, appearing well on horseback andhaving some of the accomplishments which Mary valued.
It was a hasty wooing, and the queen herself was first of all the wooer.Her quick imagination saw in Darnley traits and gifts of which he reallyhad no share. Therefore, the marriage was soon concluded, and Scotlandhad two sovereigns, King Henry and Queen Mary. So sure was Mary of herindifference to Bothwell that she urged the earl to marry, and he didmarry a girl of the great house of Gordon.
Mary's self-suggested love for Darnley was extinguished almost onher wedding-night. The man was a drunkard who came into her presencebefuddled and almost bestial. He had no brains. His vanity was enormous.He loved no one but himself, and least of all this queen, whom heregarded as having thrown herself at his empty head.
The first-fruits of the marriage were uprisings among the Protestantlords. Mary then showed herself a heroic queen. At the head of amotley band of soldiery who came at her call--half-clad, uncouth, andsavage--she rode into the west, sleeping at night upon the bare ground,sharing the camp food, dressed in plain tartan, but swift and fierceas any eagle. Her spirit ran like fire through the veins of those whofollowed her. She crushed the insurrection, scattered its leaders, andreturned in triumph to her capital.
Now she was really queen, but here came in the other motive which wasinterwoven in her character. She had shown herself a man in courage.Should she not have the pleasures of a woman? To her court in Holyroodcame Bothwell once again, and this time Mary knew that he was all theworld to her. Darnley had shrunk from the hardships of battle. He wassteeped in low intrigues. He roused the constant irritation of the queenby his folly and utter lack of sense and decency. Mary felt she owed himnothing, but she forgot that she owed much to herself.
Her old amorous ways came back to her, and she relapsed into the joys ofsense. The scandal-mongers of the capital saw a lover in every manwith whom she talked. She did, in fact, set convention at defiance. Shedressed in men's clothing. She showed what the unemotional Scots thoughtto be unseemly levity. The French poet, Chastelard, misled by herexternal signs of favor, believed himself to be her choice. At the endof one mad revel he was found secreted beneath her bed, and was drivenout by force. A second time he ventured to secrete himself within thecovers of the bed. Then he was dragged forth, imprisoned, and condemnedto death. He met his fate without a murmur, save at the last when hestood upon the scaffold and, gazing toward the palace, cried in French:
"Oh, cruel queen! I die for you!"
Another favorite, the Italian, David Rizzio, or Riccio, in like mannerwrote love verses to the queen, and she replied to them in kind; butthere is no evidence that she valued him save for his ability, whichwas very great. She made him her foreign secretary, and the man whom hesupplanted worked on the jealousy of Darnley; so that one night, whileMary and Rizzio were at dinner in a small private chamber, Darnley andthe others broke in upon her. Darnley held her by the waist while Rizziowas stabbed before her eyes with a cruelty the greater because the queenwas soon to become a mother.
From that moment she hated Darnley as one would hate a snake. Shetolerated him only that he might acknowledge her child as his son. Thischild was the future James VI. of Scotland and James I. of England. Itis recorded of him that never throughout his life could he bear to lookupon drawn steel.
After this Mary summoned Bothwell again and again. It was revealed toher as in a blaze of light that, after all, he was the one and onlyman who could be everything to her. His frankness, his cynicism, hismockery, his carelessness, his courage, and the power of his mindmatched her moods completely. She threw away all semblance ofconcealment. She ignored the fact that he had married at her wish. Shewas queen. She desired him. She must have him at any cost.
"Though I lose Scotland and England both," she cried in a passion ofabandonment, "I shall have him for my own!"
Bothwell, in his turn, was nothing loath, and they leaped at each otherlike two flames.
It was then that Mary wrote those letters which were afterwarddiscovered in a casket and which were used against her when she was ontrial for her life. These so-called Casket Letters, though we havenot now the originals, are among the most extraordinary letters everwritten. All shame, all hesitation, all innocence, are flung away inthem. The writer is so fired with passion that each sentence is likea cry to a lover in the dark. As De Peyster says: "In them the animalinstincts override and spur and lash the pen." Mary was committing topaper the frenzied madness of a woman consumed to her very marrow by thescorching blaze of unendurable desire.
Events moved quickly. Darnley, convalescent from an attack of smallpox,was mysteriously destroyed by an explosion of gunpowder. Bothwell wasdivorced from his young wife on curious grounds. A dispensation allowedMary to wed a Protestant, and she married Bothwell three months afterDarnley's death.
Here one sees the consummation of what had begun many years beforein France. From the moment that she and Bothwell met, their union wasinevitable. Seas could not sunder them. Other loves and other fancieswere as nothing to them. Even the bonds of marriage were burst asunderso that these two fiery, panting souls could meet.
It was the irony of fate that when they had so met it was only to beparted. Mary's subjects, outraged by her conduct, rose against her. Asshe passed through the streets of Edinburgh the women hurled afterher indecent names. Great banners were raised with execrable daubsrepresenting the murdered Darnley. The short and dreadful monosyllablewhich is familiar to us in the pages of the Bible was hurled after herwherever she went.
With Bothwell by her side she led a wild and ragged horde of followersagainst the rebellious nobles, whose forces met her at Carberry Hill.Her motley followers melted away, and Mary surrendered to the hostilechieftains, who took her to the castle at Lochleven. There she becamethe mother of twins--a fact that is seldom mentioned by historians.These children were the fruit of her union with Bothwell. From this timeforth she cared but little for herself, and she signed, without greatreluctance, a document by which she abdicated in favor of her infantson.
Even in this place of imprisonment, however, her fascination had powerto charm. Among those who guarded her, two of the Douglas family--GeorgeDouglas and William Douglas--for love of her, effected her escape. Thefirst attempt failed. Mary, disguised as a laundress, was betrayed bythe delicacy of her hands. But a second attempt was successful. Thequeen passed through a postern gate and made her way to the lake, whereGeorge Douglas met her with a boat. Crossing the lake, fifty horsemenunder Lord Claude Hamilton gave her their escort and bore her away insafety.
But Mary was sick of Scotland, for Bothwell could not be there. Shehad tasted all the bitterness of life, and for a few months all thesweetness; but she would have no more of this rough and barbarouscountry. Of her own free will she crossed the Solway into England, tofind herself at once a prisoner.
Never again did she set eyes on Bothwell. After the battle of CarberryHill he escaped to the north, gathered some ships together, and preyedupon English merchantmen, very much as a pirate might have done. Erelong, however, when he had learned of Mary's fate, he set sail forNorway. King Frederick of Denmark made him a prisoner of state. He wasnot confined within prison walls, however, but was allowed to hunt andride in the vicinity of Malmo Castle and of Dragsholm. It is probably inMalmo Castle that he died. In 1858 a coffin which was thought to bethe coffin of the earl was opened, and a Danish artist sketched thehead--which corresponds quite well with the other portraits of theill-fated Scottish noble.
It is a sad story. Had Mary been less ambitious when she first metBothwell, or had he been a little bolder, they might have reignedtogether and lived out their lives in the plenitude of that great lovewhich held them both in thrall. But a queen is not as other women; andshe found too late that the teaching of her heart was, after all, thetruest teaching. She went to her death as Bothwell went to his, alone,in a strange, unfriendly land.
Yet, even this, perhaps, was better so. It has at least touched boththeir lives with pathos and has made the name of Mary Stuart one to beremembered throughout all the ages.




QUEEN CHRISTINA OF SWEDEN AND THE MARQUIS MONALDESCHI

Sweden to-day is one of the peaceful kingdoms of the world, whose peopleare prosperous, well governed, and somewhat apart from the clash andturmoil of other states and nations. Even the secession of Norway, a fewyears ago, was accomplished without bloodshed, and now the two kingdomsexist side by side as free from strife as they are with Denmark, whichonce domineered and tyrannized over both.
It is difficult to believe that long ago, in the Middle Ages, the citiesof southern Sweden were among the great commercial centers of the world.Stockholm and Lund ranked with London and Paris. They absorbed thecommerce of the northern seas, and were the admiration of thousandsof travelers and merchants who passed through them and trafficked withthem.
Much nearer to our own time, Sweden was the great military power ofnorthern Europe. The ambassadors of the Swedish kings were received withthe utmost deference in every court. Her soldiers won great battlesand ended mighty wars. The England of Cromwell and Charles II. wasunimportant and isolated in comparison with this northern kingdom, whichcould pour forth armies of gigantic blond warriors, headed by generalsastute as well as brave.
It was no small matter, then, in 1626, that the loyal Swedes were hopingthat their queen would give birth to a male heir to succeed his splendidfather, Gustavus Adolphus, ranked by military historians as one of thesix great generals whom the world had so far produced. The queen, aGerman princess of Brandenburg, had already borne two daughters, whodied in infancy. The expectation was wide-spread and intense that sheshould now become the mother of a son; and the king himself was no lessanxious.
When the event occurred, the child was seen to be completely coveredwith hair, and for this reason the attendants at first believed that itwas the desired boy. When their mistake was discovered they were afraidto tell the king, who was waiting in his study for the announcementto be made. At last, when no one else would go to him, his sister, thePrincess Caroline, volunteered to break the news.
Gustavus was in truth a chivalrous, high-bred monarch. Though he musthave been disappointed at the advent of a daughter, he showed no signof dissatisfaction or even of surprise; but, rising, he embraced hissister, saying:
"Let us thank God. I hope this girl will be as good as a boy to me. MayGod preserve her now that He has sent her!"
It is customary at almost all courts to pay less attention to the birthof a princess than to that of a prince; but Gustavus displayed hischivalry toward this little daughter, whom he named Christina. Heordered that the full royal salute should be fired in every fortress ofhis kingdom and that displays of fireworks, balls of honor, and courtfunctions should take place; "for," as he said, "this is the heir to mythrone." And so from the first he took his child under his own keepingand treated her as if she were a much-loved son as well as a successor.
He joked about her looks when she was born, when she was mistaken for aboy.
"She will be clever," he said, "for she has taken us all in!"
The Swedish people were as delighted with their little princess as werethe people of Holland when the present Queen Wilhelmina was born, tocarry on the succession of the House of Orange. On one occasion the kingand the small Christina, who were inseparable companions, happenedto approach a fortress where they expected to spend the night. Thecommander of the castle was bound to fire a royal salute of fifty cannonin honor of his sovereign; yet he dreaded the effect upon the princessof such a roaring and bellowing of artillery. He therefore sent aswift horseman to meet the royal party at a distance and explain hisperplexity. Should he fire these guns or not? Would the king give anorder?
Gustavus thought for a moment, and then replied:
"My daughter is the daughter of a soldier, and she must learn to lead asoldier's life. Let the guns be fired!"
The procession moved on. Presently fire spurted from the embrasures ofthe fort, and its batteries thundered in one great roar. The king lookeddown at Christina. Her face was aglow with pleasure and excitement; sheclapped her hands and laughed, and cried out:
"More bang! More! More! More!"
This is only one of a score of stories that were circulated about theprincess, and the Swedes were more and more delighted with the girl whowas to be their queen.
Somewhat curiously, Christina's mother, Queen Maria, cared little forthe child, and, in fact, came at last to detest her almost as much asthe king loved her. It is hard to explain this dislike. Perhaps she hada morbid desire for a son and begrudged the honors given to a daughter.Perhaps she was a little jealous of her own child, who took so much ofthe king's attention. Afterward, in writing of her mother, Christinaexcuses her, and says quite frankly:
She could not bear to see me, because I was a girl, and an ugly girl atthat. And she was right enough, for I was as tawny as a little Turk.
This candid description of herself is hardly just. Christina was neverbeautiful, and she had a harsh voice. She was apt to be overbearingeven as a little girl. Yet she was a most interesting child, with anexpressive face, large eyes, an aquiline nose, and the blond hair of herpeople. There was nothing in this to account for her mother's intensedislike for her.
It was currently reported at the time that attempts were made to maimor seriously injure the little princess. By what was made to seem anaccident, she would be dropped upon the floor, and heavy articles offurniture would somehow manage to strike her. More than once a greatbeam fell mysteriously close to her, either in the palace or while shewas passing through the streets. None of these things did her seriousharm, however. Most of them she luckily escaped; but when she had grownto be a woman one of her shoulders was permanently higher than theother.
"I suppose," said Christina, "that I could be straightened if I wouldlet the surgeons attend to it; but it isn't worth while to take thetrouble."
When Christina was four, Sweden became involved in the great warthat had been raging for a dozen years between the Protestant and theCatholic states of Germany. Gradually the neighboring powers had beendrawn into the struggle, either to serve their own ends or to supportthe faith to which they adhered. Gustavus Adolphus took up the swordwith mixed motives, for he was full of enthusiasm for the imperiledcause of the Reformation, and at the same time he deemed it a favorableopportunity to assert his control over the shores of the Baltic.
The warrior king summoned his army and prepared to invade Germany.Before departing he took his little daughter by the hand and led heramong the assembled nobles and councilors of state. To them he intrustedthe princess, making them kneel and vow that they would regard her ashis heir, and, if aught should happen to him, as his successor. Amid theclashing of swords and the clang of armor this vow was taken, and theking went forth to war.
He met the ablest generals of his enemies, and the fortunes of battleswayed hither and thither; but the climax came when his soldiersencountered those of Wallenstein--that strange, overbearing, arrogant,mysterious creature whom many regarded with a sort of awe. The clashcame at Lutzen, in Saxony. The Swedish king fought long and hard, and sodid his mighty opponent; but at last, in the very midst of a tremendousonset that swept all before him, Gustavus received a mortal wound anddied, even while Wallenstein was fleeing from the field of battle.
The battle of Lutzen made Christina Queen of Sweden at the age of six.Of course, she could not yet be crowned, but a council of able ministerscontinued the policy of the late king and taught the young queen herfirst lessons in statecraft. Her intellect soon showed itself as morethan that of a child. She understood all that was taking place, and allthat was planned and arranged. Her tact was unusual. Her discretion wasadmired by every one; and after a while she had the advice and trainingof the great Swedish chancellor, Oxenstierna, whose wisdom she shared toa remarkable degree.
Before she was sixteen she had so approved herself to her counselors,and especially to the people at large, that there was a wide-spreadclamor that she should take the throne and govern in her own person. Tothis she gave no heed, but said:
"I am not yet ready."
All this time she bore herself like a king. There was nothing distinctlyfeminine about her. She took but slight interest in her appearance.She wore sword and armor in the presence of her troops, and often shedressed entirely in men's clothes. She would take long, lonely gallopsthrough the forests, brooding over problems of state and feeling nofatigue or fear. And indeed why should she fear, who was beloved by allher subjects?
When her eighteenth year arrived, the demand for her coronation wasimpossible to resist. All Sweden wished to see a ruling queen, who mightmarry and have children to succeed her through the royal line of hergreat father. Christina consented to be crowned, but she absolutelyrefused all thought of marriage. She had more suitors from all parts ofEurope than even Elizabeth of England; but, unlike Elizabeth, shedid not dally with them, give them false hopes, or use them for thepolitical advantage of her kingdom.
At that time Sweden was stronger than England, and was so situated as tobe independent of alliances. So Christina said, in her harsh, peremptoryvoice:
"I shall never marry; and why should you speak of my having children! Iam just as likely to give birth to a Nero as to an Augustus."
Having assumed the throne, she ruled with a strictness of governmentsuch as Sweden had not known before. She took the reins of state intoher own hands and carried out a foreign policy of her own, over theheads of her ministers, and even against the wishes of her people. Thefighting upon the Continent had dragged out to a weary length, but theSwedes, on the whole, had scored a marked advantage. For this reason thewar was popular, and every one wished it to go on; but Christina, ofher own will, decided that it must stop, that mere glory was not to beconsidered against material advantages. Sweden had had enough of glory;she must now look to her enrichment and prosperity through the channelsof peace.
Therefore, in 1648, against Oxenstierna, against her generals, andagainst her people, she exercised her royal power and brought the ThirtyYears' War to an end by the so-called Peace of Westphalia. At this timeshe was twenty-two, and by her personal influence she had ended one ofthe greatest struggles of history. Nor had she done it to her country'sloss. Denmark yielded up rich provinces, while Germany was compelled togrant Sweden membership in the German diet.
Then came a period of immense prosperity through commerce, througheconomies in government, through the improvement of agriculture and theopening of mines. This girl queen, without intrigue, without descendingfrom her native nobility to peep and whisper with shady diplomats,showed herself in reality a great monarch, a true Semiramis of thenorth, more worthy of respect and reverence than Elizabeth of England.She was highly trained in many arts. She was fond of study, spokeLatin fluently, and could argue with Salmasius, Descartes, and otheraccomplished scholars without showing any inferiority to them.
She gathered at her court distinguished persons from all countries. Sherepelled those who sought her hand, and she was pure and truthful andworthy of all men's admiration. Had she died at this time history wouldrank her with the greatest of women sovereigns. Naude, the librarian ofCardinal Mazarin, wrote of her to the scientist Gassendi in these words:
To say truth, I am sometimes afraid lest the common saying should beverified in her, that short is the life and rare the old age of thosewho surpass the common limits. Do not imagine that she is learned onlyin books, for she is equally so in painting, architecture, sculpture,medals, antiquities, and all curiosities. There is not a cunning workmanin these arts but she has him fetched. There are as good workers inwax and in enamel, engravers, singers, players, dancers here as will befound anywhere.
She has a gallery of statues, bronze and marble, medals of gold,silver, and bronze, pieces of ivory, amber, coral, worked crystal, steelmirrors, clocks and tables, bas-reliefs and other things of the kind;richer I have never seen even in Italy; finally, a great quantity ofpictures. In short, her mind is open to all impressions.
But after she began to make her court a sort of home for art andletters it ceased to be the sort of court that Sweden was prepared for.Christina's subjects were still rude and lacking in accomplishments;therefore she had to summon men of genius from other countries,especially from France and Italy. Many of these were illustrious artistsor scholars, but among them were also some who used their mental giftsfor harm.
Among these latter was a French physician named Bourdelot--a man of keenintellect, of winning manners, and of a profound cynicism, which wasnot apparent on the surface, but the effect of which last lasting. ToBourdelot we must chiefly ascribe the mysterious change which graduallycame over Queen Christina. With his associates he taught her a distastefor the simple and healthy life that she had been accustomed to lead.She ceased to think of the welfare of the state and began to look downwith scorn upon her unsophisticated Swedes. Foreign luxury displayeditself at Stockholm, and her palaces overflowed with beautiful things.
By subtle means Bourdelot undermined her principles. Having beena Stoic, she now became an Epicurean. She was by nature devoid ofsentiment. She would not spend her time in the niceties of love-making,as did Elizabeth; but beneath the surface she had a sort of tigerish,passionate nature, which would break forth at intervals, and whichdemanded satisfaction from a series of favorites. It is probable thatBourdelot was her first lover, but there were many others whose namesare recorded in the annals of the time.
When she threw aside her virtue Christina ceased to care aboutappearances. She squandered her revenues upon her favorites. What sheretained of her former self was a carelessness that braved the opinionof her subjects. She dressed almost without thought, and it is said thatshe combed her hair not more than twice a month. She caroused with malecompanions to the scandal of her people, and she swore like a trooperwhen displeased.
Christina's philosophy of life appears to have been compounded of analmost brutal licentiousness, a strong love of power, and a strange,freakish longing for something new. Her political ambitions were checkedby the rising discontent of her people, who began to look down upon herand to feel ashamed of her shame. Knowing herself as she did, she didnot care to marry.
Yet Sweden must have an heir. Therefore she chose out her cousinCharles, declared that he was to be her successor, and finally causedhim to be proclaimed as such before the assembled estates of the realm.She even had him crowned; and finally, in her twenty-eighth year, sheabdicated altogether and prepared to leave Sweden. When asked whithershe would go, she replied in a Latin quotation:
"The Fates will show the way."
In her act of abdication she reserved to herself the revenues of someof the richest provinces in Sweden and absolute power over such of hersubjects as should accompany her. They were to be her subjects until theend.
The Swedes remembered that Christina was the daughter of their greatestking, and that, apart from personal scandals, she had ruled them well;and so they let her go regretfully and accepted her cousin as theirking. Christina, on her side, went joyfully and in the spirit of a grandadventuress. With a numerous suite she entered Germany, and then stayedfor a year at Brussels, where she renounced Lutheranism. After this shetraveled slowly into Italy, where she entered Borne on horseback,and was received by the Pope, Alexander VII., who lodged her in amagnificent palace, accepted her conversion, and baptized her, givingher a new name, Alexandra.
In Rome she was a brilliant but erratic personage, living sumptuously,even though her revenues from Sweden came in slowly, partly because theSwedes disliked her change of religion. She was surrounded by men ofletters, with whom she amused herself, and she took to herself a lover,the Marquis Monaldeschi. She thought that at last she had really foundher true affinity, while Monaldeschi believed that he could count on thequeen's fidelity.
He was in attendance upon her daily, and they were almost inseparable.He swore allegiance to her and thereby made himself one of the subjectsover whom she had absolute power. For a time he was the master of thoseintense emotions which, in her, alternated with moods of coldness andeven cruelty.
Monaldeschi was a handsome Italian, who bore himself with a fine air ofbreeding. He understood the art of charming, but he did not know thatbeyond a certain time no one could hold the affections of Christina.
However, after she had quarreled with various cardinals and decided toleave Rome for a while, Monaldeschi accompanied her to France, whereshe had an immense vogue at the court of Louis XIV. She attracted wideattention because of her eccentricity and utter lack of manners. Itgave her the greatest delight to criticize the ladies of the Frenchcourt--their looks, their gowns, and their jewels. They, in return,would speak of Christina's deformed shoulder and skinny frame; but theking was very gracious to her and invited her to his hunting-palace atFontainebleau.
While she had been winning triumphs of sarcasm the infatuatedMonaldeschi had gradually come to suspect, and then to know, that hisroyal mistress was no longer true to him. He had been supplanted in herfavor by another Italian, one Sentanelli, who was the captain of herguard.
Monaldeschi took a tortuous and roundabout revenge. He did not let thequeen know of his discovery; nor did he, like a man, send a challengeto Sentanelli. Instead he began by betraying her secrets to OliverCromwell, with whom she had tried to establish a correspondence. Again,imitating the hand and seal of Sentanelli, he set in circulation aseries of the most scandalous and insulting letters about Christina. Bythis treacherous trick he hoped to end the relations between his rivaland the queen; but when the letters were carried to Christina sheinstantly recognized their true source. She saw that she was betrayedby her former favorite and that he had taken a revenge which mightseriously compromise her.
This led to a tragedy, of which the facts were long obscure. They werecarefully recorded, however, by the queen's household chaplain, FatherLe Bel; and there is also a narrative written by one Marco AntonioConti, which confirms the story. Both were published privately in 1865,with notes by Louis Lacour.
The narration of the priest is dreadful in its simplicity and minutenessof detail. It may be summed up briefly here, because it is the testimonyof an eye-witness who knew Christina.
Christina, with the marquis and a large retinue, was at Fontainebleau inNovember, 1657. A little after midnight, when all was still, the priest,Father Le Bel, was aroused and ordered to go at once to the Galerie desCerfs, or Hall of Stags, in another part of the palace. When he askedwhy, he was told:
"It is by the order of her majesty the Swedish queen."
The priest, wondering, hurried on his garments. On reaching the gloomyhall he saw the Marquis Monaldeschi, evidently in great agitation, andat the end of the corridor the queen in somber robes. Beside thequeen, as if awaiting orders, stood three figures, who could with somedifficulty be made out as three soldiers of her guard.
The queen motioned to Father Le Bel and asked him for a packet which shehad given him for safe-keeping some little time before. He gave it toher, and she opened it. In it were letters and other documents, which,with a steely glance, she displayed to Monaldeschi. He was confused bythe sight of them and by the incisive words in which Christina showedhow he had both insulted her and had tried to shift the blame uponSentanelli.
Monaldeschi broke down completely. He fell at the queen's feet and weptpiteously, begging for pardon, only to be met by the cold answer:
"You are my subject and a traitor to me. Marquis, you must prepare todie!"
Then she turned away and left the hall, in spite of the cries ofMonaldeschi, to whom she merely added the advice that he should make hispeace with God by confessing to Father Le Bel.
After she had gone the marquis fell into a torrent of self-exculpationand cried for mercy. The three armed men drew near and urged him toconfess for the good of his soul. They seemed to have no malice againsthim, but to feel that they must obey the orders given them. At thefrantic urging of the marquis their leader even went to the queen to askwhether she would relent; but he returned shaking his head, and said:
"Marquis, you must die."
Father Le Bel undertook a like mission, but returned with the messagethat there was no hope. So the marquis made his confession in Frenchand Latin, but even then he hoped; for he did not wait to receiveabsolution, but begged still further for delay or pardon.
Then the three armed men approached, having drawn their swords. Theabsolution was pronounced; and, following it, one of the guards slashedthe marquis across the forehead. He stumbled and fell forward, makingsigns as if to ask that he might have his throat cut. But his throatwas partly protected by a coat of mail, so that three or four strokesdelivered there had slight effect. Finally, however, a long, narrowsword was thrust into his side, after which the marquis made no sound.
Father Le Bel at once left the Galerie des Cerfs and went into thequeen's apartment, with the smell of blood in his nostrils. He found hercalm and ready to justify herself. Was she not still queen over all whohad voluntarily become members of her suite? This had been agreed to inher act of abdication. Wherever she set her foot, there, over her own,she was still a monarch, with full power to punish traitors at her will.This power she had exercised, and with justice. What mattered it thatshe was in France? She was queen as truly as Louis XIV. was king.
The story was not long in getting out, but the truth was not whollyknown until a much later day. It was said that Sentanelli had slappedthe marquis in a fit of jealousy, though some added that it was donewith the connivance of the queen. King Louis, the incarnation ofabsolutism, knew the truth, but he was slow to act. He sympathized withthe theory of Christina's sovereignty. It was only after a time thatword was sent to Christina that she must leave Fontainebleau. She tookno notice of the order until it suited her convenience, and then shewent forth with all the honors of a reigning monarch.
This was the most striking episode in all the strange story of herprivate life. When her cousin Charles, whom she had made king, diedwithout an heir she sought to recover her crown; but the estates of therealm refused her claim, reduced her income, and imposed restraints uponher power. She then sought the vacant throne of Poland; but the Polishnobles, who desired a weak ruler for their own purposes, made anotherchoice. So at last she returned to Rome, where the Pope received herwith a splendid procession and granted her twelve thousand crowns a yearto make up for her lessened Swedish revenue.
From this time she lived a life which she made interesting by herpatronage of learning and exciting by her rather unseemly quarrels withcardinals and even with the Pope. Her armed retinue marched through thestreets with drawn swords and gave open protection to criminals who hadtaken refuge with her. She dared to criticize the pontiff, who merelysmiled and said:
"She is a woman!"
On the whole, the end of her life was pleasant. She was much admired forher sagacity in politics. Her words were listened to at every court inEurope. She annotated the classics, she made beautiful collections, andshe was regarded as a privileged person whose acts no one took amiss.She died at fifty-three, and was buried in St. Peter's.
She was bred a man, she was almost a son to her great father; and yet,instead of the sonorous epitaph that is inscribed beside her tomb,perhaps a truer one would be the words of the vexed Pope:
"E DONNA!"




KING CHARLES II. AND NELL GWYN

One might classify the kings of England in many ways. John wasundoubtedly the most unpopular. The impetuous yet far-seeing HenryII., with the other two great warriors, Edward I. and Edward III.,and William of Orange, did most for the foundation and development ofEngland's constitutional law. Some monarchs, such as Edward II. and thewomanish Henry VI., have been contemptible. Hard-working, useful kingshave been Henry VII., the Georges, William IV., and especially the lastEdward.
If we consider those monarchs who have in some curious way touched thepopular fancy without reference to their virtues we must go back toRichard of the Lion Heart, who saw but little of England, yet was thebest essentially English king, and to Henry V., gallant soldier andconqueror of France. Even Henry VIII. had a warm place in the affectionof his countrymen, few of whom saw him near at hand, but most of whommade him a sort of regal incarnation of John Bull--wrestling and tiltingand boxing, eating great joints of beef, and staying his thirst withflagons of ale--a big, healthy, masterful animal, in fact, who gratifiedthe national love of splendor and stood up manfully in his struggle withthe Pope.
But if you look for something more than ordinary popularity--somethingthat belongs to sentiment and makes men willing to become martyrs fora royal cause--we must find these among the Stuart kings. It is odd,indeed, that even at this day there are Englishmen and Englishwomen whobelieve their lawful sovereign to be a minor Bavarian princess in whoseveins there runs the Stuart blood. Prayers are said for her at Englishshrines, and toasts are drunk to her in rare old wine.
Of course, to-day this cult of the Stuarts is nothing but a fad. Noone ever expects to see a Stuart on the English throne. But it issignificant of the deep strain of romance which the six Stuarts whoreigned in England have implanted in the English heart. The old Jacobiteballads still have power to thrill. Queen Victoria herself used to havethe pipers file out before her at Balmoral to the "skirling" of "BonnieDundee," "Over the Water to Charlie," and "Wha'll Be King but Charlie!"It is a sentiment that has never died. Her late majesty used to say thatwhen she heard these tunes she became for the moment a Jacobite; justas the Empress Eugenie at the height of her power used pertly to remarkthat she herself was the only Legitimist left in France.
It may be suggested that the Stuarts are still loved by many Englishmenbecause they were unfortunate; yet this is hardly true, after all. Manyof them were fortunate enough. The first of them, King James, an absurdcreature, speaking broad Scotch, timid, foolishly fond of favorites, andhaving none of the dignity of a monarch, lived out a lengthy reign. Thetwo royal women of the family--Anne and Mary--had no misfortunes of apublic nature. Charles II. reigned for more than a quarter of a century,lapped in every kind of luxury, and died a king.
The first Charles was beheaded and afterward styled a "saint"; yet themajority of the English people were against his arrogance, or else hewould have won his great struggle against Parliament. The second Jameswas not popular at all. Nevertheless, no sooner had he been expelled,and been succeeded by a Dutchman gnawing asparagus and reeking ofcheeses, than there was already a Stuart legend. Even had there beenno pretenders to carry on the cult, the Stuarts would still have passedinto history as much loved by the people.
It only shows how very little in former days the people expected ofa regnant king. Many monarchs have had just a few popular traits, andthese have stood out brilliantly against the darkness of the background.
No one could have cared greatly for the first James, but Charles I. wasindeed a kingly personage when viewed afar. He was handsome, as aman, fully equaling the French princess who became his wife. He had nopersonal vices. He was brave, and good to look upon, and had a kinglymien. Hence, although he sought to make his rule over England a tyranny,there were many fine old cavaliers to ride afield for him when he raisedhis standard, and who, when he died, mourned for him as a "martyr."
Many hardships they underwent while Cromwell ruled with his iron hand;and when that iron hand was relaxed in death, and poor, feeble RichardCromwell slunk away to his country-seat, what wonder is it that youngCharles came back to England and caracoled through the streets of Londonwith a smile for every one and a happy laugh upon his lips? What wonderis it that the cannon in the Tower thundered a loud welcome, and thatall over England, at one season or another, maypoles rose and Christmasfires blazed? For Englishmen at heart are not only monarchists, but theyare lovers of good cheer and merrymaking and all sorts of mirth.
Charles II. might well at first have seemed a worthier and wisersuccessor to his splendid father. As a child, even, he had shown himselfto be no faint-hearted creature. When the great Civil War broke out hehad joined his father's army. It met with disaster at Edgehill, andwas finally shattered by the crushing defeat of Naseby, which afterwardinspired Macaulay's most stirring ballad.
Charles was then only a child of twelve, and so his followers did wiselyin hurrying him out of England, through the Scilly isles and Jersey tohis mother's place of exile. Of course, a child so very young could beof no value as a leader, though his presence might prove an inspiration.
In 1648, however, when he was eighteen years of age, he gathered a fleetof eighteen ships and cruised along the English coast, taking prizes,which he carried to the Dutch ports. When he was at Holland'scapital, during his father's trial, he wrote many messages to theParliamentarians, and even sent them a blank charter, which they mightfill in with any stipulations they desired if only they would save andrestore their king.
When the head of Charles rolled from the velvet-covered block his sonshowed himself to be no loiterer or lover of an easy life. He hastenedto Scotland, skilfully escaping an English force, and was proclaimed asking and crowned at Scone, in 1651. With ten thousand men he dashed intoEngland, where he knew there were many who would rally at his call. Butit was then that Cromwell put forth his supreme military genius and withhis Ironsides crushed the royal troops at Worcester.
Charles knew that for the present all was lost. He showed courage andaddress in covering the flight of his beaten soldiers; but he soonafterward went to France, remaining there and in the Netherlands foreight years as a pensioner of Louis XIV. He knew that time would fightfor him far more surely than infantry and horse. England had not beencalled "Merry England" for nothing; and Cromwell's tyranny was likely tobe far more resented than the heavy hand of one who was born a king.So Charles at Paris and Liege, though he had little money at the time,managed to maintain a royal court, such as it was.
Here there came out another side of his nature. As a child he hadborne hardship and privation and had seen the red blood flow uponthe battlefield. Now, as it were, he allowed a certain sensuous,pleasure-loving ease to envelop him. The red blood should become therich red burgundy; the sound of trumpets and kettledrums should give wayto the melody of lutes and viols. He would be a king of pleasure if hewere to be king at all. And therefore his court, even in exile, was acourt of gallantry and ease. The Pope refused to lend him money, and theKing of France would not increase his pension, but there were many whoforesaw that Charles would not long remain in exile; and so they gavehim what he wanted and waited until he could give them what they wouldask for in their turn.
Charles at this time was not handsome, like his father. His complexionwas swarthy, his figure by no means imposing, though always graceful.When he chose he could bear himself with all the dignity of a monarch.He had a singularly pleasant manner, and a word from him could win overthe harshest opponent.
The old cavaliers who accompanied their master in exile were likeNapoleon's veterans in Elba. With their tall, powerful forms theystalked about the courtyards, sniffing their disapproval at theseforeign ways and longing grimly for the time when they could once moresmell the pungent powder of the battle-field. But, as Charles had hoped,the change was coming. Not merely were his own subjects beginningto long for him and to pray in secret for the king, but continentalmonarchs who maintained spies in England began to know of this. To themCharles was no longer a penniless exile. He was a king who before longwould take possession of his kingdom.
A very wise woman--the Queen Regent of Portugal--was the first to act onthis information. Portugal was then very far from being a petty state.It had wealth at home and rich colonies abroad, while its flag was seenon every sea. The queen regent, being at odds with Spain, and wishing tosecure an ally against that power, made overtures to Charles, asking himwhether a match might not be made between him and the Princess Catharineof Braganza. It was not merely her daughter's hand that she offered,but a splendid dowry. She would pay Charles a million pounds in gold andcede to England two valuable ports.
The match was not yet made, but by 1659 it had been arranged. TheSpaniards were furious, for Charles's cause began to appear successful.
She was a quaint and rather piteous little figure, she who was destinedto be the wife of the Merry Monarch. Catharine was dark, petite, and byno means beautiful; yet she had a very sweet expression and a heart ofutter innocence. She had been wholly convent-bred. She knew nothing ofthe world. She was told that in marriage she must obey in all things,and that the chief duty of a wife was to make her husband happy.
Poor child! It was a too gracious preparation for a very gracelesshusband. Charles, in exile, had already made more than one discreditableconnection and he was already the father of more than one growing son.
First of all, he had been smitten by the bold ways of one Lucy Walters.Her impudence amused the exiled monarch. She was not particularlybeautiful, and when she spoke as others did she was rather tiresome; buther pertness and the inexperience of the king when he went into exilemade her seem attractive. She bore him a son, in the person of thatbrilliant adventurer whom Charles afterward created Duke of Monmouth.Many persons believe that Charles had married Lucy Walters, just asGeorge IV. may have married Mrs. Fitzherbert; yet there is not theslightest proof of it, and it must be classed with popular legends.
There was also one Catherine Peg, or Kep, whose son was afterwardmade Earl of Plymouth. It must be confessed that in his attachmentsto English women Charles showed little care for rank or station. LucyWalters and Catherine Peg were very illiterate creatures.
In a way it was precisely this sort of preference that made Charlesso popular among the people. He seemed to make rank of no account, butwould chat in the most familiar and friendly way with any one whom hehappened to meet. His easy, democratic manner, coupled with the graceand prestige of royalty, made friends for him all over England. Thetreasury might be nearly bankrupt; the navy might be routed by theDutch; the king himself might be too much given to dissipation; but hispeople forgave him all, because everybody knew that Charles would clapan honest citizen on the back and joke with all who came to see him feedthe swans in Regent's Park.
The popular name for him was "Rowley," or "Old Rowley"--a nicknameof mysterious origin, though it is said to have been given him from afancied resemblance to a famous hunter in his stables. Perhaps it is thevery final test of popularity that a ruler should have a nickname knownto every one.
Cromwell's death roused all England to a frenzy of king-worship. TheRoundhead, General Monk, and his soldiers proclaimed Charles King ofEngland and escorted him to London in splendid state. That was a daywhen national feeling reached a point such as never has been before orsince. Oughtred, the famous mathematician, died of joy when the royalemblems were restored. Urquhart, the translator of Rabelais, died, it issaid, of laughter at the people's wild delight--a truly Rabelaisian end.
There was the king once more; and England, breaking through its longperiod of Puritanism, laughed and danced with more vivacity than everthe French had shown. All the pipers and the players and panderers tovice, the mountebanks, the sensual men, and the lawless women pouredinto the presence of the king, who had been too long deprived of thepleasure that his nature craved. Parliament voted seventy thousandpounds for a memorial to Charles's father, but the irresponsible kingspent the whole sum on the women who surrounded him. His severestcounselor, Lord Clarendon, sent him a remonstrance.
"How can I build such a memorial," asked Charles, "when I don't knowwhere my father's remains are buried!"
He took money from the King of France to make war against the Dutch,who had befriended him. It was the French king, too, who sent him thatinsidious, subtle daughter of Brittany, Louise de Keroualle--Duchessof Portsmouth--a diplomat in petticoats, who won the king's waywardaffections, and spied on what he did and said, and faithfully reportedall of it to Paris. She became the mother of the Duke of Lenox, andshe was feared and hated by the English more than any other of hismistresses. They called her "Madam Carwell," and they seemed to have aninstinct that she was no mere plaything of his idle hours, but was likesome strange exotic serpent, whose poison might in the end sting thehonor of England.
There is a pitiful little episode in the marriage of Charles with hisPortuguese bride, Catharine of Braganza. The royal girl came to himfresh from the cloisters of her convent. There was something about hergrace and innocence that touched the dissolute monarch, who was by nomeans without a heart. For a time he treated her with great respect,and she was happy. At last she began to notice about her strangefaces--faces that were evil, wanton, or overbold. The court became moreand more a seat of reckless revelry.
Finally Catharine was told that the Duchess of Cleveland--that splendidtermagant, Barbara Villiers--had been appointed lady of the bedchamber.She was told at the same time who this vixen was--that she was no fitattendant for a virtuous woman, and that her three sons, the Dukes ofSouthampton, Grafton, and Northumberland, were also the sons of Charles.
Fluttered and frightened and dismayed, the queen hastened to her husbandand begged him not to put this slight upon her. A year or two before,she had never dreamed that life contained such things as these; but nowit seemed to contain nothing else. Charles spoke sternly to her untilshe burst into tears, and then he petted her and told her that herduty as a queen compelled her to submit to many things which a lady inprivate life need not endure.
After a long and poignant struggle with her own emotions the littlePortuguese yielded to the wishes of her lord. She never again reproachedhim. She even spoke with kindness to his favorites and made him feelthat she studied his happiness alone. Her gentleness affected him sothat he always spoke to her with courtesy and real friendship. When theProtestant mobs sought to drive her out of England he showed hiscourage and manliness by standing by her and refusing to allow her to bemolested.
Indeed, had Charles been always at his best he would have had a verydifferent name in history. He could be in every sense a king. He had akeen knowledge of human nature. Though he governed England very badly,he never governed it so badly as to lose his popularity.
The epigram of Rochester, written at the king's own request, wassingularly true of Charles. No man relied upon his word, yet men lovedhim. He never said anything that was foolish, and he very seldom didanything that was wise; yet his easy manners and gracious ways endearedhim to those who met him.
One can find no better picture of his court than that which Sir WalterScott has drawn so vividly in Peveril of the Peak; or, if one wishesfirst-hand evidence, it can be found in the diaries of Evelyn and ofSamuel Pepys. In them we find the rakes and dicers, full of strangeoaths, deep drunkards, vile women and still viler men, all striving forthe royal favor and offering the filthiest lures, amid routs and ballsand noisy entertainments, of which it is recorded that more than oncesome woman gave birth to a child among the crowd of dancers.
No wonder that the little Portuguese queen kept to herself and did notlet herself be drawn into this swirling, roaring, roistering saturnalia.She had less influence even than Moll Davis, whom Charles picked outof a coffee-house, and far less than "Madam Carwell," to whom it isreported that a great English nobleman once presented pearls to thevalue of eight thousand pounds in order to secure her influence in asingle stroke of political business.
Of all the women who surrounded Charles there was only one who caredanything for him or for England. The rest were all either selfish ortreacherous or base. This one exception has been so greatly written of,both in fiction and in history, as to make it seem almost unnecessary toadd another word; yet it may well be worth while to separate the fictionfrom the fact and to see how much of the legend of Eleanor Gwyn is true.
The fanciful story of her birthplace is most surely quite unfounded. Shewas not the daughter of a Welsh officer, but of two petty hucksters whohad their booth in the lowest precincts of London. In those days theStrand was partly open country, and as it neared the city it showed themansions of the gentry set in their green-walled parks. At one end ofthe Strand, however, was Drury Lane, then the haunt of criminals andevery kind of wretch, while nearer still was the notorious Coal Yard,where no citizen dared go unarmed.
Within this dreadful place children were kidnapped and trained tovarious forms of vice. It was a school for murderers and robbers andprostitutes; and every night when the torches flared it vomited forthits deadly spawn. Here was the earliest home of Eleanor Gwyn, and out ofthis den of iniquity she came at night to sell oranges at the entranceto the theaters. She was stage-struck, and endeavored to get even aminor part in a play; but Betterton, the famous actor, thrust her asidewhen she ventured to apply to him.
It must be said that in everything that was external, except her beauty,she fell short of a fastidious taste. She was intensely ignorant evenfor that time. She spoke in a broad Cockney dialect. She had lived thelife of the Coal Yard, and, like Zola's Nana, she could never rememberthe time when she had known the meaning of chastity.
Nell Gwyn was, in fact, a product of the vilest slums of London; andprecisely because she was this we must set her down as intrinsically agood woman--one of the truest, frankest, and most right-minded ofwhom the history of such women has anything to tell. All that externalcircumstances could do to push her down into the mire was done; yet shewas not pushed down, but emerged as one of those rare souls who have intheir natures an uncontaminated spring of goodness and honesty. UnlikeBarbara Villiers or Lucy Walters or Louise de Keroualle, she was neithera harpy nor a foe to England.
Charles is said first to have met her when he, incognito, with anotherfriend, was making the rounds of the theaters at night. The king spiedher glowing, nut-brown face in one of the boxes, and, forgetting hisincognito, went up and joined her. She was with her protector of thetime, Lord Buckhurst, who, of course, recognized his majesty.
Presently the whole party went out to a neighboring coffee-house, wherethey drank and ate together. When it came time to pay the reckoning theking found that he had no money, nor had his friend. Lord Buckhurst,therefore, paid the bill, while Mistress Nell jeered at the other two,saying that this was the most poverty-stricken party that she had evermet.
Charles did not lose sight of her. Her frankness and honest mannerpleased him. There came a time when she was known to be a mistressof the king, and she bore a son, who was ennobled as the Duke of St.Albans, but who did not live to middle age. Nell Gwyn was much withCharles; and after his tempestuous scenes with Barbara Villiers, and thefeeling of dishonor which the Duchess of Portsmouth made him experience,the girl's good English bluntness was a pleasure far more rare thansentiment.
Somehow, just as the people had come to mistrust "Madam Carwell," sothey came to like Nell Gwyn. She saw enough of Charles, and she likedhim well enough, to wish that he might do his duty by his people; andshe alone had the boldness to speak out what she thought. One day shefound him lolling in an arm-chair and complaining that the people werenot satisfied.
"You can very easily satisfy them," said Nell Gwyn. "Dismiss your womenand attend to the proper business of a king."
Again, her heart was touched at the misfortunes of the old soldiers whohad fought for Charles and for his father during the Civil War, and whowere now neglected, while the treasury was emptied for French favorites,and while the policy of England itself was bought and sold in France.Many and many a time, when other women of her kind used their luresto get jewels or titles or estates or actual heaps of money, Nell Gwynbesought the king to aid these needy veterans. Because of her effortsChelsea Hospital was founded. Such money as she had she shared with thepoor and with those who had fought for her royal lover.
As I have said, she is a historical type of the woman who loses herphysical purity, yet who retains a sense of honor and of honestywhich nothing can take from her. There are not many such examples, andtherefore this one is worth remembering.
Of anecdotes concerning her there are many, but not often has their realimport been detected. If she could twine her arms about the monarch'sneck and transport him in a delirium of passion, this was only part ofwhat she did. She tried to keep him right and true and worthy ofhis rank; and after he had ceased to care much for her as a lover heremembered that she had been faithful in many other things.
Then there came the death-bed scene, when Charles, in his inimitablemanner, apologized to those about him because he was so long in dying.A far sincerer sentence was that which came from his heart, as he criedout, in the very pangs of death:
"Do not let poor Nelly starve!"




MAURICE OF SAXONY AND ADRIENNE LECOUVREUR

It is an old saying that to every womanly woman self-sacrifice is almosta necessity of her nature. To make herself of small account as comparedwith the one she loves; to give freely of herself, even though she mayreceive nothing in return; to suffer, and yet to feel an inner poignantjoy in all this suffering--here is a most wonderful trait of womanhood.Perhaps it is akin to the maternal instinct; for to the mother, aftershe has felt the throb of a new life within her, there is no sacrificeso great and no anguish so keen that she will not welcome it as theoutward sign and evidence of her illimitable love.
In most women this spirit of self-sacrifice is checked and kept withinordinary bounds by the circumstances of their lives. In many smallthings they do yield and they do suffer; yet it is not in yielding andin suffering that they find their deepest joy.
There are some, however, who seem to have been born with an abnormalcapacity for enduring hardship and mental anguish; so that by a sortof contradiction they find their happiness in sorrow. Such women areendowed with a remarkable degree of sensibility. They feel intensely. Inmoments of grief and disappointment, and even of despair, there stealsover them a sort of melancholy pleasure. It is as if they loved dimlights and mournful music and scenes full of sad suggestion.
If everything goes well with them, they are unwilling to believe thatsuch good fortune will last. If anything goes wrong with them, they aresure that this is only the beginning of something even worse. The musicof their lives is written in a minor key.
Now, for such women as these, the world at large has very littlecharity. It speaks slightingly of them as "agonizers." It believes thatthey are "fond of making scenes." It regards as an affectation somethingthat is really instinctive and inevitable. Unless such women arebeautiful and young and charming they are treated badly; and this isoften true in spite of all their natural attractiveness, for they seemto court ill usage as if they were saying frankly:
"Come, take us! We will give you everything and ask for nothing. We donot expect true and enduring love. Do not be constant or generous oreven kind. We know that we shall suffer. But, none the less, in oursorrow there will be sweetness, and even in our abasement we shall feela sort of triumph."
In history there is one woman who stands out conspicuously as a typeof her melancholy sisterhood, one whose life was full of disappointmenteven when she was most successful, and of indignity even when she wasmost sought after and admired. This woman was Adrienne Lecouvreur,famous in the annals of the stage, and still more famous in the annalsof unrequited--or, at any rate, unhappy--love.
Her story is linked with that of a man no less remarkable than herself,a hero of chivalry, a marvel of courage, of fascination, and ofirresponsibility.
Adrienne Lecouvreur--her name was originally Couvreur--was born towardthe end of the seventeenth century in the little French village ofDamery, not far from Rheims, where her aunt was a laundress and herfather a hatter in a small way. Of her mother, who died in childbirth,we know nothing; but her father was a man of gloomy and ungovernabletemper, breaking out into violent fits of passion, in one of which, longafterward, he died, raving and yelling like a maniac.
Adrienne was brought up at the wash-tub, and became accustomed to awandering life, in which she went from one town to another. What she hadinherited from her mother is, of course, not known; but she had all herfather's strangely pessimistic temper, softened only by the factthat she was a girl. From her earliest years she was unhappy; yet herunhappiness was largely of her own choosing. Other girls of her ownstation met life cheerfully, worked away from dawn till dusk, and thenhad their moments of amusement, and even jollity, with their companions,after the fashion of all children. But Adrienne Lecouvreur was unhappybecause she chose to be. It was not the wash-tub that made her so,for she had been born to it; nor was it the half-mad outbreaks of herfather, because to her, at least, he was not unkind. Her discontentsprang from her excessive sensibility.
Indeed, for a peasant child she had reason to think herself far morefortunate than her associates. Her intelligence was great. Ambition wasawakened in her before she was ten years of age, when she began tolearn and to recite poems--learning them, as has been said, "between thewash-tub and the ironing-board," and reciting them to the admiration ofolder and wiser people than she. Even at ten she was a very beautifulchild, with great lambent eyes, an exquisite complexion, and a lovelyform, while she had the further gift of a voice that thrilled thelistener and, when she chose, brought tears to every eye. Shewas, indeed, a natural elocutionist, knowing by instinct all thosemodulations of tone and varied cadences which go to the hearer's heart.
It was very like Adrienne Lecouvreur to memorize only such poems as weremournful, just as in after life she could win success upon the stageonly in tragic parts. She would repeat with a sort of ecstasy thepathetic poems that were then admired; and she was soon able to give upher menial work, because many people asked her to their houses so thatthey could listen to the divinely beautiful voice charged with theemotion which was always at her command.
When she was thirteen her father moved to Paris, where she was placed atschool--a very humble school in a very humble quarter of the city.Yet even there her genius showed itself at that early age. A numberof children and young people, probably influenced by Adrienne, formedthemselves into a theatrical company from the pure love of acting.A friendly grocer let them have an empty store-room for theirperformances, and in this store-room Adrienne Lecouvreur first acted ina tragedy by Corneille, assuming the part of leading woman.
Her genius for the stage was like the genius of Napoleon for war. Shehad had no teaching. She had never been inside of any theater; and yetshe delivered the magnificent lines with all the power and fire andeffectiveness of a most accomplished actress. People thronged to see herand to feel the tempest of emotion which shook her as she sustained herpart, which for the moment was as real to her as life itself.
At first only the people of the neighborhood knew anything about theseamateur performances; but presently a lady of rank, one Mme. du Gue,came out of curiosity and was fascinated by the little actress. Mme. duGue offered the spacious courtyard of her own house, and fitted it withsome of the appurtenances of a theater. From that moment the fame ofAdrienne spread throughout all Paris. The courtyard was crowded bygentlemen and ladies, by people of distinction from the court, and atlast even by actors and actresses from the Comedie Franchise.
It is, in fact, a remarkable tribute to Adrienne that in her thirteenthyear she excited so much jealousy among the actors of the Comedie thatthey evoked the law against her. Theaters required a royal license,and of course poor little Adrienne's company had none. Hence legalproceedings were begun, and the most famous actresses in Paris talkedof having these clever children imprisoned! Upon this the company soughtthe precincts of the Temple, where no legal warrant could be servedwithout the express order of the king himself.
There for a time the performances still went on. Finally, as the otherchildren were not geniuses, but merely boys and girls in search of fun,the little company broke up. Its success, however, had determined forever the career of Adrienne. With her beautiful face, her lithe andexquisite figure, her golden voice, and her instinctive art, it wasplain enough that her future lay upon the stage; and so at fourteenor fifteen she began where most actresses leave off--accomplished andattractive, and having had a practical training in her profession.
Diderot, in that same century, observed that the truest actor is one whodoes not feel his part at all, but produces his effects by intellectualeffort and intelligent observation. Behind the figure on the stage, tornwith passion or rollicking with mirth, there must always be the cooland unemotional mind which directs and governs and controls. This sametheory was both held and practised by the late Benoit Constant Coquelin.To some extent it was the theory of Garrick and Fechter and Edwin Booth;though it was rejected by the two Keans, and by Edwin Forrest, whoentered so throughly into the character which he assumed, and who letloose such tremendous bursts of passion that other actors dreaded tosupport him on the stage in such parts as Spartacus and Metamora.
It is needless to say that a girl like Adrienne Lecouvreur flung herselfwith all the intensity of her nature into every role she played. Thiswas the greatest secret of her success; for, with her, nature rosesuperior to art. On the other hand, it fixed her dramatic limitations,for it barred her out of comedy. Her melancholy, morbid disposition wasin the fullest sympathy with tragic heroines; but she failed when shetried to represent the lighter moods and the merry moments of those whowelcome mirth. She could counterfeit despair, and unforced tears wouldfill her eyes; but she could not laugh and romp and simulate a gaietythat was never hers.
Adrienne would have been delighted to act at one of the theaters inParis; but they were closed to her through jealousy. She went into theprovinces, in the eastern part of France, and for ten years she was aleading lady there in many companies and in many towns. As she blossomedinto womanhood there came into her life the love which was to be at oncea source of the most profound interest and of the most intense agony.
It is odd that all her professional success never gave her anyhappiness. The life of the actress who traveled from town to town, thecrude and coarse experiences which she had to undergo, the disorder andthe unsettled mode of living, all produced in her a profound disgust.She was of too exquisite a fiber to live in such a way, especially in acentury when the refinements of existence were for the very few.
She speaks herself of "obligatory amusements, the insistence of men, andof love affairs." Yet how could such a woman as Adrienne Lecouvreur keepherself from love affairs? The motion of the stage and its mimic griefssatisfied her only while she was actually upon the boards. Love offeredher an emotional excitement that endured and that was always changing.It was "the profoundest instinct of her being"; and she once wrote:"What could one do in the world without loving?"
Still, through these ten years she seems to have loved only that shemight be unhappy. There was a strange twist in her mind. Men who werehonorable and who loved her with sincerity she treated very badly. Menwho were indifferent or ungrateful or actually base she seemed to chooseby a sort of perverse instinct. Perhaps the explanation of it is thatduring those ten years, though she had many lovers, she never reallyloved. She sought excitement, passion, and after that the mournfulnesswhich comes when passion dies. Thus, one man after another came into herlife--some of them promising marriage--and she bore two children, whosefathers were unknown, or at least uncertain. But, after all, one canscarcely pity her, since she had not yet in reality known that greatpassion which comes but once in life. So far she had learned only a sortof feeble cynicism, which she expressed in letters and in such sayingsas these:
"There are sweet errors which I would not venture to commit again. Myexperiences, all too sad, have served to illumine my reason."
"I am utterly weary of love and prodigiously tempted to have no more ofit for the rest of my life; because, after all, I don't wish either todie or to go mad."
Yet she also said: "I know too well that no one dies of grief."
She had had, indeed, some very unfortunate experiences. Men of rank hadloved her and had then cast her off. An actor, one Clavel, wouldhave married her, but she would not accept his offer. A magistrate inStrasburg promised marriage; and then, when she was about to accept him,he wrote to her that he was going to yield to the wishes of his familyand make a more advantageous alliance. And so she was alternatelycaressed and repulsed--a mere plaything; and yet this was probably allthat she really needed at the time--something to stir her, something tomake her mournful or indignant or ashamed.
It was inevitable that at last Adrienne Lecouvreur should appear inParis. She had won such renown throughout the provinces that eventhose who were intensely jealous of her were obliged to give her dueconsideration. In 1717, when she was in her twenty-fifth year, shebecame a member of the Comedie Franchise. There she made an immediateand most brilliant impression. She easily took the leading place. Shewas one of the glories of Paris, for she became the fashion outside thetheater. For the first time the great classic plays were given, notin the monotonous singsong which had become a sort of theatricalconvention, but with all the fire and naturalness of life.
Being the fashion, Mlle. Lecouvreur elevated the social rank of actorsand of actresses. Her salon was thronged by men and women of rank.Voltaire wrote poems in her honor. To be invited to her dinners wasalmost like receiving a decoration from the king. She ought to have beenhappy, for she had reached the summit of her profession and somethingmore.
Yet still she was unhappy. In all her letters one finds a plaintivetone, a little moaning sound that shows how slightly her nature had beenchanged. No longer, however, did she throw herself away upon dullards orbrutes. An English peer--Lord Peterborough--not realizing that she wasdifferent from other actresses of that loose-lived age, said to hercoarsely at his first introduction:
"Come now! Show me lots of wit and lots of love."
The remark was characteristic of the time. Yet Adrienne had learnedat least one thing, and that was the discontent which came from lightaffairs. She had thrown herself away too often. If she could not lovewith her entire being, if she could not give all that was in her to begiven, whether of her heart or mind or soul, then she would love no moreat all.
At this time there came to Paris a man remarkable in his own century,and one who afterward became almost a hero of romance. This was Maurice,Comte de Saxe, as the French called him, his German name and title beingMoritz, Graf von Sachsen, while we usually term him, in English, MarshalSaxe. Maurice de Saxe was now, in 1721, entering his twenty-fifth year.Already, though so young, his career had been a strange one; and it wasdestined to be still more remarkable. He was the natural son of DukeAugustus II. of Saxony, who later became King of Poland, and who isknown in history as Augustus the Strong.
Augustus was a giant in stature and in strength, handsome, daring,unscrupulous, and yet extremely fascinating. His life was one of revelryand fighting and display. When in his cups he would often call for ahorseshoe and twist it into a knot with his powerful fingers. Many werehis mistresses; but the one for whom he cared the most was a beautifuland high-spirited Swedish girl of rank, Aurora von Konigsmarck. She wasdescended from a rough old field-marshal who in the Thirty Years'War had slashed and sacked and pillaged and plundered to his heart'scontent. From him Aurora von Konigsmarck seemed to have inherited a highspirit and a sort of lawlessness which charmed the stalwart Augustus ofPoland.
Their son, Maurice de Saxe, inherited everything that was good in hisparents, and a great deal that was less commendable. As a mere childof twelve he had insisted on joining the army of Prince Eugene, andhad seen rough service in a very strenuous campaign. Two years later heshowed such daring on the battle-field that Prince Eugene summoned himand paid him a compliment under the form of a rebuke.
"Young man," he said, "you must not mistake mere recklessness forvalor."
Before he was twenty he had attained the stature and strength of hisroyal father; and, to prove it, he in his turn called for a horseshoe,which he twisted and broke in his fingers. He fought on the side of theRussians and Poles, and again against the Turks, everywhere displayinghigh courage and also genius as a commander; for he never lost hisself-possession amid the very blackest danger, but possessed, as Carlylesays, "vigilance, foresight, and sagacious precaution."
Exceedingly handsome, Maurice was a master of all the arts that pleased,with just a touch of roughness, which seemed not unfitting in so gallanta soldier. His troops adored him and would follow wherever he mightchoose to lead them; for he exercised over these rude men a magneticpower resembling that of Napoleon in after years. In private life he wasa hard drinker and fond of every form of pleasure. Having no fortune ofhis own, a marriage was arranged for him with the Countess von Loben,who was immensely wealthy; but in three years he had squandered allher money upon his pleasures, and had, moreover, got himself heavily indebt.
It was at this time that he first came to Paris to study militarytactics. He had fought hard against the French in the wars that were nowended; but his chivalrous bearing, his handsome person, and his recklessjoviality made him at once a universal favorite in Paris. To theperfumed courtiers, with their laces and lovelocks and mincing ways,Maurice de Saxe came as a sort of knight of old--jovial, daring,pleasure-loving. Even his broken French was held to be quite charming;and to see him break a horseshoe with his fingers threw every one intoraptures.
No wonder, then, that he was welcomed in the very highest circles.Almost at once he attracted the notice of the Princesse de Conti, abeautiful woman of the blood royal. Of her it has been said that she was"the personification of a kiss, the incarnation of an embrace, the idealof a dream of love." Her chestnut hair was tinted with little gleams ofgold. Her eyes were violet black. Her complexion was dazzling. But bythe king's orders she had been forced to marry a hunchback--a man whosevery limbs were so weakened by disease and evil living that they wouldoften fail to support him, and he would fall to the ground, a writhing,screaming mass of ill-looking flesh.
It is not surprising that his lovely wife should have shuddered much athis abuse of her and still more at his grotesque endearments. When hereyes fell on Maurice de Saxe she saw in him one who could free her fromher bondage. By a skilful trick he led the Prince de Conti to invade thesleeping-room of the princess, with servants, declaring that she wasnot alone. The charge proved quite untrue, and so she left her husband,having won the sympathy of her own world, which held that she had beeninsulted. But it was not she who was destined to win and hold the loveof Maurice de Saxe.
Not long after his appearance in the French capital he was invited todine with the "Queen of Paris," Adrienne Lecouvreur. Saxe had seen heron the stage. He knew her previous history. He knew that she was verymuch of a soiled dove; but when he met her these two natures, so utterlydissimilar, leaped together, as it were, through the indescribableattraction of opposites. He was big and powerful; she was small andfragile. He was merry, and full of quips and jests; she was reserved andmelancholy. Each felt in the other a need supplied.
At one of their earliest meetings the climax came. Saxe was not theman to hesitate; while she already, in her thoughts, had made a fullsurrender. In one great sweep he gathered her into his arms. It appearedto her as if no man had ever laid his hand upon her until that moment.She cried out:
"Now, for the first time in my life, I seem to live!"
It was, indeed, the very first love which in her checkered career wasreally worthy of the name. She had supposed that all such things werepassed and gone, that her heart was closed for ever, that she wasinvulnerable; and yet here she found herself clinging about the neckof this impetuous soldier and showing him all the shy fondness andthe unselfish devotion of a young girl. From this instant AdrienneLecouvreur never loved another man and never even looked at any otherman with the slightest interest. For nine long years the two were boundtogether, though there were strange events to ruffle the surface oftheir love.
Maurice de Saxe had been sired by a king. He had the lofty ambition tobe a king himself, and he felt the stirrings of that genius which inafter years was to make him a great soldier, and to win the brilliantvictory of Fontenoy, which to this very day the French are never tiredof recalling. Already Louis XV. had made him a marshal of France; and acertain restlessness came over him. He loved Adrienne; yet he felt thatto remain in the enjoyment of her witcheries ought not to be the wholeof a man's career.
Then the Grand Duchy of Courland--at that time a vassal state of Poland,now part of Russia--sought a ruler. Maurice de Saxe was eager to secureits throne, which would make him at least semi-royal and the chief ofa principality. He hastened thither and found that money was needed tocarry out his plans. The widow of the late duke--the Grand Duchess Anna,niece of Peter the Great, and later Empress of Russia--as soon as shehad met this dazzling genius, offered to help him to acquire the duchyif he would only marry her. He did not utterly refuse. Still anotherwoman of high rank, the Grand Duchess Elizabeth of Russia, Peter theGreat's daughter, made him very much the same proposal.
Both of these imperial women might well have attracted a man likeMaurice de Saxe, had he been wholly fancy-free, for the second of theminherited the high spirit and the genius of the great Peter, while thefirst was a pleasure-seeking princess, resembling some of those Romanempresses who loved to stoop that they might conquer. She is describedas indolent and sensual, and she once declared that the chief good inthe world was love. Yet, though she neglected affairs of state and gavethem over to favorites, she won and kept the affections of her people.She was unquestionably endowed with the magnetic gift of winning hearts.
Adrienne, who was left behind in Paris, knew very little of what wasgoing on. Only two things were absolutely clear to her. One was that ifher lover secured the duchy he must be parted from her. The other wasthat without money his ambition must be thwarted, and that he would thenreturn to her. Here was a test to try the soul of any woman. It provedthe height and the depth of her devotion. Come what might, Mauriceshould be Duke of Courland, even though she lost him. She gatheredtogether her whole fortune, sold every jewel that she possessed, andsent her lover the sum of nearly a million francs.
This incident shows how absolutely she was his. But in fact, becauseof various intrigues, he failed of election to the ducal throne ofCourland, and he returned to Adrienne with all her money spent, andwithout even the grace, at first, to show his gratitude. He stormed andraged over his ill luck. She merely soothed and petted him, though shehad heard that he had thought of marrying another woman to securethe dukedom. In one of her letters she bursts out with the pitifulexclamation:
I am distracted with rage and anguish. Is it not natural to cry outagainst such treachery? This man surely ought to know me--he ought tolove me. Oh, my God! What are we--what ARE we?
But still she could not give him up, nor could he give her up, thoughthere were frightful scenes between them--times when he cruellyreproached her and when her native melancholy deepened into outburstsof despair. Finally there occurred an incident which is more orless obscure in parts. The Duchesse de Bouillon, a great lady of thecourt--facile, feline, licentious, and eager for delights--resolved thatshe would win the love of Maurice de Saxe. She set herself to win itopenly and without any sense of shame. Maurice himself at times, whenthe tears of Adrienne proved wearisome, flirted with the duchess.
Yet, even so, Adrienne held the first place in his heart, and her rivalknew it. Therefore she resolved to humiliate Adrienne, and to do so inthe place where the actress had always reigned supreme. There was to bea gala performance of Racine's great tragedy, "Phedre," with Adrienne,of course, in the title-role. The Duchesse de Bouillon sent a largenumber of her lackeys with orders to hiss and jeer, and, if possible,to break off the play. Malignantly delighted with her plan, the duchessarrayed herself in jewels and took her seat in a conspicuous stage-box,where she could watch the coming storm and gloat over the discomfitureof her rival.
When the curtain rose, and when Adrienne appeared as Phedre, an uproarbegan. It was clear to the great actress that a plot had been devisedagainst her. In an instant her whole soul was afire. The queen-likemajesty of her bearing compelled silence throughout the house. Even thehired lackeys were overawed by it. Then Adrienne moved swiftly acrossthe stage and fronted her enemy, speaking into her very face the threeinsulting lines which came to her at that moment of the play:
    I am not of those women void of shame,    Who, savoring in crime the joys of peace,    Harden their faces till they cannot blush!
The whole house rose and burst forth into tremendous applause. Adriennehad won, for the woman who had tried to shame her rose in trepidationand hurried from the theater.
But the end was not yet. Those were evil times, when dark deeds werecommitted by the great almost with impunity. Secret poisoning was acommon trade. To remove a rival was as usual a thing in the eighteenthcentury as to snub a rival is usual in the twentieth.
Not long afterward, on the night of March 15, 1730, Adrienne Lecouvreurwas acting in one of Voltaire's plays with all her power and instinctiveart when suddenly she was seized with the most frightful pains. Heranguish was obvious to every one who saw her, and yet she had thecourage to go through her part. Then she fainted and was carried home.
Four days later she died, and her death was no less dramatic than herlife had been. Her lover and two friends of his were with her, and alsoa Jesuit priest. He declined to administer extreme unction unless shewould declare that she repented of her theatrical career. She stubbornlyrefused, since she believed that to be the greatest actress of her timewas not a sin. Yet still the priest insisted.
Then came the final moment.
"Weary and revolting against this death, this destiny, she stretched herarms with one of the old lovely gestures toward a bust which stood nearby and cried--her last cry of passion:
"'There is my world, my hope--yes, and my God!'"
The bust was one of Maurice de Saxe.




THE STORY OF PRINCE CHARLES EDWARD STUART

The royal families of Europe are widely known, yet not all of them areequally renowned. Thus, the house of Romanoff, although comparativelyyoung, stands out to the mind with a sort of barbaric power, morevividly than the Austrian house of Hapsburg, which is the oldestreigning family in Europe, tracing its beginnings backward untilthey are lost in the Dark Ages. The Hohenzollerns of Prussia arecomparatively modern, so far as concerns their royalty. The offshoots ofthe Bourbons carry on a very proud tradition in the person of the Kingof Spain, although France, which has been ruled by so many members ofthe family, will probably never again behold a Bourbon king. The deposedBraganzas bear a name which is ancient, but which has a somewhat tinselsound.
The Bonapartes, of course, are merely parvenus, and they have had thegood taste to pretend to no antiquity of birth. The first Napoleon,dining at a table full of monarchs, when he heard one of themdeferentially alluding to the Bonaparte family as being very old andnoble, exclaimed:
"Pish! My nobility dates from the day of Marengo!"
And the third Napoleon, in announcing his coming marriage with Mlle. deMontijo, used the very word "parvenu" in speaking of himself and of hisfamily. His frankness won the hearts of the French people and helped toreconcile them to a marriage in which the bride was barely noble.
In English history there are two great names to conjure by, at leastto the imaginative. One is Plantagenet, which seems to contain withinitself the very essence of all that is patrician, magnificent, androyal. It calls to memory at once the lion-hearted Richard, whose shortreign was replete with romance in England and France and Austria and theHoly Land.
But perhaps a name of greater influence is that which links the royalfamily of Britain today with the traditions of the past, and whichsummons up legend and story and great deeds of history. This is the nameof Stuart, about which a whole volume might be written to recall itssuggestions and its reminiscences.
The first Stuart (then Stewart) of whom anything is known got his namefrom the title of "Steward of Scotland," which remained in the familyfor generations, until the sixth of the line, by marriage with PrincessMarjory Bruce, acquired the Scottish crown. That was in the early yearsof the fourteenth century; and finally, after the death of Elizabethof England, her rival's son, James VI. of Scotland and I. of England,united under one crown two kingdoms that had so long been at almostconstant war.
It is almost characteristic of the Scot that, having small territory,little wealth, and a seat among his peers that is almost ostentatiouslyhumble, he should bit by bit absorb the possessions of all the rest andbecome their master. Surely, the proud Tudors, whose line ended withElizabeth, must have despised the "Stewards," whose kingdom was smalland bleak and cold, and who could not control their own vassals.
One can imagine also, with Sir Walter Scott, the haughty nobles of theEnglish court sneering covertly at the awkward, shambling James, pedantand bookworm. Nevertheless, his diplomacy was almost as good as that ofElizabeth herself; and, though he did some foolish things, he was veryfar from being a fool.
In his appearance James was not unlike Abraham Lincoln--an unkinglyfigure; and yet, like Lincoln, when occasion required it he could riseto the dignity which makes one feel the presence of a king. He was theonly Stuart who lacked anything in form or feature or external grace.His son, Charles I., was perhaps one of the worst rulers that Englandhas ever had; yet his uprightness of life, his melancholy yet handsomeface, his graceful bearing, and the strong religious element in hischaracter, together with the fact that he was put to death after beingtreacherously surrendered to his enemies--all these have combined tomake almost a saint of him. There are Englishmen to-day who speak of himas "the martyr king," and who, on certain days of the year, say prayersthat beg the Lord's forgiveness because of Charles's execution.
The members of the so-called League of the White Rose, founded toperpetuate English allegiance to the direct line of Stuarts, do manythings that are quite absurd. They refuse to pray for the present Kingof England and profess to think that the Princess Mary of Bavaria is thetrue ruler of Great Britain. All this represents that trace of sentimentwhich lingers among the English to-day. They feel that the Stuarts werethe last kings of England to rule by the grace of God rather than by thegrace of Parliament. As a matter of fact, the present reigning familyin England is glad to derive its ancient strain of royal blood through aStuart--descended on the distaff side from James I., and winding its waythrough Hanover.
This sentiment for the Stuarts is a thing entirely apart from reason andbelongs to the realm of poetry and romance; yet so strong is it thatit has shown itself in the most inconsistent fashion. For instance, SirWalter Scott was a devoted adherent of the house of Hanover. When GeorgeIV. visited Edinburgh, Scott was completely carried away by his loyalenthusiasm. He could not see that the man before him was a drunkard andbraggart. He viewed him as an incarnation of all the noble traits thatought to hedge about a king. He snatched up a wine-glass from whichGeorge had just been drinking and carried it away to be an object ofreverence for ever after. Nevertheless, in his heart, and often in hisspeech, Scott seemed to be a high Tory, and even a Jacobite.
There are precedents for this. The Empress Eugenie used often to saywith a laugh that she was the only true royalist at the imperial courtof France. That was well enough for her in her days of flightiness andfrivolity. No one, however, accused Queen Victoria of being frivolous,and she was not supposed to have a strong sense of humor. None the less,after listening to the skirling of the bagpipes and to the romanticballads which were sung in Scotland she is said to have remarked with asort of sigh:
"Whenever I hear those ballads I feel that England belongs really to theStuarts!"
Before Queen Victoria was born, when all the sons of George III. werechildless, the Duke of Kent was urged to marry, so that he might have afamily to continue the succession. In resenting the suggestion he saidmany things, and among them this was the most striking:
"Why don't you call the Stuarts back to England? They couldn't possiblymake a worse mess of it than our fellows have!"
But he yielded to persuasion and married. From this marriage cameVictoria, who had the sacred drop of Stuart blood which gave Englandto the Hanoverians; and she was to redeem the blunders and tyrannies ofboth houses.
The fascination of the Stuarts, which has been carried overseas toAmerica and the British dominions, probably began with the strikinghistory of Mary Queen of Scots. Her brilliancy and boldness and beauty,and especially the pathos of her end, have made us see only her intensewomanliness, which in her own day was the first thing that any oneobserved in her. So, too, with Charles I., romantic figure and knightlygentleman. One regrets his death upon the scaffold, even though hisexecution was necessary to the growth of freedom.
Many people are no less fascinated by Charles II., that very differenttype, with his gaiety, his good-fellowship, and his easy-going ways. Itis not surprising that his people, most of whom never saw him, were veryfond of him, and did not know that he was selfish, a loose liver, andalmost a vassal of the king of France.
So it is not strange that the Stuarts, with all their arts and graces,were very hard to displace. James II., with the aid of the French,fought hard before the British troops in Ireland broke the backs ofboth his armies and sent him into exile. Again in 1715--an episodeperpetuated in Thackeray's dramatic story of Henry Esmond--came the sonof James to take advantage of the vacancy caused by the death of QueenAnne. But it is perhaps to this claimant's son, the last of the militantStuarts, that more chivalrous feeling has been given than to any other.
To his followers he was the Young Chevalier, the true Prince of Wales;to his enemies, the Whigs and the Hanoverians, he was "the Pretender."One of the most romantic chapters of history is the one which tellsof that last brilliant dash which he made upon the coast of Scotland,landing with but a few attendants and rejecting the support of a Frencharmy.
"It is not with foreigners," he said, "but with my own loyal subjects,that I wish to regain the kingdom for my father."
It was a daring deed, and the spectacular side of it has been oftencommemorated, especially in Sir Walter Scott's Waverley. There we seethe gallant prince moving through a sort of military panorama. Most ofthe British troops were absent in Flanders, and the few regiments thatcould be mustered to meet him were appalled by the ferocity and recklesscourage of the Highlanders, who leaped down like wildcats from theirhills and flung themselves with dirk and sword upon the British cannon.
We see Sir John Cope retiring at Falkirk, and the astonishing victory ofPrestonpans, where disciplined British troops fled in dismay through themorning mist, leaving artillery and supplies behind them. It is Scottagain who shows us the prince, master of Edinburgh for a time, while thewhite rose of Stuart royalty held once more the ancient keep above theScottish capital. Then we see the Chevalier pressing southward intoEngland, where he hoped to raise an English army to support his own.But his Highlanders cared nothing for England, and the English--even theCatholic gentry--would not rise to support his cause.
Personally, he had every gift that could win allegiance. Handsome,high-tempered, and brave, he could also control his fiery spirit andlisten to advice, however unpalatable it might be.
The time was favorable. The British troops had been defeated on theContinent by Marshal Saxe, of whom I have already written, and byMarshal d'Estrees. George II. was a king whom few respected. He couldscarcely speak anything but German. He grossly ill-treated his wife. Itis said that on one occasion, in a fit of temper, he actually kicked theprime minister. Not many felt any personal loyalty to him, and he spentmost of his time away from England in his other domain of Hanover.
But precisely here was a reason why Englishmen were willing to put upwith him. As between him and the brilliant Stuart there would have beenno hesitation had the choice been merely one of men; but it was believedthat the return of the Stuarts meant the return of something likeabsolute government, of taxation without sanction of law, and ofreligious persecution. Under the Hanoverian George the English peoplehad begun to exercise a considerable measure of self-government. Sharpopposition in Parliament compelled him time and again to yield; and whenhe was in Hanover the English were left to work out the problem of freegovernment.
Hence, although Prince Charles Edward fascinated all who met him, andalthough a small army was raised for his support, still the unromantic,common-sense Englishmen felt that things were better than in the daysgone by, and most of them refused to take up arms for the cause whichsentimentally they favored. Therefore, although the Chevalier stirredall England and sent a thrill through the officers of state in London,his soldiers gradually deserted, and the Scots insisted on returningto their own country. Although the Stuart troops reached a point as farsouth as Derby, they were soon pushed backward into Scotland, pursued byan army of about nine thousand men under the Duke of Cumberland, son ofGeorge II.
Cumberland was no soldier; he had been soundly beaten by the Frenchon the famous field of Fontenoy. Yet he had firmness and a sort ofovermastering brutality, which, with disciplined troops and abundantartillery, were sufficient to win a victory over the untrainedHighlanders.
When the battle came five thousand of these mountaineers went roaringalong the English lines, with the Chevalier himself at their head. Fora moment there was surprise. The Duke of Cumberland had been drinkingso heavily that he could give no verbal orders. One of his officers,however, is said to have come to him in his tent, where he was trying toplay cards.
"What disposition shall we make of the prisoners?" asked the officer.
The duke tried to reply, but his utterance was very thick.
"No quarter!" he was believed to say.
The officer objected and begged that such an order as that shouldbe given in writing. The duke rolled over and seized a sheaf ofplaying-cards. Pulling one out, he scrawled the necessary order, andthat was taken to the commanders in the field.
The Highlanders could not stand the cannon fire, and the English won.Then the fury of the common soldiery broke loose upon the country.
There was a reign of fantastic and fiendish brutality. One provostof the town was violently kicked for a mild remonstrance about thedestruction of the Episcopalian meeting-house; another was condemnedto clean out dirty stables. Men and women were whipped and tortured onslight suspicion or to extract information. Cumberland frankly professedhis contempt and hatred of the people among whom he found himself, buthe savagely punished robberies committed by private soldiers for theirown profit.
"Mild measures will not do," he wrote to Newcastle.
When leaving the North in July, he said:
"All the good we have done is but a little blood-letting, which has onlyweakened the madness, but not at all cured it; and I tremble to fearthat this vile spot may still be the ruin of this island and of ourfamily."
Such was the famous battle of Culloden, fought in 1746, and putting afinal end to the hopes of all the Stuarts. As to Cumberland's order for"No quarter," if any apology can be made for such brutality, it must befound in the fact that the Highland chiefs had on their side agreed tospare no captured enemy.
The battle has also left a name commonly given to the nine of diamonds,which is called "the curse of Scotland," because it is said that on thatcard Cumberland wrote his bloodthirsty order.
Such, in brief, was the story of Prince Charlie's gallant attempt torestore the kingdom of his ancestors. Even when defeated, he would notat once leave Scotland. A French squadron appeared off the coast nearEdinburgh. It had been sent to bring him troops and a large supplyof money, but he turned his back upon it and made his way into theHighlands on foot, closely pursued by English soldiers and Lowlandspies.
This part of his career is in reality the most romantic of all. He washunted closely, almost as by hounds. For weeks he had only such sleepas he could snatch during short periods of safety, and there were timeswhen his pursuers came within an inch of capturing him. But never in hislife were his spirits so high.
It was a sort of life that he had never seen before, climbing the mightyrocks, and listening to the thunder of the cataracts, among which heoften slept, with only one faithful follower to guard him. The storyof his escape is almost incredible, but he laughed and drank and rolledupon the grass when he was free from care. He hobnobbed with the mostsuspicious-looking caterans, with whom he drank the smoky brew of theNorth, and lived as he might on fish and onions and bacon and wild fowl,with an appetite such as he had never known at the luxurious court ofVersailles or St.-Germain.
After the battle of Culloden the prince would have been captured had nota Scottish girl named Flora Macdonald met him, caused him to be dressedin the clothes of her waiting-maid, and thus got him off to the Isle ofSkye.
There for a time it was impossible to follow him; and there the twolived almost alone together. Such a proximity could not fail to stir theromantic feeling of one who was both a youth and a prince. On the otherhand, no thought of love-making seems to have entered Flora's mind.If, however, we read Campbell's narrative very closely we can see thatPrince Charles made every advance consistent with a delicate remembranceof her sex and services.
It seems to have been his thought that if she cared for him, then thetwo might well love; and he gave her every chance to show him favor. Theyouth of twenty-five and the girl of twenty-four roamed together in thelong, tufted grass or lay in the sunshine and looked out over the sea.The prince would rest his head in her lap, and she would tumble hisgolden hair with her slender fingers and sometimes clip off tresseswhich she preserved to give to friends of hers as love-locks. But tothe last he was either too high or too low for her, according to her ownmodest thought. He was a royal prince, the heir to a throne, or else hewas a boy with whom she might play quite fancy-free. A lover he couldnot be--so pure and beautiful was her thought of him.
These were perhaps the most delightful days of all his life, as theywere a beautiful memory in hers. In time he returned to France andresumed his place amid the intrigues that surrounded that other Stuartprince who styled himself James III., and still kept up the appearanceof a king in exile. As he watched the artifice and the plotting ofthese make-believe courtiers he may well have thought of his innocentcompanion of the Highland wilds.
As for Flora, she was arrested and imprisoned for five months on Englishvessels of war. After her release she was married, in 1750; and she andher husband sailed for the American colonies just before the Revolution.In that war Macdonald became a British officer and served against hisadopted countrymen. Perhaps because of this reason Flora returned aloneto Scotland, where she died at the age of sixty-eight.
The royal prince who would have given her his easy love lived a life offar less dignity in the years that followed his return to France. Therewas no more hope of recovering the English throne. For him there wereleft only the idle and licentious diversions of such a court as that inwhich his father lived.
At the death of James III., even this court was disintegrated, andPrince Charles led a roving life under the title of Earl of Albany. Inhis wanderings he met Louise Marie, the daughter of a German prince,Gustavus Adolphus of Stolberg. She was only nineteen years of age whenshe first felt the fascination that he still possessed; but it was anunhappy marriage for the girl when she discovered that her husband was aconfirmed drunkard.
Not long after, in fact, she found her life with him so utterlyintolerable that she persuaded the Pope to allow her a formalseparation. The pontiff intrusted her to her husband's brother, CardinalYork, who placed her in a convent and presently removed her to his ownresidence in Rome.
Here begins another romance. She was often visited by Vittorio Alfieri,the great Italian poet and dramatist. Alfieri was a man of wealth. Inearly years he divided his time into alternate periods during whichhe either studied hard in civil and canonical law, or was a constantattendant upon the race-course, or rushed aimlessly all over Europewithout any object except to wear out the post-horses which he used inrelays over hundreds of miles of road. His life, indeed, was eccentricalmost to insanity; but when he had met the beautiful and lonelyCountess of Albany there came over him a striking change. She influencedhim for all that was good, and he used to say that he owed her all thatwas best in his dramatic works.
Sixteen years after her marriage her royal husband died, a worn-out,bloated wreck of one who had been as a youth a model of knightliness andmanhood. During his final years he had fallen to utter destitution, andthere was either a touch of half contempt or a feeling of remote kinshipin the act of George III., who bestowed upon the prince an annualpension of four thousand pounds. It showed most plainly that England wasnow consolidated under Hanoverian rule.
When Cardinal York died, in 1807, there was no Stuart left in the maleline; and the countess was the last to bear the royal Scottish name ofAlbany.
After the prince's death his widow is said to have been married toAlfieri, and for the rest of her life she lived in Florence, thoughAlfieri died nearly twenty-one years before her.
Here we have seen a part of the romance which attaches itself to thename of Stuart--in the chivalrous young prince, leading his Highlandersagainst the bayonets of the British, lolling idly among the Hebrides,or fallen, at the last, to be a drunkard and the husband of an unwillingconsort, who in her turn loved a famous poet. But it is this Stuart,after all, of whom we think when we hear the bagpipes skirling "Over theWater to Charlie" or "Wha'll be King but Charlie?"
END OF VOLUME ONE




THE EMPRESS CATHARINE AND PRINCE POTEMKIN

It has often been said that the greatest Frenchman who ever lived wasin reality an Italian. It might with equal truth be asserted that thegreatest Russian woman who ever lived was in reality a German. But theEmperor Napoleon and the Empress Catharine II. resemble each other insomething else. Napoleon, though Italian in blood and lineage, madehimself so French in sympathy and understanding as to be able to playupon the imagination of all France as a great musician plays upon asplendid instrument, with absolute sureness of touch and an abilityto extract from it every one of its varied harmonies. So the EmpressCatharine of Russia--perhaps the greatest woman who ever ruled anation--though born of German parents, became Russian to the core andmade herself the embodiment of Russian feeling and Russian aspiration.
At the middle of the eighteenth century Russia was governed by theEmpress Elizabeth, daughter of Peter the Great. In her own time, and fora long while afterward, her real capacity was obscured by her apparentindolence, her fondness for display, and her seeming vacillation; butnow a very high place is accorded her in the history of Russian rulers.She softened the brutality that had reigned supreme in Russia. Shepatronized the arts. Her armies twice defeated Frederick the Great andraided his capital, Berlin. Had Elizabeth lived, she would probably havecrushed him.
In her early years this imperial woman had been betrothed to Louis XV.of France, but the match was broken off. Subsequently she entered intoa morganatic marriage and bore a son who, of course, could not be herheir. In 1742, therefore, she looked about for a suitable successor, andchose her nephew, Prince Peter of Holstein-Gottorp.
Peter, then a mere youth of seventeen, was delighted with so splendid afuture, and came at once to St. Petersburg. The empress next soughtfor a girl who might marry the young prince and thus become thefuture Czarina. She thought first of Frederick the Great's sister; butFrederick shrank from this alliance, though it would have been of muchadvantage to him. He loved his sister--indeed, she was one of the fewpersons for whom he ever really cared. So he declined the offer andsuggested instead the young Princess Sophia of the tiny duchy ofAnhalt-Zerbst.
The reason for Frederick's refusal was his knowledge of thesemi-barbarous conditions that prevailed at the Russian court.
The Russian capital, at that time, was a bizarre, half-civilized,half-oriental place, where, among the very highest-born, a thin veneerof French elegance covered every form of brutality and savagery andlust. It is not surprising, therefore, that Frederick the Great wasunwilling to have his sister plunged into such a life.
But when the Empress Elizabeth asked the Princess Sophia ofAnhalt-Zerbst to marry the heir to the Russian throne the young girlwillingly accepted, the more so as her mother practically commanded it.This mother of hers was a grim, harsh German woman who had reared herdaughter in the strictest fashion, depriving her of all pleasure with atruly puritanical severity. In the case of a different sort of girl thistraining would have crushed her spirit; but the Princess Sophia,though gentle and refined in manner, had a power of endurance which wastoughened and strengthened by the discipline she underwent.
And so in 1744, when she was but sixteen years of age, she was taken byher mother to St. Petersburg. There she renounced the Lutheran faith andwas received into the Greek Church, changing her name to Catharine. Soonafter, with great magnificence, she was married to Prince Peter, andfrom that moment began a career which was to make her the most powerfulwoman in the world.
At this time a lady of the Russian court wrote down a description ofCatharine's appearance. She was fair-haired, with dark-blue eyes; andher face, though never beautiful, was made piquant and striking by thefact that her brows were very dark in contrast with her golden hair. Hercomplexion was not clear, yet her look was a very pleasing one. She hada certain diffidence of manner at first; but later she bore herself withsuch instinctive dignity as to make her seem majestic, though in factshe was beneath the middle size. At the time of her marriage her figurewas slight and graceful; only in after years did she become stout.Altogether, she came to St. Petersburg an attractive, pure-minded Germanmaiden, with a character well disciplined, and possessing reserves ofpower which had not yet been drawn upon.
Frederick the Great's forebodings, which had led him to withholdhis sister's hand, were almost immediately justified in the case ofCatharine. Her Russian husband revealed to her a mode of life which musthave tried her very soul. This youth was only seventeen--a mere boyin age, and yet a full-grown man in the rank luxuriance of his vices.Moreover, he had eccentricities which sometimes verged upon insanity.Too young to be admitted to the councils of his imperial aunt, heoccupied his time in ways that were either ridiculous or vile.
Next to the sleeping-room of his wife he kept a set of kennels, witha number of dogs, which he spent hours in drilling as if they had beensoldiers. He had a troop of rats which he also drilled. It was hisdelight to summon a court martial of his dogs to try the rats forvarious military offenses, and then to have the culprits executed,leaving their bleeding carcasses upon the floor. At any hour of the dayor night Catharine, hidden in her chamber, could hear the yapping ofthe curs, the squeak of rats, and the word of command given by herhalf-idiot husband.
When wearied of this diversion Peter would summon a troop of favorites,both men and women, and with them he would drink deep of beer andvodka, since from his early childhood he had been both a drunkard and adebauchee. The whoops and howls and vile songs of his creatures couldbe heard by Catharine; and sometimes he would stagger into her rooms,accompanied by his drunken minions. With a sort of psychopathicperversity he would insist on giving Catharine the most minute andrepulsive narratives of his amours, until she shrank from him withhorror at his depravity and came to loathe the sight of his bloatedface, with its little, twinkling, porcine eyes, his upturned noseand distended nostrils, and his loose-hung, lascivious mouth. She wasscarcely less repelled when a wholly different mood would seize upon himand he would declare himself her slave, attending her at court functionsin the garb of a servant and professing an unbounded devotion for hisbride.
Catharine's early training and her womanly nature led her for a longtime to submit to the caprices of her husband. In his saner moments shewould plead with him and strive to interest him in something betterthan his dogs and rats and venal mistresses; but Peter was incorrigible.Though he had moments of sense and even of good feeling, these neverlasted, and after them he would plunge headlong into the most franticexcesses that his half-crazed imagination could devise.
It is not strange that in course of time Catharine's strong good senseshowed her that she could do nothing with this creature. She thereforegradually became estranged from him and set herself to the task of doingthose things which Peter was incapable of carrying out.
She saw that ever since the first awakening of Russia under Peter theGreat none of its rulers had been genuinely Russian, but had tried toforce upon the Russian people various forms of western civilizationwhich were alien to the national spirit. Peter the Great had strivento make his people Dutch. Elizabeth had tried to make them French.Catharine, with a sure instinct, resolved that they should remainRussian, borrowing what they needed from other peoples, but stirredalways by the Slavic spirit and swayed by a patriotism that was theirown. To this end she set herself to become Russian. She acquired theRussian language patiently and accurately. She adopted the Russiancostume, appearing, except on state occasions, in a simple gown ofgreen, covering her fair hair, however, with a cap powdered withdiamonds. Furthermore, she made friends of such native Russians as weregifted with talent, winning their favor, and, through them, the favor ofthe common people.
It would have been strange, however, had Catharine, the woman,escaped the tainting influences that surrounded her on every side. Theinfidelities of Peter gradually made her feel that she owed him nothingas his wife. Among the nobles there were men whose force of characterand of mind attracted her inevitably. Chastity was a thing of which theaverage Russian had no conception; and therefore it is not strange thatCatharine, with her intense and sensitive nature, should have turned tosome of these for the love which she had sought in vain from the halfimbecile to whom she had been married.
Much has been written of this side of her earlier and later life; yet,though it is impossible to deny that she had favorites, one should judgevery gently the conduct of a girl so young and thrust into a life whenceall the virtues seemed to be excluded. She bore several children beforeher thirtieth year, and it is very certain that a grave doubt exists asto their paternity. Among the nobles of the court were two whose courageand virility specially attracted her. The one with whom her name hasbeen most often coupled was Gregory Orloff. He and his brother, AlexisOrloff, were Russians of the older type--powerful in frame, suave inmanner except when roused, yet with a tigerish ferocity slumberingunderneath. Their power fascinated Catharine, and it was currentlydeclared that Gregory Orloff was her lover.
When she was in her thirty-second year her husband was proclaimed Czar,after the death of the Empress Elizabeth. At first in some ways hiselevation seemed to sober him; but this period of sanity, like thosewhich had come to him before, lasted only a few weeks. Historians havegiven him much credit for two great reforms that are connected with hisname; and yet the manner in which they were actually brought about israther ludicrous. He had shut himself up with his favorite revelers, andhad remained for several days drinking and carousing until he scarcelyknew enough to speak. At this moment a young officer named Gudovitch,who was really loyal to the newly created Czar, burst into thebanquet-hall, booted and spurred and his eyes aflame with indignation.Standing before Peter, his voice rang out with the tone of a battletrumpet, so that the sounds of revelry were hushed.
"Peter Feodorovitch," he cried, "do you prefer these swine to those whoreally wish to serve you? Is it in this way that you imitate the gloriesof your ancestor, that illustrious Peter whom you have sworn to takeas your model? It will not be long before your people's love will bechanged to hatred. Rise up, my Czar! Shake off this lethargy and sloth.Prove that you are worthy of the faith which I and others have given youso loyally!"
With these words Gudovitch thrust into Peter's trembling hand twoproclamations, one abolishing the secret bureau of police, which hadbecome an instrument of tyrannous oppression, and the other restoring tothe nobility many rights of which they had been deprived.
The earnestness and intensity of Gudovitch temporarily cleared the brainof the drunken Czar. He seized the papers, and, without reading them,hastened at once to his great council, where he declared that theyexpressed his wishes. Great was the rejoicing in St. Petersburg, andgreat was the praise bestowed on Peter; yet, in fact, he had acted onlyas any drunkard might act under the compulsion of a stronger will thanhis.
As before, his brief period of good sense was succeeded by another ofthe wildest folly. It was not merely that he reversed the wise policy ofhis aunt, but that he reverted to his early fondness for everything thatwas German. His bodyguard was made up of German troops--thus excitingthe jealousy of the Russian soldiers. He introduced German fashions. Heboasted that his father had been an officer in the Prussian army. Hiscrazy admiration for Frederick the Great reached the utmost verge ofsycophancy.
As to Catharine, he turned on her with something like ferocity. Hedeclared in public that his eldest son, the Czarevitch Paul, wasreally fathered by Catharine's lovers. At a state banquet he turnedto Catharine and hurled at her a name which no woman could possiblyforgive--and least of all a woman such as Catharine, with her highspirit and imperial pride. He thrust his mistresses upon her; andat last he ordered her, with her own hand, to decorate the CountessVorontzoff, who was known to be his maitresse en titre.
It was not these gross insults, however, so much as a concern for herpersonal safety that led Catharine to take measures for her own defense.She was accustomed to Peter's ordinary eccentricities. On the groundof his unfaithfulness to her she now had hardly any right to makecomplaint. But she might reasonably fear lest he was becoming mad. If hequestioned the paternity of their eldest son he might take measures toimprison Catharine or even to destroy her. Therefore she conferred withthe Orloffs and other gentlemen, and their conference rapidly developedinto a conspiracy.
The soldiery, as a whole, was loyal to the empress. It hated Peter'sHolstein guards. What she planned was probably the deposition of Peter.She would have liked to place him under guard in some distant palace.But while the matter was still under discussion she was awakened earlyone morning by Alexis Orloff. He grasped her arm with scant ceremony.
"We must act at once," said he. "We have been betrayed!"
Catharine was not a woman to waste time. She went immediately to thebarracks in St. Petersburg, mounted upon a charger, and, calling outthe Russian guards, appealed to them for their support. To a man theyclashed their weapons and roared forth a thunderous cheer. Immediatelyafterward the priests anointed her as regent in the name of her son; butas she left the church she was saluted by the people, as well as by thesoldiers, as empress in her own right.
It was a bold stroke, and it succeeded down to the last detail. Thewretched Peter, who was drilling his German guards at a distance fromthe capital, heard of the revolt, found that his sailors at Kronstadtwould not acknowledge him, and then finally submitted. He was taken toRopsha and confined within a single room. To him came the Orloffs, quiteof their own accord. Gregory Orloff endeavored to force a corrosivepoison into Peter's mouth. Peter, who was powerful of build and nowquite desperate, hurled himself upon his enemies. Alexis Orloff seizedhim by the throat with a tremendous clutch and strangled him till theblood gushed from his ears. In a few moments the unfortunate man wasdead.
Catharine was shocked by the intelligence, but she had no choice saveto accept the result of excessive zeal. She issued a note to the foreignambassadors informing them that Peter had died of a violent colic. Whenhis body was laid out for burial the extravasated blood is said to haveoozed out even through his hands, staining the gloves that had beenplaced upon them. No one believed the story of the colic; and some sixyears later Alexis Orloff told the truth with the utmost composure. Thewhole incident was characteristically Russian.
It is not within the limits of our space to describe the reign ofCatharine the Great--the exploits of her armies, the acuteness of herstatecraft, the vast additions which she made to the Russian Empire, andthe impulse which she gave to science and art and literature. Yet thesethings ought to be remembered first of all when one thinks of the womanwhom Voltaire once styled "the Semiramis of the North." Because she wasso powerful, because no one could gainsay her, she led in private alife which has been almost more exploited than her great imperialachievements. And yet, though she had lovers whose names have beencarefully recorded, even she fulfilled the law of womanhood--which is tolove deeply and intensely only once.
One should not place all her lovers in the same category. As a girl, andwhen repelled by the imbecility of Peter, she gave herself to GregoryOrloff. She admired his strength, his daring, and his unscrupulousness.But to a woman of her fine intelligence he came to seem almost morebrute than man. She could not turn to him for any of those delicateattentions which a woman loves so much, nor for that larger sympathywhich wins the heart as well as captivates the senses. A writer of thetime has said that Orloff would hasten with equal readiness from thearms of Catharine to the embraces of any flat-nosed Finn or filthyCalmuck or to the lowest creature whom he might encounter in thestreets.
It happened that at the time of Catharine's appeal to the imperialguards there came to her notice another man who--as he proved in atrifling and yet most significant manner--had those traits which Orlofflacked. Catharine had mounted, man--fashion, a cavalry horse, and, witha helmet on her head, had reined up her steed before the barracks. Atthat moment One of the minor nobles, who was also favorable to her,observed that her helmet had no plume. In a moment his horse was at herside. Bowing low over his saddle, he took his own plume from his helmetand fastened it to hers. This man was Prince Gregory Potemkin, and thisslight act gives a clue to the influence which he afterward exercisedover his imperial mistress!
When Catharine grew weary of the Orloffs, and when she had enriched themwith lands and treasures, she turned to Potemkin; and from then untilthe day of his death he was more to her than any other man had everbeen. With others she might flirt and might go even further thanflirtation; but she allowed no other favorite to share her confidence,to give advice, or to direct her policies.
To other men she made munificent gifts, either because they pleased herfor the moment or because they served her on one occasion or another;but to Potemkin she opened wide the whole treasury of her vast realm.There was no limit to what she would do for him. When he first knewher he was a man of very moderate fortune. Within two years after theirintimate acquaintance had begun she had given him nine million rubles,while afterward he accepted almost limitless estates in Poland and inevery province of Greater Russia.
He was a man of sumptuous tastes, and yet he cared but little for merewealth. What he had, he used to please or gratify or surprise thewoman whom he loved. He built himself a great palace in St. Petersburg,usually known as the Taurian Palace, and there he gave the mostsumptuous entertainments, reversing the story of Antony and Cleopatra.
In a superb library there stood one case containing volumes bound withunusual richness. When the empress, attracted by the bindings, drewforth a book she found to her surprise that its pages were Englishbank-notes. The pages of another proved to be Dutch bank-notes, and, ofanother, notes on the Bank of Venice. Of the remaining volumes some wereof solid gold, while others had pages of fine leather in which were setemeralds and rubies and diamonds and other gems. The story reads like abit of fiction from the Arabian Nights. Yet, after all, this was only asmall affair compared with other undertakings with which Potemkin soughtto please her.
Thus, after Taurida and the Crimea had been added to the empireby Potemkin's agency, Catharine set out with him to view her newpossessions. A great fleet of magnificently decorated galleys bore herdown the river Dnieper. The country through which she passed had beena year before an unoccupied waste. Now, by Potemkin's extraordinaryefforts, the empress found it dotted thick with towns and cities whichhad been erected for the occasion, filled with a busy population whichswarmed along the riverside to greet the sovereign with applause. Itwas only a chain of fantom towns and cities, made of painted wood andcanvas; but while Catharine was there they were very real, seemingto have solid buildings, magnificent arches, bustling industries, andbeautiful stretches of fertile country. No human being ever wrought onso great a scale so marvelous a miracle of stage-management.
Potemkin was, in fact, the one man who could appeal with unfailingsuccess to so versatile and powerful a spirit as Catharine's. He washandsome of person, graceful of manner, and with an intellect whichmatched her own. He never tried to force her inclination, and, on theother hand, he never strove to thwart it. To him, as to no other man,she could turn at any moment and feel that, no matter what her mood, hecould understand her fully. And this, according to Balzac, is the thingthat woman yearns for most--a kindred spirit that can understand withoutthe slightest need of explanation.
Thus it was that Gregory Potemkin held a place in the soul of this greatwoman such as no one else attained. He might be absent, heading armiesor ruling provinces, and on his return he would be greeted with evengreater fondness than before. And it was this rather than his victoriesover Turk and other oriental enemies that made Catharine trust himabsolutely.
When he died, he died as the supreme master of her foreign policy and ata time when her word was powerful throughout all Europe. Death came uponhim after he had fought against it with singular tenacity of purpose.Catharine had given him a magnificent triumph, and he had entertainedher in his Taurian Palace with a splendor such as even Russia had neverknown before. Then he fell ill, though with high spirit he would notyield to illness. He ate rich meats and drank rich wines and borehimself as gallantly as ever. Yet all at once death came upon him whilehe was traveling in the south of Russia. His carriage was stopped, arug was spread beneath a tree by the roadside, and there he died, in thecountry which he had added to the realms of Russia.
The great empress who loved him mourned him deeply during the five yearsof life that still remained to her. The names of other men for whom shehad imagined that she cared were nothing to her. But this one man livedin her heart in death as he had done in life.
Many have written of Catharine as a great ruler, a wise diplomat, acreature of heroic mold. Others have depicted her as a royal wanton andhave gathered together a mass of vicious tales, the gossip of the palacekitchens, of the clubs, and of the barrack-rooms. But perhaps one findsthe chief interest of her story to lie in this--that besides beingempress and diplomat and a lover of pleasure she was, beyond all else,at heart a woman.




MARIE ANTOINETTE AND COUNT FERSEN

The English-speaking world long ago accepted a conventional view ofMarie Antoinette. The eloquence of Edmund Burke in one brilliant passagehas fixed, probably for all time, an enduring picture of this unhappyqueen.
When we speak or think of her we speak and think first of all of adazzling and beautiful woman surrounded by the chivalry of France andgleaming like a star in the most splendid court of Europe. And thenthere comes to us the reverse of the picture. We see her despised,insulted, and made the butt of brutal men and still more fiendish women;until at last the hideous tumbrel conveys her to the guillotine, whereher head is severed from her body and her corpse is cast down into abloody pool.
In these two pictures our emotions are played upon in turn--admiration,reverence, devotion, and then pity, indignation, and the shudderings ofhorror.
Probably in our own country and in England this will remain the historicMarie Antoinette. Whatever the impartial historian may write, he cannever induce the people at large to understand that this queen was farfrom queenly, that the popular idea of her is almost wholly false, andthat both in her domestic life and as the greatest lady in France shedid much to bring on the terrors of that revolution which swept her tothe guillotine.
In the first place, it is mere fiction that represents Maria Antoinetteas having been physically beautiful. The painters and engravers have soidealized her face as in most cases to have produced a purely imaginaryportrait.
She was born in Vienna, in 1755, the daughter of the Emperor Francisand of that warrior-queen, Maria Theresa. She was a very German-lookingchild. Lady Jackson describes her as having a long, thin face, small,pig-like eyes, a pinched-up mouth, with the heavy Hapsburg lip, andwith a somewhat misshapen form, so that for years she had to be bandagedtightly to give her a more natural figure.
At fourteen, when she was betrothed to the heir to the French throne,she was a dumpy, mean-looking little creature, with no distinctionwhatever, and with only her bright golden hair to make amends for hermany blemishes. At fifteen she was married and joined the Dauphin inFrench territory.
We must recall for a moment the conditions which prevailed in France.King Louis XV. was nearing his end. He was a man of the most shamelesslife; yet he had concealed or gilded his infamies by an external dignityand magnificence which, were very pleasing to his people. The French,liked to think that their king was the most splendid monarch and thegreatest gentleman in Europe. The courtiers about him might be vilebeneath the surface, yet they were compelled to deport themselves withthe form and the etiquette that had become traditional in France. Theymight be panders, or stock-jobbers, or sellers of political offices;yet they must none the less have wit and grace and outward nobility ofmanner.
There was also a tradition regarding the French queen. However loosein character the other women of the court might be, she alone, likeCaesar's wife, must remain above suspicion. She must be purer than thepure. No breath, of scandal must reach her or be directed against her.
In this way the French court, even under so dissolute a monarch as LouisXV., maintained its hold upon the loyalty of the people. Crowds cameevery morning to view the king in his bed before he arose; the samecrowds watched him as he was dressed by the gentlemen of the bedchamber,and as he breakfasted and went through all the functions which areusually private. The King of France must be a great actor. He mustappear to his people as in reality a king-stately, dignified, and beyondall other human beings in his remarkable presence.
When the Dauphin and Marie Antoinette came to the French court KingLouis XV. kept up in the case the same semblance of austerity. Heforbade these children to have their sleeping-apartments together. Hetried to teach them that if they were to govern as well as to reign theymust conform to the rigid etiquette of Paris and Versailles.
It proved a difficult task, however. The little German princess had nonatural dignity, though she came from a court where the very strictestimperial discipline prevailed. Marie Antoinette found that she couldhave her own way in many things, and she chose to enjoy life withoutregard to ceremony. Her escapades at first would have been thought mildenough had she not been a "daughter of France"; but they served to shockthe old French king, and likewise, perhaps even more, her own imperialmother, Maria Theresa.
When a report of the young girl's conduct was brought to her the empresswas at first mute with indignation. Then she cried out:
"Can this girl be a child of mine? She surely must be a changeling!"
The Austrian ambassador to France was instructed to warn the Dauphinessto be more discreet.
"Tell her," said Maria Theresa, "that she will lose her throne, and evenher life, unless she shows more prudence."
But advice and remonstrance were of no avail. Perhaps they might havebeen had her husband possessed a stronger character; but the young Louiswas little more fitted to be a king than was his wife to be a queen.Dull of perception and indifferent to affairs of state, he had only twointerests that absorbed him. One was the love of hunting, and the otherwas his desire to shut himself up in a sort of blacksmith shop, where hecould hammer away at the anvil, blow the bellows, and manufacture smalltrifles of mechanical inventions. From this smudgy den he would emerge,sooty and greasy, an object of distaste to his frivolous princess, withher foamy laces and perfumes and pervasive daintiness.
It was hinted in many quarters, and it has been many times repeated,that Louis was lacking in virility. Certainly he had no interest in thesociety of women and was wholly continent. But this charge of physicalincapacity seems to have had no real foundation. It had been madeagainst some of his predecessors. It was afterward hurled at Napoleonthe Great, and also Napoleon the Little. In France, unless a royalpersonage was openly licentious, he was almost sure to be jeered at bythe people as a weakling.
And so poor Louis XVI., as he came to be, was treated with a mixtureof pity and contempt because he loved to hammer and mend locks in hissmithy or shoot game when he might have been caressing ladies who wouldhave been proud to have him choose them out.
On the other hand, because of this opinion regarding Louis, peoplewere the more suspicious of Marie Antoinette. Some of them, in coarselanguage, criticized her assumed infidelities; others, with a politesneer, affected to defend her. But the result of it all was dangerous toboth, especially as France was already verging toward the deluge whichLouis XV. had cynically predicted would follow after him.
In fact, the end came sooner than any one had guessed. Louis XV., whohad become hopelessly and helplessly infatuated with the low-born Jeannedu Barry, was stricken down with smallpox of the most virulent type. Formany days he lay in his gorgeous bed. Courtiers crowded his sick-roomand the adjacent hall, longing for the moment when the breath wouldleave his body. He had lived an evil life, and he was to die a loathsomedeath; yet he had borne himself before men as a stately monarch. Thoughhis people had suffered in a thousand ways from his misgovernment, hewas still Louis the Well Beloved, and they blamed his ministers of statefor all the shocking wrongs that France had felt.
The abler men, and some of the leaders of the people, however, lookedforward to the accession of Louis XVI. He at least was frugal in hishabits and almost plebeian in his tastes, and seemed to be one who wouldreduce the enormous taxes that had been levied upon France.
The moment came when the Well Beloved died. His death-room was fetidwith disease, and even the long corridors of the palace reeked withinfection, while the motley mob of men and women, clad in silks andsatins and glittering with jewels, hurried from the spot to pay theirhomage to the new Louis, who was spoken of as "the Desired." The body ofthe late monarch was hastily thrown into a mass of quick-lime, and wasdriven away in a humble wagon, without guards and with no salute,save from a single veteran, who remembered the glories of Fontenoy anddischarged his musket as the royal corpse was carried through the palacegates.
This was a critical moment in the history of France; but we haveto consider it only as a critical moment in the history of MarieAntoinette. She was now queen. She had it in her power to restore tothe French court its old-time grandeur, and, so far as the queen wasconcerned, its purity. Above all, being a foreigner, she should havekept herself free from reproach and above every shadow of suspicion.
But here again the indifference of the king undoubtedly played a strangepart in her life. Had he borne himself as her lord and master she mighthave respected him. Had he shown her the affection of a husband shemight have loved him. But he was neither imposing, nor, on the otherhand, was he alluring. She wrote very frankly about him in a letter tothe Count Orsini:
My tastes are not the same as those of the king, who cares only forhunting and blacksmith work. You will admit that I should not show toadvantage in a forge. I could not appear there as Vulcan, and the partof Venus might displease him even more than my tastes.
Thus on the one side is a woman in the first bloom of youth, ardent,eager--and neglected. On the other side is her husband, whosesluggishness may be judged by quoting from a diary which he kept duringthe month in which he was married. Here is a part of it:
Sunday, 13--Left Versailles. Supper and slept at Compignee, at the houseof M. de Saint-Florentin.
Monday, 14--Interview with Mme. la Dauphine.
Tuesday, 15--Supped at La Muette. Slept at Versailles.
Wednesday, 16--My marriage. Apartment in the gallery. Royal banquet inthe Salle d'Opera.
Thursday, 17--Opera of "Perseus."
Friday, 18--Stag-hunt. Met at La Belle Image. Took one.
Saturday, 19--Dress-ball in the Salle d'Opera. Fireworks.
Thursday, 31--I had an indigestion.
What might have been expected from a young girl placed as this queen wasplaced? She was indeed an earlier Eugenie. The first was of royalblood, the second was almost a plebeian; but each was headstrong,pleasure-loving, and with no real domestic ties. As Mr. Kiplingexpresses it--
    The colonel's lady and Judy O'Grady    Are sisters under their skins;
and so the Austrian woman of 1776 and the Spanish woman of 1856 foundamusement in very similar ways. They plunged into a sea of strangefrivolity, such as one finds to-day at the centers of high fashion.Marie Antoinette bedecked herself with eccentric garments. On her headshe wore a hat styled a "what-is-it," towering many feet in height andflaunting parti-colored plumes. Worse than all this, she refused to wearcorsets, and at some great functions she would appear in what lookedexactly like a bedroom gown.
She would even neglect the ordinary niceties of life. Her hands were notwell cared for. It was very difficult for the ladies in attendanceto persuade her to brush her teeth with regularity. Again, she wouldpersist in wearing her frilled and lace-trimmed petticoats long aftertheir dainty edges had been smirched and blackened.
Yet these things might have been counteracted had she gone no further.Unfortunately, she did go further. She loved to dress at night likea shop-girl and venture out into the world of Paris, where she wasfrequently followed and recognized. Think of it--the Queen of France,elbowed in dense crowds and seeking to attract the attention of commonsoldiers!
Of course, almost every one put the worst construction upon this,and after a time upon everything she did. When she took a fancy forconstructing labyrinths and secret passages in the palace, all Parisvowed that she was planning means by which her various lovers mightenter without observation. The hidden printing-presses of Paris swarmedwith gross lampoons about this reckless girl; and, although therewas little truth in what they said, there was enough to cloud herreputation. When she fell ill with the measles she was attended in hersick-chamber by four gentlemen of the court. The king was forbidden toenter lest he might catch the childish disorder.
The apathy of the king, indeed, drove her into many a folly. After fouryears of marriage, as Mrs. Mayne records, he had only reached the pointof giving her a chilly kiss. The fact that she had no children becamea serious matter. Her brother, the Emperor Joseph of Austria, when hevisited Paris, ventured to speak to the king upon the subject. Eventhe Austrian ambassador had thrown out hints that the house of Bourbonneeded direct heirs. Louis grunted and said little, but he must haveknown how good was the advice.
It was at about this time when there came to the French court a youngSwede named Axel de Fersen, who bore the title of count, but who wasreceived less for his rank than for his winning manner, his knightlybearing, and his handsome, sympathetic face. Romantic in spirit, hethrew himself at once into a silent inner worship of Marie Antoinette,who had for him a singular attraction. Wherever he could meet her theymet. To her growing cynicism this breath of pure yet ardent affectionwas very grateful. It came as something fresh and sweet into thefeverish life she led.
Other men had had the audacity to woo her--among them Duc de Lauzun,whose complicity in the famous affair of the diamond necklace afterwardcast her, though innocent, into ruin; the Duc de Biron; and the Baronde Besenval, who had obtained much influence over her, which he used forthe most evil purposes. Besenval tainted her mind by persuading her toread indecent books, in the hope that at last she would become his prey.
But none of these men ever meant to Marie Antoinette what Fersen meant.Though less than twenty years of age, he maintained the reserve of agreat gentleman, and never forced himself upon her notice. Yet theirfirst acquaintance had occurred in such a way as to give to it a touchof intimacy. He had gone to a masked ball, and there had chosen for hispartner a lady whose face was quite concealed. Something drew the twotogether. The gaiety of the woman and the chivalry of the man blendedmost harmoniously. It was only afterward that he discovered that hischance partner was the first lady in France. She kept his memory in hermind; for some time later, when he was at a royal drawing-room and sheheard his voice, she exclaimed:
"Ah, an old acquaintance!"
From this time Fersen was among those who were most intimately favoredby the queen. He had the privilege of attending her private receptionsat the palace of the Trianon, and was a conspicuous figure at the feastsgiven in the queen's honor by the Princess de Lamballe, a beautiful girlwhose head was destined afterward to be severed from her body and borneupon a bloody pike through the streets of Paris. But as yet the delugehad not arrived and the great and noble still danced upon the brink of avolcano.
Fersen grew more and more infatuated, nor could he quite conceal hisfeelings. The queen, in her turn, was neither frightened nor indignant.His passion, so profound and yet so respectful, deeply moved her. Thencame a time when the truth was made clear to both of them. Fersen wasnear her while she was singing to the harpsichord, and "she was betrayedby her own music into an avowal which song made easy." She forgot thatshe was Queen of France. She only felt that her womanhood had beenstarved and slighted, and that here was a noble-minded lover of whom shecould be proud.
Some time after this announcement was officially made of the approachingaccouchement of the queen. It was impossible that malicious tonguesshould be silent. The king's brother, the Comte de Provence, who hatedthe queen, just as the Bonapartes afterward hated Josephine, did hisbest to besmirch her reputation. He had, indeed, the extraordinaryinsolence to do so at a time when one would suppose that the vilestof men would remain silent. The child proved to be a princess, and sheafterward received the title of Duchesse d'Angouleme. The King of Spainasked to be her godfather at the christening, which was to be held inthe cathedral of Notre Dame. The Spanish king was not present in person,but asked the Comte de Provence to act as his proxy.
On the appointed day the royal party proceeded to the cathedral, and theComte de Provence presented the little child at the baptismal font. Thegrand almoner, who presided, asked;
"What name shall be given to this child?"
The Comte de Provence answered in a sneering tone:
"Oh, we don't begin with that. The first thing to find out is who thefather and the mother are!"
These words, spoken at such a place and such a time, and with a stronglysardonic ring, set all Paris gossiping. It was a thinly veiled innuendothat the father of the child was not the King of France. Those about thecourt immediately began to look at Fersen with significant smiles. Thequeen would gladly have kept him near her; but Fersen cared even morefor her good name than for his love of her. It would have been soeasy to remain in the full enjoyment of his conquest; but he was toochivalrous for that, or, rather, he knew that the various ambassadorsin Paris had told their respective governments of the rising scandal.In fact, the following secret despatch was sent to the King of Sweden byhis envoy:
I must confide to your majesty that the young Count Fersen has been sowell received by the queen that various persons have taken it amiss. Iown that I am sure that she has a liking for him. I have seen proofs ofit too certain to be doubted. During the last few days the queen has nottaken her eyes off him, and as she gazed they were full of tears. I begyour majesty to keep their secret to yourself.
The queen wept because Fersen had resolved to leave her lest she shouldbe exposed to further gossip. If he left her without any apparentreason, the gossip would only be the more intense. Therefore he decidedto join the French troops who were going to America to fight underLafayette. A brilliant but dissolute duchess taunted him when the newsbecame known.
"How is this?" said she. "Do you forsake your conquest?"
But, "lying like a gentleman," Fersen answered, quietly:
"Had I made a conquest I should not forsake it. I go away free, and,unfortunately, without leaving any regret."
Nothing could have been more chivalrous than the pains which Fersen tookto shield the reputation of the queen. He even allowed it to be supposedthat he was planning a marriage with a rich young Swedish woman whohad been naturalized in England. As a matter of fact, he departed forAmerica, and not very long afterward the young woman in question marriedan Englishman.
Fersen served in America for a time, returning, however, at the end ofthree years. He was one of the original Cincinnati, being admittedto the order by Washington himself. When he returned to France he wasreceived with high honors and was made colonel of the royal Swedishregiment.
The dangers threatening Louis and his court, which were now gigantic andappalling, forbade him to forsake the queen. By her side he did whathe could to check the revolution; and, failing this, he helped her tomaintain an imperial dignity of manner which she might otherwise havelacked. He faced the bellowing mob which surrounded the Tuileries.Lafayette tried to make the National Guard obey his orders, but he wasjeered at for his pains. Violent epithets were hurled at the king. Theleast insulting name which they could give him was "a fat pig." As forthe queen, the most filthy phrases were showered upon her by the men,and even more so by the women, who swarmed out of the slums and soughther life.
At last, in 1791, it was decided that the king and the queen and theirchildren, of whom they now had three, should endeavor to escape fromParis. Fersen planned their flight, but it proved to be a failure. Everyone remembers how they were discovered and halted at Varennes. The royalparty was escorted back to Paris by the mob, which chanted with insolentadditions:
"We've brought back the baker, the baker's wife, and the baker's boy!Now we shall have bread!"
Against the savage fury which soon animated the French a foreigner likeFersen could do very little; but he seems to have endeavored, night andday, to serve the woman whom he loved. His efforts have been describedby Grandat; but they were of no avail. The king and queen werepractically made prisoners. Their eldest son died. They went throughhorrors that were stimulated by the wretch Hebert, at the head of hisso-called Madmen (Enrages). The king was executed in January, 1792. Thequeen dragged out a brief existence in a prison where she was for everunder the eyes of human brutes, who guarded her and watched her andjeered at her at times when even men would be sensitive. Then, at last,she mounted the scaffold, and her head, with its shining hair, fell intothe bloody basket.
Marie Antoinette shows many contradictions in her character. As a younggirl she was petulant and silly and almost unseemly in her actions. Asa queen, with waning power, she took on a dignity which recalled thedignity of her imperial mother. At first a flirt, she fell deeply inlove when she met a man who was worthy of that love. She lived for mostpart like a mere cocotte. She died every inch a queen.
One finds a curious resemblance between the fate of Marie Antoinette andthat of her gallant lover, who outlived her for nearly twenty years. Shedied amid the shrieks and execrations of a maddened populace in Paris;he was practically torn in pieces by a mob in the streets of Stockholm.The day of his death was the anniversary of the flight to Varennes. Tothe last moment of his existence he remained faithful to the memory ofthe royal woman who had given herself so utterly to him.




THE STORY OF AARON BURR

There will come a time when the name of Aaron Burr will be cleared fromthe prejudice which now surrounds it, when he will stand in the publicestimation side by side with Alexander Hamilton, whom he shot in a duelin 1804, but whom in many respects he curiously resembled. When thewhite light of history shall have searched them both they will appear astwo remarkable men, each having his own undoubted faults and at the sametime his equally undoubted virtues.
Burr and Hamilton were born within a year of each other--Burr beinga grandson of Jonathan Edwards, and Alexander Hamilton being theillegitimate son of a Scottish merchant in the West Indies. Each of themwas short in stature, keen of intellect, of great physical endurance,courage, and impressive personality. Each as a young man served onthe staff of Washington during the Revolutionary War, and each of themquarreled with him, though in a different way.
On one occasion Burr was quite unjustly suspected by Washington oflooking over the latter's shoulder while he was writing. "Washingtonleaped to his feet with the exclamation:
"How dare you, Colonel Burr?"
Burr's eyes flashed fire at the question, and he retorted, haughtily:
"Colonel Burr DARE do anything."
This, however, was the end of their altercation The cause of Hamilton'sdifference with his chief is not known, but it was a much more seriousquarrel; so that the young officer left his staff position in a fury andtook no part in the war until the end, when he was present at the battleof Yorktown.
Burr, on the other hand, helped Montgomery to storm the heights ofQuebec, and nearly reached the upper citadel when his commander wasshot dead and the Americans retreated. In all this confusion Burr showedhimself a man of mettle. The slain Montgomery was six feet high, butBurr carried his body away with wonderful strength amid a shower ofmusket-balls and grape-shot.
Hamilton had no belief in the American Constitution, which he called "ashattered, feeble thing." He could never obtain an elective office,and he would have preferred to see the United States transformed intoa kingdom. Washington's magnanimity and clear-sightedness made HamiltonSecretary of the Treasury. Burr, on the other hand, continued hismilitary service until the war was ended, routing the enemy atHackensack, enduring the horrors of Valley Forge, commanding a brigadeat the battle of Monmouth, and heading the defense of the city of NewHaven. He was also attorney-general of New York, was elected to theUnited States Senate, was tied with Jefferson for the Presidency, andthen became Vice-President.
Both Hamilton and Burr were effective speakers; but, while Hamilton waswordy and diffuse, Burr spoke always to the point, with clear and cogentreasoning. Both were lavish spenders of money, and both were engagedin duels before the fatal one in which Hamilton fell. Both believed indueling as the only way of settling an affair of honor. Neither of themwas averse to love affairs, though it may be said that Hamilton soughtwomen, while Burr was rather sought by women. When Secretary of theTreasury, Hamilton was obliged to confess an adulterous amour in orderto save himself from the charge of corrupt practices in public office.So long as Burr's wife lived he was a devoted, faithful husband toher. Hamilton was obliged to confess his illicit acts while his wife,formerly Miss Elizabeth Schuyler, was living. She spent her later yearsin buying and destroying the compromising documents which her husbandhad published for his countrymen to read.
The most extraordinary thing about Aaron Burr was the magnetic qualitythat was felt by every one who approached him. The roots of thispenetrated down into a deep vitality. He was always young, always alert,polished in manner, courageous with that sort of courage which does noteven recognize the presence of danger, charming in conversation, andable to adapt it to men or women of any age whatever. His hair was stilldark in his eightieth year. His step was still elastic, his motions werestill as spontaneous and energetic, as those of a youth.
So it was that every one who knew him experienced his fascination. Therough troops whom he led through the Canadian swamps felt the iron handof his discipline; yet they were devoted to him, since he shared alltheir toils, faced all their dangers, and ate with them the scraps ofhide which they gnawed to keep the breath of life in their shrunkenbodies.
Burr's discipline was indeed very strict, so that at first raw recruitsrebelled against it. On one occasion the men of an untrained companyresented it so bitterly that they decided to shoot Colonel Burr as heparaded them for roll-call that evening. Burr somehow got word of it andcontrived to have all the cartridges drawn from their muskets. When thetime for the roll-call came one of the malcontents leaped from the frontline and leveled his weapon at Burr.
"Now is the time, boys!" he shouted.
Like lightning Burr's sword flashed from its scabbard with such avigorous stroke as to cut the man's arm completely off and partly tocleave the musket.
"Take your place in the ranks," said Burr.
The mutineer obeyed, dripping with blood. A month later every manin that company was devoted to his commander. They had learned thatdiscipline was the surest source of safety.
But with this high spirit and readiness to fight Burr had a mostpleasing way of meeting every one who came to him. When he was arrestedin the Western forests, charged with high treason, the sound of hisvoice won from jury after jury verdicts of acquittal. Often the sheriffswould not arrest him. One grand jury not merely exonerated him from allpublic misdemeanors, but brought in a strong presentment against theofficers of the government for molesting him.
It was the same everywhere. Burr made friends and devoted allies amongall sorts of men. During his stay in France, England, Germany, andSweden he interested such men as Charles Lamb, Jeremy Bentham, SirWalter Scott, Goethe, and Heeren. They found his mind able to meetwith theirs on equal terms. Burr, indeed, had graduated as a youthwith honors from Princeton, and had continued his studies there aftergraduation, which was then a most unusual thing to do. But, of course,he learned most from his contact with men and women of the world.
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, in The Minister's Wooing, has given what isprobably an exact likeness of Aaron Burr, with his brilliant gifts andsome of his defects. It is strong testimony to the character of Burrthat Mrs. Stowe set out to paint him as a villain; but before she hadwritten long she felt his fascination and made her readers, in theirown despite, admirers of this remarkable man. There are many parallels,indeed, between him and Napoleon--in the quickness of his intellect, theready use of his resources, and his power over men, while he was morethan Napoleon in his delightful gift of conversation and the easy playof his cultured mind.
Those who are full of charm are willing also to be charmed. All his lifeBurr was abstemious in food and drink. His tastes were most refined. Itis difficult to believe that such a man could have been an unmitigatedprofligate.
In his twentieth year there seems to have begun the first of theromances that run through the story of his long career. Perhaps oneought not to call it the first romance, for at eighteen, while he wasstudying law at Litchfield, a girl, whose name has been suppressed, madean open avowal of love for him. Almost at the same time an heiress witha large fortune would have married him had he been willing to accept herhand. But at this period he was only a boy and did not take such thingsseriously.
Two years later, after Burr had seen hard service at Quebec and onManhattan Island, his name was associated with that of a very beautifulgirl named Margaret Moncrieffe. She was the daughter of a British major,but in some way she had been captured while within the American lines.Her captivity was regarded as little more than a joke; but while she wasthus a prisoner she saw a great deal of Burr. For several months theywere comrades, after which General Putnam sent her with his complimentsto her father.
Margaret Moncrieffe had a most emotional nature. There can be no doubtthat she deeply loved the handsome young American officer, whom shenever saw again. It is doubtful how far their intimacy was carried.Later she married a Mr. Coghlan. After reaching middle life she wroteof Burr in a way which shows that neither years nor the obligations ofmarriage could make her forget that young soldier, whom she speaks ofas "the conqueror of her soul." In the rather florid style of those daysthe once youthful Margaret Moncrieffe expresses herself as follows:
Oh, may these pages one day meet the eye of him who subdued my virginheart, whom the immutable, unerring laws of nature had pointed out formy husband, but whose sacred decree the barbarous customs of societyfatally violated!
Commenting on this paragraph, Mr. H. C. Merwin justly remarks that,whatever may have been Burr's conduct toward Margaret Moncrieffe, thelady herself, who was the person chiefly concerned, had no complaintto make of it. It certainly was no very serious affair, since in thefollowing year Burr met a lady who, while she lived, was the only womanfor whom he ever really cared.
This was Theodosia Prevost, the wife of a major in the British army.Burr met her first in 1777, while she was living with her sister inWestchester County. Burr's command was fifteen miles across the river,but distance and danger made no difference to him. He used to mount aswift horse, inspect his sentinels and outposts, and then gallop to theHudson, where a barge rowed by six soldiers awaited him. The barge waswell supplied with buffalo-skins, upon which the horse was thrown withhis legs bound, and then half an hour's rowing brought them to theother side. There Burr resumed his horse, galloped to the house of Mrs.Prevost, and, after spending a few hours with her, returned in the sameway.
Mrs. Prevost was by no means beautiful, but she had an attractivenessof her own. She was well educated and possessed charming manners, witha disposition both gentle and affectionate. Her husband died soon afterthe beginning of the war, and then Burr married her. No more idealfamily life could be conceived than his, and the letters which passedbetween the two are full of adoration. Thus she wrote to him:
Tell me, why do I grow every day more tenacious of your regard? Is itbecause each revolving day proves you more deserving?
And thus Burr answered her:
Continue to multiply your letters to me. They are all my solace. Thelast six are constantly within my reach. I read them once a day atleast. Write me all that I have asked, and a hundred things which I havenot.
When it is remembered that these letters were written after nine yearsof marriage it is hard to believe all the evil things that have beensaid of Burr.
His wife died in 1794, and he then gave a double affection to hisdaughter Theodosia, whose beauty and accomplishments were knownthroughout the country. Burr took the greatest pains in her education,and believed that she should be trained, as he had been, to be brave,industrious, and patient. He himself, who has been described as avoluptuary, delighted in the endurance of cold and heat and of severelabor.
After his death one of his younger admirers was asked what Burr had donefor him. The reply was characteristic.
"He made me iron," was the answer.
No father ever gave more attention to his daughter's welfare. As toTheodosia's studies he was very strict, making her read Greek and Latinevery day, with drawing and music and history, in addition to French.Not long before her marriage to Joseph Allston, of South Carolina, Burrwrote to her:
I really think, my dear Theo, that you will be very soon beyond allverbal criticism, and that my whole attention will be presently directedto the improvement of your style.
Theodosia Burr married into a family of good old English stock, whereriches were abundant, and high character was regarded as the best ofall possessions. Every one has heard of the mysterious tragedy which isassociated with her history. In 1812, when her husband had been electedGovernor of his state, her only child--a sturdy boy of eleven--died, andTheodosia's health was shattered by her sorrow. In the same year Burrreturned from a sojourn in Europe, and his loving daughter embarked fromCharleston on a schooner, the Patriot, to meet her father in NewYork. When Burr arrived he was met by a letter which told him that hisgrandson was dead and that Theodosia was coming to him.
Weeks sped by, and no news was heard of the ill-fated Patriot. At lastit became evident that she must have gone down or in some other way havebeen lost. Burr and Governor Allston wrote to each other letter afterletter, of which each one seems to surpass the agony of the other. Atlast all hope was given up. Governor Allston died soon after of a brokenheart; but Burr, as became a Stoic, acted otherwise.
He concealed everything that reminded him of Theodosia. He never spokeof his lost daughter. His grief was too deep-seated and too terrible forspeech. Only once did he ever allude to her, and this was in a letterwritten to an afflicted friend, which contained the words:
Ever since the event which separated me from mankind I have been ableneither to give nor to receive consolation.
In time the crew of a pirate vessel was captured and sentenced to behanged. One of the men, who seemed to be less brutal than the rest,told how, in 1812, they had captured a schooner, and, after their usualpractice, had compelled the passengers to walk the plank. All hesitatedand showed cowardice, except only one--a beautiful woman whose eyes wereas bright and whose bearing was as unconcerned as if she were safe onshore. She quickly led the way, and, mounting the plank with a certainscorn of death, said to the others:
"Come, I will show you how to die."
It has always been supposed that this intrepid girl may have beenTheodosia Allston. If so, she only acted as her father would have doneand in strict accordance with his teachings.
This resolute courage, this stern joy in danger, this perfectequanimity, made Burr especially attractive to women, who love courage,the more so when it is coupled with gentleness and generosity.
Perhaps no man in our country has been so vehemently accused regardinghis relations with the other sex. The most improbable stories were toldabout him, even by his friends. As to his enemies, they took boundlesspains to paint him in the blackest colors. According to them, no womanwas safe from his intrigues. He was a perfect devil in leading themastray and then casting them aside.
Thus one Matthew L. Davis, in whom Burr had confided as a friend, wroteof him long afterward a most unjust account--unjust because we haveproofs that it was false in the intensity of its abuse. Davis wrote:
It is truly surprising how any individual could become so eminent as asoldier, as a statesman, and as a professional man who devoted so muchtime to the other sex as was devoted by Colonel Burr. For more thanhalf a century of his life they seemed to absorb his whole thought.His intrigues were without number; the sacred bonds of friendship wereunhesitatingly violated when they operated as barriers to the indulgenceof his passions. In this particular Burr appears to have been unfeelingand heartless.
It is impossible to believe that the Spartan Burr, whose life was one ofincessant labor and whose kindliness toward every one was so well known,should have deserved a commentary like this. The charge of immoralityis so easily made and so difficult of disproof that it has been flungpromiscuously at all the great men of history, including, in our owncountry, Washington and Jefferson as well as Burr. In England, whenGladstone was more than seventy years of age, he once stopped to ask aquestion of a woman in the street. Within twenty-four hours the Londonclubs were humming with a sort of demoniac glee over the story thatthis aged and austere old gentleman was not above seeking common streetamours.
And so with Aaron Burr to a great extent. That he was a man of strictmorality it would be absurd to maintain. That he was a reckless andlicentious profligate would be almost equally untrue. Mr. H. O. Merwinhas very truly said:
Part of Burr's reputation for profligacy was due, no doubt, to thatvanity respecting women of which Davis himself speaks. He never refusedto accept the parentage of a child.
"Why do you allow this woman to saddle you with her child when you KNOWyou are not the father of it?" said a friend to him a few months beforehis death.
"Sir," he replied, "when a lady does me the honor to name me the fatherof her child I trust I shall always be too gallant to show myselfungrateful for the favor."
There are two curious legends relating to Aaron Burr. They serve to showthat his reputation became such that he could not enjoy the society of awoman without having her regarded as his mistress.
When he was United States Senator from New York he lived in Philadelphiaat the lodging-house of a Mrs. Payne, whose daughter, Dorothy Todd, wasthe very youthful widow of an officer. This young woman was ratherfree in her manners, and Burr was very responsive in his. At the time,however, nothing was thought of it; but presently Burr brought to thehouse the serious and somewhat pedantic James Madison and introduced himto the hoyden.
Madison was then forty-seven years of age, a stranger to society, butgradually rising to a prominent position in politics--"the great littleMadison," as Burr rather lightly called him. Before very long he hadproposed marriage to the young widow. She hesitated, and some onereferred the matter to President Washington. The Father of his Countryanswered in what was perhaps the only opinion that he ever gave on thesubject of matrimony. It is worth preserving because it shows that hehad a sense of humor:
For my own part, I never did nor do I believe I ever shall give adviceto a woman who is setting out on a matrimonial voyage... A woman veryrarely asks an opinion or seeks advice on such an occasion till hermind is wholly made up, and then it is with the hope and expectationof obtaining a sanction, and not that she means to be governed by yourdisapproval.
Afterward when Dolly Madison with, her yellow turban and kittenish wayswas making a sensation in Washington society some one recalled her oldassociation with Burr. At once the story sprang to light that Burr hadbeen her lover and that he had brought about the match with Madison asan easy way of getting rid of her.
There is another curious story which makes Martin Van Buren, eighthPresident of the United States, to have been the illegitimate son ofAaron Burr. There is no earthly reason for believing this, except thatBurr sometimes stopped overnight at the tavern in Kinderhook which waskept by Van Buren's putative father, and that Van Buren in later lifeshowed an astuteness equal to that of Aaron Burr himself, so that he wascalled by his opponents "the fox of Kinderhook." But, as Van Buren wasborn in December of the same year (1782) in which Burr was married toTheodosia Prevost, the story is utterly improbable when we remember,as we must, the ardent affection which Burr showed his wife, not onlybefore their marriage, but afterward until her death.
Putting aside these purely spurious instances, as well as others citedby Mr. Parton, the fact remains that Aaron Burr, like Daniel Webster,found a great attraction in the society of women; that he could pleasethem and fascinate them to an extraordinary degree; and that duringhis later life he must be held quite culpable in this respect. Hislove-making was ardent and rapid, as we shall afterward see in the caseof his second marriage.
Many other stories are told of him. For instance, it is said that heonce took a stage-coach from Jersey City to Philadelphia. The only otheroccupant was a woman of high standing and one whose family deeply hatedAaron Burr. Nevertheless, so the story goes, before they had reachedNewark she was absolutely swayed by his charm of manner; and when thecoach made its last stop before Philadelphia she voluntarily became hismistress.
It must also be said that, unlike those of Webster and Hamilton, hisintrigues were never carried on with women of the lower sort. This maybe held by some to deepen the charge against him; but more truly does itexonerate him, since it really means that in many cases these womenof the world threw themselves at him and sought him as a lover, whenotherwise he might never have thought of them.
That he was not heartless and indifferent to those who had loved himmay be shown by the great care which he took to protect their names andreputations. Thus, on the day before his duel with Hamilton, he made awill in which he constituted his son-in-law as his executor. At the sametime he wrote a sealed letter to Governor Allston in which he said:
If you can pardon and indulge a folly, I would suggest that Mme. ----,too well known under the name of Leonora, has claims on my recollection.She is now with her husband at Santiago, in Cuba.
Another fact has been turned to his discredit. From many women, in thecourse of his long life, he had received a great quantity of letterswritten by aristocratic hands on scented paper, and these letters he hadnever burned. Here again, perhaps, was shown the vanity of the manwho loved love for its own sake. He kept all these papers in a hugeiron-clamped chest, and he instructed Theodosia in case he should die toburn every letter which might injure any one.
After Theodosia's death Burr gave the same instructions to Matthew L.Davis, who did, indeed, burn them, though he made their existence ameans of blackening the character of Burr. He should have destroyed themunopened, and should never have mentioned them in his memoirs of the manwho trusted him as a friend.
Such was Aaron Burr throughout a life which lasted for eighty years. Hislast romance, at the age of seventy-eight, is worth narrating because ithas often been misunderstood.
Mme. Jumel was a Rhode Island girl who at seventeen years of age elopedwith an English officer, Colonel Peter Croix. Her first husbanddied while she was still quite young, and she then married a Frenchwine-merchant, Stephen Jumel, some twenty years her senior, but a man ofmuch vigor and intelligence. M. Jumel made a considerable fortune in NewYork, owning a small merchant fleet; and after Napoleon's downfall heand his wife went to Paris, where she made a great impression in thesalons by her vivacity and wit and by her lavish expenditures.
Losing, however, part of what she and her husband possessed, Mme. Jumelreturned to New York, bringing with her a great amount of furniture andpaintings, with which she decorated the historic house still standingin the upper part of Manhattan Island--a mansion held by her in her ownright. She managed her estate with much ability; and in 1828 M. Jumelreturned to live with her in what was in those days a splendid villa.
Four years later, however, M. Jumel suffered an accident from which hedied in a few days, leaving his wife still an attractive woman and notvery much past her prime. Soon after she had occasion to seek for legaladvice, and for this purpose visited the law-office of Aaron Burr.She had known him a good many years before; and, though he was nowseventy-eight years of age, there was no perceptible change in him. Hewas still courtly in manner, tactful, and deferential, while physicallyhe was straight, active, and vigorous.
A little later she invited him to a formal banquet, where he displayedall his charms and shone to great advantage. When he was about to leadher in to dinner, he said:
"I give my hand, madam; my heart has long been yours."
These attentions he followed up with several other visits, andfinally proposed that she should marry him. Much fluttered and no lessflattered, she uttered a sort of "No" which was not likely to discouragea man like Aaron Burr.
"I shall come to you before very long," he said, "accompanied by aclergyman; and then you will give me your hand because I want it."
This rapid sort of wooing was pleasantly embarrassing. The lady ratherliked it; and so, on an afternoon when the sun was shining and theleaves were rustling in the breeze, Burr drove up to Mme. Jumel'smansion accompanied by Dr. Bogart--the very clergyman who had marriedhim to his first wife fifty years before.
Mme. Jumel was now seriously disturbed, but her refusal was not a strongone. There were reasons why she should accept the offer. The greathouse was lonely. The management of her estate required a man's advice.Moreover, she was under the spell of Burr's fascination. Therefore shearrayed herself in one of her most magnificent Paris gowns; the membersof her household and eight servants were called in and the ceremonywas duly performed by Dr. Bogart. A banquet followed. A dozen cobwebbedbottles of wine were brought up from the cellar, and the marriage feastwent on merrily until after midnight.
This marriage was a singular one from many points of view. It wasstrange that a man of seventy-eight should take by storm the affectionsof a woman so much younger than he--a woman of wealth and knowledge ofthe world. In the second place, it is odd that there was still anotherwoman--a mere girl--who was so infatuated with Burr that when she wastold of his marriage it nearly broke her heart. Finally, in the earlypart of that same year he had been accused of being the father of anew-born child, and in spite of his age every one believed the charge tobe true. Here is a case that it would be hard to parallel.
The happiness of the newly married pair did not, however, last verylong. They made a wedding journey into Connecticut, of which stateBurr's nephew was then Governor, and there Burr saw a monster bridgeover the Connecticut River, in which his wife had shares, though theybrought her little income. He suggested that she should transfer theinvestment, which, after all, was not a very large one, and place it ina venture in Texas which looked promising. The speculation turned out tobe a loss, however, and this made Mrs. Burr extremely angry, the moreso as she had reason to think that her ever-youthful husband had beenengaged in flirting with the country girls near the Jumel mansion.
She was a woman of high spirit and had at times a violent temper. Oneday the post-master at what was then the village of Harlem was surprisedto see Mrs. Burr drive up before the post-office in an open carriage.He came out to ask what she desired, and was surprised to find her in aviolent temper and with an enormous horse-pistol on each cushion at herside.
"What do you wish, madam?" said he, rather mildly.
"What do I wish?" she cried. "Let me get at that villain Aaron Burr!"
Presently Burr seems to have succeeded in pacifying her; but in the endthey separated, though she afterward always spoke most kindly of him.When he died, only about a year later, she is said to have burst intoa flood of tears--another tribute to the fascination which Aaron Burrexercised through all his checkered life.
It is difficult to come to any fixed opinion regarding the moralcharacter of Aaron Burr. As a soldier he was brave to the point ofrecklessness. As a political leader he was almost the equal of Jeffersonand quite superior to Hamilton. As a man of the world he was highlyaccomplished, polished in manner, charming in conversation. He madefriends easily, and he forgave his enemies with a broadmindedness thatis unusual.
On the other hand, in his political career there was a touch ofinsincerity, and it can scarcely be denied that he used his charm toooften to the injury of those women who could not resist his insinuatingways and the caressing notes of his rich voice. But as a husband, in hisyouth, he was devoted, affectionate, and loyal; while as a father he waslittle less than worshiped by the daughter whom he reared so carefully.
One of his biographers very truly says that no such wretch as Burr hasbeen declared to be could have won and held the love of such a wife andsuch a daughter as Burr had.
When all the other witnesses have been heard, let the two Theodosiasbe summoned, and especially that daughter who showed toward him anaffectionate veneration unsurpassed by any recorded in history orromance. Such an advocate as Theodosia the younger must avail in somedegree, even though the culprit were brought before the bar of Heavenitself.




GEORGE IV. AND MRS. FITZHERBERT

In the last decade of the eighteenth century England was perhaps themost brilliant nation of the world. Other countries had been humbledby the splendid armies of France and were destined to be still furtherhumbled by the emperor who came from Corsica. France had begun toseize the scepter of power; yet to this picture there was anotherside--fearful want and grievous poverty and the horrors of theRevolution. Russia was too far away, and was still considered toobarbarous, for a brilliant court to flourish there. Prussia had theprestige that Frederick the Great won for her, but she was still acomparatively small state. Italy was in a condition of political chaos;the banks of the Rhine were running blood where the Austrian armiesfaced the gallant Frenchmen under the leadership of Moreau. But England,in spite of the loss of her American colonies, was rich and prosperous,and her invincible fleets were extending her empire over the seven seas.
At no time in modern England has the court at London seen so much realsplendor or such fine manners. The royalist emigres who fled from Francebrought with them names and pedigrees that were older than the Crusades,and many of them were received with the frankest, freest Englishhospitality. If here and there some marquis or baron of ancient bloodwas perforce content to teach music to the daughters of tradesmen insuburban schools, nevertheless they were better off than they hadbeen in France, harried by the savage gaze-hounds of the guillotine.Afterward, in the days of the Restoration, when they came back totheir estates, they had probably learned more than one lesson from thebouledogues of Merry England, who had little tact, perhaps, but who wereat any rate kindly and willing to share their goods with pinched andpoverty-stricken foreigners.
The court, then, as has been said, was brilliant with notables fromContinental countries, and with the historic wealth of the peerage ofEngland. Only one cloud overspread it; and that was the mental conditionof the king. We have become accustomed to think of George III as a dullcreature, almost always hovering on the verge of that insanity whichfinally swept him into a dark obscurity; but Thackeray's picture of himis absurdly untrue to the actual facts. George III. was by no means adullard, nor was he a sort of beefy country squire who roved about thepalace gardens with his unattractive spouse.
Obstinate enough he was, and ready for a combat with the rulers of theContinent or with his self-willed sons; but he was a man of brains andpower, and Lord Rosebery has rightly described him as the most strikingconstitutional figure of his time. Had he retained his reason, andhad his erratic and self-seeking son not succeeded him during his ownlifetime, Great Britain might very possibly have entered upon other waysthan those which opened to her after the downfall of Napoleon.
The real center of fashionable England, however, was not George III.,but rather his son, subsequently George IV., who was made Prince ofWales three days after his birth, and who became prince regent duringthe insanity of the king. He was the leader of the social world, thefit companion of Beau Brummel and of a choice circle of rakes andfox-hunters who drank pottle-deep. Some called him "the first gentlemanof Europe." Others, who knew him better, described him as one whonever kept his word to man or woman and who lacked the most elementaryvirtues.
Yet it was his good luck during the first years of his regency to bepopular as few English kings have ever been. To his people he typifiedold England against revolutionary France; and his youth and gaiety mademany like him. He drank and gambled; he kept packs of hounds and stringsof horses; he ran deeply into debt that he might patronize the sportsof that uproarious day. He was a gallant "Corinthian," a haunter of denswhere there were prize-fights and cock-fights, and there was hardly adoubtful resort in London where his face was not familiar.
He was much given to gallantry--not so much, as it seemed, forwantonness, but from sheer love of mirth and chivalry. For a time, withhis chosen friends, such as Fox and Sheridan, he ventured into recklessintrigues that recalled the amours of his predecessor, Charles II. Hehad by no means the wit and courage of Charles; and, indeed, the houseof Hanover lacked the outward show of chivalry which made the Stuartsshine with external splendor. But he was good-looking and stalwart, andwhen he had half a dozen robust comrades by his side he could assumea very manly appearance. Such was George IV. in his regency and inhis prime. He made that period famous for its card-playing, its deepdrinking, and for the dissolute conduct of its courtiers and noblemen noless than for the gallantry of its soldiers and its momentous victorieson sea and land. It came, however, to be seen that his true achievementswere in reality only escapades, that his wit was only folly, and hisso-called "sensibility" was but sham. He invented buckles, stripedwaistcoats, and flamboyant collars, but he knew nothing of theprinciples of kingship or the laws by which a state is governed.
The fact that he had promiscuous affairs with women appealed at firstto the popular sense of the romantic. It was not long, however, beforethese episodes were trampled down into the mire of vulgar scandal.
One of the first of them began when he sent a letter, signed "Florizel,"to a young actress, "Perdita" Robinson. Mrs. Robinson, whose maidenname was Mary Darby, and who was the original of famous portraitsby Gainsborough and Reynolds, was a woman of beauty, talent, andtemperament. George, wishing in every way to be "romantic," insistedupon clandestine meetings on the Thames at Kew, with all the stagetrappings of the popular novels--cloaks, veils, faces hidden, and armedwatchers to warn her of approaching danger. Poor Perdita took thisnonsense so seriously that she gave up her natural vocation for thestage, and forsook her husband, believing that the prince would neverweary of her.
He did weary of her very soon, and, with the brutality of a man of sucha type, turned her away with the promise of some money; after which hecut her in the Park and refused to speak to her again. As for the money,he may have meant to pay it, but Perdita had a long struggle before shesucceeded in getting it. It may be assumed that the prince had to borrowit and that this obligation formed part of the debts which Parliamentpaid for him.
It is not necessary to number the other women whose heads he turned.They are too many for remembrance here, and they have no specialsignificance, save one who, as is generally believed, became his wife sofar as the church could make her so. An act of 1772 had made itillegal for any member of the English royal family to marry without thepermission of the king. A marriage contracted without the king's consentmight be lawful in the eyes of the church, but the children born of itcould not inherit any claim to the throne.
It may be remarked here that this withholding of permission was strictlyenforced. Thus William IV., who succeeded George IV., was married,before his accession to the throne, to Mrs. Jordan (Dorothy Bland).Afterward he lawfully married a woman of royal birth who was known asQueen Adelaide.
There is an interesting story which tells how Queen Victoria came tobe born because her father, the Duke of Kent, was practically forcedto give up a morganatic union which he greatly preferred to a marriagearranged for him by Parliament. Except the Duke of Cambridge, the Dukeof Kent was the only royal duke who was likely to have children in theregular line. The only daughter of George IV. had died in childhood.The Duke of Cumberland was for various reasons ineligible; the Duke ofClarence, later King William IV., was almost too old; and therefore, toinsure the succession, the Duke of Kent was begged to marry a young andattractive woman, a princess of the house of Saxe-Coburg, who was readyfor the honor. It was greatly to the Duke's credit that he showed deepand sincere feeling in this matter. As he said himself in effect:
"This French lady has stood by me in hard times and in good times,too--why should I cast her off? She has been more than a wife to me. Andwhat do I care for your plans in Parliament? Send over for one of theStuarts--they are better men than the last lot of our fellows that youhave had!"
In the end, however, he was wearied out and was persuaded to marry, buthe insisted that a generous sum should be settled on the lady who hadbeen so long his true companion, and to whom, no doubt, he gave many awistful thought in his new but unfamiliar quarters in Kensington Palace,which was assigned as his residence.
Again, the second Duke of Cambridge, who died only a few years ago,greatly desired to marry a lady who was not of royal rank, though offine breeding and of good birth. He besought his young cousin, ashead of the family, to grant him this privilege of marriage; but QueenVictoria stubbornly refused. The duke was married according to the ritesof the church, but he could not make his wife a duchess. The queen neverquite forgave him for his partial defiance of her wishes, though theduke's wife--she was usually spoken of as Mrs. FitzGeorge--was receivedalmost everywhere, and two of her sons hold high rank in the Britisharmy and navy, respectively.
The one real love story in the life of George IV. is that which tells ofhis marriage with a lady who might well have been the wife of any king.This was Maria Anne Smythe, better known as Mrs. Fitzherbert, who wassix years older than the young prince when she first met him in companywith a body of gentlemen and ladies in 1784.
Maria Fitzherbert's face was one which always displayed its bestadvantages. Her eyes were peculiarly languishing, and, as she hadalready been twice a widow, and was six years his senior, she had theadvantage over a less experienced lover. Likewise, she was a Catholic,and so by another act of Parliament any marriage with her would beillegal. Yet just because of all these different objections the princewas doubly drawn to her, and was willing to sacrifice even the throne ifhe could but win her.
His father, the king, called him into the royal presence and said:
"George, it is time that you should settle down and insure thesuccession to the throne."
"Sir," replied the prince, "I prefer to resign the succession and let mybrother have it, and that I should live as a private English gentleman."
Mrs. Fitzherbert was not the sort of woman to give herself up readily toa morganatic connection. Moreover, she soon came to love Prince Georgetoo well to entangle him in a doubtful alliance with one of anotherfaith than his. Not long after he first met her the prince, who wasalways given to private theatricals, sent messengers riding in hot hasteto her house to tell her that he had stabbed himself, that he beggedto see her, and that unless she came he would repeat the act. The ladyyielded, and hurried to Carlton House, the prince's residence; but shewas prudent enough to take with her the Duchess of Devonshire, who was areigning beauty of the court.
The scene which followed was theatrical rather than impressive.--Theprince was found in his sleeping-chamber, pale and with his rufflesblood-stained. He played the part of a youthful and love-stricken wooer,vowing that he would marry the woman of his heart or stab himselfagain. In the presence of his messengers, who, with the duchess,were witnesses, he formally took the lady as his wife, while LadyDevonshire's wedding-ring sealed the troth. The prince also acknowledgedit in a document.
Mrs. Fitzherbert was, in fact, a woman of sound sense. Shortly afterthis scene of melodramatic intensity her wits came back to her, and sherecognized that she had merely gone through a meaningless farce. Soshe sent back the prince's document and the ring and hastened tothe Continent, where he could not reach her, although his detectivesfollowed her steps for a year.
At the last she yielded, however, and came home to marry the princein such fashion as she could--a marriage of love, and surely one ofmorality, though not of parliamentary law. The ceremony was performed"in her own drawing-room in her house in London, in the presence of theofficiating Protestant clergyman and two of her own nearest relatives."
Such is the serious statement of Lord Stourton, who was Mrs.Fitzherbert's cousin and confidant. The truth of it was never denied,and Mrs. Fitzherbert was always treated with respect, and even regardedas a person of great distinction. Nevertheless, on more than oneoccasion the prince had his friends in Parliament deny the marriage inorder that his debts might be paid and new allowances issued to him bythe Treasury.
George certainly felt himself a husband. Like any other married prince,he set himself to build a palace for his country home. While in searchof some suitable spot he chanced to visit the "pretty fishing-village"of Brighton to see his uncle, the Duke of Cumberland. Doubtless he foundit an attractive place, yet this may have been not so much becauseof its view of the sea as for the reason that Mrs. Fitzherbert hadpreviously lived there.
However, in 1784 the prince sent down his chief cook to makearrangements for the next royal visit. The cook engaged a house on thespot where the Pavilion now stands, and from that time Brighton began tobe an extremely fashionable place. The court doctors, giving advice thatwas agreeable, recommended their royal patient to take sea-bathing atBrighton. At once the place sprang into popularity.
At first the gentry were crowded into lodging-houses and theaccommodations were primitive to a degree. But soon handsome villasarose on every side; hotels appeared; places of amusement were opened.The prince himself began to build a tasteless but showy structure,partly Chinese and partly Indian in style, on the fashionable promenadeof the Steyne.
During his life with Mrs. Fitzherbert at Brighton the prince held whatwas practically a court. Hundreds of the aristocracy came down fromLondon and made their temporary dwellings there; while thousands whowere by no means of the court made the place what is now popularlycalled "London by the Sea." There were the Duc de Chartres, of France;statesmen and rakes, like Fox, Sheridan, and the Earl of Barrymore; avery beautiful woman, named Mrs. Couch, a favorite singer at the opera,to whom the prince gave at one time jewels worth ten thousand pounds;and a sister of the Earl of Barrymore, who was as notorious as herbrother. She often took the president's chair at a club which George'sfriends had organized and which she had christened the Hell Fire Club.
Such persons were not the only visitors at Brighton. Men of much moreserious demeanor came down to visit the prince and brought with themquieter society. Nevertheless, for a considerable time the place wasmost noted for its wild scenes of revelry, into which George frequentlyentered, though his home life with Mrs. Fitzherbert at the Pavilion wasa decorous one.
No one felt any doubt as to the marriage of the two persons, who seemedso much like a prince and a princess. Some of the people of the placeaddressed Mrs. Fitzherbert as "Mrs. Prince." The old king and his wife,however, much deplored their son's relation with her. This was partlydue to the fact that Mrs. Fitzherbert was a Catholic and that she hadreceived a number of French nuns who had been driven out of France atthe time of the Revolution. But no less displeasure was caused by theprince's racing and dicing, which swelled his debts to almost a millionpounds, so that Parliament and, indeed, the sober part of England wereset against him.
Of course, his marriage to Mrs. Fitzherbert had no legal status; nor isthere any reason for believing that she ever became a mother. She hadno children by her former two husbands, and Lord Stourton testifiedpositively that she never had either son or daughter by Prince George.Nevertheless, more than one American claimant has risen to advancesome utterly visionary claim to the English throne by reason of allegeddescent from Prince George and Mrs. Fitzherbert.
Neither William IV. nor Queen Victoria ever spent much time at Brighton.In King William's case it was explained that the dampness of thePavilion did not suit him; and as to Queen Victoria, it was said thatshe disliked the fact that buildings had been erected so as to cutoff the view of the sea. It is quite likely, however, that the queenobjected to the associations of the place, and did not care to bereminded of the time when her uncle had lived there so long in amorganatic state of marriage.
At length the time came when the king, Parliament, and the people atlarge insisted that the Prince of Wales should make a legal marriage,and a wife was selected for him in the person of Caroline, daughter ofthe Duke of Brunswick. This marriage took place exactly ten years afterhis wedding with the beautiful and gentle-mannered Mrs. Fitzherbert.With the latter he had known many days and hours of happiness. WithPrincess Caroline he had no happiness at all.
Prince George met her at the pier to greet her. It is said that as hetook her hand he kissed her, and then, suddenly recoiling, he whisperedto one of his friends:
"For God's sake, George, give me a glass of brandy!"
Such an utterance was more brutal and barbaric than anything his bridecould have conceived of, though it is probable, fortunately, that shedid not understand him by reason of her ignorance of English.
We need not go through the unhappy story of this unsympathetic,neglected, rebellious wife. Her life with the prince soon became oneof open warfare; but instead of leaving England she remained to set thekingdom in an uproar. As soon as his father died and he became king,George sued her for divorce. Half the people sided with the queen,while the rest regarded her as a vulgar creature who made love to herattendants and brought dishonor on the English throne. It was a sorry,sordid contrast between the young Prince George who had posed as a sortof cavalier and this now furious gray old man wrangling with his furiousGerman wife.
Well might he look back to the time when he met Perdita in the moonlighton the Thames, or when he played the part of Florizel, or, better still,when he enjoyed the sincere and disinterested love of the gentle womanwho was his wife in all but legal status. Caroline of Brunswick wasthrust away from the king's coronation. She took a house within sight ofWestminster Abbey, so that she might make hag-like screeches to themob and to the king as he passed by. Presently, in August, 1821, onlya month after the coronation, she died, and her body was taken back toBrunswick for burial.
George himself reigned for nine years longer. When he died in 1830 hisexecutor was the Duke of Wellington. The duke, in examining the lateking's private papers, found that he had kept with the greatest careevery letter written to him by his morganatic wife. During his lastillness she had sent him an affectionate missive which it is said George"read eagerly." Mrs. Fitzherbert wished the duke to give up her letters;but he would do so only in return for those which he had written to her.
It was finally decided that it would be best to burn both his and hers.This work was carried out in Mrs. Fitzherbert's own house by the lady,the duke, and the Earl of Albemarle.
Of George it may be said that he has left as memories behind him onlythree things that will be remembered. The first is the Pavilion atBrighton, with its absurdly oriental decorations, its minarets andflimsy towers. The second is the buckle which he invented and whichThackeray has immortalized with his biting satire. The last is the storyof his marriage to Maria Fitzherbert, and of the influence exercisedupon him by the affection of a good woman.




CHARLOTTE CORDAY AND ADAM LUX

Perhaps some readers will consider this story inconsistent with thosethat have preceded it. Yet, as it is little known to most readers and asit is perhaps unique in the history of romantic love, I cannot forbearrelating it; for I believe that it is full of curious interest andpathetic power.
All those who have written of the French Revolution have paused intheir chronicle of blood and flame to tell the episode of the peasantRoyalist, Charlotte Corday; but in telling it they have often omittedthe one part of the story that is personal and not political. Thetragic record of this French girl and her self-sacrifice has been told athousand times by writers in many languages; yet almost all of them haveneglected the brief romance which followed her daring deed and which wasconsummated after her death upon the guillotine. It is worth our whileto speak first of Charlotte herself and of the man she slew, and thento tell that other tale which ought always to be entwined with her greatdeed of daring.
Charlotte Corday--Marie Anne Charlotte Corday d'Armand--was a native ofNormandy, and was descended, as her name implies, from noble ancestors.Her forefathers, indeed, had been statesmen, civil rulers, and soldiers,and among them was numbered the famous poet Corneille, whom the Frenchrank with Shakespeare. But a century or more of vicissitudes had reducedher branch of the family almost to the position of peasants--a factwhich partly justifies the name that some give her when they call her"the Jeanne d'Arc of the Revolution."
She did not, however, spend her girlish years amid the fields and woodstending her sheep, as did the other Jeanne d'Arc; but she was placedin charge of the sisters in a convent, and from them she received sucheducation as she had. She was a lonely child, and her thoughts turnedinward, brooding over many things.
After she had left the convent she was sent to live with an aunt. Hereshe devoted herself to reading over and over the few books whichthe house contained. These consisted largely of the deistic writers,especially Voltaire, and to some extent they destroyed her conventfaith, though it is not likely that she understood them very fully.
More to her taste was a copy of Plutarch's Lives. These famous storiesfascinated her. They told her of battle and siege, of intrigue andheroism, and of that romantic love of country which led men to throwaway their lives for the sake of a whole people. Brutus and Regulus wereher heroes. To die for the many seemed to her the most glorious end thatany one could seek. When she thought of it she thrilled with a sortof ecstasy, and longed with all the passion of her nature that such aglorious fate might be her own.
Charlotte had nearly come to womanhood at the time when the FrenchRevolution first broke out. Royalist though she had been in hersympathies, she felt the justice of the people's cause. She had seen thesuffering of the peasantry, the brutality of the tax-gatherers, and allthe oppression of the old regime. But what she hoped for was ademocracy of order and equality and peace. Could the king reign as aconstitutional monarch rather than as a despot, this was all for whichshe cared.
In Normandy, where she lived, were many of those moderate republicansknown as Girondists, who felt as she did and who hoped for the samepeaceful end to the great outbreak. On the other hand, in Paris, theparty of the Mountain, as it was called, ruled with a savage violencethat soon was to culminate in the Reign of Terror. Already theguillotine ran red with noble blood. Already the king had bowed his headto the fatal knife. Already the threat had gone forth that a mere breathof suspicion or a pointed finger might be enough to lead men and womento a gory death.
In her quiet home near Caen Charlotte Corday heard as from afar thestory of this dreadful saturnalia of assassination which was makingParis a city of bloody mist. Men and women of the Girondist party cameto tell her of the hideous deeds that were perpetrated there. All thesehorrors gradually wove themselves in the young girl's imagination aroundthe sinister and repulsive figure of Jean Paul Marat. She knew nothingof his associates, Danton and Robespierre. It was in Marat alone thatshe saw the monster who sent innocent thousands to their graves, and whoreveled like some arch-fiend in murder and gruesome death.
In his earlier years Marat had been a very different figure--anaccomplished physician, the friend of nobles, a man of science andoriginal thought, so that he was nearly elected to the Academy ofSciences. His studies in electricity gained for him the admirationof Benjamin Franklin and the praise of Goethe. But when he turned topolitics he left all this career behind him. He plunged into the verymire of red republicanism, and even there he was for a time so muchhated that he sought refuge in London to save his life.
On his return he was hunted by his enemies, so that his only placeof refuge was in the sewers and drains of Paris. A woman, one SimonneEvrard, helped him to escape his pursuers. In the sewers, however,he contracted a dreadful skin-disease from which he never afterwardrecovered, and which was extremely painful as well as shocking tobehold.
It is small wonder that the stories about Marat circulated through theprovinces made him seem more a devil than a man. His vindictivenessagainst the Girondists brought all of this straight home to CharlotteCorday and led her to dream of acting the part of Brutus, so that shemight free her country from this hideous tyrant.
In January, 1793, King Louis XVI. met his death upon the scaffold; andthe queen was thrust into a foul prison. This was a signal for activityamong the Girondists in Normandy, and especially at Caen, whereCharlotte was present at their meetings and heard their fervid oratory.There was a plot to march on Paris, yet in some instinctive way she feltthat such a scheme must fail. It was then that she definitely formedthe plan of going herself, alone, to the French capital to seek out thehideous Marat and to kill him with her own hands.
To this end she made application for a passport allowing her tovisit Paris. This passport still exists, and it gives us an officialdescription of the girl. It reads:
Allow citizen Marie Corday to pass. She is twenty-four years of age,five feet and one inch in height, hair and eyebrows chestnut color, eyesgray, forehead high, mouth medium size, chin dimpled, and an oval face.
Apart from this verbal description we have two portraits painted whileshe was in prison. Both of them make the description of the passportseem faint and pale. The real Charlotte had a wealth of chestnut hairwhich fell about her face and neck in glorious abundance. Her greatgray eyes spoke eloquently of truth and courage. Her mouth was firm yetwinsome, and her form combined both strength and grace. Such is the girlwho, on reaching Paris, wrote to Marat in these words:
Citizen, I have just arrived from Caen. Your love for your native placedoubtless makes you wish to learn the events which have occurred in thatpart of the republic. I shall call at your residence in about an hour.Be so good as to receive me and give me a brief interview. I will putyou in such condition as to render great service to France.
This letter failed to gain her admission, and so did another which shewrote soon after. The fact is that Marat was grievously ill. His diseasehad reached a point where the pain could be assuaged only by hot water;and he spent the greater part of his time wrapped in a blanket and lyingin a large tub.
A third time, however, the persistent girl called at his house andinsisted that she must see him, saying that she was herself in dangerfrom the enemies of the Republic. Through an open door Marat heard hermellow voice and gave orders that she should be admitted.
As she entered she gazed for a moment upon the lank figure rolling inthe tub, the rat-like face, and the shifting eyes. Then she approachedhim, concealing in the bosom of her dress a long carving-knife which shehad purchased for two francs. In answer to Marat's questioning look shetold him that there was much excitement at Caen and that the Girondistswere plotting there.
To this Marat answered, in his harsh voice:
"All these men you mention shall be guillotined in the next few days!"
As he spoke Charlotte flashed out the terrible knife and with all herstrength she plunged it into his left side, where it pierced a lung anda portion of his heart.
Marat, with the blood gushing from his mouth, cried out:
"Help, darling!"
His cry was meant for one of the two women in the house. Both heard it,for they were in the next room; and both of them rushed in and succeededin pinioning Charlotte Corday, who, indeed, made only a slight effort toescape. Troops were summoned, she was taken to the Prison de l'Abbaye,and soon after she was arraigned before the revolutionary tribunal.
Placed in the dock, she glanced about her with an air of pride, asof one who gloried in the act which she had just performed. A writtencharge was read. She was asked what she had to say. Lifting her headwith a look of infinite satisfaction, she answered in a ringing voice:
"Nothing--except that I succeeded!"
A lawyer was assigned for her defense. He pleaded for her earnestly,declaring that she must he regarded as insane; but those clear, calmeyes and that gentle face made her sanity a matter of little doubt.She showed her quick wit in the answers which she gave to the roughprosecutor, Fouquier-Tinville, who tried to make her confess that shehad accomplices.
"Who prompted you to do this deed?" roared Tinville.
"I needed no prompting. My own heart was sufficient."
"In what, then, had Marat wronged you?"
"He was a savage beast who was going to destroy the remains of France inthe fires of civil war."
"But whom did you expect to benefit?" insinuated the prosecutor.
"I have killed one man to save a hundred thousand."
"What? Did you imagine that you had murdered all the Marats?"
"No, but, this one being dead, the rest will perhaps take warning."
Thus her directness baffled all the efforts of the prosecution to trapher into betraying any of her friends. The court, however, sentenced herto death. She was then immured in the Conciergerie.
This dramatic court scene was the beginning of that strange, briefromance to which one can scarcely find a parallel. At the time therelived in Paris a young German named Adam Lux. The continual talk aboutCharlotte Corday had filled him with curiosity regarding this young girlwho had been so daring and so patriotic. She was denounced on every handas a murderess with the face of a Medusa and the muscles of a Vulcan.Street songs about her were dinned into the ears of Adam Lux.
As a student of human nature he was anxious to see this terriblecreature. He forced his way to the front of the crowded benches in thecourt-room and took his stand behind a young artist who was finishing abeautiful sketch. From that moment until the end of the trial theeyes of Adam Lux were fastened on the prisoner. What a contrast to thepicture he had imagined!
A mass of regal chestnut hair crowned with the white cap of a Normanpeasant girl; gray eyes, very sad and serious, but looking serenelyforth from under long, dark lashes; lips slightly curved with anexpression of quiet humor; a face the color of the sun and wind, abust indicative of perfect health, the chin of a Caesar, and the wholeexpression one of almost divine self-sacrifice. Such were the featuresthat the painter was swiftly putting upon his canvas; but behind themAdam Lux discerned the soul for which he gladly sacrificed both hisliberty and his life.
He forgot his surroundings and seemed to see only that beautiful, pureface and to hear only the exquisite cadences of the wonderful voice.When Charlotte was led forth by a file of soldiers Adam staggered fromthe scene and made his way as best he might to his lodgings. There helay prostrate, his whole soul filled with the love of her who had in aninstant won the adoration of his heart.
Once, and only once again, when the last scene opened on the tragedy,did he behold the heroine of his dreams.
On the 17th of July Charlotte Corday was taken from her prison to thegloomy guillotine. It was toward evening, and nature had given a settingfit for such an end. Blue-black thunder-clouds rolled in huge massesacross the sky until their base appeared to rest on the very summit ofthe guillotine. Distant thunder rolled and grumbled beyond the river.Great drops of rain fell upon the soldiers' drums. Young, beautiful,unconscious of any wrong, Charlotte Corday stood beneath the shadow ofthe knife.
At the supreme moment a sudden ray from the setting sun broke throughthe cloud-wrack and fell upon her slender figure until she glowed in theeyes of the startled spectators like a statue cut in burnished bronze.Thus illumined, as it were, by a light from heaven itself, shebowed herself beneath the knife and paid the penalty of a noble, ifmisdirected, impulse. As the blade fell her lips quivered with her lastand only plea:
"My duty is enough--the rest is nothing!"
Adam Lux rushed from the scene a man transformed. He bore graven uponhis heart neither the mob of tossing red caps nor the glare of thesunset nor the blood-stained guillotine, but that last look fromthose brilliant eyes. The sight almost deprived him of his reason. Theself-sacrifice of the only woman he had ever loved, even though she hadnever so much as seen him, impelled him with a sort of fury to his owndestruction.
He wrote a bitter denunciation of the judges, of the officers, andof all who had been followers of Marat. This document he printed,and scattered copies of it through every quarter in Paris. The lastsentences are as follows:
The guillotine is no longer a disgrace. It has become a sacred altar,from which every taint has been removed by the innocent blood shedthere on the 17th of July. Forgive me, my divine Charlotte, if I findit impossible at the last moment to show the courage and the gentlenessthat were yours! I glory because you are superior to me, for it isright that she who is adored should be higher and more glorious than heradorer!
This pamphlet, spread broadcast among the people, was soon reported tothe leaders of the rabble. Adam Lux was arrested for treason againstthe Republic; but even these men had no desire to make a martyr of thishot-headed youth. They would stop his mouth without taking his life.Therefore he was tried and speedily found guilty, but an offer wasmade him that he might have passports that would allow him to return toGermany if only he would sign a retraction of his printed words.
Little did the judges understand the fiery heart of the man they hadto deal with. To die on the same scaffold as the woman whom he hadidealized was to him the crowning triumph of his romantic love. He gavea prompt and insolent refusal to their offer. He swore that if releasedhe would denounce his darling's murderers with a still greater passion.
In anger the tribunal sentenced him to death. Only then he smiled andthanked his judges courteously, and soon after went blithely to theguillotine like a bridegroom to his marriage feast.
Adam Lux! Spirit courtship had been carried on silently all through thatterrible cross-examination of Charlotte Corday. His heart was betrothedto hers in that single gleam of the setting sun when she bowed beneaththe knife. One may believe that these two souls were finally unitedwhen the same knife fell sullenly upon his neck and when his life-bloodsprinkled the altar that was still stained with hers.




NAPOLEON AND MARIE WALEWSKA

There are four women who may be said to have deeply influenced the lifeof Napoleon. These four are the only ones who need to be taken intoaccount by the student of his imperial career. The great emperor wassusceptible to feminine charms at all times; but just as it used to besaid of him that "his smile never rose above his eyes," so it might astruly be said that in most instances the throbbing of his heart did notaffect his actions.
Women to him were the creatures of the moment, although he might seem tocare for them and to show his affection in extravagant ways, as in hisaffair with Mlle. Georges, the beautiful but rather tiresome actress.As for Mme. de Stael, she bored him to distraction by her assumptionof wisdom. That was not the kind of woman that Napoleon cared for. Hepreferred that a woman should be womanly, and not a sort of owl to sitand talk with him about the theory of government.
When it came to married women they interested him only because ofthe children they might bear to grow up as recruits for his insatiatearmies. At the public balls given at the Tuileries he would walk aboutthe gorgeous drawing-rooms, and when a lady was presented to him hewould snap out, sharply:
"How many children have you?"
If she were able to answer that she had several the emperor would lookpleased and would pay her some compliment; but if she said that she hadnone he would turn upon her sharply and say:
"Then go home and have some!"
Of the four women who influenced his life, first must come Josephine,because she secured him his earliest chance of advancement. She met himthrough Barras, with whom she was said to be rather intimate. The youngsoldier was fascinated by her--the more because she was older than heand possessed all the practised arts of the creole and the woman of theworld. When she married him she brought him as her dowry the command ofthe army of Italy, where in a few months he made the tri-color, borne byragged troops, triumphant over the splendidly equipped hosts of Austria.
She was his first love, and his knowledge of her perfidy gave him thegreatest shock and horror of his whole life; yet she might have held himto the end if she had borne an heir to the imperial throne. It was herfailure to do so that led Napoleon to divorce Josephine and marry thethick-lipped Marie Louise of Austria. There were times later when heshowed signs of regret and said:
"I have had no luck since I gave up Josephine!"
Marie Louise was of importance for a time--the short time when sheentertained her husband and delighted him by giving birth to the littleKing of Rome. Yet in the end she was but an episode; fleeing from herhusband in his misfortune, becoming the mistress of Count Neipperg, andletting her son--l'Aiglon--die in a land that was far from France.
Napoleon's sister, Pauline Bonaparte, was the third woman who comes tomind when we contemplate the great Corsican's career. She, too, is anepisode. During the period of his ascendancy she plagued him with herwanton ways, her sauciness and trickery. It was amusing to throw himinto one of his violent rages; but Pauline was true at heart, and whenher great brother was sent to Elba she followed him devotedly and gavehim all her store of jewels, including the famous Borghese diamonds,perhaps the most superb of all gems known to the western world. Shewould gladly have followed him, also, to St. Helena had she beenpermitted. Remaining behind, she did everything possible in conspiringto secure his freedom.
But, after all, Pauline and Marie Louise count for comparatively little.Josephine's fate was interwoven with Napoleon's; and, with his Corsicansuperstition, he often said so. The fourth woman, of whom I am writinghere, may be said to have almost equaled Josephine in her influence onthe emperor as well as in the pathos of her life-story.
On New-Year's Day of 1807 Napoleon, who was then almost Emperor ofEurope, passed through the little town of Bronia, in Poland. Riding withhis cavalry to Warsaw, the ancient capital of the Polish kingdom, heseemed a very demigod of battle.
True, he had had to abandon his long-cherished design of invading andoverrunning England, and Nelson had shattered his fleets and practicallydriven his flag from the sea; but the naval disaster of Trafalgar hadspeedily been followed by the triumph of Austerlitz, the greatest andmost brilliant of all Napoleon's victories, which left Austria andRussia humbled to the very ground before him.
Then Prussia had dared to defy the over-bearing conqueror and had putinto the field against him her armies trained by Frederick the Great;but these he had shattered almost at a stroke, winning in one day thedecisive battles of Jena and Auerstadt. He had stabled his horses inthe royal palace of the Hohenzollerns and had pursued the remnant of thePrussian forces to the Russian border.
As he marched into the Polish provinces the people swarmed by thousandsto meet him and hail him as their country's savior. They believed downto the very last that Bonaparte would make the Poles once more a freeand independent nation and rescue them from the tyranny of Russia.
Napoleon played upon this feeling in every manner known to his artfulmind. He used it to alarm the Czar. He used it to intimidate the Emperorof Austria; but more especially did he use it among the Poles themselvesto win for his armies thousands upon thousands of gallant soldiers, whobelieved that in fighting for Napoleon they were fighting for the finalindependence of their native land.
Therefore, with the intensity of patriotism which is a passion among thePoles, every man and every woman gazed at Napoleon with something likeadoration; for was not he the mighty warrior who had in his gift whatall desired? Soldiers of every rank swarmed to his standards. Princesand nobles flocked about him. Those who stayed at home repeatedwonderful stories of his victories and prayed for him and fed the flamewhich spread through all the country. It was felt that no sacrifice wastoo great to win his favor; that to him, as to a deity, everything thathe desired should be yielded up, since he was to restore the liberty ofPoland.
And hence, when the carriage of the emperor dashed into Bronia,surrounded by Polish lancers and French cuirassiers, the enormous crowdsurged forward and blocked the way so that their hero could not passbecause of their cheers and cries and supplications.
In the midst of it all there came a voice of peculiar sweetness from thethickest portion of the crowd.
"Please let me pass!" said the voice. "Let me see him, if only for amoment!"
The populace rolled backward, and through the lane which they made abeautiful girl with dark blue eyes that flamed and streaming hair thathad become loosened about her radiant face was confronting the emperor.Carried away by her enthusiasm, she cried:
"Thrice welcome to Poland! We can do or say nothing to express our joyin the country which you will surely deliver from its tyrant."
The emperor bowed and, with a smile, handed a great bouquet of roses tothe girl, for her beauty and her enthusiasm had made a deep impressionon him.
"Take it," said he, "as a proof of my admiration. I trust that I mayhave the pleasure of meeting you at Warsaw and of hearing your thanksfrom those beautiful lips."
In a moment more the trumpets rang out shrilly, the horsemen closed upbeside the imperial carriage, and it rolled away amid the tumultuousshouting of the populace.
The girl who had so attracted Napoleon's attention was Marie Walewska,descended from an ancient though impoverished family in Poland. When shewas only fifteen she was courted by one of the wealthiest men in Poland,the Count Walewska. He was three or four times her age, yet her darkblue eyes, her massive golden hair, and the exquisite grace of herfigure led him to plead that she might become his wife. She had acceptedhim, but the marriage was that of a mere child, and her interest stillcentered upon her country and took the form of patriotism rather thanthat of wifehood and maternity.
It was for this reason that the young Countess had visited Bronia. Shewas now eighteen years of age and still had the sort of romantic feelingwhich led her to think that she would keep in some secret hiding-placethe bouquet which the greatest man alive had given her.
But Napoleon was not the sort of man to forget anything that had givenhim either pleasure or the reverse. He who, at the height of his cares,could recall instantly how many cannon were in each seaport of Franceand could make out an accurate list of all his military stores; he whocould call by name every soldier in his guard, with a full remembranceof the battles each man had fought in and the honors that he had won--hewas not likely to forget so lovely a face as the one which had gleamedwith peculiar radiance through the crowd at Bronia.
On reaching Warsaw he asked one or two well-informed persons aboutthis beautiful stranger. Only a few hours had passed before PrincePoniatowski, accompanied by other nobles, called upon her at her home.
"I am directed, madam," said he, "by order of the Emperor of France,to bid you to be present at a ball that is to be given in his honorto-morrow evening."
Mme. Walewska was startled, and her face grew hot with blushes. Did theemperor remember her escapade at Bronia? If so, how had he discoveredher? Why should he seek her out and do her such an honor?
"That, madam, is his imperial majesty's affair," Poniatowski told her."I merely obey his instructions and ask your presence at the ball.Perhaps Heaven has marked you out to be the means of saving our unhappycountry."
In this way, by playing on her patriotism, Poniatowski almost persuadedher, and yet something held her back. She trembled, though she wasgreatly fascinated; and finally she refused to go.
Scarcely had the envoy left her, however, when a great company of noblesentered in groups and begged her to humor the emperor. Finally her ownhusband joined in their entreaties and actually commanded her to go; soat last she was compelled to yield.
It was by no means the frank and radiant girl who was now preparingagain to meet the emperor. She knew not why, and yet her heart was fullof trepidation and nervous fright, the cause of which she could notguess, yet which made her task a severe ordeal. She dressed herself inwhite satin, with no adornment save a wreath of foliage in her hair.
As she entered the ballroom she was welcomed by hundreds whom she hadnever seen before, but who were of the highest nobility of Poland.Murmurs of admiration followed her, and finally Poniatowski came to herand complimented her, besides bringing her a message that the emperordesired her to dance with him.
"I am very sorry," she said, with a quiver of the lips, "but I reallycannot dance. Be kind enough to ask the emperor to excuse me."
But at that very moment she felt some strange magnetic influence; andwithout looking up she could feel that Napoleon himself was standing byher as she sat with blanched face and downcast eyes, not daring to lookup at him.
"White upon white is a mistake, madam," said the emperor, in hisgentlest tones. Then, stooping low, he whispered, "I had expected a fardifferent reception."
She neither smiled nor met his eyes. He stood there for a moment andthen passed on, leaving her to return to her home with a heavy heart.The young countess felt that she had acted wrongly, and yet there was aninstinct--an instinct that she could not conquer.
In the gray of the morning, while she was still tossing feverishly, hermaid knocked at the door and brought her a hastily scribbled note. Itran as follows:
I saw none but you, I admired none but you; I desire only you. Answer atonce, and calm the impatient ardor of--N.
These passionate words burned from her eyes the veil that had hiddenthe truth from her. What before had been mere blind instinct became anactual verity. Why had she at first rushed forth into the very streetsto hail the possible deliverer of her country, and then why had sheshrunk from him when he sought to honor her! It was all clear enoughnow. This bedside missive meant that he had intended her dishonor andthat he had looked upon her simply as a possible mistress.
At once she crushed the note angrily in her hand.
"There is no answer at all," said she, bursting into bitter tears at thevery thought that he should dare to treat her in this way.
But on the following morning when she awoke her maid was standing besideher with a second letter from Napoleon. She refused to open it andplaced it in a packet with the first letter, and ordered that both ofthem should be returned to the emperor.
She shrank from speaking to her husband of what had happened, and therewas no one else in whom she dared confide. All through that day therecame hundreds of visitors, either of princely rank or men who had wonfame by their gallantry and courage. They all begged to see her, but tothem all she sent one answer--that she was ill and could see no one.
After a time her husband burst into her room, and insisted that sheshould see them.
"Why," exclaimed he, "you are insulting the greatest men and thenoblest women of Poland! More than that, there are some of the mostdistinguished Frenchmen sitting at your doorstep, as it were. Thereis Duroc, grand marshal of France, and in refusing to see him you areinsulting the great emperor on whom depends everything that our countrylongs for. Napoleon has invited you to a state dinner and you have givenhim no answer whatever. I order you to rise at once and receive theseladies and gentlemen who have done you so much honor!"
She could not refuse. Presently she appeared in her drawing-room, whereshe was at once surrounded by an immense throng of her own countrymenand countrywomen, who made no pretense of misunderstanding thesituation. To them, what was one woman's honor when compared withthe freedom and independence of their nation? She was overwhelmed byarguments and entreaties. She was even accused of being disloyal to thecause of Poland if she refused her consent.
One of the strangest documents of that period was a letter sent to herand signed by the noblest men in Poland. It contained a powerful appealto her patriotism. One remarkable passage even quotes the Bible to pointout her line of duty. A portion of this letter ran as follows:
Did Esther, think you, give herself to Ahasuerus out of the fulness ofher love for him? So great was the terror with which he inspired herthat she fainted at the sight of him. We may therefore conclude thataffection had but little to do with her resolve. She sacrificed her owninclinations to the salvation of her country, and that salvation it washer glory to achieve. May we be enabled to say the same of you, to yourglory and our own happiness!
After this letter came others from Napoleon himself, full of themost humble pleading. It was not wholly distasteful thus to have theconqueror of the world seek her out and offer her his adoration anymore than it was distasteful to think that the revival of her own nationdepended on her single will. M. Frederic Masson, whose minute studiesregarding everything relating to Napoleon have won him a seat in theFrench Academy, writes of Marie Walewska at this time: Every forcewas now brought into play against her. Her country, her friends, herreligion, the Old and the New Testaments, all urged her to yield; theyall combined for the ruin of a simple and inexperienced girl of eighteenwho had no parents, whose husband even thrust her into temptation, andwhose friends thought that her downfall would be her glory.
Amid all these powerful influences she consented to attend the dinner.To her gratification Napoleon treated her with distant courtesy, and, infact, with a certain coldness.
"I heard that Mme. Walewska was indisposed. I trust that she hasrecovered," was all the greeting that he gave her when they met.
Every one else with whom she spoke overwhelmed her with flattery andwith continued urging; but the emperor himself for a time acted as ifshe had displeased him. This was consummate art; for as soon as she wasrelieved of her fears she began to regret that she had thrown her poweraway.
During the dinner she let her eyes wander to those of the emperor almostin supplication. He, the subtlest of men, knew that he had won. Hismarvelous eyes met hers and drew her attention to him as by an electriccurrent; and when the ladies left the great dining-room Napoleon soughther out and whispered in her ear a few words of ardent love.
It was too little to alarm her seriously now. It was enough to makeher feel that magnetism which Napoleon knew so well how to evoke andexercise. Again every one crowded about her with congratulations. Somesaid:
"He never even saw any of US. His eyes were all for YOU! They flashedfire as he looked at you."
"You have conquered his heart," others said, "and you can do what youlike with him. The salvation of Poland is in your hands."
The company broke up at an early hour, but Mme. Walewska was asked toremain. When she was alone General Duroc--one of the emperor's favoriteofficers and most trusted lieutenants--entered and placed a letter fromNapoleon in her lap. He tried to tell her as tactfully as possible howmuch harm she was doing by refusing the imperial request. She was deeplyaffected, and presently, when Duroc left her, she opened the letterwhich he had given her and read it. It was worded thus:
There are times when all splendors become oppressive, as I feel but toodeeply at the present moment. How can I satisfy the desires of a heartthat yearns to cast itself at your feet, when its impulses are checkedat every point by considerations of the highest moment? Oh, if youwould, you alone might overcome the obstacles that keep us apart. MYFRIEND DUROC WILL MAKE ALL EASY FOR YOU. Oh, come, come! Your every wishshall be gratified! Your country will be dearer to me when you take pityon my poor heart. N.
Every chance of escape seemed to be closed. She had Napoleon's own wordthat he would free Poland in return for her self-sacrifice. Moreover,her powers of resistance had been so weakened that, like many women, shetemporized. She decided that she would meet the emperor alone. She wouldtell him that she did not love him, and yet would plead with him to saveher beloved country.
As she sat there every tick of the clock stirred her to a newexcitement. At last there came a knock upon the door, a cloak was thrownabout her from behind, a heavy veil was drooped about her golden hair,and she was led, by whom she knew not, to the street, where a finelyappointed carriage was waiting for her.
No sooner had she entered it than she was driven rapidly through thedarkness to the beautifully carved entrance of a palace. Half led, halfcarried, she was taken up the steps to a door which was eagerly openedby some one within. There were warmth and light and color and the scentof flowers as she was placed in a comfortable arm-chair. Her wrappingswere taken from her, the door was closed behind her; and then, asshe looked up, she found herself in the presence of Napoleon, who waskneeling at her feet and uttering soothing words.
Wisely, the emperor used no violence. He merely argued with her; he toldher over and over his love for her; and finally he declared that for hersake he would make Poland once again a strong and splendid kingdom.
Several hours passed. In the early morning, before daylight, there camea knock at the door.
"Already?" said Napoleon. "Well, my plaintive dove, go home and rest.You must not fear the eagle. In time you will come to love him, and inall things you shall command him."
Then he led her to the door, but said that he would not open it unlessshe promised to see him the next day--a promise which she gave the morereadily because he had treated her with such respect.
On the following morning her faithful maid came to her bedside witha cluster of beautiful violets, a letter, and several daintily mademorocco cases. When these were opened there leaped out strings andnecklaces of exquisite diamonds, blazing in the morning sunlight. Mme.Walewska seized the jewels and flung them across the room with an orderthat they should be taken back at once to the imperial giver; butthe letter, which was in the same romantic strain as the others, sheretained.
On that same evening there was another dinner, given to the emperor bythe nobles, and Marie Walewska attended it, but of course without thediamonds, which she had returned. Nor did she wear the flowers which hadaccompanied the diamonds.
When Napoleon met her he frowned upon her and made her tremble with thecold glances that shot from his eyes of steel. He scarcely spoke to herthroughout the meal, but those who sat beside her were earnest in theirpleading.
Again she waited until the guests had gone away, and with a lighterheart, since she felt that she had nothing to fear. But when she metNapoleon in his private cabinet, alone, his mood was very different fromthat which he had shown before. Instead of gentleness and considerationhe was the Napoleon of camps, and not of courts. He greeted her bruskly.
"I scarcely expected to see you again," said he. "Why did you refusemy diamonds and my flowers? Why did you avoid my eyes at dinner? Yourcoldness is an insult which I shall not brook." Then he raised his voiceto that rasping, almost blood-curdling tone which even his hardiestsoldiers dreaded: "I will have you know that I mean to conquer you. YouSHALL--yes, I repeat it, you SHALL love me! I have restored the name ofyour country. It owes its very existence to me."
Then he resorted to a trick which he had played years before in dealingwith the Austrians at Campo Formio.
"See this watch which I am holding in my hand. Just as I dash it tofragments before you, so will I shatter Poland if you drive me todesperation by rejecting my heart and refusing me your own."
As he spoke he hurled the watch against the opposite wall with terrificforce, dashing it to pieces. In terror, Mme. Walewska fainted. When sheresumed consciousness there was Napoleon wiping away her tears with thetenderness of a woman and with words of self-reproach.
The long siege was over. Napoleon had conquered, and this girl ofeighteen gave herself up to his caresses and endearments, thinking that,after all, her love of country was more than her own honor.
Her husband, as a matter of form, put her away from him, though at hearthe approved what she had done, while the Polish people regarded her asnothing less than a national heroine. To them she was no minister to thevices of an emperor, but rather one who would make him love Poland forher sake and restore its greatness.
So far as concerned his love for her, it was, indeed, almost idolatry.He honored her in every way and spent all the time at his disposalin her company. But his promise to restore Poland he never kept, andgradually she found that he had never meant to keep it.
"I love your country," he would say, "and I am willing to aid in theattempt to uphold its rights, but my first duty is to France. I cannotshed French blood in a foreign cause."
By this time, however, Marie Walewska had learned to love Napoleon forhis own sake. She could not resist his ardor, which matched the ardorof the Poles themselves. Moreover, it flattered her to see the greatestsoldier in the world a suppliant for her smiles.
For some years she was Napoleon's close companion, spending long hourswith him and finally accompanying him to Paris. She was the mother ofNapoleon's only son who lived to manhood. This son, who bore the name ofAlexandre Florian de Walewski, was born in Poland in 1810, and laterwas created a count and duke of the second French Empire. It may be saidparenthetically that he was a man of great ability. Living down to 1868,he was made much of by Napoleon III., who placed him in high officesof state, which he filled with distinction. In contrast with the Ducde Morny, who was Napoleon's illegitimate half-brother, Alexandre deWalewski stood out in brilliant contrast. He would have nothing to dowith stock-jobbing and unseemly speculation.
"I may be poor," he said--though he was not poor--"but at least Iremember the glory of my father and what is due to his great name."
As for Mme. Walewska, she was loyal to the emperor, and lacked the greedof many women whom he had made his favorites. Even at Elba, when hewas in exile and disgrace, she visited him that she might endeavor toconsole him. She was his counselor and friend as well as his earnestlyloved mate. When she died in Paris in 1817, while the dethroned emperorwas a prisoner at St. Helena, the word "Napoleon" was the last upon herlips.




THE STORY OF PAULINE BONAPARTE

It was said of Napoleon long ago that he could govern emperors andkings, but that not even he could rule his relatives. He himself oncedeclared:
"My family have done me far more harm than I have been able to do themgood."
It would be an interesting historical study to determine just how farthe great soldier's family aided in his downfall by their selfishness,their jealousy, their meanness, and their ingratitude.
There is something piquant in thinking of Napoleon as a domestic sort ofperson. Indeed, it is rather difficult to do so. When we speak his namewe think of the stern warrior hurling his armies up bloody slopes and onto bloody victory. He is the man whose steely eyes made his haughtiestmarshals tremble, or else the wise, far-seeing statesman and lawgiver;but decidedly he is not a household model. We read of his sharp speechto women, of his outrageous manners at the dinner-table, and of thethousand and one details which Mme. de Remusat has chronicled--andperhaps in part invented, for there has always existed the suspicionthat her animus was that of a woman who had herself sought the imperialfavor and had failed to win it.
But, in fact, all these stories relate to the Napoleon of courts andpalaces, and not to the Napoleon of home. In his private life this greatman was not merely affectionate and indulgent, but he even showed acertain weakness where his relatives were concerned, so that he let themprey upon him almost without end.
He had a great deal of the Italian largeness and lavishness of characterwith his family. When a petty officer he nearly starved himself inorder to give his younger brother, Louis, a military education. He wasdevotedly fond of children, and they were fond of him, as many anecdotesattest. His passionate love for Josephine before he learned of herinfidelity is almost painful to read of; and even afterward, when he hadbeen disillusioned, and when she was paying Fouche a thousand francsa day to spy upon Napoleon's every action, he still treated her withfriendliness and allowed her extravagance to embarrass him.
He made his eldest brother, Joseph, King of Spain, and Spain provedalmost as deadly to him as did Russia. He made his youngest brother,Jerome, King of Westphalia, and Jerome turned the palace into a pigstyand brought discredit on the very name of Bonaparte. His brother Louis,for whom he had starved himself, he placed upon the throne of Holland,and Louis promptly devoted himself to his own interests, connivingat many things which were inimical to France. He was planning highadvancement for his brother Lucien, and Lucien suddenly married adisreputable actress and fled with her to England, where he was receivedwith pleasure by the most persistent of all Napoleon's enemies.
So much for his brothers--incompetent, ungrateful, or openly his foes.But his three sisters were no less remarkable in the relations whichthey bore to him. They have been styled "the three crowned courtesans,"and they have been condemned together as being utterly void of principleand monsters of ingratitude.
Much of this censure was well deserved by all of them--by Caroline andElise and Pauline. But when we look at the facts impartially we shallfind something which makes Pauline stand out alone as infinitelysuperior to her sisters. Of all the Bonapartes she was the only one whoshowed fidelity and gratitude to the great emperor, her brother. EvenMme. Mere, Napoleon's mother, who beyond all question transmitted to himhis great mental and physical power, did nothing for him. At the heightof his splendor she hoarded sous and francs and grumblingly remarked:
"All this is for a time. It isn't going to last!"
Pauline, however, was in one respect different from all her kindred.Napoleon made Elise a princess in her own right and gave her the GrandDuchy of Tuscany. He married Caroline to Marshal Murat, and theybecame respectively King and Queen of Naples. For Pauline he did verylittle--less, in fact, than for any other member of his family--and yetshe alone stood by him to the end.
This feather-headed, languishing, beautiful, distracting morsel offrivolity, who had the manners of a kitten and the morals of a cat,nevertheless was not wholly unworthy to be Napoleon's sister. One has totell many hard things of her; and yet one almost pardons her becauseof her underlying devotion to the man who made the name of Bonaparteillustrious for ever. Caroline, Queen of Naples, urged her husband toturn against his former chief. Elise, sour and greedy, threw inher fortunes with the Murats. Pauline, as we shall see, had the oneredeeming trait of gratitude.
To those who knew her she was from girlhood an incarnation of whatused to be called "femininity." We have to-day another and a higherdefinition of womanhood, but to her contemporaries, and to many modernwriters, she has seemed to be first of all woman--"woman to the tips ofher rosy finger-nails," says Levy. Those who saw her were distractedby her loveliness. They say that no one can form any idea of her beautyfrom her pictures. "A veritable masterpiece of creation," she had beencalled. Frederic Masson declares:
She was so much more the typical woman that with her the defects commonto women reached their highest development, while her beauty attained aperfection which may justly be called unique.
No one speaks of Pauline Bonaparte's character or of her intellect, butwholly of her loveliness and charm, and, it must be added, of her utterlack of anything like a moral sense.
Even as a child of thirteen, when the Bonapartes left Corsica and tookup their abode in Marseilles, she attracted universal attention by herwonderful eyes, her grace, and also by the utter lack of decorum whichshe showed. The Bonaparte girls at this time lived almost on charity.The future emperor was then a captain of artillery and could give thembut little out of his scanty pay.
Pauline--or, as they called her in those days, Paulette--wore unbecominghats and shabby gowns, and shoes that were full of holes. None theless, she was sought out by several men of note, among them Freron, acommissioner of the Convention. He visited Pauline so often as to causeunfavorable comment; but he was in love with her, and she fell in lovewith him to the extent of her capacity. She used to write him loveletters in Italian, which were certainly not lacking in ardor. Here isthe end of one of them:
I love you always and most passionately. I love you for ever, mybeautiful idol, my heart, my appealing lover. I love you, love you, loveyou, the most loved of lovers, and I swear never to love any one else!
This was interesting in view of the fact that soon afterward she fell inlove with Junot, who became a famous marshal. But her love affairs nevergave her any serious trouble; and the three sisters, who now began tofeel the influence of Napoleon's rise to power, enjoyed themselves asthey had never done before. At Antibes they had a beautiful villa, andlater a mansion at Milan.
By this time Napoleon had routed the Austrians in Italy, and all Francewas ringing with his name. What was Pauline like in her maidenhood?Arnault says:
She was an extraordinary combination of perfect physical beauty and thestrangest moral laxity. She was as pretty as you please, but utterlyunreasonable. She had no more manners than a school-girl--talkingincoherently, giggling at everything and nothing, and mimicking the mostserious persons of rank.
General de Ricard, who knew her then, tells in his monograph of theprivate theatricals in which Pauline took part, and of the sport whichthey had behind the scenes. He says:
The Bonaparte girls used literally to dress us. They pulled our ears andslapped us, but they always kissed and made up later. We used to stay inthe girls' room all the time when they were dressing.
Napoleon was anxious to see his sisters in some way settled. He proposedto General Marmont to marry Pauline. The girl was then only seventeen,and one might have had some faith in her character. But Marmont wasshrewd and knew her far too well. The words in which he declined thehonor are interesting:
"I know that she is charming and exquisitely beautiful; yet I havedreams of domestic happiness, of fidelity, and of virtue. Such dreamsare seldom realized, I know. Still, in the hope of winning them--"
And then he paused, coughed, and completed what he had to say in a sortof mumble, but his meaning was wholly clear. He would not accept theoffer of Pauline in marriage, even though she was the sister of hismighty chief.
Then Napoleon turned to General Leclerc, with whom Pauline had forsome time flirted, as she had flirted with almost all the officers ofNapoleon's staff. Leclerc was only twenty-six. He was rich and of goodmanners, but rather serious and in poor health. This was not preciselythe sort of husband for Pauline, if we look at it in the conventionalway; but it served Napoleon's purpose and did not in the least interferewith his sister's intrigues.
Poor Leclerc, who really loved Pauline, grew thin, and graver stillin manner. He was sent to Spain and Portugal, and finally was madecommander-in-chief of the French expedition to Haiti, where the famousblack rebel, Toussaint l'Ouverture, was heading an uprising of thenegroes.
Napoleon ordered Pauline to accompany her husband. Pauline flatlyrefused, although she made this an occasion for ordering "mountains ofpretty clothes and pyramids of hats." But still she refused to go onboard the flag-ship. Leclerc expostulated and pleaded, but the lovelywitch laughed in his face and still persisted that she would never go.
Word was brought to Napoleon. He made short work of her resistance.
"Bring a litter," he said, with one of his steely glances. "Ordersix grenadiers to thrust her into it, and see that she goes on boardforthwith."
And so, screeching like an angry cat, she was carried on board, and setsail with her husband and one of her former lovers. She found Haiti andSanto Domingo more agreeable than she had supposed. She was there asort of queen who could do as she pleased and have her orders implicitlyobeyed. Her dissipation was something frightful. Her folly and hervanity were beyond belief.
But at the end of two years both she and her husband fell ill. He wasstricken down by the yellow fever, which was decimating the Frencharmy. Pauline was suffering from the results of her life in a tropicalclimate. Leclerc died, the expedition was abandoned, and Paulinebrought the general's body back to France. When he was buried she, stillrecovering from her fever, had him interred in a costly coffin and paidhim the tribute of cutting off her beautiful hair and burying it withhim.
"What a touching tribute to her dead husband!" said some one toNapoleon.
The emperor smiled cynically as he remarked:
"H'm! Of course she knows that her hair is bound to fall out after herfever, and that it will come in longer and thicker for being cropped."
Napoleon, in fact, though he loved Pauline better than his othersisters--or perhaps because he loved her better--was very strictwith her. He obliged her to wear mourning, and to observe some of theproprieties; but it was hard to keep her within bounds.
Presently it became noised about that Prince Camillo Borghese wasexceedingly intimate with her. The prince was an excellent specimen ofthe fashionable Italian. He was immensely rich. His palace at Rome wascrammed with pictures, statues, and every sort of artistic treasure.He was the owner, moreover, of the famous Borghese jewels, the finestcollection of diamonds in the world.
Napoleon rather sternly insisted upon her marrying Borghese.Fortunately, the prince was very willing to be connected with Napoleon;while Pauline was delighted at the idea of having diamonds that wouldeclipse all the gems which Josephine possessed; for, like all of theBonapartes, she detested her brother's wife. So she would be married andshow her diamonds to Josephine. It was a bit of feminine malice whichshe could not resist.
The marriage took place very quietly at Joseph Bonaparte's house,because of the absence of Napoleon; but the newly made princess wasinvited to visit Josephine at the palace of Saint-Cloud. Here was to bethe triumph of her life. She spent many days in planning a toilet thatshould be absolutely crushing to Josephine. Whatever she wore must be abackground for the famous diamonds. Finally she decided on green velvet.
When the day came Pauline stood before a mirror and gazed at herselfwith diamonds glistening in her hair, shimmering around her neck, andfastened so thickly on her green velvet gown as to remind one of amoving jewel-casket. She actually shed tears for joy. Then she enteredher carriage and drove out to Saint-Cloud.
But the Creole Josephine, though no longer young, was a woman of greatsubtlety as well as charm. Stories had been told to her of the greenvelvet, and therefore she had her drawing-room redecorated in the mostuncompromising blue. It killed the green velvet completely. As for thediamonds, she met that maneuver by wearing not a single gem of any kind.Her dress was an Indian muslin with a broad hem of gold.
Her exquisite simplicity, coupled with her dignity of bearing, madethe Princess Pauline, with her shower of diamonds, and her green velvetdisplayed against the blue, seem absolutely vulgar. Josephine was mostgenerous in her admiration of the Borghese gems, and she kissed Paulineon parting. The victory was hers.
There is another story of a defeat which Pauline met from another lady,one Mme. de Coutades. This was at a magnificent ball given to the mostfashionable world of Paris. Pauline decided upon going, and intended,in her own phrase, to blot out every woman there. She kept the secret ofher toilet absolutely, and she entered the ballroom at the psychologicalmoment, when all the guests had just assembled.
She appeared; and at sight of her the music stopped, silence fell uponthe assemblage, and a sort of quiver went through every one. Her costumewas of the finest muslin bordered with golden palm-leaves. Four bands,spotted like a leopard's skin, were wound about her head, while these inturn were supported by little clusters of golden grapes. She had copiedthe head-dress of a Bacchante in the Louvre. All over her person werecameos, and just beneath her breasts she wore a golden band held inplace by an engraved gem. Her beautiful wrists, arms, and hands werebare. She had, in fact, blotted out her rivals.
Nevertheless, Mme. de Coutades took her revenge. She went up to Pauline,who was lying on a divan to set off her loveliness, and began gazing atthe princess through a double eye-glass. Pauline felt flattered for amoment, and then became uneasy. The lady who was looking at her said toa companion, in a tone of compassion:
"What a pity! She really would be lovely if it weren't for THAT!"
"For what?" returned her escort.
"Why, are you blind? It's so remarkable that you SURELY must see it."
Pauline was beginning to lose her self-composure. She flushed and lookedwildly about, wondering what was meant. Then she heard Mme. Coutadessay:
"Why, her ears. If I had such ears as those I would cut them off!"
Pauline gave one great gasp and fainted dead away. As a matter of fact,her ears were not so bad. They were simply very flat and colorless,forming a contrast with the rosy tints of her face. But from that momentno one could see anything but these ears; and thereafter the princesswore her hair low enough to cover them.
This may be seen in the statue of her by Canova. It was considered avery daring thing for her to pose for him in the nude, for only a bit ofdrapery is thrown over her lower limbs. Yet it is true that thisstatue is absolutely classical in its conception and execution, and itsinterest is heightened by the fact that its model was what she afterwardstyled herself, with true Napoleonic pride--"a sister of Bonaparte."
Pauline detested Josephine and was pleased when Napoleon divorced her;but she also disliked the Austrian archduchess, Marie Louise, who wasJosephine's successor. On one occasion, at a great court function, shegot behind the empress and ran out her tongue at her, in full view ofall the nobles and distinguished persons present. Napoleon's eagle eyeflashed upon Pauline and blazed like fire upon ice. She actually took toher heels, rushed out of the ball, and never visited the court again.
It would require much time to tell of her other eccentricities, of herintrigues, which were innumerable, of her quarrel with her husband, andof the minor breaches of decorum with which she startled Paris. One ofthese was her choice of a huge negro to bathe her every morning. Whensome one ventured to protest, she answered, naively:
"What! Do you call that thing a MAN?"
And she compromised by compelling her black servitor to go out andmarry some one at once, so that he might continue his ministrations withpropriety!
To her Napoleon showed himself far more severe than with either Carolineor Elise. He gave her a marriage dowry of half a million francs when shebecame the Princess Borghese, but after that he was continually checkingher extravagances. Yet in 1814, when the downfall came and Napoleon wassent into exile at Elba, Pauline was the only one of all his relativesto visit him and spend her time with him. His wife fell away and wentback to her Austrian relatives. Of all the Bonapartes only Pauline andMme. Mere remained faithful to the emperor.
Even then Napoleon refused to pay a bill of hers for sixty-twofrancs, while he allowed her only two hundred and forty francs for themaintenance of her horses. But she, with a generosity of which one wouldhave thought her quite incapable, gave to her brother a great part ofher fortune. When he escaped from Elba and began the campaign of 1815she presented him with all the Borghese diamonds. In fact, he had themwith him in his carriage at Waterloo, where they were captured by theEnglish. Contrast this with the meanness and ingratitude of her sistersand her brothers, and one may well believe that she was sincerely proudof what it meant to be la soeur de Bonaparte.
When he was sent to St. Helena she was ill in bed and could notaccompany him. Nevertheless, she tried to sell all her trinkets, ofwhich she was so proud, in order that she might give him help. Whenhe died she received the news with bitter tears "on hearing all theparticulars of that long agony."
As for herself, she did not long survive. At the age of forty-four herlast moments came. Knowing that she was to die, she sent for PrinceBorghese and sought a reconciliation. But, after all, she died as shehad lived--"the queen of trinkets" (la reine des colifichets). She askedthe servant to bring a mirror. She gazed into it with her dying eyes;and then, as she sank back, it was with a smile of deep content.
"I am not afraid to die," she said. "I am still beautiful!"




THE STORY OF THE EMPRESS MARIE LOUISE AND COUNT NEIPPERG

There is one famous woman whom history condemns while at the same timeit partly hides the facts which might mitigate the harshness of thejudgment that is passed upon her. This woman is Marie Louise, Empressof France, consort of the great Napoleon, and archduchess of imperialAustria. When the most brilliant figure in all history, after hisoverthrow in 1814, was in tawdry exile on the petty island of Elba,the empress was already about to become a mother; and the father of herunborn child was not Napoleon, but another man. This is almost all thatis usually remembered of her--that she was unfaithful to Napoleon, thatshe abandoned him in the hour of his defeat, and that she gave herselfwith readiness to one inferior in rank, yet with whom she lived foryears, and to whom she bore what a French writer styled "a brood ofbastards."
Naturally enough, the Austrian and German historians do not have muchto say of Marie Louise, because in her own disgrace she also broughtdisgrace upon the proudest reigning family in Europe. Naturally, also,French writers, even those who are hostile to Napoleon, do not careto dwell upon the story; since France itself was humiliated when itsgreatest genius and most splendid soldier was deceived by his Austrianwife. Therefore there are still many who know little beyond the barefact that the Empress Marie Louise threw away her pride as a princess,her reputation as a wife, and her honor as a woman. Her figure seems tocrouch in a sort of murky byway, and those who pass over the highroad ofhistory ignore it with averted eyes.
In reality the story of Napoleon and Marie Louise and of the Count vonNeipperg is one which, when you search it to the very core, leads youstraight to a sex problem of a very curious nature. Nowhere else doesit occur in the relations of the great personages of history; but inliterature Balzac, that master of psychology, has touched upon the themein the early chapters of his famous novel called "A Woman of Thirty."
As to the Napoleonic story, let us first recall the facts of thecase, giving them in such order that their full significance may beunderstood.
In 1809 Napoleon, then at the plenitude of his power, shook himself freefrom the clinging clasp of Josephine and procured the annulment of hismarriage to her. He really owed her nothing. Before he knew her she hadbeen the mistress of another. In the first years of their life togethershe had been notoriously unfaithful to him. He had held to her fromhabit which was in part a superstition; but the remembrance of the wrongwhich she had done him made her faded charms at times almost repulsive.And then Josephine had never borne him any children; and without ason to perpetuate his dynasty, the gigantic achievements which hehad wrought seemed futile in his eyes, and likely to crumble intonothingness when he should die.
No sooner had the marriage been annulled than his titanic ambitionleaped, as it always did, to a tremendous pinnacle. He would wed. Hewould have children. But he would wed no petty princess. This man who inhis early youth had felt honored by a marriage with the almost declasseewidow of a creole planter now stretched out his hand that he might taketo himself a woman not merely royal but imperial.
At first he sought the sister of the Czar of Russia; but Alexanderentertained a profound distrust of the French emperor, and managed toevade the tentative demand. There was, however, a reigning family farmore ancient than the Romanoffs--a family which had held the imperialdignity for nearly six centuries--the oldest and the noblest blood inEurope. This was the Austrian house of Hapsburg. Its head, the EmperorFrancis, had thirteen children, of whom the eldest, the ArchduchessMarie Louise, was then in her nineteenth year.
Napoleon had resented the rebuff which the Czar had given him. Heturned, therefore, the more eagerly to the other project. Yet there weremany reasons why an Austrian marriage might be dangerous, or, at anyrate, ill-omened. Only sixteen years before, an Austrian arch-duchess,Marie Antionette, married to the ruler of France, had met her deathupon the scaffold, hated and cursed by the French people, who had alwaysblamed "the Austrian" for the evil days which had ended in the flamesof revolution. Again, the father of the girl to whom Napoleon's fancyturned had been the bitter enemy of the new regime in France. His troopshad been beaten by the French in five wars and had been crushed atAusterlitz and at Wagram. Bonaparte had twice entered Vienna at the headof a conquering army, and thrice he had slept in the imperial palaceat Schonbrunn, while Francis was fleeing through the dark, a beatenfugitive pursued by the swift squadrons of French cavalry.
The feeling of Francis of Austria was not merely that of the vanquishedtoward the victor. It was a deep hatred almost religious in its fervor.He was the head and front of the old-time feudalism of birth and blood;Napoleon was the incarnation of the modern spirit which demolishedthrones and set an iron heel upon crowned heads, giving the sacredtitles of king and prince to soldiers who, even in palaces, still showedthe swaggering brutality of the camp and the stable whence they sprang.Yet, just because an alliance with the Austrian house seemed in so manyways impossible, the thought of it inflamed the ardor of Napoleon allthe more.
"Impossible?" he had once said, contemptuously. "The word 'impossible'is not French."
The Austrian alliance, unnatural though it seemed, was certainly quitepossible. In the year 1809 Napoleon had finished his fifth war withAustria by the terrific battle of Wagram, which brought the empire ofthe Hapsburgs to the very dust. The conqueror's rude hand had strippedfrom Francis province after province. He had even let fall hints thatthe Hapsburgs might be dethroned and that Austria might disappear fromthe map of Europe, to be divided between himself and the Russian Czar,who was still his ally. It was at this psychological moment that theCzar wounded Napoleon's pride by refusing to give the hand of his sisterAnne.
The subtle diplomats of Vienna immediately saw their chance.Prince Metternich, with the caution of one who enters the cage of aman-eating-tiger, suggested that the Austrian archduchess would be afitting bride for the French conqueror. The notion soothed the woundedvanity of Napoleon. From that moment events moved swiftly; and beforelong it was understood that there was to be a new empress in France, andthat she was to be none other than the daughter of the man who had beenNapoleon's most persistent foe upon the Continent. The girl was to begiven--sacrificed, if you like--to appease an imperial adventurer. Aftersuch a marriage, Austria would be safe from spoliation. The reigningdynasty would remain firmly seated upon its historic throne.
But how about the girl herself? She had always heard Napoleon spoken ofas a sort of ogre--a man of low ancestry, a brutal and faithless enemyof her people. She knew that this bold, rough-spoken soldier less than ayear before had added insult to the injury which he had inflicted onher father. In public proclamations he had called the Emperor Francis acoward and a liar. Up to the latter part of the year Napoleon was toher imagination a blood-stained, sordid, and yet all-powerful monster,outside the pale of human liking and respect. What must have been herthoughts when her father first told her with averted face that she wasto become the bride of such a being?
Marie Louise had been brought up, as all German girls of rank were thenbrought up, in quiet simplicity and utter innocence. In person she wasa tall blonde, with a wealth of light brown hair tumbling about a facewhich might be called attractive because it was so youthful and sogentle, but in which only poets and courtiers could see beauty. Hercomplexion was rosy, with that peculiar tinge which means that in thecourse of time it will become red and mottled. Her blue eyes were clearand childish. Her figure was good, though already too full for a girlwho was younger than her years.
She had a large and generous mouth with full lips, the lower onebeing the true "Hapsburg lip," slightly pendulous--a feature which hasremained for generation after generation as a sure sign of Hapsburgblood. One sees it in the present emperor of Austria, in the late QueenRegent of Spain, and in the present King of Spain, Alfonso. All theartists who made miniatures or paintings of Marie Louise softened downthis racial mark so that no likeness of her shows it as it really was.But take her all in all, she was a simple, childlike, German madchenwho knew nothing of the outside world except what she had heard from herdiscreet and watchful governess, and what had been told her of Napoleonby her uncles, the archdukes whom he had beaten down in battle.
When she learned that she was to be given to the French emperor hergirlish soul experienced a shudder; but her father told her how vitalwas this union to her country and to him. With a sort of piteous dreadshe questioned the archdukes who had called Napoleon an ogre.
"Oh, that was when Napoleon was an enemy," they replied. "Now he is ourfriend."
Marie Louise listened to all this, and, like the obedient German girlshe was, yielded her own will.
Events moved with a rush, for Napoleon was not the man to dally.Josephine had retired to her residence at Malmaison, and Paris wasalready astir with preparations for the new empress who was to assurethe continuation of the Napoleonic glory by giving children to herhusband. Napoleon had said to his ambassador with his usual bluntness:
"This is the first and most important thing--she must have children."
To the girl whom he was to marry he sent the following letter--an oddletter, combining the formality of a negotiator with the veiled ardor ofa lover:
MY COUSIN: The brilliant qualities which adorn your person have inspiredin me a desire to serve you and to pay you homage. In making my requestto the emperor, your father, and praying him to intrust to me thehappiness of your imperial highness, may I hope that you will understandthe sentiments which lead me to this act? May I flatter myself that itwill not be decided solely by the duty of parental obedience? Howeverslightly the feelings of your imperial highness may incline to me, Iwish to cultivate them with so great care, and to endeavor so constantlyto please you in everything, that I flatter myself that some day I shallprove attractive to you. This is the end at which I desire to arrive,and for which I pray your highness to be favorable to me.
Immediately everything was done to dazzle the imagination of the girl.She had dressed always in the simplicity of the school-room. Her onlyornaments had been a few colored stones which she sometimes wore as anecklace or a bracelet. Now the resources of all France were drawn upon.Precious laces foamed about her. Cascades of diamonds flashed before hereyes. The costliest and most exquisite creations of the Parisian shopswere spread around her to make up a trousseau fit for the princess whowas soon to become the bride of the man who had mastered continentalEurope.
The archives of Vienna were ransacked for musty documents which wouldshow exactly what had been done for other Austrian princesses who hadmarried rulers of France. Everything was duplicated down to the lastdetail. Ladies-in-waiting thronged about the young archduchess; andpresently there came to her Queen Caroline of Naples, Napoleon's sister,of whom Napoleon himself once said: "She is the only man among mysisters, as Joseph is the only woman among my brothers." Caroline, byvirtue of her rank as queen, could have free access to her husband'sfuture bride. Also, there came presently Napoleon's famous marshal,Berthier, Prince of Neuchatel, the chief of the Old Guard, who had justbeen created Prince of Wagram--a title which, very naturally, he did notuse in Austria. He was to act as proxy for Napoleon in the preliminarymarriage service at Vienna.
All was excitement. Vienna had never been so gay. Money was lavishedunder the direction of Caroline and Berthier. There were illuminationsand balls. The young girl found herself the center of the world'sinterest; and the excitement made her dizzy. She could not but beflattered, and yet there were many hours when her heart misgave her.More than once she was found in tears. Her father, an affectionatethough narrow soul, spent an entire day with her consoling andreassuring her. One thought she always kept in mind--what she had saidto Metternich at the very first: "I want only what my duty bids mewant." At last came the official marriage, by proxy, in the presence ofa splendid gathering. The various documents were signed, the dowry wasarranged for. Gifts were scattered right and left. At the operathere were gala performances. Then Marie Louise bade her father a sadfarewell. Almost suffocated by sobs and with her eyes streaming withtears, she was led between two hedges of bayonets to her carriage, whilecannon thundered and all the church-bells of Vienna rang a joyful peal.
She set out for France accompanied by a long train of carriages filledwith noblemen and noblewomen, with ladies-in-waiting and scores ofattendant menials. The young bride--the wife of a man whom she had neverseen--was almost dead with excitement and fatigue. At a station in theoutskirts of Vienna she scribbled a few lines to her father, which are acommentary upon her state of mind:
I think of you always, and I always shall. God has given me power toendure this final shock, and in Him alone I have put all my trust. Hewill help me and give me courage, and I shall find support in doing myduty toward you, since it is all for you that I have sacrificed myself.
There is something piteous in this little note of a frightened girlgoing to encounter she knew not what, and clinging almost franticallyto the one thought--that whatever might befall her, she was doing as herfather wished.
One need not recount the long and tedious journey of many days overwretched roads, in carriages that jolted and lurched and swayed. She wassurrounded by unfamiliar faces and was compelled to meet at every townthe chief men of the place, all of whom paid her honor, but stared ather with irrepressible curiosity. Day after day she went on and on. Eachmorning a courier on a foaming horse presented her with a great clusterof fresh flowers and a few lines scrawled by the unknown husband who wasto meet her at her journey's end.
There lay the point upon which her wandering thoughts were focused--thejourney's end! The man whose strange, mysterious power had forced herfrom her school-room, had driven her through a nightmare of strangehappenings, and who was waiting for her somewhere to take her tohimself, to master her as he had mastered generals and armies!
What was marriage? What did it mean? What experience still lay beforeher! These were the questions which she must have asked herselfthroughout that long, exhausting journey. When she thought of the pastshe was homesick. When she thought of the immediate future she wasfearful with a shuddering fear.
At last she reached the frontier of France, and her carriage passed intoa sort of triple structure, the first pavilion of which was Austrian,while the middle pavilion was neutral, and the farther one was French.Here she was received by those who were afterward to surround her--therepresentatives of the Napoleonic court. They were not all plebeians andchildren of the Revolution, ex-stable boys, ex-laundresses. By this timeNapoleon had gathered around himself some of the noblest families ofFrance, who had rallied to the empire. The assemblage was a brilliantone. There were Montmorencys and Beaumonts and Audenardes in abundance.But to Marie Louise, as to her Austrian attendants, they were all alike.They were French, they were strangers, and she shrank from them.
Yet here her Austrians must leave her. All who had accompanied her thusfar were now turned back. Napoleon had been insistent on this point.Even her governess, who had been with her since her childhood, was notallowed to cross the French frontier. So fixed was Napoleon's purposeto have nothing Austrian about her, that even her pet dog, to whichshe clung as a girl would cling, was taken from her. Thereafter she wassurrounded only by French faces, by French guards, and was greeted onlyby salvos of French artillery.
In the mean time what was Napoleon doing at Paris. Since the annulmentof his marriage with Josephine he had gone into a sort of retirement.Matters of state, war, internal reforms, no longer interested him; butthat restless brain could not sink into repose. Inflamed with the ardorof a new passion, that passion was all the greater because he hadnever yet set eyes upon its object. Marriage with an imperial princessflattered his ambition. The youth and innocence of the bride stirred hiswhole being with a thrill of novelty. The painted charms of Josephine,the mercenary favors of actresses, the calculated ecstasies of the womenof the court who gave themselves to him from vanity, had long sincepalled upon him. Therefore the impatience with which he awaited thecoming of Marie Louise became every day more tense.
For a time he amused himself with planning down to the very last detailsthe demonstrations that were to be given in her honor. He organizedthem as minutely as he had ever organized a conquering army. He showedhimself as wonderful in these petty things as he had in those greatstrategic combinations which had baffled the ablest generals ofEurope. But after all had been arranged--even to the illuminations, thecheering, the salutes, and the etiquette of the court--he fell into afever of impatience which gave him sleepless nights and frantic days. Hepaced up and down the Tuileries, almost beside himself. He hurried offcourier after courier with orders that the postilions should lash theirhorses to bring the hour of meeting nearer still. He scribbled loveletters. He gazed continually on the diamond-studded portrait of thewoman who was hurrying toward him.
At last as the time approached he entered a swift traveling-carriage andhastened to Compiegne, about fifty miles from Paris, where it had beenarranged that he should meet his consort and whence he was to escort herto the capital, so that they might be married in the great galleryof the Louvre. At Compiegne the chancellerie had been set apart forNapoleon's convenience, while the chateau had been assigned to MarieLouise and her attendants. When Napoleon's carriage dashed into theplace, drawn by horses that had traveled at a gallop, the emperor couldnot restrain himself. It was raining torrents and night was comingon, yet, none the less, he shouted for fresh horses and pushed on toSoissons, where the new empress was to stop and dine. When he reachedthere and she had not arrived, new relays of horses were demanded, andhe hurried off once more into the dark.
At the little village of Courcelles he met the courier who was riding inadvance of the empress's cortege.
"She will be here in a few moments!" cried Napoleon; and he leaped fromhis carriage into the highway.
The rain descended harder than ever, and he took refuge in the archeddoorway of the village church, his boots already bemired, his great coatreeking with the downpour. As he crouched before the church he heard thesound of carriages; and before long there came toiling through themud the one in which was seated the girl for whom he had so long beenwaiting. It was stopped at an order given by an officer. Within it,half-fainting with fatigue and fear, Marie Louise sat in the dark,alone.
Here, if ever, was the chance for Napoleon to win his bride. Could hehave restrained himself, could he have shown the delicate considerationwhich was demanded of him, could he have remembered at least that he wasan emperor and that the girl--timid and shuddering--was a princess, herfuture story might have been far different. But long ago he had ceasedto think of anything except his own desires.
He approached the carriage. An obsequious chamberlain drew aside theleathern covering and opened the door, exclaiming as he did so, "Theemperor!" And then there leaped in the rain-soaked, mud-bespatteredbeing whose excesses had always been as unbridled as his genius. Thedoor was closed, the leathern curtain again drawn, and the horses setout at a gallop for Soissons. Within, the shrinking bride was at themercy of pure animal passion, feeling upon her hot face a torrent ofrough kisses, and yielding herself in terror to the caresses of wantonhands.
At Soissons Napoleon allowed no halt, but the carriage plunged on, stillin the rain, to Compiegne. There all the arrangements made with so muchcare were thrust aside. Though the actual marriage had not yet takenplace, Napoleon claimed all the rights which afterward were given in theceremonial at Paris. He took the girl to the chancellerie, and not tothe chateau. In an anteroom dinner was served with haste to the imperialpair and Queen Caroline. Then the latter was dismissed with littleceremony, the lights were extinguished, and this daughter of a line ofemperors was left to the tender mercies of one who always had about himsomething of the common soldier--the man who lives for loot and lust....At eleven the next morning she was unable to rise and was served in bedby the ladies of her household.
These facts, repellent as they are, must be remembered when we callto mind what happened in the next five years. The horror of that nightcould not be obliterated by splendid ceremonies, by studious attention,or by all the pomp and gaiety of the court. Napoleon was thenforty-one--practically the same age as his new wife's father, theAustrian emperor; Marie Louise was barely nineteen and younger than heryears. Her master must have seemed to be the brutal ogre whom her uncleshad described.
Installed in the Tuileries, she taught herself compliance. On theirmarriage night Napoleon had asked her briefly: "What did your parentstell you?" And she had answered, meekly: "To be yours altogether and toobey you in everything." But, though she gave compliance, and though herfreshness seemed enchanting to Napoleon, there was something concealedwithin her thoughts to which he could not penetrate. He gaily said to amember of the court:
"Marry a German, my dear fellow. They are the best women in theworld--gentle, good, artless, and as fresh as roses."
Yet, at the same time, Napoleon felt a deep anxiety lest in her veryheart of hearts this German girl might either fear or hate him secretly.Somewhat later Prince Metternich came from the Austrian court to Paris.
"I give you leave," said Napoleon, "to have a private interview with theempress. Let her tell you what she likes, and I shall ask no questions.Even should I do so, I now forbid your answering me."
Metternich was closeted with the empress for a long while. When hereturned to the ante-room he found Napoleon fidgeting about, his eyes apair of interrogation-points.
"I am sure," he said, "that the empress told you that I was kind toher?"
Metternich bowed and made no answer.
"Well," said Napoleon, somewhat impatiently, "at least I am sure thatshe is happy. Tell me, did she not say so?"
The Austrian diplomat remained unsmiling.
"Your majesty himself has forbidden me to answer," he returned withanother bow.
We may fairly draw the inference that Marie Louise, though she adaptedherself to her surroundings, was never really happy. Napoleon becameinfatuated with her. He surrounded her with every possible mark ofhonor. He abandoned public business to walk or drive with her. But thememory of his own brutality must have vaguely haunted him throughout itall. He was jealous of her as he had never been jealous of the fickleJosephine. Constant has recorded that the greatest precautions weretaken to prevent any person whatsoever, and especially any man, fromapproaching the empress save in the presence of witnesses.
Napoleon himself underwent a complete change of habits and demeanor.Where he had been rough and coarse he became attentive and refined. Hisshabby uniforms were all discarded, and he spent hours in trying on newcostumes. He even attempted to learn to waltz, but this he gave up indespair. Whereas before he ate hastily and at irregular intervals,he now sat at dinner with unusual patience, and the court took on acharacter which it had never had. Never before had he sacrificed eitherhis public duty or his private pleasure for any woman. Even in the firstardor of his marriage with Josephine, when he used to pour out his heartto her in letters from Italian battle-fields, he did so only after hehad made the disposition of his troops and had planned his movementsfor the following day. Now, however, he was not merely devoted, butuxorious; and in 1811, after the birth of the little King of Rome, heceased to be the earlier Napoleon altogether. He had founded a dynasty.He was the head of a reigning house. He forgot the principles of theRevolution, and he ruled, as he thought, like other monarchs, by thegrace of God.
As for Marie Louise, she played her part extremely well. Somewhathaughty and unapproachable to others, she nevertheless studiedNapoleon's every wish. She seemed even to be loving; but one canscarcely doubt that her obedience sprang ultimately from fear andthat her devotion was the devotion of a dog which has been beaten intosubjection.
Her vanity was flattered in many ways, and most of all by herappointment as regent of the empire during Napoleon's absence in thedisastrous Russian campaign which began in 1812. It was in June of thatyear that the French emperor held court at Dresden, where he played,as was said, to "a parterre of kings." This was the climax of hismagnificence, for there were gathered all the sovereigns and princes whowere his allies and who furnished the levies that swelled his Grand Armyto six hundred thousand men. Here Marie Louise, like her husband, feltto the full the intoxication of supreme power. By a sinister coincidenceit was here that she first met the other man, then unnoticed and littleheeded, who was to cast upon her a fascination which in the end provedirresistible.
This man was Adam Albrecht, Count von Neipperg. There is somethingmysterious about his early years, and something baleful about his silentwarfare with Napoleon. As a very young soldier he had been an Austrianofficer in 1793. His command served in Belgium; and there, in askirmish, he was overpowered by the French in superior numbers, butresisted desperately. In the melee a saber slashed him across the rightside of his face, and he was made prisoner. The wound deprived him ofhis right eye, so that for the rest of his life he was compelled to weara black bandage to conceal the mutilation.
From that moment he conceived an undying hatred of the French, servingagainst them in the Tyrol and in Italy. He always claimed that had theArchduke Charles followed his advice, the Austrians would have forcedNapoleon's army to capitulate at Marengo, thus bringing early eclipseto the rising star of Bonaparte. However this may be, Napoleon's successenraged Neipperg and made his hatred almost the hatred of a fiend.
Hitherto he had detested the French as a nation. Afterward heconcentrated his malignity upon the person of Napoleon. In every way hetried to cross the path of that great soldier, and, though Neipperg wascomparatively an unknown man, his indomitable purpose and his continuedintrigues at last attracted the notice of the emperor; for in 1808Napoleon wrote this significant sentence:
The Count von Neipperg is openly known to have been the enemy of theFrench.
Little did the great conqueror dream how deadly was the blow which thisAustrian count was destined finally to deal him!
Neipperg, though his title was not a high one, belonged to the oldnobility of Austria. He had proved his bravery in war and as a duelist,and he was a diplomat as well as a soldier. Despite his mutilation, hewas a handsome and accomplished courtier, a man of wide experience, andone who bore himself in a manner which suggested the spirit of romance.According to Masson, he was an Austrian Don Juan, and had won the heartsof many women. At thirty he had formed a connection with an Italianwoman named Teresa Pola, whom he had carried away from her husband. Shehad borne him five children; and in 1813 he had married her in orderthat these children might be made legitimate.
In his own sphere the activity of Neipperg was almost as remarkable asNapoleon's in a greater one. Apart from his exploits on the field ofbattle he had been attached to the Austrian embassy in Paris, and,strangely enough, had been decorated by Napoleon himself with, thegolden eagle of the Legion of Honor. Four months later we find himminister of Austria at the court of Sweden, where he helped to lay thetrain of intrigue which was to detach Bernadotte from Napoleon's cause.In 1812, as has just been said, he was with Marie Louise for a shorttime at Dresden, hovering about her, already forming schemes. Two yearsafter this he overthrew Murat at Naples; and then hurried on post-hasteto urge Prince Eugene to abandon Bonaparte.
When the great struggle of 1814 neared its close, and Napoleon, fightingwith his back to the wall, was about to succumb to the united armies ofEurope, it was evident that the Austrian emperor would soon be able toseparate his daughter from her husband. In fact, when Napoleon was sentto Elba, Marie Louise returned to Vienna. The cynical Austrian diplomatsresolved that she should never again meet her imperial husband. She wasmade Duchess of Parma in Italy, and set out for her new possessions; andthe man with the black band across his sightless eye was chosen to beher escort and companion.
When Neipperg received this commission he was with Teresa Pola at Milan.A strange smile flitted across his face; and presently he remarked, withcynical frankness:
"Before six months I shall be her lover, and, later on, her husband."
He took up his post as chief escort of Marie Louise, and they journeyedslowly to Munich and Baden and Geneva, loitering on the way. Amid thegreat events which were shaking Europe this couple attracted slightattention. Napoleon, in Elba, longed for his wife and for his littleson, the King of Rome. He sent countless messages and many couriers; butevery message was intercepted, and no courier reached his destination.Meanwhile Marie Louise was lingering agreeably in Switzerland. She washappy to have escaped from the whirlpool of politics and war. Amid theromantic scenery through which she passed Neipperg was always by herside, attentive, devoted, trying in everything to please her. With himshe passed delightful evenings. He sang to her in his rich barytonesongs of love. He seemed romantic with a touch of mystery, a gallantsoldier whose soul was also touched by sentiment.
One would have said that Marie Louise, the daughter of an imperialline, would have been proof against the fascinations of a person so farinferior to herself in rank, and who, beside the great emperor, was lessthan nothing. Even granting that she had never really loved Napoleon,she might still have preferred to maintain her dignity, to share hisfate, and to go down in history as the empress of the greatest man whommodern times have known.
But Marie Louise was, after all, a woman, and she followed the guidanceof her heart. To her Napoleon was still the man who had met her amid therain-storm at Courcelles, and had from the first moment when he touchedher violated all the instincts of a virgin. Later he had in his waytried to make amends; but the horror of that first night had neverwholly left her memory. Napoleon had unrolled before her the drama ofsensuality, but her heart had not been given to him. She had been hisempress. In a sense it might be more true to say that she had beenhis mistress. But she had never been duly wooed and won and made hiswife--an experience which is the right of every woman. And so thisNeipperg, with his deferential manners, his soothing voice, his magnetictouch, his ardor, and his devotion, appeased that craving which themaster of a hundred legions could not satisfy.
In less than the six months of which Neipperg had spoken thepsychological moment had arrived. In the dim twilight she listened tohis words of love; and then, drawn by that irresistible power whichmasters pride and woman's will, she sank into her lover's arms, yieldingto his caresses, and knowing that she would be parted from him no moreexcept by death.
From that moment he was bound to her by the closest ties and lived withher at the petty court of Parma. His prediction came true to the veryletter. Teresa Pola died, and then Napoleon died, and after this MarieLouise and Neipperg were united in a morganatic marriage. Three childrenwere born to them before his death in 1829.
It is interesting to note how much of an impression was made upon her bythe final exile of her imperial husband to St. Helena. When the news wasbrought her she observed, casually:
"Thanks. By the way, I should like to ride this morning to Markenstein.Do you think the weather is good enough to risk it?"
Napoleon, on his side, passed through agonies of doubt and longing whenno letters came to him from Marie Louise. She was constantly in histhoughts during his exile at St. Helena. "When his faithful friend andconstant companion at St. Helena, the Count Las Casas, was ordered bySir Hudson Lowe to depart from St. Helena, Napoleon wrote to him:
"Should you see, some day, my wife and son, embrace them. For two yearsI have, neither directly nor indirectly, heard from them. There has beenon this island for six months a German botanist, who has seen themin the garden of Schoenbrunn a few months before his departure.The barbarians (meaning the English authorities at St. Helena) havecarefully prevented him from coming to give me any news respectingthem."
At last the truth was told him, and he received it with that highmagnanimity, or it may be fatalism, which at times he was capable ofshowing. Never in all his days of exile did he say one word against her.Possibly in searching his own soul he found excuses such as we may find.In his will he spoke of her with great affection, and shortly before hisdeath he said to his physician, Antommarchi:
"After my death, I desire that you will take my heart, put it in thespirits of wine, and that you carry it to Parma to my dear Marie Louise.You will please tell her that I tenderly loved her--that I never ceasedto love her. You will relate to her all that you have seen, and everyparticular respecting my situation and death."
The story of Marie Louise is pathetic, almost tragic. There is the taintof grossness about it; and yet, after all, there is a lesson in it--thelesson that true love cannot be forced or summoned at command, that itis destroyed before its birth by outrage, and that it goes out only whenevoked by sympathy, by tenderness, and by devotion.

END OF VOLUME TWO




THE WIVES OF GENERAL HOUSTON

Sixty or seventy years ago it was considered a great joke to chalk upon any man's house-door, or on his trunk at a coaching-station, theconspicuous letters "G. T. T." The laugh went round, and every onewho saw the inscription chuckled and said: "They've got it on you, oldhoss!" The three letters meant "gone to Texas"; and for any man to go toTexas in those days meant his moral, mental, and financial dilapidation.Either he had plunged into bankruptcy and wished to begin life overagain in a new world, or the sheriff had a warrant for his arrest.
The very task of reaching Texas was a fearful one. Rivers that overrantheir banks, fever-stricken lowlands where gaunt faces peered out frommoldering cabins, bottomless swamps where the mud oozed greasily andwhere the alligator could be seen slowly moving his repulsive form--allthis stretched on for hundreds of miles to horrify and sicken theemigrants who came toiling on foot or struggling upon emaciated horses.Other daring pioneers came by boat, running all manner of risks upon theswollen rivers. Still others descended from the mountains of Tennesseeand passed through a more open country and with a greater certainty ofself-protection, because they were trained from childhood to wield therifle and the long sheath-knife.
It is odd enough to read, in the chronicles of those days, that amid allthis suffering and squalor there was drawn a strict line between "thequality" and those who had no claim to be patricians. "The quality" wasmade up of such emigrants as came from the more civilized East, orwho had slaves, or who dragged with them some rickety vehicle withcarriage-horses--however gaunt the animals might be. All others--thosewho had no slaves or horses, and no traditions of the older states--wereclassed as "poor whites"; and they accepted their mediocrity without amurmur.
Because he was born in Lexington, Virginia, and moved thence with hisfamily to Tennessee, young Sam Houston--a truly eponymous Americanhero--was numbered with "the quality" when, after long wandering, hereached his boyhood home. His further claim to distinction as a boy camefrom the fact that he could read and write, and was even familiar withsome of the classics in translation.
When less than eighteen years of age he had reached a height ofmore than six feet. He was skilful with the rifle, a remarkablerough-and-tumble fighter, and as quick with his long knife as anyIndian. This made him a notable figure--the more so as he never abusedhis strength and courage. He was never known as anything but "Sam." Inhis own sphere he passed for a gentleman and a scholar, thanks to hisVirginian birth and to the fact that he could repeat a great part ofPope's translation of the "Iliad."
His learning led him to teach school a few months in the year to thechildren of the white settlers. Indeed, Houston was so much taken withthe pursuit of scholarship that he made up his mind to learn Greek andLatin. Naturally, this seemed mere foolishness to his mother, his sixstrapping brothers, and his three stalwart sisters, who cared littlefor study. So sharp was the difference between Sam and the rest of thefamily that he gave up his yearning after the classics and went to theother extreme by leaving home and plunging into the heart of the forestbeyond sight of any white man or woman or any thought of Hellas andancient Rome.
Here in the dimly lighted glades he was most happy. The Indians admiredhim for his woodcraft and for the skill with which he chased the wildgame amid the forests. From his copy of the "Iliad" he would read tothem the thoughts of the world's greatest poet.
It is told that nearly forty years after, when Houston had long led adifferent life and had made his home in Washington, a deputation of morethan forty untamed Indians from Texas arrived there under the charge ofseveral army officers. They chanced to meet Sam Houston.
One and all ran to him, clasped him in their brawny arms, hugged himlike bears to their naked breasts, and called him "father." Beneath thecopper skin and thick paint the blood rushed, and their faces changed,and the lips of many a warrior trembled, although the Indian may notweep.
In the gigantic form of Houston, on whose ample brow the beneficentlove of a father was struggling with the sternness of the patriarch andwarrior, we saw civilization awing the savage at his feet. We needed nointerpreter to tell us that this impressive supremacy was gained in theforest.
His family had been at first alarmed by his stay among the Indians;but when after a time he returned for a new outfit they saw that he wasentirely safe and left him to wander among the red men. Later he cameforth and resumed the pursuits of civilization. He took up his studies;he learned the rudiments of law and entered upon its active practice.When barely thirty-six he had won every office that was open to him,ending with his election to the Governorship of Tennessee in 1827.
Then came a strange episode which changed the whole course of his life.Until then the love of woman had never stirred his veins. His physicalactivities in the forests, his unique intimacy with Indian life, hadkept him away from the social intercourse of towns and cities. InNashville Houston came to know for the first time the fascination offeminine society. As a lawyer, a politician, and the holder of importantoffices he could not keep aloof from that gentler and more winninginfluence which had hitherto been unknown to him.
In 1828 Governor Houston was obliged to visit different portions ofthe state, stopping, as was the custom, to visit at the homes of "thequality," and to be introduced to wives and daughters as well as totheir sportsman sons. On one of his official journeys he met Miss ElizaAllen, a daughter of one of the "influential families" of Sumner County,on the northern border of Tennessee. He found her responsive, charming,and greatly to be admired. She was a slender type of Southern beauty,well calculated to gain the affection of a lover, and especially ofone whose associations had been chiefly with the women of frontiercommunities.
To meet a girl who had refined tastes and wide reading, and who was atthe same time graceful and full of humor, must have come as a pleasantexperience to Houston. He and Miss Allen saw much of each other, and fewof their friends were surprised when the word went forth that they wereengaged to be married.
The marriage occurred in January, 1829. They were surrounded withfriends of all classes and ranks, for Houston was the associate ofJackson and was immensely popular in his own state. He seemed to havebefore him a brilliant career. He had won a lovely bride to make a homefor him; so that no man seemed to have more attractive prospects. Whatwas there which at this time interposed in some malignant way to blighthis future?
It was a little more than a month after his marriage when he met afriend, and, taking him out into a strip of quiet woodland, said to him:
"I have something to tell you, but you must not ask me anything aboutit. My wife and I will separate before long. She will return to herfather's, while I must make my way alone."
Houston's friend seized him by the arm and gazed at him with horror.
"Governor," said he, "you're going to ruin your whole life! What reasonhave you for treating this young lady in such a way? What has she donethat you should leave her? Or what have you done that she should leaveyou? Every one will fall away from you."
Houston grimly replied:
"I have no explanation to give you. My wife has none to give you. Shewill not complain of me, nor shall I complain of her. It is noone's business in the world except our own. Any interference will beimpertinent, and I shall punish it with my own hand."
"But," said his friend, "think of it. The people at large will not allowsuch action. They will believe that you, who have been their idol, havedescended to insult a woman. Your political career is ended. It will notbe safe for you to walk the streets!"
"What difference does it make to me?" said Houston, gloomily. "What mustbe, must be. I tell you, as a friend, in advance, so that you may beprepared; but the parting will take place very soon."
Little was heard for another month or two, and then came theannouncement that the Governor's wife had left him and had returned toher parents' home. The news flew like wildfire, and was the themeof every tongue. Friends of Mrs. Houston begged her to tell them themeaning of the whole affair. Adherents of Houston, on the other hand,set afloat stories of his wife's coldness and of her peevishness. Thestate was divided into factions; and what really concerned a very fewwas, as usual, made everybody's business.
There were times when, if Houston had appeared near the dwelling of hisformer wife, he would have been lynched or riddled with bullets. Again,there were enemies and slanderers of his who, had they shown themselvesin Nashville, would have been torn to pieces by men who hailed Houstonas a hero and who believed that he could not possibly have done wrong.
However his friends might rage, and however her people might wonder andseek to pry into the secret, no satisfaction was given on either side.The abandoned wife never uttered a word of explanation. Houston wasequally reticent and self-controlled. In later years he sometimes drankdeeply and was loose-tongued; but never, even in his cups, could he bepersuaded to say a single word about his wife.
The whole thing is a mystery and cannot be solved by any evidence thatwe have. Almost every one who has written of it seems to have indulgedin mere guesswork. One popular theory is that Miss Allen was in lovewith some one else; that her parents forced her into a brilliantmarriage with Houston, which, however, she could not afterward endure;and that Houston, learning the facts, left her because he knew that herheart was not really his.
But the evidence is all against this. Had it been so she would surelyhave secured a divorce and would then have married the man whom shetruly loved. As a matter of fact, although she did divorce Houston, itwas only after several years, and the man whom she subsequently marriedwas not acquainted with her at the time of the separation.
Another theory suggests that Houston was harsh in his treatment of hiswife, and offended her by his untaught manners and extreme self-conceit.But it is not likely that she objected to his manners, since she hadbecome familiar with them before she gave him her hand; and as to hisconceit, there is no evidence that it was as yet unduly developed. Afterhis Texan campaign he sometimes showed a rather lofty idea of his ownachievements; but he does not seem to have done so in these early days.
Some have ascribed the separation to his passion for drink; but hereagain we must discriminate. Later in life he became very fond of spiritsand drank whisky with the Indians, but during his earlier years hewas most abstemious. It scarcely seems possible that his wife left himbecause he was intemperate.
If one wishes to construct a reasonable hypothesis on a subject wherethe facts are either wanting or conflicting, it is not impossible tosuggest a solution of this puzzle about Houston. Although his abandonedwife never spoke of him and shut her lips tightly when she wasquestioned about him, Houston, on his part, was not so taciturn. Henever consciously gave any direct clue to his matrimonial mystery; buthe never forgot this girl who was his bride and whom he seems alwaysto have loved. In what he said he never ceased to let a vein ofself-reproach run through his words.
I should choose this one paragraph as the most significant. It waswritten immediately after they had parted:
Eliza stands acquitted by me. I have received her as a virtuous, chastewife, and as such I pray God I may ever regard her, and I trust I evershall. She was cold to me, and I thought she did not love me.
And again he said to an old and valued friend at about the same time:
"I can make no explanation. I exonerate the lady fully and do notjustify myself."
Miss Allen seems to have been a woman of the sensitive American typewhich was so common in the early and the middle part of the lastcentury. Mrs. Trollope has described it for us with very littleexaggeration. Dickens has drawn it with a touch of malice, and yet notwithout truth. Miss Martineau described it during her visit tothis country, and her account quite coincides with those of her twocontemporaries.
Indeed, American women of that time unconsciously described themselvesin a thousand different ways. They were, after all, only a less strikingtype of the sentimental Englishwomen who read L. E. L. and the earliernovels of Bulwer-Lytton. On both sides of the Atlantic there was a reignof sentiment and a prevalence of what was then called "delicacy." It wasa die-away, unwholesome attitude toward life and was morbid to the lastdegree.
In circles where these ideas prevailed, to eat a hearty dinner wasconsidered unwomanly. To talk of anything except some gilded "annual,"or "book of beauty," or the gossip of the neighborhood was wholly to becondemned. The typical girl of such a community was thin and slender andgiven to a mild starvation, though she might eat quantities of jam andpickles and saleratus biscuit. She had the strangest views of life andan almost unnatural shrinking from any usual converse with men.
Houston, on his side, was a thoroughly natural and healthful man, havinglived an outdoor life, hunting and camping in the forest and displayingthe unaffected manner of the pioneer. Having lived the solitary life ofthe woods, it was a strange thing for him to meet a girl who had beenbred in an entirely different way, who had learned a thousand littlereservations and dainty graces, and whose very breath was coyness andreserve. Their mating was the mating of the man of the forest with thewoman of the sheltered life.
Houston assumed everything; his bride shrank from everything. There wasa mutual shock amounting almost to repulsion. She, on her side, probablythought she had found in him only the brute which lurks in man. He, onthe other, repelled and checked, at once grasped the belief that hiswife cared nothing for him because she would not meet his ardorswith like ardors of her own. It is the mistake that has been made bythousands of men and women at the beginning of their married lives--themistake on one side of too great sensitiveness, and on the other side oftoo great warmth of passion.
This episode may seem trivial, and yet it is one that explains manythings in human life. So far as concerns Houston it has a direct bearingon the history of our country. A proud man, he could not endure theslights and gossip of his associates. He resigned the governorship ofTennessee, and left by night, in such a way as to surround his departurewith mystery.
There had come over him the old longing for Indian life; and when he wasnext visible he was in the land of the Cherokees, who had long beforeadopted him as a son. He was clad in buckskin and armed with knifeand rifle, and served under the old chief Oolooteka. He was a gallantdefender of the Indians.
When he found how some of the Indian agents had abused his adoptedbrothers he went to Washington to protest, still wearing his frontiergarb. One William Stansberry, a Congressman from Ohio, insulted Houston,who leaped upon him like a panther, dragged him about the Hall ofRepresentatives, and beat him within an inch of his life. He wasarrested, imprisoned, and fined; but his old friend, President Jackson,remitted his imprisonment and gruffly advised him not to pay the fine.
Returning to his Indians, he made his way to a new field which promisedmuch adventure. This was Texas, of whose condition in those earlydays something has already been said. Houston found a rough Americansettlement, composed of scattered villages extending along the disputedfrontier of Mexico. Already, in the true Anglo-Saxon spirit, thesettlers had formed a rudimentary state, and as they increased andmultiplied they framed a simple code of laws.
Then, quite naturally, there came a clash between them and the Mexicans.The Texans, headed by Moses Austin, had set up a republic and askedfor admission to the United States. Mexico regarded them as rebels anddespised them because they made no military display and had no veryaccurate military drill. They were dressed in buckskin and raggedclothing; but their knives were very bright and their rifles carriedsurely. Furthermore, they laughed at odds, and if only a dozen of themwere gathered together they would "take on" almost any number of Mexicanregulars.
In February, 1836, the acute and able Mexican, Santa Anna, led acrossthe Rio Grande a force of several thousand Mexicans showily uniformedand completely armed. Every one remembers how they fell upon the littlegarrison at the Alamo, now within the city limits of San Antonio, butthen an isolated mission building surrounded by a thick adobe wall. TheAmericans numbered less than three hundred men.
A sharp attack was made with these overwhelming odds. The Americansdrove the assailants back with their rifle fire, but they had nothing tooppose to the Mexican artillery. The contest continued for several days,and finally the Mexicans breached the wall and fell upon the garrison,who were now reduced by more than half. There was an hour of blood, andevery one of the Alamo's defenders, including the wounded, was put todeath. The only survivors of the slaughter were two negro slaves, awoman, and a baby girl.
When the news of this bloody affair reached Houston he leaped forth tothe combat like a lion. He was made commander-in-chief of the scantyTexan forces. He managed to rally about seven hundred men, and set outagainst Santa Anna with little in the way of equipment, and withnothing but the flame of frenzy to stimulate his followers. By march andcountermarch the hostile forces came face to face near the shore of SanJacinto Bay, not far from the present city of Houston. Slowly they movedupon each other, when Houston halted, and his sharpshooters raked theMexican battle-line with terrible effect. Then Houston uttered the cry:
"Remember the Alamo!"
With deadly swiftness he led his men in a charge upon Santa Anna'slines. The Mexicans were scattered as by a mighty wind, their commanderwas taken prisoner, and Mexico was forced to give its recognition toTexas as a free republic, of which General Houston became the firstpresident.
This was the climax of Houston's life, but the end of it leaves us withsomething still to say. Long after his marriage with Miss Allen he tookan Indian girl to wife and lived with her quite happily. She was a verybeautiful woman, a half-breed, with the English name of Tyania Rodgers.Very little, however, is known of her life with Houston. Later still--in1840--he married a lady from Marion, Alabama, named Margaret MoffetteLea. He was then in his forty-seventh year, while she was onlytwenty-one; but again, as with his Indian wife, he knew nothing butdomestic tranquillity. These later experiences go far to prove thetruth of what has already been given as the probable cause of his firstmysterious failure to make a woman happy.
After Texas entered the Union, in 1845, Houston was elected to theUnited States Senate, in which he served for thirteen years. In 1852,1856, and 1860, as a Southerner who opposed any movement looking towardsecession, he was regarded as a possible presidential candidate; but hiscareer was now almost over, and in 1863, while the Civil War--which hehad striven to prevent--was at its height, he died.




LOLA MONTEZ AND KING LUDWIG OF BAVARIA

Lola Montez! The name suggests dark eyes and abundant hair, lithe limbsand a sinuous body, with twining hands and great eyes that gleam witha sort of ebon splendor. One thinks of Spanish beauty as one hears thename; and in truth Lola Montez justified the mental picture.
She was not altogether Spanish, yet the other elements that entered intoher mercurial nature heightened and vivified her Castilian traits.Her mother was a Spaniard--partly Moorish, however. Her father was anIrishman. There you have it--the dreamy romance of Spain, the exotictouch of the Orient, and the daring, unreasoning vivacity of the Celt.
This woman during the forty-three years of her life had adventuresinnumerable, was widely known in Europe and America, and actually lostone king his throne. Her maiden name was Marie Dolores Eliza RosannaGilbert. Her father was a British officer, the son of an Irish knight,Sir Edward Gilbert. Her mother had been a danseuse named Lola Oliver."Lola" is a diminutive of Dolores, and as "Lola" she became known to theworld.
She lived at one time or another in nearly all the countries of Europe,and likewise in India, America, and Australia. It would be impossibleto set down here all the sensations that she achieved. Let us select theclimax of her career and show how she overturned a kingdom, passing butlightly over her early and her later years.
She was born in Limerick in 1818, but her father's parents cast offtheir son and his young wife, the Spanish dancer. They went to India,and in 1825 the father died, leaving his young widow without arupee; but she was quickly married again, this time to an officer ofimportance.
The former danseuse became a very conventional person, a fit match forher highly conventional husband; but the small daughter did not takekindly to the proprieties of life. The Hindu servants taught her morethings than she should have known; and at one time her stepfather foundher performing the danse du ventre. It was the Moorish strain inheritedfrom her mother.
She was sent back to Europe, however, and had a sort of education inScotland and England, and finally in Paris, where she was detected inan incipient flirtation with her music-master. There were other personshanging about her from her fifteenth year, at which time herstepfather, in India, had arranged a marriage between her and a rich butuninteresting old judge. One of her numerous admirers told her this.
"What on earth am I to do?" asked little Lola, most naively.
"Why, marry me," said the artful adviser, who was Captain Thomas James;and so the very next day they fled to Dublin and were speedily marriedat Meath.
Lola's husband was violently in love with her, but, unfortunately,others were no less susceptible to her charms. She was presented atthe vice-regal court, and everybody there became her victim. Even theviceroy, Lord Normanby, was greatly taken with her. This nobleman'sposition was such that Captain James could not object to his attentions,though they made the husband angry to a degree. The viceroy would drawher into alcoves and engage her in flattering conversation, while poorJames could only gnaw his nails and let green-eyed jealousy prey uponhis heart. His only recourse was to take her into the country, where shespeedily became bored; and boredom is the death of love.
Later she went with Captain James to India. She endured a campaign inAfghanistan, in which she thoroughly enjoyed herself because of theattentions of the officers. On her return to London in 1842, one CaptainLennox was a fellow passenger; and their association resulted in anaction for divorce, by which she was freed from her husband, and yet bya technicality was not able to marry Lennox, whose family in any casewould probably have prevented the wedding.
Mrs. Mayne says, in writing on this point:
Even Lola never quite succeeded in being allowed to commit bigamyunmolested, though in later years she did commit it and took refuge inSpain to escape punishment.
The same writer has given a vivid picture of what happened soon afterthe divorce. Lola tried to forget her past and to create a new andbrighter future. Here is the narrative:
Her Majesty's Theater was crowded on the night of June 10,1843. A newSpanish dancer was announced--"Dona Lola Montez." It was her debut, andLumley, the manager, had been puffing her beforehand, as he alone knewhow. To Lord Ranelagh, the leader of the dilettante group of fashionableyoung men, he had whispered, mysteriously:
"I have a surprise in store. You shall see."
So Ranelagh and a party of his friends filled the omnibus boxes,those tribunes at the side of the stage whence success or failure waspronounced. Things had been done with Lumley's consummate art; thepacked house was murmurous with excitement. She was a raving beauty,said report--and then, those intoxicating Spanish dances! Taglioni,Cerito, Fanny Elssler, all were to be eclipsed.
Ranelagh's glasses were steadily leveled on the stage from themoment her entrance was imminent. She came on. There was a murmur ofadmiration--but Ranelagh made no sign. And then she began to dance.A sense of disappointment, perhaps? But she was very lovely, verygraceful, "like a flower swept by the wind, she floated round thestage"--not a dancer, but, by George, a beauty! And still Ranelagh madeno sign.
Yet, no. What low, sibilant sound is that? And then what confused, angrywords from the tribunal? He turns to his friends, his eyes ablaze withanger, opera-glass in hand. And now again the terrible "Hiss-s-s!" takenup by the other box, and the words repeated loudly and more angrilyeven than before--the historic words which sealed Lola's doom at HerMajesty's Theater: "WHY, IT'S BETTY JAMES!"
She was, indeed, Betty James, and London would not accept her as LolaMontez. She left England and appeared upon the Continent as a beautifulvirago, making a sensation--as the French would say, a succes descandale--by boxing the ears of people who offended her, and even on oneoccasion horsewhipping a policeman who was in attendance on the King ofPrussia. In Paris she tried once more to be a dancer, but Paris wouldnot have her. She betook herself to Dresden and Warsaw, where shesought to attract attention by her eccentricities, making mouths at thespectators, flinging her garters in their faces, and one time removingher skirts and still more necessary garments, whereupon her managerbroke off his engagement with her.
An English writer who heard a great deal of her and who saw her oftenabout this time writes that there was nothing wonderful about her except"her beauty and her impudence." She had no talent nor any of the graceswhich make women attractive; yet many men of talent raved about her. Theclever young journalist, Dujarrier, who assisted Emile Girardin, was herlover in Paris. He was killed in a duel and left Lola twenty thousandfrancs and some securities, so that she no longer had to sing in thestreets as she did in Warsaw.
She now betook herself to Munich, the capital of Bavaria. That countrywas then governed by Ludwig I., a king as eccentric as Lola herself. Hewas a curious compound of kindliness, ideality, and peculiar ways. Forinstance, he would never use a carriage even on state occasions. Heprowled around the streets, knocking off the hats of those whom hechanced to meet. Like his unfortunate descendant, Ludwig II., hewrote poetry, and he had a picture-gallery devoted to portraits of thebeautiful women whom he had met.
He dressed like an English fox-hunter, with a most extraordinary hat,and what was odd and peculiar in others pleased him because he was oddand peculiar himself. Therefore when Lola made her first appearance atthe Court Theater he was enchanted with her. He summoned her at once tothe palace, and within five days he presented her to the court, sayingas he did so:
"Meine Herren, I present you to my best friend."
In less than a month this curious monarch had given Lola the title ofCountess of Landsfeld. A handsome house was built for her, and a pensionof twenty thousand florins was granted her. This was in 1847. With thepeople of Munich she was unpopular. They did not mind the eccentricitiesof the king, since these amused them and did the country no perceptibleharm; but they were enraged by this beautiful woman, who had no softnesssuch as a woman ought to have. Her swearing, her readiness to box theears of every one whom she disliked, the huge bulldog which accompaniedher everywhere--all these things were beyond endurance.
She was discourteous to the queen, besides meddling with the politics ofthe kingdom. Either of these things would have been sufficient tomake her hated. Together, they were more than the city of Munich couldendure. Finally the countess tried to establish a new corps in theuniversity. This was the last touch of all. A student who ventured towear her colors was beaten and arrested. Lola came to his aid with allher wonted boldness; but the city was in commotion.
Daggers were drawn; Lola was hustled and insulted. The foolish kingrushed out to protect her; and on his arm she was led in safety to thepalace. As she entered the gates she turned and fired a pistol into themob. No one was hurt, but a great rage took possession of the people.The king issued a decree closing the university for a year. By thistime, however, Munich was in possession of a mob, and the Bavariansdemanded that she should leave the country.
Ludwig faced the chamber of peers, where the demand of the populace wasplaced before him.
"I would rather lose my crown!" he replied.
The lords of Bavaria regarded him with grim silence; and in their eyeshe read the determination of his people. On the following day a royaldecree revoked Lola's rights as a subject of Bavaria, and still anotherdecree ordered her to be expelled. The mob yelled with joy and burnedher house. Poor Ludwig watched the tumult by the light of the leapingflames.
He was still in love with her and tried to keep her in the kingdom; butthe result was that Ludwig himself was forced to abdicate. He had givenhis throne for the light love of this beautiful but half-crazy woman.She would have no more to do with him; and as for him, he had to giveplace to his son Maximilian. Ludwig had lost a kingdom merely becausethis strange, outrageous creature had piqued him and made him think thatshe was unique among women.
The rest of her career was adventurous. In England she contracted abigamous marriage with a youthful officer, and within two weeks theyfled to Spain for safety from the law. Her husband was drowned, and shemade still another marriage. She visited Australia, and at Melbourne shehad a fight with a strapping woman, who clawed her face until Lolafell fainting to the ground. It is a squalid record of horse-whippings,face-scratchings--in short, a rowdy life.
Her end was like that of Becky Sharp. In America she delivered lectureswhich were written for her by a clergyman and which dealt with the artof beauty. She had a temporary success; but soon she became quitepoor, and took to piety, professing to be a sort of piteous, penitentMagdalen. In this role she made effective use of her beautiful darkhair, her pallor, and her wonderful eyes. But the violence of herdisposition had wrecked her physically; and she died of paralysis inAstoria, on Long Island, in 1861. Upon her grave in Greenwood Cemetery,Brooklyn, there is a tablet to her memory, bearing the inscription:"Mrs. Eliza Gilbert, born 1818, died 1861."
What can one say of a woman such as this? She had no morals, and hermanners were outrageous. The love she felt was the love of a she-wolf.Fourteen biographies of her have been written, besides her ownautobiography, which was called The Story of a Penitent, and which tellsless about her than any of the other books. Her beauty was undeniable.Her courage was the blended courage of the Celt, the Spaniard, and theMoor. Yet all that one can say of her was said by the elder Dumas whenhe declared that she was born to be the evil genius of every one whocared for her. Her greatest fame comes from the fact that in less thanthree years she overturned a kingdom and lost a king his throne.




LEON GAMBETTA AND LEONIE LEON

The present French Republic has endured for over forty years. Withinthat time it has produced just one man of extraordinary power and parts.This was Leon Gambetta. Other men as remarkable as he were conspicuousin French political life during the first few years of the republic;but they belonged to an earlier generation, while Gambetta leapedinto prominence only when the empire fell, crashing down in ruin anddisaster.
It is still too early to form an accurate estimate of him as astatesman. His friends praise him extravagantly. His enemies stillrevile him bitterly. The period of his political career lasted forlittle more than a decade, yet in that time it may be said that helived almost a life of fifty years. Only a short time ago did the Frenchgovernment cause his body to be placed within the great Pantheon, whichcontains memorials of the heroes and heroines of France. But, thoughwe may not fairly judge of his political motives, we can readilyreconstruct a picture of him as a man, and in doing so recall hisone romance, which many will remember after they have forgotten hisoratorical triumphs and his statecraft.
Leon Gambetta was the true type of the southern Frenchman--what hiscountrymen call a meridional. The Frenchman of the south is differentfrom the Frenchman of the north, for the latter has in his veins atouch of the viking blood, so that he is very apt to be fair-haired andblue-eyed, temperate in speech, and self-controlled. He is different,again, from the Frenchman of central France, who is almost purelyCeltic. The meridional has a marked vein of the Italian in him, derivedfrom the conquerors of ancient Gaul. He is impulsive, ardent, fiery inspeech, hot-tempered, and vivacious to an extraordinary degree.
Gambetta, who was born at Cahors, was French only on his mother's side,since his father was of Italian birth. It is said also that somewhere inhis ancestry there was a touch of the Oriental. At any rate, he was oneof the most southern of the sons of southern France, and he showedthe precocious maturity which belongs to a certain type of Italian.At twenty-one he had already been admitted to the French bar, andhad drifted to Paris, where his audacity, his pushing nature, and hisred-hot un-restraint of speech gave him a certain notoriety from thevery first.
It was toward the end of the reign of Napoleon III. that Gambetta sawhis opportunity. The emperor, weakened by disease and yielding to a sortof feeble idealism, gave to France a greater freedom of speech than ithad enjoyed while he was more virile. This relaxation of controlmerely gave to his opponents more courage to attack him and his empire.Demagogues harangued the crowds in words which would once have led totheir imprisonment. In the National Assembly the opposition did allwithin its power to hamper and defeat the policy of the government.
In short, republicanism began to rise in an ominous and threatening way;and at the head of republicanism in Paris stood forth Gambetta, with hisimpassioned eloquence, his stinging phrases, and his youthful boldness.He became the idol of that part of Paris known as Belleville, whereartisans and laborers united with the rabble of the streets in hatingthe empire and in crying out for a republic.
Gambetta was precisely the man to voice the feelings of these people.Whatever polish he acquired in after years was then quite lacking; andthe crudity of his manners actually helped him with the men whom heharangued. A recent book by M. Francis Laur, an ardent admirer ofGambetta, gives a picture of the man which may be nearly true of him inhis later life, but which is certainly too flattering when applied toGambetta in 1868, at the age of thirty.
How do we see Gambetta as he was at thirty? A man of powerful frame andof intense vitality, with thick, clustering hair, which he shook asa lion shakes its mane; olive-skinned, with eyes that darted fire, aresonant, sonorous voice, and a personal magnetism which was instantlyfelt by all who met him or who heard him speak. His manners were notrefined. He was fond of oil and garlic. His gestures were often morefrantic than impressive, so that his enemies called him "the furiousfool." He had a trick of spitting while he spoke. He was by no meansthe sort of man whose habits had been formed in drawing-rooms or amongpeople of good breeding. Yet his oratory was, of its kind, superb.
In 1869 Gambetta was elected by the Red Republicans to the CorpsLegislatif. From the very first his vehemence and fire gained him aready hearing. The chamber itself was arranged like a great theater, themembers occupying the floor and the public the galleries. Each oratorin addressing the house mounted a sort of rostrum and from it faced thewhole assemblage, not noticing, as with us, the presiding officerat all. The very nature of this arrangement stimulated parliamentaryspeaking into eloquence and flamboyant oratory.
After Gambetta had spoken a few times he noticed in the gallery a tall,graceful woman, dressed in some neutral color and wearing long blackgloves, which accentuated the beauty of her hands and arms. No one inthe whole assembly paid such close attention to the orator as did thiswoman, whom he had never seen before and who appeared to be entirelyalone.
When it came to him to speak on another day he saw sitting in thesame place the same stately and yet lithe and sinuous figure. This wasrepeated again and again, until at last whenever he came to a peculiarlyfervid burst of oratory he turned to this woman's face and saw itlighted up by the same enthusiasm which was stirring him.
Finally, in the early part of 1870, there came a day when Gambettasurpassed himself in eloquence. His theme was the grandeur of republicangovernment. Never in his life had he spoken so boldly as then, or withsuch fervor. The ministers of the emperor shrank back in dismay as thisbig-voiced, strong-limbed man hurled forth sentence after sentence likesuccessive peals of irresistible artillery.
As Gambetta rolled forth his sentences, superb in their rhetoric and allablaze with that sort of intense feeling which masters an orator in themoment of his triumph, the face of the lady in the gallery responded tohim with wonderful appreciation. She was no longer calm, unmoved, andalmost severe. She flushed, and her eyes as they met his seemed tosparkle with living fire. When he finished and descended from therostrum he looked at her, and their eyes cried out as significantly asif the two had spoken to each other.
Then Gambetta did what a person of finer breeding would not have done.He hastily scribbled a note, sealed it, and called to his side one ofthe official pages. In the presence of the great assemblage, where hewas for the moment the center of attention, he pointed to the lady inthe gallery and ordered the page to take the note to her.
One may excuse this only on the ground that he was completely carriedaway by his emotion, so that to him there was no one present save thisenigmatically fascinating woman and himself. But the lady on her sidewas wiser; or perhaps a slight delay gave her time to recover herdiscretion. When Gambetta's note was brought to her she took it quietlyand tore it into little pieces without reading it; and then, rising, sheglided through the crowd and disappeared.
Gambetta in his excitement had acted as if she were a mere adventuress.With perfect dignity she had shown him that she was a woman who retainedher self-respect.
Immediately upon the heels of this curious incident came the outbreak ofthe war with Germany. In the war the empire was shattered at Sedan. Therepublic was proclaimed in Paris. The French capital was besieged bya vast German army. Gambetta was made minister of the interior, andremained for a while in Paris even after it had been blockaded. But hisfiery spirit chafed under such conditions. He longed to go forth intothe south of France and arouse his countrymen with a cry to arms againstthe invaders.
Escaping in a balloon, he safely reached the city of Tours; and there heestablished what was practically a dictatorship. He flung himself withtremendous energy into the task of organizing armies, of equipping them,and of directing their movements for the relief of Paris. He did, infact, accomplish wonders. He kept the spirit of the nation stillalive. Three new armies were launched against the Germans. Gambetta waseverywhere and took part in everything that was done. His inexperiencein military affairs, coupled with his impatience of advice, led himto make serious mistakes. Nevertheless, one of his armies practicallydefeated the Germans at Orleans; and could he have had his own way, eventhe fall of Paris would not have ended the war.
"Never," said Gambetta, "shall I consent to peace so long as Francestill has two hundred thousand men under arms and more than a thousandcannon to direct against the enemy!"
But he was overruled by other and less fiery statesmen. Peace was made,and Gambetta retired for a moment into private life. If he had notsucceeded in expelling the German hosts he had, at any rate, madeBismarck hate him, and he had saved the honor of France.
It was while the National Assembly at Versailles was debating the termsof peace with Germany that Gambetta once more delivered a noble andpatriotic speech. As he concluded he felt a strange magnetic attraction;and, sweeping the audience with a glance, he saw before him, not veryfar away, the same woman with the long black gloves, having abouther still an air of mystery, but again meeting his eyes with her own,suffused with feeling.
Gambetta hurried to an anteroom and hastily scribbled the followingnote:
At last I see you once more. Is it really you?
The scrawl was taken to her by a discreet official, and this time shereceived the letter, pressed it to her heart, and then slipped it intothe bodice of her gown. But this time, as before, she left withoutmaking a reply.
It was an encouragement, yet it gave no opening to Gambetta--for shereturned to the National Assembly no more. But now his heart was full ofhope, for he was convinced with a very deep conviction that somewhere,soon, and in some way he would meet this woman, who had become to himone of the intense realities of his life. He did not know her name. Theyhad never exchanged a word. Yet he was sure that time would bring themclose together.
His intuition was unerring. What we call chance often seems to knowwhat it is doing. Within a year after the occurrence that has just beennarrated an old friend of Gambetta's met with an accident which confinedhim to his house. The statesman strolled to his friend's residence. Theaccident was a trifling one, and the mistress of the house was holdinga sort of informal reception, answering questions that were asked her bythe numerous acquaintances who called.
As Gambetta was speaking, of a sudden he saw before him, at theextremity of the room, the lady of his dreams, the sphinx of his wakinghours, the woman who four years earlier had torn up the note which headdressed to her, but who more recently had kept his written words. Bothof them were deeply agitated, yet both of them carried off the situationwithout betraying themselves to others, Gambetta approached, and theyexchanged a few casual commonplaces. But now, close together, eye andvoice spoke of what was in their hearts.
Presently the lady took her leave. Gambetta followed closely. In thestreet he turned to her and said in pleading tones:
"Why did you destroy my letter? You knew I loved you, and yet all theseyears you have kept away from me in silence."
Then the girl--for she was little more than a girl--hesitated for amoment. As he looked upon her face he saw that her eyes were full oftears. At last she spoke with emotion:
"You cannot love me, for I am unworthy of you. Do not urge me. Do notmake promises. Let us say good-by. At least I must first tell you of mystory, for I am one of those women whom no one ever marries."
Gambetta brushed aside her pleadings. He begged that he might see hersoon. Little by little she consented; but she would not see him at herhouse. She knew that his enemies were many and that everything he didwould be used against him. In the end she agreed to meet him in the parkat Versailles, near the Petit Trianon, at eight o'clock in the morning.
When she had made this promise he left her. Already a new inspirationhad come to him, and he felt that with this woman by his side he couldaccomplish anything.
At the appointed hour, in the silence of the park and amid the sunshineof the beautiful morning, the two met once again. Gambetta seized herhands with eagerness and cried out in an exultant tone:
"At last! At last! At last!"
But the woman's eyes were heavy with sorrow, and upon her face there wasa settled melancholy. She trembled at his touch and almost shrank fromhim. Here was seen the impetuosity of the meridional. He had firstspoken to this woman only two days before. He knew nothing of herstation, of her surroundings, of her character. He did not even know hername. Yet one thing he knew absolutely--that she was made for him andthat he must have her for his own. He spoke at once of marriage; but atthis she drew away from him still farther.
"No," she said. "I told you that you must not speak to me until you haveheard my story."
He led her to a great stone bench near by; and, passing his arm abouther waist, he drew her head down to his shoulder as he said:
"Well, tell me. I will listen."
Then this girl of twenty-four, with perfect frankness, because she wasabsolutely loyal, told him why she felt that they must never see eachother any more-much less marry and be happy. She was the daughter of acolonel in the French army. The sudden death of her father had left herpenniless and alone. Coming to Paris at the age of eighteen, she hadgiven lessons in the household of a high officer of the empire. This manhad been attracted by her beauty, and had seduced her.
Later she had secured the means of living modestly, realizing moredeeply each month how dreadful had been her fate and how she had beencut off from the lot of other girls. She felt that her life must be aperpetual penance for what had befallen her through her ignorance andinexperience. She told Gambetta that her name was Leonie Leon. As is thecustom of Frenchwomen who live alone, she styled herself madame. It isdoubtful whether the name by which she passed was that which had beengiven to her at baptism; but, if so, her true name has never beendisclosed.
When she had told the whole of her sad story to Gambetta he made nothingof it. She said to him again:
"You cannot love me. I should only dim your fame. You can have nothingin common with a dishonored, ruined girl. That is what I came here toexplain to you. Let us part, and let us for all time forget each other."
But Gambetta took no heed of what she said. Now that he had foundher, he would not consent to lose her. He seized her slender hands andcovered them with kisses. Again he urged that she should marry him.
Her answer was a curious one. She was a devoted Catholic and would notregard any marriage as valid save a religious marriage. On the otherhand, Gambetta, though not absolutely irreligious, was leading theopposition to the Catholic party in France. The Church to him was not somuch a religious body as a political one, and to it he was unalterablyopposed. Personally, he would have no objections to being married by apriest; but as a leader of the anti-clerical party he felt that he mustnot recognize the Church's claim in any way. A religious marriage woulddestroy his influence with his followers and might even imperil thefuture of the republic.
They pleaded long and earnestly both then and afterward. He urged acivil marriage, but she declared that only a marriage according to therites of the Church could ever purify her past and give her back herself-respect. In this she was absolutely stubborn, yet she did not urgeupon Gambetta that he should destroy his influence by marrying her inchurch.
Through all this interplay of argument and pleading and emotion thetwo grew every moment more hopelessly in love. Then the woman, with awoman's curious subtlety and indirectness, reached a somewhat singularconclusion. She would hear nothing of a civil marriage, because a civilmarriage was no marriage in the eyes of Pope and prelate. On the otherhand, she did not wish Gambetta to mar his political career by goingthrough a religious ceremony. She had heard from a priest that theChurch recognized two forms of betrothal. The usual one looked to amarriage in the future and gave no marriage privileges until after theformal ceremony. But there was another kind of betrothal known to thetheologians as sponsalia de praesente. According to this, if there werean actual betrothal, the pair might have the privileges and rights ofmarriage immediately, if only they sincerely meant to be married in thefuture.
The eager mind of Leonie Leon caught at this bit of ecclesiastical lawand used it with great ingenuity.
"Let us," she said, "be formally betrothed by the interchange of aring, and let us promise each other to marry in the future. After sucha betrothal as this we shall be the same as married; for we shall beacting according to the laws of the Church."
Gambetta gladly gave his promise. A betrothal ring was purchased; andthen, her conscience being appeased, she gave herself completely to herlover. Gambetta was sincere. He said to her:
"If the time should ever come when I shall lose my political station,when I am beaten in the struggle, when I am deserted and alone, will younot then marry me when I ask you?"
And Leonie, with her arms about his neck, promised that she would. Yetneither of them specified what sort of marriage this should be, nor didit seem at the moment as if the question could arise.
For Gambetta was very powerful. He led his party to success in theelection of 1877. Again and again his triumphant oratory mastered theNational Assembly of France. In 1879 he was chosen to be presidentof the Chamber of Deputies. He towered far above the president of therepublic--Jules Grevy, that hard-headed, close-fisted old peasant--andhis star had reached its zenith.
All this time he and Leonie Leon maintained their intimacy, though itwas carefully concealed save from a very few. She lived in a plain butpretty house on the Avenue Perrichont in the quiet quarter of Auteuil;but Gambetta never came there. Where and when they met was a secretguarded very carefully by the few who were his close associates. Butmeet they did continually, and their affection grew stronger every year.Leonie thrilled at the victories of the man she loved; and he found joyin the hours that he spent with her.
Gambetta's need of rest was very great, for he worked at the highesttension, like an engine which is using every pound of steam. Bismarck,whose spies kept him well informed of everything that was happening inParis, and who had no liking for Gambetta, since the latter always spokeof him as "the Ogre," once said to a Frenchman named Cheberry:
"He is the only one among you who thinks of revenge, and who is any sortof a menace to Germany. But, fortunately, he won't last much longer. Iam not speaking thoughtlessly. I know from secret reports what sort ofa life your great man leads, and I know his habits. Why, his life isa life of continual overwork. He rests neither night nor day. Allpoliticians who have led the same life have died young. To be ableto serve one's country for a long time a statesman must marry an uglywoman, have children like the rest of the world, and a country placeor a house to one's self like any common peasant, where he can go andrest."
The Iron Chancellor chuckled as he said this, and he was right. And yetGambetta's end came not so much through overwork as by an accident.
It may be that the ambition of Mme. Leon stimulated him beyond hispowers. However this may be, early in 1882, when he was defeated inParliament on a question which he considered vital, he immediatelyresigned and turned his back on public life. His fickle friends soondeserted him. His enemies jeered and hooted the mention of his name.
He had reached the time which with a sort of prophetic instinct he hadforeseen nearly ten years before. So he turned to the woman who hadbeen faithful and loving to him; and he turned to her with a feeling ofinfinite peace.
"You promised me," he said, "that if ever I was defeated and alone youwould marry me. The time is now."
Then this man, who had exercised the powers of a dictator, who hadlevied armies and shaken governments, and through whose hands there hadpassed thousands of millions of francs, sought for a country home. Hefound for sale a small estate which had once belonged to Balzac, andwhich is known as Les Jardies. It was in wretched repair; yet the smallsum which it cost Gambetta--twelve thousand francs--was practically allthat he possessed. Worn and weary as he was, it seemed to him a haven ofdelightful peace; for here he might live in the quiet country with thestill beautiful woman who was soon to become his wife.
It is not known what form of marriage they at last agreed upon. She mayhave consented to a civil ceremony; or he, being now out of public life,may have felt that he could be married by the Church. The day for theirwedding had been set, and Gambetta was already at Les Jardies. But therecame a rumor that he had been shot. Still further tidings bore the newsthat he was dying. Paris, fond as it was of scandals, immediately spreadthe tale that he had been shot by a jealous woman.
The truth is quite the contrary. Gambetta, in arranging his effects inhis new home, took it upon himself to clean a pair of dueling-pistols;for every French politician of importance must fight duels, and Gambettahad already done so. Unfortunately, one cartridge remained unnoticed inthe pistol which Gambetta cleaned. As he held the pistol-barrel againstthe soft part of his hand the cartridge exploded, and the ball passedthrough the base of the thumb with a rending, spluttering noise.
The wound was not in itself serious, but now the prophecy of Bismarckwas fulfilled. Gambetta had exhausted his vitality; a fever set in, andbefore long he died of internal ulceration.
This was the end of a great career and of a great romance of love.Leonie Leon was half distraught at the death of the lover who was sosoon to be her husband. She wandered for hours in the forest until shereached a convent, where she was received. Afterward she came to Parisand hid herself away in a garret of the slums. All the light of her lifehad gone out. She wished that she had died with him whose glory had beenher life. Friends of Gambetta, however, discovered her and cared for heruntil her death, long afterward, in 1906.
She lived upon the memories of the past, of the swift love that had comeat first sight, but which had lasted unbrokenly; which had given her thepride of conquest, and which had brought her lover both happiness andinspiration and a refining touch which had smoothed away his roughnessand made him fit to stand in palaces with dignity and distinction.
As for him, he left a few lines which have been carefully preserved, andwhich sum up his thought of her. They read:
To the light of my soul; to the star, of my life--Leonie Leon. For ever!For ever!




LADY BLESSINGTON AND COUNT D'ORSAY

Often there has arisen some man who, either by his natural gifts orby his impudence or by the combination of both, has made himself arecognized leader in the English fashionable world. One of the first ofthese men was Richard Nash, usually known as "Beau Nash," who flourishedin the eighteenth century. Nash was a man of doubtful origin; nor washe attractive in his looks, for he was a huge, clumsy creature withfeatures that were both irregular and harsh. Nevertheless, for nearlyfifty years Beau Nash was an arbiter of fashion. Goldsmith, who wrotehis life, declared that his supremacy was due to his pleasing manners,"his assiduity, flattery, fine clothes, and as much wit as the ladieshad whom he addressed." He converted the town of Bath from a rude littlehamlet into an English Newport, of which he was the social autocrat. Heactually drew up a set of written rules which some of the best-born andbest-bred people follow slavishly.
Even better known to us is George Bryan Brummel, commonly called "BeauBrummel," who by his friendship with George IV.--then Prince Regent--wasan oracle at court on everything that related to dress and etiquette andthe proper mode of living. His memory has been kept alive most of all byRichard Mansfield's famous impersonation of him. The play is based uponthe actual facts; for after Brummel had lost the royal favor he died aninsane pauper in the French town of Caen. He, too, had a distinguishedbiographer, since Bulwer-Lytton's novel Pelham is really the narrativeof Brummel's curious career.
Long after Brummel, Lord Banelagh led the gilded youth of London, andit was at this time that the notorious Lola Montez made her firstappearance in the British capital.
These three men--Nash, Brummel, and Ranelagh--had the advantage ofbeing Englishmen, and, therefore, of not incurring the old-time Englishsuspicion of foreigners. A much higher type of social arbiter was aFrenchman who for twenty years during the early part of Queen Victoria'sreign gave law to the great world of fashion, besides exercising adefinite influence upon English art and literature.
This was Count Albert Guillaume d'Orsay, the son of one of Napoleon'sgenerals, and descended by a morganatic marriage from the King ofWurttemburg. The old general, his father, was a man of high courage,impressive appearance, and keen intellect, all of which qualities hetransmitted to his son. The young Count d'Orsay, when he came of age,found the Napoleonic era ended and France governed by Louis XVIII. Theking gave Count d'Orsay a commission in the army in a regiment stationedat Valence in the southeastern part of France. He had already visitedEngland and learned the English language, and he had made somedistinguished friends there, among whom were Lord Byron and ThomasMoore.
On his return to France he began his garrison life at Valence, where heshowed some of the finer qualities of his character. It is not merelythat he was handsome and accomplished and that he had the gift ofwinning the affections of those about him. Unlike Nash and Brummel,he was a gentleman in every sense, and his courtesy was of the highestkind. At the balls given by his regiment, although he was more courtedthan any other officer, he always sought out the plainest girls andshowed them the most flattering attentions. No "wallflowers" were leftneglected when D'Orsay was present.
It is strange how completely human beings are in the hands of fate. Herewas a young French officer quartered in a provincial town in the valleyof the Rhone. Who would have supposed that he was destined to becomenot only a Londoner, but a favorite at the British court, a model offashion, a dictator of etiquette, widely known for his accomplishments,the patron of literary men and of distinguished artists? But all thesethings were to come to pass by a mere accident of fortune.
During his firsts visit to London, which has already been mentioned,Count d'Orsay was invited once or twice to receptions given by the Earland Countess of Blessington, where he was well received, though this wasonly an incident of his English sojourn. Before the story proceedsany further it is necessary to give an account of the Earl and of LadyBlessington, since both of their careers had been, to say the least,unusual.
Lord Blessington was an Irish peer for whom an ancient title had beenrevived. He was remotely descended from the Stuarts of Scotland, andtherefore had royal blood to boast of. He had been well educated, and inmany ways was a man of pleasing manner. On the other hand, he had earlyinherited a very large property which yielded him an income of aboutthirty thousand pounds a year. He had estates in Ireland, and he ownednearly the whole of a fashionable street in London, with the buildingserected on it.
This fortune and the absence of any one who could control him had madehim wilful and extravagant and had wrought in him a curious love ofpersonal display. Even as a child he would clamor to be dressed in themost gorgeous uniforms; and when he got possession of his property hislove of display became almost a monomania. He built a theater as anadjunct to his country house in Ireland and imported players from Londonand elsewhere to act in it. He loved to mingle with the mummers, to tryon their various costumes, and to parade up and down, now as an orientalprince and now as a Roman emperor.
In London he hung about the green-rooms, and was a well-known figurewherever actors or actresses were collected. Such was his love of thestage that he sought to marry into the profession and set his heart on agirl named Mary Campbell Browne, who was very beautiful to look at, butwho was not conspicuous either for her mind or for her morals. When LordBlessington proposed marriage to her she was obliged to tell him thatshe already had one husband still alive, but she was perfectly willingto live with him and dispense with the marriage ceremony. So for severalyears she did live with him and bore him two children.
It speaks well for the earl that when the inconvenient husband died amarriage at once took place and Mrs. Browne became a countess. Then,after other children had been born, the lady died, leaving the earl awidower at about the age of forty. The only legitimate son born of thismarriage followed his mother to the grave; and so for the third time theearldom of Blessington seemed likely to become extinct. The death ofhis wife, however, gave the earl a special opportunity to display hisextravagant tastes. He spent more than four thousand pounds on thefuneral ceremonies, importing from France a huge black velvet catafalquewhich had shortly before been used at the public funeral of Napoleon'smarshal, Duroc, while the house blazed with enormous wax tapers andglittered with cloth of gold.
Lord Blessington soon plunged again into the busy life of London. Havingnow no heir, there was no restraint on his expenditures, and he borrowedlarge sums of money in order to buy additional estates and houses and toexperience the exquisite joy of spending lavishly. At this time he hadhis lands in Ireland, a town house in St. James's Square, another inSeymour Place, and still another which was afterward to become famous asGore House, in Kensington.
Some years before he had met in Ireland a lady called Mrs. MauriceFarmer; and it happened that she now came to London. The earlier storyof her still young life must here be told, because her name afterwardbecame famous, and because the tale illustrates wonderfully well theraw, crude, lawless period of the Regency, when England was fightingher long war with Napoleon, when the Prince Regent was imitating allthe vices of the old French kings, when prize-fighting, deep drinking,dueling, and dicing were practised without restraint in all the largecities and towns of the United Kingdom. It was, as Sir Arthur ConanDoyle has said, "an age of folly and of heroism"; for, while it producedsome of the greatest black-guards known to history, it produced alsosuch men as Wellington and Nelson, the two Pitts, Sheridan, Byron,Shelley, and Sir Walter Scott.
Mrs. Maurice Farmer was the daughter of a small Irish landowner namedRobert Power--himself the incarnation of all the vices of the time.There was little law in Ireland, not even that which comes from publicopinion; and Robert Power rode hard to hounds, gambled recklessly,and assembled in his house all sorts of reprobates, with whom he heldfrightful orgies that lasted from sunset until dawn. His wife and hisyoung daughters viewed him with terror, and the life they led was aperpetual nightmare because of the bestial carousings in which theirfather engaged, wasting his money and mortgaging his estates until theend of his wild career was in plain sight.
There happened to be stationed at Clonmel a regiment of infantry inwhich there served a captain named Maurice St. Leger Farmer. He was aman of some means, but eccentric to a degree. His temper was so utterlyuncontrolled that even his fellow officers could scarcely live withhim, and he was given to strange caprices. It happened that at a ball inClonmel he met the young daughter of Robert Power, then a mere child offourteen years. Captain Farmer was seized with an infatuation for thegirl, and he went almost at once to her father, asking for her hand inmarriage and proposing to settle a sum of money upon her if she marriedhim.
The hard-riding squireen jumped at the offer. His own estate was beingstripped bare. Here was a chance to provide for one of his daughters,or, rather, to get rid of her, and he agreed that she should be marriedout of hand. Going home, he roughly informed the girl that she was tobe the wife of Captain Farmer. He so bullied his wife that she wascompelled to join him in this command.
What was poor little Margaret Power to do? She was only a child. Sheknew nothing of the world. She was accustomed to obey her father as shewould have obeyed some evil genius who had her in his power. There weretears and lamentations. She was frightened half to death; yet for herthere was no help. Therefore, while not yet fifteen her marriage tookplace, and she was the unhappy slave of a half-crazy tyrant. She hadthen no beauty whatsoever. She was wholly undeveloped--thin and pale,and with rough hair that fell over her frightened eyes; yet Farmerwanted her, and he settled his money on her, just as he would have spentthe same amount to gratify any other sudden whim.
The life she led with him for a few months showed him to be more ofa devil than a man. He took a peculiar delight in terrifying her, insubjecting her to every sort of outrage; nor did he refrain even frombeating her with his fists. The girl could stand a great deal, but thiswas too much. She returned to her father's house, where she was receivedwith the bitterest reproaches, but where, at least, she was safe fromharm, since her possession of a dowry made her a person of some smallimportance.
Not long afterward Captain Farmer fell into a dispute with hiscolonel, Lord Caledon, and in the course of it he drew his sword onhis commanding officer. The court-martial which was convened to try himwould probably have had him shot were it not for the very general beliefthat he was insane. So he was simply cashiered and obliged to leave theservice and betake himself elsewhere. Thus the girl whom, he had marriedwas quite free--free to leave her wretched home and even to leaveIreland.
She did leave Ireland and establish herself in London, where she hadsome acquaintances, among them the Earl of Blessington. As already said,he had met her in Ireland while she was living with her husband; and nowfrom time to time he saw her in a friendly way. After the death of hiswife he became infatuated with Margaret Farmer. She was a good dealalone, and his attentions gave her entertainment. Her past experienceled her to have no real belief in love. She had become, however, in asmall way interested in literature and art, with an eager ambition to beknown as a writer. As it happened, Captain Farmer, whose name she bore,had died some months before Lord Blessington had decided to make a newmarriage. The earl proposed to Margaret Farmer, and the two were marriedby special license.
The Countess of Blessington--to give the lady her new title--was nowtwenty-eight years of age and had developed into a woman of greatbeauty. She was noted for the peculiarly vivacious and radiantexpression which was always on her face. She had a kind of vividloveliness accompanied by grace, simplicity, and a form of exquisiteproportions. The ugly duckling had become a swan, for now there was notrace of her former plainness to be seen.
Not yet in her life had love come to her. Her first husband had beenthrust upon her and had treated her outrageously. Her second husband wasmuch older than she; and, though she was not without a certain kindlyfeeling for one who had been kind to her, she married him, first of all,for his title and position.
Having been reared in poverty, she had no conception of the value ofmoney; and, though the earl was remarkably extravagant, the new countesswas even more so. One after another their London houses were openedand decorated with the utmost lavishness. They gave innumerableentertainments, not only to the nobility and to men of rank,but--because this was Lady Blessington's peculiar fad--to artists andactors and writers of all degrees. The American, N. P. Willis, in hisPencilings by the Way, has given an interesting sketch of the countessand her surroundings, while the younger Disraeli (Lord Beaconsfield) hasdepicted D'Orsay as Count Mirabel in Henrietta Temple. Willis says:
In a long library, lined alternately with splendidly bound books andmirrors, and with a deep window of the breadth of the room opening uponHyde Park, I found Lady Blessington alone. The picture, to my eye, asthe door opened, was a very lovely one--a woman of remarkable beauty,half buried in a fauteuil of yellow satin, reading by a magnificentlamp suspended from the center of the arched ceiling. Sofas, couches,ottomans, and busts, arranged in rather a crowded sumptuousness throughthe room; enameled tables, covered with expensive and elegant trifles inevery corner, and a delicate white hand in relief on the back of a book,to which the eye was attracted by the blaze of diamond rings.
All this "crowded sumptuousness" was due to the taste of LadyBlessington. Amid it she received royal dukes, statesmen such asPalmerston, Canning, Castlereagh, Russell, and Brougham, actors suchas Kemble and Matthews, artists such as Lawrence and Wilkie, and men ofletters such as Moore, Bulwer-Lytton, and the two Disraelis. To maintainthis sort of life Lord Blessington raised large amounts of money,totaling about half a million pounds sterling, by mortgaging hisdifferent estates and giving his promissory notes to money-lenders. Ofcourse, he did not spend this vast sum immediately. He might have livedin comparative luxury upon his income; but he was a restless, eager,improvident nobleman, and his extravagances were prompted by the urgingsof his wife.
In all this display, which Lady Blessington both stimulated and shared,there is to be found a psychological basis. She was now verging upon thethirties--a time which is a very critical period in a woman's emotionallife, if she has not already given herself over to love and been lovedin return. During Lady Blessington's earlier years she had suffered inmany ways, and it is probable that no thought of love had entered hermind. She was only too glad if she could escape from the harshnessof her father and the cruelty of her first husband. Then came herdevelopment into a beautiful woman, content for the time to belanguorously stagnant and to enjoy the rest and peace which had come toher.
When she married Lord Blessington her love life had not yet commenced;and, in fact, there could be no love life in such a marriage--a marriagewith a man much older than herself, scatter-brained, showy, and havingno intellectual gifts. So for a time she sought satisfaction in socialtriumphs, in capturing political and literary lions in order to exhibitthem in her salon, and in spending money right and left with a lavishhand. But, after all, in a woman of her temperament none of these thingscould satisfy her inner longings. Beautiful, full of Celtic vivacity,imaginative and eager, such a nature as hers would in the end be starvedunless her heart should be deeply touched and unless all her pent-upemotion could give itself up entirely in the great surrender.
After a few years of London she grew restless and dissatisfied. Hersurroundings wearied her. There was a call within her for something morethan she had yet experienced. The earl, her husband, was by nature noless restless; and so, without knowing the reason--which, indeed, sheherself did not understand--he readily assented to a journey on theContinent.
As they traveled southward they reached at length the town of Valence,where Count d'Orsay was still quartered with his regiment. A vague,indefinable feeling of attraction swept over this woman, who was now awoman of the world and yet quite inexperienced in affairs relating tothe heart. The mere sound of the French officer's voice, the mere sightof his face, the mere knowledge of his presence, stirred her as nothinghad ever stirred her until that time. Yet neither he nor she appears tohave been conscious at once of the secret of their liking. It was enoughthat they were soothed and satisfied with each other's company.
Oddly enough, the Earl of Blessington became as devoted to D'Orsay asdid his wife. The two urged the count to secure a leave of absence andto accompany them to Italy. This he was easily persuaded to do; and thethree passed weeks and months of a languorous and alluring intercourseamong the lakes and the seductive influence of romantic Italy. Justwhat passed between Count d'Orsay and Margaret Blessington at this timecannot be known, for the secret of it has perished with them; but itis certain that before very long they came to know that each wasindispensable to the other.
The situation was complicated by the Earl of Blessington, who, entirelyunsuspicious, proposed that the Count should marry Lady HarrietGardiner, his eldest legitimate daughter by his first wife. He pressedthe match upon the embarrassed D'Orsay, and offered to settle the sumof forty thousand pounds upon the bride. The girl was less than fifteenyears of age. She had no gifts either of beauty or of intelligence; and,in addition, D'Orsay was now deeply in love with her stepmother.
On the other hand, his position with the Blessingtons was daily growingmore difficult. People had begun to talk of the almost open relationsbetween Count d'Orsay and Lady Blessington. Lord Byron, in a letterwritten to the countess, spoke to her openly and in a playful wayof "YOUR D'Orsay." The manners and morals of the time were decidedlyirregular; yet sooner or later the earl was sure to gain some hint ofwhat every one was saying. Therefore, much against his real desire, yetin order to shelter his relations with Lady Blessington, D'Orsay agreedto the marriage with Lady Harriet, who was only fifteen years of age.
This made the intimacy between D'Orsay and the Blessingtons appear to benot unusual; but, as a matter of fact, the marriage was no marriage.The unattractive girl who had become a bride merely to hide theindiscretions of her stepmother was left entirely to herself; while thewhole family, returning to London, made their home together in SeymourPlace.
Could D'Orsay have foreseen the future he would never have done whatmust always seem an act so utterly unworthy of him. For within two yearsLord Blessington fell ill and died. Had not D'Orsay been married hewould now have been free to marry Lady Blessington. As it was, he wasbound fast to her stepdaughter; and since at that time there was nodivorce court in England, and since he had no reason for seekinga divorce, he was obliged to live on through many years in a mostambiguous situation. He did, however, separate himself from his childishbride; and, having done so, he openly took up his residence with LadyBlessington at Gore House. By this time, however, the companionship ofthe two had received a sort of general sanction, and in that easy-goingage most people took it as a matter of course.
The two were now quite free to live precisely as they would. LadyBlessington became extravagantly happy, and Count d'Orsay was acceptedin London as an oracle of fashion. Every one was eager to visit GoreHouse, and there they received all the notable men of the time. Theimprovidence of Lady Blessington, however, was in no respect diminished.She lived upon her jointure, recklessly spending capital as well asinterest, and gathering under her roof a rare museum of artisticworks, from jewels and curios up to magnificent pictures and beautifulstatuary.
D'Orsay had sufficient self-respect not to live upon the money that hadcome to Lady Blessington from her husband. He was a skilful painter, andhe practised his art in a professional way. His portrait of the Duke ofWellington was preferred by that famous soldier to any other that hadbeen made of him. The Iron Duke was, in fact, a frequent visitor at GoreHouse, and he had a very high opinion of Count d'Orsay. Lady Blessingtonherself engaged in writing novels of "high life," some of which werevery popular in their day. But of all that she wrote there remains onlyone book which is of permanent value--her Conversations with Lord Byron,a very valuable contribution to our knowledge of the brilliant poet.
But a nemesis was destined to overtake the pair. Money flowed throughLady Blessington's hands like water, and she could never be brought tounderstand that what she had might not last for ever. Finally, itwas all gone, yet her extravagance continued. Debts were heaped upmountain-high. She signed notes of hand without even reading them. Sheincurred obligations of every sort without a moment's hesitation.
For a long time her creditors held aloof, not believing that herresources were in reality exhausted; but in the end there came a crashas sudden as it was ruinous. As if moved by a single impulse, those towhom she owed money took out judgments against her and descendedupon Gore House in a swarm. This was in the spring of 1849, when LadyBlessington was in her sixtieth year and D'Orsay fifty-one.
It is a curious coincidence that her earliest novel had portrayed thewreck of a great establishment such as her own. Of the scene in GoreHouse Mr. Madden, Lady Blessington's literary biographer, has written:
Numerous creditors, bill-discounters, money-lenders, jewelers,lace-venders, tax-collectors, gas-company agents, all persons havingclaims to urge pressed them at this period simultaneously. An executionfor a debt of four thousand pounds was at length put in by a houselargely engaged in the silk, lace, India-shawl, and fancy-jewelrybusiness.
This sum of four thousand pounds was only a nominal claim, but it openedthe flood-gates for all of Lady Blessington's creditors. Mr. Maddenwrites still further:
On the 10th of May, 1849, I visited Gore House for the last time. Theauction was going on. There was a large assemblage of people of fashion.Every room was thronged; the well-known library-salon, in which theconversaziones took place, was crowded, but not with guests. Thearm-chair in which the lady of the mansion was wont to sit was occupiedby a stout, coarse gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, busily engagedin examining a marble hand extended on a book, the fingers of whichwere modeled from a cast of those of the absent mistress of theestablishment. People, as they passed through the room, poked thefurniture, pulled about the precious objects of art and ornaments ofvarious kinds that lay on the table; and some made jests and ribaldjokes on the scene they witnessed.
At this compulsory sale things went for less than half their value.Pictures by Lawrence and Landseer, a library consisting of thousandsof volumes, vases of exquisite workmanship, chandeliers of ormolu, andprecious porcelains--all were knocked down relentlessly at farcicalprices. Lady Blessington reserved nothing for herself. She knew thatthe hour had struck, and very soon she was on her way to Paris, whitherCount d'Orsay had already gone, having been threatened with arrest by aboot-maker to whom he owed five hundred pounds.
D'Orsay very naturally went to Paris, for, like his father, he hadalways been an ardent Bonapartist, and now Prince Louis Bonaparte hadbeen chosen president of the Second French Republic. During the prince'slong period of exile he had been the guest of Count d'Orsay, who hadhelped him both with money and with influence. D'Orsay now expectedsome return for his former generosity. It came, but it came too late. In1852, shortly after Prince Louis assumed the title of emperor, the countwas appointed director of fine arts; but when the news was brought tohim he was already dying. Lady Blessington died soon after coming toParis, before the end of the year 1849.
Comment upon this tangled story is scarcely needed. Yet one may quotesome sayings from a sort of diary which Lady Blessington called her"Night Book." They seem to show that her supreme happiness lasted onlyfor a little while, and that deep down in her heart she had condemnedherself.
A woman's head is always influenced by her heart; but a man's heart isalways influenced by his head.
The separation of friends by death is less terrible than the divorce oftwo hearts that have loved, but have ceased to sympathize, while memorystill recalls what they once were to each other.
People are seldom tired of the world until the world is tired of them.
A woman should not paint sentiment until she has ceased to inspire it.
It is less difficult for a woman to obtain celebrity by her genius thanto be pardoned for it.
Memory seldom fails when its office is to show us the tombs of ourburied hopes.




BYRON AND THE COUNTESS GUICCIOLI

In 1812, when he was in his twenty-fourth year, Lord Byron was moretalked of than any other man in London. He was in the first flush of hisbrilliant career, having published the early cantos of "Childe Harold."Moreover, he was a peer of the realm, handsome, ardent, and possessing apersonal fascination which few men and still fewer women could resist.
Byron's childhood had been one to excite in him strong feelings ofrevolt, and he had inherited a profligate and passionate nature. Hisfather was a gambler and a spendthrift. His mother was eccentric to adegree. Byron himself, throughout his boyish years, had been morbidlysensitive because of a physical deformity--a lame, misshapen foot.This and the strange treatment which his mother accorded him left himheadstrong, wilful, almost from the first an enemy to whatever wasestablished and conventional.
As a boy, he was remarkable for the sentimental attachments which heformed. At eight years of age he was violently in love with a young girlnamed Mary Duff. At ten his cousin, Margaret Parker, excited in him astrange, un-childish passion. At fifteen came one of the greatestcrises of his life, when he became enamored of Mary Chaworth, whosegrand-father had been killed in a duel by Byron's great-uncle. Young ashe was, he would have married her immediately; but Miss Chaworth wastwo years older than he, and absolutely refused to take seriously thedevotion of a school-boy.
Byron felt the disappointment keenly; and after a short stay atCambridge, he left England, visited Portugal and Spain, and traveledeastward as far as Greece and Turkey. At Athens he wrote the prettylittle poem to the "maid of Athens"--Miss Theresa Macri, daughter ofthe British vice-consul. He returned to London to become at one leap themost admired poet of the day and the greatest social favorite. He waspossessed of striking personal beauty. Sir Walter Scott said of him:"His countenance was a thing to dream of." His glorious eyes, hismobile, eloquent face, fascinated all; and he was, besides, a genius ofthe first rank.
With these endowments, he plunged into the social whirlpool, denyinghimself nothing, and receiving everything-adulation, friendship, andunstinted love. Darkly mysterious stories of his adventures in the Eastmade many think that he was the hero of some of his own poems, suchas "The Giaour" and "The Corsair." A German wrote of him that "he waspositively besieged by women." From the humblest maid-servants up toladies of high rank, he had only to throw his handkerchief to makea conquest. Some women did not even wait for the handkerchief to bethrown. No wonder that he was sated with so much adoration and that hewrote of women:
I regard them as very pretty but inferior creatures. I look on them asgrown-up children; but, like a foolish mother, I am constantly the slaveof one of them. Give a woman a looking-glass and burnt almonds, and shewill be content.
The liaison which attracted the most attention at this time was thatbetween Byron and Lady Caroline Lamb. Byron has been greatly blamed forhis share in it; but there is much to be said on the other side. LadyCaroline was happily married to the Right Hon. William Lamb, afterwardLord Melbourne, and destined to be the first prime minister of QueenVictoria. He was an easy-going, genial man of the world who placed toomuch confidence in the honor of his wife. She, on the other hand, wasa sentimental fool, always restless, always in search of some newexcitement. She thought herself a poet, and scribbled verses, whichher friends politely admired, and from which they escaped as soon aspossible. When she first met Byron, she cried out: "That pale face is myfate!" And she afterward added: "Mad, bad, and dangerous to know!"
It was not long before the intimacy of the two came very near the pointof open scandal; but Byron was the wooed and not the wooer. This woman,older than he, flung herself directly at his head. Naturally enough,it was not very long before she bored him thoroughly. Her romanticimpetuosity became tiresome, and very soon she fell to talking alwaysof herself, thrusting her poems upon him, and growing vexed and peevishwhen he would not praise them. As was well said, "he grew moody and shefretful when their mutual egotisms jarred."
In a burst of resentment she left him, but when she returned, she wasworse than ever. She insisted on seeing him. On one occasion she madeher way into his rooms disguised as a boy. At another time, when shethought he had slighted her, she tried to stab herself with a pair ofscissors. Still later, she offered her favors to any one who would killhim. Byron himself wrote of her:
You can have no idea of the horrible and absurd things that she has saidand done.
Her story has been utilized by Mrs. Humphry Ward in her novel, "TheMarriage of William Ashe."
Perhaps this trying experience led Byron to end his life of dissipation.At any rate, in 1813, he proposed marriage to Miss Anne Millbanke,who at first refused him; but he persisted, and in 1815 the two weremarried. Byron seems to have had a premonition that he was making aterrible mistake. During the wedding ceremony he trembled like a leaf,and made the wrong responses to the clergyman. After the wedding wasover, in handing his bride into the carriage which awaited them, he saidto her:
"Miss Millbanke, are you ready?"
It was a strange blunder for a bridegroom, and one which many regardedat the time as ominous for the future. In truth, no two persons couldhave been more thoroughly mismated--Byron, the human volcano, and hiswife, a prim, narrow-minded, and peevish woman. Their incompatibilitywas evident enough from the very first, so that when they returned fromtheir wedding-journey, and some one asked Byron about his honeymoon, heanswered:
"Call it rather a treacle moon!"
It is hardly necessary here to tell over the story of their domestictroubles. Only five weeks after their daughter's birth, they parted.Lady Byron declared that her husband was insane; while after trying manytimes to win from her something more than a tepid affection, he gave upthe task in a sort of despairing anger. It should be mentioned here, forthe benefit of those who recall the hideous charges made many decadesafterward by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe on the authority of Lady Byron,that the latter remained on terms of friendly intimacy with AugustaLeigh, Lord Byron's sister, and that even on her death-bed she sent anamicable message to Mrs. Leigh.
Byron, however, stung by the bitter attacks that were made upon him,left England, and after traveling down the Rhine through Switzerland,he took up his abode in Venice. His joy at leaving England and riddinghimself of the annoyances which had clustered thick about him, heexpressed in these lines:
    Once more upon the waters! yet once more!    And the waves bound beneath me as a steed    That knows his rider. Welcome to the roar!
Meanwhile he enjoyed himself in reckless fashion. Money poured in uponhim from his English publisher. For two cantos of "Childe Harold" and"Manfred," Murray paid him twenty thousand dollars. For the fourthcanto, Byron demanded and received more than twelve thousand dollars.In Italy he lived on friendly terms with Shelley and Thomas Moore; buteventually he parted from them both, for he was about to enter upon anew phase of his curious career.
He was no longer the Byron of 1815. Four years of high living and muchbrandy-and-water had robbed his features of their refinement. His lookwas no longer spiritual. He was beginning to grow stout. Yet the changehad not been altogether unfortunate. He had lost something of his wildimpetuosity, and his sense of humor had developed. In his thirtiethyear, in fact, he had at last become a man.
It was soon after this that he met a woman who was to be to him forthe rest of his life what a well-known writer has called "a star on thestormy horizon of the poet." This woman was Teresa, Countess Guiccioli,whom he first came to know in Venice. She was then only nineteen yearsof age, and she was married to a man who was more than forty years hersenior. Unlike the typical Italian woman, she was blonde, with dreamyeyes and an abundance of golden hair, and her manner was at once modestand graceful. She had known Byron but a very short time when she foundherself thrilling with a passion of which until then she had neverdreamed. It was written of her:
She had thought of love but as an amusement; yet she now became itsslave.
To this love Byron gave an immediate response, and from that time untilhis death he cared for no other woman. The two were absolutely mated.Nevertheless, there were difficulties which might have been expected.Count Guiccioli, while he seemed to admire Byron, watched him withItalian subtlety. The English poet and the Italian countess metfrequently. When Byron was prostrated by an attack of fever, thecountess remained beside him, and he was just recovering when CountGuiccioli appeared upon the scene and carried off his wife. Byron was indespair. He exchanged the most ardent letters with the countess, yet hedreaded assassins whom he believed to have been hired by her husband.Whenever he rode out, he went armed with sword and pistols.
Amid all this storm and stress, Byron's literary activity wasremarkable. He wrote some of his most famous poems at this time, and hehoped for the day when he and the woman whom he loved might be unitedonce for all. This came about in the end through the persistence of thepair. The Countess Guiccioli openly took up her abode with him, not tobe separated until the poet sailed for Greece to aid the Greeks intheir struggle for independence. This was in 1822, when Byron was in histhirty-fifth year. He never returned to Italy, but died in the historicland for which he gave his life as truly as if he had fallen upon thefield of battle.
Teresa Guiccioli had been, in all but name, his wife for just threeyears. Much, has been said in condemnation of this love-affair; but inmany ways it is less censurable than almost anything in his career. Itwas an instance of genuine love, a love which purified and exalted thisman of dark and moody moments. It saved him from those fitful passionsand orgies of self-indulgence which had exhausted him. It proved to bean inspiration which at last led him to die for a cause approved by allthe world.
As for the woman, what shall we say of her? She came to him unspotted bythe world. A demand for divorce which her husband made was rejected.A pontifical brief pronounced a formal separation between the two. Thecountess gladly left behind "her palaces, her equipages, society, andriches, for the love of the poet who had won her heart."
Unlike the other women who had cared for him, she was unselfish inher devotion. She thought more of his fame than did he himself. EmilioCastelar has written:
She restored him and elevated him. She drew him from the mire and setthe crown of purity upon his brow. Then, when she had recovered thisgreat heart, instead of keeping it as her own possession, she gave it tohumanity.
For twenty-seven years after Byron's death, she remained, as it were,widowed and alone. Then, in her old age, she married the Marquis deBoissy; but the marriage was purely one of convenience. Her heart wasalways Byron's, whom she defended with vivacity. In 1868, she publishedher memoirs of the poet, filled with interesting and affectingrecollections. She died as late as 1873.
Some time between the year 1866 and that of her death, she is said tohave visited Newstead Abbey, which had once been Byron's home. She wasvery old, a widow, and alone; but her affection for the poet-lover ofher youth was still as strong as ever.
Byron's life was short, if measured by years only. Measured byachievement, it was filled to the very full. His genius blazes likea meteor in the records of English poetry; and some of that splendorgleams about the lovely woman who turned him away from vice and follyand made him worthy of his historic ancestry, of his country, and ofhimself.




THE STORY OF MME. DE STAEL

Each century, or sometimes each generation, is distinguished by someespecial interest among those who are given to fancies--not to call themfads. Thus, at the present time, the cultivated few are taken up withwhat they choose to term the "new thought," or the "new criticism," or,on the other hand, with socialistic theories and projects. Thirty yearsago, when Oscar Wilde was regarded seriously by some people, there weremany who made a cult of estheticism. It was just as interesting whentheir leader--
    Walked down Piccadilly with a poppy or a lily               In his medieval hand,
or when Sir William Gilbert and Sir Arthur Sullivan guyed him asBunthorne in "Patience."
When Charles Kingsley was a great expounder of British common sense,"muscular Christianity" was a phrase which was taken up by manyfollowers. A little earlier, Puseyism and a primitive form of socialismwere in vogue with the intellectuals. There are just as many differentfashions in thought as in garments, and they come and go without anyparticular reason. To-day, they are discussed and practised everywhere.To-morrow, they are almost forgotten in the rapid pursuit of somethingnew.
Forty years before the French Revolution burst forth with all itsthunderings, France and Germany were affected by what was generallystyled "sensibility." Sensibility was the sister of sentimentality andthe half-sister of sentiment. Sentiment is a fine thing in itself. It isconsistent with strength and humor and manliness; but sentimentality andsensibility are poor cheeping creatures that run scuttering along theground, quivering and whimpering and asking for perpetual sympathy,which they do not at all deserve.
No one need be ashamed of sentiment. It simply gives temper to theblade, and mellowness to the intellect. Sensibility, on the other hand,is full of shivers and shakes and falsetto notes and squeaks. It is, infact, all humbug, just as sentiment is often all truth.
Therefore, to find an interesting phase of human folly, we may look backto the years which lie between 1756 and 1793 as the era of sensibility.The great prophets of this false god, or goddess, were Rousseau inFrance and Goethe with Schiller in Germany, together with a host ofmidgets who shook and shivered in imitation of their masters. It is notfor us to catalogue these persons. Some of them were great figuresin literature and philosophy, and strong enough to shake aside thesilliness of sensibility; but others, while they professed to be greatas writers or philosophers, are now remembered only because theirdevotion to sensibility made them conspicuous in their own time. Theydabbled in one thing and another; they "cribbed" from every popularwriter of the day. The only thing that actually belonged to them was ahigh degree of sensibility.
And what, one may ask, was this precious thing--this sensibility?
It was really a sort of St. Vitus's dance of the mind, and almost ofthe body. When two persons, in any way interested in each other, werebrought into the same room, one of them appeared to be seized witha rotary movement. The voice rose to a higher pitch than usual, andassumed a tremolo. Then, if the other person was also endowed withsensibility, he or she would rotate and quake in somewhat the samemanner. Their cups of tea would be considerably agitated. They wouldmove about in as unnatural a manner as possible; and when they left theroom, they would do so with gaspings and much waste of breath.
This was not an exhibition of love--or, at least, not necessarilyso. You might exhibit sensibility before a famous poet, or a gallantsoldier, or a celebrated traveler--or, for that matter, before aremarkable buffoon, like Cagliostro, or a freak, like Kaspar Hauser.
It is plain enough that sensibility was entirely an abnormal thing, anddenoted an abnormal state of mind. Only among people like the Germansand French of that period, who were forbidden to take part in publicaffairs, could it have flourished so long, and have put forth suchrank and fetid outgrowths. From it sprang the "elective affinities" ofGoethe, and the loose morality of the French royalists, which rushedon into the roaring sea of infidelity, blasphemy, and anarchy of theRevolution.
Of all the historic figures of that time, there is just one whichto-day stands forth as representing sensibility. In her own time shewas thought to be something of a philosopher, and something more of anovelist. She consorted with all the clever men and women of her age.But now she holds a minute niche in history because of the fact thatNapoleon stooped to hate her, and because she personifies sensibility.
Criticism has stripped from her the rags and tatters of the philosophywhich was not her own. It is seen that she was indebted to the brains ofothers for such imaginative bits of fiction as she put forth in Delphineand Corinne; but as the exponent of sensibility she remains unique. Thiswoman was Anne Louise Germaine Necker, usually known as Mme. de Stael.
There was much about Mile. Necker's parentage that made her interesting.Her father was the Genevese banker and minister of Louis XVI, who failedwretchedly in his attempts to save the finances of France. Her mother,Suzanne Curchod, as a young girl, had won the love of the famous Englishhistorian, Edward Gibbon. She had first refused him, and then almostfrantically tried to get him back; but by this time Gibbon was morecomfortable in single life and less infatuated with Mlle. Curchod, whopresently married Jacques Necker.
M. Necker's money made his daughter a very celebrated "catch." Hermother brought her to Paris when the French capital was brilliant beyonddescription, and yet was tottering to its fall. The rumblings of theRevolution could be heard by almost every ear; and yet society and thecourt, refusing to listen, plunged into the wildest revelry under theleadership of the giddy Marie Antoinette.
It was here that the young girl was initiated into the most elegantforms of luxury, and met the cleverest men of that time--Voltaire,Rousseau, Lamartine, Chateaubriand, Volney. She set herself to be themost accomplished woman of her day, not merely in belles lettres, but inthe natural and political sciences. Thus, when her father was drawingup his monograph on the French finances, Germaine labored hard overa supplementary report, studying documents, records, and the mostcomplicated statistics, so that she might obtain a mastery of thesubject.
"I mean to know everything that anybody knows," she said, with anarrogance which was rather admired in so young a woman.
But, unfortunately, her mind was not great enough to fulfil heraspiration. The most she ever achieved was a fair knowledge of manythings--a knowledge which seemed surprising to the average man, butwhich was superficial enough to the accomplished specialist.
In her twentieth year (1786) it was thought best that she should marry.Her revels, as well as her hard studies, had told upon her health, andher mother believed that she could not be at once a blue-stocking and awoman of the world.
There was something very odd about the relation that existed between theyoung girl and this mother of hers. In the Swiss province where they hadboth been born, the mother had been considered rather bold and forward.Her penchant for Gibbon was only one of a number of adventures thathave been told about her. She was by no means coy with the gallants ofGeneva. Yet, after her marriage, and when she came to Paris, she seemedto be transformed into a sort of Swiss Puritan.
As such, she undertook her daughter's bringing up, and was extremelycareful about everything that Germaine did and about the company shekept. On the other hand, the daughter, who in the city of Calvin hadbeen rather dull and quiet in her ways, launched out into a gaiety suchas she had never known in Switzerland. Mother and daughter, in fact,changed parts. The country beauty of Geneva became the prude of Paris,while the quiet, unemotional young Genevese became the light of all theParisian salons, whether social or intellectual.
The mother was a very beautiful woman. The daughter, who was to becomeso famous, is best described by those two very uncomplimentary Englishwords, "dumpy" and "frumpy." She had bulging eyes--which are notemphasized in the flattering portrait by Gerard--and her hair wasunbecomingly dressed. There are reasons for thinking that Germainebitterly hated her mother, and was intensely jealous of her charmof person. It may be also that Mme. Necker envied the daughter'scleverness, even though that cleverness was little more, in the end,than the borrowing of brilliant things from other persons. At any rate,the two never cared for each other, and Germaine gave to her father theaffection which her mother neither received nor sought.
It was perhaps to tame the daughter's exuberance that a marriage wasarranged for Mlle. Necker with the Baron de Stael-Holstein, who thenrepresented the court of Sweden at Paris. Many eyebrows were lifted whenthis match was announced. Baron de Stael had no personal charm, nor anyreputation for wit. His standing in the diplomatic corps was not veryhigh. His favorite occupations were playing cards and drinking enormousquantities of punch. Could he be considered a match for the extremelyclever Mlle. Necker, whose father had an enormous fortune, and whowas herself considered a gem of wit and mental power, ready to discusspolitical economy, or the romantic movement of socialism, or platoniclove?
Many differed about this. Mlle. Necker was, to be sure, rich and clever;but the Baron de Stael was of an old family, and had a title. Moreover,his easy-going ways--even his punch-drinking and his card-playing--madehim a desirable husband at that time of French social history, when thearistocracy wished to act exactly as it pleased, with wanton license,and when an embassy was a very convenient place into which an indiscreetambassadress might retire when the mob grew dangerous. For Paris was nowapproaching the time of revolution, and all "aristocrats" were more orless in danger.
At first Mme. de Stael rather sympathized with the outbreak of thepeople; but later their excesses drove her back into sympathy withthe royalists. It was then that she became indiscreet and abused theprivilege of the embassy in giving shelter to her friends. She wasobliged to make a sudden flight across the frontier, whence she didnot return until Napoleon loomed up, a political giant on thehorizon--victorious general, consul, and emperor.
Mme. de Stael's relations with Napoleon have, as I remarked above, beenamong her few titles to serious remembrance. The Corsican eagle and thedumpy little Genevese make, indeed, a peculiar pair; and for this reasonwriters have enhanced the oddities of the picture.
"Napoleon," says one, "did not wish any one to be near him who was asclever as himself."
"No," adds another, "Mme. de Stael made a dead set at Napoleon, becauseshe wished to conquer and achieve the admiration of everybody, even ofthe greatest man who ever lived."
"Napoleon found her to be a good deal of a nuisance," observes a third."She knew too much, and was always trying to force her knowledge uponothers."
The legend has sprung up that Mme. de Stael was too wise and witty tobe acceptable to Napoleon; and many women repeated with unction that theconqueror of Europe was no match for this frowsy little woman. It is,perhaps, worth while to look into the facts, and to decide whetherNapoleon was really of so petty a nature as to feel himself inferior tothis rather comic creature, even though at the time many people thoughther a remarkable genius.
In the first place, knowing Napoleon, as we have come to know himthrough the pages of Mme. de Remusat, Frederic Masson, and others, wecan readily imagine the impatience with which the great soldier wouldsit at dinner, hastening to finish his meal, crowding the whole ceremonyinto twenty minutes, gulping a glass or two of wine and a cup of coffee,and then being interrupted by a fussy little female who wanted totalk about the ethics of history, or the possibility of a new form ofgovernment. Napoleon, himself, was making history, and writing it infire and flame; and as for governments, he invented governments all overEurope as suited his imperial will. What patience could he have withone whom an English writer has rather unkindly described as "an uglycoquette, an old woman who made a ridiculous marriage, a blue-stocking,who spent much of her time in pestering men of genius, and drawing fromthem sarcastic comment behind their backs?"
Napoleon was not the sort of a man to be routed in discussion, buthe was most decidedly the sort of man to be bored and irritated bypedantry. Consequently, he found Mme. de Stael a good deal of a nuisancein the salons of Paris and its vicinity. He cared not the least for herepigrams. She might go somewhere else and write all the epigrams shepleased. When he banished her, in 1803, she merely crossed the Rhineinto Germany, and established herself at Weimar.
The emperor received her son, Auguste de Stael-Holstein, with much goodhumor, though he refused the boy's appeal on behalf of his mother.
"My dear baron," said Napoleon, "if your mother were to be in Parisfor two months, I should really be obliged to lock her up in one of thecastles, which would be most unpleasant treatment for me to show a lady.No, let her go anywhere else and we can get along perfectly. All Europeis open to her--Rome, Vienna, St. Petersburg; and if she wishes to writelibels on me, England is a convenient and inexpensive place. Only Parisis just a little too near!"
Thus the emperor gibed the boy--he was only fifteen or sixteen--and madefun of the exiled blue-stocking; but there was not a sign of malice inwhat he said, nor, indeed, of any serious feeling at all. Thelegend about Napoleon and Mme. de Stael must, therefore, go into thewaste-basket, except in so far as it is true that she succeeded inboring him.
For the rest, she was an earlier George Sand--unattractive in person,yet able to attract; loving love for love's sake, though seldomreceiving it in return; throwing herself at the head of everydistinguished man, and generally finding that he regarded her overtureswith mockery. To enumerate the men for whom she professed to care wouldbe tedious, since the record of her passions has no reality about it,save, perhaps, with two exceptions.
She did care deeply and sincerely for Henri Benjamin Constant, thebrilliant politician and novelist. He was one of her coterie in Paris,and their common political sentiments formed a bond of friendshipbetween them. Constant was banished by Napoleon in 1802, and when Mme.de Stael followed him into exile a year later he joined her in Germany.
The story of their relations was told by Constant in Adolphe, while Mme.de Stael based Delphine on her experiences with him. It seems that hewas puzzled by her ardor; she was infatuated by his genius. Togetherthey went through all the phases of the tender passion; and yet, atintervals, they would tire of each other and separate for a while, andshe would amuse herself with other men. At last she really believed thather love for him was entirely worn out.
"I always loved my lovers more than they loved me," she said once, andit was true.
Yet, on the other hand, she was frankly false to all of them, and hencearose these intervals. In one of them she fell in with a young Italiannamed Rocca, and by way of a change she not only amused herself withhim, but even married him. At this time--1811--she was forty-five, whileRocca was only twenty-three--a young soldier who had fought in Spain,and who made eager love to the she-philosopher when he was invalided atGeneva.
The marriage was made on terms imposed by the middle-aged woman whobecame his bride. In the first place, it was to be kept secret; andsecond, she would not take her husband's name, but he must pass himselfoff as her lover, even though she bore him children. The reason she gavefor this extraordinary exhibition of her vanity was that a change ofname on her part would put everybody out.
"In fact," she said, "if Mme. de Stael were to change her name, it wouldunsettle the heads of all Europe!"
And so she married Rocca, who was faithful to her to the end, though shegrew extremely plain and querulous, while he became deaf and soon losthis former charm. Her life was the life of a woman who had, in her ownphrase, "attempted everything"; and yet she had accomplished nothingthat would last. She was loved by a man of genius, but he did not loveher to the end. She was loved by a man of action, and she tired of himvery soon. She had a wonderful reputation for her knowledge of historyand philosophy, and yet what she knew of those subjects is now seen tobe merely the scraps and borrowings of others.
Something she did when she introduced the romantic literature intoFrance; and there are passages from her writings which seem worthy ofpreservation. For instance, we may quote her outburst with regard tounhappy marriages. "It was the subject," says Mr. Gribble, "on which shehad begun to think before she was married, and which continued to haunther long after she was left a widow; though one suspects that the word'marriage' became a form of speech employed to describe her relations,not with her husband, but with her lovers." The passage to which I referis as follows:
In an unhappy marriage, there is a violence of distress surpassing allother sufferings in the world. A woman's whole soul depends upon theconjugal tie. To struggle against fate alone, to journey to the gravewithout a friend to support you or to regret you, is an isolation ofwhich the deserts of Arabia give but a faint and feeble idea. Whenall the treasure of your youth has been given in vain, when you can nolonger hope that the reflection of these first rays will shine upon theend of your life, when there is nothing in the dusk to remind you ofthe dawn, and when the twilight is pale and colorless as a livid specterthat precedes the night, your heart revolts, and you feel that you havebeen robbed of the gifts of God upon earth.
Equally striking is another prose passage of hers, which seems less thecareful thought of a philosopher than the screeching of a termagant. Itis odd that the first two sentences recall two famous lines of Byron:
    Man's love is of man's life a thing apart;    'Tis woman's whole existence.
The passage by Mme. de Stael is longer and less piquant:
Love is woman's whole existence. It is only an episode in the livesof men. Reputation, honor, esteem, everything depends upon how a womanconducts herself in this regard; whereas, according to the rules ofan unjust world, the laws of morality itself are suspended in men'srelations with women. They may pass as good men, though they have causedwomen the most terrible suffering which it is in the power of one humanbeing to inflict upon another. They may be regarded as loyal, thoughthey have betrayed them. They may have received from a woman marks ofa devotion which would so link two friends, two fellow soldiers, thateither would feel dishonored if he forgot them, and they may considerthemselves free of all obligations by attributing the services tolove--as if this additional gift of love detracted from the value of therest!
One cannot help noticing how lacking in neatness of expression is thiswoman who wrote so much. It is because she wrote so much that she wrotein such a muffled manner. It is because she thought so much that herreflections were either not her own, or were never clear. It is becauseshe loved so much, and had so many lovers--Benjamin Constant; VincenzoMonti, the Italian poet; M. de Narbonne, and others, as well as youngRocca--that she found both love and lovers tedious.
She talked so much that her conversation was almost always mere personalopinion. Thus she told Goethe that he never was really brilliant untilafter he had got through a bottle of champagne. Schiller said that totalk with her was to have a "rough time," and that after she left him,he always felt like a man who was just getting over a serious illness.She never had time to do anything very well.
There is an interesting glimpse of her in the recollections of Dr.Bollmann, at the period when Mme. de Stael was in her prime. The worthydoctor set her down as a genius--an extraordinary, eccentric woman inall that she did. She slept but a few hours out of the twenty-four, andwas uninterruptedly and fearfully busy all the rest of the time. Whileher hair was being dressed, and even while she breakfasted, she used tokeep on writing, nor did she ever rest sufficiently to examine what shehad written.
Such then was Mme. de Stael, a type of the time in which she lived, sofar as concerns her worship of sensibility--of sensibility, and notof love; for love is too great to be so scattered and made a thing toprattle of, to cheapen, and thus destroy. So we find at the last thatGermaine de Stael, though she was much read and much feted and muchfollowed, came finally to that last halting-place where confessedlyshe was merely an old woman, eccentric, and unattractive. She sued herformer lovers for the money she had lent them, she scolded and foundfault--as perhaps befits her age.
But such is the natural end of sensibility, and of the woman whotypifies it for succeeding generations.




THE STORY OF KARL MARX

Some time ago I entered a fairly large library--one of more than twohundred thousand volumes--to seek the little brochure on Karl Marxwritten by his old friend and genial comrade Wilhelm Liebknecht. It wasin the card catalogue. As I made a note of its number, my friend thelibrarian came up to me, and I asked him whether it was not strangethat a man like Marx should have so many books devoted to him, for I hadroughly reckoned the number at several hundred.
"Not at all," said he; "and we have here only a feeble nucleus of theMarx literature--just enough, in fact, to give you a glimpse of whatthat literature really is. These are merely the books written by Marxhimself, and the translations of them, with a few expository monographs.Anything like a real Marx collection would take up a special room inthis library, and would have to have its own separate catalogue. Yousee that even these two or three hundred books contain large volumesof small pamphlets in many languages--German, English, French, Italian,Russian, Polish, Yiddish, Swedish, Hungarian, Spanish; and here," heconcluded, pointing to a recently numbered card, "is one in Japanese."
My curiosity was sufficiently excited to look into the matter somewhatfurther. I visited another library, which was appreciably larger, andwhose managers were evidently less guided by their prejudices. Here wereseveral thousand books on Marx, and I spent the best part of the day inlooking them over.
What struck me as most singular was the fact that there was scarcelya volume about Marx himself. Practically all the books dealt with histheory of capital and his other socialistic views. The man himself, hispersonality, and the facts of his life were dismissed in the most meagerfashion, while his economic theories were discussed with somethingthat verged upon fury. Even such standard works as those of Mehring andSpargo, which profess to be partly biographical, sum up the personalside of Marx in a few pages. In fact, in the latter's preface he seemsconscious of this defect, and says:
Whether socialism proves, in the long span of centuries, to be good orevil, a blessing to men or a curse, Karl Marx must always be an objectof interest as one of the great world-figures of immortal memory. Asthe years go by, thoughtful men and women will find the same interest instudying the life and work of Marx that they do in studying the lifeand work of Cromwell, of Wesley, or of Darwin, to name three immortalworld-figures of vastly divergent types.
Singularly little is known of Karl Marx, even by his most ardentfollowers. They know his work, having studied his Das Kapital with thedevotion and earnestness with which an older generation of Christiansstudied the Bible, but they are very generally unacquainted with theman himself. Although more than twenty-six years have elapsed since thedeath of Marx, there is no adequate biography of him in any language.
Doubtless some better-equipped German writer, such as Franz Mehring orEduard Bernstein, will some day give us the adequate and full biographyfor which the world now waits.
Here is an admission that there exists no adequate biography of KarlMarx, and here is also an intimation that simply as a man, and notmerely as a great firebrand of socialism, Marx is well worth studying.And so it has occurred to me to give in these pages one episode of hiscareer that seems to me quite curious, together with some significanttouches concerning the man as apart from the socialist. Let thethousands of volumes already in existence suffice for the latter. Themotto of this paper is not the Vergilian "Arms and the man I sing,"but simply "The man I sing"--and the woman. Karl Marx was born nearlyninety-four years ago--May 5, 1818--in the city which the French callTreves and the Germans Trier, among the vine-clad hills of the Moselle.Today, the town is commonplace enough when you pass through it, but whenyou look into its history, and seek out that history's evidences, youwill find that it was not always a rather sleepy little place. It wasone of the chosen abodes of the Emperors of the West, after Romebegan to be governed by Gauls and Spaniards, rather than by Romans andItalians. The traveler often pauses there to see the Porta Nigra, thatimmense gate once strongly fortified, and he will doubtless visit alsowhat is left of the fine baths and amphitheater.
Treves, therefore, has a right to be termed imperial, and it wasthe birthplace of one whose sway over the minds of men has been bothimperial and imperious.
Karl Marx was one of those whose intellectual achievements were so greatas to dwarf his individuality and his private life. What he taughtwith almost terrific vigor made his very presence in the Continentalmonarchies a source of eminent danger. He was driven from country tocountry. Kings and emperors were leagued together against him. Soldierswere called forth, and blood was shed because of him. But, little bylittle, his teaching seems to have leavened the thought of the wholecivilized world, so that to-day thousands who barely know his name aredeeply affected by his ideas, and believe that the state should controland manage everything for the good of all.
Marx seems to have inherited little from either of his parents. Hisfather, Heinrich Marx, was a provincial Jewish lawyer who had adoptedChristianity, probably because it was expedient, and because it enabledhim to hold local offices and gain some social consequence. He hadchanged his name from Mordecai to Marx.
The elder Marx was very shrewd and tactful, and achieved a fair positionamong the professional men and small officials in the city of Treves.He had seen the horrors of the French Revolution, and was philosopherenough to understand the meaning of that mighty upheaval, and of theNapoleonic era which followed.
Napoleon, indeed, had done much to relieve his race from pettyoppression. France made the Jews in every respect the equals of theGentiles. One of its ablest marshals--Massena--was a Jew, and therefore,when the imperial eagle was at the zenith of its flight, the Jews inevery city and town of Europe were enthusiastic admirers of Napoleon,some even calling him the Messiah.
Karl Marx's mother, it is certain, endowed him with none of his gifts.She was a Netherlandish Jewess of the strictly domestic and conservativetype, fond of her children and her home, and detesting any talk thatlooked to revolutionary ideas or to a change in the social order. Shebecame a Christian with her husband, but the word meant little to her.It was sufficient that she believed in God; and for this she was teasedby some of her skeptical friends. Replying to them, she uttered the onlyepigram that has ever been ascribed to her.
"Yes," she said, "I believe in God, not for God's sake, but for my own."
She was so little affected by change of scene that to the day of herdeath she never mastered German, but spoke almost wholly in her nativeDutch. Had we time, we might dwell upon the unhappy paradox of her life.In her son Karl she found an especial joy, as did her husband. Had thefather lived beyond Karl's early youth, he would doubtless have beengreatly pained by the radicalism of his gifted son, as well as by hispersonal privations. But the mother lived until 1863, while Karl waseverywhere stirring the fires of revolution, driven from land to land,both feared and persecuted, and often half famished. As Mr. Spargo says:
It was the irony of life that the son, who kindled a mighty hope in thehearts of unnumbered thousands of his fellow human beings, a hope thatis today inspiring millions of those who speak his name with reverenceand love, should be able to do that only by destroying his mother's hopeand happiness in her son, and that every step he took should fill herheart with a great agony.
When young Marx grew out of boyhood into youth, he was attractive to allthose who met him. Tall, lithe, and graceful, he was so extremely darkthat his intimates called him "der neger"--"the negro." His looselytossing hair gave to him a still more exotic appearance; but his eyeswere true and frank, his nose denoted strength and character, and hismouth was full of kindliness in its expression. His lineaments were notthose of the Jewish type.
Very late in life--he died in 1883--his hair and beard turned white,but to the last his great mustache was drawn like a bar across hisface, remaining still as black as ink, and making his appearance verystriking. He was full of fun and gaiety. As was only natural, there sooncame into his life some one who learned to love him, and to whom, in histurn, he gave a deep and unbroken affection.
There had come to Treves--which passed from France to Prussia withthe downfall of Napoleon--a Prussian nobleman, the Baron Ludwig vonWestphalen, holding the official title of "national adviser." The baronwas of Scottish extraction on his mother's side, being connected withthe ducal family of Argyll. He was a man of genuine rank, and might haveshown all the arrogance and superciliousness of the average Prussianofficial; but when he became associated with Heinrich Marx he evincednone of that condescending manner. The two men became firm friends, andthe baron treated the provincial lawyer as an equal.
The two families were on friendly terms. Von Westphalen's infantdaughter, who had the formidable name of Johanna Bertha Julie Jenny vonWestphalen, but who was usually spoken of as Jenny, became, in time, anintimate of Sophie Marx. She was four years older than Karl, but the twogrew up together--he a high-spirited, manly boy, and she a lovely andromantic girl.
The baron treated Karl as if the lad were a child of his own. Heinfluenced him to love romantic literature and poetry by interpretingto him the great masterpieces, from Homer and Shakespeare to Goethe andLessing. He made a special study of Dante, whose mysticism appealed tohis somewhat dreamy nature, and to the religious instinct that alwayslived in him, in spite of his dislike for creeds and churches.
The lore that he imbibed in early childhood stood Karl in good steadwhen he began his school life, and his preparation for the university.He had an absolute genius for study, and was no less fond of the sportsand games of his companions, so that he seemed to be marked out forsuccess. At sixteen years of age he showed a precocious ability forplanning and carrying out his work with thoroughness. His mind wasevidently a creative mind, one that was able to think out difficultproblems without fatigue. His taste was shown in his fondness for theclassics, in studying which he noted subtle distinctions of meaningthat usually escape even the mature scholar. Penetration, thoroughness,creativeness, and a capacity for labor were the boy's chiefcharacteristics.
With such gifts, and such a nature, he left home for the university ofBonn. Here he disappointed all his friends. His studies were neglected;he was morose, restless, and dissatisfied. He fell into a number ofscrapes, and ran into debt through sundry small extravagances. All thereports that reached his home were most unsatisfactory. What had comeover the boy who had worked so hard in the gymnasium at Treves?
The simple fact was that he had became love-sick. His separation fromJenny von Westphalen had made him conscious of a feeling which he hadlong entertained without knowing it. They had been close companions. Hehad looked into her beautiful face and seen the luminous response of herlovely eyes, but its meaning had not flashed upon his mind. He was notold enough to have a great consuming passion, he was merely conscious ofher charm. As he could see her every day, he did not realize how much hewanted her, and how much a separation from her would mean.
As "absence makes the heart grow fonder," so it may suddenly draw asidethe veil behind which the truth is hidden. At Bonn young Marx felt asif a blaze of light had flashed before him; and from that momenthis studies, his companions, and the ambitions that he had hithertocherished all seemed flat and stale. At night and in the daytime therewas just one thing which filled his mind and heart--the beautiful visionof Jenny von Westphalen.
Meanwhile his family, and especially his father, had become anxious atthe reports which reached them. Karl was sent for, and his stay at Bonnwas ended.
Now that he was once more in the presence of the girl who charmed himso, he recovered all his old-time spirits. He wooed her ardently, andthough she was more coy, now that she saw his passion, she did notdiscourage him, but merely prolonged the ecstasy of this wonderfullove-making. As he pressed her more and more, and no one guessed thestory, there came a time when she was urged to let herself becomeengaged to him.
Here was seen the difference in their ages--a difference that had aneffect upon their future. It means much that a girl should be four yearsolder than the man who seeks her hand. She is four years wiser; and agirl of twenty is, in fact, a match for a youth of twenty-five. Broughtup as she had been, in an aristocratic home, with the blood of two noblefamilies in her veins, and being wont to hear the easy and somewhatcynical talk of worldly people, she knew better than poor Karl theun-wisdom of what she was about to do.
She was noble, the daughter of one high official and the sister ofanother. Those whom she knew were persons of rank and station. On theother hand, young Marx, though he had accepted Christianity, was the sonof a provincial Jewish lawyer, with no fortune, and with a bad record atthe university. When she thought of all these things, she may well havehesitated; but the earnest pleading and intense ardor of Karl Marxbroke down all barriers between them, and they became engaged, withoutinforming Jenny's father of their compact. Then they parted for a while,and Karl returned to his home, filled with romantic thoughts.
He was also full of ambition and of desire for achievement. He had wonthe loveliest girl in Treves, and now he must go forth into the worldand conquer it for her sake. He begged his father to send him toBerlin, and showed how much more advantageous was that new and splendiduniversity, where Hegel's fame was still in the ascendent.
In answer to his father's questions, the younger Marx replied:
"I have something to tell you that will explain all; but first you mustgive me your word that you will tell no one."
"I trust you wholly," said the father. "I will not reveal what you maysay to me."
"Well," returned the son, "I am engaged to marry Jenny von Westphalen.She wishes it kept a secret from her father, but I am at liberty to tellyou of it."
The elder Marx was at once shocked and seriously disturbed. Baronvon Westphalen was his old and intimate friend. No thought of romancebetween their children had ever come into his mind. It seemed disloyalto keep the verlobung of Karl and Jenny a secret; for should it berevealed, what would the baron think of Marx? Their disparity of rankand fortune would make the whole affair stand out as something wrong andunderhand.
The father endeavored to make his son see all this. He begged him to goand tell the baron, but young Marx was not to be persuaded.
"Send me to Berlin," he said, "and we shall again be separated; but Ishall work and make a name for myself, so that when I return neitherJenny nor her father will have occasion to be disturbed by ourengagement."
With these words he half satisfied his father, and before long he wassent to Berlin, where he fell manfully upon his studies. His fatherhad insisted that he should study law; but his own tastes were forphilosophy and history. He attended lectures in jurisprudence "as anecessary evil," but he read omnivorously in subjects that were nearerto his heart. The result was that his official record was not muchbetter than it had been at Bonn.
The same sort of restlessness, too, took possession of him when hefound that Jenny would not answer his letters. No matter how eagerly andtenderly he wrote to her, there came no reply. Even the most passionatepleadings left her silent and unresponsive. Karl could not complain, forshe had warned him that she would not write to him. She felt that theirengagement, being secret, was anomalous, and that until her family knewof it she was not free to act as she might wish.
Here again was seen the wisdom of her maturer years; but Karl could notbe equally reasonable. He showered her with letters, which still shewould not answer. He wrote to his father in words of fire. At last,driven to despair, he said that he was going to write to the Baron vonWestphalen, reveal the secret, and ask for the baron's fatherly consent.
It seemed a reckless thing to do, and yet it turned out to be thewisest. The baron knew that such an engagement meant a social sacrifice,and that, apart from the matter of rank, young Marx was without anyfortune to give the girl the luxuries to which she had been accustomed.Other and more eligible suitors were always within view. But here Jennyherself spoke out more strongly than she had ever done to Karl. Shewas willing to accept him with what he was able to give her. She carednothing for any other man, and she begged her father to make both ofthem completely happy.
Thus it seemed that all was well, yet for some reason or otherJenny would not write to Karl, and once more he was almost driven todistraction. He wrote bitter letters to his father, who tried to comforthim. The baron himself sent messages of friendly advice, but what youngman in his teens was ever reasonable? So violent was Karl that at lasthis father wrote to him:
I am disgusted with your letters. Their unreasonable tone is loathsometo me. I should never had expected it of you. Haven't you been luckyfrom your cradle up?
Finally Karl received one letter from his betrothed--a letter thattransfused him with ecstatic joy for about a day, and then sent himback to his old unrest. This, however, may be taken as a part of Marx'scurious nature, which was never satisfied, but was always reaching aftersomething which could not be had.
He fell to writing poetry, of which he sent three volumes toJenny--which must have been rather trying to her, since the verse wasvery poor. He studied the higher mathematics, English and Italian,some Latin, and a miscellaneous collection of works on history andliterature. But poetry almost turned his mind. In later years he wrote:
Everything was centered on poetry, as if I were bewitched by someuncanny power.
Luckily, he was wise enough, after a time, to recognize how haltingwere his poems when compared with those of the great masters; and so heresumed his restless, desultory work. He still sent his father lettersthat were like wild cries. They evoked, in reply, a very natural burstof anger:
Complete disorder, silly wandering through all branches of science,silly brooding at the burning oil-lamp! In your wildness you see withfour eyes--a horrible setback and disregard for everything decent. Andin the pursuit of this senseless and purposeless learning you thinkto raise the fruits which are to unite you with your beloved one! Whatharvest do you expect to gather from them which will enable you tofulfil your duty toward her?
Writing to him again, his father speaks of something that Karl hadwritten as "a mad composition, which denotes clearly how you waste yourability and spend nights in order to create such monstrosities." Theyoung man was even forbidden to return home for the Easter holidays.This meant giving up the sight of Jenny, whom he had not seen for awhole year. But fortune arranged it otherwise; for not many weeks laterdeath removed the parent who had loved him and whom he had loved, thoughneither of them could understand the other. The father represented theold order of things; the son was born to discontent and to look forwardto a new heaven and a new earth.
Returning to Berlin, Karl resumed his studies; but as before, theywere very desultory in their character, and began to run upon socialquestions, which were indeed setting Germany into a ferment. He took hisdegree, and thought of becoming an instructor at the university of Jena;but his radicalism prevented this, and he became the editor of a liberalnewspaper, which soon, however, became so very radical as to lead to hiswithdrawal.
It now seemed best that Marx should seek other fields of activity. Toremain in Germany was dangerous to himself and discreditable to Jenny'srelatives, with their status as Prussian officials. In the summer of1843, he went forth into the world--at last an "international." Jenny,who had grown to believe in him as against her own family, asked fornothing better than to wander with him, if only they might be married.And they were married in this same summer, and spent a short honeymoonat Bingen on the Rhine--made famous by Mrs. Norton's poem. It was thebrief glimpse of sunshine that was to precede year after year of anxietyand want.
Leaving Germany, Marx and Jenny went to Paris, where he became known tosome of the intellectual lights of the French capital, such as Bakunin,the great Russian anarchist, Proudhon, Cabet, and Saint-Simon. Mostimportant of all was his intimacy with the poet Heine, that marvelouscreature whose fascination took on a thousand forms, and whom no onecould approach without feeling his strange allurement.
Since Goethe's death, down to the present time, there has been no figurein German literature comparable to Heine. His prose was exquisite. Hispoetry ran through the whole gamut of humanity and of the sensationsthat come to us from the outer world. In his poems are sweet melodiesand passionate cries of revolt, stirring ballads of the sea and tenderlove-songs--strange as these last seem when coming from this cynic.
For cynic he was, deep down in his heart, though his face, when inrepose, was like the conventional pictures of Christ. His fascinationsdestroyed the peace of many a woman; and it was only after many years ofself-indulgence that he married the faithful Mathilde Mirat in whathe termed a "conscience marriage." Soon after he went to his"mattress-grave," as he called it, a hopeless paralytic.
To Heine came Marx and his beautiful bride. One may speculate as toJenny's estimate of her husband. Since his boyhood, she had not seen himvery much. At that time he was a merry, light-hearted youth, a jovialcomrade, and one of whom any girl would be proud. But since his longstay in Berlin, and his absorption in the theories of men like Engelsand Bauer, he had become a very different sort of man, at least to her.
Groping, lost in brown studies, dreamy, at times morose, he was by nomeans a sympathetic and congenial husband for a high-bred, spiritedgirl, such as Jenny von Westphalen. His natural drift was toward abeer-garden, a group of frowsy followers, the reek of vile tobacco, andthe smell of sour beer. One cannot but think that his beautiful wifemust have been repelled by this, though with her constant nature shestill loved him.
In Heinrich Heine she found a spirit that seemed akin to hers. Mr.Spargo says--and in what he says one must read a great deal between thelines:
The admiration of Jenny Marx for the poet was even more ardent thanthat of her husband. He fascinated her because, as she said, he was "somodern," while Heine was drawn to her because she was "so sympathetic."
It must be that Heine held the heart of this beautiful woman in hishand. He knew so well the art of fascination; he knew just how to supplythe void which Marx had left. The two were indeed affinities in heartand soul; yet for once the cynical poet stayed his hand, and said noword that would have been disloyal to his friend. Jenny loved him with alove that might have blazed into a lasting flame; but fortunately thereappeared a special providence to save her from herself. The Frenchgovernment, at the request of the King of Prussia, banished Marx fromits dominions; and from that day until he had become an old man he wasa wanderer and an exile, with few friends and little money, sustained bynothing but Jenny's fidelity and by his infinite faith in a cause thatcrushed him to the earth.
There is a curious parallel between the life of Marx and that of RichardWagner down to the time when the latter discovered a royal patron.Both of them were hounded from country to country; both of themworked laboriously for so scanty a living as to verge, at times, uponstarvation. Both of them were victims to a cause in which they earnestlybelieved--an economic cause in the one case, an artistic cause inthe other. Wagner's triumph came before his death, and the world hasaccepted his theory of the music-drama. The cause of Marx is far greaterand more tremendous, because it strikes at the base of human life andsocial well-being.
The clash between Wagner and his critics was a matter of poetry anddramatic music. It was not vital to the human race. The cause of Marxis one that is only now beginning to be understood and recognized bymillions of men and women in all the countries of the earth. Inhis lifetime he issued a manifesto that has become a classic amongeconomists. He organized the great International Association of Workmen,which set all Europe in a blaze and extended even to America. His greatbook, "Capital"--Das Kapital--which was not completed until the lastyears of his life, is read to-day by thousands as an almost sacred work.
Like Wagner and his Minna, the wife of Marx's youth clung to him throughhis utmost vicissitudes, denying herself the necessities of life so thathe might not starve. In London, where he spent his latest days, he wassecure from danger, yet still a sort of persecution seemed to followhim. For some time, nothing that he wrote could find a printer. Whereverhe went, people looked at him askance. He and his six children livedupon the sum of five dollars a week, which was paid him by the New YorkTribune, through the influence of the late Charles A. Dana. When hislast child was born, and the mother's life was in serious danger, Marxcomplained that there was no cradle for the baby, and a little laterthat there was no coffin for its burial.
Marx had ceased to believe in marriage, despised the church, and carednothing for government. Yet, unlike Wagner, he was true to the woman whohad given up so much for him. He never sank to an artistic degeneracy.Though he rejected creeds, he was nevertheless a man of genuinereligious feeling. Though he believed all present government to be anevil, he hoped to make it better, or rather he hoped to substitute forit a system by which all men might get an equal share of what it isright and just for them to have.
Such was Marx, and thus he lived and died. His wife, who had long beencut off from her relatives, died about a year before him. When she wasburied, he stumbled and fell into her grave, and from that time untilhis own death he had no further interest in life.
He had been faithful to a woman and to a cause. That cause was sotremendous as to overwhelm him. In sixty years only the first greatstirrings of it could be felt. Its teachings may end in nothing, butonly a century or more of effort and of earnest striving can make itplain whether Karl Marx was a world-mover or a martyr to a cause thatwas destined to be lost.




FERDINAND LASSALLE AND HELENE VON DONNIGES

The middle part of the nineteenth century is a period which has becomemore or less obscure to most Americans and Englishmen. At one end thethunderous campaigns of Napoleon are dying away. In the latter partof the century we remember the gorgeousness of the Tuileries, the fouryears' strife of our own Civil War, and then the golden drift of peacewith which the century ended. Between these two extremes there is astretch of history which seems to lack interest for the average studentof to-day.
In America, that was a period when we took little interest in themovement of affairs on the continent of Europe. It would not be easy,for instance, to imagine an American of 1840 cogitating on problems ofsocialism, or trying to invent some new form of arbeiterverein. GeneralChoke was still swindling English emigrants. The Young Columbian wasstill darting out from behind a table to declare how thoroughly hedefied the British lion. But neither of these patriots, any more thantheir English compeers, was seriously disturbed about the interests ofthe rest of the world. The Englishman was contentedly singing "God Savethe Queen!" The American, was apostrophizing the bird of freedomwith the floridity of rhetoric that reached its climax in the "PogramDefiance." What the Dutchies and Frenchies were doing was little more toan Englishman than to an American.
Continental Europe was a mystery to English-speaking people. Those whotraveled abroad took their own servants with them, spoke only English,and went through the whole European maze with absolute indifference. Tothem the socialist, who had scarcely received a name, was an imaginarybeing. If he existed, he was only a sort of offspring of the Napoleonicwars--a creature who had not yet fitted into the ordinary course ofthings. He was an anomaly, a person who howled in beer-houses, and whowould presently be regulated, either by the statesmen or by the police.
When our old friend, Mark Tapley, was making with his master a homewardvoyage to Britain, what did he know or even care about the politics ofFrance, or Germany, or Austria, or Russia? Not the slightest, you may besure. Mark and his master represented the complete indifference of theEnglishman or American--not necessarily a well-bred indifference, butan indifference that was insular on the one hand and republican onthe other. If either of them had heard of a gentleman who pillaged anunmarried lady's luggage in order to secure a valuable paper for anotherlady, who was married, they would both have looked severely at thisabnormal person, and the American would doubtless have added a remarkwhich had something to do with the matchless purity of Columbia'sdaughters.
If, again, they had been told that Ferdinand Lassalle had joined in thegreat movement initiated by Karl Marx, it is absolutely certain thatneither the Englishman nor the American could have given you theslightest notion as to who these individuals were. Thrones mightbe tottering all over Europe; the red flag might wave in a score ofcities--what would all this signify, so long as Britannia ruled thewaves, while Columbia's feathered emblem shrieked defiance threethousand miles away?
And yet few more momentous events have happened in a century than theunion which led one man to give his eloquence to the social cause, andthe other to suffer for that cause until his death. Marx had the higherthought, but his disciple Lassalle had the more attractive way ofpresenting it. It is odd that Marx, today, should lie in a squalidcemetery, while the whole western world echoes with his praises,and that Lassalle--brilliant, clear-sighted, and remarkable for hispenetrating genius--should have lived in luxury, but should now knownothing but oblivion, even among those who shouted at his eloquence andran beside him in the glory of his triumph.
Ferdinand Lassalle was a native of Breslau, the son of a wealthyJewish silk-merchant. Heymann Lassal--for thus the father spelled hisname--stroked his hands at young Ferdinand's cleverness, but he meant itto be a commercial cleverness. He gave the boy a thorough education atthe University of Breslau, and later at Berlin. He was an affectionateparent, and at the same time tyrannical to a degree.
It was the old story where the father wishes to direct every step thathis son takes, and where the son, bursting out into youthful manhood,feels that he has the right to freedom. The father thinks how he hastoiled for the son; the son thinks that if this toil were given forlove, it should not be turned into a fetter and restraint. YoungLassalle, instead of becoming a clever silk-merchant, insisted on auniversity career, where he studied earnestly, and was admitted to themost cultured circles.
Though his birth was Jewish, he encountered little prejudice against hisrace. Napoleon had changed the old anti-Semitic feeling of fifty yearsbefore to a liberalism that was just beginning to be strongly felt inGermany, as it had already been in France. This was true in general, butespecially true of Lassalle, whose features were not of a Semitic type,who made friends with every one, and who was a favorite in many salons.His portraits make him seem a high-bred and high-spirited Prussian,with an intellectual and clean-cut forehead; a face that has a sense ofhumor, and yet one capable of swift and cogent thought.
No man of ordinary talents could have won the admiration of so manycompeers. It is not likely that such a keen and cynical observer asHeinrich Heine would have written as he did concerning Lassalle, had notthe latter been a brilliant and magnetic youth. Heine wrote to Varnhagenvon Ense, the German historian:
My friend, Herr Lassalle, who brings you this letter, is a young man ofremarkable intellectual gifts. With the most thorough erudition, withthe widest learning, with the greatest penetration that I have everknown, and with the richest gift of exposition, he combines an energy ofwill and a capacity for action which astonish me. In no one have I foundunited so much enthusiasm and practical intelligence.
No better proof of Lassalle's enthusiasm can be found than a few linesfrom his own writings:
I love Heine. He is my second self. What audacity! What overpoweringeloquence! He knows how to whisper like a zephyr when it kissesrose-blooms, how to breathe like fire when it rages and destroys; hecalls forth all that is tenderest and softest, and then all that isfiercest and most daring. He has the sweep of the whole lyre!
Lassalle's sympathy with Heine was like his sympathy with every onewhom he knew. This was often misunderstood. It was misunderstood in hisrelations with women, and especially in the celebrated affair of theCountess von Hatzfeldt, which began in the year 1846--that is to say, inthe twenty-first year of Lassalle's age.
In truth, there was no real scandal in the matter, for the countess wastwice the age of Lassalle. It was precisely because he was so young thathe let his eagerness to defend a woman in distress make him forgetthe ordinary usage of society, and expose himself to mean and unworthycriticism which lasted all his life. It began by his introduction tothe Countess von Hatzfeldt, a lady who was grossly ill-treated by herhusband. She had suffered insult and imprisonment in the family castles;the count had deprived her of medicine when she was ill, and hadforcibly taken away her children. Besides this, he was infatuatedwith another woman, a baroness, and wasted his substance upon her evencontrary to the law which protected his children's rights.
The countess had a son named Paul, of whom Lassalle was extremely fond.There came to the boy a letter from the Count von Hatzfeldt ordering himto leave his mother. The countess at once sent for Lassalle, who broughtwith him two wealthy and influential friends--one of them a judge of ahigh Prussian court--and together they read the letter which Paul hadjust received. They were deeply moved by the despair of the countess,and by the cruelty of her dissolute husband in seeking to separate themother from her son.
In his chivalrous ardor Lassalle swore to help the countess, andpromised that he would carry on the struggle with her husband to thebitter end. He took his two friends with him to Berlin, and then toDusseldorf, for they discovered that the Count von Hatzfeldt was not faraway. He was, in fact, at Aix-la-Chapelle with the baroness.
Lassalle, who had the scent of a greyhound, pried about until hediscovered that the count had given his mistress a legal document,assigning to her a valuable piece of property which, in the ordinarycourse of law, should be entailed on the boy, Paul. The countess atonce hastened to the place, broke into her husband's room, and secured apromise that the deed would be destroyed.
No sooner, however, had she left him than he returned to the baroness,and presently it was learned that the woman had set out for Cologne.
Lassalle and his two friends followed, to ascertain whether the documenthad really been destroyed. The three reached a hotel at Cologne, wherethe baroness had just arrived. Her luggage, in fact, was being carriedupstairs. One of Lassalle's friends opened a trunk, and, finding acasket there, slipped it out to his companion, the judge.
Unfortunately, the latter had no means of hiding it, and when thebaroness's servant shouted for help, the casket was found in thepossession of the judge, who could give no plausible account of it. Hewas, therefore, arrested, as were the other two. There was no evidenceagainst Lassalle; but his friends fared badly at the trial, one of thembeing imprisoned for a year and the other for five years.
From this time Lassalle, with an almost quixotic devotion, gave himselfup to fighting the Countess von Hatzfeldt's battle against her husbandin the law-courts. The ablest advocates were pitted against him. Themost eloquent legal orators thundered at him and at his client, but hemet them all with a skill, an audacity, and a brilliant wit that won forhim verdict after verdict. The case went from the lower to the highertribunals, until, after nine years, it reached the last court of appeal,where Lassalle wrested from his opponents a magnificently conclusivevictory--one that made the children of the countess absolutely safe.It was a battle fought with the determination of a soldier, with thegallantry of a knight errant, and the intellectual acumen of a learnedlawyer.
It is not surprising that many refuse to believe that Lassalle's feelingtoward the Countess von Hatzfeldt was a disinterested one. A scandalouspamphlet, which was published in French, German, and Russian, andwritten by one who styled herself "Sophie Solutzeff," did much to spreadthe evil report concerning Lassalle. But the very openness and franknessof the service which he did for the countess ought to make it clear thathis was the devotion of a youth drawn by an impulse into a strife wherethere was nothing for him to gain, but everything to lose. He denouncedthe brutality of her husband, but her letters to him always addressedhim as "my dear child." In writing to her he confides small love-secretsand ephemeral flirtations--which he would scarcely have done, had thecountess viewed him with the eye of passion.
Lassalle was undoubtedly a man of impressionable heart, and had manyaffairs such as Heine had; but they were not deep or lasting. That heshould have made a favorable impression on the women whom he met isnot surprising, because of his social standing, his chivalry, hisfine manners, and his handsome face. Mr. Clement Shorter has quoted anofficial document which describes him as he was in his earlier years:
Ferdinand Lassalle, aged twenty-three, a civilian born at Breslau anddwelling recently at Berlin. He stands five feet six inches in height,has brown, curly hair, open forehead, brown eyebrows, dark blue eyes,well proportioned nose and mouth, and rounded chin.
We ought not to be surprised, then, if he was a favorite indrawing-rooms; if both men and women admired him; if Alexander vonHumboldt cried out with enthusiasm that he was a wunderkind, and ifthere were more than Sophie Solutzeff to be jealous. But the ratherungrateful remark of the Countess von Hatzfeldt certainly does notrepresent him as he really was.
"You are without reason and judgment where women are concerned," shesnarled at him; but the sneer only shows that the woman who uttered itwas neither in love with him nor grateful to him.
In this paper we are not discussing Lassalle as a public agitator oras a Socialist, but simply in his relations with the two women who mostseriously affected his life. The first was the Countess von Hatzfeldt,who, as we have seen, occupied--or rather wasted--nine of the best yearsof his life. Then came that profound and thrilling passion which endedthe career of a man who at thirty-nine had only just begun to be famous.
Lassalle had joined his intellectual forces with those of Heine andMarx. He had obtained so great an influence over the masses of thepeople as to alarm many a monarch, and at the same time to attract manya statesman. Prince Bismarck, for example, cared nothing for Lassalle'schampionship of popular rights, but sought his aid on finding that hewas an earnest advocate of German unity.
Furthermore, he was very far from resembling what in those early dayswas regarded as the typical picture of a Socialist. There was nothingfrowzy about him; in his appearance he was elegance itself; his mannerswere those of a prince, and his clothing was of the best. Seeing him ina drawing-room, no one would mistake him for anything but a gentlemanand a man of parts. Hence it is not surprising that his second love wasone of the nobility, although her own people hated Lassalle as a bearerof the red flag.
This girl was Helene von Donniges, the daughter of a Bavariandiplomat. As a child she had traveled much, especially in Italy and inSwitzerland. She was very precocious, and lived her own life withoutasking the direction of any one. At twelve years of age she had beenbetrothed to an Italian of forty; but this dark and pedantic personalways displeased her, and soon afterward, when she met a youngWallachian nobleman, one Yanko Racowitza, she was ready at once todismiss her Italian lover. Racowitza--young, a student, far from home,and lacking friends--appealed at once to the girl's sympathy.
At that very time, in Berlin, where Helene was visiting her grandmother,she was asked by a Prussian baron:
"Do you know Ferdinand Lassalle?"
The question came to her with a peculiar shock. She had never heard thename, and yet the sound of it gave her a strange emotion. Baron Korff,who perhaps took liberties because she was so young, went on to say:
"My dear lady, have you really never seen Lassalle? Why, you and he weremeant for each other!"
She felt ashamed to ask about him, but shortly after a gentleman whoknew her said:
"It is evident that you have a surprising degree of intellectual kinshipwith Ferdinand Lassalle."
This so excited her curiosity that she asked her grandmother:
"Who is this person of whom they talk so much--this Ferdinand Lassalle?"
"Do not speak of him," replied her grandmother. "He is a shamelessdemagogue!"
A little questioning brought to Helene all sorts of stories aboutLassalle--the Countess von Hatzfeldt, the stolen casket, the mysteriouspamphlet, the long battle in the courts--all of which excited her stillmore. A friend offered to introduce her to the "shameless demagogue."This introduction happened at a party, and it must have been anextraordinary meeting. Seldom, it seemed, was there a better instanceof love at first sight, or of the true affinity of which Baron Korffhad spoken. In the midst of the public gathering they almost rushed intoeach other's arms; they talked the free talk of acknowledged lovers; andwhen she left, he called her love-names as he offered her his arm.
"Somehow it did not appear at all remarkable," she afterward declared."We seemed to be perfectly fitted to each other."
Nevertheless, nine months passed before they met again at a soiree. Atthis time Lassaller gazing upon her, said:
"What would you do if I were sentenced to death?"
"I should wait until your head was severed," was her answer, "in orderthat you might look upon your beloved to the last, and then--I shouldtake poison!"
Her answer delighted him, but he said that there was no danger. Hewas greeted on every hand with great consideration; and it seemed notunlikely that, in recognition of his influence with the people, he mightrise to some high position. The King of Prussia sympathized with him.Heine called him the Messiah of the nineteenth century. When he passedfrom city to city, the whole population turned out to do him honor.Houses were wreathed; flowers were thrown in masses upon him, while thestreets were spanned with triumphal arches.
Worn out with the work and excitement attending the birth of theDeutscher Arbeiterverein, or workmen's union, which he founded in 1863,Lassalle fled for a time to Switzerland for rest. Helene heard of hiswhereabouts, and hurried to him, with several friends. They met againon July 25,1864, and discussed long and intensely the possibilities oftheir marriage and the opposition of her parents, who would never permither to marry a man who was at once a Socialist and a Jew.
Then comes a pitiful story of the strife between Lassalle and theDonniges family. Helene's father and mother indulged in vulgar words;they spoke of Lassalle with contempt; they recalled all the scandalsthat had been current ten years before, and forbade Helene ever tomention the man's name again.
The next scene in the drama took place in Geneva, where the familyof Herr von Donniges had arrived, and where Helene's sister had beenbetrothed to Count von Keyserling--a match which filled her mother withintense joy. Her momentary friendliness tempted Helene to speak of herunalterable love for Lassalle. Scarcely had the words been spoken whenher father and mother burst into abuse and denounced Lassalle as well asherself.
She sent word of this to Lassalle, who was in a hotel near by. Scarcelyhad he received her letter, when Helene herself appeared upon the scene,and with all the intensity of which she was possessed, she begged himto take her wherever he chose. She would go with him to France, toItaly--to the ends of the earth!
What a situation, and yet how simple a one for a man of spirit! It isstrange to have to record that to Lassalle it seemed most difficult. Hefelt that he or she, or both of them, had been compromised. Had she alady with her? Did she know any one in the neighborhood?
What an extraordinary answer! If she were compromised, all the moreought he to have taken her in his arms and married her at once, insteadof quibbling and showing himself a prig.
Presently, her maid came in to tell them that a carriage was ready totake them to the station, whence a train would start for Paris in aquarter of an hour. Helene begged him with a feeling that was beginningto be one of shame. Lassalle repelled her in words that were to stamphim with a peculiar kind of cowardice.
Why should he have stopped to think of anything except the beautifulwoman who was at his feet, and to whom he had pledged his love? What didhe care for the petty diplomat who was her father, or the vulgar-tonguedwoman who was her mother? He should have hurried her and the maid intothe train for Paris, and have forgotten everything in the world but hisHelene, glorious among women, who had left everything for him.
What was the sudden failure, the curious weakness, the paltriness ofspirit that came at the supreme moment into the heart of this hithertostrong man? Here was the girl whom he loved, driven from her parents,putting aside all question of appearances, and clinging to him with awild and glorious desire to give herself to him and to be all his own!That was a thing worthy of a true woman. And he? He shrinks from herand cowers and acts like a simpleton. His courage seems to have dribbledthrough his finger-tips; he is no longer a man--he is a thing.
Out of all the multitude of Lassalle's former admirers, there isscarcely one who has ventured to defend him, much less to laud him; andwhen they have done so, their voices have had a sound of mockery thatdies away in their own throats.
Helene, on her side, had compromised herself, and even from theview-point of her parents it was obvious that she ought to be marriedimmediately. Her father, however, confined her to her room until itwas understood that Lassalle had left Geneva. Then her family'ssupplications, the statement that her sister's marriage and even herfather's position were in danger, led her to say that she would give upLassalle.
It mattered very little, in one way, for whatever he might have done,Lassalle had killed, or at least had chilled, her love. His failure atthe moment of her great self-sacrifice had shown him to her as he reallywas--no bold and gallant spirit, but a cringing, spiritless self-seeker.She wrote him a formal letter to the effect that she had becomereconciled to her "betrothed bridegroom"; and they never met again.
Too late, Lassalle gave himself up to a great regret. He went abouttrying to explain his action to his friends, but he could say nothingthat would ease his feeling and reinstate him in the eyes of theromantic girl. In a frenzy, he sought out the Wallachian student, Yankovon Racowitza, and challenged him to a mortal duel. He also challengedHelene's father. Years before, he had on principle declined to fight aduel; but now he went raving about as if he sought the death of everyone who knew him.
The duel was fought on August 28, 1864. There was some trouble aboutpistols, and also about seconds; but finally the combatants left asmall hotel in a village near Geneva, and reached the dueling-grounds.Lassalle was almost joyous in his manner. His old confidence had comeback to him; he meant to kill his man.
They took their stations high up among the hills. A few spectators sawtheir figures outlined against the sky. The command to fire rang out,and from both pistols gushed the flame and smoke.
A moment later, Lassalle was seen to sway and fall. A chance shot,glancing from a wall, had struck him to the ground. He sufferedterribly, and nothing but opium in great doses could relieve his pain.His wound was mortal, and three days later he died.
Long after, Helene admitted that she still loved Lassalle, and believedthat he would win the duel; but after the tragedy, the tenderness andpatience of Racowitza won her heart. She married him, but within ayear he died of consumption. Helene, being disowned by her relations,prepared herself for the stage. She married a third husband namedShevitch, who was then living in the United States, but who has sincemade his home in Russia.
Let us say nothing of Lassalle's political career. Except for his workas one of the early leaders of the liberal movement in Germany, it hasperished, and his name has been almost forgotten. As a lover, his storystands out forever as a warning to the timid and the recreant. Let mendo what they will; but there is just one thing which no man is permittedto do with safety in the sight of woman--and that is to play the craven.




THE STORY OF RACHEL

Outside of the English-speaking peoples the nineteenth century witnessedthe rise and triumphant progress of three great tragic actresses. Thefirst two of these--Rachel Felix and Sarah Bernhardt--were of Jewishextraction; the third, Eleanor Duse, is Italian. All of them made theirway from pauperism to fame; but perhaps the rise of Rachel was the moststriking.
In the winter of 1821 a wretched peddler named Abraham--or Jacob--Felixsought shelter at a dilapidated inn at Mumpf, a village in Switzerland,not far from Basel. It was at the close of a stormy day, and his smallfamily had been toiling through the snow and sleet. The inn was thelowest sort of hovel, and yet its proprietor felt that it was too goodfor these vagabonds. He consented to receive them only when he learnedthat the peddler's wife was to be delivered of a child. That very nightshe became the mother of a girl, who was at first called Elise. Sounimportant was the advent of this little waif into the world that theburgomaster of Mumpf thought it necessary to make an entry only of thefact that a peddler's wife had given birth to a female child. There wasno mention of family or religion, nor was the record anything more thana memorandum.
Under such circumstances was born a child who was destined to excite thewonder of European courts--to startle and thrill and utterly amaze greataudiences by her dramatic genius. But for ten years the family--whichgrew until it consisted of one son and five daughters--kept on itswanderings through Switzerland and Germany. Finally, they settleddown in Lyons, where the mother opened a little shop for the sale ofsecond-hand clothing. The husband gave lessons in German whenever hecould find a pupil. The eldest daughter went about the cafes in theevening, singing the songs that were then popular, while her smallsister, Rachel, collected coppers from those who had coppers to spare.
Although the family was barely able to sustain existence, the father andmother were by no means as ignorant as their squalor would imply. Thepeddler Felix had studied Hebrew theology in the hope of becoming arabbi. Failing this, he was always much interested in declamation,public reading, and the recitation of poetry. He was, in his way, nomean critic of actors and actresses. Long before she was ten years ofage little Rachel--who had changed her name from Elise--could renderwith much feeling and neatness of eloquence bits from the best-knownFrench plays of the classic stage.
The children's mother, on her side, was sharp and practical to a highdegree. She saved and scrimped all through her period of adversity.Later she was the banker of her family, and would never lend any of herchildren a sou except on excellent security. However, this was all tohappen in after years.
When the child who was destined to be famous had reached her tenthyear she and her sisters made their way to Paris. For four years thesecond-hand clothing-shop was continued; the father still taught German;and the elder sister, Sarah, who had a golden voice, made the rounds ofthe cafes in the lowest quarters of the capital, while Rachel passed thewooden plate for coppers.
One evening in the year 1834 a gentleman named Morin, having been takenout of his usual course by a matter of business, entered a BRASSERIEfor a cup of coffee. There he noted two girls, one of them singing withremarkable sweetness, and the other silently following with the woodenplate. M. Morin called to him the girl who sang and asked her why shedid not make her voice more profitable than by haunting the cafes atnight, where she was sure to meet with insults of the grossest kind.
"Why," said Sarah, "I haven't anybody to advise me what to do."
M. Morin gave her his address and said that he would arrange to have hermeet a friend who would be of great service to her. On the followingday he sent the two girls to a M. Choron, who was the head of theConservatory of Sacred Music. Choron had Sarah sing, and instantlyadmitted her as a pupil, which meant that she would soon be enrolledamong the regular choristers. The beauty of her voice made a deepimpression on him.
Then he happened to notice the puny, meager child who was standing nearher sister. Turning to her, he said:
"And what can you do, little one?"
"I can recite poetry," was the reply.
"Oh, can you?" said he. "Please let me hear you."
Rachel readily consented. She had a peculiarly harsh, grating voice, sothat any but a very competent judge would have turned her away. But M.Choron, whose experience was great, noted the correctness of her accentand the feeling which made itself felt in every line. He accepted her aswell as her sister, but urged her to study elocution rather than music.
She must, indeed, have had an extraordinary power even at the ageof fourteen, since not merely her voice but her whole appearance wasagainst her. She was dressed in a short calico frock of a patternin which red was spotted with white. Her shoes were of coarse blackleather. Her hair was parted at the back of her head and hung down hershoulders in two braids, framing the long, childish, and yet gnome-likeface, which was unusual in its gravity.
At first she was little thought of; but there came a time when sheastonished both her teachers and her companions by a recital which shegave in public. The part was the narrative of Salema in the "Abufar"of Ducis. It describes the agony of a mother who gives birth to a childwhile dying of thirst amid the desert sands. Mme. de Barviera has left adescription of this recital, which it is worth while to quote:
While uttering the thrilling tale the thin face seemed to lengthen withhorror, the small, deep-set black eyes dilated with a fixed stare asthough she witnessed the harrowing scene; and the deep, guttural tones,despite a slight Jewish accent, awoke a nameless terror in every one wholistened, carrying him through the imaginary woe with a strange feelingof reality, not to be shaken, off as long as the sounds lasted.
Even yet, however, the time had not come for any conspicuous success.The girl was still so puny in form, so monkey-like in face, and sogratingly unpleasant in her tones that it needed time for her to attainher full growth and to smooth away some of the discords in her peculiarvoice.
Three years later she appeared at the Gymnase in a regular debut; yeteven then only the experienced few appreciated her greatness. Amongthese, however, were the well-known critic Jules Janin, the poet andnovelist Gauthier, and the actress Mlle. Mars. They saw that this lean,raucous gutter-girl had within her gifts which would increase until shewould be first of all actresses on the French stage. Janin wrote somelines which explain the secret of her greatness:
All the talent in the world, especially when continually applied tothe same dramatic works, will not satisfy continually the hearer. Whatpleases in a great actor, as in all arts that appeal to the imagination,is the unforeseen. When I am utterly ignorant of what is to happen,when I do not know, when you yourself do not know what will be yournext gesture, your next look, what passion will possess your heart, whatoutcry will burst from your terror-stricken soul, then, indeed, I amwilling to see you daily, for each day you will be new to me. To-day Imay blame, to-morrow praise. Yesterday you were all-powerful; to-morrow,perhaps, you may hardly win from me a word of admiration. So much thebetter, then, if you draw from me unexpected tears, if in my heart youstrike an unknown fiber; but tell me not of hearing night after nightgreat artists who every time present the exact counterpart of what theywere on the preceding one.
It was at the Theatre Francais that she won her final acceptance as thegreatest of all tragedians of her time. This was in her appearance inCorneille's famous play of "Horace." She had now, in 1838, blazed forthwith a power that shook her no, less than it stirred the emotions andthe passions of her hearers. The princes of the royal blood came insuccession to see her. King Louis Philippe himself was at last temptedby curiosity to be present. Gifts of money and jewels were showered onher, and through sheer natural genius rather than through artifice shewas able to master a great audience and bend it to her will.
She had no easy life, this girl of eighteen years, for other actressescarped at her, and she had had but little training. The sordid ways ofher old father excited a bitterness which was vented on the daughter.She was still under age, and therefore was treated as a gold-mine by herexacting parents. At the most she could play but twice a week. Her formwas frail and reed-like. She was threatened with a complaint of thelungs; yet all this served to excite rather than to diminish publicinterest in her. The newspapers published daily bulletins of her health,and her door was besieged by anxious callers who wished to know hercondition. As for the greed of her parents, every one said she wasnot to blame for that. And so she passed from poverty to riches, fromsqualor to something like splendor, and from obscurity to fame.
Much has been written about her that is quite incorrect. She has beencredited with virtues which she never possessed; and, indeed, it may besaid with only too much truth that she possessed no virtues whatsoever.On the stage while the inspiration lasted she was magnificent. Offthe stage she was sly, treacherous, capricious, greedy, ungrateful,ignorant, and unchaste. With such an ancestry as she had, with such anearly childhood as had been hers, what else could one expect from her?
She and her old mother wrangled over money like two pickpockets. Some ofher best friends she treated shamefully. Her avarice was without bounds.Some one said that it was not really avarice, but only a reaction fromgenerosity; but this seems an exceedingly subtle theory. It is possibleto give illustrations of it, however. She did, indeed, make manypresents with a lavish hand; yet, having made a present, she couldnot rest until she got it back. The fact was so well known that herassociates took it for granted. The younger Dumas once received aring from her. Immediately he bowed low and returned it to her finger,saying:
"Permit me, mademoiselle, to present it to you in my turn so as to saveyou the embarrassment of asking for it."
Mr. Vandam relates among other anecdotes about her that one evening shedined at the house of Comte Duchatel. The table was loaded with themost magnificent flowers; but Rachel's keen eyes presently spied out thegreat silver centerpiece. Immediately she began to admire the latter;and the count, fascinated by her manners, said that he would be glad topresent it to her. She accepted it at once, but was rather fearfullest he should change his mind. She had come to dinner in a cab, andmentioned the fact. The count offered to send her home in his carriage.
"Yes, that will do admirably," said she. "There will be no danger of mybeing robbed of your present, which I had better take with me."
"With pleasure, mademoiselle," replied the count. "But you will send meback my carriage, won't you?"
Rachel had a curious way of asking every one she met for presents andknickknacks, whether they were valuable or not. She knew how to makethem valuable.
Once in a studio she noticed a guitar hanging on the wall. She beggedfor it very earnestly. As it was an old and almost worthless instrument,it was given her. A little later it was reported that the dilapidatedguitar had been purchased by a well-known gentleman for a thousandfrancs. The explanation soon followed. Rachel had declared that it wasthe very guitar with which she used to earn her living as a child in thestreets of Paris. As a memento its value sprang from twenty francs to athousand.
It has always been a mystery what Rachel did with the great sums ofmoney which she made in various ways. She never was well dressed; and asfor her costumes on the stage, they were furnished by the theater. Whenher effects were sold at public auction after her death her furniturewas worse than commonplace, and her pictures and ornaments wereworthless, except such as had been given her. She must have mademillions of francs, and yet she had very little to leave behind her.
Some say that her brother Raphael, who acted as her personal manager,was a spendthrift; but if so, there are many reasons for thinking thatit was not his sister's money that he spent. Others say that Rachelgambled in stocks, but there is no evidence of it. The only thing thatis certain is the fact that she was almost always in want of money. Hermother, in all probability, managed to get hold of most of her earnings.
Much may have been lost through her caprices. One instance may be cited.She had received an offer of three hundred thousand francs to act at St.Petersburg, and was on her way there when she passed through Potsdam,near Berlin. The King of Prussia was entertaining the Russian Czar. Aninvitation was sent to her in the shape of a royal command to appearbefore these monarchs and their guests. For some reason or other Rachelabsolutely refused. She would listen to no arguments. She would go on toSt. Petersburg without delay.
"But," it was said to her, "if you refuse to appear before the Czar atPotsdam all the theaters in St. Petersburg will be closed against you,because you will have insulted the emperor. In this way you will beout the expenses of your journey and also the three hundred thousandfrancs."
Rachel remained stubborn as before; but in about half an hour shesuddenly declared that she would recite before the two monarchs, whichshe subsequently did, to the satisfaction of everybody. Some one said toher not long after:
"I knew that you would do it. You weren't going to give up the threehundred thousand francs and all your travelling expenses."
"You are quite wrong," returned Rachel, "though of course you will notbelieve me. I did not care at all about the money and was going back toFrance. It was something that I heard which made me change my mind. Doyou want to know what it was? Well, after all the arguments were oversome one informed me that the Czar Nicholas was the handsomest manin Europe; and so I made up my mind that I would stay in Potsdam longenough to see him."
This brings us to one phase of Rachel's nature which is rather sinister.She was absolutely hard. She seemed to have no emotions except thosewhich she exhibited on the stage or the impish perversity whichirritated so many of those about her. She was in reality a product ofthe gutter, able to assume a demure and modest air, but within coarse,vulgar, and careless of decency. Yet the words of Jules Janin, whichhave been quoted above, explain how she could be personally veryfascinating.
In all Rachel's career one can detect just a single strand of realromance. It is one that makes us sorry for her, because it tells us thather love was given where it never could be openly requited.
During the reign of Louis Philippe the Comte Alexandre Walewski heldmany posts in the government. He was a son of the great Napoleon. Hismother was that Polish countess who had accepted Napoleon's love becauseshe hoped that he might set Poland free at her desire. But Napoleon wasnever swerved from his well-calculated plans by the wish of any woman,and after a time the Countess Walewska came to love him for himself. Itwas she to whom he confided secrets which he would not reveal to his ownbrothers. It was she who followed him to Elba in disguise. It was herson who was Napoleon's son, and who afterward, under the Second Empire,was made minister of fine arts, minister of foreign affairs, and,finally, an imperial duke. Unlike the third Napoleon's naturalhalf-brother, the Duc de Moray, Walewski was a gentleman of honor andfine feeling. He never used his relationship to secure advantages forhimself. He tried to live in a manner worthy of the great warrior whowas his father.
As minister of fine arts he had much to do with the subsidized theaters;and in time he came to know Rachel. He was the son of one of thegreatest men who ever lived. She was the child of roving peddlers whoseearly training had been in the slums of cities and amid the smoke ofbar-rooms and cafes. She was tainted in a thousand ways, while he was aman of breeding and right principle. She was a wandering actress; he wasa great minister of state. What could there be between these two?
George Sand gave the explanation in an epigram which, like mostepigrams, is only partly true. She said:
"The count's company must prove very restful to Rachel."
What she meant was, of course, that Walewski's breeding, his dignityand uprightness, might be regarded only as a temporary repose for theimpish, harsh-voiced, infinitely clever actress. Of course, it was allthis, but we should not take it in a mocking sense. Rachel looked up outof her depths and gave her heart to this high-minded nobleman. He lookeddown and lifted her, as it were, so that she could forget for the timeall the baseness and the brutality that she had known, that she mightput aside her forced vivacity and the self that was not in reality herown.
It is pitiful to think of these two, separated by a great abyss whichcould not be passed except at times and hours when each was free. Buttheirs was, none the less, a meeting of two souls, strangely differentin many ways, and yet appealing to each other with a sincerity and truthwhich neither could show elsewhere.
The end of poor Rachel was one of disappointment. Tempted by the factthat Jenny Lind had made nearly two million francs by her visit to theUnited States, Rachel followed her, but with slight success, as was tobe expected. Music is enjoyed by human beings everywhere, while Frenchclassical plays, even though acted by a genius like Rachel, could berightly understood only by a French-speaking people. Thus it came aboutthat her visit to America was only moderately successful.
She returned to France, where the rising fame of Adelaide Ristori wasvery bitter to Rachel, who had passed the zenith of her power. She wentto Egypt, but received no benefit, and in 1858 she died near Cannes. Theman who loved her, and whom she had loved in turn, heard of her deathwith great emotion. He himself lived ten years longer, and died a littlewhile before the fall of the Second Empire.

END OF VOLUME THREE




DEAN SWIFT AND THE TWO ESTHERS

The story of Jonathan Swift and of the two women who gave their livesfor love of him is familiar to every student of English literature.Swift himself, both in letters and in politics, stands out a conspicuousfigure in the reigns of King William III and Queen Anne. By writingGulliver's Travels he made himself immortal. The external facts of hissingular relations with two charming women are sufficiently well known;but a definite explanation of these facts has never yet been given.Swift held his tongue with a repellent taciturnity. No one ever daredto question him. Whether the true solution belongs to the sphere ofpsychology or of physiology is a question that remains unanswered.
But, as the case is one of the most puzzling in the annals of love, itmay be well to set forth the circumstances very briefly, to weigh thetheories that have already been advanced, and to suggest another.
Jonathan Swift was of Yorkshire stock, though he happened to be born inDublin, and thus is often spoken of as "the great Irish satirist," or"the Irish dean." It was, in truth, his fate to spend much of his lifein Ireland, and to die there, near the cathedral where his remains nowrest; but in truth he hated Ireland and everything connected with it,just as he hated Scotland and everything that was Scottish. He was anEnglishman to the core.
High-stomached, proud, obstinate, and over-mastering, independence wasthe dream of his life. He would accept no favors, lest he should puthimself under obligation; and although he could give generously, andeven lavishly, he lived for the most part a miser's life, hoarding everypenny and halfpenny that he could. Whatever one may think of him, thereis no doubt that he was a very manly man. Too many of his portraits givethe impression of a sour, supercilious pedant; but the finest of themall--that by Jervas--shows him as he must have been at his very prime,with a face that was almost handsome, and a look of attractive humorwhich strengthens rather than lessens the power of his brows and of thelarge, lambent eyes beneath them.
At fifteen he entered Trinity College, in Dublin, where he read widelybut studied little, so that his degree was finally granted him only asa special favor. At twenty-one he first visited England, and becamesecretary to Sir William Temple, at Moor Park. Temple, after adistinguished career in diplomacy, had retired to his fine countryestate in Surrey. He is remembered now for several things--for havingentertained Peter the Great of Russia; for having, while young, wonthe affections of Dorothy Osborne, whose letters to him are charming intheir grace and archness; for having been the patron of Jonathan Swift;and for fathering the young girl named Esther Johnson, a waif, born outof wedlock, to whom Temple gave a place in his household.
When Swift first met her, Esther Johnson was only eight years old; andpart of his duties at Moor Park consisted in giving her what was thenan unusual education for a girl. She was, however, still a child, andnothing serious could have passed between the raw youth and this littlegirl who learned the lessons that he imposed upon her.
Such acquaintance as they had was rudely broken off. Temple, a man ofhigh position, treated Swift with an urbane condescension which drovethe young man's independent soul into a frenzy. He returned to Ireland,where he was ordained a clergyman, and received a small parish atKilroot, near Belfast.
It was here that the love-note was first seriously heard in thediscordant music of Swift's career. A college friend of his named Waringhad a sister who was about the age of Swift, and whom he met quitefrequently at Kilroot. Not very much is known of this episode, butthere is evidence that Swift fell in love with the girl, whom he ratherromantically called "Varina."
This cannot be called a serious love-affair. Swift was lonely, and JaneWaring was probably the only girl of refinement who lived near Kilroot.Furthermore, she had inherited a small fortune, while Swift wasmiserably poor, and had nothing to offer except the shadowy prospect offuture advancement in England. He was definitely refused by her; and itwas this, perhaps, that led him to resolve on going back to England andmaking his peace with Sir William Temple.
On leaving, Swift wrote a passionate letter to Miss Waring--the onlytrue love-letter that remains to us of their correspondence. He proteststhat he does not want Varina's fortune, and that he will wait untilhe is in a position to marry her on equal terms. There is a smolderingflame of jealousy running through the letter. Swift charges her withbeing cold, affected, and willing to flirt with persons who are quitebeneath her.
Varina played no important part in Swift's larger life thereafter; butsomething must be said of this affair in order to show, first of all,that Swift's love for her was due only to proximity, and that when heceased to feel it he could be not only hard, but harsh. His fiery spiritmust have made a deep impression on Miss Waring; for though she at thetime refused him, she afterward remembered him, and tried to renew theirold relations. Indeed, no sooner had Swift been made rector of a largerparish, than Varina let him know that she had changed her mind, and wasready to marry him; but by this time Swift had lost all interest in her.He wrote an answer which even his truest admirers have called brutal.
"Yes," he said in substance, "I will marry you, though you have treatedme vilely, and though you are living in a sort of social sink. I amstill poor, though you probably think otherwise. However, I will marryyou on certain conditions. First, you must be educated, so that youcan entertain me. Next, you must put up with all my whims and likes anddislikes. Then you must live wherever I please. On these terms I willtake you, without reference to your looks or to your income. As to thefirst, cleanliness is all that I require; as to the second, I only askthat it be enough."
Such a letter as this was like a blow from a bludgeon. The insolence,the contempt, and the hardness of it were such as no self-respectingwoman could endure. It put an end to their acquaintance, as Swiftundoubtedly intended it should do. He would have been less censurablehad he struck Varina with his fist or kicked her.
The true reason for Swift's utter change of heart is found, no doubt, inthe beginning of what was destined to be his long intimacy with EstherJohnson. When Swift left Sir William Temple's in a huff, Esther had beena mere schoolgirl. Now, on his return, she was fifteen years of age, andseemed older. She had blossomed out into a very comely girl, vivacious,clever, and physically well developed, with dark hair, sparkling eyes,and features that were unusually regular and lovely.
For three years the two were close friends and intimate associates,though it cannot be said that Swift ever made open love to her. To theoutward eye they were no more than fellow workers. Yet love does notneed the spoken word and the formal declaration to give it life and makeit deep and strong. Esther Johnson, to whom Swift gave the pet name of"Stella," grew into the existence of this fiery, hold, and independentgenius. All that he did she knew. She was his confidante. As to hiswritings, his hopes, and his enmities, she was the mistress of all hissecrets. For her, at last, no other man existed.
On Sir William Temple's death, Esther John son came into a smallfortune, though she now lost her home at Moor Park. Swift returned toIreland, and soon afterward he invited Stella to join him there.
Swift was now thirty-four years of age, and Stella a very attractivegirl of twenty. One might have expected that the two would marry, andyet they did not do so. Every precaution was taken to avoid anythinglike scandal. Stella was accompanied by a friend--a widow named Mrs.Dingley--without whose presence, or that of some third person, Swiftnever saw Esther Johnson. When Swift was absent, how ever, the twoladies occupied his apartments; and Stella became more than everessential to his happiness.
When they were separated for any length of time Swift wrote to Stellain a sort of baby-talk, which they called "the little language." It wasmade up of curious abbreviations and childish words, growing more andmore complicated as the years went on. It is interesting to think ofthis stern and often savage genius, who loved to hate, and whose hatewas almost less terrible than his love, babbling and prattling in littlehalf caressing sentences, as a mother might babble over her first child.Pedantic writers have professed to find in Swift's use of this "littlelanguage" the coming shadow of that insanity which struck him down inhis old age.
As it is, these letters are among the curiosities of amatorycorrespondence. When Swift writes "oo" for "you," and "deelest" for"dearest," and "vely" for "very," there is no need of an interpreter;but "rettle" for "let ter," "dallars" for "girls," and "givar" for"devil," are at first rather difficult to guess. Then there is a systemof abbreviating. "Md" means "my dear," "Ppt" means "poppet," and "Pdfr,"with which Swift sometimes signed his epistles, "poor, dear, foolishrogue."
The letters reveal how very closely the two were bound together, yetstill there was no talk of marriage. On one occasion, after they hadbeen together for three years in Ireland, Stella might have marriedanother man. This was a friend of Swift's, one Dr. Tisdall, who madeenergetic love to the sweet-faced English girl. Tisdall accused Swift ofpoisoning Stella's mind against him. Swift replied that such was notthe case. He said that no feelings of his own would ever lead him toinfluence the girl if she preferred another.
It is quite sure, then, that Stella clung wholly to Swift, and carednothing for the proffered love of any other man. Thus through the yearsthe relations of the two remained unchanged, until in 1710 Swiftleft Ireland and appeared as a very brilliant figure in the Londondrawing-rooms of the great Tory leaders of the day.
He was now a man of mark, because of his ability as a controversialist.He had learned the manners of the world, and he carried him self with anair of power which impressed all those who met him. Among these personswas a Miss Hester--or Esther--Vanhomrigh, the daughter of a ratherwealthy widow who was living in London at that time. Miss Vanhomrigh--aname which she and her mother pronounced "Vanmeury"--was then seventeenyears of age, or twelve years younger than the patient Stella.
Esther Johnson, through her long acquaintance with Swift, and fromhis confidence in her, had come to treat him almost as an intellectualequal. She knew all his moods, some of which were very difficult, andshe bore them all; though when he was most tyrannous she became onlypassive, waiting, with a woman's wisdom, for the tempest to blow over.
Miss Vanhomrigh, on the other hand, was one of those girls who, thoughthey have high spirit, take an almost voluptuous delight in yielding toa spirit that is stronger still. This beautiful creature felt a positivefascination in Swift's presence and his imperious manner. When his eyesflashed, and his voice thundered out words of anger, she looked at himwith adoration, and bowed in a sort of ecstasy before him. If he choseto accost a great lady with "Well, madam, are you as ill-natured anddisagreeable as when I met you last?" Esther Vanhomrigh thrilled at theinsolent audacity of the man. Her evident fondness for him exercised aseductive influence over Swift.
As the two were thrown more and more together, the girl lost all herself-control. Swift did not in any sense make love to her, though hegave her the somewhat fanciful name of "Vanessa"; but she, driven on bya high-strung, unbridled temperament, made open love to him. When he wasabout to return to Ireland, there came one startling moment when Vanessaflung herself into the arms of Swift, and amazed him by pouring out atorrent of passionate endearments.
Swift seems to have been surprised. He did what he could to quiet her.He told her that they were too unequal in years and fortune for anythingbut friendship, and he offered to give her as much friendship as shedesired.
Doubtless he thought that, after returning to Ireland, he would not seeVanessa any more. In this, however, he was mistaken. An ardent girl,with a fortune of her own, was not to be kept from the man whomabsence only made her love the more. In addition, Swift carried on hiscorrespondence with her, which served to fan the flame and to increasethe sway that Swift had already acquired.
Vanessa wrote, and with every letter she burned and pined. Swiftreplied, and each reply enhanced her yearning for him. Ere long,Vanessa's mother died, and Vanessa herself hastened to Ireland and tookup her residence near Dublin. There, for years, was enacted this tragiccomedy--Esther Johnson was near Swift, and had all his confidence;Esther Vanhomrigh was kept apart from him, while still receivingmissives from him, and, later, even visits.
It was at this time, after he had become dean of St. Patrick'sCathedral, in Dublin, that Swift was married to Esther Johnson--for itseems probable that the ceremony took place, though it was nothing morethan a form. They still saw each other only in the presence of a thirdperson. Nevertheless, some knowledge of their close relationship leakedout. Stella had been jealous of her rival during the years that Swiftspent in London. Vanessa was now told that Swift was married to theother woman, or that she was his mistress. Writhing with jealousy, shewrote directly to Stella, and asked whether she was Dean Swift's wife.In answer Stella replied that she was, and then she sent Vanessa'sletter to Swift himself.
All the fury of his nature was roused in him; and he was a man who couldbe very terrible when angry. He might have remembered the intense lovewhich Vanessa bore for him, the humility with which she had accepted hisconditions, and, finally, the loneliness of this girl.
But Swift was utterly unsparing. No gleam of pity entered his heart ashe leaped upon a horse and galloped out to Marley Abbey, where she wasliving--"his prominent eyes arched by jet-black brows and glaring withthe green fury of a cat's." Reaching the house, he dashed into it, withsomething awful in his looks, made his way to Vanessa, threw her letterdown upon the table and, after giving her one frightful glare, turned onhis heel, and in a moment more was galloping back to Dublin.
The girl fell to the floor in an agony of terror and remorse. She wastaken to her room, and only three weeks afterward was carried forth,having died literally of a broken heart.
Five years later, Stella also died, withering away a sacrifice towhat the world has called Swift's cruel heartlessness and egotism. Hisgreatest public triumphs came to him in his final years of melancholyisolation; but in spite of the applause that greeted The Drapier Lettersand Gulliver's Travels, he brooded morbidly over his past life. At lasthis powerful mind gave way, so that he died a victim to senile dementia.By his directions his body was interred in the same coffin withStella's, in the cathedral of which he had been dean.
Such is the story of Dean Swift, and it has always suggested severalcurious questions. Why, if he loved Stella, did he not marry her longbefore? Why, when he married her, did he treat her still as if she werenot his wife? Why did he allow Vanessa's love to run like a scarletthread across the fabric of the other affection, which must have been sostrong?
Many answers have been given to these questions. That which wasformulated by Sir Walter Scott is a simple one, and has been generallyaccepted. Scott believed that Swift was physically incapacitated formarriage, and that he needed feminine sympathy, which he took where hecould get it, without feeling bound to give anything in return.
If Scott's explanation be the true one, it still leaves Swift exposed toignominy as a monster of ingratitude. Therefore, many of his biographershave sought other explanations. No one can palliate his conduct towardVanessa; but Sir Leslie Stephen makes a plea for him with referenceto Stella. Sir Leslie points out that until Swift became dean of St.Patrick's his income was far too small to marry on, and that after hisbrilliant but disappointing three years in London, when his prospects ofadvancement were ruined, he felt himself a broken man.
Furthermore, his health was always precarious, since he suffered from adistressing illness which attacked him at intervals, rendering him bothdeaf and giddy. The disease is now known as Meniere's disease, from itsclassification by the French physician, Meniere, in 1861. Swift feltthat he lived in constant danger of some sudden stroke that woulddeprive him either of life or reason; and his ultimate insanity makes itappear that his forebodings were not wholly futile. Therefore, though hemarried Stella, he kept the marriage secret, thus leaving her free, incase of his demise, to marry as a maiden, and not to be regarded as awidow.
Sir Leslie offers the further plea that, after all, Stella's life waswhat she chose to make it. She enjoyed Swift's friendship, which shepreferred to the love of any other man.
Another view is that of Dr. Richard Garnett, who has discussed thequestion with some subtlety. "Swift," says Dr. Garnett, "was by naturedevoid of passion. He was fully capable of friendship, but not of love.The spiritual realm, whether of divine or earthly things, was a regionclosed to him, where he never set foot." On the side of friendshiphe must greatly have preferred Stella to Vanessa, and yet the latterassailed him on his weakest side--on the side of his love of imperiousdomination.
Vanessa hugged the fetters to which Stella merely submitted. Flatteredto excess by her surrender, yet conscious of his obligations and hisreal preference, he could neither discard the one beauty nor desert theother.
Therefore, he temporized with both of them, and when the choice wasforced upon him he madly struck down the woman for whom he cared theless.
One may accept Dr. Garnett's theory with a somewhat altered conclusion.It is not true, as a matter of recorded fact, that Swift was incapableof passion, for when a boy at college he was sought out by various youngwomen, and he sought them out in turn. His fiery letter to Miss Waringpoints to the same conclusion. When Esther Johnson began to love him hewas heart-free, yet unable, because of his straitened means, to marry.But Esther Johnson always appealed more to his reason, his friendship,and his comfort, than to his love, using the word in its material,physical sense. This love was stirred in him by Vanessa. Yet when hemet Vanessa he had already gone too far with Esther Johnson to break thebond which had so long united them, nor could he think of a life withouther, for she was to him his other self.
At the same time, his more romantic association with Vanessa rousedthose instincts which he had scarcely known himself to be possessed of.His position was, therefore, most embarrassing. He hoped to end it whenhe left London and returned to Ireland; but fate was unkind to him inthis, because Vanessa followed him. He lacked the will to be frankwith her, and thus he stood a wretched, halting victim of his own dualnature.
He was a clergyman, and at heart religious. He had also a sense ofhonor, and both of these traits compelled him to remain true to EstherJohnson. The terrible outbreak which brought about Vanessa's death wasprobably the wild frenzy of a tortured soul. It recalls the picture ofsome fierce animal brought at last to bay, and venting its own anguishupon any object that is within reach of its fangs and claws.
No matter how the story may be told, it makes one shiver, for it is atragedy in which the three participants all meet their doom--one crushedby a lightning-bolt of unreasoning anger, the other wasting away throughhope deferred; while the man whom the world will always hold responsiblewas himself destined to end his years blind and sleepless, bequeathinghis fortune to a madhouse, and saying, with his last muttered breath:
"I am a fool!"




PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY AND MARY GODWIN

A great deal has been said and written in favor of early marriage; and,in a general way, early marriage may be an admirable thing. Young menand young women who have no special gift of imagination, and who havepractically reached their full mental development at twenty-one ortwenty-two--or earlier, even in their teens--may marry safely; becausethey are already what they will be. They are not going to experience anygrowth upward and outward. Passing years simply bring them more closelytogether, until they have settled down into a sort of domestic unity,by which they think alike, act alike, and even gradually come to lookalike.
But early wedlock spells tragedy to the man or the woman of genius. Intheir teens they have only begun to grow. What they will be ten yearshence, no one can prophesy. Therefore, to mate so early in life isto insure almost certain storm and stress, and, in the end, domesticwreckage.
As a rule, it is the man, and not the woman, who makes the false step;because it is the man who elects to marry when he is still very young.If he choose some ill-fitting, commonplace, and unresponsive nature tomatch his own, it is he who is bound in the course of time to learn hisgreat mistake. When the splendid eagle shall have got his growth,and shall begin to soar up into the vault of heaven, the poor littlebarn-yard fowl that he once believed to be his equal seems very far awayin everything. He discovers that she is quite unable to follow him inhis towering flights.
The story of Percy Bysshe Shelley is a singular one. The circumstancesof his early marriage were strange. The breaking of his marriage-bondwas also strange. Shelley himself was an extraordinary creature. He wasblamed a great deal in his lifetime for what he did, and since then somehave echoed the reproach. Yet it would seem as if, at the very beginningof his life, he was put into a false position against his will. Becauseof this he was misunderstood until the end of his brief and brilliantand erratic career.
SHELLEY AND MARY GODWIN
In 1792 the French Revolution burst into flame, the mob of Paris stormedthe Tuileries, the King of France was cast into a dungeon to await hisexecution, and the wild sons of anarchy flung their gauntlet of defianceinto the face of Europe. In this tremendous year was born young Shelley;and perhaps his nature represented the spirit of the time.
Certainly, neither from his father nor from his mother did he derivethat perpetual unrest and that frantic fondness for revolt whichblazed out in the poet when he was still a boy. His father, Mr. TimothyShelley, was a very usual, thick-headed, unromantic English squire. Hismother--a woman of much beauty, but of no exceptional traits--was thedaughter of another squire, and at the time of her marriage was simplyone of ten thousand fresh-faced, pleasant-spoken English country girls.If we look for a strain of the romantic in Shelley's ancestry, weshall have to find it in the person of his grandfather, who was a veryremarkable and powerful character.
This person, Bysshe Shelley by name, had in his youth been associatedwith some mystery. He was not born in England, but in America--andin those days the name "America" meant almost anything indefinite andpeculiar. However this might be, Bysshe Shelley, though a scion ofa good old English family, had wandered in strange lands, and it waswhispered that he had seen strange sights and done strange things.According to one legend, he had been married in America, though no oneknew whether his wife was white or black, or how he had got rid of her.
He might have remained in America all his life, had not a smallinheritance fallen to his share. This brought him back to England, andhe soon found that England was in reality the place to make his fortune.He was a man of magnificent physique. His rovings had given him easeand grace, and the power which comes from a wide experience of life. Hecould be extremely pleasing when he chose; and he soon won his way intothe good graces of a rich heiress, whom he married.
With her wealth he became an important personage, and consorted withgentlemen and statesmen of influence, attaching himself particularly tothe Duke of Northumberland, by whose influence he was made a baronet.When his rich wife died, Shelley married a still richer bride; and sothis man, who started out as a mere adventurer without a shilling to hisname, died in 1813, leaving more than a million dollars in cash, withlands whose rent-roll yielded a hundred thousand dollars every year.
If any touch of the romantic which we find in Shelley is a matterof heredity, we must trace it to this able, daring, restless, andmagnificent old grandfather, who was the beau ideal of an Englishsquire--the sort of squire who had added foreign graces to nativesturdiness. But young Shelley, the future poet, seemed scarcely to beEnglish at all. As a young boy he cared nothing for athletic sports.He was given to much reading. He thought a good deal about abstractionswith which most schoolboys never concern themselves at all.
Consequently, both in private schools and afterward at Eton, he becamea sort of rebel against authority. He resisted the fagging-system. Hespoke contemptuously of physical prowess. He disliked anything that hewas obliged to do, and he rushed eagerly into whatever was forbidden.
Finally, when he was sent to University College, Oxford, he brokeall bounds. At a time when Tory England was aghast over the FrenchRevolution and its results, Shelley talked of liberty and equality onall occasions. He made friends with an uncouth but able fellow student,who bore the remarkable name of Thomas Jefferson Hogg--a name that seemsrampant with republicanism--and very soon he got himself expelled fromthe university for publishing a little tract of an infidel charactercalled "A Defense of Atheism."
His expulsion for such a cause naturally shocked his father. It probablydisturbed Shelley himself; but, after all, it gave him some satisfactionto be a martyr for the cause of free speech. He went to London with hisfriend Hogg, and took lodgings there. He read omnivorously--Hogg saysas much as sixteen hours a day. He would walk through the most crowdedstreets poring over a volume, while holding another under one arm.
His mind was full of fancies. He had begun what was afterward called"his passion for reforming everything." He despised most of the laws ofEngland. He thought its Parliament ridiculous. He hated its religion. Hewas particularly opposed to marriage. This last fact gives some point tothe circumstances which almost immediately confronted him.
Shelley was now about nineteen years old--an age at which most Englishboys are emerging from the public schools, and are still in thehobbledehoy stage of their formation. In a way, he was quite far fromboyish; yet in his knowledge of life he was little more than a merechild. He knew nothing thoroughly--much less the ways of men and women.He had no visible means of existence except a small allowance fromhis father. His four sisters, who were at a boarding-school on ClaphamCommon, used to save their pin-money and send it to their gifted brotherso that he might not actually starve. These sisters he used to callupon from time to time, and through them he made the acquaintance of asixteen-year-old girl named Harriet Westbrook.
Harriet Westbrook was the daughter of a black-visaged keeper of acoffee-house in Mount Street, called "Jew Westbrook," partly because ofhis complexion, and partly because of his ability to retain what hehad made. He was, indeed, fairly well off, and had sent his youngerdaughter, Harriet, to the school where Shelley's sisters studied.
Harriet Westbrook seems to have been a most precocious person. Any girlof sixteen is, of course, a great deal older and more mature than ayouth of nineteen. In the present instance Harriet might have beenShelley's senior by five years. There is no doubt that she fell in lovewith him; but, having done so, she by no means acted in the shy andtimid way that would have been most natural to a very young girl in herfirst love-affair. Having decided that she wanted him, she made up hermind to get Mm at any cost, and her audacity was equaled only by hissimplicity. She was rather attractive in appearance, with abundant hair,a plump figure, and a pink-and-white complexion. This description makesof her a rather doll-like girl; but doll-like girls are just the sort toattract an inexperienced young man who has yet to learn that beauty andcharm are quite distinct from prettiness, and infinitely superior to it.
In addition to her prettiness, Harriet Westbrook had a vivacious mannerand talked quite pleasingly. She was likewise not a bad listener;and she would listen by the hour to Shelley in his rhapsodies aboutchemistry, poetry, the failure of Christianity, the national debt, andhuman liberty, all of which he jumbled up without much knowledge, but ina lyric strain of impassioned eagerness which would probably have madethe multiplication-table thrilling.
For Shelley himself was a creature of extraordinary fascination, boththen and afterward. There are no likenesses of him that do him justice,because they cannot convey that singular appeal which the man himselfmade to almost every one who met him.
The eminent painter, Mulready, once said that Shelley was too beautifulfor portraiture; and yet the descriptions of him hardly seem to bearthis out. He was quite tall and slender, but he stooped so much asto make him appear undersized. His head was very small-quitedisproportionately so; but this was counteracted to the eye by hislong and tumbled hair which, when excited, he would rub and twist in athousand different directions until it was actually bushy. His eyes andmouth were his best features. The former were of a deep violet blue, andwhen Shelley felt deeply moved they seemed luminous with a wonderfuland almost unearthly light. His mouth was finely chiseled, and might beregarded as representing perfection.
One great defect he had, and this might well have overbalanced hisattractive face. The defect in question was his voice. One would haveexpected to hear from him melodious sounds, and vocal tones both richand penetrating; but, as a matter of fact, his voice was shrill at thevery best, and became actually discordant and peacock-like in moments ofemotion.
Such, then, was Shelley, star-eyed, with the delicate complexion of agirl, wonderfully mobile in his features, yet speaking in a voice highpitched and almost raucous. For the rest, he arrayed himself with careand in expensive clothing, even though he took no thought of neatness,so that his garments were almost always rumpled and wrinkled from hisfrequent writhings on couches and on the floor. Shelley had a strangeand almost primitive habit of rolling on the earth, and another ofthrusting his tousled head close up to the hottest fire in the house,or of lying in the glaring sun when out of doors. It is related that hecomposed one of his finest poems--"The Cenci"--in Italy, while stretchedout with face upturned to an almost tropical sun.
But such as he was, and though he was not yet famous, Harriet Westbrook,the rosy-faced schoolgirl, fell in love with him, and rather plainlylet him know that she had done so. There are a thousand ways in whicha woman can convey this information without doing anything un-maidenly;and of all these little arts Miss Westbrook was instinctively amistress.
She played upon Shelley's feelings by telling him that her father wascruel to her, and that he contemplated actions still more cruel. Thereis something absurdly comical about the grievance which she brought toShelley; but it is much more comical to note the tremendous seriousnesswith which he took it. He wrote to his friend Hogg:
Her father has persecuted her in a most horrible way, by endeavoringto compel her to go to school. She asked my advice; resistance was theanswer. At the same time I essayed to mollify Mr. Westbrook, in vain! Iadvised her to resist. She wrote to say that resistance was useless, butthat she would fly with me and throw herself on my protection.
Some letters that have recently come to light show that there was adramatic scene between Harriet Westbrook and Shelley--a scene in thecourse of which she threw her arms about his neck and wept upon hisshoulder. Here was a curious situation. Shelley was not at all in lovewith her. He had explicitly declared this only a short time before. Yethere was a pretty girl about to suffer the "horrible persecution" ofbeing sent to school, and finding no alternative save to "throw herselfon his protection"--in other words, to let him treat her as he would,and to become his mistress.
The absurdity of the situation makes one smile. Common sense should haveled some one to box Harriet's ears and send her off to school without amoment's hesitation; while as for Shelley, he should have been told howludicrous was the whole affair. But he was only nineteen, and she wasonly sixteen, and the crisis seemed portentous. Nothing could be moreflattering to a young man's vanity than to have this girl cast herselfupon him for protection. It did not really matter that he had notloved her hitherto, and that he was already half engaged to anotherHarriet--his cousin, Miss Grove. He could not stop and reason withhimself. He must like a true knight rescue lovely girlhood from thehorrors of a school!
It is not unlikely that this whole affair was partly managed ormanipulated by the girl's father. Jew Westbrook knew that Shelley wasrelated to rich and titled people, and that he was certain, if he lived,to become Sir Percy, and to be the heir of his grandfather's estates.Hence it may be that Harriet's queer conduct was not wholly of her ownprompting.
In any case, however, it proved to be successful. Shelley's ardent andimpulsive nature could not bear to see a girl in tears and appealingfor his help. Hence, though in his heart she was very little to him, hisromantic nature gave up for her sake the affection that he had felt forhis cousin, his own disbelief in marriage, and finally the common sensewhich ought to have told him not to marry any one on two hundred poundsa year.
So the pair set off for Edinburgh by stagecoach. It was a weary and mostuncomfortable journey. When they reached the Scottish capital, theywere married by the Scottish law. Their money was all gone; but theirlandlord, with a jovial sympathy for romance, let them have a room, andtreated them to a rather promiscuous wedding-banquet, in which every onein the house participated.
Such is the story of Shelley's marriage, contracted at nineteen with agirl of sixteen who most certainly lured him on against his own betterjudgment and in the absence of any actual love.
The girl whom he had taken to himself was a well-meaning little thing.She tried for a time to meet her husband's moods and to be a realcompanion to him. But what could one expect from such a union? Shelley'sfather withdrew the income which he had previously given. Jew Westbrookrefused to contribute anything, hoping, probably, that this course wouldbring the Shelleys to the rescue. But as it was, the young pair driftedabout from place to place, getting very precarious supplies, runningdeeper into debt each day, and finding less and less to admire in eachother.
Shelley took to laudanum. Harriet dropped her abstruse studies, whichshe had taken up to please her husband, but which could only puzzle hersmall brain. She soon developed some of the unpleasant traits of theclass to which she belonged. In this her sister Eliza--a hard andgrasping middle-aged woman--had her share. She set Harriet against herhusband, and made life less endurable for both. She was so much olderthan the pair that she came in and ruled their household like a typicalstepmother.
A child was born, and Shelley very generously went through a secondform of marriage, so as to comply with the English law; but by thistime there was little hope of righting things again. Shelley was muchoffended because Harriet would not nurse the child. He believed her hardbecause she saw without emotion an operation performed upon the infant.
Finally, when Shelley at last came into a considerable sum of money,Harriet and Eliza made no pretense of caring for anything except thespending of it in "bonnet-shops" and on carriages and display. Intime--that is to say, in three years after their marriage--Harrietleft her husband and went to London and to Bath, prompted by her eldersister.
This proved to be the end of an unfortunate marriage. Word was broughtto Shelley that his wife was no longer faithful to him. He, on hisside, had carried on a semi-sentimental platonic correspondence with aschoolmistress, one Miss Hitchener. But until now his life had beenone great mistake--a life of restlessness, of unsatisfied longing, of adesire that had no name. Then came the perhaps inevitable meeting withthe one whom he should have met before.
Shelley had taken a great interest in William Godwin, the writer andradical philosopher. Godwin's household was a strange one. There wasFanny Imlay, a child born out of wedlock, the offspring of GilbertImlay, an American merchant, and of Mary Wollstonecraft, whom Godwin hadsubsequently married. There was also a singularly striking girl whothen styled herself Mary Jane Clairmont, and who was afterward knownas Claire Clairmont, she and her brother being the early children ofGodwin's second wife.
One day in 1814, Shelley called on Godwin, and found there a beautifulyoung girl in her seventeenth year, "with shapely golden head, aface very pale and pure, a great forehead, earnest hazel eyes, and anexpression at once of sensibility and firmness about her delicatelycurved lips." This was Mary Godwin--one who had inherited her mother'spower of mind and likewise her grace and sweetness.
From the very moment of their meeting Shelley and this girl were fatedto be joined together, and both of them were well aware of it. Each feltthe other's presence exert a magnetic thrill. Each listened eagerlyto what the other said. Each thought of nothing, and each cared fornothing, in the other's absence. It was a great compelling elementalforce which drove the two together and bound them fast. Beside thismarvelous experience, how pale and pitiful and paltry seemed theaffectations of Harriet Westbrook!
In little more than a month from the time of their first meeting,Shelley and Mary Godwin and Miss Clairmont left Godwin's house at fouro 'clock in the morning, and hurried across the Channel to Calais. Theywandered almost like vagabonds across France, eating black bread andthe coarsest fare, walking on the highways when they could not afford toride, and putting up with every possible inconvenience. Yet it is worthnoting that neither then nor at any other time did either Shelley orMary regret what they had done. To the very end of the poet's briefcareer they were inseparable.
Later he was able to pension Harriet, who, being of a morbiddisposition, ended her life by drowning--not, it may be said, becauseof grief for Shelley. It has been told that Fanny Imlay, Mary's sister,likewise committed suicide because Shelley did not care for her, butthis has also been disproved. There was really nothing to mar the innerhappiness of the poet and the woman who, at the very end, became hiswife. Living, as they did, in Italy and Switzerland, they saw much oftheir own countrymen, such as Landor and Leigh Hunt and Byron, to whosefascinations poor Miss Clairmont yielded, and became the mother of thelittle girl Allegra.
But there could have been no truer union than this of Shelley's withthe woman whom nature had intended for him. It was in his love-life, farmore than in his poetry, that he attained completeness. When he diedby drowning, in 1822, and his body was burned in the presence of LordByron, he was truly mourned by the one whom he had only lately made hiswife. As a poet he never reached the same perfection; for his genius wasfitful and uncertain, rare in its flights, and mingled always with thatwhich disappoints.
As the lover and husband of Mary Godwin, there was nothing left to wish.In his verse, however, the truest word concerning him will always bethat exquisite sentence of Matthew Arnold:
"A beautiful and ineffectual angel beating his luminous wings againstthe void in vain."




THE STORY OF THE CARLYLES

To most persons, Tennyson was a remote and romantic figure. His homes inthe Isle of Wight and at Aldworth had a dignified seclusion about themwhich was very appropriate to so great a poet, and invested him with acertain awe through which the multitude rarely penetrated. As a matterof fact, however, he was an excellent companion, a ready talker, andgifted with so much wit that it is a pity that more of his sayings havenot been preserved to us.
One of the best known is that which was drawn from him after he and anumber of friends had been spending an hour in company with Mr. and Mrs.Carlyle. The two Carlyles were unfortunately at their worst, and gave asuperb specimen of domestic "nagging." Each caught up whatever the othersaid, and either turned it into ridicule, or tried to make the author ofit an object of contempt.
This was, of course, exceedingly uncomfortable for such strangers aswere present, and it certainly gave no pleasure to their friends. Onleaving the house, some one said to Tennyson:
"Isn't it a pity that such a couple ever married?"
"No, no," said Tennyson, with a sort of smile under his rough beard."It's much better that two people should be made unhappy than four."
The world has pretty nearly come around to the verdict of the poetlaureate. It is not probable that Thomas Carlyle would have made anywoman happy as his wife, or that Jane Baillie Welsh would have made anyman happy as her husband.
This sort of speculation would never have occurred had not Mr. Froude,in the early eighties, given his story about the Carlyles to the world.Carlyle went to his grave, an old man, highly honored, and with notrail of gossip behind him. His wife had died some sixteen years before,leaving a brilliant memory. The books of Mr. Froude seemed for a momentto have desecrated the grave, and to have shed a sudden and sinisterlight upon those who could not make the least defense for themselves.
For a moment, Carlyle seemed to have been a monster of harshness,cruelty, and almost brutish feeling. On the other side, his wife tookon the color of an evil-speaking, evil-thinking shrew, who tormented thelife of her husband, and allowed herself to be possessed by some demonof unrest and discontent, such as few women of her station are everknown to suffer from.
Nor was it merely that the two were apparently ill-mated and unhappywith each other. There were hints and innuendos which looked toward somehidden cause for this unhappiness, and which aroused the curiosity ofevery one. That they might be clearer, Froude afterward wrote a book,bringing out more plainly--indeed, too plainly--his explanation of theCarlyle family skeleton. A multitude of documents then came from everyquarter, and from almost every one who had known either of the Carlyles.Perhaps the result to-day has been more injurious to Froude than to thetwo Carlyles.
Many persons unjustly speak of Froude as having violated the confidenceof his friends in publishing the letters of Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle. Theytake no heed of the fact that in doing this he was obeying Carlyle'sexpress wishes, left behind in writing, and often urged on Froude whileCarlyle was still alive. Whether or not Froude ought to have acceptedsuch a trust, one may perhaps hesitate to decide. That he did so isprobably because he felt that if he refused, Carlyle might commit thesame duty to another, who would discharge it with less delicacy and lessdiscretion.
As it is, the blame, if it rests upon any one, should rest upon Carlyle.He collected the letters. He wrote the lines which burn and scorch withself-reproach. It is he who pressed upon the reluctant Froude the dutyof printing and publishing a series of documents which, for the mostpart, should never have been published at all, and which have done equalharm to Carlyle, to his wife, and to Froude himself.
Now that everything has been written that is likely to be written bythose claiming to possess personal knowledge of the subject, let ustake up the volumes, and likewise the scattered fragments, and seek topenetrate the mystery of the most ill-assorted couple known to modernliterature.
It is not necessary to bring to light, and in regular order, theexternal history of Thomas Carlyle, or of Jane Baillie Welsh, whomarried him. There is an extraordinary amount of rather fanciful gossipabout this marriage, and about the three persons who had to do with it.
Take first the principal figure, Thomas Carlyle. His life until thattime had been a good deal more than the life of an ordinary country-man.Many persons represent him as a peasant; but he was descended from theancient lords of a Scottish manor. There was something in his eye, andin the dominance of his nature, that made his lordly nature felt. Mr.Froude notes that Carlyle's hand was very small and unusually wellshaped. Nor had his earliest appearance as a young man been commonplace,in spite of the fact that his parents were illiterate, so that hismother learned to read only after her sons had gone away to Edinburgh,in order that she might be able to enjoy their letters.
At that time in Scotland, as in Puritan New England, in each family theson who had the most notable "pairts" was sent to the university thathe might become a clergyman. If there were a second son, he became anadvocate or a doctor of medicine, while the sons of less distinctionseldom went beyond the parish school, but settled down as farmers,horse-dealers, or whatever might happen to come their way.
In the case of Thomas Carlyle, nature marked him out for somethingbrilliant, whatever that might be. His quick sensibility, the way inwhich he acquired every sort of learning, his command of logic, and,withal, his swift, unerring gift of language, made it certain from thevery first that he must be sent to the university as soon as he hadfinished school, and could afford to go.
At Edinburgh, where he matriculated in his fourteenth year, heastonished every one by the enormous extent of his reading, and bythe firm hold he kept upon it. One hesitates to credit these so-calledreminiscences which tell how he absorbed mountains of Greek and immensequantities of political economy and history and sociology and variousforms of metaphysics, as every Scotsman is bound to do. That he read allnight is a common story told of many a Scottish lad at college. We maybelieve, however, that Carlyle studied and read as most of his fellowstudents did, but far beyond them, in extent.
When he had completed about half of his divinity course, he assuredhimself that he was not intended for the life of a clergyman. One whoreads his mocking sayings, or what seemed to be a clever string of jeersdirected against religion, might well think that Carlyle was throughouthis life an atheist, or an agnostic. He confessed to Irving that he didnot believe in the Christian religion, and it was vain to hope that heever would so believe.
Moreover, Carlyle had done something which was unusual at that time.He had taught in several local schools; but presently he came back toEdinburgh and openly made literature his profession. It was a daringthing to do; but Carlyle had unbounded confidence in himself--theconfidence of a giant, striding forth into a forest, certain that he canmake his way by sheer strength through the tangled meshes and theknotty branches that he knows will meet him and try to beat him back.Furthermore, he knew how to live on very little; he was unmarried; andhe felt a certain ardor which beseemed his age and gifts.
Through the kindness of friends, he received some commissions to writein various books of reference; and in 1824, when he was twenty-nineyears of age, he published a translation of Legendre's Geometry. In thesame year he published, in the London Magazine, his Life of Schiller,and also his translation of Goethe's Wilhelm Meister. This successfulattack upon the London periodicals and reviews led to a certaincomplication with the other two characters in this story. It takes us toJane Welsh, and also to Edward Irving.
Irving was three years older than Carlyle. The two men were friends, andboth of them had been teaching in country schools, where both of themhad come to know Miss Welsh. Irving's seniority gave him a certainprestige with the younger men, and naturally with Miss Welsh. He hadwon honors at the university, and now, as assistant to the famous Dr.Chalmers, he carried his silk robes in the jaunty fashion of one who hasjust ceased to be an undergraduate. While studying, he met Miss Welsh atHaddington, and there became her private instructor.
This girl was regarded in her native town as something of a personage.To read what has been written of her, one might suppose that she wasalmost a miracle of birth and breeding, and of intellect as well. As amatter of fact, in the little town of Haddington she was simply primainter pares. Her father was the local doctor, and while she had acomfortable home, and doubtless a chaise at her disposal, she wasvery far from the "opulence" which Carlyle, looking up at her from hislowlier surroundings, was accustomed to ascribe to her. She was, nodoubt, a very clever girl; and, judging from the portraits taken of herat about this time, she was an exceedingly pretty one, with beautifuleyes and an abundance of dark glossy hair.
Even then, however, Miss Welsh had traits which might have made itcertain that she would be much more agreeable as a friend than as awife. She had become an intellectuelle quite prematurely--at an age, infact, when she might better have been thinking of other things than theinwardness of her soul, or the folly of religious belief.
Even as a young girl, she was beset by a desire to criticize and toridicule almost everything and every one that she encountered. It wasonly when she met with something that she could not understand, orsome one who could do what she could not, that she became comparativelyhumble. Unconsciously, her chief ambition was to be herselfdistinguished, and to marry some one who could be more distinguishedstill.
When she first met Edward Irving, she looked up to him as her superiorin many ways. He was a striking figure in her small world. He was knownin Edinburgh as likely to be a man of mark; and, of course, he had hada careful training in many subjects of which she, as yet, knew verylittle. Therefore, insensibly, she fell into a sort of admirationfor Irving--an admiration which might have been transmuted into love.Irving, on his side, was taken by the young girl's beauty, her vivacity,and the keenness of her intellect. That he did not at once become hersuitor is probably due to the fact that he had already engaged himselfto a Miss Martin, of whom not much is known.
It was about this time, however, that Carlyle became acquainted withMiss Welsh. His abundant knowledge, his original and striking manner ofcommenting on it, his almost gigantic intellectual power, came to heras a revelation. Her studies with Irving were now interwoven with heradmiration for Carlyle.
Since Irving was a clergyman, and Miss Welsh had not the slightestbelief in any form of theology, there was comparatively little thatthey had in common. On the other hand, when she saw the profundities ofCarlyle, she at once half feared, and was half fascinated. Let her speakto him on any subject, and he would at once thunder forth some strikingtruth, or it might be some puzzling paradox; but what he said couldnever fail to interest her and to make her think. He had, too, aninfinite sense of humor, often whimsical and shot through with sarcasm.
It is no wonder that Miss Welsh was more and more infatuated with thenature of Carlyle. If it was her conscious wish to marry a man whom shecould reverence as a master, where should she find him--in Irving or inCarlyle?
Irving was a dreamer, a man who, she came to see, was thoroughlyone-sided, and whose interests lay in a different sphere from hers.Carlyle, on the other hand, had already reached out beyond the littleScottish capital, and had made his mark in the great world of London,where men like De Quincey and Jeffrey thought it worth their while torun a tilt with him. Then, too, there was the fascination of his talk,in which Jane Welsh found a perpetual source of interest:
The English have never had an artist, except in poetry; no musician; nopainter. Purcell and Hogarth are not exceptions, or only such as confirmthe rule.
Is the true Scotchman the peasant and yeoman--chiefly the former?
Every living man is a visible mystery; he walks between two eternitiesand two infinitudes. Were we not blind as molea we should valueour humanity at infinity, and our rank, influence and so forth--thetrappings of our humanity--at nothing. Say I am a man, and you say all.Whether king or tinker is a mere appendix.
Understanding is to reason as the talent of a beaver--which can buildhouses, and uses its tail for a trowel--to the genius of a prophet andpoet. Reason is all but extinct in this age; it can never be altogetherextinguished.
The devil has his elect.
Is anything more wonderful than another, if you consider it maturely?I have seen no men rise from the dead; I have seen some thousands risefrom nothing. I have not force to fly into the sun, but I have force tolift my hand, which is equally strange.
Is not every thought properly an inspiration? Or how is one thing moreinspired than another?
Examine by logic the import of thy life, and of all lives. What is it?A making of meal into manure, and of manure into meal. To the cui bonothere is no answer from logic.
In many ways Jane Welsh found the difference of range between Carlyleand Irving. At one time, she asked Irving about some German works, andhe was obliged to send her to Carlyle to solve her difficulties. Carlyleknew German almost as well as if he had been born in Dresden; andthe full and almost overflowing way in which he answered her gave heranother impression of his potency. Thus she weighed the two men whomight become her lovers, and little by little she came to think ofIrving as partly shallow and partly narrow-minded, while Carlyle loomedup more of a giant than before.
It is not probable that she was a woman who could love profoundly.She thought too much about herself. She was too critical. She had toointense an ambition for "showing off." I can imagine that in the endshe made her choice quite coolly. She was flattered by Carlyle's strongpreference for her. She was perhaps repelled by Irving's engagement toanother woman; yet at the time few persons thought that she had chosenwell.
Irving had now gone to London, and had become the pastor of theCaledonian chapel in Hatton Garden. Within a year, by the extraordinarypower of his eloquence, which, was in a style peculiar to himself, hehad transformed an obscure little chapel into one which was crowdedby the rich and fashionable. His congregation built for him a handsomeedifice on Regent Square, and he became the leader of a new cult, whichlooked to a second personal advent of Christ. He cared nothing forthe charges of heresy which were brought against him; and when he wasdeposed his congregation followed him, and developed a new Christianorder, known as Irvingism.
Jane Welsh, in her musings, might rightfully have compared the two menand the future which each could give her. Did she marry Irving, she wascertain of a life of ease in London, and an association with men andwomen of fashion and celebrity, among whom she could show herself to bethe gifted woman that she was. Did she marry Carlyle, she must go withhim to a desolate, wind-beaten cottage, far away from any of the thingsshe cared for, working almost as a housemaid, having no company savethat of her husband, who was already a dyspeptic, and who was wont tospeak of feeling as if a rat were tearing out his stomach.
Who would have said that in going with Carlyle she had made the betterchoice? Any one would have said it who knew the three--Irving, Carlyle,and Jane Welsh.
She had the penetration to be certain that whatever Irving might possessat present, it would be nothing in comparison to what Carlyle would havein the coming future. She understood the limitations of Irving, but toher keen mind the genius of Carlyle was unlimited; and she foresaw that,after he had toiled and striven, he would come into his great reward,which she would share. Irving might be the leader of a petty sect,but Carlyle would be a man whose name must become known throughout theworld.
And so, in 1826, she had made her choice, and had become the bride ofthe rough-spoken, domineering Scotsman who had to face the world withnothing but his creative brain and his stubborn independence. She hadput aside all immediate thought of London and its lures; she was goingto cast in her lot with Carlyle's, largely as a matter of calculation,and believing that she had made the better choice.
She was twenty-six and Carlyle was thirty-two when, after a briefresidence in Edinburgh, they went down to Craigenputtock. Froude hasdescribed this place as the dreariest spot in the British dominions:
The nearest cottage is more than a mile from it; the elevation, sevenhundred feet above the sea, stunts the trees and limits the gardenproduce; the house is gaunt and hungry-looking. It stands, with thescanty fields attached, as an island in a sea of morass. The landscapeis unredeemed by grace or grandeur--mere undulating hills of grass andheather, with peat bogs in the hollows between them.
Froude's grim description has been questioned by some; yet the actualpictures that have been drawn of the place in later years make itlook bare, desolate, and uninviting. Mrs. Carlyle, who owned it as aninheritance from her father, saw the place for the first time in March,1828. She settled there in May; but May, in the Scottish hills, isalmost as repellent as winter. She herself shrank from the adventurewhich she had proposed. It was her husband's notion, and her own, thatthey should live there in practical solitude. He was to think and write,and make for himself a beginning of real fame; while she was to hoverover him and watch his minor comforts.
It seemed to many of their friends that the project was quixotic to adegree. Mrs. Carlyle delicate health, her weak chest, and the beginningof a nervous disorder, made them think that she was unfit to dwell inso wild and bleak a solitude. They felt, too, that Carlyle was toomuch absorbed with his own thought to be trusted with the charge of ahigh-spirited woman.
However, the decision had been made, and the newly married couple wentto Craigenputtock, with wagons that carried their household goods andthose of Carlyle's brother, Alexander, who lived in a cottage near by.These were the two redeeming features of their lonely home--the presenceof Alexander Carlyle, and the fact that, although they had no servantsin the ordinary sense, there were several farmhands and a dairy-maid.
Before long there came a period of trouble, which is easily explainedby what has been already said. Carlyle, thinking and writing some ofthe most beautiful things that he ever thought or wrote, could not makeallowance for his wife's high spirit and physical weakness. She, on herside--nervous, fitful, and hard to please--thought herself a slave,the servant of a harsh and brutal master. She screamed at him when hernerves were too unstrung; and then, with a natural reaction, she calledherself "a devil who could never be good enough for him." But most ofher letters were harsh and filled with bitterness, and, no doubt, hisconduct to her was at times no better than her own.
But it was at Craigenputtock that he really did lay fast and firm theroad to fame. His wife's sharp tongue, and the gnawings of his owndyspepsia, were lived down with true Scottish grimness. It was here thathe wrote some of his most penetrating and sympathetic essays, which werepublished by the leading reviews of England and Scotland. Here, too, hebegan to teach his countrymen the value of German literature.
The most remarkable of his productions was that strange work entitledSartor Resartus (1834), an extraordinary mixture of the sublime and thegrotesque. The book quivers and shakes with tragic pathos, with inwardagonies, with solemn aspirations, and with riotous humor.
In 1834, after six years at Craigenputtock, the Carlyles moved toLondon, and took up their home in Cheyne Row, Chelsea, a far fromfashionable retreat, but one in which the comforts of life could be morereadily secured. It was there that Thomas Carlyle wrote what mustseem to us the most vivid of all his books, the History of the FrenchRevolution. For this he had read and thought for many years; parts ofit he had written in essays, and parts of it he had jotted down injournals. But now it came forth, as some one has said, "a truth clad inhell-fire," swirling amid clouds and flames and mist, a most wonderfulpicture of the accumulated social and political falsehoods whichpreceded the revolution, and which were swept away by a nemesis that wasthe righteous judgment of God.
Carlyle never wrote so great a book as this. He had reached his middlestyle, having passed the clarity of his early writings, and not havingyet reached the thunderous, strange-mouthed German expletives whichmarred his later work. In the French Revolution he bursts forth, hereand there, into furious Gallic oaths and Gargantuan epithets; yet thisapocalypse of France seems more true than his hero-worshiping of oldFrederick of Prussia, or even of English Cromwell.
All these days Thomas Carlyle lived a life which was partly oneof seclusion and partly one of pleasure. At all times he and hisdark-haired wife had their own sets, and mingled with their own friends.Jane had no means of discovering just whether she would have beenhappier with Irving; for Irving died while she was still diggingpotatoes and complaining of her lot at Craigenputtock.
However this may be, the Carlyles, man and wife, lived an existence thatwas full of unhappiness and rancor. Jane Carlyle became an invalid, andsought to allay her nervous sufferings with strong tea and tobacco andmorphin. When a nervous woman takes to morphin, it almost always meansthat she becomes intensely jealous; and so it was with Jane Carlyle.
A shivering, palpitating, fiercely loyal bit of humanity, she took itinto her head that her husband was infatuated with Lady Ashburton, orthat Lady Ashburton was infatuated with him. She took to spying on them,and at times, when her nerves were all a jangle, she would lie backin her armchair and yell with paroxysms of anger. On the other hand,Carlyle, eager to enjoy the world, sought relief from his householdcares, and sometimes stole away after a fashion that was hardlyguileless. He would leave false addresses at his house, and would dineat other places than he had announced.
In 1866 Jane Carlyle suddenly died; and somehow, then, the conscienceof Thomas Carlyle became convinced that he had wronged the woman whom hehad really loved. His last fifteen years were spent in wretchedness anddespair. He felt that he had committed the unpardonable sin. He recalledwith anguish every moment of their early life at Craigenputtock--how shehad toiled for him, and waited upon him, and made herself a slave;and how, later, she had given herself up entirely to him, while he hadthoughtlessly received the sacrifice, and trampled on it as on a bed offlowers.
Of course, in all this he was intensely morbid, and the diary which hewrote was no more sane and wholesome than the screamings with which hiswife had horrified her friends. But when he had grown to be a very oldman, he came to feel that this was all a sort of penance, and that theselfishness of his past must be expiated in the future. Therefore, hegave his diary to his friend, the historian, Froude, and urged him topublish the letters and memorials of Jane Welsh Carlyle. Mr. Froude,with an eye to the reading world, readily did so, furnishing them withabundant footnotes, which made Carlyle appear to the world as more orless of a monster.
First, there was set forth the almost continual unhappiness of the pair.In the second place, by hint, by innuendo, and sometimes by explicitstatement, there were given reasons to show why Carlyle made his wifeunhappy. Of course, his gnawing dyspepsia, which she strove with all hermight to drive away, was one of the first and greatest causes. But againanother cause of discontent was stated in the implication that Carlyle,in his bursts of temper, actually abused his wife. In one passage thereis a hint that certain blue marks upon her arm were bruises, the resultof blows.
Most remarkable of all these accusations is that which has to do withthe relations of Carlyle and Lady Ashburton. There is no doubt that JaneCarlyle disliked this brilliant woman, and came to have dark suspicionsconcerning her. At first, it was only a sort of social jealousy. LadyAshburton was quite as clever a talker as Mrs. Carlyle, and she had aprestige which brought her more admiration.
Then, by degrees, as Jane Carlyle's mind began to wane, she transferredher jealousy to her husband himself. She hated to be out-shone, andnow, in some misguided fashion, it came into her head that Carlyle hadsurrendered to Lady Ashburton his own attention to his wife, and hadfallen in love with her brilliant rival.
On one occasion, she declared that Lady Ashburton had thrown herself atCarlyle's feet, but that Carlyle had acted like a man of honor, whileLord Ashburton, knowing all the facts, had passed them over, and hadretained his friendship with Carlyle.
Now, when Froude came to write My Relations with Carlyle, there werethose who were very eager to furnish him with every sort of gossip.The greatest source of scandal upon which he drew was a woman namedGeraldine Jewsbury, a curious neurotic creature, who had seen much ofthe late Mrs. Carlyle, but who had an almost morbid love of offensivetattle. Froude describes himself as a witness for six years, at CheyneRow, "of the enactment of a tragedy as stern and real as the story ofOedipus." According to his own account:
I stood by, consenting to the slow martyrdom of a woman whom I havedescribed as bright and sparkling and tender, and I uttered no wordof remonstrance. I saw her involved in a perpetual blizzard, and didnothing to shelter her.
But it is not upon his own observations that Froude relies for his mostsinister evidence against his friend. To him comes Miss Jewsbury witha lengthy tale to tell. It is well to know what Mrs. Carlyle thought ofthis lady. She wrote:
It is her besetting sin, and her trade of novelist has aggravatedit--the desire of feeling and producing violent emotions.... Geraldinehas one besetting weakness; she is never happy unless she has a grandepassion on hand.
There were strange manifestations on the part of Miss Jewsbury towardMrs. Carlyle. At one time, when Mrs. Carlyle had shown some preferencefor another woman, it led to a wild outburst of what Miss Jewsburyherself called "tiger jealousy." There are many other instances ofviolent emotions in her letters to Mrs. Carlyle. They are often highlycharged and erotic. It is unusual for a woman of thirty-two to write toa woman friend, who is forty-three years of age, in these words, whichMiss Jewsbury used in writing to Mrs. Carlyle:
You are never out of my thoughts one hour together. I think of you muchmore than if you were my lover. I cannot express my feelings, even toyou--vague, undefined yearnings to be yours in some way.
Mrs. Carlyle was accustomed, in private, to speak of Miss Jewsbury as"Miss Gooseberry," while Carlyle himself said that she was simply "aflimsy tatter of a creature." But it is on the testimony of thisone woman, who was so morbid and excitable, that the most seriousaccusations against Carlyle rest. She knew that Froude was writing avolume about Mrs. Carlyle, and she rushed to him, eager to furnish anynarratives, however strange, improbable, or salacious they might be.
Thus she is the sponsor of the Ashburton story, in which there isnothing whatsoever. Some of the letters which Lady Ashburton wroteCarlyle have been destroyed, but not before her husband had perusedthem. Another set of letters had never been read by Lord Ashburton atall, and they are still preserved--friendly, harmless, usual letters.Lord Ashburton always invited Carlyle to his house, and there is noreason to think that the Scottish philosopher wronged him.
There is much more to be said about the charge that Mrs. Carlylesuffered from personal abuse; yet when we examine the facts, theevidence resolves itself into practically nothing. That, in hisself-absorption, he allowed her to Sending Completed Page, PleaseWait... overflowed toward a man who must have been a manly, lovinglover. She calls him by the name by which he called her--a homelyScottish name.
GOODY, GOODY, DEAR GOODY:
You said you would weary, and I do hope in my heart you are wearying. Itwill be so sweet to make it all up to you in kisses when I return. Youwill take me and hear all my bits of experiences, and your heart willbeat when you find how I have longed to return to you. Darling, dearest,loveliest, the Lord bless you! I think of you every hour, every moment.I love you and admire you, like--like anything. Oh, if I was there,I could put my arms so close about your neck, and hush you into thesoftest sleep you have had since I went away. Good night. Dream of me. Iam ever YOUR OWN GOODY.
It seems most fitting to remember Thomas Carlyle as a man of strength,of honor, and of intellect; and his wife as one who was sorely tried,but who came out of her suffering into the arms of death, purified andcalm and worthy to be remembered by her husband's side.




THE STORY OF THE HUGOS

Victor Hugo, after all criticisms have been made, stands as a literarycolossus. He had imaginative power which makes his finest passagesfairly crash upon the reader's brain like blasting thunderbolts. Hisnovels, even when translated, are read and reread by people of everydegree of education. There is something vast, something almost Titanic,about the grandeur and gorgeousness of his fancy. His prose resemblesthe sonorous blare of an immense military band. Readers of English careless for his poetry; yet in his verse one can find another phase of hisintellect. He could write charmingly, in exquisite cadences, poemsfor lovers and for little children. His gifts were varied, and he knewthoroughly the life and thought of his own countrymen; and, therefore,in his later days he was almost deified by them.
At the same time, there were defects in his intellect and characterwhich are perceptible in what he wrote, as well as in what he did. Hehad the Gallic wit in great measure, but he was absolutely devoid of anysense of humor. This is why, in both his prose and his poetry, his mosttremendous pages often come perilously near to bombast; and this is why,again, as a man, his vanity was almost as great as his genius. He hadgood reason to be vain, and yet, if he had possessed a gleam of humor,he would never have allowed his egoism to make him arrogant. As it was,he felt himself exalted above other mortals. Whatever he did or said orwrote was right because he did it or said it or wrote it.
This often showed itself in rather whimsical ways. Thus, after he hadpublished the first edition of his novel, The Man Who Laughs, an Englishgentleman called upon him, and, after some courteous compliments,suggested that in subsequent editions the name of an English peer whofigures in the book should be changed from Tom Jim-Jack.
"For," said the Englishman, "Tom Jim-Jack is a name that could notpossibly belong to an English noble, or, indeed, to any Englishman. Thepresence of it in your powerful story makes it seem to English readers alittle grotesque."
Victor Hugo drew himself up with an air of high disdain.
"Who are you?" asked he.
"I am an Englishman," was the answer, "and naturally I know what namesare possible in English."
Hugo drew himself up still higher, and on his face there was a smile ofutter contempt.
"Yes," said he. "You are an Englishman; but I--I am Victor Hugo."
In another book Hugo had spoken of the Scottish bagpipes as "bugpipes."This gave some offense to his Scottish admirers. A great many personstold him that the word was "bagpipes," and not "bugpipes." But hereplied with irritable obstinacy:
"I am Victor Hugo; and if I choose to write it 'bugpipes,' it IS'bugpipes.' It is anything that I prefer to make it. It is so, because Icall it so!"
So, Victor Hugo became a violent republican, because he did not wishFrance to be an empire or a kingdom, in which an emperor or a kingwould be his superior in rank. He always spoke of Napoleon III as "M.Bonaparte." He refused to call upon the gentle-mannered Emperor ofBrazil, because he was an emperor; although Dom Pedro expressed anearnest desire to meet the poet.
When the German army was besieging Paris, Hugo proposed to fight a duelwith the King of Prussia, and to have the result of it settle the war;"for," said he, "the King of Prussia is a great king, but I am VictorHugo, the great poet. We are, therefore, equal."
In spite, however, of his ardent republicanism, he was very fond ofspeaking of his own noble descent. Again and again he styled himself "apeer of France;" and he and his family made frequent allusions to theknights and bishops and counselors of state with whom he claimed anancestral relation. This was more than inconsistent. It was somewhatludicrous; because Victor Hugo's ancestry was by no means noble. TheHugos of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries were not in anyway related to the poet's family, which was eminently honest andrespectable, but by no means one of distinction. His grandfather wasa carpenter. One of his aunts was the wife of a baker, another of abarber, while the third earned her living as a provincial dressmaker.
If the poet had been less vain and more sincerely democratic, he wouldhave been proud to think that he sprang from good, sound, sturdystock, and would have laughed at titles. As it was, he jeered atall pretensions of rank in other men, while he claimed for himselfdistinctions that were not really his. His father was a soldier who rosefrom the ranks until, under Napoleon, he reached the grade of general.His mother was the daughter of a ship owner in Nantes.
Victor Hugo was born in February, 1802, during the Napoleonic wars, andhis early years were spent among the camps and within the sound of thecannon-thunder. It was fitting that he should have been born and rearedin an age of upheaval, revolt, and battle. He was essentially thelaureate of revolt; and in some of his novels--as in Ninety-Three--thedrum and the trumpet roll and ring through every chapter.
The present paper has, of course, nothing to do with Hugo's public life;yet it is necessary to remember the complicated nature of the man--allhis power, all his sweetness of disposition, and likewise all his vanityand his eccentricities. We must remember, also, that he was French, sothat his story may be interpreted in the light of the French character.
At the age of fifteen he was domiciled in Paris, and though still aschoolboy and destined for the study of law, he dreamed only of poetryand of literature. He received honorable mention from the FrenchAcademy in 1817, and in the following year took prizes in a poeticalcompetition. At seventeen he began the publication of a literaryjournal, which survived until 1821. His astonishing energy becameevident in the many publications which he put forth in these boyishdays. He began to become known. Although poetry, then as now, was notvery profitable even when it was admired, one of his slender volumesbrought him the sum of seven hundred francs, which seemed to himnot only a fortune in itself, but the forerunner of still greaterprosperity.
It was at this time, while still only twenty years of age, that he meta young girl of eighteen with whom he fell rather tempestuously in love.Her name was Adele Foucher, and she was the daughter of a clerk in theWar Office. When one is very young and also a poet, it takes very littleto feed the flame of passion. Victor Hugo was often a guest at theapartments of M. Foucher, where he was received by that gentlemanand his family. French etiquette, of course, forbade any directcommunication between the visitor and Adele. She was still a very younggirl, and was supposed to take no share in the conversation. Therefore,while the others talked, she sat demurely by the fireside and sewed.
Her dark eyes and abundant hair, her grace of manner, and the picturewhich she made as the firelight played about her, kindled a flame in thesusceptible heart of Victor Hugo. Though he could not speak to her,he at least could look at her; and, before long, his share in theconversation was very slight. This was set down, at first, to hisabsent-mindedness; but looks can be as eloquent as spoken words. Mme.Foucher, with a woman's keen intelligence, noted the adoring gaze ofVictor Hugo as he silently watched her daughter. The young Adele herselfwas no less intuitive than her mother. It was very well understood,in the course of a few months, that Victor Hugo was in love with AdeleFoucher.
Her father and mother took counsel about the matter, and Hugo himself,in a burst of lyrical eloquence, confessed that he adored Adele andwished to marry her. Her parents naturally objected. The girl was buta child. She had no dowry, nor had Victor Hugo any settled income. Theywere not to think of marriage. But when did a common-sense decision,such as this, ever separate a man and a woman who have felt thethrill of first love! Victor Hugo was insistent. With his supremeself-confidence, he declared that he was bound to be successful, andthat in a very short time he would be illustrious. Adele, on her side,created "an atmosphere" at home by weeping frequently, and by goingabout with hollow eyes and wistful looks.
The Foucher family removed from Paris to a country town. Victor Hugoimmediately followed them. Fortunately for him, his poems had attractedthe attention of Louis XVIII, who was flattered by some of the verses.He sent Hugo five hundred francs for an ode, and soon afterward settledupon him a pension of a thousand francs. Here at least was an income--avery small one, to be sure, but still an income. Perhaps Adele's fatherwas impressed not so much by the actual money as by the evidence of theroyal favor. At any rate, he withdrew his opposition, and the two youngpeople were married in October, 1822--both of them being under age,unformed, and immature.
Their story is another warning against too early marriage. It is truethat they lived together until Mme. Hugo's death--a married life offorty-six years--yet their story presents phases which would have madethis impossible had they not been French.
For a time, Hugo devoted all his energies to work. The record of hissteady upward progress is a part of the history of literature, and neednot be repeated here. The poet and his wife were soon able to leave thelatter's family abode, and to set up their own household god in a homewhich was their own. Around them there were gathered, in a sort ofsalon, all the best-known writers of the day--dramatists, critics,poets, and romancers. The Hugos knew everybody.
Unfortunately, one of their visitors cast into their new life a drop ofcorroding bitterness. This intruder was Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve,a man two years younger than Victor Hugo, and one who blended learning,imagination, and a gift of critical analysis. Sainte-Beuve is to-daybest remembered as a critic, and he was perhaps the greatest critic everknown in France. But in 1830 he was a slender, insinuating youth whocultivated a gift for sensuous and somewhat morbid poetry.
He had won Victor Hugo's friendship by writing an enthusiastic notice ofHugo's dramatic works. Hugo, in turn, styled Sainte-Beuve "an eagle,""a blazing star," and paid him other compliments no less gorgeous andHugoesque. But in truth, if Sainte-Beuve frequented the Hugo salon, itwas less because of his admiration for the poet than from his desire towin the love of the poet's wife.
It is quite impossible to say how far he attracted the serious attentionof Adele Hugo. Sainte-Beuve represents a curious type, which is far morecommon in France and Italy than in the countries of the north. Humannature is not very different in cultivated circles anywhere. Man loves,and seeks to win the object of his love; or, as the old English proverbhas it:
    It's a man's part to try,    And a woman's to deny.
But only in the Latin countries do men who have tried make theirattempts public, and seek to produce an impression that they have beensuccessful, and that the woman has not denied. This sort of man, inEnglish-speaking lands, is set down simply as a cad, and is excludedfrom people's houses; but in some other countries the thing is regardedwith a certain amount of toleration. We see it in the two books writtenrespectively by Alfred de Musset and George Sand. We have seen it stilllater in our own times, in that strange and half-repulsive story inwhich the Italian novelist and poet, Gabriele d'Annunzio, under a verythin disguise, revealed his relations with the famous actress, EleanoraDuse. Anglo-Saxons thrust such books aside with a feeling of disgust forthe man who could so betray a sacred confidence and perhaps exaggeratea simple indiscretion into actual guilt. But it is not so in France andItaly. And this is precisely what Sainte-Beuve attempted.
Dr. George McLean Harper, in his lately published study of Sainte-Beuve,has summed the matter up admirably, in speaking of The Book of Love:
He had the vein of emotional self-disclosure, the vein of romantic orsentimental confession. This last was not a rich lode, and so he was atpains to charge it secretly with ore which he exhumed gloatingly, butwhich was really base metal. The impulse that led him along this falseroute was partly ambition, partly sensuality. Many a worse man wouldhave been restrained by self-respect and good taste. And no man with asense of honor would have permitted The Book of Love to see the light--asmall collection of verses recording his passion for Mme. Hugo, anddesigned to implicate her.
He left two hundred and five printed copies of this book to bedistributed after his death. A virulent enemy of Sainte-Beuve was nottoo expressive when he declared that its purpose was "to leave on thelife of this woman the gleaming and slimy trace which the passage of asnail leaves on a rose." Abominable in either case, whether or not theimplication was unfounded, Sainte-Beuve's numerous innuendoes in regardto Mme. Hugo are an indelible stain on his memory, and his infamy notonly cost him his most precious friendships, but crippled him in everyhigh endeavor.
How monstrous was this violation of both friendship and love may be seenin the following quotation from his writings:
In that inevitable hour, when the gloomy tempest and the jealous gulfshall roll over our heads, a sealed bottle, belched forth from theabyss, will render immortal our two names, their close alliance, and ourdouble memory aspiring after union.
Whether or not Mme. Hugo's relations with Sainte-Beuve justified thelatter even in thinking such thoughts as these, one need not inquire toominutely. Evidently, though, Victor Hugo could no longer be the friendof the man who almost openly boasted that he had dishonored him. Thereexist some sharp letters which passed between Hugo and Sainte-Beuve.Their intimacy was ended.
But there was something more serious than this. Sainte-Beuve had in factsucceeded in leaving a taint upon the name of Victor Hugo's wife. ThatHugo did not repudiate her makes it fairly plain that she was innocent;yet a high-spirited, sensitive soul like Hugo's could never forget thatin the world's eye she was compromised. The two still lived togetheras before; but now the poet felt himself released from the strictobligations of the marriage-bond.
It may perhaps be doubted whether he would in any case have remainedfaithful all his life. He was, as Mr. H.W. Wack well says, "a man ofpowerful sensations, physically as well as mentally. Hugo pursued everyopportunity for new work, new sensations, fresh emotion. He desired toabsorb as much on life's eager forward way as his great nature craved.His range in all things--mental, physical, and spiritual--was so farbeyond the ordinary that the gage of average cannot be applied to him.The cavil of the moralist did not disturb him."
Hence, it is not improbable that Victor Hugo might have broken throughthe bonds of marital fidelity, even had Sainte-Beuve never written hisabnormal poems; but certainly these poems hastened a result which may ormay not have been otherwise inevitable. Hugo no longer turned whollyto the dark-haired, dark-eyed Adele as summing up for him the whole ofwomanhood. A veil was drawn, as it were, from before his eyes, and helooked on other women and found them beautiful.
It was in 1833, soon after Hugo's play "Lucrece Borgia" had beenaccepted for production, that a lady called one morning at Hugo's housein the Place Royale. She was then between twenty and thirty years ofage, slight of figure, winsome in her bearing, and one who knew the artswhich appeal to men. For she was no inexperienced ingenue. The name uponher visiting-card was "Mme. Drouet"; and by this name she had been knownin Paris as a clever and somewhat gifted actress. Theophile Gautier,whose cult was the worship of physical beauty, wrote in almost lyricprose of her seductive charm.
At nineteen, after she had been cast upon the world, dowered with thatterrible combination, poverty and beauty, she had lived openly with asculptor named Pradier. This has a certain importance in the historyof French art. Pradier had received a commission to execute a statuerepresenting Strasburg--the statue which stands to-day in the Placede la Concorde, and which patriotic Frenchmen and Frenchwomen drape inmourning and half bury in immortelles, in memory of that city of Alsacewhich so long was French, but which to-day is German--one of Germany'sgreat prizes taken in the war of 1870.
Five years before her meeting with Hugo, Pradier had rather brutallysevered his connection with her, and she had accepted the protectionof a Russian nobleman. At this time she was known by her realname--Julienne Josephine Gauvin; but having gone upon the stage, sheassumed the appellation by which she was thereafter known, that ofJuliette Drouet.
Her visit to Hugo was for the purpose of asking him to secure for hera part in his forth-coming play. The dramatist was willing, butunfortunately all the major characters had been provided for, and hewas able to offer her only the minor one of the Princesse Negroni. Thecharming deference with which she accepted the offered part attractedHugo's attention. Such amiability is very rare in actresses who have hadengagements at the best theaters. He resolved to see her again; and hedid so, time after time, until he was thoroughly captivated by her.
She knew her value, and as yet was by no means infatuated with him.At first he was to her simply a means of getting on in herprofession--simply another influential acquaintance. Yet she brought tobear upon him the arts at her command, her beauty and her sympathy, and,last of all, her passionate abandonment.
Hugo was overwhelmed by her. He found that she was in debt, andhe managed to see that her debts were paid. He secured her otherengagements at the theater, though she was less successful as an actressafter she knew him. There came, for a time, a short break in theirrelations; for, partly out of need, she returned to her Russiannobleman, or at least admitted him to a menage a trois. Hugo underwentfor a second time a great disillusionment. Nevertheless, he was not tooproud to return to her and to beg her not to be unfaithful any more.Touched by his tears, and perhaps foreseeing his future fame, she gaveher promise, and she kept it until her death, nearly half a centurylater.
Perhaps because she had deceived him once, Hugo never completely losthis prudence in his association with her. He was by no means lavish withmoney, and he installed her in a rather simple apartment only a shortdistance from his own home. He gave her an allowance that was relativelysmall, though later he provided for her amply in his will. But it wasto her that he brought all his confidences, to her he entrusted all hisinterests. She became to him, thenceforth, much more than she appearedto the world at large; for she was his friend, and, as he said, hisinspiration.
The fact of their intimate connection became gradually known throughParis. It was known even to Mme. Hugo; but she, remembering the affairof Sainte-Beuve, or knowing how difficult it is to check the will of aman like Hugo, made no sign, and even received Juliette Drouet in herown house and visited her in turn. When the poet's sons grew up tomanhood, they, too, spent many hours with their father in the littlesalon of the former actress. It was a strange and, to an Anglo-Saxonmind, an almost impossible position; yet France forgives much to genius,and in time no one thought of commenting on Hugo's manner of life.
In 1851, when Napoleon III seized upon the government, and when Hugo wasin danger of arrest, she assisted him to escape in disguise, and with aforged passport, across the Belgian frontier. During his long exilein Guernsey she lived in the same close relationship to him and to hisfamily. Mme. Hugo died in 1868, having known for thirty-three years thatshe was only second in her husband's thoughts. Was she doing penance, orwas she merely accepting the inevitable? In any case, her position wasmost pathetic, though she uttered no complaint.
A very curious and poignant picture of her just before her death hasbeen given by the pen of a visitor in Guernsey. He had met Hugo and hissons; he had seen the great novelist eating enormous slices of roastbeef and drinking great goblets of red wine at dinner, and he hadalso watched him early each morning, divested of all his clothing andsplashing about in a bath-tub on the top of his house, in view ofall the town. One evening he called and found only Mme. Hugo. She wasreclining on a couch, and was evidently suffering great pain. Surprised,he asked where were her husband and her sons.
"Oh," she replied, "they've all gone to Mme. Drouet's to spend theevening and enjoy themselves. Go also; you'll not find it amusing here."
One ponders over this sad scene with conflicting thoughts. Was therereally any truth in the story at which Sainte-Beuve more than hinted?If so, Adele Hugo was more than punished. The other woman had sinned farmore; and yet she had never been Hugo's wife; and hence perhaps itwas right that she should suffer less. Suffer she did; for after herdevotion to Hugo had become sincere and deep, he betrayed her confidenceby an intrigue with a girl who is spoken of as "Claire." The knowledgeof it caused her infinite anguish, but it all came to an end; and shelived past her eightieth year, long after the death of Mme. Hugo. Shedied only a short time before the poet himself was laid to rest in Pariswith magnificent obsequies which an emperor might have envied. In herold age, Juliette Drouet became very white and very wan; yet she neverquite lost the charm with which, as a girl, she had won the heart ofHugo.
The story has many aspects. One may see in it a retribution, or one maysee in it only the cruelty of life. Perhaps it is best regarded simplyas a chapter in the strange life-histories of men of genius.




THE STORY OF GEORGE SAND

To the student of feminine psychology there is no more curious andcomplex problem than the one that meets us in the life of the giftedFrench writer best known to the world as George Sand.
To analyze this woman simply as a writer would in itself be a long,difficult task. She wrote voluminously, with a fluid rather than afluent pen. She scandalized her contemporaries by her theories, and bythe way in which she applied them in her novels. Her fiction made her,in the history of French literature, second only to Victor Hugo.She might even challenge Hugo, because where he depicts strange andmonstrous figures, exaggerated beyond the limits of actual life, GeorgeSand portrays living men and women, whose instincts and desires sheunderstands, and whom she makes us see precisely as if we were admittedto their intimacy.
But George Sand puzzles us most by peculiarities which it is difficultfor us to reconcile. She seemed to have no sense of chastity whatever;yet, on the other hand, she was not grossly sensual. She possessed thematernal instinct to a high degree, and liked better to be a motherthan a mistress to the men whose love she sought. For she did seek men'slove, frankly and shamelessly, only to tire of it. In many cases sheseems to have been swayed by vanity, and by a love of conquest, ratherthan by passion. She had also a spiritual, imaginative side to hernature, and she could be a far better comrade than anything moreintimate.
The name given to this strange genius at birth was Amantine LucileAurore Dupin. The circumstances of her ancestry and birth were quiteunusual. Her father was a lieutenant in the French army. His grandmotherhad been the natural daughter of Marshal Saxe, who was himself theillegitimate son of Augustus the Strong of Poland and of the bewitchingCountess of Konigsmarck. This was a curious pedigree. It meant strengthof character, eroticism, stubbornness, imagination, courage, andrecklessness.
Her father complicated the matter by marrying suddenly a Parisian of thelower classes, a bird-fancier named Sophie Delaborde. His daughter,who was born in 1804, used afterward to boast that on one side she wassprung from kings and nobles, while on the other she was a daughterof the people, able, therefore, to understand the sentiments of thearistocracy and of the children of the soil, or even of the gutter.
She was fond of telling, also, of the omen which attended on her birth.Her father and mother were at a country dance in the house of a fellowofficer of Dupin's. Suddenly Mme. Dupin left the room. Nothing wasthought of this, and the dance went on. In less than an hour, Dupin wascalled aside and told that his wife had just given birth to a child. Itwas the child's aunt who brought the news, with the joyous comment:
"She will be lucky, for she was born among the roses and to the sound ofmusic."
This was at the time of the Napoleonic wars. Lieutenant Dupin was on thestaff of Prince Murat, and little Aurore, as she was called, at the ageof three accompanied the army, as did her mother. The child wasadopted by one of those hard-fighting, veteran regiments. The rough oldsergeants nursed her and petted her. Even the prince took notice of her;and to please him she wore the green uniform of a hussar.
But all this soon passed, and she was presently sent to live withher grandmother at the estate now intimately associated with hername--Nohant, in the valley of the Indre, in the midst of a richcountry, a love for which she then drank in so deeply that nothing inher later life could lessen it. She was always the friend of the peasantand of the country-folk in general.
At Nohant she was given over to her grand-mother, to be reared in astrangely desultory sort of fashion, doing and reading and studyingthose things which could best develop her native gifts. Her father hadgreat influence over her, teaching her a thousand things without seemingto teach her anything. Of him George Sand herself has written:
Character is a matter of heredity. If any one desires to know me, hemust know my father.
Her father, however, was killed by a fall from a horse; and then thechild grew up almost without any formal education. A tutor, who alsomanaged the estate; believed with Rousseau that the young should bereared according to their own preferences. Therefore, Aurore read poemsand childish stories; she gained a smattering of Latin, and she wasdevoted to music and the elements of natural science. For the rest ofthe time she rambled with the country children, learned their games, andbecame a sort of leader in everything they did.
Her only sorrow was the fact that her mother was excluded from Nohant.The aristocratic old grandmother would not allow under her roof herson's low-born wife; but she was devoted to her little grandchild. Thegirl showed a wonderful degree of sensibility.
This life was adapted to her nature. She fed her imagination in aperfectly healthy fashion; and, living so much out of doors, sheacquired that sound physique which she retained all through her life.
When she was thirteen, her grandmother sent the girl to a convent schoolin Paris. One might suppose that the sudden change from the open woodsand fields to the primness of a religious home would have been a greatshock to her, and that with her disposition she might have brokenout into wild ways that would have shocked the nuns. But, here, aselsewhere, she showed her wonderful adaptability. It even seemed asif she were likely to become what the French call a devote. She gaveherself up to mythical thoughts, and expressed a desire of taking theveil. Her confessor, however, was a keen student of human nature, andhe perceived that she was too young to decide upon the renunciation ofearthly things. Moreover, her grandmother, who had no intention thatAurore should become a nun, hastened to Paris and carried her back toNohant.
The girl was now sixteen, and her complicated nature began tomake itself apparent. There was no one to control her, because hergrandmother was confined to her own room. And so Aurore Dupin, now insuperb health, rushed into every sort of diversion with all the zest ofyouth. She read voraciously--religion, poetry, philosophy. She was anexcellent musician, playing the piano and the harp. Once, in a spirit ofunconscious egotism, she wrote to her confessor:
Do you think that my philosophical studies are compatible with Christianhumility?
The shrewd ecclesiastic answered, with a touch of wholesome irony:
I doubt, my daughter, whether your philosophical studies are profoundenough to warrant intellectual pride.
This stung the girl, and led her to think a little less of her ownabilities; but perhaps it made her books distasteful to her. For a whileshe seems to have almost forgotten her sex. She began to dress as a boy,and took to smoking large quantities of tobacco. Her natural brother,who was an officer in the army, came down to Nohant and taught her toride--to ride like a boy, seated astride. She went about without anychaperon, and flirted with the young men of the neighborhood. The primmanners of the place made her subject to a certain amount of scandal,and the village priest chided her in language that was far from tactful.In return she refused any longer to attend his church.
Thus she was living when her grandmother died, in 1821, leaving toAurore her entire fortune of five hundred thousand francs. As the girlwas still but seventeen, she was placed under the guardianship of thenearest relative on her father's side--a gentleman of rank. When thewill was read, Aurore's mother made a violent protest, and caused a mostunpleasant scene.
"I am the natural guardian of my child," she cried. "No one can takeaway my rights!"
The young girl well understood that this was really the parting of theways. If she turned toward her uncle, she would be forever classedamong the aristocracy. If she chose her mother, who, though married, wasessentially a grisette, then she must live with grisettes, and find herfriends among the friends who visited her mother. She could not belongto both worlds. She must decide once for all whether she would be awoman of rank or a woman entirely separated from the circle that hadbeen her father's.
One must respect the girl for making the choice she did. Understandingthe situation absolutely, she chose her mother; and perhaps one wouldnot have had her do otherwise. Yet in the long run it was bound to be amistake. Aurore was clever, refined, well read, and had had the trainingof a fashionable convent school. The mother was ignorant and coarse, aswas inevitable, with one who before her marriage had been half shop-girland half courtesan. The two could not live long together, and hence itwas not unnatural that Aurore Dupin should marry, to enter upon a newcareer.
Her fortune was a fairly large one for the times, and yet not largeenough to attract men who were quite her equals. Presently, however, itbrought to her a sort of country squire, named Casimir Dudevant. He wasthe illegitimate son of the Baron Dudevant. He had been in the army,and had studied law; but he possessed no intellectual tastes. He wasoutwardly eligible; but he was of a coarse type--a man who, with passingyears, would be likely to take to drink and vicious amusements, and inserious life cared only for his cattle, his horses, and his hunting. Hehad, however, a sort of jollity about him which appealed to this girl ofeighteen; and so a marriage was arranged. Aurore Dupin became his wifein 1822, and he secured the control of her fortune.
The first few years after her marriage were not unhappy. She had a son,Maurice Dudevant, and a daughter, Solange, and she loved them both. Butit was impossible that she should continue vegetating mentally upona farm with a husband who was a fool, a drunkard, and a miser. Hedeteriorated; his wife grew more and more clever. Dudevant resentedthis. It made him uncomfortable. Other persons spoke of her talk asbrilliant. He bluntly told her that it was silly, and that she must stopit. When she did not stop it, he boxed her ears. This caused a breachbetween the pair which was never healed. Dudevant drank more and moreheavily, and jeered at his wife because she was "always looking for noonat fourteen o'clock." He had always flirted with the country girls; butnow he openly consorted with his wife's chambermaid.
Mme. Dudevant, on her side, would have nothing more to do with thisrustic rake. She formed what she called a platonic friendship--and itwas really so--with a certain M. de Seze, who was advocate-general atBordeaux. With him this clever woman could talk without being calledsilly, and he took sincere pleasure in her company. He might, in fact,have gone much further, had not both of them been in an impossiblesituation.
Aurore Dudevant really believed that she was swayed by a pure and mysticpassion. De Seze, on the other hand, believed this mystic passion tobe genuine love. Coming to visit her at Nohant, he was revolted by theclownish husband with whom she lived. It gave him an esthetic shock tosee that she had borne children to this boor. Therefore he shrank backfrom her, and in time their relation faded into nothingness.
It happened, soon after, that she found a packet in her husband's desk,marked "Not to be opened until after my death." She wrote of this in hercorrespondence:
I had not the patience to wait till widowhood. No one can be sure ofsurviving anybody. I assumed that my husband had died, and I was veryglad to learn what he thought of me while he was alive. Since thepackage was addressed to me, it was not dishonorable for me to open it.
And so she opened it. It proved to be his will, but containing, as apreamble, his curses on her, expressions of contempt, and all the vulgaroutpouring of an evil temper and angry passion. She went to her husbandas he was opening a bottle, and flung the document upon the table.He cowered at her glance, at her firmness, and at her cold hatred. Hegrumbled and argued and entreated; but all that his wife would say inanswer was:
"I must have an allowance. I am going to Paris, and my children are toremain here."
At last he yielded, and she went at once to Paris, taking her daughterwith her, and having the promise of fifteen hundred francs a year out ofthe half-million that was hers by right.
In Paris she developed into a thorough-paced Bohemian. She tried to makea living in sundry hopeless ways, and at last she took to literature.She was living in a garret, with little to eat, and sometimes withouta fire in winter. She had some friends who helped her as well as theycould, but though she was attached to the Figaro, her earnings for thefirst month amounted to only fifteen francs.
Nevertheless, she would not despair. The editors and publishers mightturn the cold shoulder to her, but she would not give up her ambitions.She went down into the Latin Quarter, and there shook off theproprieties of life. She assumed the garb of a man, and with her quickperception she came to know the left bank of the Seine just as she hadknown the country-side at Nohant or the little world at her conventschool. She never expected again to see any woman of her own rank inlife. Her mother's influence became strong in her. She wrote:
The proprieties are the guiding principle of people without soul andvirtue. The good opinion of the world is a prostitute who gives herselfto the highest bidder.
She still pursued her trade of journalism, calling herself a "newspapermechanic," sitting all day in the office of the Figaro and writingwhatever was demanded, while at night she would prowl in the streetshaunting the cafes, continuing to dress like a man, drinking sour wine,and smoking cheap cigars.
One of her companions in this sort of hand-to-mouth journalism was ayoung student and writer named Jules Sandeau, a man seven years youngerthan his comrade. He was at that time as indigent as she, and theirhardships, shared in common, brought them very close together. He wasclever, boyish, and sensitive, and it was not long before he had fallenat her feet and kissed her knees, begging that she would requite thelove he felt for her. According to herself, she resisted him for sixmonths, and then at last she yielded. The two made their home together,and for a while were wonderfully happy. Their work and their diversionsthey enjoyed in common, and now for the first time she experiencedemotions which in all probability she had never known before.
Probably not very much importance is to be given to the earlierflirtations of George Sand, though she herself never tried to stop themouth of scandal. Even before she left her husband, she was creditedwith having four lovers; but all she said, when the report was broughtto her, was this: "Four lovers are none too many for one with suchlively passions as mine."
This very frankness makes it likely that she enjoyed shocking her primneighbors at Nohant. But if she only played at love-making then, she nowgave herself up to it with entire abandonment, intoxicated, fascinated,satisfied. She herself wrote:
How I wish I could impart to you this sense of the intensity andjoyousness of life that I have in my veins. To live! How sweet itis, and how good, in spite of annoyances, husbands, debts, relations,scandal-mongers, sufferings, and irritations! To live! It isintoxicating! To love, and to be loved! It is happiness! It is heaven!
In collaboration with Jules Sandeau, she wrote a novel called Roseet Blanche. The two lovers were uncertain what name to place upon thetitle-page, but finally they hit upon the pseudonym of Jules Sand. Thebook succeeded; but thereafter each of them wrote separately, JulesSandeau using his own name, and Mme. Dudevant styling herself GeorgeSand, a name by which she was to be illustrious ever after.
As a novelist, she had found her real vocation. She was not yet wellknown, but she was on the verge of fame. As soon as she had writtenIndiana and Valentine, George Sand had secured a place in the world ofletters. The magazine which still exists as the Revue des Deux Mondesgave her a retaining fee of four thousand francs a year, and many otherpublications begged her to write serial stories for them.
The vein which ran through all her stories was new and piquant. As wassaid of her:
In George Sand, whenever a lady wishes to change her lover, God isalways there to make the transfer easy.
In other words, she preached free love in the name of religion. This wasnot a new doctrine with her. After the first break with her husband, shehad made up her mind about certain matters, and wrote:
One is no more justified in claiming the ownership of a soul than inclaiming the ownership of a slave.
According to her, the ties between a man and a woman are sacred onlywhen they are sanctified by love; and she distinguished between love andpassion in this epigram:
Love seeks to give, while passion seeks to take.
At this time, George Sand was in her twenty-seventh year. She wasnot beautiful, though there was something about her which attractedobservation. Of middle height, she was fairly slender. Her eyes weresomewhat projecting, and her mouth was almost sullen when in repose. Hermanners were peculiar, combining boldness with timidity. Her address wasalmost as familiar as a man's, so that it was easy to be acquainted withher; yet a certain haughtiness and a touch of aristocratic pride made itplain that she had drawn a line which none must pass without herwish. When she was deeply stirred, however, she burst forth into anextraordinary vivacity, showing a nature richly endowed and eager toyield its treasures.
The existence which she now led was a curious one. She still visited herhusband at Nohant, so that she might see her son, and sometimes, whenM. Dudevant came to town, he called upon her in the apartments which sheshared with Jules Sandeau. He had accepted the situation, and with hiscrudeness and lack of feeling he seemed to think it, if not natural,at least diverting. At any rate, so long as he could retain herhalf-million francs, he was not the man to make trouble about his formerwife's arrangements.
Meanwhile, there began to be perceptible the very slightest rift withinthe lute of her romance. Was her love for Sandeau really love, or wasit only passion? In his absence, at any rate, the old obsession stillcontinued. Here we see, first of all, intense pleasure shading off intoa sort of maternal fondness. She sends Sandeau adoring letters. She isafraid that his delicate appetite is not properly satisfied.
Yet, again, there are times when she feels that he is irritating andill. Those who knew them said that her nature was too passionate andher love was too exacting for him. One of her letters seems to makethis plain. She writes that she feels uneasy, and even frightfullyremorseful, at seeing Sandeau "pine away." She knows, she avows, thatshe is killing him, that her caresses are a poison, and her love aconsuming fire.
It is an appalling thought, and Jules will not understand it. He laughsat it; and when, in the midst of his transports of delight, the ideacomes to me and makes my blood run cold, he tells me that here is thedeath that he would like to die. At such moments he promises whatever Imake him promise.
This letter throws a clear light upon the nature of George Sand'stemperament. It will be found all through her career, not only thatshe sought to inspire passion, but that she strove to gratify it afterfashions of her own. One little passage from a description of herwritten by the younger Dumas will perhaps make this phase of hercharacter more intelligible, without going further than is strictlynecessary:
Mme. Sand has little hands without any bones, soft and plump. She isby destiny a woman of excessive curiosity, always disappointed, alwaysdeceived in her incessant investigation, but she is not fundamentallyardent. In vain would she like to be so, but she does not find itpossible. Her physical nature utterly refuses.
The reader will find in all that has now been said the true explanationof George Sand. Abounding with life, but incapable of long stretches ofardent love, she became a woman who sought conquests everywhere withoutgiving in return more than her temperament made it possible for her todo. She loved Sandeau as much as she ever loved any man; and yet sheleft him with a sense that she had never become wholly his. Perhapsthis is the reason why their romance came to an end abruptly, and notaltogether fittingly.
She had been spending a short time at Nohant, and came to Paris withoutannouncement. She intended to surprise her lover, and she surely did so.She found him in the apartment that had been theirs, with his arms aboutan attractive laundry-girl. Thus closed what was probably the only trueromance in the life of George Sand. Afterward she had many lovers, butto no one did she so nearly become a true mate.
As it was, she ended her association with Sandeau, and each pursued aseparate path to fame. Sandeau afterward became a well-known novelistand dramatist. He was, in fact, the first writer of fiction who wasadmitted to the French Academy. The woman to whom he had been unfaithfulbecame greater still, because her fame was not only national, butcosmopolitan.
For a time after her deception by Sandeau, she felt absolutely devoidof all emotions. She shunned men, and sought the friendship of MarieDorval, a clever actress who was destined afterward to break the heartof Alfred de Vigny. The two went down into the country; and there GeorgeSand wrote hour after hour, sitting by her fireside, and showing herselfa tender mother to her little daughter Solange.
This life lasted for a while, but it was not the sort of life thatwould now content her. She had many visitors from Paris, among themSainte-Beuve, the critic, who brought with him Prosper Merimee, thenunknown, but later famous as master of revels to the third Napoleon andas the author of Carmen. Merimee had a certain fascination of manner,and the predatory instincts of George Sand were again aroused. One day,when she felt bored and desperate, Merimee paid his court to her,and she listened to him. This is one of the most remarkable of herintimacies, since it began, continued, and ended all in the space of asingle week. When Merimee left Nohant, he was destined never again tosee George Sand, except long afterward at a dinner-party, where the twostared at each other sharply, but did not speak. This affair, however,made it plain that she could not long remain at Nohant, and that shepined for Paris.
Returning thither, she is said to have set her cap at Victor Hugo,who was, however, too much in love with himself to care for any one,especially a woman who was his literary rival. She is said for a time tohave been allied with Gustave Planche, a dramatic critic; but shealways denied this, and her denial may be taken as quite truthful. Soon,however, she was to begin an episode which has been more famous than anyother in her curious history, for she met Alfred de Musset, then a youthof twenty-three, but already well known for his poems and his plays.
Musset was of noble birth. He would probably have been better for aplebeian strain, since there was in him a touch of the degenerate.His mother's father had published a humanitarian poem on cats. Hisgreat-uncle had written a peculiar novel. Young Alfred was nervous,delicate, slightly epileptic, and it is certain that he was given todissipation, which so far had affected his health only by makinghim hysterical. He was an exceedingly handsome youth, with exquisitemanners, "dreamy rather than dazzling eyes, dilated nostrils, andvermilion lips half opened." Such was he when George Sand, then sevenyears his senior, met him.
There is something which, to the Anglo-Saxon mind, seems far more absurdthan pathetic about the events which presently took place. A woman likeGeorge Sand at thirty was practically twice the age of this nervous boyof twenty-three, who had as yet seen little of the world. At first sheseemed to realize the fact herself; but her vanity led her to begin anintrigue, which must have been almost wholly without excitement on herpart, but which to him, for a time, was everything in the world.
Experimenting, as usual, after the fashion described by Dumas, she wentwith De Musset for a "honeymoon" to Fontainebleau. But they could notstay there forever, and presently they decided upon a journey to Italy.Before they went, however, they thought it necessary to get formalpermission from Alfred's mother!
Naturally enough, Mme. de Musset refused consent. She had read GeorgeSand's romances, and had asked scornfully:
"Has the woman never in her life met a gentleman?"
She accepted the relations between them, but that she should be askedto sanction this sort of affair was rather too much, even for a Frenchmother who has become accustomed to many strange things. Then there wasa curious happening. At nine o'clock at night, George Sand took a caband drove to the house of Mme. de Musset, to whom she sent up a messagethat a lady wished to see her. Mme. de Musset came down, and, finding awoman alone in a carriage, she entered it. Then George Sand burst forthin a torrent of sentimental eloquence. She overpowered her lover'smother, promised to take great care of the delicate youth, and finallydrove away to meet Alfred at the coach-yard.
They started off in the mist, their coach being the thirteenth toleave the yard; but the two lovers were in a merry mood, and enjoyedthemselves all the way from Paris to Marseilles. By steamer they wentto Leghorn; and finally, in January, 1834, they took an apartment in ahotel at Venice. What had happened that their arrival in Venice shouldbe the beginning of a quarrel, no one knows. George Sand has told thestory, and Paul de Musset--Alfred's brother--has told the story, buteach of them has doubtless omitted a large part of the truth.
It is likely that on their long journey each had learned too much ofthe other. Thus, Paul de Musset says that George Sand made herselfoutrageous by her conversation, telling every one of her mother'sadventures in the army of Italy, including her relations with thegeneral-in-chief. She also declared that she herself was born withina month of her parents' wedding-day. Very likely she did say all thesethings, whether they were true or not. She had set herself to wage waragainst conventional society, and she did everything to shock it.
On the other hand, Alfred de Musset fell ill after having lost tenthousand francs in a gambling-house. George Sand was not fond of personswho were ill. She herself was working like a horse, writing from eightto thirteen hours a day. When Musset collapsed she sent for a handsomeyoung Italian doctor named Pagello, with whom she had struck up a casualacquaintance. He finally cured Musset, but he also cured George Sand ofany love for Musset.
Before long she and Pagello were on their way back to Paris, leaving thepoor, fevered, whimpering poet to bite his nails and think unutterablethings. But he ought to have known George Sand. After that, everybodyknew her. They knew just how much she cared when she professed to care,and when she acted as she acted with Pagello no earlier lover had anyone but himself to blame.
Only sentimentalists can take this story seriously. To them it has asort of morbid interest. They like to picture Musset raving and shoutingin his delirium, and then, to read how George Sand sat on Pagello'sknees, kissing him and drinking out of the same cup. But to the healthymind the whole story is repulsive--from George Sand's appeal to Mme.de Musset down to the very end, when Pagello came to Paris, where hisbroken French excited a polite ridicule.
There was a touch of genuine sentiment about the affair withJules Sandeau; but after that, one can only see in George Sand ahalf-libidinous grisette, such as her mother was before her, with aperfect willingness to experiment in every form of lawless love. As forMusset, whose heart she was supposed to have broken, within a year hewas dangling after the famous singer, Mme. Malibran, and writing poemsto her which advertised their intrigue.
After this episode with Pagello, it cannot be said that the life ofGeorge Sand was edifying in any respect, because no one can assume thatshe was sincere. She had loved Jules Sandeau as much as she could loveany one, but all the rest of her intrigues and affinities were in thenature of experiments. She even took back Alfred de Musset, althoughthey could never again regard each other without suspicion. George Sandcut off all her hair and gave it to Musset, so eager was she to keephim as a matter of conquest; but he was tired of her, and even thistheatrical trick was of no avail.
She proceeded to other less known and less humiliating adventures. Shetried to fascinate the artist Delacroix. She set her cap at Franz Liszt,who rather astonished her by saying that only God was worthy to beloved. She expressed a yearning for the affections of the elder Dumas;but that good-natured giant laughed at her, and in fact gave her somesound advice, and let her smoke unsentimentally in his study. She wasa good deal taken with a noisy demagogue named Michel, a lawyer atBourges, who on one occasion shut her up in her room and harangued heron sociology until she was as weary of his talk as of his wooden shoes,his shapeless greatcoat, his spectacles, and his skull-cap, Balzac felther fascination, but cared nothing for her, since his love was given toMme. Hanska.
In the meanwhile, she was paying visits to her husband at Nohant, whereshe wrangled with him over money matters, and where he would once haveshot her had the guests present not interfered. She secured her dowryby litigation, so that she was well off, even without her literaryearnings. These were by no means so large as one would think from herpopularity and from the number of books she wrote. It is estimated thather whole gains amounted to about a million francs, extending over aperiod of forty-five years. It is just half the amount that Trollopeearned in about the same period, and justifies his remark--"adequate,but not splendid."
One of those brief and strange intimacies that marked the career ofGeorge Sand came about in a curious way. Octave Feuillet, a man ofaristocratic birth, had set himself to write novels which portrayedthe cynicism and hardness of the upper classes in France. One of thesenovels, Sibylle, excited the anger of George Sand. She had not knownFeuillet before; yet now she sought him out, at first in order to beratehim for his book, but in the end to add him to her variegated string oflovers.
It has been said of Feuillet that he was a sort of "domesticatedMusset." At any rate, he was far less sensitive than Musset, and GeorgeSand was about seventeen years his senior. They parted after a shorttime, she going her way as a writer of novels that were very differentfrom her earlier ones, while Feuillet grew more and more cynical andeven stern, as he lashed the abnormal, neuropathic men and women abouthim.
The last great emotional crisis in George Sand's life was that whichcenters around her relations with Frederic Chopin. Chopin was thegreatest genius who ever loved her. It is rather odd that he loved her.She had known him for two years, and had not seriously thought of him,though there is a story that when she first met him she kissed himbefore he had even been presented to her. She waited two years, and inthose two years she had three lovers. Then at last she once more metChopin, when he was in a state of melancholy, because a Polish girl hadproved unfaithful to him.
It was the psychological moment; for this other woman, who was adevourer of hearts, found him at a piano, improvising a lamentation.George Sand stood beside him, listening. When he finished and looked upat her, their eyes met. She bent down without a word and kissed him onthe lips.
What was she like when he saw her then? Grenier has described her inthese words:
She was short and stout, but her face attracted all my attention, theeyes especially. They were wonderful eyes--a little too close together,it may be, large, with full eyelids, and black, very black, but by nomeans lustrous; they reminded me of unpolished marble, or rather ofvelvet, and this gave a strange, dull, even cold expression to hercountenance. Her fine eyebrows and these great placid eyes gave her anair of strength and dignity which was not borne out by the lower part ofher face. Her nose was rather thick and not over shapely. Her mouth wasalso rather coarse, and her chin small. She spoke with great simplicity,and her manners were very quiet.
Such as she was, she attached herself to Chopin for eight years. Atfirst they traveled together very quietly to Majorca; and there, just asMusset had fallen ill at Venice, Chopin became feverish and an invalid."Chopin coughs most gracefully," George Sand wrote of him, and again:
Chopin is the most inconstant of men. There is nothing permanent abouthim but his cough.
It is not surprising if her nerves sometimes gave way. Acting as sicknurse, writing herself with rheumatic fingers, robbed by every one abouther, and viewed with suspicion by the peasants because she did not goto church, she may be perhaps excused for her sharp words when, in fact,her deeds were kind.
Afterward, with Chopin, she returned to Paris, and the two lived openlytogether for seven years longer. An immense literature has grown aroundthe subject of their relations. To this literature George Sand herselfcontributed very largely. Chopin never wrote a word; but what he failedto do, his friends and pupils did unsparingly.
Probably the truth is somewhat as one might expect. During the firstperiod of fascination, George Sand was to Chopin what she had been toSandeau and to Musset; and with her strange and subtle ways, she hadundermined his health. But afterward that sort of love died out, and wassucceeded by something like friendship. At any rate, this woman showed,as she had shown to others, a vast maternal kindness. She writes to himfinally as "your old woman," and she does wonders in the way of nursingand care.
But in 1847 came a break between the two. Whatever the mystery of it maybe, it turns upon what Chopin said of Sand:
"I have never cursed any one, but now I am so weary of life that I amnear cursing her. Yet she suffers, too, and more, because she growsolder as she grows more wicked."
In 1848, Chopin gave his last concert in Paris, and in 1849 he died.According to some, he was the victim of a Messalina. According toothers, it was only "Messalina" that had kept him alive so long.
However, with his death came a change in the nature of George Sand.Emotionally, she was an extinct volcano. Intellectually, she was ather very best. She no longer tore passions into tatters, but wrotenaturally, simply, stories of country life and tales for children.In one of her books she has given an enduring picture of theFranco-Prussian War. There are many rather pleasant descriptions of herthen, living at Nohant, where she made a curious figure, bustling aboutin ill-fitting costumes, and smoking interminable cigarettes.
She had lived much, and she had drunk deep of life, when she died in1876. One might believe her to have been only a woman of perpetualliaisons. Externally she was this, and yet what did Balzac, that greatmaster of human psychology, write of her in the intimacy of a privatecorrespondence?
She is a female bachelor. She is an artist. She is generous. She isdevoted. She is chaste. Her dominant characteristics are those of a man,and therefore, she is not to be regarded as a woman. She is an excellentmother, adored by her children. Morally, she is like a lad of twenty;for in her heart of hearts, she is more than chaste--she is a prude. Itis only in externals that she comports herself as a Bohemian. All herfollies are titles to glory in the eyes of those whose souls are noble.
A curious verdict this! Her love-life seems almost that of neither mannor woman, but of an animal. Yet whether she was in reality responsiblefor what she did, when we consider her strange heredity, her wretchedmarriage, the disillusions of her early life--who shall sit in judgmenton her, since who knows all?




THE MYSTERY OF CHARLES DICKENS

Perhaps no public man in the English-speaking world, in the lastcentury, was so widely and intimately known as Charles Dickens. Fromhis eighteenth year, when he won his first success in journalism, downthrough his series of brilliant triumphs in fiction, he was more andmore a conspicuous figure, living in the blaze of an intense publicity.He met every one and knew every one, and was the companion of everykind of man and woman. He loved to frequent the "caves of harmony" whichThackeray has immortalized, and he was a member of all the best Bohemianclubs of London. Actors, authors, good fellows generally, were hisintimate friends, and his acquaintance extended far beyond into thehomes of merchants and lawyers and the mansions of the proudest nobles.Indeed, he seemed to be almost a universal friend.
One remembers, for instance, how he was called in to arbitrate betweenThackeray and George Augustus Sala, who had quarreled. One remembers howLord Byron's daughter, Lady Lovelace, when upon her sick-bed, used tosend for Dickens because there was something in his genial, sympatheticmanner that soothed her. Crushing pieces of ice between her teeth inagony, she would speak to him and he would answer her in his rich, manlytones until she was comforted and felt able to endure more hours of painwithout complaint.
Dickens was a jovial soul. His books fairly steam with Christmas cheerand hot punch and the savor of plum puddings, very much as do hisletters to his intimate friends. Everybody knew Dickens. He couldnot dine in public without attracting attention. When he left thedining-room, his admirers would descend upon his table and carry offegg-shells, orange-peels, and other things that remained behind, so thatthey might have memorials of this much-loved writer. Those who knew himonly by sight would often stop him in the streets and ask theprivilege of shaking hands with him; so different was he from--let ussay--Tennyson, who was as great an Englishman in his way as Dickens, butwho kept himself aloof and saw few strangers.
It is hard to associate anything like mystery with Dickens, thoughhe was fond of mystery as an intellectual diversion, and his lastunfinished novel was The Mystery of Edwin Drood. Moreover, no oneadmired more than he those complex plots which Wilkie Collins usedto weave under the influence of laudanum. But as for his own life, itseemed so normal, so free from anything approaching mystery, that we canscarcely believe it to have been tinged with darker colors than thosewhich appeared upon the surface.
A part of this mystery is plain enough. The other part is stillobscure--or of such a character that one does not care to bring itwholly to the light. It had to do with his various relations with women.
The world at large thinks that it knows this chapter in the life ofDickens, and that it refers wholly to his unfortunate disagreement withhis wife. To be sure, this is a chapter that is writ large in all of hisbiographies, and yet it is nowhere correctly told. His chosen biographerwas John Forster, whose Life of Charles Dickens, in three volumes,must remain a standard work; but even Forster--we may assume throughtact--has not set down all that he could, although he gives a clue.
As is well known, Dickens married Miss Catherine Hogarth when hewas only twenty-four. He had just published his Sketches by Boz, thecopyright of which he sold for one hundred pounds, and was beginning thePickwick Papers. About this time his publisher brought N. P. Willisdown to Furnival's Inn to see the man whom Willis called "a youngparagraphist for the Morning Chronicle." Willis thus sketches Dickensand his surroundings:
In the most crowded part of Holborn, within a door or two of the Bulland Mouth Inn, we pulled up at the entrance of a large building usedfor lawyers' chambers. I followed by a long flight of stairs to an upperstory, and was ushered into an uncarpeted and bleak-looking room, witha deal table, two or three chairs and a few books, a small boy and Mr.Dickens for the contents.
I was only struck at first with one thing--and I made a memorandum ofit that evening as the strongest instance I had seen of Englishobsequiousness to employers--the degree to which the poor author wasoverpowered with the honor of his publisher's visit! I remember sayingto myself, as I sat down on a rickety chair:
"My good fellow, if you were in America with that fine face andyour ready quill, you would have no need to be condescended to by apublisher."
Dickens was dressed very much as he has since described Dick Swiveller,minus the swell look. His hair was cropped close to his head, hisclothes scant, though jauntily cut, and, after changing a raggedoffice-coat for a shabby blue, he stood by the door, collarless andbuttoned up, the very personification of a close sailer to the wind.
Before this interview with Willis, which Dickens always repudiated, hehad become something of a celebrity among the newspaper men with whom heworked as a stenographer. As every one knows, he had had a hard time inhis early years, working in a blacking-shop, and feeling too keenly theignominious position of which a less sensitive boy would probably havethought nothing. Then he became a shorthand reporter, and was busy athis work, so that he had little time for amusements.
It has been generally supposed that no love-affair entered his lifeuntil he met Catherine Hogarth, whom he married soon after making heracquaintance. People who are eager at ferreting out unimportant factsabout important men had unanimously come to the conclusion that up tothe age of twenty Dickens was entirely fancy-free. It was left to anAmerican to disclose the fact that this was not the case, but that evenin his teens he had been captivated by a girl of about his own age.
Inasmuch as the only reproach that was ever made against Dickens wasbased upon his love-affairs, let us go back and trace them from thisearly one to the very last, which must yet for some years, at least,remain a mystery.
Everything that is known about his first affair is contained in a bookvery beautifully printed, but inaccessible to most readers. Some yearsago Mr. William K. Bixby, of St. Louis, found in London a collector ofcurios. This man had in his stock a number of letters which had passedbetween a Miss Maria Beadnell and Charles Dickens when the two wereabout nineteen and a second package of letters representing a lateracquaintance, about 1855, at which time Miss Beadnell had been marriedfor a long time to a Mr. Henry Louis Winter, of 12 Artillery Place,London.
The copyright laws of Great Britain would not allow Mr. Bixby to publishthe letters in that country, and he did not care to give them to thepublic here. Therefore, he presented them to the Bibliophile Society,with the understanding that four hundred and ninety-three copies, withthe Bibliophile book-plate, were to be printed and distributed amongthe members of the society. A few additional copies were struck off,but these did not bear the Bibliophile book-plate. Only two copies areavailable for other readers, and to peruse these it is necessary tovisit the Congressional Library in Washington, where they were placed onJuly 24, 1908.
These letters form two series--the first written to Miss Beadnell inor about 1829, and the second written to Mrs. Winter, formerly MissBeadnell, in 1855.
The book also contains an introduction by Henry H. Harper, who setsforth some theories which the facts, in my opinion, do not support;and there are a number of interesting portraits, especially one of MissBeadnell in 1829--a lovely girl with dark curls. Another shows her in1855, when she writes of herself as "old and fat"--thereby doing herselfa great deal of injustice; for although she had lost her youthfulbeauty, she was a very presentable woman of middle age, but one whowould not be particularly noticed in any company.
Summing up briefly these different letters, it may be said that inthe first set Dickens wrote to the lady ardently, but by no meanspassionately. From what he says it is plain enough that she did notrespond to his feeling, and that presently she left London and went toParis, for her family was well-to-do, while Dickens was living from handto mouth.
In the second set of letters, written long afterward, Mrs. Winter seemsto have "set her cap" at the now famous author; but at that time he wascourted by every one, and had long ago forgotten the lady who had soeasily dismissed him in his younger days. In 1855, Mrs. Winter seems tohave reproached him for not having been more constant in the past; buthe replied:
You answered me coldly and reproachfully, and so I went my way.
Mr. Harper, in his introduction, tries very hard to prove that inwriting David Copperfield Dickens drew the character of Dora from MissBeadnell. It is a dangerous thing to say from whom any character ina novel is drawn. An author takes whatever suits his purpose incircumstance and fancy, and blends them all into one consistent whole,which is not to be identified with any individual. There is littlereason to think that the most intimate friends of Dickens and of hisfamily were mistaken through all the years when they were certain thatthe boy husband and the girl wife of David Copperfield were suggested byany one save Dickens himself and Catherine Hogarth.
Why should he have gone back to a mere passing fancy, to a girl whodid not care for him, and who had no influence on his life, insteadof picturing, as David's first wife, one whom he deeply loved, whom hemarried, who was the mother of his children, and who made a great partof his career, even that part which was inwardly half tragic and whollymournful?
Miss Beadnell may have been the original of Flora in Little Dorrit,though even this is doubtful. The character was at the time ascribedto a Miss Anna Maria Leigh, whom Dickens sometimes flirted with andsometimes caricatured.
When Dickens came to know George Hogarth, who was one of hiscolleagues on the staff of the Morning Chronicle, he met Hogarth'sdaughters--Catherine, Georgina, and Mary--and at once fell ardently inlove with Catherine, the eldest and prettiest of the three. He himselfwas almost girlish, with his fair complexion and light, wavy hair, sothat the famous sketch by Maclise has a remarkable charm; yet nobodycould really say with truth that any one of the three girls wasbeautiful. Georgina Hogarth, however, was sweet-tempered and of amotherly disposition. It may be that in a fashion she loved Dickensall her life, as she remained with him after he parted from her sister,taking the utmost care of his children, and looking out with unselfishfidelity for his many needs.
It was Mary, however, the youngest of the Hogarths, who lived with theDickenses during the first twelvemonth of their married life. To Dickensshe was like a favorite sister, and when she died very suddenly, in hereighteenth year, her loss was a great shock to him.
It was believed for a long time--in fact, until their separation--thatDickens and his wife were extremely happy in their home life. Hiswritings glorified all that was domestic, and paid many tender tributesto the joys of family affection. When the separation came the wholeworld was shocked. And yet rather early in Dickens's married life therewas more or less infelicity. In his Retrospections of an Active Life,Mr. John Bigelow writes a few sentences which are interesting for theirfrankness, and which give us certain hints:
Mrs. Dickens was not a handsome woman, though stout, hearty, andmatronly; there was something a little doubtful about her eye, andI thought her endowed with a temper that might be very violent whenroused, though not easily rousable. Mrs. Caulfield told me that aMiss Teman--I think that is the name--was the source of the difficultybetween Mrs. Dickens and her husband. She played in private theatricalswith Dickens, and he sent her a portrait in a brooch, which met withan accident requiring it to be sent to the jeweler's to be mended. Thejeweler, noticing Mr. Dickens's initials, sent it to his house. Mrs.Dickens's sister, who had always been in love with him and was jealousof Miss Teman, told Mrs. Dickens of the brooch, and she mounted herhusband with comb and brush. This, no doubt, was Mrs. Dickens's version,in the main.
A few evenings later I saw Miss Teman at the Haymarket Theatre, playingwith Buckstone and Mr. and Mrs. Charles Mathews. She seemed rather asmall cause for such a serious result--passably pretty, and not much ofan actress.
Here in one passage we have an intimation that Mrs. Dickens had atemper that was easily roused, that Dickens himself was interested inan actress, and that Miss Hogarth "had always been in love with him, andwas jealous of Miss Teman."
Some years before this time, however, there had been growing in the mindof Dickens a certain formless discontent--something to which he couldnot give a name, yet which, cast over him the shadow of disappointment.He expressed the same feeling in David Copperfield, when he spoke ofDavid's life with Dora. It seemed to come from the fact that he hadgrown to be a man, while his wife had still remained a child.
A passage or two may be quoted from the novel, so that we may set thembeside passages in Dickens's own life, which we know to have referred tohis own wife, and not to any such nebulous person as Mrs. Winter.
The shadow I have mentioned that was not to be between us any more,but was to rest wholly on my heart--how did that fall? The old unhappyfeeling pervaded my life. It was deepened, if it were changed at all;but it was as undefined as ever, and addressed me like a strain ofsorrowful music faintly heard in the night. I loved my wife dearly; butthe happiness I had vaguely anticipated, once, was not the happiness Ienjoyed, AND THERE WAS ALWAYS SOMETHING WANTING.
What I missed I still regarded as something that had been a dream ofmy youthful fancy; that was incapable of realization; that I was nowdiscovering to be so, with some natural pain, as all men did. But thatit would have been better for me if my wife could have helped me more,and shared the many thoughts in which I had no partner, and that thismight have been I knew.
What I am describing slumbered and half awoke and slept again in theinnermost recesses of my mind. There was no evidence of it to me; I knewof no influence it had in anything I said or did. I bore the weight ofall our little cares and all my projects.
"There can be no disparity in marriage like unsuitability of mind andpurpose." These words I remembered. I had endeavored to adapt Dora tomyself, and found it impracticable. It remained for me to adapt myselfto Dora; to share with her what I could, and be happy; to bear on my ownshoulders what I must, and be still happy.
Thus wrote Dickens in his fictitious character, and of his fictitiouswife. Let us see how he wrote and how he acted in his own person, and ofhis real wife.
As early as 1856, he showed a curious and restless activity, as of onewho was trying to rid himself of unpleasant thoughts. Mr. Forstersays that he began to feel a strain upon his invention, a certaindisquietude, and a necessity for jotting down memoranda in note-books,so as to assist his memory and his imagination. He began to longfor solitude. He would take long, aimless rambles into the country,returning at no particular time or season. He once wrote to Forster:
I have had dreadful thoughts of getting away somewhere altogether bymyself. If I could have managed it, I think I might have gone to thePyrenees for six months. I have visions of living for half a year or soin all sorts of inaccessible places, and of opening a new book therein.A floating idea of going up above the snow-line, and living in someastonishing convent, hovers over me.
What do these cryptic utterances mean? At first, both in his novel andin his letters, they are obscure; but before long, in each, they becomevery definite. In 1856, we find these sentences among his letters:
The old days--the old days! Shall I ever, I wonder, get the frame ofmind back as it used to be then? Something of it, perhaps, but neverquite as it used to be.
I find that the skeleton in my domestic closet is becoming a pretty bigone.
His next letter draws the veil and shows plainly what he means:
Poor Catherine and I are not made for each other, and there is no helpfor it. It is not only that she makes me uneasy and unhappy, but thatI make her so, too--and much more so. We are strangely ill-assorted forthe bond that exists between us.
Then he goes on to say that she would have been a thousand times happierif she had been married to another man. He speaks of "incompatibility,"and a "difference of temperaments." In fact, it is the same old storywith which we have become so familiar, and which is both as old as thehills and as new as this morning's newspaper.
Naturally, also, things grow worse, rather than better. Dickens comes tospeak half jocularly of "the plunge," and calculates as to what effectit will have on his public readings. He kept back the announcement of"the plunge" until after he had given several readings; then, on April29, 1858, Mrs. Dickens left his home. His eldest son went to live withthe mother, but the rest of the children remained with their father,while his daughter Mary nominally presided over the house. In thebackground, however, Georgina Hogarth, who seemed all through her lifeto have cared for Dickens more than for her sister, remained as a sortof guide and guardian for his children.
This arrangement was a private matter, and should not have been broughtto public attention; but it was impossible to suppress all gossip aboutso prominent a man. Much of the gossip was exaggerated; and when it cameto the notice of Dickens it stung him so severely as to lead him intoissuing a public justification of his course. He published astatement in Household Words, which led to many other letters in otherperiodicals, and finally a long one from him, which was printed in theNew York Tribune, addressed to his friend Mr. Arthur Smith.
Dickens afterward declared that he had written this letter as a strictlypersonal and private one, in order to correct false rumors and scandals.Mr. Smith naturally thought that the statement was intended forpublication, but Dickens always spoke of it as "the violated letter."
By his allusions to a difference of temperament and to incompatibility,Dickens no doubt meant that his wife had ceased to be to him the samecompanion that she had been in days gone by. As in so many cases, shehad not changed, while he had. He had grown out of the sphere in whichhe had been born, "associated with blacking-boys and quilt-printers,"and had become one of the great men of his time, whose genius wasuniversally admired.
Mr. Bigelow saw Mrs. Dickens as she really was--a commonplace womanendowed with the temper of a vixen, and disposed to outbursts of actualviolence when her jealousy was roused.
It was impossible that the two could have remained together, when inintellect and sympathy they were so far apart. There is nothing strangeabout their separation, except the exceedingly bad taste with whichDickens made it a public affair. It is safe to assume that he felt theneed of a different mate; and that he found one is evident enough fromthe hints and bits of innuendo that are found in the writings of hiscontemporaries.
He became a pleasure-lover; but more than that, he needed one who couldunderstand his moods and match them, one who could please his tastes,and one who could give him that admiration which he felt to be his due;for he was always anxious to be praised, and his letters are full ofanecdotes relating to his love of praise.
One does not wish to follow out these clues too closely. It is certainthat neither Miss Beadnell as a girl nor Mrs. Winter as a matron madeany serious appeal to him. The actresses who have been often mentionedin connection with his name were, for the most part, mere passingfavorites. The woman who in life was Dora made him feel the sameincompleteness that he has described in his best-known book. Thecompanion to whom he clung in his later years was neither a light-mindedcreature like Miss Beadnell, nor an undeveloped, high-tempered womanlike the one he married, nor a mere domestic, friendly creature likeGeorgina Hogarth.
Ought we to venture upon a quest which shall solve this mystery in thelife of Charles Dickens! In his last will and testament, drawn up andsigned by him about a year before his death, the first paragraph readsas follows:
I, Charles Dickens, of Gadshill Place, Higham, in the county of Kent,hereby revoke all my former wills and codicils and declare this to be mylast will and testament. I give the sum of one thousand pounds, freeof legacy duty, to Miss Ellen Lawless Ternan, late of Houghton Place,Ampthill Square, in the county of Middlesex.
In connection with this, read Mr. John Bigelow's careless jottings madesome fifteen years before. Remember the Miss "Teman," about whose namehe was not quite certain; the Hogarth sisters' dislike of her; and themysterious figure in the background of the novelist's later life. Thenconsider the first bequest in his will, which leaves a substantialsum to one who was neither a relative nor a subordinate, but--may weassume--more than an ordinary friend?




HONORE DE BALZAC AND EVELINA HANSKA

I remember once, when editing an elaborate work on literature, that thepublisher called me into his private office. After the door was closed,he spoke in tones of suppressed emotion.
"Why is it," said he, "that you have such a lack of proportion? In theselection you have made I find that only two pages are given to GeorgeP. Morris, while you haven't given E. P. Roe any space at all! Yet, lookhere--you've blocked out fifty pages for Balzac, who was nothing but animmoral Frenchman!"
I adjusted this difficulty, somehow or other--I do not just rememberhow--and began to think that, after all, this publisher's view of thingswas probably that of the English and American public. It is strange thatso many biographies and so many appreciations of the greatest novelistwho ever lived should still have left him, in the eyes of the readingpublic, little more than "an immoral Frenchman."
"In Balzac," said Taine, "there was a money-broker, an archeologist, anarchitect, an upholsterer, a tailor, an old-clothes dealer, a journeymanapprentice, a physician, and a notary." Balzac was also a mystic, asupernaturalist, and, above all, a consummate artist. No one who is allthese things in high measure, and who has raised himself by his geniusabove his countrymen, deserves the censure of my former publisher.
Still less is Balzac to be dismissed as "immoral," for his life was oneof singular self-sacrifice in spite of much temptation. His face wasstrongly sensual, his look and bearing denoted almost savage power; heled a free life in a country which allowed much freedom; and yethis story is almost mystic in its fineness of thought, and in itsdetachment, which was often that of another world.
Balzac was born in 1799, at Tours, with all the traits of the peopleof his native province--fond of eating and drinking, and with plenty ofhumor. His father was fairly well off. Of four children, our Balzac wasthe eldest. The third was his sister Laure, who throughout his life wasthe most intimate friend he had, and to whom we owe his rescue from muchscandalous and untrue gossip. From her we learn that their father was acombination of Montaigne, Rabelais, and "Uncle Toby."
Young Balzac went to a clerical school at seven, and stayed there forseven years. Then he was brought home, apparently much prostrated,although the good fathers could find nothing physically amiss with him,and nothing in his studies to account for his agitation. No one ever diddiscover just what was the matter, for he seemed well enough in thenext few years, basking on the riverside, watching the activities ofhis native town, and thoroughly studying the rustic types that he wasafterward to make familiar to the world. In fact, in Louis Lambert hehas set before us a picture of his own boyish life, very much as Dickensdid of his in David Copperfield.
For some reason, when these years were over, the boy began to have whatis so often known as "a call"--a sort of instinct that he was to attainrenown. Unfortunately it happened that about this time (1814) he and hisparents removed to Paris, which was his home by choice, until his deathin 1850. He studied here under famous teachers, and gave three yearsto the pursuit of law, of which he was very fond as literary material,though he refused to practise.
This was the more grievous, since a great part of the family propertyhad been lost. The Balzacs were afflicted by actual poverty, and Honoreendeavored, with his pen, to beat the wolf back from the door. He earneda little money with pamphlets and occasional stories, but his thirstfor fame was far from satisfied. He was sure that he was called toliterature, and yet he was not sure that he had the power to succeed. Inone of his letters to his sister, he wrote:
I am young and hungry, and there is nothing on my plate. Oh, Laure,Laure, my two boundless desires, my only ones--to be famous, and to beloved--they ever be satisfied?
For the next ten years he was learning his trade, and the artistic useof the fiction writer's tools. What is more to the point, is the factthat he began to dream of a series of great novels, which should givea true and panoramic picture of the whole of human life. This was thefirst intimation of his "Human Comedy," which was so daringly undertakenand so nearly completed in his after years. In his early days ofobscurity, he said to his readers:
Note well the characters that I introduce, since you will have to followtheir fortunes through thirty novels that are to come.
Here we see how little he had been daunted by ill success, and how hisprodigious imagination had not been overcome by sorrow and evil fortune.Meantime, writing almost savagely, and with a feeling combined ofambition and despair, he had begun, very slowly indeed, to create apublic. These ten years, however, had loaded him with debts; and hisstruggle to keep himself afloat only plunged him deeper in the mire.His thirty unsigned novels began to pay him a few hundred francs, notin cash, but in promissory notes; so that he had to go still deeper intodebt.
In 1827 he was toiling on his first successful novel, and indeed one ofthe best historic novels in French literature--The Chouans. He speaks ofhis labor as "done with a tired brain and an anxious mind," and of theeight or ten business letters that he had to write each day before hecould begin his literary work.
"Postage and an omnibus are extravagances that I cannot allow myself,"he writes. "I stay at home so as not to wear out my clothes. Is thatclear to you?"
At the end of the next year, though he was already popular as anovelist, and much sought out by people of distinction, he was at thevery climax of his poverty. He had written thirty-five books, and was indebt to the amount of a hundred and twenty-four thousand francs. He wassaved from bankruptcy only by the aid of Mme. de Berny, a woman of highcharacter, and one whose moral influence was very strong with Balzacuntil her early death.
The relation between these two has a sweetness and a purity which areseldom found. Mme. de Berny gave Balzac money as she would have given itto a son, and thereby she saved a great soul for literature. But therewas no sickly sentiment between them, and Balzac regarded her with anoble love which he has expressed in the character of Mme. Firmiani.
It was immediately after she had lightened his burdens that the realBalzac comes before us in certain stories which have no equal, andwhich are among the most famous that he ever wrote. What could be morewonderful than his El Verdugo, which gives us a brief horror whilecompelling our admiration? What, outside of Balzac himself, could bemore terrible than Gobseck, a frightful study of avarice, containinga deathbed scene which surpasses in dreadfulness almost anything inliterature? Add to these A Passion in the Desert, The Girl with theGolden Eyes, The Droll Stories, The Red Inn, and The Magic Skin, and youhave a cluster of masterpieces not to be surpassed.
In the year 1829, when he was just beginning to attain a slight success,Balzac received a long letter written in a woman's hand. As he readit, there came to him something very like an inspiration, so full ofunderstanding were the written words, so full of appreciation and ofsympathy with the best that he had done. This anonymous note pointed outhere and there such defects as are apt to become chronic with ayoung author. Balzac was greatly stirred by its keen and sympatheticcriticism. No one before had read his soul so clearly. No one--not evenhis devoted sister, Laure de Surville--had judged his work so wisely,had come so closely to his deepest feeling.
He read the letter over and over, and presently another came, full ofcritical appreciation, and of wholesome, tonic, frank, friendly wordsof cheer. It was very largely the effect of these letters that rousedBalzac's full powers and made him sure of winning the two great objectsof his first ambition--love and fame--the ideals of the chivalrous,romantic Frenchman from Caesar's time down to the present day.
Other letters followed, and after a while their authorship was madeknown to Balzac. He learned that they had been written by a young Polishlady, Mme. Evelina Hanska, the wife of a Polish count, whose health wasfeeble, and who spent much time in Switzerland because the climate thereagreed with him.
He met her first at Neuchatel, and found her all that he had imagined.It is said that she had no sooner raised her face, and looked himfully in the eyes, than she fell fainting to the floor, overcome byher emotion. Balzac himself was deeply moved. From that day until theirfinal meeting he wrote to her daily.
The woman who had become his second soul was not beautiful.Nevertheless, her face was intensely spiritual, and there was a mysticquality about it which made a strong appeal to Balzac's innermostnature. Those who saw him in Paris knocking about the streets at nightwith his boon companions, hobnobbing with the elder Dumas, or rejectingthe frank advances of George Sand, would never have dreamed of thismysticism.
Balzac was heavy and broad of figure. His face was suggestive only ofwhat was sensuous and sensual. At the same time, those few who lookedinto his heart and mind found there many a sign of the fine inner strainwhich purified the grosser elements of his nature. He who wrote theroaring Rabelaisian Contes Drolatiques was likewise the author ofSeraphita.
This mysticism showed itself in many things that Balzac did. One littleincident will perhaps be sufficiently characteristic of many others. Hehad a belief that names had a sort of esoteric appropriateness. So, inselecting them for his novels, he gathered them with infinite pains frommany sources, and then weighed them anxiously in the balance. A writeron the subject of names and their significance has given the followingaccount of this trait:
The great novelist once spent an entire day tramping about in theremotest quarters of Paris in search of a fitting name for a characterjust conceived by him. Every sign-board, every door-plate, every afficheupon the walls, was scrutinized. Thousands of names were consideredand rejected, and it was only after his companion, utterly worn out byfatigue, had flatly refused to drag his weary limbs through more thanone additional street, that Balzac suddenly saw upon a sign the name"Marcas," and gave a shout of joy at having finally secured what he wasseeking.
Marcas it was, from that moment; and Balzac gradually evolved aChristian name for him. First he considered what initial was mostappropriate; and then, having decided upon Z, he went on to expand thisinto Zepherin, explaining minutely just why the whole name ZepherinMarcas, was the only possible one for the character in the novel.
In many ways Balzac and Evelina Hanska were mated by nature. Whetherthey were fully mated the facts of their lives must demonstrate. For thepresent, the novelist plunged into a whirl of literary labor, toiling asfew ever toiled--constructing several novels at the same time, visitingall the haunts of the French capital, so that he might observe andunderstand every type of human being, and then hurling himself like agiant at his work.
He had a curious practise of reading proofs. These would come to him inenormous sheets, printed on special paper, and with wide margins for hiscorrections. An immense table stood in the midst of his study, and uponthe top he would spread out the proofs as if they were vast maps. Then,removing most of his outer garments, he would lie, face down, upon theproof-sheets, with a gigantic pencil, such as Bismarck subsequently usedto wield. Thus disposed, he would go over the proofs.
Hardly anything that he had written seemed to suit him when he saw itin print. He changed and kept changing, obliterating what he disliked,writing in new sentences, revising others, and adding whole pages in themargins, until perhaps he had practically made a new book. This processwas repeated several times; and how expensive it was may be judged fromthe fact that his bill for "author's proof corrections" was sometimesmore than the publishers had agreed to pay him for the completed volume.
Sometimes, again, he would begin writing in the afternoon, and continueuntil dawn. Then, weary, aching in every bone, and with throbbing head,he would rise and turn to fall upon his couch after his eighteen hoursof steady toil. But the memory of Evelina Hanska always came to him;and with half-numbed fingers he would seize his pen, and forget hisweariness in the pleasure of writing to the dark-eyed woman who drew himto her like a magnet.
These are very curious letters that Balzac wrote to Mme. Hanska. Heliterally told her everything about himself. Not only were there longpassages instinct with tenderness, and with his love for her; but healso gave her the most minute account of everything that occurred, andthat might interest her. Thus he detailed at length his mode of living,the clothes he wore, the people whom he met, his trouble with hiscreditors, the accounts of his income and outgo. One might think thatthis was egotism on his part; but it was more than that. It was a strongbelief that everything which concerned him must concern her; and hebegged her in turn to write as freely and as fully.
Mme. Hanska was not the only woman who became his friend and comrade,and to whom he often wrote. He made many acquaintances in thefashionable world through the good offices of the Duchesse de Castries.By her favor, he studied with his microscopic gaze the beau monde ofLouis Philippe's rather unimpressive court.
In a dozen books he scourged the court of the citizen king--itspretensions, its commonness, and its assemblage of nouveaux riches. Yetin it he found many friends--Victor Hugo, the Girardins--and among themwomen who were of the world. George Sand he knew very well, and she madeardent love to him; but he laughed her off very much as the elder Dumasdid.
Then there was the pretty, dainty Mme. Carraud, who read and revised hismanuscripts, and who perhaps took a more intimate interest in him thandid the other ladies whom he came to know so well. Besides Mme. Hanska,he had another correspondent who signed herself "Louise," but who neverlet him know her name, though she wrote him many piquant, sunny letters,which he so sadly needed.
For though Honore de Balzac was now one of the most famous writers ofhis time, his home was still a den of suffering. His debts kept pressingon him, loading him down, and almost quenching hope. He acted toward hiscreditors like a man of honor, and his physical strength was stillthat of a giant. To Mme. Carraud he once wrote the half pathetic, halfhumorous plaint:
Poor pen! It must be diamond, not because one would wish to wear it, butbecause it has had so much use!
And again:
Here I am, owing a hundred thousand francs. And I am forty!
Balzac and Mme. Hanska met many times after that first eventful episodeat Neuchatel. It was at this time that he gave utterance to the poignantcry:
Love for me is life, and to-day I feel it more than ever!
In like manner he wrote, on leaving her, that famous epigram:
It is only the last love of a woman that can satisfy the first love of aman.
In 1842 Mme. Hanska's husband died. Balzac naturally expected that animmediate marriage with the countess would take place; but the womanwho had loved him mystically for twelve years, and with a touch of thephysical for nine, suddenly draws back. She will not promise anything.She talks of delays, owing to the legal arrangements for her children.She seems almost a prude. An American critic has contrasted her attitudewith his:
Every one knows how utterly and absolutely Balzac devoted to this onewoman all his genius, his aspiration, the thought of his every moment;how every day, after he had labored like a slave for eighteen hours, hewould take his pen and pour out to her the most intimate details of hisdaily life; how at her call he would leave everything and rush acrossthe continent to Poland or to Italy, being radiantly happy if he couldbut see her face and be for a few days by her side. The very thought ofmeeting her thrilled him to the very depths of his nature, and made him,for weeks and even months beforehand, restless, uneasy, and agitated,with an almost painful happiness.
It is the most startling proof of his immense vitality, both physicaland mental, that so tremendous an emotional strain could be enduredby him for years without exhausting his fecundity or blighting hiscreativeness.
With Balzac, however, it was the period of his most brilliant work;and this was true in spite of the anguish of long separations, and thecomplaints excited by what appears to be caprice or boldness or a faintindifference. Even in Balzac one notices toward the last a certain senseof strain underlying what he wrote, a certain lack of elasticity andfacility, if of nothing more; yet on the whole it is likely that withoutthis friendship Balzac would have been less great than he actuallybecame, as it is certain that had it been broken off he would haveceased to write or to care for anything whatever in the world.
And yet, when they were free to marry, Mme. Hanska shrank away. Notuntil 1846, four years after her husband's death, did she finally giveher promise to the eager Balzac. Then, in the overflow of his happiness,his creative genius blazed up into a most wonderful flame; but he soondiscovered that the promise was not to be at once fulfilled. The shockimpaired that marvelous vitality which had carried him through debt, andwant, and endless labor.
It was at this moment, by the irony of fate, that his country hailed himas one of the greatest of its men of genius. A golden stream pouredinto his lap. His debts were not all extinguished, but his income was solarge that they burdened him no longer.
But his one long dream was the only thing for which he cared; and thoughin an exoteric sense this dream came true, its truth was but a mockery.Evelina Hanska summoned him to Poland, and Balzac went to her at once.There was another long delay, and for more than a year he lived as aguest in the countess's mansion at Wierzchownia; but finally, in March,1850, the two were married. A few weeks later they came back to Francetogether, and occupied the little country house, Les Jardies, in which,some decades later, occurred Gambetta's mysterious death.
What is the secret of this strange love, which in the woman seems to benot precisely love, but something else? Balzac was always eager for herpresence. She, on the other hand, seems to have been mentally more atease when he was absent. Perhaps the explanation, if we may venture uponone, is based upon a well-known physiological fact.
Love in its completeness is made up of two great elements--first, theelement that is wholly spiritual, that is capable of sympathy, andtenderness, and deep emotion. The other element is the physical,the source of passion, of creative energy, and of the truly virilequalities, whether it be in man or woman. Now, let either of theseelements be lacking, and love itself cannot fully and utterly exist.The spiritual nature in one may find its mate in the spiritual natureof another; and the physical nature of one may find its mate in thephysical nature of another. But into unions such as these, love does notenter in its completeness. If there is any element lacking in eitherof those who think that they can mate, their mating will be a sad andpitiful failure.
It is evident enough that Mme. Hanska was almost wholly spiritual, andher long years of waiting had made her understand the difference betweenBalzac and herself. Therefore, she shrank from his proximity, and fromhis physical contact, and it was perhaps better for them both that theirunion was so quickly broken off by death; for the great novelist died ofheart disease only five months after the marriage.
If we wish to understand the mystery of Balzac's life--or, more truly,the mystery of the life of the woman whom he married--take up and readonce more the pages of Seraphita, one of his poorest novels and yet asingularly illuminating story, shedding light upon a secret of the soul.




CHARLES READE AND LAURA SEYMOUR

The instances of distinguished men, or of notable women, who have brokenthrough convention in order to find a fitting mate, are very numerous. Afew of these instances may, perhaps, represent what is usually calleda Platonic union. But the evidence is always doubtful. The world is notpossessed of abundant charity, nor does human experience lead one tobelieve that intimate relations between a man and a woman are compatiblewith Platonic friendship.
Perhaps no case is more puzzling than that which is found in thelife-history of Charles Reade and Laura Seymour.
Charles Reade belongs to that brilliant group of English writers andartists which included Dickens, Bulwer-Lytton, Wilkie Collins, TomTaylor, George Eliot, Swinburne, Sir Walter Besant, Maclise, and GoldwinSmith. In my opinion, he ranks next to Dickens in originality and power.His books are little read to-day; yet he gave to the English stage thecomedy "Masks and Faces," which is now as much a classic as Goldsmith's"She Stoops to Conquer" or Sheridan's "School for Scandal." His power asa novelist was marvelous. Who can forget the madhouse episodes in HardCash, or the great trial scene in Griffith Gaunt, or that wonderfulpicture, in The Cloister and the Hearth, of Germany and Rome at the endof the Middle Ages? Here genius has touched the dead past and made itglow again with an intense reality.
He was the son of a country gentleman, the lord of a manor which hadbeen held by his family before the Wars of the Boses. His ancestors hadbeen noted for their services in warfare, in Parliament, and upon thebench. Reade, therefore, was in feeling very much of an aristocrat.Sometimes he pushed his ancestral pride to a whimsical excess, very muchas did his own creation, Squire Raby, in Put Yourself in His Place.
At the same time he might very well have been called a Tory democrat.His grandfather had married the daughter of a village blacksmith, andReade was quite as proud of this as he was of the fact that anotherancestor had been lord chief justice of England. From the sturdystrain which came to him from the blacksmith he, perhaps, derivedthat sledge-hammer power with which he wrote many of his most famouschapters, and which he used in newspaper controversies with hiscritics. From his legal ancestors there may have come to him the loveof litigation, which kept him often in hot water. From those who hadfigured in the life of royal courts, he inherited a romantic nature,a love of art, and a very delicate perception of the niceties ofcultivated usage. Such was Charles Reade--keen observer, scholar,Bohemian--a man who could be both rough and tender, and whose boisterousways never concealed his warm heart.
Reade's school-days were Spartan in their severity. A teacher withthe appropriate name of Slatter set him hard tasks and caned himunmercifully for every shortcoming. A weaker nature would have beencrushed. Reade's was toughened, and he learned to resist pain and toresent wrong, so that hatred of injustice has been called his dominatingtrait.
In preparing himself for college he was singularly fortunate in histutors. One of them was Samuel Wilberforce, afterward Bishop of Oxford,nicknamed, from his suavity of manner, "Soapy Sam"; and afterward, whenReade was studying law, his instructor was Samuel Warren, the authorof that once famous novel, Ten Thousand a Year, and the creator of"Tittlebat Titmouse."
For his college at Oxford, Reade selected one of the most beautifuland ancient--Magdalen--which he entered, securing what is known as ademyship. Reade won his demyship by an extraordinary accident. Always anoriginal youth, his reading was varied and valuable; but in his studieshe had never tried to be minutely accurate in small matters. At thattime every candidate was supposed to be able to repeat, by heart, the"Thirty-Nine Articles." Reade had no taste for memorizing; and out ofthe whole thirty-nine he had learned but three. His general examinationwas good, though not brilliant. When he came to be questioned orally,the examiner, by a chance that would not occur once in a million times,asked the candidate to repeat these very articles. Reade rattled themoff with the greatest glibness, and produced so favorable an impressionthat he was let go without any further questioning.
It must be added that his English essay was original, and this alsohelped him; but had it not been for the other great piece of luck hewould, in Oxford phrase, have been "completely gulfed." As it was,however, he was placed as highly as the young men who were afterwardknown as Cardinal Newman and Sir Robert Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke).
At the age of twenty-one, Reade obtained a fellowship, which entitledhim to an income so long as he remained unmarried. It is necessary toconsider the significance of this when we look at his subsequent career.The fellowship at Magdalen was worth, at the outset, about twelvehundred dollars annually, and it gave him possession of a suite of roomsfree of any charge. He likewise secured a Vinerian fellowship in law, towhich was attached an income of four hundred dollars. As time wenton, the value of the first fellowship increased until it was worthtwenty-five hundred dollars. Therefore, as with many Oxford men ofhis time, Charles Reade, who had no other fortune, was placed in thisposition--if he refrained from marrying, he had a home and a moderateincome for life, without any duties whatsoever. If he married, he mustgive up his income and his comfortable apartments, and go out into theworld and struggle for existence.
There was the further temptation that the possession of his fellowshipdid not even necessitate his living at Oxford. He might spend his timein London, or even outside of England, knowing that his chambers atMagdalen were kept in order for him, as a resting-place to which hemight return whenever he chose.
Reade remained a while at Oxford, studying books and men--especially thelatter. He was a great favorite with the undergraduates, though less sowith the dons. He loved the boat-races on the river; he was a prodigiouscricket-player, and one of the best bowlers of his time. He utterlyrefused to put on any of the academic dignity which his associatesaffected. He wore loud clothes. His flaring scarfs were viewed as beingalmost scandalous, very much as Longfellow's parti-colored waistcoatswere regarded when he first came to Harvard as a professor.
Charles Reade pushed originality to eccentricity. He had a passion forviolins, and ran himself into debt because he bought so many and suchgood ones. Once, when visiting his father's house at Ipsden, he shockedthe punctilious old gentleman by dancing on the dining-table to theaccompaniment of a fiddle, which he scraped delightedly. Dancing,indeed, was another of his diversions, and, in spite of the fact that hewas a fellow of Magdalen and a D.C.L. of Oxford, he was always ready tocaper and to display the new steps.
In the course of time, he went up to London; and at once plunged intothe seething tide of the metropolis. He made friends far and wide, andin every class and station--among authors and politicians, bishops andbargees, artists and musicians. Charles Reade learned much from all ofthem, and all of them were fond of him.
But it was the theater that interested him most. Nothing else seemed tohim quite so fine as to be a successful writer for the stage. He viewedthe drama with all the reverence of an ancient Greek. On his tombstonehe caused himself to be described as "Dramatist, novelist, journalist."
"Dramatist" he put first of all, even after long experience had shownhim that his greatest power lay in writing novels. But in this earlyperiod he still hoped for fame upon the stage.
It was not a fortunate moment for dramatic writers. Plays were boughtoutright by the managers, who were afraid to risk any considerable sum,and were very shy about risking anything at all. The system had not yetbeen established according to which an author receives a share of themoney taken at the box-office. Consequently, Reade had little or nofinancial success. He adapted several pieces from the French, for whichhe was paid a few bank-notes. "Masks and Faces" got a hearing, and drewlarge audiences, but Reade had sold it for a paltry sum; and he sharedthe honors of its authorship with Tom Taylor, who was then much betterknown.
Such was the situation. Reade was personally liked, but his plays werealmost all rejected. He lived somewhat extravagantly and ran into debt,though not very deeply. He had a play entitled "Christie Johnstone,"which he believed to be a great one, though no manager would ventureto produce it. Reade, brooding, grew thin and melancholy. Finally, hedecided that he would go to a leading actress at one of the principaltheaters and try to interest her in his rejected play. The actress hehad in mind was Laura Seymour, then appearing at the Haymarket under themanagement of Buckstone; and this visit proved to be the turning-pointin Reade's whole life.
Laura Seymour was the daughter of a surgeon at Bath--a man in largepractise and with a good income, every penny of which he spent. Hisfamily lived in lavish style; but one morning, after he had sat up allnight playing cards, his little daughter found him in the dining-room,stone dead. After his funeral it appeared that he had left no provisionfor his family. A friend of his--a Jewish gentleman of Portugueseextraction--showed much kindness to the children, settling their affairsand leaving them with some money in the bank; but, of course, somethingmust be done.
The two daughters removed to London, and at a very early age Laura hadmade for herself a place in the dramatic world, taking small parts atfirst, but rising so rapidly that in her fifteenth year she was castfor the part of Juliet. As an actress she led a life of strangevicissitudes. At one time she would be pinched by poverty, and atanother time she would be well supplied with money, which slippedthrough her fingers like water. She was a true Bohemian, ahappy-go-lucky type of the actors of her time.
From all accounts, she was never very beautiful; but she had an instinctfor strange, yet effective, costumes, which attracted much attention.She has been described as "a fluttering, buoyant, gorgeous littlebutterfly." Many were drawn to her. She was careless of what she did,and her name was not untouched with scandal. But she lived through itall, and emerged a clever, sympathetic woman of wide experience, both onthe stage and off it.
One of her admirers--an elderly gentleman named Seymour--came to her oneday when she was in much need of money, and told her that he had justdeposited a thousand pounds to her credit at the bank. Having saidthis, he left the room precipitately. It was the beginning of a sort ofcourtship; and after a while she married him. Her feeling toward him wasone of gratitude. There was no sentiment about it; but she made him agood wife, and gave no further cause for gossip.
Such was the woman whom Charles Reade now approached with the requestthat she would let him read to her a portion of his play. He had seenher act, and he honestly believed her to be a dramatic genius of thefirst order. Few others shared this belief; but she was generallythought of as a competent, though by no means brilliant, actress. Readeadmired her extremely, so that at the very thought of speaking with herhis emotions almost choked him.
In answer to a note, she sent word that he might call at her house. Hewas at this time (1849) in his thirty-eighth year. The lady was a littleolder, and had lost something of her youthful charm; yet, when Reade wasushered into her drawing-room, she seemed to him the most graceful andaccomplished woman whom he had ever met.
She took his measure, or she thought she took it, at a glance. Here wasone of those would-be playwrights who live only to torment managersand actresses. His face was thin, from which she inferred that he wasprobably half starved. His bashfulness led her to suppose that he wasan inexperienced youth. Little did she imagine that he was the son of alanded proprietor, a fellow of one of Oxford's noblest colleges, and onewith friends far higher in the world than herself. Though she thought solittle of him, and quite expected to be bored, she settled herself in asoft armchair to listen. The unsuccessful playwright read to her a sceneor two from his still unfinished drama. She heard him patiently, notingthe cultivated accent of his voice, which proved to her that he was atleast a gentleman. When he had finished, she said:
"Yes, that's good! The plot is excellent." Then she laughed a sort ofstage laugh, and remarked lightly: "Why don't you turn it into a novel?"
Reade was stung to the quick. Nothing that she could have said wouldhave hurt him more. Novels he despised; and here was this woman, thequeen of the English stage, as he regarded her, laughing at his dramaand telling him to make a novel of it. He rose and bowed.
"I am trespassing on your time," he said; and, after barely touching thefingers of her outstretched hand, he left the room abruptly.
The woman knew men very well, though she scarcely knew Charles Reade.Something in his melancholy and something in his manner stirred herheart. It was not a heart that responded to emotions readily, but it wasa very good-natured heart. Her explanation of Reade's appearance ledher to think that he was very poor. If she had not much tact, she hadan abundant store of sympathy; and so she sat down and wrote a veryblundering but kindly letter, in which she enclosed a five-pound note.
Reade subsequently described his feelings on receiving this letter withits bank-note. He said:
"I, who had been vice-president of Magdalen--I, who flattered myself Iwas coming to the fore as a dramatist--to have a five-pound note flungat my head, like a ticket for soup to a pauper, or a bone to a dog, andby an actress, too! Yet she said my reading was admirable; and, afterall, there is much virtue in a five-pound note. Anyhow, it showed thewriter had a good heart."
The more he thought of her and of the incident, the more comforted hewas. He called on her the next day without making an appointment; andwhen she received him, he had the five-pound note fluttering in hishand.
She started to speak, but he interrupted her.
"No," he said, "that is not what I wanted from you. I wanted sympathy,and you have unintentionally supplied it."
Then this man, whom she had regarded as half starved, presented her withan enormous bunch of hothouse grapes, and the two sat down and atethem together, thus beginning a friendship which ended only with LauraSeymour's death.
Oddly enough, Mrs. Seymour's suggestion that Reade should make a storyof his play was a suggestion which he actually followed. It was to herguidance and sympathy that the world owes the great novels which heafterward composed. If he succeeded on the stage at all, it was notmerely in "Masks and Faces," but in his powerful dramatization of Zola'snovel, L'Assommoir, under the title "Drink," in which the lateCharles Warner thrilled and horrified great audiences all over theEnglish-speaking world. Had Reade never known Laura Seymour, he mightnever have written so strong a drama.
The mystery of Reade's relations with this woman can never be definitelycleared up. Her husband, Mr. Seymour, died not long after she and Readebecame acquainted. Then Reade and several friends, both men and women,took a house together; and Laura Seymour, now a clever managerand amiable hostess, looked after all the practical affairs of theestablishment. One by one, the others fell away, through death or byremoval, until at last these two were left alone. Then Reade, unableto give up the companionship which meant so much to him, vowed that shemust still remain and care for him. He leased a house in Sloane Street,which he has himself described in his novel A Terrible Temptation. It isthe chapter wherein Reade also draws his own portrait in the characterof Francis Bolfe:
The room was rather long, low, and nondescript; scarlet flock paper;curtains and sofas, green Utrecht velvet; woodwork and pillars,white and gold; two windows looking on the street; at the other endfolding-doors, with scarcely any woodwork, all plate glass, but partlyhidden by heavy curtains of the same color and material as the others.
At last a bell rang; the maid came in and invited Lady Bassett to followher. She opened the glass folding-doors and took them into a smallconservatory, walled like a grotto, with ferns sprouting out of rockyfissures, and spars sparkling, water dripping. Then she opened two moreglass folding-doors, and ushered them into an empty room, the likeof which Lady Bassett had never seen; it was large in itself, andmultiplied tenfold by great mirrors from floor to ceiling, with noframes but a narrow oak beading; opposite her, on entering, was a baywindow, all plate glass, the central panes of which opened, like doors,upon a pretty little garden that glowed with color, and was backed byfine trees belonging to the nation; for this garden ran up to the wallof Hyde Park.
The numerous and large mirrors all down to the ground laid hold of thegarden and the flowers, and by double and treble reflection filled theroom with delightful nooks of verdure and color.
Here are the words in which Reade describes himself as he looked whenbetween fifty and sixty years of age:
He looked neither like a poet nor a drudge, but a great fat countryfarmer. He was rather tall, very portly, smallish head, commonplacefeatures, mild brown eye not very bright, short beard, and wore a suitof tweed all one color.
Such was the house and such was the man over both of which LauraSeymour held sway until her death in 1879. What must be thought of theirrelations? She herself once said to Mr. John Coleman:
"As for our positions--his and mine--we are partners, nothing more. Hehas his bank-account, and I have mine. He is master of his fellowshipand his rooms at Oxford, and I am mistress of this house, but not hismistress! Oh, dear, no!"
At another time, long after Mr. Seymour's death, she said to an intimatefriend:
"I hope Mr. Reade will never ask me to marry him, for I should certainlyrefuse the offer."
There was no reason why he should not have made this offer, because hisOxford fellowship ceased to be important to him after he had won fame asa novelist. Publishers paid him large sums for everything he wrote. Hisdebts were all paid off, and his income was assured. Yet he never spokeof marriage, and he always introduced his friend as "the lady who keepsmy house for me."
As such, he invited his friends to meet her, and as such, she evenaccompanied him to Oxford. There was no concealment, and apparentlythere was nothing to conceal. Their manner toward each other was that ofcongenial friends. Mrs. Seymour, in fact, might well have been describedas "a good fellow." Sometimes she referred to him as "the doctor," andsometimes by the nickname "Charlie." He, on his side, often spoke of herby her last name as "Seymour," precisely as if she had been a man. Oneof his relatives rather acutely remarked about her that she was not awoman of sentiment at all, but had a genius for friendship; and that sheprobably could not have really loved any man at all.
This is, perhaps, the explanation of their intimacy. If so, it is a veryremarkable instance of Platonic friendship. It is certain that, aftershe met Reade, Mrs. Seymour never cared for any other man. It is no lesscertain that he never cared for any other woman. When she died, fiveyears before his death, his life became a burden to him. It was thenthat he used to speak of her as "my lost darling" and "my dove."He directed that they should be buried side by side in Willesdenchurchyard. Over the monument which commemorates them both, he causedto be inscribed, in addition to an epitaph for himself, the followingtribute to his friend. One should read it and accept the touching wordsas answering every question that may be asked:
Here lies the great heart of Laura Seymour, a brilliant artist, a humbleChristian, a charitable woman, a loving daughter, sister, and friend,who lived for others from her childhood. Tenderly pitiful to all God'screatures--even to some that are frequently destroyed or neglected--shewiped away the tears from many faces, helping the poor with her savingsand the sorrowful with her earnest pity. When the eye saw her it blessedher, for her face was sunshine, her voice was melody, and her heart wassympathy.
This grave was made for her and for himself by Charles Reade, whose wisecounselor, loyal ally, and bosom friend she was for twenty-four years,and who mourns her all his days.