I. INTRODUCTORY

This book aims to give in brief space the principal requirements ofplain English style. It aims to lighten the task of instructor andstudent by concentrating attention (in Chapters II and III) on a fewessentials, the rules of usage and principles of composition mostcommonly violated. In accordance with this plan it lays down three rulesfor the use of the comma, instead of a score or more, and one for theuse of the semicolon, in the belief that these four rules provide forall the internal punctuation that is required by nineteen sentences outof twenty. Similarly, it gives in Chapter III only those principles ofthe paragraph and the sentence which are of the widest application. Thebook thus covers only a small portion of the field of English style. Theexperience of its writer has been that once past the essentials,students profit most by individual instruction based on the problems oftheir own work, and that each instructor has his own body of theory,which he may prefer to that offered by any textbook.
The numbers of the sections may be used as references in correctingmanuscript.
The writer's colleagues in the Department of English in CornellUniversity have greatly helped him in the preparation of his manuscript.Mr. George McLane Wood has kindly consented to the inclusion underRule 10 of some material from his _Suggestions to Authors_.
The following books are recommended for reference or further study: inconnection with Chapters II and IV, F. Howard Collins, _Author andPrinter_ (Henry Frowde); Chicago University Press, _Manual of Style_;T. L. De Vinne, _Correct Composition_ (The Century Company); HoraceHart, _Rules for Compositors and Printers_ (Oxford University Press);George McLane Wood, _Extracts from the Style-Book of the GovernmentPrinting Office_ (United States Geological Survey); in connection withChapters III and V, _The King's English_ (Oxford University Press); SirArthur Quiller-Couch, _The Art of Writing_ (Putnam), especially thechapter, Interlude on Jargon; George McLane Wood, _Suggestions toAuthors_ (United States Geological Survey); John Lesslie Hall, _EnglishUsage_ (Scott, Foresman and Co.); James P. Kelley, _Workmanship inWords_ (Little, Brown and Co.). In these will be found full discussionsof many points here briefly treated and an abundant store ofillustrations to supplement those given in this book.
It is an old observation that the best writers sometimes disregard therules of rhetoric. When they do so, however, the reader will usuallyfind in the sentence some compensating merit, attained at the cost ofthe violation. Unless he is certain of doing as well, he will probablydo best to follow the rules. After he has learned, by their guidance, towrite plain English adequate for everyday uses, let him look, for thesecrets of style, to the study of the masters of literature.



II. ELEMENTARY RULES OF USAGE

1. Form the possessive singular of nouns by adding 's.
Follow this rule whatever the final consonant. Thus write,
  Charles's friend
  Burns's poems
  the witch's malice
This is the usage of the United States Government Printing Office and ofthe Oxford University Press.
Exceptions are the possessive of ancient proper names in _-es_ and_-is_, the possessive _Jesus'_, and such forms as _for conscience'sake_, _for righteousness' sake_. But such forms as _Achilles' heel_,_Moses' laws_, _Isis' temple_ are commonly replaced by
  the heel of Achilles
  the laws of Moses
  the temple of Isis
The pronominal possessives _hers_, _its_, _theirs_, _yours_, and_oneself_ have no apostrophe.

2. In a series of three or more terms with a single conjunction, use acomma after each term except the last.
Thus write,
  red, white, and blue
  gold, silver, or copper
  He opened the letter, read it, and made a note of its contents.
This is also the usage of the Government Printing Office and of theOxford University Press.
In the names of business firms the last comma is omitted, as,
  Brown, Shipley & Co.

3. Enclose parenthetic expressions between commas.
  The best way to see a country, unless you are pressed for time, is to  travel on foot.
This rule is difficult to apply; it is frequently hard to decide whethera single word, such as _however_, or a brief phrase, is or is notparenthetic. If the interruption to the flow of the sentence is butslight, the writer may safely omit the commas. But whether theinterruption be slight or considerable, he must never insert one commaand omit the other. Such punctuation as
  Marjorie's husband, Colonel Nelson paid us a visit yesterday,
or
  My brother you will be pleased to hear, is now in perfect health,
is indefensible.
If a parenthetic expression is preceded by a conjunction, place thefirst comma before the conjunction, not after it.
  He saw us coming, and unaware that we had learned of his treachery,  greeted us with a smile.
Always to be regarded as parenthetic and to be enclosed between commas(or, at the end of the sentence, between comma and period) are thefollowing:
(1) the year, when forming part of a date, and the day of the month,when following the day of the week:
  February to July, 1916.
  April 6, 1917.
  Monday, November 11, 1918.
(2) the abbreviations _etc._ and _jr._
(3) non-restrictive relative clauses, that is, those which do not serveto identify or define the antecedent noun, and similar clausesintroduced by conjunctions indicating time or place.
  The audience, which had at first been indifferent, became more and  more interested.
In this sentence the clause introduced by _which_ does not serve to tellwhich of several possible audiences is meant; what audience is inquestion is supposed to be already known. The clause adds,parenthetically, a statement supplementing that in the main clause. Thesentence is virtually a combination of two statements which might havebeen made independently:
  The audience had at first been indifferent. It became more and more  interested.
Compare the restrictive relative clause, not set off by commas, in thesentence,
  The candidate who best meets these requirements will obtain the place.
Here the clause introduced by _who_ does serve to tell which of severalpossible candidates is meant; the sentence cannot be split up into twoindependent statements.
The difference in punctuation in the two sentences following is based onthe same principle:
  Nether Stowey, where Coleridge wrote _The Rime of the Ancient  Mariner_, is a few miles from Bridgewater.
  The day will come when you will admit your mistake.
Nether Stowey is completely identified by its name; the statement aboutColeridge is therefore supplementary and parenthetic. The _day_ spokenof is identified only by the dependent clause, which is thereforerestrictive.
Similar in principle to the enclosing of parenthetic expressions betweencommas is the setting off by commas of phrases or dependent clausespreceding or following the main clause of a sentence.
  Partly by hard fighting, partly by diplomatic skill, they enlarged  their dominions to the east, and rose to royal rank with the  possession of Sicily, exchanged afterwards for Sardinia.
Other illustrations may be found in sentences quoted under Rules 4, 5,6, 7, 16, and 18.
The writer should be careful not to set off independent clauses bycommas: see under Rule 5.

4. Place a comma before a conjunction introducing a co-ordinate clause.
  The early records of the city have disappeared, and the story of its  first years can no longer be reconstructed.
  The situation is perilous, but there is still one chance of escape.
Sentences of this type, isolated from their context, may seem to be inneed of rewriting. As they make complete sense when the comma isreached, the second clause has the appearance of an afterthought.Further, _and_ is the least specific of connectives. Used betweenindependent clauses, it indicates only that a relation exists betweenthem without defining that relation. In the example above, the relationis that of cause and result. The two sentences might be rewritten:
  As the early records of the city have disappeared, the story of its  first years can no longer be reconstructed.
  Although the situation is perilous, there is still one chance of  escape.
Or the subordinate clauses might be replaced by phrases:
  Owing to the disappearance of the early records of the city, the story  of its first years can no longer be reconstructed.
  In this perilous situation, there is still one chance of escape.
But a writer may err by making his sentences too uniformly compact andperiodic, and an occasional loose sentence prevents the style frombecoming too formal and gives the reader a certain relief. Consequently,loose sentences of the type first quoted are common in easy, unstudiedwriting. But a writer should be careful not to construct too many of hissentences after this pattern (see Rule 14).
Two-part sentences of which the second member is introduced by _as_ (inthe sense of _because_), _for_, _or_, _nor_, and _while_ (in the senseof _and at the same time_) likewise require a comma before theconjunction.
If the second member is introduced by an adverb, a semicolon, not acomma, is required (see Rule 5). The connectives _so_ and _yet_ may beused either as adverbs or as conjunctions, accordingly as the secondclause is felt to be co-ordinate or subordinate; consequently eithermark of punctuation may be justified. But these uses of _so_ (equivalentto _accordingly_ or to _so that_) are somewhat colloquial and should, asa rule, be avoided in writing. A simple correction, usually serviceable,is to omit the word _so_ and begin the first clause with _as_ or_since_:
  I had never been in the place before; so I had difficulty in finding  my way about.
    As I had never been in the place before, I had difficulty in finding    my way about.
If a dependent clause, or an introductory phrase requiring to be set offby a comma, precedes the second independent clause, no comma is neededafter the conjunction.
  The situation is perilous, but if we are prepared to act promptly,  there is still one chance of escape.
When the subject is the same for both clauses and is expressed onlyonce, a comma is required if the connective is _but_. If the connectiveis _and_, the comma should be omitted if the relation between the twostatements is close or immediate.
  I have heard his arguments, but am still unconvinced.
  He has had several years' experience and is thoroughly competent.

5. Do not join independent clauses by a comma.
If two or more clauses, grammatically complete and not joined by aconjunction, are to form a single compound sentence, the proper mark ofpunctuation is a semicolon.
  Stevenson's romances are entertaining; they are full of exciting  adventures.
  It is nearly half past five; we cannot reach town before dark.
It is of course equally correct to write the above as two sentenceseach, replacing the semicolons by periods.
  Stevenson's romances are entertaining. They are full of exciting  adventures.
  It is nearly half past five. We cannot reach town before dark.
If a conjunction is inserted the proper mark is a comma (Rule 4).
  Stevenson's romances are entertaining, for they are full of exciting  adventures.
  It is nearly half past five, and we cannot reach town before dark.
A comparison of the three forms given above will show clearly theadvantage of the first. It is, at least in the examples given, betterthan the second form, because it suggests the close relationship betweenthe two statements in a way that the second does not attempt, and betterthan the third, because briefer and therefore more forcible. Indeed itmay be said that this simple method of indicating relationship betweenstatements is one of the most useful devices of composition. Therelationship, as above, is commonly one of cause or of consequence.
Note that if the second clause is preceded by an adverb, such as_accordingly_, _besides_, _then_, _therefore_, or _thus_, and not by aconjunction, the semicolon is still required.
Two exceptions to the rule may be admitted. If the clauses are veryshort, and are alike in form, a comma is usually permissible:
  Man proposes, God disposes.
  The gate swung apart, the bridge fell, the portcullis was drawn up.
Note that in these examples the relation is not one of cause orconsequence. Also in the colloquial form of expression,
  I hardly knew him, he was so changed,
a comma, not a semicolon, is required. But this form of expression isinappropriate in writing, except in the dialogue of a story or play, orperhaps in a familiar letter.

6. Do not break sentences in two.
In other words, do not use periods for commas.
  I met them on a Cunard liner several years ago. Coming home from  Liverpool to New York.
  He was an interesting talker. A man who had traveled all over the  world and lived in half a dozen countries.
In both these examples, the first period should be replaced by a comma,and the following word begun with a small letter.
It is permissible to make an emphatic word or expression serve thepurpose of a sentence and to punctuate it accordingly:
  Again and again he called out. No reply.
The writer must, however, be certain that the emphasis is warranted, andthat he will not be suspected of a mere blunder in syntax or inpunctuation.
Rules 3, 4, 5, and 6 cover the most important principles in thepunctuation of ordinary sentences; they should be so thoroughly masteredthat their application becomes second nature.

7. A participial phrase at the beginning of a sentence must refer to thegrammatical subject.
  Walking slowly down the road, he saw a woman accompanied by two  children.
The word _walking_ refers to the subject of the sentence, not to thewoman. If the writer wishes to make it refer to the woman, he mustrecast the sentence:
  He saw a woman accompanied by two children, walking slowly down the  road.
Participial phrases preceded by a conjunction or by a preposition, nounsin apposition, adjectives, and adjective phrases come under the samerule if they begin the sentence.
  On arriving in Chicago, his friends met him at the station.
    When he arrived (or, On his arrival) in Chicago, his friends met him    at the station.
  A soldier of proved valor, they entrusted him with the defence of the  city.
    A soldier of proved valor, he was entrusted with the defence of the    city.
  Young and inexperienced, the task seemed easy to me.
    Young and inexperienced, I thought the task easy.
  Without a friend to counsel him, the temptation proved irresistible.
    Without a friend to counsel him, he found the temptation    irresistible.
Sentences violating this rule are often ludicrous.
  Being in a dilapidated condition, I was able to buy the house very  cheap.
  Wondering irresolutely what to do next, the clock struck twelve.



III. ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF COMPOSITION

8. Make the paragraph the unit of composition: one paragraph to eachtopic.
If the subject on which you are writing is of slight extent, or if youintend to treat it very briefly, there may be no need of subdividing itinto topics. Thus a brief description, a brief summary of a literarywork, a brief account of a single incident, a narrative merely outliningan action, the setting forth of a single idea, any one of these is bestwritten in a single paragraph. After the paragraph has been written,examine it to see whether subdivision will not improve it.
Ordinarily, however, a subject requires subdivision into topics, each ofwhich should be made the subject of a paragraph. The object of treatingeach topic in a paragraph by itself is, of course, to aid the reader.The beginning of each paragraph is a signal to him that a new step inthe development of the subject has been reached.
The extent of subdivision will vary with the length of the composition.For example, a short notice of a book or poem might consist of a singleparagraph. One slightly longer might consist of two paragraphs:
  A. Account of the work.  B. Critical discussion.
A report on a poem, written for a class in literature, might consist ofseven paragraphs:
  A. Facts of composition and publication.  B. Kind of poem; metrical form.  C. Subject.  D. Treatment of subject.  E. For what chiefly remarkable.  F. Wherein characteristic of the writer.  G. Relationship to other works.
The contents of paragraphs C and D would vary with the poem. Usually,paragraph C would indicate the actual or imagined circumstances of thepoem (the situation), if these call for explanation, and would thenstate the subject and outline its development. If the poem is anarrative in the third person throughout, paragraph C need contain nomore than a concise summary of the action. Paragraph D would indicatethe leading ideas and show how they are made prominent, or wouldindicate what points in the narrative are chiefly emphasized.
A novel might be discussed under the heads:
  A. Setting.  B. Plot.  C. Characters.  D. Purpose.
An historical event might be discussed under the heads:
  A. What led up to the event.  B. Account of the event.  C. What the event led up to.
In treating either of these last two subjects, the writer would probablyfind it necessary to subdivide one or more of the topics here given.
As a rule, single sentences should not be written or printed asparagraphs. An exception may be made of sentences of transition,indicating the relation between the parts of an exposition or argument.Frequent exceptions are also necessary in textbooks, guidebooks, andother works in which many topics are treated briefly.
In dialogue, each speech, even if only a single word, is a paragraph byitself; that is, a new paragraph begins with each change of speaker. Theapplication of this rule, when dialogue and narrative are combined, isbest learned from examples in well-printed works of fiction.

9. As a rule, begin each paragraph with a topic sentence, end it inconformity with the beginning.
Again, the object is to aid the reader. The practice here recommendedenables him to discover the purpose of each paragraph as he begins toread it, and to retain this purpose in mind as he ends it. For thisreason, the most generally useful kind of paragraph, particularly inexposition and argument, is that in which
(a) the topic sentence comes at or near the beginning;
(b) the succeeding sentences explain or establish or develop thestatement made in the topic sentence; and
(c) the final sentence either emphasizes the thought of the topicsentence or states some important consequence.
Ending with a digression, or with an unimportant detail, is particularlyto be avoided.
If the paragraph forms part of a larger composition, its relation towhat precedes, or its function as a part of the whole, may need to beexpressed. This can sometimes be done by a mere word or phrase (_again_;_therefore_; _for the same reason_) in the topic sentence. Sometimes,however, it is expedient to precede the topic sentence by one or moresentences of introduction or transition. If more than one such sentenceis required, it is generally better to set apart the transitionalsentences as a separate paragraph.
According to the writer's purpose, he may, as indicated above, relatethe body of the paragraph to the topic sentence in one or more ofseveral different ways. He may make the meaning of the topic sentenceclearer by restating it in other forms, by defining its terms, bydenying the contrary, by giving illustrations or specific instances; hemay establish it by proofs; or he may develop it by showing itsimplications and consequences. In a long paragraph, he may carry outseveral of these processes.
  1 Now, to be properly enjoyed, a walking tour should be gone upon  alone. 2 If you go in a company, or even in pairs, it is no longer a  walking tour in anything but name; it is something else and more in  the nature of a picnic. 3 A walking tour should be gone upon alone,  because freedom is of the essence; because you should be able to stop  and go on, and follow this way or that, as the freak takes you; and  because you must have your own pace, and neither trot alongside a  champion walker, nor mince in time with a girl. 4 And you must be open  to all impressions and let your thoughts take colour from what you  see. 5 You should be as a pipe for any wind to play upon. 6 "I cannot  see the wit," says Hazlitt, "of walking and talking at the same time.  7 When I am in the country, I wish to vegetate like the country,"  which is the gist of all that can be said upon the matter. 8 There  should be no cackle of voices at your elbow, to jar on the meditative  silence of the morning. 9 And so long as a man is reasoning he cannot  surrender himself to that fine intoxication that comes of much motion  in the open air, that begins in a sort of dazzle and sluggishness of  the brain, and ends in a peace that passes comprehension.--Stevenson,  _Walking Tours_.
  1 Topic sentence. 2 The meaning made clearer by denial of the  contrary. 3 The topic sentence repeated, in abridged form, and  supported by three reasons; the meaning of the third ("you must have  your own pace") made clearer by denying the contrary. 4 A fourth  reason, stated in two forms. 5 The same reason, stated in still  another form. 6-7 The same reason as stated by Hazlitt. 8 Repetition,  in paraphrase, of the quotation from Hazlitt. 9 Final statement of the  fourth reason, in language amplified and heightened to form a strong  conclusion.
  1 It was chiefly in the eighteenth century that a very different  conception of history grew up. 2 Historians then came to believe that  their task was not so much to paint a picture as to solve a problem;  to explain or illustrate the successive phases of national growth,  prosperity, and adversity. 3 The history of morals, of industry, of  intellect, and of art; the changes that take place in manners or  beliefs; the dominant ideas that prevailed in successive periods; the  rise, fall, and modification of political constitutions; in a word,  all the conditions of national well-being became the subject of their  works. 4 They sought rather to write a history of peoples than a  history of kings. 5 They looked especially in history for the chain of  causes and effects. 6 They undertook to study in the past the  physiology of nations, and hoped by applying the experimental method  on a large scale to deduce some lessons of real value about the  conditions on which the welfare of society mainly depend.--Lecky, _The  Political Value of History_.
  1 Topic sentence. 2 The meaning of the topic sentence made clearer;  the new conception of history defined. 3 The definition expanded. 4  The definition explained by contrast. 5 The definition supplemented:  another element in the new conception of history. 6 Conclusion: an  important consequence of the new conception of history.
In narration and description the paragraph sometimes begins with aconcise, comprehensive statement serving to hold together the detailsthat follow.
  The breeze served us admirably.
  The campaign opened with a series of reverses.
  The next ten or twelve pages were filled with a curious set of  entries.
But this device, if too often used, would become a mannerism. Morecommonly the opening sentence simply indicates by its subject with whatthe paragraph is to be principally concerned.
  At length I thought I might return towards the stockade.
  He picked up the heavy lamp from the table and began to explore.
  Another flight of steps, and they emerged on the roof.
The brief paragraphs of animated narrative, however, are often withouteven this semblance of a topic sentence. The break between them servesthe purpose of a rhetorical pause, throwing into prominence some detailof the action.

10. Use the active voice.
The active voice is usually more direct and vigorous than the passive:
  I shall always remember my first visit to Boston.
This is much better than
  My first visit to Boston will always be remembered by me.
The latter sentence is less direct, less bold, and less concise. If thewriter tries to make it more concise by omitting "by me,"
  My first visit to Boston will always be remembered,
it becomes indefinite: is it the writer, or some person undisclosed, orthe world at large, that will always remember this visit?
This rule does not, of course, mean that the writer should entirelydiscard the passive voice, which is frequently convenient and sometimesnecessary.
  The dramatists of the Restoration are little esteemed to-day.
  Modern readers have little esteem for the dramatists of the  Restoration.
The first would be the right form in a paragraph on the dramatists ofthe Restoration; the second, in a paragraph on the tastes of modernreaders. The need of making a particular word the subject of thesentence will often, as in these examples, determine which voice is tobe used.
As a rule, avoid making one passive depend directly upon another.
  Gold was not allowed to be exported.
    It was forbidden to export gold (The export of gold was prohibited).
  He has been proved to have been seen entering the building.
    It has been proved that he was seen to enter the building.
In both the examples above, before correction, the word properly relatedto the second passive is made the subject of the first.
A common fault is to use as the subject of a passive construction a nounwhich expresses the entire action, leaving to the verb no functionbeyond that of completing the sentence.
  A survey of this region was made in 1900.
    This region was surveyed in 1900.
  Mobilization of the army was rapidly effected.
    The army was rapidly mobilized.
  Confirmation of these reports cannot be obtained.
    These reports cannot be confirmed.
Compare the sentence, "The export of gold was prohibited," in which thepredicate "was prohibited" expresses something not implied in "export."
The habitual use of the active voice makes for forcible writing. This istrue not only in narrative principally concerned with action, but inwriting of any kind. Many a tame sentence of description or expositioncan be made lively and emphatic by substituting a verb in the activevoice for some such perfunctory expression as _there is_, or _could beheard_.
  There were a great number of dead leaves lying on the ground.
    Dead leaves covered the ground.
  The sound of a guitar somewhere in the house could be heard.
    Somewhere in the house a guitar hummed sleepily.
  The reason that he left college was that his health became impaired.
    Failing health compelled him to leave college.
  It was not long before he was very sorry that he had said what he had.
    He soon repented his words.

11. Put statements in positive form.
Make definite assertions. Avoid tame, colorless, hesitating,non-committal language. Use the word _not_ as a means of denial or inantithesis, never as a means of evasion.
  He was not very often on time.
    He usually came late.
  He did not think that studying Latin was much use.
    He thought the study of Latin useless.
  _The Taming of the Shrew_ is rather weak in spots. Shakespeare does  not portray Katharine as a very admirable character, nor does Bianca  remain long in memory as an important character in Shakespeare's works.
    The women in _The Taming of the Shrew_ are unattractive. Katharine    is disagreeable, Bianca insignificant.
The last example, before correction, is indefinite as well as negative.The corrected version, consequently, is simply a guess at the writer'sintention.
All three examples show the weakness inherent in the word _not_.Consciously or unconsciously, the reader is dissatisfied with being toldonly what is not; he wishes to be told what is. Hence, as a rule, it isbetter to express even a negative in positive form.
  not honest
    dishonest
  not important
    trifling
  did not remember
    forgot
  did not pay any attention to
    ignored
  did not have much confidence in
    distrusted
The antithesis of negative and positive is strong:
  Not charity, but simple justice.
  Not that I loved Caesar less, but Rome the more.
Negative words other than _not_ are usually strong:
  The sun never sets upon the British flag.

12. Use definite, specific, concrete language.
Prefer the specific to the general, the definite to the vague, theconcrete to the abstract.
  A period of unfavorable weather set in.
    It rained every day for a week.
  He showed satisfaction as he took possession of his well-earned  reward.
    He grinned as he pocketed the coin.
  There is a general agreement among those who have enjoyed the  experience that surf-riding is productive of great exhilaration.
    All who have tried surf-riding agree that it is most exhilarating.
If those who have studied the art of writing are in accord on any onepoint, it is on this, that the surest method of arousing and holding theattention of the reader is by being specific, definite, and concrete.Critics have pointed out how much of the effectiveness of the greatestwriters, Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, results from their constantdefiniteness and concreteness. Browning, to cite a more modern author,affords many striking examples. Take, for instance, the lines from _MyLast Duchess_,
  Sir, 'twas all one! My favour at her breast,  The dropping of the daylight in the west,  The bough of cherries some officious fool  Broke in the orchard for her, the white mule  She rode with round the terrace--all and each  Would draw from her alike the approving speech,  Or blush, at least,
and those which end the poem,
      Notice Neptune, though,  Taming a sea-horse, thought a rarity,  Which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze for me.
These words call up pictures. Recall how in _The Bishop Orders his Tombin St. Praxed's Church_ "the Renaissance spirit--its worldliness,inconsistency, pride, hypocrisy, ignorance of itself, love of art, ofluxury, of good Latin," to quote Ruskin's comment on the poem, is mademanifest in specific details and in concrete terms.
Prose, in particular narrative and descriptive prose, is made vivid bythe same means. If the experiences of Jim Hawkins and of David Balfour,of Kim, of Nostromo, have seemed for the moment real to countlessreaders, if in reading Carlyle we have almost the sense of beingphysically present at the taking of the Bastille, it is because of thedefiniteness of the details and the concreteness of the terms used. Itis not that every detail is given; that would be impossible, as well asto no purpose; but that all the significant details are given, and notvaguely, but with such definiteness that the reader, in imagination, canproject himself into the scene.
In exposition and in argument, the writer must likewise never lose hishold upon the concrete, and even when he is dealing with generalprinciples, he must give particular instances of their application.
"This superiority of specific expressions is clearly due to the effortrequired to translate words into thoughts. As we do not think ingenerals, but in particulars--as whenever any class of things isreferred to, we represent it to ourselves by calling to mind individualmembers of it, it follows that when an abstract word is used, the heareror reader has to choose, from his stock of images, one or more by whichhe may figure to himself the genus mentioned. In doing this, some delaymust arise, some force be expended; and if by employing a specific terman appropriate image can be at once suggested, an economy is achieved,and a more vivid impression produced."
Herbert Spencer, from whose _Philosophy of Style_ the precedingparagraph is quoted, illustrates the principle by the sentences:
  In proportion as the manners, customs, and amusements of a nation are  cruel and barbarous, the regulations of their penal code will be  severe.
    In proportion as men delight in battles, bull-fights, and combats of    gladiators, will they punish by hanging, burning, and the rack.

13. Omit needless words.
Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessarywords, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that adrawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessaryparts. This requires not that the writer make all his sentences short,or that he avoid all detail and treat his subjects only in outline, butthat he make every word tell.
Many expressions in common use violate this principle:
  the question as to whether
    whether (the question whether)
  there is no doubt but that
    no doubt (doubtless)
  used for fuel purposes
    used for fuel
  he is a man who
    he
  in a hasty manner
    hastily
  this is a subject which
    this subject
  His story is a strange one.
    His story is strange.
In especial the expression _the fact that_ should be revised out ofevery sentence in which it occurs.
  owing to the fact that
    since (because)
  in spite of the fact that
    though (although)
  call your attention to the fact that
    remind you (notify you)
  I was unaware of the fact that
    I was unaware that (did not know)
  the fact that he had not succeeded
    his failure
  the fact that I had arrived
    my arrival
See also under _case_, _character_, _nature_, _system_ in Chapter V.
_Who is_, _which was_, and the like are often superfluous.
  His brother, who is a member of the same firm
    His brother, a member of the same firm
  Trafalgar, which was Nelson's last battle
    Trafalgar, Nelson's last battle
As positive statement is more concise than negative, and the activevoice more concise than the passive, many of the examples given underRules 11 and 12 illustrate this rule as well.
A common violation of conciseness is the presentation of a singlecomplex idea, step by step, in a series of sentences or independentclauses which might to advantage be combined into one.
  Macbeth was very ambitious. This led him to wish to become king of  Scotland. The witches told him that this wish of his would come true.  The king of Scotland at this time was Duncan. Encouraged by his wife,  Macbeth murdered Duncan. He was thus enabled to succeed Duncan as  king. (51 words.)
    Encouraged by his wife, Macbeth achieved his ambition and realized    the prediction of the witches by murdering Duncan and becoming king    of Scotland in his place. (26 words.)
  There were several less important courses, but these were the most  important, and although they did not come every day, they came often  enough to keep you in such a state of mind that you never knew what  your next move would be. (43 words.)
    These, the most important courses of all, came, if not daily, at    least often enough to keep one under constant strain. (21 words.)

14. Avoid a succession of loose sentences:
This rule refers especially to loose sentences of a particular type,those consisting of two co-ordinate clauses, the second introduced by aconjunction or relative. Although single sentences of this type may beunexceptionable (see under Rule 4), a series soon becomes monotonous andtedious.
An unskilful writer will sometimes construct a whole paragraph ofsentences of this kind, using as connectives _and_, _but_, _so_, andless frequently, _who_, _which_, _when_, _where_, and _while_, theselast in non-restrictive senses (see under Rule 3).
  The third concert of the subscription series was given last evening,  and a large audience was in attendance. Mr. Edward Appleton was the  soloist, and the Boston Symphony Orchestra furnished the instrumental  music. The former showed himself to be an artist of the first rank,  while the latter proved itself fully deserving of its high reputation.  The interest aroused by the series has been very gratifying to the  Committee, and it is planned to give a similar series annually  hereafter. The fourth concert will be given on Tuesday, May 10, when  an equally attractive programme will be presented.
Apart from its triteness and emptiness, the paragraph above is weakbecause of the structure of its sentences, with their mechanicalsymmetry and sing-song. Contrast with them the sentences in theparagraphs quoted under Rule 9, or in any piece of good English prose,as the preface (Before the Curtain) to _Vanity Fair_.
If the writer finds that he has written a series of sentences of thetype described, he should recast enough of them to remove the monotony,replacing them by simple sentences, by sentences of two clauses joinedby a semicolon, by periodic sentences of two clauses, by sentences,loose or periodic, of three clauses--whichever best represent the realrelations of the thought.

15. Express co-ordinate ideas in similar form.
This principle, that of parallel construction, requires that expressionsof similar content and function should be outwardly similar. Thelikeness of form enables the reader to recognize more readily thelikeness of content and function. Familiar instances from the Bible arethe Ten Commandments, the Beatitudes, and the petitions of the Lord'sPrayer.
The unskillful writer often violates this principle, from a mistakenbelief that he should constantly vary the form of his expressions. It istrue that in repeating a statement in order to emphasize it he may haveneed to vary its form. For illustration, see the paragraph fromStevenson quoted under Rule 9. But apart from this, he should follow theprinciple of parallel construction.
  Formerly, science was taught by the textbook method, while now the  laboratory method is employed.
    Formerly, science was taught by the textbook method; now it is    taught by the laboratory method.
The left-hand version gives the impression that the writer is undecidedor timid; he seems unable or afraid to choose one form of expression andhold to it. The right-hand version shows that the writer has at leastmade his choice and abided by it.
By this principle, an article or a preposition applying to all themembers of a series must either be used only before the first term orelse be repeated before each term.
  The French, the Italians, Spanish, and Portuguese
    The French, the Italians, the Spanish, and the Portuguese
  In spring, summer, or in winter
    In spring, summer, or winter (In spring, in summer, or in winter)
Correlative expressions (_both, and_; _not, but_; _not only, but also_;_either, or_; _first, second, third_; and the like) should be followedby the same grammatical construction, that is, virtually, by the samepart of speech. (Such combinations as "both Henry and I," "not silk, buta cheap substitute," are obviously within the rule.) Many violations ofthis rule (as the first three below) arise from faulty arrangement;others (as the last) from the use of unlike constructions.
  It was both a long ceremony and very tedious.
    The ceremony was both long and tedious.
  A time not for words, but action.
    A time not for words, but for action.
  Either you must grant his request or incur his ill will.
    You must either grant his request or incur his ill will.
  My objections are, first, the injustice of the measure; second, that  it is unconstitutional.
    My objections are, first, that the measure is unjust; second, that    it is unconstitutional.
See also the third example under Rule 12 and the last under Rule 13.
It may be asked, what if a writer needs to express a very large numberof similar ideas, say twenty? Must he write twenty consecutive sentencesof the same pattern? On closer examination he will probably find thatthe difficulty is imaginary, that his twenty ideas can be classified ingroups, and that he need apply the principle only within each group.Otherwise he had best avoid difficulty by putting his statements in theform of a table.

16. Keep related words together.
The position of the words in a sentence is the principal means ofshowing their relationship. The writer must therefore, so far aspossible, bring together the words, and groups of words, that arerelated in thought, and keep apart those which are not so related.
The subject of a sentence and the principal verb should not, as a rule,be separated by a phrase or clause that can be transferred to thebeginning.
  Wordsworth, in the fifth book of _The Excursion_, gives a  minute description of this church.
    In the fifth book of _The Excursion_, Wordsworth gives a    minute description of this church.
  Cast iron, when treated in a Bessemer converter, is changed into  steel.
    By treatment in a Bessemer converter, cast iron is changed into    steel.
The objection is that the interposed phrase or clause needlesslyinterrupts the natural order of the main clause. Usually, however, thisobjection does not hold when the order is interrupted only by a relativeclause or by an expression in apposition. Nor does it hold in periodicsentences in which the interruption is a deliberately used means ofcreating suspense (see examples under Rule 18).
The relative pronoun should come, as a rule, immediately after itsantecedent.
  There was a look in his eye that boded mischief.
    In his eye was a look that boded mischief.
  He wrote three articles about his adventures in Spain, which were  published in _Harper's Magazine_.
    He published in _Harper's Magazine_ three articles about    his adventures in Spain.
  This is a portrait of Benjamin Harrison, grandson of William Henry  Harrison, who became President in 1889.
    This is a portrait of Benjamin Harrison, grandson of William Henry    Harrison. He became President in 1889.
If the antecedent consists of a group of words, the relative comes atthe end of the group, unless this would cause ambiguity.
  The Superintendent of the Chicago Division, who
  A proposal to amend the Sherman Act, which has been variously judged.
    A proposal, which has been variously judged, to amend the Sherman    Act.
    A proposal to amend the much-debated Sherman Act.
  The grandson of William Henry Harrison, who
    William Henry Harrison's grandson, who
A noun in apposition may come between antecedent and relative, becausein such a combination no real ambiguity can arise.
  The Duke of York, his brother, who was regarded with hostility by the  Whigs
Modifiers should come, if possible, next to the word they modify. Ifseveral expressions modify the same word, they should be so arrangedthat no wrong relation is suggested.
  All the members were not present.
    Not all the members were present.
  He only found two mistakes.
    He found only two mistakes.
  Major R. E. Joyce will give a lecture on Tuesday evening in Bailey  Hall, to which the public is invited, on "My Experiences in  Mesopotamia" at eight P. M.
    On Tuesday evening at eight P. M., Major R. E. Joyce will    give in Bailey Hall a lecture on "My Experiences in Mesopotamia."    The public is invited.

17. In summaries, keep to one tense.
In summarizing the action of a drama, the writer should always use thepresent tense. In summarizing a poem, story, or novel, he shouldpreferably use the present, though he may use the past if he prefers. Ifthe summary is in the present tense, antecedent action should beexpressed by the perfect; if in the past, by the past perfect.
  An unforeseen chance prevents Friar John from delivering Friar  Lawrence's letter to Romeo. Meanwhile, owing to her father's arbitrary  change of the day set for her wedding, Juliet has been compelled to  drink the potion on Tuesday night, with the result that Balthasar  informs Romeo of her supposed death before Friar Lawrence learns of  the non-delivery of the letter.
But whichever tense be used in the summary, a past tense in indirectdiscourse or in indirect question remains unchanged.
  The Friar confesses that it was he who married them.
Apart from the exceptions noted, whichever tense the writer chooses, heshould use throughout. Shifting from one tense to the other gives theappearance of uncertainty and irresolution (compare Rule 15).
In presenting the statements or the thought of some one else, as insummarizing an essay or reporting a speech, the writer should avoidintercalating such expressions as "he said," "he stated," "the speakeradded," "the speaker then went on to say," "the author also thinks," orthe like. He should indicate clearly at the outset, once for all, thatwhat follows is summary, and then waste no words in repeating thenotification.
In notebooks, in newspapers, in handbooks of literature, summaries ofone kind or another may be indispensable, and for children in primaryschools it is a useful exercise to retell a story in their own words.But in the criticism or interpretation of literature the writer shouldbe careful to avoid dropping into summary. He may find it necessary todevote one or two sentences to indicating the subject, or the openingsituation, of the work he is discussing; he may cite numerous details toillustrate its qualities. But he should aim to write an orderlydiscussion supported by evidence, not a summary with occasional comment.Similarly, if the scope of his discussion includes a number of works, hewill as a rule do better not to take them up singly in chronologicalorder, but to aim from the beginning at establishing generalconclusions.

18. Place the emphatic words of a sentence at the end.
The proper place in the sentence for the word, or group of words, whichthe writer desires to make most prominent is usually the end.
  Humanity has hardly advanced in fortitude since that time, though it  has advanced in many other ways.
    Humanity, since that time, has advanced in many other ways, but it    has hardly advanced in fortitude.
  This steel is principally used for making razors, because of its  hardness.
    Because of its hardness, this steel is principally used in making    razors.
The word or group of words entitled to this position of prominence isusually the logical predicate, that is, the _new_ element in thesentence, as it is in the second example.
The effectiveness of the periodic sentence arises from the prominencewhich it gives to the main statement.
  Four centuries ago, Christopher Columbus, one of the Italian mariners  whom the decline of their own republics had put at the service of the  world and of adventure, seeking for Spain a westward passage to the  Indies as a set-off against the achievements of Portuguese  discoverers, lighted on America.
  With these hopes and in this belief I would urge you, laying aside all  hindrance, thrusting away all private aims, to devote yourself  unswervingly and unflinchingly to the vigorous and successful  prosecution of this war.
The other prominent position in the sentence is the beginning. Anyelement in the sentence, other than the subject, may become emphaticwhen placed first.
  Deceit or treachery he could never forgive.
  So vast and rude, fretted by the action of nearly three thousand  years, the fragments of this architecture may often seem, at first  sight, like works of nature.
A subject coming first in its sentence may be emphatic, but hardly byits position alone. In the sentence,
  Great kings worshipped at his shrine,
the emphasis upon _kings_ arises largely from its meaning and from thecontext. To receive special emphasis, the subject of a sentence musttake the position of the predicate.
  Through the middle of the valley flowed a winding stream.
The principle that the proper place for what is to be made mostprominent is the end applies equally to the words of a sentence, to thesentences of a paragraph, and to the paragraphs of a composition.



IV. A FEW MATTERS OF FORM

=Headings.= Leave a blank line, or its equivalent in space, after thetitle or heading of a manuscript. On succeeding pages, if using ruledpaper, begin on the first line.
=Numerals.= Do not spell out dates or other serial numbers. Write themin figures or in Roman notation, as may be appropriate.
  August 9, 1918 (9 August 1918)
  Rule 3
  Chapter XII
  352nd Infantry
=Parentheses.= A sentence containing an expression in parenthesis ispunctuated, outside of the marks of parenthesis, exactly as if theexpression in parenthesis were absent. The expression within ispunctuated as if it stood by itself, except that the final stop isomitted unless it is a question mark or an exclamation point.
  I went to his house yesterday (my third attempt to see him), but he  had left town.
  He declares (and why should we doubt his good faith?) that he is now  certain of success.
(When a wholly detached expression or sentence is parenthesized, thefinal stop comes before the last mark of parenthesis.)
=Quotations.= Formal quotations, cited as documentary evidence, areintroduced by a colon and enclosed in quotation marks.
  The provision of the Constitution is: "No tax or duty shall be laid on  articles exported from any state."
Quotations grammatically in apposition or the direct objects of verbsare preceded by a comma and enclosed in quotation marks.
  I recall the maxim of La Rochefoucauld, "Gratitude is a lively sense  of benefits to come."
  Aristotle says, "Art is an imitation of nature."
Quotations of an entire line, or more, of verse, are begun on a freshline and centered, but need not be enclosed in quotation marks.
  Wordsworth's enthusiasm for the Revolution was at first unbounded:
    Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive,    But to be young was very heaven!
Quotations introduced by _that_ are regarded as in indirect discourseand not enclosed in quotation marks.
  Keats declares that beauty is truth, truth beauty.
Proverbial expressions and familiar phrases of literary origin requireno quotation marks.
  These are the times that try men's souls.
  He lives far from the madding crowd.
The same is true of colloquialisms and slang.
=References.= In scholarly work requiring exact references, abbreviatetitles that occur frequently, giving the full forms in an alphabeticallist at the end. As a general practice, give the references inparenthesis or in footnotes, not in the body of the sentence. Omit thewords _act_, _scene_, _line_, _book_, _volume_, _page_, except whenreferring by only one of them. Punctuate as indicated below.
  In the second scene of the third act
    In III.ii (still better, simply insert III.ii in    parenthesis at the proper place in the sentence)
  After the killing of Polonius, Hamlet is placed under guard (IV.ii.  14).
  _2 Samuel_ i:17-27
  _Othello_ II.iii. 264-267, III.iii. 155-161.
=Syllabication.= If there is room at the end of a line for one or moresyllables of a word, but not for the whole word, divide the word, unlessthis involves cutting off only a single letter, or cutting off only twoletters of a long word. No hard and fast rule for all words can be laiddown. The principles most frequently applicable are:
(a) Divide the word according to its formation:
  know-ledge (not knowl-edge); Shake-speare (not Shakes-peare);  de-scribe (not des-cribe); atmo-sphere (not atmos-phere);
(b) Divide "on the vowel:"
  edi-ble (not ed-ible); propo-sition; ordi-nary; espe-cial; reli-gious;  oppo-nents; regu-lar; classi-fi-ca-tion (three divisions allowable);  deco-rative; presi-dent;
(c) Divide between double letters, unless they come at the end of thesimple form of the word:
  Apen-nines; Cincin-nati; refer-ring; but tell-ing.
(d) Do not divide before final _-ed_ if the _e_ is silent:
  treat-ed (but not roam-ed or nam-ed).
The treatment of consonants in combination is best shown from examples:
  for-tune; pic-ture; sin-gle; presump-tuous; illus-tration;  sub-stan-tial (either division); indus-try; instruc-tion;  sug-ges-tion; incen-diary.
The student will do well to examine the syllable-division in a number ofpages of any carefully printed book.
=Titles.= For the titles of literary works, scholarly usage prefersitalics with capitalized initials. The usage of editors and publishersvaries, some using italics with capitalized initials, others using Romanwith capitalized initials and with or without quotation marks. Useitalics (indicated in manuscript by underscoring), except in writing fora periodical that follows a different practice. Omit initial _A_ or_The_ from titles when you place the possessive before them.
  The _Iliad_; the _Odyssey_; _As You Like It_; _To a Skylark_; _The  Newcomes_; _A Tale of Two Cities_; Dickens's _Tale of Two Cities_.



V. WORDS AND EXPRESSIONS COMMONLY MISUSED

(Some of the forms here listed, as _like I did_, are downright badEnglish; others, as the split infinitive, have their defenders, but arein such general disfavor that it is at least inadvisable to use them;still others, as _case_, _factor_, _feature_, _interesting_, _one of themost_, are good in their place, but are constantly obtruding themselvesinto places where they have no right to be. If the writer will make ithis purpose from the beginning to express accurately his own individualthought, and will refuse to be satisfied with a ready-made formula thatsaves him the trouble of doing so, this last set of expressions willcause him little trouble. But if he finds that in a moment ofinadvertence he has used one of them, his proper course will probably benot to patch up the sentence by substituting one word or set of wordsfor another, but to recast it completely, as illustrated in a number ofexamples below and in others under Rules 12 and 13.)
=All right.= Idiomatic in familiar speech as a detached phrase in thesense, "Agreed," or "Go ahead." In other uses better avoided. Alwayswritten as two words.
=As good or better than.= Expressions of this type should be correctedby rearranging the sentence.
  My opinion is as good or better than his.
    My opinion is as good as his, or better (if not better).
=As to whether.= _Whether_ is sufficient; see under Rule 13.
=Bid.= Takes the infinitive without _to_. The past tense in the sense,"ordered," is _bade_.
=But.= Unnecessary after _doubt_ and _help_.
  I have no doubt but that
    I have no doubt that
  He could not help see but that
    He could not help seeing that
The too frequent use of _but_ as a conjunction leads to the faultdiscussed under Rule 14. A loose sentence formed with _but_ can alwaysbe converted into a periodic sentence formed with _although_, asillustrated under Rule 4.
Particularly awkward is the following of one _but_ by another, making acontrast to a contrast or a reservation to a reservation. This is easilycorrected by re-arrangement.
  America had vast resources, but she seemed almost wholly unprepared  for war. But within a year she had created an army of four million  men.
    America seemed almost wholly unprepared for war, but she had vast    resources. Within a year she had created an army of four million    men.
=Can.= Means _am (is, are) able_. Not to be used as a substitute for_may_.
=Case.= The _Concise Oxford Dictionary_ begins its definition of thisword: "instance of a thing's occurring; usual state of affairs." Inthese two senses, the word is usually unnecessary.
  In many cases, the rooms were poorly ventilated.
    Many of the rooms were poorly ventilated.
  It has rarely been the case that any mistake has been made.
    Few mistakes have been made.
See Wood, _Suggestions to Authors_, pp. 68-71, and Quiller-Couch, _TheArt of Writing_, pp. 103-106.
=Certainly.= Used indiscriminately by some writers, much as others use_very_, to intensify any and every statement. A mannerism of this kind,bad in speech, is even worse in writing.
=Character.= Often simply redundant, used from a mere habit ofwordiness.
  Acts of a hostile character
    Hostile acts
=Claim, vb.= With object-noun, means _lay claim to_. May be used with adependent clause if this sense is clearly involved: "He claimed that hewas the sole surviving heir." (But even here, "claimed to be" would bebetter.) Not to be used as a substitute for _declare_, _maintain_, or_charge_.
=Clever.= This word has been greatly overused; it is best restricted toingenuity displayed in small matters.
=Compare.= To _compare to_ is to point out or imply resemblances,between objects regarded as essentially of different order; to _comparewith_ is mainly to point out differences, between objects regarded asessentially of the same order. Thus life has been compared to apilgrimage, to a drama, to a battle; Congress may be compared with theBritish Parliament. Paris has been compared to ancient Athens; it may becompared with modern London.
=Consider.= Not followed by _as_ when it means "believe to be." "Iconsider him thoroughly competent." Compare, "The lecturer consideredCromwell first as soldier and second as administrator," where"considered" means "examined" or "discussed."
=Data.= A plural, like _phenomena_ and _strata_.
  These data were tabulated.
=Dependable.= A needless substitute for _reliable_, _trustworthy_.
=Different than.= Not permissible. Substitute _different from_, _otherthan_, or _unlike_.
=Divided into.= Not to be misused for _composed of_. The line issometimes difficult to draw; doubtless plays are divided into acts, butpoems are composed of stanzas.
=Don't.= Contraction of _do not_. The contraction of _does not_ is_doesn't_.
=Due to.= Incorrectly used for _through_, _because of_, or _owing to_,in adverbial phrases: "He lost the first game, due to carelessness." Incorrect use related as predicate or as modifier to a particular noun:"This invention is due to Edison;" "losses due to preventable fires."
=Folk.= A collective noun, equivalent to _people_. Use the singular formonly.
=Effect.= As noun, means _result_; as verb, means _to bring about_,_accomplish_ (not to be confused with _affect_, which means "toinfluence").
As noun, often loosely used in perfunctory writing about fashions,music, painting, and other arts: "an Oriental effect;" "effects in palegreen;" "very delicate effects;" "broad effects;" "subtle effects;" "acharming effect was produced by." The writer who has a definite meaningto express will not take refuge in such vagueness.
=Etc.= Equivalent to _and the rest_, _and so forth_, and hence not to beused if one of these would be insufficient, that is, if the reader wouldbe left in doubt as to any important particulars. Least open toobjection when it represents the last terms of a list already given infull, or immaterial words at the end of a quotation.
At the end of a list introduced by _such as_, _for example_, or anysimilar expression, _etc._ is incorrect.
=Fact.= Use this word only of matters of a kind capable of directverification, not of matters of judgment. That a particular eventhappened on a given date, that lead melts at a certain temperature, arefacts. But such conclusions as that Napoleon was the greatest of moderngenerals, or that the climate of California is delightful, howeverincontestable they may be, are not properly facts.
On the formula _the fact that_, see under Rule 13.
=Factor.= A hackneyed word; the expressions of which it forms part canusually be replaced by something more direct and idiomatic.
  His superior training was the great factor in his winning the match.
    He won the match by being better trained.
  Heavy artillery has become an increasingly important factor in  deciding battles.
    Heavy artillery has played a constantly larger part in deciding    battles.
=Feature.= Another hackneyed word; like _factor_ it usually adds nothingto the sentence in which it occurs.
  A feature of the entertainment especially worthy of mention was the  singing of Miss A.
    (Better use the same number of words to tell what Miss A. sang, or    if the programme has already been given, to tell how she sang.)
As a verb, in the advertising sense of _offer as a special attraction_,to be avoided.
=Fix.= Colloquial in America for _arrange_, _prepare_, _mend_. Inwriting restrict it to its literary senses, _fasten_, _make firm orimmovable_, etc.
=Get.= The colloquial _have got_ for _have_ should not be used inwriting. The preferable form of the participle is _got_.
=He is a man who.= A common type of redundant expression; see Rule 13.
  He is a man who is very ambitious.
    He is very ambitious.
  Spain is a country which I have always wanted to visit.
    I have always wanted to visit Spain.
=Help.= See under =But=.
=However.= In the meaning _nevertheless_, not to come first in itssentence or clause.
  The roads were almost impassable. However, we at last succeeded in  reaching camp.
    The roads were almost impassable. At last, however, we succeeded in    reaching camp.
When _however_ comes first, it means _in whatever way_ or _to whateverextent_.
  However you advise him, he will probably do as he thinks best.
  However discouraging the prospect, he never lost heart.
=Interesting.= Avoid this word as a perfunctory means of introduction.Instead of announcing that what you are about to tell is interesting,make it so.
  An interesting story is told of
    (Tell the story without preamble.)
  In connection with the anticipated visit of Mr. B. to America, it is  interesting to recall that he
    Mr. B., who it is expected will soon visit America
=Kind of.= Not to be used as a substitute for _rather_ (beforeadjectives and verbs), or except in familiar style, for _something like_(before nouns). Restrict it to its literal sense: "Amber is a kind offossil resin;" "I dislike that kind of notoriety." The same holds trueof _sort of_.
=Less.= Should not be misused for _fewer_.
  He had less men than in the previous campaign
    He had fewer men than in the previous campaign
_Less_ refers to quantity, _fewer_ to number. "His troubles are lessthan mine" means "His troubles are not so great as mine." "His troublesare fewer than mine" means "His troubles are not so numerous as mine."It is, however, correct to say, "The signers of the petition were lessthan a hundred," where the round number _a hundred_ is something like acollective noun, and _less_ is thought of as meaning a less quantity oramount.
=Like.= Not to be misused for _as_. _Like_ governs nouns and pronouns;before phrases and clauses the equivalent word is _as_.
  We spent the evening like in the old days.
    We spent the evening as in the old days.
  He thought like I did.
    He thought as I did (like me).
=Line, along these lines.= _Line_ in the sense of _course of procedure_,_conduct_, _thought_, is allowable, but has been so much overworked,particularly in the phrase _along these lines_, that a writer who aimsat freshness or originality had better discard it entirely.
  Mr. B. also spoke along the same lines.
    Mr. B. also spoke, to the same effect.
  He is studying along the line of French literature.
    He is studying French literature.
=Literal, literally.= Often incorrectly used in support of exaggerationor violent metaphor.
  A literal flood of abuse.
    A flood of abuse.
  Literally dead with fatigue
    Almost dead with fatigue (dead tired)
=Lose out.= Meant to be more emphatic than _lose_, but actually less so,because of its commonness. The same holds true of _try out_, _win out_,_sign up_, _register up_. With a number of verbs, _out_ and _up_ formidiomatic combinations: _find out_, _run out_, _turn out_, _cheer up_,_dry up_, _make up_, and others, each distinguishable in meaning fromthe simple verb. _Lose out_ is not.
=Most.= Not to be used for _almost_.
  Most everybody
    Almost everybody
  Most all the time
    Almost all the time
=Nature.= Often simply redundant, used like _character_.
  Acts of a hostile nature
    Hostile acts
Often vaguely used in such expressions as a "lover of nature;" "poemsabout nature." Unless more specific statements follow, the reader cannottell whether the poems have to do with natural scenery, rural life, thesunset, the untracked wilderness, or the habits of squirrels.
=Near by.= Adverbial phrase, not yet fully accepted as good English,though the analogy of _close by_ and _hard by_ seems to justify it._Near_, or _near at hand_, is as good, if not better.
Not to be used as an adjective; use _neighboring_.
=Oftentimes, ofttimes.= Archaic forms, no longer in good use. The modernword is _often_.
=One hundred and one.= Retain the _and_ in this and similar expressions,in accordance with the unvarying usage of English prose from Old Englishtimes.
=One of the most.= Avoid beginning essays or paragraphs with thisformula, as, "One of the most interesting developments of modern scienceis, etc.;" "Switzerland is one of the most interesting countries ofEurope." There is nothing wrong in this; it is simply threadbare andforcible-feeble.
A common blunder is to use a singular verb in a relative clausefollowing this or a similar expression, when the relative is thesubject.
  One of the ablest men that has attacked this problem.
    One of the ablest men that have attacked this problem.
=Participle for verbal noun.=
  Do you mind me asking a question?
    Do you mind my asking a question?
  There was little prospect of the Senate accepting even this  compromise.
    There was little prospect of the Senate's accepting even this    compromise.
In the left-hand column, _asking_ and _accepting_ are presentparticiples; in the right-hand column, they are verbal nouns (gerunds).The construction shown in the left-hand column is occasionally found,and has its defenders. Yet it is easy to see that the second sentencehas to do not with a prospect of the Senate, but with a prospect ofaccepting. In this example, at least, the construction is plainlyillogical.
As the authors of _The King's English_ point out, there are sentencesapparently, but not really, of this type, in which the possessive is notcalled for.
  I cannot imagine Lincoln refusing his assent to this measure.
In this sentence, what the writer cannot imagine is Lincoln himself, inthe act of refusing his assent. Yet the meaning would be virtually thesame, except for a slight loss of vividness, if he had written,
  I cannot imagine Lincoln's refusing his assent to this measure.
By using the possessive, the writer will always be on the safe side.
In the examples above, the subject of the action is a single, unmodifiedterm, immediately preceding the verbal noun, and the construction is asgood as any that could be used. But in any sentence in which it is amere clumsy substitute for something simpler, or in which the use of thepossessive is awkward or impossible, should of course be recast.
  In the event of a reconsideration of the whole matter's becoming  necessary
    If it should become necessary to reconsider the whole matter
  There was great dissatisfaction with the decision of the arbitrators  being favorable to the company.
    There was great dissatisfaction that the arbitrators should have    decided in favor of the company.
=People.= _The people_ is a political term, not to be confused with _thepublic_. From the people comes political support or opposition; from thepublic comes artistic appreciation or commercial patronage.
=Phase.= Means a stage of transition or development: "the phases of themoon;" "the last phase." Not to be used for _aspect_ or _topic_.
  Another phase of the subject
    Another point (another question)
=Possess.= Not to be used as a mere substitute for _have_ or _own_.
  He possessed great courage.
    He had great courage (was very brave).
  He was the fortunate possessor of
    He owned
=Prove.= The past participle is _proved_.
=Respective, respectively.= These words may usually be omitted withadvantage.
  Works of fiction are listed under the names of their respective  authors.
    Works of fiction are listed under the names of their authors.
  The one mile and two mile runs were won by Jones and Cummings  respectively.
    The one mile and two mile runs were won by Jones and by Cummings.
In some kinds of formal writing, as geometrical proofs, it may benecessary to use _respectively_, but it should not appear in writing onordinary subjects.
=Shall, Will.= The future tense requires _shall_ for the first person,_will_ for the second and third. The formula to express the speaker'sbelief regarding his future action or state is _I shall_; _I will_expresses his determination or his consent.
=Should.= See under =Would=.
=So.= Avoid, in writing, the use of _so_ as an intensifier: "so good;""so warm;" "so delightful."
On the use of _so_ to introduce clauses, see Rule 4.
=Sort of.= See under =Kind of=.
=Split Infinitive.= There is precedent from the fourteenth centurydownward for interposing an adverb between _to_ and the infinitive whichit governs, but the construction is in disfavor and is avoided by nearlyall careful writers.
  To diligently inquire
    To inquire diligently
=State.= Not to be used as a mere substitute for _say_, _remark_.Restrict it to the sense of _express fully or clearly_, as, "He refusedto state his objections."
=Student Body.= A needless and awkward expression meaning no more thanthe simple word _students_.
  A member of the student body
    A student
  Popular with the student body
    Liked by the students
  The student body passed resolutions.
    The students passed resolutions.
=System.= Frequently used without need.
  Dayton has adopted the commission system of government.
    Dayton has adopted government by commission.
  The dormitory system
    Dormitories
=Thanking You in Advance.= This sounds as if the writer meant, "It willnot be worth my while to write to you again." In making your request,write, "Will you please," or "I shall be obliged," and if anythingfurther seems necessary write a letter of acknowledgment later.
=They.= A common inaccuracy is the use of the plural pronoun when theantecedent is a distributive expression such as _each_, _each one_,_everybody_, _every one_, _many a man_, which, though implying more thanone person, requires the pronoun to be in the singular. Similar to this,but with even less justification, is the use of the plural pronoun withthe antecedent _anybody_, _any one_, _somebody_, _some one_, theintention being either to avoid the awkward "he or she," or to avoidcommitting oneself to either. Some bashful speakers even say, "A friendof mine told me that they, etc."
Use _he_ with all the above words, unless the antecedent is or must befeminine.
=Very.= Use this word sparingly. Where emphasis is necessary, use wordsstrong in themselves.
=Viewpoint.= Write _point of view_, but do not misuse this, as many do,for _view_ or _opinion_.
=While.= Avoid the indiscriminate use of this word for _and_, _but_, and_although_. Many writers use it frequently as a substitute for _and_ or_but_, either from a mere desire to vary the connective, or fromuncertainty which of the two connectives is the more appropriate. Inthis use it is best replaced by a semicolon.
  The office and salesrooms are on the ground floor, while the rest of  the building is devoted to manufacturing.
    The office and salesrooms are on the ground floor; the rest of the    building is devoted to manufacturing.
Its use as a virtual equivalent of _although_ is allowable in sentenceswhere this leads to no ambiguity or absurdity.
  While I admire his energy, I wish it were employed in a better cause.
This is entirely correct, as shown by the paraphrase,
  I admire his energy; at the same time I wish it were employed in a  better cause.
Compare:
  While the temperature reaches 90 or 95 degrees in the daytime, the  nights are often chilly.
    Although the temperature reaches 90 or 95 degrees in the daytime,    the nights are often chilly.
The paraphrase,
  The temperature reaches 90 or 95 degrees in the daytime; at the same  time the nights are often chilly,
shows why the use of _while_ is incorrect.
In general, the writer will do well to use _while_ only with strictliteralness, in the sense of _during the time that_.
=Whom.= Often incorrectly used for _who_ before _he said_ or similarexpressions, when it is really the subject of a following verb.
  His brother, whom he said would send him the money
    His brother, who he said would send him the money
  The man whom he thought was his friend
    The man who (that) he thought was his friend (whom he thought his    friend)
=Worth while.= Overworked as a term of vague approval and (with _not_)of disapproval. Strictly applicable only to actions: "Is it worth whileto telegraph?"
  His books are not worth while.
    His books are not worth reading (are not worth one's while to read;    do not repay reading; are worthless).
The use of _worth while_ before a noun ("a worth while story") isindefensible.
=Would.= A conditional statement in the first person requires _should_,not _would_.
  I should not have succeeded without his help.
The equivalent of _shall_ in indirect quotation after a verb in the pasttense is _should_, not _would_.
  He predicted that before long we should have a great surprise.
To express habitual or repeated action, the past tense, without _would_,is usually sufficient, and from its brevity, more emphatic.
  Once a year he would visit the old mansion.
    Once a year he visited the old mansion.



VI. SPELLING

The spelling of English words is not fixed and invariable, nor does itdepend on any other authority than general agreement. At the present daythere is practically unanimous agreement as to the spelling of mostwords. In the list below, for example, _rime_ for _rhyme_ is the onlyallowable variation; all the other forms are co-extensive with theEnglish language. At any given moment, however, a relatively smallnumber of words may be spelled in more than one way. Gradually, as arule, one of these forms comes to be generally preferred, and the lesscustomary form comes to look obsolete and is discarded. From time totime new forms, mostly simplifications, are introduced by innovators,and either win their place or die of neglect.
The practical objection to unaccepted and over-simplified spellings isthe disfavor with which they are received by the reader. They distracthis attention and exhaust his patience. He reads the form _though_automatically, without thought of its needless complexity; he reads theabbreviation _tho_ and mentally supplies the missing letters, at thecost of a fraction of his attention. The writer has defeated his ownpurpose.

WORDS OFTEN MISSPELLED
  accidentally  advice  affect  believe  benefit  challenge  coarse  course  criticize  deceive  definite  describe  despise  develop  disappoint  dissipate  duel  ecstasy  effect  embarrass  existence  fascinate  fiery  formerly  humorous  hypocrisy  immediately  impostor  incident  incidentally  latter  led  lose  marriage  mischief  murmur  necessary  occurred  opportunity  parallel  Philip  playwright  preceding  prejudice  principal  principle  privilege  pursue  repetition  rhyme  rhythm  ridiculous  sacrilegious  seize  separate  shepherd  siege  similar  simile  too  tragedy  tries  undoubtedly  until  villain
Note that a single consonant (other than _v_) preceded by a stressedshort vowel is doubled before _-ed_ and _-ing_: _planned_, _letting_,_beginning_. (_Coming_ is an exception.)
Write _to-day_, _to-night_, _to-morrow_ (but not _together_) with ahyphen.
Write _any one_, _every one_, _some one_, _some time_ (except in thesense of _formerly_) as two words.



VII. EXERCISES ON CHAPTERS II AND III

I. Punctuate:
  1. In 1788 the King's advisers warned him that the nation was facing  bankruptcy therefore he summoned a body called the States-General  believing that it would authorize him to levy new taxes. The people of  France however were suffering from burdensome taxation oppressive  social injustice and acute scarcity of food and their representatives  refused to consider projects of taxation until social and economic  reforms should be granted. The King who did not realize the gravity of  the situation tried to overawe them collecting soldiers in and about  Versailles where the sessions were being held. The people of Paris  seeing the danger organized militia companies to defend their  representatives. In order to supply themselves with arms they attacked  the Invalides and the Bastille which contained the principal supplies  of arms and munitions in Paris.
  2. On his first continental tour begun in 1809 Byron visited Portugal  Spain Albania Greece and Turkey. Of this tour he composed a poetical  journal Childe Harold's Pilgrimage in which he ascribed his  experiences and reflections not to himself but to a fictitious  character Childe Harold described as a melancholy young nobleman  prematurely familiar with evil sated with pleasures and embittered  against humanity. The substantial merits of the work however lay not  in this shadowy and somewhat theatrical figure but in Byron's spirited  descriptions of wild or picturesque scenes and in his eloquent  championing of Spain and Greece against their oppressors. On his  return to England in 1811 he was persuaded rather against his own  judgment into allowing the work to be published. Its success was  almost unprecedented in his own words he awoke and found himself  famous.

II. Explain the difference in meaning:
  3. 'God save thee, ancyent Marinere!     'From the fiends that plague thee thus--
  _Lyrical Ballads_, 1798.
     'God save thee, ancient Mariner!     From the fiends, that plague thee thus!--
  _Lyrical Ballads_, 1800.

III. Explain and correct the errors in punctuation:
  4. This course is intended for Freshmen, who in the opinion of the  Department are not qualified for military drill.
  5. A restaurant, not a cafeteria where good meals are served at  popular prices.--_Advt._
  6. The poets of _The Nation_, for all their intensity of patriotic  feeling, followed the English rather than the Celtic tradition, their  work has a political rather than a literary value and bears little  upon the development of modern Irish verse.
  7. We were in one of the strangest places imaginable. A long and  narrow passage overhung on either side by a stupendous barrier of  black and threatening rocks.
  8. Only a few years ago after a snow storm in the passes not far north  of Jerusalem no less than twenty-six Russian pilgrims perished amidst  the snow. One cannot help thinking largely because they made little  attempt to save themselves.

IV. Point out and correct the faults in the following sentences:
  9. During childhood his mother had died.
  10. Any language study is good mind training while acquiring  vocabulary.
  11. My farm consisted of about twenty acres of excellent land, having  given a hundred pounds for my predecessor's lease.
  12. Prepared to encounter a woman of disordered mind, the appearance  presented by Mrs. Taylor at his entrance greatly astonished him.
  13. Pale and swooning, with two broken legs, they carried him into the  house.
  14. Count Cassini, the Russian plenipotentiary, had several long and  intimate conversations during the tedious weeks of the conference with  his British colleague, Sir Arthur Nicholson.
  15. But though they had been victorious in the land engagements, they  were so little decisive as to lead to no important results.
  16. Knowing nothing of the rules of the college or of its customs, it  was with the greatest difficulty that the Dean could make me  comprehend wherein my wrong-doing lay.
  17. Fire, therefore, was the first object of my search. Happily, some  embers were found upon the hearth, together with potato-stalks and dry  chips. Of these, with much difficulty, I kindled a fire, by which some  warmth was imparted to our shivering limbs.
  18. In this connection a great deal of historic fact is introduced  into the novel about the past history of the cathedral and of Spain.
  19. Over the whole scene hung the haze of twilight that is so  peaceful.
  20. Compared with Italy, living is more expensive.
  21. It is a fundamental principle of law to believe a man innocent  until he is proved guilty, and once proved guilty, to remain so until  proved to the contrary.
  22. Not only had the writer entre to the titled families of Italy in  whose villas she was hospitably entertained, but by royalty also.
  23. It is not a strange sight to catch a glimpse of deer along the  shore.
  24. Earnings from other sources are of such a favorable character as  to enable a splendid showing to be made by the company.
  25. But while earnings have mounted amazingly, the status of affairs  is such as to make it impossible to predict the course events may  take, with any degree of accuracy.

