 Chapter 1. Marseilles—The Arrival
On the 24th of February, 1815, the look-out at Notre-Dame de la Gardesignalled the three-master, the _Pharaon_ from Smyrna, Trieste, andNaples.
As usual, a pilot put off immediately, and rounding the Château d’If,got on board the vessel between Cape Morgiou and Rion island.
Immediately, and according to custom, the ramparts of Fort Saint-Jeanwere covered with spectators; it is always an event at Marseilles for aship to come into port, especially when this ship, like the _Pharaon_,has been built, rigged, and laden at the old Phocee docks, and belongsto an owner of the city.
The ship drew on and had safely passed the strait, which some volcanicshock has made between the Calasareigne and Jaros islands; had doubledPomègue, and approached the harbor under topsails, jib, and spanker,but so slowly and sedately that the idlers, with that instinct which isthe forerunner of evil, asked one another what misfortune could havehappened on board. However, those experienced in navigation saw plainlythat if any accident had occurred, it was not to the vessel herself,for she bore down with all the evidence of being skilfully handled, theanchor a-cockbill, the jib-boom guys already eased off, and standing bythe side of the pilot, who was steering the _Pharaon_ towards thenarrow entrance of the inner port, was a young man, who, with activityand vigilant eye, watched every motion of the ship, and repeated eachdirection of the pilot.
The vague disquietude which prevailed among the spectators had so muchaffected one of the crowd that he did not await the arrival of thevessel in harbor, but jumping into a small skiff, desired to be pulledalongside the _Pharaon_, which he reached as she rounded into LaRéserve basin.
When the young man on board saw this person approach, he left hisstation by the pilot, and, hat in hand, leaned over the ship’sbulwarks.
He was a fine, tall, slim young fellow of eighteen or twenty, withblack eyes, and hair as dark as a raven’s wing; and his wholeappearance bespoke that calmness and resolution peculiar to menaccustomed from their cradle to contend with danger.
“Ah, is it you, Dantès?” cried the man in the skiff. “What’s thematter? and why have you such an air of sadness aboard?”
“A great misfortune, M. Morrel,” replied the young man, “a greatmisfortune, for me especially! Off Civita Vecchia we lost our braveCaptain Leclere.”
“And the cargo?” inquired the owner, eagerly.
“Is all safe, M. Morrel; and I think you will be satisfied on thathead. But poor Captain Leclere——”
“What happened to him?” asked the owner, with an air of considerableresignation. “What happened to the worthy captain?”
“He died.”
“Fell into the sea?”
“No, sir, he died of brain-fever in dreadful agony.” Then turning tothe crew, he said, “Bear a hand there, to take in sail!”
All hands obeyed, and at once the eight or ten seamen who composed thecrew, sprang to their respective stations at the spanker brails andouthaul, topsail sheets and halyards, the jib downhaul, and the topsailclewlines and buntlines. The young sailor gave a look to see that hisorders were promptly and accurately obeyed, and then turned again tothe owner.
“And how did this misfortune occur?” inquired the latter, resuming theinterrupted conversation.
0023m


“Alas, sir, in the most unexpected manner. After a long talk with theharbor-master, Captain Leclere left Naples greatly disturbed in mind.In twenty-four hours he was attacked by a fever, and died three daysafterwards. We performed the usual burial service, and he is at hisrest, sewn up in his hammock with a thirty-six-pound shot at his headand his heels, off El Giglio island. We bring to his widow his swordand cross of honor. It was worth while, truly,” added the young manwith a melancholy smile, “to make war against the English for tenyears, and to die in his bed at last, like everybody else.”
“Why, you see, Edmond,” replied the owner, who appeared more comfortedat every moment, “we are all mortal, and the old must make way for theyoung. If not, why, there would be no promotion; and since you assureme that the cargo——”
“Is all safe and sound, M. Morrel, take my word for it; and I adviseyou not to take 25,000 francs for the profits of the voyage.”
Then, as they were just passing the Round Tower, the young man shouted:“Stand by there to lower the topsails and jib; brail up the spanker!”
The order was executed as promptly as it would have been on board aman-of-war.
“Let go—and clue up!” At this last command all the sails were lowered,and the vessel moved almost imperceptibly onwards.
“Now, if you will come on board, M. Morrel,” said Dantès, observing theowner’s impatience, “here is your supercargo, M. Danglars, coming outof his cabin, who will furnish you with every particular. As for me, Imust look after the anchoring, and dress the ship in mourning.”
The owner did not wait for a second invitation. He seized a rope whichDantès flung to him, and with an activity that would have done creditto a sailor, climbed up the side of the ship, while the young man,going to his task, left the conversation to Danglars, who now cametowards the owner. He was a man of twenty-five or twenty-six years ofage, of unprepossessing countenance, obsequious to his superiors,insolent to his subordinates; and this, in addition to his position asresponsible agent on board, which is always obnoxious to the sailors,made him as much disliked by the crew as Edmond Dantès was beloved bythem.
“Well, M. Morrel,” said Danglars, “you have heard of the misfortunethat has befallen us?”
“Yes—yes: poor Captain Leclere! He was a brave and an honest man.”
“And a first-rate seaman, one who had seen long and honorable service,as became a man charged with the interests of a house so important asthat of Morrel & Son,” replied Danglars.
“But,” replied the owner, glancing after Dantès, who was watching theanchoring of his vessel, “it seems to me that a sailor needs not be soold as you say, Danglars, to understand his business, for our friendEdmond seems to understand it thoroughly, and not to requireinstruction from anyone.”
“Yes,” said Danglars, darting at Edmond a look gleaming with hate.“Yes, he is young, and youth is invariably self-confident. Scarcely wasthe captain’s breath out of his body when he assumed the commandwithout consulting anyone, and he caused us to lose a day and a half atthe Island of Elba, instead of making for Marseilles direct.”
0025m


“As to taking command of the vessel,” replied Morrel, “that was hisduty as captain’s mate; as to losing a day and a half off the Island ofElba, he was wrong, unless the vessel needed repairs.”
“The vessel was in as good condition as I am, and as, I hope you are,M. Morrel, and this day and a half was lost from pure whim, for thepleasure of going ashore, and nothing else.”
“Dantès,” said the shipowner, turning towards the young man, “come thisway!”
“In a moment, sir,” answered Dantès, “and I’m with you.” Then callingto the crew, he said, “Let go!”
The anchor was instantly dropped, and the chain ran rattling throughthe port-hole. Dantès continued at his post in spite of the presence ofthe pilot, until this manœuvre was completed, and then he added,“Half-mast the colors, and square the yards!”
“You see,” said Danglars, “he fancies himself captain already, upon myword.”
“And so, in fact, he is,” said the owner.
“Except your signature and your partner’s, M. Morrel.”
“And why should he not have this?” asked the owner; “he is young, it istrue, but he seems to me a thorough seaman, and of full experience.”
A cloud passed over Danglars’ brow.
“Your pardon, M. Morrel,” said Dantès, approaching, “the vessel nowrides at anchor, and I am at your service. You hailed me, I think?”
Danglars retreated a step or two. “I wished to inquire why you stoppedat the Island of Elba?”
“I do not know, sir; it was to fulfil the last instructions of CaptainLeclere, who, when dying, gave me a packet for Marshal Bertrand.”
“Then did you see him, Edmond?”
“Who?”
“The marshal.”
“Yes.”
Morrel looked around him, and then, drawing Dantès on one side, he saidsuddenly—
“And how is the emperor?”
“Very well, as far as I could judge from the sight of him.”
“You saw the emperor, then?”
“He entered the marshal’s apartment while I was there.”
“And you spoke to him?”
“Why, it was he who spoke to me, sir,” said Dantès, with a smile.
“And what did he say to you?”
“Asked me questions about the vessel, the time she left Marseilles, thecourse she had taken, and what was her cargo. I believe, if she had notbeen laden, and I had been her master, he would have bought her. But Itold him I was only mate, and that she belonged to the firm of Morrel &Son. ‘Ah, yes,’ he said, ‘I know them. The Morrels have been shipownersfrom father to son; and there was a Morrel who served in the sameregiment with me when I was in garrison at Valence.’”
“_Pardieu!_ and that is true!” cried the owner, greatly delighted. “Andthat was Policar Morrel, my uncle, who was afterwards a captain.Dantès, you must tell my uncle that the emperor remembered him, and youwill see it will bring tears into the old soldier’s eyes. Come, come,”continued he, patting Edmond’s shoulder kindly, “you did very right,Dantès, to follow Captain Leclere’s instructions, and touch at Elba,although if it were known that you had conveyed a packet to themarshal, and had conversed with the emperor, it might bring you intotrouble.”
0027m


“How could that bring me into trouble, sir?” asked Dantès; “for I didnot even know of what I was the bearer; and the emperor merely madesuch inquiries as he would of the first comer. But, pardon me, here arethe health officers and the customs inspectors coming alongside.” Andthe young man went to the gangway. As he departed, Danglars approached,and said,—
“Well, it appears that he has given you satisfactory reasons for hislanding at Porto-Ferrajo?”
“Yes, most satisfactory, my dear Danglars.”
“Well, so much the better,” said the supercargo; “for it is notpleasant to think that a comrade has not done his duty.”
“Dantès has done his,” replied the owner, “and that is not saying much.It was Captain Leclere who gave orders for this delay.”
“Talking of Captain Leclere, has not Dantès given you a letter fromhim?”
“To me?—no—was there one?”
“I believe that, besides the packet, Captain Leclere confided a letterto his care.”
“Of what packet are you speaking, Danglars?”
“Why, that which Dantès left at Porto-Ferrajo.”
“How do you know he had a packet to leave at Porto-Ferrajo?”
Danglars turned very red.
“I was passing close to the door of the captain’s cabin, which was halfopen, and I saw him give the packet and letter to Dantès.”
“He did not speak to me of it,” replied the shipowner; “but if there beany letter he will give it to me.”
Danglars reflected for a moment. “Then, M. Morrel, I beg of you,” saidhe, “not to say a word to Dantès on the subject. I may have beenmistaken.”
At this moment the young man returned; Danglars withdrew.
“Well, my dear Dantès, are you now free?” inquired the owner.
“Yes, sir.”
“You have not been long detained.”
“No. I gave the custom-house officers a copy of our bill of lading; andas to the other papers, they sent a man off with the pilot, to whom Igave them.”
“Then you have nothing more to do here?”
“No—everything is all right now.”
“Then you can come and dine with me?”
“I really must ask you to excuse me, M. Morrel. My first visit is dueto my father, though I am not the less grateful for the honor you havedone me.”
0029m


“Right, Dantès, quite right. I always knew you were a good son.”
“And,” inquired Dantès, with some hesitation, “do you know how myfather is?”
“Well, I believe, my dear Edmond, though I have not seen him lately.”
“Yes, he likes to keep himself shut up in his little room.”
“That proves, at least, that he has wanted for nothing during yourabsence.”
Dantès smiled. “My father is proud, sir, and if he had not a meal left,I doubt if he would have asked anything from anyone, except fromHeaven.”
“Well, then, after this first visit has been made we shall count onyou.”
“I must again excuse myself, M. Morrel, for after this first visit hasbeen paid I have another which I am most anxious to pay.”
“True, Dantès, I forgot that there was at the Catalans someone whoexpects you no less impatiently than your father—the lovely Mercédès.”
Dantès blushed.
“Ah, ha,” said the shipowner, “I am not in the least surprised, for shehas been to me three times, inquiring if there were any news of the_Pharaon_. _Peste!_ Edmond, you have a very handsome mistress!”
“She is not my mistress,” replied the young sailor, gravely; “she is mybetrothed.”
“Sometimes one and the same thing,” said Morrel, with a smile.
“Not with us, sir,” replied Dantès.
“Well, well, my dear Edmond,” continued the owner, “don’t let me detainyou. You have managed my affairs so well that I ought to allow you allthe time you require for your own. Do you want any money?”
“No, sir; I have all my pay to take—nearly three months’ wages.”
“You are a careful fellow, Edmond.”
“Say I have a poor father, sir.”
“Yes, yes, I know how good a son you are, so now hasten away to seeyour father. I have a son too, and I should be very wroth with thosewho detained him from me after a three months’ voyage.”
“Then I have your leave, sir?”
“Yes, if you have nothing more to say to me.”
“Nothing.”
“Captain Leclere did not, before he died, give you a letter for me?”
“He was unable to write, sir. But that reminds me that I must ask yourleave of absence for some days.”
“To get married?”
“Yes, first, and then to go to Paris.”
“Very good; have what time you require, Dantès. It will take quite sixweeks to unload the cargo, and we cannot get you ready for sea untilthree months after that; only be back again in three months, for the_Pharaon_,” added the owner, patting the young sailor on the back,“cannot sail without her captain.”
“Without her captain!” cried Dantès, his eyes sparkling with animation;“pray mind what you say, for you are touching on the most secret wishesof my heart. Is it really your intention to make me captain of the_Pharaon_?”
“If I were sole owner we’d shake hands on it now, my dear Dantès, andcall it settled; but I have a partner, and you know the Italianproverb—_Chi ha compagno ha padrone_—‘He who has a partner has amaster.’ But the thing is at least half done, as you have one out oftwo votes. Rely on me to procure you the other; I will do my best.”
“Ah, M. Morrel,” exclaimed the young seaman, with tears in his eyes,and grasping the owner’s hand, “M. Morrel, I thank you in the name ofmy father and of Mercédès.”
“That’s all right, Edmond. There’s a providence that watches over thedeserving. Go to your father; go and see Mercédès, and afterwards cometo me.”
“Shall I row you ashore?”
“No, thank you; I shall remain and look over the accounts withDanglars. Have you been satisfied with him this voyage?”
“That is according to the sense you attach to the question, sir. Do youmean is he a good comrade? No, for I think he never liked me since theday when I was silly enough, after a little quarrel we had, to proposeto him to stop for ten minutes at the island of Monte Cristo to settlethe dispute—a proposition which I was wrong to suggest, and he quiteright to refuse. If you mean as responsible agent when you ask me thequestion, I believe there is nothing to say against him, and that youwill be content with the way in which he has performed his duty.”
“But tell me, Dantès, if you had command of the _Pharaon_ should you beglad to see Danglars remain?”
“Captain or mate, M. Morrel, I shall always have the greatest respectfor those who possess the owners’ confidence.”
“That’s right, that’s right, Dantès! I see you are a thoroughly goodfellow, and will detain you no longer. Go, for I see how impatient youare.”
“Then I have leave?”
“Go, I tell you.”
“May I have the use of your skiff?”
“Certainly.”
“Then, for the present, M. Morrel, farewell, and a thousand thanks!”
“I hope soon to see you again, my dear Edmond. Good luck to you.”
The young sailor jumped into the skiff, and sat down in the sternsheets, with the order that he be put ashore at La Canebière. The twooarsmen bent to their work, and the little boat glided away as rapidlyas possible in the midst of the thousand vessels which choke up thenarrow way which leads between the two rows of ships from the mouth ofthe harbor to the Quai d’Orléans.
The shipowner, smiling, followed him with his eyes until he saw himspring out on the quay and disappear in the midst of the throng, whichfrom five o’clock in the morning until nine o’clock at night, swarms inthe famous street of La Canebière,—a street of which the modernPhocéens are so proud that they say with all the gravity in the world,and with that accent which gives so much character to what is said, “IfParis had La Canebière, Paris would be a second Marseilles.” On turninground the owner saw Danglars behind him, apparently awaiting orders,but in reality also watching the young sailor,—but there was a greatdifference in the expression of the two men who thus followed themovements of Edmond Dantès.


 Chapter 2. Father and Son
We will leave Danglars struggling with the demon of hatred, andendeavoring to insinuate in the ear of the shipowner some evilsuspicions against his comrade, and follow Dantès, who, after havingtraversed La Canebière, took the Rue de Noailles, and entering a smallhouse, on the left of the Allées de Meilhan, rapidly ascended fourflights of a dark staircase, holding the baluster with one hand, whilewith the other he repressed the beatings of his heart, and pausedbefore a half-open door, from which he could see the whole of a smallroom.
This room was occupied by Dantès’ father. The news of the arrival ofthe _Pharaon_ had not yet reached the old man, who, mounted on a chair,was amusing himself by training with trembling hand the nasturtiums andsprays of clematis that clambered over the trellis at his window.Suddenly, he felt an arm thrown around his body, and a well-known voicebehind him exclaimed, “Father—dear father!”
The old man uttered a cry, and turned round; then, seeing his son, hefell into his arms, pale and trembling.
“What ails you, my dearest father? Are you ill?” inquired the youngman, much alarmed.
“No, no, my dear Edmond—my boy—my son!—no; but I did not expect you;and joy, the surprise of seeing you so suddenly—Ah, I feel as if I weregoing to die.”
“Come, come, cheer up, my dear father! ’Tis I—really I! They say joynever hurts, and so I came to you without any warning. Come now, dosmile, instead of looking at me so solemnly. Here I am back again, andwe are going to be happy.”
“Yes, yes, my boy, so we will—so we will,” replied the old man; “buthow shall we be happy? Shall you never leave me again? Come, tell meall the good fortune that has befallen you.”
“God forgive me,” said the young man, “for rejoicing at happinessderived from the misery of others, but, Heaven knows, I did not seekthis good fortune; it has happened, and I really cannot pretend tolament it. The good Captain Leclere is dead, father, and it is probablethat, with the aid of M. Morrel, I shall have his place. Do youunderstand, father? Only imagine me a captain at twenty, with a hundredlouis pay, and a share in the profits! Is this not more than a poorsailor like me could have hoped for?”
“Yes, my dear boy,” replied the old man, “it is very fortunate.”
“Well, then, with the first money I touch, I mean you to have a smallhouse, with a garden in which to plant clematis, nasturtiums, andhoneysuckle. But what ails you, father? Are you not well?”
“’Tis nothing, nothing; it will soon pass away”—and as he said so theold man’s strength failed him, and he fell backwards.
“Come, come,” said the young man, “a glass of wine, father, will reviveyou. Where do you keep your wine?”
“No, no; thanks. You need not look for it; I do not want it,” said theold man.
“Yes, yes, father, tell me where it is,” and he opened two or threecupboards.
“It is no use,” said the old man, “there is no wine.”
“What, no wine?” said Dantès, turning pale, and looking alternately atthe hollow cheeks of the old man and the empty cupboards. “What, nowine? Have you wanted money, father?”
“I want nothing now that I have you,” said the old man.
“Yet,” stammered Dantès, wiping the perspiration from his brow,—“yet Igave you two hundred francs when I left, three months ago.”
“Yes, yes, Edmond, that is true, but you forgot at that time a littledebt to our neighbor, Caderousse. He reminded me of it, telling me if Idid not pay for you, he would be paid by M. Morrel; and so, you see,lest he might do you an injury——”
“Well?”
“Why, I paid him.”
“But,” cried Dantès, “it was a hundred and forty francs I owedCaderousse.”
“Yes,” stammered the old man.
“And you paid him out of the two hundred francs I left you?”
The old man nodded.
“So that you have lived for three months on sixty francs,” mutteredEdmond.
“You know how little I require,” said the old man.
“Heaven pardon me,” cried Edmond, falling on his knees before hisfather.
“What are you doing?”
“You have wounded me to the heart.”
“Never mind it, for I see you once more,” said the old man; “and nowit’s all over—everything is all right again.”
0035m


“Yes, here I am,” said the young man, “with a promising future and alittle money. Here, father, here!” he said, “take this—take it, andsend for something immediately.” And he emptied his pockets on thetable, the contents consisting of a dozen gold pieces, five or sixfive-franc pieces, and some smaller coin. The countenance of old Dantèsbrightened.
“Whom does this belong to?” he inquired.
“To me, to you, to us! Take it; buy some provisions; be happy, andtomorrow we shall have more.”
“Gently, gently,” said the old man, with a smile; “and by your leave Iwill use your purse moderately, for they would say, if they saw me buytoo many things at a time, that I had been obliged to await yourreturn, in order to be able to purchase them.”
“Do as you please; but, first of all, pray have a servant, father. Iwill not have you left alone so long. I have some smuggled coffee andmost capital tobacco, in a small chest in the hold, which you shallhave tomorrow. But, hush, here comes somebody.”
“’Tis Caderousse, who has heard of your arrival, and no doubt comes tocongratulate you on your fortunate return.”
“Ah, lips that say one thing, while the heart thinks another,” murmuredEdmond. “But, never mind, he is a neighbor who has done us a service ona time, so he’s welcome.”
As Edmond paused, the black and bearded head of Caderousse appeared atthe door. He was a man of twenty-five or six, and held a piece ofcloth, which, being a tailor, he was about to make into a coat-lining.
“What, is it you, Edmond, back again?” said he, with a broadMarseillaise accent, and a grin that displayed his ivory-white teeth.
“Yes, as you see, neighbor Caderousse; and ready to be agreeable to youin any and every way,” replied Dantès, but ill-concealing his coldnessunder this cloak of civility.
“Thanks—thanks; but, fortunately, I do not want for anything; and itchances that at times there are others who have need of me.” Dantèsmade a gesture. “I do not allude to you, my boy. No!—no! I lent youmoney, and you returned it; that’s like good neighbors, and we arequits.”
“We are never quits with those who oblige us,” was Dantès’ reply; “forwhen we do not owe them money, we owe them gratitude.”
“What’s the use of mentioning that? What is done is done. Let us talkof your happy return, my boy. I had gone on the quay to match a pieceof mulberry cloth, when I met friend Danglars. ‘You atMarseilles?’—‘Yes,’ says he.
“‘I thought you were at Smyrna.’—‘I was; but am now back again.’
“‘And where is the dear boy, our little Edmond?’
“‘Why, with his father, no doubt,’ replied Danglars. And so I came,”added Caderousse, “as fast as I could to have the pleasure of shakinghands with a friend.”
0037m


“Worthy Caderousse!” said the old man, “he is so much attached to us.”
“Yes, to be sure I am. I love and esteem you, because honest folks areso rare. But it seems you have come back rich, my boy,” continued thetailor, looking askance at the handful of gold and silver which Dantèshad thrown on the table.
The young man remarked the greedy glance which shone in the dark eyesof his neighbor. “Eh,” he said, negligently, “this money is not mine. Iwas expressing to my father my fears that he had wanted many things inmy absence, and to convince me he emptied his purse on the table. Come,father” added Dantès, “put this money back in your box—unless neighborCaderousse wants anything, and in that case it is at his service.”
“No, my boy, no,” said Caderousse. “I am not in any want, thank God, myliving is suited to my means. Keep your money—keep it, I say;—one neverhas too much;—but, at the same time, my boy, I am as much obliged byyour offer as if I took advantage of it.”
“It was offered with good will,” said Dantès.
“No doubt, my boy; no doubt. Well, you stand well with M. Morrel Ihear,—you insinuating dog, you!”
“M. Morrel has always been exceedingly kind to me,” replied Dantès.
“Then you were wrong to refuse to dine with him.”
“What, did you refuse to dine with him?” said old Dantès; “and did heinvite you to dine?”
“Yes, my dear father,” replied Edmond, smiling at his father’sastonishment at the excessive honor paid to his son.
“And why did you refuse, my son?” inquired the old man.
“That I might the sooner see you again, my dear father,” replied theyoung man. “I was most anxious to see you.”
“But it must have vexed M. Morrel, good, worthy man,” said Caderousse.“And when you are looking forward to be captain, it was wrong to annoythe owner.”
“But I explained to him the cause of my refusal,” replied Dantès, “andI hope he fully understood it.”
“Yes, but to be captain one must do a little flattery to one’spatrons.”
“I hope to be captain without that,” said Dantès.
“So much the better—so much the better! Nothing will give greaterpleasure to all your old friends; and I know one down there behind theSaint Nicolas citadel who will not be sorry to hear it.”
“Mercédès?” said the old man.
“Yes, my dear father, and with your permission, now I have seen you,and know you are well and have all you require, I will ask your consentto go and pay a visit to the Catalans.”
“Go, my dear boy,” said old Dantès; “and Heaven bless you in your wife,as it has blessed me in my son!”
“His wife!” said Caderousse; “why, how fast you go on, father Dantès;she is not his wife yet, as it seems to me.”
“No, but according to all probability she soon will be,” repliedEdmond.
“Yes—yes,” said Caderousse; “but you were right to return as soon aspossible, my boy.”
“And why?”
“Because Mercédès is a very fine girl, and fine girls never lackfollowers; she particularly has them by dozens.”
“Really?” answered Edmond, with a smile which had in it traces ofslight uneasiness.
0039m


“Ah, yes,” continued Caderousse, “and capital offers, too; but youknow, you will be captain, and who could refuse you then?”
“Meaning to say,” replied Dantès, with a smile which but ill-concealedhis trouble, “that if I were not a captain——”
“Eh—eh!” said Caderousse, shaking his head.
“Come, come,” said the sailor, “I have a better opinion than you ofwomen in general, and of Mercédès in particular; and I am certain that,captain or not, she will remain ever faithful to me.”
“So much the better—so much the better,” said Caderousse. “When one isgoing to be married, there is nothing like implicit confidence; butnever mind that, my boy,—go and announce your arrival, and let her knowall your hopes and prospects.”
“I will go directly,” was Edmond’s reply; and, embracing his father,and nodding to Caderousse, he left the apartment.
Caderousse lingered for a moment, then taking leave of old Dantès, hewent downstairs to rejoin Danglars, who awaited him at the corner ofthe Rue Senac.
“Well,” said Danglars, “did you see him?”
“I have just left him,” answered Caderousse.
“Did he allude to his hope of being captain?”
“He spoke of it as a thing already decided.”
“Indeed!” said Danglars, “he is in too much hurry, it appears to me.”
“Why, it seems M. Morrel has promised him the thing.”
“So that he is quite elated about it?”
“Why, yes, he is actually insolent over the matter—has already offeredme his patronage, as if he were a grand personage, and proffered me aloan of money, as though he were a banker.”
“Which you refused?”
“Most assuredly; although I might easily have accepted it, for it was Iwho put into his hands the first silver he ever earned; but now M.Dantès has no longer any occasion for assistance—he is about to becomea captain.”
“Pooh!” said Danglars, “he is not one yet.”
“_Ma foi!_ it will be as well if he is not,” answered Caderousse; “forif he should be, there will be really no speaking to him.”
“If we choose,” replied Danglars, “he will remain what he is; andperhaps become even less than he is.”
“What do you mean?”
“Nothing—I was speaking to myself. And is he still in love with theCatalane?”
“Over head and ears; but, unless I am much mistaken, there will be astorm in that quarter.”
0041m


“Explain yourself.”
“Why should I?”
“It is more important than you think, perhaps. You do not like Dantès?”
“I never like upstarts.”
“Then tell me all you know about the Catalane.”
“I know nothing for certain; only I have seen things which induce me tobelieve, as I told you, that the future captain will find someannoyance in the vicinity of the Vieilles Infirmeries.”
“What have you seen?—come, tell me!”
“Well, every time I have seen Mercédès come into the city she has beenaccompanied by a tall, strapping, black-eyed Catalan, with a redcomplexion, brown skin, and fierce air, whom she calls cousin.”
“Really; and you think this cousin pays her attentions?”
“I only suppose so. What else can a strapping chap of twenty-one meanwith a fine wench of seventeen?”
“And you say that Dantès has gone to the Catalans?”
“He went before I came down.”
“Let us go the same way; we will stop at La Réserve, and we can drink aglass of La Malgue, whilst we wait for news.”
“Come along,” said Caderousse; “but you pay the score.”
“Of course,” replied Danglars; and going quickly to the designatedplace, they called for a bottle of wine, and two glasses.
Père Pamphile had seen Dantès pass not ten minutes before; and assuredthat he was at the Catalans, they sat down under the budding foliage ofthe planes and sycamores, in the branches of which the birds weresinging their welcome to one of the first days of spring.


 Chapter 3. The Catalans
Beyond a bare, weather-worn wall, about a hundred paces from the spotwhere the two friends sat looking and listening as they drank theirwine, was the village of the Catalans. Long ago this mysterious colonyquitted Spain, and settled on the tongue of land on which it is to thisday. Whence it came no one knew, and it spoke an unknown tongue. One ofits chiefs, who understood Provençal, begged the commune of Marseillesto give them this bare and barren promontory, where, like the sailorsof old, they had run their boats ashore. The request was granted; andthree months afterwards, around the twelve or fifteen small vesselswhich had brought these gypsies of the sea, a small village sprang up.This village, constructed in a singular and picturesque manner, halfMoorish, half Spanish, still remains, and is inhabited by descendantsof the first comers, who speak the language of their fathers. For threeor four centuries they have remained upon this small promontory, onwhich they had settled like a flight of seabirds, without mixing withthe Marseillaise population, intermarrying, and preserving theiroriginal customs and the costume of their mother-country as they havepreserved its language.
Our readers will follow us along the only street of this littlevillage, and enter with us one of the houses, which is sunburned to thebeautiful dead-leaf color peculiar to the buildings of the country, andwithin coated with whitewash, like a Spanish posada. A young andbeautiful girl, with hair as black as jet, her eyes as velvety as thegazelle’s, was leaning with her back against the wainscot, rubbing inher slender delicately moulded fingers a bunch of heath blossoms, theflowers of which she was picking off and strewing on the floor; herarms, bare to the elbow, brown, and modelled after those of theArlesian Venus, moved with a kind of restless impatience, and shetapped the earth with her arched and supple foot, so as to display thepure and full shape of her well-turned leg, in its red cotton, gray andblue clocked, stocking. At three paces from her, seated in a chairwhich he balanced on two legs, leaning his elbow on an old worm-eatentable, was a tall young man of twenty, or two-and-twenty, who waslooking at her with an air in which vexation and uneasiness weremingled. He questioned her with his eyes, but the firm and steady gazeof the young girl controlled his look.
“You see, Mercédès,” said the young man, “here is Easter come roundagain; tell me, is this the moment for a wedding?”
“I have answered you a hundred times, Fernand, and really you must bevery stupid to ask me again.”
“Well, repeat it,—repeat it, I beg of you, that I may at last believeit! Tell me for the hundredth time that you refuse my love, which hadyour mother’s sanction. Make me understand once for all that you aretrifling with my happiness, that my life or death are nothing to you.Ah, to have dreamed for ten years of being your husband, Mercédès, andto lose that hope, which was the only stay of my existence!”
“At least it was not I who ever encouraged you in that hope, Fernand,”replied Mercédès; “you cannot reproach me with the slightest coquetry.I have always said to you, ‘I love you as a brother; but do not askfrom me more than sisterly affection, for my heart is another’s.’ Isnot this true, Fernand?”
“Yes, that is very true, Mercédès,” replied the young man, “Yes, youhave been cruelly frank with me; but do you forget that it is among theCatalans a sacred law to intermarry?”
0045m


“You mistake, Fernand; it is not a law, but merely a custom, and, Ipray of you, do not cite this custom in your favor. You are included inthe conscription, Fernand, and are only at liberty on sufferance,liable at any moment to be called upon to take up arms. Once a soldier,what would you do with me, a poor orphan, forlorn, without fortune,with nothing but a half-ruined hut and a few ragged nets, the miserableinheritance left by my father to my mother, and by my mother to me? Shehas been dead a year, and you know, Fernand, I have subsisted almostentirely on public charity. Sometimes you pretend I am useful to you,and that is an excuse to share with me the produce of your fishing, andI accept it, Fernand, because you are the son of my father’s brother,because we were brought up together, and still more because it wouldgive you so much pain if I refuse. But I feel very deeply that thisfish which I go and sell, and with the produce of which I buy the flaxI spin,—I feel very keenly, Fernand, that this is charity.”
“And if it were, Mercédès, poor and lone as you are, you suit me aswell as the daughter of the first shipowner or the richest banker ofMarseilles! What do such as we desire but a good wife and carefulhousekeeper, and where can I look for these better than in you?”
“Fernand,” answered Mercédès, shaking her head, “a woman becomes a badmanager, and who shall say she will remain an honest woman, when sheloves another man better than her husband? Rest content with myfriendship, for I say once more that is all I can promise, and I willpromise no more than I can bestow.”
“I understand,” replied Fernand, “you can endure your own wretchednesspatiently, but you are afraid to share mine. Well, Mercédès, beloved byyou, I would tempt fortune; you would bring me good luck, and I shouldbecome rich. I could extend my occupation as a fisherman, might get aplace as clerk in a warehouse, and become in time a dealer myself.”
“You could do no such thing, Fernand; you are a soldier, and if youremain at the Catalans it is because there is no war; so remain afisherman, and contented with my friendship, as I cannot give youmore.”
“Well, I will do better, Mercédès. I will be a sailor; instead of thecostume of our fathers, which you despise, I will wear a varnished hat,a striped shirt, and a blue jacket, with an anchor on the buttons.Would not that dress please you?”
“What do you mean?” asked Mercédès, with an angry glance,—“what do youmean? I do not understand you?”
“I mean, Mercédès, that you are thus harsh and cruel with me, becauseyou are expecting someone who is thus attired; but perhaps he whom youawait is inconstant, or if he is not, the sea is so to him.”
“Fernand,” cried Mercédès, “I believed you were good-hearted, and I wasmistaken! Fernand, you are wicked to call to your aid jealousy and theanger of God! Yes, I will not deny it, I do await, and I do love him ofwhom you speak; and, if he does not return, instead of accusing him ofthe inconstancy which you insinuate, I will tell you that he diedloving me and me only.” The young girl made a gesture of rage. “Iunderstand you, Fernand; you would be revenged on him because I do notlove you; you would cross your Catalan knife with his dirk. What endwould that answer? To lose you my friendship if he were conquered, andsee that friendship changed into hate if you were victor. Believe me,to seek a quarrel with a man is a bad method of pleasing the woman wholoves that man. No, Fernand, you will not thus give way to evilthoughts. Unable to have me for your wife, you will content yourselfwith having me for your friend and sister; and besides,” she added, hereyes troubled and moistened with tears, “wait, wait, Fernand; you saidjust now that the sea was treacherous, and he has been gone fourmonths, and during these four months there have been some terriblestorms.”
Fernand made no reply, nor did he attempt to check the tears whichflowed down the cheeks of Mercédès, although for each of these tears hewould have shed his heart’s blood; but these tears flowed for another.He arose, paced a while up and down the hut, and then, suddenlystopping before Mercédès, with his eyes glowing and his handsclenched,—“Say, Mercédès,” he said, “once for all, is this your finaldetermination?”
“I love Edmond Dantès,” the young girl calmly replied, “and none butEdmond shall ever be my husband.”
“And you will always love him?”
“As long as I live.”
Fernand let fall his head like a defeated man, heaved a sigh that waslike a groan, and then suddenly looking her full in the face, withclenched teeth and expanded nostrils, said,—“But if he is dead——”
“If he is dead, I shall die too.”
“If he has forgotten you——”
“Mercédès!” called a joyous voice from without,—“Mercédès!”
“Ah,” exclaimed the young girl, blushing with delight, and fairlyleaping in excess of love, “you see he has not forgotten me, for herehe is!” And rushing towards the door, she opened it, saying, “Here,Edmond, here I am!”
Fernand, pale and trembling, drew back, like a traveller at the sightof a serpent, and fell into a chair beside him. Edmond and Mercédèswere clasped in each other’s arms. The burning Marseilles sun, whichshot into the room through the open door, covered them with a flood oflight. At first they saw nothing around them. Their intense happinessisolated them from all the rest of the world, and they only spoke inbroken words, which are the tokens of a joy so extreme that they seemrather the expression of sorrow. Suddenly Edmond saw the gloomy, pale,and threatening countenance of Fernand, as it was defined in theshadow. By a movement for which he could scarcely account to himself,the young Catalan placed his hand on the knife at his belt.
“Ah, your pardon,” said Dantès, frowning in his turn; “I did notperceive that there were three of us.” Then, turning to Mercédès, heinquired, “Who is this gentleman?”
“One who will be your best friend, Dantès, for he is my friend, mycousin, my brother; it is Fernand—the man whom, after you, Edmond, Ilove the best in the world. Do you not remember him?”
“Yes!” said Dantès, and without relinquishing Mercédès’ hand clasped inone of his own, he extended the other to the Catalan with a cordialair. But Fernand, instead of responding to this amiable gesture,remained mute and trembling. Edmond then cast his eyes scrutinizinglyat the agitated and embarrassed Mercédès, and then again on the gloomyand menacing Fernand. This look told him all, and his anger waxed hot.
“I did not know, when I came with such haste to you, that I was to meetan enemy here.”
“An enemy!” cried Mercédès, with an angry look at her cousin. “An enemyin my house, do you say, Edmond! If I believed that, I would place myarm under yours and go with you to Marseilles, leaving the house toreturn to it no more.”
Fernand’s eye darted lightning. “And should any misfortune occur toyou, dear Edmond,” she continued with the same calmness which proved toFernand that the young girl had read the very innermost depths of hissinister thought, “if misfortune should occur to you, I would ascendthe highest point of the Cape de Morgiou and cast myself headlong fromit.”
Fernand became deadly pale. “But you are deceived, Edmond,” shecontinued. “You have no enemy here—there is no one but Fernand, mybrother, who will grasp your hand as a devoted friend.”
And at these words the young girl fixed her imperious look on theCatalan, who, as if fascinated by it, came slowly towards Edmond, andoffered him his hand. His hatred, like a powerless though furious wave,was broken against the strong ascendancy which Mercédès exercised overhim. Scarcely, however, had he touched Edmond’s hand when he felt hehad done all he could do, and rushed hastily out of the house.
“Oh,” he exclaimed, running furiously and tearing his hair—“Oh, whowill deliver me from this man? Wretched—wretched that I am!”
“Hallo, Catalan! Hallo, Fernand! where are you running to?” exclaimed avoice.
The young man stopped suddenly, looked around him, and perceivedCaderousse sitting at table with Danglars, under an arbor.
“Well”, said Caderousse, “why don’t you come? Are you really in such ahurry that you have no time to pass the time of day with your friends?”
“Particularly when they have still a full bottle before them,” addedDanglars. Fernand looked at them both with a stupefied air, but did notsay a word.
“He seems besotted,” said Danglars, pushing Caderousse with his knee.“Are we mistaken, and is Dantès triumphant in spite of all we havebelieved?”
“Why, we must inquire into that,” was Caderousse’s reply; and turningtowards the young man, said, “Well, Catalan, can’t you make up yourmind?”
Fernand wiped away the perspiration steaming from his brow, and slowlyentered the arbor, whose shade seemed to restore somewhat of calmnessto his senses, and whose coolness somewhat of refreshment to hisexhausted body.
“Good-day,” said he. “You called me, didn’t you?” And he fell, ratherthan sat down, on one of the seats which surrounded the table.
“I called you because you were running like a madman, and I was afraidyou would throw yourself into the sea,” said Caderousse, laughing.“Why, when a man has friends, they are not only to offer him a glass ofwine, but, moreover, to prevent his swallowing three or four pints ofwater unnecessarily!”
Fernand gave a groan, which resembled a sob, and dropped his head intohis hands, his elbows leaning on the table.
“Well, Fernand, I must say,” said Caderousse, beginning theconversation, with that brutality of the common people in whichcuriosity destroys all diplomacy, “you look uncommonly like a rejectedlover;” and he burst into a hoarse laugh.
“Bah!” said Danglars, “a lad of his make was not born to be unhappy inlove. You are laughing at him, Caderousse.”
“No,” he replied, “only hark how he sighs! Come, come, Fernand,” saidCaderousse, “hold up your head, and answer us. It’s not polite not toreply to friends who ask news of your health.”
“My health is well enough,” said Fernand, clenching his hands withoutraising his head.
“Ah, you see, Danglars,” said Caderousse, winking at his friend, “thisis how it is; Fernand, whom you see here, is a good and brave Catalan,one of the best fishermen in Marseilles, and he is in love with a veryfine girl, named Mercédès; but it appears, unfortunately, that the finegirl is in love with the mate of the _Pharaon_; and as the _Pharaon_arrived today—why, you understand!”
“No; I do not understand,” said Danglars.
“Poor Fernand has been dismissed,” continued Caderousse.
“Well, and what then?” said Fernand, lifting up his head, and lookingat Caderousse like a man who looks for someone on whom to vent hisanger; “Mercédès is not accountable to any person, is she? Is she notfree to love whomsoever she will?”
“Oh, if you take it in that sense,” said Caderousse, “it is anotherthing. But I thought you were a Catalan, and they told me the Catalanswere not men to allow themselves to be supplanted by a rival. It waseven told me that Fernand, especially, was terrible in his vengeance.”
Fernand smiled piteously. “A lover is never terrible,” he said.
“Poor fellow!” remarked Danglars, affecting to pity the young man fromthe bottom of his heart. “Why, you see, he did not expect to see Dantèsreturn so suddenly—he thought he was dead, perhaps; or perchancefaithless! These things always come on us more severely when they comesuddenly.”
“Ah, _ma foi_, under any circumstances!” said Caderousse, who drank ashe spoke, and on whom the fumes of the wine began to takeeffect,—“under any circumstances Fernand is not the only person put outby the fortunate arrival of Dantès; is he, Danglars?”
“No, you are right—and I should say that would bring him ill-luck.”
“Well, never mind,” answered Caderousse, pouring out a glass of winefor Fernand, and filling his own for the eighth or ninth time, whileDanglars had merely sipped his. “Never mind—in the meantime he marriesMercédès—the lovely Mercédès—at least he returns to do that.”
During this time Danglars fixed his piercing glance on the young man,on whose heart Caderousse’s words fell like molten lead.
“And when is the wedding to be?” he asked.
“Oh, it is not yet fixed!” murmured Fernand.
“No, but it will be,” said Caderousse, “as surely as Dantès will becaptain of the _Pharaon_—eh, Danglars?”
Danglars shuddered at this unexpected attack, and turned to Caderousse,whose countenance he scrutinized, to try and detect whether the blowwas premeditated; but he read nothing but envy in a countenance alreadyrendered brutal and stupid by drunkenness.
“Well,” said he, filling the glasses, “let us drink to Captain EdmondDantès, husband of the beautiful Catalane!”
Caderousse raised his glass to his mouth with unsteady hand, andswallowed the contents at a gulp. Fernand dashed his on the ground.
“Eh, eh, eh!” stammered Caderousse. “What do I see down there by thewall, in the direction of the Catalans? Look, Fernand, your eyes arebetter than mine. I believe I see double. You know wine is a deceiver;but I should say it was two lovers walking side by side, and hand inhand. Heaven forgive me, they do not know that we can see them, andthey are actually embracing!”
Danglars did not lose one pang that Fernand endured.
“Do you know them, Fernand?” he said.
“Yes,” was the reply, in a low voice. “It is Edmond and Mercédès!”
“Ah, see there, now!” said Caderousse; “and I did not recognize them!Hallo, Dantès! hello, lovely damsel! Come this way, and let us knowwhen the wedding is to be, for Fernand here is so obstinate he will nottell us.”
“Hold your tongue, will you?” said Danglars, pretending to restrainCaderousse, who, with the tenacity of drunkards, leaned out of thearbor. “Try to stand upright, and let the lovers make love withoutinterruption. See, look at Fernand, and follow his example; he iswell-behaved!”
0051m


Fernand, probably excited beyond bearing, pricked by Danglars, as thebull is by the bandilleros, was about to rush out; for he had risenfrom his seat, and seemed to be collecting himself to dash headlongupon his rival, when Mercédès, smiling and graceful, lifted up herlovely head, and looked at them with her clear and bright eyes. At thisFernand recollected her threat of dying if Edmond died, and droppedagain heavily on his seat. Danglars looked at the two men, one afterthe other, the one brutalized by liquor, the other overwhelmed withlove.
“I shall get nothing from these fools,” he muttered; “and I am verymuch afraid of being here between a drunkard and a coward. Here’s anenvious fellow making himself boozy on wine when he ought to be nursinghis wrath, and here is a fool who sees the woman he loves stolen fromunder his nose and takes on like a big baby. Yet this Catalan has eyesthat glisten like those of the vengeful Spaniards, Sicilians, andCalabrians, and the other has fists big enough to crush an ox at oneblow. Unquestionably, Edmond’s star is in the ascendant, and he willmarry the splendid girl—he will be captain, too, and laugh at us all,unless”—a sinister smile passed over Danglars’ lips—“unless I take ahand in the affair,” he added.
“Hallo!” continued Caderousse, half-rising, and with his fist on thetable, “hallo, Edmond! do you not see your friends, or are you tooproud to speak to them?”
“No, my dear fellow!” replied Dantès, “I am not proud, but I am happy,and happiness blinds, I think, more than pride.”
“Ah, very well, that’s an explanation!” said Caderousse. “How do youdo, Madame Dantès?”
Mercédès courtesied gravely, and said—“That is not my name, and in mycountry it bodes ill fortune, they say, to call a young girl by thename of her betrothed before he becomes her husband. So call meMercédès, if you please.”
“We must excuse our worthy neighbor, Caderousse,” said Dantès, “he isso easily mistaken.”
“So, then, the wedding is to take place immediately, M. Dantès,” saidDanglars, bowing to the young couple.
“As soon as possible, M. Danglars; today all preliminaries will bearranged at my father’s, and tomorrow, or next day at latest, thewedding festival here at La Réserve. My friends will be there, I hope;that is to say, you are invited, M. Danglars, and you, Caderousse.”
“And Fernand,” said Caderousse with a chuckle; “Fernand, too, isinvited!”
“My wife’s brother is my brother,” said Edmond; “and we, Mercédès andI, should be very sorry if he were absent at such a time.”
Fernand opened his mouth to reply, but his voice died on his lips, andhe could not utter a word.
“Today the preliminaries, tomorrow or next day the ceremony! You are ina hurry, captain!”
“Danglars,” said Edmond, smiling, “I will say to you as Mercédès saidjust now to Caderousse, ‘Do not give me a title which does not belongto me’; that may bring me bad luck.”
“Your pardon,” replied Danglars, “I merely said you seemed in a hurry,and we have lots of time; the _Pharaon_ cannot be under weigh again inless than three months.”
“We are always in a hurry to be happy, M. Danglars; for when we havesuffered a long time, we have great difficulty in believing in goodfortune. But it is not selfishness alone that makes me thus in haste; Imust go to Paris.”
“Ah, really?—to Paris! and will it be the first time you have ever beenthere, Dantès?”
“Yes.”
“Have you business there?”
“Not of my own; the last commission of poor Captain Leclere; you knowto what I allude, Danglars—it is sacred. Besides, I shall only take thetime to go and return.”
“Yes, yes, I understand,” said Danglars, and then in a low tone, headded, “To Paris, no doubt to deliver the letter which the grandmarshal gave him. Ah, this letter gives me an idea—a capital idea! Ah;Dantès, my friend, you are not yet registered number one on board thegood ship _Pharaon_;” then turning towards Edmond, who was walkingaway, “A pleasant journey,” he cried.
“Thank you,” said Edmond with a friendly nod, and the two loverscontinued on their way, as calm and joyous as if they were the veryelect of heaven.


 Chapter 4. Conspiracy
Danglars followed Edmond and Mercédès with his eyes until the twolovers disappeared behind one of the angles of Fort Saint Nicolas;then, turning round, he perceived Fernand, who had fallen, pale andtrembling, into his chair, while Caderousse stammered out the words ofa drinking-song.
“Well, my dear sir,” said Danglars to Fernand, “here is a marriagewhich does not appear to make everybody happy.”
“It drives me to despair,” said Fernand.
“Do you, then, love Mercédès?”
“I adore her!”
“For long?”
“As long as I have known her—always.”
“And you sit there, tearing your hair, instead of seeking to remedyyour condition; I did not think that was the way of your people.”
“What would you have me do?” said Fernand.
“How do I know? Is it my affair? I am not in love with MademoiselleMercédès; but for you—in the words of the gospel, seek, and you shallfind.”
“I have found already.”
“What?”
“I would stab the man, but the woman told me that if any misfortunehappened to her betrothed, she would kill herself.”
“Pooh! Women say those things, but never do them.”
“You do not know Mercédès; what she threatens she will do.”
“Idiot!” muttered Danglars; “whether she kill herself or not, whatmatter, provided Dantès is not captain?”
“Before Mercédès should die,” replied Fernand, with the accents ofunshaken resolution, “I would die myself!”
“That’s what I call love!” said Caderousse with a voice more tipsy thanever. “That’s love, or I don’t know what love is.”
“Come,” said Danglars, “you appear to me a good sort of fellow, andhang me, I should like to help you, but——”
“Yes,” said Caderousse, “but how?”
“My dear fellow,” replied Danglars, “you are three parts drunk; finishthe bottle, and you will be completely so. Drink then, and do notmeddle with what we are discussing, for that requires all one’s wit andcool judgment.”
“I—drunk!” said Caderousse; “well that’s a good one! I could drink fourmore such bottles; they are no bigger than cologne flasks. PèrePamphile, more wine!”
And Caderousse rattled his glass upon the table.
“You were saying, sir——” said Fernand, awaiting with great anxiety theend of this interrupted remark.
“What was I saying? I forget. This drunken Caderousse has made me losethe thread of my sentence.”
“Drunk, if you like; so much the worse for those who fear wine, for itis because they have bad thoughts which they are afraid the liquor willextract from their hearts;” and Caderousse began to sing the two lastlines of a song very popular at the time:
‘Tous les méchants sont buveurs d’eau;
C’est bien prouvé par le déluge.’1

“You said, sir, you would like to help me, but——”
“Yes; but I added, to help you it would be sufficient that Dantès didnot marry her you love; and the marriage may easily be thwarted,methinks, and yet Dantès need not die.”
“Death alone can separate them,” remarked Fernand.
“You talk like a noodle, my friend,” said Caderousse; “and here isDanglars, who is a wide-awake, clever, deep fellow, who will prove toyou that you are wrong. Prove it, Danglars. I have answered for you.Say there is no need why Dantès should die; it would, indeed, be a pityhe should. Dantès is a good fellow; I like Dantès. Dantès, yourhealth.”
Fernand rose impatiently. “Let him run on,” said Danglars, restrainingthe young man; “drunk as he is, he is not much out in what he says.Absence severs as well as death, and if the walls of a prison werebetween Edmond and Mercédès they would be as effectually separated asif he lay under a tombstone.”
0056m


“Yes; but one gets out of prison,” said Caderousse, who, with whatsense was left him, listened eagerly to the conversation, “and when onegets out and one’s name is Edmond Dantès, one seeks revenge——”
“What matters that?” muttered Fernand.
“And why, I should like to know,” persisted Caderousse, “should theyput Dantès in prison? he has neither robbed, nor killed, nor murdered.”
“Hold your tongue!” said Danglars.
“I won’t hold my tongue!” replied Caderousse; “I say I want to know whythey should put Dantès in prison; I like Dantès; Dantès, your health!”and he swallowed another glass of wine.
0057m


Danglars saw in the muddled look of the tailor the progress of hisintoxication, and turning towards Fernand, said, “Well, you understandthere is no need to kill him.”
“Certainly not, if, as you said just now, you have the means of havingDantès arrested. Have you that means?”
“It is to be found for the searching. But why should I meddle in thematter? it is no affair of mine.”
“I know not why you meddle,” said Fernand, seizing his arm; “but this Iknow, you have some motive of personal hatred against Dantès, for hewho himself hates is never mistaken in the sentiments of others.”
“I! motives of hatred against Dantès? None, on my word! I saw you wereunhappy, and your unhappiness interested me; that’s all; but since youbelieve I act for my own account, adieu, my dear friend, get out of theaffair as best you may;” and Danglars rose as if he meant to depart.
“No, no,” said Fernand, restraining him, “stay! It is of very littleconsequence to me at the end of the matter whether you have any angryfeeling or not against Dantès. I hate him! I confess it openly. Do youfind the means, I will execute it, provided it is not to kill the man,for Mercédès has declared she will kill herself if Dantès is killed.”
Caderousse, who had let his head drop on the table, now raised it, andlooking at Fernand with his dull and fishy eyes, he said, “Kill Dantès!who talks of killing Dantès? I won’t have him killed—I won’t! He’s myfriend, and this morning offered to share his money with me, as Ishared mine with him. I won’t have Dantès killed—I won’t!”
“And who has said a word about killing him, muddlehead?” repliedDanglars. “We were merely joking; drink to his health,” he added,filling Caderousse’s glass, “and do not interfere with us.”
“Yes, yes, Dantès’ good health!” said Caderousse, emptying his glass,“here’s to his health! his health—hurrah!”
“But the means—the means?” said Fernand.
“Have you not hit upon any?” asked Danglars.
“No!—you undertook to do so.”
“True,” replied Danglars; “the French have the superiority over theSpaniards, that the Spaniards ruminate, while the French invent.”
“Do you invent, then,” said Fernand impatiently.
“Waiter,” said Danglars, “pen, ink, and paper.”
“Pen, ink, and paper,” muttered Fernand.
“Yes; I am a supercargo; pen, ink, and paper are my tools, and withoutmy tools I am fit for nothing.”
“Pen, ink, and paper, then,” called Fernand loudly.
“There’s what you want on that table,” said the waiter.
“Bring them here.” The waiter did as he was desired.
0059m


“When one thinks,” said Caderousse, letting his hand drop on the paper,“there is here wherewithal to kill a man more sure than if we waited atthe corner of a wood to assassinate him! I have always had more dreadof a pen, a bottle of ink, and a sheet of paper, than of a sword orpistol.”
“The fellow is not so drunk as he appears to be,” said Danglars. “Givehim some more wine, Fernand.” Fernand filled Caderousse’s glass, who,like the confirmed toper he was, lifted his hand from the paper andseized the glass.
The Catalan watched him until Caderousse, almost overcome by this freshassault on his senses, rested, or rather dropped, his glass upon thetable.
“Well!” resumed the Catalan, as he saw the final glimmer ofCaderousse’s reason vanishing before the last glass of wine.
“Well, then, I should say, for instance,” resumed Danglars, “that ifafter a voyage such as Dantès has just made, in which he touched at theIsland of Elba, someone were to denounce him to the king’s procureur asa Bonapartist agent——”
“I will denounce him!” exclaimed the young man hastily.
“Yes, but they will make you then sign your declaration, and confrontyou with him you have denounced; I will supply you with the means ofsupporting your accusation, for I know the fact well. But Dantès cannotremain forever in prison, and one day or other he will leave it, andthe day when he comes out, woe betide him who was the cause of hisincarceration!”
“Oh, I should wish nothing better than that he would come and seek aquarrel with me.”
“Yes, and Mercédès! Mercédès, who will detest you if you have only themisfortune to scratch the skin of her dearly beloved Edmond!”
“True!” said Fernand.
“No, no,” continued Danglars; “if we resolve on such a step, it wouldbe much better to take, as I now do, this pen, dip it into this ink,and write with the left hand (that the writing may not be recognized)the denunciation we propose.” And Danglars, uniting practice withtheory, wrote with his left hand, and in a writing reversed from hisusual style, and totally unlike it, the following lines, which hehanded to Fernand, and which Fernand read in an undertone:
“The honorable, the king’s attorney, is informed by a friend of thethrone and religion, that one Edmond Dantès, mate of the ship_Pharaon_, arrived this morning from Smyrna, after having touched atNaples and Porto-Ferrajo, has been intrusted by Murat with a letter forthe usurper, and by the usurper with a letter for the Bonapartistcommittee in Paris. Proof of this crime will be found on arresting him,for the letter will be found upon him, or at his father’s, or in hiscabin on board the _Pharaon_.”
“Very good,” resumed Danglars; “now your revenge looks like commonsense, for in no way can it revert to yourself, and the matter willthus work its own way; there is nothing to do now but fold the letteras I am doing, and write upon it, ‘To the king’s attorney,’ and that’sall settled.” And Danglars wrote the address as he spoke.
“Yes, and that’s all settled!” exclaimed Caderousse, who, by a lasteffort of intellect, had followed the reading of the letter, andinstinctively comprehended all the misery which such a denunciationmust entail. “Yes, and that’s all settled; only it will be an infamousshame;” and he stretched out his hand to reach the letter.
“Yes,” said Danglars, taking it from beyond his reach; “and as what Isay and do is merely in jest, and I, amongst the first and foremost,should be sorry if anything happened to Dantès—the worthy Dantès—lookhere!” And taking the letter, he squeezed it up in his hands and threwit into a corner of the arbor.
“All right!” said Caderousse. “Dantès is my friend, and I won’t havehim ill-used.”
“And who thinks of using him ill? Certainly neither I nor Fernand,”said Danglars, rising and looking at the young man, who still remainedseated, but whose eye was fixed on the denunciatory sheet of paperflung into the corner.
“In this case,” replied Caderousse, “let’s have some more wine. I wishto drink to the health of Edmond and the lovely Mercédès.”
“You have had too much already, drunkard,” said Danglars; “and if youcontinue, you will be compelled to sleep here, because unable to standon your legs.”
“I?” said Caderousse, rising with all the offended dignity of a drunkenman, “I can’t keep on my legs? Why, I’ll wager I can go up into thebelfry of the Accoules, and without staggering, too!”
“Done!” said Danglars, “I’ll take your bet; but tomorrow—today it istime to return. Give me your arm, and let us go.”
“Very well, let us go,” said Caderousse; “but I don’t want your arm atall. Come, Fernand, won’t you return to Marseilles with us?”
“No,” said Fernand; “I shall return to the Catalans.”
“You’re wrong. Come with us to Marseilles—come along.”
“I will not.”
“What do you mean? you will not? Well, just as you like, my prince;there’s liberty for all the world. Come along, Danglars, and let theyoung gentleman return to the Catalans if he chooses.”
Danglars took advantage of Caderousse’s temper at the moment, to takehim off towards Marseilles by the Porte Saint-Victor, staggering as hewent.
When they had advanced about twenty yards, Danglars looked back and sawFernand stoop, pick up the crumpled paper, and putting it into hispocket then rush out of the arbor towards Pillon.
“Well,” said Caderousse, “why, what a lie he told! He said he was goingto the Catalans, and he is going to the city. Hallo, Fernand! You arecoming, my boy!”
“Oh, you don’t see straight,” said Danglars; “he’s gone right by theroad to the Vieilles Infirmeries.”
“Well,” said Caderousse, “I should have sworn that he turned to theright—how treacherous wine is!”
“Come, come,” said Danglars to himself, “now the thing is at work andit will effect its purpose unassisted.”


 Chapter 5. The Marriage Feast
The morning’s sun rose clear and resplendent, touching the foamy wavesinto a network of ruby-tinted light.
The feast had been made ready on the second floor at La Réserve, withwhose arbor the reader is already familiar. The apartment destined forthe purpose was spacious and lighted by a number of windows, over eachof which was written in golden letters for some inexplicable reason thename of one of the principal cities of France; beneath these windows awooden balcony extended the entire length of the house. And althoughthe entertainment was fixed for twelve o’clock, an hour previous tothat time the balcony was filled with impatient and expectant guests,consisting of the favored part of the crew of the _Pharaon_, and otherpersonal friends of the bridegroom, the whole of whom had arrayedthemselves in their choicest costumes, in order to do greater honor tothe occasion.
Various rumors were afloat to the effect that the owners of the_Pharaon_ had promised to attend the nuptial feast; but all seemedunanimous in doubting that an act of such rare and exceedingcondescension could possibly be intended.
Danglars, however, who now made his appearance, accompanied byCaderousse, effectually confirmed the report, stating that he hadrecently conversed with M. Morrel, who had himself assured him of hisintention to dine at La Réserve.
In fact, a moment later M. Morrel appeared and was saluted with anenthusiastic burst of applause from the crew of the _Pharaon_, whohailed the visit of the shipowner as a sure indication that the manwhose wedding feast he thus delighted to honor would ere long be firstin command of the ship; and as Dantès was universally beloved on boardhis vessel, the sailors put no restraint on their tumultuous joy atfinding that the opinion and choice of their superiors so exactlycoincided with their own.
With the entrance of M. Morrel, Danglars and Caderousse were despatchedin search of the bridegroom to convey to him the intelligence of thearrival of the important personage whose coming had created such alively sensation, and to beseech him to make haste.
Danglars and Caderousse set off upon their errand at full speed; butere they had gone many steps they perceived a group advancing towardsthem, composed of the betrothed pair, a party of young girls inattendance on the bride, by whose side walked Dantès’ father; the wholebrought up by Fernand, whose lips wore their usual sinister smile.
Neither Mercédès nor Edmond observed the strange expression of hiscountenance; they were so happy that they were conscious only of thesunshine and the presence of each other.
Having acquitted themselves of their errand, and exchanged a heartyshake of the hand with Edmond, Danglars and Caderousse took theirplaces beside Fernand and old Dantès,—the latter of whom attracteduniversal notice.
The old man was attired in a suit of glistening watered silk, trimmedwith steel buttons, beautifully cut and polished. His thin but wirylegs were arrayed in a pair of richly embroidered clocked stockings,evidently of English manufacture, while from his three-cornered hatdepended a long streaming knot of white and blue ribbons. Thus he camealong, supporting himself on a curiously carved stick, his agedcountenance lit up with happiness, looking for all the world like oneof the aged dandies of 1796, parading the newly opened gardens of theLuxembourg and Tuileries.
Beside him glided Caderousse, whose desire to partake of the goodthings provided for the wedding party had induced him to becomereconciled to the Dantès, father and son, although there still lingeredin his mind a faint and unperfect recollection of the events of thepreceding night; just as the brain retains on waking in the morning thedim and misty outline of a dream.
0065m


As Danglars approached the disappointed lover, he cast on him a look ofdeep meaning, while Fernand, as he slowly paced behind the happy pair,who seemed, in their own unmixed content, to have entirely forgottenthat such a being as himself existed, was pale and abstracted;occasionally, however, a deep flush would overspread his countenance,and a nervous contraction distort his features, while, with an agitatedand restless gaze, he would glance in the direction of Marseilles, likeone who either anticipated or foresaw some great and important event.
Dantès himself was simply, but becomingly, clad in the dress peculiarto the merchant service—a costume somewhat between a military and acivil garb; and with his fine countenance, radiant with joy andhappiness, a more perfect specimen of manly beauty could scarcely beimagined.
Lovely as the Greek girls of Cyprus or Chios, Mercédès boasted the samebright flashing eyes of jet, and ripe, round, coral lips. She movedwith the light, free step of an Arlesienne or an Andalusian. One morepracticed in the arts of great cities would have hid her blushesbeneath a veil, or, at least, have cast down her thickly fringedlashes, so as to have concealed the liquid lustre of her animated eyes;but, on the contrary, the delighted girl looked around her with a smilethat seemed to say: “If you are my friends, rejoice with me, for I amvery happy.”
As soon as the bridal party came in sight of La Réserve, M. Morreldescended and came forth to meet it, followed by the soldiers andsailors there assembled, to whom he had repeated the promise alreadygiven, that Dantès should be the successor to the late Captain Leclere.Edmond, at the approach of his patron, respectfully placed the arm ofhis affianced bride within that of M. Morrel, who, forthwith conductingher up the flight of wooden steps leading to the chamber in which thefeast was prepared, was gayly followed by the guests, beneath whoseheavy tread the slight structure creaked and groaned for the space ofseveral minutes.
“Father,” said Mercédès, stopping when she had reached the centre ofthe table, “sit, I pray you, on my right hand; on my left I will placehim who has ever been as a brother to me,” pointing with a soft andgentle smile to Fernand; but her words and look seemed to inflict thedirest torture on him, for his lips became ghastly pale, and evenbeneath the dark hue of his complexion the blood might be seenretreating as though some sudden pang drove it back to the heart.
During this time, Dantès, at the opposite side of the table, had beenoccupied in similarly placing his most honored guests. M. Morrel wasseated at his right hand, Danglars at his left; while, at a sign fromEdmond, the rest of the company ranged themselves as they found it mostagreeable.
Then they began to pass around the dusky, piquant, Arlesian sausages,and lobsters in their dazzling red cuirasses, prawns of large size andbrilliant color, the echinus with its prickly outside and dainty morselwithin, the clovis, esteemed by the epicures of the South as more thanrivalling the exquisite flavor of the oyster, North. All thedelicacies, in fact, that are cast up by the wash of waters on thesandy beach, and styled by the grateful fishermen “fruits of the sea.”
“A pretty silence truly!” said the old father of the bridegroom, as hecarried to his lips a glass of wine of the hue and brightness of thetopaz, and which had just been placed before Mercédès herself. “Now,would anybody think that this room contained a happy, merry party, whodesire nothing better than to laugh and dance the hours away?”
“Ah,” sighed Caderousse, “a man cannot always feel happy because he isabout to be married.”
“The truth is,” replied Dantès, “that I am too happy for noisy mirth;if that is what you meant by your observation, my worthy friend, youare right; joy takes a strange effect at times, it seems to oppress usalmost the same as sorrow.”
Danglars looked towards Fernand, whose excitable nature received andbetrayed each fresh impression.
“Why, what ails you?” asked he of Edmond. “Do you fear any approachingevil? I should say that you were the happiest man alive at thisinstant.”
“And that is the very thing that alarms me,” returned Dantès. “Man doesnot appear to me to be intended to enjoy felicity so unmixed; happinessis like the enchanted palaces we read of in our childhood, wherefierce, fiery dragons defend the entrance and approach; and monsters ofall shapes and kinds, requiring to be overcome ere victory is ours. Iown that I am lost in wonder to find myself promoted to an honor ofwhich I feel myself unworthy—that of being the husband of Mercédès.”
“Nay, nay!” cried Caderousse, smiling, “you have not attained thathonor yet. Mercédès is not yet your wife. Just assume the tone andmanner of a husband, and see how she will remind you that your hour isnot yet come!”
The bride blushed, while Fernand, restless and uneasy, seemed to startat every fresh sound, and from time to time wiped away the large dropsof perspiration that gathered on his brow.
“Well, never mind that, neighbor Caderousse; it is not worthwhile tocontradict me for such a trifle as that. ’Tis true that Mercédès is notactually my wife; but,” added he, drawing out his watch, “in an hourand a half she will be.”
A general exclamation of surprise ran round the table, with theexception of the elder Dantès, whose laugh displayed the still perfectbeauty of his large white teeth. Mercédès looked pleased and gratified,while Fernand grasped the handle of his knife with a convulsive clutch.
“In an hour?” inquired Danglars, turning pale. “How is that, myfriend?”
“Why, thus it is,” replied Dantès. “Thanks to the influence of M.Morrel, to whom, next to my father, I owe every blessing I enjoy, everydifficulty has been removed. We have purchased permission to waive theusual delay; and at half-past two o’clock the Mayor of Marseilles willbe waiting for us at the city hall. Now, as a quarter-past one hasalready struck, I do not consider I have asserted too much in saying,that, in another hour and thirty minutes Mercédès will have becomeMadame Dantès.”
0069m


Fernand closed his eyes, a burning sensation passed across his brow,and he was compelled to support himself by the table to prevent hisfalling from his chair; but in spite of all his efforts, he could notrefrain from uttering a deep groan, which, however, was lost amid thenoisy felicitations of the company.
“Upon my word,” cried the old man, “you make short work of this kind ofaffair. Arrived here only yesterday morning, and married today at threeo’clock! Commend me to a sailor for going the quick way to work!”
“But,” asked Danglars, in a timid tone, “how did you manage about theother formalities—the contract—the settlement?”
“The contract,” answered Dantès, laughingly, “it didn’t take long tofix that. Mercédès has no fortune; I have none to settle on her. So,you see, our papers were quickly written out, and certainly do not comevery expensive.” This joke elicited a fresh burst of applause.
“So that what we presumed to be merely the betrothal feast turns out tobe the actual wedding dinner!” said Danglars.
“No, no,” answered Dantès; “don’t imagine I am going to put you off inthat shabby manner. Tomorrow morning I start for Paris; four days togo, and the same to return, with one day to discharge the commissionentrusted to me, is all the time I shall be absent. I shall be backhere by the first of March, and on the second I give my real marriagefeast.”
This prospect of fresh festivity redoubled the hilarity of the gueststo such a degree, that the elder Dantès, who, at the commencement ofthe repast, had commented upon the silence that prevailed, now found itdifficult, amid the general din of voices, to obtain a moment’stranquillity in which to drink to the health and prosperity of thebride and bridegroom.
Dantès, perceiving the affectionate eagerness of his father, respondedby a look of grateful pleasure; while Mercédès glanced at the clock andmade an expressive gesture to Edmond.
Around the table reigned that noisy hilarity which usually prevails atsuch a time among people sufficiently free from the demands of socialposition not to feel the trammels of etiquette. Such as at thecommencement of the repast had not been able to seat themselvesaccording to their inclination rose unceremoniously, and sought outmore agreeable companions. Everybody talked at once, without waitingfor a reply and each one seemed to be contented with expressing his orher own thoughts.
Fernand’s paleness appeared to have communicated itself to Danglars. Asfor Fernand himself, he seemed to be enduring the tortures of thedamned; unable to rest, he was among the first to quit the table, and,as though seeking to avoid the hilarious mirth that rose in suchdeafening sounds, he continued, in utter silence, to pace the fartherend of the salon.
Caderousse approached him just as Danglars, whom Fernand seemed mostanxious to avoid, had joined him in a corner of the room.
“Upon my word,” said Caderousse, from whose mind the friendly treatmentof Dantès, united with the effect of the excellent wine he had partakenof, had effaced every feeling of envy or jealousy at Dantès’ goodfortune,—“upon my word, Dantès is a downright good fellow, and when Isee him sitting there beside his pretty wife that is so soon to be. Icannot help thinking it would have been a great pity to have served himthat trick you were planning yesterday.”
“Oh, there was no harm meant,” answered Danglars; “at first I certainlydid feel somewhat uneasy as to what Fernand might be tempted to do; butwhen I saw how completely he had mastered his feelings, even so far asto become one of his rival’s attendants, I knew there was no furthercause for apprehension.” Caderousse looked full at Fernand—he wasghastly pale.
“Certainly,” continued Danglars, “the sacrifice was no trifling one,when the beauty of the bride is concerned. Upon my soul, that futurecaptain of mine is a lucky dog! Gad! I only wish he would let me takehis place.”
“Shall we not set forth?” asked the sweet, silvery voice of Mercédès;“two o’clock has just struck, and you know we are expected in a quarterof an hour.”
0071m


“To be sure!—to be sure!” cried Dantès, eagerly quitting the table;“let us go directly!”
His words were re-echoed by the whole party, with vociferous cheers.
At this moment Danglars, who had been incessantly observing everychange in Fernand’s look and manner, saw him stagger and fall back,with an almost convulsive spasm, against a seat placed near one of theopen windows. At the same instant his ear caught a sort of indistinctsound on the stairs, followed by the measured tread of soldiery, withthe clanking of swords and military accoutrements; then came a hum andbuzz as of many voices, so as to deaden even the noisy mirth of thebridal party, among whom a vague feeling of curiosity and apprehensionquelled every disposition to talk, and almost instantaneously the mostdeathlike stillness prevailed.
The sounds drew nearer. Three blows were struck upon the panel of thedoor. The company looked at each other in consternation.
“I demand admittance,” said a loud voice outside the room, “in the nameof the law!” As no attempt was made to prevent it, the door was opened,and a magistrate, wearing his official scarf, presented himself,followed by four soldiers and a corporal. Uneasiness now yielded to themost extreme dread on the part of those present.
“May I venture to inquire the reason of this unexpected visit?” said M.Morrel, addressing the magistrate, whom he evidently knew; “there isdoubtless some mistake easily explained.”
“If it be so,” replied the magistrate, “rely upon every reparationbeing made; meanwhile, I am the bearer of an order of arrest, andalthough I most reluctantly perform the task assigned me, it must,nevertheless, be fulfilled. Who among the persons here assembledanswers to the name of Edmond Dantès?”
Every eye was turned towards the young man who, spite of the agitationhe could not but feel, advanced with dignity, and said, in a firmvoice:
“I am he; what is your pleasure with me?”
“Edmond Dantès,” replied the magistrate, “I arrest you in the name ofthe law!”
“Me!” repeated Edmond, slightly changing color, “and wherefore, Ipray?”
“I cannot inform you, but you will be duly acquainted with the reasonsthat have rendered such a step necessary at the preliminaryexamination.”
M. Morrel felt that further resistance or remonstrance was useless. Hesaw before him an officer delegated to enforce the law, and perfectlywell knew that it would be as unavailing to seek pity from a magistratedecked with his official scarf, as to address a petition to some coldmarble effigy. Old Dantès, however, sprang forward. There aresituations which the heart of a father or a mother cannot be made tounderstand. He prayed and supplicated in terms so moving, that even theofficer was touched, and, although firm in his duty, he kindly said,“My worthy friend, let me beg of you to calm your apprehensions. Yourson has probably neglected some prescribed form or attention inregistering his cargo, and it is more than probable he will be set atliberty directly he has given the information required, whethertouching the health of his crew, or the value of his freight.”
“What is the meaning of all this?” inquired Caderousse, frowningly, ofDanglars, who had assumed an air of utter surprise.
0073m


“How can I tell you?” replied he; “I am, like yourself, utterlybewildered at all that is going on, and cannot in the least make outwhat it is about.” Caderousse then looked around for Fernand, but hehad disappeared.
The scene of the previous night now came back to his mind withstartling clearness. The painful catastrophe he had just witnessedappeared effectually to have rent away the veil which the intoxicationof the evening before had raised between himself and his memory.
“So, so,” said he, in a hoarse and choking voice, to Danglars, “this,then, I suppose, is a part of the trick you were concerting yesterday?All I can say is, that if it be so, ’tis an ill turn, and well deservesto bring double evil on those who have projected it.”
“Nonsense,” returned Danglars, “I tell you again I have nothingwhatever to do with it; besides, you know very well that I tore thepaper to pieces.”
“No, you did not!” answered Caderousse, “you merely threw it by—I sawit lying in a corner.”
“Hold your tongue, you fool!—what should you know about it?—why, youwere drunk!”
“Where is Fernand?” inquired Caderousse.
“How do I know?” replied Danglars; “gone, as every prudent man ought tobe, to look after his own affairs, most likely. Never mind where he is,let you and I go and see what is to be done for our poor friends.”
During this conversation, Dantès, after having exchanged a cheerfulshake of the hand with all his sympathizing friends, had surrenderedhimself to the officer sent to arrest him, merely saying, “Makeyourselves quite easy, my good fellows, there is some little mistake toclear up, that’s all, depend upon it; and very likely I may not have togo so far as the prison to effect that.”
0075m


“Oh, to be sure!” responded Danglars, who had now approached the group,“nothing more than a mistake, I feel quite certain.”
Dantès descended the staircase, preceded by the magistrate, andfollowed by the soldiers. A carriage awaited him at the door; he gotin, followed by two soldiers and the magistrate, and the vehicle droveoff towards Marseilles.
“Adieu, adieu, dearest Edmond!” cried Mercédès, stretching out her armsto him from the balcony.
The prisoner heard the cry, which sounded like the sob of a brokenheart, and leaning from the coach he called out, “Good-bye, Mercédès—weshall soon meet again!” Then the vehicle disappeared round one of theturnings of Fort Saint Nicholas.
“Wait for me here, all of you!” cried M. Morrel; “I will take the firstconveyance I find, and hurry to Marseilles, whence I will bring youword how all is going on.”
“That’s right!” exclaimed a multitude of voices, “go, and return asquickly as you can!”
This second departure was followed by a long and fearful state ofterrified silence on the part of those who were left behind. The oldfather and Mercédès remained for some time apart, each absorbed ingrief; but at length the two poor victims of the same blow raised theireyes, and with a simultaneous burst of feeling rushed into each other’sarms.
Meanwhile Fernand made his appearance, poured out for himself a glassof water with a trembling hand; then hastily swallowing it, went to sitdown at the first vacant place, and this was, by mere chance, placednext to the seat on which poor Mercédès had fallen half fainting, whenreleased from the warm and affectionate embrace of old Dantès.Instinctively Fernand drew back his chair.
“He is the cause of all this misery—I am quite sure of it,” whisperedCaderousse, who had never taken his eyes off Fernand, to Danglars.
“I don’t think so,” answered the other; “he’s too stupid to imaginesuch a scheme. I only hope the mischief will fall upon the head ofwhoever wrought it.”
“You don’t mention those who aided and abetted the deed,” saidCaderousse.
“Surely,” answered Danglars, “one cannot be held responsible for everychance arrow shot into the air.”
“You can, indeed, when the arrow lights point downward on somebody’shead.”
Meantime the subject of the arrest was being canvassed in everydifferent form.
“What think you, Danglars,” said one of the party, turning towards him,“of this event?”
“Why,” replied he, “I think it just possible Dantès may have beendetected with some trifling article on board ship considered here ascontraband.”
“But how could he have done so without your knowledge, Danglars, sinceyou are the ship’s supercargo?”
“Why, as for that, I could only know what I was told respecting themerchandise with which the vessel was laden. I know she was loaded withcotton, and that she took in her freight at Alexandria from Pastret’swarehouse, and at Smyrna from Pascal’s; that is all I was obliged toknow, and I beg I may not be asked for any further particulars.”
“Now I recollect,” said the afflicted old father; “my poor boy told meyesterday he had got a small case of coffee, and another of tobacco forme!”
“There, you see,” exclaimed Danglars. “Now the mischief is out; dependupon it the custom-house people went rummaging about the ship in ourabsence, and discovered poor Dantès’ hidden treasures.”
Mercédès, however, paid no heed to this explanation of her lover’sarrest. Her grief, which she had hitherto tried to restrain, now burstout in a violent fit of hysterical sobbing.
“Come, come,” said the old man, “be comforted, my poor child; there isstill hope!”
“Hope!” repeated Danglars.
“Hope!” faintly murmured Fernand, but the word seemed to die away onhis pale agitated lips, and a convulsive spasm passed over hiscountenance.
“Good news! good news!” shouted forth one of the party stationed in thebalcony on the lookout. “Here comes M. Morrel back. No doubt, now, weshall hear that our friend is released!”
Mercédès and the old man rushed to meet the shipowner and greeted himat the door. He was very pale.
“What news?” exclaimed a general burst of voices.
“Alas, my friends,” replied M. Morrel, with a mournful shake of hishead, “the thing has assumed a more serious aspect than I expected.”
“Oh, indeed—indeed, sir, he is innocent!” sobbed forth Mercédès.
“That I believe!” answered M. Morrel; “but still he is charged——”
“With what?” inquired the elder Dantès.
“With being an agent of the Bonapartist faction!” Many of our readersmay be able to recollect how formidable such an accusation became inthe period at which our story is dated.
A despairing cry escaped the pale lips of Mercédès; the old man sankinto a chair.
“Ah, Danglars!” whispered Caderousse, “you have deceived me—the trickyou spoke of last night has been played; but I cannot suffer a poor oldman or an innocent girl to die of grief through your fault. I amdetermined to tell them all about it.”
“Be silent, you simpleton!” cried Danglars, grasping him by the arm,“or I will not answer even for your own safety. Who can tell whetherDantès be innocent or guilty? The vessel did touch at Elba, where hequitted it, and passed a whole day in the island. Now, should anyletters or other documents of a compromising character be found uponhim, will it not be taken for granted that all who uphold him are hisaccomplices?”
With the rapid instinct of selfishness, Caderousse readily perceivedthe solidity of this mode of reasoning; he gazed, doubtfully,wistfully, on Danglars, and then caution supplanted generosity.
“Suppose we wait a while, and see what comes of it,” said he, casting abewildered look on his companion.
“To be sure!” answered Danglars. “Let us wait, by all means. If he beinnocent, of course he will be set at liberty; if guilty, why, it is nouse involving ourselves in a conspiracy.”
“Let us go, then. I cannot stay here any longer.”
“With all my heart!” replied Danglars, pleased to find the other sotractable. “Let us take ourselves out of the way, and leave things forthe present to take their course.”
After their departure, Fernand, who had now again become the friend andprotector of Mercédès, led the girl to her home, while some friends ofDantès conducted his father, nearly lifeless, to the Allées de Meilhan.
The rumor of Edmond’s arrest as a Bonapartist agent was not slow incirculating throughout the city.
“Could you ever have credited such a thing, my dear Danglars?” asked M.Morrel, as, on his return to the port for the purpose of gleaning freshtidings of Dantès, from M. de Villefort, the assistant procureur, heovertook his supercargo and Caderousse. “Could you have believed such athing possible?”
“Why, you know I told you,” replied Danglars, “that I considered thecircumstance of his having anchored at the Island of Elba as a verysuspicious circumstance.”
“And did you mention these suspicions to any person beside myself?”
0079m


“Certainly not!” returned Danglars. Then added in a low whisper, “Youunderstand that, on account of your uncle, M. Policar Morrel, whoserved under the _other_ government, and who does not altogetherconceal what he thinks on the subject, you are strongly suspected ofregretting the abdication of Napoleon. I should have feared to injureboth Edmond and yourself, had I divulged my own apprehensions to asoul. I am too well aware that though a subordinate, like myself, isbound to acquaint the shipowner with everything that occurs, there aremany things he ought most carefully to conceal from all else.”
“’Tis well, Danglars—’tis well!” replied M. Morrel. “You are a worthyfellow; and I had already thought of your interests in the event ofpoor Edmond having become captain of the _Pharaon_.”
“Is it possible you were so kind?”
“Yes, indeed; I had previously inquired of Dantès what was his opinionof you, and if he should have any reluctance to continue you in yourpost, for somehow I have perceived a sort of coolness between you.”
“And what was his reply?”
“That he certainly did think he had given you offence in an affairwhich he merely referred to without entering into particulars, but thatwhoever possessed the good opinion and confidence of the ship’s ownerswould have his preference also.”
“The hypocrite!” murmured Danglars.
“Poor Dantès!” said Caderousse. “No one can deny his being anoble-hearted young fellow.”
“But meanwhile,” continued M. Morrel, “here is the _Pharaon_ without acaptain.”
“Oh,” replied Danglars, “since we cannot leave this port for the nextthree months, let us hope that ere the expiration of that period Dantèswill be set at liberty.”
“No doubt; but in the meantime?”
“I am entirely at your service, M. Morrel,” answered Danglars. “Youknow that I am as capable of managing a ship as the most experiencedcaptain in the service; and it will be so far advantageous to you toaccept my services, that upon Edmond’s release from prison no furtherchange will be requisite on board the _Pharaon_ than for Dantès andmyself each to resume our respective posts.”
“Thanks, Danglars—that will smooth over all difficulties. I fullyauthorize you at once to assume the command of the _Pharaon_, and lookcarefully to the unloading of her freight. Private misfortunes mustnever be allowed to interfere with business.”
“Be easy on that score, M. Morrel; but do you think we shall bepermitted to see our poor Edmond?”
“I will let you know that directly I have seen M. de Villefort, whom Ishall endeavor to interest in Edmond’s favor. I am aware he is afurious royalist; but, in spite of that, and of his being king’sattorney, he is a man like ourselves, and I fancy not a bad sort ofone.”
“Perhaps not,” replied Danglars; “but I hear that he is ambitious, andthat’s rather against him.”
“Well, well,” returned M. Morrel, “we shall see. But now hasten onboard, I will join you there ere long.”
So saying, the worthy shipowner quitted the two allies, and proceededin the direction of the Palais de Justice.
0081m


“You see,” said Danglars, addressing Caderousse, “the turn things havetaken. Do you still feel any desire to stand up in his defence?”
“Not the slightest, but yet it seems to me a shocking thing that a merejoke should lead to such consequences.”
“But who perpetrated that joke, let me ask? neither you nor myself, butFernand; you knew very well that I threw the paper into a corner of theroom—indeed, I fancied I had destroyed it.”
“Oh, no,” replied Caderousse, “that I can answer for, you did not. Ionly wish I could see it now as plainly as I saw it lying all crushedand crumpled in a corner of the arbor.”
“Well, then, if you did, depend upon it, Fernand picked it up, andeither copied it or caused it to be copied; perhaps, even, he did nottake the trouble of recopying it. And now I think of it, by Heavens, hemay have sent the letter itself! Fortunately, for me, the handwritingwas disguised.”
“Then you were aware of Dantès being engaged in a conspiracy?”
“Not I. As I before said, I thought the whole thing was a joke, nothingmore. It seems, however, that I have unconsciously stumbled upon thetruth.”
“Still,” argued Caderousse, “I would give a great deal if nothing ofthe kind had happened; or, at least, that I had had no hand in it. Youwill see, Danglars, that it will turn out an unlucky job for both ofus.”
“Nonsense! If any harm come of it, it should fall on the guilty person;and that, you know, is Fernand. How can we be implicated in any way?All we have got to do is, to keep our own counsel, and remain perfectlyquiet, not breathing a word to any living soul; and you will see thatthe storm will pass away without in the least affecting us.”
“Amen!” responded Caderousse, waving his hand in token of adieu toDanglars, and bending his steps towards the Allées de Meilhan, movinghis head to and fro, and muttering as he went, after the manner of onewhose mind was overcharged with one absorbing idea.
“So far, then,” said Danglars, mentally, “all has gone as I would haveit. I am, temporarily, commander of the _Pharaon_, with the certaintyof being permanently so, if that fool of a Caderousse can be persuadedto hold his tongue. My only fear is the chance of Dantès beingreleased. But, there, he is in the hands of Justice; and,” added hewith a smile, “she will take her own.” So saying, he leaped into aboat, desiring to be rowed on board the _Pharaon_, where M. Morrel hadagreed to meet him.


 Chapter 6. The Deputy Procureur du Roi
In one of the aristocratic mansions built by Puget in the Rue du GrandCours opposite the Medusa fountain, a second marriage feast was beingcelebrated, almost at the same hour with the nuptial repast given byDantès. In this case, however, although the occasion of theentertainment was similar, the company was strikingly dissimilar.Instead of a rude mixture of sailors, soldiers, and those belonging tothe humblest grade of life, the present assembly was composed of thevery flower of Marseilles society,—magistrates who had resigned theiroffice during the usurper’s reign; officers who had deserted from theimperial army and joined forces with Condé; and younger members offamilies, brought up to hate and execrate the man whom five years ofexile would convert into a martyr, and fifteen of restoration elevateto the rank of a god.
The guests were still at table, and the heated and energeticconversation that prevailed betrayed the violent and vindictivepassions that then agitated each dweller of the South, where unhappily,for five centuries religious strife had long given increased bitternessto the violence of party feeling.
The emperor, now king of the petty Island of Elba, after having heldsovereign sway over one-half of the world, counting as his subjects asmall population of five or six thousand souls,—after having beenaccustomed to hear the “_Vive Napoléons_” of a hundred and twentymillions of human beings, uttered in ten different languages,—waslooked upon here as a ruined man, separated forever from any freshconnection with France or claim to her throne.
The magistrates freely discussed their political views; the militarypart of the company talked unreservedly of Moscow and Leipsic, whilethe women commented on the divorce of Josephine. It was not over thedownfall of the man, but over the defeat of the Napoleonic idea, thatthey rejoiced, and in this they foresaw for themselves the bright andcheering prospect of a revivified political existence.
An old man, decorated with the cross of Saint Louis, now rose andproposed the health of King Louis XVIII. It was the Marquis deSaint-Méran. This toast, recalling at once the patient exile ofHartwell and the peace-loving King of France, excited universalenthusiasm; glasses were elevated in the air _à l’Anglaise_, and theladies, snatching their bouquets from their fair bosoms, strewed thetable with their floral treasures. In a word, an almost poetical fervorprevailed.
“Ah,” said the Marquise de Saint-Méran, a woman with a stern,forbidding eye, though still noble and distinguished in appearance,despite her fifty years—“ah, these revolutionists, who have driven usfrom those very possessions they afterwards purchased for a mere trifleduring the Reign of Terror, would be compelled to own, were they here,that all true devotion was on our side, since we were content to followthe fortunes of a falling monarch, while they, on the contrary, madetheir fortune by worshipping the rising sun; yes, yes, they could nothelp admitting that the king, for whom we sacrificed rank, wealth, andstation was truly our ‘Louis the well-beloved,’ while their wretchedusurper has been, and ever will be, to them their evil genius, their‘Napoleon the accursed.’ Am I not right, Villefort?”
“I beg your pardon, madame. I really must pray you to excuse me, but—intruth—I was not attending to the conversation.”
“Marquise, marquise!” interposed the old nobleman who had proposed thetoast, “let the young people alone; let me tell you, on one’s weddingday there are more agreeable subjects of conversation than drypolitics.”
“Never mind, dearest mother,” said a young and lovely girl, with aprofusion of light brown hair, and eyes that seemed to float in liquidcrystal, “’tis all my fault for seizing upon M. de Villefort, so as toprevent his listening to what you said. But there—now take him—he isyour own for as long as you like. M. Villefort, I beg to remind you mymother speaks to you.”
“If the marquise will deign to repeat the words I but imperfectlycaught, I shall be delighted to answer,” said M. de Villefort.
“Never mind, Renée,” replied the marquise, with a look of tendernessthat seemed out of keeping with her harsh dry features; but, howeverall other feelings may be withered in a woman’s nature, there is alwaysone bright smiling spot in the desert of her heart, and that is theshrine of maternal love. “I forgive you. What I was saying, Villefort,was, that the Bonapartists had not our sincerity, enthusiasm, ordevotion.”
“They had, however, what supplied the place of those fine qualities,”replied the young man, “and that was fanaticism. Napoleon is theMahomet of the West, and is worshipped by his commonplace but ambitiousfollowers, not only as a leader and lawgiver, but also as thepersonification of equality.”
“He!” cried the marquise: “Napoleon the type of equality! For mercy’ssake, then, what would you call Robespierre? Come, come, do not stripthe latter of his just rights to bestow them on the Corsican, who, tomy mind, has usurped quite enough.”
0085m


“Nay, madame; I would place each of these heroes on his rightpedestal—that of Robespierre on his scaffold in the Place Louis Quinze;that of Napoleon on the column of the Place Vendôme. The onlydifference consists in the opposite character of the equality advocatedby these two men; one is the equality that elevates, the other is theequality that degrades; one brings a king within reach of theguillotine, the other elevates the people to a level with the throne.Observe,” said Villefort, smiling, “I do not mean to deny that boththese men were revolutionary scoundrels, and that the 9th Thermidor andthe 4th of April, in the year 1814, were lucky days for France, worthyof being gratefully remembered by every friend to monarchy and civilorder; and that explains how it comes to pass that, fallen, as I trusthe is forever, Napoleon has still retained a train of parasiticalsatellites. Still, marquise, it has been so with otherusurpers—Cromwell, for instance, who was not half so bad as Napoleon,had his partisans and advocates.”
“Do you know, Villefort, that you are talking in a most dreadfullyrevolutionary strain? But I excuse it, it is impossible to expect theson of a Girondin to be free from a small spice of the old leaven.” Adeep crimson suffused the countenance of Villefort.
“’Tis true, madame,” answered he, “that my father was a Girondin, buthe was not among the number of those who voted for the king’s death; hewas an equal sufferer with yourself during the Reign of Terror, and hadwell-nigh lost his head on the same scaffold on which your fatherperished.”
“True,” replied the marquise, without wincing in the slightest degreeat the tragic remembrance thus called up; “but bear in mind, if youplease, that our respective parents underwent persecution andproscription from diametrically opposite principles; in proof of whichI may remark, that while my family remained among the staunchestadherents of the exiled princes, your father lost no time in joiningthe new government; and that while the Citizen Noirtier was a Girondin,the Count Noirtier became a senator.”
“Dear mother,” interposed Renée, “you know very well it was agreed thatall these disagreeable reminiscences should forever be laid aside.”
“Suffer me, also, madame,” replied Villefort, “to add my earnestrequest to Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran’s, that you will kindly allowthe veil of oblivion to cover and conceal the past. What availsrecrimination over matters wholly past recall? For my own part, I havelaid aside even the name of my father, and altogether disown hispolitical principles. He was—nay, probably may still be—a Bonapartist,and is called Noirtier; I, on the contrary, am a staunch royalist, andstyle myself de Villefort. Let what may remain of revolutionary sapexhaust itself and die away with the old trunk, and condescend only toregard the young shoot which has started up at a distance from theparent tree, without having the power, any more than the wish, toseparate entirely from the stock from which it sprung.”
“Bravo, Villefort!” cried the marquis; “excellently well said! Come,now, I have hopes of obtaining what I have been for years endeavoringto persuade the marquise to promise; namely, a perfect amnesty andforgetfulness of the past.”
“With all my heart,” replied the marquise; “let the past be foreverforgotten. I promise you it affords _me_ as little pleasure to reviveit as it does you. All I ask is, that Villefort will be firm andinflexible for the future in his political principles. Remember, also,Villefort, that we have pledged ourselves to his majesty for yourfealty and strict loyalty, and that at our recommendation the kingconsented to forget the past, as I do” (and here she extended to himher hand)—“as I now do at your entreaty. But bear in mind, that shouldthere fall in your way anyone guilty of conspiring against thegovernment, you will be so much the more bound to visit the offencewith rigorous punishment, as it is known you belong to a suspectedfamily.”
“Alas, madame,” returned Villefort, “my profession, as well as thetimes in which we live, compels me to be severe. I have alreadysuccessfully conducted several public prosecutions, and brought theoffenders to merited punishment. But we have not done with the thingyet.”
0087m


“Do you, indeed, think so?” inquired the marquise.
“I am, at least, fearful of it. Napoleon, in the Island of Elba, is toonear France, and his proximity keeps up the hopes of his partisans.Marseilles is filled with half-pay officers, who are daily, under onefrivolous pretext or other, getting up quarrels with the royalists;from hence arise continual and fatal duels among the higher classes ofpersons, and assassinations in the lower.”
“You have heard, perhaps,” said the Comte de Salvieux, one of M. deSaint-Méran’s oldest friends, and chamberlain to the Comte d’Artois,“that the Holy Alliance purpose removing him from thence?”
“Yes; they were talking about it when we left Paris,” said M. deSaint-Méran; “and where is it decided to transfer him?”
“To Saint Helena.”
“For heaven’s sake, where is that?” asked the marquise.
“An island situated on the other side of the equator, at least twothousand leagues from here,” replied the count.
“So much the better. As Villefort observes, it is a great act of follyto have left such a man between Corsica, where he was born, and Naples,of which his brother-in-law is king, and face to face with Italy, thesovereignty of which he coveted for his son.”
“Unfortunately,” said Villefort, “there are the treaties of 1814, andwe cannot molest Napoleon without breaking those compacts.”
“Oh, well, we shall find some way out of it,” responded M. de Salvieux.“There wasn’t any trouble over treaties when it was a question ofshooting the poor Duc d’Enghien.”
“Well,” said the marquise, “it seems probable that, by the aid of theHoly Alliance, we shall be rid of Napoleon; and we must trust to thevigilance of M. de Villefort to purify Marseilles of his partisans. Theking is either a king or no king; if he be acknowledged as sovereign ofFrance, he should be upheld in peace and tranquillity; and this canbest be effected by employing the most inflexible agents to put downevery attempt at conspiracy—’tis the best and surest means ofpreventing mischief.”
“Unfortunately, madame,” answered Villefort, “the strong arm of the lawis not called upon to interfere until the evil has taken place.”
“Then all he has got to do is to endeavor to repair it.”
“Nay, madame, the law is frequently powerless to effect this; all itcan do is to avenge the wrong done.”
“Oh, M. de Villefort,” cried a beautiful young creature, daughter tothe Comte de Salvieux, and the cherished friend of Mademoiselle deSaint-Méran, “do try and get up some famous trial while we are atMarseilles. I never was in a law-court; I am told it is so veryamusing!”
“Amusing, certainly,” replied the young man, “inasmuch as, instead ofshedding tears as at the fictitious tale of woe produced at a theatre,you behold in a law-court a case of real and genuine distress—a dramaof life. The prisoner whom you there see pale, agitated, and alarmed,instead of—as is the case when a curtain falls on a tragedy—going hometo sup peacefully with his family, and then retiring to rest, that hemay recommence his mimic woes on the morrow,—is removed from your sightmerely to be reconducted to his prison and delivered up to theexecutioner. I leave you to judge how far your nerves are calculated tobear you through such a scene. Of this, however, be assured, thatshould any favorable opportunity present itself, I will not fail tooffer you the choice of being present.”
“For shame, M. de Villefort!” said Renée, becoming quite pale; “don’tyou see how you are frightening us?—and yet you laugh.”
“What would you have? ’Tis like a duel. I have already recordedsentence of death, five or six times, against the movers of politicalconspiracies, and who can say how many daggers may be ready sharpened,and only waiting a favorable opportunity to be buried in my heart?”
“Gracious heavens, M. de Villefort,” said Renée, becoming more and moreterrified; “you surely are not in earnest.”
“Indeed I am,” replied the young magistrate with a smile; “and in theinteresting trial that young lady is anxious to witness, the case wouldonly be still more aggravated. Suppose, for instance, the prisoner, asis more than probable, to have served under Napoleon—well, can youexpect for an instant, that one accustomed, at the word of hiscommander, to rush fearlessly on the very bayonets of his foe, willscruple more to drive a stiletto into the heart of one he knows to behis personal enemy, than to slaughter his fellow-creatures, merelybecause bidden to do so by one he is bound to obey? Besides, onerequires the excitement of being hateful in the eyes of the accused, inorder to lash one’s self into a state of sufficient vehemence andpower. I would not choose to see the man against whom I pleaded smile,as though in mockery of my words. No; my pride is to see the accusedpale, agitated, and as though beaten out of all composure by the fireof my eloquence.” Renée uttered a smothered exclamation.
“Bravo!” cried one of the guests; “that is what I call talking to somepurpose.”
“Just the person we require at a time like the present,” said a second.
“What a splendid business that last case of yours was, my dearVillefort!” remarked a third; “I mean the trial of the man formurdering his father. Upon my word, you killed him ere the executionerhad laid his hand upon him.”
“Oh, as for parricides, and such dreadful people as that,” interposedRenée, “it matters very little what is done to them; but as regardspoor unfortunate creatures whose only crime consists in having mixedthemselves up in political intrigues——”
“Why, that is the very worst offence they could possibly commit; for,don’t you see, Renée, the king is the father of his people, and he whoshall plot or contrive aught against the life and safety of the parentof thirty-two millions of souls, is a parricide upon a fearfully greatscale?”
“I don’t know anything about that,” replied Renée; “but, M. deVillefort, you have promised me—have you not?—always to show mercy tothose I plead for.”
“Make yourself quite easy on that point,” answered Villefort, with oneof his sweetest smiles; “you and I will always consult upon ourverdicts.”
“My love,” said the marquise, “attend to your doves, your lap-dogs, andembroidery, but do not meddle with what you do not understand. Nowadaysthe military profession is in abeyance and the magisterial robe is thebadge of honor. There is a wise Latin proverb that is very much inpoint.”
“_Cedant arma togæ_,” said Villefort with a bow.
“I cannot speak Latin,” responded the marquise.
“Well,” said Renée, “I cannot help regretting you had not chosen someother profession than your own—a physician, for instance. Do you know Ialways felt a shudder at the idea of even a _destroying_ angel?”
“Dear, good Renée,” whispered Villefort, as he gazed with unutterabletenderness on the lovely speaker.
“Let us hope, my child,” cried the marquis, “that M. de Villefort mayprove the moral and political physician of this province; if so, hewill have achieved a noble work.”
“And one which will go far to efface the recollection of his father’sconduct,” added the incorrigible marquise.
“Madame,” replied Villefort, with a mournful smile, “I have already hadthe honor to observe that my father has—at least, I hope so—abjured hispast errors, and that he is, at the present moment, a firm and zealousfriend to religion and order—a better royalist, possibly, than his son;for he has to atone for past dereliction, while I have no other impulsethan warm, decided preference and conviction.” Having made thiswell-turned speech, Villefort looked carefully around to mark theeffect of his oratory, much as he would have done had he beenaddressing the bench in open court.
“Do you know, my dear Villefort,” cried the Comte de Salvieux, “that isexactly what I myself said the other day at the Tuileries, whenquestioned by his majesty’s principal chamberlain touching thesingularity of an alliance between the son of a Girondin and thedaughter of an officer of the Duc de Condé; and I assure you he seemedfully to comprehend that this mode of reconciling political differenceswas based upon sound and excellent principles. Then the king, who,without our suspecting it, had overheard our conversation, interruptedus by saying, ‘Villefort’—observe that the king did not pronounce theword Noirtier, but, on the contrary, placed considerable emphasis onthat of Villefort—‘Villefort,’ said his majesty, ‘is a young man ofgreat judgment and discretion, who will be sure to make a figure in hisprofession; I like him much, and it gave me great pleasure to hear thathe was about to become the son-in-law of the Marquis and Marquise deSaint-Méran. I should myself have recommended the match, had not thenoble marquis anticipated my wishes by requesting my consent to it.’”
“Is it possible the king could have condescended so far as to expresshimself so favorably of me?” asked the enraptured Villefort.
“I give you his very words; and if the marquis chooses to be candid, hewill confess that they perfectly agree with what his majesty said tohim, when he went six months ago to consult him upon the subject ofyour espousing his daughter.”
0091m


“That is true,” answered the marquis.
“How much do I owe this gracious prince! What is there I would not doto evince my earnest gratitude!”
“That is right,” cried the marquise. “I love to see you thus. Now,then, were a conspirator to fall into your hands, he would be mostwelcome.”
“For my part, dear mother,” interposed Renée, “I trust your wishes willnot prosper, and that Providence will only permit petty offenders, poordebtors, and miserable cheats to fall into M. de Villefort’shands,—then I shall be contented.”
“Just the same as though you prayed that a physician might only becalled upon to prescribe for headaches, measles, and the stings ofwasps, or any other slight affection of the epidermis. If you wish tosee me the king’s attorney, you must desire for me some of thoseviolent and dangerous diseases from the cure of which so much honorredounds to the physician.”
At this moment, and as though the utterance of Villefort’s wish hadsufficed to effect its accomplishment, a servant entered the room, andwhispered a few words in his ear. Villefort immediately rose from tableand quitted the room upon the plea of urgent business; he soon,however, returned, his whole face beaming with delight. Renée regardedhim with fond affection; and certainly his handsome features, lit up asthey then were with more than usual fire and animation, seemed formedto excite the innocent admiration with which she gazed on her gracefuland intelligent lover.
“You were wishing just now,” said Villefort, addressing her, “that Iwere a doctor instead of a lawyer. Well, I at least resemble thedisciples of Esculapius in one thing [people spoke in this style in1815], that of not being able to call a day my own, not even that of mybetrothal.”
“And wherefore were you called away just now?” asked Mademoiselle deSaint-Méran, with an air of deep interest.
“For a very serious matter, which bids fair to make work for theexecutioner.”
“How dreadful!” exclaimed Renée, turning pale.
“Is it possible?” burst simultaneously from all who were near enough tothe magistrate to hear his words.
“Why, if my information prove correct, a sort of Bonapartist conspiracyhas just been discovered.”
“Can I believe my ears?” cried the marquise.
“I will read you the letter containing the accusation, at least,” saidVillefort:
“‘The king’s attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and thereligious institutions of his country, that one named Edmond Dantès,mate of the ship _Pharaon_, this day arrived from Smyrna, after havingtouched at Naples and Porto-Ferrajo, has been the bearer of a letterfrom Murat to the usurper, and again taken charge of another letterfrom the usurper to the Bonapartist club in Paris. Ample corroborationof this statement may be obtained by arresting the above-mentionedEdmond Dantès, who either carries the letter for Paris about with him,or has it at his father’s abode. Should it not be found in thepossession of father or son, then it will assuredly be discovered inthe cabin belonging to the said Dantès on board the _Pharaon_.’”
“But,” said Renée, “this letter, which, after all, is but an anonymousscrawl, is not even addressed to you, but to the king’s attorney.”
0093m


“True; but that gentleman being absent, his secretary, by his orders,opened his letters; thinking this one of importance, he sent for me,but not finding me, took upon himself to give the necessary orders forarresting the accused party.”
“Then the guilty person is absolutely in custody?” said the marquise.
“Nay, dear mother, say the accused person. You know we cannot yetpronounce him guilty.”
“He is in safe custody,” answered Villefort; “and rely upon it, if theletter is found, he will not be likely to be trusted abroad again,unless he goes forth under the especial protection of the headsman.”
“And where is the unfortunate being?” asked Renée.
“He is at my house.”
“Come, come, my friend,” interrupted the marquise, “do not neglect yourduty to linger with us. You are the king’s servant, and must gowherever that service calls you.”
“Oh, Villefort!” cried Renée, clasping her hands, and looking towardsher lover with piteous earnestness, “be merciful on this the day of ourbetrothal.”
The young man passed round to the side of the table where the fairpleader sat, and leaning over her chair said tenderly:
“To give you pleasure, my sweet Renée, I promise to show all the lenityin my power; but if the charges brought against this Bonapartist heroprove correct, why, then, you really must give me leave to order hishead to be cut off.”
Renée shuddered at the word _cut_, for the growth in question had ahead.
“Never mind that foolish girl, Villefort,” said the marquise. “She willsoon get over these things.” So saying, Madame de Saint-Méran extendedher dry bony hand to Villefort, who, while imprinting a son-in-law’srespectful salute on it, looked at Renée, as much as to say, “I musttry and fancy ’tis your dear hand I kiss, as it should have been.”
“These are mournful auspices to accompany a betrothal,” sighed poorRenée.
“Upon my word, child!” exclaimed the angry marquise, “your follyexceeds all bounds. I should be glad to know what connection there canpossibly be between your sickly sentimentality and the affairs of thestate!”
“Oh, mother!” murmured Renée.
“Nay, madame, I pray you pardon this little traitor. I promise you thatto make up for her want of loyalty, I will be most inflexibly severe;”then casting an expressive glance at his betrothed, which seemed tosay, “Fear not, for your dear sake my justice shall be tempered withmercy,” and receiving a sweet and approving smile in return, Villefortdeparted with paradise in his heart.


 Chapter 7. The Examination
No sooner had Villefort left the salon, than he assumed the grave airof a man who holds the balance of life and death in his hands. Now, inspite of the nobility of his countenance, the command of which, like afinished actor, he had carefully studied before the glass, it was by nomeans easy for him to assume an air of judicial severity. Except therecollection of the line of politics his father had adopted, and whichmight interfere, unless he acted with the greatest prudence, with hisown career, Gérard de Villefort was as happy as a man could be. Alreadyrich, he held a high official situation, though only twenty-seven. Hewas about to marry a young and charming woman, whom he loved, notpassionately, but reasonably, as became a deputy attorney of the king;and besides her personal attractions, which were very great,Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran’s family possessed considerable politicalinfluence, which they would, of course, exert in his favor. The dowryof his wife amounted to fifty thousand crowns, and he had, besides, theprospect of seeing her fortune increased to half a million at herfather’s death. These considerations naturally gave Villefort a feelingof such complete felicity that his mind was fairly dazzled in itscontemplation.
At the door he met the commissary of police, who was waiting for him.The sight of this officer recalled Villefort from the third heaven toearth; he composed his face, as we have before described, and said, “Ihave read the letter, sir, and you have acted rightly in arresting thisman; now inform me what you have discovered concerning him and theconspiracy.”
“We know nothing as yet of the conspiracy, monsieur; all the papersfound have been sealed up and placed on your desk. The prisoner himselfis named Edmond Dantès, mate on board the three-master the _Pharaon_,trading in cotton with Alexandria and Smyrna, and belonging to Morrel &Son, of Marseilles.”
“Before he entered the merchant service, had he ever served in themarines?”
“Oh, no, monsieur, he is very young.”
“How old?”
“Nineteen or twenty at the most.”
At this moment, and as Villefort had arrived at the corner of the Ruedes Conseils, a man, who seemed to have been waiting for him,approached; it was M. Morrel.
“Ah, M. de Villefort,” cried he, “I am delighted to see you. Some ofyour people have committed the strangest mistake—they have justarrested Edmond Dantès, mate of my vessel.”
“I know it, monsieur,” replied Villefort, “and I am now going toexamine him.”
“Oh,” said Morrel, carried away by his friendship, “you do not knowhim, and I do. He is the most estimable, the most trustworthy creaturein the world, and I will venture to say, there is not a better seamanin all the merchant service. Oh, M. de Villefort, I beseech yourindulgence for him.”
Villefort, as we have seen, belonged to the aristocratic party atMarseilles, Morrel to the plebeian; the first was a royalist, the othersuspected of Bonapartism. Villefort looked disdainfully at Morrel, andreplied coldly:
“You are aware, monsieur, that a man may be estimable and trustworthyin private life, and the best seaman in the merchant service, and yetbe, politically speaking, a great criminal. Is it not true?”
The magistrate laid emphasis on these words, as if he wished to applythem to the owner himself, while his eyes seemed to plunge into theheart of one who, interceding for another, had himself need ofindulgence. Morrel reddened, for his own conscience was not quite clearon politics; besides, what Dantès had told him of his interview withthe grand-marshal, and what the emperor had said to him, embarrassedhim. He replied, however, in a tone of deep interest:
“I entreat you, M. de Villefort, be, as you always are, kind andequitable, and give him back to us soon.” This _give us_ soundedrevolutionary in the deputy’s ears.
“Ah, ah,” murmured he, “is Dantès then a member of some Carbonarisociety, that his protector thus employs the collective form? He was,if I recollect, arrested in a tavern, in company with a great manyothers.” Then he added, “Monsieur, you may rest assured I shall performmy duty impartially, and that if he be innocent you shall not haveappealed to me in vain; should he, however, be guilty, in this presentepoch, impunity would furnish a dangerous example, and I must do myduty.”
0097m


As he had now arrived at the door of his own house, which adjoined thePalais de Justice, he entered, after having, coldly saluted theshipowner, who stood, as if petrified, on the spot where Villefort hadleft him. The antechamber was full of police agents and gendarmes, inthe midst of whom, carefully watched, but calm and smiling, stood theprisoner. Villefort traversed the antechamber, cast a side glance atDantès, and taking a packet which a gendarme offered him, disappeared,saying, “Bring in the prisoner.”
Rapid as had been Villefort’s glance, it had served to give him an ideaof the man he was about to interrogate. He had recognized intelligencein the high forehead, courage in the dark eye and bent brow, andfrankness in the thick lips that showed a set of pearly teeth.Villefort’s first impression was favorable; but he had been so oftenwarned to mistrust first impulses, that he applied the maxim to theimpression, forgetting the difference between the two words. Hestifled, therefore, the feelings of compassion that were rising,composed his features, and sat down, grim and sombre, at his desk. Aninstant after Dantès entered. He was pale, but calm and collected, andsaluting his judge with easy politeness, looked round for a seat, as ifhe had been in M. Morrel’s salon. It was then that he encountered forthe first time Villefort’s look,—that look peculiar to the magistrate,who, while seeming to read the thoughts of others, betrays nothing ofhis own.
“Who and what are you?” demanded Villefort, turning over a pile ofpapers, containing information relative to the prisoner, that a policeagent had given to him on his entry, and that, already, in an hour’stime, had swelled to voluminous proportions, thanks to the corruptespionage of which “the accused” is always made the victim.
“My name is Edmond Dantès,” replied the young man calmly; “I am mate ofthe _Pharaon_, belonging to Messrs. Morrel & Son.”
“Your age?” continued Villefort.
“Nineteen,” returned Dantès.
“What were you doing at the moment you were arrested?”
“I was at the festival of my marriage, monsieur,” said the young man,his voice slightly tremulous, so great was the contrast between thathappy moment and the painful ceremony he was now undergoing; so greatwas the contrast between the sombre aspect of M. de Villefort and theradiant face of Mercédès.
“You were at the festival of your marriage?” said the deputy,shuddering in spite of himself.
“Yes, monsieur; I am on the point of marrying a young girl I have beenattached to for three years.” Villefort, impassive as he was, wasstruck with this coincidence; and the tremulous voice of Dantès,surprised in the midst of his happiness, struck a sympathetic chord inhis own bosom—he also was on the point of being married, and he wassummoned from his own happiness to destroy that of another. “Thisphilosophic reflection,” thought he, “will make a great sensation at M.de Saint-Méran’s;” and he arranged mentally, while Dantès awaitedfurther questions, the antithesis by which orators often create areputation for eloquence. When this speech was arranged, Villefortturned to Dantès.
0099m


“Go on, sir,” said he.
“What would you have me say?”
“Give all the information in your power.”
“Tell me on which point you desire information, and I will tell all Iknow; only,” added he, with a smile, “I warn you I know very little.”
“Have you served under the usurper?”
“I was about to be mustered into the Royal Marines when he fell.”
“It is reported your political opinions are extreme,” said Villefort,who had never heard anything of the kind, but was not sorry to makethis inquiry, as if it were an accusation.
“My political opinions!” replied Dantès. “Alas, sir, I never had anyopinions. I am hardly nineteen; I know nothing; I have no part to play.If I obtain the situation I desire, I shall owe it to M. Morrel. Thusall my opinions—I will not say public, but private—are confined tothese three sentiments,—I love my father, I respect M. Morrel, and Iadore Mercédès. This, sir, is all I can tell you, and you see howuninteresting it is.” As Dantès spoke, Villefort gazed at his ingenuousand open countenance, and recollected the words of Renée, who, withoutknowing who the culprit was, had besought his indulgence for him. Withthe deputy’s knowledge of crime and criminals, every word the young manuttered convinced him more and more of his innocence. This lad, for hewas scarcely a man,—simple, natural, eloquent with that eloquence ofthe heart never found when sought for; full of affection for everybody,because he was happy, and because happiness renders even the wickedgood—extended his affection even to his judge, spite of Villefort’ssevere look and stern accent. Dantès seemed full of kindness.
_“Pardieu!”_ said Villefort, “he is a noble fellow. I hope I shall gainRenée’s favor easily by obeying the first command she ever imposed onme. I shall have at least a pressure of the hand in public, and a sweetkiss in private.” Full of this idea, Villefort’s face became so joyous,that when he turned to Dantès, the latter, who had watched the changeon his physiognomy, was smiling also.
“Sir,” said Villefort, “have you any enemies, at least, that you know.”
“I have enemies?” replied Dantès; “my position is not sufficientlyelevated for that. As for my disposition, that is, perhaps, somewhattoo hasty; but I have striven to repress it. I have had ten or twelvesailors under me, and if you question them, they will tell you thatthey love and respect me, not as a father, for I am too young, but asan elder brother.”
“But you may have excited jealousy. You are about to become captain atnineteen—an elevated post; you are about to marry a pretty girl, wholoves you; and these two pieces of good fortune may have excited theenvy of someone.”
“You are right; you know men better than I do, and what you say maypossibly be the case, I confess; but if such persons are among myacquaintances I prefer not to know it, because then I should be forcedto hate them.”
“You are wrong; you should always strive to see clearly around you. Youseem a worthy young man; I will depart from the strict line of my dutyto aid you in discovering the author of this accusation. Here is thepaper; do you know the writing?” As he spoke, Villefort drew the letterfrom his pocket, and presented it to Dantès. Dantès read it. A cloudpassed over his brow as he said:
“No, monsieur, I do not know the writing, and yet it is tolerablyplain. Whoever did it writes well. I am very fortunate,” added he,looking gratefully at Villefort, “to be examined by such a man as you;for this envious person is a real enemy.” And by the rapid glance thatthe young man’s eyes shot forth, Villefort saw how much energy lay hidbeneath this mildness.
“Now,” said the deputy, “answer me frankly, not as a prisoner to ajudge, but as one man to another who takes an interest in him, whattruth is there in the accusation contained in this anonymous letter?”And Villefort threw disdainfully on his desk the letter Dantès had justgiven back to him.
“None at all. I will tell you the real facts. I swear by my honor as asailor, by my love for Mercédès, by the life of my father——”
“Speak, monsieur,” said Villefort. Then, internally, “If Renée couldsee me, I hope she would be satisfied, and would no longer call me adecapitator.”
“Well, when we quitted Naples, Captain Leclere was attacked with abrain fever. As we had no doctor on board, and he was so anxious toarrive at Elba, that he would not touch at any other port, his disorderrose to such a height, that at the end of the third day, feeling he wasdying, he called me to him. ‘My dear Dantès,’ said he, ‘swear toperform what I am going to tell you, for it is a matter of the deepestimportance.’
“‘I swear, captain,’ replied I.
“‘Well, as after my death the command devolves on you as mate, assumethe command, and bear up for the Island of Elba, disembark atPorto-Ferrajo, ask for the grand-marshal, give him this letter—perhapsthey will give you another letter, and charge you with a commission.You will accomplish what I was to have done, and derive all the honorand profit from it.’
“‘I will do it, captain; but perhaps I shall not be admitted to thegrand-marshal’s presence as easily as you expect?’
“‘Here is a ring that will obtain audience of him, and remove everydifficulty,’ said the captain. At these words he gave me a ring. It wastime—two hours after he was delirious; the next day he died.”
“And what did you do then?”
“What I ought to have done, and what everyone would have done in myplace. Everywhere the last requests of a dying man are sacred; but witha sailor the last requests of his superior are commands. I sailed forthe Island of Elba, where I arrived the next day; I ordered everybodyto remain on board, and went on shore alone. As I had expected, I foundsome difficulty in obtaining access to the grand-marshal; but I sentthe ring I had received from the captain to him, and was instantlyadmitted. He questioned me concerning Captain Leclere’s death; and, asthe latter had told me, gave me a letter to carry on to a person inParis. I undertook it because it was what my captain had bade me do. Ilanded here, regulated the affairs of the vessel, and hastened to visitmy affianced bride, whom I found more lovely than ever. Thanks to M.Morrel, all the forms were got over; in a word I was, as I told you, atmy marriage feast; and I should have been married in an hour, andtomorrow I intended to start for Paris, had I not been arrested on thischarge which you as well as I now see to be unjust.”
“Ah,” said Villefort, “this seems to me the truth. If you have beenculpable, it was imprudence, and this imprudence was in obedience tothe orders of your captain. Give up this letter you have brought fromElba, and pass your word you will appear should you be required, and goand rejoin your friends.
“I am free, then, sir?” cried Dantès joyfully.
“Yes; but first give me this letter.”
“You have it already, for it was taken from me with some others which Isee in that packet.”
“Stop a moment,” said the deputy, as Dantès took his hat and gloves.“To whom is it addressed?”
_“To Monsieur Noirtier, Rue Coq-Héron, Paris.”_ Had a thunderboltfallen into the room, Villefort could not have been more stupefied. Hesank into his seat, and hastily turning over the packet, drew forth thefatal letter, at which he glanced with an expression of terror.
“M. Noirtier, Rue Coq-Héron, No. 13,” murmured he, growing still paler.
“Yes,” said Dantès; “do you know him?”
“No,” replied Villefort; “a faithful servant of the king does not knowconspirators.”
0103m


“It is a conspiracy, then?” asked Dantès, who after believing himselffree, now began to feel a tenfold alarm. “I have, however, already toldyou, sir, I was entirely ignorant of the contents of the letter.”
“Yes; but you knew the name of the person to whom it was addressed,”said Villefort.
“I was forced to read the address to know to whom to give it.”
“Have you shown this letter to anyone?” asked Villefort, becoming stillmore pale.
“To no one, on my honor.”
“Everybody is ignorant that you are the bearer of a letter from theIsland of Elba, and addressed to M. Noirtier?”
“Everybody, except the person who gave it to me.”
“And that was too much, far too much,” murmured Villefort. Villefort’sbrow darkened more and more, his white lips and clenched teeth filledDantès with apprehension. After reading the letter, Villefort coveredhis face with his hands.
“Oh,” said Dantès timidly, “what is the matter?” Villefort made noanswer, but raised his head at the expiration of a few seconds, andagain perused the letter.
“And you say that you are ignorant of the contents of this letter?”
“I give you my word of honor, sir,” said Dantès; “but what is thematter? You are ill—shall I ring for assistance?—shall I call?”
“No,” said Villefort, rising hastily; “stay where you are. It is for meto give orders here, and not you.”
“Monsieur,” replied Dantès proudly, “it was only to summon assistancefor you.”
“I want none; it was a temporary indisposition. Attend to yourself;answer me.” Dantès waited, expecting a question, but in vain. Villefortfell back on his chair, passed his hand over his brow, moist withperspiration, and, for the third time, read the letter.
“Oh, if he knows the contents of this!” murmured he, “and that Noirtieris the father of Villefort, I am lost!” And he fixed his eyes uponEdmond as if he would have penetrated his thoughts.
“Oh, it is impossible to doubt it,” cried he, suddenly.
“In heaven’s name!” cried the unhappy young man, “if you doubt me,question me; I will answer you.” Villefort made a violent effort, andin a tone he strove to render firm:
“Sir,” said he, “I am no longer able, as I had hoped, to restore youimmediately to liberty; before doing so, I must consult the trialjustice; what my own feeling is you already know.”
“Oh, monsieur,” cried Dantès, “you have been rather a friend than ajudge.”
0105m


“Well, I must detain you some time longer, but I will strive to make itas short as possible. The principal charge against you is this letter,and you see——” Villefort approached the fire, cast it in, and waiteduntil it was entirely consumed.
“You see, I destroy it?”
“Oh,” exclaimed Dantès, “you are goodness itself.”
“Listen,” continued Villefort; “you can now have confidence in me afterwhat I have done.”
“Oh, command, and I will obey.”
“Listen; this is not a command, but advice I give you.”
“Speak, and I will follow your advice.”
“I shall detain you until this evening in the Palais de Justice. Shouldanyone else interrogate you, say to him what you have said to me, butdo not breathe a word of this letter.”
“I promise.” It was Villefort who seemed to entreat, and the prisonerwho reassured him.
“You see,” continued he, glancing toward the grate, where fragments ofburnt paper fluttered in the flames, “the letter is destroyed; you andI alone know of its existence; should you, therefore, be questioned,deny all knowledge of it—deny it boldly, and you are saved.”
“Be satisfied; I will deny it.”
“It was the only letter you had?”
“It was.”
“Swear it.”
“I swear it.”
Villefort rang. A police agent entered. Villefort whispered some wordsin his ear, to which the officer replied by a motion of his head.
“Follow him,” said Villefort to Dantès. Dantès saluted Villefort andretired. Hardly had the door closed when Villefort threw himselfhalf-fainting into a chair.
“Alas, alas,” murmured he, “if the procureur himself had been atMarseilles I should have been ruined. This accursed letter would havedestroyed all my hopes. Oh, my father, must your past career alwaysinterfere with my successes?” Suddenly a light passed over his face, asmile played round his set mouth, and his haggard eyes were fixed inthought.
“This will do,” said he, “and from this letter, which might have ruinedme, I will make my fortune. Now to the work I have in hand.” And afterhaving assured himself that the prisoner was gone, the deputy procureurhastened to the house of his betrothed.
0107m



 Chapter 8. The Château d’If
The commissary of police, as he traversed the antechamber, made a signto two gendarmes, who placed themselves one on Dantès’ right and theother on his left. A door that communicated with the Palais de Justicewas opened, and they went through a long range of gloomy corridors,whose appearance might have made even the boldest shudder. The Palaisde Justice communicated with the prison,—a sombre edifice, that fromits grated windows looks on the clock-tower of the Accoules. Afternumberless windings, Dantès saw a door with an iron wicket. Thecommissary took up an iron mallet and knocked thrice, every blowseeming to Dantès as if struck on his heart. The door opened, the twogendarmes gently pushed him forward, and the door closed with a loudsound behind him. The air he inhaled was no longer pure, but thick andmephitic,—he was in prison.
He was conducted to a tolerably neat chamber, but grated and barred,and its appearance, therefore, did not greatly alarm him; besides, thewords of Villefort, who seemed to interest himself so much, resoundedstill in his ears like a promise of freedom. It was four o’clock whenDantès was placed in this chamber. It was, as we have said, the 1st ofMarch, and the prisoner was soon buried in darkness. The obscurityaugmented the acuteness of his hearing; at the slightest sound he roseand hastened to the door, convinced they were about to liberate him,but the sound died away, and Dantès sank again into his seat. At last,about ten o’clock, and just as Dantès began to despair, steps wereheard in the corridor, a key turned in the lock, the bolts creaked, themassy oaken door flew open, and a flood of light from two torchespervaded the apartment.
By the torchlight Dantès saw the glittering sabres and carbines of fourgendarmes. He had advanced at first, but stopped at the sight of thisdisplay of force.
“Are you come to fetch me?” asked he.
“Yes,” replied a gendarme.
“By the orders of the deputy procureur?”
“I believe so.” The conviction that they came from M. de Villefortrelieved all Dantès’ apprehensions; he advanced calmly, and placedhimself in the centre of the escort. A carriage waited at the door, thecoachman was on the box, and a police officer sat beside him.
“Is this carriage for me?” said Dantès.
“It is for you,” replied a gendarme.
Dantès was about to speak; but feeling himself urged forward, andhaving neither the power nor the intention to resist, he mounted thesteps, and was in an instant seated inside between two gendarmes; thetwo others took their places opposite, and the carriage rolled heavilyover the stones.
The prisoner glanced at the windows—they were grated; he had changedhis prison for another that was conveying him he knew not whither.Through the grating, however, Dantès saw they were passing through theRue Caisserie, and by the Rue Saint-Laurent and the Rue Taramis, to thequay. Soon he saw the lights of La Consigne.
The carriage stopped, the officer descended, approached the guardhouse,a dozen soldiers came out and formed themselves in order; Dantès sawthe reflection of their muskets by the light of the lamps on the quay.
“Can all this force be summoned on my account?” thought he.
The officer opened the door, which was locked, and, without speaking aword, answered Dantès’ question; for he saw between the ranks of thesoldiers a passage formed from the carriage to the port. The twogendarmes who were opposite to him descended first, then he was orderedto alight and the gendarmes on each side of him followed his example.They advanced towards a boat, which a custom-house officer held by achain, near the quay.
The soldiers looked at Dantès with an air of stupid curiosity. In aninstant he was placed in the stern-sheets of the boat, between thegendarmes, while the officer stationed himself at the bow; a shove sentthe boat adrift, and four sturdy oarsmen impelled it rapidly towardsthe Pilon. At a shout from the boat, the chain that closes the mouth ofthe port was lowered and in a second they were, as Dantès knew, in theFrioul and outside the inner harbor.
The prisoner’s first feeling was of joy at again breathing the pureair—for air is freedom; but he soon sighed, for he passed before LaRéserve, where he had that morning been so happy, and now through theopen windows came the laughter and revelry of a ball. Dantès folded hishands, raised his eyes to heaven, and prayed fervently.
0111m


The boat continued her voyage. They had passed the Tête de Mort, werenow off the Anse du Pharo, and about to double the battery. Thismanœuvre was incomprehensible to Dantès.
“Whither are you taking me?” asked he.
“You will soon know.”
“But still——”
“We are forbidden to give you any explanation.” Dantès, trained indiscipline, knew that nothing would be more absurd than to questionsubordinates, who were forbidden to reply; and so he remained silent.
The most vague and wild thoughts passed through his mind. The boat theywere in could not make a long voyage; there was no vessel at anchoroutside the harbor; he thought, perhaps, they were going to leave himon some distant point. He was not bound, nor had they made any attemptto handcuff him; this seemed a good augury. Besides, had not thedeputy, who had been so kind to him, told him that provided he did notpronounce the dreaded name of Noirtier, he had nothing to apprehend?Had not Villefort in his presence destroyed the fatal letter, the onlyproof against him?
He waited silently, striving to pierce through the darkness.
They had left the Ile Ratonneau, where the lighthouse stood, on theright, and were now opposite the Point des Catalans. It seemed to theprisoner that he could distinguish a feminine form on the beach, for itwas there Mercédès dwelt. How was it that a presentiment did not warnMercédès that her lover was within three hundred yards of her?
One light alone was visible; and Dantès saw that it came from Mercédès’chamber. Mercédès was the only one awake in the whole settlement. Aloud cry could be heard by her. But pride restrained him and he did notutter it. What would his guards think if they heard him shout like amadman?
He remained silent, his eyes fixed upon the light; the boat went on,but the prisoner thought only of Mercédès. An intervening elevation ofland hid the light. Dantès turned and perceived that they had got outto sea. While he had been absorbed in thought, they had shipped theiroars and hoisted sail; the boat was now moving with the wind.
In spite of his repugnance to address the guards, Dantès turned to thenearest gendarme, and taking his hand,
“Comrade,” said he, “I adjure you, as a Christian and a soldier, totell me where we are going. I am Captain Dantès, a loyal Frenchman,thought accused of treason; tell me where you are conducting me, and Ipromise you on my honor I will submit to my fate.”
The gendarme looked irresolutely at his companion, who returned foranswer a sign that said, “I see no great harm in telling him now,” andthe gendarme replied:
“You are a native of Marseilles, and a sailor, and yet you do not knowwhere you are going?”
“On my honor, I have no idea.”
“Have you no idea whatever?”
“None at all.”
“That is impossible.”
“I swear to you it is true. Tell me, I entreat.”
“But my orders.”
“Your orders do not forbid your telling me what I must know in tenminutes, in half an hour, or an hour. You see I cannot escape, even ifI intended.”
“Unless you are blind, or have never been outside the harbor, you mustknow.”
“I do not.”
“Look round you then.” Dantès rose and looked forward, when he saw risewithin a hundred yards of him the black and frowning rock on whichstands the Château d’If. This gloomy fortress, which has for more thanthree hundred years furnished food for so many wild legends, seemed toDantès like a scaffold to a malefactor.
“The Château d’If?” cried he, “what are we going there for?”
The gendarme smiled.
“I am not going there to be imprisoned,” said Dantès; “it is only usedfor political prisoners. I have committed no crime. Are there anymagistrates or judges at the Château d’If?”
“There are only,” said the gendarme, “a governor, a garrison, turnkeys,and good thick walls. Come, come, do not look so astonished, or youwill make me think you are laughing at me in return for my goodnature.”
Dantès pressed the gendarme’s hand as though he would crush it.
“You think, then,” said he, “that I am taken to the Château d’If to beimprisoned there?”
“It is probable; but there is no occasion to squeeze so hard.”
“Without any inquiry, without any formality?”
“All the formalities have been gone through; the inquiry is alreadymade.”
“And so, in spite of M. de Villefort’s promises?”
“I do not know what M. de Villefort promised you,” said the gendarme,“but I know we are taking you to the Château d’If. But what are youdoing? Help, comrades, help!”
By a rapid movement, which the gendarme’s practiced eye had perceived,Dantès sprang forward to precipitate himself into the sea; but fourvigorous arms seized him as his feet quitted the bottom of the boat. Hefell back cursing with rage.
“Good!” said the gendarme, placing his knee on his chest; “this is theway you keep your word as a sailor! Believe soft-spoken gentlemenagain! Hark ye, my friend, I have disobeyed my first order, but I willnot disobey the second; and if you move, I will blow your brains out.”And he levelled his carbine at Dantès, who felt the muzzle against histemple.
For a moment the idea of struggling crossed his mind, and of so endingthe unexpected evil that had overtaken him. But he bethought him of M.de Villefort’s promise; and, besides, death in a boat from the hand ofa gendarme seemed too terrible. He remained motionless, but gnashinghis teeth and wringing his hands with fury.
At this moment the boat came to a landing with a violent shock. One ofthe sailors leaped on shore, a cord creaked as it ran through a pulley,and Dantès guessed they were at the end of the voyage, and that theywere mooring the boat.
His guards, taking him by the arms and coat-collar, forced him to rise,and dragged him towards the steps that lead to the gate of thefortress, while the police officer carrying a musket with fixed bayonetfollowed behind.
Dantès made no resistance; he was like a man in a dream; he sawsoldiers drawn up on the embankment; he knew vaguely that he wasascending a flight of steps; he was conscious that he passed through adoor, and that the door closed behind him; but all this indistinctly asthrough a mist. He did not even see the ocean, that terrible barrieragainst freedom, which the prisoners look upon with utter despair.
They halted for a minute, during which he strove to collect histhoughts. He looked around; he was in a court surrounded by high walls;he heard the measured tread of sentinels, and as they passed before thelight he saw the barrels of their muskets shine.
They waited upwards of ten minutes. Certain Dantès could not escape,the gendarmes released him. They seemed awaiting orders. The orderscame.
“Where is the prisoner?” said a voice.
“Here,” replied the gendarmes.
“Let him follow me; I will take him to his cell.”
“Go!” said the gendarmes, thrusting Dantès forward.
The prisoner followed his guide, who led him into a room almost underground, whose bare and reeking walls seemed as though impregnated withtears; a lamp placed on a stool illumined the apartment faintly, andshowed Dantès the features of his conductor, an under-jailer,ill-clothed, and of sullen appearance.
0113m


“Here is your chamber for tonight,” said he. “It is late, and thegovernor is asleep. Tomorrow, perhaps, he may change you. In themeantime there is bread, water, and fresh straw; and that is all aprisoner can wish for. Goodnight.” And before Dantès could open hismouth—before he had noticed where the jailer placed his bread or thewater—before he had glanced towards the corner where the straw was, thejailer disappeared, taking with him the lamp and closing the door,leaving stamped upon the prisoner’s mind the dim reflection of thedripping walls of his dungeon.
Dantès was alone in darkness and in silence—cold as the shadows that hefelt breathe on his burning forehead. With the first dawn of day thejailer returned, with orders to leave Dantès where he was. He found theprisoner in the same position, as if fixed there, his eyes swollen withweeping. He had passed the night standing, and without sleep. Thejailer advanced; Dantès appeared not to perceive him. He touched him onthe shoulder. Edmond started.
“Have you not slept?” said the jailer.
“I do not know,” replied Dantès. The jailer stared.
“Are you hungry?” continued he.
“I do not know.”
“Do you wish for anything?”
“I wish to see the governor.”
The jailer shrugged his shoulders and left the chamber.
Dantès followed him with his eyes, and stretched forth his handstowards the open door; but the door closed. All his emotion then burstforth; he cast himself on the ground, weeping bitterly, and askinghimself what crime he had committed that he was thus punished.
The day passed thus; he scarcely tasted food, but walked round andround the cell like a wild beast in its cage. One thought in particulartormented him: namely, that during his journey hither he had sat sostill, whereas he might, a dozen times, have plunged into the sea, and,thanks to his powers of swimming, for which he was famous, have gainedthe shore, concealed himself until the arrival of a Genoese or Spanishvessel, escaped to Spain or Italy, where Mercédès and his father couldhave joined him. He had no fears as to how he should live—good seamenare welcome everywhere. He spoke Italian like a Tuscan, and Spanishlike a Castilian; he would have been free, and happy with Mercédès andhis father, whereas he was now confined in the Château d’If, thatimpregnable fortress, ignorant of the future destiny of his father andMercédès; and all this because he had trusted to Villefort’s promise.The thought was maddening, and Dantès threw himself furiously down onhis straw. The next morning at the same hour, the jailer came again.
“Well,” said the jailer, “are you more reasonable today?” Dantès madeno reply.
“Come, cheer up; is there anything that I can do for you?”
“I wish to see the governor.”
“I have already told you it was impossible.”
“Why so?”
“Because it is against prison rules, and prisoners must not even askfor it.”
“What is allowed, then?”
“Better fare, if you pay for it, books, and leave to walk about.”
“I do not want books, I am satisfied with my food, and do not care towalk about; but I wish to see the governor.”
“If you worry me by repeating the same thing, I will not bring you anymore to eat.”
“Well, then,” said Edmond, “if you do not, I shall die of hunger—thatis all.”
The jailer saw by his tone he would be happy to die; and as everyprisoner is worth ten sous a day to his jailer, he replied in a moresubdued tone.
“What you ask is impossible; but if you are very well behaved you willbe allowed to walk about, and some day you will meet the governor, andif he chooses to reply, that is his affair.”
“But,” asked Dantès, “how long shall I have to wait?”
“Ah, a month—six months—a year.”
“It is too long a time. I wish to see him at once.”
“Ah,” said the jailer, “do not always brood over what is impossible, oryou will be mad in a fortnight.”
“You think so?”
“Yes; we have an instance here; it was by always offering a million offrancs to the governor for his liberty that an abbé became mad, who wasin this chamber before you.”
0119m


“How long has he left it?”
“Two years.”
“Was he liberated, then?”
“No; he was put in a dungeon.”
“Listen!” said Dantès. “I am not an abbé, I am not mad; perhaps I shallbe, but at present, unfortunately, I am not. I will make you anotheroffer.”
“What is that?”
“I do not offer you a million, because I have it not; but I will giveyou a hundred crowns if, the first time you go to Marseilles, you willseek out a young girl named Mercédès, at the Catalans, and give her twolines from me.”
0120m


“If I took them, and were detected, I should lose my place, which isworth two thousand francs a year; so that I should be a great fool torun such a risk for three hundred.”
“Well,” said Dantès, “mark this; if you refuse at least to tellMercédès I am here, I will some day hide myself behind the door, andwhen you enter I will dash out your brains with this stool.”
“Threats!” cried the jailer, retreating and putting himself on thedefensive; “you are certainly going mad. The abbé began like you, andin three days you will be like him, mad enough to tie up; but,fortunately, there are dungeons here.”
Dantès whirled the stool round his head.
“All right, all right,” said the jailer; “all right, since you willhave it so. I will send word to the governor.”
“Very well,” returned Dantès, dropping the stool and sitting on it asif he were in reality mad. The jailer went out, and returned in aninstant with a corporal and four soldiers.
“By the governor’s orders,” said he, “conduct the prisoner to the tierbeneath.”
“To the dungeon, then,” said the corporal.
“Yes; we must put the madman with the madmen.” The soldiers seizedDantès, who followed passively.
He descended fifteen steps, and the door of a dungeon was opened, andhe was thrust in. The door closed, and Dantès advanced withoutstretched hands until he touched the wall; he then sat down in thecorner until his eyes became accustomed to the darkness. The jailer wasright; Dantès wanted but little of being utterly mad.


 Chapter 9. The Evening of the Betrothal
Villefort had, as we have said, hastened back to Madame deSaint-Méran’s in the Place du Grand Cours, and on entering the housefound that the guests whom he had left at table were taking coffee inthe salon. Renée was, with all the rest of the company, anxiouslyawaiting him, and his entrance was followed by a general exclamation.
“Well, Decapitator, Guardian of the State, Royalist, Brutus, what isthe matter?” said one. “Speak out.”
“Are we threatened with a fresh Reign of Terror?” asked another.
“Has the Corsican ogre broken loose?” cried a third.
“Marquise,” said Villefort, approaching his future mother-in-law, “Irequest your pardon for thus leaving you. Will the marquis honor me bya few moments’ private conversation?”
“Ah, it is really a serious matter, then?” asked the marquis, remarkingthe cloud on Villefort’s brow.
“So serious that I must take leave of you for a few days; so,” addedhe, turning to Renée, “judge for yourself if it be not important.”
“You are going to leave us?” cried Renée, unable to hide her emotion atthis unexpected announcement.
“Alas,” returned Villefort, “I must!”
“Where, then, are you going?” asked the marquise.
“That, madame, is an official secret; but if you have any commissionsfor Paris, a friend of mine is going there tonight, and will withpleasure undertake them.” The guests looked at each other.
“You wish to speak to me alone?” said the marquis.
“Yes, let us go to the library, please.” The marquis took his arm, andthey left the salon.
“Well,” asked he, as soon as they were by themselves, “tell me what itis?”
“An affair of the greatest importance, that demands my immediatepresence in Paris. Now, excuse the indiscretion, marquis, but have youany landed property?”
“All my fortune is in the funds; seven or eight hundred thousandfrancs.”
“Then sell out—sell out, marquis, or you will lose it all.”
0123m


“But how can I sell out here?”
“You have a broker, have you not?”
“Yes.”
“Then give me a letter to him, and tell him to sell out without aninstant’s delay, perhaps even now I shall arrive too late.”
“The deuce you say!” replied the marquis, “let us lose no time, then!”
And, sitting down, he wrote a letter to his broker, ordering him tosell out at the market price.
“Now, then,” said Villefort, placing the letter in his pocketbook, “Imust have another!”
“To whom?”
“To the king.”
“To the king?”
“Yes.”
“I dare not write to his majesty.”
“I do not ask you to write to his majesty, but ask M. de Salvieux to doso. I want a letter that will enable me to reach the king’s presencewithout all the formalities of demanding an audience; that wouldoccasion a loss of precious time.”
“But address yourself to the keeper of the seals; he has the right ofentry at the Tuileries, and can procure you audience at any hour of theday or night.”
“Doubtless; but there is no occasion to divide the honors of mydiscovery with him. The keeper would leave me in the background, andtake all the glory to himself. I tell you, marquis, my fortune is madeif I only reach the Tuileries the first, for the king will not forgetthe service I do him.”
“In that case go and get ready. I will call Salvieux and make him writethe letter.”
“Be as quick as possible, I must be on the road in a quarter of anhour.”
“Tell your coachman to stop at the door.”
“You will present my excuses to the marquise and Mademoiselle Renée,whom I leave on such a day with great regret.”
“You will find them both here, and can make your farewells in person.”
“A thousand thanks—and now for the letter.”
The marquis rang, a servant entered.
“Say to the Comte de Salvieux that I would like to see him.”
“Now, then, go,” said the marquis.
“I shall be gone only a few moments.”
Villefort hastily quitted the apartment, but reflecting that the sightof the deputy procureur running through the streets would be enough tothrow the whole city into confusion, he resumed his ordinary pace. Athis door he perceived a figure in the shadow that seemed to wait forhim. It was Mercédès, who, hearing no news of her lover, had comeunobserved to inquire after him.
As Villefort drew near, she advanced and stood before him. Dantès hadspoken of Mercédès, and Villefort instantly recognized her. Her beautyand high bearing surprised him, and when she inquired what had becomeof her lover, it seemed to him that she was the judge, and he theaccused.
“The young man you speak of,” said Villefort abruptly, “is a greatcriminal, and I can do nothing for him, mademoiselle.” Mercédès burstinto tears, and, as Villefort strove to pass her, again addressed him.
“But, at least, tell me where he is, that I may know whether he isalive or dead,” said she.
0125m


“I do not know; he is no longer in my hands,” replied Villefort.
And desirous of putting an end to the interview, he pushed by her, andclosed the door, as if to exclude the pain he felt. But remorse is notthus banished; like Virgil’s wounded hero, he carried the arrow in hiswound, and, arrived at the salon, Villefort uttered a sigh that wasalmost a sob, and sank into a chair.
Then the first pangs of an unending torture seized upon his heart. Theman he sacrificed to his ambition, that innocent victim immolated onthe altar of his father’s faults, appeared to him pale and threatening,leading his affianced bride by the hand, and bringing with him remorse,not such as the ancients figured, furious and terrible, but that slowand consuming agony whose pangs are intensified from hour to hour up tothe very moment of death. Then he had a moment’s hesitation. He hadfrequently called for capital punishment on criminals, and owing to hisirresistible eloquence they had been condemned, and yet the slightestshadow of remorse had never clouded Villefort’s brow, because they wereguilty; at least, he believed so; but here was an innocent man whosehappiness he had destroyed. In this case he was not the judge, but theexecutioner.
As he thus reflected, he felt the sensation we have described, andwhich had hitherto been unknown to him, arise in his bosom, and fillhim with vague apprehensions. It is thus that a wounded man tremblesinstinctively at the approach of the finger to his wound until it behealed, but Villefort’s was one of those that never close, or if theydo, only close to reopen more agonizing than ever. If at this momentthe sweet voice of Renée had sounded in his ears pleading for mercy, orthe fair Mercédès had entered and said, “In the name of God, I conjureyou to restore me my affianced husband,” his cold and trembling handswould have signed his release; but no voice broke the stillness of thechamber, and the door was opened only by Villefort’s valet, who came totell him that the travelling carriage was in readiness.
Villefort rose, or rather sprang, from his chair, hastily opened one ofthe drawers of his desk, emptied all the gold it contained into hispocket, stood motionless an instant, his hand pressed to his head,muttered a few inarticulate sounds, and then, perceiving that hisservant had placed his cloak on his shoulders, he sprang into thecarriage, ordering the postilions to drive to M. de Saint-Méran’s. Thehapless Dantès was doomed.
As the marquis had promised, Villefort found the marquise and Renée inwaiting. He started when he saw Renée, for he fancied she was againabout to plead for Dantès. Alas, her emotions were wholly personal: shewas thinking only of Villefort’s departure.
She loved Villefort, and he left her at the moment he was about tobecome her husband. Villefort knew not when he should return, andRenée, far from pleading for Dantès, hated the man whose crimeseparated her from her lover.
0127m


Meanwhile what of Mercédès? She had met Fernand at the corner of theRue de la Loge; she had returned to the Catalans, and had despairinglycast herself on her couch. Fernand, kneeling by her side, took herhand, and covered it with kisses that Mercédès did not even feel. Shepassed the night thus. The lamp went out for want of oil, but she paidno heed to the darkness, and dawn came, but she knew not that it wasday. Grief had made her blind to all but one object—that was Edmond.
“Ah, you are there,” said she, at length, turning towards Fernand.
“I have not quitted you since yesterday,” returned Fernand sorrowfully.
M. Morrel had not readily given up the fight. He had learned thatDantès had been taken to prison, and he had gone to all his friends,and the influential persons of the city; but the report was already incirculation that Dantès was arrested as a Bonapartist agent; and as themost sanguine looked upon any attempt of Napoleon to remount the throneas impossible, he met with nothing but refusal, and had returned homein despair, declaring that the matter was serious and that nothing morecould be done.
Caderousse was equally restless and uneasy, but instead of seeking,like M. Morrel, to aid Dantès, he had shut himself up with two bottlesof black currant brandy, in the hope of drowning reflection. But he didnot succeed, and became too intoxicated to fetch any more drink, andyet not so intoxicated as to forget what had happened. With his elbowson the table he sat between the two empty bottles, while spectresdanced in the light of the unsnuffed candle—spectres such as Hoffmannstrews over his punch-drenched pages, like black, fantastic dust.
Danglars alone was content and joyous—he had got rid of an enemy andmade his own situation on the _Pharaon_ secure. Danglars was one ofthose men born with a pen behind the ear, and an inkstand in place of aheart. Everything with him was multiplication or subtraction. The lifeof a man was to him of far less value than a numeral, especially when,by taking it away, he could increase the sum total of his own desires.He went to bed at his usual hour, and slept in peace.
Villefort, after having received M. de Salvieux’s letter, embracedRenée, kissed the marquise’s hand, and shaken that of the marquis,started for Paris along the Aix road.
Old Dantès was dying with anxiety to know what had become of Edmond.But we know very well what had become of Edmond.


 Chapter 10. The King’s Closet at the Tuileries
We will leave Villefort on the road to Paris, travelling—thanks totrebled fees—with all speed, and passing through two or threeapartments, enter at the Tuileries the little room with the archedwindow, so well known as having been the favorite closet of Napoleonand Louis XVIII., and now of Louis Philippe.
There, seated before a walnut table he had brought with him fromHartwell, and to which, from one of those fancies not uncommon to greatpeople, he was particularly attached, the king, Louis XVIII., wascarelessly listening to a man of fifty or fifty-two years of age, withgray hair, aristocratic bearing, and exceedingly gentlemanly attire,and meanwhile making a marginal note in a volume of Gryphius’s ratherinaccurate, but much sought-after, edition of Horace—a work which wasmuch indebted to the sagacious observations of the philosophicalmonarch.
“You say, sir——” said the king.
“That I am exceedingly disquieted, sire.”
“Really, have you had a vision of the seven fat kine and the seven leankine?”
“No, sire, for that would only betoken for us seven years of plenty andseven years of scarcity; and with a king as full of foresight as yourmajesty, scarcity is not a thing to be feared.”
“Then of what other scourge are you afraid, my dear Blacas?”
“Sire, I have every reason to believe that a storm is brewing in thesouth.”
“Well, my dear duke,” replied Louis XVIII., “I think you are wronglyinformed, and know positively that, on the contrary, it is very fineweather in that direction.” Man of ability as he was, Louis XVIII.liked a pleasant jest.
“Sire,” continued M. de Blacas, “if it only be to reassure a faithfulservant, will your majesty send into Languedoc, Provence, and Dauphiné,trusty men, who will bring you back a faithful report as to the feelingin these three provinces?”
“_Canimus surdis_,” replied the king, continuing the annotations in hisHorace.
“Sire,” replied the courtier, laughing, in order that he might seem tocomprehend the quotation, “your majesty may be perfectly right inrelying on the good feeling of France, but I fear I am not altogetherwrong in dreading some desperate attempt.”
“By whom?”
“By Bonaparte, or, at least, by his adherents.”
“My dear Blacas,” said the king, “you with your alarms prevent me fromworking.”
“And you, sire, prevent me from sleeping with your security.”
“Wait, my dear sir, wait a moment; for I have such a delightful note onthe _Pastor quum traheret_—wait, and I will listen to you afterwards.”
There was a brief pause, during which Louis XVIII. wrote, in a hand assmall as possible, another note on the margin of his Horace, and thenlooking at the duke with the air of a man who thinks he has an idea ofhis own, while he is only commenting upon the idea of another, said:
“Go on, my dear duke, go on—I listen.”
“Sire,” said Blacas, who had for a moment the hope of sacrificingVillefort to his own profit, “I am compelled to tell you that these arenot mere rumors destitute of foundation which thus disquiet me; but aserious-minded man, deserving all my confidence, and charged by me towatch over the south” (the duke hesitated as he pronounced thesewords), “has arrived by post to tell me that a great peril threatensthe king, and so I hastened to you, sire.”
“_Mala ducis avi domum_,” continued Louis XVIII., still annotating.
“Does your majesty wish me to drop the subject?”
“By no means, my dear duke; but just stretch out your hand.”
“Which?”
“Whichever you please—there to the left.”
“Here, sire?”
“I tell you to the left, and you are looking to the right; I mean on myleft—yes, there. You will find yesterday’s report of the minister ofpolice. But here is M. Dandré himself;” and M. Dandré, announced by thechamberlain-in-waiting, entered.
“Come in,” said Louis XVIII., with repressed smile, “come in, Baron,and tell the duke all you know—the latest news of M. de Bonaparte; donot conceal anything, however serious,—let us see, the Island of Elbais a volcano, and we may expect to have issuing thence flaming andbristling war—_bella, horrida bella_.”
M. Dandré leaned very respectfully on the back of a chair with his twohands, and said:
“Has your majesty perused yesterday’s report?”
“Yes, yes; but tell the duke himself, who cannot find anything, whatthe report contains—give him the particulars of what the usurper isdoing in his islet.”
“Monsieur,” said the baron to the duke, “all the servants of hismajesty must approve of the latest intelligence which we have from theIsland of Elba. Bonaparte——”
M. Dandré looked at Louis XVIII., who, employed in writing a note, didnot even raise his head. “Bonaparte,” continued the baron, “is mortallywearied, and passes whole days in watching his miners at work atPorto-Longone.”
“And scratches himself for amusement,” added the king.
“Scratches himself?” inquired the duke, “what does your majesty mean?”
“Yes, indeed, my dear duke. Did you forget that this great man, thishero, this demigod, is attacked with a malady of the skin which worrieshim to death, _prurigo_?”
“And, moreover, my dear duke,” continued the minister of police, “weare almost assured that, in a very short time, the usurper will beinsane.”
“Insane?”
“Raving mad; his head becomes weaker. Sometimes he weeps bitterly,sometimes laughs boisterously, at other time he passes hours on theseashore, flinging stones in the water and when the flint makes‘duck-and-drake’ five or six times, he appears as delighted as if hehad gained another Marengo or Austerlitz. Now, you must agree thatthese are indubitable symptoms of insanity.”
“Or of wisdom, my dear baron—or of wisdom,” said Louis XVIII.,laughing; “the greatest captains of antiquity amused themselves bycasting pebbles into the ocean—see Plutarch’s life of ScipioAfricanus.”
M. de Blacas pondered deeply between the confident monarch and thetruthful minister. Villefort, who did not choose to reveal the wholesecret, lest another should reap all the benefit of the disclosure, hadyet communicated enough to cause him the greatest uneasiness.
“Well, well, Dandré,” said Louis XVIII., “Blacas is not yet convinced;let us proceed, therefore, to the usurper’s conversion.” The ministerof police bowed.
“The usurper’s conversion!” murmured the duke, looking at the king andDandré, who spoke alternately, like Virgil’s shepherds. “The usurperconverted!”
“Decidedly, my dear duke.”
“In what way converted?”
“To good principles. Tell him all about it, baron.”
“Why, this is the way of it,” said the minister, with the gravest airin the world: “Napoleon lately had a review, and as two or three of hisold veterans expressed a desire to return to France, he gave them theirdismissal, and exhorted them to ‘serve the good king.’ These were hisown words, of that I am certain.”
“Well, Blacas, what think you of this?” inquired the king triumphantly,and pausing for a moment from the voluminous scholiast before him.
“I say, sire, that the minister of police is greatly deceived or I am;and as it is impossible it can be the minister of police as he has theguardianship of the safety and honor of your majesty, it is probablethat I am in error. However, sire, if I might advise, your majesty willinterrogate the person of whom I spoke to you, and I will urge yourmajesty to do him this honor.”
“Most willingly, duke; under your auspices I will receive any personyou please, but you must not expect me to be too confiding. Baron, haveyou any report more recent than this, dated the 20th February, and thisis the 3rd of March?”
“No, sire, but I am hourly expecting one; it may have arrived since Ileft my office.”
“Go thither, and if there be none—well, well,” continued Louis XVIII.,“make one; that is the usual way, is it not?” and the king laughedfacetiously.
“Oh, sire,” replied the minister, “we have no occasion to invent any;every day our desks are loaded with most circumstantial denunciations,coming from hosts of people who hope for some return for services whichthey seek to render, but cannot; they trust to fortune, and rely uponsome unexpected event in some way to justify their predictions.”
“Well, sir, go”; said Louis XVIII., “and remember that I am waiting foryou.”
“I will but go and return, sire; I shall be back in ten minutes.”
“And I, sire,” said M. de Blacas, “will go and find my messenger.”
“Wait, sir, wait,” said Louis XVIII. “Really, M. de Blacas, I mustchange your armorial bearings; I will give you an eagle withoutstretched wings, holding in its claws a prey which tries in vain toescape, and bearing this device—_Tenax_.”
0133m


“Sire, I listen,” said De Blacas, biting his nails with impatience.
“I wish to consult you on this passage, ‘_Molli fugiens anhelitu_,’ youknow it refers to a stag flying from a wolf. Are you not a sportsmanand a great wolf-hunter? Well, then, what do you think of the _mollianhelitu_?”
“Admirable, sire; but my messenger is like the stag you refer to, forhe has posted two hundred and twenty leagues in scarcely three days.”
“Which is undergoing great fatigue and anxiety, my dear duke, when wehave a telegraph which transmits messages in three or four hours, andthat without getting in the least out of breath.”
“Ah, sire, you recompense but badly this poor young man, who has comeso far, and with so much ardor, to give your majesty usefulinformation. If only for the sake of M. de Salvieux, who recommends himto me, I entreat your majesty to receive him graciously.”
“M. de Salvieux, my brother’s chamberlain?”
“Yes, sire.”
“He is at Marseilles.”
“And writes me thence.”
“Does he speak to you of this conspiracy?”
“No; but strongly recommends M. de Villefort, and begs me to presenthim to your majesty.”
“M. de Villefort!” cried the king, “is the messenger’s name M. deVillefort?”
“Yes, sire.”
“And he comes from Marseilles?”
“In person.”
“Why did you not mention his name at once?” replied the king, betrayingsome uneasiness.
“Sire, I thought his name was unknown to your majesty.”
“No, no, Blacas; he is a man of strong and elevated understanding,ambitious, too, and, _pardieu!_ you know his father’s name!”
“His father?”
“Yes, Noirtier.”
“Noirtier the Girondin?—Noirtier the senator?”
“He himself.”
“And your majesty has employed the son of such a man?”
“Blacas, my friend, you have but limited comprehension. I told youVillefort was ambitious, and to attain this ambition Villefort wouldsacrifice everything, even his father.”
“Then, sire, may I present him?”
“This instant, duke! Where is he?”
“Waiting below, in my carriage.”
“Seek him at once.”
“I hasten to do so.”
The duke left the royal presence with the speed of a young man; hisreally sincere royalism made him youthful again. Louis XVIII. remainedalone, and turning his eyes on his half-opened Horace, muttered:
“_Justum et tenacem propositi virum_.”
M. de Blacas returned as speedily as he had departed, but in theantechamber he was forced to appeal to the king’s authority.Villefort’s dusty garb, his costume, which was not of courtly cut,excited the susceptibility of M. de Brezé, who was all astonishment atfinding that this young man had the audacity to enter before the kingin such attire. The duke, however, overcame all difficulties with aword—his majesty’s order; and, in spite of the protestations which themaster of ceremonies made for the honor of his office and principles,Villefort was introduced.
The king was seated in the same place where the duke had left him. Onopening the door, Villefort found himself facing him, and the youngmagistrate’s first impulse was to pause.
“Come in, M. de Villefort,” said the king, “come in.”
Villefort bowed, and advancing a few steps, waited until the kingshould interrogate him.
“M. de Villefort,” said Louis XVIII., “the Duc de Blacas assures me youhave some interesting information to communicate.”
“Sire, the duke is right, and I believe your majesty will think itequally important.”
0137m


“In the first place, and before everything else, sir, is the news asbad in your opinion as I am asked to believe?”
“Sire, I believe it to be most urgent, but I hope, by the speed I haveused, that it is not irreparable.”
“Speak as fully as you please, sir,” said the king, who began to giveway to the emotion which had showed itself in Blacas’s face andaffected Villefort’s voice. “Speak, sir, and pray begin at thebeginning; I like order in everything.”
“Sire,” said Villefort, “I will render a faithful report to yourmajesty, but I must entreat your forgiveness if my anxiety leads tosome obscurity in my language.” A glance at the king after thisdiscreet and subtle exordium, assured Villefort of the benignity of hisaugust auditor, and he went on:
“Sire, I have come as rapidly to Paris as possible, to inform yourmajesty that I have discovered, in the exercise of my duties, not acommonplace and insignificant plot, such as is every day got up in thelower ranks of the people and in the army, but an actual conspiracy—astorm which menaces no less than your majesty’s throne. Sire, theusurper is arming three ships, he meditates some project, which,however mad, is yet, perhaps, terrible. At this moment he will haveleft Elba, to go whither I know not, but assuredly to attempt a landingeither at Naples, or on the coast of Tuscany, or perhaps on the shoresof France. Your majesty is well aware that the sovereign of the Islandof Elba has maintained his relations with Italy and France?”
“I am, sir,” said the king, much agitated; “and recently we have hadinformation that the Bonapartist clubs have had meetings in the RueSaint-Jacques. But proceed, I beg of you. How did you obtain thesedetails?”
“Sire, they are the results of an examination which I have made of aman of Marseilles, whom I have watched for some time, and arrested onthe day of my departure. This person, a sailor, of turbulent character,and whom I suspected of Bonapartism, has been secretly to the Island ofElba. There he saw the grand-marshal, who charged him with an oralmessage to a Bonapartist in Paris, whose name I could not extract fromhim; but this mission was to prepare men’s minds for a return (it isthe man who says this, sire)—a return which will soon occur.”
“And where is this man?”
“In prison, sire.”
“And the matter seems serious to you?”
“So serious, sire, that when the circumstance surprised me in the midstof a family festival, on the very day of my betrothal, I left my brideand friends, postponing everything, that I might hasten to lay at yourmajesty’s feet the fears which impressed me, and the assurance of mydevotion.”
“True,” said Louis XVIII., “was there not a marriage engagement betweenyou and Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran?”
“Daughter of one of your majesty’s most faithful servants.”
“Yes, yes; but let us talk of this plot, M. de Villefort.”
“Sire, I fear it is more than a plot; I fear it is a conspiracy.”
“A conspiracy in these times,” said Louis XVIII., smiling, “is a thingvery easy to meditate, but more difficult to conduct to an end,inasmuch as, re-established so recently on the throne of our ancestors,we have our eyes open at once upon the past, the present, and thefuture. For the last ten months my ministers have redoubled theirvigilance, in order to watch the shore of the Mediterranean. IfBonaparte landed at Naples, the whole coalition would be on foot beforehe could even reach Piombino; if he land in Tuscany, he will be in anunfriendly territory; if he land in France, it must be with a handfulof men, and the result of that is easily foretold, execrated as he isby the population. Take courage, sir; but at the same time rely on ourroyal gratitude.”
“Ah, here is M. Dandré!” cried de Blacas. At this instant the ministerof police appeared at the door, pale, trembling, and as if ready tofaint. Villefort was about to retire, but M. de Blacas, taking hishand, restrained him.


 Chapter 11. The Corsican Ogre
At the sight of this agitation Louis XVIII. pushed from him violentlythe table at which he was sitting.
“What ails you, baron?” he exclaimed. “You appear quite aghast. Hasyour uneasiness anything to do with what M. de Blacas has told me, andM. de Villefort has just confirmed?” M. de Blacas moved suddenlytowards the baron, but the fright of the courtier pleaded for theforbearance of the statesman; and besides, as matters were, it was muchmore to his advantage that the prefect of police should triumph overhim than that he should humiliate the prefect.
“Sire,——” stammered the baron.
“Well, what is it?” asked Louis XVIII. The minister of police, givingway to an impulse of despair, was about to throw himself at the feet ofLouis XVIII., who retreated a step and frowned.
“Will you speak?” he said.
“Oh, sire, what a dreadful misfortune! I am, indeed, to be pitied. Ican never forgive myself!”
“Monsieur,” said Louis XVIII., “I command you to speak.”
“Well, sire, the usurper left Elba on the 26th February, and landed onthe 1st of March.”
“And where? In Italy?” asked the king eagerly.
“In France, sire,—at a small port, near Antibes, in the Gulf of Juan.”
“The usurper landed in France, near Antibes, in the Gulf of Juan, twohundred and fifty leagues from Paris, on the 1st of March, and you onlyacquired this information today, the 3rd of March! Well, sir, what youtell me is impossible. You must have received a false report, or youhave gone mad.”
“Alas, sire, it is but too true!” Louis made a gesture of indescribableanger and alarm, and then drew himself up as if this sudden blow hadstruck him at the same moment in heart and countenance.
“In France!” he cried, “the usurper in France! Then they did not watchover this man. Who knows? they were, perhaps, in league with him.”
“Oh, sire,” exclaimed the Duc de Blacas, “M. Dandré is not a man to beaccused of treason! Sire, we have all been blind, and the minister ofpolice has shared the general blindness, that is all.”
“But——” said Villefort, and then suddenly checking himself, he wassilent; then he continued, “Your pardon, sire,” he said, bowing, “myzeal carried me away. Will your majesty deign to excuse me?”
“Speak, sir, speak boldly,” replied Louis. “You alone forewarned us ofthe evil; now try and aid us with the remedy.”
“Sire,” said Villefort, “the usurper is detested in the south; and itseems to me that if he ventured into the south, it would be easy toraise Languedoc and Provence against him.”
“Yes, assuredly,” replied the minister; “but he is advancing by Gap andSisteron.”
“Advancing—he is advancing!” said Louis XVIII. “Is he then advancing onParis?” The minister of police maintained a silence which wasequivalent to a complete avowal.
“And Dauphiné, sir?” inquired the king, of Villefort. “Do you think itpossible to rouse that as well as Provence?”
“Sire, I am sorry to tell your majesty a cruel fact; but the feeling inDauphiné is quite the reverse of that in Provence or Languedoc. Themountaineers are Bonapartists, sire.”
“Then,” murmured Louis, “he was well informed. And how many men had hewith him?”
“I do not know, sire,” answered the minister of police.
“What, you do not know! Have you neglected to obtain information onthat point? Of course it is of no consequence,” he added, with awithering smile.
“Sire, it was impossible to learn; the despatch simply stated the factof the landing and the route taken by the usurper.”
“And how did this despatch reach you?” inquired the king. The ministerbowed his head, and while a deep color overspread his cheeks, hestammered out:
“By the telegraph, sire.” Louis XVIII. advanced a step, and folded hisarms over his chest as Napoleon would have done.
0141m


“So then,” he exclaimed, turning pale with anger, “seven conjoined andallied armies overthrew that man. A miracle of heaven replaced me onthe throne of my fathers after five-and-twenty years of exile. I have,during those five-and-twenty years, spared no pains to understand thepeople of France and the interests which were confided to me; and now,when I see the fruition of my wishes almost within reach, the power Ihold in my hands bursts and shatters me to atoms!”
“Sire, it is fatality!” murmured the minister, feeling that thepressure of circumstances, however light a thing to destiny, was toomuch for any human strength to endure.
“What our enemies say of us is then true. We have learnt nothing,forgotten nothing! If I were betrayed as he was, I would consolemyself; but to be in the midst of persons elevated by myself to placesof honor, who ought to watch over me more carefully than overthemselves,—for my fortune is theirs—before me they were nothing—afterme they will be nothing, and perish miserably fromincapacity—ineptitude! Oh, yes, sir, you are right—it is fatality!”
The minister quailed before this outburst of sarcasm. M. de Blacaswiped the moisture from his brow. Villefort smiled within himself, forhe felt his increased importance.
“To fall,” continued King Louis, who at the first glance had soundedthe abyss on which the monarchy hung suspended,—“to fall, and learn ofthat fall by telegraph! Oh, I would rather mount the scaffold of mybrother, Louis XVI., than thus descend the staircase at the Tuileriesdriven away by ridicule. Ridicule, sir—why, you know not its power inFrance, and yet you ought to know it!”
“Sire, sire,” murmured the minister, “for pity’s——”
“Approach, M. de Villefort,” resumed the king, addressing the youngman, who, motionless and breathless, was listening to a conversation onwhich depended the destiny of a kingdom. “Approach, and tell monsieurthat it is possible to know beforehand all that he has not known.”
“Sire, it was really impossible to learn secrets which that manconcealed from all the world.”
“Really impossible! Yes—that is a great word, sir. Unfortunately, thereare great words, as there are great men; I have measured them. Reallyimpossible for a minister who has an office, agents, spies, and fifteenhundred thousand francs for secret service money, to know what is goingon at sixty leagues from the coast of France! Well, then, see, here isa gentleman who had none of these resources at his disposal—agentleman, only a simple magistrate, who learned more than you with allyour police, and who would have saved my crown, if, like you, he hadthe power of directing a telegraph.” The look of the minister of policewas turned with concentrated spite on Villefort, who bent his head inmodest triumph.
“I do not mean that for you, Blacas,” continued Louis XVIII.; “for ifyou have discovered nothing, at least you have had the good sense topersevere in your suspicions. Any other than yourself would haveconsidered the disclosure of M. de Villefort insignificant, or elsedictated by venal ambition.” These words were an allusion to thesentiments which the minister of police had uttered with so muchconfidence an hour before.
Villefort understood the king’s intent. Any other person would,perhaps, have been overcome by such an intoxicating draught of praise;but he feared to make for himself a mortal enemy of the policeminister, although he saw that Dandré was irrevocably lost. In fact,the minister, who, in the plenitude of his power, had been unable tounearth Napoleon’s secret, might in despair at his own downfallinterrogate Dantès and so lay bare the motives of Villefort’s plot.Realizing this, Villefort came to the rescue of the crest-fallenminister, instead of aiding to crush him.
“Sire,” said Villefort, “the suddenness of this event must prove toyour majesty that the issue is in the hands of Providence; what yourmajesty is pleased to attribute to me as profound perspicacity issimply owing to chance, and I have profited by that chance, like a goodand devoted servant—that’s all. Do not attribute to me more than Ideserve, sire, that your majesty may never have occasion to recall thefirst opinion you have been pleased to form of me.” The minister ofpolice thanked the young man by an eloquent look, and Villefortunderstood that he had succeeded in his design; that is to say, thatwithout forfeiting the gratitude of the king, he had made a friend ofone on whom, in case of necessity, he might rely.
“’Tis well,” resumed the king. “And now, gentlemen,” he continued,turning towards M. de Blacas and the minister of police, “I have nofurther occasion for you, and you may retire; what now remains to do isin the department of the minister of war.”
“Fortunately, sire,” said M. de Blacas, “we can rely on the army; yourmajesty knows how every report confirms their loyalty and attachment.”
“Do not mention reports, duke, to me, for I know now what confidence toplace in them. Yet, speaking of reports, baron, what have you learnedwith regard to the affair in the Rue Saint-Jacques?”
“The affair in the Rue Saint-Jacques!” exclaimed Villefort, unable torepress an exclamation. Then, suddenly pausing, he added, “Your pardon,sire, but my devotion to your majesty has made me forget, not therespect I have, for that is too deeply engraved in my heart, but therules of etiquette.”
“Go on, go on, sir,” replied the king; “you have today earned the rightto make inquiries here.”
“Sire,” interposed the minister of police, “I came a moment ago to giveyour majesty fresh information which I had obtained on this head, whenyour majesty’s attention was attracted by the terrible event that hasoccurred in the gulf, and now these facts will cease to interest yourmajesty.”
“On the contrary, sir,—on the contrary,” said Louis XVIII., “thisaffair seems to me to have a decided connection with that whichoccupies our attention, and the death of General Quesnel will, perhaps,put us on the direct track of a great internal conspiracy.” At the nameof General Quesnel, Villefort trembled.
“Everything points to the conclusion, sire,” said the minister ofpolice, “that death was not the result of suicide, as we firstbelieved, but of assassination. General Quesnel, it appears, had justleft a Bonapartist club when he disappeared. An unknown person had beenwith him that morning, and made an appointment with him in the RueSaint-Jacques; unfortunately, the general’s valet, who was dressing hishair at the moment when the stranger entered, heard the streetmentioned, but did not catch the number.” As the police ministerrelated this to the king, Villefort, who looked as if his very lifehung on the speaker’s lips, turned alternately red and pale. The kinglooked towards him.
“Do you not think with me, M. de Villefort, that General Quesnel, whomthey believed attached to the usurper, but who was really entirelydevoted to me, has perished the victim of a Bonapartist ambush?”
“It is probable, sire,” replied Villefort. “But is this all that isknown?”
“They are on the track of the man who appointed the meeting with him.”
“On his track?” said Villefort.
“Yes, the servant has given his description. He is a man of from fiftyto fifty-two years of age, dark, with black eyes covered with shaggyeyebrows, and a thick moustache. He was dressed in a blue frock-coat,buttoned up to the chin, and wore at his button-hole the rosette of anofficer of the Legion of Honor. Yesterday a person exactlycorresponding with this description was followed, but he was lost sightof at the corner of the Rue de la Jussienne and the Rue Coq-Héron.”Villefort leaned on the back of an armchair, for as the minister ofpolice went on speaking he felt his legs bend under him; but when helearned that the unknown had escaped the vigilance of the agent whofollowed him, he breathed again.
“Continue to seek for this man, sir,” said the king to the minister ofpolice; “for if, as I am all but convinced, General Quesnel, who wouldhave been so useful to us at this moment, has been murdered, hisassassins, Bonapartists or not, shall be cruelly punished.” It requiredall Villefort’s coolness not to betray the terror with which thisdeclaration of the king inspired him.
“How strange,” continued the king, with some asperity; “the policethink that they have disposed of the whole matter when they say, ‘Amurder has been committed,’ and especially so when they can add, ‘Andwe are on the track of the guilty persons.’”
“Sire, your majesty will, I trust, be amply satisfied on this point atleast.”
“We shall see. I will no longer detain you, M. de Villefort, for youmust be fatigued after so long a journey; go and rest. Of course youstopped at your father’s?” A feeling of faintness came over Villefort.
0145m


“No, sire,” he replied, “I alighted at the Hotel de Madrid, in the Ruede Tournon.”
“But you have seen him?”
“Sire, I went straight to the Duc de Blacas.”
“But you will see him, then?”
“I think not, sire.”
“Ah, I forgot,” said Louis, smiling in a manner which proved that allthese questions were not made without a motive; “I forgot you and M.Noirtier are not on the best terms possible, and that is anothersacrifice made to the royal cause, and for which you should berecompensed.”
“Sire, the kindness your majesty deigns to evince towards me is arecompense which so far surpasses my utmost ambition that I havenothing more to ask for.”
“Never mind, sir, we will not forget you; make your mind easy. In themeanwhile” (the king here detached the cross of the Legion of Honorwhich he usually wore over his blue coat, near the cross of St. Louis,above the order of Notre-Dame-du-Mont-Carmel and St. Lazare, and gaveit to Villefort)—“in the meanwhile take this cross.”
“Sire,” said Villefort, “your majesty mistakes; this is an officer’scross.”
“_Ma foi!_” said Louis XVIII., “take it, such as it is, for I have notthe time to procure you another. Blacas, let it be your care to seethat the brevet is made out and sent to M. de Villefort.” Villefort’seyes were filled with tears of joy and pride; he took the cross andkissed it.
“And now,” he said, “may I inquire what are the orders with which yourmajesty deigns to honor me?”
“Take what rest you require, and remember that if you are not able toserve me here in Paris, you may be of the greatest service to me atMarseilles.”
“Sire,” replied Villefort, bowing, “in an hour I shall have quittedParis.”
“Go, sir,” said the king; “and should I forget you (kings’ memories areshort), do not be afraid to bring yourself to my recollection. Baron,send for the minister of war. Blacas, remain.”
“Ah, sir,” said the minister of police to Villefort, as they left theTuileries, “you entered by luck’s door—your fortune is made.”
“Will it be long first?” muttered Villefort, saluting the minister,whose career was ended, and looking about him for a hackney-coach. Onepassed at the moment, which he hailed; he gave his address to thedriver, and springing in, threw himself on the seat, and gave loose todreams of ambition.
Ten minutes afterwards Villefort reached his hotel, ordered horses tobe ready in two hours, and asked to have his breakfast brought to him.He was about to begin his repast when the sound of the bell rang sharpand loud. The valet opened the door, and Villefort heard someone speakhis name.
0147m


“Who could know that I was here already?” said the young man. The valetentered.
“Well,” said Villefort, “what is it?—Who rang?—Who asked for me?”
“A stranger who will not send in his name.”
“A stranger who will not send in his name! What can he want with me?”
“He wishes to speak to you.”
“To me?”
“Yes.”
“Did he mention my name?”
“Yes.”
“What sort of person is he?”
“Why, sir, a man of about fifty.”
“Short or tall?”
“About your own height, sir.”
“Dark or fair?”
“Dark,—very dark; with black eyes, black hair, black eyebrows.”
“And how dressed?” asked Villefort quickly.
“In a blue frock-coat, buttoned up close, decorated with the Legion ofHonor.”
“It is he!” said Villefort, turning pale.
0148m


“Eh, _pardieu!_” said the individual whose description we have twicegiven, entering the door, “what a great deal of ceremony! Is it thecustom in Marseilles for sons to keep their fathers waiting in theiranterooms?”
“Father!” cried Villefort, “then I was not deceived; I felt sure itmust be you.”
“Well, then, if you felt so sure,” replied the new-comer, putting hiscane in a corner and his hat on a chair, “allow me to say, my dearGérard, that it was not very filial of you to keep me waiting at thedoor.”
“Leave us, Germain,” said Villefort. The servant quitted the apartmentwith evident signs of astonishment.


 Chapter 12. Father and Son
M. Noirtier—for it was, indeed, he who entered—looked after the servantuntil the door was closed, and then, fearing, no doubt, that he mightbe overheard in the antechamber, he opened the door again, nor was theprecaution useless, as appeared from the rapid retreat of Germain, whoproved that he was not exempt from the sin which ruined our firstparents. M. Noirtier then took the trouble to close and bolt theantechamber door, then that of the bedchamber, and then extended hishand to Villefort, who had followed all his motions with surprise whichhe could not conceal.
“Well, now, my dear Gérard,” said he to the young man, with a verysignificant look, “do you know, you seem as if you were not very gladto see me?”
“My dear father,” said Villefort, “I am, on the contrary, delighted;but I so little expected your visit, that it has somewhat overcome me.”
“But, my dear fellow,” replied M. Noirtier, seating himself, “I mightsay the same thing to you, when you announce to me your wedding for the28th of February, and on the 3rd of March you turn up here in Paris.”
“And if I have come, my dear father,” said Gérard, drawing closer to M.Noirtier, “do not complain, for it is for you that I came, and myjourney will be your salvation.”
“Ah, indeed!” said M. Noirtier, stretching himself out at his ease inthe chair. “Really, pray tell me all about it, for it must beinteresting.”
“Father, you have heard speak of a certain Bonapartist club in the RueSaint-Jacques?”
“No. 53; yes, I am vice-president.”
“Father, your coolness makes me shudder.”
“Why, my dear boy, when a man has been proscribed by the mountaineers,has escaped from Paris in a hay-cart, been hunted over the plains ofBordeaux by Robespierre’s bloodhounds, he becomes accustomed to mostthings. But go on, what about the club in the Rue Saint-Jacques?”
“Why, they induced General Quesnel to go there, and General Quesnel,who quitted his own house at nine o’clock in the evening, was found thenext day in the Seine.”
0151m


“And who told you this fine story?”
“The king himself.”
“Well, then, in return for your story,” continued Noirtier, “I willtell you another.”
“My dear father, I think I already know what you are about to tell me.”
“Ah, you have heard of the landing of the emperor?”
“Not so loud, father, I entreat of you—for your own sake as well asmine. Yes, I heard this news, and knew it even before you could; forthree days ago I posted from Marseilles to Paris with all possiblespeed, half-desperate at the enforced delay.”
“Three days ago? You are crazy. Why, three days ago the emperor had notlanded.”
“No matter, I was aware of his intention.”
“How did you know about it?”
“By a letter addressed to you from the Island of Elba.”
“To me?”
“To you; and which I discovered in the pocket-book of the messenger.Had that letter fallen into the hands of another, you, my dear father,would probably ere this have been shot.” Villefort’s father laughed.
“Come, come,” said he, “will the Restoration adopt imperial methods sopromptly? Shot, my dear boy? What an idea! Where is the letter youspeak of? I know you too well to suppose you would allow such a thingto pass you.”
“I burnt it, for fear that even a fragment should remain; for thatletter must have led to your condemnation.”
“And the destruction of your future prospects,” replied Noirtier; “yes,I can easily comprehend that. But I have nothing to fear while I haveyou to protect me.”
“I do better than that, sir—I save you.”
“You do? Why, really, the thing becomes more and more dramatic—explainyourself.”
“I must refer again to the club in the Rue Saint-Jacques.”
“It appears that this club is rather a bore to the police. Why didn’tthey search more vigilantly? they would have found——”
“They have not found; but they are on the track.”
“Yes, that the usual phrase; I am quite familiar with it. When thepolice is at fault, it declares that it is on the track; and thegovernment patiently awaits the day when it comes to say, with asneaking air, that the track is lost.”
“Yes, but they have found a corpse; the general has been killed, and inall countries they call that a murder.”
“A murder do you call it? why, there is nothing to prove that thegeneral was murdered. People are found every day in the Seine, havingthrown themselves in, or having been drowned from not knowing how toswim.”
“Father, you know very well that the general was not a man to drownhimself in despair, and people do not bathe in the Seine in the monthof January. No, no, do not be deceived; this was murder in every senseof the word.”
“And who thus designated it?”
“The king himself.”
“The king! I thought he was philosopher enough to allow that there wasno murder in politics. In politics, my dear fellow, you know, as wellas I do, there are no men, but ideas—no feelings, but interests; inpolitics we do not kill a man, we only remove an obstacle, that is all.Would you like to know how matters have progressed? Well, I will tellyou. It was thought reliance might be placed in General Quesnel; he wasrecommended to us from the Island of Elba; one of us went to him, andinvited him to the Rue Saint-Jacques, where he would find some friends.He came there, and the plan was unfolded to him for leaving Elba, theprojected landing, etc. When he had heard and comprehended all to thefullest extent, he replied that he was a royalist. Then all looked ateach other,—he was made to take an oath, and did so, but with such anill grace that it was really tempting Providence to swear thus, andyet, in spite of that, the general was allowed to depart free—perfectlyfree. Yet he did not return home. What could that mean? why, my dearfellow, that on leaving us he lost his way, that’s all. A murder?really, Villefort, you surprise me. You, a deputy procureur, to foundan accusation on such bad premises! Did I ever say to you, when youwere fulfilling your character as a royalist, and cut off the head ofone of my party, ‘My son, you have committed a murder?’ No, I said,‘Very well, sir, you have gained the victory; tomorrow, perchance, itwill be our turn.’”
“But, father, take care; when our turn comes, our revenge will besweeping.”
“I do not understand you.”
“You rely on the usurper’s return?”
“We do.”
“You are mistaken; he will not advance two leagues into the interior ofFrance without being followed, tracked, and caught like a wild beast.”
“My dear fellow, the emperor is at this moment on the way to Grenoble;on the 10th or 12th he will be at Lyons, and on the 20th or 25th atParis.”
“The people will rise.”
“Yes, to go and meet him.”
“He has but a handful of men with him, and armies will be despatchedagainst him.”
“Yes, to escort him into the capital. Really, my dear Gérard, you arebut a child; you think yourself well informed because the telegraph hastold you, three days after the landing, ‘The usurper has landed atCannes with several men. He is pursued.’ But where is he? what is hedoing? You do not know at all, and in this way they will chase him toParis, without drawing a trigger.”
“Grenoble and Lyons are faithful cities, and will oppose to him animpassable barrier.”
“Grenoble will open her gates to him with enthusiasm—all Lyons willhasten to welcome him. Believe me, we are as well informed as you, andour police are as good as your own. Would you like a proof of it? well,you wished to conceal your journey from me, and yet I knew of yourarrival half an hour after you had passed the barrier. You gave yourdirection to no one but your postilion, yet I have your address, and inproof I am here the very instant you are going to sit at table. Ring,then, if you please, for a second knife, fork, and plate, and we willdine together.”
“Indeed!” replied Villefort, looking at his father with astonishment,“you really do seem very well informed.”
“Eh? the thing is simple enough. You who are in power have only themeans that money produces—we who are in expectation, have those whichdevotion prompts.”
“Devotion!” said Villefort, with a sneer.
“Yes, devotion; for that is, I believe, the phrase for hopefulambition.”
And Villefort’s father extended his hand to the bell-rope, to summonthe servant whom his son had not called. Villefort caught his arm.
“Wait, my dear father,” said the young man, “one word more.”
“Say on.”
“However stupid the royalist police may be, they do know one terriblething.”
“What is that?”
“The description of the man who, on the morning of the day when GeneralQuesnel disappeared, presented himself at his house.”
“Oh, the admirable police have found that out, have they? And what maybe that description?”
“Dark complexion; hair, eyebrows, and whiskers black; blue frock-coat,buttoned up to the chin; rosette of an officer of the Legion of Honorin his button-hole; a hat with wide brim, and a cane.”
“Ah, ha, that’s it, is it?” said Noirtier; “and why, then, have theynot laid hands on him?”
“Because yesterday, or the day before, they lost sight of him at thecorner of the Rue Coq-Héron.”
“Didn’t I say that your police were good for nothing?”
“Yes; but they may catch him yet.”
“True,” said Noirtier, looking carelessly around him, “true, if thisperson were not on his guard, as he is;” and he added with a smile, “Hewill consequently make a few changes in his personal appearance.” Atthese words he rose, and put off his frock-coat and cravat, wenttowards a table on which lay his son’s toilet articles, lathered hisface, took a razor, and, with a firm hand, cut off the compromisingwhiskers. Villefort watched him with alarm not devoid of admiration.
His whiskers cut off, Noirtier gave another turn to his hair; took,instead of his black cravat, a colored neckerchief which lay at the topof an open portmanteau; put on, in lieu of his blue and high-buttonedfrock-coat, a coat of Villefort’s of dark brown, and cut away in front;tried on before the glass a narrow-brimmed hat of his son’s, whichappeared to fit him perfectly, and, leaving his cane in the cornerwhere he had deposited it, he took up a small bamboo switch, cut theair with it once or twice, and walked about with that easy swaggerwhich was one of his principal characteristics.
“Well,” he said, turning towards his wondering son, when this disguisewas completed, “well, do you think your police will recognize me now.”
“No, father,” stammered Villefort; “at least, I hope not.”
“And now, my dear boy,” continued Noirtier, “I rely on your prudence toremove all the things which I leave in your care.”
“Oh, rely on me,” said Villefort.
“Yes, yes; and now I believe you are right, and that you have reallysaved my life; be assured I will return the favor hereafter.”
Villefort shook his head.
“You are not convinced yet?”
“I hope at least, that you may be mistaken.”
“Shall you see the king again?”
“Perhaps.”
“Would you pass in his eyes for a prophet?”
“Prophets of evil are not in favor at the court, father.”
“True, but some day they do them justice; and supposing a secondrestoration, you would then pass for a great man.”
“Well, what should I say to the king?”
“Say this to him: ‘Sire, you are deceived as to the feeling in France,as to the opinions of the towns, and the prejudices of the army; hewhom in Paris you call the Corsican ogre, who at Nevers is styled theusurper, is already saluted as Bonaparte at Lyons, and emperor atGrenoble. You think he is tracked, pursued, captured; he is advancingas rapidly as his own eagles. The soldiers you believe to be dying withhunger, worn out with fatigue, ready to desert, gather like atoms ofsnow about the rolling ball as it hastens onward. Sire, go, leaveFrance to its real master, to him who acquired it, not by purchase, butby right of conquest; go, sire, not that you incur any risk, for youradversary is powerful enough to show you mercy, but because it would behumiliating for a grandson of Saint Louis to owe his life to the man ofArcola, Marengo, Austerlitz.’ Tell him this, Gérard; or, rather, tellhim nothing. Keep your journey a secret; do not boast of what you havecome to Paris to do, or have done; return with all speed; enterMarseilles at night, and your house by the back-door, and there remain,quiet, submissive, secret, and, above all, inoffensive; for this time,I swear to you, we shall act like powerful men who know their enemies.Go, my son—go, my dear Gérard, and by your obedience to my paternalorders, or, if you prefer it, friendly counsels, we will keep you inyour place. This will be,” added Noirtier, with a smile, “one means bywhich you may a second time save me, if the political balance shouldsome day take another turn, and cast you aloft while hurling me down.Adieu, my dear Gérard, and at your next journey alight at my door.”
Noirtier left the room when he had finished, with the same calmnessthat had characterized him during the whole of this remarkable andtrying conversation. Villefort, pale and agitated, ran to the window,put aside the curtain, and saw him pass, cool and collected, by two orthree ill-looking men at the corner of the street, who were there,perhaps, to arrest a man with black whiskers, and a blue frock-coat,and hat with broad brim.
Villefort stood watching, breathless, until his father had disappearedat the Rue Bussy. Then he turned to the various articles he had leftbehind him, put the black cravat and blue frock-coat at the bottom ofthe portmanteau, threw the hat into a dark closet, broke the cane intosmall bits and flung it in the fire, put on his travelling-cap, andcalling his valet, checked with a look the thousand questions he wasready to ask, paid his bill, sprang into his carriage, which was ready,learned at Lyons that Bonaparte had entered Grenoble, and in the midstof the tumult which prevailed along the road, at length reachedMarseilles, a prey to all the hopes and fears which enter into theheart of man with ambition and its first successes.


 Chapter 13. The Hundred Days
M. Noirtier was a true prophet, and things progressed rapidly, as hehad predicted. Everyone knows the history of the famous return fromElba, a return which was unprecedented in the past, and will probablyremain without a counterpart in the future.
Louis XVIII. made but a faint attempt to parry this unexpected blow;the monarchy he had scarcely reconstructed tottered on its precariousfoundation, and at a sign from the emperor the incongruous structure ofancient prejudices and new ideas fell to the ground. Villefort,therefore, gained nothing save the king’s gratitude (which was ratherlikely to injure him at the present time) and the cross of the Legionof Honor, which he had the prudence not to wear, although M. de Blacashad duly forwarded the brevet.
Napoleon would, doubtless, have deprived Villefort of his office had itnot been for Noirtier, who was all powerful at court, and thus theGirondin of ’93 and the Senator of 1806 protected him who so lately hadbeen his protector. All Villefort’s influence barely enabled him tostifle the secret Dantès had so nearly divulged. The king’s procureuralone was deprived of his office, being suspected of royalism.
However, scarcely was the imperial power established—that is, scarcelyhad the emperor re-entered the Tuileries and begun to issue orders fromthe closet into which we have introduced our readers,—he found on thetable there Louis XVIII.’s half-filled snuff-box,—scarcely had thisoccurred when Marseilles began, in spite of the authorities, torekindle the flames of civil war, always smouldering in the south, andit required but little to excite the populace to acts of far greaterviolence than the shouts and insults with which they assailed theroyalists whenever they ventured abroad.
0159m


Owing to this change, the worthy shipowner became at that moment—wewill not say all powerful, because Morrel was a prudent and rather atimid man, so much so, that many of the most zealous partisans ofBonaparte accused him of “moderation”—but sufficiently influential tomake a demand in favor of Dantès.
Villefort retained his place, but his marriage was put off until a morefavorable opportunity. If the emperor remained on the throne, Gérardrequired a different alliance to aid his career; if Louis XVIII.returned, the influence of M. de Saint-Méran, like his own, could bevastly increased, and the marriage be still more suitable. The deputyprocureur was, therefore, the first magistrate of Marseilles, when onemorning his door opened, and M. Morrel was announced.
Anyone else would have hastened to receive him; but Villefort was a manof ability, and he knew this would be a sign of weakness. He madeMorrel wait in the antechamber, although he had no one with him, forthe simple reason that the king’s procureur always makes everyone wait,and after passing a quarter of an hour in reading the papers, heordered M. Morrel to be admitted.
Morrel expected Villefort would be dejected; he found him as he hadfound him six weeks before, calm, firm, and full of that glacialpoliteness, that most insurmountable barrier which separates thewell-bred from the vulgar man.
He had entered Villefort’s office expecting that the magistrate wouldtremble at the sight of him; on the contrary, he felt a cold shudderall over him when he saw Villefort sitting there with his elbow on hisdesk, and his head leaning on his hand. He stopped at the door;Villefort gazed at him as if he had some difficulty in recognizing him;then, after a brief interval, during which the honest shipowner turnedhis hat in his hands,
“M. Morrel, I believe?” said Villefort.
“Yes, sir.”
“Come nearer,” said the magistrate, with a patronizing wave of thehand, “and tell me to what circumstance I owe the honor of this visit.”
“Do you not guess, monsieur?” asked Morrel.
“Not in the least; but if I can serve you in any way I shall bedelighted.”
“Everything depends on you.”
“Explain yourself, pray.”
“Monsieur,” said Morrel, recovering his assurance as he proceeded, “doyou recollect that a few days before the landing of his majesty theemperor, I came to intercede for a young man, the mate of my ship, whowas accused of being concerned in correspondence with the Island ofElba? What was the other day a crime is today a title to favor. Youthen served Louis XVIII., and you did not show any favor—it was yourduty; today you serve Napoleon, and you ought to protect him—it isequally your duty; I come, therefore, to ask what has become of him?”
0161m


Villefort by a strong effort sought to control himself. “What is hisname?” said he. “Tell me his name.”
“Edmond Dantès.”
Villefort would probably have rather stood opposite the muzzle of apistol at five-and-twenty paces than have heard this name spoken; buthe did not blanch.
“Dantès,” repeated he, “Edmond Dantès.”
“Yes, monsieur.” Villefort opened a large register, then went to atable, from the table turned to his registers, and then, turning toMorrel,
“Are you quite sure you are not mistaken, monsieur?” said he, in themost natural tone in the world.
Had Morrel been a more quick-sighted man, or better versed in thesematters, he would have been surprised at the king’s procureur answeringhim on such a subject, instead of referring him to the governors of theprison or the prefect of the department. But Morrel, disappointed inhis expectations of exciting fear, was conscious only of the other’scondescension. Villefort had calculated rightly.
“No,” said Morrel; “I am not mistaken. I have known him for ten years,the last four of which he was in my service. Do not you recollect, Icame about six weeks ago to plead for clemency, as I come today toplead for justice. You received me very coldly. Oh, the royalists werevery severe with the Bonapartists in those days.”
“Monsieur,” returned Villefort, “I was then a royalist, because Ibelieved the Bourbons not only the heirs to the throne, but the chosenof the nation. The miraculous return of Napoleon has conquered me, thelegitimate monarch is he who is loved by his people.”
“That’s right!” cried Morrel. “I like to hear you speak thus, and Iaugur well for Edmond from it.”
“Wait a moment,” said Villefort, turning over the leaves of a register;“I have it—a sailor, who was about to marry a young Catalan girl. Irecollect now; it was a very serious charge.”
“How so?”
“You know that when he left here he was taken to the Palais deJustice.”
“Well?”
“I made my report to the authorities at Paris, and a week after he wascarried off.”
“Carried off!” said Morrel. “What can they have done with him?”
“Oh, he has been taken to Fenestrelles, to Pignerol, or to theSainte-Marguérite islands. Some fine morning he will return to takecommand of your vessel.”
“Come when he will, it shall be kept for him. But how is it he is notalready returned? It seems to me the first care of government should beto set at liberty those who have suffered for their adherence to it.”
“Do not be too hasty, M. Morrel,” replied Villefort. “The order ofimprisonment came from high authority, and the order for his liberationmust proceed from the same source; and, as Napoleon has scarcely beenreinstated a fortnight, the letters have not yet been forwarded.”
“But,” said Morrel, “is there no way of expediting all theseformalities—of releasing him from arrest?”
“There has been no arrest.”
“How?”
“It is sometimes essential to government to cause a man’s disappearancewithout leaving any traces, so that no written forms or documents maydefeat their wishes.”
“It might be so under the Bourbons, but at present——”
“It has always been so, my dear Morrel, since the reign of Louis XIV.The emperor is more strict in prison discipline than even Louishimself, and the number of prisoners whose names are not on theregister is incalculable.” Had Morrel even any suspicions, so muchkindness would have dispelled them.
“Well, M. de Villefort, how would you advise me to act?” asked he.
“Petition the minister.”
“Oh, I know what that is; the minister receives two hundred petitionsevery day, and does not read three.”
“That is true; but he will read a petition countersigned and presentedby me.”
“And will you undertake to deliver it?”
“With the greatest pleasure. Dantès was then guilty, and now he isinnocent, and it is as much my duty to free him as it was to condemnhim.” Villefort thus forestalled any danger of an inquiry, which,however improbable it might be, if it did take place would leave himdefenceless.
“But how shall I address the minister?”
“Sit down there,” said Villefort, giving up his place to Morrel, “andwrite what I dictate.”
“Will you be so good?”
“Certainly. But lose no time; we have lost too much already.”
“That is true. Only think what the poor fellow may even now besuffering.”
Villefort shuddered at the suggestion; but he had gone too far to drawback. Dantès must be crushed to gratify Villefort’s ambition.
Villefort dictated a petition, in which, from an excellent intention,no doubt, Dantès’ patriotic services were exaggerated, and he was madeout one of the most active agents of Napoleon’s return. It was evidentthat at the sight of this document the minister would instantly releasehim. The petition finished, Villefort read it aloud.
“That will do,” said he; “leave the rest to me.”
“Will the petition go soon?”
“Today.”
“Countersigned by you?”
“The best thing I can do will be to certify the truth of the contentsof your petition.” And, sitting down, Villefort wrote the certificateat the bottom.
“What more is to be done?”
“I will do whatever is necessary.” This assurance delighted Morrel, whotook leave of Villefort, and hastened to announce to old Dantès that hewould soon see his son.
As for Villefort, instead of sending to Paris, he carefully preservedthe petition that so fearfully compromised Dantès, in the hopes of anevent that seemed not unlikely,—that is, a second restoration. Dantèsremained a prisoner, and heard not the noise of the fall of LouisXVIII.’s throne, or the still more tragic destruction of the empire.
Twice during the Hundred Days had Morrel renewed his demand, and twicehad Villefort soothed him with promises. At last there was Waterloo,and Morrel came no more; he had done all that was in his power, and anyfresh attempt would only compromise himself uselessly.
Louis XVIII. remounted the throne; Villefort, to whom Marseilles hadbecome filled with remorseful memories, sought and obtained thesituation of king’s procureur at Toulouse, and a fortnight afterwardshe married Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran, whose father now stood higherat court than ever.
And so Dantès, after the Hundred Days and after Waterloo, remained inhis dungeon, forgotten of earth and heaven.
Danglars comprehended the full extent of the wretched fate thatoverwhelmed Dantès; and, when Napoleon returned to France, he, afterthe manner of mediocre minds, termed the coincidence, _a decree ofProvidence_. But when Napoleon returned to Paris, Danglars’ heartfailed him, and he lived in constant fear of Dantès’ return on amission of vengeance. He therefore informed M. Morrel of his wish toquit the sea, and obtained a recommendation from him to a Spanishmerchant, into whose service he entered at the end of March, that is,ten or twelve days after Napoleon’s return. He then left for Madrid,and was no more heard of.
Fernand understood nothing except that Dantès was absent. What hadbecome of him he cared not to inquire. Only, during the respite theabsence of his rival afforded him, he reflected, partly on the means ofdeceiving Mercédès as to the cause of his absence, partly on plans ofemigration and abduction, as from time to time he sat sad andmotionless on the summit of Cape Pharo, at the spot from whenceMarseilles and the Catalans are visible, watching for the apparition ofa young and handsome man, who was for him also the messenger ofvengeance. Fernand’s mind was made up; he would shoot Dantès, and thenkill himself. But Fernand was mistaken; a man of his disposition neverkills himself, for he constantly hopes.
During this time the empire made its last conscription, and every manin France capable of bearing arms rushed to obey the summons of theemperor. Fernand departed with the rest, bearing with him the terriblethought that while he was away, his rival would perhaps return andmarry Mercédès. Had Fernand really meant to kill himself, he would havedone so when he parted from Mercédès. His devotion, and the compassionhe showed for her misfortunes, produced the effect they always produceon noble minds—Mercédès had always had a sincere regard for Fernand,and this was now strengthened by gratitude.
“My brother,” said she, as she placed his knapsack on his shoulders,“be careful of yourself, for if you are killed, I shall be alone in theworld.” These words carried a ray of hope into Fernand’s heart. ShouldDantès not return, Mercédès might one day be his.
0165m


Mercédès was left alone face to face with the vast plain that had neverseemed so barren, and the sea that had never seemed so vast. Bathed intears she wandered about the Catalan village. Sometimes she stood muteand motionless as a statue, looking towards Marseilles, at other timesgazing on the sea, and debating as to whether it were not better tocast herself into the abyss of the ocean, and thus end her woes. It wasnot want of courage that prevented her putting this resolution intoexecution; but her religious feelings came to her aid and saved her.
Caderousse was, like Fernand, enrolled in the army, but, being marriedand eight years older, he was merely sent to the frontier. Old Dantès,who was only sustained by hope, lost all hope at Napoleon’s downfall.Five months after he had been separated from his son, and almost at thehour of his arrest, he breathed his last in Mercédès’ arms. M. Morrelpaid the expenses of his funeral, and a few small debts the poor oldman had contracted.
There was more than benevolence in this action; there was courage; thesouth was aflame, and to assist, even on his death-bed, the father ofso dangerous a Bonapartist as Dantès, was stigmatized as a crime.


 Chapter 14. The Two Prisoners
A year after Louis XVIII.’s restoration, a visit was made by theinspector-general of prisons. Dantès in his cell heard the noise ofpreparation,—sounds that at the depth where he lay would have beeninaudible to any but the ear of a prisoner, who could hear the splashof the drop of water that every hour fell from the roof of his dungeon.He guessed something uncommon was passing among the living; but he hadso long ceased to have any intercourse with the world, that he lookedupon himself as dead.
The inspector visited, one after another, the cells and dungeons ofseveral of the prisoners, whose good behavior or stupidity recommendedthem to the clemency of the government. He inquired how they were fed,and if they had any request to make. The universal response was, thatthe fare was detestable, and that they wanted to be set free.
The inspector asked if they had anything else to ask for. They shooktheir heads. What could they desire beyond their liberty? The inspectorturned smilingly to the governor.
“I do not know what reason government can assign for these uselessvisits; when you see one prisoner, you see all,—always the samething,—ill fed and innocent. Are there any others?”
“Yes; the dangerous and mad prisoners are in the dungeons.”
“Let us visit them,” said the inspector with an air of fatigue. “Wemust play the farce to the end. Let us see the dungeons.”
“Let us first send for two soldiers,” said the governor. “The prisonerssometimes, through mere uneasiness of life, and in order to besentenced to death, commit acts of useless violence, and you might falla victim.”
“Take all needful precautions,” replied the inspector.
Two soldiers were accordingly sent for, and the inspector descended astairway, so foul, so humid, so dark, as to be loathsome to sight,smell, and respiration.
“Oh,” cried the inspector, “who can live here?”
“A most dangerous conspirator, a man we are ordered to keep the moststrict watch over, as he is daring and resolute.”
“He is alone?”
“Certainly.”
“How long has he been there?”
“Nearly a year.”
“Was he placed here when he first arrived?”
“No; not until he attempted to kill the turnkey, who took his food tohim.”
“To kill the turnkey?”
“Yes, the very one who is lighting us. Is it not true, Antoine?” askedthe governor.
“True enough; he wanted to kill me!” returned the turnkey.
“He must be mad,” said the inspector.
“He is worse than that,—he is a devil!” returned the turnkey.
“Shall I complain of him?” demanded the inspector.
“Oh, no; it is useless. Besides, he is almost mad now, and in anotheryear he will be quite so.”
“So much the better for him,—he will suffer less,” said the inspector.He was, as this remark shows, a man full of philanthropy, and in everyway fit for his office.
“You are right, sir,” replied the governor; “and this remark provesthat you have deeply considered the subject. Now we have in a dungeonabout twenty feet distant, and to which you descend by another stair,an old abbé, formerly leader of a party in Italy, who has been heresince 1811, and in 1813 he went mad, and the change is astonishing. Heused to weep, he now laughs; he grew thin, he now grows fat. You hadbetter see him, for his madness is amusing.”
“I will see them both,” returned the inspector; “I must conscientiouslyperform my duty.”
This was the inspector’s first visit; he wished to display hisauthority.
“Let us visit this one first,” added he.
“By all means,” replied the governor, and he signed to the turnkey toopen the door. At the sound of the key turning in the lock, and thecreaking of the hinges, Dantès, who was crouched in a corner of thedungeon, whence he could see the ray of light that came through anarrow iron grating above, raised his head. Seeing a stranger, escortedby two turnkeys holding torches and accompanied by two soldiers, and towhom the governor spoke bareheaded, Dantès, who guessed the truth, andthat the moment to address himself to the superior authorities wascome, sprang forward with clasped hands.
The soldiers interposed their bayonets, for they thought that he wasabout to attack the inspector, and the latter recoiled two or threesteps. Dantès saw that he was looked upon as dangerous. Then, infusingall the humility he possessed into his eyes and voice, he addressed theinspector, and sought to inspire him with pity.
The inspector listened attentively; then, turning to the governor,observed, “He will become religious—he is already more gentle; he isafraid, and retreated before the bayonets—madmen are not afraid ofanything; I made some curious observations on this at Charenton.” Then,turning to the prisoner, “What is it you want?” said he.
“I want to know what crime I have committed—to be tried; and if I amguilty, to be shot; if innocent, to be set at liberty.”
“Are you well fed?” said the inspector.
“I believe so; I don’t know; it’s of no consequence. What mattersreally, not only to me, but to officers of justice and the king, isthat an innocent man should languish in prison, the victim of aninfamous denunciation, to die here cursing his executioners.”
“You are very humble today,” remarked the governor; “you are not soalways; the other day, for instance, when you tried to kill theturnkey.”
“It is true, sir, and I beg his pardon, for he has always been verygood to me, but I was mad.”
“And you are not so any longer?”
“No; captivity has subdued me—I have been here so long.”
“So long?—when were you arrested, then?” asked the inspector.
“The 28th of February, 1815, at half-past two in the afternoon.”
“Today is the 30th of July, 1816,—why, it is but seventeen months.”
“Only seventeen months,” replied Dantès. “Oh, you do not know what isseventeen months in prison!—seventeen ages rather, especially to a manwho, like me, had arrived at the summit of his ambition—to a man, who,like me, was on the point of marrying a woman he adored, who saw anhonorable career opened before him, and who loses all in an instant—whosees his prospects destroyed, and is ignorant of the fate of hisaffianced wife, and whether his aged father be still living! Seventeenmonths’ captivity to a sailor accustomed to the boundless ocean, is aworse punishment than human crime ever merited. Have pity on me, then,and ask for me, not intelligence, but a trial; not pardon, but averdict—a trial, sir, I ask only for a trial; that, surely, cannot bedenied to one who is accused!”
“We shall see,” said the inspector; then, turning to the governor, “Onmy word, the poor devil touches me. You must show me the proofs againsthim.”
“Certainly; but you will find terrible charges.”
“Monsieur,” continued Dantès, “I know it is not in your power torelease me; but you can plead for me—you can have me tried—and that isall I ask. Let me know my crime, and the reason why I was condemned.Uncertainty is worse than all.”
“Go on with the lights,” said the inspector.
“Monsieur,” cried Dantès, “I can tell by your voice you are touchedwith pity; tell me at least to hope.”
“I cannot tell you that,” replied the inspector; “I can only promise toexamine into your case.”
“Oh, I am free—then I am saved!”
“Who arrested you?”
“M. Villefort. See him, and hear what he says.”
“M. Villefort is no longer at Marseilles; he is now at Toulouse.”
“I am no longer surprised at my detention,” murmured Dantès, “since myonly protector is removed.”
“Had M. de Villefort any cause of personal dislike to you?”
“None; on the contrary, he was very kind to me.”
“I can, then, rely on the notes he has left concerning you?”
“Entirely.”
“That is well; wait patiently, then.”
Dantès fell on his knees, and prayed earnestly. The door closed; butthis time a fresh inmate was left with Dantès—Hope.
0173m


“Will you see the register at once,” asked the governor, “or proceed tothe other cell?”
“Let us visit them all,” said the inspector. “If I once went up thosestairs. I should never have the courage to come down again.”
“Ah, this one is not like the other, and his madness is less affectingthan this one’s display of reason.”
“What is his folly?”
“He fancies he possesses an immense treasure. The first year he offeredgovernment a million of francs for his release; the second, two; thethird, three; and so on progressively. He is now in his fifth year ofcaptivity; he will ask to speak to you in private, and offer you fivemillions.”
“How curious!—what is his name?”
“The Abbé Faria.”
“No. 27,” said the inspector.
“It is here; unlock the door, Antoine.”
The turnkey obeyed, and the inspector gazed curiously into the chamberof the _mad abbé_, as the prisoner was usually called.
In the centre of the cell, in a circle traced with a fragment ofplaster detached from the wall, sat a man whose tattered garmentsscarcely covered him. He was drawing in this circle geometrical lines,and seemed as much absorbed in his problem as Archimedes was when thesoldier of Marcellus slew him. He did not move at the sound of thedoor, and continued his calculations until the flash of the torcheslighted up with an unwonted glare the sombre walls of his cell; then,raising his head, he perceived with astonishment the number of personspresent. He hastily seized the coverlet of his bed, and wrapped itround him.
“What is it you want?” said the inspector.
“I, monsieur,” replied the abbé with an air of surprise,—“I wantnothing.”
“You do not understand,” continued the inspector; “I am sent here bygovernment to visit the prison, and hear the requests of theprisoners.”
“Oh, that is different,” cried the abbé; “and we shall understand eachother, I hope.”
“There, now,” whispered the governor, “it is just as I told you.”
“Monsieur,” continued the prisoner, “I am the Abbé Faria, born at Rome.I was for twenty years Cardinal Spada’s secretary; I was arrested, why,I know not, toward the beginning of the year 1811; since then I havedemanded my liberty from the Italian and French government.”
“Why from the French government?”
“Because I was arrested at Piombino, and I presume that, like Milan andFlorence, Piombino has become the capital of some French department.”
“Ah,” said the inspector, “you have not the latest news from Italy?”
“My information dates from the day on which I was arrested,” returnedthe Abbé Faria; “and as the emperor had created the kingdom of Rome forhis infant son, I presume that he has realized the dream of Machiavelliand Cæsar Borgia, which was to make Italy a united kingdom.”
“Monsieur,” returned the inspector, “Providence has changed thisgigantic plan you advocate so warmly.”
“It is the only means of rendering Italy strong, happy, andindependent.”
“Very possibly; only I am not come to discuss politics, but to inquireif you have anything to ask or to complain of.”
“The food is the same as in other prisons,—that is, very bad; thelodging is very unhealthful, but, on the whole, passable for a dungeon;but it is not that which I wish to speak of, but a secret I have toreveal of the greatest importance.”
“We are coming to the point,” whispered the governor.
“It is for that reason I am delighted to see you,” continued the abbé,“although you have disturbed me in a most important calculation, which,if it succeeded, would possibly change Newton’s system. Could you allowme a few words in private.”
“What did I tell you?” said the governor.
“You knew him,” returned the inspector with a smile.
“What you ask is impossible, monsieur,” continued he, addressing Faria.
0175m


“But,” said the abbé, “I would speak to you of a large sum, amountingto five millions.”
“The very sum you named,” whispered the inspector in his turn.
“However,” continued Faria, seeing that the inspector was about todepart, “it is not absolutely necessary for us to be alone; thegovernor can be present.”
“Unfortunately,” said the governor, “I know beforehand what you areabout to say; it concerns your treasures, does it not?” Faria fixed hiseyes on him with an expression that would have convinced anyone else ofhis sanity.
“Of course,” said he; “of what else should I speak?”
“Mr. Inspector,” continued the governor, “I can tell you the story aswell as he, for it has been dinned in my ears for the last four or fiveyears.”
“That proves,” returned the abbé, “that you are like those of HolyWrit, who having eyes see not, and having ears hear not.”
“My dear sir, the government is rich and does not want your treasures,”replied the inspector; “keep them until you are liberated.” The abbé’seyes glistened; he seized the inspector’s hand.
“But what if I am not liberated,” cried he, “and am detained here untilmy death? this treasure will be lost. Had not government better profitby it? I will offer six millions, and I will content myself with therest, if they will only give me my liberty.”
“On my word,” said the inspector in a low tone, “had I not been toldbeforehand that this man was mad, I should believe what he says.”
“I am not mad,” replied Faria, with that acuteness of hearing peculiarto prisoners. “The treasure I speak of really exists, and I offer tosign an agreement with you, in which I promise to lead you to the spotwhere you shall dig; and if I deceive you, bring me here again,—I askno more.”
The governor laughed. “Is the spot far from here?”
“A hundred leagues.”
“It is not ill-planned,” said the governor. “If all the prisoners tookit into their heads to travel a hundred leagues, and their guardiansconsented to accompany them, they would have a capital chance ofescaping.”
“The scheme is well known,” said the inspector; “and the abbé’s planhas not even the merit of originality.”
Then turning to Faria, “I inquired if you are well fed?” said he.
“Swear to me,” replied Faria, “to free me if what I tell you provetrue, and I will stay here while you go to the spot.”
“Are you well fed?” repeated the inspector.
“Monsieur, you run no risk, for, as I told you, I will stay here; sothere is no chance of my escaping.”
“You do not reply to my question,” replied the inspector impatiently.
“Nor you to mine,” cried the abbé. “You will not accept my gold; I willkeep it for myself. You refuse me my liberty; God will give it me.” Andthe abbé, casting away his coverlet, resumed his place, and continuedhis calculations.
0177m


“What is he doing there?” said the inspector.
“Counting his treasures,” replied the governor.
Faria replied to this sarcasm with a glance of profound contempt. Theywent out. The turnkey closed the door behind them.
“He was wealthy once, perhaps?” said the inspector.
“Or dreamed he was, and awoke mad.”
“After all,” said the inspector, “if he had been rich, he would nothave been here.”
So the matter ended for the Abbé Faria. He remained in his cell, andthis visit only increased the belief in his insanity.
Caligula or Nero, those treasure-seekers, those desirers of theimpossible, would have accorded to the poor wretch, in exchange for hiswealth, the liberty he so earnestly prayed for. But the kings of moderntimes, restrained by the limits of mere probability, have neithercourage nor desire. They fear the ear that hears their orders, and theeye that scrutinizes their actions. Formerly they believed themselvessprung from Jupiter, and shielded by their birth; but nowadays they arenot inviolable.
It has always been against the policy of despotic governments to sufferthe victims of their persecutions to reappear. As the Inquisitionrarely allowed its victims to be seen with their limbs distorted andtheir flesh lacerated by torture, so madness is always concealed in itscell, from whence, should it depart, it is conveyed to some gloomyhospital, where the doctor has no thought for man or mind in themutilated being the jailer delivers to him. The very madness of theAbbé Faria, gone mad in prison, condemned him to perpetual captivity.
The inspector kept his word with Dantès; he examined the register, andfound the following note concerning him:
_Edmond Dantès:_
Violent Bonapartist; took an active part in the return from Elba.
The greatest watchfulness and care to be exercised.
This note was in a different hand from the rest, which showed that ithad been added since his confinement. The inspector could not contendagainst this accusation; he simply wrote, _Nothing to be done._
This visit had infused new vigor into Dantès; he had, till then,forgotten the date; but now, with a fragment of plaster, he wrote thedate, 30th July, 1816, and made a mark every day, in order not to losehis reckoning again. Days and weeks passed away, then months—Dantèsstill waited; he at first expected to be freed in a fortnight. Thisfortnight expired, he decided that the inspector would do nothing untilhis return to Paris, and that he would not reach there until hiscircuit was finished, he therefore fixed three months; three monthspassed away, then six more. Finally ten months and a half had gone byand no favorable change had taken place, and Dantès began to fancy theinspector’s visit but a dream, an illusion of the brain.
At the expiration of a year the governor was transferred; he hadobtained charge of the fortress at Ham. He took with him several of hissubordinates, and amongst them Dantès’ jailer. A new governor arrived;it would have been too tedious to acquire the names of the prisoners;he learned their numbers instead. This horrible place contained fiftycells; their inhabitants were designated by the numbers of their cell,and the unhappy young man was no longer called Edmond Dantès—he was nownumber 34.


 Chapter 15. Number 34 and Number 27
Dantès passed through all the stages of torture natural to prisoners insuspense. He was sustained at first by that pride of consciousinnocence which is the sequence to hope; then he began to doubt his owninnocence, which justified in some measure the governor’s belief in hismental alienation; and then, relaxing his sentiment of pride, headdressed his supplications, not to God, but to man. God is always thelast resource. Unfortunates, who ought to begin with God, do not haveany hope in him till they have exhausted all other means ofdeliverance.
Dantès asked to be removed from his present dungeon into another, evenif it were darker and deeper, for a change, however disadvantageous,was still a change, and would afford him some amusement. He entreatedto be allowed to walk about, to have fresh air, books, and writingmaterials. His requests were not granted, but he went on asking all thesame. He accustomed himself to speaking to the new jailer, although thelatter was, if possible, more taciturn than the old one; but still, tospeak to a man, even though mute, was something. Dantès spoke for thesake of hearing his own voice; he had tried to speak when alone, butthe sound of his voice terrified him.
Often, before his captivity, Dantès’ mind had revolted at the idea ofassemblages of prisoners, made up of thieves, vagabonds, and murderers.He now wished to be amongst them, in order to see some other facebesides that of his jailer; he sighed for the galleys, with theinfamous costume, the chain, and the brand on the shoulder. Thegalley-slaves breathed the fresh air of heaven, and saw each other.They were very happy.
He besought the jailer one day to let him have a companion, were iteven the mad abbé. The jailer, though rough and hardened by theconstant sight of so much suffering, was yet a man. At the bottom ofhis heart he had often had a feeling of pity for this unhappy young manwho suffered so; and he laid the request of number 34 before thegovernor; but the latter sapiently imagined that Dantès wished toconspire or attempt an escape, and refused his request. Dantès hadexhausted all human resources, and he then turned to God.
All the pious ideas that had been so long forgotten, returned; herecollected the prayers his mother had taught him, and discovered a newmeaning in every word; for in prosperity prayers seem but a mere medleyof words, until misfortune comes and the unhappy sufferer firstunderstands the meaning of the sublime language in which he invokes thepity of heaven! He prayed, and prayed aloud, no longer terrified at thesound of his own voice, for he fell into a sort of ecstasy. He laidevery action of his life before the Almighty, proposed tasks toaccomplish, and at the end of every prayer introduced the entreatyoftener addressed to man than to God: “Forgive us our trespasses as weforgive them that trespass against us.” Yet in spite of his earnestprayers, Dantès remained a prisoner.
Then gloom settled heavily upon him. Dantès was a man of greatsimplicity of thought, and without education; he could not, therefore,in the solitude of his dungeon, traverse in mental vision the historyof the ages, bring to life the nations that had perished, and rebuildthe ancient cities so vast and stupendous in the light of theimagination, and that pass before the eye glowing with celestial colorsin Martin’s Babylonian pictures. He could not do this, he whose pastlife was so short, whose present so melancholy, and his future sodoubtful. Nineteen years of light to reflect upon in eternal darkness!No distraction could come to his aid; his energetic spirit, that wouldhave exalted in thus revisiting the past, was imprisoned like an eaglein a cage. He clung to one idea—that of his happiness, destroyed,without apparent cause, by an unheard-of fatality; he considered andreconsidered this idea, devoured it (so to speak), as the implacableUgolino devours the skull of Archbishop Roger in the Inferno of Dante.
Rage supplanted religious fervor. Dantès uttered blasphemies that madehis jailer recoil with horror, dashed himself furiously against thewalls of his prison, wreaked his anger upon everything, and chieflyupon himself, so that the least thing,—a grain of sand, a straw, or abreath of air that annoyed him, led to paroxysms of fury. Then theletter that Villefort had showed to him recurred to his mind, and everyline gleamed forth in fiery letters on the wall like the _mene, mene,tekel upharsin_ of Belshazzar. He told himself that it was the enmityof man, and not the vengeance of Heaven, that had thus plunged him intothe deepest misery. He consigned his unknown persecutors to the mosthorrible tortures he could imagine, and found them all insufficient,because after torture came death, and after death, if not repose, atleast the boon of unconsciousness.
By dint of constantly dwelling on the idea that tranquillity was death,and if punishment were the end in view other tortures than death mustbe invented, he began to reflect on suicide. Unhappy he, who, on thebrink of misfortune, broods over ideas like these!
Before him is a dead sea that stretches in azure calm before the eye;but he who unwarily ventures within its embrace finds himselfstruggling with a monster that would drag him down to perdition. Oncethus ensnared, unless the protecting hand of God snatch him thence, allis over, and his struggles but tend to hasten his destruction. Thisstate of mental anguish is, however, less terrible than the sufferingsthat precede or the punishment that possibly will follow. There is asort of consolation at the contemplation of the yawning abyss, at thebottom of which lie darkness and obscurity.
Edmond found some solace in these ideas. All his sorrows, all hissufferings, with their train of gloomy spectres, fled from his cellwhen the angel of death seemed about to enter. Dantès reviewed his pastlife with composure, and, looking forward with terror to his futureexistence, chose that middle line that seemed to afford him a refuge.
“Sometimes,” said he, “in my voyages, when I was a man and commandedother men, I have seen the heavens overcast, the sea rage and foam, thestorm arise, and, like a monstrous bird, beating the two horizons withits wings. Then I felt that my vessel was a vain refuge, that trembledand shook before the tempest. Soon the fury of the waves and the sightof the sharp rocks announced the approach of death, and death thenterrified me, and I used all my skill and intelligence as a man and asailor to struggle against the wrath of God. But I did so because I washappy, because I had not courted death, because to be cast upon a bedof rocks and seaweed seemed terrible, because I was unwilling that I, acreature made for the service of God, should serve for food to thegulls and ravens. But now it is different; I have lost all that boundme to life, death smiles and invites me to repose; I die after my ownmanner, I die exhausted and broken-spirited, as I fall asleep when Ihave paced three thousand times round my cell,—that is thirty thousandsteps, or about ten leagues.”
No sooner had this idea taken possession of him than he became morecomposed, arranged his couch to the best of his power, ate little andslept less, and found existence almost supportable, because he feltthat he could throw it off at pleasure, like a worn-out garment. Twomethods of self-destruction were at his disposal. He could hang himselfwith his handkerchief to the window bars, or refuse food and die ofstarvation. But the first was repugnant to him. Dantès had alwaysentertained the greatest horror of pirates, who are hung up to theyard-arm; he would not die by what seemed an infamous death. Heresolved to adopt the second, and began that day to carry out hisresolve.
0185m


Nearly four years had passed away; at the end of the second he hadceased to mark the lapse of time. Dantès said, “I wish to die,” and hadchosen the manner of his death, and fearful of changing his mind, hehad taken an oath to die. “When my morning and evening meals arebrought,” thought he, “I will cast them out of the window, and theywill think that I have eaten them.”
He kept his word; twice a day he cast out, through the barred aperture,the provisions his jailer brought him—at first gayly, then withdeliberation, and at last with regret. Nothing but the recollection ofhis oath gave him strength to proceed. Hunger made viands oncerepugnant, now acceptable; he held the plate in his hand for an hour ata time, and gazed thoughtfully at the morsel of bad meat, of taintedfish, of black and mouldy bread. It was the last yearning for lifecontending with the resolution of despair; then his dungeon seemed lesssombre, his prospects less desperate. He was still young—he was onlyfour or five-and-twenty—he had nearly fifty years to live. Whatunforseen events might not open his prison door, and restore him toliberty? Then he raised to his lips the repast that, like a voluntaryTantalus, he refused himself; but he thought of his oath, and he wouldnot break it. He persisted until, at last, he had not sufficientstrength to rise and cast his supper out of the loophole. The nextmorning he could not see or hear; the jailer feared he was dangerouslyill. Edmond hoped he was dying.
Thus the day passed away. Edmond felt a sort of stupor creeping overhim which brought with it a feeling almost of content; the gnawing painat his stomach had ceased; his thirst had abated; when he closed hiseyes he saw myriads of lights dancing before them like thewill-o’-the-wisps that play about the marshes. It was the twilight ofthat mysterious country called Death!
Suddenly, about nine o’clock in the evening, Edmond heard a hollowsound in the wall against which he was lying.
So many loathsome animals inhabited the prison, that their noise didnot, in general, awake him; but whether abstinence had quickened hisfaculties, or whether the noise was really louder than usual, Edmondraised his head and listened. It was a continual scratching, as if madeby a huge claw, a powerful tooth, or some iron instrument attacking thestones.
Although weakened, the young man’s brain instantly responded to theidea that haunts all prisoners—liberty! It seemed to him that heavenhad at length taken pity on him, and had sent this noise to warn him onthe very brink of the abyss. Perhaps one of those beloved ones he hadso often thought of was thinking of him, and striving to diminish thedistance that separated them.
No, no, doubtless he was deceived, and it was but one of those dreamsthat forerun death!
Edmond still heard the sound. It lasted nearly three hours; he thenheard a noise of something falling, and all was silent.
Some hours afterwards it began again, nearer and more distinct. Edmondwas intensely interested. Suddenly the jailer entered.
For a week since he had resolved to die, and during the four days thathe had been carrying out his purpose, Edmond had not spoken to theattendant, had not answered him when he inquired what was the matterwith him, and turned his face to the wall when he looked too curiouslyat him; but now the jailer might hear the noise and put an end to it,and so destroy a ray of something like hope that soothed his lastmoments.
The jailer brought him his breakfast. Dantès raised himself up andbegan to talk about everything; about the bad quality of the food,about the coldness of his dungeon, grumbling and complaining, in orderto have an excuse for speaking louder, and wearying the patience of hisjailer, who out of kindness of heart had brought broth and white breadfor his prisoner.
Fortunately, he fancied that Dantès was delirious; and placing the foodon the rickety table, he withdrew. Edmond listened, and the soundbecame more and more distinct.
“There can be no doubt about it,” thought he; “it is some prisoner whois striving to obtain his freedom. Oh, if I were only there to helphim!”
Suddenly another idea took possession of his mind, so used tomisfortune, that it was scarcely capable of hope—the idea that thenoise was made by workmen the governor had ordered to repair theneighboring dungeon.
It was easy to ascertain this; but how could he risk the question? Itwas easy to call his jailer’s attention to the noise, and watch hiscountenance as he listened; but might he not by this means destroyhopes far more important than the short-lived satisfaction of his owncuriosity? Unfortunately, Edmond’s brain was still so feeble that hecould not bend his thoughts to anything in particular. He saw but onemeans of restoring lucidity and clearness to his judgment. He turnedhis eyes towards the soup which the jailer had brought, rose, staggeredtowards it, raised the vessel to his lips, and drank off the contentswith a feeling of indescribable pleasure.
He had the resolution to stop with this. He had often heard thatshipwrecked persons had died through having eagerly devoured too muchfood. Edmond replaced on the table the bread he was about to devour,and returned to his couch—he did not wish to die. He soon felt that hisideas became again collected—he could think, and strengthen histhoughts by reasoning. Then he said to himself:
“I must put this to the test, but without compromising anybody. If itis a workman, I need but knock against the wall, and he will cease towork, in order to find out who is knocking, and why he does so; but ashis occupation is sanctioned by the governor, he will soon resume it.If, on the contrary, it is a prisoner, the noise I make will alarm him,he will cease, and not begin again until he thinks everyone is asleep.”
Edmond rose again, but this time his legs did not tremble, and hissight was clear; he went to a corner of his dungeon, detached a stone,and with it knocked against the wall where the sound came. He struckthrice.
At the first blow the sound ceased, as if by magic.
Edmond listened intently; an hour passed, two hours passed, and nosound was heard from the wall—all was silent there.
Full of hope, Edmond swallowed a few mouthfuls of bread and water, and,thanks to the vigor of his constitution, found himself well-nighrecovered.
The day passed away in utter silence—night came without recurrence ofthe noise.
“It is a prisoner,” said Edmond joyfully. His brain was on fire, andlife and energy returned.
The night passed in perfect silence. Edmond did not close his eyes.
In the morning the jailer brought him fresh provisions—he had alreadydevoured those of the previous day; he ate these listening anxiouslyfor the sound, walking round and round his cell, shaking the iron barsof the loophole, restoring vigor and agility to his limbs by exercise,and so preparing himself for his future destiny. At intervals helistened to learn if the noise had not begun again, and grew impatientat the prudence of the prisoner, who did not guess he had beendisturbed by a captive as anxious for liberty as himself.
Three days passed—seventy-two long tedious hours which he counted offby minutes!
At length one evening, as the jailer was visiting him for the last timethat night, Dantès, with his ear for the hundredth time at the wall,fancied he heard an almost imperceptible movement among the stones. Hemoved away, walked up and down his cell to collect his thoughts, andthen went back and listened.
The matter was no longer doubtful. Something was at work on the otherside of the wall; the prisoner had discovered the danger, and hadsubstituted a lever for a chisel.
Encouraged by this discovery, Edmond determined to assist theindefatigable laborer. He began by moving his bed, and looked aroundfor anything with which he could pierce the wall, penetrate the moistcement, and displace a stone.
He saw nothing, he had no knife or sharp instrument, the window gratingwas of iron, but he had too often assured himself of its solidity. Allhis furniture consisted of a bed, a chair, a table, a pail, and a jug.The bed had iron clamps, but they were screwed to the wood, and itwould have required a screw-driver to take them off. The table andchair had nothing, the pail had once possessed a handle, but that hadbeen removed.
0189m


Dantès had but one resource, which was to break the jug, and with oneof the sharp fragments attack the wall. He let the jug fall on thefloor, and it broke in pieces.
Dantès concealed two or three of the sharpest fragments in his bed,leaving the rest on the floor. The breaking of his jug was too naturalan accident to excite suspicion. Edmond had all the night to work in,but in the darkness he could not do much, and he soon felt that he wasworking against something very hard; he pushed back his bed, and waitedfor day.
All night he heard the subterranean workman, who continued to mine hisway. Day came, the jailer entered. Dantès told him that the jug hadfallen from his hands while he was drinking, and the jailer wentgrumblingly to fetch another, without giving himself the trouble toremove the fragments of the broken one. He returned speedily, advisedthe prisoner to be more careful, and departed.
Dantès heard joyfully the key grate in the lock; he listened until thesound of steps died away, and then, hastily displacing his bed, saw bythe faint light that penetrated into his cell, that he had laboreduselessly the previous evening in attacking the stone instead ofremoving the plaster that surrounded it.
The damp had rendered it friable, and Dantès was able to break itoff—in small morsels, it is true, but at the end of half an hour he hadscraped off a handful; a mathematician might have calculated that intwo years, supposing that the rock was not encountered, a passagetwenty feet long and two feet broad, might be formed.
The prisoner reproached himself with not having thus employed the hourshe had passed in vain hopes, prayer, and despondency. During the sixyears that he had been imprisoned, what might he not have accomplished?
This idea imparted new energy, and in three days he had succeeded, withthe utmost precaution, in removing the cement, and exposing thestone-work. The wall was built of rough stones, among which, to givestrength to the structure, blocks of hewn stone were at intervalsimbedded. It was one of these he had uncovered, and which he mustremove from its socket.
Dantès strove to do this with his nails, but they were too weak. Thefragments of the jug broke, and after an hour of useless toil, Dantèspaused with anguish on his brow.
Was he to be thus stopped at the beginning, and was he to wait inactiveuntil his fellow workman had completed his task? Suddenly an ideaoccurred to him—he smiled, and the perspiration dried on his forehead.
The jailer always brought Dantès’ soup in an iron saucepan; thissaucepan contained soup for both prisoners, for Dantès had noticed thatit was either quite full, or half empty, according as the turnkey gaveit to him or to his companion first.
The handle of this saucepan was of iron; Dantès would have given tenyears of his life in exchange for it.
0191m


The jailer was accustomed to pour the contents of the saucepan intoDantès’ plate, and Dantès, after eating his soup with a wooden spoon,washed the plate, which thus served for every day. Now when eveningcame Dantès put his plate on the ground near the door; the jailer, ashe entered, stepped on it and broke it.
This time he could not blame Dantès. He was wrong to leave it there,but the jailer was wrong not to have looked before him. The jailer,therefore, only grumbled. Then he looked about for something to pourthe soup into; Dantès’ entire dinner service consisted of oneplate—there was no alternative.
“Leave the saucepan,” said Dantès; “you can take it away when you bringme my breakfast.”
This advice was to the jailer’s taste, as it spared him the necessityof making another trip. He left the saucepan.
Dantès was beside himself with joy. He rapidly devoured his food, andafter waiting an hour, lest the jailer should change his mind andreturn, he removed his bed, took the handle of the saucepan, insertedthe point between the hewn stone and rough stones of the wall, andemployed it as a lever. A slight oscillation showed Dantès that allwent well. At the end of an hour the stone was extricated from thewall, leaving a cavity a foot and a half in diameter.
Dantès carefully collected the plaster, carried it into the corner ofhis cell, and covered it with earth. Then, wishing to make the best useof his time while he had the means of labor, he continued to workwithout ceasing. At the dawn of day he replaced the stone, pushed hisbed against the wall, and lay down. The breakfast consisted of a pieceof bread; the jailer entered and placed the bread on the table.
“Well, don’t you intend to bring me another plate?” said Dantès.
“No,” replied the turnkey; “you destroy everything. First you breakyour jug, then you make me break your plate; if all the prisonersfollowed your example, the government would be ruined. I shall leaveyou the saucepan, and pour your soup into that. So for the future Ihope you will not be so destructive.”
Dantès raised his eyes to heaven and clasped his hands beneath thecoverlet. He felt more gratitude for the possession of this piece ofiron than he had ever felt for anything. He had noticed, however, thatthe prisoner on the other side had ceased to labor; no matter, this wasa greater reason for proceeding—if his neighbor would not come to him,he would go to his neighbor. All day he toiled on untiringly, and bythe evening he had succeeded in extracting ten handfuls of plaster andfragments of stone. When the hour for his jailer’s visit arrived,Dantès straightened the handle of the saucepan as well as he could, andplaced it in its accustomed place. The turnkey poured his ration ofsoup into it, together with the fish—for thrice a week the prisonerswere deprived of meat. This would have been a method of reckoning time,had not Dantès long ceased to do so. Having poured out the soup, theturnkey retired.
Dantès wished to ascertain whether his neighbor had really ceased towork. He listened—all was silent, as it had been for the last threedays. Dantès sighed; it was evident that his neighbor distrusted him.However, he toiled on all the night without being discouraged; butafter two or three hours he encountered an obstacle. The iron made noimpression, but met with a smooth surface; Dantès touched it, and foundthat it was a beam. This beam crossed, or rather blocked up, the holeDantès had made; it was necessary, therefore, to dig above or under it.The unhappy young man had not thought of this.
“Oh, my God, my God!” murmured he, “I have so earnestly prayed to you,that I hoped my prayers had been heard. After having deprived me of myliberty, after having deprived me of death, after having recalled me toexistence, my God, have pity on me, and do not let me die in despair!”
0193m


“Who talks of God and despair at the same time?” said a voice thatseemed to come from beneath the earth, and, deadened by the distance,sounded hollow and sepulchral in the young man’s ears. Edmond’s hairstood on end, and he rose to his knees.
“Ah,” said he, “I hear a human voice.” Edmond had not heard anyonespeak save his jailer for four or five years; and a jailer is no man toa prisoner—he is a living door, a barrier of flesh and blood addingstrength to restraints of oak and iron.
“In the name of Heaven,” cried Dantès, “speak again, though the soundof your voice terrifies me. Who are you?”
“Who are you?” said the voice.
“An unhappy prisoner,” replied Dantès, who made no hesitation inanswering.
“Of what country?”
“A Frenchman.”
“Your name?”
“Edmond Dantès.”
“Your profession?”
“A sailor.”
“How long have you been here?”
“Since the 28th of February, 1815.”
“Your crime?”
“I am innocent.”
“But of what are you accused?”
“Of having conspired to aid the emperor’s return.”
“What! For the emperor’s return?—the emperor is no longer on thethrone, then?”
“He abdicated at Fontainebleau in 1814, and was sent to the Island ofElba. But how long have you been here that you are ignorant of allthis?”
“Since 1811.”
Dantès shuddered; this man had been four years longer than himself inprison.
“Do not dig any more,” said the voice; “only tell me how high up isyour excavation?”
“On a level with the floor.”
“How is it concealed?”
“Behind my bed.”
“Has your bed been moved since you have been a prisoner?”
“No.”
“What does your chamber open on?”
“A corridor.”
“And the corridor?”
“On a court.”
“Alas!” murmured the voice.
“Oh, what is the matter?” cried Dantès.
“I have made a mistake owing to an error in my plans. I took the wrongangle, and have come out fifteen feet from where I intended. I took thewall you are mining for the outer wall of the fortress.”
“But then you would be close to the sea?”
“That is what I hoped.”
“And supposing you had succeeded?”
“I should have thrown myself into the sea, gained one of the islandsnear here—the Isle de Daume or the Isle de Tiboulen—and then I shouldhave been safe.”
“Could you have swum so far?”
“Heaven would have given me strength; but now all is lost.”
“All?”
“Yes; stop up your excavation carefully, do not work any more, and waituntil you hear from me.”
“Tell me, at least, who you are?”
“I am—I am No. 27.”
“You mistrust me, then,” said Dantès. Edmond fancied he heard a bitterlaugh resounding from the depths.
“Oh, I am a Christian,” cried Dantès, guessing instinctively that thisman meant to abandon him. “I swear to you by him who died for us thatnaught shall induce me to breathe one syllable to my jailers; but Iconjure you do not abandon me. If you do, I swear to you, for I havegot to the end of my strength, that I will dash my brains out againstthe wall, and you will have my death to reproach yourself with.”
“How old are you? Your voice is that of a young man.”
“I do not know my age, for I have not counted the years I have beenhere. All I do know is, that I was just nineteen when I was arrested,the 28th of February, 1815.”
“Not quite twenty-six!” murmured the voice; “at that age he cannot be atraitor.”
“Oh, no, no,” cried Dantès. “I swear to you again, rather than betrayyou, I would allow myself to be hacked in pieces!”
“You have done well to speak to me, and ask for my assistance, for Iwas about to form another plan, and leave you; but your age reassuresme. I will not forget you. Wait.”
“How long?”
“I must calculate our chances; I will give you the signal.”
“But you will not leave me; you will come to me, or you will let mecome to you. We will escape, and if we cannot escape we will talk; youof those whom you love, and I of those whom I love. You must lovesomebody?”
“No, I am alone in the world.”
“Then you will love me. If you are young, I will be your comrade; ifyou are old, I will be your son. I have a father who is seventy if heyet lives; I only love him and a young girl called Mercédès. My fatherhas not yet forgotten me, I am sure, but God alone knows if she lovesme still; I shall love you as I loved my father.”
“It is well,” returned the voice; “tomorrow.”
These few words were uttered with an accent that left no doubt of hissincerity; Dantès rose, dispersed the fragments with the sameprecaution as before, and pushed his bed back against the wall. He thengave himself up to his happiness. He would no longer be alone. He was,perhaps, about to regain his liberty; at the worst, he would have acompanion, and captivity that is shared is but half captivity. Plaintsmade in common are almost prayers, and prayers where two or three aregathered together invoke the mercy of heaven.
All day Dantès walked up and down his cell. He sat down occasionally onhis bed, pressing his hand on his heart. At the slightest noise hebounded towards the door. Once or twice the thought crossed his mindthat he might be separated from this unknown, whom he loved already;and then his mind was made up—when the jailer moved his bed and stoopedto examine the opening, he would kill him with his water jug. He wouldbe condemned to die, but he was about to die of grief and despair whenthis miraculous noise recalled him to life.
The jailer came in the evening. Dantès was on his bed. It seemed to himthat thus he better guarded the unfinished opening. Doubtless there wasa strange expression in his eyes, for the jailer said, “Come, are yougoing mad again?”
Dantès did not answer; he feared that the emotion of his voice wouldbetray him. The jailer went away shaking his head. Night came; Dantèshoped that his neighbor would profit by the silence to address him, buthe was mistaken. The next morning, however, just as he removed his bedfrom the wall, he heard three knocks; he threw himself on his knees.
“Is it you?” said he; “I am here.”
“Is your jailer gone?”
“Yes,” said Dantès; “he will not return until the evening; so that wehave twelve hours before us.”
“I can work, then?” said the voice.
“Oh, yes, yes; this instant, I entreat you.”
In a moment that part of the floor on which Dantès was resting his twohands, as he knelt with his head in the opening, suddenly gave way; hedrew back smartly, while a mass of stones and earth disappeared in ahole that opened beneath the aperture he himself had formed. Then fromthe bottom of this passage, the depth of which it was impossible tomeasure, he saw appear, first the head, then the shoulders, and lastlythe body of a man, who sprang lightly into his cell.
0197m



 Chapter 16. A Learned Italian
Seizing in his arms the friend so long and ardently desired, Dantèsalmost carried him towards the window, in order to obtain a better viewof his features by the aid of the imperfect light that struggledthrough the grating.
He was a man of small stature, with hair blanched rather by sufferingand sorrow than by age. He had a deep-set, penetrating eye, almostburied beneath the thick gray eyebrow, and a long (and still black)beard reaching down to his breast. His thin face, deeply furrowed bycare, and the bold outline of his strongly marked features, betokened aman more accustomed to exercise his mental faculties than his physicalstrength. Large drops of perspiration were now standing on his brow,while the garments that hung about him were so ragged that one couldonly guess at the pattern upon which they had originally beenfashioned.
The stranger might have numbered sixty or sixty-five years; but acertain briskness and appearance of vigor in his movements made itprobable that he was aged more from captivity than the course of time.He received the enthusiastic greeting of his young acquaintance withevident pleasure, as though his chilled affections were rekindled andinvigorated by his contact with one so warm and ardent. He thanked himwith grateful cordiality for his kindly welcome, although he must atthat moment have been suffering bitterly to find another dungeon wherehe had fondly reckoned on discovering a means of regaining his liberty.
“Let us first see,” said he, “whether it is possible to remove thetraces of my entrance here—our future tranquillity depends upon ourjailers being entirely ignorant of it.”
Advancing to the opening, he stooped and raised the stone easily inspite of its weight; then, fitting it into its place, he said:
“You removed this stone very carelessly; but I suppose you had no toolsto aid you.”
“Why,” exclaimed Dantès, with astonishment, “do you possess any?”
“I made myself some; and with the exception of a file, I have all thatare necessary,—a chisel, pincers, and lever.”
0201m


“Oh, how I should like to see these products of your industry andpatience.”
“Well, in the first place, here is my chisel.”
So saying, he displayed a sharp strong blade, with a handle made ofbeechwood.
“And with what did you contrive to make that?” inquired Dantès.
“With one of the clamps of my bedstead; and this very tool has sufficedme to hollow out the road by which I came hither, a distance of aboutfifty feet.”
“Fifty feet!” responded Dantès, almost terrified.
“Do not speak so loud, young man—don’t speak so loud. It frequentlyoccurs in a state prison like this, that persons are stationed outsidethe doors of the cells purposely to overhear the conversation of theprisoners.”
“But they believe I am shut up alone here.”
“That makes no difference.”
“And you say that you dug your way a distance of fifty feet to gethere?”
“I do; that is about the distance that separates your chamber frommine; only, unfortunately, I did not curve aright; for want of thenecessary geometrical instruments to calculate my scale of proportion,instead of taking an ellipsis of forty feet, I made it fifty. Iexpected, as I told you, to reach the outer wall, pierce through it,and throw myself into the sea; I have, however, kept along the corridoron which your chamber opens, instead of going beneath it. My labor isall in vain, for I find that the corridor looks into a courtyard filledwith soldiers.”
“That’s true,” said Dantès; “but the corridor you speak of only bounds_one_ side of my cell; there are three others—do you know anything oftheir situation?”
“This one is built against the solid rock, and it would take tenexperienced miners, duly furnished with the requisite tools, as manyyears to perforate it. This adjoins the lower part of the governor’sapartments, and were we to work our way through, we should only getinto some lock-up cellars, where we must necessarily be recaptured. Thefourth and last side of your cell faces on—faces on—stop a minute, nowwhere does it face?”
The wall of which he spoke was the one in which was fixed the loopholeby which light was admitted to the chamber. This loophole, whichgradually diminished in size as it approached the outside, to anopening through which a child could not have passed, was, for bettersecurity, furnished with three iron bars, so as to quiet allapprehensions even in the mind of the most suspicious jailer as to thepossibility of a prisoner’s escape. As the stranger asked the question,he dragged the table beneath the window.
“Climb up,” said he to Dantès.
The young man obeyed, mounted on the table, and, divining the wishes ofhis companion, placed his back securely against the wall and held outboth hands. The stranger, whom as yet Dantès knew only by the number ofhis cell, sprang up with an agility by no means to be expected in aperson of his years, and, light and steady on his feet as a cat or alizard, climbed from the table to the outstretched hands of Dantès, andfrom them to his shoulders; then, bending double, for the ceiling ofthe dungeon prevented him from holding himself erect, he managed toslip his head between the upper bars of the window, so as to be able tocommand a perfect view from top to bottom.
An instant afterwards he hastily drew back his head, saying, “I thoughtso!” and sliding from the shoulders of Dantès as dextrously as he hadascended, he nimbly leaped from the table to the ground.
“What was it that you thought?” asked the young man anxiously, in histurn descending from the table.
The elder prisoner pondered the matter. “Yes,” said he at length, “itis so. This side of your chamber looks out upon a kind of open gallery,where patrols are continually passing, and sentries keep watch day andnight.”
“Are you quite sure of that?”
“Certain. I saw the soldier’s shape and the top of his musket; thatmade me draw in my head so quickly, for I was fearful he might also seeme.”
“Well?” inquired Dantès.
“You perceive then the utter impossibility of escaping through yourdungeon?”
“Then——” pursued the young man eagerly.
“Then,” answered the elder prisoner, “the will of God be done!” And asthe old man slowly pronounced those words, an air of profoundresignation spread itself over his careworn countenance. Dantès gazedon the man who could thus philosophically resign hopes so long andardently nourished with an astonishment mingled with admiration.
“Tell me, I entreat of you, who and what you are?” said he at length.“Never have I met with so remarkable a person as yourself.”
“Willingly,” answered the stranger; “if, indeed, you feel any curiosityrespecting one, now, alas, powerless to aid you in any way.”
“Say not so; you can console and support me by the strength of your ownpowerful mind. Pray let me know who you really are?”
The stranger smiled a melancholy smile. “Then listen,” said he. “I amthe Abbé Faria, and have been imprisoned as you know in this Châteaud’If since the year 1811; previously to which I had been confined forthree years in the fortress of Fenestrelle. In the year 1811 I wastransferred to Piedmont in France. It was at this period I learned thatthe destiny which seemed subservient to every wish formed by Napoleon,had bestowed on him a son, named king of Rome even in his cradle. I wasvery far then from expecting the change you have just informed me of;namely, that four years afterwards, this colossus of power would beoverthrown. Then who reigns in France at this moment—Napoleon II.?”
“No, Louis XVIII.”
“The brother of Louis XVI.! How inscrutable are the ways ofProvidence—for what great and mysterious purpose has it pleased Heavento abase the man once so elevated, and raise up him who was so abased?”
Dantès’ whole attention was riveted on a man who could thus forget hisown misfortunes while occupying himself with the destinies of others.
“Yes, yes,” continued he, “’Twill be the same as it was in England.After Charles I., Cromwell; after Cromwell, Charles II., and then JamesII., and then some son-in-law or relation, some Prince of Orange, astadtholder who becomes a king. Then new concessions to the people,then a constitution, then liberty. Ah, my friend!” said the abbé,turning towards Dantès, and surveying him with the kindling gaze of aprophet, “you are young, you will see all this come to pass.”
“Probably, if ever I get out of prison!”
“True,” replied Faria, “we are prisoners; but I forget this sometimes,and there are even moments when my mental vision transports me beyondthese walls, and I fancy myself at liberty.”
“But wherefore are you here?”
“Because in 1807 I dreamed of the very plan Napoleon tried to realizein 1811; because, like Machiavelli, I desired to alter the politicalface of Italy, and instead of allowing it to be split up into aquantity of petty principalities, each held by some weak or tyrannicalruler, I sought to form one large, compact, and powerful empire; and,lastly, because I fancied I had found my Cæsar Borgia in a crownedsimpleton, who feigned to enter into my views only to betray me. It wasthe plan of Alexander VI. and Clement VII., but it will never succeednow, for they attempted it fruitlessly, and Napoleon was unable tocomplete his work. Italy seems fated to misfortune.” And the old manbowed his head.
Dantès could not understand a man risking his life for such matters.Napoleon certainly he knew something of, inasmuch as he had seen andspoken with him; but of Clement VII. and Alexander VI. he knew nothing.
“Are you not,” he asked, “the priest who here in the Château d’If isgenerally thought to be—ill?”
“Mad, you mean, don’t you?”
“I did not like to say so,” answered Dantès, smiling.
“Well, then,” resumed Faria with a bitter smile, “let me answer yourquestion in full, by acknowledging that I am the poor mad prisoner ofthe Château d’If, for many years permitted to amuse the differentvisitors with what is said to be my insanity; and, in all probability,I should be promoted to the honor of making sport for the children, ifsuch innocent beings could be found in an abode devoted like this tosuffering and despair.”
Dantès remained for a short time mute and motionless; at length hesaid:
“Then you abandon all hope of escape?”
“I perceive its utter impossibility; and I consider it impious toattempt that which the Almighty evidently does not approve.”
“Nay, be not discouraged. Would it not be expecting too much to hope tosucceed at your first attempt? Why not try to find an opening inanother direction from that which has so unfortunately failed?”
“Alas, it shows how little notion you can have of all it has cost me toeffect a purpose so unexpectedly frustrated, that you talk of beginningover again. In the first place, I was four years making the tools Ipossess, and have been two years scraping and digging out earth, hardas granite itself; then what toil and fatigue has it not been to removehuge stones I should once have deemed impossible to loosen. Whole dayshave I passed in these Titanic efforts, considering my labor wellrepaid if, by night-time I had contrived to carry away a square inch ofthis hard-bound cement, changed by ages into a substance unyielding asthe stones themselves; then to conceal the mass of earth and rubbish Idug up, I was compelled to break through a staircase, and throw thefruits of my labor into the hollow part of it; but the well is now socompletely choked up, that I scarcely think it would be possible to addanother handful of dust without leading to discovery. Consider alsothat I fully believed I had accomplished the end and aim of myundertaking, for which I had so exactly husbanded my strength as tomake it just hold out to the termination of my enterprise; and now, atthe moment when I reckoned upon success, my hopes are forever dashedfrom me. No, I repeat again, that nothing shall induce me to renewattempts evidently at variance with the Almighty’s pleasure.”
Dantès held down his head, that the other might not see how joy at thethought of having a companion outweighed the sympathy he felt for thefailure of the abbé’s plans.
The abbé sank upon Edmond’s bed, while Edmond himself remainedstanding. Escape had never once occurred to him. There are, indeed,some things which appear so impossible that the mind does not dwell onthem for an instant. To undermine the ground for fifty feet—to devotethree years to a labor which, if successful, would conduct you to aprecipice overhanging the sea—to plunge into the waves from the heightof fifty, sixty, perhaps a hundred feet, at the risk of being dashed topieces against the rocks, should you have been fortunate enough to haveescaped the fire of the sentinels; and even, supposing all these perilspast, then to have to swim for your life a distance of at least threemiles ere you could reach the shore—were difficulties so startling andformidable that Dantès had never even dreamed of such a scheme,resigning himself rather to death.
But the sight of an old man clinging to life with so desperate acourage, gave a fresh turn to his ideas, and inspired him with newcourage. Another, older and less strong than he, had attempted what hehad not had sufficient resolution to undertake, and had failed onlybecause of an error in calculation. This same person, with almostincredible patience and perseverance, had contrived to provide himselfwith tools requisite for so unparalleled an attempt. Another had doneall this; why, then, was it impossible to Dantès? Faria had dug his waythrough fifty feet, Dantès would dig a hundred; Faria, at the age offifty, had devoted three years to the task; he, who was but half asold, would sacrifice six; Faria, a priest and savant, had not shrunkfrom the idea of risking his life by trying to swim a distance of threemiles to one of the islands—Daume, Rattonneau, or Lemaire; should ahardy sailor, an experienced diver, like himself, shrink from a similartask; should he, who had so often for mere amusement’s sake plunged tothe bottom of the sea to fetch up the bright coral branch, hesitate toentertain the same project? He could do it in an hour, and how manytimes had he, for pure pastime, continued in the water for more thantwice as long! At once Dantès resolved to follow the brave example ofhis energetic companion, and to remember that what has once been donemay be done again.
After continuing some time in profound meditation, the young mansuddenly exclaimed, “I have found what you were in search of!”
Faria started: “Have you, indeed?” cried he, raising his head withquick anxiety; “pray, let me know what it is you have discovered?”
“The corridor through which you have bored your way from the cell youoccupy here, extends in the same direction as the outer gallery, doesit not?”
0207m


“It does.”
“And is not above fifteen feet from it?”
“About that.”
“Well, then, I will tell you what we must do. We must pierce throughthe corridor by forming a side opening about the middle, as it were thetop part of a cross. This time you will lay your plans more accurately;we shall get out into the gallery you have described; kill the sentinelwho guards it, and make our escape. All we require to insure success iscourage, and that you possess, and strength, which I am not deficientin; as for patience, you have abundantly proved yours—you shall now seeme prove mine.”
“One instant, my dear friend,” replied the abbé; “it is clear you donot understand the nature of the courage with which I am endowed, andwhat use I intend making of my strength. As for patience, I considerthat I have abundantly exercised that in beginning every morning thetask of the night before, and every night renewing the task of the day.But then, young man (and I pray of you to give me your full attention),then I thought I could not be doing anything displeasing to theAlmighty in trying to set an innocent being at liberty—one who hadcommitted no offence, and merited not condemnation.”
“And have your notions changed?” asked Dantès with much surprise; “doyou think yourself more guilty in making the attempt since you haveencountered me?”
“No; neither do I wish to incur guilt. Hitherto I have fancied myselfmerely waging war against circumstances, not men. I have thought it nosin to bore through a wall, or destroy a staircase; but I cannot soeasily persuade myself to pierce a heart or take away a life.”
A slight movement of surprise escaped Dantès.
“Is it possible,” said he, “that where your liberty is at stake you canallow any such scruple to deter you from obtaining it?”
“Tell me,” replied Faria, “what has hindered you from knocking downyour jailer with a piece of wood torn from your bedstead, dressingyourself in his clothes, and endeavoring to escape?”
“Simply the fact that the idea never occurred to me,” answered Dantès.
“Because,” said the old man, “the natural repugnance to the commissionof such a crime prevented you from thinking of it; and so it ever isbecause in simple and allowable things our natural instincts keep usfrom deviating from the strict line of duty. The tiger, whose natureteaches him to delight in shedding blood, needs but the sense of smellto show him when his prey is within his reach, and by following thisinstinct he is enabled to measure the leap necessary to permit him tospring on his victim; but man, on the contrary, loathes the idea ofblood—it is not alone that the laws of social life inspire him with ashrinking dread of taking life; his natural construction andphysiological formation——”
Dantès was confused and silent at this explanation of the thoughtswhich had unconsciously been working in his mind, or rather soul; forthere are two distinct sorts of ideas, those that proceed from the headand those that emanate from the heart.
0209m


“Since my imprisonment,” said Faria, “I have thought over all the mostcelebrated cases of escape on record. They have rarely been successful.Those that have been crowned with full success have been long meditatedupon, and carefully arranged; such, for instance, as the escape of theDuc de Beaufort from the Château de Vincennes, that of the AbbéDubuquoi from For l’Evêque; of Latude from the Bastille. Then there arethose for which chance sometimes affords opportunity, and those are thebest of all. Let us, therefore, wait patiently for some favorablemoment, and when it presents itself, profit by it.”
“Ah,” said Dantès, “you might well endure the tedious delay; you wereconstantly employed in the task you set yourself, and when weary withtoil, you had your hopes to refresh and encourage you.”
“I assure you,” replied the old man, “I did not turn to that source forrecreation or support.”
“What did you do then?”
“I wrote or studied.”
“Were you then permitted the use of pens, ink, and paper?”
“Oh, no,” answered the abbé; “I had none but what I made for myself.”
“You made paper, pens and ink?”
“Yes.”
Dantès gazed with admiration, but he had some difficulty in believing.Faria saw this.
“When you pay me a visit in my cell, my young friend,” said he, “I willshow you an entire work, the fruits of the thoughts and reflections ofmy whole life; many of them meditated over in the shades of theColosseum at Rome, at the foot of St. Mark’s column at Venice, and onthe borders of the Arno at Florence, little imagining at the time thatthey would be arranged in order within the walls of the Château d’If.The work I speak of is called _A Treatise on the Possibility of aGeneral Monarchy in Italy_, and will make one large quarto volume.”
“And on what have you written all this?”
“On two of my shirts. I invented a preparation that makes linen assmooth and as easy to write on as parchment.”
“You are, then, a chemist?”
“Somewhat; I know Lavoisier, and was the intimate friend of Cabanis.”
“But for such a work you must have needed books—had you any?”
“I had nearly five thousand volumes in my library at Rome; but afterreading them over many times, I found out that with one hundred andfifty well-chosen books a man possesses, if not a complete summary ofall human knowledge, at least all that a man need really know. Idevoted three years of my life to reading and studying these onehundred and fifty volumes, till I knew them nearly by heart; so thatsince I have been in prison, a very slight effort of memory has enabledme to recall their contents as readily as though the pages were openbefore me. I could recite you the whole of Thucydides, Xenophon,Plutarch, Titus Livius, Tacitus, Strada, Jornandes, Dante, Montaigne,Shakespeare, Spinoza, Machiavelli, and Bossuet. I name only the mostimportant.”
“You are, doubtless, acquainted with a variety of languages, so as tohave been able to read all these?”
“Yes, I speak five of the modern tongues—that is to say, German,French, Italian, English, and Spanish; by the aid of ancient Greek Ilearned modern Greek—I don’t speak it so well as I could wish, but I amstill trying to improve myself.”
“Improve yourself!” repeated Dantès; “why, how can you manage to doso?”
“Why, I made a vocabulary of the words I knew; turned, returned, andarranged them, so as to enable me to express my thoughts through theirmedium. I know nearly one thousand words, which is all that isabsolutely necessary, although I believe there are nearly one hundredthousand in the dictionaries. I cannot hope to be very fluent, but Icertainly should have no difficulty in explaining my wants and wishes;and that would be quite as much as I should ever require.”
Stronger grew the wonder of Dantès, who almost fancied he had to dowith one gifted with supernatural powers; still hoping to find someimperfection which might bring him down to a level with human beings,he added, “Then if you were not furnished with pens, how did you manageto write the work you speak of?”
“I made myself some excellent ones, which would be universallypreferred to all others if once known. You are aware what huge whitingsare served to us on _maigre_ days. Well, I selected the cartilages ofthe heads of these fishes, and you can scarcely imagine the delightwith which I welcomed the arrival of each Wednesday, Friday, andSaturday, as affording me the means of increasing my stock of pens; forI will freely confess that my historical labors have been my greatestsolace and relief. While retracing the past, I forget the present; andtraversing at will the path of history I cease to remember that I ammyself a prisoner.”
“But the ink,” said Dantès; “of what did you make your ink?”
“There was formerly a fireplace in my dungeon,” replied Faria, “but itwas closed up long ere I became an occupant of this prison. Still, itmust have been many years in use, for it was thickly covered with acoating of soot; this soot I dissolved in a portion of the wine broughtto me every Sunday, and I assure you a better ink cannot be desired.For very important notes, for which closer attention is required, Ipricked one of my fingers, and wrote with my own blood.”
“And when,” asked Dantès, “may I see all this?”
“Whenever you please,” replied the abbé.
“Oh, then let it be directly!” exclaimed the young man.
“Follow me, then,” said the abbé, as he re-entered the subterraneanpassage, in which he soon disappeared, followed by Dantès.


 Chapter 17. The Abbé’s Chamber
After having passed with tolerable ease through the subterraneanpassage, which, however, did not admit of their holding themselveserect, the two friends reached the further end of the corridor, intowhich the abbé’s cell opened; from that point the passage became muchnarrower, and barely permitted one to creep through on hands and knees.The floor of the abbé’s cell was paved, and it had been by raising oneof the stones in the most obscure corner that Faria had been able tocommence the laborious task of which Dantès had witnessed thecompletion.
As he entered the chamber of his friend, Dantès cast around one eagerand searching glance in quest of the expected marvels, but nothing morethan common met his view.
“It is well,” said the abbé; “we have some hours before us—it is nowjust a quarter past twelve o’clock.” Instinctively Dantès turned roundto observe by what watch or clock the abbé had been able so accuratelyto specify the hour.
“Look at this ray of light which enters by my window,” said the abbé,“and then observe the lines traced on the wall. Well, by means of theselines, which are in accordance with the double motion of the earth, andthe ellipse it describes round the sun, I am enabled to ascertain theprecise hour with more minuteness than if I possessed a watch; for thatmight be broken or deranged in its movements, while the sun and earthnever vary in their appointed paths.”
This last explanation was wholly lost upon Dantès, who had alwaysimagined, from seeing the sun rise from behind the mountains and set inthe Mediterranean, that it moved, and not the earth. A double movementof the globe he inhabited, and of which he could feel nothing, appearedto him perfectly impossible. Each word that fell from his companion’slips seemed fraught with the mysteries of science, as worthy of diggingout as the gold and diamonds in the mines of Guzerat and Golconda,which he could just recollect having visited during a voyage made inhis earliest youth.
“Come,” said he to the abbé, “I am anxious to see your treasures.”
The abbé smiled, and, proceeding to the disused fireplace, raised, bythe help of his chisel, a long stone, which had doubtless been thehearth, beneath which was a cavity of considerable depth, serving as asafe depository of the articles mentioned to Dantès.
0213m


“What do you wish to see first?” asked the abbé.
“Oh, your great work on the monarchy of Italy!”
Faria then drew forth from his hiding-place three or four rolls oflinen, laid one over the other, like folds of papyrus. These rollsconsisted of slips of cloth about four inches wide and eighteen long;they were all carefully numbered and closely covered with writing, solegible that Dantès could easily read it, as well as make out thesense—it being in Italian, a language he, as a Provençal, perfectlyunderstood.
“There,” said he, “there is the work complete. I wrote the word _finis_at the end of the sixty-eighth strip about a week ago. I have torn uptwo of my shirts, and as many handkerchiefs as I was master of, tocomplete the precious pages. Should I ever get out of prison and findin all Italy a printer courageous enough to publish what I havecomposed, my literary reputation is forever secured.”
“I see,” answered Dantès. “Now let me behold the curious pens withwhich you have written your work.”
“Look!” said Faria, showing to the young man a slender stick about sixinches long, and much resembling the size of the handle of a finepainting-brush, to the end of which was tied, by a piece of thread, oneof those cartilages of which the abbé had before spoken to Dantès; itwas pointed, and divided at the nib like an ordinary pen. Dantèsexamined it with intense admiration, then looked around to see theinstrument with which it had been shaped so correctly into form.
“Ah, yes,” said Faria; “the penknife. That’s my masterpiece. I made it,as well as this larger knife, out of an old iron candlestick.” Thepenknife was sharp and keen as a razor; as for the other knife, itwould serve a double purpose, and with it one could cut and thrust.
Dantès examined the various articles shown to him with the sameattention that he had bestowed on the curiosities and strange toolsexhibited in the shops at Marseilles as the works of the savages in theSouth Seas from whence they had been brought by the different tradingvessels.
“As for the ink,” said Faria, “I told you how I managed to obtainthat—and I only just make it from time to time, as I require it.”
“One thing still puzzles me,” observed Dantès, “and that is how youmanaged to do all this by daylight?”
“I worked at night also,” replied Faria.
“Night!—why, for Heaven’s sake, are your eyes like cats’, that you cansee to work in the dark?”
“Indeed they are not; but God has supplied man with the intelligencethat enables him to overcome the limitations of natural conditions. Ifurnished myself with a light.”
“You did? Pray tell me how.”
“I separated the fat from the meat served to me, melted it, and so madeoil—here is my lamp.” So saying, the abbé exhibited a sort of torchvery similar to those used in public illuminations.
“But how do you procure a light?”
“Oh, here are two flints and a piece of burnt linen.”
“And matches?”
“I pretended that I had a disorder of the skin, and asked for a littlesulphur, which was readily supplied.”
Dantès laid the different things he had been looking at on the table,and stood with his head drooping on his breast, as though overwhelmedby the perseverance and strength of Faria’s mind.
0215m


“You have not seen all yet,” continued Faria, “for I did not think itwise to trust all my treasures in the same hiding-place. Let us shutthis one up.” They put the stone back in its place; the abbé sprinkleda little dust over it to conceal the traces of its having been removed,rubbed his foot well on it to make it assume the same appearance as theother, and then, going towards his bed, he removed it from the spot itstood in. Behind the head of the bed, and concealed by a stone fittingin so closely as to defy all suspicion, was a hollow space, and in thisspace a ladder of cords between twenty-five and thirty feet in length.Dantès closely and eagerly examined it; he found it firm, solid, andcompact enough to bear any weight.
“Who supplied you with the materials for making this wonderful work?”
“I tore up several of my shirts, and ripped out the seams in the sheetsof my bed, during my three years’ imprisonment at Fenestrelle; and whenI was removed to the Château d’If, I managed to bring the ravellingswith me, so that I have been able to finish my work here.”
“And was it not discovered that your sheets were unhemmed?”
“Oh, no, for when I had taken out the thread I required, I hemmed theedges over again.”
“With what?”
“With this needle,” said the abbé, as, opening his ragged vestments, heshowed Dantès a long, sharp fish-bone, with a small perforated eye forthe thread, a small portion of which still remained in it.
“I once thought,” continued Faria, “of removing these iron bars, andletting myself down from the window, which, as you see, is somewhatwider than yours, although I should have enlarged it still morepreparatory to my flight; however, I discovered that I should merelyhave dropped into a sort of inner court, and I therefore renounced theproject altogether as too full of risk and danger. Nevertheless, Icarefully preserved my ladder against one of those unforeseenopportunities of which I spoke just now, and which sudden chancefrequently brings about.”
While affecting to be deeply engaged in examining the ladder, the mindof Dantès was, in fact, busily occupied by the idea that a person sointelligent, ingenious, and clear-sighted as the abbé might probably beable to solve the dark mystery of his own misfortunes, where he himselfcould see nothing.
“What are you thinking of?” asked the abbé smilingly, imputing the deepabstraction in which his visitor was plunged to the excess of his aweand wonder.
“I was reflecting, in the first place,” replied Dantès, “upon theenormous degree of intelligence and ability you must have employed toreach the high perfection to which you have attained. What would younot have accomplished if you had been free?”
“Possibly nothing at all; the overflow of my brain would probably, in astate of freedom, have evaporated in a thousand follies; misfortune isneeded to bring to light the treasures of the human intellect.Compression is needed to explode gunpowder. Captivity has brought mymental faculties to a focus; and you are well aware that from thecollision of clouds electricity is produced—from electricity,lightning, from lightning, illumination.”
“No,” replied Dantès. “I know nothing. Some of your words are to mequite empty of meaning. You must be blessed indeed to possess theknowledge you have.”
The abbé smiled. “Well,” said he, “but you had another subject for yourthoughts; did you not say so just now?”
“I did!”
“You have told me as yet but one of them—let me hear the other.”
“It was this,—that while you had related to me all the particulars ofyour past life, you were perfectly unacquainted with mine.”
“Your life, my young friend, has not been of sufficient length to admitof your having passed through any very important events.”
“It has been long enough to inflict on me a great and undeservedmisfortune. I would fain fix the source of it on man that I may nolonger vent reproaches upon Heaven.”
“Then you profess ignorance of the crime with which you are charged?”
“I do, indeed; and this I swear by the two beings most dear to me uponearth,—my father and Mercédès.”
“Come,” said the abbé, closing his hiding-place, and pushing the bedback to its original situation, “let me hear your story.”
Dantès obeyed, and commenced what he called his history, but whichconsisted only of the account of a voyage to India, and two or threevoyages to the Levant, until he arrived at the recital of his lastcruise, with the death of Captain Leclere, and the receipt of a packetto be delivered by himself to the grand marshal; his interview withthat personage, and his receiving, in place of the packet brought, aletter addressed to a Monsieur Noirtier—his arrival at Marseilles, andinterview with his father—his affection for Mercédès, and their nuptualfeast—his arrest and subsequent examination, his temporary detention atthe Palais de Justice, and his final imprisonment in the Château d’If.From this point everything was a blank to Dantès—he knew nothing more,not even the length of time he had been imprisoned. His recitalfinished, the abbé reflected long and earnestly.
“There is,” said he, at the end of his meditations, “a clever maxim,which bears upon what I was saying to you some little while ago, andthat is, that unless wicked ideas take root in a naturally depravedmind, human nature, in a right and wholesome state, revolts at crime.Still, from an artificial civilization have originated wants, vices,and false tastes, which occasionally become so powerful as to stiflewithin us all good feelings, and ultimately to lead us into guilt andwickedness. From this view of things, then, comes the axiom that if youvisit to discover the author of any bad action, seek first to discoverthe person to whom the perpetration of that bad action could be in anyway advantageous. Now, to apply it in your case,—to whom could yourdisappearance have been serviceable?”
“To no one, by Heaven! I was a very insignificant person.”
“Do not speak thus, for your reply evinces neither logic norphilosophy; everything is relative, my dear young friend, from the kingwho stands in the way of his successor, to the employee who keeps hisrival out of a place. Now, in the event of the king’s death, hissuccessor inherits a crown,—when the employee dies, the supernumerarysteps into his shoes, and receives his salary of twelve thousandlivres. Well, these twelve thousand livres are his civil list, and areas essential to him as the twelve millions of a king. Everyone, fromthe highest to the lowest degree, has his place on the social ladder,and is beset by stormy passions and conflicting interests, as inDescartes’ theory of pressure and impulsion. But these forces increaseas we go higher, so that we have a spiral which in defiance of reasonrests upon the apex and not on the base. Now let us return to yourparticular world. You say you were on the point of being made captainof the _Pharaon_?”
“Yes.”
“And about to become the husband of a young and lovely girl?”
“Yes.”
“Now, could anyone have had any interest in preventing theaccomplishment of these two things? But let us first settle thequestion as to its being the interest of anyone to hinder you frombeing captain of the _Pharaon_. What say you?”
“I cannot believe such was the case. I was generally liked on board,and had the sailors possessed the right of selecting a captainthemselves, I feel convinced their choice would have fallen on me.There was only one person among the crew who had any feeling ofill-will towards me. I had quarelled with him some time previously, andhad even challenged him to fight me; but he refused.”
“Now we are getting on. And what was this man’s name?”
“Danglars.”
“What rank did he hold on board?”
“He was supercargo.”
“And had you been captain, should you have retained him in hisemployment?”
“Not if the choice had remained with me, for I had frequently observedinaccuracies in his accounts.”
“Good again! Now then, tell me, was any person present during your lastconversation with Captain Leclere?”
“No; we were quite alone.”
“Could your conversation have been overheard by anyone?”
“It might, for the cabin door was open—and—stay; now Irecollect,—Danglars himself passed by just as Captain Leclere wasgiving me the packet for the grand marshal.”
“That’s better,” cried the abbé; “now we are on the right scent. Didyou take anybody with you when you put into the port of Elba?”
“Nobody.”
“Somebody there received your packet, and gave you a letter in place ofit, I think?”
“Yes; the grand marshal did.”
“And what did you do with that letter?”
“Put it into my portfolio.”
“You had your portfolio with you, then? Now, how could a sailor findroom in his pocket for a portfolio large enough to contain an officialletter?”
“You are right; it was left on board.”
“Then it was not till your return to the ship that you put the letterin the portfolio?”
“No.”
“And what did you do with this same letter while returning fromPorto-Ferrajo to the vessel?”
“I carried it in my hand.”
“So that when you went on board the _Pharaon_, everybody could see thatyou held a letter in your hand?”
“Yes.”
“Danglars, as well as the rest?”
“Danglars, as well as others.”
“Now, listen to me, and try to recall every circumstance attending yourarrest. Do you recollect the words in which the information against youwas formulated?”
“Oh yes, I read it over three times, and the words sank deeply into mymemory.”
“Repeat it to me.”
Dantès paused a moment, then said, “This is it, word for word: ‘Theking’s attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and religion,that one Edmond Dantès, mate on board the _Pharaon_, this day arrivedfrom Smyrna, after having touched at Naples and Porto-Ferrajo, has beenintrusted by Murat with a packet for the usurper; again, by theusurper, with a letter for the Bonapartist Club in Paris. This proof ofhis guilt may be procured by his immediate arrest, as the letter willbe found either about his person, at his father’s residence, or in hiscabin on board the _Pharaon_.’”
The abbé shrugged his shoulders. “The thing is clear as day,” said he;“and you must have had a very confiding nature, as well as a goodheart, not to have suspected the origin of the whole affair.”
“Do you really think so? Ah, that would indeed be infamous.”
“How did Danglars usually write?”
“In a handsome, running hand.”
“And how was the anonymous letter written?”
“Backhanded.”
Again the abbé smiled. “Disguised.”
“It was very boldly written, if disguised.”
“Stop a bit,” said the abbé, taking up what he called his pen, and,after dipping it into the ink, he wrote on a piece of prepared linen,with his left hand, the first two or three words of the accusation.Dantès drew back, and gazed on the abbé with a sensation almostamounting to terror.
“How very astonishing!” cried he at length. “Why your writing exactlyresembles that of the accusation.”
“Simply because that accusation had been written with the left hand;and I have noticed that——”
“What?”
“That while the writing of different persons done with the right handvaries, that performed with the left hand is invariably uniform.”
“You have evidently seen and observed everything.”
“Let us proceed.”
“Oh, yes, yes!”
“Now as regards the second question.”
“I am listening.”
“Was there any person whose interest it was to prevent your marriagewith Mercédès?”
“Yes; a young man who loved her.”
“And his name was——”
“Fernand.”
“That is a Spanish name, I think?”
“He was a Catalan.”
“You imagine him capable of writing the letter?”
“Oh, no; he would more likely have got rid of me by sticking a knifeinto me.”
“That is in strict accordance with the Spanish character; anassassination they will unhesitatingly commit, but an act of cowardice,never.”
“Besides,” said Dantès, “the various circumstances mentioned in theletter were wholly unknown to him.”
“You had never spoken of them yourself to anyone?”
“To no one.”
“Not even to your mistress?”
“No, not even to my betrothed.”
“Then it is Danglars.”
“I feel quite sure of it now.”
“Wait a little. Pray, was Danglars acquainted with Fernand?”
“No—yes, he was. Now I recollect——”
“What?”
“To have seen them both sitting at table together under an arbor atPère Pamphile’s the evening before the day fixed for my wedding. Theywere in earnest conversation. Danglars was joking in a friendly way,but Fernand looked pale and agitated.”
“Were they alone?”
“There was a third person with them whom I knew perfectly well, and whohad, in all probability made their acquaintance; he was a tailor namedCaderousse, but he was very drunk. Stay!—stay!—How strange that itshould not have occurred to me before! Now I remember quite well, thaton the table round which they were sitting were pens, ink, and paper.Oh, the heartless, treacherous scoundrels!” exclaimed Dantès, pressinghis hand to his throbbing brows.
“Is there anything else I can assist you in discovering, besides thevillany of your friends?” inquired the abbé with a laugh.
“Yes, yes,” replied Dantès eagerly; “I would beg of you, who see socompletely to the depths of things, and to whom the greatest mysteryseems but an easy riddle, to explain to me how it was that I underwentno second examination, was never brought to trial, and, above all, wascondemned without ever having had sentence passed on me?”
“That is altogether a different and more serious matter,” responded theabbé. “The ways of justice are frequently too dark and mysterious to beeasily penetrated. All we have hitherto done in the matter has beenchild’s play. If you wish me to enter upon the more difficult part ofthe business, you must assist me by the most minute information onevery point.”
“Pray ask me whatever questions you please; for, in good truth, you seemore clearly into my life than I do myself.”
“In the first place, then, who examined you,—the king’s attorney, hisdeputy, or a magistrate?”
“The deputy.”
“Was he young or old?”
“About six or seven-and-twenty years of age, I should say.”
“So,” answered the abbé. “Old enough to be ambitious, but too young tobe corrupt. And how did he treat you?”
“With more of mildness than severity.”
“Did you tell him your whole story?”
“I did.”
“And did his conduct change at all in the course of your examination?”
“He did appear much disturbed when he read the letter that had broughtme into this scrape. He seemed quite overcome by my misfortune.”
“By your misfortune?”
“Yes.”
“Then you feel quite sure that it was your misfortune he deplored?”
“He gave me one great proof of his sympathy, at any rate.”
“And that?”
“He burnt the sole evidence that could at all have criminated me.”
“What? the accusation?”
“No; the letter.”
“Are you sure?”
“I saw it done.”
“That alters the case. This man might, after all, be a greaterscoundrel than you have thought possible.”
“Upon my word,” said Dantès, “you make me shudder. Is the world filledwith tigers and crocodiles?”
“Yes; and remember that two-legged tigers and crocodiles are moredangerous than the others.”
“Never mind; let us go on.”
“With all my heart! You tell me he burned the letter?”
“He did; saying at the same time, ‘You see I thus destroy the onlyproof existing against you.’”
“This action is somewhat too sublime to be natural.”
“You think so?”
“I am sure of it. To whom was this letter addressed?”
“To M. Noirtier, Rue Coq-Héron, No. 13, Paris.”
“Now can you conceive of any interest that your heroic deputy couldpossibly have had in the destruction of that letter?”
“Why, it is not altogether impossible he might have had, for he made mepromise several times never to speak of that letter to anyone, assuringme he so advised me for my own interest; and, more than this, heinsisted on my taking a solemn oath never to utter the name mentionedin the address.”
“Noirtier!” repeated the abbé; “Noirtier!—I knew a person of that nameat the court of the Queen of Etruria,—a Noirtier, who had been aGirondin during the Revolution! What was your deputy called?”
“De Villefort!” The abbé burst into a fit of laughter, while Dantèsgazed on him in utter astonishment.
“What ails you?” said he at length.
“Do you see that ray of sunlight?”
“I do.”
“Well, the whole thing is more clear to me than that sunbeam is to you.Poor fellow! poor young man! And you tell me this magistrate expressedgreat sympathy and commiseration for you?”
“He did.”
“And the worthy man destroyed your compromising letter?”
“Yes.”
“And then made you swear never to utter the name of Noirtier?”
“Yes.”
“Why, you poor short-sighted simpleton, can you not guess who thisNoirtier was, whose very name he was so careful to keep concealed? ThisNoirtier was his father!”
Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of Dantès, or hell opened itsyawning gulf before him, he could not have been more completelytransfixed with horror than he was at the sound of these unexpectedwords. Starting up, he clasped his hands around his head as though toprevent his very brain from bursting, and exclaimed, “His father! hisfather!”
“Yes, his father,” replied the abbé; “his right name was Noirtier deVillefort.”
At this instant a bright light shot through the mind of Dantès, andcleared up all that had been dark and obscure before. The change thathad come over Villefort during the examination, the destruction of theletter, the exacted promise, the almost supplicating tones of themagistrate, who seemed rather to implore mercy than to pronouncepunishment,—all returned with a stunning force to his memory. He criedout, and staggered against the wall like a drunken man, then he hurriedto the opening that led from the abbé’s cell to his own, and said, “Imust be alone, to think over all this.”
When he regained his dungeon, he threw himself on his bed, where theturnkey found him in the evening visit, sitting with fixed gaze andcontracted features, dumb and motionless as a statue. During thesehours of profound meditation, which to him had seemed only minutes, hehad formed a fearful resolution, and bound himself to its fulfilment bya solemn oath.
Dantès was at length roused from his reverie by the voice of Faria,who, having also been visited by his jailer, had come to invite hisfellow-sufferer to share his supper. The reputation of being out of hismind, though harmlessly and even amusingly so, had procured for theabbé unusual privileges. He was supplied with bread of a finer, whiterquality than the usual prison fare, and even regaled each Sunday with asmall quantity of wine. Now this was a Sunday, and the abbé had come toask his young companion to share the luxuries with him.
Dantès followed him; his features were no longer contracted, and nowwore their usual expression, but there was that in his whole appearancethat bespoke one who had come to a fixed and desperate resolve. Fariabent on him his penetrating eye.
“I regret now,” said he, “having helped you in your late inquiries, orhaving given you the information I did.”
“Why so?” inquired Dantès.
“Because it has instilled a new passion in your heart—that ofvengeance.”
Dantès smiled. “Let us talk of something else,” said he.
Again the abbé looked at him, then mournfully shook his head; but inaccordance with Dantès’ request, he began to speak of other matters.The elder prisoner was one of those persons whose conversation, likethat of all who have experienced many trials, contained many useful andimportant hints as well as sound information; but it was neveregotistical, for the unfortunate man never alluded to his own sorrows.Dantès listened with admiring attention to all he said; some of hisremarks corresponded with what he already knew, or applied to the sortof knowledge his nautical life had enabled him to acquire. A part ofthe good abbé’s words, however, were wholly incomprehensible to him;but, like the aurora which guides the navigator in northern latitudes,opened new vistas to the inquiring mind of the listener, and gavefantastic glimpses of new horizons, enabling him justly to estimate thedelight an intellectual mind would have in following one so richlygifted as Faria along the heights of truth, where he was so much athome.
“You must teach me a small part of what you know,” said Dantès, “ifonly to prevent your growing weary of me. I can well believe that solearned a person as yourself would prefer absolute solitude to beingtormented with the company of one as ignorant and uninformed as myself.If you will only agree to my request, I promise you never to mentionanother word about escaping.”
The abbé smiled.
“Alas, my boy,” said he, “human knowledge is confined within verynarrow limits; and when I have taught you mathematics, physics,history, and the three or four modern languages with which I amacquainted, you will know as much as I do myself. Now, it will scarcelyrequire two years for me to communicate to you the stock of learning Ipossess.”
“Two years!” exclaimed Dantès; “do you really believe I can acquire allthese things in so short a time?”
“Not their application, certainly, but their principles you may; tolearn is not to know; there are the learners and the learned. Memorymakes the one, philosophy the other.”
“But cannot one learn philosophy?”
“Philosophy cannot be taught; it is the application of the sciences totruth; it is like the golden cloud in which the Messiah went up intoheaven.”
“Well, then,” said Dantès, “What shall you teach me first? I am in ahurry to begin. I want to learn.”
“Everything,” said the abbé. And that very evening the prisonerssketched a plan of education, to be entered upon the following day.Dantès possessed a prodigious memory, combined with an astonishingquickness and readiness of conception; the mathematical turn of hismind rendered him apt at all kinds of calculation, while his naturallypoetical feelings threw a light and pleasing veil over the dry realityof arithmetical computation, or the rigid severity of geometry. Healready knew Italian, and had also picked up a little of the Romaicdialect during voyages to the East; and by the aid of these twolanguages he easily comprehended the construction of all the others, sothat at the end of six months he began to speak Spanish, English, andGerman.
In strict accordance with the promise made to the abbé, Dantès spoke nomore of escape. Perhaps the delight his studies afforded him left noroom for such thoughts; perhaps the recollection that he had pledgedhis word (on which his sense of honor was keen) kept him from referringin any way to the possibilities of flight. Days, even months, passed byunheeded in one rapid and instructive course. At the end of a yearDantès was a new man. Dantès observed, however, that Faria, in spite ofthe relief his society afforded, daily grew sadder; one thought seemedincessantly to harass and distract his mind. Sometimes he would fallinto long reveries, sigh heavily and involuntarily, then suddenly rise,and, with folded arms, begin pacing the confined space of his dungeon.One day he stopped all at once, and exclaimed:
“Ah, if there were no sentinel!”
“There shall not be one a minute longer than you please,” said Dantès,who had followed the working of his thoughts as accurately as thoughhis brain were enclosed in crystal so clear as to display its minutestoperations.
“I have already told you,” answered the abbé, “that I loathe the ideaof shedding blood.”
“And yet the murder, if you choose to call it so, would be simply ameasure of self-preservation.”
“No matter! I could never agree to it.”
“Still, you have thought of it?”
“Incessantly, alas!” cried the abbé.
“And you have discovered a means of regaining our freedom, have younot?” asked Dantès eagerly.
“I have; if it were only possible to place a deaf and blind sentinel inthe gallery beyond us.”
“He shall be both blind and deaf,” replied the young man, with an airof determination that made his companion shudder.
“No, no,” cried the abbé; “impossible!”
Dantès endeavored to renew the subject; the abbé shook his head intoken of disapproval, and refused to make any further response. Threemonths passed away.
“Are you strong?” the abbé asked one day of Dantès. The young man, inreply, took up the chisel, bent it into the form of a horseshoe, andthen as readily straightened it.
“And will you engage not to do any harm to the sentry, except as a lastresort?”
“I promise on my honor.”
“Then,” said the abbé, “we may hope to put our design into execution.”
“And how long shall we be in accomplishing the necessary work?”
“At least a year.”
“And shall we begin at once?”
“At once.”
“We have lost a year to no purpose!” cried Dantès.
“Do you consider the last twelve months to have been wasted?” asked theabbé.
“Forgive me!” cried Edmond, blushing deeply.
“Tut, tut!” answered the abbé, “man is but man after all, and you areabout the best specimen of the genus I have ever known. Come, let meshow you my plan.”
The abbé then showed Dantès the sketch he had made for their escape. Itconsisted of a plan of his own cell and that of Dantès, with thepassage which united them. In this passage he proposed to drive a levelas they do in mines; this level would bring the two prisonersimmediately beneath the gallery where the sentry kept watch; oncethere, a large excavation would be made, and one of the flag-stoneswith which the gallery was paved be so completely loosened that at thedesired moment it would give way beneath the feet of the soldier, who,stunned by his fall, would be immediately bound and gagged by Dantèsbefore he had power to offer any resistance. The prisoners were then tomake their way through one of the gallery windows, and to letthemselves down from the outer walls by means of the abbé’s ladder ofcords.
Dantès’ eyes sparkled with joy, and he rubbed his hands with delight atthe idea of a plan so simple, yet apparently so certain to succeed.That very day the miners began their labors, with a vigor and alacrityproportionate to their long rest from fatigue and their hopes ofultimate success. Nothing interrupted the progress of the work exceptthe necessity that each was under of returning to his cell inanticipation of the turnkey’s visits. They had learned to distinguishthe almost imperceptible sound of his footsteps as he descended towardstheir dungeons, and happily, never failed of being prepared for hiscoming. The fresh earth excavated during their present work, and whichwould have entirely blocked up the old passage, was thrown, by degreesand with the utmost precaution, out of the window in either Faria’s orDantès’ cell, the rubbish being first pulverized so finely that thenight wind carried it far away without permitting the smallest trace toremain.
More than a year had been consumed in this undertaking, the only toolsfor which had been a chisel, a knife, and a wooden lever; Faria stillcontinuing to instruct Dantès by conversing with him, sometimes in onelanguage, sometimes in another; at others, relating to him the historyof nations and great men who from time to time have risen to fame andtrodden the path of glory. The abbé was a man of the world, and had,moreover, mixed in the first society of the day; he wore an air ofmelancholy dignity which Dantès, thanks to the imitative powersbestowed on him by nature, easily acquired, as well as that outwardpolish and politeness he had before been wanting in, and which isseldom possessed except by those who have been placed in constantintercourse with persons of high birth and breeding.
At the end of fifteen months the level was finished, and the excavationcompleted beneath the gallery, and the two workmen could distinctlyhear the measured tread of the sentinel as he paced to and fro overtheir heads. Compelled, as they were, to await a night sufficientlydark to favor their flight, they were obliged to defer their finalattempt till that auspicious moment should arrive; their greatest dreadnow was lest the stone through which the sentry was doomed to fallshould give way before its right time, and this they had in somemeasure provided against by propping it up with a small beam which theyhad discovered in the walls through which they had worked their way.Dantès was occupied in arranging this piece of wood when he heardFaria, who had remained in Edmond’s cell for the purpose of cutting apeg to secure their rope-ladder, call to him in a tone indicative ofgreat suffering. Dantès hastened to his dungeon, where he found himstanding in the middle of the room, pale as death, his foreheadstreaming with perspiration, and his hands clenched tightly together.
“Gracious heavens!” exclaimed Dantès, “what is the matter? what hashappened?”
“Quick! quick!” returned the abbé, “listen to what I have to say.”
Dantès looked in fear and wonder at the livid countenance of Faria,whose eyes, already dull and sunken, were surrounded by purple circles,while his lips were white as those of a corpse, and his very hairseemed to stand on end.
“Tell me, I beseech you, what ails you?” cried Dantès, letting hischisel fall to the floor.
“Alas,” faltered out the abbé, “all is over with me. I am seized with aterrible, perhaps mortal illness; I can feel that the paroxysm is fastapproaching. I had a similar attack the year previous to myimprisonment. This malady admits but of one remedy; I will tell youwhat that is. Go into my cell as quickly as you can; draw out one ofthe feet that support the bed; you will find it has been hollowed outfor the purpose of containing a small phial you will see therehalf-filled with a red-looking fluid. Bring it to me—or rather—no,no!—I may be found here, therefore help me back to my room while I havethe strength to drag myself along. Who knows what may happen, or howlong the attack may last?”
In spite of the magnitude of the misfortune which thus suddenlyfrustrated his hopes, Dantès did not lose his presence of mind, butdescended into the passage, dragging his unfortunate companion withhim; then, half-carrying, half-supporting him, he managed to reach theabbé’s chamber, when he immediately laid the sufferer on his bed.
“Thanks,” said the poor abbé, shivering as though his veins were filledwith ice. “I am about to be seized with a fit of catalepsy; when itcomes to its height I shall probably lie still and motionless as thoughdead, uttering neither sigh nor groan. On the other hand, the symptomsmay be much more violent, and cause me to fall into fearfulconvulsions, foam at the mouth, and cry out loudly. Take care my criesare not heard, for if they are it is more than probable I should beremoved to another part of the prison, and we be separated forever.When I become quite motionless, cold, and rigid as a corpse, then, andnot before,—be careful about this,—force open my teeth with the knife,pour from eight to ten drops of the liquor contained in the phial downmy throat, and I may perhaps revive.”
“Perhaps!” exclaimed Dantès in grief-stricken tones.
“Help! help!” cried the abbé, “I—I—die—I——”
0229m


So sudden and violent was the fit that the unfortunate prisoner wasunable to complete the sentence; a violent convulsion shook his wholeframe, his eyes started from their sockets, his mouth was drawn on oneside, his cheeks became purple, he struggled, foamed, dashed himselfabout, and uttered the most dreadful cries, which, however, Dantèsprevented from being heard by covering his head with the blanket. Thefit lasted two hours; then, more helpless than an infant, and colderand paler than marble, more crushed and broken than a reed trampledunder foot, he fell back, doubled up in one last convulsion, and becameas rigid as a corpse.
Edmond waited till life seemed extinct in the body of his friend, then,taking up the knife, he with difficulty forced open the closely fixedjaws, carefully administered the appointed number of drops, andanxiously awaited the result. An hour passed away and the old man gaveno sign of returning animation. Dantès began to fear he had delayed toolong ere he administered the remedy, and, thrusting his hands into hishair, continued gazing on the lifeless features of his friend. Atlength a slight color tinged the livid cheeks, consciousness returnedto the dull, open eyeballs, a faint sigh issued from the lips, and thesufferer made a feeble effort to move.
“He is saved! he is saved!” cried Dantès in a paroxysm of delight.
The sick man was not yet able to speak, but he pointed with evidentanxiety towards the door. Dantès listened, and plainly distinguishedthe approaching steps of the jailer. It was therefore near seveno’clock; but Edmond’s anxiety had put all thoughts of time out of hishead.
The young man sprang to the entrance, darted through it, carefullydrawing the stone over the opening, and hurried to his cell. He hadscarcely done so before the door opened, and the jailer saw theprisoner seated as usual on the side of his bed. Almost before the keyhad turned in the lock, and before the departing steps of the jailerhad died away in the long corridor he had to traverse, Dantès, whoserestless anxiety concerning his friend left him no desire to touch thefood brought him, hurried back to the abbé’s chamber, and raising thestone by pressing his head against it, was soon beside the sick man’scouch. Faria had now fully regained his consciousness, but he still layhelpless and exhausted on his miserable bed.
“I did not expect to see you again,” said he feebly, to Dantès.
“And why not?” asked the young man. “Did you fancy yourself dying?”
“No, I had no such idea; but, knowing that all was ready for flight, Ithought you might have made your escape.”
The deep glow of indignation suffused the cheeks of Dantès.
“Without you? Did you really think me capable of that?”
“At least,” said the abbé, “I now see how wrong such an opinion wouldhave been. Alas, alas! I am fearfully exhausted and debilitated by thisattack.”
“Be of good cheer,” replied Dantès; “your strength will return.” And ashe spoke he seated himself near the bed beside Faria, and took hishands. The abbé shook his head.
“The last attack I had,” said he, “lasted but half an hour, and afterit I was hungry, and got up without help; now I can move neither myright arm nor leg, and my head seems uncomfortable, which shows thatthere has been a suffusion of blood on the brain. The third attack willeither carry me off, or leave me paralyzed for life.”
“No, no,” cried Dantès; “you are mistaken—you will not die! And yourthird attack (if, indeed, you should have another) will find you atliberty. We shall save you another time, as we have done this, onlywith a better chance of success, because we shall be able to commandevery requisite assistance.”
“My good Edmond,” answered the abbé, “be not deceived. The attack whichhas just passed away, condemns me forever to the walls of a prison.None can fly from a dungeon who cannot walk.”
“Well, we will wait,—a week, a month, two months, if need be,—andmeanwhile your strength will return. Everything is in readiness for ourflight, and we can select any time we choose. As soon as you feel ableto swim we will go.”
“I shall never swim again,” replied Faria. “This arm is paralyzed; notfor a time, but forever. Lift it, and judge if I am mistaken.”
The young man raised the arm, which fell back by its own weight,perfectly inanimate and helpless. A sigh escaped him.
“You are convinced now, Edmond, are you not?” asked the abbé. “Dependupon it, I know what I say. Since the first attack I experienced ofthis malady, I have continually reflected on it. Indeed, I expected it,for it is a family inheritance; both my father and grandfather died ofit in a third attack. The physician who prepared for me the remedy Ihave twice successfully taken, was no other than the celebratedCabanis, and he predicted a similar end for me.”
0233m


“The physician may be mistaken!” exclaimed Dantès. “And as for yourpoor arm, what difference will that make? I can take you on myshoulders, and swim for both of us.”
“My son,” said the abbé, “you, who are a sailor and a swimmer, mustknow as well as I do that a man so loaded would sink before he had donefifty strokes. Cease, then, to allow yourself to be duped by vainhopes, that even your own excellent heart refuses to believe in. Here Ishall remain till the hour of my deliverance arrives, and that, in allhuman probability, will be the hour of my death. As for you, who areyoung and active, delay not on my account, but fly—go—I give you backyour promise.”
“It is well,” said Dantès. “Then I shall also remain.” Then, rising andextending his hand with an air of solemnity over the old man’s head, heslowly added, “By the blood of Christ I swear never to leave you whileyou live.”
Faria gazed fondly on his noble-minded, single-hearted, high-principledyoung friend, and read in his countenance ample confirmation of thesincerity of his devotion and the loyalty of his purpose.
“Thanks,” murmured the invalid, extending one hand. “I accept. You mayone of these days reap the reward of your disinterested devotion. Butas I cannot, and you will not, quit this place, it becomes necessary tofill up the excavation beneath the soldier’s gallery; he might, bychance, hear the hollow sound of his footsteps, and call the attentionof his officer to the circumstance. That would bring about a discoverywhich would inevitably lead to our being separated. Go, then, and setabout this work, in which, unhappily, I can offer you no assistance;keep at it all night, if necessary, and do not return here tomorrowtill after the jailer has visited me. I shall have something of thegreatest importance to communicate to you.”
Dantès took the hand of the abbé in his, and affectionately pressed it.Faria smiled encouragingly on him, and the young man retired to histask, in the spirit of obedience and respect which he had sworn to showtowards his aged friend.


 Chapter 18. The Treasure
When Dantès returned next morning to the chamber of his companion incaptivity, he found Faria seated and looking composed. In the ray oflight which entered by the narrow window of his cell, he held open inhis left hand, of which alone, it will be recollected, he retained theuse, a sheet of paper, which, from being constantly rolled into a smallcompass, had the form of a cylinder, and was not easily kept open. Hedid not speak, but showed the paper to Dantès.
“What is that?” he inquired.
“Look at it,” said the abbé with a smile.
“I have looked at it with all possible attention,” said Dantès, “and Ionly see a half-burnt paper, on which are traces of Gothic charactersinscribed with a peculiar kind of ink.”
“This paper, my friend,” said Faria, “I may now avow to you, since Ihave the proof of your fidelity—this paper is my treasure, of which,from this day forth, one-half belongs to you.”
The sweat started forth on Dantès’ brow. Until this day and for howlong a time!—he had refrained from talking of the treasure, which hadbrought upon the abbé the accusation of madness. With his instinctivedelicacy Edmond had preferred avoiding any touch on this painful chord,and Faria had been equally silent. He had taken the silence of the oldman for a return to reason; and now these few words uttered by Faria,after so painful a crisis, seemed to indicate a serious relapse intomental alienation.
“Your treasure?” stammered Dantès. Faria smiled.
“Yes,” said he. “You have, indeed, a noble nature, Edmond, and I see byyour paleness and agitation what is passing in your heart at thismoment. No, be assured, I am not mad. This treasure exists, Dantès, andif I have not been allowed to possess it, you will. Yes—you. No onewould listen or believe me, because everyone thought me mad; but you,who must know that I am not, listen to me, and believe me so afterwardsif you will.”
“Alas,” murmured Edmond to himself, “this is a terrible relapse! Therewas only this blow wanting.” Then he said aloud, “My dear friend, yourattack has, perhaps, fatigued you; had you not better repose awhile?Tomorrow, if you will, I will hear your narrative; but today I wish tonurse you carefully. Besides,” he said, “a treasure is not a thing weneed hurry about.”
“On the contrary, it is a matter of the utmost importance, Edmond!”replied the old man. “Who knows if tomorrow, or the next day after, thethird attack may not come on? and then must not all be over? Yes,indeed, I have often thought with a bitter joy that these riches, whichwould make the wealth of a dozen families, will be forever lost tothose men who persecute me. This idea was one of vengeance to me, and Itasted it slowly in the night of my dungeon and the despair of mycaptivity. But now I have forgiven the world for the love of you; nowthat I see you, young and with a promising future,—now that I think ofall that may result to you in the good fortune of such a disclosure, Ishudder at any delay, and tremble lest I should not assure to one asworthy as yourself the possession of so vast an amount of hiddenwealth.”
Edmond turned away his head with a sigh.
“You persist in your incredulity, Edmond,” continued Faria. “My wordshave not convinced you. I see you require proofs. Well, then, read thispaper, which I have never shown to anyone.”
“Tomorrow, my dear friend,” said Edmond, desirous of not yielding tothe old man’s madness. “I thought it was understood that we should nottalk of that until tomorrow.”
“Then we will not talk of it until tomorrow; but read this papertoday.”
“I will not irritate him,” thought Edmond, and taking the paper, ofwhich half was wanting,—having been burnt, no doubt, by someaccident,—he read:
“this treasure, which may amount to two...
of Roman crowns in the most distant a...
of the second opening wh...
declare to belong to him alo...
heir.
                    “25th April, 149’”

“Well!” said Faria, when the young man had finished reading it.
“Why,” replied Dantès, “I see nothing but broken lines and unconnectedwords, which are rendered illegible by fire.”
“Yes, to you, my friend, who read them for the first time; but not forme, who have grown pale over them by many nights’ study, and havereconstructed every phrase, completed every thought.”
“And do you believe you have discovered the hidden meaning?”
“I am sure I have, and you shall judge for yourself; but first listento the history of this paper.”
“Silence!” exclaimed Dantès. “Steps approach—I go—adieu!”
And Dantès, happy to escape the history and explanation which would besure to confirm his belief in his friend’s mental instability, glidedlike a snake along the narrow passage; while Faria, restored by hisalarm to a certain amount of activity, pushed the stone into place withhis foot, and covered it with a mat in order the more effectually toavoid discovery.
It was the governor, who, hearing of Faria’s illness from the jailer,had come in person to see him.
Faria sat up to receive him, avoiding all gestures in order that hemight conceal from the governor the paralysis that had already halfstricken him with death. His fear was lest the governor, touched withpity, might order him to be removed to better quarters, and thusseparate him from his young companion. But fortunately this was not thecase, and the governor left him, convinced that the poor madman, forwhom in his heart he felt a kind of affection, was only troubled with aslight indisposition.
During this time, Edmond, seated on his bed with his head in his hands,tried to collect his scattered thoughts. Faria, since their firstacquaintance, had been on all points so rational and logical, sowonderfully sagacious, in fact, that he could not understand how somuch wisdom on all points could be allied with madness. Was Fariadeceived as to his treasure, or was all the world deceived as to Faria?
Dantès remained in his cell all day, not daring to return to hisfriend, thinking thus to defer the moment when he should be convinced,once for all, that the abbé was mad—such a conviction would be soterrible!
But, towards the evening after the hour for the customary visit hadgone by, Faria, not seeing the young man appear, tried to move and getover the distance which separated them. Edmond shuddered when he heardthe painful efforts which the old man made to drag himself along; hisleg was inert, and he could no longer make use of one arm. Edmond wasobliged to assist him, for otherwise he would not have been able toenter by the small aperture which led to Dantès’ chamber.
“Here I am, pursuing you remorselessly,” he said with a benignantsmile. “You thought to escape my munificence, but it is in vain. Listento me.”
Edmond saw there was no escape, and placing the old man on his bed, heseated himself on the stool beside him.
“You know,” said the abbé, “that I was the secretary and intimatefriend of Cardinal Spada, the last of the princes of that name. I oweto this worthy lord all the happiness I ever knew. He was not rich,although the wealth of his family had passed into a proverb, and Iheard the phrase very often, ‘As rich as a Spada.’ But he, like publicrumor, lived on this reputation for wealth; his palace was my paradise.I was tutor to his nephews, who are dead; and when he was alone in theworld, I tried by absolute devotion to his will, to make up to him allhe had done for me during ten years of unremitting kindness. Thecardinal’s house had no secrets for me. I had often seen my noblepatron annotating ancient volumes, and eagerly searching amongst dustyfamily manuscripts. One day when I was reproaching him for hisunavailing searches, and deploring the prostration of mind thatfollowed them, he looked at me, and, smiling bitterly, opened a volumerelating to the History of the City of Rome. There, in the twentiethchapter of the Life of Pope Alexander VI., were the following lines,which I can never forget:—
“‘The great wars of Romagna had ended; Cæsar Borgia, who had completedhis conquest, had need of money to purchase all Italy. The pope hadalso need of money to bring matters to an end with Louis XII. King ofFrance, who was formidable still in spite of his recent reverses; andit was necessary, therefore, to have recourse to some profitablescheme, which was a matter of great difficulty in the impoverishedcondition of exhausted Italy. His holiness had an idea. He determinedto make two cardinals.’
“By choosing two of the greatest personages of Rome, especially richmen—_this_ was the return the Holy Father looked for. In the firstplace, he could sell the great appointments and splendid offices whichthe cardinals already held; and then he had the two hats to sellbesides. There was a third point in view, which will appear hereafter.
“The pope and Cæsar Borgia first found the two future cardinals; theywere Giovanni Rospigliosi, who held four of the highest dignities ofthe Holy See, and Cæsar Spada, one of the noblest and richest of theRoman nobility; both felt the high honor of such a favor from the pope.They were ambitious, and Cæsar Borgia soon found purchasers for theirappointments. The result was, that Rospigliosi and Spada paid for beingcardinals, and eight other persons paid for the offices the cardinalsheld before their elevation, and thus eight hundred thousand crownsentered into the coffers of the speculators.
0239m


“It is time now to proceed to the last part of the speculation. Thepope heaped attentions upon Rospigliosi and Spada, conferred upon themthe insignia of the cardinalate, and induced them to arrange theiraffairs and take up their residence at Rome. Then the pope and CæsarBorgia invited the two cardinals to dinner. This was a matter ofdispute between the Holy Father and his son. Cæsar thought they couldmake use of one of the means which he always had ready for his friends,that is to say, in the first place, the famous key which was given tocertain persons with the request that they go and open a designatedcupboard. This key was furnished with a small iron point,—a negligenceon the part of the locksmith. When this was pressed to effect theopening of the cupboard, of which the lock was difficult, the personwas pricked by this small point, and died next day. Then there was thering with the lion’s head, which Cæsar wore when he wanted to greet hisfriends with a clasp of the hand. The lion bit the hand thus favored,and at the end of twenty-four hours, the bite was mortal.
“Cæsar proposed to his father, that they should either ask thecardinals to open the cupboard, or shake hands with them; but AlexanderVI. replied: ‘Now as to the worthy cardinals, Spada and Rospigliosi,let us ask both of them to dinner, something tells me that we shall getthat money back. Besides, you forget, Cæsar, an indigestion declaresitself immediately, while a prick or a bite occasions a delay of a dayor two.’ Cæsar gave way before such cogent reasoning, and the cardinalswere consequently invited to dinner.
“The table was laid in a vineyard belonging to the pope, near SanPierdarena, a charming retreat which the cardinals knew very well byreport. Rospigliosi, quite set up with his new dignities, went with agood appetite and his most ingratiating manner. Spada, a prudent man,and greatly attached to his only nephew, a young captain of the highestpromise, took paper and pen, and made his will. He then sent word tohis nephew to wait for him near the vineyard; but it appeared theservant did not find him.
“Spada knew what these invitations meant; since Christianity, soeminently civilizing, had made progress in Rome, it was no longer acenturion who came from the tyrant with a message, ‘Cæsar wills thatyou die.’ but it was a legate _à latere_, who came with a smile on hislips to say from the pope, ‘His holiness requests you to dine withhim.’
“Spada set out about two o’clock to San Pierdarena. The pope awaitedhim. The first sight that attracted the eyes of Spada was that of hisnephew, in full costume, and Cæsar Borgia paying him most markedattentions. Spada turned pale, as Cæsar looked at him with an ironicalair, which proved that he had anticipated all, and that the snare waswell spread.
“They began dinner and Spada was only able to inquire of his nephew ifhe had received his message. The nephew replied no; perfectlycomprehending the meaning of the question. It was too late, for he hadalready drunk a glass of excellent wine, placed for him expressly bythe pope’s butler. Spada at the same moment saw another bottle approachhim, which he was pressed to taste. An hour afterwards a physiciandeclared they were both poisoned through eating mushrooms. Spada diedon the threshold of the vineyard; the nephew expired at his own door,making signs which his wife could not comprehend.
“Then Cæsar and the pope hastened to lay hands on the heritage, underpretense of seeking for the papers of the dead man. But the inheritanceconsisted in this only, a scrap of paper on which Spada had written:—‘Ibequeath to my beloved nephew my coffers, my books, and, amongstothers, my breviary with the gold corners, which I beg he will preservein remembrance of his affectionate uncle.’
“The heirs sought everywhere, admired the breviary, laid hands on thefurniture, and were greatly astonished that Spada, the rich man, wasreally the most miserable of uncles—no treasures—unless they were thoseof science, contained in the library and laboratories. That was all.Cæsar and his father searched, examined, scrutinized, but foundnothing, or at least very little; not exceeding a few thousand crownsin plate, and about the same in ready money; but the nephew had time tosay to his wife before he expired: ‘Look well among my uncle’s papers;there is a will.’
“They sought even more thoroughly than the august heirs had done, butit was fruitless. There were two palaces and a vineyard behind thePalatine Hill; but in these days landed property had not much value,and the two palaces and the vineyard remained to the family since theywere beneath the rapacity of the pope and his son. Months and yearsrolled on. Alexander VI. died, poisoned,—you know by what mistake.Cæsar, poisoned at the same time, escaped by shedding his skin like asnake; but the new skin was spotted by the poison till it looked like atiger’s. Then, compelled to quit Rome, he went and got himselfobscurely killed in a night skirmish, scarcely noticed in history.
“After the pope’s death and his son’s exile, it was supposed that theSpada family would resume the splendid position they had held beforethe cardinal’s time; but this was not the case. The Spadas remained indoubtful ease, a mystery hung over this dark affair, and the publicrumor was, that Cæsar, a better politician than his father, had carriedoff from the pope the fortune of the two cardinals. I say the two,because Cardinal Rospigliosi, who had not taken any precaution, wascompletely despoiled.
“Up to this point,” said Faria, interrupting the thread of hisnarrative, “this seems to you very meaningless, no doubt, eh?”
“Oh, my friend,” cried Dantès, “on the contrary, it seems as if I werereading a most interesting narrative; go on, I beg of you.”
“I will. The family began to get accustomed to their obscurity. Yearsrolled on, and amongst the descendants some were soldiers, othersdiplomatists; some churchmen, some bankers; some grew rich, and somewere ruined. I come now to the last of the family, whose secretary Iwas—the Count of Spada. I had often heard him complain of thedisproportion of his rank with his fortune; and I advised him to investall he had in an annuity. He did so, and thus doubled his income. Thecelebrated breviary remained in the family, and was in the count’spossession. It had been handed down from father to son; for thesingular clause of the only will that had been found, had caused it tobe regarded as a genuine relic, preserved in the family withsuperstitious veneration. It was an illuminated book, with beautifulGothic characters, and so weighty with gold, that a servant alwayscarried it before the cardinal on days of great solemnity.
“At the sight of papers of all sorts,—titles, contracts, parchments,which were kept in the archives of the family, all descending from thepoisoned cardinal, I in my turn examined the immense bundles ofdocuments, like twenty servitors, stewards, secretaries before me; butin spite of the most exhaustive researches, I found—nothing. Yet I hadread, I had even written a precise history of the Borgia family, forthe sole purpose of assuring myself whether any increase of fortune hadoccurred to them on the death of the Cardinal Cæsar Spada; but couldonly trace the acquisition of the property of the Cardinal Rospigliosi,his companion in misfortune.
“I was then almost assured that the inheritance had neither profitedthe Borgias nor the family, but had remained unpossessed like thetreasures of the Arabian Nights, which slept in the bosom of the earthunder the eyes of the genie. I searched, ransacked, counted, calculateda thousand and a thousand times the income and expenditure of thefamily for three hundred years. It was useless. I remained in myignorance, and the Count of Spada in his poverty.
“My patron died. He had reserved from his annuity his family papers,his library, composed of five thousand volumes, and his famousbreviary. All these he bequeathed to me, with a thousand Roman crowns,which he had in ready money, on condition that I would have anniversarymasses said for the repose of his soul, and that I would draw up agenealogical tree and history of his house. All this I didscrupulously. Be easy, my dear Edmond, we are near the conclusion.
“In 1807, a month before I was arrested, and a fortnight after thedeath of the Count of Spada, on the 25th of December (you will seepresently how the date became fixed in my memory), I was reading, forthe thousandth time, the papers I was arranging, for the palace wassold to a stranger, and I was going to leave Rome and settle atFlorence, intending to take with me twelve thousand francs I possessed,my library, and the famous breviary, when, tired with my constant laborat the same thing, and overcome by a heavy dinner I had eaten, my headdropped on my hands, and I fell asleep about three o’clock in theafternoon.
0243m


“I awoke as the clock was striking six. I raised my head; I was inutter darkness. I rang for a light, but, as no one came, I determinedto find one for myself. It was indeed but anticipating the simplemanners which I should soon be under the necessity of adopting. I tooka wax-candle in one hand, and with the other groped about for a pieceof paper (my match-box being empty), with which I proposed to get alight from the small flame still playing on the embers. Fearing,however, to make use of any valuable piece of paper, I hesitated for amoment, then recollected that I had seen in the famous breviary, whichwas on the table beside me, an old paper quite yellow with age, andwhich had served as a marker for centuries, kept there by the requestof the heirs. I felt for it, found it, twisted it up together, andputting it into the expiring flame, set light to it.
“But beneath my fingers, as if by magic, in proportion as the fireascended, I saw yellowish characters appear on the paper. I grasped itin my hand, put out the flame as quickly as I could, lighted my taperin the fire itself, and opened the crumpled paper with inexpressibleemotion, recognizing, when I had done so, that these characters hadbeen traced in mysterious and sympathetic ink, only appearing whenexposed to the fire; nearly one-third of the paper had been consumed bythe flame. It was that paper you read this morning; read it again,Dantès, and then I will complete for you the incomplete words andunconnected sense.”
Faria, with an air of triumph, offered the paper to Dantès, who thistime read the following words, traced with an ink of a reddish colorresembling rust:
     “This 25th day of April, 1498, be...
     Alexander VI., and fearing that not...
     he may desire to become my heir, and re...
     and Bentivoglio, who were poisoned,...
     my sole heir, that I have bu...
     and has visited with me, that is, in...
     Island of Monte Cristo, all I poss...
     jewels, diamonds, gems; that I alone...
     may amount to nearly two mil...
     will find on raising the twentieth ro...
     creek to the east in a right line. Two open...
     in these caves; the treasure is in the furthest a...
     which treasure I bequeath and leave en...
     as my sole heir.
     “25th April, 1498.
     “Cæs...

“And now,” said the abbé, “read this other paper;” and he presented toDantès a second leaf with fragments of lines written on it, whichEdmond read as follows:
           “...ing invited to dine by his Holiness
        ...content with making me pay for my hat,
   ...serves for me the fate of Cardinals Caprara
           ...I declare to my nephew, Guido Spada
                      ...ried in a place he knows
                        ...the caves of the small
                 ...essed of ingots, gold, money,
 ...know of the existence of this treasure, which
           ...lions of Roman crowns, and which he
                             ...ck from the small
                           ...ings have been made
                           ...ngle in the second;
                                   ...tire to him
                                    ...ar † Spada.”

Faria followed him with an excited look.
“And now,” he said, when he saw that Dantès had read the last line,“put the two fragments together, and judge for yourself.” Dantèsobeyed, and the conjointed pieces gave the following:
0245m


“This 25th day of April, 1498, be...ing invited to dine by his HolinessAlexander VI., and fearing that not...content with making me pay for myhat, he may desire to become my heir, and re...serves for me the fateof Cardinals Caprara and Bentivoglio, who were poisoned,...I declare tomy nephew, Guido Spada, my sole heir, that I have bu...ried in a placehe knows and has visited with me, that is, in...the caves of the smallIsland of Monte Cristo, all I poss...essed of ingots, gold, money,jewels, diamonds, gems; that I alone...know of the existence of thistreasure, which may amount to nearly two mil...lions of Roman crowns,and which he will find on raising the twentieth ro...ck from the smallcreek to the east in a right line. Two open...ings have been made inthese caves; the treasure is in the furthest a...ngle in the second;which treasure I bequeath and leave en...tire to him as my sole heir.“25th April, 1498. “Cæs...ar † Spada.”
“Well, do you comprehend now?” inquired Faria.
“It is the declaration of Cardinal Spada, and the will so long soughtfor,” replied Edmond, still incredulous.
“Yes; a thousand times, yes!”
“And who completed it as it now is?”
“I did. Aided by the remaining fragment, I guessed the rest; measuringthe length of the lines by those of the paper, and divining the hiddenmeaning by means of what was in part revealed, as we are guided in acavern by the small ray of light above us.”
“And what did you do when you arrived at this conclusion?”
“I resolved to set out, and did set out at that very instant, carryingwith me the beginning of my great work, the unity of the Italiankingdom; but for some time the imperial police (who at this period,quite contrary to what Napoleon desired so soon as he had a son born tohim, wished for a partition of provinces) had their eyes on me; and myhasty departure, the cause of which they were unable to guess, havingaroused their suspicions, I was arrested at the very moment I wasleaving Piombino.
“Now,” continued Faria, addressing Dantès with an almost paternalexpression, “now, my dear fellow, you know as much as I do myself. Ifwe ever escape together, half this treasure is yours; if I die here,and you escape alone, the whole belongs to you.”
“But,” inquired Dantès hesitating, “has this treasure no morelegitimate possessor in the world than ourselves?”
“No, no, be easy on that score; the family is extinct. The last Countof Spada, moreover, made me his heir, bequeathing to me this symbolicbreviary, he bequeathed to me all it contained; no, no, make your mindsatisfied on that point. If we lay hands on this fortune, we may enjoyit without remorse.”
“And you say this treasure amounts to——”
“Two millions of Roman crowns; nearly thirteen millions of our money.”2
“Impossible!” said Dantès, staggered at the enormous amount.
“Impossible? and why?” asked the old man. “The Spada family was one ofthe oldest and most powerful families of the fifteenth century; and inthose times, when other opportunities for investment were wanting, suchaccumulations of gold and jewels were by no means rare; there are atthis day Roman families perishing of hunger, though possessed of nearlya million in diamonds and jewels, handed down by entail, and which theycannot touch.”
Edmond thought he was in a dream—he wavered between incredulity andjoy.
“I have only kept this secret so long from you,” continued Faria, “thatI might test your character, and then surprise you. Had we escapedbefore my attack of catalepsy, I should have conducted you to MonteCristo; now,” he added, with a sigh, “it is you who will conduct methither. Well, Dantès, you do not thank me?”
“This treasure belongs to you, my dear friend,” replied Dantès, “and toyou only. I have no right to it. I am no relation of yours.”
“You are my son, Dantès,” exclaimed the old man. “You are the child ofmy captivity. My profession condemns me to celibacy. God has sent youto me to console, at one and the same time, the man who could not be afather, and the prisoner who could not get free.”
And Faria extended the arm of which alone the use remained to him tothe young man, who threw himself upon his neck and wept.


 Chapter 19. The Third Attack
Now that this treasure, which had so long been the object of the abbé’smeditations, could insure the future happiness of him whom Faria reallyloved as a son, it had doubled its value in his eyes, and every day heexpatiated on the amount, explaining to Dantès all the good which, withthirteen or fourteen millions of francs, a man could do in these daysto his friends; and then Dantès’ countenance became gloomy, for theoath of vengeance he had taken recurred to his memory, and he reflectedhow much ill, in these times, a man with thirteen or fourteen millionscould do to his enemies.
The abbé did not know the Island of Monte Cristo; but Dantès knew it,and had often passed it, situated twenty-five miles from Pianosa,between Corsica and the Island of Elba, and had once touched there.This island was, always had been, and still is, completely deserted. Itis a rock of almost conical form, which looks as though it had beenthrust up by volcanic force from the depth to the surface of the ocean.Dantès drew a plan of the island for Faria, and Faria gave Dantèsadvice as to the means he should employ to recover the treasure. ButDantès was far from being as enthusiastic and confident as the old man.It was past a question now that Faria was not a lunatic, and the way inwhich he had achieved the discovery, which had given rise to thesuspicion of his madness, increased Edmond’s admiration of him; but atthe same time Dantès could not believe that the deposit, supposing ithad ever existed, still existed; and though he considered the treasureas by no means chimerical, he yet believed it was no longer there.
However, as if fate resolved on depriving the prisoners of their lastchance, and making them understand that they were condemned toperpetual imprisonment, a new misfortune befell them; the gallery onthe sea side, which had long been in ruins, was rebuilt. They hadrepaired it completely, and stopped up with vast masses of stone thehole Dantès had partly filled in. But for this precaution, which, itwill be remembered, the abbé had made to Edmond, the misfortune wouldhave been still greater, for their attempt to escape would have beendetected, and they would undoubtedly have been separated. Thus a new, astronger, and more inexorable barrier was interposed to cut off therealization of their hopes.
“You see,” said the young man, with an air of sorrowful resignation, toFaria, “that God deems it right to take from me any claim to merit forwhat you call my devotion to you. I have promised to remain foreverwith you, and now I could not break my promise if I would. The treasurewill be no more mine than yours, and neither of us will quit thisprison. But my real treasure is not that, my dear friend, which awaitsme beneath the sombre rocks of Monte Cristo, it is your presence, ourliving together five or six hours a day, in spite of our jailers; it isthe rays of intelligence you have elicited from my brain, the languagesyou have implanted in my memory, and which have taken root there withall their philological ramifications. These different sciences that youhave made so easy to me by the depth of the knowledge you possess ofthem, and the clearness of the principles to which you have reducedthem—this is my treasure, my beloved friend, and with this you havemade me rich and happy. Believe me, and take comfort, this is betterfor me than tons of gold and cases of diamonds, even were they not asproblematical as the clouds we see in the morning floating over thesea, which we take for _terra firma_, and which evaporate and vanish aswe draw near to them. To have you as long as possible near me, to hearyour eloquent speech,—which embellishes my mind, strengthens my soul,and makes my whole frame capable of great and terrible things, if Ishould ever be free,—so fills my whole existence, that the despair towhich I was just on the point of yielding when I knew you, has nolonger any hold over me; and this—this is my fortune—not chimerical,but actual. I owe you my real good, my present happiness; and all thesovereigns of the earth, even Cæsar Borgia himself, could not depriveme of this.”
Thus, if not actually happy, yet the days these two unfortunates passedtogether went quickly. Faria, who for so long a time had kept silenceas to the treasure, now perpetually talked of it. As he had prophesiedwould be the case, he remained paralyzed in the right arm and the leftleg, and had given up all hope of ever enjoying it himself. But he wascontinually thinking over some means of escape for his young companion,and anticipating the pleasure he would enjoy. For fear the letter mightbe some day lost or stolen, he compelled Dantès to learn it by heart;and Dantès knew it from the first to the last word. Then he destroyedthe second portion, assured that if the first were seized, no one wouldbe able to discover its real meaning. Whole hours sometimes passedwhile Faria was giving instructions to Dantès,—instructions which wereto serve him when he was at liberty. Then, once free, from the day andhour and moment when he was so, he could have but one only thought,which was, to gain Monte Cristo by some means, and remain there aloneunder some pretext which would arouse no suspicions; and once there, toendeavor to find the wonderful caverns, and search in the appointedspot,—the appointed spot, be it remembered, being the farthest angle inthe second opening.
In the meanwhile the hours passed, if not rapidly, at least tolerably.Faria, as we have said, without having recovered the use of his handand foot, had regained all the clearness of his understanding, and hadgradually, besides the moral instructions we have detailed, taught hisyouthful companion the patient and sublime duty of a prisoner, wholearns to make something from nothing. They were thus perpetuallyemployed,—Faria, that he might not see himself grow old; Dantès, forfear of recalling the almost extinct past which now only floated in hismemory like a distant light wandering in the night. So life went on forthem as it does for those who are not victims of misfortune and whoseactivities glide along mechanically and tranquilly beneath the eye ofProvidence.
But beneath this superficial calm there were in the heart of the youngman, and perhaps in that of the old man, many repressed desires, manystifled sighs, which found vent when Faria was left alone, and whenEdmond returned to his cell.
One night Edmond awoke suddenly, believing that he heard someonecalling him. He opened his eyes upon utter darkness. His name, orrather a plaintive voice which essayed to pronounce his name, reachedhim. He sat up in bed and a cold sweat broke out upon his brow.Undoubtedly the call came from Faria’s dungeon.
“Alas,” murmured Edmond; “can it be?”
He moved his bed, drew up the stone, rushed into the passage, andreached the opposite extremity; the secret entrance was open. By thelight of the wretched and wavering lamp, of which we have spoken,Dantès saw the old man, pale, but yet erect, clinging to the bedstead.His features were writhing with those horrible symptoms which healready knew, and which had so seriously alarmed him when he saw themfor the first time.
“Alas, my dear friend,” said Faria in a resigned tone, “you understand,do you not, and I need not attempt to explain to you?”
Edmond uttered a cry of agony, and, quite out of his senses, rushedtowards the door, exclaiming, “Help, help!”
Faria had just sufficient strength to restrain him.
“Silence,” he said, “or you are lost. We must now only think of you, mydear friend, and so act as to render your captivity supportable or yourflight possible. It would require years to do again what I have donehere, and the results would be instantly destroyed if our jailers knewwe had communicated with each other. Besides, be assured, my dearEdmond, the dungeon I am about to leave will not long remain empty;some other unfortunate being will soon take my place, and to him youwill appear like an angel of salvation. Perhaps he will be young,strong, and enduring, like yourself, and will aid you in your escape,while I have been but a hindrance. You will no longer have half a deadbody tied to you as a drag to all your movements. At length Providencehas done something for you; he restores to you more than he takes away,and it was time I should die.”
Edmond could only clasp his hands and exclaim, “Oh, my friend, myfriend, speak not thus!” and then resuming all his presence of mind,which had for a moment staggered under this blow, and his strength,which had failed at the words of the old man, he said, “Oh, I havesaved you once, and I will save you a second time!” And raising thefoot of the bed, he drew out the phial, still a third filled with thered liquor.
“See,” he exclaimed, “there remains still some of the magic draught.Quick, quick! tell me what I must do this time; are there any freshinstructions? Speak, my friend; I listen.”
“There is not a hope,” replied Faria, shaking his head, “but no matter;God wills it that man whom he has created, and in whose heart he has soprofoundly rooted the love of life, should do all in his power topreserve that existence, which, however painful it may be, is yetalways so dear.”
“Oh, yes, yes!” exclaimed Dantès; “and I tell you that I will save youyet.”
“Well, then, try. The cold gains upon me. I feel the blood flowingtowards my brain. These horrible chills, which make my teeth chatterand seem to dislocate my bones, begin to pervade my whole frame; infive minutes the malady will reach its height, and in a quarter of anhour there will be nothing left of me but a corpse.”
“Oh!” exclaimed Dantès, his heart wrung with anguish.
“Do as you did before, only do not wait so long, all the springs oflife are now exhausted in me, and death,” he continued, looking at hisparalyzed arm and leg, “has but half its work to do. If, after havingmade me swallow twelve drops instead of ten, you see that I do notrecover, then pour the rest down my throat. Now lift me on my bed, forI can no longer support myself.”
Edmond took the old man in his arms, and laid him on the bed.
“And now, my dear friend,” said Faria, “sole consolation of my wretchedexistence,—you whom Heaven gave me somewhat late, but still gave me, apriceless gift, and for which I am most grateful,—at the moment ofseparating from you forever, I wish you all the happiness and all theprosperity you so well deserve. My son, I bless thee!”
The young man cast himself on his knees, leaning his head against theold man’s bed.
“Listen, now, to what I say in this my dying moment. The treasure ofthe Spadas exists. God grants me the boon of vision unrestricted bytime or space. I see it in the depths of the inner cavern. My eyespierce the inmost recesses of the earth, and are dazzled at the sightof so much riches. If you do escape, remember that the poor abbé, whomall the world called mad, was not so. Hasten to Monte Cristo—availyourself of the fortune—for you have indeed suffered long enough.”
A violent convulsion attacked the old man. Dantès raised his head andsaw Faria’s eyes injected with blood. It seemed as if a flow of bloodhad ascended from the chest to the head.
“Adieu, adieu!” murmured the old man, clasping Edmond’s handconvulsively—“adieu!”
“Oh, no,—no, not yet,” he cried; “do not forsake me! Oh, succor him!Help—help—help!”
“Hush! hush!” murmured the dying man, “that they may not separate us ifyou save me!”
“You are right. Oh, yes, yes; be assured I shall save you! Besides,although you suffer much, you do not seem to be in such agony as youwere before.”
“Do not mistake! I suffer less because there is in me less strength toendure. At your age we have faith in life; it is the privilege of youthto believe and hope, but old men see death more clearly. Oh, ’tishere—’tis here—’tis over—my sight is gone—my senses fail! Your hand,Dantès! Adieu! adieu!”
And raising himself by a final effort, in which he summoned all hisfaculties, he said,—“Monte Cristo, forget not Monte Cristo!” And hefell back on the bed.
The crisis was terrible, and a rigid form with twisted limbs, swolleneyelids, and lips flecked with bloody foam, lay on the bed of torture,in place of the intellectual being who so lately rested there.
Dantès took the lamp, placed it on a projecting stone above the bed,whence its tremulous light fell with strange and fantastic ray on thedistorted countenance and motionless, stiffened body. With steady gazehe awaited confidently the moment for administering the restorative.
When he believed that the right moment had arrived, he took the knife,pried open the teeth, which offered less resistance than before,counted one after the other twelve drops, and watched; the phialcontained, perhaps, twice as much more. He waited ten minutes, aquarter of an hour, half an hour,—no change took place. Trembling, hishair erect, his brow bathed with perspiration, he counted the secondsby the beating of his heart. Then he thought it was time to make thelast trial, and he put the phial to the purple lips of Faria, andwithout having occasion to force open his jaws, which had remainedextended, he poured the whole of the liquid down his throat.
0255m


The draught produced a galvanic effect, a violent trembling pervadedthe old man’s limbs, his eyes opened until it was fearful to gaze uponthem, he heaved a sigh which resembled a shriek, and then his convulsedbody returned gradually to its former immobility, the eyes remainingopen.
Half an hour, an hour, an hour and a half elapsed, and during thisperiod of anguish, Edmond leaned over his friend, his hand applied tohis heart, and felt the body gradually grow cold, and the heart’spulsation become more and more deep and dull, until at length itstopped; the last movement of the heart ceased, the face became livid,the eyes remained open, but the eyeballs were glazed.
It was six o’clock in the morning, the dawn was just breaking, and itsfeeble ray came into the dungeon, and paled the ineffectual light ofthe lamp. Strange shadows passed over the countenance of the dead man,and at times gave it the appearance of life. While the struggle betweenday and night lasted, Dantès still doubted; but as soon as the daylightgained the pre-eminence, he saw that he was alone with a corpse. Thenan invincible and extreme terror seized upon him, and he dared notagain press the hand that hung out of bed, he dared no longer to gazeon those fixed and vacant eyes, which he tried many times to close, butin vain—they opened again as soon as shut. He extinguished the lamp,carefully concealed it, and then went away, closing as well as he couldthe entrance to the secret passage by the large stone as he descended.
It was time, for the jailer was coming. On this occasion he began hisrounds at Dantès’ cell, and on leaving him he went on to Faria’sdungeon, taking thither breakfast and some linen. Nothing betokenedthat the man knew anything of what had occurred. He went on his way.
Dantès was then seized with an indescribable desire to know what wasgoing on in the dungeon of his unfortunate friend. He thereforereturned by the subterraneous gallery, and arrived in time to hear theexclamations of the turnkey, who called out for help. Other turnkeyscame, and then was heard the regular tramp of soldiers. Last of allcame the governor.
Edmond heard the creaking of the bed as they moved the corpse, heardthe voice of the governor, who asked them to throw water on the deadman’s face; and seeing that, in spite of this application, the prisonerdid not recover, they sent for the doctor. The governor then went out,and words of pity fell on Dantès’ listening ears, mingled with brutallaughter.
“Well, well,” said one, “the madman has gone to look after histreasure. Good journey to him!”
“With all his millions, he will not have enough to pay for his shroud!”said another.
“Oh,” added a third voice, “the shrouds of the Château d’If are notdear!”
0257m


“Perhaps,” said one of the previous speakers, “as he was a churchman,they may go to some expense in his behalf.”
“They may give him the honors of the sack.”
Edmond did not lose a word, but comprehended very little of what wassaid. The voices soon ceased, and it seemed to him as if everyone hadleft the cell. Still he dared not to enter, as they might have leftsome turnkey to watch the dead. He remained, therefore, mute andmotionless, hardly venturing to breathe. At the end of an hour, heheard a faint noise, which increased. It was the governor who returned,followed by the doctor and other attendants. There was a moment’ssilence,—it was evident that the doctor was examining the dead body.The inquiries soon commenced.
The doctor analyzed the symptoms of the malady to which the prisonerhad succumbed, and declared that he was dead. Questions and answersfollowed in a nonchalant manner that made Dantès indignant, for he feltthat all the world should have for the poor abbé a love and respectequal to his own.
“I am very sorry for what you tell me,” said the governor, replying tothe assurance of the doctor, “that the old man is really dead; for hewas a quiet, inoffensive prisoner, happy in his folly, and required nowatching.”
“Ah,” added the turnkey, “there was no occasion for watching him; hewould have stayed here fifty years, I’ll answer for it, without anyattempt to escape.”
“Still,” said the governor, “I believe it will be requisite,notwithstanding your certainty, and not that I doubt your science, butin discharge of my official duty, that we should be perfectly assuredthat the prisoner is dead.”
There was a moment of complete silence, during which Dantès, stilllistening, knew that the doctor was examining the corpse a second time.
“You may make your mind easy,” said the doctor; “he is dead. I willanswer for that.”
“You know, sir,” said the governor, persisting, “that we are notcontent in such cases as this with such a simple examination. In spiteof all appearances, be so kind, therefore, as to finish your duty byfulfilling the formalities described by law.”
“Let the irons be heated,” said the doctor; “but really it is a uselessprecaution.”
This order to heat the irons made Dantès shudder. He heard hasty steps,the creaking of a door, people going and coming, and some minutesafterwards a turnkey entered, saying:
“Here is the brazier, lighted.”
There was a moment’s silence, and then was heard the crackling ofburning flesh, of which the peculiar and nauseous smell penetrated evenbehind the wall where Dantès was listening in horror. The perspirationpoured forth upon the young man’s brow, and he felt as if he shouldfaint.
“You see, sir, he is really dead,” said the doctor; “this burn in theheel is decisive. The poor fool is cured of his folly, and deliveredfrom his captivity.”
“Wasn’t his name Faria?” inquired one of the officers who accompaniedthe governor.
0259m


“Yes, sir; and, as he said, it was an ancient name. He was, too, verylearned, and rational enough on all points which did not relate to histreasure; but on that, indeed, he was intractable.”
“It is the sort of malady which we call monomania,” said the doctor.
“You had never anything to complain of?” said the governor to thejailer who had charge of the abbé.
“Never, sir,” replied the jailer, “never; on the contrary, he sometimesamused me very much by telling me stories. One day, too, when my wifewas ill, he gave me a prescription which cured her.”
“Ah, ah!” said the doctor, “I did not know that I had a rival; but Ihope, governor, that you will show him all proper respect inconsequence.”
“Yes, yes, make your mind easy, he shall be decently interred in thenewest sack we can find. Will that satisfy you?”
“Must this last formality take place in your presence, sir?” inquired aturnkey.
“Certainly. But make haste—I cannot stay here all day.” Otherfootsteps, going and coming, were now heard, and a moment afterwardsthe noise of rustling canvas reached Dantès’ ears, the bed creaked, andthe heavy footfall of a man who lifts a weight sounded on the floor;then the bed again creaked under the weight deposited upon it.
“This evening,” said the governor.
“Will there be any mass?” asked one of the attendants.
“That is impossible,” replied the governor. “The chaplain of thechâteau came to me yesterday to beg for leave of absence, in order totake a trip to Hyères for a week. I told him I would attend to theprisoners in his absence. If the poor abbé had not been in such ahurry, he might have had his requiem.”
“Pooh, pooh;” said the doctor, with the impiety usual in persons of hisprofession; “he is a churchman. God will respect his profession, andnot give the devil the wicked delight of sending him a priest.” A shoutof laughter followed this brutal jest. Meanwhile the operation ofputting the body in the sack was going on.
“This evening,” said the governor, when the task was ended.
“At what hour?” inquired a turnkey.
“Why, about ten or eleven o’clock.”
“Shall we watch by the corpse?”
“Of what use would it be? Shut the dungeon as if he were alive—that isall.”
Then the steps retreated, and the voices died away in the distance; thenoise of the door, with its creaking hinges and bolts ceased, and asilence more sombre than that of solitude ensued,—the silence of death,which was all-pervasive, and struck its icy chill to the very soul ofDantès.
Then he raised the flag-stone cautiously with his head, and lookedcarefully around the chamber. It was empty, and Dantès emerged from thetunnel.


 Chapter 20. The Cemetery of the Château d’If
On the bed, at full length, and faintly illuminated by the pale lightthat came from the window, lay a sack of canvas, and under its rudefolds was stretched a long and stiffened form; it was Faria’s lastwinding-sheet,—a winding-sheet which, as the turnkey said, cost solittle. Everything was in readiness. A barrier had been placed betweenDantès and his old friend. No longer could Edmond look into thosewide-open eyes which had seemed to be penetrating the mysteries ofdeath; no longer could he clasp the hand which had done so much to makehis existence blessed. Faria, the beneficent and cheerful companion,with whom he was accustomed to live so intimately, no longer breathed.He seated himself on the edge of that terrible bed, and fell intomelancholy and gloomy reverie.
Alone! he was alone again! again condemned to silence—again face toface with nothingness! Alone!—never again to see the face, never againto hear the voice of the only human being who united him to earth! Wasnot Faria’s fate the better, after all—to solve the problem of life atits source, even at the risk of horrible suffering?
The idea of suicide, which his friend had driven away and kept away byhis cheerful presence, now hovered like a phantom over the abbé’s deadbody.
“If I could die,” he said, “I should go where he goes, and shouldassuredly find him again. But how to die? It is very easy,” he went onwith a smile; “I will remain here, rush on the first person that opensthe door, strangle him, and then they will guillotine me.”
But excessive grief is like a storm at sea, where the frail bark istossed from the depths to the top of the wave. Dantès recoiled from theidea of so infamous a death, and passed suddenly from despair to anardent desire for life and liberty.
“Die? oh, no,” he exclaimed—“not die now, after having lived andsuffered so long and so much! Die? yes, had I died years ago; but nowto die would be, indeed, to give way to the sarcasm of destiny. No, Iwant to live; I shall struggle to the very last; I will yet win backthe happiness of which I have been deprived. Before I die I must notforget that I have my executioners to punish, and perhaps, too, whoknows, some friends to reward. Yet they will forget me here, and Ishall die in my dungeon like Faria.”
As he said this, he became silent and gazed straight before him likeone overwhelmed with a strange and amazing thought. Suddenly he arose,lifted his hand to his brow as if his brain were giddy, paced twice orthrice round the dungeon, and then paused abruptly by the bed.
“Just God!” he muttered, “whence comes this thought? Is it from thee?Since none but the dead pass freely from this dungeon, let me take theplace of the dead!”
Without giving himself time to reconsider his decision, and, indeed,that he might not allow his thoughts to be distracted from hisdesperate resolution, he bent over the appalling shroud, opened it withthe knife which Faria had made, drew the corpse from the sack, and boreit along the tunnel to his own chamber, laid it on his couch, tiedaround its head the rag he wore at night around his own, covered itwith his counterpane, once again kissed the ice-cold brow, and triedvainly to close the resisting eyes, which glared horribly, turned thehead towards the wall, so that the jailer might, when he brought theevening meal, believe that he was asleep, as was his frequent custom;entered the tunnel again, drew the bed against the wall, returned tothe other cell, took from the hiding-place the needle and thread, flungoff his rags, that they might feel only naked flesh beneath the coarsecanvas, and getting inside the sack, placed himself in the posture inwhich the dead body had been laid, and sewed up the mouth of the sackfrom the inside.
He would have been discovered by the beating of his heart, if by anymischance the jailers had entered at that moment. Dantès might havewaited until the evening visit was over, but he was afraid that thegovernor would change his mind, and order the dead body to be removedearlier. In that case his last hope would have been destroyed.
Now his plans were fully made, and this is what he intended to do. Ifwhile he was being carried out the grave-diggers should discover thatthey were bearing a live instead of a dead body, Dantès did not intendto give them time to recognize him, but with a sudden cut of the knife,he meant to open the sack from top to bottom, and, profiting by theiralarm, escape; if they tried to catch him, he would use his knife tobetter purpose.
0263m


If they took him to the cemetery and laid him in a grave, he wouldallow himself to be covered with earth, and then, as it was night, thegrave-diggers could scarcely have turned their backs before he wouldhave worked his way through the yielding soil and escaped. He hopedthat the weight of earth would not be so great that he could notovercome it. If he was detected in this and the earth proved too heavy,he would be stifled, and then—so much the better, all would be over.
Dantès had not eaten since the preceding evening, but he had notthought of hunger, nor did he think of it now. His situation was tooprecarious to allow him even time to reflect on any thought but one.
The first risk that Dantès ran was, that the jailer, when he broughthim his supper at seven o’clock, might perceive the change that hadbeen made; fortunately, twenty times at least, from misanthropy orfatigue, Dantès had received his jailer in bed, and then the man placedhis bread and soup on the table, and went away without saying a word.This time the jailer might not be as silent as usual, but speak toDantès, and seeing that he received no reply, go to the bed, and thusdiscover all.
When seven o’clock came, Dantès’ agony really began. His hand placedupon his heart was unable to redress its throbbings, while, with theother he wiped the perspiration from his temples. From time to timechills ran through his whole body, and clutched his heart in a grasp ofice. Then he thought he was going to die. Yet the hours passed onwithout any unusual disturbance, and Dantès knew that he had escapedthe first peril. It was a good augury.
At length, about the hour the governor had appointed, footsteps wereheard on the stairs. Edmond felt that the moment had arrived, summonedup all his courage, held his breath, and would have been happy if atthe same time he could have repressed the throbbing of his veins. Thefootsteps—they were double—paused at the door—and Dantès guessed thatthe two grave-diggers had come to seek him—this idea was soon convertedinto certainty, when he heard the noise they made in putting down thehand-bier.
The door opened, and a dim light reached Dantès’ eyes through thecoarse sack that covered him; he saw two shadows approach his bed, athird remaining at the door with a torch in its hand. The two men,approaching the ends of the bed, took the sack by its extremities.
“He’s heavy, though, for an old and thin man,” said one, as he raisedthe head.
“They say every year adds half a pound to the weight of the bones,”said another, lifting the feet.
“Have you tied the knot?” inquired the first speaker.
“What would be the use of carrying so much more weight?” was the reply,“I can do that when we get there.”
“Yes, you’re right,” replied the companion.
“What’s the knot for?” thought Dantès.
They deposited the supposed corpse on the bier. Edmond stiffenedhimself in order to play the part of a dead man, and then the party,lighted by the man with the torch, who went first, ascended the stairs.Suddenly he felt the fresh and sharp night air, and Dantès knew thatthe mistral was blowing. It was a sensation in which pleasure and painwere strangely mingled.
The bearers went on for twenty paces, then stopped, putting the bierdown on the ground. One of them went away, and Dantès heard his shoesstriking on the pavement.
“Where am I?” he asked himself.
“Really, he is by no means a light load!” said the other bearer,sitting on the edge of the hand-barrow.
Dantès’ first impulse was to escape, but fortunately he did not attemptit.
“Give us a light,” said the other bearer, “or I shall never find what Iam looking for.”
The man with the torch complied, although not asked in the most politeterms.
“What can he be looking for?” thought Edmond. “The spade, perhaps.”
An exclamation of satisfaction indicated that the grave-digger hadfound the object of his search. “Here it is at last,” he said, “notwithout some trouble, though.”
“Yes,” was the answer, “but it has lost nothing by waiting.”
As he said this, the man came towards Edmond, who heard a heavymetallic substance laid down beside him, and at the same moment a cordwas fastened round his feet with sudden and painful violence.
“Well, have you tied the knot?” inquired the grave-digger, who waslooking on.
“Yes, and pretty tight too, I can tell you,” was the answer.
“Move on, then.” And the bier was lifted once more, and they proceeded.
They advanced fifty paces farther, and then stopped to open a door,then went forward again. The noise of the waves dashing against therocks on which the château is built, reached Dantès’ ear distinctly asthey went forward.
“Bad weather!” observed one of the bearers; “not a pleasant night for adip in the sea.”
“Why, yes, the abbé runs a chance of being wet,” said the other; andthen there was a burst of brutal laughter.
Dantès did not comprehend the jest, but his hair stood erect on hishead.
“Well, here we are at last,” said one of them.
“A little farther—a little farther,” said the other. “You know verywell that the last was stopped on his way, dashed on the rocks, and thegovernor told us next day that we were careless fellows.”
They ascended five or six more steps, and then Dantès felt that theytook him, one by the head and the other by the heels, and swung him toand fro.
“One!” said the grave-diggers, “two! three!”
And at the same instant Dantès felt himself flung into the air like awounded bird, falling, falling, with a rapidity that made his bloodcurdle. Although drawn downwards by the heavy weight which hastened hisrapid descent, it seemed to him as if the fall lasted for a century. Atlast, with a horrible splash, he darted like an arrow into the ice-coldwater, and as he did so he uttered a shrill cry, stifled in a moment byhis immersion beneath the waves.
Dantès had been flung into the sea, and was dragged into its depths bya thirty-six-pound shot tied to his feet.
The sea is the cemetery of the Château d’If.
0267m



 Chapter 21. The Island of Tiboulen
Dantès, although stunned and almost suffocated, had sufficient presenceof mind to hold his breath, and as his right hand (prepared as he wasfor every chance) held his knife open, he rapidly ripped up the sack,extricated his arm, and then his body; but in spite of all his effortsto free himself from the shot, he felt it dragging him down stilllower. He then bent his body, and by a desperate effort severed thecord that bound his legs, at the moment when it seemed as if he wereactually strangled. With a mighty leap he rose to the surface of thesea, while the shot dragged down to the depths the sack that had sonearly become his shroud.
Dantès waited only to get breath, and then dived, in order to avoidbeing seen. When he arose a second time, he was fifty paces from wherehe had first sunk. He saw overhead a black and tempestuous sky, acrosswhich the wind was driving clouds that occasionally suffered atwinkling star to appear; before him was the vast expanse of waters,sombre and terrible, whose waves foamed and roared as if before theapproach of a storm. Behind him, blacker than the sea, blacker than thesky, rose phantom-like the vast stone structure, whose projecting cragsseemed like arms extended to seize their prey, and on the highest rockwas a torch lighting two figures.
He fancied that these two forms were looking at the sea; doubtlessthese strange grave-diggers had heard his cry. Dantès dived again, andremained a long time beneath the water. This was an easy feat to him,for he usually attracted a crowd of spectators in the bay before thelighthouse at Marseilles when he swam there, and was unanimouslydeclared to be the best swimmer in the port. When he came up again thelight had disappeared.
He must now get his bearings. Ratonneau and Pomègue are the nearestislands of all those that surround the Château d’If, but Ratonneau andPomègue are inhabited, as is also the islet of Daume. Tiboulen andLemaire were therefore the safest for Dantès’ venture. The islands ofTiboulen and Lemaire are a league from the Château d’If; Dantès,nevertheless, determined to make for them. But how could he find hisway in the darkness of the night?
At this moment he saw the light of Planier, gleaming in front of himlike a star. By leaving this light on the right, he kept the Island ofTiboulen a little on the left; by turning to the left, therefore, hewould find it. But, as we have said, it was at least a league from theChâteau d’If to this island. Often in prison Faria had said to him,when he saw him idle and inactive:
“Dantès, you must not give way to this listlessness; you will bedrowned if you seek to escape, and your strength has not been properlyexercised and prepared for exertion.”
These words rang in Dantès’ ears, even beneath the waves; he hastenedto cleave his way through them to see if he had not lost his strength.He found with pleasure that his captivity had taken away nothing of hispower, and that he was still master of that element on whose bosom hehad so often sported as a boy.
Fear, that relentless pursuer, clogged Dantès’ efforts. He listened forany sound that might be audible, and every time that he rose to the topof a wave he scanned the horizon, and strove to penetrate the darkness.He fancied that every wave behind him was a pursuing boat, and heredoubled his exertions, increasing rapidly his distance from thechâteau, but exhausting his strength. He swam on still, and already theterrible château had disappeared in the darkness. He could not see it,but he _felt_ its presence.
An hour passed, during which Dantès, excited by the feeling of freedom,continued to cleave the waves.
“Let us see,” said he, “I have swum above an hour, but as the wind isagainst me, that has retarded my speed; however, if I am not mistaken,I must be close to Tiboulen. But what if I were mistaken?”
A shudder passed over him. He sought to tread water, in order to resthimself; but the sea was too violent, and he felt that he could notmake use of this means of recuperation.
“Well,” said he, “I will swim on until I am worn out, or the crampseizes me, and then I shall sink;” and he struck out with the energy ofdespair.
Suddenly the sky seemed to him to become still darker and more dense,and heavy clouds seemed to sweep down towards him; at the same time hefelt a sharp pain in his knee. He fancied for a moment that he had beenshot, and listened for the report; but he heard nothing. Then he putout his hand, and encountered an obstacle and with another stroke knewthat he had gained the shore.
Before him rose a grotesque mass of rocks, that resembled nothing somuch as a vast fire petrified at the moment of its most ferventcombustion. It was the Island of Tiboulen. Dantès rose, advanced a fewsteps, and, with a fervent prayer of gratitude, stretched himself onthe granite, which seemed to him softer than down. Then, in spite ofthe wind and rain, he fell into the deep, sweet sleep of utterexhaustion. At the expiration of an hour Edmond was awakened by theroar of thunder. The tempest was let loose and beating the atmospherewith its mighty wings; from time to time a flash of lightning stretchedacross the heavens like a fiery serpent, lighting up the clouds thatrolled on in vast chaotic waves.
Dantès had not been deceived—he had reached the first of the twoislands, which was, in fact, Tiboulen. He knew that it was barren andwithout shelter; but when the sea became more calm, he resolved toplunge into its waves again, and swim to Lemaire, equally arid, butlarger, and consequently better adapted for concealment.
An overhanging rock offered him a temporary shelter, and scarcely hadhe availed himself of it when the tempest burst forth in all its fury.Edmond felt the trembling of the rock beneath which he lay; the waves,dashing themselves against it, wetted him with their spray. He wassafely sheltered, and yet he felt dizzy in the midst of the warring ofthe elements and the dazzling brightness of the lightning. It seemed tohim that the island trembled to its base, and that it would, like avessel at anchor, break moorings, and bear him off into the centre ofthe storm.
He then recollected that he had not eaten or drunk for four-and-twentyhours. He extended his hands, and drank greedily of the rainwater thathad lodged in a hollow of the rock.
As he rose, a flash of lightning, that seemed to rive the remotestheights of heaven, illumined the darkness. By its light, between theIsland of Lemaire and Cape Croiselle, a quarter of a league distant,Dantès saw a fishing-boat driven rapidly like a spectre before thepower of winds and waves. A second after, he saw it again, approachingwith frightful rapidity. Dantès cried at the top of his voice to warnthem of their danger, but they saw it themselves. Another flash showedhim four men clinging to the shattered mast and the rigging, while afifth clung to the broken rudder. The men he beheld saw himundoubtedly, for their cries were carried to his ears by the wind.Above the splintered mast a sail rent to tatters was waving; suddenlythe ropes that still held it gave way, and it disappeared in thedarkness of the night like a vast sea-bird.
At the same moment a violent crash was heard, and cries of distress.Dantès from his rocky perch saw the shattered vessel, and among thefragments the floating forms of the hapless sailors. Then all was darkagain.
Dantès ran down the rocks at the risk of being himself dashed topieces; he listened, he groped about, but he heard and saw nothing—thecries had ceased, and the tempest continued to rage. By degrees thewind abated, vast gray clouds rolled towards the west, and the bluefirmament appeared studded with bright stars. Soon a red streak becamevisible in the horizon, the waves whitened, a light played over them,and gilded their foaming crests with gold. It was day.
Dantès stood mute and motionless before this majestic spectacle, as ifhe now beheld it for the first time; and indeed since his captivity inthe Château d’If he had forgotten that such scenes were ever to bewitnessed. He turned towards the fortress, and looked at both sea andland. The gloomy building rose from the bosom of the ocean withimposing majesty and seemed to dominate the scene. It was about fiveo’clock. The sea continued to get calmer.
“In two or three hours,” thought Dantès, “the turnkey will enter mychamber, find the body of my poor friend, recognize it, seek for me invain, and give the alarm. Then the tunnel will be discovered; the menwho cast me into the sea and who must have heard the cry I uttered,will be questioned. Then boats filled with armed soldiers will pursuethe wretched fugitive. The cannon will warn everyone to refuse shelterto a man wandering about naked and famished. The police of Marseilleswill be on the alert by land, whilst the governor pursues me by sea. Iam cold, I am hungry. I have lost even the knife that saved me. Oh, myGod, I have suffered enough surely! Have pity on me, and do for me whatI am unable to do for myself.”
As Dantès (his eyes turned in the direction of the Château d’If)uttered this prayer, he saw off the farther point of the Island ofPomègue a small vessel with lateen sail skimming the sea like a gull insearch of prey; and with his sailor’s eye he knew it to be a Genoesetartan. She was coming out of Marseilles harbor, and was standing outto sea rapidly, her sharp prow cleaving through the waves.
“Oh,” cried Edmond, “to think that in half an hour I could join her,did I not fear being questioned, detected, and conveyed back toMarseilles! What can I do? What story can I invent? under pretext oftrading along the coast, these men, who are in reality smugglers, willprefer selling me to doing a good action. I must wait. But I cannot—Iam starving. In a few hours my strength will be utterly exhausted;besides, perhaps I have not been missed at the fortress. I can pass asone of the sailors wrecked last night. My story will be accepted, forthere is no one left to contradict me.”
As he spoke, Dantès looked toward the spot where the fishing-vessel hadbeen wrecked, and started. The red cap of one of the sailors hung to apoint of the rock and some timbers that had formed part of the vessel’skeel, floated at the foot of the crag. In an instant Dantès’ plan wasformed. He swam to the cap, placed it on his head, seized one of thetimbers, and struck out so as to cut across the course the vessel wastaking.
“I am saved!” murmured he. And this conviction restored his strength.
He soon saw that the vessel, with the wind dead ahead, was tackingbetween the Château d’If and the tower of Planier. For an instant hefeared lest, instead of keeping in shore, she should stand out to sea;but he soon saw that she would pass, like most vessels bound for Italy,between the islands of Jaros and Calaseraigne.
However, the vessel and the swimmer insensibly neared one another, andin one of its tacks the tartan bore down within a quarter of a mile ofhim. He rose on the waves, making signs of distress; but no one onboard saw him, and the vessel stood on another tack. Dantès would haveshouted, but he knew that the wind would drown his voice.
It was then he rejoiced at his precaution in taking the timber, forwithout it he would have been unable, perhaps, to reach thevessel—certainly to return to shore, should he be unsuccessful inattracting attention.
Dantès, though almost sure as to what course the vessel would take, hadyet watched it anxiously until it tacked and stood towards him. Then headvanced; but before they could meet, the vessel again changed hercourse. By a violent effort he rose half out of the water, waving hiscap, and uttering a loud shout peculiar to sailors. This time he wasboth seen and heard, and the tartan instantly steered towards him. Atthe same time, he saw they were about to lower the boat.
An instant after, the boat, rowed by two men, advanced rapidly towardshim. Dantès let go of the timber, which he now thought to be useless,and swam vigorously to meet them. But he had reckoned too much upon hisstrength, and then he realized how serviceable the timber had been tohim. His arms became stiff, his legs lost their flexibility, and he wasalmost breathless.
He shouted again. The two sailors redoubled their efforts, and one ofthem cried in Italian, “Courage!”
The word reached his ear as a wave which he no longer had the strengthto surmount passed over his head. He rose again to the surface,struggled with the last desperate effort of a drowning man, uttered athird cry, and felt himself sinking, as if the fatal cannon shot wereagain tied to his feet. The water passed over his head, and the skyturned gray. A convulsive movement again brought him to the surface. Hefelt himself seized by the hair, then he saw and heard nothing. He hadfainted.
When he opened his eyes Dantès found himself on the deck of the tartan.His first care was to see what course they were taking. They wererapidly leaving the Château d’If behind. Dantès was so exhausted thatthe exclamation of joy he uttered was mistaken for a sigh.
As we have said, he was lying on the deck. A sailor was rubbing hislimbs with a woollen cloth; another, whom he recognized as the one whohad cried out “Courage!” held a gourd full of rum to his mouth; whilethe third, an old sailor, at once the pilot and captain, looked on withthat egotistical pity men feel for a misfortune that they have escapedyesterday, and which may overtake them tomorrow.
A few drops of the rum restored suspended animation, while the frictionof his limbs restored their elasticity.
“Who are you?” said the pilot in bad French.
“I am,” replied Dantès, in bad Italian, “a Maltese sailor. We werecoming from Syracuse laden with grain. The storm of last night overtookus at Cape Morgiou, and we were wrecked on these rocks.”
“Where do you come from?”
“From these rocks that I had the good luck to cling to while ourcaptain and the rest of the crew were all lost. I saw your vessel, andfearful of being left to perish on the desolate island, I swam off on apiece of wreckage to try and intercept your course. You have saved mylife, and I thank you,” continued Dantès. “I was lost when one of yoursailors caught hold of my hair.”
“It was I,” said a sailor of a frank and manly appearance; “and it wastime, for you were sinking.”
“Yes,” returned Dantès, holding out his hand, “I thank you again.”
“I almost hesitated, though,” replied the sailor; “you looked more likea brigand than an honest man, with your beard six inches, and your haira foot long.”
Dantès recollected that his hair and beard had not been cut all thetime he was at the Château d’If.
“Yes,” said he, “I made a vow, to our Lady of the Grotto not to cut myhair or beard for ten years if I were saved in a moment of danger; buttoday the vow expires.”
“Now what are we to do with you?” said the captain.
“Alas, anything you please. My captain is dead; I have barely escaped;but I am a good sailor. Leave me at the first port you make; I shall besure to find employment.”
“Do you know the Mediterranean?”
“I have sailed over it since my childhood.”
“You know the best harbors?”
“There are few ports that I could not enter or leave with a bandageover my eyes.”
“I say, captain,” said the sailor who had cried “Courage!” to Dantès,“if what he says is true, what hinders his staying with us?”
“If he says true,” said the captain doubtingly. “But in his presentcondition he will promise anything, and take his chance of keeping itafterwards.”
“I will do more than I promise,” said Dantès.
“We shall see,” returned the other, smiling.
“Where are you going?” asked Dantès.
“To Leghorn.”
“Then why, instead of tacking so frequently, do you not sail nearer thewind?”
“Because we should run straight on to the Island of Rion.”
“You shall pass it by twenty fathoms.”
“Take the helm, and let us see what you know.”
The young man took the helm, felt to see if the vessel answered therudder promptly and seeing that, without being a first-rate sailor, sheyet was tolerably obedient.
“To the sheets,” said he. The four seamen, who composed the crew,obeyed, while the pilot looked on. “Haul taut.”
They obeyed.
“Belay.” This order was also executed; and the vessel passed, as Dantèshad predicted, twenty fathoms to windward.
“Bravo!” said the captain.
“Bravo!” repeated the sailors. And they all looked with astonishment atthis man whose eye now disclosed an intelligence and his body a vigorthey had not thought him capable of showing.
“You see,” said Dantès, quitting the helm, “I shall be of some use toyou, at least during the voyage. If you do not want me at Leghorn, youcan leave me there, and I will pay you out of the first wages I get,for my food and the clothes you lend me.”
“Ah,” said the captain, “we can agree very well, if you arereasonable.”
“Give me what you give the others, and it will be all right,” returnedDantès.
“That’s not fair,” said the seaman who had saved Dantès; “for you knowmore than we do.”
“What is that to you, Jacopo?” returned the Captain. “Everyone is freeto ask what he pleases.”
“That’s true,” replied Jacopo; “I only make a remark.”
“Well, you would do much better to find him a jacket and a pair oftrousers, if you have them.”
“No,” said Jacopo; “but I have a shirt and a pair of trousers.”
“That is all I want,” interrupted Dantès. Jacopo dived into the holdand soon returned with what Edmond wanted.
“Now, then, do you wish for anything else?” said the patron.
“A piece of bread and another glass of the capital rum I tasted, for Ihave not eaten or drunk for a long time.” He had not tasted food forforty hours. A piece of bread was brought, and Jacopo offered him thegourd.
“Larboard your helm,” cried the captain to the steersman. Dantèsglanced that way as he lifted the gourd to his mouth; then paused withhand in mid-air.
“Hollo! what’s the matter at the Château d’If?” said the captain.
A small white cloud, which had attracted Dantès’ attention, crowned thesummit of the bastion of the Château d’If. At the same moment the faintreport of a gun was heard. The sailors looked at one another.
“What is this?” asked the captain.
“A prisoner has escaped from the Château d’If, and they are firing thealarm gun,” replied Dantès. The captain glanced at him, but he hadlifted the rum to his lips and was drinking it with so much composure,that suspicions, if the captain had any, died away.
0277m


“Pretty strong rum! “ said Dantès, wiping his brow with his sleeve.
“At any rate,” murmured he, “if it be, so much the better, for I havemade a rare acquisition.”
0279m


Under pretence of being fatigued, Dantès asked to take the helm; thesteersman, glad to be relieved, looked at the captain, and the latterby a sign indicated that he might abandon it to his new comrade. Dantèscould thus keep his eyes on Marseilles.
“What is the day of the month?” asked he of Jacopo, who sat down besidehim.
“The 28th of February.”
“In what year?”
“In what year—you ask me in what year?”
“Yes,” replied the young man, “I ask you in what year!”
“You have forgotten then?”
“I got such a fright last night,” replied Dantès, smiling, “that I havealmost lost my memory. I ask you what year is it?”
“The year 1829,” returned Jacopo.
It was fourteen years, day for day, since Dantès’ arrest. He wasnineteen when he entered the Château d’If; he was thirty-three when heescaped. A sorrowful smile passed over his face; he asked himself whathad become of Mercédès, who must believe him dead. Then his eyeslighted up with hatred as he thought of the three men who had causedhim so long and wretched a captivity. He renewed against Danglars,Fernand, and Villefort the oath of implacable vengeance he had made inhis dungeon.
This oath was no longer a vain menace; for the fastest sailor in theMediterranean would have been unable to overtake the little tartan,that with every stitch of canvas set was flying before the wind toLeghorn.


 Chapter 22. The Smugglers
Dantès had not been a day on board before he had a very clear idea ofthe men with whom his lot had been cast. Without having been in theschool of the Abbé Faria, the worthy master of _La Jeune Amélie_ (thename of the Genoese tartan) knew a smattering of all the tongues spokenon the shores of that large lake called the Mediterranean, from theArabic to the Provençal, and this, while it spared him interpreters,persons always troublesome and frequently indiscreet, gave him greatfacilities of communication, either with the vessels he met at sea,with the small boats sailing along the coast, or with the peoplewithout name, country, or occupation, who are always seen on the quaysof seaports, and who live by hidden and mysterious means which we mustsuppose to be a direct gift of Providence, as they have no visiblemeans of support. It is fair to assume that Dantès was on board asmuggler.
At first the captain had received Dantès on board with a certain degreeof distrust. He was very well known to the customs officers of thecoast; and as there was between these worthies and himself a perpetualbattle of wits, he had at first thought that Dantès might be anemissary of these industrious guardians of rights and duties, whoperhaps employed this ingenious means of learning some of the secretsof his trade. But the skilful manner in which Dantès had handled thelugger had entirely reassured him; and then, when he saw the lightplume of smoke floating above the bastion of the Château d’If, andheard the distant report, he was instantly struck with the idea that hehad on board his vessel one whose coming and going, like that of kings,was accompanied with salutes of artillery. This made him less uneasy,it must be owned, than if the new-comer had proved to be a customsofficer; but this supposition also disappeared like the first, when hebeheld the perfect tranquillity of his recruit.
Edmond thus had the advantage of knowing what the owner was, withoutthe owner knowing who he was; and however the old sailor and his crewtried to “pump” him, they extracted nothing more from him; he gaveaccurate descriptions of Naples and Malta, which he knew as well asMarseilles, and held stoutly to his first story. Thus the Genoese,subtle as he was, was duped by Edmond, in whose favor his milddemeanor, his nautical skill, and his admirable dissimulation, pleaded.Moreover, it is possible that the Genoese was one of those shrewdpersons who know nothing but what they should know, and believe nothingbut what they should believe.
In this state of mutual understanding, they reached Leghorn. HereEdmond was to undergo another trial; he was to find out whether hecould recognize himself, as he had not seen his own face for fourteenyears. He had preserved a tolerably good remembrance of what the youthhad been, and was now to find out what the man had become. His comradesbelieved that his vow was fulfilled. As he had twenty times touched atLeghorn, he remembered a barber in St. Ferdinand Street; he went thereto have his beard and hair cut. The barber gazed in amazement at thisman with the long, thick and black hair and beard, which gave his headthe appearance of one of Titian’s portraits. At this period it was notthe fashion to wear so large a beard and hair so long; now a barberwould only be surprised if a man gifted with such advantages shouldconsent voluntarily to deprive himself of them. The Leghorn barber saidnothing and went to work.
When the operation was concluded, and Edmond felt that his chin wascompletely smooth, and his hair reduced to its usual length, he askedfor a looking-glass. He was now, as we have said, three-and-thirtyyears of age, and his fourteen years’ imprisonment had produced a greattransformation in his appearance.
Dantès had entered the Château d’If with the round, open, smiling faceof a young and happy man, with whom the early paths of life have beensmooth, and who anticipates a future corresponding with his past. Thiswas now all changed. The oval face was lengthened, his smiling mouthhad assumed the firm and marked lines which betoken resolution; hiseyebrows were arched beneath a brow furrowed with thought; his eyeswere full of melancholy, and from their depths occasionally sparkledgloomy fires of misanthropy and hatred; his complexion, so long keptfrom the sun, had now that pale color which produces, when the featuresare encircled with black hair, the aristocratic beauty of the man ofthe north; the profound learning he had acquired had besides diffusedover his features a refined intellectual expression; and he had alsoacquired, being naturally of a goodly stature, that vigor which a framepossesses which has so long concentrated all its force within itself.
0283m


To the elegance of a nervous and slight form had succeeded the solidityof a rounded and muscular figure. As to his voice, prayers, sobs, andimprecations had changed it so that at times it was of a singularlypenetrating sweetness, and at others rough and almost hoarse.
Moreover, from being so long in twilight or darkness, his eyes hadacquired the faculty of distinguishing objects in the night, common tothe hyena and the wolf. Edmond smiled when he beheld himself; it wasimpossible that his best friend—if, indeed, he had any friendleft—could recognize him; he could not recognize himself.
The master of _La Jeune Amélie_, who was very desirous of retainingamongst his crew a man of Edmond’s value, had offered to advance himfunds out of his future profits, which Edmond had accepted. His nextcare on leaving the barber’s who had achieved his first metamorphosiswas to enter a shop and buy a complete sailor’s suit—a garb, as we allknow, very simple, and consisting of white trousers, a striped shirt,and a cap.
It was in this costume, and bringing back to Jacopo the shirt andtrousers he had lent him, that Edmond reappeared before the captain ofthe lugger, who had made him tell his story over and over again beforehe could believe him, or recognize in the neat and trim sailor the manwith thick and matted beard, hair tangled with seaweed, and bodysoaking in seabrine, whom he had picked up naked and nearly drowned.Attracted by his prepossessing appearance, he renewed his offers of anengagement to Dantès; but Dantès, who had his own projects, would notagree for a longer time than three months.
_La Jeune Amélie_ had a very active crew, very obedient to theircaptain, who lost as little time as possible. He had scarcely been aweek at Leghorn before the hold of his vessel was filled with printedmuslins, contraband cottons, English powder, and tobacco on which theexcise had forgotten to put its mark. The master was to get all thisout of Leghorn free of duties, and land it on the shores of Corsica,where certain speculators undertook to forward the cargo to France.
They sailed; Edmond was again cleaving the azure sea which had been thefirst horizon of his youth, and which he had so often dreamed of inprison. He left Gorgone on his right and La Pianosa on his left, andwent towards the country of Paoli and Napoleon.
The next morning going on deck, as he always did at an early hour, thepatron found Dantès leaning against the bulwarks gazing with intenseearnestness at a pile of granite rocks, which the rising sun tingedwith rosy light. It was the Island of Monte Cristo.
_La Jeune Amélie_ left it three-quarters of a league to the larboardand kept on for Corsica. Dantès thought, as they passed so closely tothe island whose name was so interesting to him, that he had only toleap into the sea and in half an hour be at the promised land. But thenwhat could he do without instruments to discover his treasure, withoutarms to defend himself? Besides, what would the sailors say? What wouldthe patron think? He must wait.
Fortunately, Dantès had learned how to wait; he had waited fourteenyears for his liberty, and now he was free he could wait at least sixmonths or a year for wealth. Would he not have accepted liberty withoutriches if it had been offered to him? Besides, were not those richeschimerical?—offspring of the brain of the poor Abbé Faria, had they notdied with him? It is true, the letter of the Cardinal Spada wassingularly circumstantial, and Dantès repeated it to himself, from oneend to the other, for he had not forgotten a word.
0285m


Evening came, and Edmond saw the island tinged with the shades oftwilight, and then disappear in the darkness from all eyes but his own,for he, with vision accustomed to the gloom of a prison, continued tobehold it last of all, for he remained alone upon deck. The next mornbroke off the coast of Aleria; all day they coasted, and in the eveningsaw fires lighted on land; the position of these was no doubt a signalfor landing, for a ship’s lantern was hung up at the mast-head insteadof the streamer, and they came to within a gunshot of the shore. Dantèsnoticed that the captain of _La Jeune Amélie_ had, as he neared theland, mounted two small culverins, which, without making much noise,can throw a four ounce ball a thousand paces or so.
But on this occasion the precaution was superfluous, and everythingproceeded with the utmost smoothness and politeness. Four shallops cameoff with very little noise alongside the lugger, which, no doubt, inacknowledgement of the compliment, lowered her own shallop into thesea, and the five boats worked so well that by two o’clock in themorning all the cargo was out of _La Jeune Amélie_ and on _terrafirma_. The same night, such a man of regularity was the patron of _LaJeune Amélie_, the profits were divided, and each man had a hundredTuscan livres, or about eighty francs.
But the voyage was not ended. They turned the bowsprit towardsSardinia, where they intended to take in a cargo, which was to replacewhat had been discharged. The second operation was as successful as thefirst, _La Jeune Amélie_ was in luck. This new cargo was destined forthe coast of the Duchy of Lucca, and consisted almost entirely ofHavana cigars, sherry, and Malaga wines.
There they had a bit of a skirmish in getting rid of the duties; theexcise was, in truth, the everlasting enemy of the patron of _La JeuneAmélie_. A customs officer was laid low, and two sailors wounded;Dantès was one of the latter, a ball having touched him in the leftshoulder. Dantès was almost glad of this affray, and almost pleased atbeing wounded, for they were rude lessons which taught him with whateye he could view danger, and with what endurance he could bearsuffering. He had contemplated danger with a smile, and when woundedhad exclaimed with the great philosopher, “Pain, thou art not an evil.”
He had, moreover, looked upon the customs officer wounded to death,and, whether from heat of blood produced by the encounter, or the chillof human sentiment, this sight had made but slight impression upon him.Dantès was on the way he desired to follow, and was moving towards theend he wished to achieve; his heart was in a fair way of petrifying inhis bosom. Jacopo, seeing him fall, had believed him killed, andrushing towards him raised him up, and then attended to him with allthe kindness of a devoted comrade.
This world was not then so good as Doctor Pangloss believed it, neitherwas it so wicked as Dantès thought it, since this man, who had nothingto expect from his comrade but the inheritance of his share of theprize-money, manifested so much sorrow when he saw him fall.Fortunately, as we have said, Edmond was only wounded, and with certainherbs gathered at certain seasons, and sold to the smugglers by the oldSardinian women, the wound soon closed. Edmond then resolved to tryJacopo, and offered him in return for his attention a share of hisprize-money, but Jacopo refused it indignantly.
As a result of the sympathetic devotion which Jacopo had from the firstbestowed on Edmond, the latter was moved to a certain degree ofaffection. But this sufficed for Jacopo, who instinctively felt thatEdmond had a right to superiority of position—a superiority whichEdmond had concealed from all others. And from this time the kindnesswhich Edmond showed him was enough for the brave seaman.
Then in the long days on board ship, when the vessel, gliding on withsecurity over the azure sea, required no care but the hand of thehelmsman, thanks to the favorable winds that swelled her sails, Edmond,with a chart in his hand, became the instructor of Jacopo, as the poorAbbé Faria had been his tutor. He pointed out to him the bearings ofthe coast, explained to him the variations of the compass, and taughthim to read in that vast book opened over our heads which they callheaven, and where God writes in azure with letters of diamonds.
And when Jacopo inquired of him, “What is the use of teaching all thesethings to a poor sailor like me?” Edmond replied, “Who knows? You mayone day be the captain of a vessel. Your fellow-countryman, Bonaparte,became emperor.” We had forgotten to say that Jacopo was a Corsican.
Two months and a half elapsed in these trips, and Edmond had become asskilful a coaster as he had been a hardy seaman; he had formed anacquaintance with all the smugglers on the coast, and learned all theMasonic signs by which these half pirates recognize each other. He hadpassed and re-passed his Island of Monte Cristo twenty times, but notonce had he found an opportunity of landing there.
He then formed a resolution. As soon as his engagement with the patronof _La Jeune Amélie_ ended, he would hire a small vessel on his ownaccount—for in his several voyages he had amassed a hundredpiastres—and under some pretext land at the Island of Monte Cristo.Then he would be free to make his researches, not perhaps entirely atliberty, for he would be doubtless watched by those who accompaniedhim. But in this world we must risk something. Prison had made Edmondprudent, and he was desirous of running no risk whatever. But in vaindid he rack his imagination; fertile as it was, he could not devise anyplan for reaching the island without companionship.
Dantès was tossed about on these doubts and wishes, when the patron,who had great confidence in him, and was very desirous of retaining himin his service, took him by the arm one evening and led him to a tavernon the Via del’ Oglio, where the leading smugglers of Leghorn used tocongregate and discuss affairs connected with their trade. AlreadyDantès had visited this maritime Bourse two or three times, and seeingall these hardy free-traders, who supplied the whole coast for nearlytwo hundred leagues in extent, he had asked himself what power mightnot that man attain who should give the impulse of his will to allthese contrary and diverging minds. This time it was a great matterthat was under discussion, connected with a vessel laden with Turkeycarpets, stuffs of the Levant, and cashmeres. It was necessary to findsome neutral ground on which an exchange could be made, and then to tryand land these goods on the coast of France. If the venture wassuccessful the profit would be enormous, there would be a gain of fiftyor sixty piastres each for the crew.
The patron of _La Jeune Amélie_ proposed as a place of landing theIsland of Monte Cristo, which being completely deserted, and havingneither soldiers nor revenue officers, seemed to have been placed inthe midst of the ocean since the time of the heathen Olympus byMercury, the god of merchants and robbers, classes of mankind which wein modern times have separated if not made distinct, but whichantiquity appears to have included in the same category.
At the mention of Monte Cristo Dantès started with joy; he rose toconceal his emotion, and took a turn around the smoky tavern, where allthe languages of the known world were jumbled in a _lingua franca_.
When he again joined the two persons who had been discussing thematter, it had been decided that they should touch at Monte Cristo andset out on the following night. Edmond, being consulted, was of opinionthat the island afforded every possible security, and that greatenterprises to be well done should be done quickly.
Nothing then was altered in the plan, and orders were given to getunder weigh next night, and, wind and weather permitting, to make theneutral island by the following day.
0289m



 Chapter 23. The Island of Monte Cristo
Thus, at length, by one of the unexpected strokes of fortune whichsometimes befall those who have for a long time been the victims of anevil destiny, Dantès was about to secure the opportunity he wished for,by simple and natural means, and land on the island without incurringany suspicion. One night more and he would be on his way.
The night was one of feverish distraction, and in its progress visions,good and evil, passed through Dantès’ mind. If he closed his eyes, hesaw Cardinal Spada’s letter written on the wall in characters offlame—if he slept for a moment the wildest dreams haunted his brain. Heascended into grottos paved with emeralds, with panels of rubies, andthe roof glowing with diamond stalactites. Pearls fell drop by drop, assubterranean waters filter in their caves. Edmond, amazed,wonderstruck, filled his pockets with the radiant gems and thenreturned to daylight, when he discovered that his prizes had allchanged into common pebbles. He then endeavored to re-enter themarvellous grottos, but they had suddenly receded, and now the pathbecame a labyrinth, and then the entrance vanished, and in vain did hetax his memory for the magic and mysterious word which opened thesplendid caverns of Ali Baba to the Arabian fisherman. All was useless,the treasure disappeared, and had again reverted to the genii from whomfor a moment he had hoped to carry it off.
The day came at length, and was almost as feverish as the night hadbeen, but it brought reason to the aid of imagination, and Dantès wasthen enabled to arrange a plan which had hitherto been vague andunsettled in his brain. Night came, and with it the preparation fordeparture, and these preparations served to conceal Dantès’ agitation.He had by degrees assumed such authority over his companions that hewas almost like a commander on board; and as his orders were alwaysclear, distinct, and easy of execution, his comrades obeyed him withcelerity and pleasure.
The old patron did not interfere, for he too had recognized thesuperiority of Dantès over the crew and himself. He saw in the youngman his natural successor, and regretted that he had not a daughter,that he might have bound Edmond to him by a more secure alliance. Atseven o’clock in the evening all was ready, and at ten minutes pastseven they doubled the lighthouse just as the beacon was kindled. Thesea was calm, and, with a fresh breeze from the south-east, they sailedbeneath a bright blue sky, in which God also lighted up in turn hisbeacon lights, each of which is a world. Dantès told them that allhands might turn in, and he would take the helm. When the Maltese (forso they called Dantès) had said this, it was sufficient, and all wentto their bunks contentedly.
This frequently happened. Dantès, cast from solitude into the world,frequently experienced an imperious desire for solitude; and whatsolitude is more complete, or more poetical, than that of a shipfloating in isolation on the sea during the obscurity of the night, inthe silence of immensity, and under the eye of Heaven?
Now this solitude was peopled with his thoughts, the night lighted upby his illusions, and the silence animated by his anticipations. Whenthe patron awoke, the vessel was hurrying on with every sail set, andevery sail full with the breeze. They were making nearly ten knots anhour. The Island of Monte Cristo loomed large in the horizon. Edmondresigned the lugger to the master’s care, and went and lay down in hishammock; but, in spite of a sleepless night, he could not close hiseyes for a moment.
Two hours afterwards he came on deck, as the boat was about to doublethe Island of Elba. They were just abreast of Mareciana, and beyond theflat but verdant Island of La Pianosa. The peak of Monte Cristoreddened by the burning sun, was seen against the azure sky. Dantèsordered the helmsman to put down his helm, in order to leave La Pianosato starboard, as he knew that he should shorten his course by two orthree knots. About five o’clock in the evening the island was distinct,and everything on it was plainly perceptible, owing to that clearnessof the atmosphere peculiar to the light which the rays of the sun castat its setting.
Edmond gazed very earnestly at the mass of rocks which gave out all thevariety of twilight colors, from the brightest pink to the deepestblue; and from time to time his cheeks flushed, his brow darkened, anda mist passed over his eyes. Never did a gamester, whose whole fortuneis staked on one cast of the die, experience the anguish which Edmondfelt in his paroxysms of hope.
Night came, and at ten o’clock they anchored. _La Jeune Amélie_ wasfirst at the rendezvous. In spite of his usual command over himself,Dantès could not restrain his impetuosity. He was the first to jump onshore; and had he dared, he would, like Lucius Brutus, have “kissed hismother earth.” It was dark, but at eleven o’clock the moon rose in themidst of the ocean, whose every wave she silvered, and then, “ascendinghigh,” played in floods of pale light on the rocky hills of this secondPelion.
The island was familiar to the crew of _La Jeune Amélie_,—it was one ofher regular haunts. As to Dantès, he had passed it on his voyage to andfrom the Levant, but never touched at it. He questioned Jacopo.
“Where shall we pass the night?” he inquired.
“Why, on board the tartan,” replied the sailor.
“Should we not do better in the grottos?”
“What grottos?”
“Why, the grottos—caves of the island.”
“I do not know of any grottos,” replied Jacopo.
The cold sweat sprang forth on Dantès’ brow.
“What, are there no grottos at Monte Cristo?” he asked.
“None.”
For a moment Dantès was speechless; then he remembered that these cavesmight have been filled up by some accident, or even stopped up, for thesake of greater security, by Cardinal Spada. The point was, then, todiscover the hidden entrance. It was useless to search at night, andDantès therefore delayed all investigation until the morning. Besides,a signal made half a league out at sea, and to which _La Jeune Amélie_replied by a similar signal, indicated that the moment for business hadcome.
The boat that now arrived, assured by the answering signal that all waswell, soon came in sight, white and silent as a phantom, and castanchor within a cable’s length of shore.
Then the landing began. Dantès reflected, as he worked, on the shout ofjoy which, with a single word, he could evoke from all these men, if hegave utterance to the one unchanging thought that pervaded his heart;but, far from disclosing this precious secret, he almost feared that hehad already said too much, and by his restlessness and continualquestions, his minute observations and evident preoccupation, arousedsuspicions. Fortunately, as regarded this circumstance at least, hispainful past gave to his countenance an indelible sadness, and theglimmerings of gayety seen beneath this cloud were indeed buttransitory.
No one had the slightest suspicion; and when next day, taking afowling-piece, powder, and shot, Dantès declared his intention to goand kill some of the wild goats that were seen springing from rock torock, his wish was construed into a love of sport, or a desire forsolitude. However, Jacopo insisted on following him, and Dantès did notoppose this, fearing if he did so that he might incur distrust.Scarcely, however, had they gone a quarter of a league when, havingkilled a kid, he begged Jacopo to take it to his comrades, and requestthem to cook it, and when ready to let him know by firing a gun. Thisand some dried fruits and a flask of Monte Pulciano, was the bill offare.
Dantès went on, looking from time to time behind and around about him.Having reached the summit of a rock, he saw, a thousand feet beneathhim, his companions, whom Jacopo had rejoined, and who were all busypreparing the repast which Edmond’s skill as a marksman had augmentedwith a capital dish.
Edmond looked at them for a moment with the sad and gentle smile of aman superior to his fellows.
“In two hours’ time,” said he, “these persons will depart richer byfifty piastres each, to go and risk their lives again by endeavoring togain fifty more; then they will return with a fortune of six hundredfrancs, and waste this treasure in some city with the pride of sultansand the insolence of nabobs. At this moment hope makes me despise theirriches, which seem to me contemptible. Yet perchance tomorrow deceptionwill so act on me, that I shall, on compulsion, consider such acontemptible possession as the utmost happiness. Oh, no!” exclaimedEdmond, “that will not be. The wise, unerring Faria could not bemistaken in this one thing. Besides, it were better to die than tocontinue to lead this low and wretched life.”
Thus Dantès, who but three months before had no desire but liberty hadnow not liberty enough, and panted for wealth. The cause was not inDantès, but in Providence, who, while limiting the power of man, hasfilled him with boundless desires.
Meanwhile, by a cleft between two walls of rock, following a path wornby a torrent, and which, in all human probability, human foot had neverbefore trod, Dantès approached the spot where he supposed the grottosmust have existed. Keeping along the shore, and examining the smallestobject with serious attention, he thought he could trace, on certainrocks, marks made by the hand of man.
Time, which encrusts all physical substances with its mossy mantle, asit invests all things of the mind with forgetfulness, seemed to haverespected these signs, which apparently had been made with some degreeof regularity, and probably with a definite purpose. Occasionally themarks were hidden under tufts of myrtle, which spread into large bushesladen with blossoms, or beneath parasitical lichen. So Edmond had toseparate the branches or brush away the moss to know where theguide-marks were. The sight of marks renewed Edmond fondest hopes.Might it not have been the cardinal himself who had first traced them,in order that they might serve as a guide for his nephew in the eventof a catastrophe, which he could not foresee would have been socomplete. This solitary place was precisely suited to the requirementsof a man desirous of burying treasure. Only, might not these betrayingmarks have attracted other eyes than those for whom they were made? andhad the dark and wondrous island indeed faithfully guarded its precioussecret?
0295m


It seemed, however, to Edmond, who was hidden from his comrades by theinequalities of the ground, that at sixty paces from the harbor themarks ceased; nor did they terminate at any grotto. A large round rock,placed solidly on its base, was the only spot to which they seemed tolead. Edmond concluded that perhaps instead of having reached the endof the route he had only explored its beginning, and he thereforeturned round and retraced his steps.
Meanwhile his comrades had prepared the repast, had got some water froma spring, spread out the fruit and bread, and cooked the kid. Just atthe moment when they were taking the dainty animal from the spit, theysaw Edmond springing with the boldness of a chamois from rock to rock,and they fired the signal agreed upon. The sportsman instantly changedhis direction, and ran quickly towards them. But even while theywatched his daring progress, Edmond’s foot slipped, and they saw himstagger on the edge of a rock and disappear. They all rushed towardshim, for all loved Edmond in spite of his superiority; yet Jacoporeached him first.
He found Edmond lying prone, bleeding, and almost senseless. He hadrolled down a declivity of twelve or fifteen feet. They poured a littlerum down his throat, and this remedy which had before been sobeneficial to him, produced the same effect as formerly. Edmond openedhis eyes, complained of great pain in his knee, a feeling of heavinessin his head, and severe pains in his loins. They wished to carry him tothe shore; but when they touched him, although under Jacopo’sdirections, he declared, with heavy groans, that he could not bear tobe moved.
It may be supposed that Dantès did not now think of his dinner, but heinsisted that his comrades, who had not his reasons for fasting, shouldhave their meal. As for himself, he declared that he had only need of alittle rest, and that when they returned he should be easier. Thesailors did not require much urging. They were hungry, and the smell ofthe roasted kid was very savory, and your tars are not veryceremonious. An hour afterwards they returned. All that Edmond had beenable to do was to drag himself about a dozen paces forward to leanagainst a moss-grown rock.
But, instead of growing easier, Dantès’ pains appeared to increase inviolence. The old patron, who was obliged to sail in the morning inorder to land his cargo on the frontiers of Piedmont and France,between Nice and Fréjus, urged Dantès to try and rise. Edmond madegreat exertions in order to comply; but at each effort he fell back,moaning and turning pale.
“He has broken his ribs,” said the commander, in a low voice. “Nomatter; he is an excellent fellow, and we must not leave him. We willtry and carry him on board the tartan.”
Dantès declared, however, that he would rather die where he was thanundergo the agony which the slightest movement cost him.
“Well,” said the patron, “let what may happen, it shall never be saidthat we deserted a good comrade like you. We will not go till evening.”
This very much astonished the sailors, although, not one opposed it.The patron was so strict that this was the first time they had everseen him give up an enterprise, or even delay in its execution. Dantèswould not allow that any such infraction of regular and proper rulesshould be made in his favor.
“No, no,” he said to the patron, “I was awkward, and it is just that Ipay the penalty of my clumsiness. Leave me a small supply of biscuit, agun, powder, and balls, to kill the kids or defend myself at need, anda pickaxe, that I may build a shelter if you delay in coming back forme.”
“But you’ll die of hunger,” said the patron.
“I would rather do so,” was Edmond’s reply, “than suffer theinexpressible agonies which the slightest movement causes me.”
The patron turned towards his vessel, which was rolling on the swell inthe little harbor, and, with sails partly set, would be ready for seawhen her toilet should be completed.
“What are we to do, Maltese?” asked the captain. “We cannot leave youhere so, and yet we cannot stay.”
“Go, go!” exclaimed Dantès.
“We shall be absent at least a week,” said the patron, “and then wemust run out of our course to come here and take you up again.”
“Why,” said Dantès, “if in two or three days you hail any fishing-boat,desire them to come here to me. I will pay twenty-five piastres for mypassage back to Leghorn. If you do not come across one, return for me.”The patron shook his head.
“Listen, Captain Baldi; there’s one way of settling this,” said Jacopo.“Do you go, and I will stay and take care of the wounded man.”
“And give up your share of the venture,” said Edmond, “to remain withme?”
“Yes,” said Jacopo, “and without any hesitation.”
“You are a good fellow and a kind-hearted messmate,” replied Edmond,“and heaven will recompense you for your generous intentions; but I donot wish anyone to stay with me. A day or two of rest will set me up,and I hope I shall find among the rocks certain herbs most excellentfor bruises.”
A peculiar smile passed over Dantès’ lips; he squeezed Jacopo’s handwarmly, but nothing could shake his determination to remain—and remainalone.
The smugglers left with Edmond what he had requested and set sail, butnot without turning about several times, and each time making signs ofa cordial farewell, to which Edmond replied with his hand only, as ifhe could not move the rest of his body.
Then, when they had disappeared, he said with a smile,—“’Tis strangethat it should be among such men that we find proofs of friendship anddevotion.” Then he dragged himself cautiously to the top of a rock,from which he had a full view of the sea, and thence he saw the tartancomplete her preparations for sailing, weigh anchor, and, balancingherself as gracefully as a water-fowl ere it takes to the wing, setsail.
At the end of an hour she was completely out of sight; at least, it wasimpossible for the wounded man to see her any longer from the spotwhere he was. Then Dantès rose more agile and light than the kid amongthe myrtles and shrubs of these wild rocks, took his gun in one hand,his pickaxe in the other, and hastened towards the rock on which themarks he had noted terminated.
“And now,” he exclaimed, remembering the tale of the Arabian fisherman,which Faria had related to him, “now, Open Sesame!”


 Chapter 24. The Secret Cave
The sun had nearly reached the meridian, and his scorching rays fellfull on the rocks, which seemed themselves sensible of the heat.Thousands of grasshoppers, hidden in the bushes, chirped with amonotonous and dull note; the leaves of the myrtle and olive treeswaved and rustled in the wind. At every step that Edmond took hedisturbed the lizards glittering with the hues of the emerald; afar offhe saw the wild goats bounding from crag to crag. In a word, the islandwas inhabited, yet Edmond felt himself alone, guided by the hand ofGod.
He felt an indescribable sensation somewhat akin to dread—that dread ofthe daylight which even in the desert makes us fear we are watched andobserved. This feeling was so strong that at the moment when Edmond wasabout to begin his labor, he stopped, laid down his pickaxe, seized hisgun, mounted to the summit of the highest rock, and from thence gazedround in every direction.
But it was not upon Corsica, the very houses of which he coulddistinguish; or on Sardinia; or on the Island of Elba, with itshistorical associations; or upon the almost imperceptible line that tothe experienced eye of a sailor alone revealed the coast of Genoa theproud, and Leghorn the commercial, that he gazed. It was at thebrigantine that had left in the morning, and the tartan that had justset sail, that Edmond fixed his eyes.
The first was just disappearing in the straits of Bonifacio; the other,following an opposite direction, was about to round the Island ofCorsica.
This sight reassured him. He then looked at the objects near him. Hesaw that he was on the highest point of the island,—a statue on thisvast pedestal of granite, nothing human appearing in sight, while theblue ocean beat against the base of the island, and covered it with afringe of foam. Then he descended with cautious and slow step, for hedreaded lest an accident similar to that he had so adroitly feignedshould happen in reality.
Dantès, as we have said, had traced the marks along the rocks, and hehad noticed that they led to a small creek, which was hidden like thebath of some ancient nymph. This creek was sufficiently wide at itsmouth, and deep in the centre, to admit of the entrance of a smallvessel of the lugger class, which would be perfectly concealed fromobservation.
Then following the clew that, in the hands of the Abbé Faria, had beenso skilfully used to guide him through the Dædalian labyrinth ofprobabilities, he thought that the Cardinal Spada, anxious not to bewatched, had entered the creek, concealed his little barque, followedthe line marked by the notches in the rock, and at the end of it hadburied his treasure. It was this idea that had brought Dantès back tothe circular rock. One thing only perplexed Edmond, and destroyed histheory. How could this rock, which weighed several tons, have beenlifted to this spot, without the aid of many men?
Suddenly an idea flashed across his mind. Instead of raising it,thought he, they have lowered it. And he sprang from the rock in orderto inspect the base on which it had formerly stood.
He soon perceived that a slope had been formed, and the rock had slidalong this until it stopped at the spot it now occupied. A large stonehad served as a wedge; flints and pebbles had been inserted around it,so as to conceal the orifice; this species of masonry had been coveredwith earth, and grass and weeds had grown there, moss had clung to thestones, myrtle-bushes had taken root, and the old rock seemed fixed tothe earth.
0301m


Dantès dug away the earth carefully, and detected, or fancied hedetected, the ingenious artifice. He attacked this wall, cemented bythe hand of time, with his pickaxe. After ten minutes’ labor the wallgave way, and a hole large enough to insert the arm was opened.
Dantès went and cut the strongest olive-tree he could find, strippedoff its branches, inserted it in the hole, and used it as a lever. Butthe rock was too heavy, and too firmly wedged, to be moved by anyoneman, were he Hercules himself. Dantès saw that he must attack thewedge. But how?
He cast his eyes around, and saw the horn full of powder which hisfriend Jacopo had left him. He smiled; the infernal invention wouldserve him for this purpose.
With the aid of his pickaxe, Dantès, after the manner of a labor-savingpioneer, dug a mine between the upper rock and the one that supportedit, filled it with powder, then made a match by rolling hishandkerchief in saltpetre. He lighted it and retired.
The explosion soon followed; the upper rock was lifted from its base bythe terrific force of the powder; the lower one flew into pieces;thousands of insects escaped from the aperture Dantès had previouslyformed, and a huge snake, like the guardian demon of the treasure,rolled himself along in darkening coils, and disappeared.
Dantès approached the upper rock, which now, without any support,leaned towards the sea. The intrepid treasure-seeker walked round it,and, selecting the spot from whence it appeared most susceptible toattack, placed his lever in one of the crevices, and strained everynerve to move the mass.
The rock, already shaken by the explosion, tottered on its base. Dantèsredoubled his efforts; he seemed like one of the ancient Titans, whouprooted the mountains to hurl against the father of the gods. The rockyielded, rolled over, bounded from point to point, and finallydisappeared in the ocean.
On the spot it had occupied was a circular space, exposing an iron ringlet into a square flag-stone.
Dantès uttered a cry of joy and surprise; never had a first attemptbeen crowned with more perfect success. He would fain have continued,but his knees trembled, and his heart beat so violently, and his sightbecame so dim, that he was forced to pause.
This feeling lasted but for a moment. Edmond inserted his lever in thering and exerted all his strength; the flag-stone yielded, anddisclosed steps that descended until they were lost in the obscurity ofa subterraneous grotto.
Anyone else would have rushed on with a cry of joy. Dantès turned pale,hesitated, and reflected.
“Come,” said he to himself, “be a man. I am accustomed to adversity. Imust not be cast down by the discovery that I have been deceived. What,then, would be the use of all I have suffered? The heart breaks when,after having been elated by flattering hopes, it sees all its illusionsdestroyed. Faria has dreamed this; the Cardinal Spada buried notreasure here; perhaps he never came here, or if he did, Cæsar Borgia,the intrepid adventurer, the stealthy and indefatigable plunderer, hasfollowed him, discovered his traces, pursued them as I have done,raised the stone, and descending before me, has left me nothing.”
He remained motionless and pensive, his eyes fixed on the gloomyaperture that was open at his feet.
“Now that I expect nothing, now that I no longer entertain theslightest hopes, the end of this adventure becomes simply a matter ofcuriosity.” And he remained again motionless and thoughtful.
“Yes, yes; this is an adventure worthy a place in the varied career ofthat royal bandit. This fabulous event formed but a link in a longchain of marvels. Yes, Borgia has been here, a torch in one hand, asword in the other, and within twenty paces, at the foot of this rock,perhaps two guards kept watch on land and sea, while their masterdescended, as I am about to descend, dispelling the darkness before hisawe-inspiring progress.”
0303m


“But what was the fate of the guards who thus possessed his secret?”asked Dantès of himself.
“The fate,” replied he, smiling, “of those who buried Alaric, and wereinterred with the corpse.”
“Yet, had he come,” thought Dantès, “he would have found the treasure,and Borgia, he who compared Italy to an artichoke, which he coulddevour leaf by leaf, knew too well the value of time to waste it inreplacing this rock. I will go down.”
Then he descended, a smile on his lips, and murmuring that last word ofhuman philosophy, “Perhaps!”
But instead of the darkness, and the thick and mephitic atmosphere hehad expected to find, Dantès saw a dim and bluish light, which, as wellas the air, entered, not merely by the aperture he had just formed, butby the interstices and crevices of the rock which were visible fromwithout, and through which he could distinguish the blue sky and thewaving branches of the evergreen oaks, and the tendrils of the creepersthat grew from the rocks.
After having stood a few minutes in the cavern, the atmosphere of whichwas rather warm than damp, Dantès’ eye, habituated as it was todarkness, could pierce even to the remotest angles of the cavern, whichwas of granite that sparkled like diamonds.
“Alas,” said Edmond, smiling, “these are the treasures the cardinal hasleft; and the good abbé, seeing in a dream these glittering walls, hasindulged in fallacious hopes.”
But he called to mind the words of the will, which he knew by heart.“In the farthest angle of the second opening,” said the cardinal’swill. He had only found the first grotto; he had now to seek thesecond. Dantès continued his search. He reflected that this secondgrotto must penetrate deeper into the island; he examined the stones,and sounded one part of the wall where he fancied the opening existed,masked for precaution’s sake.
The pickaxe struck for a moment with a dull sound that drew out ofDantès’ forehead large drops of perspiration. At last it seemed to himthat one part of the wall gave forth a more hollow and deeper echo; heeagerly advanced, and with the quickness of perception that no one buta prisoner possesses, saw that there, in all probability, the openingmust be.
However, he, like Cæsar Borgia, knew the value of time; and, in orderto avoid fruitless toil, he sounded all the other walls with hispickaxe, struck the earth with the butt of his gun, and finding nothingthat appeared suspicious, returned to that part of the wall whenceissued the consoling sound he had before heard.
He again struck it, and with greater force. Then a singular thingoccurred. As he struck the wall, pieces of stucco similar to that usedin the ground work of arabesques broke off, and fell to the ground inflakes, exposing a large white stone. The aperture of the rock had beenclosed with stones, then this stucco had been applied, and painted toimitate granite. Dantès struck with the sharp end of his pickaxe, whichentered someway between the interstices.
It was there he must dig.
But by some strange play of emotion, in proportion as the proofs thatFaria, had not been deceived became stronger, so did his heart giveway, and a feeling of discouragement stole over him. This last proof,instead of giving him fresh strength, deprived him of it; the pickaxedescended, or rather fell; he placed it on the ground, passed his handover his brow, and remounted the stairs, alleging to himself, as anexcuse, a desire to be assured that no one was watching him, but inreality because he felt that he was about to faint.
The island was deserted, and the sun seemed to cover it with its fieryglance; afar off, a few small fishing boats studded the bosom of theblue ocean.
Dantès had tasted nothing, but he thought not of hunger at such amoment; he hastily swallowed a few drops of rum, and again entered thecavern.
The pickaxe that had seemed so heavy, was now like a feather in hisgrasp; he seized it, and attacked the wall. After several blows heperceived that the stones were not cemented, but had been merely placedone upon the other, and covered with stucco; he inserted the point ofhis pickaxe, and using the handle as a lever, with joy soon saw thestone turn as if on hinges, and fall at his feet.
He had nothing more to do now, but with the iron tooth of the pickaxeto draw the stones towards him one by one. The aperture was alreadysufficiently large for him to enter, but by waiting, he could stillcling to hope, and retard the certainty of deception. At last, afterrenewed hesitation, Dantès entered the second grotto.
The second grotto was lower and more gloomy than the first; the airthat could only enter by the newly formed opening had the mephiticsmell Dantès was surprised not to find in the outer cavern. He waitedin order to allow pure air to displace the foul atmosphere, and thenwent on.
At the left of the opening was a dark and deep angle. But to Dantès’eye there was no darkness. He glanced around this second grotto; itwas, like the first, empty.
The treasure, if it existed, was buried in this corner. The time had atlength arrived; two feet of earth removed, and Dantès’ fate would bedecided.
He advanced towards the angle, and summoning all his resolution,attacked the ground with the pickaxe. At the fifth or sixth blow thepickaxe struck against an iron substance. Never did funeral knell,never did alarm-bell, produce a greater effect on the hearer. HadDantès found nothing he could not have become more ghastly pale.
He again struck his pickaxe into the earth, and encountered the sameresistance, but not the same sound.
“It is a casket of wood bound with iron,” thought he.
At this moment a shadow passed rapidly before the opening; Dantèsseized his gun, sprang through the opening, and mounted the stair. Awild goat had passed before the mouth of the cave, and was feeding at alittle distance. This would have been a favorable occasion to securehis dinner; but Dantès feared lest the report of his gun should attractattention.
He thought a moment, cut a branch of a resinous tree, lighted it at thefire at which the smugglers had prepared their breakfast, and descendedwith this torch.
He wished to see everything. He approached the hole he had dug, andnow, with the aid of the torch, saw that his pickaxe had in realitystruck against iron and wood. He planted his torch in the ground andresumed his labor.
In an instant a space three feet long by two feet broad was cleared,and Dantès could see an oaken coffer, bound with cut steel; in themiddle of the lid he saw engraved on a silver plate, which was stilluntarnished, the arms of the Spada family—viz., a sword, _en pale_, onan oval shield, like all the Italian armorial bearings, and surmountedby a cardinal’s hat.
Dantès easily recognized them, Faria had so often drawn them for him.There was no longer any doubt: the treasure was there—no one would havebeen at such pains to conceal an empty casket. In an instant he hadcleared every obstacle away, and he saw successively the lock, placedbetween two padlocks, and the two handles at each end, all carved asthings were carved at that epoch, when art rendered the commonestmetals precious.
Dantès seized the handles, and strove to lift the coffer; it wasimpossible. He sought to open it; lock and padlock were fastened; thesefaithful guardians seemed unwilling to surrender their trust. Dantèsinserted the sharp end of the pickaxe between the coffer and the lid,and pressing with all his force on the handle, burst open thefastenings. The hinges yielded in their turn and fell, still holding intheir grasp fragments of the wood, and the chest was open.
0307m


Edmond was seized with vertigo; he cocked his gun and laid it besidehim. He then closed his eyes as children do in order that they may seein the resplendent night of their own imagination more stars than arevisible in the firmament; then he re-opened them, and stood motionlesswith amazement.
Three compartments divided the coffer. In the first, blazed piles ofgolden coin; in the second, were ranged bars of unpolished gold, whichpossessed nothing attractive save their value; in the third, Edmondgrasped handfuls of diamonds, pearls, and rubies, which, as they fellon one another, sounded like hail against glass.
After having touched, felt, examined these treasures, Edmond rushedthrough the caverns like a man seized with frenzy; he leaped on a rock,from whence he could behold the sea. He was alone—alone with thesecountless, these unheard-of treasures! Was he awake, or was it but adream? Was it a transient vision, or was he face to face with reality?
He would fain have gazed upon his gold, and yet he had not strengthenough; for an instant he leaned his head in his hands as if to preventhis senses from leaving him, and then rushed madly about the rocks ofMonte Cristo, terrifying the wild goats and scaring the sea-fowls withhis wild cries and gestures; then he returned, and, still unable tobelieve the evidence of his senses, rushed into the grotto, and foundhimself before this mine of gold and jewels.
This time he fell on his knees, and, clasping his hands convulsively,uttered a prayer intelligible to God alone. He soon became calmer andmore happy, for only now did he begin to realize his felicity.
He then set himself to work to count his fortune. There were a thousandingots of gold, each weighing from two to three pounds; then he piledup twenty-five thousand crowns, each worth about eighty francs of ourmoney, and bearing the effigies of Alexander VI. and his predecessors;and he saw that the complement was not half empty. And he measured tendouble handfuls of pearls, diamonds, and other gems, many of which,mounted by the most famous workmen, were valuable beyond theirintrinsic worth.
Dantès saw the light gradually disappear, and fearing to be surprisedin the cavern, left it, his gun in his hand. A piece of biscuit and asmall quantity of rum formed his supper, and he snatched a few hours’sleep, lying over the mouth of the cave.
It was a night of joy and terror, such as this man of stupendousemotions had already experienced twice or thrice in his lifetime.


 Chapter 25. The Unknown
Day, for which Dantès had so eagerly and impatiently waited with openeyes, again dawned. With the first light Dantès resumed his search.Again he climbed the rocky height he had ascended the previous evening,and strained his view to catch every peculiarity of the landscape; butit wore the same wild, barren aspect when seen by the rays of themorning sun which it had done when surveyed by the fading glimmer ofeve.
Descending into the grotto, he lifted the stone, filled his pocketswith gems, put the box together as well and securely as he could,sprinkled fresh sand over the spot from which it had been taken, andthen carefully trod down the earth to give it everywhere a uniformappearance; then, quitting the grotto, he replaced the stone, heapingon it broken masses of rocks and rough fragments of crumbling granite,filling the interstices with earth, into which he deftly insertedrapidly growing plants, such as the wild myrtle and flowering thorn,then carefully watering these new plantations, he scrupulously effacedevery trace of footsteps, leaving the approach to the cavern assavage-looking and untrodden as he had found it. This done, heimpatiently awaited the return of his companions. To wait at MonteCristo for the purpose of watching like a dragon over the almostincalculable riches that had thus fallen into his possession satisfiednot the cravings of his heart, which yearned to return to dwell amongmankind, and to assume the rank, power, and influence which are alwaysaccorded to wealth—that first and greatest of all the forces within thegrasp of man.
On the sixth day, the smugglers returned. From a distance Dantèsrecognized the rig and handling of _La Jeune Amélie_, and dragginghimself with affected difficulty towards the landing-place, he met hiscompanions with an assurance that, although considerably better thanwhen they quitted him, he still suffered acutely from his lateaccident. He then inquired how they had fared in their trip. To thisquestion the smugglers replied that, although successful in landingtheir cargo in safety, they had scarcely done so when they receivedintelligence that a guard-ship had just quitted the port of Toulon andwas crowding all sail towards them. This obliged them to make all thespeed they could to evade the enemy, when they could but lament theabsence of Dantès, whose superior skill in the management of a vesselwould have availed them so materially. In fact, the pursuing vessel hadalmost overtaken them when, fortunately, night came on, and enabledthem to double the Cape of Corsica, and so elude all further pursuit.Upon the whole, however, the trip had been sufficiently successful tosatisfy all concerned; while the crew, and particularly Jacopo,expressed great regrets that Dantès had not been an equal sharer withthemselves in the profits, which amounted to no less a sum than fiftypiastres each.
0311m


Edmond preserved the most admirable self-command, not suffering thefaintest indication of a smile to escape him at the enumeration of allthe benefits he would have reaped had he been able to quit the island;but as _La Jeune Amélie_ had merely come to Monte Cristo to fetch himaway, he embarked that same evening, and proceeded with the captain toLeghorn.
Arrived at Leghorn, he repaired to the house of a Jew, a dealer inprecious stones, to whom he disposed of four of his smallest diamondsfor five thousand francs each. Dantès half feared that such valuablejewels in the hands of a poor sailor like himself might excitesuspicion; but the cunning purchaser asked no troublesome questionsconcerning a bargain by which he gained a round profit of at leasteighty per cent.
The following day Dantès presented Jacopo with an entirely new vessel,accompanying the gift by a donation of one hundred piastres, that hemight provide himself with a suitable crew and other requisites for hisoutfit, upon condition that he would go at once to Marseilles for thepurpose of inquiring after an old man named Louis Dantès, residing inthe Allées de Meilhan, and also a young woman called Mercédès, aninhabitant of the Catalan village.
Jacopo could scarcely believe his senses at receiving this magnificentpresent, which Dantès hastened to account for by saying that he hadmerely been a sailor from whim and a desire to spite his family, whodid not allow him as much money as he liked to spend; but that on hisarrival at Leghorn he had come into possession of a large fortune, lefthim by an uncle, whose sole heir he was. The superior education ofDantès gave an air of such extreme probability to this statement thatit never once occurred to Jacopo to doubt its accuracy.
The term for which Edmond had engaged to serve on board _La JeuneAmélie_ having expired, Dantès took leave of the captain, who at firsttried all his powers of persuasion to induce him to remain as one ofthe crew, but having been told the history of the legacy, he ceased toimportune him further.
The following morning Jacopo set sail for Marseilles, with directionsfrom Dantès to join him at the Island of Monte Cristo.
Having seen Jacopo fairly out of the harbor, Dantès proceeded to makehis final adieus on board _La Jeune Amélie_, distributing so liberal agratuity among her crew as to secure for him the good wishes of all,and expressions of cordial interest in all that concerned him. To thecaptain he promised to write when he had made up his mind as to hisfuture plans. Then Dantès departed for Genoa.
At the moment of his arrival a small yacht was under trial in the bay;this yacht had been built by order of an Englishman, who, having heardthat the Genoese excelled all other builders along the shores of theMediterranean in the construction of fast-sailing vessels, was desirousof possessing a specimen of their skill; the price agreed upon betweenthe Englishman and the Genoese builder was forty thousand francs.Dantès, struck with the beauty and capability of the little vessel,applied to its owner to transfer it to him, offering sixty thousandfrancs, upon condition that he should be allowed to take immediatepossession. The proposal was too advantageous to be refused, the moreso as the person for whom the yacht was intended had gone upon a tourthrough Switzerland, and was not expected back in less than three weeksor a month, by which time the builder reckoned upon being able tocomplete another. A bargain was therefore struck. Dantès led the ownerof the yacht to the dwelling of a Jew; retired with the latter for afew minutes to a small back parlor, and upon their return the Jewcounted out to the shipbuilder the sum of sixty thousand francs inbright gold pieces.
The delighted builder then offered his services in providing a suitablecrew for the little vessel, but this Dantès declined with many thanks,saying he was accustomed to cruise about quite alone, and his principalpleasure consisted in managing his yacht himself; the only thing thebuilder could oblige him in would be to contrive a sort of secretcloset in the cabin at his bed’s head, the closet to contain threedivisions, so constructed as to be concealed from all but himself. Thebuilder cheerfully undertook the commission, and promised to have thesesecret places completed by the next day, Dantès furnishing thedimensions and plan in accordance with which they were to beconstructed.
0313m


Two hours afterward Dantès sailed from the port of Genoa, under theinspection of an immense crowd drawn together by curiosity to see therich Spanish nobleman who preferred managing his own yacht. But theirwonder was soon changed to admiration at seeing the perfect skill withwhich Dantès handled the helm. The boat, indeed, seemed to be animatedwith almost human intelligence, so promptly did it obey the slightesttouch; and Dantès required but a short trial of his beautiful craft toacknowledge that the Genoese had not without reason attained their highreputation in the art of shipbuilding.
The spectators followed the little vessel with their eyes as long as itremained visible; they then turned their conjectures upon her probabledestination. Some insisted she was making for Corsica, others theIsland of Elba; bets were offered to any amount that she was bound forSpain; while Africa was positively reported by many persons as herintended course; but no one thought of Monte Cristo.
Yet thither it was that Dantès guided his vessel, and at Monte Cristohe arrived at the close of the second day; his boat had proved herselfa first-class sailor, and had come the distance from Genoa inthirty-five hours. Dantès had carefully noted the general appearance ofthe shore, and, instead of landing at the usual place, he droppedanchor in the little creek. The island was utterly deserted, and boreno evidence of having been visited since he went away; his treasure wasjust as he had left it.
Early on the following morning he commenced the removal of his riches,and ere nightfall the whole of his immense wealth was safely depositedin the compartments of the secret locker.
A week passed by. Dantès employed it in manœuvring his yacht round theisland, studying it as a skilful horseman would the animal he destinedfor some important service, till at the end of that time he wasperfectly conversant with its good and bad qualities. The former Dantèsproposed to augment, the latter to remedy.
Upon the eighth day he discerned a small vessel under full sailapproaching Monte Cristo. As it drew near, he recognized it as the boathe had given to Jacopo. He immediately signalled it. His signal wasreturned, and in two hours afterwards the new-comer lay at anchorbeside the yacht.
A mournful answer awaited each of Edmond’s eager inquiries as to theinformation Jacopo had obtained. Old Dantès was dead, and Mercédès haddisappeared.
Dantès listened to these melancholy tidings with outward calmness; but,leaping lightly ashore, he signified his desire to be quite alone. In acouple of hours he returned. Two of the men from Jacopo’s boat came onboard the yacht to assist in navigating it, and he gave orders that sheshould be steered direct to Marseilles. For his father’s death he wasin some manner prepared; but he knew not how to account for themysterious disappearance of Mercédès.
Without divulging his secret, Dantès could not give sufficiently clearinstructions to an agent. There were, besides, other particulars he wasdesirous of ascertaining, and those were of a nature he alone couldinvestigate in a manner satisfactory to himself. His looking-glass hadassured him, during his stay at Leghorn, that he ran no risk ofrecognition; moreover, he had now the means of adopting any disguise hethought proper. One fine morning, then, his yacht, followed by thelittle fishing-boat, boldly entered the port of Marseilles, andanchored exactly opposite the spot from whence, on thenever-to-be-forgotten night of his departure for the Château d’If, hehad been put on board the boat destined to convey him thither.
0315m


Still Dantès could not view without a shudder the approach of agendarme who accompanied the officers deputed to demand his bill ofhealth ere the yacht was permitted to hold communication with theshore; but with that perfect self-possession he had acquired during hisacquaintance with Faria, Dantès coolly presented an English passport hehad obtained from Leghorn, and as this gave him a standing which aFrench passport would not have afforded, he was informed that thereexisted no obstacle to his immediate debarkation.
The first person to attract the attention of Dantès, as he landed onthe Canebière, was one of the crew belonging to the _Pharaon_. Edmondwelcomed the meeting with this fellow—who had been one of his ownsailors—as a sure means of testing the extent of the change which timehad worked in his own appearance. Going straight towards him, hepropounded a variety of questions on different subjects, carefullywatching the man’s countenance as he did so; but not a word or lookimplied that he had the slightest idea of ever having seen before theperson with whom he was then conversing.
Giving the sailor a piece of money in return for his civility, Dantèsproceeded onwards; but ere he had gone many steps he heard the manloudly calling him to stop.
Dantès instantly turned to meet him.
“I beg your pardon, sir,” said the honest fellow, in almost breathlesshaste, “but I believe you made a mistake; you intended to give me atwo-franc piece, and see, you gave me a double Napoleon.”
“Thank you, my good friend. I see that I have made a trifling mistake,as you say; but by way of rewarding your honesty I give you anotherdouble Napoleon, that you may drink to my health, and be able to askyour messmates to join you.”
So extreme was the surprise of the sailor, that he was unable even tothank Edmond, whose receding figure he continued to gaze after inspeechless astonishment. “Some nabob from India,” was his comment.
Dantès, meanwhile, went on his way. Each step he trod oppressed hisheart with fresh emotion; his first and most indelible recollectionswere there; not a tree, not a street, that he passed but seemed filledwith dear and cherished memories. And thus he proceeded onwards till hearrived at the end of the Rue de Noailles, from whence a full view ofthe Allées de Meilhan was obtained. At this spot, so pregnant with fondand filial remembrances, his heart beat almost to bursting, his kneestottered under him, a mist floated over his sight, and had he not clungfor support to one of the trees, he would inevitably have fallen to theground and been crushed beneath the many vehicles continually passingthere. Recovering himself, however, he wiped the perspiration from hisbrows, and stopped not again till he found himself at the door of thehouse in which his father had lived.
The nasturtiums and other plants, which his father had delighted totrain before his window, had all disappeared from the upper part of thehouse.
Leaning against the tree, he gazed thoughtfully for a time at the upperstories of the shabby little house. Then he advanced to the door, andasked whether there were any rooms to be let. Though answered in thenegative, he begged so earnestly to be permitted to visit those on thefifth floor, that, in despite of the oft-repeated assurance of the_concierge_ that they were occupied, Dantès succeeded in inducing theman to go up to the tenants, and ask permission for a gentleman to beallowed to look at them.
The tenants of the humble lodging were a young couple who had beenscarcely married a week; and seeing them, Dantès sighed heavily.Nothing in the two small chambers forming the apartments remained as ithad been in the time of the elder Dantès; the very paper was different,while the articles of antiquated furniture with which the rooms hadbeen filled in Edmond’s time had all disappeared; the four walls aloneremained as he had left them.
The bed belonging to the present occupants was placed as the formerowner of the chamber had been accustomed to have his; and, in spite ofhis efforts to prevent it, the eyes of Edmond were suffused in tears ashe reflected that on that spot the old man had breathed his last,vainly calling for his son.
The young couple gazed with astonishment at the sight of theirvisitor’s emotion, and wondered to see the large tears silently chasingeach other down his otherwise stern and immovable features; but theyfelt the sacredness of his grief, and kindly refrained from questioninghim as to its cause, while, with instinctive delicacy, they left him toindulge his sorrow alone.
0317m


When he withdrew from the scene of his painful recollections, they bothaccompanied him downstairs, reiterating their hope that he would comeagain whenever he pleased, and assuring him that their poor dwellingwould ever be open to him.
As Edmond passed the door on the fourth floor, he paused to inquirewhether Caderousse the tailor still dwelt there; but he received forreply, that the person in question had got into difficulties, and atthe present time kept a small inn on the route from Bellegarde toBeaucaire.
Having obtained the address of the person to whom the house in theAllées de Meilhan belonged, Dantès next proceeded thither, and, underthe name of Lord Wilmore (the name and title inscribed on hispassport), purchased the small dwelling for the sum of twenty-fivethousand francs, at least ten thousand more than it was worth; but hadits owner asked half a million, it would unhesitatingly have beengiven.
The very same day the occupants of the apartments on the fifth floor ofthe house, now become the property of Dantès, were duly informed by thenotary who had arranged the necessary transfer of deeds, etc., that thenew landlord gave them their choice of any of the rooms in the house,without the least augmentation of rent, upon condition of their givinginstant possession of the two small chambers they at present inhabited.
This strange event aroused great wonder and curiosity in theneighborhood of the Allées de Meilhan, and a multitude of theories wereafloat, none of which was anywhere near the truth. But what raisedpublic astonishment to a climax, and set all conjecture at defiance,was the knowledge that the same stranger who had in the morning visitedthe Allées de Meilhan had been seen in the evening walking in thelittle village of the Catalans, and afterwards observed to enter a poorfisherman’s hut, and to pass more than an hour in inquiring afterpersons who had either been dead or gone away for more than fifteen orsixteen years.
But on the following day the family from whom all these particulars hadbeen asked received a handsome present, consisting of an entirely newfishing-boat, with two seines and a tender.
The delighted recipients of these munificent gifts would gladly havepoured out their thanks to their generous benefactor, but they had seenhim, upon quitting the hut, merely give some orders to a sailor, andthen springing lightly on horseback, leave Marseilles by the Ported’Aix.


 Chapter 26. The Pont du Gard Inn
Such of my readers as have made a pedestrian excursion to the south ofFrance may perchance have noticed, about midway between the town ofBeaucaire and the village of Bellegarde,—a little nearer to the formerthan to the latter,—a small roadside inn, from the front of which hung,creaking and flapping in the wind, a sheet of tin covered with agrotesque representation of the Pont du Gard. This modern place ofentertainment stood on the left-hand side of the post road, and backedupon the Rhône. It also boasted of what in Languedoc is styled agarden, consisting of a small plot of ground, on the side opposite tothe main entrance reserved for the reception of guests. A few dingyolives and stunted fig-trees struggled hard for existence, but theirwithered dusty foliage abundantly proved how unequal was the conflict.Between these sickly shrubs grew a scanty supply of garlic, tomatoes,and eschalots; while, lone and solitary, like a forgotten sentinel, atall pine raised its melancholy head in one of the corners of thisunattractive spot, and displayed its flexible stem and fan-shapedsummit dried and cracked by the fierce heat of the sub-tropical sun.
All these trees, great or small, were turned in the direction to whichthe Mistral blows, one of the three curses of Provence, the othersbeing the Durance and the Parliament.
In the surrounding plain, which more resembled a dusty lake than solidground, were scattered a few miserable stalks of wheat, the effect, nodoubt, of a curious desire on the part of the agriculturists of thecountry to see whether such a thing as the raising of grain in thoseparched regions was practicable. Each stalk served as a perch for agrasshopper, which regaled the passers-by through this Egyptian scenewith its strident, monotonous note.
For about seven or eight years the little tavern had been kept by a manand his wife, with two servants,—a chambermaid named Trinette, and ahostler called Pecaud. This small staff was quite equal to all therequirements, for a canal between Beaucaire and Aiguemortes hadrevolutionized transportation by substituting boats for the cart andthe stagecoach. And, as though to add to the daily misery which thisprosperous canal inflicted on the unfortunate innkeeper, whose utterruin it was fast accomplishing, it was situated between the Rhône fromwhich it had its source and the post-road it had depleted, not ahundred steps from the inn, of which we have given a brief but faithfuldescription.
The innkeeper himself was a man of from forty to fifty-five years ofage, tall, strong, and bony, a perfect specimen of the natives of thosesouthern latitudes; he had dark, sparkling, and deep-set eyes, hookednose, and teeth white as those of a carnivorous animal; his hair, likehis beard, which he wore under his chin, was thick and curly, and inspite of his age but slightly interspersed with a few silvery threads.His naturally dark complexion had assumed a still further shade ofbrown from the habit the unfortunate man had acquired of stationinghimself from morning till eve at the threshold of his door, on thelookout for guests who seldom came, yet there he stood, day after day,exposed to the meridional rays of a burning sun, with no otherprotection for his head than a red handkerchief twisted around it,after the manner of the Spanish muleteers. This man was our oldacquaintance, Gaspard Caderousse.
His wife, on the contrary, whose maiden name had been MadeleineRadelle, was pale, meagre, and sickly-looking. Born in the neighborhoodof Arles, she had shared in the beauty for which its women areproverbial; but that beauty had gradually withered beneath thedevastating influence of the slow fever so prevalent among dwellers bythe ponds of Aiguemortes and the marshes of Camargue. She remainednearly always in her second-floor chamber, shivering in her chair, orstretched languid and feeble on her bed, while her husband kept hisdaily watch at the door—a duty he performed with so much the greaterwillingness, as it saved him the necessity of listening to the endlessplaints and murmurs of his helpmate, who never saw him without breakingout into bitter invectives against fate; to all of which her husbandwould calmly return an unvarying reply, in these philosophic words:
“Hush, La Carconte. It is God’s pleasure that things should be so.”
The sobriquet of La Carconte had been bestowed on Madeleine Radellefrom the fact that she had been born in a village, so called, situatedbetween Salon and Lambesc; and as a custom existed among theinhabitants of that part of France where Caderousse lived of stylingevery person by some particular and distinctive appellation, herhusband had bestowed on her the name of La Carconte in place of hersweet and euphonious name of Madeleine, which, in all probability, hisrude gutteral language would not have enabled him to pronounce.
Still, let it not be supposed that amid this affected resignation tothe will of Providence, the unfortunate innkeeper did not writhe underthe double misery of seeing the hateful canal carry off his customersand his profits, and the daily infliction of his peevish partner’smurmurs and lamentations.
0323m


Like other dwellers in the south, he was a man of sober habits andmoderate desires, but fond of external show, vain, and addicted todisplay. During the days of his prosperity, not a festivity took placewithout himself and wife being among the spectators. He dressed in thepicturesque costume worn upon grand occasions by the inhabitants of thesouth of France, bearing equal resemblance to the style adopted both bythe Catalans and Andalusians; while La Carconte displayed the charmingfashion prevalent among the women of Arles, a mode of attire borrowedequally from Greece and Arabia. But, by degrees, watch-chains,necklaces, parti-colored scarves, embroidered bodices, velvet vests,elegantly worked stockings, striped gaiters, and silver buckles for theshoes, all disappeared; and Gaspard Caderousse, unable to appear abroadin his pristine splendor, had given up any further participation in thepomps and vanities, both for himself and wife, although a bitterfeeling of envious discontent filled his mind as the sound of mirth andmerry music from the joyous revellers reached even the miserablehostelry to which he still clung, more for the shelter than the profitit afforded.
Caderousse, then, was, as usual, at his place of observation before thedoor, his eyes glancing listlessly from a piece of closely shavengrass—on which some fowls were industriously, though fruitlessly,endeavoring to turn up some grain or insect suited to their palate—tothe deserted road, which led away to the north and south, when he wasaroused by the shrill voice of his wife, and grumbling to himself as hewent, he mounted to her chamber, first taking care, however, to set theentrance door wide open, as an invitation to any chance traveller whomight be passing.
At the moment Caderousse quitted his sentry-like watch before the door,the road on which he so eagerly strained his sight was void and lonelyas a desert at midday. There it lay stretching out into oneinterminable line of dust and sand, with its sides bordered by tall,meagre trees, altogether presenting so uninviting an appearance, thatno one in his senses could have imagined that any traveller, at libertyto regulate his hours for journeying, would choose to expose himself insuch a formidable Sahara.
Nevertheless, had Caderousse but retained his post a few minuteslonger, he might have caught a dim outline of something approachingfrom the direction of Bellegarde; as the moving object drew nearer, hewould easily have perceived that it consisted of a man and horse,between whom the kindest and most amiable understanding appeared toexist. The horse was of Hungarian breed, and ambled along at an easypace. His rider was a priest, dressed in black, and wearing athree-cornered hat; and, spite of the ardent rays of a noonday sun, thepair came on with a fair degree of rapidity.
Having arrived before the Pont du Gard, the horse stopped, but whetherfor his own pleasure or that of his rider would have been difficult tosay. However that might have been, the priest, dismounting, led hissteed by the bridle in search of some place to which he could securehim. Availing himself of a handle that projected from a half-fallendoor, he tied the animal safely and having drawn a red cottonhandkerchief, from his pocket, wiped away the perspiration thatstreamed from his brow, then, advancing to the door, struck thrice withthe end of his iron-shod stick.
At this unusual sound, a huge black dog came rushing to meet the daringassailant of his ordinarily tranquil abode, snarling and displaying hissharp white teeth with a determined hostility that abundantly provedhow little he was accustomed to society. At that moment a heavyfootstep was heard descending the wooden staircase that led from theupper floor, and, with many bows and courteous smiles, the host of thePont du Gard besought his guest to enter.
0319m


“You are welcome, sir, most welcome!” repeated the astonishedCaderousse. “Now, then, Margotin,” cried he, speaking to the dog, “willyou be quiet? Pray don’t heed him, sir!—he only barks, he never bites.I make no doubt a glass of good wine would be acceptable thisdreadfully hot day.” Then perceiving for the first time the garb of thetraveller he had to entertain, Caderousse hastily exclaimed: “Athousand pardons! I really did not observe whom I had the honor toreceive under my poor roof. What would the abbé please to have? Whatrefreshment can I offer? All I have is at his service.”
The priest gazed on the person addressing him with a long and searchinggaze—there even seemed a disposition on his part to court a similarscrutiny on the part of the innkeeper; then, observing in thecountenance of the latter no other expression than extreme surprise athis own want of attention to an inquiry so courteously worded, hedeemed it as well to terminate this dumb show, and therefore said,speaking with a strong Italian accent, “You are, I presume, M.Caderousse?”
“Yes, sir,” answered the host, even more surprised at the question thanhe had been by the silence which had preceded it; “I am GaspardCaderousse, at your service.”
“Gaspard Caderousse,” rejoined the priest. “Yes,—Christian and surnameare the same. You formerly lived, I believe in the Allées de Meilhan,on the fourth floor?”
0325m


“I did.”
“And you followed the business of a tailor?”
“True, I was a tailor, till the trade fell off. It is so hot atMarseilles, that really I believe that the respectable inhabitants willin time go without any clothing whatever. But talking of heat, is therenothing I can offer you by way of refreshment?”
“Yes; let me have a bottle of your best wine, and then, with yourpermission, we will resume our conversation from where we left off.”
“As you please, sir,” said Caderousse, who, anxious not to lose thepresent opportunity of finding a customer for one of the few bottles ofCahors still remaining in his possession, hastily raised a trap-door inthe floor of the apartment they were in, which served both as parlorand kitchen.
Upon issuing forth from his subterranean retreat at the expiration offive minutes, he found the abbé seated upon a wooden stool, leaning hiselbow on a table, while Margotin, whose animosity seemed appeased bythe unusual command of the traveller for refreshments, had crept up tohim, and had established himself very comfortably between his knees,his long, skinny neck resting on his lap, while his dim eye was fixedearnestly on the traveller’s face.
“Are you quite alone?” inquired the guest, as Caderousse placed beforehim the bottle of wine and a glass.
“Quite, quite alone,” replied the man—“or, at least, practically so,for my poor wife, who is the only person in the house besides myself,is laid up with illness, and unable to render me the least assistance,poor thing!”
“You are married, then?” said the priest, with a show of interest,glancing round as he spoke at the scanty furnishings of the apartment.
“Ah, sir,” said Caderousse with a sigh, “it is easy to perceive I amnot a rich man; but in this world a man does not thrive the better forbeing honest.” The abbé fixed on him a searching, penetrating glance.
“Yes, honest—I can certainly say that much for myself,” continued theinnkeeper, fairly sustaining the scrutiny of the abbé’s gaze; “I canboast with truth of being an honest man; and,” continued hesignificantly, with a hand on his breast and shaking his head, “that ismore than everyone can say nowadays.”
0327m


“So much the better for you, if what you assert be true,” said theabbé; “for I am firmly persuaded that, sooner or later, the good willbe rewarded, and the wicked punished.”
“Such words as those belong to your profession,” answered Caderousse,“and you do well to repeat them; but,” added he, with a bitterexpression of countenance, “one is free to believe them or not, as onepleases.”
“You are wrong to speak thus,” said the abbé; “and perhaps I may, in myown person, be able to prove to you how completely you are in error.”
“What mean you?” inquired Caderousse with a look of surprise.
“In the first place, I must be satisfied that you are the person I amin search of.”
“What proofs do you require?”
“Did you, in the year 1814 or 1815, know anything of a young sailornamed Dantès?”
“Dantès? Did I know poor dear Edmond? Why, Edmond Dantès and myselfwere intimate friends!” exclaimed Caderousse, whose countenance flusheddarkly as he caught the penetrating gaze of the abbé fixed on him,while the clear, calm eye of the questioner seemed to dilate withfeverish scrutiny.
“You remind me,” said the priest, “that the young man concerning whom Iasked you was said to bear the name of Edmond.”
“Said to bear the name!” repeated Caderousse, becoming excited andeager. “Why, he was so called as truly as I myself bore the appellationof Gaspard Caderousse; but tell me, I pray, what has become of poorEdmond? Did you know him? Is he alive and at liberty? Is he prosperousand happy?”
“He died a more wretched, hopeless, heart-broken prisoner than thefelons who pay the penalty of their crimes at the galleys of Toulon.”
A deadly pallor followed the flush on the countenance of Caderousse,who turned away, and the priest saw him wiping the tears from his eyeswith the corner of the red handkerchief twisted round his head.
“Poor fellow, poor fellow!” murmured Caderousse. “Well, there, sir, isanother proof that good people are never rewarded on this earth, andthat none but the wicked prosper. Ah,” continued Caderousse, speakingin the highly colored language of the South, “the world grows worse andworse. Why does not God, if he really hates the wicked, as he is saidto do, send down brimstone and fire, and consume them altogether?”
“You speak as though you had loved this young Dantès,” observed theabbé, without taking any notice of his companion’s vehemence.
“And so I did,” replied Caderousse; “though once, I confess, I enviedhim his good fortune. But I swear to you, sir, I swear to you, byeverything a man holds dear, I have, since then, deeply and sincerelylamented his unhappy fate.”
There was a brief silence, during which the fixed, searching eye of theabbé was employed in scrutinizing the agitated features of theinnkeeper.
“You knew the poor lad, then?” continued Caderousse.
“I was called to see him on his dying bed, that I might administer tohim the consolations of religion.”
“And of what did he die?” asked Caderousse in a choking voice.
“Of what, think you, do young and strong men die in prison, when theyhave scarcely numbered their thirtieth year, unless it be ofimprisonment?” Caderousse wiped away the large beads of perspirationthat gathered on his brow.
0329m


“But the strangest part of the story is,” resumed the abbé, “thatDantès, even in his dying moments, swore by his crucified Redeemer,that he was utterly ignorant of the cause of his detention.”
“And so he was,” murmured Caderousse. “How should he have beenotherwise? Ah, sir, the poor fellow told you the truth.”
“And for that reason, he besought me to try and clear up a mystery hehad never been able to penetrate, and to clear his memory should anyfoul spot or stain have fallen on it.”
And here the look of the abbé, becoming more and more fixed, seemed torest with ill-concealed satisfaction on the gloomy depression which wasrapidly spreading over the countenance of Caderousse.
“A rich Englishman,” continued the abbé, “who had been his companion inmisfortune, but had been released from prison during the secondrestoration, was possessed of a diamond of immense value; this jewel hebestowed on Dantès upon himself quitting the prison, as a mark of hisgratitude for the kindness and brotherly care with which Dantès hadnursed him in a severe illness he underwent during his confinement.Instead of employing this diamond in attempting to bribe his jailers,who might only have taken it and then betrayed him to the governor,Dantès carefully preserved it, that in the event of his getting out ofprison he might have wherewithal to live, for the sale of such adiamond would have quite sufficed to make his fortune.”
“Then, I suppose,” asked Caderousse, with eager, glowing looks, “thatit was a stone of immense value?”
“Why, everything is relative,” answered the abbé. “To one in Edmond’sposition the diamond certainly was of great value. It was estimated atfifty thousand francs.”
“Bless me!” exclaimed Caderousse, “fifty thousand francs! Surely thediamond was as large as a nut to be worth all that.”
“No,” replied the abbé, “it was not of such a size as that; but youshall judge for yourself. I have it with me.”
The sharp gaze of Caderousse was instantly directed towards thepriest’s garments, as though hoping to discover the location of thetreasure. Calmly drawing forth from his pocket a small box covered withblack shagreen, the abbé opened it, and displayed to the dazzled eyesof Caderousse the sparkling jewel it contained, set in a ring ofadmirable workmanship.
“And that diamond,” cried Caderousse, almost breathless with eageradmiration, “you say, is worth fifty thousand francs?”
“It is, without the setting, which is also valuable,” replied the abbé,as he closed the box, and returned it to his pocket, while itsbrilliant hues seemed still to dance before the eyes of the fascinatedinnkeeper.
“But how comes the diamond in your possession, sir? Did Edmond make youhis heir?”
“No, merely his testamentary executor. ‘I once possessed four dear andfaithful friends, besides the maiden to whom I was betrothed’ he said;‘and I feel convinced they have all unfeignedly grieved over my loss.The name of one of the four friends is Caderousse.’” The innkeepershivered.
“‘Another of the number,’” continued the abbé, without seeming tonotice the emotion of Caderousse, “‘is called Danglars; and the third,in spite of being my rival, entertained a very sincere affection forme.’”
A fiendish smile played over the features of Caderousse, who was aboutto break in upon the abbé’s speech, when the latter, waving his hand,said, “Allow me to finish first, and then if you have any observationsto make, you can do so afterwards. ‘The third of my friends, althoughmy rival, was much attached to me,—his name was Fernand; that of mybetrothed was’—Stay, stay,” continued the abbé, “I have forgotten whathe called her.”
“Mercédès,” said Caderousse eagerly.
“True,” said the abbé, with a stifled sigh, “Mercédès it was.”
“Go on,” urged Caderousse.
“Bring me a _carafe_ of water,” said the abbé.
Caderousse quickly performed the stranger’s bidding; and after pouringsome into a glass, and slowly swallowing its contents, the abbé,resuming his usual placidity of manner, said, as he placed his emptyglass on the table:
“Where did we leave off?”
“The name of Edmond’s betrothed was Mercédès.”
“To be sure. ‘You will go to Marseilles,’ said Dantès,—for youunderstand, I repeat his words just as he uttered them. Do youunderstand?”
“Perfectly.”
“‘You will sell this diamond; you will divide the money into five equalparts, and give an equal portion to these good friends, the onlypersons who have loved me upon earth.’”
“But why into five parts?” asked Caderousse; “you only mentioned fourpersons.”
“Because the fifth is dead, as I hear. The fifth sharer in Edmond’sbequest, was his own father.”
“Too true, too true!” ejaculated Caderousse, almost suffocated by thecontending passions which assailed him, “the poor old man did die.”
“I learned so much at Marseilles,” replied the abbé, making a strongeffort to appear indifferent; “but from the length of time that haselapsed since the death of the elder Dantès, I was unable to obtain anyparticulars of his end. Can you enlighten me on that point?”
“I do not know who could if I could not,” said Caderousse. “Why, Ilived almost on the same floor with the poor old man. Ah, yes, about ayear after the disappearance of his son the poor old man died.”
“Of what did he die?”
“Why, the doctors called his complaint gastro-enteritis, I believe; hisacquaintances say he died of grief; but I, who saw him in his dyingmoments, I say he died of——”
Caderousse paused.
“Of what?” asked the priest, anxiously and eagerly.
“Why, of downright starvation.”
“Starvation!” exclaimed the abbé, springing from his seat. “Why, thevilest animals are not suffered to die by such a death as that. Thevery dogs that wander houseless and homeless in the streets find somepitying hand to cast them a mouthful of bread; and that a man, aChristian, should be allowed to perish of hunger in the midst of othermen who call themselves Christians, is too horrible for belief. Oh, itis impossible!—utterly impossible!”
“What I have said, I have said,” answered Caderousse.
“And you are a fool for having said anything about it,” said a voicefrom the top of the stairs. “Why should you meddle with what does notconcern you?”
The two men turned quickly, and saw the sickly countenance of LaCarconte peering between the baluster rails; attracted by the sound ofvoices, she had feebly dragged herself down the stairs, and, seated onthe lower step, head on knees, she had listened to the foregoingconversation.
“Mind your own business, wife,” replied Caderousse sharply. “Thisgentleman asks me for information, which common politeness will notpermit me to refuse.”
“Politeness, you simpleton!” retorted La Carconte. “What have you to dowith politeness, I should like to know? Better study a little commonprudence. How do you know the motives that person may have for tryingto extract all he can from you?”
“I pledge you my word, madam,” said the abbé, “that my intentions aregood; and that your husband can incur no risk, provided he answers mecandidly.”
“Ah, that’s all very fine,” retorted the woman. “Nothing is easier thanto begin with fair promises and assurances of nothing to fear; but whenpoor, silly folks, like my husband there, have been persuaded to tellall they know, the promises and assurances of safety are quicklyforgotten; and at some moment when nobody is expecting it, beholdtrouble and misery, and all sorts of persecutions, are heaped on theunfortunate wretches, who cannot even see whence all their afflictionscome.”
“Nay, nay, my good woman, make yourself perfectly easy, I beg of you.Whatever evils may befall you, they will not be occasioned by myinstrumentality, that I solemnly promise you.”
La Carconte muttered a few inarticulate words, then let her head againdrop upon her knees, and went into a fit of ague, leaving the twospeakers to resume the conversation, but remaining so as to be able tohear every word they uttered. Again the abbé had been obliged toswallow a draught of water to calm the emotions that threatened tooverpower him.
When he had sufficiently recovered himself, he said, “It appears, then,that the miserable old man you were telling me of was forsaken byeveryone. Surely, had not such been the case, he would not haveperished by so dreadful a death.”
“Why, he was not altogether forsaken,” continued Caderousse, “forMercédès the Catalan and Monsieur Morrel were very kind to him; butsomehow the poor old man had contracted a profound hatred forFernand—the very person,” added Caderousse with a bitter smile, “thatyou named just now as being one of Dantès’ faithful and attachedfriends.”
“And was he not so?” asked the abbé.
“Gaspard, Gaspard!” murmured the woman, from her seat on the stairs,“mind what you are saying!”
Caderousse made no reply to these words, though evidently irritated andannoyed by the interruption, but, addressing the abbé, said, “Can a manbe faithful to another whose wife he covets and desires for himself?But Dantès was so honorable and true in his own nature, that hebelieved everybody’s professions of friendship. Poor Edmond, he wascruelly deceived; but it was fortunate that he never knew, or he mighthave found it more difficult, when on his deathbed, to pardon hisenemies. And, whatever people may say,” continued Caderousse, in hisnative language, which was not altogether devoid of rude poetry, “Icannot help being more frightened at the idea of the malediction of thedead than the hatred of the living.”
“Imbecile!” exclaimed La Carconte.
“Do you, then, know in what manner Fernand injured Dantès?” inquiredthe abbé of Caderousse.
“Do I? No one better.”
“Speak out then, say what it was!”
“Gaspard!” cried La Carconte, “do as you will; you are master—but ifyou take my advice you’ll hold your tongue.”
“Well, wife,” replied Caderousse, “I don’t know but what you’re right!”
“So you will say nothing?” asked the abbé.
“Why, what good would it do?” asked Caderousse. “If the poor lad wereliving, and came to me and begged that I would candidly tell which werehis true and which his false friends, why, perhaps, I should nothesitate. But you tell me he is no more, and therefore can have nothingto do with hatred or revenge, so let all such feeling be buried withhim.”
“You prefer, then,” said the abbé, “that I should bestow on men you sayare false and treacherous, the reward intended for faithfulfriendship?”
“That is true enough,” returned Caderousse. “You say truly, the gift ofpoor Edmond was not meant for such traitors as Fernand and Danglars;besides, what would it be to them? no more than a drop of water in theocean.”
“Remember,” chimed in La Carconte, “those two could crush you at asingle blow!”
“How so?” inquired the abbé. “Are these persons, then, so rich andpowerful?”
“Do you not know their history?”
“I do not. Pray relate it to me!”
Caderousse seemed to reflect for a few moments, then said, “No, truly,it would take up too much time.”
“Well, my good friend,” returned the abbé, in a tone that indicatedutter indifference on his part, “you are at liberty, either to speak orbe silent, just as you please; for my own part, I respect your scruplesand admire your sentiments; so let the matter end. I shall do my dutyas conscientiously as I can, and fulfil my promise to the dying man. Myfirst business will be to dispose of this diamond.”
So saying, the abbé again drew the small box from his pocket, openedit, and contrived to hold it in such a light, that a bright flash ofbrilliant hues passed before the dazzled gaze of Caderousse.
“Wife, wife!” cried he in a hoarse voice, “come here!”
“Diamond!” exclaimed La Carconte, rising and descending to the chamberwith a tolerably firm step; “what diamond are you talking about?”
“Why, did you not hear all we said?” inquired Caderousse. “It is abeautiful diamond left by poor Edmond Dantès, to be sold, and the moneydivided between his father, Mercédès, his betrothed bride, Fernand,Danglars, and myself. The jewel is worth at least fifty thousandfrancs.”
“Oh, what a magnificent jewel!” cried the astonished woman.
“The fifth part of the profits from this stone belongs to us then, doesit not?” asked Caderousse.
“It does,” replied the abbé; “with the addition of an equal division ofthat part intended for the elder Dantès, which I believe myself atliberty to divide equally with the four survivors.”
“And why among us four?” inquired Caderousse.
“As being the friends Edmond esteemed most faithful and devoted tohim.”
“I don’t call those friends who betray and ruin you,” murmured the wifein her turn, in a low, muttering voice.
“Of course not!” rejoined Caderousse quickly; “no more do I, and thatwas what I was observing to this gentleman just now. I said I lookedupon it as a sacrilegious profanation to reward treachery, perhapscrime.”
“Remember,” answered the abbé calmly, as he replaced the jewel and itscase in the pocket of his cassock, “it is your fault, not mine, that Ido so. You will have the goodness to furnish me with the address ofboth Fernand and Danglars, in order that I may execute Edmond’s lastwishes.”
The agitation of Caderousse became extreme, and large drops ofperspiration rolled from his heated brow. As he saw the abbé rise fromhis seat and go towards the door, as though to ascertain if his horsewere sufficiently refreshed to continue his journey, Caderousse and hiswife exchanged looks of deep meaning.
0335m


“There, you see, wife,” said the former, “this splendid diamond mightall be ours, if we chose!”
“Do you believe it?”
“Why, surely a man of his holy profession would not deceive us!”
“Well,” replied La Carconte, “do as you like. For my part, I wash myhands of the affair.”
So saying, she once more climbed the staircase leading to her chamber,her body convulsed with chills, and her teeth rattling in her head, inspite of the intense heat of the weather. Arrived at the top stair, sheturned round, and called out, in a warning tone, to her husband,“Gaspard, consider well what you are about to do!”
“I have both reflected and decided,” answered he.
La Carconte then entered her chamber, the flooring of which creakedbeneath her heavy, uncertain tread, as she proceeded towards herarmchair, into which she fell as though exhausted.
“Well,” asked the abbé, as he returned to the apartment below, “whathave you made up your mind to do?”
“To tell you all I know,” was the reply.
“I certainly think you act wisely in so doing,” said the priest. “Notbecause I have the least desire to learn anything you may please toconceal from me, but simply that if, through your assistance, I coulddistribute the legacy according to the wishes of the testator, why, somuch the better, that is all.”
“I hope it may be so,” replied Caderousse, his face flushed withcupidity.
“I am all attention,” said the abbé.
“Stop a minute,” answered Caderousse; “we might be interrupted in themost interesting part of my story, which would be a pity; and it is aswell that your visit hither should be made known only to ourselves.”
With these words he went stealthily to the door, which he closed, and,by way of still greater precaution, bolted and barred it, as he wasaccustomed to do at night.
During this time the abbé had chosen his place for listening at hisease. He removed his seat into a corner of the room, where he himselfwould be in deep shadow, while the light would be fully thrown on thenarrator; then, with head bent down and hands clasped, or ratherclenched together, he prepared to give his whole attention toCaderousse, who seated himself on the little stool, exactly opposite tohim.
“Remember, this is no affair of mine,” said the trembling voice of LaCarconte, as though through the flooring of her chamber she viewed thescene that was enacting below.
“Enough, enough!” replied Caderousse; “say no more about it; I willtake all the consequences upon myself.”
And he began his story.


 Chapter 27. The Story
First, sir,” said Caderousse, “you must make me a promise.”
“What is that?” inquired the abbé.
“Why, if you ever make use of the details I am about to give you, thatyou will never let anyone know that it was I who supplied them; for thepersons of whom I am about to talk are rich and powerful, and if theyonly laid the tips of their fingers on me, I should break to pieceslike glass.”
“Make yourself easy, my friend,” replied the abbé. “I am a priest, andconfessions die in my breast. Recollect, our only desire is to carryout, in a fitting manner, the last wishes of our friend. Speak, then,without reserve, as without hatred; tell the truth, the whole truth; Ido not know, never may know, the persons of whom you are about tospeak; besides, I am an Italian, and not a Frenchman, and belong toGod, and not to man, and I shall shortly retire to my convent, which Ihave only quitted to fulfil the last wishes of a dying man.”
This positive assurance seemed to give Caderousse a little courage.
“Well, then, under these circumstances,” said Caderousse, “I will, Ieven believe I ought to undeceive you as to the friendship which poorEdmond thought so sincere and unquestionable.”
“Begin with his father, if you please.” said the abbé; “Edmond talkedto me a great deal about the old man for whom he had the deepest love.”
“The history is a sad one, sir,” said Caderousse, shaking his head;“perhaps you know all the earlier part of it?”
“Yes.” answered the abbé; “Edmond related to me everything until themoment when he was arrested in a small cabaret close to Marseilles.”
“At La Réserve! Oh, yes; I can see it all before me this moment.”
“Was it not his betrothal feast?”
“It was and the feast that began so gayly had a very sorrowful ending;a police commissary, followed by four soldiers, entered, and Dantès wasarrested.”
“Yes, and up to this point I know all,” said the priest. “Dantèshimself only knew that which personally concerned him, for he neverbeheld again the five persons I have named to you, or heard mention ofanyone of them.”
“Well, when Dantès was arrested, Monsieur Morrel hastened to obtain theparticulars, and they were very sad. The old man returned alone to hishome, folded up his wedding suit with tears in his eyes, and paced upand down his chamber the whole day, and would not go to bed at all, forI was underneath him and heard him walking the whole night; and formyself, I assure you I could not sleep either, for the grief of thepoor father gave me great uneasiness, and every step he took went to myheart as really as if his foot had pressed against my breast.
“The next day Mercédès came to implore the protection of M. deVillefort; she did not obtain it, however, and went to visit the oldman; when she saw him so miserable and heart-broken, having passed asleepless night, and not touched food since the previous day, shewished him to go with her that she might take care of him; but the oldman would not consent. ‘No,’ was the old man’s reply, ‘I will not leavethis house, for my poor dear boy loves me better than anything in theworld; and if he gets out of prison he will come and see me the firstthing, and what would he think if I did not wait here for him?’ I heardall this from the window, for I was anxious that Mercédès shouldpersuade the old man to accompany her, for his footsteps over my headnight and day did not leave me a moment’s repose.”
“But did you not go upstairs and try to console the poor old man?”asked the abbé.
“Ah, sir,” replied Caderousse, “we cannot console those who will not beconsoled, and he was one of these; besides, I know not why, but heseemed to dislike seeing me. One night, however, I heard his sobs, andI could not resist my desire to go up to him, but when I reached hisdoor he was no longer weeping but praying. I cannot now repeat to you,sir, all the eloquent words and imploring language he made use of; itwas more than piety, it was more than grief, and I, who am no canter,and hate the Jesuits, said then to myself, ‘It is really well, and I amvery glad that I have not any children; for if I were a father and feltsuch excessive grief as the old man does, and did not find in my memoryor heart all he is now saying, I should throw myself into the sea atonce, for I could not bear it.’”
“Poor father!” murmured the priest.
“From day to day he lived on alone, and more and more solitary. M.Morrel and Mercédès came to see him, but his door was closed; and,although I was certain he was at home, he would not make any answer.One day, when, contrary to his custom, he had admitted Mercédès, andthe poor girl, in spite of her own grief and despair, endeavored toconsole him, he said to her,—‘Be assured, my dear daughter, he is dead;and instead of expecting him, it is he who is awaiting us; I am quitehappy, for I am the oldest, and of course shall see him first.’
“However well disposed a person may be, why, you see we leave off aftera time seeing persons who are in sorrow, they make one melancholy; andso at last old Dantès was left all to himself, and I only saw from timeto time strangers go up to him and come down again with some bundlethey tried to hide; but I guessed what these bundles were, and that hesold by degrees what he had to pay for his subsistence. At length thepoor old fellow reached the end of all he had; he owed three quarters’rent, and they threatened to turn him out; he begged for another week,which was granted to him. I know this, because the landlord came intomy apartment when he left his.
“For the first three days I heard him walking about as usual, but, onthe fourth I heard nothing. I then resolved to go up to him at allrisks. The door was closed, but I looked through the keyhole, and sawhim so pale and haggard, that believing him very ill, I went and toldM. Morrel and then ran on to Mercédès. They both came immediately, M.Morrel bringing a doctor, and the doctor said it was inflammation ofthe bowels, and ordered him a limited diet. I was there, too, and Inever shall forget the old man’s smile at this prescription.
“From that time he received all who came; he had an excuse for noteating any more; the doctor had put him on a diet.”
The abbé uttered a kind of groan.
“The story interests you, does it not, sir?” inquired Caderousse.
“Yes,” replied the abbé, “it is very affecting.”
“Mercédès came again, and she found him so altered that she was evenmore anxious than before to have him taken to her own home. This was M.Morrel’s wish also, who would fain have conveyed the old man againsthis consent; but the old man resisted, and cried so that they wereactually frightened. Mercédès remained, therefore, by his bedside, andM. Morrel went away, making a sign to the Catalan that he had left hispurse on the chimney-piece; but, availing himself of the doctor’sorder, the old man would not take any sustenance; at length (after ninedays of despair and fasting), the old man died, cursing those who hadcaused his misery, and saying to Mercédès, ‘If you ever see my Edmondagain, tell him I die blessing him.’”
The abbé rose from his chair, made two turns round the chamber, andpressed his trembling hand against his parched throat.
“And you believe he died——”
“Of hunger, sir, of hunger,” said Caderousse. “I am as certain of it asthat we two are Christians.”
The abbé, with a shaking hand, seized a glass of water that wasstanding by him half-full, swallowed it at one gulp, and then resumedhis seat, with red eyes and pale cheeks.
“This was, indeed, a horrid event,” said he in a hoarse voice.
“The more so, sir, as it was men’s and not God’s doing.”
“Tell me of those men,” said the abbé, “and remember too,” he added inan almost menacing tone, “you have promised to tell me everything. Tellme, therefore, who are these men who killed the son with despair, andthe father with famine?”
“Two men jealous of him, sir; one from love, and the other fromambition,—Fernand and Danglars.”
“How was this jealousy manifested? Speak on.”
“They denounced Edmond as a Bonapartist agent.”
“Which of the two denounced him? Which was the real delinquent?”
“Both, sir; one with a letter, and the other put it in the post.”
“And where was this letter written?”
“At La Réserve, the day before the betrothal feast.”
“’Twas so, then—’twas so, then,” murmured the abbé. “Oh, Faria, Faria,how well did you judge men and things!”
“What did you please to say, sir?” asked Caderousse.
“Nothing, nothing,” replied the priest; “go on.”
“It was Danglars who wrote the denunciation with his left hand, thathis writing might not be recognized, and Fernand who put it in thepost.”
“But,” exclaimed the abbé suddenly, “you were there yourself.”
“I!” said Caderousse, astonished; “who told you I was there?”
The abbé saw he had overshot the mark, and he added quickly,—“No one;but in order to have known everything so well, you must have been aneye-witness.”
“True, true!” said Caderousse in a choking voice, “I was there.”
“And did you not remonstrate against such infamy?” asked the abbé; “ifnot, you were an accomplice.”
“Sir,” replied Caderousse, “they had made me drink to such an excessthat I nearly lost all perception. I had only an indistinctunderstanding of what was passing around me. I said all that a man insuch a state could say; but they both assured me that it was a jestthey were carrying on, and perfectly harmless.”
“Next day—next day, sir, you must have seen plain enough what they hadbeen doing, yet you said nothing, though you were present when Dantèswas arrested.”
“Yes, sir, I was there, and very anxious to speak; but Danglarsrestrained me. ‘If he should really be guilty,’ said he, ‘and didreally put in to the Island of Elba; if he is really charged with aletter for the Bonapartist committee at Paris, and if they find thisletter upon him, those who have supported him will pass for hisaccomplices.’ I confess I had my fears, in the state in which politicsthen were, and I held my tongue. It was cowardly, I confess, but it wasnot criminal.”
0341m


“I understand—you allowed matters to take their course, that was all.”
“Yes, sir,” answered Caderousse; “and remorse preys on me night andday. I often ask pardon of God, I swear to you, because this action,the only one with which I have seriously to reproach myself in all mylife, is no doubt the cause of my abject condition. I am expiating amoment of selfishness, and so I always say to La Carconte, when shecomplains, ‘Hold your tongue, woman; it is the will of God.’” AndCaderousse bowed his head with every sign of real repentance.
“Well, sir,” said the abbé, “you have spoken unreservedly; and thus toaccuse yourself is to deserve pardon.”
“Unfortunately, Edmond is dead, and has not pardoned me.”
“He did not know,” said the abbé.
“But he knows it all now,” interrupted Caderousse; “they say the deadknow everything.”
There was a brief silence; the abbé rose and paced up and downpensively, and then resumed his seat.
“You have two or three times mentioned a M. Morrel,” he said; “who washe?”
“The owner of the _Pharaon_ and patron of Dantès.”
“And what part did he play in this sad drama?” inquired the abbé.
“The part of an honest man, full of courage and real regard. Twentytimes he interceded for Edmond. When the emperor returned, he wrote,implored, threatened, and so energetically, that on the secondrestoration he was persecuted as a Bonapartist. Ten times, as I toldyou, he came to see Dantès’ father, and offered to receive him in hisown house; and the night or two before his death, as I have alreadysaid, he left his purse on the mantelpiece, with which they paid theold man’s debts, and buried him decently; and so Edmond’s father died,as he had lived, without doing harm to anyone. I have the purse stillby me—a large one, made of red silk.”
“And,” asked the abbé, “is M. Morrel still alive?”
“Yes,” replied Caderousse.
“In that case,” replied the abbé, “he should be a man blessed of God,rich, happy.”
Caderousse smiled bitterly. “Yes, happy as myself,” said he.
“What! M. Morrel unhappy?” exclaimed the abbé.
“He is reduced almost to the last extremity—nay, he is almost at thepoint of dishonor.”
“How?”
“Yes,” continued Caderousse, “so it is; after five-and-twenty years oflabor, after having acquired a most honorable name in the trade ofMarseilles, M. Morrel is utterly ruined; he has lost five ships in twoyears, has suffered by the bankruptcy of three large houses, and hisonly hope now is in that very _Pharaon_ which poor Dantès commanded,and which is expected from the Indies with a cargo of cochineal andindigo. If this ship founders, like the others, he is a ruined man.”
“And has the unfortunate man wife or children?” inquired the abbé.
“Yes, he has a wife, who through everything has behaved like an angel;he has a daughter, who was about to marry the man she loved, but whosefamily now will not allow him to wed the daughter of a ruined man; hehas, besides, a son, a lieutenant in the army; and, as you may suppose,all this, instead of lessening, only augments his sorrows. If he werealone in the world he would blow out his brains, and there would be anend.”
“Horrible!” ejaculated the priest.
“And it is thus heaven recompenses virtue, sir,” added Caderousse. “Yousee, I, who never did a bad action but that I have told you of—am indestitution, with my poor wife dying of fever before my very eyes, andI unable to do anything in the world for her; I shall die of hunger, asold Dantès did, while Fernand and Danglars are rolling in wealth.”
“How is that?”
“Because their deeds have brought them good fortune, while honest menhave been reduced to misery.”
“What has become of Danglars, the instigator, and therefore the mostguilty?”
“What has become of him? Why, he left Marseilles, and was taken, on therecommendation of M. Morrel, who did not know his crime, as cashierinto a Spanish bank. During the war with Spain he was employed in thecommissariat of the French army, and made a fortune; then with thatmoney he speculated in the funds, and trebled or quadrupled hiscapital; and, having first married his banker’s daughter, who left hima widower, he has married a second time, a widow, a Madame de Nargonne,daughter of M. de Servieux, the king’s chamberlain, who is in highfavor at court. He is a millionaire, and they have made him a baron,and now he is the Baron Danglars, with a fine residence in the Rue duMont-Blanc, with ten horses in his stables, six footmen in hisantechamber, and I know not how many millions in his strongbox.”
“Ah!” said the abbé, in a peculiar tone, “he is happy.”
“Happy? Who can answer for that? Happiness or unhappiness is the secretknown but to one’s self and the walls—walls have ears but no tongue;but if a large fortune produces happiness, Danglars is happy.”
“And Fernand?”
“Fernand? Why, much the same story.”
“But how could a poor Catalan fisher-boy, without education orresources, make a fortune? I confess this staggers me.”
“And it has staggered everybody. There must have been in his life somestrange secret that no one knows.”
“But, then, by what visible steps has he attained this high fortune orhigh position?”
“Both, sir—he has both fortune and position—both.”
“This must be impossible!”
“It would seem so; but listen, and you will understand. Some daysbefore the return of the emperor, Fernand was drafted. The Bourbonsleft him quietly enough at the Catalans, but Napoleon returned, aspecial levy was made, and Fernand was compelled to join. I went too;but as I was older than Fernand, and had just married my poor wife, Iwas only sent to the coast. Fernand was enrolled in the active army,went to the frontier with his regiment, and was at the battle of Ligny.The night after that battle he was sentry at the door of a general whocarried on a secret correspondence with the enemy. That same night thegeneral was to go over to the English. He proposed to Fernand toaccompany him; Fernand agreed to do so, deserted his post, and followedthe general.
“Fernand would have been court-martialed if Napoleon had remained onthe throne, but his action was rewarded by the Bourbons. He returned toFrance with the epaulet of sub-lieutenant, and as the protection of thegeneral, who is in the highest favor, was accorded to him, he was acaptain in 1823, during the Spanish war—that is to say, at the timewhen Danglars made his early speculations. Fernand was a Spaniard, andbeing sent to Spain to ascertain the feeling of his fellow-countrymen,found Danglars there, got on very intimate terms with him, won over thesupport of the royalists at the capital and in the provinces, receivedpromises and made pledges on his own part, guided his regiment by pathsknown to himself alone through the mountain gorges which were held bythe royalists, and, in fact, rendered such services in this briefcampaign that, after the taking of Trocadero, he was made colonel, andreceived the title of count and the cross of an officer of the Legionof Honor.”
“Destiny! destiny!” murmured the abbé.
“Yes, but listen: this was not all. The war with Spain being ended,Fernand’s career was checked by the long peace which seemed likely toendure throughout Europe. Greece only had risen against Turkey, and hadbegun her war of independence; all eyes were turned towards Athens—itwas the fashion to pity and support the Greeks. The French government,without protecting them openly, as you know, gave countenance tovolunteer assistance. Fernand sought and obtained leave to go and servein Greece, still having his name kept on the army roll.
0345m


Some time after, it was stated that the Comte de Morcerf (this was thename he bore) had entered the service of Ali Pasha with the rank ofinstructor-general. Ali Pasha was killed, as you know, but before hedied he recompensed the services of Fernand by leaving him aconsiderable sum, with which he returned to France, when he wasgazetted lieutenant-general.”
“So that now——?” inquired the abbé.
“So that now,” continued Caderousse, “he owns a magnificent house—No.27, Rue du Helder, Paris.”
The abbé opened his mouth, hesitated for a moment, then, making aneffort at self-control, he said, “And Mercédès—they tell me that shehas disappeared?”
“Disappeared,” said Caderousse, “yes, as the sun disappears, to risethe next day with still more splendor.”
“Has she made a fortune also?” inquired the abbé, with an ironicalsmile.
“Mercédès is at this moment one of the greatest ladies in Paris,”replied Caderousse.
“Go on,” said the abbé; “it seems as if I were listening to the storyof a dream. But I have seen things so extraordinary, that what you tellme seems less astonishing than it otherwise might.”
“Mercédès was at first in the deepest despair at the blow whichdeprived her of Edmond. I have told you of her attempts to propitiateM. de Villefort, her devotion to the elder Dantès. In the midst of herdespair, a new affliction overtook her. This was the departure ofFernand—of Fernand, whose crime she did not know, and whom she regardedas her brother. Fernand went, and Mercédès remained alone.
“Three months passed and still she wept—no news of Edmond, no news ofFernand, no companionship save that of an old man who was dying withdespair. One evening, after a day of accustomed vigil at the angle oftwo roads leading to Marseilles from the Catalans, she returned to herhome more depressed than ever. Suddenly she heard a step she knew,turned anxiously around, the door opened, and Fernand, dressed in theuniform of a sub-lieutenant, stood before her.
“It was not the one she wished for most, but it seemed as if a part ofher past life had returned to her.
“Mercédès seized Fernand’s hands with a transport which he took forlove, but which was only joy at being no longer alone in the world, andseeing at last a friend, after long hours of solitary sorrow. And then,it must be confessed, Fernand had never been hated—he was only notprecisely loved. Another possessed all Mercédès’ heart; that other wasabsent, had disappeared, perhaps was dead. At this last thoughtMercédès burst into a flood of tears, and wrung her hands in agony; butthe thought, which she had always repelled before when it was suggestedto her by another, came now in full force upon her mind; and then, too,old Dantès incessantly said to her, ‘Our Edmond is dead; if he werenot, he would return to us.’
“The old man died, as I have told you; had he lived, Mercédès,perchance, had not become the wife of another, for he would have beenthere to reproach her infidelity. Fernand saw this, and when he learnedof the old man’s death he returned. He was now a lieutenant. At hisfirst coming he had not said a word of love to Mercédès; at the secondhe reminded her that he loved her.
“Mercédès begged for six months more in which to await and mourn forEdmond.”
“So that,” said the abbé, with a bitter smile, “that makes eighteenmonths in all. What more could the most devoted lover desire?” Then hemurmured the words of the English poet, “‘Frailty, thy name is woman.’”
“Six months afterwards,” continued Caderousse, “the marriage took placein the church of Accoules.”
“The very church in which she was to have married Edmond,” murmured thepriest; “there was only a change of bridegrooms.”
“Well, Mercédès was married,” proceeded Caderousse; “but although inthe eyes of the world she appeared calm, she nearly fainted as shepassed La Réserve, where, eighteen months before, the betrothal hadbeen celebrated with him whom she might have known she still loved, hadshe looked to the bottom of her heart. Fernand, more happy, but notmore at his ease—for I saw at this time he was in constant dread ofEdmond’s return—Fernand was very anxious to get his wife away, and todepart himself. There were too many unpleasant possibilities associatedwith the Catalans, and eight days after the wedding they leftMarseilles.”
“Did you ever see Mercédès again?” inquired the priest.
“Yes, during the Spanish war, at Perpignan, where Fernand had left her;she was attending to the education of her son.”
The abbé started. “Her son?” said he.
“Yes,” replied Caderousse, “little Albert.”
“But, then, to be able to instruct her child,” continued the abbé, “shemust have received an education herself. I understood from Edmond thatshe was the daughter of a simple fisherman, beautiful but uneducated.”
“Oh,” replied Caderousse, “did he know so little of his lovelybetrothed? Mercédès might have been a queen, sir, if the crown were tobe placed on the heads of the loveliest and most intelligent. Fernand’sfortune was already waxing great, and she developed with his growingfortune. She learned drawing, music—everything. Besides, I believe,between ourselves, she did this in order to distract her mind, that shemight forget; and she only filled her head in order to alleviate theweight on her heart. But now her position in life is assured,”continued Caderousse; “no doubt fortune and honors have comforted her;she is rich, a countess, and yet——”
Caderousse paused.
“And yet what?” asked the abbé.
“Yet, I am sure, she is not happy,” said Caderousse.
“What makes you believe this?”
“Why, when I found myself utterly destitute, I thought my old friendswould, perhaps, assist me. So I went to Danglars, who would not evenreceive me. I called on Fernand, who sent me a hundred francs by hisvalet-de-chambre.”
“Then you did not see either of them?”
“No, but Madame de Morcerf saw me.”
“How was that?”
“As I went away a purse fell at my feet—it contained five-and-twentylouis; I raised my head quickly, and saw Mercédès, who at once shut theblind.”
“And M. de Villefort?” asked the abbé.
“Oh, he never was a friend of mine, I did not know him, and I hadnothing to ask of him.”
“Do you not know what became of him, and the share he had in Edmond’smisfortunes?”
“No; I only know that some time after Edmond’s arrest, he marriedMademoiselle de Saint-Méran, and soon after left Marseilles; no doubthe has been as lucky as the rest; no doubt he is as rich as Danglars,as high in station as Fernand. I only, as you see, have remained poor,wretched, and forgotten.”
“You are mistaken, my friend,” replied the abbé; “God may seemsometimes to forget for a time, while his justice reposes, but therealways comes a moment when he remembers—and behold—a proof!”
As he spoke, the abbé took the diamond from his pocket, and giving itto Caderousse, said, “Here, my friend, take this diamond, it is yours.”
“What, for me only?” cried Caderousse, “ah, sir, do not jest with me!”
“This diamond was to have been shared among his friends. Edmond had onefriend only, and thus it cannot be divided. Take the diamond, then, andsell it; it is worth fifty thousand francs, and I repeat my wish thatthis sum may suffice to release you from your wretchedness.”
0351m


“Oh, sir,” said Caderousse, putting out one hand timidly, and with theother wiping away the perspiration which bedewed his brow,—“Oh, sir, donot make a jest of the happiness or despair of a man.”
“I know what happiness and what despair are, and I never make a jest ofsuch feelings. Take it, then, but in exchange——”
Caderousse, who touched the diamond, withdrew his hand.
The abbé smiled.
“In exchange,” he continued, “give me the red silk purse that M. Morrelleft on old Dantès’ chimney-piece, and which you tell me is still inyour hands.”
Caderousse, more and more astonished, went toward a large oakencupboard, opened it, and gave the abbé a long purse of faded red silk,round which were two copper runners that had once been gilt. The abbétook it, and in return gave Caderousse the diamond.
“Oh, you are a man of God, sir,” cried Caderousse; “for no one knewthat Edmond had given you this diamond, and you might have kept it.”
“Which,” said the abbé to himself, “you would have done.” The abbérose, took his hat and gloves. “Well,” he said, “all you have told meis perfectly true, then, and I may believe it in every particular.”
“See, sir,” replied Caderousse, “in this corner is a crucifix in holywood—here on this shelf is my wife’s testament; open this book, and Iwill swear upon it with my hand on the crucifix. I will swear to you bymy soul’s salvation, my faith as a Christian, I have told everything toyou as it occurred, and as the recording angel will tell it to the earof God at the day of the last judgment!”
“’Tis well,” said the abbé, convinced by his manner and tone thatCaderousse spoke the truth. “’Tis well, and may this money profit you!Adieu; I go far from men who thus so bitterly injure each other.”
The abbé with difficulty got away from the enthusiastic thanks ofCaderousse, opened the door himself, got out and mounted his horse,once more saluted the innkeeper, who kept uttering his loud farewells,and then returned by the road he had travelled in coming.
When Caderousse turned around, he saw behind him La Carconte, paler andtrembling more than ever.
“Is, then, all that I have heard really true?” she inquired.
“What? That he has given the diamond to us only?” inquired Caderousse,half bewildered with joy; “yes, nothing more true! See, here it is.”
The woman gazed at it a moment, and then said, in a gloomy voice,“Suppose it’s false?”
Caderousse started and turned pale.
“False!” he muttered. “False! Why should that man give me a falsediamond?”
0349m


“To get your secret without paying for it, you blockhead!”
Caderousse remained for a moment aghast under the weight of such anidea.
“Oh!” he said, taking up his hat, which he placed on the redhandkerchief tied round his head, “we will soon find out.”
“In what way?”
“Why, the fair is on at Beaucaire, there are always jewellers fromParis there, and I will show it to them. Look after the house, wife,and I shall be back in two hours,” and Caderousse left the house inhaste, and ran rapidly in the direction opposite to that which thepriest had taken.
“Fifty thousand francs!” muttered La Carconte when left alone; “it is alarge sum of money, but it is not a fortune.”

VOLUME TWO
20009m


20011m


20019m



 Chapter 28. The Prison Register
The day after that in which the scene we have just described had takenplace on the road between Bellegarde and Beaucaire, a man of aboutthirty or two-and-thirty, dressed in a bright blue frock coat, nankeentrousers, and a white waistcoat, having the appearance and accent of anEnglishman, presented himself before the mayor of Marseilles.
“Sir,” said he, “I am chief clerk of the house of Thomson & French, ofRome. We are, and have been these ten years, connected with the houseof Morrel & Son, of Marseilles. We have a hundred thousand francs orthereabouts loaned on their securities, and we are a little uneasy atreports that have reached us that the firm is on the brink of ruin. Ihave come, therefore, express from Rome, to ask you for information.”
“Sir,” replied the mayor. “I know very well that during the last fouror five years misfortune has seemed to pursue M. Morrel. He has lostfour or five vessels, and suffered by three or four bankruptcies; butit is not for me, although I am a creditor myself to the amount of tenthousand francs, to give any information as to the state of hisfinances. Ask of me, as mayor, what is my opinion of M. Morrel, and Ishall say that he is a man honorable to the last degree, and who has upto this time fulfilled every engagement with scrupulous punctuality.This is all I can say, sir; if you wish to learn more, address yourselfto M. de Boville, the inspector of prisons, No. 15, Rue de Nouailles;he has, I believe, two hundred thousand francs in Morrel’s hands, andif there be any grounds for apprehension, as this is a greater amountthan mine, you will most probably find him better informed thanmyself.”
The Englishman seemed to appreciate this extreme delicacy, made his bowand went away, proceeding with a characteristic British stride towardsthe street mentioned.
M. de Boville was in his private room, and the Englishman, onperceiving him, made a gesture of surprise, which seemed to indicatethat it was not the first time he had been in his presence. As to M. deBoville, he was in such a state of despair, that it was evident all thefaculties of his mind, absorbed in the thought which occupied him atthe moment, did not allow either his memory or his imagination to strayto the past.
The Englishman, with the coolness of his nation, addressed him in termsnearly similar to those with which he had accosted the mayor ofMarseilles.
“Oh, sir,” exclaimed M. de Boville, “your fears are unfortunately buttoo well founded, and you see before you a man in despair. I had twohundred thousand francs placed in the hands of Morrel & Son; these twohundred thousand francs were the dowry of my daughter, who was to bemarried in a fortnight, and these two hundred thousand francs werepayable, half on the 15th of this month, and the other half on the 15thof next month. I had informed M. Morrel of my desire to have thesepayments punctually, and he has been here within the last half-hour totell me that if his ship, the _Pharaon_, did not come into port on the15th, he would be wholly unable to make this payment.”
“But,” said the Englishman, “this looks very much like a suspension ofpayment.”
“It looks more like bankruptcy!” exclaimed M. de Boville despairingly.
The Englishman appeared to reflect a moment, and then said, “From whichit would appear, sir, that this credit inspires you with considerableapprehension?”
“To tell you the truth, I consider it lost.”
“Well, then, I will buy it of you!”
“You?”
“Yes, I!”
“But at a tremendous discount, of course?”
“No, for two hundred thousand francs. Our house,” added the Englishmanwith a laugh, “does not do things in that way.”
“And you will pay——”
“Ready money.”
20023m


And the Englishman drew from his pocket a bundle of bank-notes, whichmight have been twice the sum M. de Boville feared to lose. A ray ofjoy passed across M. de Boville’s countenance, yet he made an effort atself-control, and said:
“Sir, I ought to tell you that, in all probability, you will notrealize six per cent of this sum.”
“That’s no affair of mine,” replied the Englishman, “that is the affairof the house of Thomson & French, in whose name I act. They have,perhaps, some motive to serve in hastening the ruin of a rival firm.But all I know, sir, is, that I am ready to hand you over this sum inexchange for your assignment of the debt. I only ask a brokerage.”
“Of course, that is perfectly just,” cried M. de Boville. “Thecommission is usually one and a half; will you have two—three—five percent, or even more? Whatever you say.”
“Sir,” replied the Englishman, laughing, “I am like my house, and donot do such things—no, the commission I ask is quite different.”
“Name it, sir, I beg.”
“You are the inspector of prisons?”
“I have been so these fourteen years.”
“You keep the registers of entries and departures?”
“I do.”
“To these registers there are added notes relative to the prisoners?”
“There are special reports on every prisoner.”
“Well, sir, I was educated at Rome by a poor devil of an abbé, whodisappeared suddenly. I have since learned that he was confined in theChâteau d’If, and I should like to learn some particulars of hisdeath.”
“What was his name?”
“The Abbé Faria.”
“Oh, I recollect him perfectly,” cried M. de Boville; “he was crazy.”
“So they said.”
“Oh, he was, decidedly.”
“Very possibly; but what sort of madness was it?”
“He pretended to know of an immense treasure, and offered vast sums tothe government if they would liberate him.”
“Poor devil!—and he is dead?”
“Yes, sir, five or six months ago, last February.”
“You have a good memory, sir, to recollect dates so well.”
“I recollect this, because the poor devil’s death was accompanied by asingular incident.”
“May I ask what that was?” said the Englishman with an expression ofcuriosity, which a close observer would have been astonished atdiscovering in his phlegmatic countenance.
“Oh dear, yes, sir; the abbé’s dungeon was forty or fifty feet distantfrom that of one of Bonaparte’s emissaries,—one of those who hadcontributed the most to the return of the usurper in 1815, a veryresolute and very dangerous man.”
“Indeed!” said the Englishman.
“Yes,” replied M. de Boville; “I myself had occasion to see this man in1816 or 1817, and we could only go into his dungeon with a file ofsoldiers. That man made a deep impression on me; I shall never forgethis countenance!”
20025m


The Englishman smiled imperceptibly.
“And you say, sir,” he interposed, “that the two dungeons——”
“Were separated by a distance of fifty feet; but it appears that thisEdmond Dantès——”
“This dangerous man’s name was——”
“Edmond Dantès. It appears, sir, that this Edmond Dantès had procuredtools, or made them, for they found a tunnel through which theprisoners held communication with one another.”
“This tunnel was dug, no doubt, with an intention of escape?”
“No doubt; but unfortunately for the prisoners, the Abbé Faria had anattack of catalepsy, and died.”
“That must have cut short the projects of escape.”
“For the dead man, yes,” replied M. de Boville, “but not for thesurvivor; on the contrary, this Dantès saw a means of accelerating hisescape. He, no doubt, thought that prisoners who died in the Châteaud’If were interred in an ordinary burial-ground, and he conveyed thedead man into his own cell, took his place in the sack in which theyhad sewed up the corpse, and awaited the moment of interment.”
“It was a bold step, and one that showed some courage,” remarked theEnglishman.
“As I have already told you, sir, he was a very dangerous man; and,fortunately, by his own act disembarrassed the government of the fearsit had on his account.”
“How was that?”
“How? Do you not comprehend?”
“No.”
“The Château d’If has no cemetery, and they simply throw the dead intothe sea, after fastening a thirty-six-pound cannon-ball to their feet.”
“Well?” observed the Englishman as if he were slow of comprehension.
“Well, they fastened a thirty-six-pound ball to his feet, and threw himinto the sea.”
“Really!” exclaimed the Englishman.
“Yes, sir,” continued the inspector of prisons. “You may imagine theamazement of the fugitive when he found himself flung headlong over therocks! I should like to have seen his face at that moment.”
“That would have been difficult.”
“No matter,” replied De Boville, in supreme good-humor at the certaintyof recovering his two hundred thousand francs,—“no matter, I can fancyit.” And he shouted with laughter.
“So can I,” said the Englishman, and he laughed too; but he laughed asthe English do, “at the end of his teeth.”
“And so,” continued the Englishman who first gained his composure, “hewas drowned?”
“Unquestionably.”
“So that the governor got rid of the dangerous and the crazy prisonerat the same time?”
“Precisely.”
20027m


“But some official document was drawn up as to this affair, I suppose?”inquired the Englishman.
“Yes, yes, the mortuary deposition. You understand, Dantès’ relations,if he had any, might have some interest in knowing if he were dead oralive.”
“So that now, if there were anything to inherit from him, they may doso with easy conscience. He is dead, and no mistake about it.”
“Oh, yes; and they may have the fact attested whenever they please.”
“So be it,” said the Englishman. “But to return to these registers.”
“True, this story has diverted our attention from them. Excuse me.”
“Excuse you for what? For the story? By no means; it really seems to mevery curious.”
“Yes, indeed. So, sir, you wish to see all relating to the poor abbé,who really was gentleness itself.”
“Yes, you will much oblige me.”
“Go into my study here, and I will show it to you.”
And they both entered M. de Boville’s study. Everything was herearranged in perfect order; each register had its number, each file ofpapers its place. The inspector begged the Englishman to seat himselfin an armchair, and placed before him the register and documentsrelative to the Château d’If, giving him all the time he desired forthe examination, while De Boville seated himself in a corner, and beganto read his newspaper. The Englishman easily found the entries relativeto the Abbé Faria; but it seemed that the history which the inspectorhad related interested him greatly, for after having perused the firstdocuments he turned over the leaves until he reached the depositionrespecting Edmond Dantès. There he found everything arranged in dueorder,—the accusation, examination, Morrel’s petition, M. deVillefort’s marginal notes. He folded up the accusation quietly, andput it as quietly in his pocket; read the examination, and saw that thename of Noirtier was not mentioned in it; perused, too, the applicationdated 10th April, 1815, in which Morrel, by the deputy procureur’sadvice, exaggerated with the best intentions (for Napoleon was then onthe throne) the services Dantès had rendered to the imperialcause—services which Villefort’s certificates rendered indisputable.Then he saw through the whole thing. This petition to Napoleon, keptback by Villefort, had become, under the second restoration, a terribleweapon against him in the hands of the king’s attorney. He was nolonger astonished when he searched on to find in the register thisnote, placed in a bracket against his name:
Edmond Dantès.
An inveterate Bonapartist; took an active part in the return from theIsland of Elba.
To be kept in strict solitary confinement, and to be closely watchedand guarded.
Beneath these lines was written in another hand: “See noteabove—nothing can be done.”
He compared the writing in the bracket with the writing of thecertificate placed beneath Morrel’s petition, and discovered that thenote in the bracket was the same writing as the certificate—that is tosay, was in Villefort’s handwriting.
20029m


As to the note which accompanied this, the Englishman understood thatit might have been added by some inspector who had taken a momentaryinterest in Dantès’ situation, but who had, from the remarks we havequoted, found it impossible to give any effect to the interest he hadfelt.
As we have said, the inspector, from discretion, and that he might notdisturb the Abbé Faria’s pupil in his researches, had seated himself ina corner, and was reading _Le Drapeau Blanc_. He did not see theEnglishman fold up and place in his pocket the accusation written byDanglars under the arbor of La Réserve, and which had the postmark,“Marseilles, 27th February, delivery 6 o’clock, P.M.”
But it must be said that if he had seen it, he attached so littleimportance to this scrap of paper, and so much importance to his twohundred thousand francs, that he would not have opposed whatever theEnglishman might do, however irregular it might be.
“Thanks,” said the latter, closing the register with a slam, “I haveall I want; now it is for me to perform my promise. Give me a simpleassignment of your debt; acknowledge therein the receipt of the cash,and I will hand you over the money.”
He rose, gave his seat to M. de Boville, who took it without ceremony,and quickly drew up the required assignment, while the Englishmancounted out the bank-notes on the other side of the desk.


 Chapter 29. The House of Morrel & Son
Anyone who had quitted Marseilles a few years previously, wellacquainted with the interior of Morrel’s warehouse, and had returned atthis date, would have found a great change. Instead of that air oflife, of comfort, and of happiness that permeates a flourishing andprosperous business establishment—instead of merry faces at thewindows, busy clerks hurrying to and fro in the long corridors—insteadof the court filled with bales of goods, re-echoing with the cries andthe jokes of porters, one would have immediately perceived all aspectof sadness and gloom. Out of all the numerous clerks that used to fillthe deserted corridor and the empty office, but two remained. One was ayoung man of three or four-and-twenty, who was in love with M. Morrel’sdaughter, and had remained with him in spite of the efforts of hisfriends to induce him to withdraw; the other was an old one-eyedcashier, called “Cocles,” or “Cock-eye,” a nickname given him by theyoung men who used to throng this vast now almost deserted bee-hive,and which had so completely replaced his real name that he would not,in all probability, have replied to anyone who addressed him by it.
Cocles remained in M. Morrel’s service, and a most singular change hadtaken place in his position; he had at the same time risen to the rankof cashier, and sunk to the rank of a servant. He was, however, thesame Cocles, good, patient, devoted, but inflexible on the subject ofarithmetic, the only point on which he would have stood firm againstthe world, even against M. Morrel; and strong in themultiplication-table, which he had at his fingers’ ends, no matter whatscheme or what trap was laid to catch him.
In the midst of the disasters that befell the house, Cocles was theonly one unmoved. But this did not arise from a want of affection; onthe contrary, from a firm conviction. Like the rats that one by oneforsake the doomed ship even before the vessel weighs anchor, so allthe numerous clerks had by degrees deserted the office and thewarehouse. Cocles had seen them go without thinking of inquiring thecause of their departure. Everything was as we have said, a question ofarithmetic to Cocles, and during twenty years he had always seen allpayments made with such exactitude, that it seemed as impossible to himthat the house should stop payment, as it would to a miller that theriver that had so long turned his mill should cease to flow.
Nothing had as yet occurred to shake Cocles’ belief; the last month’spayment had been made with the most scrupulous exactitude; Cocles haddetected an overbalance of fourteen sous in his cash, and the sameevening he had brought them to M. Morrel, who, with a melancholy smile,threw them into an almost empty drawer, saying:
“Thanks, Cocles; you are the pearl of cashiers.”
Cocles went away perfectly happy, for this eulogium of M. Morrel,himself the pearl of the honest men of Marseilles, flattered him morethan a present of fifty crowns. But since the end of the month M.Morrel had passed many an anxious hour.
In order to meet the payments then due; he had collected all hisresources, and, fearing lest the report of his distress should getbruited abroad at Marseilles when he was known to be reduced to such anextremity, he went to the Beaucaire fair to sell his wife’s anddaughter’s jewels and a portion of his plate. By this means the end ofthe month was passed, but his resources were now exhausted. Credit,owing to the reports afloat, was no longer to be had; and to meet theone hundred thousand francs due on the 15th of the present month, andthe one hundred thousand francs due on the 15th of the next month to M.de Boville, M. Morrel had, in reality, no hope but the return of the_Pharaon_, of whose departure he had learnt from a vessel which hadweighed anchor at the same time, and which had already arrived inharbor.
But this vessel which, like the _Pharaon_, came from Calcutta, had beenin for a fortnight, while no intelligence had been received of the_Pharaon_.
20033m


Such was the state of affairs when, the day after his interview with M.de Boville, the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French ofRome, presented himself at M. Morrel’s.
Emmanuel received him; this young man was alarmed by the appearance ofevery new face, for every new face might be that of a new creditor,come in anxiety to question the head of the house. The young man,wishing to spare his employer the pain of this interview, questionedthe new-comer; but the stranger declared that he had nothing to say toM. Emmanuel, and that his business was with M. Morrel in person.
Emmanuel sighed, and summoned Cocles. Cocles appeared, and the youngman bade him conduct the stranger to M. Morrel’s apartment. Cocles wentfirst, and the stranger followed him. On the staircase they met abeautiful girl of sixteen or seventeen, who looked with anxiety at thestranger.
“M. Morrel is in his room, is he not, Mademoiselle Julie?” said thecashier.
“Yes; I think so, at least,” said the young girl hesitatingly. “Go andsee, Cocles, and if my father is there, announce this gentleman.”
“It will be useless to announce me, mademoiselle,” returned theEnglishman. “M. Morrel does not know my name; this worthy gentleman hasonly to announce the confidential clerk of the house of Thomson &French of Rome, with whom your father does business.”
The young girl turned pale and continued to descend, while the strangerand Cocles continued to mount the staircase. She entered the officewhere Emmanuel was, while Cocles, by the aid of a key he possessed,opened a door in the corner of a landing-place on the second staircase,conducted the stranger into an antechamber, opened a second door, whichhe closed behind him, and after having left the clerk of the house ofThomson & French alone, returned and signed to him that he could enter.
The Englishman entered, and found Morrel seated at a table, turningover the formidable columns of his ledger, which contained the list ofhis liabilities. At the sight of the stranger, M. Morrel closed theledger, arose, and offered a seat to the stranger; and when he had seenhim seated, resumed his own chair. Fourteen years had changed theworthy merchant, who, in his thirty-sixth year at the opening of thishistory, was now in his fiftieth; his hair had turned white, time andsorrow had ploughed deep furrows on his brow, and his look, once sofirm and penetrating, was now irresolute and wandering, as if he fearedbeing forced to fix his attention on some particular thought or person.
The Englishman looked at him with an air of curiosity, evidentlymingled with interest. “Monsieur,” said Morrel, whose uneasiness wasincreased by this examination, “you wish to speak to me?”
“Yes, monsieur; you are aware from whom I come?”
“The house of Thomson & French; at least, so my cashier tells me.”
“He has told you rightly. The house of Thomson & French had 300,000 or400,000 francs to pay this month in France; and, knowing your strictpunctuality, have collected all the bills bearing your signature, andcharged me as they became due to present them, and to employ the moneyotherwise.”
Morrel sighed deeply, and passed his hand over his forehead, which wascovered with perspiration.
“So then, sir,” said Morrel, “you hold bills of mine?”
“Yes, and for a considerable sum.”
“What is the amount?” asked Morrel with a voice he strove to renderfirm.
20035m


“Here is,” said the Englishman, taking a quantity of papers from hispocket, “an assignment of 200,000 francs to our house by M. de Boville,the inspector of prisons, to whom they are due. You acknowledge, ofcourse, that you owe this sum to him?”
“Yes; he placed the money in my hands at four and a half per centnearly five years ago.”
“When are you to pay?”
“Half the 15th of this month, half the 15th of next.”
“Just so; and now here are 32,500 francs payable shortly; they are allsigned by you, and assigned to our house by the holders.”
“I recognize them,” said Morrel, whose face was suffused, as he thoughtthat, for the first time in his life, he would be unable to honor hisown signature. “Is this all?”
“No, I have for the end of the month these bills which have beenassigned to us by the house of Pascal, and the house of Wild & Turnerof Marseilles, amounting to nearly 55,000 francs; in all, 287,500francs.”
It is impossible to describe what Morrel suffered during thisenumeration. “Two hundred and eighty-seven thousand five hundredfrancs,” repeated he.
“Yes, sir,” replied the Englishman. “I will not,” continued he, after amoment’s silence, “conceal from you, that while your probity andexactitude up to this moment are universally acknowledged, yet thereport is current in Marseilles that you are not able to meet yourliabilities.”
At this almost brutal speech Morrel turned deathly pale.
“Sir,” said he, “up to this time—and it is now more thanfour-and-twenty years since I received the direction of this house frommy father, who had himself conducted it for five-and-thirty years—neverhas anything bearing the signature of Morrel & Son been dishonored.”
“I know that,” replied the Englishman. “But as a man of honor shouldanswer another, tell me fairly, shall you pay these with the samepunctuality?”
Morrel shuddered, and looked at the man, who spoke with more assurancethan he had hitherto shown.
“To questions frankly put,” said he, “a straightforward answer shouldbe given. Yes, I shall pay, if, as I hope, my vessel arrives safely;for its arrival will again procure me the credit which the numerousaccidents, of which I have been the victim, have deprived me; but ifthe _Pharaon_ should be lost, and this last resource be gone——”
The poor man’s eyes filled with tears.
“Well,” said the other, “if this last resource fail you?”
“Well,” returned Morrel, “it is a cruel thing to be forced to say, but,already used to misfortune, I must habituate myself to shame. I fear Ishall be forced to suspend payment.”
“Have you no friends who could assist you?”
Morrel smiled mournfully.
“In business, sir,” said he, “one has no friends, only correspondents.”
“It is true,” murmured the Englishman; “then you have but one hope.”
“But one.”
“The last?”
“The last.”
“So that if this fail——”
“I am ruined,—completely ruined!”
“As I was on my way here, a vessel was coming into port.”
“I know it, sir; a young man, who still adheres to my fallen fortunes,passes a part of his time in a belvedere at the top of the house, inhopes of being the first to announce good news to me; he has informedme of the arrival of this ship.”
“And it is not yours?”
“No, she is a Bordeaux vessel, _La Gironde_; she comes from India also;but she is not mine.”
“Perhaps she has spoken to the _Pharaon_, and brings you some tidingsof her?”
“Shall I tell you plainly one thing, sir? I dread almost as much toreceive any tidings of my vessel as to remain in doubt. Uncertainty isstill hope.” Then in a low voice Morrel added,—“This delay is notnatural. The _Pharaon_ left Calcutta the 5th of February; she ought tohave been here a month ago.”
“What is that?” said the Englishman. “What is the meaning of thatnoise?”
“Oh, my God!” cried Morrel, turning pale, “what is it?”
A loud noise was heard on the stairs of people moving hastily, andhalf-stifled sobs. Morrel rose and advanced to the door; but hisstrength failed him and he sank into a chair. The two men remainedopposite one another, Morrel trembling in every limb, the strangergazing at him with an air of profound pity. The noise had ceased; butit seemed that Morrel expected something—something had occasioned thenoise, and something must follow. The stranger fancied he heardfootsteps on the stairs; and that the footsteps, which were those ofseveral persons, stopped at the door. A key was inserted in the lock ofthe first door, and the creaking of hinges was audible.
“There are only two persons who have the key to that door,” murmuredMorrel, “Cocles and Julie.”
At this instant the second door opened, and the young girl, her eyesbathed with tears, appeared. Morrel rose tremblingly, supportinghimself by the arm of the chair. He would have spoken, but his voicefailed him.
“Oh, father!” said she, clasping her hands, “forgive your child forbeing the bearer of evil tidings.”
Morrel again changed color. Julie threw herself into his arms.
“Oh, father, father!” murmured she, “courage!”
“The _Pharaon_ has gone down, then?” said Morrel in a hoarse voice. Theyoung girl did not speak; but she made an affirmative sign with herhead as she lay on her father’s breast.
“And the crew?” asked Morrel.
“Saved,” said the girl; “saved by the crew of the vessel that has justentered the harbor.”
Morrel raised his two hands to heaven with an expression of resignationand sublime gratitude.
“Thanks, my God,” said he, “at least thou strikest but me alone.”
A tear moistened the eye of the phlegmatic Englishman.
“Come in, come in,” said Morrel, “for I presume you are all at thedoor.”
Scarcely had he uttered those words when Madame Morrel entered weepingbitterly. Emmanuel followed her, and in the antechamber were visiblethe rough faces of seven or eight half-naked sailors. At the sight ofthese men the Englishman started and advanced a step; then restrainedhimself, and retired into the farthest and most obscure corner of theapartment. Madame Morrel sat down by her husband and took one of hishands in hers, Julie still lay with her head on his shoulder, Emmanuelstood in the centre of the chamber and seemed to form the link betweenMorrel’s family and the sailors at the door.
“How did this happen?” said Morrel.
“Draw nearer, Penelon,” said the young man, “and tell us all about it.”
An old seaman, bronzed by the tropical sun, advanced, twirling theremains of a hat between his hands.
“Good-day, M. Morrel,” said he, as if he had just quitted Marseillesthe previous evening, and had just returned from Aix or Toulon.
“Good-day, Penelon,” returned Morrel, who could not refrain fromsmiling through his tears, “where is the captain?”
“The captain, M. Morrel,—he has stayed behind sick at Palma; but pleaseGod, it won’t be much, and you will see him in a few days all alive andhearty.”
“Well, now tell your story, Penelon.”
20039m


Penelon rolled his quid in his cheek, placed his hand before his mouth,turned his head, and sent a long jet of tobacco-juice into theantechamber, advanced his foot, balanced himself, and began.
“You see, M. Morrel,” said he, “we were somewhere between Cape Blancand Cape Boyador, sailing with a fair breeze, south-south-west after aweek’s calm, when Captain Gaumard comes up to me—I was at the helm Ishould tell you—and says, ‘Penelon, what do you think of those cloudscoming up over there?’ I was just then looking at them myself. ‘What doI think, captain? Why I think that they are rising faster than theyhave any business to do, and that they would not be so black if theydidn’t mean mischief.’—‘That’s my opinion too,’ said the captain, ‘andI’ll take precautions accordingly. We are carrying too much canvas.Avast, there, all hands! Take in the studding-sails and stow the flyingjib.’ It was time; the squall was on us, and the vessel began to heel.‘Ah,’ said the captain, ‘we have still too much canvas set; all handslower the mainsail!’ Five minutes after, it was down; and we sailedunder mizzen-topsails and top-gallant sails. ‘Well, Penelon,’ said thecaptain, ‘what makes you shake your head?’ ‘Why,’ I says, ‘I stillthink you’ve got too much on.’ ‘I think you’re right,’ answered he, ‘weshall have a gale.’ ‘A gale? More than that, we shall have a tempest,or I don’t know what’s what.’ You could see the wind coming like thedust at Montredon; luckily the captain understood his business. ‘Takein two reefs in the top-sails,’ cried the captain; ‘let go thebowlin’s, haul the brace, lower the top-gallant sails, haul out thereef-tackles on the yards.’”
20041m


“That was not enough for those latitudes,” said the Englishman; “Ishould have taken four reefs in the topsails and furled the spanker.”
His firm, sonorous, and unexpected voice made everyone start. Penelonput his hand over his eyes, and then stared at the man who thuscriticized the manœuvres of his captain.
“We did better than that, sir,” said the old sailor respectfully; “weput the helm up to run before the tempest; ten minutes after we struckour top-sails and scudded under bare poles.”
“The vessel was very old to risk that,” said the Englishman.
“Eh, it was that that did the business; after pitching heavily fortwelve hours we sprung a leak. ‘Penelon,’ said the captain, ‘I think weare sinking, give me the helm, and go down into the hold.’ I gave himthe helm, and descended; there was already three feet of water. ‘Allhands to the pumps!’ I shouted; but it was too late, and it seemed themore we pumped the more came in. ‘Ah,’ said I, after four hours’ work,‘since we are sinking, let us sink; we can die but once.’ ‘Is that theexample you set, Penelon?’ cries the captain; ‘very well, wait aminute.’ He went into his cabin and came back with a brace of pistols.‘I will blow the brains out of the first man who leaves the pump,’ saidhe.”
“Well done!” said the Englishman.
20043m


“There’s nothing gives you so much courage as good reasons,” continuedthe sailor; “and during that time the wind had abated, and the sea gonedown, but the water kept rising; not much, only two inches an hour, butstill it rose. Two inches an hour does not seem much, but in twelvehours that makes two feet, and three we had before, that makes five.‘Come,’ said the captain, ‘we have done all in our power, and M. Morrelwill have nothing to reproach us with, we have tried to save the ship,let us now save ourselves. To the boats, my lads, as quick as you can.’Now,” continued Penelon, “you see, M. Morrel, a sailor is attached tohis ship, but still more to his life, so we did not wait to be toldtwice; the more so, that the ship was sinking under us, and seemed tosay, ‘Get along—save yourselves.’ We soon launched the boat, and alleight of us got into it. The captain descended last, or rather, he didnot descend, he would not quit the vessel; so I took him round thewaist, and threw him into the boat, and then I jumped after him. It wastime, for just as I jumped the deck burst with a noise like thebroadside of a man-of-war. Ten minutes after she pitched forward, thenthe other way, spun round and round, and then good-bye to the_Pharaon_. As for us, we were three days without anything to eat ordrink, so that we began to think of drawing lots who should feed therest, when we saw _La Gironde_; we made signals of distress, sheperceived us, made for us, and took us all on board. There now, M.Morrel, that’s the whole truth, on the honor of a sailor; is not ittrue, you fellows there?” A general murmur of approbation showed thatthe narrator had faithfully detailed their misfortunes and sufferings.
“Well, well,” said M. Morrel, “I know there was no one in fault butdestiny. It was the will of God that this should happen, blessed be hisname. What wages are due to you?”
“Oh, don’t let us talk of that, M. Morrel.”
“Yes, but we will talk of it.”
“Well, then, three months,” said Penelon.
“Cocles, pay two hundred francs to each of these good fellows,” saidMorrel. “At another time,” added he, “I should have said, Give them,besides, two hundred francs over as a present; but times are changed,and the little money that remains to me is not my own, so do not thinkme mean on this account.”
Penelon turned to his companions, and exchanged a few words with them.
“As for that, M. Morrel,” said he, again turning his quid, “as forthat——”
“As for what?”
“The money.”
“Well——”
“Well, we all say that fifty francs will be enough for us at present,and that we will wait for the rest.”
“Thanks, my friends, thanks!” cried Morrel gratefully; “take it—takeit; and if you can find another employer, enter his service; you arefree to do so.”
These last words produced a prodigious effect on the seaman. Penelonnearly swallowed his quid; fortunately he recovered.
“What, M. Morrel!” said he in a low voice, “you send us away; you arethen angry with us!”
“No, no,” said M. Morrel, “I am not angry, quite the contrary, and I donot send you away; but I have no more ships, and therefore I do notwant any sailors.”
“No more ships!” returned Penelon; “well, then, you’ll build some;we’ll wait for you.”
“I have no money to build ships with, Penelon,” said the poor ownermournfully, “so I cannot accept your kind offer.”
“No more money? Then you must not pay us; we can scud, like the_Pharaon_, under bare poles.”
“Enough, enough!” cried Morrel, almost overpowered; “leave me, I prayyou; we shall meet again in a happier time. Emmanuel, go with them, andsee that my orders are executed.”
“At least, we shall see each other again, M. Morrel?” asked Penelon.
“Yes; I hope so, at least. Now go.” He made a sign to Cocles, who wentfirst; the seamen followed him and Emmanuel brought up the rear. “Now,”said the owner to his wife and daughter, “leave me; I wish to speakwith this gentleman.”
20045m


And he glanced towards the clerk of Thomson & French, who had remainedmotionless in the corner during this scene, in which he had taken nopart, except the few words we have mentioned. The two women looked atthis person whose presence they had entirely forgotten, and retired;but, as she left the apartment, Julie gave the stranger a supplicatingglance, to which he replied by a smile that an indifferent spectatorwould have been surprised to see on his stern features. The two menwere left alone. “Well, sir,” said Morrel, sinking into a chair, “youhave heard all, and I have nothing further to tell you.”
“I see,” returned the Englishman, “that a fresh and unmeritedmisfortune has overwhelmed you, and this only increases my desire toserve you.”
“Oh, sir!” cried Morrel.
“Let me see,” continued the stranger, “I am one of your largestcreditors.”
“Your bills, at least, are the first that will fall due.”
“Do you wish for time to pay?”
“A delay would save my honor, and consequently my life.”
“How long a delay do you wish for?”
Morrel reflected. “Two months,” said he.
“I will give you three,” replied the stranger.
“But,” asked Morrel, “will the house of Thomson & French consent?”
“Oh, I take everything on myself. Today is the 5th of June.”
“Yes.”
“Well, renew these bills up to the 5th of September; and on the 5th ofSeptember at eleven o’clock (the hand of the clock pointed to eleven),I shall come to receive the money.”
“I shall expect you,” returned Morrel; “and I will pay you—or I shallbe dead.” These last words were uttered in so low a tone that thestranger could not hear them. The bills were renewed, the old onesdestroyed, and the poor ship-owner found himself with three monthsbefore him to collect his resources. The Englishman received his thankswith the phlegm peculiar to his nation; and Morrel, overwhelming himwith grateful blessings, conducted him to the staircase. The strangermet Julie on the stairs; she pretended to be descending, but in realityshe was waiting for him. “Oh, sir”—said she, clasping her hands.
“Mademoiselle,” said the stranger, “one day you will receive a lettersigned ‘Sinbad the Sailor.’ Do exactly what the letter bids you,however strange it may appear.”
“Yes, sir,” returned Julie.
“Do you promise?”
“I swear to you I will.”
“It is well. Adieu, mademoiselle. Continue to be the good, sweet girlyou are at present, and I have great hopes that Heaven will reward youby giving you Emmanuel for a husband.”
Julie uttered a faint cry, blushed like a rose, and leaned against thebaluster. The stranger waved his hand, and continued to descend. In thecourt he found Penelon, who, with a rouleau of a hundred francs ineither hand, seemed unable to make up his mind to retain them. “Comewith me, my friend,” said the Englishman; “I wish to speak to you.”


 Chapter 30. The Fifth of September
The extension provided for by the agent of Thomson & French, at themoment when Morrel expected it least, was to the poor shipowner sodecided a stroke of good fortune that he almost dared to believe thatfate was at length grown weary of wasting her spite upon him. The sameday he told his wife, Emmanuel, and his daughter all that had occurred;and a ray of hope, if not of tranquillity, returned to the family.Unfortunately, however, Morrel had not only engagements with the houseof Thomson & French, who had shown themselves so considerate towardshim; and, as he had said, in business he had correspondents, and notfriends. When he thought the matter over, he could by no means accountfor this generous conduct on the part of Thomson & French towards him;and could only attribute it to some such selfish argument as this: “Wehad better help a man who owes us nearly 300,000 francs, and have those300,000 francs at the end of three months than hasten his ruin, and getonly six or eight per cent of our money back again.”
Unfortunately, whether through envy or stupidity, all Morrel’scorrespondents did not take this view; and some even came to a contrarydecision. The bills signed by Morrel were presented at his office withscrupulous exactitude, and, thanks to the delay granted by theEnglishman, were paid by Cocles with equal punctuality. Cocles thusremained in his accustomed tranquillity. It was Morrel alone whoremembered with alarm, that if he had to repay on the 15th the 50,000francs of M. de Boville, and on the 30th the 32,500 francs of bills,for which, as well as the debt due to the inspector of prisons, he hadtime granted, he must be a ruined man.
The opinion of all the commercial men was that, under the reverseswhich had successively weighed down Morrel, it was impossible for himto remain solvent. Great, therefore, was the astonishment when at theend of the month, he cancelled all his obligations with his usualpunctuality. Still confidence was not restored to all minds, and thegeneral opinion was that the complete ruin of the unfortunate shipownerhad been postponed only until the end of the month.
The month passed, and Morrel made extraordinary efforts to get in allhis resources. Formerly his paper, at any date, was taken withconfidence, and was even in request. Morrel now tried to negotiatebills at ninety days only, and none of the banks would give him credit.Fortunately, Morrel had some funds coming in on which he could rely;and, as they reached him, he found himself in a condition to meet hisengagements when the end of July came.
The agent of Thomson & French had not been again seen at Marseilles;the day after, or two days after his visit to Morrel, he haddisappeared; and as in that city he had had no intercourse but with themayor, the inspector of prisons, and M. Morrel, his departure left notrace except in the memories of these three persons. As to the sailorsof the _Pharaon_, they must have found snug berths elsewhere, for theyalso had disappeared.
Captain Gaumard, recovered from his illness, had returned from Palma.He delayed presenting himself at Morrel’s, but the owner, hearing ofhis arrival, went to see him. The worthy shipowner knew, from Penelon’srecital, of the captain’s brave conduct during the storm, and tried toconsole him. He brought him also the amount of his wages, which CaptainGaumard had not dared to apply for.
As he descended the staircase, Morrel met Penelon, who was going up.Penelon had, it would seem, made good use of his money, for he wasnewly clad. When he saw his employer, the worthy tar seemed muchembarrassed, drew on one side into the corner of the landing-place,passed his quid from one cheek to the other, stared stupidly with hisgreat eyes, and only acknowledged the squeeze of the hand which Morrelas usual gave him by a slight pressure in return. Morrel attributedPenelon’s embarrassment to the elegance of his attire; it was evidentthe good fellow had not gone to such an expense on his own account; hewas, no doubt, engaged on board some other vessel, and thus hisbashfulness arose from the fact of his not having, if we may so expressourselves, worn mourning for the _Pharaon_ longer. Perhaps he had cometo tell Captain Gaumard of his good luck, and to offer him employmentfrom his new master.
“Worthy fellows!” said Morrel,  as he went away, “may your new masterlove you as I loved you, and be more fortunate than I have been!”
20049m


August rolled by in unceasing efforts on the part of Morrel to renewhis credit or revive the old. On the 20th of August it was known atMarseilles that he had left town in the mailcoach, and then it was saidthat the bills would go to protest at the end of the month, and thatMorrel had gone away and left his chief clerk Emmanuel, and his cashierCocles, to meet the creditors. But, contrary to all expectation, whenthe 31st of August came, the house opened as usual, and Cocles appearedbehind the grating of the counter, examined all bills presented withthe usual scrutiny, and, from first to last, paid all with the usualprecision. There came in, moreover, two drafts which M. Morrel hadfully anticipated, and which Cocles paid as punctually as the billswhich the shipowner had accepted. All this was incomprehensible, andthen, with the tenacity peculiar to prophets of bad news, the failurewas put off until the end of September.
On the 1st, Morrel returned; he was awaited by his family with extremeanxiety, for from this journey to Paris they hoped great things. Morrelhad thought of Danglars, who was now immensely rich, and had lain undergreat obligations to Morrel in former days, since to him it was owingthat Danglars entered the service of the Spanish banker, with whom hehad laid the foundations of his vast wealth. It was said at this momentthat Danglars was worth from six to eight millions of francs, and hadunlimited credit. Danglars, then, without taking a crown from hispocket, could save Morrel; he had but to pass his word for a loan, andMorrel was saved. Morrel had long thought of Danglars, but had keptaway from some instinctive motive, and had delayed as long as possibleavailing himself of this last resource. And Morrel was right, for hereturned home crushed by the humiliation of a refusal.
Yet, on his arrival, Morrel did not utter a complaint, or say one harshword. He embraced his weeping wife and daughter, pressed Emmanuel’shand with friendly warmth, and then going to his private room on thesecond floor had sent for Cocles.
“Then,” said the two women to Emmanuel, “we are indeed ruined.”
It was agreed in a brief council held among them, that Julie shouldwrite to her brother, who was in garrison at Nîmes, to come to them asspeedily as possible. The poor women felt instinctively that theyrequired all their strength to support the blow that impended. Besides,Maximilian Morrel, though hardly two-and-twenty, had great influenceover his father.
He was a strong-minded, upright young man. At the time when he decidedon his profession his father had no desire to choose for him, but hadconsulted young Maximilian’s taste. He had at once declared for amilitary life, and had in consequence studied hard, passed brilliantlythrough the Polytechnic School, and left it as sub-lieutenant of the53rd of the line. For a year he had held this rank, and expectedpromotion on the first vacancy. In his regiment Maximilian Morrel wasnoted for his rigid observance, not only of the obligations imposed ona soldier, but also of the duties of a man; and he thus gained the nameof “the stoic.” We need hardly say that many of those who gave him thisepithet repeated it because they had heard it, and did not even knowwhat it meant.
This was the young man whom his mother and sister called to their aidto sustain them under the serious trial which they felt they would soonhave to endure. They had not mistaken the gravity of this event, forthe moment after Morrel had entered his private office with Cocles,Julie saw the latter leave it pale, trembling, and his featuresbetraying the utmost consternation. She would have questioned him as hepassed by her, but the worthy creature hastened down the staircase withunusual precipitation, and only raised his hands to heaven andexclaimed:
“Oh, mademoiselle, mademoiselle, what a dreadful misfortune! Who couldever have believed it!”
A moment afterwards Julie saw him go upstairs carrying two or threeheavy ledgers, a portfolio, and a bag of money.
Morrel examined the ledgers, opened the portfolio, and counted themoney. All his funds amounted to 6,000 or 8,000 francs, his billsreceivable up to the 5th to 4,000 or 5,000, which, making the best ofeverything, gave him 14,000 francs to meet debts amounting to 287,500francs. He had not even the means for making a possible settlement onaccount.
However, when Morrel went down to his dinner, he appeared very calm.This calmness was more alarming to the two women than the deepestdejection would have been. After dinner Morrel usually went out andused to take his coffee at the club of the Phocéens, and read the_Semaphore_; this day he did not leave the house, but returned to hisoffice.
As to Cocles, he seemed completely bewildered. For part of the day hewent into the courtyard, seated himself on a stone with his head bareand exposed to the blazing sun. Emmanuel tried to comfort the women,but his eloquence faltered. The young man was too well acquainted withthe business of the house, not to feel that a great catastrophe hungover the Morrel family. Night came, the two women had watched, hopingthat when he left his room Morrel would come to them, but they heardhim pass before their door, and trying to conceal the noise of hisfootsteps. They listened; he went into his sleeping-room, and fastenedthe door inside. Madame Morrel sent her daughter to bed, and half anhour after Julie had retired, she rose, took off her shoes, and wentstealthily along the passage, to see through the keyhole what herhusband was doing.
In the passage she saw a retreating shadow; it was Julie, who, uneasyherself, had anticipated her mother. The young lady went towards MadameMorrel.
“He is writing,” she said.
They had understood each other without speaking. Madame Morrel lookedagain through the keyhole, Morrel was writing; but Madame Morrelremarked, what her daughter had not observed, that her husband waswriting on stamped paper. The terrible idea that he was writing hiswill flashed across her; she shuddered, and yet had not strength toutter a word.
Next day M. Morrel seemed as calm as ever, went into his office asusual, came to his breakfast punctually, and then, after dinner, heplaced his daughter beside him, took her head in his arms, and held herfor a long time against his bosom. In the evening, Julie told hermother, that although he was apparently so calm, she had noticed thather father’s heart beat violently.
The next two days passed in much the same way. On the evening of the4th of September, M. Morrel asked his daughter for the key of hisstudy. Julie trembled at this request, which seemed to her of bad omen.Why did her father ask for this key which she always kept, and whichwas only taken from her in childhood as a punishment? The young girllooked at Morrel.
“What have I done wrong, father,” she said, “that you should take thiskey from me?”
“Nothing, my dear,” replied the unhappy man, the tears starting to hiseyes at this simple question,—“nothing, only I want it.”
Julie made a pretence to feel for the key. “I must have left it in myroom,” she said.
And she went out, but instead of going to her apartment she hastened toconsult Emmanuel.
“Do not give this key to your father,” said he, “and tomorrow morning,if possible, do not quit him for a moment.”
She questioned Emmanuel, but he knew nothing, or would not say what heknew.
During the night, between the 4th and 5th of September, Madame Morrelremained listening for every sound, and, until three o’clock in themorning, she heard her husband pacing the room in great agitation. Itwas three o’clock when he threw himself on the bed. The mother anddaughter passed the night together. They had expected Maximilian sincethe previous evening. At eight o’clock in the morning Morrel enteredtheir chamber. He was calm; but the agitation of the night was legiblein his pale and careworn visage. They did not dare to ask him how hehad slept. Morrel was kinder to his wife, more affectionate to hisdaughter, than he had ever been. He could not cease gazing at andkissing the sweet girl. Julie, mindful of Emmanuel’s request, wasfollowing her father when he quitted the room, but he said to herquickly:
“Remain with your mother, dearest.” Julie wished to accompany him. “Iwish you to do so,” said he.
This was the first time Morrel had ever so spoken, but he said it in atone of paternal kindness, and Julie did not dare to disobey. Sheremained at the same spot standing mute and motionless. An instantafterwards the door opened, she felt two arms encircle her, and a mouthpressed her forehead. She looked up and uttered an exclamation of joy.
20053m


“Maximilian, my dearest brother!” she cried.
At these words Madame Morrel rose, and threw herself into her son’sarms.
“Mother,” said the young man, looking alternately at Madame Morrel andher daughter, “what has occurred—what has happened? Your letter hasfrightened me, and I have come hither with all speed.”
“Julie,” said Madame Morrel, making a sign to the young man, “go andtell your father that Maximilian has just arrived.”
The young lady rushed out of the apartment, but on the first step ofthe staircase she found a man holding a letter in his hand.
“Are you not Mademoiselle Julie Morrel?” inquired the man, with astrong Italian accent.
“Yes, sir,” replied Julie with hesitation; “what is your pleasure? I donot know you.”
“Read this letter,” he said, handing it to her. Julie hesitated. “Itconcerns the best interests of your father,” said the messenger.
The young girl hastily took the letter from him. She opened it quicklyand read:
“Go this moment to the Allées de Meilhan, enter the house No. 15, askthe porter for the key of the room on the fifth floor, enter theapartment, take from the corner of the mantelpiece a purse netted inred silk, and give it to your father. It is important that he shouldreceive it before eleven o’clock. You promised to obey me implicitly.Remember your oath.
“Sinbad the Sailor.”
The young girl uttered a joyful cry, raised her eyes, looked round toquestion the messenger, but he had disappeared. She cast her eyes againover the note to peruse it a second time, and saw there was apostscript. She read:
“It is important that you should fulfil this mission in person andalone. If you go accompanied by any other person, or should anyone elsego in your place, the porter will reply that he does not know anythingabout it.”
This postscript decreased greatly the young girl’s happiness. Was therenothing to fear? was there not some snare laid for her? Her innocencehad kept her in ignorance of the dangers that might assail a young girlof her age. But there is no need to know danger in order to fear it;indeed, it may be observed, that it is usually unknown perils thatinspire the greatest terror.
Julie hesitated, and resolved to take counsel. Yet, through a singularimpulse, it was neither to her mother nor her brother that she applied,but to Emmanuel. She hastened down and told him what had occurred onthe day when the agent of Thomson & French had come to her father’s,related the scene on the staircase, repeated the promise she had made,and showed him the letter.
“You must go, then, mademoiselle,” said Emmanuel.
“Go there?” murmured Julie.
“Yes; I will accompany you.”
“But did you not read that I must be alone?” said Julie.
“And you shall be alone,” replied the young man. “I will await you atthe corner of the Rue du Musée, and if you are so long absent as tomake me uneasy, I will hasten to rejoin you, and woe to him of whom youshall have cause to complain to me!”
“Then, Emmanuel?” said the young girl with hesitation, “it is youropinion that I should obey this invitation?”
“Yes. Did not the messenger say your father’s safety depended upon it?”
“But what danger threatens him, then, Emmanuel?” she asked.
Emmanuel hesitated a moment, but his desire to make Julie decideimmediately made him reply.
“Listen,” he said; “today is the 5th of September, is it not?”
“Yes.”
“Today, then, at eleven o’clock, your father has nearly three hundredthousand francs to pay?”
“Yes, we know that.”
“Well, then,” continued Emmanuel, “we have not fifteen thousand francsin the house.”
“What will happen then?”
“Why, if today before eleven o’clock your father has not found someonewho will come to his aid, he will be compelled at twelve o’clock todeclare himself a bankrupt.”
“Oh, come, then, come!” cried she, hastening away with the young man.
During this time, Madame Morrel had told her son everything. The youngman knew quite well that, after the succession of misfortunes which hadbefallen his father, great changes had taken place in the style ofliving and housekeeping; but he did not know that matters had reachedsuch a point. He was thunderstruck. Then, rushing hastily out of theapartment, he ran upstairs, expecting to find his father in his study,but he rapped there in vain.
While he was yet at the door of the study he heard the bedroom dooropen, turned, and saw his father. Instead of going direct to his study,M. Morrel had returned to his bedchamber, which he was only this momentquitting. Morrel uttered a cry of surprise at the sight of his son, ofwhose arrival he was ignorant. He remained motionless on the spot,pressing with his left hand something he had concealed under his coat.Maximilian sprang down the staircase, and threw his arms round hisfather’s neck; but suddenly he recoiled, and placed his right hand onMorrel’s breast.
“Father,” he exclaimed, turning pale as death, “what are you going todo with that brace of pistols under your coat?”
“Oh, this is what I feared!” said Morrel.
“Father, father, in Heaven’s name,” exclaimed the young man, “what arethese weapons for?”
“Maximilian,” replied Morrel, looking fixedly at his son, “you are aman, and a man of honor. Come, and I will explain to you.”
And with a firm step Morrel went up to his study, while Maximilianfollowed him, trembling as he went. Morrel opened the door, and closedit behind his son; then, crossing the anteroom, went to his desk onwhich he placed the pistols, and pointed with his finger to an openledger. In this ledger was made out an exact balance-sheet of hisaffairs. Morrel had to pay, within half an hour, 287,500 francs. All hepossessed was 15,257 francs.
“Read!” said Morrel.
The young man was overwhelmed as he read. Morrel said not a word. Whatcould he say? What need he add to such a desperate proof in figures?
“And have you done all that is possible, father, to meet thisdisastrous result?” asked the young man, after a moment’s pause.
“I have,” replied Morrel.
“You have no money coming in on which you can rely?”
“None.”
“You have exhausted every resource?”
“All.”
“And in half an hour,” said Maximilian in a gloomy voice, “our name isdishonored!”
“Blood washes out dishonor,” said Morrel.
“You are right, father; I understand you.” Then extending his handtowards one of the pistols, he said, “There is one for you and one forme—thanks!”
Morrel caught his hand. “Your mother—your sister! Who will supportthem?”
A shudder ran through the young man’s frame. “Father,” he said, “do youreflect that you are bidding me to live?”
“Yes, I do so bid you,” answered Morrel, “it is your duty. You have acalm, strong mind, Maximilian. Maximilian, you are no ordinary man. Imake no requests or commands; I only ask you to examine my position asif it were your own, and then judge for yourself.”
The young man reflected for a moment, then an expression of sublimeresignation appeared in his eyes, and with a slow and sad gesture hetook off his two epaulets, the insignia of his rank.
“Be it so, then, my father,” he said, extending his hand to Morrel,“die in peace, my father; I will live.”
Morrel was about to cast himself on his knees before his son, butMaximilian caught him in his arms, and those two noble hearts werepressed against each other for a moment.
“You know it is not my fault,” said Morrel.
20057m


Maximilian smiled. “I know, father, you are the most honorable man Ihave ever known.”
“Good, my son. And now there is no more to be said; go and rejoin yourmother and sister.”
“My father,” said the young man, bending his knee, “bless me!” Morreltook the head of his son between his two hands, drew him forward, andkissing his forehead several times said:
“Oh, yes, yes, I bless you in my own name, and in the name of threegenerations of irreproachable men, who say through me, ‘The edificewhich misfortune has destroyed, Providence may build up again.’ Onseeing me die such a death, the most inexorable will have pity on you.To you, perhaps, they will accord the time they have refused to me.Then do your best to keep our name free from dishonor. Go to work,labor, young man, struggle ardently and courageously; live, yourself,your mother and sister, with the most rigid economy, so that from dayto day the property of those whom I leave in your hands may augment andfructify. Reflect how glorious a day it will be, how grand, how solemn,that day of complete restoration, on which you will say in this veryoffice, ‘My father died because he could not do what I have this daydone; but he died calmly and peaceably, because in dying he knew what Ishould do.’”
“My father, my father!” cried the young man, “why should you not live?”
“If I live, all would be changed; if I live, interest would beconverted into doubt, pity into hostility; if I live I am only a manwho has broken his word, failed in his engagements—in fact, only abankrupt. If, on the contrary, I die, remember, Maximilian, my corpseis that of an honest but unfortunate man. Living, my best friends wouldavoid my house; dead, all Marseilles will follow me in tears to my lasthome. Living, you would feel shame at my name; dead, you may raise yourhead and say, ‘I am the son of him you killed, because, for the firsttime, he has been compelled to break his word.’”
The young man uttered a groan, but appeared resigned.
“And now,” said Morrel, “leave me alone, and endeavor to keep yourmother and sister away.”
“Will you not see my sister once more?” asked Maximilian. A last butfinal hope was concealed by the young man in the effect of thisinterview, and therefore he had suggested it. Morrel shook his head. “Isaw her this morning, and bade her adieu.”
“Have you no particular commands to leave with me, my father?” inquiredMaximilian in a faltering voice.
“Yes; my son, and a sacred command.”
“Say it, my father.”
“The house of Thomson & French is the only one who, from humanity, or,it may be, selfishness—it is not for me to read men’s hearts—has hadany pity for me. Its agent, who will in ten minutes present himself toreceive the amount of a bill of 287,500 francs, I will not say granted,but offered me three months. Let this house be the first repaid, myson, and respect this man.”
“Father, I will,” said Maximilian.
“And now, once more, adieu,” said Morrel. “Go, leave me; I would bealone. You will find my will in the secretaire in my bedroom.”
The young man remained standing and motionless, having but the force ofwill and not the power of execution.
“Hear me, Maximilian,” said his father. “Suppose I were a soldier likeyou, and ordered to carry a certain redoubt, and you knew I must bekilled in the assault, would you not say to me, as you said just now,‘Go, father; for you are dishonored by delay, and death is preferableto shame!’”
“Yes, yes,” said the young man, “yes;” and once again embracing hisfather with convulsive pressure, he said, “Be it so, my father.”
And he rushed out of the study. When his son had left him, Morrelremained an instant standing with his eyes fixed on the door; thenputting forth his arm, he pulled the bell. After a moment’s interval,Cocles appeared.
It was no longer the same man—the fearful revelations of the three lastdays had crushed him. This thought—the house of Morrel is about to stoppayment—bent him to the earth more than twenty years would otherwisehave done.
“My worthy Cocles,” said Morrel in a tone impossible to describe, “doyou remain in the antechamber. When the gentleman who came three monthsago—the agent of Thomson & French—arrives, announce his arrival to me.”
Cocles made no reply; he made a sign with his head, went into theanteroom, and seated himself. Morrel fell back in his chair, his eyesfixed on the clock; there were seven minutes left, that was all. Thehand moved on with incredible rapidity, he seemed to see its motion.
What passed in the mind of this man at the supreme moment of his agonycannot be told in words. He was still comparatively young, he wassurrounded by the loving care of a devoted family, but he had convincedhimself by a course of reasoning, illogical perhaps, yet certainlyplausible, that he must separate himself from all he held dear in theworld, even life itself. To form the slightest idea of his feelings,one must have seen his face with its expression of enforced resignationand its tear-moistened eyes raised to heaven. The minute hand moved on.The pistols were loaded; he stretched forth his hand, took one up, andmurmured his daughter’s name. Then he laid it down, seized his pen, andwrote a few words. It seemed to him as if he had not taken a sufficientfarewell of his beloved daughter. Then he turned again to the clock,counting time now not by minutes, but by seconds.
He took up the deadly weapon again, his lips parted and his eyes fixedon the clock, and then shuddered at the click of the trigger as hecocked the pistol. At this moment of mortal anguish the cold sweat cameforth upon his brow, a pang stronger than death clutched at hisheart-strings. He heard the door of the staircase creak on itshinges—the clock gave its warning to strike eleven—the door of hisstudy opened. Morrel did not turn round—he expected these words ofCocles, “The agent of Thomson & French.”
He placed the muzzle of the pistol between his teeth. Suddenly he hearda cry—it was his daughter’s voice. He turned and saw Julie. The pistolfell from his hands.
“My father!” cried the young girl, out of breath, and half dead withjoy—“saved, you are saved!” And she threw herself into his arms,holding in her extended hand a red, netted silk purse.
20061m


“Saved, my child!” said Morrel; “what do you mean?”
“Yes, saved—saved! See, see!” said the young girl.
Morrel took the purse, and started as he did so, for a vagueremembrance reminded him that it once belonged to himself. At one endwas the receipted bill for the 287,000 francs, and at the other was adiamond as large as a hazel-nut, with these words on a small slip ofparchment: _Julie’s Dowry_.
Morrel passed his hand over his brow; it seemed to him a dream. At thismoment the clock struck eleven. He felt as if each stroke of the hammerfell upon his heart.
“Explain, my child,” he said, “Explain, my child,” he said,“explain—where did you find this purse?”
“In a house in the Allées de Meilhan, No. 15, on the corner of amantelpiece in a small room on the fifth floor.”
“But,” cried Morrel, “this purse is not yours!” Julie handed to herfather the letter she had received in the morning.
“And did you go alone?” asked Morrel, after he had read it.
“Emmanuel accompanied me, father. He was to have waited for me at thecorner of the Rue du Musée, but, strange to say, he was not there whenI returned.”
“Monsieur Morrel!” exclaimed a voice on the stairs; “Monsieur Morrel!”
“It is his voice!” said Julie. At this moment Emmanuel entered, hiscountenance full of animation and joy.
“The _Pharaon_!” he cried; “the _Pharaon_!”
“What!—what!—the _Pharaon_! Are you mad, Emmanuel? You know the vesselis lost.”
“The _Pharaon_, sir—they signal the _Pharaon_! The _Pharaon_ isentering the harbor!”
Morrel fell back in his chair, his strength was failing him; hisunderstanding weakened by such events, refused to comprehend suchincredible, unheard-of, fabulous facts. But his son came in.
“Father,” cried Maximilian, “how could you say the _Pharaon_ was lost?The lookout has signalled her, and they say she is now coming intoport.”
20063m


“My dear friends,” said Morrel, “if this be so, it must be a miracle ofheaven! Impossible, impossible!”
But what was real and not less incredible was the purse he held in hishand, the acceptance receipted—the splendid diamond.
“Ah, sir,” exclaimed Cocles, “what can it mean?—the _Pharaon_?”
“Come, dear ones,” said Morrel, rising from his seat, “let us go andsee, and Heaven have pity upon us if it be false intelligence!”
They all went out, and on the stairs met Madame Morrel, who had beenafraid to go up into the study. In a moment they were at the Canebière.There was a crowd on the pier. All the crowd gave way before Morrel.“The _Pharaon_! the _Pharaon_!” said every voice.
And, wonderful to see, in front of the tower of Saint-Jean, was a shipbearing on her stern these words, printed in white letters, “The_Pharaon_, Morrel & Son, of Marseilles.” She was the exact duplicate ofthe other _Pharaon_, and loaded, as that had been, with cochineal andindigo. She cast anchor, clued up sails, and on the deck was CaptainGaumard giving orders, and good old Penelon making signals to M.Morrel. To doubt any longer was impossible; there was the evidence ofthe senses, and ten thousand persons who came to corroborate thetestimony.
As Morrel and his son embraced on the pier-head, in the presence andamid the applause of the whole city witnessing this event, a man, withhis face half-covered by a black beard, and who, concealed behind thesentry-box, watched the scene with delight, uttered these words in alow tone:
“Be happy, noble heart, be blessed for all the good thou hast done andwilt do hereafter, and let my gratitude remain in obscurity like yourgood deeds.”
20064m


And with a smile expressive of supreme content, he left hishiding-place, and without being observed, descended one of the flightsof steps provided for debarkation, and hailing three times, shouted“Jacopo, Jacopo, Jacopo!”
Then a launch came to shore, took him on board, and conveyed him to ayacht splendidly fitted up, on whose deck he sprung with the activityof a sailor; thence he once again looked towards Morrel, who, weepingwith joy, was shaking hands most cordially with all the crowd aroundhim, and thanking with a look the unknown benefactor whom he seemed tobe seeking in the skies.
“And now,” said the unknown, “farewell kindness, humanity, andgratitude! Farewell to all the feelings that expand the heart! I havebeen Heaven’s substitute to recompense the good—now the god ofvengeance yields to me his power to punish the wicked!”
At these words he gave a signal, and, as if only awaiting this signal,the yacht instantly put out to sea.


 Chapter 31. Italy: Sinbad the Sailor
Towards the beginning of the year 1838, two young men belonging to thefirst society of Paris, the Viscount Albert de Morcerf and the BaronFranz d’Épinay, were at Florence. They had agreed to see the Carnivalat Rome that year, and that Franz, who for the last three or four yearshad inhabited Italy, should act as _cicerone_ to Albert.
As it is no inconsiderable affair to spend the Carnival at Rome,especially when you have no great desire to sleep on the Piazza delPopolo, or the Campo Vaccino, they wrote to Signor Pastrini, theproprietor of the Hôtel de Londres, Piazza di Spagna, to reservecomfortable apartments for them. Signor Pastrini replied that he hadonly two rooms and a parlor on the third floor, which he offered at thelow charge of a louis per diem. They accepted his offer; but wishing tomake the best use of the time that was left, Albert started for Naples.As for Franz, he remained at Florence, and after having passed a fewdays in exploring the paradise of the Cascine, and spending two orthree evenings at the houses of the Florentine nobility, he took afancy into his head (having already visited Corsica, the cradle ofBonaparte) to visit Elba, the waiting-place of Napoleon.
One evening he cast off the painter of a sailboat from the iron ringthat secured it to the dock at Leghorn, wrapped himself in his coat andlay down, and said to the crew,—“To the Island of Elba!”
The boat shot out of the harbor like a bird and the next morning Franzdisembarked at Porto-Ferrajo. He traversed the island, after havingfollowed the traces which the footsteps of the giant have left, andre-embarked for Marciana.
Two hours after he again landed at Pianosa, where he was assured thatred partridges abounded. The sport was bad; Franz only succeeded inkilling a few partridges, and, like every unsuccessful sportsman, hereturned to the boat very much out of temper.
“Ah, if your excellency chose,” said the captain, “you might havecapital sport.”
“Where?”
“Do you see that island?” continued the captain, pointing to a conicalpile rising from the indigo sea.
“Well, what is this island?”
“The Island of Monte Cristo.”
“But I have no permission to shoot over this island.”
“Your excellency does not require a permit, for the island isuninhabited.”
“Ah, indeed!” said the young man. “A desert island in the midst of theMediterranean must be a curiosity.”
“It is very natural; this island is a mass of rocks, and does notcontain an acre of land capable of cultivation.”
“To whom does this island belong?”
“To Tuscany.”
“What game shall I find there!”
“Thousands of wild goats.”
“Who live upon the stones, I suppose,” said Franz with an increduloussmile.
“No, but by browsing the shrubs and trees that grow out of the crevicesof the rocks.”
“Where can I sleep?”
“On shore in the grottos, or on board in your cloak; besides, if yourexcellency pleases, we can leave as soon as you like—we can sail aswell by night as by day, and if the wind drops we can use our oars.”
As Franz had sufficient time, and his apartments at Rome were not yetavailable, he accepted the proposition. Upon his answer in theaffirmative, the sailors exchanged a few words together in a low tone.“Well,” asked he, “what now? Is there any difficulty in the way?”
“No.” replied the captain, “but we must warn your excellency that theisland is an infected port.”
“What do you mean?”
“Monte Cristo although uninhabited, yet serves occasionally as a refugefor the smugglers and pirates who come from Corsica, Sardinia, andAfrica, and if it becomes known that we have been there, we shall haveto perform quarantine for six days on our return to Leghorn.”
“The deuce! That puts a different face on the matter. Six days! Why,that’s as long as the Almighty took to make the world! Too long await—too long.”
“But who will say your excellency has been to Monte Cristo?”
“Oh, I shall not,” cried Franz.
“Nor I, nor I,” chorused the sailors.
“Then steer for Monte Cristo.”
The captain gave his orders, the helm was put up, and the boat was soonsailing in the direction of the island. Franz waited until all was inorder, and when the sail was filled, and the four sailors had takentheir places—three forward, and one at the helm—he resumed theconversation. “Gaetano,” said he to the captain, “you tell me MonteCristo serves as a refuge for pirates, who are, it seems to me, a verydifferent kind of game from the goats.”
“Yes, your excellency, and it is true.”
“I knew there were smugglers, but I thought that since the capture ofAlgiers, and the destruction of the regency, pirates existed only inthe romances of Cooper and Captain Marryat.”
“Your excellency is mistaken; there are pirates, like the bandits whowere believed to have been exterminated by Pope Leo XII., and who yet,every day, rob travellers at the gates of Rome. Has not your excellencyheard that the French _chargé d’affaires_ was robbed six months agowithin five hundred paces of Velletri?”
“Oh, yes, I heard that.”
“Well, then, if, like us, your excellency lived at Leghorn, you wouldhear, from time to time, that a little merchant vessel, or an Englishyacht that was expected at Bastia, at Porto-Ferrajo, or at CivitaVecchia, has not arrived; no one knows what has become of it, but,doubtless, it has struck on a rock and foundered. Now this rock it hasmet has been a long and narrow boat, manned by six or eight men, whohave surprised and plundered it, some dark and stormy night, near somedesert and gloomy island, as bandits plunder a carriage in the recessesof a forest.”
“But,” asked Franz, who lay wrapped in his cloak at the bottom of theboat, “why do not those who have been plundered complain to the French,Sardinian, or Tuscan governments?”
“Why?” said Gaetano with a smile.
“Yes, why?”
“Because, in the first place, they transfer from the vessel to theirown boat whatever they think worth taking, then they bind the crew handand foot, they attach to everyone’s neck a four-and-twenty-pound ball,a large hole is chopped in the vessel’s bottom, and then they leaveher. At the end of ten minutes the vessel begins to roll heavily andsettle down. First one gun’l goes under, then the other. Then they liftand sink again, and both go under at once. All at once there’s a noiselike a cannon—that’s the air blowing up the deck. Soon the water rushesout of the scupper-holes like a whale spouting, the vessel gives a lastgroan, spins round and round, and disappears, forming a vast whirlpoolin the ocean, and then all is over, so that in five minutes nothing butthe eye of God can see the vessel where she lies at the bottom of thesea. Do you understand now,” said the captain, “why no complaints aremade to the government, and why the vessel never reaches port?”
It is probable that if Gaetano had related this previous to proposingthe expedition, Franz would have hesitated, but now that they hadstarted, he thought it would be cowardly to draw back. He was one ofthose men who do not rashly court danger, but if danger presentsitself, combat it with the most unalterable coolness. Calm andresolute, he treated any peril as he would an adversary in aduel,—calculated its probable method of approach; retreated, if at all,as a point of strategy and not from cowardice; was quick to see anopening for attack, and won victory at a single thrust.
“Bah!” said he, “I have travelled through Sicily and Calabria—I havesailed two months in the Archipelago, and yet I never saw even theshadow of a bandit or a pirate.”
“I did not tell your excellency this to deter you from your project,”replied Gaetano, “but you questioned me, and I have answered; that’sall.”
“Yes, and your conversation is most interesting; and as I wish to enjoyit as long as possible, steer for Monte Cristo.”
The wind blew strongly, the boat made six or seven knots an hour, andthey were rapidly reaching the end of their voyage. As they drew nearthe island seemed to lift from the sea, and the air was so clear thatthey could already distinguish the rocks heaped on one another, likecannon balls in an arsenal, with green bushes and trees growing in thecrevices. As for the sailors, although they appeared perfectly tranquilyet it was evident that they were on the alert, and that they carefullywatched the glassy surface over which they were sailing, and on which afew fishing-boats, with their white sails, were alone visible.
They were within fifteen miles of Monte Cristo when the sun began toset behind Corsica, whose mountains appeared against the sky, showingtheir rugged peaks in bold relief; this mass of rock, like the giantAdamastor, rose dead ahead, a formidable barrier, and intercepting thelight that gilded its massive peaks so that the voyagers were inshadow. Little by little the shadow rose higher and seemed to drivebefore it the last rays of the expiring day; at last the reflectionrested on the summit of the mountain, where it paused an instant, likethe fiery crest of a volcano, then gloom gradually covered the summitas it had covered the base, and the island now only appeared to be agray mountain that grew continually darker; half an hour after, thenight was quite dark.
Fortunately, the mariners were used to these latitudes, and knew everyrock in the Tuscan Archipelago; for in the midst of this obscurityFranz was not without uneasiness—Corsica had long since disappeared,and Monte Cristo itself was invisible; but the sailors seemed, like thelynx, to see in the dark, and the pilot who steered did not evince theslightest hesitation.
An hour had passed since the sun had set, when Franz fancied he saw, ata quarter of a mile to the left, a dark mass, but he could notprecisely make out what it was, and fearing to excite the mirth of thesailors by mistaking a floating cloud for land, he remained silent;suddenly a great light appeared on the strand; land might resemble acloud, but the fire was not a meteor.
“What is this light?” asked he.
“Hush!” said the captain; “it is a fire.”
“But you told me the island was uninhabited?”
“I said there were no fixed habitations on it, but I said also that itserved sometimes as a harbor for smugglers.”
“And for pirates?”
“And for pirates,” returned Gaetano, repeating Franz’s words. “It isfor that reason I have given orders to pass the island, for, as yousee, the fire is behind us.”
“But this fire?” continued Franz. “It seems to me rather reassuringthan otherwise; men who did not wish to be seen would not light afire.”
“Oh, that goes for nothing,” said Gaetano. “If you can guess theposition of the island in the darkness, you will see that the firecannot be seen from the side or from Pianosa, but only from the sea.”
“You think, then, this fire indicates the presence of unpleasantneighbors?”
“That is what we must find out,” returned Gaetano, fixing his eyes onthis terrestrial star.
“How can you find out?”
“You shall see.”
Gaetano consulted with his companions, and after five minutes’discussion a manœuvre was executed which caused the vessel to tackabout, they returned the way they had come, and in a few minutes thefire disappeared, hidden by an elevation of the land. The pilot againchanged the course of the boat, which rapidly approached the island,and was soon within fifty paces of it. Gaetano lowered the sail, andthe boat came to rest. All this was done in silence, and from themoment that their course was changed not a word was spoken.
Gaetano, who had proposed the expedition, had taken all theresponsibility on himself; the four sailors fixed their eyes on him,while they got out their oars and held themselves in readiness to rowaway, which, thanks to the darkness, would not be difficult. As forFranz, he examined his arms with the utmost coolness; he had twodouble-barrelled guns and a rifle; he loaded them, looked at thepriming, and waited quietly.
During this time the captain had thrown off his vest and shirt, andsecured his trousers round his waist; his feet were naked, so he had noshoes and stockings to take off; after these preparations he placed hisfinger on his lips, and lowering himself noiselessly into the sea, swamtowards the shore with such precaution that it was impossible to hearthe slightest sound; he could only be traced by the phosphorescent linein his wake. This track soon disappeared; it was evident that he hadtouched the shore.
Everyone on board remained motionless for half an hour, when the sameluminous track was again observed, and the swimmer was soon on board.
“Well?” exclaimed Franz and the sailors in unison.
“They are Spanish smugglers,” said he; “they have with them twoCorsican bandits.”
“And what are these Corsican bandits doing here with Spanishsmugglers?”
“Alas,” returned the captain with an accent of the most profound pity,“we ought always to help one another. Very often the bandits are hardpressed by gendarmes or carbineers; well, they see a vessel, and goodfellows like us on board, they come and demand hospitality of us; youcan’t refuse help to a poor hunted devil; we receive them, and forgreater security we stand out to sea. This costs us nothing, and savesthe life, or at least the liberty, of a fellow-creature, who on thefirst occasion returns the service by pointing out some safe spot wherewe can land our goods without interruption.”
“Ah!” said Franz, “then you are a smuggler occasionally, Gaetano?”
“Your excellency, we must live somehow,” returned the other, smilingimpenetrably.
“Then you know the men who are now on Monte Cristo?”
“Oh, yes, we sailors are like freemasons, and recognize each other bysigns.”
“And do you think we have nothing to fear if we land?”
“Nothing at all; smugglers are not thieves.”
“But these two Corsican bandits?” said Franz, calculating the chancesof peril.
“It is not their fault that they are bandits, but that of theauthorities.”
“How so?”
“Because they are pursued for having made a stiff, as if it was not ina Corsican’s nature to revenge himself.”
“What do you mean by having made a stiff?—having assassinated a man?”said Franz, continuing his investigation.
“I mean that they have killed an enemy, which is a very differentthing,” returned the captain.
“Well,” said the young man, “let us demand hospitality of thesesmugglers and bandits. Do you think they will grant it?”
“Without doubt.”
“How many are they?”
“Four, and the two bandits make six.”
“Just our number, so that if they prove troublesome, we shall be ableto hold them in check; so, for the last time, steer to Monte Cristo.”
“Yes, but your excellency will permit us to take all due precautions.”
“By all means, be as wise as Nestor and as prudent as Ulysses; I domore than permit, I exhort you.”
“Silence, then!” said Gaetano.
Everyone obeyed. For a man who, like Franz, viewed his position in itstrue light, it was a grave one. He was alone in the darkness withsailors whom he did not know, and who had no reason to be devoted tohim; who knew that he had several thousand francs in his belt, and whohad often examined his weapons,—which were very beautiful,—if not withenvy, at least with curiosity. On the other hand, he was about to land,without any other escort than these men, on an island which had,indeed, a very religious name, but which did not seem to Franz likelyto afford him much hospitality, thanks to the smugglers and bandits.The history of the scuttled vessels, which had appeared improbableduring the day, seemed very probable at night; placed as he was betweentwo possible sources of danger, he kept his eye on the crew, and hisgun in his hand.
The sailors had again hoisted sail, and the vessel was once morecleaving the waves. Through the darkness Franz, whose eyes were nowmore accustomed to it, could see the looming shore along which the boatwas sailing, and then, as they rounded a rocky point, he saw the firemore brilliant than ever, and about it five or six persons seated. Theblaze illumined the sea for a hundred paces around. Gaetano skirted thelight, carefully keeping the boat in the shadow; then, when they wereopposite the fire, he steered to the centre of the circle, singing afishing song, of which his companions sung the chorus.
At the first words of the song the men seated round the fire arose andapproached the landing-place, their eyes fixed on the boat, evidentlyseeking to know who the new-comers were and what were their intentions.They soon appeared satisfied and returned (with the exception of one,who remained at the shore) to their fire, at which the carcass of agoat was roasting. When the boat was within twenty paces of the shore,the man on the beach, who carried a carbine, presented arms after themanner of a sentinel, and cried, “Who comes there?” in Sardinian.
Franz coolly cocked both barrels. Gaetano then exchanged a few wordswith this man which the traveller did not understand, but whichevidently concerned him.
“Will your excellency give your name, or remain _incognito_?” asked thecaptain.
“My name must rest unknown,” replied Franz; “merely say I am aFrenchman travelling for pleasure.”
As soon as Gaetano had transmitted this answer, the sentinel gave anorder to one of the men seated round the fire, who rose and disappearedamong the rocks. Not a word was spoken, everyone seemed occupied, Franzwith his disembarkment, the sailors with their sails, the smugglerswith their goat; but in the midst of all this carelessness it wasevident that they mutually observed each other.
The man who had disappeared returned suddenly on the opposite side tothat by which he had left; he made a sign with his head to thesentinel, who, turning to the boat, said, “_S’accommodi_.” The Italian_s’accommodi_ is untranslatable; it means at once, “Come, enter, youare welcome; make yourself at home; you are the master.” It is likethat Turkish phrase of Molière’s that so astonished the bourgeoisgentleman by the number of things implied in its utterance.
The sailors did not wait for a second invitation; four strokes of theoar brought them to land; Gaetano sprang to shore, exchanged a fewwords with the sentinel, then his comrades disembarked, and lastly cameFranz. One of his guns was swung over his shoulder, Gaetano had theother, and a sailor held his rifle; his dress, half artist, half dandy,did not excite any suspicion, and, consequently, no disquietude. Theboat was moored to the shore, and they advanced a few paces to find acomfortable bivouac; but, doubtless, the spot they chose did not suitthe smuggler who filled the post of sentinel, for he cried out:
“Not that way, if you please.”
Gaetano faltered an excuse, and advanced to the opposite side, whiletwo sailors kindled torches at the fire to light them on their way.
They advanced about thirty paces, and then stopped at a small esplanadesurrounded with rocks, in which seats had been cut, not unlikesentry-boxes. Around in the crevices of the rocks grew a few dwarf oaksand thick bushes of myrtles. Franz lowered a torch, and saw by the massof cinders that had accumulated that he was not the first to discoverthis retreat, which was, doubtless, one of the halting-places of thewandering visitors of Monte Cristo.
As for his suspicions, once on _terra firma_, once that he had seen theindifferent, if not friendly, appearance of his hosts, his anxiety hadquite disappeared, or rather, at sight of the goat, had turned toappetite. He mentioned this to Gaetano, who replied that nothing couldbe more easy than to prepare a supper when they had in their boat,bread, wine, half a dozen partridges, and a good fire to roast them by.
“Besides,” added he, “if the smell of their roast meat tempts you, Iwill go and offer them two of our birds for a slice.”
“You are a born diplomat,” returned Franz; “go and try.”
Meanwhile the sailors had collected dried sticks and branches withwhich they made a fire. Franz waited impatiently, inhaling the aroma ofthe roasted meat, when the captain returned with a mysterious air.
“Well,” said Franz, “anything new?—do they refuse?”
“On the contrary,” returned Gaetano, “the chief, who was told you werea young Frenchman, invites you to sup with him.”
“Well,” observed Franz, “this chief is very polite, and I see noobjection—the more so as I bring my share of the supper.”
“Oh, it is not that; he has plenty, and to spare, for supper; but hemakes one condition, and rather a peculiar one, before he will receiveyou at his house.”
“His house? Has he built one here, then?”
“No, but he has a very comfortable one all the same, so they say.”
“You know this chief, then?”
“I have heard talk of him.”
“Favorably or otherwise?”
“Both.”
“The deuce!—and what is this condition?”
“That you are blindfolded, and do not take off the bandage until hehimself bids you.”
Franz looked at Gaetano, to see, if possible, what he thought of thisproposal. “Ah,” replied he, guessing Franz’s thought, “I know this is aserious matter.”
“What should you do in my place?”
“I, who have nothing to lose,—I should go.”
20075m


“You would accept?”
“Yes, were it only out of curiosity.”
“There is something very peculiar about this chief, then?”
“Listen,” said Gaetano, lowering his voice, “I do not know if what theysay is true”—he stopped to see if anyone was near.
“What do they say?”
“That this chief inhabits a cavern to which the Pitti Palace isnothing.”
“What nonsense!” said Franz, reseating himself.
“It is no nonsense; it is quite true. Cama, the pilot of the _SaintFerdinand_, went in once, and he came back amazed, vowing that suchtreasures were only to be heard of in fairy tales.”
“Do you know,” observed Franz, “that with such stories you make methink of Ali Baba’s enchanted cavern?”
“I tell you what I have been told.”
“Then you advise me to accept?”
“Oh, I don’t say that; your excellency will do as you please; I shouldbe sorry to advise you in the matter.”
Franz pondered the matter for a few moments, concluded that a man sorich could not have any intention of plundering him of what little hehad, and seeing only the prospect of a good supper, accepted. Gaetanodeparted with the reply. Franz was prudent, and wished to learn all hepossibly could concerning his host. He turned towards the sailor, who,during this dialogue, had sat gravely plucking the partridges with theair of a man proud of his office, and asked him how these men hadlanded, as no vessel of any kind was visible.
“Never mind that,” returned the sailor, “I know their vessel.”
“Is it a very beautiful vessel?”
“I would not wish for a better to sail round the world.”
“Of what burden is she?”
“About a hundred tons; but she is built to stand any weather. She iswhat the English call a yacht.”
“Where was she built?”
“I know not; but my own opinion is she is a Genoese.”
“And how did a leader of smugglers,” continued Franz, “venture to builda vessel designed for such a purpose at Genoa?”
“I did not say that the owner was a smuggler,” replied the sailor.
“No; but Gaetano did, I thought.”
“Gaetano had only seen the vessel from a distance, he had not thenspoken to anyone.”
“And if this person be not a smuggler, who is he?”
“A wealthy signor, who travels for his pleasure.”
“Come,” thought Franz, “he is still more mysterious, since the twoaccounts do not agree.”
“What is his name?”
“If you ask him, he says Sinbad the Sailor; but I doubt if it be hisreal name.”
“Sinbad the Sailor?”
“Yes.”
“And where does he reside?”
“On the sea.”
“What country does he come from?”
“I do not know.”
“Have you ever seen him?”
“Sometimes.”
“What sort of a man is he?”
“Your excellency will judge for yourself.”
“Where will he receive me?”
“No doubt in the subterranean palace Gaetano told you of.”
“Have you never had the curiosity, when you have landed and found thisisland deserted, to seek for this enchanted palace?”
“Oh, yes, more than once, but always in vain; we examined the grottoall over, but we never could find the slightest trace of any opening;they say that the door is not opened by a key, but a magic word.”
“Decidedly,” muttered Franz, “this is an Arabian Nights’ adventure.”
“His excellency waits for you,” said a voice, which he recognized asthat of the sentinel. He was accompanied by two of the yacht’s crew.
Franz drew his handkerchief from his pocket, and presented it to theman who had spoken to him. Without uttering a word, they bandaged hiseyes with a care that showed their apprehensions of his committing someindiscretion. Afterwards he was made to promise that he would not makethe least attempt to raise the bandage. He promised.
Then his two guides took his arms, and he went on, guided by them, andpreceded by the sentinel. After going about thirty paces, he smelt theappetizing odor of the kid that was roasting, and knew thus that he waspassing the bivouac; they then led him on about fifty paces farther,evidently advancing towards that part of the shore where they would notallow Gaetano to go—a refusal he could now comprehend.
Presently, by a change in the atmosphere, he knew that they wereentering a cave; after going on for a few seconds more he heard acrackling, and it seemed to him as though the atmosphere again changed,and became balmy and perfumed. At length his feet touched on a thickand soft carpet, and his guides let go their hold of him. There was amoment’s silence, and then a voice, in excellent French, although, witha foreign accent, said:
“Welcome, sir. I beg you will remove your bandage.”
It may be supposed, then, Franz did not wait for a repetition of thispermission, but took off the handkerchief, and found himself in thepresence of a man from thirty-eight to forty years of age, dressed in aTunisian costume, that is to say, a red cap with a long blue silktassel, a vest of black cloth embroidered with gold, pantaloons of deepred, large and full gaiters of the same color, embroidered with goldlike the vest, and yellow slippers; he had a splendid cashmere roundhis waist, and a small sharp and crooked cangiar was passed through hisgirdle.
Although of a paleness that was almost livid, this man had a remarkablyhandsome face; his eyes were penetrating and sparkling; his nose, quitestraight, and projecting direct from the brow, was of the pure Greektype, while his teeth, as white as pearls, were set off to admirationby the black moustache that encircled them.
His pallor was so peculiar, that it seemed to pertain to one who hadbeen long entombed, and who was incapable of resuming the healthy glowand hue of life. He was not particularly tall, but extremely well made,and, like the men of the South, had small hands and feet. But whatastonished Franz, who had treated Gaetano’s description as a fable, wasthe splendor of the apartment in which he found himself.
The entire chamber was lined with crimson brocade, worked with flowersof gold. In a recess was a kind of divan, surmounted with a stand ofArabian swords in silver scabbards, and the handles resplendent withgems; from the ceiling hung a lamp of Venetian glass, of beautifulshape and color, while the feet rested on a Turkey carpet, in whichthey sunk to the instep; tapestry hung before the door by which Franzhad entered, and also in front of another door, leading into a secondapartment which seemed to be brilliantly illuminated.
The host gave Franz time to recover from his surprise, and, moreover,returned look for look, not even taking his eyes off him.
“Sir,” he said, after a pause, “a thousand excuses for the precautiontaken in your introduction hither; but as, during the greater portionof the year, this island is deserted, if the secret of this abode werediscovered, I should doubtless, find on my return my temporaryretirement in a state of great disorder, which would be exceedinglyannoying, not for the loss it occasioned me, but because I should nothave the certainty I now possess of separating myself from all the restof mankind at pleasure. Let me now endeavor to make you forget thistemporary unpleasantness, and offer you what no doubt you did notexpect to find here—that is to say, a tolerable supper and prettycomfortable beds.”
“_Ma foi_, my dear sir,” replied Franz, “make no apologies. I havealways observed that they bandage people’s eyes who penetrate enchantedpalaces, for instance, those of Raoul in the _Huguenots_, and really Ihave nothing to complain of, for what I see makes me think of thewonders of the _Arabian Nights_.”
20079m


“Alas! I may say with Lucullus, if I could have anticipated the honorof your visit, I would have prepared for it. But such as is myhermitage, it is at your disposal; such as is my supper, it is yours toshare, if you will. Ali, is the supper ready?”
At this moment the tapestry moved aside, and a Nubian, black as ebony,and dressed in a plain white tunic, made a sign to his master that allwas prepared in the dining-room.
“Now,” said the unknown to Franz, “I do not know if you are of myopinion, but I think nothing is more annoying than to remain two orthree hours together without knowing by name or appellation how toaddress one another. Pray observe, that I too much respect the laws ofhospitality to ask your name or title. I only request you to give meone by which I may have the pleasure of addressing you. As for myself,that I may put you at your ease, I tell you that I am generally called‘Sinbad the Sailor.’”
“And I,” replied Franz, “will tell you, as I only require his wonderfullamp to make me precisely like Aladdin, that I see no reason why atthis moment I should not be called Aladdin. That will keep us fromgoing away from the East whither I am tempted to think I have beenconveyed by some good genius.”
“Well, then, Signor Aladdin,” replied the singular Amphitryon, “youheard our repast announced, will you now take the trouble to enter thedining-room, your humble servant going first to show the way?”
At these words, moving aside the tapestry, Sinbad preceded his guest.Franz now looked upon another scene of enchantment; the table wassplendidly covered, and once convinced of this important point he casthis eyes around him. The dining-room was scarcely less striking thanthe room he had just left; it was entirely of marble, with antiquebas-reliefs of priceless value; and at the four corners of thisapartment, which was oblong, were four magnificent statues, havingbaskets in their hands. These baskets contained four pyramids of mostsplendid fruit; there were Sicily pine-apples, pomegranates fromMalaga, oranges from the Balearic Isles, peaches from France, and datesfrom Tunis.
The supper consisted of a roast pheasant garnished with Corsicanblackbirds; a boar’s ham with jelly, a quarter of a kid with tartarsauce, a glorious turbot, and a gigantic lobster. Between these largedishes were smaller ones containing various dainties. The dishes wereof silver, and the plates of Japanese china.
Franz rubbed his eyes in order to assure himself that this was not adream. Ali alone was present to wait at table, and acquitted himself soadmirably, that the guest complimented his host thereupon.
“Yes,” replied he, while he did the honors of the supper with much easeand grace—“yes, he is a poor devil who is much devoted to me, and doesall he can to prove it. He remembers that I saved his life, and as hehas a regard for his head, he feels some gratitude towards me forhaving kept it on his shoulders.”
Ali approached his master, took his hand, and kissed it.
“Would it be impertinent, Signor Sinbad,” said Franz, “to ask you theparticulars of this kindness?”
20081m


“Oh, they are simple enough,” replied the host. “It seems the fellowhad been caught wandering nearer to the harem of the Bey of Tunis thanetiquette permits to one of his color, and he was condemned by the Beyto have his tongue cut out, and his hand and head cut off; the tonguethe first day, the hand the second, and the head the third. I alwayshad a desire to have a mute in my service, so learning the day histongue was cut out, I went to the Bey, and proposed to give him for Alia splendid double-barreled gun, which I knew he was very desirous ofhaving. He hesitated a moment, he was so very desirous to complete thepoor devil’s punishment. But when I added to the gun an English cutlasswith which I had shivered his highness’s yataghan to pieces, the Beyyielded, and agreed to forgive the hand and head, but on condition thatthe poor fellow never again set foot in Tunis. This was a uselessclause in the bargain, for whenever the coward sees the first glimpseof the shores of Africa, he runs down below, and can only be induced toappear again when we are out of sight of that quarter of the globe.”
Franz remained a moment silent and pensive, hardly knowing what tothink of the half-kindness, half-cruelty, with which his host relatedthe brief narrative.
“And like the celebrated sailor whose name you have assumed,” he said,by way of changing the conversation, “you pass your life intravelling?”
“Yes. I made a vow at a time when I little thought I should ever beable to accomplish it,” said the unknown with a singular smile; “and Imade some others also which I hope I may fulfil in due season.”
Although Sinbad pronounced these words with much calmness, his eyesgave forth gleams of extraordinary ferocity.
“You have suffered a great deal, sir?” said Franz inquiringly.
Sinbad started and looked fixedly at him, as he replied, “What makesyou suppose so?”
“Everything,” answered Franz,—“your voice, your look, your pallidcomplexion, and even the life you lead.”
“I?—I live the happiest life possible, the real life of a pasha. I amking of all creation. I am pleased with one place, and stay there; Iget tired of it, and leave it; I am free as a bird and have wings likeone; my attendants obey my slightest wish. Sometimes I amuse myself bydelivering some bandit or criminal from the bonds of the law. Then Ihave my mode of dispensing justice, silent and sure, without respite orappeal, which condemns or pardons, and which no one sees. Ah, if youhad tasted my life, you would not desire any other, and would neverreturn to the world unless you had some great project to accomplishthere.”
“Revenge, for instance!” observed Franz.
The unknown fixed on the young man one of those looks which penetrateinto the depth of the heart and thoughts. “And why revenge?” he asked.
“Because,” replied Franz, “you seem to me like a man who, persecuted bysociety, has a fearful account to settle with it.”
“Ah!” responded Sinbad, laughing with his singular laugh, whichdisplayed his white and sharp teeth. “You have not guessed rightly.Such as you see me I am, a sort of philosopher, and one day perhaps Ishall go to Paris to rival Monsieur Appert, and the man in the littleblue cloak.”
“And will that be the first time you ever took that journey?”
“Yes; it will. I must seem to you by no means curious, but I assure youthat it is not my fault I have delayed it so long—it will happen oneday or the other.”
20083m


“And do you propose to make this journey very shortly?”
“I do not know; it depends on circumstances which depend on certainarrangements.”
“I should like to be there at the time you come, and I will endeavor torepay you, as far as lies in my power, for your liberal hospitalitydisplayed to me at Monte Cristo.”
“I should avail myself of your offer with pleasure,” replied the host,“but, unfortunately, if I go there, it will be, in all probability,_incognito_.”
The supper appeared to have been supplied solely for Franz, for theunknown scarcely touched one or two dishes of the splendid banquet towhich his guest did ample justice. Then Ali brought on the dessert, orrather took the baskets from the hands of the statues and placed themon the table. Between the two baskets he placed a small silver cup witha silver cover. The care with which Ali placed this cup on the tableroused Franz’s curiosity. He raised the cover and saw a kind ofgreenish paste, something like preserved angelica, but which wasperfectly unknown to him. He replaced the lid, as ignorant of what thecup contained as he was before he had looked at it, and then castinghis eyes towards his host he saw him smile at his disappointment.
“You cannot guess,” said he, “what there is in that small vase, canyou?”
“No, I really cannot.”
“Well, then, that green preserve is nothing less than the ambrosiawhich Hebe served at the table of Jupiter.”
“But,” replied Franz, “this ambrosia, no doubt, in passing throughmortal hands has lost its heavenly appellation and assumed a humanname; in vulgar phrase, what may you term this composition, for which,to tell the truth, I do not feel any particular desire?”
“Ah, thus it is that our material origin is revealed,” cried Sinbad;“we frequently pass so near to happiness without seeing, withoutregarding it, or if we do see and regard it, yet without recognizingit. Are you a man for the substantials, and is gold your god? tastethis, and the mines of Peru, Guzerat, and Golconda are opened to you.Are you a man of imagination—a poet? taste this, and the boundaries ofpossibility disappear; the fields of infinite space open to you, youadvance free in heart, free in mind, into the boundless realms ofunfettered reverie. Are you ambitious, and do you seek after thegreatnesses of the earth? taste this, and in an hour you will be aking, not a king of a petty kingdom hidden in some corner of Europelike France, Spain, or England, but king of the world, king of theuniverse, king of creation; without bowing at the feet of Satan, youwill be king and master of all the kingdoms of the earth. Is it nottempting what I offer you, and is it not an easy thing, since it isonly to do thus? look!”
At these words he uncovered the small cup which contained the substanceso lauded, took a teaspoonful of the magic sweetmeat, raised it to hislips, and swallowed it slowly with his eyes half shut and his head bentbackwards. Franz did not disturb him whilst he absorbed his favoritesweetmeat, but when he had finished, he inquired:
“What, then, is this precious stuff?”
“Did you ever hear,” he replied, “of the Old Man of the Mountain, whoattempted to assassinate Philippe Auguste?”
“Of course I have.”
“Well, you know he reigned over a rich valley which was overhung by themountain whence he derived his picturesque name. In this valley weremagnificent gardens planted by Hassen-ben-Sabah, and in these gardensisolated pavilions. Into these pavilions he admitted the elect, andthere, says Marco Polo, gave them to eat a certain herb, whichtransported them to Paradise, in the midst of ever-blooming shrubs,ever-ripe fruit, and ever-lovely virgins. What these happy persons tookfor reality was but a dream; but it was a dream so soft, so voluptuous,so enthralling, that they sold themselves body and soul to him who gaveit to them, and obedient to his orders as to those of a deity, struckdown the designated victim, died in torture without a murmur, believingthat the death they underwent was but a quick transition to that lifeof delights of which the holy herb, now before you, had given them aslight foretaste.”
“Then,” cried Franz, “it is hashish! I know that—by name at least.”
“That is it precisely, Signor Aladdin; it is hashish—the purest andmost unadulterated hashish of Alexandria,—the hashish of Abou-Gor, thecelebrated maker, the only man, the man to whom there should be built apalace, inscribed with these words, _A grateful world to the dealer inhappiness_.”
“Do you know,” said Franz, “I have a very great inclination to judgefor myself of the truth or exaggeration of your eulogies.”
“Judge for yourself, Signor Aladdin—judge, but do not confine yourselfto one trial. Like everything else, we must habituate the senses to afresh impression, gentle or violent, sad or joyous. There is a strugglein nature against this divine substance,—in nature which is not madefor joy and clings to pain. Nature subdued must yield in the combat,the dream must succeed to reality, and then the dream reigns supreme,then the dream becomes life, and life becomes the dream. But whatchanges occur! It is only by comparing the pains of actual being withthe joys of the assumed existence, that you would desire to live nolonger, but to dream thus forever. When you return to this mundanesphere from your visionary world, you would seem to leave a Neapolitanspring for a Lapland winter—to quit paradise for earth—heaven for hell!Taste the hashish, guest of mine—taste the hashish.”
Franz’s only reply was to take a teaspoonful of the marvellouspreparation, about as much in quantity as his host had eaten, and liftit to his mouth.
“_Diable!_” he said, after having swallowed the divine preserve. “I donot know if the result will be as agreeable as you describe, but thething does not appear to me as palatable as you say.”
“Because your palate his not yet been attuned to the sublimity of thesubstances it flavors. Tell me, the first time you tasted oysters, tea,porter, truffles, and sundry other dainties which you now adore, didyou like them? Could you comprehend how the Romans stuffed theirpheasants with assafœtida, and the Chinese eat swallows’ nests? Eh? no!Well, it is the same with hashish; only eat for a week, and nothing inthe world will seem to you to equal the delicacy of its flavor, whichnow appears to you flat and distasteful. Let us now go into theadjoining chamber, which is your apartment, and Ali will bring uscoffee and pipes.”
They both arose, and while he who called himself Sinbad—and whom wehave occasionally named so, that we might, like his guest, have sometitle by which to distinguish him—gave some orders to the servant,Franz entered still another apartment.
It was simply yet richly furnished. It was round, and a large divancompletely encircled it. Divan, walls, ceiling, floor, were all coveredwith magnificent skins as soft and downy as the richest carpets; therewere heavy-maned lion-skins from Atlas, striped tiger-skins fromBengal; panther-skins from the Cape, spotted beautifully, like thosethat appeared to Dante; bear-skins from Siberia, fox-skins from Norway,and so on; and all these skins were strewn in profusion one on theother, so that it seemed like walking over the most mossy turf, orreclining on the most luxurious bed.
Both laid themselves down on the divan; chibouques with jasmine tubesand amber mouthpieces were within reach, and all prepared so that therewas no need to smoke the same pipe twice. Each of them took one, whichAli lighted and then retired to prepare the coffee.
There was a moment’s silence, during which Sinbad gave himself up tothoughts that seemed to occupy him incessantly, even in the midst ofhis conversation; and Franz abandoned himself to that mute reverie,into which we always sink when smoking excellent tobacco, which seemsto remove with its fume all the troubles of the mind, and to give thesmoker in exchange all the visions of the soul. Ali brought in thecoffee.
“How do you take it?” inquired the unknown; “in the French or Turkishstyle, strong or weak, sugar or none, cool or boiling? As you please;it is ready in all ways.”
“I will take it in the Turkish style,” replied Franz.
“And you are right,” said his host; “it shows you have a tendency foran Oriental life. Ah, those Orientals; they are the only men who knowhow to live. As for me,” he added, with one of those singular smileswhich did not escape the young man, “when I have completed my affairsin Paris, I shall go and die in the East; and should you wish to see meagain, you must seek me at Cairo, Bagdad, or Ispahan.”
20087m


“_Ma foi_,” said Franz, “it would be the easiest thing in the world;for I feel eagle’s wings springing out at my shoulders, and with thosewings I could make a tour of the world in four-and-twenty hours.”
“Ah, yes, the hashish is beginning its work. Well, unfurl your wings,and fly into superhuman regions; fear nothing, there is a watch overyou; and if your wings, like those of Icarus, melt before the sun, weare here to ease your fall.”
He then said something in Arabic to Ali, who made a sign of obedienceand withdrew, but not to any distance.
As to Franz a strange transformation had taken place in him. All thebodily fatigue of the day, all the preoccupation of mind which theevents of the evening had brought on, disappeared as they do at thefirst approach of sleep, when we are still sufficiently conscious to beaware of the coming of slumber. His body seemed to acquire an airylightness, his perception brightened in a remarkable manner, his sensesseemed to redouble their power, the horizon continued to expand; but itwas not the gloomy horizon of vague alarms, and which he had seenbefore he slept, but a blue, transparent, unbounded horizon, with allthe blue of the ocean, all the spangles of the sun, all the perfumes ofthe summer breeze; then, in the midst of the songs of hissailors,—songs so clear and sonorous, that they would have made adivine harmony had their notes been taken down,—he saw the Island ofMonte Cristo, no longer as a threatening rock in the midst of thewaves, but as an oasis in the desert; then, as his boat drew nearer,the songs became louder, for an enchanting and mysterious harmony roseto heaven, as if some Loreley had decreed to attract a soul thither, orAmphion, the enchanter, intended there to build a city.
At length the boat touched the shore, but without effort, withoutshock, as lips touch lips; and he entered the grotto amidst continuedstrains of most delicious melody. He descended, or rather seemed todescend, several steps, inhaling the fresh and balmy air, like thatwhich may be supposed to reign around the grotto of Circe, formed fromsuch perfumes as set the mind a-dreaming, and such fires as burn thevery senses; and he saw again all he had seen before his sleep, fromSinbad, his singular host, to Ali, the mute attendant; then all seemedto fade away and become confused before his eyes, like the last shadowsof the magic lantern before it is extinguished, and he was again in thechamber of statues, lighted only by one of those pale and antique lampswhich watch in the dead of the night over the sleep of pleasure.
They were the same statues, rich in form, in attraction, and poesy,with eyes of fascination, smiles of love, and bright and flowing hair.They were Phryne, Cleopatra, Messalina, those three celebratedcourtesans. Then among them glided like a pure ray, like a Christianangel in the midst of Olympus, one of those chaste figures, those calmshadows, those soft visions, which seemed to veil its virgin browbefore these marble wantons.
Then the three statues advanced towards him with looks of love, andapproached the couch on which he was reposing, their feet hidden intheir long white tunics, their throats bare, hair flowing like waves,and assuming attitudes which the gods could not resist, but whichsaints withstood, and looks inflexible and ardent like those with whichthe serpent charms the bird; and then he gave way before looks thatheld him in a torturing grasp and delighted his senses as with avoluptuous kiss.
It seemed to Franz that he closed his eyes, and in a last look abouthim saw the vision of modesty completely veiled; and then followed adream of passion like that promised by the Prophet to the elect. Lipsof stone turned to flame, breasts of ice became like heated lava, sothat to Franz, yielding for the first time to the sway of the drug,love was a sorrow and voluptuousness a torture, as burning mouths werepressed to his thirsty lips, and he was held in cool serpent-likeembraces. The more he strove against this unhallowed passion the morehis senses yielded to its thrall, and at length, weary of a strugglethat taxed his very soul, he gave way and sank back breathless andexhausted beneath the kisses of these marble goddesses, and theenchantment of his marvellous dream.


 Chapter 32. The Waking
When Franz returned to himself, he seemed still to be in a dream. Hethought himself in a sepulchre, into which a ray of sunlight in pityscarcely penetrated. He stretched forth his hand, and touched stone; herose to his seat, and found himself lying on his bournous in a bed ofdry heather, very soft and odoriferous. The vision had fled; and as ifthe statues had been but shadows from the tomb, they had vanished athis waking.
He advanced several paces towards the point whence the light came, andto all the excitement of his dream succeeded the calmness of reality.He found that he was in a grotto, went towards the opening, and througha kind of fanlight saw a blue sea and an azure sky. The air and waterwere shining in the beams of the morning sun; on the shore the sailorswere sitting, chatting and laughing; and at ten yards from them theboat was at anchor, undulating gracefully on the water.
There for some time he enjoyed the fresh breeze which played on hisbrow, and listened to the dash of the waves on the beach, that leftagainst the rocks a lace of foam as white as silver. He was for sometime without reflection or thought for the divine charm which is in thethings of nature, specially after a fantastic dream; then graduallythis view of the outer world, so calm, so pure, so grand, reminded himof the illusiveness of his vision, and once more awakened memory. Herecalled his arrival on the island, his presentation to a smugglerchief, a subterranean palace full of splendor, an excellent supper, anda spoonful of hashish.
It seemed, however, even in the very face of open day, that at least ayear had elapsed since all these things had passed, so deep was theimpression made in his mind by the dream, and so strong a hold had ittaken of his imagination. Thus every now and then he saw in fancy amidthe sailors, seated on a rock, or undulating in the vessel, one of theshadows which had shared his dream with looks and kisses. Otherwise,his head was perfectly clear, and his body refreshed; he was free fromthe slightest headache; on the contrary, he felt a certain degree oflightness, a faculty for absorbing the pure air, and enjoying thebright sunshine more vividly than ever.
He went gayly up to the sailors, who rose as soon as they perceivedhim; and the patron, accosting him, said:
“The Signor Sinbad has left his compliments for your excellency, anddesires us to express the regret he feels at not being able to take hisleave in person; but he trusts you will excuse him, as very importantbusiness calls him to Malaga.”
“So, then, Gaetano,” said Franz, “this is, then, all reality; thereexists a man who has received me in this island, entertained me rightroyally, and has departed while I was asleep?”
“He exists as certainly as that you may see his small yacht with allher sails spread; and if you will use your glass, you will, in allprobability, recognize your host in the midst of his crew.”
So saying, Gaetano pointed in a direction in which a small vessel wasmaking sail towards the southern point of Corsica. Franz adjusted histelescope, and directed it towards the yacht. Gaetano was not mistaken.At the stern the mysterious stranger was standing up looking towardsthe shore, and holding a spy-glass in his hand. He was attired as hehad been on the previous evening, and waved his pocket-handkerchief tohis guest in token of adieu. Franz returned the salute by shaking hishandkerchief as an exchange of signals. After a second, a slight cloudof smoke was seen at the stern of the vessel, which rose gracefully asit expanded in the air, and then Franz heard a slight report.
“There, do you hear?” observed Gaetano; “he is bidding you adieu.”
The young man took his carbine and fired it in the air, but without anyidea that the noise could be heard at the distance which separated theyacht from the shore.
“What are your excellency’s orders?” inquired Gaetano.
“In the first place, light me a torch.”
“Ah, yes, I understand,” replied the patron, “to find the entrance tothe enchanted apartment. With much pleasure, your excellency, if itwould amuse you; and I will get you the torch you ask for. But I toohave had the idea you have, and two or three times the same fancy hascome over me; but I have always given it up. Giovanni, light a torch,”he added, “and give it to his excellency.”
Giovanni obeyed. Franz took the lamp, and entered the subterraneangrotto, followed by Gaetano. He recognized the place where he hadawaked by the bed of heather that was there; but it was in vain that hecarried his torch all round the exterior surface of the grotto. He sawnothing, unless that, by traces of smoke, others had before himattempted the same thing, and, like him, in vain. Yet he did not leavea foot of this granite wall, as impenetrable as futurity, withoutstrict scrutiny; he did not see a fissure without introducing the bladeof his hunting sword into it, or a projecting point on which he did notlean and press in the hopes it would give way. All was vain; and helost two hours in his attempts, which were at last utterly useless. Atthe end of this time he gave up his search, and Gaetano smiled.
When Franz appeared again on the shore, the yacht only seemed like asmall white speck on the horizon. He looked again through his glass,but even then he could not distinguish anything.
Gaetano reminded him that he had come for the purpose of shootinggoats, which he had utterly forgotten. He took his fowling-piece, andbegan to hunt over the island with the air of a man who is fulfilling aduty, rather than enjoying a pleasure; and at the end of a quarter ofan hour he had killed a goat and two kids. These animals, though wildand agile as chamois, were too much like domestic goats, and Franzcould not consider them as game. Moreover, other ideas, much moreenthralling, occupied his mind. Since, the evening before, he hadreally been the hero of one of the tales of the _Thousand and OneNights_, and he was irresistibly attracted towards the grotto.
Then, in spite of the failure of his first search, he began a second,after having told Gaetano to roast one of the two kids. The secondvisit was a long one, and when he returned the kid was roasted and therepast ready. Franz was sitting on the spot where he was on theprevious evening when his mysterious host had invited him to supper;and he saw the little yacht, now like a sea-gull on the wave,continuing her flight towards Corsica.
“Why,” he remarked to Gaetano, “you told me that Signor Sinbad wasgoing to Malaga, while it seems he is in the direction ofPorto-Vecchio.”
“Don’t you remember,” said the patron, “I told you that among the crewthere were two Corsican brigands?”
“True; and he is going to land them,” added Franz.
“Precisely so,” replied Gaetano. “Ah, he is one who fears neither Godnor Satan, they say, and would at any time run fifty leagues out of hiscourse to do a poor devil a service.”
20093m


“But such services as these might involve him with the authorities ofthe country in which he practices this kind of philanthropy,” saidFranz.
“And what cares he for that,” replied Gaetano with a laugh, “or anyauthorities? He smiles at them. Let them try to pursue him! Why, in thefirst place, his yacht is not a ship, but a bird, and he would beat anyfrigate three knots in every nine; and if he were to throw himself onthe coast, why, is he not certain of finding friends everywhere?”
It was perfectly clear that the Signor Sinbad, Franz’s host, had thehonor of being on excellent terms with the smugglers and bandits alongthe whole coast of the Mediterranean, and so enjoyed exceptionalprivileges. As to Franz, he had no longer any inducement to remain atMonte Cristo. He had lost all hope of detecting the secret of thegrotto; he consequently despatched his breakfast, and, his boat beingready, he hastened on board, and they were soon under way. At themoment the boat began her course they lost sight of the yacht, as itdisappeared in the gulf of Porto-Vecchio. With it was effaced the lasttrace of the preceding night; and then supper, Sinbad, hashish,statues,—all became a dream for Franz.
The boat sailed on all day and all night, and next morning, when thesun rose, they had lost sight of Monte Cristo.
When Franz had once again set foot on shore, he forgot, for the momentat least, the events which had just passed, while he finished hisaffairs of pleasure at Florence, and then thought of nothing but how heshould rejoin his companion, who was awaiting him at Rome.
He set out, and on the Saturday evening reached the Place de la Douaneby the mail-coach. An apartment, as we have said, had been retainedbeforehand, and thus he had but to go to Signor Pastrini’s hotel. Butthis was not so easy a matter, for the streets were thronged withpeople, and Rome was already a prey to that low and feverish murmurwhich precedes all great events; and at Rome there are four greatevents in every year,—the Carnival, Holy Week, Corpus Christi, and theFeast of St. Peter.
All the rest of the year the city is in that state of dull apathy,between life and death, which renders it similar to a kind of stationbetween this world and the next—a sublime spot, a resting-place full ofpoetry and character, and at which Franz had already halted five or sixtimes, and at each time found it more marvellous and striking.
At last he made his way through the mob, which was continuallyincreasing and getting more and more turbulent, and reached the hotel.On his first inquiry he was told, with the impertinence peculiar tohired hackney-coachmen and innkeepers with their houses full, thatthere was no room for him at the Hôtel de Londres. Then he sent hiscard to Signor Pastrini, and asked for Albert de Morcerf. This plansucceeded; and Signor Pastrini himself ran to him, excusing himself forhaving made his excellency wait, scolding the waiters, taking thecandlestick from the porter, who was ready to pounce on the travellerand was about to lead him to Albert, when Morcerf himself appeared.
The apartment consisted of two small rooms and a parlor. The two roomslooked on to the street—a fact which Signor Pastrini commented upon asan inappreciable advantage. The rest of the floor was hired by a veryrich gentleman who was supposed to be a Sicilian or Maltese; but thehost was unable to decide to which of the two nations the travellerbelonged.
“Very good, signor Pastrini,” said Franz; “but we must have some supperinstantly, and a carriage for tomorrow and the following days.”
“As to supper,” replied the landlord, “you shall be served immediately;but as for the carriage——”
“What as to the carriage?” exclaimed Albert. “Come, come, SignorPastrini, no joking; we must have a carriage.”
“Sir,” replied the host, “we will do all in our power to procure youone—this is all I can say.”
“And when shall we know?” inquired Franz.
“Tomorrow morning,” answered the innkeeper.
“Oh, the deuce! then we shall pay the more, that’s all, I see plainlyenough. At Drake’s or Aaron’s one pays twenty-five lire for commondays, and thirty or thirty-five lire a day more for Sundays and feastdays; add five lire a day more for extras, that will make forty, andthere’s an end of it.”
“I am afraid if we offer them double that we shall not procure acarriage.”
“Then they must put horses to mine. It is a little worse for thejourney, but that’s no matter.”
“There are no horses.”
Albert looked at Franz like a man who hears a reply he does notunderstand.
“Do you understand that, my dear Franz—no horses?” he said, “but can’twe have post-horses?”
“They have been all hired this fortnight, and there are none left butthose absolutely requisite for posting.”
“What are we to say to this?” asked Franz.
“I say, that when a thing completely surpasses my comprehension, I amaccustomed not to dwell on that thing, but to pass to another. Issupper ready, Signor Pastrini?”
“Yes, your excellency.”
“Well, then, let us sup.”
“But the carriage and horses?” said Franz.
“Be easy, my dear boy; they will come in due season; it is only aquestion of how much shall be charged for them.” Morcerf then, withthat delighted philosophy which believes that nothing is impossible toa full purse or well-lined pocketbook, supped, went to bed, sleptsoundly, and dreamed he was racing all over Rome at Carnival time in acoach with six horses.


 Chapter 33. Roman Bandits
The next morning Franz woke first, and instantly rang the bell. Thesound had not yet died away when Signor Pastrini himself entered.
“Well, excellency,” said the landlord triumphantly, and without waitingfor Franz to question him, “I feared yesterday, when I would notpromise you anything, that you were too late—there is not a singlecarriage to be had—that is, for the three last days”
“Yes,” returned Franz, “for the very three days it is most needed.”
“What is the matter?” said Albert, entering; “no carriage to be had?”
“Just so,” returned Franz, “you have guessed it.”
“Well, your Eternal City is a nice sort of place.”
“That is to say, excellency,” replied Pastrini, who was desirous ofkeeping up the dignity of the capital of the Christian world in theeyes of his guest, “that there are no carriages to be had from Sundayto Tuesday evening, but from now till Sunday you can have fifty if youplease.”
“Ah, that is something,” said Albert; “today is Thursday, and who knowswhat may arrive between this and Sunday?”
“Ten or twelve thousand travellers will arrive,” replied Franz, “whichwill make it still more difficult.”
“My friend,” said Morcerf, “let us enjoy the present without gloomyforebodings for the future.”
“At least we can have a window?”
“Where?”
“In the Corso.”
“Ah, a window!” exclaimed Signor Pastrini,—“utterly impossible; therewas only one left on the fifth floor of the Doria Palace, and that hasbeen let to a Russian prince for twenty sequins a day.”
The two young men looked at each other with an air of stupefaction.
“Well,” said Franz to Albert, “do you know what is the best thing wecan do? It is to pass the Carnival at Venice; there we are sure ofobtaining gondolas if we cannot have carriages.”
“Ah, the devil, no,” cried Albert; “I came to Rome to see the Carnival,and I will, though I see it on stilts.”
“Bravo! an excellent idea. We will disguise ourselves as monsterpulchinellos or shepherds of the Landes, and we shall have completesuccess.”
“Do your excellencies still wish for a carriage from now to Sundaymorning?”
“_Parbleu!_” said Albert, “do you think we are going to run about onfoot in the streets of Rome, like lawyers’ clerks?”
“I hasten to comply with your excellencies’ wishes; only, I tell youbeforehand, the carriage will cost you six piastres a day.”
“And, as I am not a millionaire, like the gentleman in the nextapartments,” said Franz, “I warn you, that as I have been four timesbefore at Rome, I know the prices of all the carriages; we will giveyou twelve piastres for today, tomorrow, and the day after, and thenyou will make a good profit.”
“But, excellency”—said Pastrini, still striving to gain his point.
“Now go,” returned Franz, “or I shall go myself and bargain with your_affettatore_, who is mine also; he is an old friend of mine, who hasplundered me pretty well already, and, in the hope of making more outof me, he will take a less price than the one I offer you; you willlose the preference, and that will be your fault.”
“Do not give yourselves the trouble, excellency,” returned SignorPastrini, with the smile peculiar to the Italian speculator when heconfesses defeat; “I will do all I can, and I hope you will besatisfied.”
“And now we understand each other.”
“When do you wish the carriage to be here?”
“In an hour.”
“In an hour it will be at the door.”
An hour after the vehicle was at the door; it was a hack conveyancewhich was elevated to the rank of a private carriage in honor of theoccasion, but, in spite of its humble exterior, the young men wouldhave thought themselves happy to have secured it for the last threedays of the Carnival.
“Excellency,” cried the _cicerone_, seeing Franz approach the window,“shall I bring the carriage nearer to the palace?”
Accustomed as Franz was to the Italian phraseology, his first impulsewas to look round him, but these words were addressed to him. Franz wasthe “excellency,” the vehicle was the “carriage,” and the Hôtel deLondres was the “palace.” The genius for laudation characteristic ofthe race was in that phrase.
Franz and Albert descended, the carriage approached the palace; theirexcellencies stretched their legs along the seats; the _cicerone_sprang into the seat behind.
“Where do your excellencies wish to go?” asked he.
“To Saint Peter’s first, and then to the Colosseum,” returned Albert.But Albert did not know that it takes a day to see Saint Peter’s, and amonth to study it. The day was passed at Saint Peter’s alone.
Suddenly the daylight began to fade away; Franz took out his watch—itwas half-past four. They returned to the hotel; at the door Franzordered the coachman to be ready at eight. He wished to show Albert theColosseum by moonlight, as he had shown him Saint Peter’s by daylight.When we show a friend a city one has already visited, we feel the samepride as when we point out a woman whose lover we have been.
He was to leave the city by the Porta del Popolo, skirt the outer wall,and re-enter by the Porta San Giovanni; thus they would behold theColosseum without finding their impressions dulled by first looking onthe Capitol, the Forum, the Arch of Septimus Severus, the Temple ofAntoninus and Faustina, and the Via Sacra.
They sat down to dinner. Signor Pastrini had promised them a banquet;he gave them a tolerable repast. At the end of the dinner he entered inperson. Franz thought that he came to hear his dinner praised, andbegan accordingly, but at the first words he was interrupted.
“Excellency,” said Pastrini, “I am delighted to have your approbation,but it was not for that I came.”
“Did you come to tell us you have procured a carriage?” asked Albert,lighting his cigar.
“No; and your excellencies will do well not to think of that anylonger; at Rome things can or cannot be done; when you are toldanything cannot be done, there is an end of it.”
“It is much more convenient at Paris,—when anything cannot be done, youpay double, and it is done directly.”
“That is what all the French say,” returned Signor Pastrini, somewhatpiqued; “for that reason, I do not understand why they travel.”
“But,” said Albert, emitting a volume of smoke and balancing his chairon its hind legs, “only madmen, or blockheads like us, ever do travel.Men in their senses do not quit their hotel in the Rue du Helder, theirwalk on the Boulevard de Gand, and the Café de Paris.”
It is of course understood that Albert resided in the aforesaid street,appeared every day on the fashionable walk, and dined frequently at theonly restaurant where you can really dine, that is, if you are on goodterms with its waiters.
Signor Pastrini remained silent a short time; it was evident that hewas musing over this answer, which did not seem very clear.
“But,” said Franz, in his turn interrupting his host’s meditations,“you had some motive for coming here, may I beg to know what it was?”
20099m


“Ah, yes; you have ordered your carriage at eight o’clock precisely?”
“I have.”
“You intend visiting _Il Colosseo_.”
“You mean the Colosseum?”
“It is the same thing. You have told your coachman to leave the city bythe Porta del Popolo, to drive round the walls, and re-enter by thePorta San Giovanni?”
“These are my words exactly.”
“Well, this route is impossible.”
“Impossible!”
“Very dangerous, to say the least.”
“Dangerous!—and why?”
“On account of the famous Luigi Vampa.”
“Pray, who may this famous Luigi Vampa be?” inquired Albert; “he may bevery famous at Rome, but I can assure you he is quite unknown atParis.”
“What! do you not know him?”
“I have not that honor.”
“You have never heard his name?”
“Never.”
“Well, then, he is a bandit, compared to whom the Decesaris and theGasparones were mere children.”
“Now then, Albert,” cried Franz, “here is a bandit for you at last.”
“I forewarn you, Signor Pastrini, that I shall not believe one word ofwhat you are going to tell us; having told you this, begin. ‘Once upona time——’ Well, go on.”
Signor Pastrini turned toward Franz, who seemed to him the morereasonable of the two; we must do him justice,—he had had a great manyFrenchmen in his house, but had never been able to comprehend them.
“Excellency,” said he gravely, addressing Franz, “if you look upon meas a liar, it is useless for me to say anything; it was for yourinterest I——”
“Albert does not say you are a liar, Signor Pastrini,” said Franz, “butthat he will not believe what you are going to tell us,—but I willbelieve all you say; so proceed.”
“But if your excellency doubt my veracity——”
“Signor Pastrini,” returned Franz, “you are more susceptible thanCassandra, who was a prophetess, and yet no one believed her; whileyou, at least, are sure of the credence of half your audience. Come,sit down, and tell us all about this Signor Vampa.”
“I had told your excellency he is the most famous bandit we have hadsince the days of Mastrilla.”
“Well, what has this bandit to do with the order I have given thecoachman to leave the city by the Porta del Popolo, and to re-enter bythe Porta San Giovanni?”
20101m


“This,” replied Signor Pastrini, “that you will go out by one, but Ivery much doubt your returning by the other.”
“Why?” asked Franz.
“Because, after nightfall, you are not safe fifty yards from thegates.”
“On your honor, is that true?” cried Albert.
“Count,” returned Signor Pastrini, hurt at Albert’s repeated doubts ofthe truth of his assertions, “I do not say this to you, but to yourcompanion, who knows Rome, and knows, too, that these things are not tobe laughed at.”
“My dear fellow,” said Albert, turning to Franz, “here is an admirableadventure; we will fill our carriage with pistols, blunderbusses, anddouble-barrelled guns. Luigi Vampa comes to take us, and we take him—webring him back to Rome, and present him to his holiness the Pope, whoasks how he can repay so great a service; then we merely ask for acarriage and a pair of horses, and we see the Carnival in the carriage,and doubtless the Roman people will crown us at the Capitol, andproclaim us, like Curtius and Horatius Cocles, the preservers of theircountry.”
Whilst Albert proposed this scheme, Signor Pastrini’s face assumed anexpression impossible to describe.
“And pray,” asked Franz, “where are these pistols, blunderbusses, andother deadly weapons with which you intend filling the carriage?”
“Not out of my armory, for at Terracina I was plundered even of myhunting-knife. And you?”
“I shared the same fate at Aquapendente.”
“Do you know, Signor Pastrini,” said Albert, lighting a second cigar atthe first, “that this practice is very convenient for bandits, and thatit seems to be due to an arrangement of their own.”
Doubtless Signor Pastrini found this pleasantry compromising, for heonly answered half the question, and then he spoke to Franz, as theonly one likely to listen with attention. “Your excellency knows thatit is not customary to defend yourself when attacked by bandits.”
“What!” cried Albert, whose courage revolted at the idea of beingplundered tamely, “not make any resistance!”
“No, for it would be useless. What could you do against a dozen banditswho spring out of some pit, ruin, or aqueduct, and level their piecesat you?”
“Eh, _parbleu!_—they should kill me.”
The innkeeper turned to Franz with an air that seemed to say, “Yourfriend is decidedly mad.”
“My dear Albert,” returned Franz, “your answer is sublime, and worthythe ‘_Let him die_,’ of Corneille, only, when Horace made that answer,the safety of Rome was concerned; but, as for us, it is only to gratifya whim, and it would be ridiculous to risk our lives for so foolish amotive.”
Albert poured himself out a glass of _lacryma Christi_, which he sippedat intervals, muttering some unintelligible words.
“Well, Signor Pastrini,” said Franz, “now that my companion is quieted,and you have seen how peaceful my intentions are, tell me who is thisLuigi Vampa. Is he a shepherd or a nobleman?—young or old?—tall orshort? Describe him, in order that, if we meet him by chance, like JeanSbogar or Lara, we may recognize him.”
“You could not apply to anyone better able to inform you on all thesepoints, for I knew him when he was a child, and one day that I fellinto his hands, going from Ferentino to Alatri, he, fortunately for me,recollected me, and set me free, not only without ransom, but made me apresent of a very splendid watch, and related his history to me.”
“Let us see the watch,” said Albert.
Signor Pastrini drew from his fob a magnificent Bréguet, bearing thename of its maker, of Parisian manufacture, and a count’s coronet.
“Here it is,” said he.
“_Peste!_” returned Albert, “I compliment you on it; I have itsfellow”—he took his watch from his waistcoat pocket—“and it cost me3,000 francs.”
“Let us hear the history,” said Franz, motioning Signor Pastrini toseat himself.
“Your excellencies permit it?” asked the host.
“_Pardieu!_” cried Albert, “you are not a preacher, to remainstanding!”
The host sat down, after having made each of them a respectful bow,which meant that he was ready to tell them all they wished to knowconcerning Luigi Vampa.
“You tell me,” said Franz, at the moment Signor Pastrini was about toopen his mouth, “that you knew Luigi Vampa when he was a child—he isstill a young man, then?”
“A young man? he is only two-and-twenty;—he will gain himself areputation.”
“What do you think of that, Albert?—at two-and-twenty to be thusfamous?”
“Yes, and at his age, Alexander, Cæsar, and Napoleon, who have all madesome noise in the world, were quite behind him.”
“So,” continued Franz, “the hero of this history is onlytwo-and-twenty?”
“Scarcely so much.”
“Is he tall or short?”
“Of the middle height—about the same stature as his excellency,”returned the host, pointing to Albert.
“Thanks for the comparison,” said Albert, with a bow.
“Go on, Signor Pastrini,” continued Franz, smiling at his friend’ssusceptibility. “To what class of society does he belong?”
“He was a shepherd-boy attached to the farm of the Count of San-Felice,situated between Palestrina and the Lake of Gabri; he was born atPampinara, and entered the count’s service when he was five years old;his father was also a shepherd, who owned a small flock, and lived bythe wool and the milk, which he sold at Rome. When quite a child, thelittle Vampa displayed a most extraordinary precocity. One day, when hewas seven years old, he came to the curate of Palestrina, and asked tobe taught to read; it was somewhat difficult, for he could not quit hisflock; but the good curate went every day to say mass at a littlehamlet too poor to pay a priest and which, having no other name, wascalled Borgo; he told Luigi that he might meet him on his return, andthat then he would give him a lesson, warning him that it would beshort, and that he must profit as much as possible by it. The childaccepted joyfully. Every day Luigi led his flock to graze on the roadthat leads from Palestrina to Borgo; every day, at nine o’clock in themorning, the priest and the boy sat down on a bank by the wayside, andthe little shepherd took his lesson out of the priest’s breviary. Atthe end of three months he had learned to read. This was not enough—hemust now learn to write. The priest had a writing teacher at Rome makethree alphabets—one large, one middling, and one small; and pointed outto him that by the help of a sharp instrument he could trace theletters on a slate, and thus learn to write. The same evening, when theflock was safe at the farm, the little Luigi hastened to the smith atPalestrina, took a large nail, heated and sharpened it, and formed asort of stylus. The next morning he gathered an armful of pieces ofslate and began. At the end of three months he had learned to write.The curate, astonished at his quickness and intelligence, made him apresent of pens, paper, and a penknife. This demanded new effort, butnothing compared to the first; at the end of a week he wrote as wellwith this pen as with the stylus. The curate related the incident tothe Count of San-Felice, who sent for the little shepherd, made himread and write before him, ordered his attendant to let him eat withthe domestics, and to give him two piastres a month. With this, Luigipurchased books and pencils. He applied his imitative powers toeverything, and, like Giotto, when young, he drew on his slate sheep,houses, and trees. Then, with his knife, he began to carve all sorts ofobjects in wood; it was thus that Pinelli, the famous sculptor, hadcommenced.
20105m


“A girl of six or seven—that is, a little younger than Vampa—tendedsheep on a farm near Palestrina; she was an orphan, born at Valmontoneand was named Teresa. The two children met, sat down near each other,let their flocks mingle together, played, laughed, and conversedtogether; in the evening they separated the Count of San-Felice’s flockfrom those of Baron Cervetri, and the children returned to theirrespective farms, promising to meet the next morning. The next day theykept their word, and thus they grew up together. Vampa was twelve, andTeresa eleven. And yet their natural disposition revealed itself.Beside his taste for the fine arts, which Luigi had carried as far ashe could in his solitude, he was given to alternating fits of sadnessand enthusiasm, was often angry and capricious, and always sarcastic.None of the lads of Pampinara, Palestrina, or Valmontone had been ableto gain any influence over him or even to become his companion. Hisdisposition (always inclined to exact concessions rather than to makethem) kept him aloof from all friendships. Teresa alone ruled by alook, a word, a gesture, this impetuous character, which yieldedbeneath the hand of a woman, and which beneath the hand of a man mighthave broken, but could never have been bended. Teresa was lively andgay, but coquettish to excess. The two piastres that Luigi receivedevery month from the Count of San-Felice’s steward, and the price ofall the little carvings in wood he sold at Rome, were expended inear-rings, necklaces, and gold hairpins. So that, thanks to herfriend’s generosity, Teresa was the most beautiful and the best-attiredpeasant near Rome.
“The two children grew up together, passing all their time with eachother, and giving themselves up to the wild ideas of their differentcharacters. Thus, in all their dreams, their wishes, and theirconversations, Vampa saw himself the captain of a vessel, general of anarmy, or governor of a province. Teresa saw herself rich, superblyattired, and attended by a train of liveried domestics. Then, when theyhad thus passed the day in building castles in the air, they separatedtheir flocks, and descended from the elevation of their dreams to thereality of their humble position.
“One day the young shepherd told the count’s steward that he had seen awolf come out of the Sabine mountains, and prowl around his flock. Thesteward gave him a gun; this was what Vampa longed for. This gun had anexcellent barrel, made at Brescia, and carrying a ball with theprecision of an English rifle; but one day the count broke the stock,and had then cast the gun aside. This, however, was nothing to asculptor like Vampa; he examined the broken stock, calculated whatchange it would require to adapt the gun to his shoulder, and made afresh stock, so beautifully carved that it would have fetched fifteenor twenty piastres, had he chosen to sell it. But nothing could befarther from his thoughts.
“For a long time a gun had been the young man’s greatest ambition. Inevery country where independence has taken the place of liberty, thefirst desire of a manly heart is to possess a weapon, which at oncerenders him capable of defence or attack, and, by rendering its ownerterrible, often makes him feared. From this moment Vampa devoted allhis leisure time to perfecting himself in the use of his preciousweapon; he purchased powder and ball, and everything served him for amark—the trunk of some old and moss-grown olive-tree, that grew on theSabine mountains; the fox, as he quitted his earth on some maraudingexcursion; the eagle that soared above their heads: and thus he soonbecame so expert, that Teresa overcame the terror she at first felt atthe report, and amused herself by watching him direct the ball whereverhe pleased, with as much accuracy as if he placed it by hand.
20107m


“One evening a wolf emerged from a pine-wood near which they wereusually stationed, but the wolf had scarcely advanced ten yards ere hewas dead. Proud of this exploit, Vampa took the dead animal on hisshoulders, and carried him to the farm. These exploits had gained Luigiconsiderable reputation. The man of superior abilities always findsadmirers, go where he will. He was spoken of as the most adroit, thestrongest, and the most courageous _contadino_ for ten leagues around;and although Teresa was universally allowed to be the most beautifulgirl of the Sabines, no one had ever spoken to her of love, because itwas known that she was beloved by Vampa. And yet the two young peoplehad never declared their affection; they had grown together like twotrees whose roots are mingled, whose branches intertwined, and whoseintermingled perfume rises to the heavens. Only their wish to see eachother had become a necessity, and they would have preferred death to aday’s separation.
“Teresa was sixteen, and Vampa seventeen. About this time, a band ofbrigands that had established itself in the Lepini mountains began tobe much spoken of. The brigands have never been really extirpated fromthe neighborhood of Rome. Sometimes a chief is wanted, but when a chiefpresents himself he rarely has to wait long for a band of followers.
“The celebrated Cucumetto, pursued in the Abruzzo, driven out of thekingdom of Naples, where he had carried on a regular war, had crossedthe Garigliano, like Manfred, and had taken refuge on the banks of theAmasine between Sonnino and Juperno. He strove to collect a band offollowers, and followed the footsteps of Decesaris and Gasparone, whomhe hoped to surpass. Many young men of Palestrina, Frascati, andPampinara had disappeared. Their disappearance at first caused muchdisquietude; but it was soon known that they had joined Cucumetto.After some time Cucumetto became the object of universal attention; themost extraordinary traits of ferocious daring and brutality wererelated of him.
“One day he carried off a young girl, the daughter of a surveyor ofFrosinone. The bandit’s laws are positive; a young girl belongs firstto him who carries her off, then the rest draw lots for her, and she isabandoned to their brutality until death relieves her sufferings. Whentheir parents are sufficiently rich to pay a ransom, a messenger issent to negotiate; the prisoner is hostage for the security of themessenger; should the ransom be refused, the prisoner is irrevocablylost. The young girl’s lover was in Cucumetto’s troop; his name wasCarlini. When she recognized her lover, the poor girl extended her armsto him, and believed herself safe; but Carlini felt his heart sink, forhe but too well knew the fate that awaited her. However, as he was afavorite with Cucumetto, as he had for three years faithfully servedhim, and as he had saved his life by shooting a dragoon who was aboutto cut him down, he hoped the chief would have pity on him. He tookCucumetto one side, while the young girl, seated at the foot of a hugepine that stood in the centre of the forest, made a veil of herpicturesque head-dress to hide her face from the lascivious gaze of thebandits. There he told the chief all—his affection for the prisoner,their promises of mutual fidelity, and how every night, since he hadbeen near, they had met in some neighboring ruins.
20109m


“It so happened that night that Cucumetto had sent Carlini to avillage, so that he had been unable to go to the place of meeting.Cucumetto had been there, however, by accident, as he said, and hadcarried the maiden off. Carlini besought his chief to make an exceptionin Rita’s favor, as her father was rich, and could pay a large ransom.Cucumetto seemed to yield to his friend’s entreaties, and bade him finda shepherd to send to Rita’s father at Frosinone.
“Carlini flew joyfully to Rita, telling her she was saved, and biddingher write to her father, to inform him what had occurred, and that herransom was fixed at three hundred piastres. Twelve hours’ delay was allthat was granted—that is, until nine the next morning. The instant theletter was written, Carlini seized it, and hastened to the plain tofind a messenger. He found a young shepherd watching his flock. Thenatural messengers of the bandits are the shepherds who live betweenthe city and the mountains, between civilized and savage life. The boyundertook the commission, promising to be in Frosinone in less than anhour. Carlini returned, anxious to see his mistress, and announce thejoyful intelligence. He found the troop in the glade, supping off theprovisions exacted as contributions from the peasants; but his eyevainly sought Rita and Cucumetto among them.
“He inquired where they were, and was answered by a burst of laughter.A cold perspiration burst from every pore, and his hair stood on end.He repeated his question. One of the bandits rose, and offered him aglass filled with Orvietto, saying, ‘To the health of the braveCucumetto and the fair Rita.’ At this moment Carlini heard a woman’scry; he divined the truth, seized the glass, broke it across the faceof him who presented it, and rushed towards the spot whence the crycame. After a hundred yards he turned the corner of the thicket; hefound Rita senseless in the arms of Cucumetto. At the sight of Carlini,Cucumetto rose, a pistol in each hand. The two brigands looked at eachother for a moment—the one with a smile of lasciviousness on his lips,the other with the pallor of death on his brow. A terrible battlebetween the two men seemed imminent; but by degrees Carlini’s featuresrelaxed, his hand, which had grasped one of the pistols in his belt,fell to his side. Rita lay between them. The moon lighted the group.
“‘Well,’ said Cucumetto, ‘have you executed your commission?’
“‘Yes, captain,’ returned Carlini. ‘At nine o’clock tomorrow Rita’sfather will be here with the money.’
“‘It is well; in the meantime, we will have a merry night; this younggirl is charming, and does credit to your taste. Now, as I am notegotistical, we will return to our comrades and draw lots for her.’
“‘You have determined, then, to abandon her to the common law?’ saidCarlini.
“‘Why should an exception be made in her favor?’
“‘I thought that my entreaties——’
“‘What right have you, any more than the rest, to ask for anexception?’
“‘It is true.’
“‘But never mind,’ continued Cucumetto, laughing, ‘sooner or later yourturn will come.’ Carlini’s teeth clenched convulsively.
“‘Now, then,’ said Cucumetto, advancing towards the other bandits, ‘areyou coming?’
“‘I follow you.’
20111m


“Cucumetto departed, without losing sight of Carlini, for, doubtless,he feared lest he should strike him unawares; but nothing betrayed ahostile design on Carlini’s part. He was standing, his arms folded,near Rita, who was still insensible. Cucumetto fancied for a moment theyoung man was about to take her in his arms and fly; but this matteredlittle to him now Rita had been his; and as for the money, threehundred piastres distributed among the band was so small a sum that hecared little about it. He continued to follow the path to the glade;but, to his great surprise, Carlini arrived almost as soon as himself.
“‘Let us draw lots! let us draw lots!’ cried all the brigands, whenthey saw the chief.
“Their demand was fair, and the chief inclined his head in sign ofacquiescence. The eyes of all shone fiercely as they made their demand,and the red light of the fire made them look like demons. The names ofall, including Carlini, were placed in a hat, and the youngest of theband drew forth a ticket; the ticket bore the name of Diavolaccio. Hewas the man who had proposed to Carlini the health of their chief, andto whom Carlini replied by breaking the glass across his face. A largewound, extending from the temple to the mouth, was bleeding profusely.Diavolaccio, seeing himself thus favored by fortune, burst into a loudlaugh.
“‘Captain,’ said he, ‘just now Carlini would not drink your health whenI proposed it to him; propose mine to him, and let us see if he will bemore condescending to you than to me.’
“Everyone expected an explosion on Carlini’s part; but to their greatsurprise, he took a glass in one hand and a flask in the other, andfilling it,—
“‘Your health, Diavolaccio,’ said he calmly, and he drank it off,without his hand trembling in the least. Then sitting down by the fire,‘My supper,’ said he; ‘my expedition has given me an appetite.’
“‘Well done, Carlini!’ cried the brigands; ‘that is acting like a goodfellow;’ and they all formed a circle round the fire, while Diavolacciodisappeared.
“Carlini ate and drank as if nothing had happened. The bandits lookedon with astonishment at this singular conduct until they heardfootsteps. They turned round, and saw Diavolaccio bearing the younggirl in his arms. Her head hung back, and her long hair swept theground. As they entered the circle, the bandits could perceive, by thefirelight, the unearthly pallor of the young girl and of Diavolaccio.This apparition was so strange and so solemn, that everyone rose, withthe exception of Carlini, who remained seated, and ate and drankcalmly. Diavolaccio advanced amidst the most profound silence, and laidRita at the captain’s feet. Then everyone could understand the cause ofthe unearthly pallor in the young girl and the bandit. A knife wasplunged up to the hilt in Rita’s left breast. Everyone looked atCarlini; the sheath at his belt was empty.
“‘Ah, ah,’ said the chief, ‘I now understand why Carlini stayedbehind.’
“All savage natures appreciate a desperate deed. No other of thebandits would, perhaps, have done the same; but they all understoodwhat Carlini had done.
“‘Now, then,’ cried Carlini, rising in his turn, and approaching thecorpse, his hand on the butt of one of his pistols, ‘does anyonedispute the possession of this woman with me?’
“‘No,’ returned the chief, ‘she is thine.’
“Carlini raised her in his arms, and carried her out of the circle offirelight. Cucumetto placed his sentinels for the night, and thebandits wrapped themselves in their cloaks, and lay down before thefire. At midnight the sentinel gave the alarm, and in an instant allwere on the alert. It was Rita’s father, who brought his daughter’sransom in person.
“‘Here,’ said he, to Cucumetto, ‘here are three hundred piastres; giveme back my child.
“But the chief, without taking the money, made a sign to him to follow.The old man obeyed. They both advanced beneath the trees, through whosebranches streamed the moonlight. Cucumetto stopped at last, and pointedto two persons grouped at the foot of a tree.
“‘There,’ said he, ‘demand thy child of Carlini; he will tell thee whathas become of her;’ and he returned to his companions.
“The old man remained motionless; he felt that some great andunforeseen misfortune hung over his head. At length he advanced towardthe group, the meaning of which he could not comprehend. As heapproached, Carlini raised his head, and the forms of two personsbecame visible to the old man’s eyes. A woman lay on the ground, herhead resting on the knees of a man, who was seated by her; as he raisedhis head, the woman’s face became visible. The old man recognized hischild, and Carlini recognized the old man.
“‘I expected thee,’ said the bandit to Rita’s father.
“‘Wretch!’ returned the old man, ‘what hast thou done?’ and he gazedwith terror on Rita, pale and bloody, a knife buried in her bosom. Aray of moonlight poured through the trees, and lighted up the face ofthe dead.
“‘Cucumetto had violated thy daughter,’ said the bandit; ‘I loved her,therefore I slew her; for she would have served as the sport of thewhole band.’ The old man spoke not, and grew pale as death. ‘Now,’continued Carlini, ‘if I have done wrongly, avenge her;’ andwithdrawing the knife from the wound in Rita’s bosom, he held it out tothe old man with one hand, while with the other he tore open his vest.
“‘Thou hast done well!’ returned the old man in a hoarse voice;‘embrace me, my son.’
20115m


Carlini threw himself, sobbing like a child, into the arms of hismistress’s father. These were the first tears the man of blood had everwept.
“‘Now,’ said the old man, ‘aid me to bury my child.’ Carlini fetchedtwo pickaxes; and the father and the lover began to dig at the foot ofa huge oak, beneath which the young girl was to repose. When the gravewas formed, the father embraced her first, and then the lover;afterwards, one taking the head, the other the feet, they placed her inthe grave. Then they knelt on each side of the grave, and said theprayers of the dead. Then, when they had finished, they cast the earthover the corpse, until the grave was filled. Then, extending his hand,the old man said; ‘I thank you, my son; and now leave me alone.’
“‘Yet——’ replied Carlini.
“‘Leave me, I command you.’
“Carlini obeyed, rejoined his comrades, folded himself in his cloak,and soon appeared to sleep as soundly as the rest. It had been resolvedthe night before to change their encampment. An hour before daybreak,Cucumetto aroused his men, and gave the word to march. But Carliniwould not quit the forest, without knowing what had become of Rita’sfather. He went toward the place where he had left him. He found theold man suspended from one of the branches of the oak which shaded hisdaughter’s grave. He then took an oath of bitter vengeance over thedead body of the one and the tomb of the other. But he was unable tocomplete this oath, for two days afterwards, in an encounter with theRoman carbineers, Carlini was killed. There was some surprise, however,that, as he was with his face to the enemy, he should have received aball between his shoulders. That astonishment ceased when one of thebrigands remarked to his comrades that Cucumetto was stationed tenpaces in Carlini’s rear when he fell. On the morning of the departurefrom the forest of Frosinone he had followed Carlini in the darkness,and heard this oath of vengeance, and, like a wise man, anticipated it.
“They told ten other stories of this bandit chief, each more singularthan the other. Thus, from Fondi to Perusia, everyone trembles at thename of Cucumetto.
“These narratives were frequently the theme of conversation betweenLuigi and Teresa. The young girl trembled very much at hearing thestories; but Vampa reassured her with a smile, tapping the butt of hisgood fowling-piece, which threw its ball so well; and if that did notrestore her courage, he pointed to a crow, perched on some dead branch,took aim, touched the trigger, and the bird fell dead at the foot ofthe tree. Time passed on, and the two young people had agreed to bemarried when Vampa should be twenty and Teresa nineteen years of age.They were both orphans, and had only their employers’ leave to ask,which had been already sought and obtained. One day when they weretalking over their plans for the future, they heard two or threereports of firearms, and then suddenly a man came out of the wood, nearwhich the two young persons used to graze their flocks, and hurriedtowards them. When he came within hearing, he exclaimed:
‘I am pursued; can you conceal me?’
“They knew full well that this fugitive must be a bandit; but there isan innate sympathy between the Roman brigand and the Roman peasant andthe latter is always ready to aid the former. Vampa, without saying aword, hastened to the stone that closed up the entrance to theirgrotto, drew it away, made a sign to the fugitive to take refuge there,in a retreat unknown to everyone, closed the stone upon him, and thenwent and resumed his seat by Teresa. Instantly afterwards fourcarbineers, on horseback, appeared on the edge of the wood; three ofthem appeared to be looking for the fugitive, while the fourth draggeda brigand prisoner by the neck. The three carbineers looked aboutcarefully on every side, saw the young peasants, and galloping up,began to question them. They had seen no one.
“‘That is very annoying,’ said the brigadier; for the man we arelooking for is the chief.’
“‘Cucumetto?’ cried Luigi and Teresa at the same moment.
“‘Yes,’ replied the brigadier; ‘and as his head is valued at a thousandRoman crowns, there would have been five hundred for you, if you hadhelped us to catch him.’ The two young persons exchanged looks. Thebrigadier had a moment’s hope. Five hundred Roman crowns are threethousand lire, and three thousand lire are a fortune for two poororphans who are going to be married.
“‘Yes, it is very annoying,’ said Vampa; ‘but we have not seen him.’
“Then the carbineers scoured the country in different directions, butin vain; then, after a time, they disappeared. Vampa then removed thestone, and Cucumetto came out. Through the crevices in the granite hehad seen the two young peasants talking with the carbineers, andguessed the subject of their parley. He had read in the countenances ofLuigi and Teresa their steadfast resolution not to surrender him, andhe drew from his pocket a purse full of gold, which he offered to them.But Vampa raised his head proudly; as to Teresa, her eyes sparkled whenshe thought of all the fine gowns and gay jewellery she could buy withthis purse of gold.
“Cucumetto was a cunning fiend, and had assumed the form of a brigandinstead of a serpent, and this look from Teresa showed to him that shewas a worthy daughter of Eve, and he returned to the forest, pausingseveral times on his way, under the pretext of saluting his protectors.
“Several days elapsed, and they neither saw nor heard of Cucumetto. Thetime of the Carnival was at hand. The Count of San-Felice announced agrand masked ball, to which all that were distinguished in Rome wereinvited. Teresa had a great desire to see this ball. Luigi askedpermission of his protector, the steward, that she and he might bepresent amongst the servants of the house. This was granted. The ballwas given by the Count for the particular pleasure of his daughterCarmela, whom he adored. Carmela was precisely the age and figure ofTeresa, and Teresa was as handsome as Carmela. On the evening of theball Teresa was attired in her best, her most brilliant ornaments inher hair, and gayest glass beads,—she was in the costume of the womenof Frascati. Luigi wore the very picturesque garb of the Roman peasantat holiday time. They both mingled, as they had leave to do, with theservants and peasants.
“The _festa_ was magnificent; not only was the villa brilliantlyilluminated, but thousands of colored lanterns were suspended from thetrees in the garden; and very soon the palace overflowed to theterraces, and the terraces to the garden-walks. At each cross-path wasan orchestra, and tables spread with refreshments; the guests stopped,formed quadrilles, and danced in any part of the grounds they pleased.Carmela was attired like a woman of Sonnino. Her cap was embroideredwith pearls, the pins in her hair were of gold and diamonds, her girdlewas of Turkey silk, with large embroidered flowers, her bodice andskirt were of cashmere, her apron of Indian muslin, and the buttons ofher corset were of jewels. Two of her companions were dressed, the oneas a woman of Nettuno, and the other as a woman of La Riccia. Fouryoung men of the richest and noblest families of Rome accompanied themwith that Italian freedom which has not its parallel in any othercountry in the world. They were attired as peasants of Albano,Velletri, Civita-Castellana, and Sora. We need hardly add that thesepeasant costumes, like those of the young women, were brilliant withgold and jewels.
“Carmela wished to form a quadrille, but there was one lady wanting.Carmela looked all around her, but not one of the guests had a costumesimilar to her own, or those of her companions. The Count of San-Felicepointed out Teresa, who was hanging on Luigi’s arm in a group ofpeasants.
“‘Will you allow me, father?’ said Carmela.
“‘Certainly,’ replied the count, ‘are we not in Carnival time?’
“Carmela turned towards the young man who was talking with her, andsaying a few words to him, pointed with her finger to Teresa. The youngman looked, bowed in obedience, and then went to Teresa, and invitedher to dance in a quadrille directed by the count’s daughter. Teresafelt a flush pass over her face; she looked at Luigi, who could notrefuse his assent. Luigi slowly relinquished Teresa’s arm, which he hadheld beneath his own, and Teresa, accompanied by her elegant cavalier,took her appointed place with much agitation in the aristocraticquadrille. Certainly, in the eyes of an artist, the exact and strictcostume of Teresa had a very different character from that of Carmelaand her companions; and Teresa was frivolous and coquettish, and thusthe embroidery and muslins, the cashmere waist-girdles, all dazzledher, and the reflection of sapphires and diamonds almost turned hergiddy brain.
“Luigi felt a sensation hitherto unknown arising in his mind. It waslike an acute pain which gnawed at his heart, and then thrilled throughhis whole body. He followed with his eye each movement of Teresa andher cavalier; when their hands touched, he felt as though he shouldswoon; every pulse beat with violence, and it seemed as though a bellwere ringing in his ears. When they spoke, although Teresa listenedtimidly and with downcast eyes to the conversation of her cavalier, asLuigi could read in the ardent looks of the good-looking young man thathis language was that of praise, it seemed as if the whole world wasturning round with him, and all the voices of hell were whispering inhis ears ideas of murder and assassination. Then fearing that hisparoxysm might get the better of him, he clutched with one hand thebranch of a tree against which he was leaning, and with the otherconvulsively grasped the dagger with a carved handle which was in hisbelt, and which, unwittingly, he drew from the scabbard from time totime.
“Luigi was jealous!
“He felt that, influenced by her ambitions and coquettish disposition,Teresa might escape him.
“The young peasant girl, at first timid and scared, soon recoveredherself. We have said that Teresa was handsome, but this is not all;Teresa was endowed with all those wild graces which are so much morepotent than our affected and studied elegancies. She had almost all thehonors of the quadrille, and if she were envious of the Count ofSan-Felice’s daughter, we will not undertake to say that Carmela wasnot jealous of her. And with overpowering compliments her handsomecavalier led her back to the place whence he had taken her, and whereLuigi awaited her. Twice or thrice during the dance the young girl hadglanced at Luigi, and each time she saw that he was pale and that hisfeatures were agitated, once even the blade of his knife, half drawnfrom its sheath, had dazzled her eyes with its sinister glare. Thus, itwas almost tremblingly that she resumed her lover’s arm. The quadrillehad been most perfect, and it was evident there was a great demand fora repetition, Carmela alone objecting to it, but the Count ofSan-Felice besought his daughter so earnestly, that she acceded.
“One of the cavaliers then hastened to invite Teresa, without whom itwas impossible for the quadrille to be formed, but the young girl haddisappeared.
“The truth was, that Luigi had not felt the strength to support anothersuch trial, and, half by persuasion and half by force, he had removedTeresa toward another part of the garden. Teresa had yielded in spiteof herself, but when she looked at the agitated countenance of theyoung man, she understood by his silence and trembling voice thatsomething strange was passing within him. She herself was not exemptfrom internal emotion, and without having done anything wrong, yetfully comprehended that Luigi was right in reproaching her. Why, shedid not know, but yet she did not the less feel that these reproacheswere merited.
“However, to Teresa’s great astonishment, Luigi remained mute, and nota word escaped his lips the rest of the evening. When the chill of thenight had driven away the guests from the gardens, and the gates of thevilla were closed on them for the _festa_ in-doors, he took Teresaquite away, and as he left her at her home, he said:
“‘Teresa, what were you thinking of as you danced opposite the youngCountess of San-Felice?’
“‘I thought,’ replied the young girl, with all the frankness of hernature, ‘that I would give half my life for a costume such as shewore.’
“‘And what said your cavalier to you?’
“‘He said it only depended on myself to have it, and I had only oneword to say.’
“‘He was right,’ said Luigi. ‘Do you desire it as ardently as you say?’
“‘Yes.’
“‘Well, then, you shall have it!’
“The young girl, much astonished, raised her head to look at him, buthis face was so gloomy and terrible that her words froze to her lips.As Luigi spoke thus, he left her. Teresa followed him with her eyesinto the darkness as long as she could, and when he had quitedisappeared, she went into the house with a sigh.
20121m


“That night a memorable event occurred, due, no doubt, to theimprudence of some servant who had neglected to extinguish the lights.The Villa of San-Felice took fire in the rooms adjoining the veryapartment of the lovely Carmela. Awakened in the night by the light ofthe flames, she sprang out of bed, wrapped herself in a dressing-gown,and attempted to escape by the door, but the corridor by which shehoped to fly was already a prey to the flames. She then returned to herroom, calling for help as loudly as she could, when suddenly herwindow, which was twenty feet from the ground, was opened, a youngpeasant jumped into the chamber, seized her in his arms, and withsuperhuman skill and strength conveyed her to the turf of thegrass-plot, where she fainted. When she recovered, her father was byher side. All the servants surrounded her, offering her assistance. Anentire wing of the villa was burnt down; but what of that, as long asCarmela was safe and uninjured?
“Her preserver was everywhere sought for, but he did not appear; he wasinquired after, but no one had seen him. Carmela was greatly troubledthat she had not recognized him.
“As the count was immensely rich, excepting the danger Carmela hadrun,—and the marvellous manner in which she had escaped, made thatappear to him rather a favor of Providence than a real misfortune,—theloss occasioned by the conflagration was to him but a trifle.
“The next day, at the usual hour, the two young peasants were on theborders of the forest. Luigi arrived first. He came toward Teresa inhigh spirits, and seemed to have completely forgotten the events of theprevious evening. The young girl was very pensive, but seeing Luigi socheerful, she on her part assumed a smiling air, which was natural toher when she was not excited or in a passion.
“Luigi took her arm beneath his own, and led her to the door of thegrotto. Then he paused. The young girl, perceiving that there wassomething extraordinary, looked at him steadfastly.
“‘Teresa,’ said Luigi, ‘yesterday evening you told me you would giveall the world to have a costume similar to that of the count’sdaughter.’
“‘Yes,’ replied Teresa with astonishment; ‘but I was mad to utter sucha wish.’
“‘And I replied, “Very well, you shall have it.”’
“‘Yes,’ replied the young girl, whose astonishment increased at everyword uttered by Luigi, ‘but of course your reply was only to pleaseme.’
“‘I have promised no more than I have given you, Teresa,’ said Luigiproudly. ‘Go into the grotto and dress yourself.’
“At these words he drew away the stone, and showed Teresa the grotto,lighted up by two wax lights, which burnt on each side of a splendidmirror; on a rustic table, made by Luigi, were spread out the pearlnecklace and the diamond pins, and on a chair at the side was laid therest of the costume.
“Teresa uttered a cry of joy, and, without inquiring whence this attirecame, or even thanking Luigi, darted into the grotto, transformed intoa dressing-room.
“Luigi pushed the stone behind her, for on the crest of a smalladjacent hill which cut off the view toward Palestrina, he saw atraveller on horseback, stopping a moment, as if uncertain of his road,and thus presenting against the blue sky that perfect outline which ispeculiar to distant objects in southern climes. When he saw Luigi, heput his horse into a gallop and advanced toward him.
“Luigi was not mistaken. The traveller, who was going from Palestrinato Tivoli, had mistaken his way; the young man directed him; but as ata distance of a quarter of a mile the road again divided into threeways, and on reaching these the traveller might again stray from hisroute, he begged Luigi to be his guide.
“Luigi threw his cloak on the ground, placed his carbine on hisshoulder, and freed from his heavy covering, preceded the travellerwith the rapid step of a mountaineer, which a horse can scarcely keepup with. In ten minutes Luigi and the traveller reached thecross-roads. On arriving there, with an air as majestic as that of anemperor, he stretched his hand towards that one of the roads which thetraveller was to follow.
“‘That is your road, excellency, and now you cannot again mistake.’
“‘And here is your recompense,’ said the traveller, offering the youngherdsman some small pieces of money.
“‘Thank you,’ said Luigi, drawing back his hand; ‘I render a service, Ido not sell it.’
“‘Well,’ replied the traveller, who seemed used to this differencebetween the servility of a man of the cities and the pride of themountaineer, ‘if you refuse wages, you will, perhaps, accept a gift.’
“‘Ah, yes, that is another thing.’
“‘Then,’ said the traveller, ‘take these two Venetian sequins and givethem to your bride, to make herself a pair of earrings.’
“‘And then do you take this poniard,’ said the young herdsman; ‘youwill not find one better carved between Albano and Civita-Castellana.’
“‘I accept it,’ answered the traveller, ‘but then the obligation willbe on my side, for this poniard is worth more than two sequins.’
“‘For a dealer perhaps; but for me, who engraved it myself, it ishardly worth a piastre.’
“‘What is your name?’ inquired the traveller.
“‘Luigi Vampa,’ replied the shepherd, with the same air as he wouldhave replied, Alexander, King of Macedon. ‘And yours?’
“‘I,’ said the traveller, ‘am called Sinbad the Sailor.’”
Franz d’Épinay started with surprise.
“Sinbad the Sailor?” he said.
“Yes,” replied the narrator; “that was the name which the travellergave to Vampa as his own.”
“Well, and what may you have to say against this name?” inquiredAlbert; “it is a very pretty name, and the adventures of the gentlemanof that name amused me very much in my youth, I must confess.”
Franz said no more. The name of Sinbad the Sailor, as may well besupposed, awakened in him a world of recollections, as had the name ofthe Count of Monte Cristo on the previous evening.
“Proceed!” said he to the host.
“Vampa put the two sequins haughtily into his pocket, and slowlyreturned by the way he had gone. As he came within two or three hundredpaces of the grotto, he thought he heard a cry. He listened to knowwhence this sound could proceed. A moment afterwards he thought heheard his own name pronounced distinctly.
“The cry proceeded from the grotto. He bounded like a chamois, cockinghis carbine as he went, and in a moment reached the summit of a hillopposite to that on which he had perceived the traveller. Three criesfor help came more distinctly to his ear. He cast his eyes around himand saw a man carrying off Teresa, as Nessus, the centaur, carriedDeianira.
“This man, who was hastening towards the wood, was alreadythree-quarters of the way on the road from the grotto to the forest.Vampa measured the distance; the man was at least two hundred paces inadvance of him, and there was not a chance of overtaking him. The youngshepherd stopped, as if his feet had been rooted to the ground; then heput the butt of his carbine to his shoulder, took aim at the ravisher,followed him for a second in his track, and then fired.
“The ravisher stopped suddenly, his knees bent under him, and he fellwith Teresa in his arms. The young girl rose instantly, but the man layon the earth struggling in the agonies of death. Vampa then rushedtowards Teresa; for at ten paces from the dying man her legs had failedher, and she had dropped on her knees, so that the young man fearedthat the ball that had brought down his enemy, had also wounded hisbetrothed.
“Fortunately, she was unscathed, and it was fright alone that hadovercome Teresa. When Luigi had assured himself that she was safe andunharmed, he turned towards the wounded man. He had just expired, withclenched hands, his mouth in a spasm of agony, and his hair on end inthe sweat of death. His eyes remained open and menacing. Vampaapproached the corpse, and recognized Cucumetto.
“From the day on which the bandit had been saved by the two youngpeasants, he had been enamoured of Teresa, and had sworn she should behis. From that time he had watched them, and profiting by the momentwhen her lover had left her alone, had carried her off, and believed heat length had her in his power, when the ball, directed by the unerringskill of the young herdsman, had pierced his heart. Vampa gazed on himfor a moment without betraying the slightest emotion; while, on thecontrary, Teresa, shuddering in every limb, dared not approach theslain ruffian but by degrees, and threw a hesitating glance at the deadbody over the shoulder of her lover. Suddenly Vampa turned toward hismistress:
“‘Ah,’ said he—‘good, good! You are dressed; it is now my turn to dressmyself.’
20125m


“Teresa was clothed from head to foot in the garb of the Count ofSan-Felice’s daughter. Vampa took Cucumetto’s body in his arms andconveyed it to the grotto, while in her turn Teresa remained outside.If a second traveller had passed, he would have seen a strange thing,—ashepherdess watching her flock, clad in a cashmere grown, withear-rings and necklace of pearls, diamond pins, and buttons ofsapphires, emeralds, and rubies. He would, no doubt, have believed thathe had returned to the times of Florian, and would have declared, onreaching Paris, that he had met an Alpine shepherdess seated at thefoot of the Sabine Hill.
“At the end of a quarter of an hour Vampa quitted the grotto; hiscostume was no less elegant than that of Teresa. He wore a vest ofgarnet-colored velvet, with buttons of cut gold; a silk waistcoatcovered with embroidery; a Roman scarf tied round his neck; acartridge-box worked with gold, and red and green silk; sky-blue velvetbreeches, fastened above the knee with diamond buckles; garters ofdeerskin, worked with a thousand arabesques, and a hat whereon hungribbons of all colors; two watches hung from his girdle, and a splendidponiard was in his belt.
“Teresa uttered a cry of admiration. Vampa in this attire resembled apainting by Léopold Robert or Schnetz. He had assumed the entirecostume of Cucumetto. The young man saw the effect produced on hisbetrothed, and a smile of pride passed over his lips.
“‘Now,’ he said to Teresa, ‘are you ready to share my fortune, whateverit may be?’
“‘Oh, yes!’ exclaimed the young girl enthusiastically.
“‘And follow me wherever I go?’
“‘To the world’s end.’
“‘Then take my arm, and let us on; we have no time to lose.’
“The young girl did so without questioning her lover as to where he wasconducting her, for he appeared to her at this moment as handsome,proud, and powerful as a god. They went towards the forest, and soonentered it.
“We need scarcely say that all the paths of the mountain were known toVampa; he therefore went forward without a moment’s hesitation,although there was no beaten track, but he knew his path by looking atthe trees and bushes, and thus they kept on advancing for nearly anhour and a half. At the end of this time they had reached the thickestpart of the forest. A torrent, whose bed was dry, led into a deepgorge. Vampa took this wild road, which, enclosed between two ridges,and shadowed by the tufted umbrage of the pines, seemed, but for thedifficulties of its descent, that path to Avernus of which Virgilspeaks. Teresa had become alarmed at the wild and deserted look of theplain around her, and pressed closely against her guide, not uttering asyllable; but as she saw him advance with even step and composedcountenance, she endeavored to repress her emotion.
“Suddenly, about ten paces from them, a man advanced from behind a treeand aimed at Vampa.
“‘Not another step,’ he said, ‘or you are a dead man.’
“‘What, then,’ said Vampa, raising his hand with a gesture of disdain,while Teresa, no longer able to restrain her alarm, clung closely tohim, ‘do wolves rend each other?’
“‘Who are you?’ inquired the sentinel.
“‘I am Luigi Vampa, shepherd of the San-Felice farm.’
“‘What do you want?’
“‘I would speak with your companions who are in the glade at RoccaBianca.’
“‘Follow me, then,’ said the sentinel; ‘or, as you know your way, gofirst.’
“Vampa smiled disdainfully at this precaution on the part of thebandit, went before Teresa, and continued to advance with the same firmand easy step as before. At the end of ten minutes the bandit made thema sign to stop. The two young persons obeyed. Then the bandit thriceimitated the cry of a crow; a croak answered this signal.
“‘Good!’ said the sentry, ‘you may now go on.’
“Luigi and Teresa again set forward; as they went on Teresa clungtremblingly to her lover at the sight of weapons and the glistening ofcarbines through the trees. The retreat of Rocca Bianca was at the topof a small mountain, which no doubt in former days had been avolcano—an extinct volcano before the days when Remus and Romulus haddeserted Alba to come and found the city of Rome.
“Teresa and Luigi reached the summit, and all at once found themselvesin the presence of twenty bandits.
“‘Here is a young man who seeks and wishes to speak to you,’ said thesentinel.
“‘What has he to say?’ inquired the young man who was in command in thechief’s absence.
“‘I wish to say that I am tired of a shepherd’s life,’ was Vampa’sreply.
“‘Ah, I understand,’ said the lieutenant; ‘and you seek admittance intoour ranks?’
“‘Welcome!’ cried several bandits from Ferrusino, Pampinara, andAnagni, who had recognized Luigi Vampa.
“‘Yes, but I came to ask something more than to be your companion.’
“‘And what may that be?’ inquired the bandits with astonishment.
“‘I come to ask to be your captain,’ said the young man.
“The bandits shouted with laughter.
“‘And what have you done to aspire to this honor?’ demanded thelieutenant.
“‘I have killed your chief, Cucumetto, whose dress I now wear; and Iset fire to the villa San-Felice to procure a wedding-dress for mybetrothed.’
“An hour afterwards Luigi Vampa was chosen captain, vice Cucumetto,deceased.”
20129m


“Well, my dear Albert,” said Franz, turning towards his friend; “whatthink you of citizen Luigi Vampa?”
“I say he is a myth,” replied Albert, “and never had an existence.”
“And what may a myth be?” inquired Pastrini.
“The explanation would be too long, my dear landlord,” replied Franz.
“And you say that Signor Vampa exercises his profession at this momentin the environs of Rome?”
“And with a boldness of which no bandit before him ever gave anexample.”
“Then the police have vainly tried to lay hands on him?”
“Why, you see, he has a good understanding with the shepherds in theplains, the fishermen of the Tiber, and the smugglers of the coast.They seek for him in the mountains, and he is on the waters; theyfollow him on the waters, and he is on the open sea; then they pursuehim, and he has suddenly taken refuge in the islands, at Giglio,Giannutri, or Monte Cristo; and when they hunt for him there, hereappears suddenly at Albano, Tivoli, or La Riccia.”
“And how does he behave towards travellers?”
“Alas! his plan is very simple. It depends on the distance he may befrom the city, whether he gives eight hours, twelve hours, or a daywherein to pay their ransom; and when that time has elapsed he allowsanother hour’s grace. At the sixtieth minute of this hour, if the moneyis not forthcoming, he blows out the prisoner’s brains with apistol-shot, or plants his dagger in his heart, and that settles theaccount.”
“Well, Albert,” inquired Franz of his companion, “are you stilldisposed to go to the Colosseum by the outer wall?”
“Quite so,” said Albert, “if the way be picturesque.”
The clock struck nine as the door opened, and a coachman appeared.
“Excellencies,” said he, “the coach is ready.”
“Well, then,” said Franz, “let us to the Colosseum.”
“By the Porta del Popolo or by the streets, your excellencies?”
“By the streets, _morbleu!_ by the streets!” cried Franz.
“Ah, my dear fellow,” said Albert, rising, and lighting his thirdcigar, “really, I thought you had more courage.”
So saying, the two young men went down the staircase, and got into thecarriage.
20131m



 Chapter 34. The Colosseum
Franz had so managed his route, that during the ride to the Colosseumthey passed not a single ancient ruin, so that no preliminaryimpression interfered to mitigate the colossal proportions of thegigantic building they came to admire. The road selected was acontinuation of the Via Sistina; then by cutting off the right angle ofthe street in which stands Santa Maria Maggiore and proceeding by theVia Urbana and San Pietro in Vincoli, the travellers would findthemselves directly opposite the Colosseum.
This itinerary possessed another great advantage,—that of leaving Franzat full liberty to indulge his deep reverie upon the subject of SignorPastrini’s story, in which his mysterious host of Monte Cristo was sostrangely mixed up. Seated with folded arms in a corner of thecarriage, he continued to ponder over the singular history he had solately listened to, and to ask himself an interminable number ofquestions touching its various circumstances without, however, arrivingat a satisfactory reply to any of them.
One fact more than the rest brought his friend “Sinbad the Sailor” backto his recollection, and that was the mysterious sort of intimacy thatseemed to exist between the brigands and the sailors; and Pastrini’saccount of Vampa’s having found refuge on board the vessels ofsmugglers and fishermen, reminded Franz of the two Corsican bandits hehad found supping so amicably with the crew of the little yacht, whichhad even deviated from its course and touched at Porto-Vecchio for thesole purpose of landing them. The very name assumed by his host ofMonte Cristo and again repeated by the landlord of the Hôtel deLondres, abundantly proved to him that his island friend was playinghis philanthropic part on the shores of Piombino, Civita Vecchia,Ostia, and Gaëta, as on those of Corsica, Tuscany, and Spain; andfurther, Franz bethought him of having heard his singular entertainerspeak both of Tunis and Palermo, proving thereby how largely his circleof acquaintances extended.
But however the mind of the young man might be absorbed in thesereflections, they were at once dispersed at the sight of the darkfrowning ruins of the stupendous Colosseum, through the variousopenings of which the pale moonlight played and flickered like theunearthly gleam from the eyes of the wandering dead. The carriagestopped near the Meta Sudans; the door was opened, and the young men,eagerly alighting, found themselves opposite a _cicerone_, who appearedto have sprung up from the ground, so unexpected was his appearance.
The usual guide from the hotel having followed them, they had paid twoconductors, nor is it possible, at Rome, to avoid this abundant supplyof guides; besides the ordinary _cicerone_, who seizes upon youdirectly you set foot in your hotel, and never quits you while youremain in the city, there is also a special _cicerone_ belonging toeach monument—nay, almost to each part of a monument. It may,therefore, be easily imagined there is no scarcity of guides at theColosseum, that wonder of all ages, which Martial thus eulogizes:
“Let Memphis cease to boast the barbarous miracles of her pyramids, andthe wonders of Babylon be talked of no more among us; all must bow tothe superiority of the gigantic labor of the Cæsars, and the manyvoices of Fame spread far and wide the surpassing merits of thisincomparable monument.”
As for Albert and Franz, they essayed not to escape from their_ciceronian_ tyrants; and, indeed, it would have been so much the moredifficult to break their bondage, as the guides alone are permitted tovisit these monuments with torches in their hands. Thus, then, theyoung men made no attempt at resistance, but blindly and confidinglysurrendered themselves into the care and custody of their conductors.
Franz had already made seven or eight similar excursions to theColosseum, while his less favored companion trod for the first time inhis life the classic ground forming the monument of Flavius Vespasian;and, to his credit be it spoken, his mind, even amid the glib loquacityof the guides, was duly and deeply touched with awe and enthusiasticadmiration of all he saw; and certainly no adequate notion of thesestupendous ruins can be formed save by such as have visited them, andmore especially by moonlight, at which time the vast proportions of thebuilding appear twice as large when viewed by the mysterious beams of asouthern moonlit sky, whose rays are sufficiently clear and vivid tolight the horizon with a glow equal to the soft twilight of a westernclime.
Scarcely, therefore, had the reflective Franz walked a hundred stepsbeneath the interior porticoes of the ruin, when, abandoning Albert tothe guides (who would by no means yield their prescriptive right ofcarrying their victims through the routine regularly laid down, and asregularly followed by them, but dragged the unconscious visitor to thevarious objects with a pertinacity that admitted of no appeal,beginning, as a matter of course, with the “Lions’ Den”, the “Hall ofthe Gladiators” and finishing with “Cæsar’s Podium”), to escape ajargon and mechanical survey of the wonders by which he was surrounded,Franz ascended a half-dilapidated staircase, and, leaving them tofollow their monotonous round, seated himself at the foot of a column,and immediately opposite a large aperture, which permitted him to enjoya full and undisturbed view of the gigantic dimensions of the majesticruin.
Franz had remained for nearly a quarter of an hour perfectly hidden bythe shadow of the vast column at whose base he had found aresting-place, and from whence his eyes followed the motions of Albertand his guides, who, holding torches in their hands, had emerged from avomitorium at the opposite extremity of the Colosseum, and then againdisappeared down the steps conducting to the seats reserved for theVestal virgins, resembling, as they glided along, some restless shadesfollowing the flickering glare of so many _ignes fatui_. All at oncehis ear caught a sound resembling that of a stone rolling down thestaircase opposite the one by which he had himself ascended. There wasnothing remarkable in the circumstance of a fragment of granite givingway and falling heavily below; but it seemed to him that the substancethat fell gave way beneath the pressure of a foot, and also thatsomeone, who endeavored as much as possible to prevent his footstepsfrom being heard, was approaching the spot where he sat.
Conjecture soon became certainty, for the figure of a man wasdistinctly visible to Franz, gradually emerging from the staircaseopposite, upon which the moon was at that moment pouring a full tide ofsilvery brightness.
The stranger thus presenting himself was probably a person who, likeFranz, preferred the enjoyment of solitude and his own thoughts to thefrivolous gabble of the guides. And his appearance had nothingextraordinary in it; but the hesitation with which he proceeded,stopping and listening with anxious attention at every step he took,convinced Franz that he expected the arrival of some person.
By a sort of instinctive impulse, Franz withdrew as much as possiblebehind his pillar.
About ten feet from the spot where he and the stranger were, the roofhad given way, leaving a large round opening, through which might beseen the blue vault of heaven, thickly studded with stars.
Around this opening, which had, possibly, for ages permitted a freeentrance to the brilliant moonbeams that now illumined the vast pile,grew a quantity of creeping plants, whose delicate green branches stoodout in bold relief against the clear azure of the firmament, whilelarge masses of thick, strong fibrous shoots forced their way throughthe chasm, and hung floating to and fro, like so many waving strings.
The person whose mysterious arrival had attracted the attention ofFranz stood in a kind of half-light, that rendered it impossible todistinguish his features, although his dress was easily made out. Hewore a large brown mantle, one fold of which, thrown over his leftshoulder, served likewise to mask the lower part of his countenance,while the upper part was completely hidden by his broad-brimmed hat.The lower part of his dress was more distinctly visible by the brightrays of the moon, which, entering through the broken ceiling, shedtheir refulgent beams on feet cased in elegantly made boots of polishedleather, over which descended fashionably cut trousers of black cloth.
20135m


From the imperfect means Franz had of judging, he could only come toone conclusion,—that the person whom he was thus watching certainlybelonged to no inferior station of life.
Some few minutes had elapsed, and the stranger began to show manifestsigns of impatience, when a slight noise was heard outside the aperturein the roof, and almost immediately a dark shadow seemed to obstructthe flood of light that had entered it, and the figure of a man wasclearly seen gazing with eager scrutiny on the immense space beneathhim; then, as his eye caught sight of him in the mantle, he grasped afloating mass of thickly matted boughs, and glided down by their helpto within three or four feet of the ground, and then leaped lightly onhis feet. The man who had performed this daring act with so muchindifference wore the Transtevere costume.
“I beg your excellency’s pardon for keeping you waiting,” said the man,in the Roman dialect, “but I don’t think I’m many minutes after mytime, ten o’clock has just struck by the clock of Saint John Lateran.”
“Say not a word about being late,” replied the stranger in purestTuscan; “’tis I who am too soon. But even if you had caused me to waita little while, I should have felt quite sure that the delay was notoccasioned by any fault of yours.”
“Your excellency is perfectly right in so thinking,” said the man; “Icame here direct from the Castle of St. Angelo, and I had an immensedeal of trouble before I could get a chance to speak to Beppo.”
“And who is Beppo?”
“Oh, Beppo is employed in the prison, and I give him so much a year tolet me know what is going on within his holiness’s castle.”
“Indeed! You are a provident person, I see.”
“Why, you see, no one knows what may happen. Perhaps some of these daysI may be entrapped, like poor Peppino and may be very glad to have somelittle nibbling mouse to gnaw the meshes of my net, and so help me outof prison.”
“Briefly, what did you learn?”
“That two executions of considerable interest will take place the dayafter tomorrow at two o’clock, as is customary at Rome at thecommencement of all great festivals. One of the culprits will be_mazzolato_;3 he is an atrocious villain, who murdered the priest whobrought him up, and deserves not the smallest pity. The other suffereris sentenced to be _decapitato_;4 and he, your excellency, is poorPeppino.”
“The fact is, that you have inspired not only the pontificalgovernment, but also the neighboring states, with such extreme fear,that they are glad of all opportunity of making an example.”
“But Peppino did not even belong to my band; he was merely a poorshepherd, whose only crime consisted in furnishing us with provisions.”
“Which makes him your accomplice to all intents and purposes. But markthe distinction with which he is treated; instead of being knocked onthe head as you would be if once they caught hold of you, he is simplysentenced to be guillotined, by which means, too, the amusements of theday are diversified, and there is a spectacle to please everyspectator.”
“Without reckoning the wholly unexpected one I am preparing to surprisethem with.”
“My good friend,” said the man in the cloak, “excuse me for saying thatyou seem to me precisely in the mood to commit some wild or extravagantact.”
“Perhaps I am; but one thing I have resolved on, and that is, to stopat nothing to restore a poor devil to liberty, who has got into thisscrape solely from having served me. I should hate and despise myselfas a coward did I desert the brave fellow in his present extremity.”
“And what do you mean to do?”
“To surround the scaffold with twenty of my best men, who, at a signalfrom me, will rush forward directly Peppino is brought for execution,and, by the assistance of their stilettos, drive back the guard, andcarry off the prisoner.”
“That seems to me as hazardous as uncertain, and convinces me that myscheme is far better than yours.”
“And what is your excellency’s project?”
“Just this. I will so advantageously bestow 2,000 piastres, that theperson receiving them shall obtain a respite till next year forPeppino; and during that year, another skilfully placed 1,000 piastreswill afford him the means of escaping from his prison.”
“And do you feel sure of succeeding?”
“_Pardieu!_” exclaimed the man in the cloak, suddenly expressinghimself in French.
“What did your excellency say?” inquired the other.
“I said, my good fellow, that I would do more single-handed by themeans of gold than you and all your troop could effect with stilettos,pistols, carbines, and blunderbusses included. Leave me, then, to act,and have no fears for the result.”
“At least, there can be no harm in myself and party being in readiness,in case your excellency should fail.”
“None whatever. Take what precautions you please, if it is anysatisfaction to you to do so; but rely upon my obtaining the reprieve Iseek.”
“Remember, the execution is fixed for the day after tomorrow, and thatyou have but one day to work in.”
“And what of that? Is not a day divided into twenty-four hours, eachhour into sixty minutes, and every minute sub-divided into sixtyseconds? Now in 86,400 seconds very many things can be done.”
“And how shall I know whether your excellency has succeeded or not.”
“Oh, that is very easily arranged. I have engaged the three lowerwindows at the Café Rospoli; should I have obtained the requisitepardon for Peppino, the two outside windows will be hung with yellowdamasks, and the centre with white, having a large cross in red markedon it.”
“And whom will you employ to carry the reprieve to the officerdirecting the execution?”
“Send one of your men, disguised as a penitent friar, and I will giveit to him. His dress will procure him the means of approaching thescaffold itself, and he will deliver the official order to the officer,who, in his turn, will hand it to the executioner; in the meantime, itwill be as well to acquaint Peppino with what we have determined on, ifit be only to prevent his dying of fear or losing his senses, becausein either case a very useless expense will have been incurred.”
“Your excellency,” said the man, “you are fully persuaded of my entiredevotion to you, are you not?”
“Nay, I flatter myself that there can be no doubt of it,” replied thecavalier in the cloak.
“Well, then, only fulfil your promise of rescuing Peppino, andhenceforward you shall receive not only devotion, but the most absoluteobedience from myself and those under me that one human being canrender to another.”
“Have a care how far you pledge yourself, my good friend, for I mayremind you of your promise at some, perhaps, not very distant period,when I, in my turn, may require your aid and influence.”
“Let that day come sooner or later, your excellency will find me what Ihave found you in this my heavy trouble; and if from the other end ofthe world you but write me word to do such or such a thing, you mayregard it as done, for done it shall be, on the word and faith of——”
“Hush!” interrupted the stranger; “I hear a noise.”
“’Tis some travellers, who are visiting the Colosseum by torchlight.”
“’Twere better we should not be seen together; those guides are nothingbut spies, and might possibly recognize you; and, however I may behonored by your friendship, my worthy friend, if once the extent of ourintimacy were known, I am sadly afraid both my reputation and creditwould suffer thereby.”
“Well, then, if you obtain the reprieve?”
“The middle window at the Café Rospoli will be hung with white damask,bearing a red cross.”
“And if you fail?”
“Then all three windows will have yellow draperies.”
“And then?”
“And then, my good fellow, use your daggers in any way you please, andI further promise you to be there as a spectator of your prowess.”
“We understand each other perfectly, then. Adieu, your excellency;depend upon me as firmly as I do upon you.”
Saying these words, the Transteverin disappeared down the staircase,while his companion, muffling his features more closely than before inthe folds of his mantle, passed almost close to Franz, and descended tothe arena by an outward flight of steps. The next minute Franz heardhimself called by Albert, who made the lofty building re-echo with thesound of his friend’s name. Franz, however, did not obey the summonstill he had satisfied himself that the two men whose conversation hehad overheard were at a sufficient distance to prevent his encounteringthem in his descent. In ten minutes after the strangers had departed,Franz was on the road to the Piazza di Spagna, listening with studiedindifference to the learned dissertation delivered by Albert, after themanner of Pliny and Calpurnius, touching the iron-pointed nets used toprevent the ferocious beasts from springing on the spectators.
Franz let him proceed without interruption, and, in fact, did not hearwhat was said; he longed to be alone, and free to ponder over all thathad occurred. One of the two men, whose mysterious meeting in theColosseum he had so unintentionally witnessed, was an entire strangerto him, but not so the other; and though Franz had been unable todistinguish his features, from his being either wrapped in his mantleor obscured by the shadow, the tones of his voice had made too powerfulan impression on him the first time he had heard them for him everagain to forget them, hear them when or where he might. It was moreespecially when this man was speaking in a manner half jesting, halfbitter, that Franz’s ear recalled most vividly the deep sonorous, yetwell-pitched voice that had addressed him in the grotto of MonteCristo, and which he heard for the second time amid the darkness andruined grandeur of the Colosseum. And the more he thought, the moreentire was his conviction, that the person who wore the mantle was noother than his former host and entertainer, “Sinbad the Sailor.”
20139m


Under any other circumstances, Franz would have found it impossible toresist his extreme curiosity to know more of so singular a personage,and with that intent have sought to renew their short acquaintance; butin the present instance, the confidential nature of the conversation hehad overheard made him, with propriety, judge that his appearance atsuch a time would be anything but agreeable. As we have seen,therefore, he permitted his former host to retire without attempting arecognition, but fully promising himself a rich indemnity for hispresent forbearance should chance afford him another opportunity.
In vain did Franz endeavor to forget the many perplexing thoughts whichassailed him; in vain did he court the refreshment of sleep. Slumberrefused to visit his eyelids and the night was passed in feverishcontemplation of the chain of circumstances tending to prove theidentity of the mysterious visitant to the Colosseum with theinhabitant of the grotto of Monte Cristo; and the more he thought, thefirmer grew his opinion on the subject.
Worn out at length, he fell asleep at daybreak, and did not awake tilllate. Like a genuine Frenchman, Albert had employed his time inarranging for the evening’s diversion; he had sent to engage a box atthe Teatro Argentina; and Franz, having a number of letters to write,relinquished the carriage to Albert for the whole of the day.
At five o’clock Albert returned, delighted with his day’s work; he hadbeen occupied in leaving his letters of introduction, and had receivedin return more invitations to balls and routs than it would be possiblefor him to accept; besides this, he had seen (as he called it) all theremarkable sights at Rome. Yes, in a single day he had accomplishedwhat his more serious-minded companion would have taken weeks toeffect. Neither had he neglected to ascertain the name of the piece tobe played that night at the Teatro Argentina, and also what performersappeared in it. The opera of _Parisina_ was announced forrepresentation, and the principal actors were Coselli, Moriani, and LaSpecchia.
The young men, therefore, had reason to consider themselves fortunatein having the opportunity of hearing one of the best works by thecomposer of _Lucia di Lammermoor_, supported by three of the mostrenowned vocalists of Italy.
Albert had never been able to endure the Italian theatres, with theirorchestras from which it is impossible to see, and the absence ofbalconies, or open boxes; all these defects pressed hard on a man whohad had his stall at the Bouffes, and had shared a lower box at theOpera. Still, in spite of this, Albert displayed his most dazzling andeffective costumes each time he visited the theatres; but, alas, hiselegant toilet was wholly thrown away, and one of the most worthyrepresentatives of Parisian fashion had to carry with him themortifying reflection that he had nearly overrun Italy without meetingwith a single adventure.
Sometimes Albert would affect to make a joke of his want of success;but internally he was deeply wounded, and his self-love immenselypiqued, to think that Albert de Morcerf, the most admired and mostsought after of any young person of his day, should thus be passedover, and merely have his labor for his pains. And the thing was somuch the more annoying, as, according to the characteristic modesty ofa Frenchman, Albert had quitted Paris with the full conviction that hehad only to show himself in Italy to carry all before him, and thatupon his return he should astonish the Parisian world with the recitalof his numerous love-affairs.
Alas, poor Albert! None of those interesting adventures fell in hisway; the lovely Genoese, Florentines, and Neapolitans were allfaithful, if not to their husbands, at least to their lovers, andthought not of changing even for the splendid appearance of Albert deMorcerf; and all he gained was the painful conviction that the ladiesof Italy have this advantage over those of France, that they arefaithful even in their infidelity.
Yet he could not restrain a hope that in Italy, as elsewhere, theremight be an exception to the general rule.
Albert, besides being an elegant, well-looking young man, was alsopossessed of considerable talent and ability; moreover, he was aviscount—a recently created one, certainly, but in the present day itis not necessary to go as far back as Noah in tracing a descent, and agenealogical tree is equally estimated, whether dated from 1399 ormerely 1815; but to crown all these advantages, Albert de Morcerfcommanded an income of 50,000 livres, a more than sufficient sum torender him a personage of considerable importance in Paris. It wastherefore no small mortification to him to have visited most of theprincipal cities in Italy without having excited the most triflingobservation.
Albert, however, hoped to indemnify himself for all these slights andindifferences during the Carnival, knowing full well that among thedifferent states and kingdoms in which this festivity is celebrated,Rome is the spot where even the wisest and gravest throw off the usualrigidity of their lives, and deign to mingle in the follies of thistime of liberty and relaxation. The Carnival was to commence on themorrow; therefore Albert had not an instant to lose in setting forththe programme of his hopes, expectations, and claims to notice.
With this design he had engaged a box in the most conspicuous part ofthe theatre, and exerted himself to set off his personal attractions bythe aid of the most rich and elaborate toilet. The box taken by Albertwas in the first circle; although each of the three tiers of boxes isdeemed equally aristocratic, and is, for this reason, generally styledthe “nobility’s boxes,” and although the box engaged for the twofriends was sufficiently capacious to contain at least a dozen persons,it had cost less than would be paid at some of the French theatres forone admitting merely four occupants.
Another motive had influenced Albert’s selection of his seat,—who knewbut that, thus advantageously placed, he might not in truth attract thenotice of some fair Roman, and an introduction might ensue that wouldprocure him the offer of a seat in a carriage, or a place in a princelybalcony, from which he might behold the gayeties of the Carnival?
These united considerations made Albert more lively and anxious toplease than he had hitherto been. Totally disregarding the business ofthe stage, he leaned from his box and began attentively scrutinizingthe beauty of each pretty woman, aided by a powerful opera-glass; but,alas, this attempt to attract notice wholly failed; not even curiosityhad been excited, and it was but too apparent that the lovelycreatures, into whose good graces he was desirous of stealing, were allso much engrossed with themselves, their lovers, or their own thoughts,that they had not so much as noticed him or the manipulation of hisglass.
The truth was, that the anticipated pleasures of the Carnival, with the“Holy Week” that was to succeed it, so filled every fair breast, as toprevent the least attention being bestowed even on the business of thestage. The actors made their entries and exits unobserved or unthoughtof; at certain conventional moments, the spectators would suddenlycease their conversation, or rouse themselves from their musings, tolisten to some brilliant effort of Moriani’s, a well-executedrecitative by Coselli, or to join in loud applause at the wonderfulpowers of La Specchia; but that momentary excitement over, they quicklyrelapsed into their former state of preoccupation or interestingconversation.
Towards the close of the first act, the door of a box which had beenhitherto vacant was opened; a lady entered to whom Franz had beenintroduced in Paris, where indeed, he had imagined she still was. Thequick eye of Albert caught the involuntary start with which his friendbeheld the new arrival, and, turning to him, he said hastily:
“Do you know the woman who has just entered that box?”
“Yes; what do you think of her?”
“Oh, she is perfectly lovely—what a complexion! And such magnificenthair! Is she French?”
“No; a Venetian.”
“And her name is——”
“Countess G——.”
“Ah, I know her by name!” exclaimed Albert; “she is said to possess asmuch wit and cleverness as beauty. I was to have been presented to herwhen I met her at Madame Villefort’s ball.”
“Shall I assist you in repairing your negligence?” asked Franz.
“My dear fellow, are you really on such good terms with her as toventure to take me to her box?”
“Why, I have only had the honor of being in her society and conversingwith her three or four times in my life; but you know that even such anacquaintance as that might warrant my doing what you ask.”
At that instant, the countess perceived Franz, and graciously waved herhand to him, to which he replied by a respectful inclination of thehead. “Upon my word,” said Albert, “you seem to be on excellent termswith the beautiful countess.”
“You are mistaken in thinking so,” returned Franz calmly; “but youmerely fall into the same error which leads so many of our countrymento commit the most egregious blunders,—I mean that of judging thehabits and customs of Italy and Spain by our Parisian notions; believeme, nothing is more fallacious than to form any estimate of the degreeof intimacy you may suppose existing among persons by the familiarterms they seem upon; there is a similarity of feeling at this instantbetween ourselves and the countess—nothing more.”
“Is there, indeed, my good fellow? Pray tell me, is it sympathy ofheart?”
“No; of taste,” continued Franz gravely.
“And in what manner has this congeniality of mind been evinced?”
“By the countess’s visiting the Colosseum, as we did last night, bymoonlight, and nearly alone.”
“You were with her, then?”
“I was.”
“And what did you say to her?”
“Oh, we talked of the illustrious dead of whom that magnificent ruin isa glorious monument!”
“Upon my word,” cried Albert, “you must have been a very entertainingcompanion alone, or all but alone, with a beautiful woman in such aplace of sentiment as the Colosseum, and yet to find nothing better totalk about than the dead! All I can say is, if ever I should get such achance, the living should be my theme.”
20143m


“And you will probably find your theme ill-chosen.”
“But,” said Albert, breaking in upon his discourse, “never mind thepast; let us only remember the present. Are you not going to keep yourpromise of introducing me to the fair subject of our remarks?”
“Certainly, directly the curtain falls on the stage.”
“What a confounded long time this first act lasts. I believe, on mysoul, that they never mean to finish it.”
“Oh, yes, they will; only listen to that charming finale. Howexquisitely Coselli sings his part.”
“But what an awkward, inelegant fellow he is.”
“Well, then, what do you say to La Specchia? Did you ever see anythingmore perfect than her acting?”
“Why, you know, my dear fellow, when one has been accustomed toMalibran and Sontag, such singers as these don’t make the sameimpression on you they perhaps do on others.”
“At least, you must admire Moriani’s style and execution.”
“I never fancied men of his dark, ponderous appearance singing with avoice like a woman’s.”
“My good friend,” said Franz, turning to him, while Albert continued topoint his glass at every box in the theatre, “you seem determined notto approve; you are really too difficult to please.”
The curtain at length fell on the performances, to the infinitesatisfaction of the Viscount of Morcerf, who seized his hat, rapidlypassed his fingers through his hair, arranged his cravat andwristbands, and signified to Franz that he was waiting for him to leadthe way.
Franz, who had mutely interrogated the countess, and received from hera gracious smile in token that he would be welcome, sought not toretard the gratification of Albert’s eager impatience, but began atonce the tour of the house, closely followed by Albert, who availedhimself of the few minutes required to reach the opposite side of thetheatre to settle the height and smoothness of his collar, and toarrange the lappets of his coat. This important task was just completedas they arrived at the countess’s box.
At the knock, the door was immediately opened, and the young man whowas seated beside the countess, in obedience to the Italian custom,instantly rose and surrendered his place to the strangers, who, inturn, would be expected to retire upon the arrival of other visitors.
Franz presented Albert as one of the most distinguished young men ofthe day, both as regarded his position in society and extraordinarytalents; nor did he say more than the truth, for in Paris and thecircle in which the viscount moved, he was looked upon and cited as amodel of perfection. Franz added that his companion, deeply grieved athaving been prevented the honor of being presented to the countessduring her sojourn in Paris, was most anxious to make up for it, andhad requested him (Franz) to remedy the past misfortune by conductinghim to her box, and concluded by asking pardon for his presumption inhaving taken it upon himself to do so.
The countess, in reply, bowed gracefully to Albert, and extended herhand with cordial kindness to Franz; then, inviting Albert to take thevacant seat beside her, she recommended Franz to take the next best, ifhe wished to view the ballet, and pointed to the one behind her ownchair.
Albert was soon deeply engrossed in discoursing upon Paris and Parisianmatters, speaking to the countess of the various persons they both knewthere. Franz perceived how completely he was in his element; and,unwilling to interfere with the pleasure he so evidently felt, took upAlbert’s glass, and began in his turn to survey the audience.
Sitting alone, in the front of a box immediately opposite, but situatedon the third row, was a woman of exquisite beauty, dressed in a Greekcostume, which evidently, from the ease and grace with which she woreit, was her national attire. Behind her, but in deep shadow, was theoutline of a masculine figure; but the features of this latterpersonage it was not possible to distinguish. Franz could not forbearbreaking in upon the apparently interesting conversation passingbetween the countess and Albert, to inquire of the former if she knewwho was the fair Albanian opposite, since beauty such as hers was wellworthy of being observed by either sex.
“All I can tell about her,” replied the countess, “is, that she hasbeen at Rome since the beginning of the season; for I saw her where shenow sits the very first night of the season, and since then she hasnever missed a performance. Sometimes she is accompanied by the personwho is now with her, and at others she is merely attended by a blackservant.”
“And what do you think of her personal appearance?”
“Oh, I consider her perfectly lovely—she is just my idea of what Medoramust have been.”
Franz and the countess exchanged a smile, and then the latter resumedher conversation with Albert, while Franz returned to his previoussurvey of the house and company. The curtain rose on the ballet, whichwas one of those excellent specimens of the Italian school, admirablyarranged and put on the stage by Henri, who has established for himselfa great reputation throughout Italy for his taste and skill in thechoreographic art—one of those masterly productions of grace, method,and elegance in which the whole _corps de ballet_, from the principaldancers to the humblest supernumerary, are all engaged on the stage atthe same time; and a hundred and fifty persons may be seen exhibitingthe same attitude, or elevating the same arm or leg with a simultaneousmovement, that would lead you to suppose that but one mind, one act ofvolition, influenced the moving mass.
The ballet was called _Poliska_.
However much the ballet might have claimed his attention, Franz was toodeeply occupied with the beautiful Greek to take any note of it; whileshe seemed to experience an almost childlike delight in watching it,her eager, animated looks contrasting strongly with the utterindifference of her companion, who, during the whole time the piecelasted, never even moved, not even when the furious, crashing dinproduced by the trumpets, cymbals, and Chinese bells sounded theirloudest from the orchestra. Of this he took no heed, but was, as far asappearances might be trusted, enjoying soft repose and bright celestialdreams.
The ballet at length came to a close, and the curtain fell amid theloud, unanimous plaudits of an enthusiastic and delighted audience.
Owing to the very judicious plan of dividing the two acts of the operawith a ballet, the pauses between the performances are very short, thesingers in the opera having time to repose themselves and change theircostume, when necessary, while the dancers are executing theirpirouettes and exhibiting their graceful steps.
The overture to the second act began; and, at the first sound of theleader’s bow across his violin, Franz observed the sleeper slowly ariseand approach the Greek girl, who turned around to say a few words tohim, and then, leaning forward again on the railing of her box, shebecame as absorbed as before in what was going on.
The countenance of the person who had addressed her remained socompletely in the shade, that, though Franz tried his utmost, he couldnot distinguish a single feature. The curtain rose, and the attentionof Franz was attracted by the actors; and his eyes turned from the boxcontaining the Greek girl and her strange companion to watch thebusiness of the stage.
Most of my readers are aware that the second act of _Parisina_ openswith the celebrated and effective duet in which Parisina, whilesleeping, betrays to Azzo the secret of her love for Ugo. The injuredhusband goes through all the emotions of jealousy, until convictionseizes on his mind, and then, in a frenzy of rage and indignation, heawakens his guilty wife to tell her that he knows her guilt and tothreaten her with his vengeance.
This duet is one of the most beautiful, expressive and terribleconceptions that has ever emanated from the fruitful pen of Donizetti.Franz now listened to it for the third time; yet its notes, so tenderlyexpressive and fearfully grand as the wretched husband and wife givevent to their different griefs and passions, thrilled through the soulof Franz with an effect equal to his first emotions upon hearing it.Excited beyond his usual calm demeanor, Franz rose with the audience,and was about to join the loud, enthusiastic applause that followed;but suddenly his purpose was arrested, his hands fell by his sides, andthe half-uttered “bravos” expired on his lips.
The occupant of the box in which the Greek girl sat appeared to sharethe universal admiration that prevailed; for he left his seat to standup in front, so that, his countenance being fully revealed, Franz hadno difficulty in recognizing him as the mysterious inhabitant of MonteCristo, and the very same person he had encountered the precedingevening in the ruins of the Colosseum, and whose voice and figure hadseemed so familiar to him.
All doubt of his identity was now at an end; his singular hostevidently resided at Rome. The surprise and agitation occasioned bythis full confirmation of Franz’s former suspicion had no doubtimparted a corresponding expression to his features; for the countess,after gazing with a puzzled look at his face, burst into a fit oflaughter, and begged to know what had happened.
“Countess,” returned Franz, totally unheeding her raillery, “I askedyou a short time since if you knew any particulars respecting theAlbanian lady opposite; I must now beseech you to inform me who andwhat is her husband?”
“Nay,” answered the countess, “I know no more of him than yourself.”
“Perhaps you never before noticed him?”
“What a question—so truly French! Do you not know that we Italians haveeyes only for the man we love?”
“True,” replied Franz.
“All I can say is,” continued the countess, taking up the _lorgnette_,and directing it toward the box in question, “that the gentleman, whosehistory I am unable to furnish, seems to me as though he had just beendug up; he looks more like a corpse permitted by some friendlygrave-digger to quit his tomb for a while, and revisit this earth ofours, than anything human. How ghastly pale he is!”
“Oh, he is always as colorless as you now see him,” said Franz.
“Then you know him?” almost screamed the countess. “Oh, pray do, forheaven’s sake, tell us all about—is he a vampire, or a resuscitatedcorpse, or what?”
“I fancy I have seen him before; and I even think he recognizes me.”
“And I can well understand,” said the countess, shrugging up herbeautiful shoulders, as though an involuntary shudder passed throughher veins, “that those who have once seen that man will never be likelyto forget him.”
The sensation experienced by Franz was evidently not peculiar tohimself; another, and wholly uninterested person, felt the sameunaccountable awe and misgiving.
“Well.” inquired Franz, after the countess had a second time directedher _lorgnette_ at the box, “what do you think of our oppositeneighbor?”
20147m


“Why, that he is no other than Lord Ruthven himself in a living form.”
This fresh allusion to Byron5 drew a smile to Franz’s countenance;although he could but allow that if anything was likely to inducebelief in the existence of vampires, it would be the presence of such aman as the mysterious personage before him.
“I must positively find out who and what he is,” said Franz, risingfrom his seat.
“No, no,” cried the countess; “you must not leave me. I depend upon youto escort me home. Oh, indeed, I cannot permit you to go.”
“Is it possible,” whispered Franz, “that you entertain any fear?”
“I’ll tell you,” answered the countess. “Byron had the most perfectbelief in the existence of vampires, and even assured me that he hadseen them. The description he gave me perfectly corresponds with thefeatures and character of the man before us. Oh, he is the exactpersonification of what I have been led to expect! The coal-black hair,large bright, glittering eyes, in which a wild, unearthly fire seemsburning,—the same ghastly paleness. Then observe, too, that the womanwith him is altogether unlike all others of her sex. She is aforeigner—a stranger. Nobody knows who she is, or where she comes from.No doubt she belongs to the same horrible race he does, and is, likehimself, a dealer in magical arts. I entreat of you not to go nearhim—at least tonight; and if tomorrow your curiosity still continues asgreat, pursue your researches if you will; but tonight you neither cannor shall. For that purpose I mean to keep you all to myself.”
Franz protested he could not defer his pursuit till the following day,for many reasons.
“Listen to me,” said the countess, “and do not be so very headstrong. Iam going home. I have a party at my house tonight, and therefore cannotpossibly remain till the end of the opera. Now, I cannot for oneinstant believe you so devoid of gallantry as to refuse a lady yourescort when she even condescends to ask you for it.”
There was nothing else left for Franz to do but to take up his hat,open the door of the box, and offer the countess his arm. It was quiteevident, by her manner, that her uneasiness was not feigned; and Franzhimself could not resist a feeling of superstitious dread—so much thestronger in him, as it arose from a variety of corroborativerecollections, while the terror of the countess sprang from aninstinctive belief, originally created in her mind by the wild talesshe had listened to till she believed them truths. Franz could evenfeel her arm tremble as he assisted her into the carriage. Uponarriving at her hotel, Franz perceived that she had deceived him whenshe spoke of expecting company; on the contrary, her own return beforethe appointed hour seemed greatly to astonish the servants.
“Excuse my little subterfuge,” said the countess, in reply to hercompanion’s half-reproachful observation on the subject; “but thathorrid man had made me feel quite uncomfortable, and I longed to bealone, that I might compose my startled mind.”
Franz essayed to smile.
“Nay,” said she, “do not smile; it ill accords with the expression ofyour countenance, and I am sure it does not spring from your heart.However, promise me one thing.”
“What is it?”
“Promise me, I say.”
“I will do anything you desire, except relinquish my determination offinding out who this man is. I have more reasons than you can imaginefor desiring to know who he is, from whence he came, and whither he isgoing.”
“Where he comes from I am ignorant; but I can readily tell you where heis going to, and that is down below, without the least doubt.”
“Let us only speak of the promise you wished me to make,” said Franz.
“Well, then, you must give me your word to return immediately to yourhotel, and make no attempt to follow this man tonight. There arecertain affinities between the persons we quit and those we meetafterwards. For heaven’s sake, do not serve as a conductor between thatman and me. Pursue your chase after him tomorrow as eagerly as youplease; but never bring him near me, if you would not see me die ofterror. And now, good-night; go to your rooms, and try to sleep awayall recollections of this evening. For my own part, I am quite sure Ishall not be able to close my eyes.”
So saying, the countess quitted Franz, leaving him unable to decidewhether she were merely amusing herself at his expense, or whether herfears and agitations were genuine.
Upon his return to the hotel, Franz found Albert in his dressing-gownand slippers, listlessly extended on a sofa, smoking a cigar.
“My dear fellow!” cried he, springing up, “is it really you? Why, I didnot expect to see you before tomorrow.”
“My dear Albert,” replied Franz, “I am glad of this opportunity to tellyou, once and forever, that you entertain a most erroneous notionconcerning Italian women. I should have thought the continual failuresyou have met with in all your own love affairs might have taught youbetter by this time.”
“Upon my soul, these women would puzzle the very Devil to read themaright. Why, here—they give you their hand—they press yours inreturn—they keep up a whispering conversation—permit you to accompanythem home. Why, if a Parisian were to indulge in a quarter of thesemarks of flattering attention, her reputation would be gone forever.”
“And the very reason why the women of this fine country, ‘where soundsthe _si_,’ as Dante writes, put so little restraint on their words andactions, is because they live so much in public, and have reallynothing to conceal. Besides, you must have perceived that the countesswas really alarmed.”
“At what? At the sight of that respectable gentleman sitting oppositeto us in the same box with the lovely Greek girl? Now, for my part, Imet them in the lobby after the conclusion of the piece; and hang me,if I can guess where you took your notions of the other world from. Ican assure you that this hobgoblin of yours is a deuced fine-lookingfellow—admirably dressed. Indeed, I feel quite sure, from the cut ofhis clothes, they are made by a first-rate Paris tailor—probably Blinor Humann. He was rather too pale, certainly; but then, you know,paleness is always looked upon as a strong proof of aristocraticdescent and distinguished breeding.”
Franz smiled; for he well remembered that Albert particularly pridedhimself on the entire absence of color in his own complexion.
“Well, that tends to confirm my own ideas,” said Franz, “that thecountess’s suspicions were destitute alike of sense and reason. Did hespeak in your hearing? and did you catch any of his words?”
“I did; but they were uttered in the Romaic dialect. I knew that fromthe mixture of Greek words. I don’t know whether I ever told you thatwhen I was at college I was rather—rather strong in Greek.”
“He spoke the Romaic language, did he?”
“I think so.”
“That settles it,” murmured Franz. “’Tis he, past all doubt.”
“What do you say?”
“Nothing, nothing. But tell me, what were you thinking about when Icame in?”
“Oh, I was arranging a little surprise for you.”
“Indeed. Of what nature?”
“Why, you know it is quite impossible to procure a carriage.”
“Certainly; and I also know that we have done all that human meansafforded to endeavor to get one.”
“Now, then, in this difficulty a bright idea has flashed across mybrain.”
Franz looked at Albert as though he had not much confidence in thesuggestions of his imagination.
“I tell you what, M. Franz,” cried Albert, “you deserve to be calledout for such a misgiving and incredulous glance as that you werepleased to bestow on me just now.”
“And I promise to give you the satisfaction of a gentleman if yourscheme turns out as ingenious as you assert.”
“Well, then, hearken to me.”
“I listen.”
“You agree, do you not, that obtaining a carriage is out of thequestion?”
“I do.”
“Neither can we procure horses?”
“True; we have offered any sum, but have failed.”
“Well, now, what do you say to a cart? I dare say such a thing might behad.”
“Very possibly.”
“And a pair of oxen?”
“As easily found as the cart.”
“Then you see, my good fellow, with a cart and a couple of oxen ourbusiness can be managed. The cart must be tastefully ornamented; and ifyou and I dress ourselves as Neapolitan reapers, we may get up astriking tableau, after the manner of that splendid picture by LéopoldRobert. It would add greatly to the effect if the countess would joinus in the costume of a peasant from Puzzoli or Sorrento. Our groupwould then be quite complete, more especially as the countess is quitebeautiful enough to represent a Madonna.”
“Well,” said Franz, “this time, M. Albert, I am bound to give youcredit for having hit upon a most capital idea.”
“And quite a national one, too,” replied Albert with gratified pride.“A mere masque borrowed from our own festivities. Ha, ha, ye Romans!you thought to make us, unhappy strangers, trot at the heels of yourprocessions, like so many lazzaroni, because no carriages or horses areto be had in your beggarly city. But you don’t know us; when we can’thave one thing we invent another.”
“And have you communicated your triumphant idea to anybody?”
“Only to our host. Upon my return home I sent for him, and I thenexplained to him what I wished to procure. He assured me that nothingwould be easier than to furnish all I desired. One thing I was sorryfor; when I bade him have the horns of the oxen gilded, he told methere would not be time, as it would require three days to do that; soyou see we must do without this little superfluity.”
“And where is he now?”
“Who?”
“Our host.”
“Gone out in search of our equipage, by tomorrow it might be too late.”
“Then he will be able to give us an answer tonight.”
“Oh, I expect him every minute.”
At this instant the door opened, and the head of Signor Pastriniappeared. “_Permesso_?” inquired he.
“Certainly—certainly,” cried Franz. “Come in, my host.”
“Now, then,” asked Albert eagerly, “have you found the desired cart andoxen?”
“Better than that!” replied Signor Pastrini, with the air of a manperfectly well satisfied with himself.
“Take care, my worthy host,” said Albert, “_better_ is a sure enemy to_well_.”
“Let your excellencies only leave the matter to me,” returned SignorPastrini in a tone indicative of unbounded self-confidence.
“But what _have_ you done?” asked Franz. “Speak out, there’s a worthyfellow.”
“Your excellencies are aware,” responded the landlord, swelling withimportance, “that the Count of Monte Cristo is living on the same floorwith yourselves!”
“I should think we did know it,” exclaimed Albert, “since it is owingto that circumstance that we are packed into these small rooms, liketwo poor students in the back streets of Paris.”
“When, then, the Count of Monte Cristo, hearing of the dilemma in whichyou are placed, has sent to offer you seats in his carriage and twoplaces at his windows in the Palazzo Rospoli.” The friends looked ateach other with unutterable surprise.
“But do you think,” asked Albert, “that we ought to accept such offersfrom a perfect stranger?”
“What sort of person is this Count of Monte Cristo?” asked Franz of hishost.
“A very great nobleman, but whether Maltese or Sicilian I cannotexactly say; but this I know, that he is noble as a Borghese and richas a gold mine.”
“It seems to me,” said Franz, speaking in an undertone to Albert, “thatif this person merited the high panegyrics of our landlord, he wouldhave conveyed his invitation through another channel, and not permittedit to be brought to us in this unceremonious way. He would havewritten—or——”
At this instant someone knocked at the door.
“Come in,” said Franz.
A servant, wearing a livery of considerable style and richness,appeared at the threshold, and, placing two cards in the landlord’shands, who forthwith presented them to the two young men, he said:
“Please to deliver these, from the Count of Monte Cristo to VicomteAlbert de Morcerf and M. Franz d’Épinay. The Count of Monte Cristo,”continued the servant, “begs these gentlemen’s permission to wait uponthem as their neighbor, and he will be honored by an intimation of whattime they will please to receive him.”
“Faith, Franz,” whispered Albert, “there is not much to find fault withhere.”
“Tell the count,” replied Franz, “that we will do ourselves thepleasure of calling on him.”
The servant bowed and retired.
“That is what I call an elegant mode of attack,” said Albert, “You werequite correct in what you said, Signor Pastrini. The Count of MonteCristo is unquestionably a man of first-rate breeding and knowledge ofthe world.”
“Then you accept his offer?” said the host.
“Of course we do,” replied Albert. “Still, I must own I am sorry to beobliged to give up the cart and the group of reapers—it would haveproduced such an effect! And were it not for the windows at the PalazzoRospoli, by way of recompense for the loss of our beautiful scheme, Idon’t know but what I should have held on by my original plan. What sayyou, Franz?”
“Oh, I agree with you; the windows in the Palazzo Rospoli alone decidedme.”
The truth was, that the mention of two places in the Palazzo Rospolihad recalled to Franz the conversation he had overheard the precedingevening in the ruins of the Colosseum between the mysterious unknownand the Transteverin, in which the stranger in the cloak had undertakento obtain the freedom of a condemned criminal; and if this muffled-upindividual proved (as Franz felt sure he would) the same as the personhe had just seen in the Teatro Argentina, then he should be able toestablish his identity, and also to prosecute his researches respectinghim with perfect facility and freedom.
Franz passed the night in confused dreams respecting the two meetingshe had already had with his mysterious tormentor, and in wakingspeculations as to what the morrow would produce. The next day mustclear up every doubt; and unless his near neighbor and would-be friend,the Count of Monte Cristo, possessed the ring of Gyges, and by itspower was able to render himself invisible, it was very certain hecould not escape this time.
Eight o’clock found Franz up and dressed, while Albert, who had not thesame motives for early rising, was still soundly asleep. The first actof Franz was to summon his landlord, who presented himself with hisaccustomed obsequiousness.
“Pray, Signor Pastrini,” asked Franz, “is not some execution appointedto take place today?”
“Yes, your excellency; but if your reason for inquiry is that you mayprocure a window to view it from, you are much too late.”
“Oh, no,” answered Franz, “I had no such intention; and even if I hadfelt a wish to witness the spectacle, I might have done so from MontePincio; could I not?”
“Ah!” exclaimed mine host, “I did not think it likely your excellencywould have chosen to mingle with such a rabble as are always collectedon that hill, which, indeed, they consider as exclusively belonging tothemselves.”
“Very possibly I may not go,” answered Franz; “but in case I feeldisposed, give me some particulars of today’s executions.”
“What particulars would your excellency like to hear?”
“Why, the number of persons condemned to suffer, their names, anddescription of the death they are to die.”
“That happens just lucky, your excellency! Only a few minutes ago theybrought me the _tavolettas_.”
“What are they?”
“Sort of wooden tablets hung up at the corners of streets the eveningbefore an execution, on which is pasted up a paper containing the namesof the condemned persons, their crimes, and mode of punishment. Thereason for so publicly announcing all this is, that all good andfaithful Catholics may offer up their prayers for the unfortunateculprits, and, above all, beseech of Heaven to grant them a sincererepentance.”
“And these tablets are brought to you that you may add your prayers tothose of the faithful, are they?” asked Franz somewhat incredulously.
“Oh, dear, no, your excellency! I have not time for anybody’s affairsbut my own and those of my honorable guests; but I make an agreementwith the man who pastes up the papers, and he brings them to me as hewould the playbills, that in case any person staying at my hotel shouldlike to witness an execution, he may obtain every requisite informationconcerning the time and place etc.”
“Upon my word, that is a most delicate attention on your part, SignorPastrini,” cried Franz.
“Why, your excellency,” returned the landlord, chuckling and rubbinghis hands with infinite complacency, “I think I may take upon myself tosay I neglect nothing to deserve the support and patronage of the noblevisitors to this poor hotel.”
“I see that plainly enough, my most excellent host, and you may relyupon me to proclaim so striking a proof of your attention to yourguests wherever I go. Meanwhile, oblige me by a sight of one of these_tavolettas_.”
“Nothing can be easier than to comply with your excellency’s wish,”said the landlord, opening the door of the chamber; “I have caused oneto be placed on the landing, close by your apartment.”
Then, taking the tablet from the wall, he handed it to Franz, who readas follows:
“‘The public is informed that on Wednesday, February 23rd, being thefirst day of the Carnival, executions will take place in the Piazza delPopolo, by order of the Tribunal of the Rota, of two persons, namedAndrea Rondolo, and Peppino, otherwise called Rocca Priori; the formerfound guilty of the murder of a venerable and exemplary priest, namedDon César Torlini, canon of the church of St. John Lateran; and thelatter convicted of being an accomplice of the atrocious and sanguinarybandit, Luigi Vampa, and his band. The first-named malefactor will be_mazzolato_, the second culprit _decapitato_.
“‘The prayers of all good Christians are entreated for theseunfortunate men, that it may please God to awaken them to a sense oftheir guilt, and to grant them a hearty and sincere repentance fortheir crimes.’”
This was precisely what Franz had heard the evening before in the ruinsof the Colosseum. No part of the programme differed,—the names of thecondemned persons, their crimes, and mode of punishment, all agreedwith his previous information. In all probability, therefore, theTransteverin was no other than the bandit Luigi Vampa himself, and theman shrouded in the mantle the same he had known as “Sinbad theSailor,” but who, no doubt, was still pursuing his philanthropicexpedition in Rome, as he had already done at Porto-Vecchio and Tunis.
Time was getting on, however, and Franz deemed it advisable to awakenAlbert; but at the moment he prepared to proceed to his chamber, hisfriend entered the room in perfect costume for the day. The anticipateddelights of the Carnival had so run in his head as to make him leavehis pillow long before his usual hour.
“Now, my excellent Signor Pastrini,” said Franz, addressing hislandlord, “since we are both ready, do you think we may proceed at onceto visit the Count of Monte Cristo?”
“Most assuredly,” replied he. “The Count of Monte Cristo is always anearly riser; and I can answer for his having been up these two hours.”
“Then you really consider we shall not be intruding if we pay ourrespects to him directly?”
20155m


“Oh, I am quite sure. I will take all the blame on myself if you find Ihave led you into an error.”
“Well, then, if it be so, are you ready, Albert?”
“Perfectly.”
“Let us go and return our best thanks for his courtesy.”
“Yes, let us do so.”
The landlord preceded the friends across the landing, which was allthat separated them from the apartments of the count, rang at the bell,and, upon the door being opened by a servant, said:
“_I signori Francesi_.”
The domestic bowed respectfully, and invited them to enter. They passedthrough two rooms, furnished in a luxurious manner they had notexpected to see under the roof of Signor Pastrini, and were shown intoan elegantly fitted-up drawing-room. The richest Turkey carpets coveredthe floor, and the softest and most inviting couches, easy-chairs, andsofas, offered their high-piled and yielding cushions to such asdesired repose or refreshment. Splendid paintings by the first masterswere ranged against the walls, intermingled with magnificent trophiesof war, while heavy curtains of costly tapestry were suspended beforethe different doors of the room.
“If your excellencies will please to be seated,” said the man, “I willlet the count know that you are here.”
And with these words he disappeared behind one of the tapestried_portières_. As the door opened, the sound of a _guzla_ reached theears of the young men, but was almost immediately lost, for the rapidclosing of the door merely allowed one rich swell of harmony to enter.Franz and Albert looked inquiringly at each other, then at the gorgeousfurnishings of the apartment. Everything seemed more magnificent at asecond view than it had done at their first rapid survey.
“Well,” said Franz to his friend, “what think you of all this?”
“Why, upon my soul, my dear fellow, it strikes me that our elegant andattentive neighbor must either be some successful stock-jobber who hasspeculated in the fall of the Spanish funds, or some prince travelling_incog_.”
“Hush, hush!” replied Franz; “we shall ascertain who and what he is—hecomes!”
As Franz spoke, he heard the sound of a door turning on its hinges, andalmost immediately afterwards the tapestry was drawn aside, and theowner of all these riches stood before the two young men. Albertinstantly rose to meet him, but Franz remained, in a manner, spellboundon his chair; for in the person of him who had just entered herecognized not only the mysterious visitant to the Colosseum, and theoccupant of the box at the Teatro Argentina, but also his extraordinaryhost of Monte Cristo.
20157m



 Chapter 35. La Mazzolata
Gentlemen,” said the Count of Monte Cristo as he entered, “I pray youexcuse me for suffering my visit to be anticipated; but I feared todisturb you by presenting myself earlier at your apartments; besides,you sent me word that you would come to me, and I have held myself atyour disposal.”
“Franz and I have to thank you a thousand times, count,” returnedAlbert; “you extricated us from a great dilemma, and we were on thepoint of inventing a very fantastic vehicle when your friendlyinvitation reached us.”
“Indeed,” returned the count, motioning the two young men to sit down.“It was the fault of that blockhead Pastrini, that I did not soonerassist you in your distress. He did not mention a syllable of yourembarrassment to me, when he knows that, alone and isolated as I am, Iseek every opportunity of making the acquaintance of my neighbors. Assoon as I learned I could in any way assist you, I most eagerly seizedthe opportunity of offering my services.”
The two young men bowed. Franz had, as yet, found nothing to say; hehad come to no determination, and as nothing in the count’s mannermanifested the wish that he should recognize him, he did not knowwhether to make any allusion to the past, or wait until he had moreproof; besides, although sure it was he who had been in the box theprevious evening, he could not be equally positive that this was theman he had seen at the Colosseum. He resolved, therefore, to let thingstake their course without making any direct overture to the count.Moreover, he had this advantage, he was master of the count’s secret,while the count had no hold on Franz, who had nothing to conceal.However, he resolved to lead the conversation to a subject which mightpossibly clear up his doubts.
“Count,” said he, “you have offered us places in your carriage, and atyour windows in the Rospoli Palace. Can you tell us where we can obtaina sight of the Piazza del Popolo?”
“Ah,” said the count negligently, looking attentively at Morcerf, “isthere not something like an execution upon the Piazza del Popolo?”
“Yes,” returned Franz, finding that the count was coming to the pointhe wished.
“Stay, I think I told my steward yesterday to attend to this; perhaps Ican render you this slight service also.”
He extended his hand, and rang the bell thrice.
“Did you ever occupy yourself,” said he to Franz, “with the employmentof time and the means of simplifying the summoning your servants? Ihave. When I ring once, it is for my valet; twice, for my majordomo;thrice, for my steward,—thus I do not waste a minute or a word. Here heis.”
A man of about forty-five or fifty entered, exactly resembling thesmuggler who had introduced Franz into the cavern; but he did notappear to recognize him. It was evident he had his orders.
“Monsieur Bertuccio,” said the count, “you have procured me windowslooking on the Piazza del Popolo, as I ordered you yesterday.”
“Yes, excellency,” returned the steward; “but it was very late.”
“Did I not tell you I wished for one?” replied the count, frowning.
“And your excellency has one, which was let to Prince Lobanieff; but Iwas obliged to pay a hundred——”
“That will do—that will do, Monsieur Bertuccio; spare these gentlemenall such domestic arrangements. You have the window, that issufficient. Give orders to the coachman; and be in readiness on thestairs to conduct us to it.”
The steward bowed, and was about to quit the room.
“Ah!” continued the count, “be good enough to ask Pastrini if he hasreceived the _tavoletta_, and if he can send us an account of theexecution.”
“There is no need to do that,” said Franz, taking out his tablets; “forI saw the account, and copied it down.”
“Very well, you can retire, M. Bertuccio; I need you no longer. Let usknow when breakfast is ready. These gentlemen,” added he, turning tothe two friends, “will, I trust, do me the honor to breakfast with me?”
“But, my dear count,” said Albert, “we shall abuse your kindness.”
“Not at all; on the contrary, you will give me great pleasure. Youwill, one or other of you, perhaps both, return it to me at Paris. M.Bertuccio, lay covers for three.”
He then took Franz’s tablets out of his hand. “‘We announce,’ he read,in the same tone with which he would have read a newspaper, ‘thattoday, the 23rd of February, will be executed Andrea Rondolo, guilty ofmurder on the person of the respected and venerated Don César Torlini,canon of the church of St. John Lateran, and Peppino, called RoccaPriori, convicted of complicity with the detestable bandit Luigi Vampa,and the men of his band.’
“Hum! ‘The first will be _mazzolato_, the second _decapitato_.’ Yes,”continued the count, “it was at first arranged in this way; but I thinksince yesterday some change has taken place in the order of theceremony.”
“Really?” said Franz.
“Yes, I passed the evening at the Cardinal Rospigliosi’s, and theremention was made of something like a pardon for one of the two men.”
“For Andrea Rondolo?” asked Franz.
“No,” replied the count, carelessly; “for the other (he glanced at thetablets as if to recall the name), for Peppino, called Rocca Priori.You are thus deprived of seeing a man guillotined; but the _mazzolata_still remains, which is a very curious punishment when seen for thefirst time, and even the second, while the other, as you must know, isvery simple. The _mandaïa_6 never fails, never trembles, never strikesthirty times ineffectually, like the soldier who beheaded the Count ofChalais, and to whose tender mercy Richelieu had doubtless recommendedthe sufferer. Ah,” added the count, in a contemptuous tone, “do nottell me of European punishments, they are in the infancy, or rather theold age, of cruelty.”
“Really, count,” replied Franz, “one would think that you had studiedthe different tortures of all the nations of the world.”
“There are, at least, few that I have not seen,” said the count coldly.
“And you took pleasure in beholding these dreadful spectacles?”
“My first sentiment was horror, the second indifference, the thirdcuriosity.”
“Curiosity—that is a terrible word.”
“Why so? In life, our greatest preoccupation is death; is it not then,curious to study the different ways by which the soul and body canpart; and how, according to their different characters, temperaments,and even the different customs of their countries, different personsbear the transition from life to death, from existence to annihilation?As for myself, I can assure you of one thing,—the more men you see die,the easier it becomes to die yourself; and in my opinion, death may bea torture, but it is not an expiation.”
“I do not quite understand you,” replied Franz; “pray explain yourmeaning, for you excite my curiosity to the highest pitch.”
“Listen,” said the count, and deep hatred mounted to his face, as theblood would to the face of any other. “If a man had by unheard-of andexcruciating tortures destroyed your father, your mother, yourbetrothed,—a being who, when torn from you, left a desolation, a woundthat never closes, in your breast,—do you think the reparation thatsociety gives you is sufficient when it interposes the knife of theguillotine between the base of the occiput and the trapezal muscles ofthe murderer, and allows him who has caused us years of moralsufferings to escape with a few moments of physical pain?”
“Yes, I know,” said Franz, “that human justice is insufficient toconsole us; she can give blood in return for blood, that is all; butyou must demand from her only what it is in her power to grant.”
“I will put another case to you,” continued the count; “that wheresociety, attacked by the death of a person, avenges death by death. Butare there not a thousand tortures by which a man may be made to sufferwithout society taking the least cognizance of them, or offering himeven the insufficient means of vengeance, of which we have just spoken?Are there not crimes for which the impalement of the Turks, the augersof the Persians, the stake and the brand of the Iroquois Indians, areinadequate tortures, and which are unpunished by society? Answer me, donot these crimes exist?”
“Yes,” answered Franz; “and it is to punish them that duelling istolerated.”
“Ah, duelling,” cried the count; “a pleasant manner, upon my soul, ofarriving at your end when that end is vengeance! A man has carried offyour mistress, a man has seduced your wife, a man has dishonored yourdaughter; he has rendered the whole life of one who had the right toexpect from Heaven that portion of happiness God has promised toeveryone of his creatures, an existence of misery and infamy; and youthink you are avenged because you send a ball through the head, or passa sword through the breast, of that man who has planted madness in yourbrain, and despair in your heart. And remember, moreover, that it isoften he who comes off victorious from the strife, absolved of allcrime in the eyes of the world. No, no,” continued the count, “had I toavenge myself, it is not thus I would take revenge.”
“Then you disapprove of duelling? You would not fight a duel?” askedAlbert in his turn, astonished at this strange theory.
“Oh, yes,” replied the count; “understand me, I would fight a duel fora trifle, for an insult, for a blow; and the more so that, thanks to myskill in all bodily exercises, and the indifference to danger I havegradually acquired, I should be almost certain to kill my man. Oh, Iwould fight for such a cause; but in return for a slow, profound,eternal torture, I would give back the same, were it possible; an eyefor an eye, a tooth for a tooth, as the Orientalists say,—our mastersin everything,—those favored creatures who have formed for themselves alife of dreams and a paradise of realities.”
“But,” said Franz to the count, “with this theory, which renders you atonce judge and executioner of your own cause, it would be difficult toadopt a course that would forever prevent your falling under the powerof the law. Hatred is blind, rage carries you away; and he who poursout vengeance runs the risk of tasting a bitter draught.”
“Yes, if he be poor and inexperienced, not if he be rich and skilful;besides, the worst that could happen to him would be the punishment ofwhich we have already spoken, and which the philanthropic FrenchRevolution has substituted for being torn to pieces by horses or brokenon the wheel. What matters this punishment, as long as he is avenged?On my word, I almost regret that in all probability this miserablePeppino will not be beheaded, as you might have had an opportunity thenof seeing how short a time the punishment lasts, and whether it isworth even mentioning; but, really this is a most singular conversationfor the Carnival, gentlemen; how did it arise? Ah, I recollect, youasked for a place at my window; you shall have it; but let us first sitdown to table, for here comes the servant to inform us that breakfastis ready.”
As he spoke, a servant opened one of the four doors of the apartment,saying:
“_Al suo commodo!_”
The two young men arose and entered the breakfast-room.
During the meal, which was excellent, and admirably served, Franzlooked repeatedly at Albert, in order to observe the impressions whichhe doubted not had been made on him by the words of their entertainer;but whether with his usual carelessness he had paid but littleattention to him, whether the explanation of the Count of Monte Cristowith regard to duelling had satisfied him, or whether the events whichFranz knew of had had their effect on him alone, he remarked that hiscompanion did not pay the least regard to them, but on the contrary atelike a man who for the last four or five months had been condemned topartake of Italian cookery—that is, the worst in the world.
As for the count, he just touched the dishes; he seemed to fulfil theduties of a host by sitting down with his guests, and awaited theirdeparture to be served with some strange or more delicate food. Thisbrought back to Franz, in spite of himself, the recollection of theterror with which the count had inspired the Countess G——, and her firmconviction that the man in the opposite box was a vampire.
At the end of the breakfast Franz took out his watch.
“Well,” said the count, “what are you doing?”
“You must excuse us, count,” returned Franz, “but we have still much todo.”
“What may that be?”
“We have no masks, and it is absolutely necessary to procure them.”
“Do not concern yourself about that; we have, I think, a private roomin the Piazza del Popolo; I will have whatever costumes you choosebrought to us, and you can dress there.”
“After the execution?” cried Franz.
“Before or after, whichever you please.”
“Opposite the scaffold?”
“The scaffold forms part of the _fête_.”
“Count, I have reflected on the matter,” said Franz, “I thank you foryour courtesy, but I shall content myself with accepting a place inyour carriage and at your window at the Rospoli Palace, and I leave youat liberty to dispose of my place at the Piazza del Popolo.”
“But I warn you, you will lose a very curious sight,” returned thecount.
“You will describe it to me,” replied Franz, “and the recital from yourlips will make as great an impression on me as if I had witnessed it. Ihave more than once intended witnessing an execution, but I have neverbeen able to make up my mind; and you, Albert?”
“I,” replied the viscount,—“I saw Castaing executed, but I think I wasrather intoxicated that day, for I had quitted college the samemorning, and we had passed the previous night at a tavern.”
“Besides, it is no reason because you have not seen an execution atParis, that you should not see one anywhere else; when you travel, itis to see everything. Think what a figure you will make when you areasked, ‘How do they execute at Rome?’ and you reply, ‘I do not know!’And, besides, they say that the culprit is an infamous scoundrel, whokilled with a log of wood a worthy canon who had brought him up likehis own son. _Diable!_ when a churchman is killed, it should be with adifferent weapon than a log, especially when he has behaved like afather. If you went to Spain, would you not see the bull-fights? Well,suppose it is a bull-fight you are going to see? Recollect the ancientRomans of the Circus, and the sports where they killed three hundredlions and a hundred men. Think of the eighty thousand applaudingspectators, the sage matrons who took their daughters, and the charmingVestals who made with the thumb of their white hands the fatal signthat said, ‘Come, despatch the dying.’”
“Shall you go, then, Albert?” asked Franz.
“_Ma foi_, yes; like you, I hesitated, but the count’s eloquencedecides me.”
“Let us go, then,” said Franz, “since you wish it; but on our way tothe Piazza del Popolo, I wish to pass through the Corso. Is thispossible, count?”
“On foot, yes, in a carriage, no.”
“I will go on foot, then.”
“Is it important that you should go that way?”
“Yes, there is something I wish to see.”
“Well, we will go by the Corso. We will send the carriage to wait forus on the Piazza del Popolo, by the Via del Babuino, for I shall beglad to pass, myself, through the Corso, to see if some orders I havegiven have been executed.”
“Excellency,” said a servant, opening the door, “a man in the dress ofa penitent wishes to speak to you.”
“Ah! yes,” returned the count, “I know who he is, gentlemen; will youreturn to the salon? you will find good cigars on the centre table. Iwill be with you directly.”
The young men rose and returned into the salon, while the count, againapologizing, left by another door. Albert, who was a great smoker, andwho had considered it no small sacrifice to be deprived of the cigarsof the Café de Paris, approached the table, and uttered a cry of joy atperceiving some veritable _puros_.
“Well,” asked Franz, “what think you of the Count of Monte Cristo?”
“What do I think?” said Albert, evidently surprised at such a questionfrom his companion; “I think he is a delightful fellow, who does thehonors of his table admirably; who has travelled much, read much, is,like Brutus, of the Stoic school, and moreover,” added he, sending avolume of smoke up towards the ceiling, “that he has excellent cigars.”
Such was Albert’s opinion of the count, and as Franz well knew thatAlbert professed never to form an opinion except upon long reflection,he made no attempt to change it.
“But,” said he, “did you observe one very singular thing?”
“What?”
“How attentively he looked at you.”
“At me?”
“Yes.”
Albert reflected. “Ah,” replied he, sighing, “that is not verysurprising; I have been more than a year absent from Paris, and myclothes are of a most antiquated cut; the count takes me for aprovincial. The first opportunity you have, undeceive him, I beg, andtell him I am nothing of the kind.”
Franz smiled; an instant after the count entered.
“I am now quite at your service, gentlemen,” said he. “The carriage isgoing one way to the Piazza del Popolo, and we will go another; and, ifyou please, by the Corso. Take some more of these cigars, M. deMorcerf.”
“With all my heart,” returned Albert; “Italian cigars are horrible.When you come to Paris, I will return all this.”
“I will not refuse; I intend going there soon, and since you allow me,I will pay you a visit. Come, we have not any time to lose, it ishalf-past twelve—let us set off.”
All three descended; the coachman received his master’s orders, anddrove down the Via del Babuino. While the three gentlemen walked alongthe Piazza di Spagna and the Via Frattina, which led directly betweenthe Fiano and Rospoli palaces, Franz’s attention was directed towardsthe windows of that last palace, for he had not forgotten the signalagreed upon between the man in the mantle and the Transtevere peasant.
“Which are your windows?” asked he of the count, with as muchindifference as he could assume.
“The three last,” returned he, with a negligence evidently unaffected,for he could not imagine with what intention the question was put.
Franz glanced rapidly towards the three windows. The side windows werehung with yellow damask, and the centre one with white damask and a redcross. The man in the mantle had kept his promise to the Transteverin,and there could now be no doubt that he was the count.
The three windows were still untenanted. Preparations were making onevery side; chairs were placed, scaffolds were raised, and windows werehung with flags. The masks could not appear; the carriages could notmove about; but the masks were visible behind the windows, thecarriages, and the doors.
Franz, Albert, and the count continued to descend the Corso. As theyapproached the Piazza del Popolo, the crowd became more dense, andabove the heads of the multitude two objects were visible: the obelisk,surmounted by a cross, which marks the centre of the square, and infront of the obelisk, at the point where the three streets, delBabuino, del Corso, and di Ripetta, meet, the two uprights of thescaffold, between which glittered the curved knife of the _mandaïa_.
At the corner of the street they met the count’s steward, who wasawaiting his master. The window, let at an exorbitant price, which thecount had doubtless wished to conceal from his guests, was on thesecond floor of the great palace, situated between the Via del Babuinoand the Monte Pincio. It consisted, as we have said, of a smalldressing-room, opening into a bedroom, and, when the door ofcommunication was shut, the inmates were quite alone. On chairs werelaid elegant masquerade costumes of blue and white satin.
20167m


“As you left the choice of your costumes to me,” said the count to thetwo friends, “I have had these brought, as they will be the most wornthis year; and they are most suitable, on account of the _confetti_(sweetmeats), as they do not show the flour.”
Franz heard the words of the count but imperfectly, and he perhaps didnot fully appreciate this new attention to their wishes; for he waswholly absorbed by the spectacle that the Piazza del Popolo presented,and by the terrible instrument that was in the centre.
It was the first time Franz had ever seen a guillotine,—we sayguillotine, because the Roman _mandaïa_ is formed on almost the samemodel as the French instrument.7 The knife, which is shaped like acrescent, that cuts with the convex side, falls from a less height, andthat is all the difference.
Two men, seated on the movable plank on which the victim is laid, wereeating their breakfasts, while waiting for the criminal. Their repastconsisted apparently of bread and sausages. One of them lifted theplank, took out a flask of wine, drank some, and then passed it to hiscompanion. These two men were the executioner’s assistants.
At this sight Franz felt the perspiration start forth upon his brow.
The prisoners, transported the previous evening from the Carceri Nuoveto the little church of Santa Maria del Popolo, had passed the night,each accompanied by two priests, in a chapel closed by a grating,before which were two sentinels, who were relieved at intervals. Adouble line of carbineers, placed on each side of the door of thechurch, reached to the scaffold, and formed a circle around it, leavinga path about ten feet wide, and around the guillotine a space of nearlya hundred feet.
All the rest of the square was paved with heads. Many women held theirinfants on their shoulders, and thus the children had the best view.The Monte Pincio seemed a vast amphitheatre filled with spectators; thebalconies of the two churches at the corner of the Via del Babuino andthe Via di Ripetta were crammed; the steps even seemed a parti-coloredsea, that was impelled towards the portico; every niche in the wallheld its living statue. What the count said was true—the most curiousspectacle in life is that of death.
And yet, instead of the silence and the solemnity demanded by theoccasion, laughter and jests arose from the crowd. It was evident thatthe execution was, in the eyes of the people, only the commencement ofthe Carnival.
Suddenly the tumult ceased, as if by magic, and the doors of the churchopened. A brotherhood of penitents, clothed from head to foot in robesof gray sackcloth, with holes for the eyes, and holding in their handslighted tapers, appeared first; the chief marched at the head.
20169m


Behind the penitents came a man of vast stature and proportions. He wasnaked, with the exception of cloth drawers at the left side of whichhung a large knife in a sheath, and he bore on his right shoulder aheavy iron sledge-hammer.
This man was the executioner.
He had, moreover, sandals bound on his feet by cords.
Behind the executioner came, in the order in which they were to die,first Peppino and then Andrea. Each was accompanied by two priests.Neither had his eyes bandaged.
Peppino walked with a firm step, doubtless aware of what awaited him.Andrea was supported by two priests. Each of them, from time to time,kissed the crucifix a confessor held out to them.
At this sight alone Franz felt his legs tremble under him. He looked atAlbert—he was as white as his shirt, and mechanically cast away hiscigar, although he had not half smoked it. The count alone seemedunmoved—nay, more, a slight color seemed striving to rise in his palecheeks. His nostrils dilated like those of a wild beast that scents itsprey, and his lips, half opened, disclosed his white teeth, small andsharp like those of a jackal. And yet his features wore an expressionof smiling tenderness, such as Franz had never before witnessed inthem; his black eyes especially were full of kindness and pity.
However, the two culprits advanced, and as they approached their facesbecame visible. Peppino was a handsome young man of four orfive-and-twenty, bronzed by the sun; he carried his head erect, andseemed on the watch to see on which side his liberator would appear.Andrea was short and fat; his visage, marked with brutal cruelty, didnot indicate age; he might be thirty. In prison he had suffered hisbeard to grow; his head fell on his shoulder, his legs bent beneathhim, and his movements were apparently automatic and unconscious.
“I thought,” said Franz to the count, “that you told me there would bebut one execution.”
“I told you true,” replied he coldly.
“And yet here are two culprits.”
“Yes; but only one of these two is about to die; the other has manyyears to live.”
“If the pardon is to come, there is no time to lose.”
“And see, here it is,” said the count. At the moment when Peppinoreached the foot of the _mandaïa_, a priest arrived in some haste,forced his way through the soldiers, and, advancing to the chief of thebrotherhood, gave him a folded paper. The piercing eye of Peppino hadnoticed all. The chief took the paper, unfolded it, and, raising hishand, “Heaven be praised, and his Holiness also,” said he in a loudvoice; “here is a pardon for one of the prisoners!”
“A pardon!” cried the people with one voice; “a pardon!”
At this cry Andrea raised his head.
“Pardon for whom?” cried he.
Peppino remained breathless.
“A pardon for Peppino, called Rocca Priori,” said the principal friar.And he passed the paper to the officer commanding the carbineers, whoread and returned it to him.
“For Peppino!” cried Andrea, who seemed roused from the torpor in whichhe had been plunged. “Why for him and not for me? We ought to dietogether. I was promised he should die with me. You have no right toput me to death alone. I will not die alone—I will not!”
And he broke from the priests struggling and raving like a wild beast,and striving desperately to break the cords that bound his hands. Theexecutioner made a sign, and his two assistants leaped from thescaffold and seized him.
“What is going on?” asked Franz of the count; for, as all the talk wasin the Roman dialect, he had not perfectly understood it.
“Do you not see?” returned the count, “that this human creature who isabout to die is furious that his fellow-sufferer does not perish withhim? and, were he able, he would rather tear him to pieces with histeeth and nails than let him enjoy the life he himself is about to bedeprived of. Oh, man, man—race of crocodiles,” cried the count,extending his clenched hands towards the crowd, “how well do Irecognize you there, and that at all times you are worthy ofyourselves!”
Meanwhile Andrea and the two executioners were struggling on theground, and he kept exclaiming, “He ought to die!—he shall die!—I willnot die alone!”
“Look, look,” cried the count, seizing the young men’s hands; “look,for on my soul it is curious. Here is a man who had resigned himself tohis fate, who was going to the scaffold to die—like a coward, it istrue, but he was about to die without resistance. Do you know what gavehim strength? do you know what consoled him? It was, that anotherpartook of his punishment—that another partook of his anguish—thatanother was to die before him! Lead two sheep to the butcher’s, twooxen to the slaughterhouse, and make one of them understand that hiscompanion will not die; the sheep will bleat for pleasure, the ox willbellow with joy. But man—man, whom God created in his own image—man,upon whom God has laid his first, his sole commandment, to love hisneighbor—man, to whom God has given a voice to express histhoughts—what is his first cry when he hears his fellow-man is saved? Ablasphemy. Honor to man, this masterpiece of nature, this king of thecreation!”
And the count burst into a laugh; a terrible laugh, that showed he musthave suffered horribly to be able thus to laugh.
However, the struggle still continued, and it was dreadful to witness.The two assistants carried Andrea up to the scaffold; the people alltook part against Andrea, and twenty thousand voices cried, “Put him todeath! put him to death!”
Franz sprang back, but the count seized his arm, and held him beforethe window.
“What are you doing?” said he. “Do you pity him? If you heard the cryof ‘Mad dog!’ you would take your gun—you would unhesitatingly shootthe poor beast, who, after all, was only guilty of having been bittenby another dog. And yet you pity a man who, without being bitten by oneof his race, has yet murdered his benefactor; and who, now unable tokill anyone, because his hands are bound, wishes to see his companionin captivity perish. No, no—look, look!”
20172m


The recommendation was needless. Franz was fascinated by the horriblespectacle.
The two assistants had borne Andrea to the scaffold, and there, inspite of his struggles, his bites, and his cries, had forced him to hisknees. During this time the executioner had raised his mace, and signedto them to get out of the way; the criminal strove to rise, but, ere hehad time, the mace fell on his left temple. A dull and heavy sound washeard, and the man dropped like an ox on his face, and then turned overon his back.
The executioner let fall his mace, drew his knife, and with one strokeopened his throat, and mounting on his stomach, stamped violently on itwith his feet. At every stroke a jet of blood sprang from the wound.
This time Franz could contain himself no longer, but sank, halffainting, into a seat.
Albert, with his eyes closed, was standing grasping thewindow-curtains.
The count was erect and triumphant, like the Avenging Angel!


 Chapter 36. The Carnival at Rome
When Franz recovered his senses, he saw Albert drinking a glass ofwater, of which, to judge from his pallor, he stood in great need; andthe count, who was assuming his masquerade costume. He glancedmechanically towards the piazza—the scene was wholly changed; scaffold,executioners, victims, all had disappeared; only the people remained,full of noise and excitement. The bell of Monte Citorio, which onlysounds on the pope’s decease and the opening of the Carnival, wasringing a joyous peal.
“Well,” asked he of the count, “what has, then, happened?”
“Nothing,” replied the count; “only, as you see, the Carnival hascommenced. Make haste and dress yourself.”
“In fact,” said Franz, “this horrible scene has passed away like adream.”
“It is but a dream, a nightmare, that has disturbed you.”
“Yes, that I have suffered; but the culprit?”
“That is a dream also; only he has remained asleep, while you haveawakened; and who knows which of you is the most fortunate?”
“But Peppino—what has become of him?”
“Peppino is a lad of sense, who, unlike most men, who are happy inproportion as they are noticed, was delighted to see that the generalattention was directed towards his companion. He profited by thisdistraction to slip away among the crowd, without even thanking theworthy priests who accompanied him. Decidedly man is an ungrateful andegotistical animal. But dress yourself; see, M. de Morcerf sets you theexample.”
Albert was drawing on the satin pantaloon over his black trousers andvarnished boots.
“Well, Albert,” said Franz, “do you feel much inclined to join therevels? Come, answer frankly.”
“_Ma foi_, no,” returned Albert. “But I am really glad to have seensuch a sight; and I understand what the count said—that when you haveonce habituated yourself to a similar spectacle, it is the only onethat causes you any emotion.”
20175m


“Without reflecting that this is the only moment in which you can studycharacter,” said the count; “on the steps of the scaffold death tearsoff the mask that has been worn through life, and the real visage isdisclosed. It must be allowed that Andrea was not very handsome, thehideous scoundrel! Come, dress yourselves, gentlemen, dressyourselves.”
Franz felt it would be ridiculous not to follow his two companions’example. He assumed his costume, and fastened on the mask that scarcelyequalled the pallor of his own face. Their toilet finished, theydescended; the carriage awaited them at the door, filled withsweetmeats and bouquets. They fell into the line of carriages.
It is difficult to form an idea of the perfect change that had takenplace. Instead of the spectacle of gloomy and silent death, the Piazzadel Popolo presented a spectacle of gay and noisy mirth and revelry. Acrowd of masks flowed in from all sides, emerging from the doors,descending from the windows. From every street and every corner drovecarriages filled with clowns, harlequins, dominoes, mummers,pantomimists, Transteverins, knights, and peasants, screaming,fighting, gesticulating, throwing eggs filled with flour, confetti,nosegays, attacking, with their sarcasms and their missiles, friendsand foes, companions and strangers, indiscriminately, and no one tookoffence, or did anything but laugh.
Franz and Albert were like men who, to drive away a violent sorrow,have recourse to wine, and who, as they drink and become intoxicated,feel a thick veil drawn between the past and the present. They saw, orrather continued to see, the image of what they had witnessed; butlittle by little the general vertigo seized them, and they feltthemselves obliged to take part in the noise and confusion.
A handful of confetti that came from a neighboring carriage, and which,while it covered Morcerf and his two companions with dust, pricked hisneck and that portion of his face uncovered by his mask like a hundredpins, incited him to join in the general combat, in which all the masksaround him were engaged. He rose in his turn, and seizing handfuls ofconfetti and sweetmeats, with which the carriage was filled, cast themwith all the force and skill he was master of.
20177m


The strife had fairly begun, and the recollection of what they had seenhalf an hour before was gradually effaced from the young men’s minds,so much were they occupied by the gay and glittering procession theynow beheld.
As for the Count of Monte Cristo, he had never for an instant shown anyappearance of having been moved. Imagine the large and splendid Corso,bordered from one end to the other with lofty palaces, with theirbalconies hung with carpets, and their windows with flags. At thesebalconies are three hundred thousand spectators—Romans, Italians,strangers from all parts of the world, the united aristocracy of birth,wealth, and genius. Lovely women, yielding to the influence of thescene, bend over their balconies, or lean from their windows, andshower down confetti, which are returned by bouquets; the air seemsdarkened with the falling confetti and flying flowers. In the streetsthe lively crowd is dressed in the most fantastic costumes—giganticcabbages walk gravely about, buffaloes’ heads bellow from men’sshoulders, dogs walk on their hind legs; in the midst of all this amask is lifted, and, as in Callot’s Temptation of St. Anthony, a lovelyface is exhibited, which we would fain follow, but from which we areseparated by troops of fiends. This will give a faint idea of theCarnival at Rome.
At the second turn, the count stopped the carriage, and requestedpermission to withdraw, leaving the vehicle at their disposal. Franzlooked up—they were opposite the Rospoli Palace. At the centre window,the one hung with white damask with a red cross, was a blue domino,beneath which Franz’s imagination easily pictured the beautiful Greekof the Argentina.
“Gentlemen,” said the count, springing out, “when you are tired ofbeing actors, and wish to become spectators of this scene, you know youhave places at my windows. In the meantime, dispose of my coachman, mycarriage, and my servants.”
We have forgotten to mention, that the count’s coachman was attired ina bear-skin, exactly resembling Odry’s in _The Bear and the Pasha_; andthe two footmen behind were dressed up as green monkeys, with springmasks, with which they made grimaces at everyone who passed.
Franz thanked the count for his attention. As for Albert, he was busilyoccupied throwing bouquets at a carriage full of Roman peasants thatwas passing near him. Unfortunately for him, the line of carriagesmoved on again, and while he descended the Piazza del Popolo, the otherascended towards the Palazzo di Venezia.
“Ah, my dear fellow,” said he to Franz; “you did not see?”
“What?”
“There,—that calash filled with Roman peasants.”
“No.”
“Well, I am convinced they are all charming women.”
“How unfortunate that you were masked, Albert,” said Franz; “here wasan opportunity of making up for past disappointments.”
“Oh,” replied he, half laughing, half serious; “I hope the Carnivalwill not pass without some amends in one shape or the other.”
But, in spite of Albert’s hope, the day passed unmarked by anyincident, excepting two or three encounters with the carriage full ofRoman peasants. At one of these encounters, accidentally or purposely,Albert’s mask fell off. He instantly rose and cast the remainder of thebouquets into the carriage. Doubtless one of the charming femalesAlbert had detected beneath their coquettish disguise was touched byhis gallantry; for, as the carriage of the two friends passed her, shethrew a bunch of violets. Albert seized it, and as Franz had no reasonto suppose it was meant for him, he suffered Albert to retain it.Albert placed it in his button-hole, and the carriage went triumphantlyon.
“Well,” said Franz to him; “there is the beginning of an adventure.”
“Laugh if you please—I really think so. So I will not abandon thisbouquet.”
“_Pardieu_,” returned Franz, laughing, “in token of your ingratitude.”
The jest, however, soon appeared to become earnest; for when Albert andFranz again encountered the carriage with the _contadini_, the one whohad thrown the violets to Albert, clapped her hands when she beheldthem in his button-hole.
“Bravo, bravo,” said Franz; “things go wonderfully. Shall I leave you?Perhaps you would prefer being alone?”
“No,” replied he; “I will not be caught like a fool at a firstdisclosure by a rendezvous under the clock, as they say at theopera-balls. If the fair peasant wishes to carry matters any further,we shall find her, or rather, she will find us tomorrow; then she willgive me some sign or other, and I shall know what I have to do.”
“On my word,” said Franz, “you are as wise as Nestor and prudent asUlysses, and your fair Circe must be very skilful or very powerful ifshe succeed in changing you into a beast of any kind.”
Albert was right; the fair unknown had resolved, doubtless, to carrythe intrigue no farther; for although the young men made several moreturns, they did not again see the calash, which had turned up one ofthe neighboring streets. Then they returned to the Rospoli Palace; butthe count and the blue domino had also disappeared; the two windows,hung with yellow damask, were still occupied by the persons whom thecount had invited.
At this moment the same bell that had proclaimed the beginning of themascherata sounded the retreat. The file on the Corso broke the line,and in a second all the carriages had disappeared. Franz and Albertwere opposite the Via delle Muratte; the coachman, without saying aword, drove up it, passed along the Piazza di Spagna and the RospoliPalace and stopped at the door of the hotel. Signor Pastrini came tothe door to receive his guests.
Franz hastened to inquire after the count, and to express regret thathe had not returned in sufficient time; but Pastrini reassured him bysaying that the Count of Monte Cristo had ordered a second carriage forhimself, and that it had gone at four o’clock to fetch him from theRospoli Palace.
The count had, moreover, charged him to offer the two friends the keyof his box at the Argentina. Franz questioned Albert as to hisintentions; but Albert had great projects to put into execution beforegoing to the theatre; and instead of making any answer, he inquired ifSignor Pastrini could procure him a tailor.
“A tailor,” said the host; “and for what?”
“To make us between now and tomorrow two Roman peasant costumes,”returned Albert.
The host shook his head.
“To make you two costumes between now and tomorrow? I ask yourexcellencies’ pardon, but this is quite a French demand; for the nextweek you will not find a single tailor who would consent to sew sixbuttons on a waistcoat if you paid him a crown a piece for eachbutton.”
“Then I must give up the idea?”
“No; we have them ready-made. Leave all to me; and tomorrow, when youawake, you shall find a collection of costumes with which you will besatisfied.”
“My dear Albert,” said Franz, “leave all to our host; he has alreadyproved himself full of resources; let us dine quietly, and afterwardsgo and see _l’Italienne à Alger!_
“Agreed,” returned Albert; “but remember, Signor Pastrini, that both myfriend and myself attach the greatest importance to having tomorrow thecostumes we have asked for.”
The host again assured them they might rely on him, and that theirwishes should be attended to; upon which Franz and Albert mounted totheir apartments, and proceeded to disencumber themselves of theircostumes. Albert, as he took off his dress, carefully preserved thebunch of violets; it was his token reserved for the morrow.
The two friends sat down to table; but they could not refrain fromremarking the difference between the Count of Monte Cristo’s table andthat of Signor Pastrini. Truth compelled Franz, in spite of the dislikehe seemed to have taken to the count, to confess that the advantage wasnot on Pastrini’s side. During dessert, the servant inquired at whattime they wished for the carriage. Albert and Franz looked at eachother, fearing really to abuse the count’s kindness. The servantunderstood them.
“His excellency the Count of Monte Cristo had,” he said, “givenpositive orders that the carriage was to remain at their lordships’orders all day, and they could therefore dispose of it without fear ofindiscretion.”
They resolved to profit by the count’s courtesy, and ordered the horsesto be harnessed, while they substituted evening dress for that whichthey had on, and which was somewhat the worse for the numerous combatsthey had sustained.
20181m


This precaution taken, they went to the theatre, and installedthemselves in the count’s box. During the first act, the Countess G——entered. Her first look was at the box where she had seen the count theprevious evening, so that she perceived Franz and Albert in the placeof the very person concerning whom she had expressed so strange anopinion to Franz. Her opera-glass was so fixedly directed towards them,that Franz saw it would be cruel not to satisfy her curiosity; and,availing himself of one of the privileges of the spectators of theItalian theatres, who use their boxes to hold receptions, the twofriends went to pay their respects to the countess. Scarcely had theyentered, when she motioned to Franz to assume the seat of honor.Albert, in his turn, sat behind.
“Well,” said she, hardly giving Franz time to sit down, “it seems youhave nothing better to do than to make the acquaintance of this newLord Ruthven, and you are already the best friends in the world.”
“Without being so far advanced as that, my dear countess,” returnedFranz, “I cannot deny that we have abused his good nature all day.”
“All day?”
“Yes; this morning we breakfasted with him; we rode in his carriage allday, and now we have taken possession of his box.”
“You know him, then?”
“Yes, and no.”
“How so?”
“It is a long story.”
“Tell it to me.”
“It would frighten you too much.”
“So much the more reason.”
“At least wait until the story has a conclusion.”
“Very well; I prefer complete histories; but tell me how you made hisacquaintance? Did anyone introduce you to him?”
“No; it was he who introduced himself to us.”
“When?”
“Last night, after we left you.”
“Through what medium?”
“The very prosaic one of our landlord.”
“He is staying, then, at the Hôtel de Londres with you?”
“Not only in the same hotel, but on the same floor.”
“What is his name; for, of course, you know?”
“The Count of Monte Cristo.”
“That is not a family name?”
“No, it is the name of the island he has purchased.”
“And he is a count?”
“A Tuscan count.”
“Well, we must put up with that,” said the countess, who was herselffrom one of the oldest Venetian families. “What sort of a man is he?”
“Ask the Vicomte de Morcerf.”
“You hear, M. de Morcerf, I am referred to you,” said the countess.
“We should be very hard to please, madam,” returned Albert, “did we notthink him delightful. A friend of ten years’ standing could not havedone more for us, or with a more perfect courtesy.”
“Come,” observed the countess, smiling, “I see my vampire is only somemillionaire, who has taken the appearance of Lara in order to avoidbeing confounded with M. de Rothschild; and you have seen her?”
“Her?”
20183m


“The beautiful Greek of yesterday.”
“No; we heard, I think, the sound of her _guzla_, but she remainedperfectly invisible.”
“When you say invisible,” interrupted Albert, “it is only to keep upthe mystery; for whom do you take the blue domino at the window withthe white curtains?”
“Where was this window with white hangings?” asked the countess.
“At the Rospoli Palace.”
“The count had three windows at the Rospoli Palace?”
“Yes. Did you pass through the Corso?”
“Yes.”
“Well, did you notice two windows hung with yellow damask, and one withwhite damask with a red cross? Those were the count’s windows.”
“Why, he must be a nabob. Do you know what those three windows wereworth?”
“Two or three hundred Roman crowns?”
“Two or three thousand.”
“The deuce!”
“Does his island produce him such a revenue?”
“It does not bring him a bajocco.”
“Then why did he purchase it?”
“For a whim.”
“He is an original, then?”
“In reality,” observed Albert, “he seemed to me somewhat eccentric;were he at Paris, and a frequenter of the theatres, I should say he wasa poor devil literally mad. This morning he made two or three exitsworthy of Didier or Anthony.”
At this moment a fresh visitor entered, and, according to custom, Franzgave up his seat to him. This circumstance had, moreover, the effect ofchanging the conversation; an hour afterwards the two friends returnedto their hotel.
Signor Pastrini had already set about procuring their disguises for themorrow; and he assured them that they would be perfectly satisfied. Thenext morning, at nine o’clock, he entered Franz’s room, followed by atailor, who had eight or ten Roman peasant costumes on his arm; theyselected two exactly alike, and charged the tailor to sew on each oftheir hats about twenty yards of ribbon, and to procure them two of thelong silk sashes of different colors with which the lower ordersdecorate themselves on fête days.
Albert was impatient to see how he looked in his new dress—a jacket andbreeches of blue velvet, silk stockings with clocks, shoes withbuckles, and a silk waistcoat. This picturesque attire set him off togreat advantage; and when he had bound the scarf around his waist, andwhen his hat, placed coquettishly on one side, let fall on his shouldera stream of ribbons, Franz was forced to confess that costume has muchto do with the physical superiority we accord to certain nations. TheTurks used to be so picturesque with their long and flowing robes, butare they not now hideous with their blue frocks buttoned up to thechin, and their red caps, which make them look like a bottle of winewith a red seal? Franz complimented Albert, who looked at himself inthe glass with an unequivocal smile of satisfaction. They were thusengaged when the Count of Monte Cristo entered.
20185m


“Gentlemen,” said he, “although a companion is agreeable, perfectfreedom is sometimes still more agreeable. I come to say that today,and for the remainder of the Carnival, I leave the carriage entirely atyour disposal. The host will tell you I have three or four more, sothat you will not inconvenience me in any way. Make use of it, I prayyou, for your pleasure or your business.”
The young men wished to decline, but they could find no good reason forrefusing an offer which was so agreeable to them. The Count of MonteCristo remained a quarter of an hour with them, conversing on allsubjects with the greatest ease. He was, as we have already said,perfectly well acquainted with the literature of all countries. Aglance at the walls of his salon proved to Franz and Albert that he wasa connoisseur of pictures. A few words he let fall showed them that hewas no stranger to the sciences, and he seemed much occupied withchemistry. The two friends did not venture to return the count thebreakfast he had given them; it would have been too absurd to offer himin exchange for his excellent table the very inferior one of SignorPastrini. They told him so frankly, and he received their excuses withthe air of a man who appreciated their delicacy. Albert was charmedwith the count’s manners, and he was only prevented from recognizinghim for a perfect gentleman by reason of his varied knowledge.
The permission to do what he liked with the carriage pleased him aboveall, for the fair peasants had appeared in a most elegant carriage thepreceding evening, and Albert was not sorry to be upon an equal footingwith them. At half-past one they descended, the coachman and footmanhad put on their livery over their disguises, which gave them a moreridiculous appearance than ever, and which gained them the applause ofFranz and Albert. Albert had fastened the faded bunch of violets to hisbutton-hole. At the first sound of the bell they hastened into theCorso by the Via Vittoria.
At the second turn, a bunch of fresh violets, thrown from a carriagefilled with harlequins, indicated to Albert that, like himself and hisfriend, the peasants had changed their costume also; and whether it wasthe result of chance, or whether a similar feeling had possessed themboth, while he had donned their costume, they had assumed his.
Albert placed the fresh bouquet in his button-hole, but he kept thefaded one in his hand; and when he again met the calash, he raised itto his lips, an action which seemed greatly to amuse not only the fairlady who had thrown it, but her joyous companions also. The day was asgay as the preceding one, perhaps even more animated and noisy; thecount appeared for an instant at his window, but when they again passedhe had disappeared. It is almost needless to say that the flirtationbetween Albert and the fair peasant continued all day.
In the evening, on his return, Franz found a letter from the embassy,informing him that he would have the honor of being received by hisholiness the next day. At each previous visit he had made to Rome, hehad solicited and obtained the same favor; and incited as much by areligious feeling as by gratitude, he was unwilling to quit the capitalof the Christian world without laying his respectful homage at the feetof one of St. Peter’s successors who has set the rare example of allthe virtues. He did not then think of the Carnival, for in spite of hiscondescension and touching kindness, one cannot incline one’s selfwithout awe before the venerable and noble old man called Gregory XVI.
On his return from the Vatican, Franz carefully avoided the Corso; hebrought away with him a treasure of pious thoughts, to which the madgayety of the maskers would have been profanation.
At ten minutes past five Albert entered overjoyed. The harlequin hadreassumed her peasant’s costume, and as she passed she raised her mask.She was charming. Franz congratulated Albert, who received hiscongratulations with the air of a man conscious that they are merited.He had recognized by certain unmistakable signs, that his fair_incognita_ belonged to the aristocracy. He had made up his mind towrite to her the next day.
Franz remarked, while he gave these details, that Albert seemed to havesomething to ask of him, but that he was unwilling to ask it. Heinsisted upon it, declaring beforehand that he was willing to make anysacrifice the other wished.
Albert let himself be pressed just as long as friendship required, andthen avowed to Franz that he would do him a great favor by allowing himto occupy the carriage alone the next day. Albert attributed to Franz’sabsence the extreme kindness of the fair peasant in raising her mask.Franz was not sufficiently egotistical to stop Albert in the middle ofan adventure that promised to prove so agreeable to his curiosity andso flattering to his vanity. He felt assured that the perfectindiscretion of his friend would duly inform him of all that happened;and as, during three years that he had travelled all over Italy, asimilar piece of good fortune had never fallen to his share, Franz wasby no means sorry to learn how to act on such an occasion. He thereforepromised Albert that he would content himself the morrow withwitnessing the Carnival from the windows of the Rospoli Palace.
The next morning he saw Albert pass and repass, holding an enormousbouquet, which he doubtless meant to make the bearer of his amorousepistle. This belief was changed into certainty when Franz saw thebouquet (conspicuous by a circle of white camellias) in the hand of acharming harlequin dressed in rose-colored satin.
The evening was no longer joy, but delirium. Albert nothing doubted butthat the fair unknown would reply in the same manner. Franz anticipatedhis wishes by saying that the noise fatigued him, and that he shouldpass the next day in writing and looking over his journal. Albert wasnot deceived, for the next evening Franz saw him enter triumphantlyshaking a folded paper which he held by one corner.
“Well,” said he, “was I mistaken?”
“She has answered you!” cried Franz.
“Read.”
This word was pronounced in a manner impossible to describe. Franz tookthe letter, and read:
“Tuesday evening, at seven o’clock, descend from your carriage oppositethe Via dei Pontefici, and follow the Roman peasant who snatches yourtorch from you. When you arrive at the first step of the church of SanGiacomo, be sure to fasten a knot of rose-colored ribbons to theshoulder of your harlequin costume, in order that you may berecognized. Until then you will not see me. —Constancy and Discretion.”
“Well,” asked he, when Franz had finished, “what do you think of that?”
“I think that the adventure is assuming a very agreeable appearance.”
“I think so, also,” replied Albert; “and I very much fear you will goalone to the Duke of Bracciano’s ball.”
Franz and Albert had received that morning an invitation from thecelebrated Roman banker.
“Take care, Albert,” said Franz. “All the nobility of Rome will bepresent, and if your fair _incognita_ belong to the higher class ofsociety, she must go there.”
“Whether she goes there or not, my opinion is still the same,” returnedAlbert. “You have read the letter?”
“Yes.”
“You know how imperfectly the women of the _mezzo cito_ are educated inItaly?” (This is the name of the lower class.)
“Yes.”
“Well, read the letter again. Look at the writing, and find if you can,any blemish in the language or orthography.” The writing was, inreality, charming, and the orthography irreproachable.
“You are born to good fortune,” said Franz, as he returned the letter.
“Laugh as much as you will,” replied Albert, “I am in love.”
“You alarm me,” cried Franz. “I see that I shall not only go alone tothe Duke of Bracciano’s, but also return to Florence alone.”
“If my unknown be as amiable as she is beautiful,” said Albert, “Ishall fix myself at Rome for six weeks, at least. I adore Rome, and Ihave always had a great taste for archæology.”
20189m


“Come, two or three more such adventures, and I do not despair ofseeing you a member of the Academy.”
Doubtless Albert was about to discuss seriously his right to theacademic chair when they were informed that dinner was ready. Albert’slove had not taken away his appetite. He hastened with Franz to seathimself, free to recommence the discussion after dinner. After dinner,the Count of Monte Cristo was announced. They had not seen him for twodays. Signor Pastrini informed them that business had called him toCivita Vecchia. He had started the previous evening, and had onlyreturned an hour since. He was charming. Whether he kept a watch overhimself, or whether by accident he did not sound the acrimonious chordsthat in other circumstances had been touched, he was tonight likeeverybody else.
The man was an enigma to Franz. The count must feel sure that Franzrecognized him; and yet he had not let fall a single word indicatingany previous acquaintance between them. On his side, however greatFranz’s desire was to allude to their former interview, the fear ofbeing disagreeable to the man who had loaded him and his friend withkindness prevented him from mentioning it.
The count had learned that the two friends had sent to secure a box atthe Argentina Theatre, and were told they were all let. In consequence,he brought them the key of his own—at least such was the apparentmotive of his visit. Franz and Albert made some difficulty, allegingtheir fear of depriving him of it; but the count replied that, as hewas going to the Palli Theatre, the box at the Argentina Theatre wouldbe lost if they did not profit by it. This assurance determined the twofriends to accept it.
Franz had by degrees become accustomed to the count’s pallor, which hadso forcibly struck him at their first meeting. He could not refrainfrom admiring the severe beauty of his features, the only defect, orrather the principal quality of which was the pallor. Truly, a Byronichero! Franz could not, we will not say see him, but even think of himwithout imagining his stern head upon Manfred’s shoulders, or beneathLara’s helmet. His forehead was marked with the line that indicates theconstant presence of bitter thoughts; he had the fiery eyes that seemto penetrate to the very soul, and the haughty and disdainful upper lipthat gives to the words it utters a peculiar character that impressesthem on the minds of those to whom they are addressed.
The count was no longer young. He was at least forty; and yet it waseasy to understand that he was formed to rule the young men with whomhe associated at present. And, to complete his resemblance with thefantastic heroes of the English poet, the count seemed to have thepower of fascination. Albert was constantly expatiating on their goodfortune in meeting such a man. Franz was less enthusiastic; but thecount exercised over him also the ascendency a strong mind alwaysacquires over a mind less domineering. He thought several times of theproject the count had of visiting Paris; and he had no doubt but that,with his eccentric character, his characteristic face, and his colossalfortune, he would produce a great effect there. And yet he did not wishto be at Paris when the count was there.
The evening passed as evenings mostly pass at Italian theatres; thatis, not in listening to the music, but in paying visits and conversing.The Countess G—— wished to revive the subject of the count, but Franzannounced he had something far newer to tell her, and, in spite ofAlbert’s demonstrations of false modesty, he informed the countess ofthe great event which had preoccupied them for the last three days. Assimilar intrigues are not uncommon in Italy, if we may credittravellers, the comtess did not manifest the least incredulity, butcongratulated Albert on his success. They promised, upon separating, tomeet at the Duke of Bracciano’s ball, to which all Rome was invited.
The heroine of the bouquet kept her word; she gave Albert no sign ofher existence the morrow or the day after.
At length Tuesday came, the last and most tumultuous day of theCarnival. On Tuesday, the theatres open at ten o’clock in the morning,as Lent begins after eight at night. On Tuesday, all those who throughwant of money, time, or enthusiasm, have not been to see the Carnivalbefore, mingle in the gayety, and contribute to the noise andexcitement. From two o’clock till five Franz and Albert followed in the_fête_, exchanging handfuls of _confetti_ with the other carriages andthe pedestrians, who crowded amongst the horses’ feet and the carriagewheels without a single accident, a single dispute, or a single fight.
The _fêtes_ are veritable pleasure days to the Italians. The author ofthis history, who has resided five or six years in Italy, does notrecollect to have ever seen a ceremony interrupted by one of thoseevents so common in other countries. Albert was triumphant in hisharlequin costume. A knot of rose-colored ribbons fell from hisshoulder almost to the ground. In order that there might be noconfusion, Franz wore his peasant’s costume.
As the day advanced, the tumult became greater. There was not on thepavement, in the carriages, at the windows, a single tongue that wassilent, a single arm that did not move. It was a human storm, made upof a thunder of cries, and a hail of sweetmeats, flowers, eggs,oranges, and nosegays.
At three o’clock the sound of fireworks, let off on the Piazza delPopolo and the Piazza di Venezia (heard with difficulty amid the dinand confusion) announced that the races were about to begin.
The races, like the _moccoli_, are one of the episodes peculiar to thelast days of the Carnival. At the sound of the fireworks the carriagesinstantly broke ranks, and retired by the adjacent streets. All theseevolutions are executed with an inconceivable address and marvellousrapidity, without the police interfering in the matter. The pedestriansranged themselves against the walls; then the trampling of horses andthe clashing of steel were heard. A detachment of carbineers, fifteenabreast, galloped up the Corso in order to clear it for the _barberi_.When the detachment arrived at the Piazza di Venezia, a second volleyof fireworks was discharged, to announce that the street was clear.
Almost instantly, in the midst of a tremendous and general outcry,seven or eight horses, excited by the shouts of three hundred thousandspectators, passed by like lightning. Then the Castle of Saint Angelofired three cannon to indicate that number three had won.
Immediately, without any other signal, the carriages moved on, flowingon towards the Corso, down all the streets, like torrents pent up for awhile, which again flow into the parent river; and the immense streamagain continued its course between its two granite banks.
A new source of noise and movement was added to the crowd. The sellersof _moccoletti_ entered on the scene. The _moccoli_, or _moccoletti_,are candles which vary in size from the pascal taper to the rushlight,and which give to each actor in the great final scene of the Carnivaltwo very serious problems to grapple with,—first, how to keep his own_moccoletto_ alight; and secondly, how to extinguish the _moccoletti_of others. The _moccoletto_ is like life: man has found but one meansof transmitting it, and that one comes from God. But he has discovereda thousand means of taking it away, and the devil has somewhat aidedhim. The _moccoletto_ is kindled by approaching it to a light. But whocan describe the thousand means of extinguishing the _moccoletto_?—thegigantic bellows, the monstrous extinguishers, the superhuman fans.Everyone hastened to purchase _moccoletti_—Franz and Albert among therest.
The night was rapidly approaching; and already, at the cry of“_Moccoletti_!” repeated by the shrill voices of a thousand vendors,two or three stars began to burn among the crowd. It was a signal. Atthe end of ten minutes fifty thousand lights glittered, descending fromthe Palazzo di Venezia to the Piazza del Popolo, and mounting from thePiazza del Popolo to the Palazzo di Venezia. It seemed like the _fête_of Jack-o’-lanterns.
It is impossible to form any idea of it without having seen it. Supposethat all the stars had descended from the sky and mingled in a wilddance on the face of the earth; the whole accompanied by cries thatwere never heard in any other part of the world. The _facchino_ followsthe prince, the Transteverin the citizen, everyone blowing,extinguishing, relighting. Had old Æolus appeared at this moment, hewould have been proclaimed king of the _moccoli_, and Aquilo theheir-presumptive to the throne.
This battle of folly and flame continued for two hours; the Corso waslight as day; the features of the spectators on the third and fourthstories were visible.
Every five minutes Albert took out his watch; at length it pointed toseven. The two friends were in the Via dei Pontefici. Albert sprangout, bearing his _moccoletto_ in his hand. Two or three masks strove toknock his _moccoletto_ out of his hand; but Albert, a first-ratepugilist, sent them rolling in the street, one after the other, andcontinued his course towards the church of San Giacomo.
The steps were crowded with masks, who strove to snatch each other’storches. Franz followed Albert with his eyes, and saw him mount thefirst step.
Instantly a mask, wearing the well-known costume of a peasant woman,snatched his _moccoletto_ from him without his offering any resistance.Franz was too far off to hear what they said; but, without doubt,nothing hostile passed, for he saw Albert disappear arm-in-arm with thepeasant girl. He watched them pass through the crowd for some time, butat length he lost sight of them in the Via Macello.
Suddenly the bell that gives the signal for the end of the Carnivalsounded, and at the same instant all the _moccoletti_ were extinguishedas if by enchantment. It seemed as though one immense blast of the windhad extinguished everyone.
Franz found himself in utter darkness. No sound was audible save thatof the carriages that were carrying the maskers home; nothing wasvisible save a few lights that burnt behind the windows.
The Carnival was over.
20193m



 Chapter 37. The Catacombs of Saint Sebastian
In his whole life, perhaps, Franz had never before experienced sosudden an impression, so rapid a transition from gayety to sadness, asin this moment. It seemed as though Rome, under the magic breath ofsome demon of the night, had suddenly changed into a vast tomb. By achance, which added yet more to the intensity of the darkness, themoon, which was on the wane, did not rise until eleven o’clock, and thestreets which the young man traversed were plunged in the deepestobscurity.
The distance was short, and at the end of ten minutes his carriage, orrather the count’s, stopped before the Hôtel de Londres.
Dinner was waiting, but as Albert had told him that he should notreturn so soon, Franz sat down without him. Signor Pastrini, who hadbeen accustomed to see them dine together, inquired into the cause ofhis absence, but Franz merely replied that Albert had received on theprevious evening an invitation which he had accepted.
The sudden extinction of the _moccoletti_, the darkness which hadreplaced the light, and the silence which had succeeded the turmoil,had left in Franz’s mind a certain depression which was not free fromuneasiness. He therefore dined very silently, in spite of the officiousattention of his host, who presented himself two or three times toinquire if he wanted anything.
Franz resolved to wait for Albert as late as possible. He ordered thecarriage, therefore, for eleven o’clock, desiring Signor Pastrini toinform him the moment that Albert returned to the hotel.
At eleven o’clock Albert had not come back. Franz dressed himself, andwent out, telling his host that he was going to pass the night at theDuke of Bracciano’s. The house of the Duke of Bracciano is one of themost delightful in Rome, the duchess, one of the last heiresses of theColonnas, does its honors with the most consummate grace, and thustheir _fêtes_ have a European celebrity.
Franz and Albert had brought to Rome letters of introduction to them,and their first question on his arrival was to inquire the whereaboutsof his travelling companion. Franz replied that he had left him at themoment they were about to extinguish the _moccoli_, and that he hadlost sight of him in the Via Macello.
“Then he has not returned?” said the duke.
“I waited for him until this hour,” replied Franz.
“And do you know whither he went?”
“No, not precisely; however, I think it was something very like arendezvous.”
“_Diavolo!_” said the duke, “this is a bad day, or rather a bad night,to be out late; is it not, countess?”
These words were addressed to the Countess G——, who had just arrived,and was leaning on the arm of Signor Torlonia, the duke’s brother.
“I think, on the contrary, that it is a charming night,” replied thecountess, “and those who are here will complain of but one thing, thatof its too rapid flight.”
“I am not speaking,” said the duke with a smile, “of the persons whoare here; the men run no other danger than that of falling in love withyou, and the women of falling ill of jealousy at seeing you so lovely;I meant persons who were out in the streets of Rome.”
“Ah,” asked the countess, “who is out in the streets of Rome at thishour, unless it be to go to a ball?”
“Our friend, Albert de Morcerf, countess, whom I left in pursuit of hisunknown about seven o’clock this evening,” said Franz, “and whom I havenot seen since.”
“And don’t you know where he is?”
“Not at all.”
“Is he armed?”
“He is in masquerade.”
“You should not have allowed him to go,” said the duke to Franz; “you,who know Rome better than he does.”
“You might as well have tried to stop number three of the _barberi_,who gained the prize in the race today,” replied Franz; “and thenmoreover, what could happen to him?”
“Who can tell? The night is gloomy, and the Tiber is very near the ViaMacello.” Franz felt a shudder run through his veins at observing thatthe feeling of the duke and the countess was so much in unison with hisown personal disquietude.
“I informed them at the hotel that I had the honor of passing the nighthere, duke,” said Franz, “and desired them to come and inform me of hisreturn.”
“Ah,” replied the duke, “here I think, is one of my servants who isseeking you.”
The duke was not mistaken; when he saw Franz, the servant came up tohim.
“Your excellency,” he said, “the master of the Hôtel de Londres hassent to let you know that a man is waiting for you with a letter fromthe Viscount of Morcerf.”
“A letter from the viscount!” exclaimed Franz.
“Yes.”
“And who is the man?”
“I do not know.”
“Why did he not bring it to me here?”
“The messenger did not say.”
“And where is the messenger?”
“He went away directly he saw me enter the ball-room to find you.”
“Oh,” said the countess to Franz, “go with all speed—poor young man!Perhaps some accident has happened to him.”
“I will hasten,” replied Franz.
“Shall we see you again to give us any information?” inquired thecountess.
“Yes, if it is not any serious affair, otherwise I cannot answer as towhat I may do myself.”
“Be prudent, in any event,” said the countess.
“Oh! pray be assured of that.”
Franz took his hat and went away in haste. He had sent away hiscarriage with orders for it to fetch him at two o’clock; fortunatelythe Palazzo Bracciano, which is on one side in the Corso, and on theother in the Square of the Holy Apostles, is hardly ten minutes’ walkfrom the Hôtel de Londres.
As he came near the hotel, Franz saw a man in the middle of the street.He had no doubt that it was the messenger from Albert. The man waswrapped up in a large cloak. He went up to him, but, to his extremeastonishment, the stranger first addressed him.
“What wants your excellency of me?” inquired the man, retreating a stepor two, as if to keep on his guard.
“Are not you the person who brought me a letter,” inquired Franz, “fromthe Viscount of Morcerf?”
“Your excellency lodges at Pastrini’s hotel?”
“I do.”
“Your excellency is the travelling companion of the viscount?”
“I am.”
“Your excellency’s name——”
“Is the Baron Franz d’Épinay.”
20199m


“Then it is to your excellency that this letter is addressed.”
“Is there any answer?” inquired Franz, taking the letter from him.
“Yes—your friend at least hopes so.”
“Come upstairs with me, and I will give it to you.”
“I prefer waiting here,” said the messenger, with a smile.
“And why?”
“Your excellency will know when you have read the letter.”
“Shall I find you here, then?”
“Certainly.”
Franz entered the hotel. On the staircase he met Signor Pastrini.“Well?” said the landlord.
“Well—what?” responded Franz.
“You have seen the man who desired to speak with you from your friend?”he asked of Franz.
“Yes, I have seen him,” he replied, “and he has handed this letter tome. Light the candles in my apartment, if you please.”
The innkeeper gave orders to a servant to go before Franz with a light.The young man had found Signor Pastrini looking very much alarmed, andthis had only made him the more anxious to read Albert’s letter; and sohe went instantly towards the waxlight, and unfolded it. It was writtenand signed by Albert. Franz read it twice before he could comprehendwhat it contained. It was thus worded:
“My dear Fellow,
“The moment you have received this, have the kindness to take theletter of credit from my pocket-book, which you will find in the squaredrawer of the _secrétaire_; add your own to it, if it be notsufficient. Run to Torlonia, draw from him instantly four thousandpiastres, and give them to the bearer. It is urgent that I should havethis money without delay. I do not say more, relying on you as you mayrely on me.
“Your friend,
“Albert de Morcerf.
“P.S.—I now believe in Italian _banditti_.”
Below these lines were written, in a strange hand, the following inItalian:
“_Se alle sei della mattina le quattro mille piastre non sono nelle miemani, alla sette il Conte Alberto avrà cessato di vivere_.
“Luigi Vampa.”
“_If by six in the morning the four thousand piastres are not in myhands, by seven o’clock the Count Albert will have ceased to live_.”
This second signature explained everything to Franz, who now understoodthe objection of the messenger to coming up into the apartment; thestreet was safer for him. Albert, then, had fallen into the hands ofthe famous bandit chief, in whose existence he had for so long a timerefused to believe.
There was no time to lose. He hastened to open the _secrétaire_, andfound the pocket-book in the drawer, and in it the letter of credit.There were in all six thousand piastres, but of these six thousandAlbert had already expended three thousand.
As to Franz, he had no letter of credit, as he lived at Florence, andhad only come to Rome to pass seven or eight days; he had brought but ahundred louis, and of these he had not more than fifty left. Thus sevenor eight hundred piastres were wanting to them both to make up the sumthat Albert required. True, he might in such a case rely on thekindness of Signor Torlonia. He was, therefore, about to return to thePalazzo Bracciano without loss of time, when suddenly a luminous ideacrossed his mind.
He remembered the Count of Monte Cristo. Franz was about to ring forSignor Pastrini, when that worthy presented himself.
“My dear sir,” he said, hastily, “do you know if the count is within?”
“Yes, your excellency; he has this moment returned.”
“Is he in bed?”
“I should say no.”
“Then ring at his door, if you please, and request him to be so kind asto give me an audience.”
Signor Pastrini did as he was desired, and returning five minutesafter, he said:
“The count awaits your excellency.”
Franz went along the corridor, and a servant introduced him to thecount. He was in a small room which Franz had not yet seen, and whichwas surrounded with divans. The count came towards him.
“Well, what good wind blows you hither at this hour?” said he; “haveyou come to sup with me? It would be very kind of you.”
“No; I have come to speak to you of a very serious matter.”
“A serious matter,” said the count, looking at Franz with theearnestness usual to him; “and what may it be?”
“Are we alone?”
“Yes,” replied the count, going to the door, and returning. Franz gavehim Albert’s letter.
“Read that,” he said.
The count read it.
“Well, well!” said he.
“Did you see the postscript?”
“I did, indeed.
“_‘Se alle sei della mattina le quattro mille piastre non sono nellemie mani, alla sette il conte Alberto avrà cessato di vivere. _
“‘Luigi Vampa.’”
“What think you of that?” inquired Franz.
“Have you the money he demands?”
“Yes, all but eight hundred piastres.”
The count went to his _secrétaire_, opened it, and pulling out a drawerfilled with gold, said to Franz, “I hope you will not offend me byapplying to anyone but myself.”
“You see, on the contrary, I come to you first and instantly,” repliedFranz.
“And I thank you; have what you will;” and he made a sign to Franz totake what he pleased.
“Is it absolutely necessary, then, to send the money to Luigi Vampa?”asked the young man, looking fixedly in his turn at the count.
“Judge for yourself,” replied he. “The postscript is explicit.”
“I think that if you would take the trouble of reflecting, you couldfind a way of simplifying the negotiation,” said Franz.
“How so?” returned the count, with surprise.
“If we were to go together to Luigi Vampa, I am sure he would notrefuse you Albert’s freedom.”
“What influence can I possibly have over a bandit?”
“Have you not just rendered him a service that can never be forgotten?”
“What is that?”
“Have you not saved Peppino’s life?”
“Well, well,” said the count, “who told you that?”
“No matter; I know it.” The count knit his brows, and remained silentan instant.
“And if I went to seek Vampa, would you accompany me?”
“If my society would not be disagreeable.”
“Be it so. It is a lovely night, and a walk without Rome will do usboth good.”
“Shall I take any arms?”
“For what purpose?”
“Any money?”
“It is useless. Where is the man who brought the letter?”
“In the street.”
“He awaits the answer?”
“Yes.”
“I must learn where we are going. I will summon him hither.”
“It is useless; he would not come up.”
“To your apartments, perhaps; but he will not make any difficulty atentering mine.”
The count went to the window of the apartment that looked on to thestreet, and whistled in a peculiar manner. The man in the mantlequitted the wall, and advanced into the middle of the street.“_Salite!_” said the count, in the same tone in which he would havegiven an order to his servant. The messenger obeyed without the leasthesitation, but rather with alacrity, and, mounting the steps at abound, entered the hotel; five seconds afterwards he was at the door ofthe room.
“Ah, it is you, Peppino,” said the count. But Peppino, instead ofanswering, threw himself on his knees, seized the count’s hand, andcovered it with kisses. “Ah,” said the count, “you have, then, notforgotten that I saved your life; that is strange, for it is a weekago.”
20203m


“No, excellency; and never shall I forget it,” returned Peppino, withan accent of profound gratitude.
“Never? That is a long time; but it is something that you believe so.Rise and answer.”
Peppino glanced anxiously at Franz.
“Oh, you may speak before his excellency,” said he; “he is one of myfriends. You allow me to give you this title?” continued the count inFrench, “it is necessary to excite this man’s confidence.”
“You can speak before me,” said Franz; “I am a friend of the count’s.”
“Good!” returned Peppino. “I am ready to answer any questions yourexcellency may address to me.”
“How did the Viscount Albert fall into Luigi’s hands?”
“Excellency, the Frenchman’s carriage passed several times the one inwhich was Teresa.”
“The chief’s mistress?”
“Yes. The Frenchman threw her a bouquet; Teresa returned it—all thiswith the consent of the chief, who was in the carriage.”
“What?” cried Franz, “was Luigi Vampa in the carriage with the Romanpeasants?”
“It was he who drove, disguised as the coachman,” replied Peppino.
“Well?” said the count.
“Well, then, the Frenchman took off his mask; Teresa, with the chief’sconsent, did the same. The Frenchman asked for a rendezvous; Teresagave him one—only, instead of Teresa, it was Beppo who was on the stepsof the church of San Giacomo.”
“What!” exclaimed Franz, “the peasant girl who snatched his _mocoletto_from him——”
“Was a lad of fifteen,” replied Peppino. “But it was no disgrace toyour friend to have been deceived; Beppo has taken in plenty ofothers.”
“And Beppo led him outside the walls?” said the count.
“Exactly so; a carriage was waiting at the end of the Via Macello.Beppo got in, inviting the Frenchman to follow him, and he did not waitto be asked twice. He gallantly offered the right-hand seat to Beppo,and sat by him. Beppo told him he was going to take him to a villa aleague from Rome; the Frenchman assured him he would follow him to theend of the world. The coachman went up the Via di Ripetta and the PortaSan Paolo; and when they were two hundred yards outside, as theFrenchman became somewhat too forward, Beppo put a brace of pistols tohis head, the coachman pulled up and did the same. At the same time,four of the band, who were concealed on the banks of the Almo,surrounded the carriage. The Frenchman made some resistance, and nearlystrangled Beppo; but he could not resist five armed men, and was forcedto yield. They made him get out, walk along the banks of the river, andthen brought him to Teresa and Luigi, who were waiting for him in thecatacombs of St. Sebastian.”
“Well,” said the count, turning towards Franz, “it seems to me thatthis is a very likely story. What do you say to it?”
“Why, that I should think it very amusing,” replied Franz, “if it hadhappened to anyone but poor Albert.”
“And, in truth, if you had not found me here,” said the count, “itmight have proved a gallant adventure which would have cost your frienddear; but now, be assured, his alarm will be the only seriousconsequence.”
“And shall we go and find him?” inquired Franz.
“Oh, decidedly, sir. He is in a very picturesque place—do you know thecatacombs of St. Sebastian?”
“I was never in them; but I have often resolved to visit them.”
“Well, here is an opportunity made to your hand, and it would bedifficult to contrive a better. Have you a carriage?”
“No.”
“That is of no consequence; I always have one ready, day and night.”
“Always ready?”
“Yes. I am a very capricious being, and I should tell you thatsometimes when I rise, or after my dinner, or in the middle of thenight, I resolve on starting for some particular point, and away I go.”
The count rang, and a footman appeared.
“Order out the carriage,” he said, “and remove the pistols which are inthe holsters. You need not awaken the coachman; Ali will drive.”
In a very short time the noise of wheels was heard, and the carriagestopped at the door. The count took out his watch.
“Half-past twelve,” he said. “We might start at five o’clock and be intime, but the delay may cause your friend to pass an uneasy night, andtherefore we had better go with all speed to extricate him from thehands of the infidels. Are you still resolved to accompany me?”
“More determined than ever.”
“Well, then, come along.”
Franz and the count went downstairs, accompanied by Peppino. At thedoor they found the carriage. Ali was on the box, in whom Franzrecognized the dumb slave of the grotto of Monte Cristo. Franz and thecount got into the carriage. Peppino placed himself beside Ali, andthey set off at a rapid pace. Ali had received his instructions, andwent down the Corso, crossed the Campo Vaccino, went up the Strada SanGregorio, and reached the gates of St. Sebastian. Then the porterraised some difficulties, but the Count of Monte Cristo produced apermit from the governor of Rome, allowing him to leave or enter thecity at any hour of the day or night; the portcullis was thereforeraised, the porter had a louis for his trouble, and they went on theirway.
The road which the carriage now traversed was the ancient Appian Way,and bordered with tombs. From time to time, by the light of the moon,which began to rise, Franz imagined that he saw something like asentinel appear at various points among the ruins, and suddenly retreatinto the darkness on a signal from Peppino.
A short time before they reached the Baths of Caracalla the carriagestopped, Peppino opened the door, and the count and Franz alighted.
“In ten minutes,” said the count to his companion, “we shall be there.”
He then took Peppino aside, gave him an order in a low voice, andPeppino went away, taking with him a torch, brought with them in thecarriage. Five minutes elapsed, during which Franz saw the shepherdgoing along a narrow path that led over the irregular and brokensurface of the Campagna; and finally he disappeared in the midst of thetall red herbage, which seemed like the bristling mane of an enormouslion.
“Now,” said the count, “let us follow him.”
Franz and the count in their turn then advanced along the same path,which, at the distance of a hundred paces, led them over a declivity tothe bottom of a small valley. They then perceived two men conversing inthe obscurity.
“Ought we to go on?” asked Franz of the count; “or should we pause?”
“Let us go on; Peppino will have warned the sentry of our coming.”
One of the two men was Peppino, and the other a bandit on the lookout.Franz and the count advanced, and the bandit saluted them.
“Your excellency,” said Peppino, addressing the count, “if you willfollow me, the opening of the catacombs is close at hand.”
“Go on, then,” replied the count. They came to an opening behind aclump of bushes and in the midst of a pile of rocks, by which a mancould scarcely pass. Peppino glided first into this crevice; after theygot along a few paces the passage widened. Peppino passed, lighted historch, and turned to see if they came after him. The count firstreached an open space and Franz followed him closely. The passagewaysloped in a gentle descent, enlarging as they proceeded; still Franzand the count were compelled to advance in a stooping posture, and werescarcely able to proceed abreast of one another. They went on a hundredand fifty paces in this way, and then were stopped by, “Who comesthere?” At the same time they saw the reflection of a torch on acarbine barrel.
“A friend!” responded Peppino; and, advancing alone towards the sentry,he said a few words to him in a low tone; and then he, like the first,saluted the nocturnal visitors, making a sign that they might proceed.
Behind the sentinel was a staircase with twenty steps. Franz and thecount descended these, and found themselves in a mortuary chamber. Fivecorridors diverged like the rays of a star, and the walls, dug intoniches, which were arranged one above the other in the shape ofcoffins, showed that they were at last in the catacombs. Down one ofthe corridors, whose extent it was impossible to determine, rays oflight were visible. The count laid his hand on Franz’s shoulder.
“Would you like to see a camp of bandits in repose?” he inquired.
“Exceedingly,” replied Franz.
“Come with me, then. Peppino, put out the torch.” Peppino obeyed, andFranz and the count were in utter darkness, except that fifty paces inadvance of them a reddish glare, more evident since Peppino had put outhis torch, was visible along the wall.
They advanced silently, the count guiding Franz as if he had thesingular faculty of seeing in the dark. Franz himself, however, saw hisway more plainly in proportion as he went on towards the light, whichserved in some manner as a guide. Three arcades were before them, andthe middle one was used as a door. These arcades opened on one sideinto the corridor where the count and Franz were, and on the other intoa large square chamber, entirely surrounded by niches similar to thoseof which we have spoken.
In the midst of this chamber were four stones, which had formerlyserved as an altar, as was evident from the cross which stillsurmounted them. A lamp, placed at the base of a pillar, lighted upwith its pale and flickering flame the singular scene which presenteditself to the eyes of the two visitors concealed in the shadow.
A man was seated with his elbow leaning on the column, and was readingwith his back turned to the arcades, through the openings of which thenew-comers contemplated him. This was the chief of the band, LuigiVampa. Around him, and in groups, according to their fancy, lying intheir mantles, or with their backs against a sort of stone bench, whichwent all round the columbarium, were to be seen twenty brigands ormore, each having his carbine within reach. At the other end, silent,scarcely visible, and like a shadow, was a sentinel, who was walking upand down before a grotto, which was only distinguishable because inthat spot the darkness seemed more dense than elsewhere.
When the count thought Franz had gazed sufficiently on this picturesquetableau, he raised his finger to his lips, to warn him to be silent,and, ascending the three steps which led to the corridor of thecolumbarium, entered the chamber by the middle arcade, and advancedtowards Vampa, who was so intent on the book before him that he did nothear the noise of his footsteps.
“Who comes there?” cried the sentinel, who was less abstracted, and whosaw by the lamp-light a shadow approaching his chief. At thischallenge, Vampa rose quickly, drawing at the same moment a pistol fromhis girdle. In a moment all the bandits were on their feet, and twentycarbines were levelled at the count.
“Well,” said he in a voice perfectly calm, and no muscle of hiscountenance disturbed, “well, my dear Vampa, it appears to me that youreceive a friend with a great deal of ceremony.”
20207m


“Ground arms,” exclaimed the chief, with an imperative sign of thehand, while with the other he took off his hat respectfully; then,turning to the singular personage who had caused this scene, he said,“Your pardon, your excellency, but I was so far from expecting thehonor of a visit, that I did not really recognize you.”
“It seems that your memory is equally short in everything, Vampa,” saidthe count, “and that not only do you forget people’s faces, but alsothe conditions you make with them.”
“What conditions have I forgotten, your excellency?” inquired thebandit, with the air of a man who, having committed an error, isanxious to repair it.
“Was it not agreed,” asked the count, “that not only my person, butalso that of my friends, should be respected by you?”
“And how have I broken that treaty, your excellency?”
“You have this evening carried off and conveyed hither the ViscountAlbert de Morcerf. Well,” continued the count, in a tone that madeFranz shudder, “this young gentleman is one of _my friends_—this younggentleman lodges in the same hotel as myself—this young gentleman hasbeen up and down the Corso for eight hours in my private carriage, andyet, I repeat to you, you have carried him off, and conveyed himhither, and,” added the count, taking the letter from his pocket, “youhave set a ransom on him, as if he were an utter stranger.”
“Why did you not tell me all this—you?” inquired the brigand chief,turning towards his men, who all retreated before his look. “Why haveyou caused me thus to fail in my word towards a gentleman like thecount, who has all our lives in his hands? By heavens! if I thought oneof you knew that the young gentleman was the friend of his excellency,I would blow his brains out with my own hand!”
20211m


“Well,” said the count, turning towards Franz, “I told you there wassome mistake in this.”
“Are you not alone?” asked Vampa with uneasiness.
“I am with the person to whom this letter was addressed, and to whom Idesired to prove that Luigi Vampa was a man of his word. Come, yourexcellency,” the count added, turning to Franz, “here is Luigi Vampa,who will himself express to you his deep regret at the mistake he hascommitted.”
Franz approached, the chief advancing several steps to meet him.
“Welcome among us, your excellency,” he said to him; “you heard whatthe count just said, and also my reply; let me add that I would not forthe four thousand piastres at which I had fixed your friend’s ransom,that this had happened.”
“But,” said Franz, looking round him uneasily, “where is theviscount?—I do not see him.”
“Nothing has happened to him, I hope,” said the count frowningly.
“The prisoner is there,” replied Vampa, pointing to the hollow space infront of which the bandit was on guard, “and I will go myself and tellhim he is free.”
The chief went towards the place he had pointed out as Albert’s prison,and Franz and the count followed him.
“What is the prisoner doing?” inquired Vampa of the sentinel.
“_Ma foi_, captain,” replied the sentry, “I do not know; for the lasthour I have not heard him stir.”
“Come in, your excellency,” said Vampa. The count and Franz ascendedseven or eight steps after the chief, who drew back a bolt and opened adoor. Then, by the gleam of a lamp, similar to that which lighted thecolumbarium, Albert was to be seen wrapped up in a cloak which one ofthe bandits had lent him, lying in a corner in profound slumber.
“Come,” said the count, smiling with his own peculiar smile, “not sobad for a man who is to be shot at seven o’clock tomorrow morning.”
Vampa looked at Albert with a kind of admiration; he was not insensibleto such a proof of courage.
“You are right, your excellency,” he said; “this must be one of yourfriends.”
Then going to Albert, he touched him on the shoulder, saying, “Willyour excellency please to awaken?”
Albert stretched out his arms, rubbed his eyelids, and opened his eyes.
“Oh,” said he, “is it you, captain? You should have allowed me tosleep. I had such a delightful dream. I was dancing the galop atTorlonia’s with the Countess G——.” Then he drew his watch from hispocket, that he might see how time sped.
“Half-past one only?” said he. “Why the devil do you rouse me at thishour?”
“To tell you that you are free, your excellency.”
“My dear fellow,” replied Albert, with perfect ease of mind, “remember,for the future, Napoleon’s maxim, ‘Never awaken me but for bad news;’if you had let me sleep on, I should have finished my galop, and havebeen grateful to you all my life. So, then, they have paid my ransom?”
“No, your excellency.”
“Well, then, how am I free?”
“A person to whom I can refuse nothing has come to demand you.”
“Come hither?”
“Yes, hither.”
“Really? Then that person is a most amiable person.”
Albert looked around and perceived Franz. “What,” said he, “is it you,my dear Franz, whose devotion and friendship are thus displayed?”
“No, not I,” replied Franz, “but our neighbor, the Count of MonteCristo.”
“Oh, my dear count,” said Albert gayly, arranging his cravat andwristbands, “you are really most kind, and I hope you will consider meas under eternal obligations to you, in the first place for thecarriage, and in the next for this visit,” and he put out his hand tothe count, who shuddered as he gave his own, but who nevertheless didgive it.
The bandit gazed on this scene with amazement; he was evidentlyaccustomed to see his prisoners tremble before him, and yet here wasone whose gay temperament was not for a moment altered; as for Franz,he was enchanted at the way in which Albert had sustained the nationalhonor in the presence of the bandit.
“My dear Albert,” he said, “if you will make haste, we shall yet havetime to finish the night at Torlonia’s. You may conclude yourinterrupted galop, so that you will owe no ill-will to Signor Luigi,who has, indeed, throughout this whole affair acted like a gentleman.”
“You are decidedly right, and we may reach the Palazzo by two o’clock.Signor Luigi,” continued Albert, “is there any formality to fulfilbefore I take leave of your excellency?”
“None, sir,” replied the bandit, “you are as free as air.”
“Well, then, a happy and merry life to you. Come, gentlemen, come.”
And Albert, followed by Franz and the count, descended the staircase,crossed the square chamber, where stood all the bandits, hat in hand.
“Peppino,” said the brigand chief, “give me the torch.”
“What are you going to do?” inquired the count.
“I will show you the way back myself,” said the captain; “that is theleast honor that I can render to your excellency.”
And taking the lighted torch from the hands of the herdsman, hepreceded his guests, not as a servant who performs an act of civility,but like a king who precedes ambassadors. On reaching the door, hebowed.
“And now, your excellency,” added he, “allow me to repeat my apologies,and I hope you will not entertain any resentment at what has occurred.”
“No, my dear Vampa,” replied the count; “besides, you compensate foryour mistakes in so gentlemanly a way, that one almost feels obliged toyou for having committed them.”
20214m


“Gentlemen,” added the chief, turning towards the young men, “perhapsthe offer may not appear very tempting to you; but if you should everfeel inclined to pay me a second visit, wherever I may be, you shall bewelcome.”
Franz and Albert bowed. The count went out first, then Albert. Franzpaused for a moment.
“Has your excellency anything to ask me?” said Vampa with a smile.
“Yes, I have,” replied Franz; “I am curious to know what work you wereperusing with so much attention as we entered.”
“Cæsar’s _Commentaries_,” said the bandit, “it is my favorite work.”
“Well, are you coming?” asked Albert.
“Yes,” replied Franz, “here I am,” and he, in his turn, left the caves.They advanced to the plain.
“Ah, your pardon,” said Albert, turning round; “will you allow me,captain?”
And he lighted his cigar at Vampa’s torch.
“Now, my dear count,” he said, “let us on with all the speed we may. Iam enormously anxious to finish my night at the Duke of Bracciano’s.”
They found the carriage where they had left it. The count said a wordin Arabic to Ali, and the horses went on at great speed.
It was just two o’clock by Albert’s watch when the two friends enteredinto the dancing-room. Their return was quite an event, but as theyentered together, all uneasiness on Albert’s account ceased instantly.
“Madame,” said the Viscount of Morcerf, advancing towards the countess,“yesterday you were so condescending as to promise me a galop; I amrather late in claiming this gracious promise, but here is my friend,whose character for veracity you well know, and he will assure you thedelay arose from no fault of mine.”
And as at this moment the orchestra gave the signal for the waltz,Albert put his arm round the waist of the countess, and disappearedwith her in the whirl of dancers.
In the meanwhile Franz was considering the singular shudder that hadpassed over the Count of Monte Cristo at the moment when he had been,in some sort, forced to give his hand to Albert.


 Chapter 38. The Rendezvous
The first words that Albert uttered to his friend, on the followingmorning, contained a request that Franz would accompany him on a visitto the count; true, the young man had warmly and energetically thankedthe count on the previous evening; but services such as he had renderedcould never be too often acknowledged. Franz, who seemed attracted bysome invisible influence towards the count, in which terror wasstrangely mingled, felt an extreme reluctance to permit his friend tobe exposed alone to the singular fascination that this mysteriouspersonage seemed to exercise over him, and therefore made no objectionto Albert’s request, but at once accompanied him to the desired spot,and, after a short delay, the count joined them in the salon.
“My dear count,” said Albert, advancing to meet him, “permit me torepeat the poor thanks I offered last night, and to assure you that theremembrance of all I owe to you will never be effaced from my memory;believe me, as long as I live, I shall never cease to dwell withgrateful recollection on the prompt and important service you renderedme; and also to remember that to you I am indebted even for my life.”
“My very good friend and excellent neighbor,” replied the count, with asmile, “you really exaggerate my trifling exertions. You owe me nothingbut some trifle of 20,000 francs, which you have been saved out of yourtravelling expenses, so that there is not much of a score betweenus;—but you must really permit me to congratulate you on the ease andunconcern with which you resigned yourself to your fate, and theperfect indifference you manifested as to the turn events might take.”
“Upon my word,” said Albert, “I deserve no credit for what I could nothelp, namely, a determination to take everything as I found it, and tolet those bandits see, that although men get into troublesome scrapesall over the world, there is no nation but the French that can smileeven in the face of grim Death himself. All that, however, has nothingto do with my obligations to you, and I now come to ask you whether, inmy own person, my family, or connections, I can in any way serve you?My father, the Comte de Morcerf, although of Spanish origin, possessesconsiderable influence, both at the court of France and Madrid, and Iunhesitatingly place the best services of myself, and all to whom mylife is dear, at your disposal.”
“Monsieur de Morcerf,” replied the count, “your offer, far fromsurprising me, is precisely what I expected from you, and I accept itin the same spirit of hearty sincerity with which it is made;—nay, Iwill go still further, and say that I had previously made up my mind toask a great favor at your hands.”
“Oh, pray name it.”
“I am wholly a stranger to Paris—it is a city I have never yet seen.”
“Is it possible,” exclaimed Albert, “that you have reached your presentage without visiting the finest capital in the world? I can scarcelycredit it.”
“Nevertheless, it is quite true; still, I agree with you in thinkingthat my present ignorance of the first city in Europe is a reproach tome in every way, and calls for immediate correction; but, in allprobability, I should have performed so important, so necessary a duty,as that of making myself acquainted with the wonders and beauties ofyour justly celebrated capital, had I known any person who would haveintroduced me into the fashionable world, but unfortunately I possessedno acquaintance there, and, of necessity, was compelled to abandon theidea.”
“So distinguished an individual as yourself,” cried Albert, “couldscarcely have required an introduction.”
“You are most kind; but as regards myself, I can find no merit Ipossess, save that, as a millionaire, I might have become a partner inthe speculations of M. Aguado and M. Rothschild; but as my motive intravelling to your capital would not have been for the pleasure ofdabbling in stocks, I stayed away till some favorable chance shouldpresent itself of carrying my wish into execution. Your offer, however,smooths all difficulties, and I have only to ask you, my dear M. deMorcerf” (these words were accompanied by a most peculiar smile),“whether you undertake, upon my arrival in France, to open to me thedoors of that fashionable world of which I know no more than a Huron ora native of Cochin-China?”
“Oh, that I do, and with infinite pleasure,” answered Albert; “and somuch the more readily as a letter received this morning from my fathersummons me to Paris, in consequence of a treaty of marriage (my dearFranz, do not smile, I beg of you) with a family of high standing, andconnected with the very cream of Parisian society.”
“Connected by marriage, you mean,” said Franz, laughingly.
“Well, never mind how it is,” answered Albert, “it comes to the samething in the end. Perhaps by the time you return to Paris, I shall bequite a sober, staid father of a family! A most edifying representativeI shall make of all the domestic virtues—don’t you think so? But asregards your wish to visit our fine city, my dear count, I can only saythat you may command me and mine to any extent you please.”
“Then it is settled,” said the count, “and I give you my solemnassurance that I only waited an opportunity like the present to realizeplans that I have long meditated.”
Franz did not doubt that these plans were the same concerning which thecount had dropped a few words in the grotto of Monte Cristo, and whilethe count was speaking the young man watched him closely, hoping toread something of his purpose in his face, but his countenance wasinscrutable especially when, as in the present case, it was veiled in asphinx-like smile.
“But tell me now, count,” exclaimed Albert, delighted at the idea ofhaving to chaperon so distinguished a person as Monte Cristo; “tell metruly whether you are in earnest, or if this project of visiting Parisis merely one of the chimerical and uncertain air castles of which wemake so many in the course of our lives, but which, like a house builton the sand, is liable to be blown over by the first puff of wind?”
“I pledge you my honor,” returned the count, “that I mean to do as Ihave said; both inclination and positive necessity compel me to visitParis.”
“When do you propose going thither?”
“Have you made up your mind when you shall be there yourself?”
“Certainly I have; in a fortnight or three weeks’ time, that is to say,as fast as I can get there!”
“Nay,” said the Count; “I will give you three months ere I join you;you see I make an ample allowance for all delays and difficulties.
“And in three months’ time,” said Albert, “you will be at my house?”
“Shall we make a positive appointment for a particular day and hour?”inquired the count; “only let me warn you that I am proverbial for mypunctilious exactitude in keeping my engagements.”
“Day for day, hour for hour,” said Albert; “that will suit me to adot.”
“So be it, then,” replied the count, and extending his hand towards acalendar, suspended near the chimney-piece, he said, “today is the 21stof February;” and drawing out his watch, added, “it is exactlyhalf-past ten o’clock. Now promise me to remember this, and expect methe 21st of May at the same hour in the forenoon.”
“Capital!” exclaimed Albert; “your breakfast shall be waiting.”
“Where do you live?”
“No. 27, Rue du Helder.”
“Have you bachelor’s apartments there? I hope my coming will not putyou to any inconvenience.”
“I reside in my father’s house, but occupy a pavilion at the fartherside of the courtyard, entirely separated from the main building.”
“Quite sufficient,” replied the count, as, taking out his tablets, hewrote down “No. 27, Rue du Helder, 21st May, half-past ten in themorning.”
“Now then,” said the count, returning his tablets to his pocket, “makeyourself perfectly easy; the hand of your time-piece will not be moreaccurate in marking the time than myself.”
“Shall I see you again ere my departure?” asked Albert.
“That depends; when do you leave?”
“Tomorrow evening, at five o’clock.”
“In that case I must say adieu to you, as I am compelled to go toNaples, and shall not return hither before Saturday evening or Sundaymorning. And you, baron,” pursued the count, addressing Franz, “do youalso depart tomorrow?”
“Yes.”
“For France?”
“No, for Venice; I shall remain in Italy for another year or two.”
“Then we shall not meet in Paris?”
“I fear I shall not have that honor.”
“Well, since we must part,” said the count, holding out a hand to eachof the young men, “allow me to wish you both a safe and pleasantjourney.”
It was the first time the hand of Franz had come in contact with thatof the mysterious individual before him, and unconsciously he shudderedat its touch, for it felt cold and icy as that of a corpse.
20219m


“Let us understand each other,” said Albert; “it is agreed—is itnot?—that you are to be at No. 27, in the Rue du Helder, on the 21st ofMay, at half-past ten in the morning, and your word of honor passed foryour punctuality?”
“The 21st of May, at half-past ten in the morning, Rue du Helder, No.27,” replied the count.
The young men then rose, and bowing to the count, quitted the room.
“What is the matter?” asked Albert of Franz, when they had returned totheir own apartments; “you seem more than commonly thoughtful.”
“I will confess to you, Albert,” replied Franz, “the count is a verysingular person, and the appointment you have made to meet him in Parisfills me with a thousand apprehensions.”
“My dear fellow,” exclaimed Albert, “what can there possibly be in thatto excite uneasiness? Why, you must have lost your senses.”
“Whether I am in my senses or not,” answered Franz, “that is the way Ifeel.”
“Listen to me, Franz,” said Albert; “I am glad that the occasion haspresented itself for saying this to you, for I have noticed how coldyou are in your bearing towards the count, while he, on the other hand,has always been courtesy itself to us. Have you anything particularagainst him?”
“Possibly.”
“Did you ever meet him previously to coming hither?”
“I have.”
“And where?”
“Will you promise me not to repeat a single word of what I am about totell you?”
“I promise.”
“Upon your honor?”
“Upon my honor.”
“Then listen to me.”
Franz then related to his friend the history of his excursion to theIsland of Monte Cristo and of his finding a party of smugglers there,and the two Corsican bandits with them. He dwelt with considerableforce and energy on the almost magical hospitality he had received fromthe count, and the magnificence of his entertainment in the grotto ofthe _Thousand and One Nights_.
He recounted, with circumstantial exactitude, all the particulars ofthe supper, the hashish, the statues, the dream, and how, at hisawakening, there remained no proof or trace of all these events, savethe small yacht, seen in the distant horizon driving under full sailtoward Porto-Vecchio.
Then he detailed the conversation overheard by him at the Colosseum,between the count and Vampa, in which the count had promised to obtainthe release of the bandit Peppino,—an engagement which, as our readersare aware, he most faithfully fulfilled.
At last he arrived at the adventure of the preceding night, and theembarrassment in which he found himself placed by not having sufficientcash by six or seven hundred piastres to make up the sum required, andfinally of his application to the count and the picturesque andsatisfactory result that followed. Albert listened with the mostprofound attention.
“Well,” said he, when Franz had concluded, “what do you find to objectto in all you have related? The count is fond of travelling, and, beingrich, possesses a vessel of his own. Go but to Portsmouth orSouthampton, and you will find the harbors crowded with the yachtsbelonging to such of the English as can afford the expense, and havethe same liking for this amusement. Now, by way of having aresting-place during his excursions, avoiding the wretchedcookery—which has been trying its best to poison me during the lastfour months, while you have manfully resisted its effects for as manyyears,—and obtaining a bed on which it is possible to slumber, MonteCristo has furnished for himself a temporary abode where you firstfound him; but, to prevent the possibility of the Tuscan governmenttaking a fancy to his enchanted palace, and thereby depriving him ofthe advantages naturally expected from so large an outlay of capital,he has wisely enough purchased the island, and taken its name. Just askyourself, my good fellow, whether there are not many persons of ouracquaintance who assume the names of lands and properties they never intheir lives were masters of?”
“But,” said Franz, “the Corsican bandits that were among the crew ofhis vessel?”
“Why, really the thing seems to me simple enough. Nobody knows betterthan yourself that the bandits of Corsica are not rogues or thieves,but purely and simply fugitives, driven by some sinister motive fromtheir native town or village, and that their fellowship involves nodisgrace or stigma; for my own part, I protest that, should I ever goto Corsica, my first visit, ere even I presented myself to the mayor orprefect, should be to the bandits of Colomba, if I could only manage tofind them; for, on my conscience, they are a race of men I admiregreatly.”
“Still,” persisted Franz, “I suppose you will allow that such men asVampa and his band are regular villains, who have no other motive thanplunder when they seize your person. How do you explain the influencethe count evidently possessed over those ruffians?”
“My good friend, as in all probability I own my present safety to thatinfluence, it would ill become me to search too closely into itssource; therefore, instead of condemning him for his intimacy withoutlaws, you must give me leave to excuse any little irregularity theremay be in such a connection; not altogether for preserving my life, formy own idea was that it never was in much danger, but certainly forsaving me 4,000 piastres, which, being translated, means neither morenor less than 24,000 livres of our money—a sum at which, mostassuredly, I should never have been estimated in France, proving mostindisputably,” added Albert with a laugh, “that no prophet is honoredin his own country.”
“Talking of countries,” replied Franz, “of what country is the count,what is his native tongue, whence does he derive his immense fortune,and what were those events of his early life—a life as marvellous asunknown—that have tinctured his succeeding years with so dark andgloomy a misanthropy? Certainly these are questions that, in yourplace, I should like to have answered.”
“My dear Franz,” replied Albert, “when, upon receipt of my letter, youfound the necessity of asking the count’s assistance, you promptly wentto him, saying, ‘My friend Albert de Morcerf is in danger; help me todeliver him.’ Was not that nearly what you said?”
20222m


“It was.”
“Well, then, did he ask you, ‘Who is M. Albert de Morcerf? how does hecome by his name—his fortune? what are his means of existence? what ishis birthplace? of what country is he a native?’ Tell me, did he putall these questions to you?”
“I confess he asked me none.”
“No; he merely came and freed me from the hands of Signor Vampa, where,I can assure you, in spite of all my outward appearance of ease andunconcern, I did not very particularly care to remain. Now, then,Franz, when, for services so promptly and unhesitatingly rendered, hebut asks me in return to do for him what is done daily for any Russianprince or Italian nobleman who may pass through Paris—merely tointroduce him into society—would you have me refuse? My good fellow,you must have lost your senses to think it possible I could act withsuch cold-blooded policy.”
And this time it must be confessed that, contrary to the usual state ofaffairs in discussions between the young men, the effective argumentswere all on Albert’s side.
“Well,” said Franz with a sigh, “do as you please my dear viscount, foryour arguments are beyond my powers of refutation. Still, in spite ofall, you must admit that this Count of Monte Cristo is a most singularpersonage.”
“He is a philanthropist,” answered the other; “and no doubt his motivein visiting Paris is to compete for the Monthyon prize, given, as youare aware, to whoever shall be proved to have most materially advancedthe interests of virtue and humanity. If my vote and interest canobtain it for him, I will readily give him the one and promise theother. And now, my dear Franz, let us talk of something else. Come,shall we take our luncheon, and then pay a last visit to St. Peter’s?”
Franz silently assented; and the following afternoon, at half-past fiveo’clock, the young men parted. Albert de Morcerf to return to Paris,and Franz d’Épinay to pass a fortnight at Venice.
But, ere he entered his travelling carriage, Albert, fearing that hisexpected guest might forget the engagement he had entered into, placedin the care of a waiter at the hotel a card to be delivered to theCount of Monte Cristo, on which, beneath the name of Viscount Albert deMorcerf, he had written in pencil:
“27, _Rue du Helder, on the_ 21_st May, half-past ten_ A.M.”


 Chapter 39. The Guests
In the house in the Rue du Helder, where Albert had invited the Countof Monte Cristo, everything was being prepared on the morning of the21st of May to do honor to the occasion. Albert de Morcerf inhabited apavilion situated at the corner of a large court, and directly oppositeanother building, in which were the servants’ apartments. Two windowsonly of the pavilion faced the street; three other windows looked intothe court, and two at the back into the garden.
Between the court and the garden, built in the heavy style of theimperial architecture, was the large and fashionable dwelling of theCount and Countess of Morcerf.
A high wall surrounded the whole of the property, surmounted atintervals by vases filled with flowers, and broken in the centre by alarge gate of gilded iron, which served as the carriage entrance. Asmall door, close to the lodge of the _concierge_, gave ingress andegress to the servants and masters when they were on foot.
It was easy to discover that the delicate care of a mother, unwillingto part from her son, and yet aware that a young man of the viscount’sage required the full exercise of his liberty, had chosen thishabitation for Albert. There were not lacking, however, evidences ofwhat we may call the intelligent egoism of a youth who is charmed withthe indolent, careless life of an only son, and who lives as it were ina gilded cage. By means of the two windows looking into the street,Albert could see all that passed; the sight of what is going on isnecessary to young men, who always want to see the world traverse theirhorizon, even if that horizon is only a public thoroughfare. Then,should anything appear to merit a more minute examination, Albert deMorcerf could follow up his researches by means of a small gate,similar to that close to the _concierge’s_ door, and which merits aparticular description.
It was a little entrance that seemed never to have been opened sincethe house was built, so entirely was it covered with dust and dirt; butthe well-oiled hinges and locks told quite another story. This door wasa mockery to the _concierge_, from whose vigilance and jurisdiction itwas free, and, like that famous portal in the _Arabian Nights_, openingat the “_Sesame_” of Ali Baba, it was wont to swing backward at acabalistic word or a concerted tap from without from the sweetestvoices or whitest fingers in the world.
At the end of a long corridor, with which the door communicated, andwhich formed the antechamber, was, on the right, Albert’sbreakfast-room, looking into the court, and on the left the salon,looking into the garden. Shrubs and creeping plants covered thewindows, and hid from the garden and court these two apartments, theonly rooms into which, as they were on the ground floor, the pryingeyes of the curious could penetrate.
On the floor above were similar rooms, with the addition of a third,formed out of the antechamber; these three rooms were a salon, aboudoir, and a bedroom. The salon downstairs was only an Algeriandivan, for the use of smokers. The boudoir upstairs communicated withthe bedchamber by an invisible door on the staircase; it was evidentthat every precaution had been taken. Above this floor was a large_atelier_, which had been increased in size by pulling down thepartitions—a pandemonium, in which the artist and the dandy strove forpre-eminence.
There were collected and piled up all Albert’s successive caprices,hunting-horns, bass-viols, flutes—a whole orchestra, for Albert had hadnot a taste but a fancy for music; easels, palettes, brushes,pencils—for music had been succeeded by painting; foils, boxing-gloves,broadswords, and single-sticks—for, following the example of thefashionable young men of the time, Albert de Morcerf cultivated, withfar more perseverance than music and drawing, the three arts thatcomplete a dandy’s education, i.e., fencing, boxing, and single-stick;and it was here that he received Grisier, Cooks, and Charles Leboucher.
The rest of the furniture of this privileged apartment consisted of oldcabinets, filled with Chinese porcelain and Japanese vases, Lucca dellaRobbia _faïences_, and Palissy platters; of old armchairs, in whichperhaps had sat Henry IV. or Sully, Louis XIII. or Richelieu—for two ofthese armchairs, adorned with a carved shield, on which were engravedthe fleur-de-lis of France on an azure field, evidently came from theLouvre, or, at least, some royal residence.
Over these dark and sombre chairs were thrown splendid stuffs, dyedbeneath Persia’s sun, or woven by the fingers of the women of Calcuttaor of Chandernagor. What these stuffs did there, it was impossible tosay; they awaited, while gratifying the eyes, a destination unknown totheir owner himself; in the meantime they filled the place with theirgolden and silky reflections.
In the centre of the room was a Roller and Blanchet “baby grand” pianoin rosewood, but holding the potentialities of an orchestra in itsnarrow and sonorous cavity, and groaning beneath the weight of the_chefs-d’œuvre_ of Beethoven, Weber, Mozart, Haydn, Grétry, andPorpora.
On the walls, over the doors, on the ceiling, were swords, daggers,Malay creeses, maces, battle-axes; gilded, damasked, and inlaid suitsof armor; dried plants, minerals, and stuffed birds, theirflame-colored wings outspread in motionless flight, and their beaksforever open. This was Albert’s favorite lounging place.
However, the morning of the appointment, the young man had establishedhimself in the small salon downstairs. There, on a table, surrounded atsome distance by a large and luxurious divan, every species of tobaccoknown,—from the yellow tobacco of Petersburg to the black of Sinai, andso on along the scale from Maryland and Porto Rico, to Latakia,—wasexposed in pots of crackled earthenware of which the Dutch are so fond;beside them, in boxes of fragrant wood, were ranged, according to theirsize and quality, puros, regalias, havanas, and manillas; and, in anopen cabinet, a collection of German pipes, of chibouques, with theiramber mouth-pieces ornamented with coral, and of narghiles, with theirlong tubes of morocco, awaiting the caprice or the sympathy of thesmokers.
Albert had himself presided at the arrangement, or, rather, thesymmetrical derangement, which, after coffee, the guests at a breakfastof modern days love to contemplate through the vapor that escapes fromtheir mouths, and ascends in long and fanciful wreaths to the ceiling.
At a quarter to ten, a valet entered; he composed, with a little groomnamed John, and who only spoke English, all Albert’s establishment,although the cook of the hotel was always at his service, and on greatoccasions the count’s _chasseur_ also. This valet, whose name wasGermain, and who enjoyed the entire confidence of his young master,held in one hand a number of papers, and in the other a packet ofletters, which he gave to Albert. Albert glanced carelessly at thedifferent missives, selected two written in a small and delicate hand,and enclosed in scented envelopes, opened them and perused theircontents with some attention.
“How did these letters come?” said he.
“One by the post, Madame Danglars’ footman left the other.”
“Let Madame Danglars know that I accept the place she offers me in herbox. Wait; then, during the day, tell Rosa that when I leave the OperaI will sup with her as she wishes. Take her six bottles of differentwine—Cyprus, sherry, and Malaga, and a barrel of Ostend oysters; getthem at Borel’s, and be sure you say they are for me.”
“At what o’clock, sir, do you breakfast?”
20227m


“What time is it now?”
“A quarter to ten.”
“Very well, at half past ten. Debray will, perhaps, be obliged to go tothe minister—and besides” (Albert looked at his tablets), “it is thehour I told the count, 21st May, at half past ten; and though I do notmuch rely upon his promise, I wish to be punctual. Is the countess upyet?”
“If you wish, I will inquire.”
“Yes, ask her for one of her _liqueur_ cellarets, mine is incomplete;and tell her I shall have the honor of seeing her about three o’clock,and that I request permission to introduce someone to her.”
The valet left the room. Albert threw himself on the divan, tore offthe cover of two or three of the papers, looked at the theatreannouncements, made a face seeing they gave an opera, and not a ballet;hunted vainly amongst the advertisements for a new tooth-powder ofwhich he had heard, and threw down, one after the other, the threeleading papers of Paris, muttering,
“These papers become more and more stupid every day.”
A moment after, a carriage stopped before the door, and the servantannounced M. Lucien Debray. A tall young man, with light hair, cleargray eyes, and thin and compressed lips, dressed in a blue coat withbeautifully carved gold buttons, a white neckcloth, and a tortoiseshelleye-glass suspended by a silken thread, and which, by an effort of thesuperciliary and zygomatic muscles, he fixed in his eye, entered, witha half-official air, without smiling or speaking.
“Good-morning, Lucien, good-morning,” said Albert; “your punctualityreally alarms me. What do I say? punctuality! You, whom I expectedlast, you arrive at five minutes to ten, when the time fixed washalf-past! Has the ministry resigned?”
“No, my dear fellow,” returned the young man, seating himself on thedivan; “reassure yourself; we are tottering always, but we never fall,and I begin to believe that we shall pass into a state of immobility,and then the affairs of the Peninsula will completely consolidate us.”
“Ah, true; you drive Don Carlos out of Spain.”
“No, no, my dear fellow, do not confound our plans. We take him to theother side of the French frontier, and offer him hospitality atBourges.”
“At Bourges?”
“Yes, he has not much to complain of; Bourges is the capital of CharlesVII. Do you not know that all Paris knew it yesterday, and the daybefore it had already transpired on the Bourse, and M. Danglars (I donot know by what means that man contrives to obtain intelligence assoon as we do) made a million!”
“And you another order, for I see you have a blue ribbon at yourbutton-hole.”
“Yes; they sent me the order of Charles III.,” returned Debraycarelessly.
“Come, do not affect indifference, but confess you were pleased to haveit.”
“Oh, it is very well as a finish to the toilet. It looks very neat on ablack coat buttoned up.”
“And makes you resemble the Prince of Wales or the Duke of Reichstadt.”
“It is for that reason you see me so early.”
“Because you have the order of Charles III., and you wish to announcethe good news to me?”
“No, because I passed the night writing letters,—five-and-twentydespatches. I returned home at daybreak, and strove to sleep; but myhead ached and I got up to have a ride for an hour. At the Bois deBoulogne, _ennui_ and hunger attacked me at once,—two enemies whorarely accompany each other, and who are yet leagued against me, a sortof Carlo-republican alliance. I then recollected you gave a breakfastthis morning, and here I am. I am hungry, feed me; I am bored, amuseme.”
“It is my duty as your host,” returned Albert, ringing the bell, whileLucien turned over, with his gold-mounted cane, the papers that lay onthe table. “Germain, a glass of sherry and a biscuit. In the meantime,my dear Lucien, here are cigars—contraband, of course—try them, andpersuade the minister to sell us such instead of poisoning us withcabbage leaves.”
“_Peste!_ I will do nothing of the kind; the moment they come fromgovernment you would find them execrable. Besides, that does notconcern the home but the financial department. Address yourself to M.Humann, section of the indirect contributions, corridor A., No. 26.”
“On my word,” said Albert, “you astonish me by the extent of yourknowledge. Take a cigar.”
“Really, my dear Albert,” replied Lucien, lighting a manilla at arose-colored taper that burnt in a beautifully enamelled stand—“howhappy you are to have nothing to do. You do not know your own goodfortune!”
“And what would you do, my dear diplomatist,” replied Morcerf, with aslight degree of irony in his voice, “if you did nothing? What? privatesecretary to a minister, plunged at once into European cabals andParisian intrigues; having kings, and, better still, queens, toprotect, parties to unite, elections to direct; making more use of yourcabinet with your pen and your telegraph than Napoleon did of hisbattle-fields with his sword and his victories; possessingfive-and-twenty thousand francs a year, besides your place; a horse,for which Château-Renaud offered you four hundred louis, and which youwould not part with; a tailor who never disappoints you; with theopera, the jockey-club, and other diversions, can you not amuseyourself? Well, I will amuse you.”
“How?”
“By introducing to you a new acquaintance.”
“A man or a woman?”
“A man.”
“I know so many men already.”
“But you do not know this man.”
“Where does he come from—the end of the world?”
“Farther still, perhaps.”
“The deuce! I hope he does not bring our breakfast with him.”
“Oh, no; our breakfast comes from my father’s kitchen. Are you hungry?”
“Humiliating as such a confession is, I am. But I dined at M. deVillefort’s, and lawyers always give you very bad dinners. You wouldthink they felt some remorse; did you ever remark that?”
“Ah, depreciate other persons’ dinners; you ministers give suchsplendid ones.”
“Yes; but we do not invite people of fashion. If we were not forced toentertain a parcel of country boobies because they think and vote withus, we should never dream of dining at home, I assure you.”
“Well, take another glass of sherry and another biscuit.”
“Willingly. Your Spanish wine is excellent. You see we were quite rightto pacify that country.”
“Yes; but Don Carlos?”
“Well, Don Carlos will drink Bordeaux, and in ten years we will marryhis son to the little queen.”
“You will then obtain the Golden Fleece, if you are still in theministry.”
“I think, Albert, you have adopted the system of feeding me on smokethis morning.”
“Well, you must allow it is the best thing for the stomach; but I hearBeauchamp in the next room; you can dispute together, and that willpass away the time.”
“About what?”
“About the papers.”
“My dear friend,” said Lucien with an air of sovereign contempt, “do Iever read the papers?”
“Then you will dispute the more.”
“M. Beauchamp,” announced the servant. “Come in, come in,” said Albert,rising and advancing to meet the young man. “Here is Debray, whodetests you without reading you, so he says.”
“He is quite right,” returned Beauchamp; “for I criticise him withoutknowing what he does. Good-day, commander!”
“Ah, you know that already,” said the private secretary, smiling andshaking hands with him.
“_Pardieu!_”
“And what do they say of it in the world?”
“In which world? we have so many worlds in the year of grace 1838.”
“In the entire political world, of which you are one of the leaders.”
“They say that it is quite fair, and that sowing so much red, you oughtto reap a little blue.”
“Come, come, that is not bad!” said Lucien. “Why do you not join ourparty, my dear Beauchamp? With your talents you would make your fortunein three or four years.”
“I only await one thing before following your advice; that is, aminister who will hold office for six months. My dear Albert, one word,for I must give poor Lucien a respite. Do we breakfast or dine? I mustgo to the Chamber, for our life is not an idle one.”
“You only breakfast; I await two persons, and the instant they arrivewe shall sit down to table.”


 Chapter 40. The Breakfast
And what sort of persons do you expect to breakfast?” said Beauchamp.
“A gentleman, and a diplomatist.”
“Then we shall have to wait two hours for the gentleman, and three forthe diplomatist. I shall come back to dessert; keep me somestrawberries, coffee, and cigars. I shall take a cutlet on my way tothe Chamber.”
“Do not do anything of the sort; for were the gentleman a Montmorency,and the diplomatist a Metternich, we will breakfast at eleven; in themeantime, follow Debray’s example, and take a glass of sherry and abiscuit.”
“Be it so; I will stay; I must do something to distract my thoughts.”
“You are like Debray, and yet it seems to me that when the minister isout of spirits, the opposition ought to be joyous.”
“Ah, you do not know with what I am threatened. I shall hear thismorning that M. Danglars make a speech at the Chamber of Deputies, andat his wife’s this evening I shall hear the tragedy of a peer ofFrance. The devil take the constitutional government, and since we hadour choice, as they say, at least, how could we choose that?”
“I understand; you must lay in a stock of hilarity.”
“Do not run down M. Danglars’ speeches,” said Debray; “he votes foryou, for he belongs to the opposition.”
“_Pardieu_, that is exactly the worst of all. I am waiting until yousend him to speak at the Luxembourg, to laugh at my ease.”
“My dear friend,” said Albert to Beauchamp, “it is plain that theaffairs of Spain are settled, for you are most desperately out of humorthis morning. Recollect that Parisian gossip has spoken of a marriagebetween myself and Mlle. Eugénie Danglars; I cannot in conscience,therefore, let you run down the speeches of a man who will one day sayto me, ‘Vicomte, you know I give my daughter two millions.’”
“Ah, this marriage will never take place,” said Beauchamp. “The kinghas made him a baron, and can make him a peer, but he cannot make him agentleman, and the Count of Morcerf is too aristocratic to consent, forthe paltry sum of two million francs, to a _mésalliance_. The Viscountof Morcerf can only wed a marchioness.”
“But two million francs make a nice little sum,” replied Morcerf.
“It is the social capital of a theatre on the boulevard, or a railroadfrom the Jardin des Plantes to La Râpée.”
“Never mind what he says, Morcerf,” said Debray, “do you marry her. Youmarry a money-bag label, it is true; well, but what does that matter?It is better to have a blazon less and a figure more on it. You haveseven martlets on your arms; give three to your wife, and you willstill have four; that is one more than M. de Guise had, who so nearlybecame King of France, and whose cousin was Emperor of Germany.”
“On my word, I think you are right, Lucien,” said Albert absently.
“To be sure; besides, every millionaire is as noble as a bastard—thatis, he can be.”
“Do not say that, Debray,” returned Beauchamp, laughing, “for here isChâteau-Renaud, who, to cure you of your mania for paradoxes, will passthe sword of Renaud de Montauban, his ancestor, through your body.”
“He will sully it then,” returned Lucien; “for I am low—very low.”
“Oh, heavens,” cried Beauchamp, “the minister quotes Béranger, whatshall we come to next?”
“M. de Château-Renaud—M. Maximilian Morrel,” said the servant,announcing two fresh guests.
“Now, then, to breakfast,” said Beauchamp; “for, if I remember, youtold me you only expected two persons, Albert.”
“Morrel,” muttered Albert—“Morrel—who is he?”
But before he had finished, M. de Château-Renaud, a handsome young manof thirty, gentleman all over,—that is, with the figure of a Guiche andthe wit of a Mortemart,—took Albert’s hand.
“My dear Albert,” said he, “let me introduce to you M. MaximilianMorrel, captain of Spahis, my friend; and what is more—however the manspeaks for himself—my preserver. Salute my hero, viscount.”
And he stepped on one side to give place to a young man of refined anddignified bearing, with large and open brow, piercing eyes, and blackmoustache, whom our readers have already seen at Marseilles, undercircumstances sufficiently dramatic not to be forgotten. A richuniform, half French, half Oriental, set off his graceful and stalwartfigure, and his broad chest was decorated with the order of the Legionof Honor. The young officer bowed with easy and elegant politeness.
“Monsieur,” said Albert with affectionate courtesy, “the count ofChâteau-Renaud knew how much pleasure this introduction would give me;you are his friend, be ours also.”
“Well said,” interrupted Château-Renaud; “and pray that, if you shouldever be in a similar predicament, he may do as much for you as he didfor me.”
“What has he done?” asked Albert.
“Oh, nothing worth speaking of,” said Morrel; “M. de Château-Renaudexaggerates.”
“Not worth speaking of?” cried Château-Renaud; “life is not worthspeaking of!—that is rather too philosophical, on my word, Morrel. Itis very well for you, who risk your life every day, but for me, whoonly did so once——”
“We gather from all this, baron, that Captain Morrel saved your life.”
“Exactly so.”
“On what occasion?” asked Beauchamp.
“Beauchamp, my good fellow, you know I am starving,” said Debray: “donot set him off on some long story.”
“Well, I do not prevent your sitting down to table,” replied Beauchamp,“Château-Renaud can tell us while we eat our breakfast.”
“Gentlemen,” said Morcerf, “it is only a quarter past ten, and I expectsomeone else.”
“Ah, true, a diplomatist!” observed Debray.
“Diplomat or not, I don’t know; I only know that he charged himself onmy account with a mission, which he terminated so entirely to mysatisfaction, that had I been king, I should have instantly created himknight of all my orders, even had I been able to offer him the GoldenFleece and the Garter.”
“Well, since we are not to sit down to table,” said Debray, “take aglass of sherry, and tell us all about it.”
“You all know that I had the fancy of going to Africa.”
“It is a road your ancestors have traced for you,” said Albertgallantly.
“Yes? but I doubt that your object was like theirs—to rescue the HolySepulchre.”
“You are quite right, Beauchamp,” observed the young aristocrat. “Itwas only to fight as an amateur. I cannot bear duelling ever since twoseconds, whom I had chosen to arrange an affair, forced me to break thearm of one of my best friends, one whom you all know—poor Franzd’Épinay.”
“Ah, true,” said Debray, “you did fight some time ago; about what?”
20235m


“The devil take me, if I remember,” returned Château-Renaud. “But Irecollect perfectly one thing, that, being unwilling to let suchtalents as mine sleep, I wished to try upon the Arabs the new pistolsthat had been given to me. In consequence I embarked for Oran, and wentfrom thence to Constantine, where I arrived just in time to witness theraising of the siege. I retreated with the rest, for eight-and-fortyhours. I endured the rain during the day, and the cold during the nighttolerably well, but the third morning my horse died of cold. Poorbrute—accustomed to be covered up and to have a stove in the stable,the Arabian finds himself unable to bear ten degrees of cold inArabia.”
“That’s why you want to purchase my English horse,” said Debray, “youthink he will bear the cold better.”
“You are mistaken, for I have made a vow never to return to Africa.”
“You were very much frightened, then?” asked Beauchamp.
“Well, yes, and I had good reason to be so,” replied Château-Renaud. “Iwas retreating on foot, for my horse was dead. Six Arabs came up, fullgallop, to cut off my head. I shot two with my double-barrelled gun,and two more with my pistols, but I was then disarmed, and two werestill left; one seized me by the hair (that is why I now wear it soshort, for no one knows what may happen), the other swung a yataghan,and I already felt the cold steel on my neck, when this gentleman whomyou see here charged them, shot the one who held me by the hair, andcleft the skull of the other with his sabre. He had assigned himselfthe task of saving a man’s life that day; chance caused that man to bemyself. When I am rich I will order a statue of Chance from Klagmann orMarochetti.”
“Yes,” said Morrel, smiling, “it was the 5th of September, theanniversary of the day on which my father was miraculously preserved;therefore, as far as it lies in my power, I endeavor to celebrate it bysome——”
20237m


“Heroic action,” interrupted Château-Renaud. “I was chosen. But that isnot all—after rescuing me from the sword, he rescued me from the cold,not by sharing his cloak with me, like St. Martin, but by giving me thewhole; then from hunger by sharing with me—guess what?”
“A Strasbourg pie?” asked Beauchamp.
“No, his horse; of which we each of us ate a slice with a heartyappetite. It was very hard.”
“The horse?” said Morcerf, laughing.
“No, the sacrifice,” returned Château-Renaud; “ask Debray if he wouldsacrifice his English steed for a stranger?”
“Not for a stranger,” said Debray, “but for a friend I might, perhaps.”
“I divined that you would become mine, count,” replied Morrel;“besides, as I had the honor to tell you, heroism or not, sacrifice ornot, that day I owed an offering to bad fortune in recompense for thefavors good fortune had on other days granted to us.”
“The history to which M. Morrel alludes,” continued Château-Renaud, “isan admirable one, which he will tell you some day when you are betteracquainted with him; today let us fill our stomachs, and not ourmemories. What time do you breakfast, Albert?”
“At half-past ten.”
“Precisely?” asked Debray, taking out his watch.
“Oh, you will give me five minutes’ grace,” replied Morcerf, “for Ialso expect a preserver.”
“Of whom?”
“Of myself,” cried Morcerf; “_parbleu!_ do you think I cannot be savedas well as anyone else, and that there are only Arabs who cut offheads? Our breakfast is a philanthropic one, and we shall have attable—at least, I hope so—two benefactors of humanity.”
“What shall we do?” said Debray; “we have only one Monthyon prize.”
“Well, it will be given to someone who has done nothing to deserve it,”said Beauchamp; “that is the way the Academy mostly escapes from thedilemma.”
“And where does he come from?” asked Debray. “You have already answeredthe question once, but so vaguely that I venture to put it a secondtime.”
“Really,” said Albert, “I do not know; when I invited him three monthsago, he was then at Rome, but since that time who knows where he mayhave gone?”
“And you think him capable of being exact?” demanded Debray.
“I think him capable of everything.”
“Well, with the five minutes’ grace, we have only ten left.”
“I will profit by them to tell you something about my guest.”
“I beg pardon,” interrupted Beauchamp; “are there any materials for anarticle in what you are going to tell us?”
“Yes, and for a most curious one.”
“Go on, then, for I see I shall not get to the Chamber this morning,and I must make up for it.”
“I was at Rome during the last Carnival.”
“We know that,” said Beauchamp.
“Yes, but what you do not know is that I was carried off by bandits.”
“There are no bandits,” cried Debray.
“Yes there are, and most hideous, or rather most admirable ones, for Ifound them ugly enough to frighten me.”
“Come, my dear Albert,” said Debray, “confess that your cook isbehindhand, that the oysters have not arrived from Ostend or Marennes,and that, like Madame de Maintenon, you are going to replace the dishby a story. Say so at once; we are sufficiently well-bred to excuseyou, and to listen to your history, fabulous as it promises to be.”
“And I say to you, fabulous as it may seem, I tell it as a true onefrom beginning to end. The brigands had carried me off, and conductedme to a gloomy spot, called the Catacombs of Saint Sebastian.”
“I know it,” said Château-Renaud; “I narrowly escaped catching a feverthere.”
“And I did more than that,” replied Morcerf, “for I caught one. I wasinformed that I was prisoner until I paid the sum of 4,000 Romancrowns—about 24,000 francs. Unfortunately, I had not above 1,500. I wasat the end of my journey and of my credit. I wrote to Franz—and were hehere he would confirm every word—I wrote then to Franz that if he didnot come with the four thousand crowns before six, at ten minutes pastI should have gone to join the blessed saints and glorious martyrs inwhose company I had the honor of being; and Signor Luigi Vampa, suchwas the name of the chief of these bandits, would have scrupulouslykept his word.”
“But Franz did come with the four thousand crowns,” saidChâteau-Renaud. “A man whose name is Franz d’Épinay or Albert deMorcerf has not much difficulty in procuring them.”
“No, he arrived accompanied simply by the guest I am going to presentto you.”
“Ah, this gentleman is a Hercules killing Cacus, a Perseus freeingAndromeda.”
“No, he is a man about my own size.”
“Armed to the teeth?”
“He had not even a knitting-needle.”
“But he paid your ransom?”
“He said two words to the chief and I was free.”
“And they apologized to him for having carried you off?” saidBeauchamp.
“Just so.”
“Why, he is a second Ariosto.”
“No, his name is the Count of Monte Cristo.”
“There is no Count of Monte Cristo” said Debray.
“I do not think so,” added Château-Renaud, with the air of a man whoknows the whole of the European nobility perfectly.
“Does anyone know anything of a Count of Monte Cristo?”
“He comes possibly from the Holy Land, and one of his ancestorspossessed Calvary, as the Mortemarts did the Dead Sea.”
“I think I can assist your researches,” said Maximilian. “Monte Cristois a little island I have often heard spoken of by the old sailors myfather employed—a grain of sand in the centre of the Mediterranean, anatom in the infinite.”
“Precisely!” cried Albert. “Well, he of whom I speak is the lord andmaster of this grain of sand, of this atom; he has purchased the titleof count somewhere in Tuscany.”
“He is rich, then?”
“I believe so.”
“But that ought to be visible.”
“That is what deceives you, Debray.”
“I do not understand you.”
“Have you read the _Arabian Nights_?”
“What a question!”
“Well, do you know if the persons you see there are rich or poor, iftheir sacks of wheat are not rubies or diamonds? They seem like poorfishermen, and suddenly they open some mysterious cavern filled withthe wealth of the Indies.”
“Which means?”
“Which means that my Count of Monte Cristo is one of those fishermen.He has even a name taken from the book, since he calls himself Sinbadthe Sailor, and has a cave filled with gold.”
“And you have seen this cavern, Morcerf?” asked Beauchamp.
“No, but Franz has; for heaven’s sake, not a word of this before him.Franz went in with his eyes blindfolded, and was waited on by mutes andby women to whom Cleopatra was a painted strumpet. Only he is not quitesure about the women, for they did not come in until after he had takenhashish, so that what he took for women might have been simply a row ofstatues.”
The two young men looked at Morcerf as if to say,—“Are you mad, or areyou laughing at us?”
“And I also,” said Morrel thoughtfully, “have heard something like thisfrom an old sailor named Penelon.”
“Ah,” cried Albert, “it is very lucky that M. Morrel comes to aid me;you are vexed, are you not, that he thus gives a clew to thelabyrinth?”
“My dear Albert,” said Debray, “what you tell us is so extraordinary.”
“Ah, because your ambassadors and your consuls do not tell you ofthem—they have no time. They are too much taken up with interfering inthe affairs of their countrymen who travel.”
“Now you get angry, and attack our poor agents. How will you have themprotect you? The Chamber cuts down their salaries every day, so thatnow they have scarcely any. Will you be ambassador, Albert? I will sendyou to Constantinople.”
“No, lest on the first demonstration I make in favor of Mehemet Ali,the Sultan send me the bowstring, and make my secretaries strangle me.”
“You say very true,” responded Debray.
“Yes,” said Albert, “but this has nothing to do with the existence ofthe Count of Monte Cristo.”
“_Pardieu!_ everyone exists.”
“Doubtless, but not in the same way; everyone has not black slaves, aprincely retinue, an arsenal of weapons that would do credit to anArabian fortress, horses that cost six thousand francs apiece, andGreek mistresses.”
“Have you seen the Greek mistress?”
“I have both seen and heard her. I saw her at the theatre, and heardher one morning when I breakfasted with the count.”
“He eats, then?”
“Yes; but so little, it can hardly be called eating.”
“He must be a vampire.”
“Laugh, if you will; the Countess G——, who knew Lord Ruthven, declaredthat the count was a vampire.”
“Ah, capital,” said Beauchamp. “For a man not connected withnewspapers, here is the pendant to the famous sea-serpent of the_Constitutionnel_.”
“Wild eyes, the iris of which contracts or dilates at pleasure,” saidDebray; “facial angle strongly developed, magnificent forehead, lividcomplexion, black beard, sharp and white teeth, politenessunexceptionable.”
“Just so, Lucien,” returned Morcerf; “you have described him featurefor feature. Yes, keen and cutting politeness. This man has often mademe shudder; and one day when we were viewing an execution, I thought Ishould faint, more from hearing the cold and calm manner in which hespoke of every description of torture, than from the sight of theexecutioner and the culprit.”
“Did he not conduct you to the ruins of the Colosseum and suck yourblood?” asked Beauchamp.
“Or, having delivered you, make you sign a flaming parchment,surrendering your soul to him as Esau did his birth-right?”
“Rail on, rail on at your ease, gentlemen,” said Morcerf, somewhatpiqued. “When I look at you Parisians, idlers on the Boulevard de Gandor the Bois de Boulogne, and think of this man, it seems to me we arenot of the same race.”
“I am highly flattered,” returned Beauchamp.
“At the same time,” added Château-Renaud, “your Count of Monte Cristois a very fine fellow, always excepting his little arrangements withthe Italian banditti.”
“There are no Italian banditti,” said Debray.
“No vampire,” cried Beauchamp.
“No Count of Monte Cristo” added Debray. “There is half-past tenstriking, Albert.”
20243m


“Confess you have dreamed this, and let us sit down to breakfast,”continued Beauchamp.
But the sound of the clock had not died away when Germain announced,“His excellency the Count of Monte Cristo.” The involuntary starteveryone gave proved how much Morcerf’s narrative had impressed them,and Albert himself could not wholly refrain from manifesting suddenemotion. He had not heard a carriage stop in the street, or steps inthe antechamber; the door had itself opened noiselessly. The countappeared, dressed with the greatest simplicity, but the most fastidiousdandy could have found nothing to cavil at in his toilet. Every articleof dress—hat, coat, gloves, and boots—was from the first makers. Heseemed scarcely five-and-thirty. But what struck everybody was hisextreme resemblance to the portrait Debray had drawn. The countadvanced, smiling, into the centre of the room, and approached Albert,who hastened towards him holding out his hand in a ceremonial manner.
“Punctuality,” said Monte Cristo, “is the politeness of kings,according to one of your sovereigns, I think; but it is not the samewith travellers. However, I hope you will excuse the two or threeseconds I am behindhand; five hundred leagues are not to beaccomplished without some trouble, and especially in France, where, itseems, it is forbidden to beat the postilions.”
“My dear count,” replied Albert, “I was announcing your visit to someof my friends, whom I had invited in consequence of the promise you didme the honor to make, and whom I now present to you. They are the Countof Château-Renaud, whose nobility goes back to the twelve peers, andwhose ancestors had a place at the Round Table; M. Lucien Debray,private secretary to the minister of the interior; M. Beauchamp, aneditor of a paper, and the terror of the French government, but ofwhom, in spite of his national celebrity, you perhaps have not heard inItaly, since his paper is prohibited there; and M. Maximilian Morrel,captain of Spahis.”
At this name the count, who had hitherto saluted everyone withcourtesy, but at the same time with coldness and formality, stepped apace forward, and a slight tinge of red colored his pale cheeks.
“You wear the uniform of the new French conquerors, monsieur,” said he;“it is a handsome uniform.”
No one could have said what caused the count’s voice to vibrate sodeeply, and what made his eye flash, which was in general so clear,lustrous, and limpid when he pleased.
“You have never seen our Africans, count?” said Albert.
“Never,” replied the count, who was by this time perfectly master ofhimself again.
“Well, beneath this uniform beats one of the bravest and noblest heartsin the whole army.”
“Oh, M. de Morcerf,” interrupted Morrel.
“Let me go on, captain. And we have just heard,” continued Albert, “ofa new deed of his, and so heroic a one, that, although I have seen himtoday for the first time, I request you to allow me to introduce him asmy friend.”
At these words it was still possible to observe in Monte Cristo theconcentrated look, changing color, and slight trembling of the eyelidthat show emotion.
“Ah, you have a noble heart,” said the count; “so much the better.”
This exclamation, which corresponded to the count’s own thought ratherthan to what Albert was saying, surprised everybody, and especiallyMorrel, who looked at Monte Cristo with wonder. But, at the same time,the intonation was so soft that, however strange the speech might seem,it was impossible to be offended at it.
20245m


“Why should he doubt it?” said Beauchamp to Château-Renaud.
“In reality,” replied the latter, who, with his aristocratic glance andhis knowledge of the world, had penetrated at once all that waspenetrable in Monte Cristo, “Albert has not deceived us, for the countis a most singular being. What say you, Morrel!”
“_Ma foi_, he has an open look about him that pleases me, in spite ofthe singular remark he has made about me.”
“Gentlemen,” said Albert, “Germain informs me that breakfast is ready.My dear count, allow me to show you the way.” They passed silently intothe breakfast-room, and everyone took his place.
“Gentlemen,” said the count, seating himself, “permit me to make aconfession which must form my excuse for any improprieties I maycommit. I am a stranger, and a stranger to such a degree, that this isthe first time I have ever been at Paris. The French way of living isutterly unknown to me, and up to the present time I have followed theEastern customs, which are entirely in contrast to the Parisian. I begyou, therefore, to excuse if you find anything in me too Turkish, tooItalian, or too Arabian. Now, then, let us breakfast.”
“With what an air he says all this,” muttered Beauchamp; “decidedly heis a great man.”
“A great man in his own country,” added Debray.
“A great man in every country, M. Debray,” said Château-Renaud.
The count was, it may be remembered, a most temperate guest. Albertremarked this, expressing his fears lest, at the outset, the Parisianmode of life should displease the traveller in the most essentialpoint.
“My dear count,” said he, “I fear one thing, and that is, that the fareof the Rue du Helder is not so much to your taste as that of the Piazzadi Spagna. I ought to have consulted you on the point, and have hadsome dishes prepared expressly.”
“Did you know me better,” returned the count, smiling, “you would notgive one thought of such a thing for a traveller like myself, who hassuccessively lived on macaroni at Naples, polenta at Milan, ollapodrida at Valencia, pilau at Constantinople, curry in India, andswallows’ nests in China. I eat everywhere, and of everything, only Ieat but little; and today, that you reproach me with my want ofappetite, is my day of appetite, for I have not eaten since yesterdaymorning.”
“What,” cried all the guests, “you have not eaten for four-and-twentyhours?”
“No,” replied the count; “I was forced to go out of my road to obtainsome information near Nîmes, so that I was somewhat late, and thereforeI did not choose to stop.”
“And you ate in your carriage?” asked Morcerf.
“No, I slept, as I generally do when I am weary without having thecourage to amuse myself, or when I am hungry without feeling inclinedto eat.”
“But you can sleep when you please, monsieur?” said Morrel.
“Yes.”
“You have a recipe for it?”
“An infallible one.”
“That would be invaluable to us in Africa, who have not always any foodto eat, and rarely anything to drink.”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo; “but, unfortunately, a recipe excellent for aman like myself would be very dangerous applied to an army, which mightnot awake when it was needed.”
“May we inquire what is this recipe?” asked Debray.
“Oh, yes,” returned Monte Cristo; “I make no secret of it. It is amixture of excellent opium, which I fetched myself from Canton in orderto have it pure, and the best hashish which grows in the East—that is,between the Tigris and the Euphrates. These two ingredients are mixedin equal proportions, and formed into pills. Ten minutes after one istaken, the effect is produced. Ask Baron Franz d’Épinay; I think hetasted them one day.”
“Yes,” replied Morcerf, “he said something about it to me.”
“But,” said Beauchamp, who, as became a journalist, was veryincredulous, “you always carry this drug about you?”
“Always.”
“Would it be an indiscretion to ask to see those precious pills?”continued Beauchamp, hoping to take him at a disadvantage.
“No, monsieur,” returned the count; and he drew from his pocket amarvellous casket, formed out of a single emerald and closed by agolden lid which unscrewed and gave passage to a small greenish coloredpellet about the size of a pea. This ball had an acrid and penetratingodor. There were four or five more in the emerald, which would containabout a dozen. The casket passed around the table, but it was more toexamine the admirable emerald than to see the pills that it passed fromhand to hand.
“And is it your cook who prepares these pills?” asked Beauchamp.
“Oh, no, monsieur,” replied Monte Cristo; “I do not thus betray myenjoyments to the vulgar. I am a tolerable chemist, and prepare mypills myself.”
“This is a magnificent emerald, and the largest I have ever seen,” saidChâteau-Renaud, “although my mother has some remarkable family jewels.”
“I had three similar ones,” returned Monte Cristo. “I gave one to theSultan, who mounted it in his sabre; another to our holy father thePope, who had it set in his tiara, opposite to one nearly as large,though not so fine, given by the Emperor Napoleon to his predecessor,Pius VII. I kept the third for myself, and I had it hollowed out, whichreduced its value, but rendered it more commodious for the purpose Iintended.”
Everyone looked at Monte Cristo with astonishment; he spoke with somuch simplicity that it was evident he spoke the truth, or that he wasmad. However, the sight of the emerald made them naturally incline tothe former belief.
“And what did these two sovereigns give you in exchange for thesemagnificent presents?” asked Debray.
“The Sultan, the liberty of a woman,” replied the Count; “the Pope, thelife of a man; so that once in my life I have been as powerful as ifheaven had brought me into the world on the steps of a throne.”
“And it was Peppino you saved, was it not?” cried Morcerf; “it was forhim that you obtained pardon?”
“Perhaps,” returned the count, smiling.
“My dear count, you have no idea what pleasure it gives me to hear youspeak thus,” said Morcerf. “I had announced you beforehand to myfriends as an enchanter of the _Arabian Nights_, a wizard of the MiddleAges; but the Parisians are so subtle in paradoxes that they mistakefor caprices of the imagination the most incontestable truths, whenthese truths do not form a part of their daily existence. For example,here is Debray who reads, and Beauchamp who prints, every day, ‘Amember of the Jockey Club has been stopped and robbed on theBoulevard;’ ‘four persons have been assassinated in the Rue St. Denis’or ‘the Faubourg St. Germain;’ ‘ten, fifteen, or twenty thieves, havebeen arrested in a _café_ on the Boulevard du Temple, or in the Thermesde Julien,’—and yet these same men deny the existence of the bandits inthe Maremma, the Campagna di Romana, or the Pontine Marshes. Tell themyourself that I was taken by bandits, and that without your generousintercession I should now have been sleeping in the Catacombs of St.Sebastian, instead of receiving them in my humble abode in the Rue duHelder.”
“Ah,” said Monte Cristo “you promised me never to mention thatcircumstance.”
“It was not I who made that promise,” cried Morcerf; “it must have beensomeone else whom you have rescued in the same manner, and whom youhave forgotten. Pray speak of it, for I shall not only, I trust, relatethe little I do know, but also a great deal I do not know.”
“It seems to me,” returned the count, smiling, “that you played asufficiently important part to know as well as myself what happened.”
20249m


“Well, you promise me, if I tell all I know, to relate, in your turn,all that I do not know?”
“That is but fair,” replied Monte Cristo.
“Well,” said Morcerf, “for three days I believed myself the object ofthe attentions of a masque, whom I took for a descendant of Tullia orPoppæa, while I was simply the object of the attentions of a_contadina_, and I say _contadina_ to avoid saying peasant girl. What Iknow is, that, like a fool, a greater fool than he of whom I spoke justnow, I mistook for this peasant girl a young bandit of fifteen orsixteen, with a beardless chin and slim waist, and who, just as I wasabout to imprint a chaste salute on his lips, placed a pistol to myhead, and, aided by seven or eight others, led, or rather dragged me,to the Catacombs of St. Sebastian, where I found a highly educatedbrigand chief perusing Cæsar’s _Commentaries_, and who deigned to leaveoff reading to inform me, that unless the next morning, before sixo’clock, four thousand piastres were paid into his account at hisbanker’s, at a quarter past six I should have ceased to exist. Theletter is still to be seen, for it is in Franz d’Épinay’s possession,signed by me, and with a postscript of M. Luigi Vampa. This is all Iknow, but I know not, count, how you contrived to inspire so muchrespect in the bandits of Rome who ordinarily have so little respectfor anything. I assure you, Franz and I were lost in admiration.”
“Nothing more simple,” returned the count. “I had known the famousVampa for more than ten years. When he was quite a child, and only ashepherd, I gave him a few gold pieces for showing me my way, and he,in order to repay me, gave me a poniard, the hilt of which he hadcarved with his own hand, and which you may have seen in my collectionof arms. In after years, whether he had forgotten this interchange ofpresents, which ought to have cemented our friendship, or whether hedid not recollect me, he sought to take me, but, on the contrary, itwas I who captured him and a dozen of his band. I might have handed himover to Roman justice, which is somewhat expeditious, and which wouldhave been particularly so with him; but I did nothing of the sort—Isuffered him and his band to depart.”
“With the condition that they should sin no more,” said Beauchamp,laughing. “I see they kept their promise.”
“No, monsieur,” returned Monte Cristo “upon the simple condition thatthey should respect myself and my friends. Perhaps what I am about tosay may seem strange to you, who are socialists, and vaunt humanity andyour duty to your neighbor, but I never seek to protect a society whichdoes not protect me, and which I will even say, generally occupiesitself about me only to injure me; and thus by giving them a low placein my esteem, and preserving a neutrality towards them, it is societyand my neighbor who are indebted to me.”
“Bravo,” cried Château-Renaud; “you are the first man I ever metsufficiently courageous to preach egotism. Bravo, count, bravo!”
“It is frank, at least,” said Morrel. “But I am sure that the countdoes not regret having once deviated from the principles he has soboldly avowed.”
“How have I deviated from those principles, monsieur?” asked MonteCristo, who could not help looking at Morrel with so much intensity,that two or three times the young man had been unable to sustain thatclear and piercing glance.
“Why, it seems to me,” replied Morrel, “that in delivering M. deMorcerf, whom you did not know, you did good to your neighbor and tosociety.”
“Of which he is the brightest ornament,” said Beauchamp, drinking off aglass of champagne.
“My dear count,” cried Morcerf, “you are at fault—you, one of the mostformidable logicians I know—and you must see it clearly proved thatinstead of being an egotist, you are a philanthropist. Ah, you callyourself Oriental, a Levantine, Maltese, Indian, Chinese; your familyname is Monte Cristo; Sinbad the Sailor is your baptismal appellation,and yet the first day you set foot in Paris you instinctively displaythe greatest virtue, or rather the chief defect, of us eccentricParisians,—that is, you assume the vices you have not, and conceal thevirtues you possess.”
“My dear vicomte,” returned Monte Cristo, “I do not see, in all I havedone, anything that merits, either from you or these gentlemen, thepretended eulogies I have received. You were no stranger to me, for Iknew you from the time I gave up two rooms to you, invited you tobreakfast with me, lent you one of my carriages, witnessed the Carnivalin your company, and saw with you from a window in the Piazza delPopolo the execution that affected you so much that you nearly fainted.I will appeal to any of these gentlemen, could I leave my guest in thehands of a hideous bandit, as you term him? Besides, you know, I hadthe idea that you could introduce me into some of the Paris salons whenI came to France. You might some time ago have looked upon thisresolution as a vague project, but today you see it was a reality, andyou must submit to it under penalty of breaking your word.”
“I will keep it,” returned Morcerf; “but I fear that you will be muchdisappointed, accustomed as you are to picturesque events and fantastichorizons. Amongst us you will not meet with any of those episodes withwhich your adventurous existence has so familiarized you; ourChimborazo is Mortmartre, our Himalaya is Mount Valérien, our GreatDesert is the plain of Grenelle, where they are now boring an artesianwell to water the caravans. We have plenty of thieves, though not somany as is said; but these thieves stand in far more dread of apoliceman than a lord. France is so prosaic, and Paris so civilized acity, that you will not find in its eighty-five departments—I sayeighty-five, because I do not include Corsica—you will not find, then,in these eighty-five departments a single hill on which there is not atelegraph, or a grotto in which the commissary of police has not put upa gaslamp. There is but one service I can render you, and for that Iplace myself entirely at your orders, that is, to present, or make myfriends present, you everywhere; besides, you have no need of anyone tointroduce you—with your name, and your fortune, and your talent” (MonteCristo bowed with a somewhat ironical smile) “you can present yourselfeverywhere, and be well received. I can be useful in one way only—ifknowledge of Parisian habits, of the means of rendering yourselfcomfortable, or of the bazaars, can assist, you may depend upon me tofind you a fitting dwelling here. I do not dare offer to share myapartments with you, as I shared yours at Rome—I, who do not professegotism, but am yet egotist _par excellence_; for, except myself, theserooms would not hold a shadow more, unless that shadow were feminine.”
“Ah,” said the count, “that is a most conjugal reservation; I recollectthat at Rome you said something of a projected marriage. May Icongratulate you?”
“The affair is still in projection.”
“And he who says in ‘projection,’ means already decided,” said Debray.
“No,” replied Morcerf, “my father is most anxious about it; and I hope,ere long, to introduce you, if not to my wife, at least to mybetrothed—Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars.”
“Eugénie Danglars,” said Monte Cristo; “tell me, is not her fatherBaron Danglars?”
“Yes,” returned Morcerf, “a baron of a new creation.”
“What matter,” said Monte Cristo “if he has rendered the State serviceswhich merit this distinction?”
“Enormous ones,” answered Beauchamp. “Although in reality a Liberal, henegotiated a loan of six millions for Charles X., in 1829, who made hima baron and chevalier of the Legion of Honor; so that he wears theribbon, not, as you would think, in his waistcoat-pocket, but at hisbutton-hole.”
“Ah,” interrupted Morcerf, laughing, “Beauchamp, Beauchamp, keep thatfor the _Corsaire_ or the _Charivari_, but spare my futurefather-in-law before me.” Then, turning to Monte Cristo, “You just nowspoke his name as if you knew the baron?”
“I do not know him,” returned Monte Cristo; “but I shall probably soonmake his acquaintance, for I have a credit opened with him by the houseof Richard & Blount, of London, Arstein & Eskeles of Vienna, andThomson & French at Rome.” As he pronounced the two last names, thecount glanced at Maximilian Morrel. If the stranger expected to producean effect on Morrel, he was not mistaken—Maximilian started as if hehad been electrified.
“Thomson & French,” said he; “do you know this house, monsieur?”
20253m


“They are my bankers in the capital of the Christian world,” returnedthe count quietly. “Can my influence with them be of any service toyou?”
“Oh, count, you could assist me perhaps in researches which have been,up to the present, fruitless. This house, in past years, did ours agreat service, and has, I know not for what reason, always deniedhaving rendered us this service.”
“I shall be at your orders,” said Monte Cristo bowing.
“But,” continued Morcerf, “_à propos_ of Danglars,—we have strangelywandered from the subject. We were speaking of a suitable habitationfor the Count of Monte Cristo. Come, gentlemen, let us all propose someplace. Where shall we lodge this new guest in our great capital?”
“Faubourg Saint-Germain,” said Château-Renaud. “The count will findthere a charming hotel, with a court and garden.”
“Bah! Château-Renaud,” returned Debray, “you only know your dull andgloomy Faubourg Saint-Germain; do not pay any attention to him,count—live in the Chaussée d’Antin, that’s the real centre of Paris.”
“Boulevard de l’Opéra,” said Beauchamp; “the second floor—a house witha balcony. The count will have his cushions of silver cloth broughtthere, and as he smokes his chibouque, see all Paris pass before him.”
“You have no idea, then, Morrel?” asked Château-Renaud; “you do notpropose anything.”
“Oh, yes,” returned the young man, smiling; “on the contrary, I haveone, but I expected the count would be tempted by one of the brilliantproposals made him, yet as he has not replied to any of them, I willventure to offer him a suite of apartments in a charming hotel, in thePompadour style, that my sister has inhabited for a year, in the RueMeslay.”
“You have a sister?” asked the count.
“Yes, monsieur, a most excellent sister.”
“Married?”
“Nearly nine years.”
“Happy?” asked the count again.
“As happy as it is permitted to a human creature to be,” repliedMaximilian. “She married the man she loved, who remained faithful to usin our fallen fortunes—Emmanuel Herbaut.”
Monte Cristo smiled imperceptibly.
“I live there during my leave of absence,” continued Maximilian; “and Ishall be, together with my brother-in-law Emmanuel, at the dispositionof the Count, whenever he thinks fit to honor us.”
“One minute,” cried Albert, without giving Monte Cristo the time toreply. “Take care, you are going to immure a traveller, Sinbad theSailor, a man who comes to see Paris; you are going to make a patriarchof him.”
20255m


“Oh, no,” said Morrel; “my sister is five-and-twenty, my brother-in-lawis thirty, they are gay, young, and happy. Besides, the count will bein his own house, and only see them when he thinks fit to do so.”
“Thanks, monsieur,” said Monte Cristo; “I shall content myself withbeing presented to your sister and her husband, if you will do me thehonor to introduce me; but I cannot accept the offer of anyone of thesegentlemen, since my habitation is already prepared.”
“What,” cried Morcerf; “you are, then, going to a hotel—that will bevery dull for you.”
“Was I so badly lodged at Rome?” said Monte Cristo smiling.
“_Parbleu!_ at Rome you spent fifty thousand piastres in furnishingyour apartments, but I presume that you are not disposed to spend asimilar sum every day.”
“It is not that which deterred me,” replied Monte Cristo; “but as Idetermined to have a house to myself, I sent on my valet de chambre,and he ought by this time to have bought the house and furnished it.”
“But you have, then, a valet de chambre who knows Paris?” saidBeauchamp.
“It is the first time he has ever been in Paris. He is black, andcannot speak,” returned Monte Cristo.
“It is Ali!” cried Albert, in the midst of the general surprise.
“Yes, Ali himself, my Nubian mute, whom you saw, I think, at Rome.”
“Certainly,” said Morcerf; “I recollect him perfectly. But how couldyou charge a Nubian to purchase a house, and a mute to furnish it?—hewill do everything wrong.”
“Undeceive yourself, monsieur,” replied Monte Cristo; “I am quite sure,that, on the contrary, he will choose everything as I wish. He knows mytastes, my caprices, my wants. He has been here a week, with theinstinct of a hound, hunting by himself. He will arrange everything forme. He knew, that I should arrive today at ten o’clock; he was waitingfor me at nine at the Barrière de Fontainebleau. He gave me this paper;it contains the number of my new abode; read it yourself,” and MonteCristo passed a paper to Albert.
“Ah, that is really original,” said Beauchamp.
“And very princely,” added Château-Renaud.
“What, do you not know your house?” asked Debray.
“No,” said Monte Cristo; “I told you I did not wish to be behind mytime; I dressed myself in the carriage, and descended at the viscount’sdoor.” The young men looked at each other; they did not know if it wasa comedy Monte Cristo was playing, but every word he uttered had suchan air of simplicity, that it was impossible to suppose what he saidwas false—besides, why should he tell a falsehood?
“We must content ourselves, then,” said Beauchamp, “with rendering thecount all the little services in our power. I, in my quality ofjournalist, open all the theatres to him.”
“Thanks, monsieur,” returned Monte Cristo, “my steward has orders totake a box at each theatre.”
“Is your steward also a Nubian?” asked Debray.
“No, he is a countryman of yours, if a Corsican is a countryman ofanyone’s. But you know him, M. de Morcerf.”
“Is it that excellent M. Bertuccio, who understands hiring windows sowell?”
“Yes, you saw him the day I had the honor of receiving you; he has beena soldier, a smuggler—in fact, everything. I would not be quite surethat he has not been mixed up with the police for some trifle—a stabwith a knife, for instance.”
“And you have chosen this honest citizen for your steward,” saidDebray. “Of how much does he rob you every year?”
“On my word,” replied the count, “not more than another. I am sure heanswers my purpose, knows no impossibility, and so I keep him.”
“Then,” continued Château-Renaud, “since you have an establishment, asteward, and a hotel in the Champs-Élysées, you only want a mistress.”Albert smiled. He thought of the fair Greek he had seen in the count’sbox at the Argentina and Valle theatres.
“I have something better than that,” said Monte Cristo; “I have aslave. You procure your mistresses from the opera, the Vaudeville, orthe Variétés; I purchased mine at Constantinople; it cost me more, butI have nothing to fear.”
“But you forget,” replied Debray, laughing, “that we are Franks by nameand franks by nature, as King Charles said, and that the moment sheputs her foot in France your slave becomes free.”
“Who will tell her?”
“The first person who sees her.”
“She only speaks Romaic.”
“That is different.”
“But at least we shall see her,” said Beauchamp, “or do you keepeunuchs as well as mutes?”
“Oh, no,” replied Monte Cristo; “I do not carry brutalism so far.Everyone who surrounds me is free to quit me, and when they leave mewill no longer have any need of me or anyone else; it is for thatreason, perhaps, that they do not quit me.”
They had long since passed to dessert and cigars.
“My dear Albert,” said Debray, rising, “it is half-past two. Your guestis charming, but you leave the best company to go into the worstsometimes. I must return to the minister’s. I will tell him of thecount, and we shall soon know who he is.”
“Take care,” returned Albert; “no one has been able to accomplishthat.”
“Oh, we have three millions for our police; it is true they are almostalways spent beforehand, but, no matter, we shall still have fiftythousand francs to spend for this purpose.”
“And when you know, will you tell me?”
“I promise you. _Au revoir_, Albert. Gentlemen, good morning.”
As he left the room, Debray called out loudly, “My carriage.”
“Bravo,” said Beauchamp to Albert; “I shall not go to the Chamber, butI have something better to offer my readers than a speech of M.Danglars.”
“For heaven’s sake, Beauchamp,” returned Morcerf, “do not deprive me ofthe merit of introducing him everywhere. Is he not peculiar?”
“He is more than that,” replied Château-Renaud; “he is one of the mostextraordinary men I ever saw in my life. Are you coming, Morrel?”
“Directly I have given my card to the count, who has promised to pay usa visit at Rue Meslay, No. 14.”
“Be sure I shall not fail to do so,” returned the count, bowing.
And Maximilian Morrel left the room with the Baron de Château-Renaud,leaving Monte Cristo alone with Morcerf.


 Chapter 41. The Presentation
When Albert found himself alone with Monte Cristo, “My dear count,”said he, “allow me to commence my services as _cicerone_ by showing youa specimen of a bachelor’s apartment. You, who are accustomed to thepalaces of Italy, can amuse yourself by calculating in how many squarefeet a young man who is not the worst lodged in Paris can live. As wepass from one room to another, I will open the windows to let youbreathe.”
Monte Cristo had already seen the breakfast-room and the salon on theground floor. Albert led him first to his _atelier_, which was, as wehave said, his favorite apartment. Monte Cristo quickly appreciated allthat Albert had collected here—old cabinets, Japanese porcelain,Oriental stuffs, Venetian glass, arms from all parts of theworld—everything was familiar to him; and at the first glance herecognized their date, their country, and their origin.
Morcerf had expected he should be the guide; on the contrary, it was hewho, under the count’s guidance, followed a course of archæology,mineralogy, and natural history.
They descended to the first floor; Albert led his guest into the salon.The salon was filled with the works of modern artists; there werelandscapes by Dupré, with their long reeds and tall trees, their lowingoxen and marvellous skies; Delacroix’s Arabian cavaliers, with theirlong white burnouses, their shining belts, their damasked arms, theirhorses, who tore each other with their teeth while their riderscontended fiercely with their maces; _aquarelles_ of Boulanger,representing Notre Dame de Paris with that vigor that makes the artistthe rival of the poet; there were paintings by Diaz, who makes hisflowers more beautiful than flowers, his suns more brilliant than thesun; designs by Decamp, as vividly colored as those of Salvator Rosa,but more poetic; _pastels_ by Giraud and Müller, representing childrenlike angels and women with the features of a virgin; sketches torn fromthe album of Dauzats’ “Travels in the East,” that had been made in afew seconds on the saddle of a camel, or beneath the dome of amosque—in a word, all that modern art can give in exchange and asrecompense for the art lost and gone with ages long since past.
Albert expected to have something new this time to show to thetraveller, but, to his great surprise, the latter, without seeking forthe signatures, many of which, indeed, were only initials, namedinstantly the author of every picture in such a manner that it was easyto see that each name was not only known to him, but that each styleassociated with it had been appreciated and studied by him. From thesalon they passed into the bedchamber; it was a model of taste andsimple elegance. A single portrait, signed by Léopold Robert, shone inits carved and gilded frame. This portrait attracted the Count of MonteCristo’s attention, for he made three rapid steps in the chamber, andstopped suddenly before it.
It was the portrait of a young woman of five or six-and-twenty, with adark complexion, and light and lustrous eyes, veiled beneath longlashes. She wore the picturesque costume of the Catalan fisherwomen, ared and black bodice, and golden pins in her hair. She was looking atthe sea, and her form was outlined on the blue ocean and sky. The lightwas so faint in the room that Albert did not perceive the pallor thatspread itself over the count’s visage, or the nervous heaving of hischest and shoulders. Silence prevailed for an instant, during whichMonte Cristo gazed intently on the picture.
“You have there a most charming mistress, viscount,” said the count ina perfectly calm tone; “and this costume—a ball costume,doubtless—becomes her admirably.”
“Ah, monsieur,” returned Albert, “I would never forgive you thismistake if you had seen another picture beside this. You do not know mymother; she it is whom you see here. She had her portrait painted thussix or eight years ago. This costume is a fancy one, it appears, andthe resemblance is so great that I think I still see my mother the sameas she was in 1830. The countess had this portrait painted during thecount’s absence. She doubtless intended giving him an agreeablesurprise; but, strange to say, this portrait seemed to displease myfather, and the value of the picture, which is, as you see, one of thebest works of Léopold Robert, could not overcome his dislike to it. Itis true, between ourselves, that M. de Morcerf is one of the mostassiduous peers at the Luxembourg, a general renowned for theory, but amost mediocre amateur of art. It is different with my mother, whopaints exceedingly well, and who, unwilling to part with so valuable apicture, gave it to me to put here, where it would be less likely todisplease M. de Morcerf, whose portrait, by Gros, I will also show you.Excuse my talking of family matters, but as I shall have the honor ofintroducing you to the count, I tell you this to prevent you making anyallusions to this picture. The picture seems to have a maligninfluence, for my mother rarely comes here without looking at it, andstill more rarely does she look at it without weeping. Thisdisagreement is the only one that has ever taken place between thecount and countess, who are still as much united, although married morethan twenty years, as on the first day of their wedding.”
20261m


Monte Cristo glanced rapidly at Albert, as if to seek a hidden meaningin his words, but it was evident the young man uttered them in thesimplicity of his heart.
“Now,” said Albert, “that you have seen all my treasures, allow me tooffer them to you, unworthy as they are. Consider yourself as in yourown house, and to put yourself still more at your ease, pray accompanyme to the apartments of M. de Morcerf, he whom I wrote from Rome anaccount of the services you rendered me, and to whom I announced yourpromised visit, and I may say that both the count and countessanxiously desire to thank you in person. You are somewhat _blasé_ Iknow, and family scenes have not much effect on Sinbad the Sailor, whohas seen so many others. However, accept what I propose to you as aninitiation into Parisian life—a life of politeness, visiting, andintroductions.”
Monte Cristo bowed without making any answer; he accepted the offerwithout enthusiasm and without regret, as one of those conventions ofsociety which every gentleman looks upon as a duty. Albert summoned hisservant, and ordered him to acquaint M. and Madame de Morcerf of thearrival of the Count of Monte Cristo. Albert followed him with thecount. When they arrived at the antechamber, above the door was visiblea shield, which, by its rich ornaments and its harmony with the rest ofthe furniture, indicated the importance the owner attached to thisblazon. Monte Cristo stopped and examined it attentively.
“Azure seven merlets, or, placed bender,” said he. “These are,doubtless, your family arms? Except the knowledge of blazons, thatenables me to decipher them, I am very ignorant of heraldry—I, a countof a fresh creation, fabricated in Tuscany by the aid of a commanderyof St. Stephen, and who would not have taken the trouble had I not beentold that when you travel much it is necessary. Besides, you must havesomething on the panels of your carriage, to escape being searched bythe custom-house officers. Excuse my putting such a question to you.”
“It is not indiscreet,” returned Morcerf, with the simplicity ofconviction. “You have guessed rightly. These are our arms, that is,those of my father, but they are, as you see, joined to another shield,which has gules, a silver tower, which are my mother’s. By her side Iam Spanish, but the family of Morcerf is French, and, I have heard, oneof the oldest of the south of France.”
“Yes,” replied Monte Cristo “these blazons prove that. Almost all thearmed pilgrims that went to the Holy Land took for their arms either across, in honor of their mission, or birds of passage, in sign of thelong voyage they were about to undertake, and which they hoped toaccomplish on the wings of faith. One of your ancestors had joined theCrusades, and supposing it to be only that of St. Louis, that makes youmount to the thirteenth century, which is tolerably ancient.”
“It is possible,” said Morcerf; “my father has in his study agenealogical tree which will tell you all that, and on which I madecommentaries that would have greatly edified d’Hozier and Jaucourt. Atpresent I no longer think of it, and yet I must tell you that we arebeginning to occupy ourselves greatly with these things under ourpopular government.”
“Well, then, your government would do well to choose from the pastsomething better than the things that I have noticed on your monuments,and which have no heraldic meaning whatever. As for you, viscount,”continued Monte Cristo to Morcerf, “you are more fortunate than thegovernment, for your arms are really beautiful, and speak to theimagination. Yes, you are at once from Provence and Spain; thatexplains, if the portrait you showed me be like, the dark hue I so muchadmired on the visage of the noble Catalan.”
It would have required the penetration of Œdipus or the Sphinx to havedivined the irony the count concealed beneath these words, apparentlyuttered with the greatest politeness. Morcerf thanked him with a smile,and pushed open the door above which were his arms, and which, as wehave said, opened into the salon. In the most conspicuous part of thesalon was another portrait. It was that of a man, from five toeight-and-thirty, in the uniform of a general officer, wearing thedouble epaulet of heavy bullion, that indicates superior rank, theribbon of the Legion of Honor around his neck, which showed he was acommander, and on the right breast, the star of a grand officer of theorder of the Saviour, and on the left that of the grand cross ofCharles III., which proved that the person represented by the picturehad served in the wars of Greece and Spain, or, what was just the samething as regarded decorations, had fulfilled some diplomatic mission inthe two countries.
Monte Cristo was engaged in examining this portrait with no less carethan he had bestowed upon the other, when another door opened, and hefound himself opposite to the Count of Morcerf in person.
He was a man of forty to forty-five years, but he seemed at leastfifty, and his black moustache and eyebrows contrasted strangely withhis almost white hair, which was cut short, in the military fashion. Hewas dressed in plain clothes, and wore at his button-hole the ribbonsof the different orders to which he belonged.
He entered with a tolerably dignified step, and some little haste.Monte Cristo saw him advance towards him without making a single step.It seemed as if his feet were rooted to the ground, and his eyes on theCount of Morcerf.
“Father,” said the young man, “I have the honor of presenting to youthe Count of Monte Cristo, the generous friend whom I had the goodfortune to meet in the critical situation of which I have told you.”
“You are most welcome, monsieur,” said the Count of Morcerf, salutingMonte Cristo with a smile, “and monsieur has rendered our house, inpreserving its only heir, a service which insures him our eternalgratitude.”
As he said these words, the count of Morcerf pointed to a chair, whilehe seated himself in another opposite the window.
Monte Cristo, in taking the seat Morcerf offered him, placed himself insuch a manner as to remain concealed in the shadow of the large velvetcurtains, and read on the careworn and livid features of the count awhole history of secret griefs written in each wrinkle time had plantedthere.
“The countess,” said Morcerf, “was at her toilet when she was informedof the visit she was about to receive. She will, however, be in thesalon in ten minutes.”
“It is a great honor to me,” returned Monte Cristo, “to be thus, on thefirst day of my arrival in Paris, brought in contact with a man whosemerit equals his reputation, and to whom fortune has for once beenequitable, but has she not still on the plains of Mitidja, or in themountains of Atlas, a marshal’s staff to offer you?”
“Oh,” replied Morcerf, reddening slightly, “I have left the service,monsieur. Made a peer at the Restoration, I served through the firstcampaign under the orders of Marshal Bourmont. I could, therefore,expect a higher rank, and who knows what might have happened had theelder branch remained on the throne? But the Revolution of July was, itseems, sufficiently glorious to allow itself to be ungrateful, and itwas so for all services that did not date from the imperial period. Itendered my resignation, for when you have gained your epaulets on thebattle-field, you do not know how to manœuvre on the slippery groundsof the salons. I have hung up my sword, and cast myself into politics.I have devoted myself to industry; I study the useful arts. During thetwenty years I served, I often wished to do so, but I had not thetime.”
“These are the ideas that render your nation superior to any other,”returned Monte Cristo. “A gentleman of high birth, possessor of anample fortune, you have consented to gain your promotion as an obscuresoldier, step by step—this is uncommon; then become general, peer ofFrance, commander of the Legion of Honor, you consent to again commencea second apprenticeship, without any other hope or any other desirethan that of one day becoming useful to your fellow-creatures; this,indeed, is praiseworthy,—nay, more, it is sublime.”
20265m


Albert looked on and listened with astonishment; he was not used to seeMonte Cristo give vent to such bursts of enthusiasm.
“Alas,” continued the stranger, doubtless to dispel the slight cloudthat covered Morcerf’s brow, “we do not act thus in Italy; we growaccording to our race and our species, and we pursue the same lines,and often the same uselessness, all our lives.”
“But, monsieur,” said the Count of Morcerf, “for a man of your merit,Italy is not a country, and France opens her arms to receive you;respond to her call. France will not, perhaps, be always ungrateful.She treats her children ill, but she always welcomes strangers.”
“Ah, father,” said Albert with a smile, “it is evident you do not knowthe Count of Monte Cristo; he despises all honors, and contents himselfwith those written on his passport.”
“That is the most just remark,” replied the stranger, “I ever heardmade concerning myself.”
“You have been free to choose your career,” observed the Count ofMorcerf, with a sigh; “and you have chosen the path strewed withflowers.”
“Precisely, monsieur,” replied Monte Cristo with one of those smilesthat a painter could never represent or a physiologist analyze.
“If I did not fear to fatigue you,” said the general, evidently charmedwith the count’s manners, “I would have taken you to the Chamber; thereis a debate very curious to those who are strangers to our modernsenators.”
“I shall be most grateful, monsieur, if you will, at some future time,renew your offer, but I have been flattered with the hope of beingintroduced to the countess, and I will therefore wait.”
“Ah, here is my mother,” cried the viscount.
Monte Cristo, turned round hastily, and saw Madame de Morcerf at theentrance of the salon, at the door opposite to that by which herhusband had entered, pale and motionless; when Monte Cristo turnedround, she let fall her arm, which for some unknown reason had beenresting on the gilded door-post. She had been there some moments, andhad heard the last words of the visitor. The latter rose and bowed tothe countess, who inclined herself without speaking.
“Ah! good heavens, madame,” said the count, “are you ill, or is it theheat of the room that affects you?”
“Are you ill, mother?” cried the viscount, springing towards her.
She thanked them both with a smile.
“No,” returned she, “but I feel some emotion on seeing, for the firsttime, the man without whose intervention we should have been in tearsand desolation. Monsieur,” continued the countess, advancing with themajesty of a queen, “I owe to you the life of my son, and for this Ibless you. Now, I thank you for the pleasure you give me in thusaffording me the opportunity of thanking you as I have blessed you,from the bottom of my heart.”
The count bowed again, but lower than before; he was even paler thanMercédès.
“Madame,” said he, “the count and yourself recompense too generously asimple action. To save a man, to spare a father’s feelings, or amother’s sensibility, is not to do a good action, but a simple deed ofhumanity.”
At these words, uttered with the most exquisite sweetness andpoliteness, Madame de Morcerf replied:
“It is very fortunate for my son, monsieur, that he found such afriend, and I thank God that things are thus.”
And Mercédès raised her fine eyes to heaven with so fervent anexpression of gratitude, that the count fancied he saw tears in them.M. de Morcerf approached her.
“Madame,” said he. “I have already made my excuses to the count forquitting him, and I pray you to do so also. The sitting commences attwo; it is now three, and I am to speak.”
“Go, then, and monsieur and I will strive our best to forget yourabsence,” replied the countess, with the same tone of deep feeling.“Monsieur,” continued she, turning to Monte Cristo, “will you do us thehonor of passing the rest of the day with us?”
“Believe me, madame, I feel most grateful for your kindness, but I gotout of my travelling carriage at your door this morning, and I amignorant how I am installed in Paris, which I scarcely know; this isbut a trifling inquietude, I know, but one that may be appreciated.”
“We shall have the pleasure another time,” said the countess; “youpromise that?”
Monte Cristo inclined himself without answering, but the gesture mightpass for assent.
“I will not detain you, monsieur,” continued the countess; “I would nothave our gratitude become indiscreet or importunate.”
“My dear Count,” said Albert, “I will endeavor to return yourpoliteness at Rome, and place my coupé at your disposal until your ownbe ready.”
“A thousand thanks for your kindness, viscount,” returned the Count ofMonte Cristo “but I suppose that M. Bertuccio has suitably employed thefour hours and a half I have given him, and that I shall find acarriage of some sort ready at the door.”
Albert was used to the count’s manner of proceeding; he knew that, likeNero, he was in search of the impossible, and nothing astonished him,but wishing to judge with his own eyes how far the count’s orders hadbeen executed, he accompanied him to the door of the house. MonteCristo was not deceived. As soon as he appeared in the Count ofMorcerf’s antechamber, a footman, the same who at Rome had brought thecount’s card to the two young men, and announced his visit, sprang intothe vestibule, and when he arrived at the door the illustrioustraveller found his carriage awaiting him. It was a _coupé_ of Koller’sbuilding, and with horses and harness for which Drake had, to theknowledge of all the lions of Paris, refused on the previous day sevenhundred guineas.
“Monsieur,” said the count to Albert, “I do not ask you to accompany meto my house, as I can only show you a habitation fitted up in a hurry,and I have, as you know, a reputation to keep up as regards not beingtaken by surprise. Give me, therefore, one more day before I inviteyou; I shall then be certain not to fail in my hospitality.”
“If you ask me for a day, count, I know what to anticipate; it will notbe a house I shall see, but a palace. You have decidedly some genius atyour control.”
“_Ma foi_, spread that idea,” replied the Count of Monte Cristo,putting his foot on the velvet-lined steps of his splendid carriage,“and that will be worth something to me among the ladies.”
As he spoke, he sprang into the vehicle, the door was closed, but notso rapidly that Monte Cristo failed to perceive the almostimperceptible movement which stirred the curtains of the apartment inwhich he had left Madame de Morcerf.
When Albert returned to his mother, he found her in the boudoirreclining in a large velvet armchair, the whole room so obscure thatonly the shining spangle, fastened here and there to the drapery, andthe angles of the gilded frames of the pictures, showed with somedegree of brightness in the gloom. Albert could not see the face of thecountess, as it was covered with a thin veil she had put on her head,and which fell over her features in misty folds, but it seemed to himas though her voice had altered. He could distinguish amid the perfumesof the roses and heliotropes in the flower-stands, the sharp andfragrant odor of volatile salts, and he noticed in one of the chasedcups on the mantle-piece the countess’s smelling-bottle, taken from itsshagreen case, and exclaimed in a tone of uneasiness, as he entered:
“My dear mother, have you been ill during my absence?”
“No, no, Albert, but you know these roses, tuberoses, andorange-flowers throw out at first, before one is used to them, suchviolent perfumes.”
“Then, my dear mother,” said Albert, putting his hand to the bell,“they must be taken into the antechamber. You are really ill, and justnow were so pale as you came into the room——”
“Was I pale, Albert?”
“Yes; a pallor that suits you admirably, mother, but which did not theless alarm my father and myself.”
“Did your father speak of it?” inquired Mercédès eagerly.
“No, madame; but do you not remember that he spoke of the fact to you?”
20269m


“Yes, I do remember,” replied the countess.
A servant entered, summoned by Albert’s ring of the bell.
“Take these flowers into the anteroom or dressing-room,” said theviscount; “they make the countess ill.”
The footman obeyed his orders. A long pause ensued, which lasted untilall the flowers were removed.
“What is this name of Monte Cristo?” inquired the countess, when theservant had taken away the last vase of flowers, “is it a family name,or the name of the estate, or a simple title?”
“I believe, mother, it is merely a title. The count purchased an islandin the Tuscan archipelago, and, as he told you today, has founded acommandery. You know the same thing was done for Saint Stephen ofFlorence, Saint George Constantinian of Parma, and even for the Orderof Malta. Except this, he has no pretension to nobility, and callshimself a chance count, although the general opinion at Rome is thatthe count is a man of very high distinction.”
“His manners are admirable,” said the countess, “at least, as far as Icould judge in the few minutes he remained here.”
“They are perfect mother, so perfect, that they surpass by far all Ihave known in the leading aristocracy of the three proudest nobilitiesof Europe—the English, the Spanish, and the German.”
The countess paused a moment; then, after a slight hesitation, sheresumed.
“You have seen, my dear Albert—I ask the question as a mother—you haveseen M. de Monte Cristo in his house, you are quicksighted, have muchknowledge of the world, more tact than is usual at your age, do youthink the count is really what he appears to be?”
“What does he appear to be?”
“Why, you have just said,—a man of high distinction.”
“I told you, my dear mother, he was esteemed such.”
“But what is your own opinion, Albert?”
“I must tell you that I have not come to any decided opinion respectinghim, but I think him a Maltese.”
“I do not ask you of his origin but what he is.”
“Ah! what he is; that is quite another thing. I have seen so manyremarkable things in him, that if you would have me really say what Ithink, I shall reply that I really do look upon him as one of Byron’sheroes, whom misery has marked with a fatal brand; some Manfred, someLara, some Werner, one of those wrecks, as it were, of some ancientfamily, who, disinherited of their patrimony, have achieved one by theforce of their adventurous genius, which has placed them above the lawsof society.”
“You say——”
“I say that Monte Cristo is an island in the midst of theMediterranean, without inhabitants or garrison, the resort of smugglersof all nations, and pirates of every flag. Who knows whether or notthese industrious worthies do not pay to their feudal lord some duesfor his protection?”
“That is possible,” said the countess, reflecting.
“Never mind,” continued the young man, “smuggler or not, you mustagree, mother dear, as you have seen him, that the Count of MonteCristo is a remarkable man, who will have the greatest success in thesalons of Paris. Why, this very morning, in my rooms, he made his_entrée_ amongst us by striking every man of us with amazement, noteven excepting Château-Renaud.”
“And what do you suppose is the count’s age?” inquired Mercédès,evidently attaching great importance to this question.
“Thirty-five or thirty-six, mother.”
“So young,—it is impossible,” said Mercédès, replying at the same timeto what Albert said as well as to her own private reflection.
“It is the truth, however. Three or four times he has said to me, andcertainly without the slightest premeditation, ‘at such a period I wasfive years old, at another ten years old, at another twelve,’ and I,induced by curiosity, which kept me alive to these details, havecompared the dates, and never found him inaccurate. The age of thissingular man, who is of no age, is then, I am certain, thirty-five.Besides, mother, remark how vivid his eye, how raven-black his hair,and his brow, though so pale, is free from wrinkles,—he is not onlyvigorous, but also young.”
The countess bent her head, as if beneath a heavy wave of bitterthoughts.
“And has this man displayed a friendship for you, Albert?” she askedwith a nervous shudder.
“I am inclined to think so.”
“And—do—you—like—him?”
“Why, he pleases me in spite of Franz d’Épinay, who tries to convinceme that he is a being returned from the other world.”
The countess shuddered.
“Albert,” she said, in a voice which was altered by emotion, “I havealways put you on your guard against new acquaintances. Now you are aman, and are able to give me advice; yet I repeat to you, Albert, beprudent.”
“Why, my dear mother, it is necessary, in order to make your adviceturn to account, that I should know beforehand what I have to distrust.The count never plays, he only drinks pure water tinged with a littlesherry, and is so rich that he cannot, without intending to laugh atme, try to borrow money. What, then, have I to fear from him?”
“You are right,” said the countess, “and my fears are weakness,especially when directed against a man who has saved your life. How didyour father receive him, Albert? It is necessary that we should be morethan complaisant to the count. M. de Morcerf is sometimes occupied, hisbusiness makes him reflective, and he might, without intending it——”
“Nothing could be in better taste than my father’s demeanor, madame,”said Albert; “nay, more, he seemed greatly flattered at two or threecompliments which the count very skilfully and agreeably paid him withas much ease as if he had known him these thirty years. Each of theselittle tickling arrows must have pleased my father,” added Albert witha laugh. “And thus they parted the best possible friends, and M. deMorcerf even wished to take him to the Chamber to hear the speakers.”
The countess made no reply. She fell into so deep a reverie that hereyes gradually closed. The young man, standing up before her, gazedupon her with that filial affection which is so tender and endearingwith children whose mothers are still young and handsome. Then, afterseeing her eyes closed, and hearing her breathe gently, he believed shehad dropped asleep, and left the apartment on tiptoe, closing the doorafter him with the utmost precaution.
“This devil of a fellow,” he muttered, shaking his head; “I said at thetime he would create a sensation here, and I measure his effect by aninfallible thermometer. My mother has noticed him, and he musttherefore, perforce, be remarkable.”
He went down to the stables, not without some slight annoyance, when heremembered that the Count of Monte Cristo had laid his hands on a“turnout” which sent his bays down to second place in the opinion ofconnoisseurs.
“Most decidedly,” said he, “men are not equal, and I must beg my fatherto develop this theorem in the Chamber of Peers.”


 Chapter 42. Monsieur Bertuccio
Meanwhile the count had arrived at his house; it had taken him sixminutes to perform the distance, but these six minutes were sufficientto induce twenty young men who knew the price of the equipage they hadbeen unable to purchase themselves, to put their horses in a gallop inorder to see the rich foreigner who could afford to give 20,000 francsapiece for his horses.
The house Ali had chosen, and which was to serve as a town residence toMonte Cristo, was situated on the right hand as you ascend theChamps-Élysées. A thick clump of trees and shrubs rose in the centre,and masked a portion of the front; around this shrubbery two alleys,like two arms, extended right and left, and formed a carriage-drivefrom the iron gates to a double portico, on every step of which stood aporcelain vase, filled with flowers. This house, isolated from therest, had, besides the main entrance, another in the Rue de Ponthieu.Even before the coachman had hailed the _concierge_, the massy gatesrolled on their hinges—they had seen the Count coming, and at Paris, aseverywhere else, he was served with the rapidity of lightning. Thecoachman entered and traversed the half-circle without slackening hisspeed, and the gates were closed ere the wheels had ceased to sound onthe gravel. The carriage stopped at the left side of the portico, twomen presented themselves at the carriage-window; the one was Ali, who,smiling with an expression of the most sincere joy, seemed amply repaidby a mere look from Monte Cristo. The other bowed respectfully, andoffered his arm to assist the count in descending.
“Thanks, M. Bertuccio,” said the count, springing lightly up the threesteps of the portico; “and the notary?”
“He is in the small salon, excellency,” returned Bertuccio.
“And the cards I ordered to be engraved as soon as you knew the numberof the house?”
“Your excellency, it is done already. I have been myself to the bestengraver of the Palais Royal, who did the plate in my presence. Thefirst card struck off was taken, according to your orders, to the BaronDanglars, Rue de la Chaussée d’Antin, No. 7; the others are on themantle-piece of your excellency’s bedroom.”
“Good; what o’clock is it?”
“Four o’clock.”
Monte Cristo gave his hat, cane, and gloves to the same French footmanwho had called his carriage at the Count of Morcerf’s, and then hepassed into the small salon, preceded by Bertuccio, who showed him theway.
“These are but indifferent marbles in this antechamber,” said MonteCristo. “I trust all this will soon be taken away.”
Bertuccio bowed. As the steward had said, the notary awaited him in thesmall salon. He was a simple-looking lawyer’s clerk, elevated to theextraordinary dignity of a provincial scrivener.
“You are the notary empowered to sell the country house that I wish topurchase, monsieur?” asked Monte Cristo.
“Yes, count,” returned the notary.
“Is the deed of sale ready?”
“Yes, count.”
“Have you brought it?”
“Here it is.”
“Very well; and where is this house that I purchase?” asked the countcarelessly, addressing himself half to Bertuccio, half to the notary.The steward made a gesture that signified, “I do not know.” The notarylooked at the count with astonishment.
“What!” said he, “does not the count know where the house he purchasesis situated?”
“No,” returned the count.
“The count does not know?”
“How should I know? I have arrived from Cadiz this morning. I havenever before been at Paris, and it is the first time I have ever evenset my foot in France.”
“Ah, that is different; the house you purchase is at Auteuil.”
At these words Bertuccio turned pale.
“And where is Auteuil?” asked the count.
“Close by here, monsieur,” replied the notary—“a little beyond Passy; acharming situation, in the heart of the Bois de Boulogne.”
“So near as that?” said the Count; “but that is not in the country.What made you choose a house at the gates of Paris, M. Bertuccio?”
“I,” cried the steward with a strange expression. “His excellency didnot charge me to purchase this house. If his excellency willrecollect—if he will think——”
“Ah, true,” observed Monte Cristo; “I recollect now. I read theadvertisement in one of the papers, and was tempted by the false title,‘a country house.’”
“It is not yet too late,” cried Bertuccio, eagerly; “and if yourexcellency will intrust me with the commission, I will find you abetter at Enghien, at Fontenay-aux-Roses, or at Bellevue.”
“Oh, no,” returned Monte Cristo negligently; “since I have this, I willkeep it.”
“And you are quite right,” said the notary, who feared to lose his fee.“It is a charming place, well supplied with spring-water and finetrees; a comfortable habitation, although abandoned for a long time,without reckoning the furniture, which, although old, is yet valuable,now that old things are so much sought after. I suppose the count hasthe tastes of the day?”
“To be sure,” returned Monte Cristo; “it is very convenient, then?”
“It is more—it is magnificent.”
“_Peste!_ let us not lose such an opportunity,” returned Monte Cristo.“The deed, if you please, Mr. Notary.”
And he signed it rapidly, after having first run his eye over that partof the deed in which were specified the situation of the house and thenames of the proprietors.
“Bertuccio,” said he, “give fifty-five thousand francs to monsieur.”
The steward left the room with a faltering step, and returned with abundle of bank-notes, which the notary counted like a man who nevergives a receipt for money until after he is sure it is all there.
“And now,” demanded the count, “are all the forms complied with?”
“All, sir.”
“Have you the keys?”
“They are in the hands of the concierge, who takes care of the house,but here is the order I have given him to install the count in his newpossessions.”
“Very well;” and Monte Cristo made a sign with his hand to the notary,which said, “I have no further need of you; you may go.”
“But,” observed the honest notary, “the count is, I think, mistaken; itis only fifty thousand francs, everything included.”
“And your fee?”
“Is included in this sum.”
“But have you not come from Auteuil here?”
“Yes, certainly.”
“Well, then, it is but fair that you should be paid for your loss oftime and trouble,” said the count; and he made a gesture of politedismissal.
The notary left the room backwards, and bowing down to the ground; itwas the first time he had ever met a similar client.
“See this gentleman out,” said the count to Bertuccio. And the stewardfollowed the notary out of the room.
Scarcely was the count alone, when he drew from his pocket a bookclosed with a lock, and opened it with a key which he wore round hisneck, and which never left him. After having sought for a few minutes,he stopped at a leaf which had several notes, and compared them withthe deed of sale, which lay on the table, and recalling his_souvenirs_—
“‘Auteuil, Rue de la Fontaine, No. 28;’ it is indeed the same,” saidhe; “and now, am I to rely upon an avowal extorted by religious orphysical terror? However, in an hour I shall know all. Bertuccio!”cried he, striking a light hammer with a pliant handle on a small gong.“Bertuccio!”
The steward appeared at the door.
“Monsieur Bertuccio,” said the count, “did you never tell me that youhad travelled in France?”
“In some parts of France—yes, excellency.”
“You know the environs of Paris, then?”
“No, excellency, no,” returned the steward, with a sort of nervoustrembling, which Monte Cristo, a connoisseur in all emotions, rightlyattributed to great disquietude.
“It is unfortunate,” returned he, “that you have never visited theenvirons, for I wish to see my new property this evening, and had yougone with me, you could have given me some useful information.”
“To Auteuil!” cried Bertuccio, whose copper complexion became livid—“Igo to Auteuil?”
“Well, what is there surprising in that? When I live at Auteuil, youmust come there, as you belong to my service.”
Bertuccio hung down his head before the imperious look of his master,and remained motionless, without making any answer.
“Why, what has happened to you?—are you going to make me ring a secondtime for the carriage?” asked Monte Cristo, in the same tone that LouisXIV. pronounced the famous, “I have been almost obliged to wait.”Bertuccio made but one bound to the antechamber, and cried in a hoarsevoice:
“His excellency’s horses!”
Monte Cristo wrote two or three notes, and, as he sealed the last, thesteward appeared.
“Your excellency’s carriage is at the door,” said he.
“Well, take your hat and gloves,” returned Monte Cristo.
“Am I to accompany you, your excellency?” cried Bertuccio.
“Certainly, you must give the orders, for I intend residing at thehouse.”
20277m


It was unexampled for a servant of the count’s to dare to dispute anorder of his, so the steward, without saying a word, followed hismaster, who got into the carriage, and signed to him to follow, whichhe did, taking his place respectfully on the front seat.


 Chapter 43. The House at Auteuil
Monte Cristo noticed, as they descended the staircase, that Bertucciosigned himself in the Corsican manner; that is, had formed the sign ofthe cross in the air with his thumb, and as he seated himself in thecarriage, muttered a short prayer. Anyone but a man of exhaustlessthirst for knowledge would have had pity on seeing the steward’sextraordinary repugnance for the count’s projected drive without thewalls; but the count was too curious to let Bertuccio off from thislittle journey. In twenty minutes they were at Auteuil; the steward’semotion had continued to augment as they entered the village.Bertuccio, crouched in the corner of the carriage, began to examinewith a feverish anxiety every house they passed.
“Tell them to stop at Rue de la Fontaine, No. 28,” said the count,fixing his eyes on the steward, to whom he gave this order.
Bertuccio’s forehead was covered with perspiration; however, he obeyed,and, leaning out of the window, he cried to the coachman,—“Rue de laFontaine, No. 28.” No. 28 was situated at the extremity of the village;during the drive night had set in, and darkness gave the surroundingsthe artificial appearance of a scene on the stage. The carriagestopped, the footman sprang off the box and opened the door.
“Well,” said the count, “you do not get out, M. Bertuccio—you are goingto stay in the carriage, then? What are you thinking of this evening?”
Bertuccio sprang out, and offered his shoulder to the count, who, thistime, leaned upon it as he descended the three steps of the carriage.
“Knock,” said the count, “and announce me.”
Bertuccio knocked, the door opened, and the concierge appeared.
“What is it?” asked he.
“It is your new master, my good fellow,” said the footman. And he heldout to the concierge the notary’s order.
“The house is sold, then?” demanded the concierge; “and this gentlemanis coming to live here?”
“Yes, my friend,” returned the count; “and I will endeavor to give youno cause to regret your old master.”
“Oh, monsieur,” said the concierge, “I shall not have much cause toregret him, for he came here but seldom; it is five years since he washere last, and he did well to sell the house, for it did not bring himin anything at all.”
“What was the name of your old master?” said Monte Cristo.
“The Marquis of Saint-Méran. Ah, I am sure he has not sold the housefor what he gave for it.”
“The Marquis of Saint-Méran!” returned the count. “The name is notunknown to me; the Marquis of Saint-Méran!” and he appeared tomeditate.
“An old gentleman,” continued the concierge, “a staunch follower of theBourbons; he had an only daughter, who married M. de Villefort, who hadbeen the king’s attorney at Nîmes, and afterwards at Versailles.”
Monte Cristo glanced at Bertuccio, who became whiter than the wallagainst which he leaned to prevent himself from falling.
“And is not this daughter dead?” demanded Monte Cristo; “I fancy I haveheard so.”
“Yes, monsieur, one-and-twenty years ago; and since then we have notseen the poor marquis three times.”
“Thanks, thanks,” said Monte Cristo, judging from the steward’s utterprostration that he could not stretch the cord further without dangerof breaking it. “Give me a light.”
“Shall I accompany you, monsieur?”
“No, it is unnecessary; Bertuccio will show me a light.”
And Monte Cristo accompanied these words by the gift of two goldpieces, which produced a torrent of thanks and blessings from theconcierge.
“Ah, monsieur,” said he, after having vainly searched on themantle-piece and the shelves, “I have not got any candles.”
“Take one of the carriage-lamps, Bertuccio,” said the count, “and showme the apartments.”
The steward obeyed in silence, but it was easy to see, from the mannerin which the hand that held the light trembled, how much it cost him toobey. They went over a tolerably large ground floor; a first floorconsisted of a salon, a bathroom, and two bedrooms; near one of thebedrooms they came to a winding staircase that led down to the garden.
“Ah, here is a private staircase,” said the count; “that is convenient.Light me, M. Bertuccio, and go first; we will see where it leads to.”
“Monsieur,” replied Bertuccio, “it leads to the garden.”
“And, pray, how do you know that?”
“It ought to do so, at least.”
“Well, let us be sure of that.”
Bertuccio sighed, and went on first; the stairs did, indeed, lead tothe garden. At the outer door the steward paused.
“Go on, Monsieur Bertuccio,” said the count.
But he who was addressed stood there, stupefied, bewildered, stunned;his haggard eyes glanced around, as if in search of the traces of someterrible event, and with his clenched hands he seemed striving to shutout horrible recollections.
“Well!” insisted the Count.
“No, no,” cried Bertuccio, setting down the lantern at the angle of theinterior wall. “No, monsieur, it is impossible; I can go no farther.”
“What does this mean?” demanded the irresistible voice of Monte Cristo.
“Why, you must see, your excellency,” cried the steward, “that this isnot natural; that, having a house to purchase, you purchase it exactlyat Auteuil, and that, purchasing it at Auteuil, this house should beNo. 28, Rue de la Fontaine. Oh, why did I not tell you all? I am sureyou would not have forced me to come. I hoped your house would havebeen some other one than this; as if there was not another house atAuteuil than that of the assassination!”
“What, what!” cried Monte Cristo, stopping suddenly, “what words do youutter? Devil of a man, Corsican that you are—always mysteries orsuperstitions. Come, take the lantern, and let us visit the garden; youare not afraid of ghosts with me, I hope?”
Bertuccio raised the lantern, and obeyed. The door, as it opened,disclosed a gloomy sky, in which the moon strove vainly to strugglethrough a sea of clouds that covered her with billows of vapor whichshe illumined for an instant, only to sink into obscurity. The stewardwished to turn to the left.
“No, no, monsieur,” said Monte Cristo. “What is the use of followingthe alleys? Here is a beautiful lawn; let us go on straight forwards.”
Bertuccio wiped the perspiration from his brow, but obeyed; however, hecontinued to take the left hand. Monte Cristo, on the contrary, tookthe right hand; arrived near a clump of trees, he stopped. The stewardcould not restrain himself.
“Move, monsieur—move away, I entreat you; you are exactly in the spot!”
“What spot?”
“Where he fell.”
20281m


“My dear Monsieur Bertuccio,” said Monte Cristo, laughing, “controlyourself; we are not at Sartène or at Corte. This is not a Corsican_maquis_ but an English garden; badly kept, I own, but still you mustnot calumniate it for that.”
“Monsieur, I implore you do not stay there!”
“I think you are going mad, Bertuccio,” said the count coldly. “If thatis the case, I warn you, I shall have you put in a lunatic asylum.”
“Alas! excellency,” returned Bertuccio, joining his hands, and shakinghis head in a manner that would have excited the count’s laughter, hadnot thoughts of a superior interest occupied him, and rendered himattentive to the least revelation of this timorous conscience. “Alas!excellency, the evil has arrived!”
“M. Bertuccio,” said the count, “I am very glad to tell you, that whileyou gesticulate, you wring your hands and roll your eyes like a manpossessed by a devil who will not leave him; and I have alwaysobserved, that the devil most obstinate to be expelled is a secret. Iknew you were a Corsican. I knew you were gloomy, and always broodingover some old history of the vendetta; and I overlooked that in Italy,because in Italy those things are thought nothing of. But in Francethey are considered in very bad taste; there are gendarmes who occupythemselves with such affairs, judges who condemn, and scaffolds whichavenge.”
Bertuccio clasped his hands, and as, in all these evolutions, he didnot let fall the lantern, the light showed his pale and alteredcountenance. Monte Cristo examined him with the same look that, atRome, he had bent upon the execution of Andrea, and then, in a tonethat made a shudder pass through the veins of the poor steward—
“The Abbé Busoni, then told me an untruth,” said he, “when, after hisjourney in France, in 1829, he sent you to me, with a letter ofrecommendation, in which he enumerated all your valuable qualities.Well, I shall write to the abbé; I shall hold him responsible for his_protégé’s_ misconduct, and I shall soon know all about thisassassination. Only I warn you, that when I reside in a country, Iconform to all its code, and I have no wish to put myself within thecompass of the French laws for your sake.”
“Oh, do not do that, excellency; I have always served you faithfully,”cried Bertuccio, in despair. “I have always been an honest man, and, asfar as lay in my power, I have done good.”
“I do not deny it,” returned the count; “but why are you thus agitated.It is a bad sign; a quiet conscience does not occasion such paleness inthe cheeks, and such fever in the hands of a man.”
“But, your excellency,” replied Bertuccio hesitatingly, “did not theAbbé Busoni, who heard my confession in the prison at Nîmes, tell youthat I had a heavy burden upon my conscience?”
“Yes; but as he said you would make an excellent steward, I concludedyou had stolen—that was all.”
“Oh, your excellency!” returned Bertuccio in deep contempt.
“Or, as you are a Corsican, that you had been unable to resist thedesire of making a ‘stiff,’ as you call it.”
“Yes, my good master,” cried Bertuccio, casting himself at the count’sfeet, “it was simply vengeance—nothing else.”
“I understand that, but I do not understand what it is that galvanizesyou in this manner.”
“But, monsieur, it is very natural,” returned Bertuccio, “since it wasin this house that my vengeance was accomplished.”
“What! my house?”
“Oh, your excellency, it was not yours, then.”
“Whose, then? The Marquis de Saint-Méran, I think, the concierge said.What had you to revenge on the Marquis de Saint-Méran?”
“Oh, it was not on him, monsieur; it was on another.”
“This is strange,” returned Monte Cristo, seeming to yield to hisreflections, “that you should find yourself without any preparation ina house where the event happened that causes you so much remorse.”
“Monsieur,” said the steward, “it is fatality, I am sure. First, youpurchase a house at Auteuil—this house is the one where I havecommitted an assassination; you descend to the garden by the samestaircase by which he descended; you stop at the spot where he receivedthe blow; and two paces farther is the grave in which he had justburied his child. This is not chance, for chance, in this case, is toomuch like Providence.”
“Well, amiable Corsican, let us suppose it is Providence. I alwayssuppose anything people please, and, besides, you must concedesomething to diseased minds. Come, collect yourself, and tell me all.”
“I have related it but once, and that was to the Abbé Busoni. Suchthings,” continued Bertuccio, shaking his head, “are only related underthe seal of confession.”
“Then,” said the count, “I refer you to your confessor. Turn Chartreuxor Trappist, and relate your secrets, but, as for me, I do not likeanyone who is alarmed by such phantasms, and I do not choose that myservants should be afraid to walk in the garden of an evening. Iconfess I am not very desirous of a visit from the commissary ofpolice, for, in Italy, justice is only paid when silent—in France sheis paid only when she speaks. _Peste!_ I thought you somewhat Corsican,a great deal smuggler, and an excellent steward; but I see you haveother strings to your bow. You are no longer in my service, MonsieurBertuccio.”
“Oh, your excellency, your excellency!” cried the steward, struck withterror at this threat, “if that is the only reason I cannot remain inyour service, I will tell all, for if I quit you, it will only be to goto the scaffold.”
“That is different,” replied Monte Cristo; “but if you intend to tellan untruth, reflect it were better not to speak at all.”
“No, monsieur, I swear to you, by my hopes of salvation, I will tellyou all, for the Abbé Busoni himself only knew a part of my secret;but, I pray you, go away from that plane-tree. The moon is justbursting through the clouds, and there, standing where you do, andwrapped in that cloak that conceals your figure, you remind me of M. deVillefort.”
“What!” cried Monte Cristo, “it was M. de Villefort?”
“Your excellency knows him?”
“The former royal attorney at Nîmes?”
“Yes.”
“Who married the Marquis of Saint-Méran’s daughter?”
“Yes.”
“Who enjoyed the reputation of being the most severe, the most upright,the most rigid magistrate on the bench?”
“Well, monsieur,” said Bertuccio, “this man with this spotlessreputation——”
“Well?”
“Was a villain.”
“Bah,” replied Monte Cristo, “impossible!”
“It is as I tell you.”
“Ah, really,” said Monte Cristo. “Have you proof of this?”
“I had it.”
“And you have lost it; how stupid!”
“Yes; but by careful search it might be recovered.”
“Really,” returned the count, “relate it to me, for it begins tointerest me.”
And the count, humming an air from _Lucia_, went to sit down on abench, while Bertuccio followed him, collecting his thoughts. Bertuccioremained standing before him.
20285m



 Chapter 44. The Vendetta
At what point shall I begin my story, your excellency?” askedBertuccio.
“Where you please,” returned Monte Cristo, “since I know nothing at allof it.”
“I thought the Abbé Busoni had told your excellency.”
“Some particulars, doubtless, but that is seven or eight years ago, andI have forgotten them.”
“Then I can speak without fear of tiring your excellency.”
“Go on, M. Bertuccio; you will supply the want of the evening papers.”
“The story begins in 1815.”
“Ah,” said Monte Cristo, “1815 is not yesterday.”
“No, monsieur, and yet I recollect all things as clearly as if they hadhappened but then. I had a brother, an elder brother, who was in theservice of the emperor; he had become lieutenant in a regiment composedentirely of Corsicans. This brother was my only friend; we becameorphans—I at five, he at eighteen. He brought me up as if I had beenhis son, and in 1814 he married. When the emperor returned from theIsland of Elba, my brother instantly joined the army, was slightlywounded at Waterloo, and retired with the army beyond the Loire.”
“But that is the history of the Hundred Days, M. Bertuccio,” said thecount; “unless I am mistaken, it has been already written.”
“Excuse me, excellency, but these details are necessary, and youpromised to be patient.”
“Go on; I will keep my word.”
“One day we received a letter. I should tell you that we lived in thelittle village of Rogliano, at the extremity of Cap Corse. This letterwas from my brother. He told us that the army was disbanded, and thathe should return by Châteauroux, Clermont-Ferrand, Le Puy, and Nîmes;and, if I had any money, he prayed me to leave it for him at Nîmes,with an innkeeper with whom I had dealings.”
“In the smuggling line?” said Monte Cristo.
“Eh, your excellency? Everyone must live.”
“Certainly; go on.”
“I loved my brother tenderly, as I told your excellency, and I resolvednot to send the money, but to take it to him myself. I possessed athousand francs. I left five hundred with Assunta, my sister-in-law,and with the other five hundred I set off for Nîmes. It was easy to doso, and as I had my boat and a lading to take in at sea, everythingfavored my project. But, after we had taken in our cargo, the windbecame contrary, so that we were four or five days without being ableto enter the Rhône. At last, however, we succeeded, and worked up toArles. I left the boat between Bellegarde and Beaucaire, and took theroad to Nîmes.”
“We are getting to the story now?”
“Yes, your excellency; excuse me, but, as you will see, I only tell youwhat is absolutely necessary. Just at this time the famous massacrestook place in the south of France. Three brigands, called Trestaillon,Truphemy, and Graffan, publicly assassinated everybody whom theysuspected of Bonapartism. You have doubtless heard of these massacres,your excellency?”
“Vaguely; I was far from France at that period. Go on.”
“As I entered Nîmes, I literally waded in blood; at every step youencountered dead bodies and bands of murderers, who killed, plundered,and burned. At the sight of this slaughter and devastation I becameterrified, not for myself—for I, a simple Corsican fisherman, hadnothing to fear; on the contrary, that time was most favorable for ussmugglers—but for my brother, a soldier of the empire, returning fromthe army of the Loire, with his uniform and his epaulets, there waseverything to apprehend. I hastened to the innkeeper. My misgivings hadbeen but too true. My brother had arrived the previous evening atNîmes, and, at the very door of the house where he was about to demandhospitality, he had been assassinated. I did all in my power todiscover the murderers, but no one durst tell me their names, so muchwere they dreaded. I then thought of that French justice of which I hadheard so much, and which feared nothing, and I went to the king’sattorney.”
“And this king’s attorney was named Villefort?” asked Monte Cristocarelessly.
“Yes, your excellency; he came from Marseilles, where he had beendeputy procureur. His zeal had procured him advancement, and he wassaid to be one of the first who had informed the government of thedeparture from the Island of Elba.”
“Then,” said Monte Cristo “you went to him?”
“‘Monsieur,’ I said, ‘my brother was assassinated yesterday in thestreets of Nîmes, I know not by whom, but it is your duty to find out.You are the representative of justice here, and it is for justice toavenge those she has been unable to protect.’
“‘Who was your brother?’ asked he.
“‘A lieutenant in the Corsican battalion.’
“‘A soldier of the usurper, then?’
“‘A soldier of the French army.’
“‘Well,’ replied he, ‘he has smitten with the sword, and he hasperished by the sword.’
“‘You are mistaken, monsieur,’ I replied; ‘he has perished by theponiard.’
“‘What do you want me to do?’ asked the magistrate.
“‘I have already told you—avenge him.’
“‘On whom?’
“‘On his murderers.’
“‘How should I know who they are?’
“‘Order them to be sought for.’
“‘Why, your brother has been involved in a quarrel, and killed in aduel. All these old soldiers commit excesses which were tolerated inthe time of the emperor, but which are not suffered now, for the peoplehere do not like soldiers of such disorderly conduct.’
“‘Monsieur,’ I replied, ‘it is not for myself that I entreat yourinterference—I should grieve for him or avenge him, but my poor brotherhad a wife, and were anything to happen to me, the poor creature wouldperish from want, for my brother’s pay alone kept her. Pray, try andobtain a small government pension for her.’
“‘Every revolution has its catastrophes,’ returned M. de Villefort;‘your brother has been the victim of this. It is a misfortune, andgovernment owes nothing to his family. If we are to judge by all thevengeance that the followers of the usurper exercised on the partisansof the king, when, in their turn, they were in power, your brotherwould be today, in all probability, condemned to death. What hashappened is quite natural, and in conformity with the law ofreprisals.’
“‘What,’ cried I, ‘do you, a magistrate, speak thus to me?’
“‘All these Corsicans are mad, on my honor,’ replied M. de Villefort;‘they fancy that their countryman is still emperor. You have mistakenthe time, you should have told me this two months ago, it is too latenow. Go now, at once, or I shall have you put out.’
“I looked at him an instant to see if there was anything to hope fromfurther entreaty. But he was a man of stone. I approached him, and saidin a low voice, ‘Well, since you know the Corsicans so well, you knowthat they always keep their word. You think that it was a good deed tokill my brother, who was a Bonapartist, because you are a royalist.Well, I, who am a Bonapartist also, declare one thing to you, which is,that I will kill you. From this moment I declare the vendetta againstyou, so protect yourself as well as you can, for the next time we meetyour last hour has come.’ And before he had recovered from hissurprise, I opened the door and left the room.”
“Well, well,” said Monte Cristo, “such an innocent looking person asyou are to do those things, M. Bertuccio, and to a king’s attorney atthat! But did he know what was meant by the terrible word ‘vendetta’?”
“He knew so well, that from that moment he shut himself in his house,and never went out unattended, seeking me high and low. Fortunately, Iwas so well concealed that he could not find me. Then he becamealarmed, and dared not stay any longer at Nîmes, so he solicited achange of residence, and, as he was in reality very influential, he wasnominated to Versailles. But, as you know, a Corsican who has sworn toavenge himself cares not for distance, so his carriage, fast as itwent, was never above half a day’s journey before me, who followed himon foot. The most important thing was, not to kill him only—for I hadan opportunity of doing so a hundred times—but to kill him withoutbeing discovered—at least, without being arrested. I no longer belongedto myself, for I had my sister-in-law to protect and provide for.
“For three months I watched M. de Villefort, for three months he tooknot a step out-of-doors without my following him. At length Idiscovered that he went mysteriously to Auteuil. I followed himthither, and I saw him enter the house where we now are, only, insteadof entering by the great door that looks into the street, he came onhorseback, or in his carriage, left the one or the other at the littleinn, and entered by the gate you see there.”
Monte Cristo made a sign with his head to show that he could discern inthe darkness the door to which Bertuccio alluded.
“As I had nothing more to do at Versailles, I went to Auteuil, andgained all the information I could. If I wished to surprise him, it wasevident this was the spot to lie in wait for him. The house belonged,as the concierge informed your excellency, to M. de Saint-Méran,Villefort’s father-in-law. M. de Saint-Méran lived at Marseilles, sothat this country house was useless to him, and it was reported to belet to a young widow, known only by the name of ‘the Baroness.’
“One evening, as I was looking over the wall, I saw a young andhandsome woman who was walking alone in that garden, which was notoverlooked by any windows, and I guessed that she was awaiting M. deVillefort. When she was sufficiently near for me to distinguish herfeatures, I saw she was from eighteen to nineteen, tall and very fair.As she had a loose muslin dress on and as nothing concealed her figure,I saw she would ere long become a mother. A few moments after, thelittle door was opened and a man entered. The young woman hastened tomeet him. They threw themselves into each other’s arms, embracedtenderly, and returned together to the house. The man was M. deVillefort; I fully believed that when he went out in the night he wouldbe forced to traverse the whole of the garden alone.”
20291m


“And,” asked the count, “did you ever know the name of this woman?”
“No, excellency,” returned Bertuccio; “you will see that I had no timeto learn it.”
“Go on.”
“That evening,” continued Bertuccio, “I could have killed theprocureur, but as I was not sufficiently acquainted with theneighborhood, I was fearful of not killing him on the spot, and that ifhis cries were overheard I might be taken; so I put it off until thenext occasion, and in order that nothing should escape me, I took achamber looking into the street bordered by the wall of the garden.Three days after, about seven o’clock in the evening, I saw a servanton horseback leave the house at full gallop, and take the road toSèvres. I concluded that he was going to Versailles, and I was notdeceived. Three hours later, the man returned covered with dust, hiserrand was performed, and two minutes after, another man on foot,muffled in a mantle, opened the little door of the garden, which heclosed after him. I descended rapidly; although I had not seenVillefort’s face, I recognized him by the beating of my heart. Icrossed the street, and stopped at a post placed at the angle of thewall, and by means of which I had once before looked into the garden.
“This time I did not content myself with looking, but I took my knifeout of my pocket, felt that the point was sharp, and sprang over thewall. My first care was to run to the door; he had left the key in it,taking the simple precaution of turning it twice in the lock. Nothing,then, preventing my escape by this means, I examined the grounds. Thegarden was long and narrow; a stretch of smooth turf extended down themiddle, and at the corners were clumps of trees with thick and massyfoliage, that made a background for the shrubs and flowers. In order togo from the door to the house, or from the house to the door, M. deVillefort would be obliged to pass by one of these clumps of trees.
20293m


“It was the end of September; the wind blew violently. The faintglimpses of the pale moon, hidden momentarily by masses of dark cloudsthat were sweeping across the sky, whitened the gravel walks that ledto the house, but were unable to pierce the obscurity of the thickshrubberies, in which a man could conceal himself without any fear ofdiscovery. I hid myself in the one nearest to the path Villefort musttake, and scarcely was I there when, amidst the gusts of wind, Ifancied I heard groans; but you know, or rather you do not know, yourexcellency, that he who is about to commit an assassination fanciesthat he hears low cries perpetually ringing in his ears. Two hourspassed thus, during which I imagined I heard moans repeatedly. Midnightstruck. As the last stroke died away, I saw a faint light shine throughthe windows of the private staircase by which we have just descended.The door opened, and the man in the mantle reappeared.
“The terrible moment had come, but I had so long been prepared for itthat my heart did not fail in the least. I drew my knife from my pocketagain, opened it, and made ready to strike. The man in the mantleadvanced towards me, but as he drew near I saw that he had a weapon inhis hand. I was afraid, not of a struggle, but of a failure. When hewas only a few paces from me, I saw that what I had taken for a weaponwas only a spade. I was still unable to divine for what reason M. deVillefort had this spade in his hands, when he stopped close to thethicket where I was, glanced round, and began to dig a hole in theearth. I then perceived that he was hiding something under his mantle,which he laid on the grass in order to dig more freely. Then, Iconfess, curiosity mingled with hatred; I wished to see what Villefortwas going to do there, and I remained motionless, holding my breath.Then an idea crossed my mind, which was confirmed when I saw theprocureur lift from under his mantle a box, two feet long, and six oreight inches deep. I let him place the box in the hole he had made,then, while he stamped with his feet to remove all traces of hisoccupation, I rushed on him and plunged my knife into his breast,exclaiming:
“‘I am Giovanni Bertuccio; thy death for my brother’s; thy treasure forhis widow; thou seest that my vengeance is more complete than I hadhoped.’
“I know not if he heard these words; I think he did not, for he fellwithout a cry. I felt his blood gush over my face, but I wasintoxicated, I was delirious, and the blood refreshed, instead ofburning me. In a second I had disinterred the box; then, that it mightnot be known I had done so, I filled up the hole, threw the spade overthe wall, and rushed through the door, which I double-locked, carryingoff the key.”
“Ah,” said Monte Cristo “it seems to me this was nothing but murder androbbery.”
“No, your excellency,” returned Bertuccio; “it was a vendetta followedby restitution.”
“And was the sum a large one?”
“It was not money.”
“Ah, I recollect,” replied the count; “did you not say something of aninfant?”
“Yes, excellency; I hastened to the river, sat down on the bank, andwith my knife forced open the lock of the box. In a fine linen clothwas wrapped a new-born child. Its purple visage, and its violet-coloredhands showed that it had perished from suffocation, but as it was notyet cold, I hesitated to throw it into the water that ran at my feet.After a moment I fancied that I felt a slight pulsation of the heart,and as I had been assistant at the hospital at Bastia, I did what adoctor would have done—I inflated the lungs by blowing air into them,and at the expiration of a quarter of an hour, it began to breathe, andcried feebly. In my turn I uttered a cry, but a cry of joy.
“‘God has not cursed me then,’ I cried, ‘since he permits me to savethe life of a human creature, in exchange for the life I have takenaway.’”
20295m


“And what did you do with the child?” asked Monte Cristo. “It was anembarrassing load for a man seeking to escape.”
“I had not for a moment the idea of keeping it, but I knew that atParis there was an asylum where they receive such creatures. As Ipassed the city gates I declared that I had found the child on theroad, and I inquired where the asylum was; the box confirmed mystatement, the linen proved that the infant belonged to wealthyparents, the blood with which I was covered might have proceeded fromthe child as well as from anyone else. No objection was raised, butthey pointed out the asylum, which was situated at the upper end of theRue d’Enfer, and after having taken the precaution of cutting the linenin two pieces, so that one of the two letters which marked it was onthe piece wrapped around the child, while the other remained in mypossession, I rang the bell, and fled with all speed. A fortnight afterI was at Rogliano, and I said to Assunta:
“‘Console thyself, sister; Israel is dead, but he is avenged.’
“She demanded what I meant, and when I had told her all,—‘Giovanni,’said she, ‘you should have brought this child with you; we would havereplaced the parents it has lost, have called it Benedetto, and then,in consequence of this good action, God would have blessed us.’ Inreply I gave her the half of the linen I had kept in order to reclaimhim if we became rich.”
“What letters were marked on the linen?” said Monte Cristo.
“An H and an N, surmounted by a baron’s coronet.”
“By heaven, M. Bertuccio, you make use of heraldic terms; where did youstudy heraldry?”
“In your service, excellency, where everything is learned.”
“Go on, I am curious to know two things.”
“What are they, your excellency?”
“What became of this little boy? for I think you told me it was a boy,M. Bertuccio.”
“No excellency, I do not recollect telling you that.”
“I thought you did; I must have been mistaken.”
“No, you were not, for it was in reality a little boy. But yourexcellency wished to know two things; what was the second?”
“The second was the crime of which you were accused when you asked fora confessor, and the Abbé Busoni came to visit you at your request inthe prison at Nîmes.”
“The story will be very long, excellency.”
“What matter? you know I take but little sleep, and I do not supposeyou are very much inclined for it either.” Bertuccio bowed, and resumedhis story.
“Partly to drown the recollections of the past that haunted me, partlyto supply the wants of the poor widow, I eagerly returned to my tradeof smuggler, which had become more easy since that relaxation of thelaws which always follows a revolution. The southern districts wereill-watched in particular, in consequence of the disturbances that wereperpetually breaking out in Avignon, Nîmes, or Uzès. We profited bythis respite on the part of the government to make friends everywhere.Since my brother’s assassination in the streets of Nîmes, I had neverentered the town; the result was that the innkeeper with whom we wereconnected, seeing that we would no longer come to him, was forced tocome to us, and had established a branch to his inn, on the road fromBellegarde to Beaucaire, at the sign of the Pont du Gard. We had thus,at Aigues-Mortes, Martigues, or Bouc, a dozen places where we left ourgoods, and where, in case of necessity, we concealed ourselves from thegendarmes and custom-house officers. Smuggling is a profitable trade,when a certain degree of vigor and intelligence is employed; as formyself, brought up in the mountains, I had a double motive for fearingthe gendarmes and custom-house officers, as my appearance before thejudges would cause an inquiry, and an inquiry always looks back intothe past. And in my past life they might find something far more gravethan the selling of smuggled cigars, or barrels of brandy without apermit. So, preferring death to capture, I accomplished the mostastonishing deeds, and which, more than once, showed me that the toogreat care we take of our bodies is the only obstacle to the success ofthose projects which require rapid decision, and vigorous anddetermined execution. In reality, when you have once devoted your lifeto your enterprises, you are no longer the equal of other men, or,rather, other men are no longer your equals, and whosoever has takenthis resolution, feels his strength and resources doubled.”
“Philosophy, M. Bertuccio,” interrupted the count; “you have done alittle of everything in your life.”
“Oh, excellency!”
“No, no; but philosophy at half-past ten at night is somewhat late; yetI have no other observation to make, for what you say is correct, whichis more than can be said for all philosophy.”
“My journeys became more and more extensive and more productive.Assunta took care of all, and our little fortune increased. One day asI was setting off on an expedition, ‘Go,’ said she; ‘at your return Iwill give you a surprise.’ I questioned her, but in vain; she wouldtell me nothing, and I departed. Our expedition lasted nearly sixweeks; we had been to Lucca to take in oil, to Leghorn for Englishcottons, and we ran our cargo without opposition, and returned homefull of joy. When I entered the house, the first thing I beheld in themiddle of Assunta’s chamber was a cradle that might be called sumptuouscompared with the rest of the furniture, and in it a baby seven oreight months old. I uttered a cry of joy; the only moments of sadness Ihad known since the assassination of the procureur were caused by therecollection that I had abandoned this child. For the assassinationitself I had never felt any remorse. Poor Assunta had guessed all. Shehad profited by my absence, and furnished with the half of the linen,and having written down the day and hour at which I had deposited thechild at the asylum, had set off for Paris, and had reclaimed it. Noobjection was raised, and the infant was given up to her. Ah, Iconfess, your excellency, when I saw this poor creature sleepingpeacefully in its cradle, I felt my eyes filled with tears. ‘Ah,Assunta,’ cried I, ‘you are an excellent woman, and Heaven will blessyou.’”
“This,” said Monte Cristo, “is less correct than your philosophy,—it isonly faith.”
“Alas, your excellency is right,” replied Bertuccio, “and God made thisinfant the instrument of our punishment. Never did a perverse naturedeclare itself more prematurely, and yet it was not owing to any faultin his bringing up. He was a most lovely child, with large blue eyes,of that deep color that harmonizes so well with the blond complexion;only his hair, which was too light, gave his face a most singularexpression, and added to the vivacity of his look, and the malice ofhis smile.
“Unfortunately, there is a proverb which says that ‘red is eitheraltogether good or altogether bad.’ The proverb was but too correct asregarded Benedetto, and even in his infancy he manifested the worstdisposition. It is true that the indulgence of his foster-motherencouraged him. This child, for whom my poor sister would go to thetown, five or six leagues off, to purchase the earliest fruits and themost tempting sweetmeats, preferred to Palma grapes or Genoesepreserves, the chestnuts stolen from a neighbor’s orchard, or the driedapples in his loft, when he could eat as well of the nuts and applesthat grew in my garden.
“One day, when Benedetto was about five or six, our neighbor Wasilio,who, according to the custom of the country, never locked up his purseor his valuables—for, as your excellency knows, there are no thieves inCorsica—complained that he had lost a louis out of his purse; wethought he must have made a mistake in counting his money, but hepersisted in the accuracy of his statement. One day, Benedetto, who hadbeen gone from the house since morning, to our great anxiety, did notreturn until late in the evening, dragging a monkey after him, which hesaid he had found chained to the foot of a tree. For more than a monthpast, the mischievous child, who knew not what to wish for, had takenit into his head to have a monkey. A boatman, who had passed byRogliano, and who had several of these animals, whose tricks hadgreatly diverted him, had, doubtless, suggested this idea to him.‘Monkeys are not found in our woods chained to trees,’ said I; ‘confesshow you obtained this animal.’ Benedetto maintained the truth of whathe had said, and accompanied it with details that did more honor to hisimagination than to his veracity. I became angry; he began to laugh, Ithreatened to strike him, and he made two steps backwards. ‘You cannotbeat me,’ said he; ‘you have no right, for you are not my father.’
20299m


“We never knew who had revealed this fatal secret, which we had socarefully concealed from him; however, it was this answer, in which thechild’s whole character revealed itself, that almost terrified me, andmy arm fell without touching him.
“The boy triumphed, and this victory rendered him so audacious, thatall the money of Assunta, whose affection for him seemed to increase ashe became more unworthy of it, was spent in caprices she knew not howto contend against, and follies she had not the courage to prevent.When I was at Rogliano everything went on properly, but no sooner wasmy back turned than Benedetto became master, and everything went ill.When he was only eleven, he chose his companions from among the youngmen of eighteen or twenty, the worst characters in Bastia, or, indeed,in Corsica, and they had already, for some mischievous pranks, beenseveral times threatened with a prosecution. I became alarmed, as anyprosecution might be attended with serious consequences. I wascompelled, at this period, to leave Corsica on an important expedition;I reflected for a long time, and with the hope of averting someimpending misfortune, I resolved that Benedetto should accompany me.
“I hoped that the active and laborious life of a smuggler, with thesevere discipline on board, would have a salutary effect on hischaracter, which was now well-nigh, if not quite, corrupt. I spoke toBenedetto alone, and proposed to him to accompany me, endeavoring totempt him by all the promises most likely to dazzle the imagination ofa child of twelve. He heard me patiently, and when I had finished,burst out laughing.
“‘Are you mad, uncle?’ (he called me by this name when he was in goodhumor); ‘do you think I am going to change the life I lead for yourmode of existence—my agreeable indolence for the hard and precarioustoil you impose on yourself, exposed to the bitter frost at night, andthe scorching heat by day, compelled to conceal yourself, and when youare perceived, receive a volley of bullets, all to earn a paltry sum?Why, I have as much money as I want; mother Assunta always furnishes mewhen I ask for it! You see that I should be a fool to accept youroffer.’
“The arguments, and his audacity, perfectly stupefied me. Benedettorejoined his associates, and I saw him from a distance point me out tothem as a fool.”
“Sweet child,” murmured Monte Cristo.
“Oh, had he been my own son,” replied Bertuccio, “or even my nephew, Iwould have brought him back to the right road, for the knowledge thatyou are doing your duty gives you strength, but the idea that I wasstriking a child whose father I had killed, made it impossible for meto punish him. I gave my sister, who constantly defended theunfortunate boy, good advice, and as she confessed that she had severaltimes missed money to a considerable amount, I showed her a safe placein which to conceal our little treasure for the future. My mind wasalready made up. Benedetto could read, write, and cipher perfectly, forwhen the fit seized him, he learned more in a day than others in aweek. My intention was to enter him as a clerk in some ship, andwithout letting him know anything of my plan, to convey him somemorning on board; by this means his future treatment would depend uponhis own conduct. I set off for France, after having fixed upon theplan. Our cargo was to be landed in the Gulf of Lyons, and this was adifficult thing to do because it was then the year 1829. The mostperfect tranquillity was restored, and the vigilance of thecustom-house officers was redoubled, and their strictness was increasedat this time, in consequence of the fair at Beaucaire.
20301m


“Our expedition made a favorable beginning. We anchored ourvessel—which had a double hold, where our goods were concealed—amidst anumber of other vessels that bordered the banks of the Rhône fromBeaucaire to Arles. On our arrival we began to discharge our cargo inthe night, and to convey it into the town, by the help of the innkeeperwith whom we were connected.
“Whether success rendered us imprudent, or whether we were betrayed, Iknow not; but one evening, about five o’clock, our little cabin-boycame breathlessly, to inform us that he had seen a detachment ofcustom-house officers advancing in our direction. It was not theirproximity that alarmed us, for detachments were constantly patrollingalong the banks of the Rhône, but the care, according to the boy’saccount, that they took to avoid being seen. In an instant we were onthe alert, but it was too late; our vessel was surrounded, and amongstthe custom-house officers I observed several gendarmes, and, asterrified at the sight of their uniforms as I was brave at the sight ofany other, I sprang into the hold, opened a port, and dropped into theriver, dived, and only rose at intervals to breathe, until I reached aditch that had recently been made from the Rhône to the canal that runsfrom Beaucaire to Aigues-Mortes. I was now safe, for I could swim alongthe ditch without being seen, and I reached the canal in safety. I haddesignedly taken this direction. I have already told your excellency ofan innkeeper from Nîmes who had set up a little tavern on the road fromBellegarde to Beaucaire.”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo “I perfectly recollect him; I think he wasyour colleague.”
“Precisely,” answered Bertuccio; “but he had, seven or eight yearsbefore this period, sold his establishment to a tailor at Marseilles,who, having almost ruined himself in his old trade, wished to make hisfortune in another. Of course, we made the same arrangements with thenew landlord that we had with the old; and it was of this man that Iintended to ask shelter.”
“What was his name?” inquired the count, who seemed to become somewhatinterested in Bertuccio’s story.
“Gaspard Caderousse; he had married a woman from the village ofCarconte, and whom we did not know by any other name than that of hervillage. She was suffering from malarial fever, and seemed dying byinches. As for her husband, he was a strapping fellow of forty, orfive-and-forty, who had more than once, in time of danger, given ampleproof of his presence of mind and courage.”
“And you say,” interrupted Monte Cristo “that this took place towardsthe year——”
“1829, your excellency.”
“In what month?”
“June.”
“The beginning or the end?”
“The evening of the 3rd.”
20303m


“Ah,” said Monte Cristo “the evening of the 3rd of June, 1829. Go on.”
“It was from Caderousse that I intended demanding shelter, and, as wenever entered by the door that opened onto the road, I resolved not tobreak through the rule, so climbing over the garden-hedge, I creptamongst the olive and wild fig trees, and fearing that Caderousse mighthave some guest, I entered a kind of shed in which I had often passedthe night, and which was only separated from the inn by a partition, inwhich holes had been made in order to enable us to watch an opportunityof announcing our presence.
“My intention was, if Caderousse was alone, to acquaint him with mypresence, finish the meal the custom-house officers had interrupted,and profit by the threatened storm to return to the Rhône, andascertain the state of our vessel and its crew. I stepped into theshed, and it was fortunate I did so, for at that moment Caderousseentered with a stranger.
“I waited patiently, not to overhear what they said, but because Icould do nothing else; besides, the same thing had occurred oftenbefore. The man who was with Caderousse was evidently a stranger to theSouth of France; he was one of those merchants who come to selljewellery at the Beaucaire fair, and who during the month the fairlasts, and during which there is so great an influx of merchants andcustomers from all parts of Europe, often have dealings to the amountof 100,000 to 150,000 francs. Caderousse entered hastily. Then, seeingthat the room was, as usual, empty, and only guarded by the dog, hecalled to his wife, ‘Hello, Carconte,’ said he, ‘the worthy priest hasnot deceived us; the diamond is real.’
“An exclamation of joy was heard, and the staircase creaked beneath afeeble step. ‘What do you say?’ asked his wife, pale as death.
“‘I say that the diamond is real, and that this gentleman, one of thefirst jewellers of Paris, will give us 50,000 francs for it. Only, inorder to satisfy himself that it really belongs to us, he wishes you torelate to him, as I have done already, the miraculous manner in whichthe diamond came into our possession. In the meantime please to sitdown, monsieur, and I will fetch you some refreshment.’
“The jeweller examined attentively the interior of the inn and theapparent poverty of the persons who were about to sell him a diamondthat seemed to have come from the casket of a prince.
“‘Relate your story, madame,’ said he, wishing, no doubt, to profit bythe absence of the husband, so that the latter could not influence thewife’s story, to see if the two recitals tallied.
“‘Oh,’ returned she, ‘it was a gift of heaven. My husband was a greatfriend, in 1814 or 1815, of a sailor named Edmond Dantès. This poorfellow, whom Caderousse had forgotten, had not forgotten him, and athis death he bequeathed this diamond to him.’
“‘But how did he obtain it?’ asked the jeweller; ‘had he it before hewas imprisoned?’
“‘No, monsieur; but it appears that in prison he made the acquaintanceof a rich Englishman, and as in prison he fell sick, and Dantès tookthe same care of him as if he had been his brother, the Englishman,when he was set free, gave this stone to Dantès, who, less fortunate,died, and, in his turn, left it to us, and charged the excellent abbé,who was here this morning, to deliver it.’
“‘The same story,’ muttered the jeweller; ‘and improbable as it seemedat first, it may be true. There’s only the price we are not agreedabout.’
“‘How not agreed about?’ said Caderousse. ‘I thought we agreed for theprice I asked.’
“‘That is,’ replied the jeweller, ‘I offered 40,000 francs.’
‘Forty thousand,’ cried La Carconte; ‘we will not part with it for thatsum. The abbé told us it was worth 50,000 without the setting.’
“‘What was the abbé’s name?’ asked the indefatigable questioner.
“‘The Abbé Busoni,’ said La Carconte.
“‘He was a foreigner?’
“‘An Italian from the neighborhood of Mantua, I believe.’
“‘Let me see this diamond again,’ replied the jeweller; ‘the first timeyou are often mistaken as to the value of a stone.’
“Caderousse took from his pocket a small case of black shagreen,opened, and gave it to the jeweller. At the sight of the diamond, whichwas as large as a hazel-nut, La Carconte’s eyes sparkled withcupidity.”
“And what did you think of this fine story, eavesdropper?” said MonteCristo; “did you credit it?”
“Yes, your excellency. I did not look on Caderousse as a bad man, and Ithought him incapable of committing a crime, or even a theft.”
“That did more honor to your heart than to your experience, M.Bertuccio. Had you known this Edmond Dantès, of whom they spoke?”
“No, your excellency, I had never heard of him before, and never butonce afterwards, and that was from the Abbé Busoni himself, when I sawhim in the prison at Nîmes.”
“Go on.”
“The jeweller took the ring, and drawing from his pocket a pair ofsteel pliers and a small set of copper scales, he took the stone out ofits setting, and weighed it carefully.
“‘I will give you 45,000,’ said he, ‘but not a sou more; besides, asthat is the exact value of the stone, I brought just that sum with me.’
“‘Oh, that’s no matter,’ replied Caderousse, ‘I will go back with youto fetch the other 5,000 francs.’
“‘No,’ returned the jeweller, giving back the diamond and the ring toCaderousse, ‘no, it is worth no more, and I am sorry I offered so much,for the stone has a flaw in it, which I had not seen. However, I willnot go back on my word, and I will give 45,000.’
“‘At least, replace the diamond in the ring,’ said La Carconte sharply.
“‘Ah, true,’ replied the jeweller, and he reset the stone.
“‘No matter,’ observed Caderousse, replacing the box in his pocket,‘someone else will purchase it.’
“‘Yes,’ continued the jeweller; ‘but someone else will not be so easyas I am, or content himself with the same story. It is not natural thata man like you should possess such a diamond. He will inform againstyou. You will have to find the Abbé Busoni; and abbés who give diamondsworth two thousand louis are rare. The law would seize it, and put youin prison; if at the end of three or four months you are set atliberty, the ring will be lost, or a false stone, worth three francs,will be given you, instead of a diamond worth 50,000 or perhaps 55,000francs; from which you must allow that one runs considerable risk inpurchasing.’
“Caderousse and his wife looked eagerly at each other.
“‘No,’ said Caderousse, ‘we are not rich enough to lose 5,000 francs.’
“‘As you please, my dear sir,’ said the jeweller; ‘I had, however, asyou see, brought you the money in bright coin.’ And he drew from hispocket a handful of gold, and held it sparkling before the dazzled eyesof the innkeeper, and in the other hand he held a packet of bank-notes.
“There was evidently a severe struggle in the mind of Caderousse; itwas plain that the small shagreen case, which he turned over and overin his hand, did not seem to him commensurate in value to the enormoussum which fascinated his gaze. He turned towards his wife.
“‘What do you think of this?’ he asked in a low voice.
“‘Let him have it—let him have it,’ she said. ‘If he returns toBeaucaire without the diamond, he will inform against us, and, as hesays, who knows if we shall ever again see the Abbé Busoni?—in allprobability we shall never see him.’
“‘Well, then, so I will!’ said Caderousse; ‘so you may have the diamondfor 45,000 francs. But my wife wants a gold chain, and I want a pair ofsilver buckles.’
“The jeweller drew from his pocket a long flat box, which containedseveral samples of the articles demanded. ‘Here,’ he said, ‘I am verystraightforward in my dealings—take your choice.’
“The woman selected a gold chain worth about five louis, and thehusband a pair of buckles, worth perhaps fifteen francs.
“‘I hope you will not complain now?’ said the jeweller.
“‘The abbé told me it was worth 50,000 francs,’ muttered Caderousse.
“‘Come, come—give it to me! What a strange fellow you are,’ said thejeweller, taking the diamond from his hand. ‘I give you 45,000francs—that is, 2,500 livres of income,—a fortune such as I wish I hadmyself, and you are not satisfied!’
“‘And the five-and-forty thousand francs,’ inquired Caderousse in ahoarse voice, ‘where are they? Come—let us see them.’
“‘Here they are,’ replied the jeweller, and he counted out upon thetable 15,000 francs in gold, and 30,000 francs in bank-notes.
“‘Wait while I light the lamp,’ said La Carconte; ‘it is growing dark,and there may be some mistake.’ In fact, night had come on during thisconversation, and with night the storm which had been threatening forthe last half-hour. The thunder growled in the distance; but it wasapparently not heard by the jeweller, Caderousse, or La Carconte,absorbed as they were all three with the demon of gain. I myself felt;a strange kind of fascination at the sight of all this gold and allthese bank-notes; it seemed to me that I was in a dream, and, as italways happens in a dream, I felt myself riveted to the spot.Caderousse counted and again counted the gold and the notes, thenhanded them to his wife, who counted and counted them again in herturn. During this time, the jeweller made the diamond play and sparklein the lamplight, and the gem threw out jets of light which made himunmindful of those which—precursors of the storm—began to play in atthe windows.
“‘Well,’ inquired the jeweller, ‘is the cash all right?’
“‘Yes,’ said Caderousse. ‘Give me the pocket-book, La Carconte, andfind a bag somewhere.’
“La Carconte went to a cupboard, and returned with an old leathernpocket-book and a bag. From the former she took some greasy letters,and put in their place the bank-notes, and from the bag took two orthree crowns of six livres each, which, in all probability, formed theentire fortune of the miserable couple.
“‘There,’ said Caderousse; ‘and now, although you have wronged us ofperhaps 10,000 francs, will you have your supper with us? I invite youwith good-will.’
“‘Thank you,’ replied the jeweller, ‘it must be getting late, and Imust return to Beaucaire—my wife will be getting uneasy.’ He drew outhis watch, and exclaimed, ‘_Morbleu!_ nearly nine o’clock—why, I shallnot get back to Beaucaire before midnight! Good-night, my friends. Ifthe Abbé Busoni should by any accident return, think of me.’
“‘In another week you will have left Beaucaire,’ remarked Caderousse,‘for the fair ends in a few days.’
“‘True, but that makes no difference. Write to me at Paris, to M.Joannes, in the Palais Royal, arcade Pierre, No. 45. I will make thejourney on purpose to see him, if it is worth while.’
“At this moment there was a tremendous clap of thunder, accompanied bya flash of lightning so vivid, that it quite eclipsed the light of thelamp.
20307m


“‘See here,’ exclaimed Caderousse. ‘You cannot think of going out insuch weather as this.’
“‘Oh, I am not afraid of thunder,’ said the jeweller.
“‘And then there are robbers,’ said La Carconte. ‘The road is neververy safe during fair time.’
“‘Oh, as to the robbers,’ said Joannes, ‘here is something for them,’and he drew from his pocket a pair of small pistols, loaded to themuzzle. ‘Here,’ said he, ‘are dogs who bark and bite at the same time,they are for the two first who shall have a longing for your diamond,Friend Caderousse.’
“Caderousse and his wife again interchanged a meaning look. It seemedas though they were both inspired at the same time with some horriblethought. ‘Well, then, a good journey to you,’ said Caderousse.
“‘Thanks,’ replied the jeweller. He then took his cane, which he hadplaced against an old cupboard, and went out. At the moment when heopened the door, such a gust of wind came in that the lamp was nearlyextinguished. ‘Oh,’ said he, ‘this is very nice weather, and twoleagues to go in such a storm.’
“‘Remain,’ said Caderousse. ‘You can sleep here.’
“‘Yes; do stay,’ added La Carconte in a tremulous voice; ‘we will takeevery care of you.’
“‘No; I must sleep at Beaucaire. So, once more, good-night.’ Caderoussefollowed him slowly to the threshold. ‘I can see neither heaven norearth,’ said the jeweller, who was outside the door. ‘Do I turn to theright, or to the left hand?’
“‘To the right,’ said Caderousse. ‘You cannot go wrong—the road isbordered by trees on both sides.’
“‘Good—all right,’ said a voice almost lost in the distance.
“‘Close the door,’ said La Carconte; ‘I do not like open doors when itthunders.’
“‘Particularly when there is money in the house, eh?’ answeredCaderousse, double-locking the door.
20311m


“He came into the room, went to the cupboard, took out the bag andpocket-book, and both began, for the third time, to count their goldand bank-notes. I never saw such an expression of cupidity as theflickering lamp revealed in those two countenances. The woman,especially, was hideous; her usual feverish tremulousness wasintensified, her countenance had become livid, and her eyes resembledburning coals.
“‘Why,’ she inquired in a hoarse voice, ‘did you invite him to sleephere tonight?’
“‘Why?’ said Caderousse with a shudder; ‘why, that he might not havethe trouble of returning to Beaucaire.’
“‘Ah,’ responded the woman, with an expression impossible to describe;‘I thought it was for something else.’
“‘Woman, woman—why do you have such ideas?’ cried Caderousse; ‘or, ifyou have them, why don’t you keep them to yourself?’
“‘Well,’ said La Carconte, after a moment’s pause, ‘you are not a man.’
“‘What do you mean?’ added Caderousse.
“‘If you had been a man, you would not have let him go from here.’
“‘Woman!’
“‘Or else he should not have reached Beaucaire.’
“‘Woman!’
“‘The road takes a turn—he is obliged to follow it—while alongside ofthe canal there is a shorter road.’
“‘Woman!—you offend the good God. There—listen!’
And at this moment there was a tremendous peal of thunder, while thelivid lightning illumined the room, and the thunder, rolling away inthe distance, seemed to withdraw unwillingly from the cursed abode.‘Mercy!’ said Caderousse, crossing himself.
20312m


“At the same moment, and in the midst of the terrifying silence whichusually follows a clap of thunder, they heard a knocking at the door.Caderousse and his wife started and looked aghast at each other.
“‘Who’s there?’ cried Caderousse, rising, and drawing up in a heap thegold and notes scattered over the table, and which he covered with histwo hands.
“‘It is I,’ shouted a voice.
“‘And who are you?’
“‘Eh, _pardieu!_ Joannes, the jeweller.’
“‘Well, and you said I offended the good God,’ said La Carconte with ahorrid smile. ‘Why, the good God sends him back again.’ Caderousse sankpale and breathless into his chair.
“La Carconte, on the contrary, rose, and going with a firm step towardsthe door, opened it, saying, as she did so:
“‘Come in, dear M. Joannes.’
“‘_Ma foi_,’ said the jeweller, drenched with rain, ‘I am not destinedto return to Beaucaire tonight. The shortest follies are best, my dearCaderousse. You offered me hospitality, and I accept it, and havereturned to sleep beneath your friendly roof.’
“Caderousse stammered out something, while he wiped away the sweat thatstarted to his brow. La Carconte double-locked the door behind thejeweller.”


 Chapter 45. The Rain of Blood
As the jeweller returned to the apartment, he cast around him ascrutinizing glance—but there was nothing to excite suspicion, if itdid not exist, or to confirm it, if it were already awakened.Caderousse’s hands still grasped the gold and bank-notes, and LaCarconte called up her sweetest smiles while welcoming the reappearanceof their guest.
“‘Well, well,’ said the jeweller, ‘you seem, my good friends, to havehad some fears respecting the accuracy of your money, by counting itover so carefully directly I was gone.’
“‘Oh, no,’ answered Caderousse, ‘that was not my reason, I can assureyou; but the circumstances by which we have become possessed of thiswealth are so unexpected, as to make us scarcely credit our goodfortune, and it is only by placing the actual proof of our richesbefore our eyes that we can persuade ourselves that the whole affair isnot a dream.’
“The jeweller smiled. ‘Have you any other guests in your house?’inquired he.
“‘Nobody but ourselves,’ replied Caderousse; ‘the fact is, we do notlodge travellers—indeed, our tavern is so near the town, that nobodywould think of stopping here.’
“‘Then I am afraid I shall very much inconvenience you.’
“‘Inconvenience us? Not at all, my dear sir,’ said La Carconte in hermost gracious manner. ‘Not at all, I assure you.’
“‘But where will you manage to stow me?’
“‘In the chamber overhead.’
“‘Surely that is where you yourselves sleep?’
“‘Never mind that; we have a second bed in the adjoining room.’
“Caderousse stared at his wife with much astonishment.
“The jeweller, meanwhile, was humming a song as he stood warming hisback at the fire La Carconte had kindled to dry the wet garments of herguest; and this done, she next occupied herself in arranging hissupper, by spreading a napkin at the end of the table, and placing onit the slender remains of their dinner, to which she added three orfour fresh-laid eggs. Caderousse had once more parted with histreasure—the banknotes were replaced in the pocket-book, the gold putback into the bag, and the whole carefully locked in the cupboard. Hethen began pacing the room with a pensive and gloomy air, glancing fromtime to time at the jeweller, who stood reeking with the steam from hiswet clothes, and merely changing his place on the warm hearth, toenable the whole of his garments to be dried.
“‘There,’ said La Carconte, as she placed a bottle of wine on thetable, ‘supper is ready whenever you are.’
“‘And you?’ asked Joannes.
“‘I don’t want any supper,’ said Caderousse.
“‘We dined so very late,’ hastily interposed La Carconte.
“‘Then it seems I am to eat alone,’ remarked the jeweller.
“‘Oh, we shall have the pleasure of waiting upon you,’ answered LaCarconte, with an eager attention she was not accustomed to manifesteven to guests who paid for what they took.
“From time to time Caderousse darted on his wife keen, searchingglances, but rapid as the lightning flash. The storm still continued.
“‘There, there,’ said La Carconte; ‘do you hear that? upon my word, youdid well to come back.’
“‘Nevertheless,’ replied the jeweller, ‘if by the time I have finishedmy supper the tempest has at all abated, I shall make another start.’
“‘It’s the mistral,’ said Caderousse, ‘and it will be sure to last tilltomorrow morning.’ He sighed heavily.
“‘Well,’ said the jeweller, as he placed himself at table, ‘all I cansay is, so much the worse for those who are abroad.’
“‘Yes,’ chimed in La Carconte, ‘they will have a wretched night of it.’
“The jeweller began eating his supper, and the woman, who wasordinarily so querulous and indifferent to all who approached her, wassuddenly transformed into the most smiling and attentive hostess. Hadthe unhappy man on whom she lavished her assiduities been previouslyacquainted with her, so sudden an alteration might well have excitedsuspicion in his mind, or at least have greatly astonished him.Caderousse, meanwhile, continued to pace the room in gloomy silence,sedulously avoiding the sight of his guest; but as soon as the strangerhad completed his repast, the agitated innkeeper went eagerly to thedoor and opened it.
“‘I believe the storm is over,’ said he.
“But as if to contradict his statement, at that instant a violent clapof thunder seemed to shake the house to its very foundation, while asudden gust of wind, mingled with rain, extinguished the lamp he heldin his hand.
“Trembling and awe-struck, Caderousse hastily shut the door andreturned to his guest, while La Carconte lighted a candle by thesmouldering ashes that glimmered on the hearth.
“‘You must be tired,’ said she to the jeweller; ‘I have spread a pairof white sheets on your bed; go up when you are ready, and sleep well.’
“Joannes stayed for a while to see whether the storm seemed to abate inits fury, but a brief space of time sufficed to assure him that,instead of diminishing, the violence of the rain and thundermomentarily increased; resigning himself, therefore, to what seemedinevitable, he bade his host good-night, and mounted the stairs. Hepassed over my head and I heard the flooring creak beneath hisfootsteps. The quick, eager glance of La Carconte followed him as heascended, while Caderousse, on the contrary, turned his back, andseemed most anxiously to avoid even glancing at him.
“All these circumstances did not strike me as painfully at the time asthey have since done; in fact, all that had happened (with theexception of the story of the diamond, which certainly did wear an airof improbability), appeared natural enough, and called for neitherapprehension nor mistrust; but, worn out as I was with fatigue, andfully purposing to proceed onwards directly the tempest abated, Idetermined to obtain a few hours’ sleep. Overhead I could accuratelydistinguish every movement of the jeweller, who, after making the bestarrangements in his power for passing a comfortable night, threwhimself on his bed, and I could hear it creak and groan beneath hisweight.
“Insensibly my eyelids grew heavy, deep sleep stole over me, and havingno suspicion of anything wrong, I sought not to shake it off. I lookedinto the kitchen once more and saw Caderousse sitting by the side of along table upon one of the low wooden stools which in country placesare frequently used instead of chairs; his back was turned towards me,so that I could not see the expression of his countenance—neithershould I have been able to do so had he been placed differently, as hishead was buried between his two hands. La Carconte continued to gaze onhim for some time, then shrugging her shoulders, she took her seatimmediately opposite to him.
“At this moment the expiring embers threw up a fresh flame from thekindling of a piece of wood that lay near, and a bright light flashedover the room. La Carconte still kept her eyes fixed on her husband,but as he made no sign of changing his position, she extended her hard,bony hand, and touched him on the forehead.
20317m


“Caderousse shuddered. The woman’s lips seemed to move, as though shewere talking; but because she merely spoke in an undertone, or mysenses were dulled by sleep, I did not catch a word she uttered.Confused sights and sounds seemed to float before me, and gradually Ifell into a deep, heavy slumber. How long I had been in thisunconscious state I know not, when I was suddenly aroused by the reportof a pistol, followed by a fearful cry. Weak and tottering footstepsresounded across the chamber above me, and the next instant a dull,heavy weight seemed to fall powerless on the staircase. I had not yetfully recovered consciousness, when again I heard groans, mingled withhalf-stifled cries, as if from persons engaged in a deadly struggle. Acry more prolonged than the others and ending in a series of groanseffectually roused me from my drowsy lethargy. Hastily raising myselfon one arm, I looked around, but all was dark; and it seemed to me asif the rain must have penetrated through the flooring of the roomabove, for some kind of moisture appeared to fall, drop by drop, uponmy forehead, and when I passed my hand across my brow, I felt that itwas wet and clammy.
“To the fearful noises that had awakened me had succeeded the mostperfect silence—unbroken, save by the footsteps of a man walking aboutin the chamber above. The staircase creaked, he descended into the roombelow, approached the fire and lit a candle.
“The man was Caderousse—he was pale and his shirt was all bloody.Having obtained the light, he hurried upstairs again, and once more Iheard his rapid and uneasy footsteps.
“A moment later he came down again, holding in his hand the smallshagreen case, which he opened, to assure himself it contained thediamond,—seemed to hesitate as to which pocket he should put it in,then, as if dissatisfied with the security of either pocket, hedeposited it in his red handkerchief, which he carefully rolled roundhis head.
“After this he took from his cupboard the bank-notes and gold he hadput there, thrust the one into the pocket of his trousers, and theother into that of his waistcoat, hastily tied up a small bundle oflinen, and rushing towards the door, disappeared in the darkness of thenight.
“Then all became clear and manifest to me, and I reproached myself withwhat had happened, as though I myself had done the guilty deed. Ifancied that I still heard faint moans, and imagining that theunfortunate jeweller might not be quite dead, I determined to go to hisrelief, by way of atoning in some slight degree, not for the crime Ihad committed, but for that which I had not endeavored to prevent. Forthis purpose I applied all the strength I possessed to force anentrance from the cramped spot in which I lay to the adjoining room.The poorly fastened boards which alone divided me from it yielded to myefforts, and I found myself in the house. Hastily snatching up thelighted candle, I hurried to the staircase; about midway a body waslying quite across the stairs. It was that of La Carconte. The pistol Ihad heard had doubtless been fired at her. The shot had frightfullylacerated her throat, leaving two gaping wounds from which, as well asthe mouth, the blood was pouring in floods. She was stone dead. Istrode past her, and ascended to the sleeping chamber, which presentedan appearance of the wildest disorder. The furniture had been knockedover in the deadly struggle that had taken place there, and the sheets,to which the unfortunate jeweller had doubtless clung, were draggedacross the room. The murdered man lay on the floor, his head leaningagainst the wall, and about him was a pool of blood which poured forthfrom three large wounds in his breast; there was a fourth gash, inwhich a long table knife was plunged up to the handle.
“I stumbled over some object; I stooped to examine—it was the secondpistol, which had not gone off, probably from the powder being wet. Iapproached the jeweller, who was not quite dead, and at the sound of myfootsteps and the creaking of the floor, he opened his eyes, fixed themon me with an anxious and inquiring gaze, moved his lips as thoughtrying to speak, then, overcome by the effort, fell back and expired.
“This appalling sight almost bereft me of my senses, and finding that Icould no longer be of service to anyone in the house, my only desirewas to fly. I rushed towards the staircase, clutching my hair, anduttering a groan of horror.
“Upon reaching the room below, I found five or six custom-houseofficers, and two or three gendarmes—all heavily armed. They threwthemselves upon me. I made no resistance; I was no longer master of mysenses. When I strove to speak, a few inarticulate sounds alone escapedmy lips.
“As I noticed the significant manner in which the whole party pointedto my blood-stained garments, I involuntarily surveyed myself, and thenI discovered that the thick warm drops that had so bedewed me as I laybeneath the staircase must have been the blood of La Carconte. Ipointed to the spot where I had concealed myself.
“‘What does he mean?’ asked a gendarme.
“One of the officers went to the place I directed.
“‘He means,’ replied the man upon his return, ‘that he got in thatway;’ and he showed the hole I had made when I broke through.
“Then I saw that they took me for the assassin. I recovered force andenergy enough to free myself from the hands of those who held me, whileI managed to stammer forth:
“‘I did not do it! Indeed, indeed I did not!’
“A couple of gendarmes held the muzzles of their carbines against mybreast.
“‘Stir but a step,’ said they, ‘and you are a dead man.’
“‘Why should you threaten me with death,’ cried I, ‘when I have alreadydeclared my innocence?’
“‘Tush, tush,’ cried the men; ‘keep your innocent stories to tell tothe judge at Nîmes. Meanwhile, come along with us; and the best advicewe can give you is to do so unresistingly.’
“Alas, resistance was far from my thoughts. I was utterly overpoweredby surprise and terror; and without a word I suffered myself to behandcuffed and tied to a horse’s tail, and thus they took me to Nîmes.
“I had been tracked by a customs-officer, who had lost sight of me nearthe tavern; feeling certain that I intended to pass the night there, hehad returned to summon his comrades, who just arrived in time to hearthe report of the pistol, and to take me in the midst of suchcircumstantial proofs of my guilt as rendered all hopes of proving myinnocence utterly futile. One only chance was left me, that ofbeseeching the magistrate before whom I was taken to cause everyinquiry to be made for the Abbé Busoni, who had stopped at the inn ofthe Pont du Gard on that morning.
“If Caderousse had invented the story relative to the diamond, andthere existed no such person as the Abbé Busoni, then, indeed, I waslost past redemption, or, at least, my life hung upon the feeble chanceof Caderousse himself being apprehended and confessing the whole truth.
“Two months passed away in hopeless expectation on my part, while Imust do the magistrate the justice to say that he used every means toobtain information of the person I declared could exculpate me if hewould. Caderousse still evaded all pursuit, and I had resigned myselfto what seemed my inevitable fate. My trial was to come on at theapproaching assizes; when, on the 8th of September—that is to say,precisely three months and five days after the events which hadperilled my life—the Abbé Busoni, whom I never ventured to believe Ishould see, presented himself at the prison doors, saying he understoodone of the prisoners wished to speak to him; he added, that havinglearned at Marseilles the particulars of my imprisonment, he hastenedto comply with my desire.
“You may easily imagine with what eagerness I welcomed him, and howminutely I related the whole of what I had seen and heard. I felt somedegree of nervousness as I entered upon the history of the diamond,but, to my inexpressible astonishment, he confirmed it in everyparticular, and to my equal surprise, he seemed to place entire beliefin all I said.
“And then it was that, won by his mild charity, seeing that he wasacquainted with all the habits and customs of my own country, andconsidering also that pardon for the only crime of which I was reallyguilty might come with a double power from lips so benevolent and kind,I besought him to receive my confession, under the seal of which Irecounted the Auteuil affair in all its details, as well as every othertransaction of my life. That which I had done by the impulse of my bestfeelings produced the same effect as though it had been the result ofcalculation. My voluntary confession of the assassination at Auteuilproved to him that I had not committed that of which I stood accused.When he quitted me, he bade me be of good courage, and to rely upon hisdoing all in his power to convince my judges of my innocence.
“I had speedy proofs that the excellent abbé was engaged in my behalf,for the rigors of my imprisonment were alleviated by many triflingthough acceptable indulgences, and I was told that my trial was to bepostponed to the assizes following those now being held.
“In the interim it pleased Providence to cause the apprehension ofCaderousse, who was discovered in some distant country, and broughtback to France, where he made a full confession, refusing to make thefact of his wife’s having suggested and arranged the murder any excusefor his own guilt. The wretched man was sentenced to the galleys forlife, and I was immediately set at liberty.”
“And then it was, I presume,” said Monte Cristo “that you came to me asthe bearer of a letter from the Abbé Busoni?”
“It was, your excellency; the benevolent abbé took an evident interestin all that concerned me.
“‘Your mode of life as a smuggler,’ said he to me one day, ‘will be theruin of you; if you get out, don’t take it up again.’
“‘But how,’ inquired I, ‘am I to maintain myself and my poor sister?’
“‘A person, whose confessor I am,’ replied he, ‘and who entertains ahigh regard for me, applied to me a short time since to procure him aconfidential servant. Would you like such a post? If so, I will giveyou a letter of introduction to him.’
“‘Oh, father,’ I exclaimed, ‘you are very good.’
“‘But you must swear solemnly that I shall never have reason to repentmy recommendation.’
“I extended my hand, and was about to pledge myself by any promise hewould dictate, but he stopped me.
“‘It is unnecessary for you to bind yourself by any vow,’ said he; ‘Iknow and admire the Corsican nature too well to fear you. Here, takethis,’ continued he, after rapidly writing the few lines I brought toyour excellency, and upon receipt of which you deigned to receive meinto your service, and proudly I ask whether your excellency has everhad cause to repent having done so?”
“No,” replied the count; “I take pleasure in saying that you haveserved me faithfully, Bertuccio; but you might have shown moreconfidence in me.”
“I, your excellency?”
“Yes; you. How comes it, that having both a sister and an adopted son,you have never spoken to me of either?”
20323m


“Alas, I have still to recount the most distressing period of my life.Anxious as you may suppose I was to behold and comfort my dear sister,I lost no time in hastening to Corsica, but when I arrived at RoglianoI found a house of mourning, the consequences of a scene so horriblethat the neighbors remember and speak of it to this day. Acting by myadvice, my poor sister had refused to comply with the unreasonabledemands of Benedetto, who was continually tormenting her for money, aslong as he believed there was a sou left in her possession. One morninghe threatened her with the severest consequences if she did not supplyhim with what he desired, and disappeared and remained away all day,leaving the kind-hearted Assunta, who loved him as if he were her ownchild, to weep over his conduct and bewail his absence. Evening came,and still, with all the patient solicitude of a mother, she watched forhis return.
“As the eleventh hour struck, he entered with a swaggering air,attended by two of the most dissolute and reckless of his booncompanions. She stretched out her arms to him, but they seized hold ofher, and one of the three—none other than the accursed Benedettoexclaimed:
“‘Put her to torture and she’ll soon tell us where her money is.’
“It unfortunately happened that our neighbor, Wasilio, was at Bastia,leaving no person in his house but his wife; no human creature besidecould hear or see anything that took place within our dwelling. Twoheld poor Assunta, who, unable to conceive that any harm was intendedto her, smiled in the face of those who were soon to become herexecutioners. The third proceeded to barricade the doors and windows,then returned, and the three united in stifling the cries of terrorincited by the sight of these preparations, and then dragged Assuntafeet foremost towards the brazier, expecting to wring from her anavowal of where her supposed treasure was secreted. In the struggle herclothes caught fire, and they were obliged to let go their hold inorder to preserve themselves from sharing the same fate. Covered withflames, Assunta rushed wildly to the door, but it was fastened; sheflew to the windows, but they were also secured; then the neighborsheard frightful shrieks; it was Assunta calling for help. The criesdied away in groans, and next morning, as soon as Wasilio’s wife couldmuster up courage to venture abroad, she caused the door of ourdwelling to be opened by the public authorities, when Assunta, althoughdreadfully burnt, was found still breathing; every drawer and closet inthe house had been forced open, and the money stolen. Benedetto neveragain appeared at Rogliano, neither have I since that day either seenor heard anything concerning him.
“It was subsequently to these dreadful events that I waited on yourexcellency, to whom it would have been folly to have mentionedBenedetto, since all trace of him seemed entirely lost; or of mysister, since she was dead.”
“And in what light did you view the occurrence?” inquired Monte Cristo.
“As a punishment for the crime I had committed,” answered Bertuccio.“Oh, those Villeforts are an accursed race!”
“Truly they are,” murmured the count in a lugubrious tone.
“And now,” resumed Bertuccio, “your excellency may, perhaps, be able tocomprehend that this place, which I revisit for the first time—thisgarden, the actual scene of my crime—must have given rise toreflections of no very agreeable nature, and produced that gloom anddepression of spirits which excited the notice of your excellency, whowas pleased to express a desire to know the cause. At this instant ashudder passes over me as I reflect that possibly I am now standing onthe very grave in which lies M. de Villefort, by whose hand the groundwas dug to receive the corpse of his child.”
“Everything is possible,” said Monte Cristo, rising from the bench onwhich he had been sitting; “even,” he added in an inaudible voice,“even that the procureur be not dead. The Abbé Busoni did right to sendyou to me,” he went on in his ordinary tone, “and you have done well inrelating to me the whole of your history, as it will prevent my formingany erroneous opinions concerning you in future. As for that Benedetto,who so grossly belied his name, have you never made any effort to traceout whither he has gone, or what has become of him?”
“No; far from wishing to learn whither he has betaken himself, I shouldshun the possibility of meeting him as I would a wild beast. Thank God,I have never heard his name mentioned by any person, and I hope andbelieve he is dead.”
“Do not think so, Bertuccio,” replied the count; “for the wicked arenot so easily disposed of, for God seems to have them under his specialwatch-care to make of them instruments of his vengeance.”
“So be it,” responded Bertuccio, “all I ask of heaven is that I maynever see him again. And now, your excellency,” he added, bowing hishead, “you know everything—you are my judge on earth, as the Almightyis in heaven; have you for me no words of consolation?”
“My good friend, I can only repeat the words addressed to you by theAbbé Busoni. Villefort merited punishment for what he had done to you,and, perhaps, to others. Benedetto, if still living, will become theinstrument of divine retribution in some way or other, and then be dulypunished in his turn. As far as you yourself are concerned, I see butone point in which you are really guilty. Ask yourself, wherefore,after rescuing the infant from its living grave, you did not restore itto its mother? There was the crime, Bertuccio—that was where you becamereally culpable.”
“True, excellency, that was the crime, the real crime, for in that Iacted like a coward. My first duty, directly I had succeeded inrecalling the babe to life, was to restore it to its mother; but, inorder to do so, I must have made close and careful inquiry, whichwould, in all probability, have led to my own apprehension; and I clungto life, partly on my sister’s account, and partly from that feeling ofpride inborn in our hearts of desiring to come off untouched andvictorious in the execution of our vengeance. Perhaps, too, the naturaland instinctive love of life made me wish to avoid endangering my own.And then, again, I am not as brave and courageous as was my poorbrother.”
Bertuccio hid his face in his hands as he uttered these words, whileMonte Cristo fixed on him a look of inscrutable meaning. After a briefsilence, rendered still more solemn by the time and place, the countsaid, in a tone of melancholy wholly unlike his usual manner:
“In order to bring this conversation to a fitting termination (the lastwe shall ever hold upon this subject), I will repeat to you some wordsI have heard from the lips of the Abbé Busoni. For all evils there aretwo remedies—time and silence. And now leave me, Monsieur Bertuccio, towalk alone here in the garden. The very circumstances which inflict onyou, as a principal in the tragic scene enacted here, such painfulemotions, are to me, on the contrary, a source of something likecontentment, and serve but to enhance the value of this dwelling in myestimation. The chief beauty of trees consists in the deep shadow oftheir umbrageous boughs, while fancy pictures a moving multitude ofshapes and forms flitting and passing beneath that shade. Here I have agarden laid out in such a way as to afford the fullest scope for theimagination, and furnished with thickly grown trees, beneath whoseleafy screen a visionary like myself may conjure up phantoms at will.This to me, who expected but to find a blank enclosure surrounded by astraight wall, is, I assure you, a most agreeable surprise. I have nofear of ghosts, and I have never heard it said that so much harm hadbeen done by the dead during six thousand years as is wrought by theliving in a single day. Retire within, Bertuccio, and tranquillize yourmind. Should your confessor be less indulgent to you in your dyingmoments than you found the Abbé Busoni, send for me, if I am still onearth, and I will soothe your ears with words that shall effectuallycalm and soothe your parting soul ere it goes forth to traverse theocean called eternity.”
Bertuccio bowed respectfully, and turned away, sighing heavily. MonteCristo, left alone, took three or four steps onwards, and murmured:
“Here, beneath this plane-tree, must have been where the infant’s gravewas dug. There is the little door opening into the garden. At thiscorner is the private staircase communicating with the sleepingapartment. There will be no necessity for me to make a note of theseparticulars, for there, before my eyes, beneath my feet, all around me,I have the plan sketched with all the living reality of truth.”
After making the tour of the garden a second time, the count re-enteredhis carriage, while Bertuccio, who perceived the thoughtful expressionof his master’s features, took his seat beside the driver withoututtering a word. The carriage proceeded rapidly towards Paris.
That same evening, upon reaching his abode in the Champs-Élysées, theCount of Monte Cristo went over the whole building with the air of onelong acquainted with each nook or corner. Nor, although preceding theparty, did he once mistake one door for another, or commit the smallesterror when choosing any particular corridor or staircase to conduct himto a place or suite of rooms he desired to visit. Ali was his principalattendant during this nocturnal survey. Having given various orders toBertuccio relative to the improvements and alterations he desired tomake in the house, the Count, drawing out his watch, said to theattentive Nubian:
“It is half-past eleven o’clock; Haydée will soon be here. Have theFrench attendants been summoned to await her coming?”
Ali extended his hands towards the apartments destined for the fairGreek, which were so effectually concealed by means of a tapestriedentrance, that it would have puzzled the most curious to have divinedtheir existence. Ali, having pointed to the apartments, held up threefingers of his right hand, and then, placing it beneath his head, shuthis eyes, and feigned to sleep.
“I understand,” said Monte Cristo, well acquainted with Ali’spantomime; “you mean to tell me that three female attendants awaittheir new mistress in her sleeping-chamber.”
Ali, with considerable animation, made a sign in the affirmative.
“Madame will be tired tonight,” continued Monte Cristo, “and will, nodoubt, wish to rest. Desire the French attendants not to weary her withquestions, but merely to pay their respectful duty and retire. You willalso see that the Greek servants hold no communication with those ofthis country.”
He bowed. Just at that moment voices were heard hailing the concierge.The gate opened, a carriage rolled down the avenue, and stopped at thesteps. The count hastily descended, presented himself at the alreadyopened carriage door, and held out his hand to a young woman,completely enveloped in a green silk mantle heavily embroidered withgold. She raised the hand extended towards her to her lips, and kissedit with a mixture of love and respect. Some few words passed betweenthem in that sonorous language in which Homer makes his gods converse.The young woman spoke with an expression of deep tenderness, while thecount replied with an air of gentle gravity.
Preceded by Ali, who carried a rose-colored flambeau in his hand, theyoung lady, who was no other than the lovely Greek who had been MonteCristo’s companion in Italy, was conducted to her apartments, while thecount retired to the pavilion reserved for himself. In another hourevery light in the house was extinguished, and it might have beenthought that all its inmates slept.


 Chapter 46. Unlimited Credit
About two o’clock the following day a calash, drawn by a pair ofmagnificent English horses, stopped at the door of Monte Cristo and aperson, dressed in a blue coat, with buttons of a similar color, awhite waistcoat, over which was displayed a massive gold chain, browntrousers, and a quantity of black hair descending so low over hiseyebrows as to leave it doubtful whether it were not artificial solittle did its jetty glossiness assimilate with the deep wrinklesstamped on his features—a person, in a word, who, although evidentlypast fifty, desired to be taken for not more than forty, bent forwardsfrom the carriage door, on the panels of which were emblazoned thearmorial bearings of a baron, and directed his groom to inquire at theporter’s lodge whether the Count of Monte Cristo resided there, and ifhe were within.
While waiting, the occupant of the carriage surveyed the house, thegarden as far as he could distinguish it, and the livery of servantswho passed to and fro, with an attention so close as to be somewhatimpertinent. His glance was keen but showed cunning rather thanintelligence; his lips were straight, and so thin that, as they closed,they were drawn in over the teeth; his cheek-bones were broad andprojecting, a never-failing proof of audacity and craftiness; while theflatness of his forehead, and the enlargement of the back of his skull,which rose much higher than his large and coarsely shaped ears,combined to form a physiognomy anything but prepossessing, save in theeyes of such as considered that the owner of so splendid an equipagemust needs be all that was admirable and enviable, more especially whenthey gazed on the enormous diamond that glittered in his shirt, and thered ribbon that depended from his button-hole.
The groom, in obedience to his orders, tapped at the window of theporter’s lodge, saying:
“Pray, does not the Count of Monte Cristo live here?”
“His excellency does reside here,” replied the concierge; “but——” addedhe, glancing an inquiring look at Ali. Ali returned a sign in thenegative.
“But what?” asked the groom.
“His excellency does not receive visitors today.”
“Then here is my master’s card, the Baron Danglars. You will take it tothe count, and say that, although in haste to attend the Chamber, mymaster came out of his way to have the honor of calling upon him.”
“I never speak to his excellency,” replied the concierge; “the valet dechambre will carry your message.”
The groom returned to the carriage.
“Well?” asked Danglars.
The man, somewhat crest-fallen by the rebuke he had received, repeatedwhat the concierge had said.
“Bless me,” murmured Baron Danglars, “this must surely be a princeinstead of a count by their styling him ‘excellency,’ and onlyventuring to address him by the medium of his valet de chambre.However, it does not signify; he has a letter of credit on me, so Imust see him when he requires his money.”
Then, throwing himself back in his carriage, Danglars called out to hiscoachman, in a voice that might be heard across the road, “To theChamber of Deputies.”
Apprised in time of the visit paid him, Monte Cristo had, from behindthe blinds of his pavilion, as minutely observed the baron, by means ofan excellent lorgnette, as Danglars himself had scrutinized the house,garden, and servants.
“That fellow has a decidedly bad countenance,” said the count in a toneof disgust, as he shut up his glass into its ivory case. “How comes itthat all do not retreat in aversion at sight of that flat, receding,serpent-like forehead, round, vulture-shaped head, and sharp-hookednose, like the beak of a buzzard? Ali,” cried he, striking at the sametime on the brazen gong. Ali appeared. “Summon Bertuccio,” said thecount. Almost immediately Bertuccio entered the apartment.
“Did your excellency desire to see me?” inquired he.
“I did,” replied the count. “You no doubt observed the horses standinga few minutes since at the door?”
“Certainly, your excellency. I noticed them for their remarkablebeauty.”
“Then how comes it,” said Monte Cristo with a frown, “that, when Idesired you to purchase for me the finest pair of horses to be found inParis, there is another pair, fully as fine as mine, not in mystables?”
At the look of displeasure, added to the angry tone in which the countspoke, Ali turned pale and held down his head.
“It is not your fault, my good Ali,” said the count in the Arabiclanguage, and with a gentleness none would have thought him capable ofshowing, either in voice or face—“it is not your fault. You do notunderstand the points of English horses.”
The countenance of poor Ali recovered its serenity.
“Permit me to assure your excellency,” said Bertuccio, “that the horsesyou speak of were not to be sold when I purchased yours.”
Monte Cristo shrugged his shoulders. “It seems, sir steward,” said he,“that you have yet to learn that all things are to be sold to such ascare to pay the price.”
“His excellency is not, perhaps, aware that M. Danglars gave 16,000francs for his horses?”
“Very well. Then offer him double that sum; a banker never loses anopportunity of doubling his capital.”
“Is your excellency really in earnest?” inquired the steward.
Monte Cristo regarded the person who durst presume to doubt his wordswith the look of one equally surprised and displeased.
“I have to pay a visit this evening,” replied he. “I desire that thesehorses, with completely new harness, may be at the door with mycarriage.”
Bertuccio bowed, and was about to retire; but when he reached the door,he paused, and then said, “At what o’clock does your excellency wishthe carriage and horses to be ready?”
“At five o’clock,” replied the count.
“I beg your excellency’s pardon,” interposed the steward in adeprecating manner, “for venturing to observe that it is already twoo’clock.”
“I am perfectly aware of that fact,” answered Monte Cristo calmly.Then, turning towards Ali, he said, “Let all the horses in my stablesbe led before the windows of your young lady, that she may select thoseshe prefers for her carriage. Request her also to oblige me by sayingwhether it is her pleasure to dine with me; if so, let dinner be servedin her apartments. Now, leave me, and desire my valet de chambre tocome hither.”
Scarcely had Ali disappeared when the valet entered the chamber.
“Monsieur Baptistin,” said the count, “you have been in my service oneyear, the time I generally give myself to judge of the merits ordemerits of those about me. You suit me very well.”
Baptistin bowed low.
“It only remains for me to know whether I also suit you?”
“Oh, your excellency!” exclaimed Baptistin eagerly.
“Listen, if you please, till I have finished speaking,” replied MonteCristo. “You receive 1,500 francs per annum for your services here—morethan many a brave subaltern, who continually risks his life for hiscountry, obtains. You live in a manner far superior to many clerks whowork ten times harder than you do for their money. Then, thoughyourself a servant, you have other servants to wait upon you, take careof your clothes, and see that your linen is duly prepared for you.Again, you make a profit upon each article you purchase for my toilet,amounting in the course of a year to a sum equalling your wages.”
“Nay, indeed, your excellency.”
“I am not condemning you for this, Monsieur Baptistin; but let yourprofits end here. It would be long indeed ere you would find solucrative a post as that you have now the good fortune to fill. Ineither ill-use nor ill-treat my servants by word or action. An error Ireadily forgive, but wilful negligence or forgetfulness, never. Mycommands are ordinarily short, clear, and precise; and I would ratherbe obliged to repeat my words twice, or even three times, than theyshould be misunderstood. I am rich enough to know whatever I desire toknow, and I can promise you I am not wanting in curiosity. If, then, Ishould learn that you had taken upon yourself to speak of me to anyonefavorably or unfavorably, to comment on my actions, or watch myconduct, that very instant you would quit my service. You may nowretire. I never caution my servants a second time—remember that.”
Baptistin bowed, and was proceeding towards the door.
“I forgot to mention to you,” said the count, “that I lay yearly asidea certain sum for each servant in my establishment; those whom I amcompelled to dismiss lose (as a matter of course) all participation inthis money, while their portion goes to the fund accumulating for thosedomestics who remain with me, and among whom it will be divided at mydeath. You have been in my service a year, your fund has already begunto accumulate—let it continue to do so.”
This address, delivered in the presence of Ali, who, not understandingone word of the language in which it was spoken, stood wholly unmoved,produced an effect on M. Baptistin only to be conceived by such as haveoccasion to study the character and disposition of French domestics.
“I assure your excellency,” said he, “that at least it shall be mystudy to merit your approbation in all things, and I will take M. Alias my model.”
“By no means,” replied the count in the most frigid tones; “Ali hasmany faults mixed with most excellent qualities. He cannot possiblyserve you as a pattern for your conduct, not being, as you are, a paidservant, but a mere slave—a dog, who, should he fail in his dutytowards me, I should not discharge from my service, but kill.”
Baptistin opened his eyes with astonishment.
“You seem incredulous,” said Monte Cristo, who repeated to Ali in theArabic language what he had just been saying to Baptistin in French.
The Nubian smiled assentingly to his master’s words, then, kneeling onone knee, respectfully kissed the hand of the count. This corroborationof the lesson he had just received put the finishing stroke to thewonder and stupefaction of M. Baptistin. The count then motioned thevalet de chambre to retire, and to Ali to follow to his study, wherethey conversed long and earnestly together. As the hand of the clockpointed to five the count struck thrice upon his gong. When Ali waswanted one stroke was given, two summoned Baptistin, and threeBertuccio. The steward entered.
“My horses,” said Monte Cristo.
“They are at the door harnessed to the carriage as your excellencydesired. Does your excellency wish me to accompany him?”
“No, the coachman, Ali, and Baptistin will go.”
The count descended to the door of his mansion, and beheld his carriagedrawn by the very pair of horses he had so much admired in the morningas the property of Danglars. As he passed them he said:
“They are extremely handsome certainly, and you have done well topurchase them, although you were somewhat remiss not to have procuredthem sooner.”
“Indeed, your excellency, I had very considerable difficulty inobtaining them, and, as it is, they have cost an enormous price.”
“Does the sum you gave for them make the animals less beautiful,”inquired the count, shrugging his shoulders.
“Nay, if your excellency is satisfied, it is all that I could wish.Whither does your excellency desire to be driven?”
“To the residence of Baron Danglars, Rue de la Chaussée d’Antin.”
This conversation had passed as they stood upon the terrace, from whicha flight of stone steps led to the carriage-drive. As Bertuccio, with arespectful bow, was moving away, the count called him back.
“I have another commission for you, M. Bertuccio,” said he; “I amdesirous of having an estate by the seaside in Normandy—for instance,between Le Havre and Boulogne. You see I give you a wide range. It willbe absolutely necessary that the place you may select have a smallharbor, creek, or bay, into which my corvette can enter and remain atanchor. She draws only fifteen feet. She must be kept in constantreadiness to sail immediately I think proper to give the signal. Makethe requisite inquiries for a place of this description, and when youhave met with an eligible spot, visit it, and if it possess theadvantages desired, purchase it at once in your own name. The corvettemust now, I think, be on her way to Fécamp, must she not?”
20333m


“Certainly, your excellency; I saw her put to sea the same evening wequitted Marseilles.”
“And the yacht.”
“Was ordered to remain at Martigues.”
“’Tis well. I wish you to write from time to time to the captains incharge of the two vessels so as to keep them on the alert.”
“And the steamboat?”
“She is at Châlons?”
“Yes.”
“The same orders for her as for the two sailing vessels.”
“Very good.”
“When you have purchased the estate I desire, I want constant relays ofhorses at ten leagues apart along the northern and southern road.”
“Your excellency may depend upon me.”
The Count made a gesture of satisfaction, descended the terrace steps,and sprang into his carriage, which was whirled along swiftly to thebanker’s house.
Danglars was engaged at that moment, presiding over a railroadcommittee. But the meeting was nearly concluded when the name of hisvisitor was announced. As the count’s title sounded on his ear he rose,and addressing his colleagues, who were members of one or the otherChamber, he said:
“Gentlemen, pardon me for leaving you so abruptly; but a mostridiculous circumstance has occurred, which is this,—Thomson & French,the Roman bankers, have sent to me a certain person calling himself theCount of Monte Cristo, and have given him an unlimited credit with me.I confess this is the drollest thing I have ever met with in the courseof my extensive foreign transactions, and you may readily suppose ithas greatly roused my curiosity. I took the trouble this morning tocall on the pretended count—if he were a real count he wouldn’t be sorich. But, would you believe it, ‘He was not receiving.’ So the masterof Monte Cristo gives himself airs befitting a great millionaire or acapricious beauty. I made inquiries, and found that the house in theChamps-Élysées is his own property, and certainly it was very decentlykept up. But,” pursued Danglars with one of his sinister smiles, “anorder for unlimited credit calls for something like caution on the partof the banker to whom that order is given. I am very anxious to seethis man. I suspect a hoax is intended, but the instigators of itlittle knew whom they had to deal with. ‘They laugh best who laughlast!’”
Having delivered himself of this pompous address, uttered with a degreeof energy that left the baron almost out of breath, he bowed to theassembled party and withdrew to his drawing-room, whose sumptuousfurnishings of white and gold had caused a great sensation in theChaussée d’Antin. It was to this apartment he had desired his guest tobe shown, with the purpose of overwhelming him at the sight of so muchluxury. He found the count standing before some copies of Albano andFattore that had been passed off to the banker as originals; but which,mere copies as they were, seemed to feel their degradation in beingbrought into juxtaposition with the gaudy colors that covered theceiling.
The count turned round as he heard the entrance of Danglars into theroom. With a slight inclination of the head, Danglars signed to thecount to be seated, pointing significantly to a gilded armchair,covered with white satin embroidered with gold. The count sat down.
20335m


“I have the honor, I presume, of addressing M. de Monte Cristo.”
The count bowed.
“And I of speaking to Baron Danglars, chevalier of the Legion of Honor,and member of the Chamber of Deputies?”
Monte Cristo repeated all the titles he had read on the baron’s card.
Danglars felt the irony and compressed his lips.
“You will, I trust, excuse me, monsieur, for not calling you by yourtitle when I first addressed you,” he said, “but you are aware that weare living under a popular form of government, and that I am myself arepresentative of the liberties of the people.”
“So much so,” replied Monte Cristo, “that while you call yourself baronyou are not willing to call anybody else count.”
“Upon my word, monsieur,” said Danglars with affected carelessness, “Iattach no sort of value to such empty distinctions; but the fact is, Iwas made baron, and also chevalier of the Legion of Honor, in returnfor services rendered, but——”
“But you have discarded your titles after the example set you byMessrs. de Montmorency and Lafayette? That was a noble example tofollow, monsieur.”
“Why,” replied Danglars, “not entirely so; with the servants,—youunderstand.”
“I see; to your domestics you are ‘my lord,’ the journalists style you‘monsieur,’ while your constituents call you ‘citizen.’ These aredistinctions very suitable under a constitutional government. Iunderstand perfectly.”
Again Danglars bit his lips; he saw that he was no match for MonteCristo in an argument of this sort, and he therefore hastened to turnto subjects more congenial.
“Permit me to inform you, Count,” said he, bowing, “that I havereceived a letter of advice from Thomson & French, of Rome.”
“I am glad to hear it, baron,—for I must claim the privilege ofaddressing you after the manner of your servants. I have acquired thebad habit of calling persons by their titles from living in a countrywhere barons are still barons by right of birth. But as regards theletter of advice, I am charmed to find that it has reached you; thatwill spare me the troublesome and disagreeable task of coming to youfor money myself. You have received a regular letter of advice?”
“Yes,” said Danglars, “but I confess I didn’t quite comprehend itsmeaning.”
“Indeed?”
“And for that reason I did myself the honor of calling upon you, inorder to beg for an explanation.”
“Go on, monsieur. Here I am, ready to give you any explanation youdesire.”
“Why,” said Danglars, “in the letter—I believe I have it about me”—herehe felt in his breast-pocket—“yes, here it is. Well, this letter givesthe Count of Monte Cristo unlimited credit on our house.”
“Well, baron, what is there difficult to understand about that?”
“Merely the term _unlimited_—nothing else, certainly.”
“Is not that word known in France? The people who wrote areAnglo-Germans, you know.”
“Oh, as for the composition of the letter, there is nothing to be said;but as regards the competency of the document, I certainly havedoubts.”
“Is it possible?” asked the count, assuming all air and tone of theutmost simplicity and candor. “Is it possible that Thomson & French arenot looked upon as safe and solvent bankers? Pray tell me what youthink, baron, for I feel uneasy, I can assure you, having someconsiderable property in their hands.”
“Thomson & French are perfectly solvent,” replied Danglars, with analmost mocking smile; “but the word _unlimited_, in financial affairs,is so extremely vague.”
“Is, in fact, unlimited,” said Monte Cristo.
“Precisely what I was about to say,” cried Danglars. “Now what is vagueis doubtful; and it was a wise man who said, ‘when in doubt, keepout.’”
“Meaning to say,” rejoined Monte Cristo, “that however Thomson & Frenchmay be inclined to commit acts of imprudence and folly, the BaronDanglars is not disposed to follow their example.”
“Not at all.”
“Plainly enough; Messrs. Thomson & French set no bounds to theirengagements while those of M. Danglars have their limits; he is a wiseman, according to his own showing.”
“Monsieur,” replied the banker, drawing himself up with a haughty air,“the extent of my resources has never yet been questioned.”
“It seems, then, reserved for me,” said Monte Cristo coldly, “to be thefirst to do so.”
“By what right, sir?”
“By right of the objections you have raised, and the explanations youhave demanded, which certainly must have some motive.”
Once more Danglars bit his lips. It was the second time he had beenworsted, and this time on his own ground. His forced politeness satawkwardly upon him, and approached almost to impertinence. Monte Cristoon the contrary, preserved a graceful suavity of demeanor, aided by acertain degree of simplicity he could assume at pleasure, and thuspossessed the advantage.
“Well, sir,” resumed Danglars, after a brief silence, “I will endeavorto make myself understood, by requesting you to inform me for what sumyou propose to draw upon me?”
“Why, truly,” replied Monte Cristo, determined not to lose an inch ofthe ground he had gained, “my reason for desiring an ‘unlimited’ creditwas precisely because I did not know how much money I might need.”
The banker thought the time had come for him to take the upper hand. Sothrowing himself back in his armchair, he said, with an arrogant andpurse-proud air:
“Let me beg of you not to hesitate in naming your wishes; you will thenbe convinced that the resources of the house of Danglars, howeverlimited, are still equal to meeting the largest demands; and were youeven to require a million——”
“I beg your pardon,” interposed Monte Cristo.
“I said a million,” replied Danglars, with the confidence of ignorance.
“But could I do with a million?” retorted the count. “My dear sir, if atrifle like that could suffice me, I should never have given myself thetrouble of opening an account. A million? Excuse my smiling when youspeak of a sum I am in the habit of carrying in my pocket-book ordressing-case.”
And with these words Monte Cristo took from his pocket a small casecontaining his visiting-cards, and drew forth two orders on thetreasury for 500,000 francs each, payable at sight to the bearer. A manlike Danglars was wholly inaccessible to any gentler method ofcorrection. The effect of the present revelation was stunning; hetrembled and was on the verge of apoplexy. The pupils of his eyes, ashe gazed at Monte Cristo dilated horribly.
“Come, come,” said Monte Cristo, “confess honestly that you have notperfect confidence in Thomson & French. I understand, and foreseeingthat such might be the case, I took, in spite of my ignorance ofaffairs, certain precautions. See, here are two similar letters to thatyou have yourself received; one from the house of Arstein & Eskeles ofVienna, to Baron Rothschild, the other drawn by Baring of London, uponM. Lafitte. Now, sir, you have but to say the word, and I will spareyou all uneasiness by presenting my letter of credit to one or other ofthese two firms.”
The blow had struck home, and Danglars was entirely vanquished; with atrembling hand he took the two letters from the count, who held themcarelessly between finger and thumb, and proceeded to scrutinize thesignatures, with a minuteness that the count might have regarded asinsulting, had it not suited his present purpose to mislead the banker.
“Oh, sir,” said Danglars, after he had convinced himself of theauthenticity of the documents he held, and rising as if to salute thepower of gold personified in the man before him,—“three letters ofunlimited credit! I can be no longer mistrustful, but you must pardonme, my dear count, for confessing to some degree of astonishment.”
“Nay,” answered Monte Cristo, with the most gentlemanly air, “’tis notfor such trifling sums as these that your banking house is to beincommoded. Then, you can let me have some money, can you not?”
“Whatever you say, my dear count; I am at your orders.”
“Why,” replied Monte Cristo, “since we mutually understand eachother—for such I presume is the case?” Danglars bowed assentingly. “Youare quite sure that not a lurking doubt or suspicion lingers in yourmind?”
“Oh, my dear count,” exclaimed Danglars, “I never for an instantentertained such a feeling towards you.”
“No, you merely wished to be convinced, nothing more; but now that wehave come to so clear an understanding, and that all distrust andsuspicion are laid at rest, we may as well fix a sum as the probableexpenditure of the first year, suppose we say six millions to——”
“Six millions!” gasped Danglars—“so be it.”
“Then, if I should require more,” continued Monte Cristo in a carelessmanner, “why, of course, I should draw upon you; but my presentintention is not to remain in France more than a year, and during thatperiod I scarcely think I shall exceed the sum I mentioned. However, weshall see. Be kind enough, then, to send me 500,000 francs tomorrow. Ishall be at home till midday, or if not, I will leave a receipt with mysteward.”
“The money you desire shall be at your house by ten o’clock tomorrowmorning, my dear count,” replied Danglars. “How would you like to haveit? in gold, silver, or notes?”
“Half in gold, and the other half in bank-notes, if you please,” saidthe count, rising from his seat.
“I must confess to you, count,” said Danglars, “that I have hithertoimagined myself acquainted with the degree of all the great fortunes ofEurope, and still wealth such as yours has been wholly unknown to me.May I presume to ask whether you have long possessed it?”
“It has been in the family a very long while,” returned Monte Cristo,“a sort of treasure expressly forbidden to be touched for a certainperiod of years, during which the accumulated interest has doubled thecapital. The period appointed by the testator for the disposal of theseriches occurred only a short time ago, and they have only been employedby me within the last few years. Your ignorance on the subject,therefore, is easily accounted for. However, you will be betterinformed as to me and my possessions ere long.”
And the count, while pronouncing these latter words, accompanied themwith one of those ghastly smiles that used to strike terror into poorFranz d’Épinay.
“With your tastes, and means of gratifying them,” continued Danglars,“you will exhibit a splendor that must effectually put us poormiserable millionaires quite in the shade. If I mistake not you are anadmirer of paintings, at least I judged so from the attention youappeared to be bestowing on mine when I entered the room. If you willpermit me, I shall be happy to show you my picture gallery, composedentirely of works by the ancient masters—warranted as such. Not amodern picture among them. I cannot endure the modern school ofpainting.”
“You are perfectly right in objecting to them, for this one greatfault—that they have not yet had time to become old.”
“Or will you allow me to show you several fine statues by Thorwaldsen,Bartoloni, and Canova?—all foreign artists, for, as you may perceive, Ithink but very indifferently of our French sculptors.”
“You have a right to be unjust to them, monsieur; they are yourcompatriots.”
“But all this may come later, when we shall be better known to eachother. For the present, I will confine myself (if perfectly agreeableto you) to introducing you to the Baroness Danglars—excuse myimpatience, my dear count, but a client like you is almost like amember of the family.”
Monte Cristo bowed, in sign that he accepted the proffered honor;Danglars rang and was answered by a servant in a showy livery.
“Is the baroness at home?” inquired Danglars.
“Yes, my lord,” answered the man.
“And alone?”
“No, my lord, madame has visitors.”
“Have you any objection to meet any persons who may be with madame, ordo you desire to preserve a strict _incognito_?”
“No, indeed,” replied Monte Cristo with a smile, “I do not arrogate tomyself the right of so doing.”
“And who is with madame?—M. Debray?” inquired Danglars, with an air ofindulgence and good-nature that made Monte Cristo smile, acquainted ashe was with the secrets of the banker’s domestic life.
“Yes, my lord,” replied the servant, “M. Debray is with madame.”
Danglars nodded his head; then, turning to Monte Cristo, said, “M.Lucien Debray is an old friend of ours, and private secretary to theMinister of the Interior. As for my wife, I must tell you, she loweredherself by marrying me, for she belongs to one of the most ancientfamilies in France. Her maiden name was De Servières, and her firsthusband was Colonel the Marquis of Nargonne.”
“I have not the honor of knowing Madame Danglars; but I have alreadymet M. Lucien Debray.”
“Ah, indeed?” said Danglars; “and where was that?”
“At the house of M. de Morcerf.”
“Ah! you are acquainted with the young viscount, are you?”
“We were together a good deal during the Carnival at Rome.”
“True, true,” cried Danglars. “Let me see; have I not heard talk ofsome strange adventure with bandits or thieves hid in ruins, and of hishaving had a miraculous escape? I forget how, but I know he used toamuse my wife and daughter by telling them about it after his returnfrom Italy.”
“Her ladyship is waiting to receive you, gentlemen,” said the servant,who had gone to inquire the pleasure of his mistress.
“With your permission,” said Danglars, bowing, “I will precede you, toshow you the way.”
“By all means,” replied Monte Cristo; “I follow you.”


 Chapter 47. The Dappled Grays
The baron, followed by the count, traversed a long series ofapartments, in which the prevailing characteristics were heavymagnificence and the gaudiness of ostentatious wealth, until he reachedthe boudoir of Madame Danglars—a small octagonal-shaped room, hung withpink satin, covered with white Indian muslin. The chairs were ofancient workmanship and materials; over the doors were painted sketchesof shepherds and shepherdesses, after the style and manner of Boucher;and at each side pretty medallions in crayons, harmonizing well withthe furnishings of this charming apartment, the only one throughout thegreat mansion in which any distinctive taste prevailed. The truth was,it had been entirely overlooked in the plan arranged and followed outby M. Danglars and his architect, who had been selected to aid thebaron in the great work of improvement solely because he was the mostfashionable and celebrated decorator of the day. The decorations of theboudoir had then been left entirely to Madame Danglars and LucienDebray. M. Danglars, however, while possessing a great admiration forthe antique, as it was understood during the time of the Directory,entertained the most sovereign contempt for the simple elegance of hiswife’s favorite sitting-room, where, by the way, he was never permittedto intrude, unless, indeed, he excused his own appearance by usheringin some more agreeable visitor than himself; and even then he hadrather the air and manner of a person who was himself introduced, thanthat of being the presenter of another, his reception being cordial orfrigid, in proportion as the person who accompanied him chanced toplease or displease the baroness.
Madame Danglars (who, although past the first bloom of youth, was stillstrikingly handsome) was now seated at the piano, a most elaboratepiece of cabinet and inlaid work, while Lucien Debray, standing beforea small work-table, was turning over the pages of an album.
Lucien had found time, preparatory to the count’s arrival, to relatemany particulars respecting him to Madame Danglars. It will beremembered that Monte Cristo had made a lively impression on the mindsof all the party assembled at the breakfast given by Albert de Morcerf;and although Debray was not in the habit of yielding to such feelings,he had never been able to shake off the powerful influence excited inhis mind by the impressive look and manner of the count, consequentlythe description given by Lucien to the baroness bore the highly-coloredtinge of his own heated imagination. Already excited by the wonderfulstories related of the count by de Morcerf, it is no wonder that MadameDanglars eagerly listened to, and fully credited, all the additionalcircumstances detailed by Debray. This posing at the piano and over thealbum was only a little ruse adopted by way of precaution. A mostgracious welcome and unusual smile were bestowed on M. Danglars; thecount, in return for his gentlemanly bow, received a formal thoughgraceful courtesy, while Lucien exchanged with the count a sort ofdistant recognition, and with Danglars a free and easy nod.
“Baroness,” said Danglars, “give me leave to present to you the Countof Monte Cristo, who has been most warmly recommended to me by mycorrespondents at Rome. I need but mention one fact to make all theladies in Paris court his notice, and that is, that he has come to takeup his abode in Paris for a year, during which brief period he proposesto spend six millions of money. That means balls, dinners, and lawnparties without end, in all of which I trust the count will rememberus, as he may depend upon it we shall him, in our own humbleentertainments.”
In spite of the gross flattery and coarseness of this address, MadameDanglars could not forbear gazing with considerable interest on a mancapable of expending six millions in twelve months, and who hadselected Paris for the scene of his princely extravagance.
“And when did you arrive here?” inquired she.
“Yesterday morning, madame.”
“Coming, as usual, I presume, from the extreme end of the globe? Pardonme—at least, such I have heard is your custom.”
“Nay, madame. This time I have merely come from Cadiz.”
“You have selected a most unfavorable moment for your first visit.Paris is a horrible place in summer. Balls, parties, and _fêtes_ areover; the Italian opera is in London; the French opera everywhereexcept in Paris. As for the Théatre Français, you know, of course, thatit is nowhere. The only amusements left us are the indifferent races atthe Champ-de-Mars and Satory. Do you propose entering any horses ateither of these races, count?”
“I shall do whatever they do at Paris, madame, if I have the goodfortune to find someone who will initiate me into the prevalent ideasof amusement.”
“Are you fond of horses, count?”
“I have passed a considerable part of my life in the East, madame, andyou are doubtless aware that the Orientals value only two things—thefine breeding of their horses and the beauty of their women.”
“Nay, count,” said the baroness, “it would have been somewhat moregallant to have placed the ladies first.”
“You see, madame, how rightly I spoke when I said I required apreceptor to guide me in all my sayings and doings here.”
At this instant the favorite attendant of Madame Danglars entered theboudoir; approaching her mistress, she spoke some words in anundertone. Madame Danglars turned very pale, then exclaimed:
“I cannot believe it; the thing is impossible.”
“I assure you, madame,” replied the woman, “it is as I have said.”
Turning impatiently towards her husband, Madame Danglars demanded, “Isthis true?”
“Is what true, madame?” inquired Danglars, visibly agitated.
“What my maid tells me.”
“But what does she tell you?”
“That when my coachman was about to harness the horses to my carriage,he discovered that they had been removed from the stables without hisknowledge. I desire to know what is the meaning of this?”
“Be kind enough, madame, to listen to me,” said Danglars.
“Oh, yes; I will listen, monsieur, for I am most curious to hear whatexplanation you will give. These two gentlemen shall decide between us;but, first, I will state the case to them. Gentlemen,” continued thebaroness, “among the ten horses in the stables of Baron Danglars, aretwo that belong exclusively to me—a pair of the handsomest and mostspirited creatures to be found in Paris. But to you, at least, M.Debray, I need not give a further description, because to you mybeautiful pair of dappled grays were well known. Well, I had promisedMadame de Villefort the loan of my carriage to drive tomorrow to theBois; but when my coachman goes to fetch the grays from the stablesthey are gone—positively gone. No doubt M. Danglars has sacrificed themto the selfish consideration of gaining some thousands of paltryfrancs. Oh, what a detestable crew they are, these mercenaryspeculators!”
“Madame,” replied Danglars, “the horses were not sufficiently quiet foryou; they were scarcely four years old, and they made me extremelyuneasy on your account.”
“Nonsense,” retorted the baroness; “you could not have entertained anyalarm on the subject, because you are perfectly well aware that I havehad for a month in my service the very best coachman in Paris. But,perhaps, you have disposed of the coachman as well as the horses?”
“My dear love, pray do not say any more about them, and I promise youanother pair exactly like them in appearance, only more quiet andsteady.”
The baroness shrugged her shoulders with an air of ineffable contempt,while her husband, affecting not to observe this unconjugal gesture,turned towards Monte Cristo and said,—“Upon my word, count, I am quitesorry not to have met you sooner. You are setting up an establishment,of course?”
“Why, yes,” replied the count.
“I should have liked to have made you the offer of these horses. I havealmost given them away, as it is; but, as I before said, I was anxiousto get rid of them upon any terms. They were only fit for a young man.”
“I am much obliged by your kind intentions towards me,” said MonteCristo; “but this morning I purchased a very excellent pair ofcarriage-horses, and I do not think they were dear. There they are.Come, M. Debray, you are a connoisseur, I believe, let me have youropinion upon them.”
As Debray walked towards the window, Danglars approached his wife.
“I could not tell you before others,” said he in a low tone, “thereason of my parting with the horses; but a most enormous price wasoffered me this morning for them. Some madman or fool, bent uponruining himself as fast as he can, actually sent his steward to me topurchase them at any cost; and the fact is, I have gained 16,000 francsby the sale of them. Come, don’t look so angry, and you shall have4,000 francs of the money to do what you like with, and Eugénie shallhave 2,000. There, what do you think now of the affair? Wasn’t I rightto part with the horses?”
Madame Danglars surveyed her husband with a look of withering contempt.
“Great heavens?” suddenly exclaimed Debray.
“What is it?” asked the baroness.
“I cannot be mistaken; there are your horses! The very animals we werespeaking of, harnessed to the count’s carriage!”
“My dappled grays?” demanded the baroness, springing to the window.“’Tis indeed they!” said she.
Danglars looked absolutely stupefied.
“How very singular,” cried Monte Cristo with well-feigned astonishment.
“I cannot believe it,” murmured the banker. Madame Danglars whispered afew words in the ear of Debray, who approached Monte Cristo, saying,“The baroness wishes to know what you paid her husband for the horses.”
“I scarcely know,” replied the count; “it was a little surpriseprepared for me by my steward, and cost me—well, somewhere about 30,000francs.”
Debray conveyed the count’s reply to the baroness. Poor Danglars lookedso crest-fallen and discomfited that Monte Cristo assumed a pitying airtowards him.
“See,” said the count, “how very ungrateful women are. Your kindattention, in providing for the safety of the baroness by disposing ofthe horses, does not seem to have made the least impression on her. Butso it is; a woman will often, from mere wilfulness, prefer that whichis dangerous to that which is safe. Therefore, in my opinion, my dearbaron, the best and easiest way is to leave them to their fancies, andallow them to act as they please, and then, if any mischief follows,why, at least, they have no one to blame but themselves.”
Danglars made no reply; he was occupied in anticipations of the comingscene between himself and the baroness, whose frowning brow, like thatof Olympic Jove, predicted a storm. Debray, who perceived the gatheringclouds, and felt no desire to witness the explosion of Madame Danglars’rage, suddenly recollected an appointment, which compelled him to takehis leave; while Monte Cristo, unwilling by prolonging his stay todestroy the advantages he hoped to obtain, made a farewell bow anddeparted, leaving Danglars to endure the angry reproaches of his wife.
20347m


“Excellent,” murmured Monte Cristo to himself, as he came away. “Allhas gone according to my wishes. The domestic peace of this family ishenceforth in my hands. Now, then, to play another master-stroke, bywhich I shall gain the heart of both husband and wife—delightful!Still,” added he, “amid all this, I have not yet been presented toMademoiselle Eugénie Danglars, whose acquaintance I should have beenglad to make. But,” he went on with his peculiar smile, “I am here inParis, and have plenty of time before me—by and by will do for that.”
With these reflections he entered his carriage and returned home. Twohours afterwards, Madame Danglars received a most flattering epistlefrom the count, in which he entreated her to receive back her favorite“dappled grays,” protesting that he could not endure the idea of makinghis entry into the Parisian world of fashion with the knowledge thathis splendid equipage had been obtained at the price of a lovelywoman’s regrets. The horses were sent back wearing the same harness shehad seen on them in the morning; only, by the count’s orders, in thecentre of each rosette that adorned either side of their heads, hadbeen fastened a large diamond.
To Danglars Monte Cristo also wrote, requesting him to excuse thewhimsical gift of a capricious millionaire, and to beg the baroness topardon the Eastern fashion adopted in the return of the horses.
During the evening, Monte Cristo quitted Paris for Auteuil, accompaniedby Ali. The following day, about three o’clock, a single blow struck onthe gong summoned Ali to the presence of the count.
“Ali,” observed his master, as the Nubian entered the chamber, “youhave frequently explained to me how more than commonly skilful you arein throwing the lasso, have you not?”
Ali drew himself up proudly, and then returned a sign in theaffirmative.
“I thought I did not mistake. With your lasso you could stop an ox?”
Again Ali repeated his affirmative gesture.
“Or a tiger?”
Ali bowed his head in token of assent.
“A lion even?”
Ali sprung forwards, imitating the action of one throwing the lasso,then of a strangled lion.
“I understand,” said Monte Cristo; “you wish to tell me you have huntedthe lion?”
Ali smiled with triumphant pride as he signified that he had indeedboth chased and captured many lions.
“But do you believe you could arrest the progress of two horses rushingforwards with ungovernable fury?”
The Nubian smiled.
“It is well,” said Monte Cristo. “Then listen to me. Ere long acarriage will dash past here, drawn by the pair of dappled gray horsesyou saw me with yesterday; now, at the risk of your own life, you mustmanage to stop those horses before my door.”
Ali descended to the street, and marked a straight line on the pavementimmediately at the entrance of the house, and then pointed out the linehe had traced to the count, who was watching him. The count patted himgently on the shoulder, his usual mode of praising Ali, who, pleasedand gratified with the commission assigned him, walked calmly towards aprojecting stone forming the angle of the street and house, and,seating himself thereon, began to smoke his chibouque, while MonteCristo re-entered his dwelling, perfectly assured of the success of hisplan.
Still, as five o’clock approached, and the carriage was momentarilyexpected by the count, the indication of more than common impatienceand uneasiness might be observed in his manner. He stationed himself ina room commanding a view of the street, pacing the chamber withrestless steps, stopping merely to listen from time to time for thesound of approaching wheels, then to cast an anxious glance on Ali; butthe regularity with which the Nubian puffed forth the smoke of hischibouque proved that he at least was wholly absorbed in the enjoymentof his favorite occupation.
Suddenly a distant sound of rapidly advancing wheels was heard, andalmost immediately a carriage appeared, drawn by a pair of wild,ungovernable horses, while the terrified coachman strove in vain torestrain their furious speed.
In the vehicle was a young woman and a child of about seven or eightclasped in each other’s arms. Terror seemed to have deprived them evenof the power of uttering a cry. The carriage creaked and rattled as itflew over the rough stones, and the slightest obstacle under the wheelswould have caused disaster; but it kept on in the middle of the road,and those who saw it pass uttered cries of terror.
Ali suddenly cast aside his chibouque, drew the lasso from his pocket,threw it so skilfully as to catch the forelegs of the near horse in itstriple fold, and suffered himself to be dragged on for a few steps bythe violence of the shock, then the animal fell over on the pole, whichsnapped, and therefore prevented the other horse from pursuing its way.Gladly availing himself of this opportunity, the coachman leaped fromhis box; but Ali had promptly seized the nostrils of the second horse,and held them in his iron grasp, till the beast, snorting with pain,sunk beside his companion.
All this was achieved in much less time than is occupied in therecital. The brief space had, however, been sufficient for a man,followed by a number of servants, to rush from the house before whichthe accident had occurred, and, as the coachman opened the door of thecarriage, to take from it a lady who was convulsively grasping thecushions with one hand, while with the other she pressed to her bosomthe young boy, who had lost consciousness. Monte Cristo carried themboth to the salon, and deposited them on a sofa.
“Compose yourself, madame,” said he; “all danger is over.” The womanlooked up at these words, and, with a glance far more expressive thanany entreaties could have been, pointed to her child, who stillcontinued insensible. “I understand the nature of your alarms, madame,”said the count, carefully examining the child, “but I assure you thereis not the slightest occasion for uneasiness; your little charge hasnot received the least injury; his insensibility is merely the effectsof terror, and will soon pass.”
“Are you quite sure you do not say so to tranquillize my fears? See howdeadly pale he is! My child, my darling Edward; speak to yourmother—open your dear eyes and look on me once again! Oh, sir, in pitysend for a physician; my whole fortune shall not be thought too muchfor the recovery of my boy.”
With a calm smile and a gentle wave of the hand, Monte Cristo signed tothe distracted mother to lay aside her apprehensions; then, opening acasket that stood near, he drew forth a phial of Bohemian glassincrusted with gold, containing a liquid of the color of blood, ofwhich he let fall a single drop on the child’s lips. Scarcely had itreached them, ere the boy, though still pale as marble, opened hiseyes, and eagerly gazed around him. At this, the delight of the motherwas almost frantic.
“Where am I?” exclaimed she; “and to whom am I indebted for so happy atermination to my late dreadful alarm?”
“Madame,” answered the count, “you are under the roof of one whoesteems himself most fortunate in having been able to save you from afurther continuance of your sufferings.”
“My wretched curiosity has brought all this about,” pursued the lady.“All Paris rung with the praises of Madame Danglars’ beautiful horses,and I had the folly to desire to know whether they really merited thehigh praise given to them.”
“Is it possible,” exclaimed the count with well-feigned astonishment,“that these horses belong to the baroness?”
“They do, indeed. May I inquire if you are acquainted with MadameDanglars?”
20351m


“I have that honor; and my happiness at your escape from the dangerthat threatened you is redoubled by the consciousness that I have beenthe unwilling and the unintentional cause of all the peril you haveincurred. I yesterday purchased these horses of the baron; but as thebaroness evidently regretted parting with them, I ventured to send themback to her, with a request that she would gratify me by accepting themfrom my hands.”
“You are, then, doubtless, the Count of Monte Cristo, of whom Herminehas talked to me so much?”
“You have rightly guessed, madame,” replied the count.
“And I am Madame Héloïse de Villefort.”
The count bowed with the air of a person who hears a name for the firsttime.
“How grateful will M. de Villefort be for all your goodness; howthankfully will he acknowledge that to you alone he owes the existenceof his wife and child! Most certainly, but for the prompt assistance ofyour intrepid servant, this dear child and myself must both haveperished.”
“Indeed, I still shudder at the fearful danger you were placed in.”
“I trust you will allow me to recompense worthily the devotion of yourman.”
“I beseech you, madame,” replied Monte Cristo “not to spoil Ali, eitherby too great praise or rewards. I cannot allow him to acquire the habitof expecting to be recompensed for every trifling service he mayrender. Ali is my slave, and in saving your life he was but discharginghis duty to me.”
“Nay,” interposed Madame de Villefort, on whom the authoritative styleadopted by the count made a deep impression, “nay, but consider that topreserve my life he has risked his own.”
“His life, madame, belongs not to him; it is mine, in return for myhaving myself saved him from death.”
Madame de Villefort made no further reply; her mind was utterlyabsorbed in the contemplation of the person who, from the first instantshe saw him, had made so powerful an impression on her.
During the evident preoccupation of Madame de Villefort, Monte Cristoscrutinized the features and appearance of the boy she kept folded inher arms, lavishing on him the most tender endearments. The child wassmall for his age, and unnaturally pale. A mass of straight black hair,defying all attempts to train or curl it, fell over his projectingforehead, and hung down to his shoulders, giving increased vivacity toeyes already sparkling with a youthful love of mischief and fondnessfor every forbidden enjoyment. His mouth was large, and the lips, whichhad not yet regained their color, were particularly thin; in fact, thedeep and crafty look, giving a predominant expression to the child’sface, belonged rather to a boy of twelve or fourteen than to one soyoung. His first movement was to free himself by a violent push fromthe encircling arms of his mother, and to rush forward to the casketfrom whence the count had taken the phial of elixir; then, withoutasking permission of anyone, he proceeded, in all the wilfulness of aspoiled child unaccustomed to restrain either whims or caprices, topull the corks out of all the bottles.
“Touch nothing, my little friend,” cried the count eagerly; “some ofthose liquids are not only dangerous to taste, but even to inhale.”
Madame de Villefort became very pale, and, seizing her son’s arm, drewhim anxiously toward her; but, once satisfied of his safety, she alsocast a brief but expressive glance on the casket, which was not lostupon the count. At this moment Ali entered. At sight of him Madame deVillefort uttered an expression of pleasure, and, holding the childstill closer towards her, she said:
“Edward, dearest, do you see that good man? He has shown very greatcourage and resolution, for he exposed his own life to stop the horsesthat were running away with us, and would certainly have dashed thecarriage to pieces. Thank him, then, my child, in your very bestmanner; for, had he not come to our aid, neither you nor I would havebeen alive to speak our thanks.”
The child stuck out his lips and turned away his head in a disdainfulmanner, saying, “He’s too ugly.”
20353m


The count smiled as if the child bade fair to realize his hopes, whileMadame de Villefort reprimanded her son with a gentleness andmoderation very far from conveying the least idea of a fault havingbeen committed.
“This lady,” said the Count, speaking to Ali in the Arabic language,“is desirous that her son should thank you for saving both their lives;but the boy refuses, saying you are too ugly.”
Ali turned his intelligent countenance towards the boy, on whom hegazed without any apparent emotion; but the spasmodic working of thenostrils showed to the practiced eye of Monte Cristo that the Arab hadbeen wounded to the heart.
“Will you permit me to inquire,” said Madame de Villefort, as she aroseto take her leave, “whether you usually reside here?”
“No, I do not,” replied Monte Cristo; “it is a small place I havepurchased quite lately. My place of abode is No. 30, Avenue desChamps-Élysées; but I see you have quite recovered from your fright,and are, no doubt, desirous of returning home. Anticipating yourwishes, I have desired the same horses you came with to be put to oneof my carriages, and Ali, he whom you think so very ugly,” continuedhe, addressing the boy with a smiling air, “will have the honor ofdriving you home, while your coachman remains here to attend to thenecessary repairs of your calash. As soon as that important business isconcluded, I will have a pair of my own horses harnessed to convey itdirect to Madame Danglars.”
“I dare not return with those dreadful horses,” said Madame deVillefort.
“You will see,” replied Monte Cristo, “that they will be as differentas possible in the hands of Ali. With him they will be gentle anddocile as lambs.”
Ali had, indeed, given proof of this; for, approaching the animals, whohad been got upon their legs with considerable difficulty, he rubbedtheir foreheads and nostrils with a sponge soaked in aromatic vinegar,and wiped off the sweat and foam that covered their mouths. Then,commencing a loud whistling noise, he rubbed them well all over theirbodies for several minutes; then, undisturbed by the noisy crowdcollected round the broken carriage, Ali quietly harnessed the pacifiedanimals to the count’s chariot, took the reins in his hands, andmounted the box, when to the utter astonishment of those who hadwitnessed the ungovernable spirit and maddened speed of the samehorses, he was actually compelled to apply his whip in no very gentlemanner before he could induce them to start; and even then all thatcould be obtained from the celebrated “dappled grays,” now changed intoa couple of dull, sluggish, stupid brutes, was a slow, pottering pace,kept up with so much difficulty that Madame de Villefort was more thantwo hours returning to her residence in the Faubourg Saint-Honoré.
20355m


Scarcely had the first congratulations upon her marvellous escape beengone through when she wrote the following letter to Madame Danglars:—
“Dear Hermine,—I have just had a wonderful escape from the mostimminent danger, and I owe my safety to the very Count of Monte Cristowe were talking about yesterday, but whom I little expected to seetoday. I remember how unmercifully I laughed at what I considered youreulogistic and exaggerated praises of him; but I have now ample causeto admit that your enthusiastic description of this wonderful man fellfar short of his merits. Your horses got as far as Ranelagh, when theydarted forward like mad things, and galloped away at so fearful a rate,that there seemed no other prospect for myself and my poor Edward butthat of being dashed to pieces against the first object that impededtheir progress, when a strange-looking man,—an Arab, a negro, or aNubian, at least a black of some nation or other—at a signal from thecount, whose domestic he is, suddenly seized and stopped the infuriatedanimals, even at the risk of being trampled to death himself; andcertainly he must have had a most wonderful escape. The count thenhastened to us, and took us into his house, where he speedily recalledmy poor Edward to life. He sent us home in his own carriage. Yours willbe returned to you tomorrow. You will find your horses in badcondition, from the results of this accident; they seem thoroughlystupefied, as if sulky and vexed at having been conquered by man. Thecount, however, has commissioned me to assure you that two or threedays’ rest, with plenty of barley for their sole food during that time,will bring them back to as fine, that is as terrifying, a condition asthey were in yesterday.
20356m


Adieu! I cannot return you many thanks for the drive of yesterday; but,after all, I ought not to blame you for the misconduct of your horses,more especially as it procured me the pleasure of an introduction tothe Count of Monte Cristo,—and certainly that illustrious personage,apart from the millions he is said to be so very anxious to dispose of,seemed to me one of those curiously interesting problems I, for one,delight in solving at any risk, even if it were to necessitate anotherdrive to the Bois behind your horses.
Edward endured the accident with miraculous courage—he did not utter asingle cry, but fell lifeless into my arms; nor did a tear fall fromhis eyes after it was over. I doubt not you will consider these praisesthe result of blind maternal affection, but there is a soul of iron inthat delicate, fragile body. Valentine sends many affectionateremembrances to your dear Eugénie. I embrace you with all my heart.
Héloïse de Villefort.
P.S.—Do pray contrive some means for me to meet the Count of MonteCristo at your house. I must and will see him again. I have just madeM. de Villefort promise to call on him, and I hope the visit will bereturned.
That night the adventure at Auteuil was talked of everywhere. Albertrelated it to his mother; Château-Renaud recounted it at the JockeyClub, and Debray detailed it at length in the salons of the minister;even Beauchamp accorded twenty lines in his journal to the relation ofthe count’s courage and gallantry, thereby celebrating him as thegreatest hero of the day in the eyes of all the feminine members of thearistocracy.
Vast was the crowd of visitors and inquiring friends who left theirnames at the residence of Madame de Villefort, with the design ofrenewing their visit at the right moment, of hearing from her lips allthe interesting circumstances of this most romantic adventure.
As for M. de Villefort, he fulfilled the predictions of Héloïse to theletter,—donned his dress suit, drew on a pair of white gloves, orderedthe servants to attend the carriage dressed in their full livery, anddrove that same night to No. 30 in the Avenue des Champs-Élysées.


VOLUME THREE
30009m


30011m



 Chapter 48. Ideology
If the Count of Monte Cristo had been for a long time familiar with theways of Parisian society, he would have appreciated better thesignificance of the step which M. de Villefort had taken. Standing wellat court, whether the king regnant was of the older or younger branch,whether the government was doctrinaire liberal, or conservative; lookedupon by all as a man of talent, since those who have never experienceda political check are generally so regarded; hated by many, but warmlysupported by others, without being really liked by anybody, M. deVillefort held a high position in the magistracy, and maintained hiseminence like a Harlay or a Molé. His drawing-room, under theregenerating influence of a young wife and a daughter by his firstmarriage, scarcely eighteen, was still one of the well-regulated Parissalons where the worship of traditional customs and the observance ofrigid etiquette were carefully maintained. A freezing politeness, astrict fidelity to government principles, a profound contempt fortheories and theorists, a deep-seated hatred of ideality,—these werethe elements of private and public life displayed by M. de Villefort.
30023m


M. de Villefort was not only a magistrate, he was almost a diplomatist.His relations with the former court, of which he always spoke withdignity and respect, made him respected by the new one, and he knew somany things, that not only was he always carefully considered, butsometimes consulted. Perhaps this would not have been so had it beenpossible to get rid of M. de Villefort; but, like the feudal barons whorebelled against their sovereign, he dwelt in an impregnable fortress.This fortress was his post as king’s attorney, all the advantages ofwhich he exploited with marvellous skill, and which he would not haveresigned but to be made deputy, and thus to replace neutrality byopposition.
Ordinarily M. de Villefort made and returned very few visits. His wifevisited for him, and this was the received thing in the world, wherethe weighty and multifarious occupations of the magistrate wereaccepted as an excuse for what was really only calculated pride, amanifestation of professed superiority—in fact, the application of theaxiom, _Pretend to think well of yourself, and the world will thinkwell of you_, an axiom a hundred times more useful in society nowadaysthan that of the Greeks, “Know thyself,” a knowledge for which, in ourdays, we have substituted the less difficult and more advantageousscience of _knowing others_.
To his friends M. de Villefort was a powerful protector; to hisenemies, he was a silent, but bitter opponent; for those who wereneither the one nor the other, he was a statue of the law-made man. Hehad a haughty bearing, a look either steady and impenetrable orinsolently piercing and inquisitorial. Four successive revolutions hadbuilt and cemented the pedestal upon which his fortune was based.
M. de Villefort had the reputation of being the least curious and theleast wearisome man in France. He gave a ball every year, at which heappeared for a quarter of an hour only,—that is to say, five-and-fortyminutes less than the king is visible at his balls. He was never seenat the theatres, at concerts, or in any place of public resort.Occasionally, but seldom, he played at whist, and then care was takento select partners worthy of him—sometimes they were ambassadors,sometimes archbishops, or sometimes a prince, or a president, or somedowager duchess.
Such was the man whose carriage had just now stopped before the Countof Monte Cristo’s door. The valet de chambre announced M. de Villefortat the moment when the count, leaning over a large table, was tracingon a map the route from St. Petersburg to China.
The procureur entered with the same grave and measured step he wouldhave employed in entering a court of justice. He was the same man, orrather the development of the same man, whom we have heretofore seen asassistant attorney at Marseilles. Nature, according to her way, hadmade no deviation in the path he had marked out for himself. From beingslender he had now become meagre; once pale, he was now yellow; hisdeep-set eyes were hollow, and the gold spectacles shielding his eyesseemed to be an integral portion of his face. He dressed entirely inblack, with the exception of his white tie, and his funeral appearancewas only mitigated by the slight line of red ribbon which passed almostimperceptibly through his button-hole, and appeared like a streak ofblood traced with a delicate brush.
Although master of himself, Monte Cristo, scrutinized withirrepressible curiosity the magistrate whose salute he returned, andwho, distrustful by habit, and especially incredulous as to socialprodigies, was much more despised to look upon “the noble stranger,” asMonte Cristo was already called, as an adventurer in search of newfields, or an escaped criminal, rather than as a prince of the HolySee, or a sultan of the _Thousand and One Nights_.
“Sir,” said Villefort, in the squeaky tone assumed by magistrates intheir oratorical periods, and of which they cannot, or will not, divestthemselves in society, “sir, the signal service which you yesterdayrendered to my wife and son has made it a duty for me to offer you mythanks. I have come, therefore, to discharge this duty, and to expressto you my overwhelming gratitude.”
And as he said this, the “eye severe” of the magistrate had lostnothing of its habitual arrogance. He spoke in a voice of theprocureur-general, with the rigid inflexibility of neck and shoulderswhich caused his flatterers to say (as we have before observed) that hewas the living statue of the law.
“Monsieur,” replied the count, with a chilling air, “I am very happy tohave been the means of preserving a son to his mother, for they saythat the sentiment of maternity is the most holy of all; and the goodfortune which occurred to me, monsieur, might have enabled you todispense with a duty which, in its discharge, confers an undoubtedlygreat honor; for I am aware that M. de Villefort is not usually lavishof the favor which he now bestows on me,—a favor which, howeverestimable, is unequal to the satisfaction which I have in my ownconsciousness.”
Villefort, astonished at this reply, which he by no means expected,started like a soldier who feels the blow levelled at him over thearmor he wears, and a curl of his disdainful lip indicated that fromthat moment he noted in the tablets of his brain that the Count ofMonte Cristo was by no means a highly bred gentleman.
He glanced around, in order to seize on something on which theconversation might turn, and seemed to fall easily on a topic. He sawthe map which Monte Cristo had been examining when he entered, andsaid:
“You seem geographically engaged, sir? It is a rich study for you, who,as I learn, have seen as many lands as are delineated on this map.”
“Yes, sir,” replied the count; “I have sought to make of the humanrace, taken in the mass, what you practice every day on individuals—aphysiological study. I have believed it was much easier to descend fromthe whole to a part than to ascend from a part to the whole. It is analgebraic axiom, which makes us proceed from a known to an unknownquantity, and not from an unknown to a known; but sit down, sir, I begof you.”
Monte Cristo pointed to a chair, which the procureur was obliged totake the trouble to move forwards himself, while the count merely fellback into his own, on which he had been kneeling when M. Villefortentered. Thus the count was halfway turned towards his visitor, havinghis back towards the window, his elbow resting on the geographicalchart which furnished the theme of conversation for the moment,—aconversation which assumed, as in the case of the interviews withDanglars and Morcerf, a turn analogous to the persons, if not to thesituation.
“Ah, you philosophize,” replied Villefort, after a moment’s silence,during which, like a wrestler who encounters a powerful opponent, hetook breath; “well, sir, really, if, like you, I had nothing else todo, I should seek a more amusing occupation.”
“Why, in truth, sir,” was Monte Cristo’s reply, “man is but an uglycaterpillar for him who studies him through a solar microscope; but yousaid, I think, that I had nothing else to do. Now, really, let me ask,sir, have you?—do you believe you have anything to do? or to speak inplain terms, do you really think that what you do deserves being calledanything?”
Villefort’s astonishment redoubled at this second thrust so forciblymade by his strange adversary. It was a long time since the magistratehad heard a paradox so strong, or rather, to say the truth moreexactly, it was the first time he had ever heard of it. The procureurexerted himself to reply.
“Sir,” he responded, “you are a stranger, and I believe you sayyourself that a portion of your life has been spent in Orientalcountries, so you are not aware how human justice, so expeditious inbarbarous countries, takes with us a prudent and well-studied course.”
“Oh, yes—yes, I do, sir; it is the _pede claudo_ of the ancients. Iknow all that, for it is with the justice of all countries especiallythat I have occupied myself—it is with the criminal procedure of allnations that I have compared natural justice, and I must say, sir, thatit is the law of primitive nations, that is, the law of retaliation,that I have most frequently found to be according to the law of God.”
“If this law were adopted, sir,” said the procureur, “it would greatlysimplify our legal codes, and in that case the magistrates would not(as you just observed) have much to do.”
“It may, perhaps, come to this in time,” observed Monte Cristo; “youknow that human inventions march from the complex to the simple, andsimplicity is always perfection.”
“In the meanwhile,” continued the magistrate, “our codes are in fullforce, with all their contradictory enactments derived from Galliccustoms, Roman laws, and Frank usages; the knowledge of all which, youwill agree, is not to be acquired without extended labor; it needstedious study to acquire this knowledge, and, when acquired, a strongpower of brain to retain it.”
“I agree with you entirely, sir; but all that even you know withrespect to the French code, I know, not only in reference to that code,but as regards the codes of all nations. The English, Turkish,Japanese, Hindu laws, are as familiar to me as the French laws, andthus I was right, when I said to you, that relatively (you know thateverything is relative, sir)—that relatively to what I have done, youhave very little to do; but that relatively to all I have learned, youhave yet a great deal to learn.”
“But with what motive have you learned all this?” inquired Villefort,in astonishment.
Monte Cristo smiled.
“Really, sir,” he observed, “I see that in spite of the reputationwhich you have acquired as a superior man, you look at everything fromthe material and vulgar view of society, beginning with man, and endingwith man—that is to say, in the most restricted, most narrow view whichit is possible for human understanding to embrace.”
“Pray, sir, explain yourself,” said Villefort, more and moreastonished, “I really do—not—understand you—perfectly.”
“I say, sir, that with the eyes fixed on the social organization ofnations, you see only the springs of the machine, and lose sight of thesublime workman who makes them act; I say that you do not recognizebefore you and around you any but those office-holders whosecommissions have been signed by a minister or king; and that the menwhom God has put above those office-holders, ministers, and kings, bygiving them a mission to follow out, instead of a post to fill—I saythat they escape your narrow, limited field of observation. It is thusthat human weakness fails, from its debilitated and imperfect organs.Tobias took the angel who restored him to light for an ordinary youngman. The nations took Attila, who was doomed to destroy them, for aconqueror similar to other conquerors, and it was necessary for both toreveal their missions, that they might be known and acknowledged; onewas compelled to say, ‘I am the angel of the Lord’; and the other, ‘Iam the hammer of God,’ in order that the divine essence in both mightbe revealed.”
“Then,” said Villefort, more and more amazed, and really supposing hewas speaking to a mystic or a madman, “you consider yourself as one ofthose extraordinary beings whom you have mentioned?”
“And why not?” said Monte Cristo coldly.
“Your pardon, sir,” replied Villefort, quite astounded, “but you willexcuse me if, when I presented myself to you, I was unaware that Ishould meet with a person whose knowledge and understanding so farsurpass the usual knowledge and understanding of men. It is not usualwith us corrupted wretches of civilization to find gentlemen likeyourself, possessors, as you are, of immense fortune—at least, so it issaid—and I beg you to observe that I do not inquire, I merelyrepeat;—it is not usual, I say, for such privileged and wealthy beingsto waste their time in speculations on the state of society, inphilosophical reveries, intended at best to console those whom fate hasdisinherited from the goods of this world.”
“Really, sir,” retorted the count, “have you attained the eminentsituation in which you are, without having admitted, or even withouthaving met with exceptions? and do you never use your eyes, which musthave acquired so much _finesse_ and certainty, to divine, at a glance,the kind of man by whom you are confronted? Should not a magistrate benot merely the best administrator of the law, but the most craftyexpounder of the chicanery of his profession, a steel probe to searchhearts, a touchstone to try the gold which in each soul is mingled withmore or less of alloy?”
“Sir,” said Villefort, “upon my word, you overcome me. I really neverheard a person speak as you do.”
“Because you remain eternally encircled in a round of generalconditions, and have never dared to raise your wings into those upperspheres which God has peopled with invisible or exceptional beings.”
“And you allow then, sir, that spheres exist, and that these marked andinvisible beings mingle amongst us?”
“Why should they not? Can you see the air you breathe, and yet withoutwhich you could not for a moment exist?”
“Then we do not see those beings to whom you allude?”
“Yes, we do; you see them whenever God pleases to allow them to assumea material form. You touch them, come in contact with them, speak tothem, and they reply to you.”
“Ah,” said Villefort, smiling, “I confess I should like to be warnedwhen one of these beings is in contact with me.”
“You have been served as you desire, monsieur, for you were warned justnow, and I now again warn you.”
“Then you yourself are one of these marked beings?”
“Yes, monsieur, I believe so; for until now, no man has found himselfin a position similar to mine. The dominions of kings are limitedeither by mountains or rivers, or a change of manners, or an alterationof language. My kingdom is bounded only by the world, for I am not anItalian, or a Frenchman, or a Hindu, or an American, or a Spaniard—I ama cosmopolite. No country can say it saw my birth. God alone knows whatcountry will see me die. I adopt all customs, speak all languages. Youbelieve me to be a Frenchman, for I speak French with the same facilityand purity as yourself. Well, Ali, my Nubian, believes me to be anArab; Bertuccio, my steward, takes me for a Roman; Haydée, my slave,thinks me a Greek. You may, therefore, comprehend, that being of nocountry, asking no protection from any government, acknowledging no manas my brother, not one of the scruples that arrest the powerful, or theobstacles which paralyze the weak, paralyzes or arrests me. I have onlytwo adversaries—I will not say two conquerors, for with perseverance Isubdue even them,—they are time and distance. There is a third, and themost terrible—that is my condition as a mortal being. This alone canstop me in my onward career, before I have attained the goal at which Iaim, for all the rest I have reduced to mathematical terms. What mencall the chances of fate—namely, ruin, change, circumstances—I havefully anticipated, and if any of these should overtake me, yet it willnot overwhelm me. Unless I die, I shall always be what I am, andtherefore it is that I utter the things you have never heard, even fromthe mouths of kings—for kings have need, and other persons have fear ofyou. For who is there who does not say to himself, in a society asincongruously organized as ours, ‘Perhaps some day I shall have to dowith the king’s attorney’?”
“But can you not say that, sir? The moment you become an inhabitant ofFrance, you are naturally subjected to the French law.”
“I know it sir,” replied Monte Cristo; “but when I visit a country Ibegin to study, by all the means which are available, the men from whomI may have anything to hope or to fear, till I know them as well as,perhaps better than, they know themselves. It follows from this, thatthe king’s attorney, be he who he may, with whom I should have to deal,would assuredly be more embarrassed than I should.”
“That is to say,” replied Villefort with hesitation, “that human naturebeing weak, every man, according to your creed, has committed faults.”
“Faults or crimes,” responded Monte Cristo with a negligent air.
“And that you alone, amongst the men whom you do not recognize as yourbrothers—for you have said so,” observed Villefort in a tone thatfaltered somewhat—“you alone are perfect.”
“No, not perfect,” was the count’s reply; “only impenetrable, that’sall. But let us leave off this strain, sir, if the tone of it isdispleasing to you; I am no more disturbed by your justice than are youby my second-sight.”
“No, no,—by no means,” said Villefort, who was afraid of seeming toabandon his ground. “No; by your brilliant and almost sublimeconversation you have elevated me above the ordinary level; we nolonger talk, we rise to dissertation. But you know how the theologiansin their collegiate chairs, and philosophers in their controversies,occasionally say cruel truths; let us suppose for the moment that weare theologizing in a social way, or even philosophically, and I willsay to you, rude as it may seem, ‘My brother, you sacrifice greatly topride; you may be above others, but above you there is God.’”
30029m


“Above us all, sir,” was Monte Cristo’s response, in a tone and with anemphasis so deep that Villefort involuntarily shuddered. “I have mypride for men—serpents always ready to threaten everyone who would passwithout crushing them under foot. But I lay aside that pride beforeGod, who has taken me from nothing to make me what I am.”
“Then, count, I admire you,” said Villefort, who, for the first time inthis strange conversation, used the aristocratic form to the unknownpersonage, whom, until now, he had only called monsieur. “Yes, and Isay to you, if you are really strong, really superior, really pious, orimpenetrable, which you were right in saying amounts to the samething—then be proud, sir, for that is the characteristic ofpredominance. Yet you have unquestionably some ambition.”
“I have, sir.”
“And what may it be?”
“I too, as happens to every man once in his life, have been taken bySatan into the highest mountain in the earth, and when there he showedme all the kingdoms of the world, and as he said before, so said he tome, ‘Child of earth, what wouldst thou have to make thee adore me?’ Ireflected long, for a gnawing ambition had long preyed upon me, andthen I replied, ‘Listen,—I have always heard of Providence, and yet Ihave never seen him, or anything that resembles him, or which can makeme believe that he exists. I wish to be Providence myself, for I feelthat the most beautiful, noblest, most sublime thing in the world, isto recompense and punish.’ Satan bowed his head, and groaned. ‘Youmistake,’ he said, ‘Providence does exist, only you have never seenhim, because the child of God is as invisible as the parent. You haveseen nothing that resembles him, because he works by secret springs,and moves by hidden ways. All I can do for you is to make you one ofthe agents of that Providence.’ The bargain was concluded. I maysacrifice my soul, but what matters it?” added Monte Cristo. “If thething were to do again, I would again do it.”
Villefort looked at Monte Cristo with extreme amazement.
“Count,” he inquired, “have you any relations?”
“No, sir, I am alone in the world.”
“So much the worse.”
“Why?” asked Monte Cristo.
“Because then you might witness a spectacle calculated to break downyour pride. You say you fear nothing but death?”
“I did not say that I feared it; I only said that death alone couldcheck the execution of my plans.”
“And old age?”
“My end will be achieved before I grow old.”
“And madness?”
“I have been nearly mad; and you know the axiom,—_non bis in idem_. Itis an axiom of criminal law, and, consequently, you understand its fullapplication.”
30031m


“Sir,” continued Villefort, “there is something to fear besides death,old age, and madness. For instance, there is apoplexy—thatlightning-stroke which strikes but does not destroy you, and yet whichbrings everything to an end. You are still yourself as now, and yet youare yourself no longer; you who, like Ariel, verge on the angelic, arebut an inert mass, which, like Caliban, verges on the brutal; and thisis called in human tongues, as I tell you, neither more nor less thanapoplexy. Come, if so you will, count, and continue this conversationat my house, any day you may be willing to see an adversary capable ofunderstanding and anxious to refute you, and I will show you my father,M. Noirtier de Villefort, one of the most fiery Jacobins of the FrenchRevolution; that is to say, he had the most remarkable audacity,seconded by a most powerful organization—a man who has not, perhaps,like yourself seen all the kingdoms of the earth, but who has helped tooverturn one of the greatest; in fact, a man who believed himself, likeyou, one of the envoys, not of God, but of a supreme being; not ofProvidence, but of fate. Well, sir, the rupture of a blood-vessel onthe lobe of the brain has destroyed all this, not in a day, not in anhour, but in a second. M. Noirtier, who, on the previous night, was theold Jacobin, the old senator, the old Carbonaro, laughing at theguillotine, the cannon, and the dagger—M. Noirtier, playing withrevolutions—M. Noirtier, for whom France was a vast chess-board, fromwhich pawns, rooks, knights, and queens were to disappear, so that theking was checkmated—M. Noirtier, the redoubtable, was the next morning_poor M. Noirtier_, the helpless old man, at the tender mercies of theweakest creature in the household, that is, his grandchild, Valentine;a dumb and frozen carcass, in fact, living painlessly on, that time maybe given for his frame to decompose without his consciousness of itsdecay.”
“Alas, sir,” said Monte Cristo “this spectacle is neither strange to myeye nor my thought. I am something of a physician, and have, like myfellows, sought more than once for the soul in living and in deadmatter; yet, like Providence, it has remained invisible to my eyes,although present to my heart. A hundred writers since Socrates, Seneca,St. Augustine, and Gall, have made, in verse and prose, the comparisonyou have made, and yet I can well understand that a father’s sufferingsmay effect great changes in the mind of a son. I will call on you, sir,since you bid me contemplate, for the advantage of my pride, thisterrible spectacle, which must have been so great a source of sorrow toyour family.”
“It would have been so unquestionably, had not God given me so large acompensation. In contrast with the old man, who is dragging his way tothe tomb, are two children just entering into life—Valentine, thedaughter by my first wife—Mademoiselle Renée de Saint-Méran—and Edward,the boy whose life you have this day saved.”
“And what is your deduction from this compensation, sir?” inquiredMonte Cristo.
“My deduction is,” replied Villefort, “that my father, led away by hispassions, has committed some fault unknown to human justice, but markedby the justice of God. That God, desirous in his mercy to punish butone person, has visited this justice on him alone.”
Monte Cristo with a smile on his lips, uttered in the depths of hissoul a groan which would have made Villefort fly had he but heard it.
“Adieu, sir,” said the magistrate, who had risen from his seat; “Ileave you, bearing a remembrance of you—a remembrance of esteem, whichI hope will not be disagreeable to you when you know me better; for Iam not a man to bore my friends, as you will learn. Besides, you havemade an eternal friend of Madame de Villefort.”
The count bowed, and contented himself with seeing Villefort to thedoor of his cabinet, the procureur being escorted to his carriage bytwo footmen, who, on a signal from their master, followed him withevery mark of attention. When he had gone, Monte Cristo breathed aprofound sigh, and said:
“Enough of this poison, let me now seek the antidote.”
Then sounding his bell, he said to Ali, who entered:
“I am going to madame’s chamber—have the carriage ready at oneo’clock.”


 Chapter 49. Haydée
It will be recollected that the new, or rather old, acquaintances ofthe Count of Monte Cristo, residing in the Rue Meslay, were no otherthan Maximilian, Julie, and Emmanuel.
The very anticipations of delight to be enjoyed in his forthcomingvisits—the bright, pure gleam of heavenly happiness it diffused overthe almost deadly warfare in which he had voluntarily engaged,illumined his whole countenance with a look of ineffable joy andcalmness, as, immediately after Villefort’s departure, his thoughtsflew back to the cheering prospect before him, of tasting, at least, abrief respite from the fierce and stormy passions of his mind. EvenAli, who had hastened to obey the Count’s summons, went forth from hismaster’s presence in charmed amazement at the unusual animation andpleasure depicted on features ordinarily so stern and cold; while, asthough dreading to put to flight the agreeable ideas hovering over hispatron’s meditations, whatever they were, the faithful Nubian walked ontiptoe towards the door, holding his breath, lest its faintest soundshould dissipate his master’s happy reverie.
It was noon, and Monte Cristo had set apart one hour to be passed inthe apartments of Haydée, as though his oppressed spirit could not allat once admit the feeling of pure and unmixed joy, but required agradual succession of calm and gentle emotions to prepare his mind toreceive full and perfect happiness, in the same manner as ordinarynatures demand to be inured by degrees to the reception of strong orviolent sensations.
The young Greek, as we have already said, occupied apartments whollyunconnected with those of the count. The rooms had been fitted up instrict accordance with Oriental ideas; the floors were covered with therichest carpets Turkey could produce; the walls hung with brocaded silkof the most magnificent designs and texture; while around each chamberluxurious divans were placed, with piles of soft and yielding cushions,that needed only to be arranged at the pleasure or convenience of suchas sought repose.
Haydée had three French maids, and one who was a Greek. The first threeremained constantly in a small waiting-room, ready to obey the summonsof a small golden bell, or to receive the orders of the Romaic slave,who knew just enough French to be able to transmit her mistress’swishes to the three other waiting-women; the latter had received mostperemptory instructions from Monte Cristo to treat Haydée with all thedeference they would observe to a queen.
The young girl herself generally passed her time in the chamber at thefarther end of her apartments. This was a sort of boudoir, circular,and lighted only from the roof, which consisted of rose-colored glass.Haydée was reclining upon soft downy cushions, covered with blue satinspotted with silver; her head, supported by one of her exquisitelymoulded arms, rested on the divan immediately behind her, while theother was employed in adjusting to her lips the coral tube of a richnarghile, through whose flexible pipe she drew the smoke fragrant byits passage through perfumed water. Her attitude, though perfectlynatural for an Eastern woman would, in a European, have been deemed toofull of coquettish straining after effect.
Her dress, which was that of the women of Epirus, consisted of a pairof white satin trousers, embroidered with pink roses, displaying feetso exquisitely formed and so delicately fair, that they might well havebeen taken for Parian marble, had not the eye been undeceived by theirmovements as they constantly shifted in and out of a pair of littleslippers with upturned toes, beautifully ornamented with gold andpearls. She wore a blue and white-striped vest, with long open sleeves,trimmed with silver loops and buttons of pearls, and a sort of bodice,which, closing only from the centre to the waist, exhibited the wholeof the ivory throat and upper part of the bosom; it was fastened withthree magnificent diamond clasps. The junction of the bodice anddrawers was entirely concealed by one of the many-colored scarves,whose brilliant hues and rich silken fringe have rendered them soprecious in the eyes of Parisian belles.
Tilted on one side of her head she had a small cap of gold-coloredsilk, embroidered with pearls; while on the other a purple rose mingledits glowing colors with the luxuriant masses of her hair, of which theblackness was so intense that it was tinged with blue.
The extreme beauty of the countenance, that shone forth in lovelinessthat mocked the vain attempts of dress to augment it, was peculiarlyand purely Grecian; there were the large, dark, melting eyes, thefinely formed nose, the coral lips, and pearly teeth, that belonged toher race and country.
And, to complete the whole, Haydée was in the very springtide andfulness of youthful charms—she had not yet numbered more than nineteenor twenty summers.
Monte Cristo summoned the Greek attendant, and bade her inquire whetherit would be agreeable to her mistress to receive his visit. Haydée’sonly reply was to direct her servant by a sign to withdraw thetapestried curtain that hung before the door of her boudoir, theframework of the opening thus made serving as a sort of border to thegraceful tableau presented by the young girl’s picturesque attitude andappearance.
As Monte Cristo approached, she leaned upon the elbow of the arm thatheld the narghile, and extending to him her other hand, said, with asmile of captivating sweetness, in the sonorous language spoken by thewomen of Athens and Sparta:
“Why demand permission ere you enter? Are you no longer my master, orhave I ceased to be your slave?”
Monte Cristo returned her smile.
“Haydée,” said he, “you well know.”
“Why do you address me so coldly—so distantly?” asked the young Greek.“Have I by any means displeased you? Oh, if so, punish me as you will;but do not—do not speak to me in tones and manner so formal andconstrained.”
“Haydée,” replied the count, “you know that you are now in France, andare free.”
“Free to do what?” asked the young girl.
“Free to leave me.”
“Leave you? Why should I leave you?”
“That is not for me to say; but we are now about to mix in society—tovisit and be visited.”
“I don’t wish to see anybody but you.”
“And should you see one whom you could prefer, I would not be sounjust——”
“I have never seen anyone I preferred to you, and I have never lovedanyone but you and my father.”
“My poor child,” replied Monte Cristo, “that is merely because yourfather and myself are the only men who have ever talked to you.”
“I don’t want anybody else to talk to me. My father said I was his‘joy’—you style me your ‘love,’—and both of you have called me ‘mychild.’”
“Do you remember your father, Haydée?”
The young Greek smiled.
“He is here, and here,” said she, touching her eyes and her heart.
“And where am I?” inquired Monte Cristo laughingly.
“You?” cried she, with tones of thrilling tenderness, “you areeverywhere!” Monte Cristo took the delicate hand of the young girl inhis, and was about to raise it to his lips, when the simple child ofnature hastily withdrew it, and presented her cheek.
“You now understand, Haydée,” said the count, “that from this momentyou are absolutely free; that here you exercise unlimited sway, and areat liberty to lay aside or continue the costume of your country, as itmay suit your inclination. Within this mansion you are absolutemistress of your actions, and may go abroad or remain in yourapartments as may seem most agreeable to you. A carriage waits yourorders, and Ali and Myrtho will accompany you whithersoever you desireto go. There is but one favor I would entreat of you.”
“Speak.”
“Guard carefully the secret of your birth. Make no allusion to thepast; nor upon any occasion be induced to pronounce the names of yourillustrious father or ill-fated mother.”
“I have already told you, my lord, that I shall see no one.”
“It is possible, Haydée, that so perfect a seclusion, thoughconformable with the habits and customs of the East, may not bepracticable in Paris. Endeavor, then, to accustom yourself to ourmanner of living in these northern climes as you did to those of Rome,Florence, Milan, and Madrid; it may be useful to you one of these days,whether you remain here or return to the East.”
The young girl raised her tearful eyes towards Monte Cristo as she saidwith touching earnestness, “Whether _we_ return to the East, you meanto say, my lord, do you not?”
“My child,” returned Monte Cristo “you know full well that whenever wepart, it will be no fault or wish of mine; the tree forsakes not theflower—the flower falls from the tree.”
“My lord,” replied Haydée, “I never will leave you, for I am sure Icould not exist without you.”
“My poor girl, in ten years I shall be old, and you will be stillyoung.”
“My father had a long white beard, but I loved him; he was sixty yearsold, but to me he was handsomer than all the fine youths I saw.”
“Then tell me, Haydée, do you believe you shall be able to accustomyourself to our present mode of life?”
“Shall I see you?”
“Every day.”
“Then what do you fear, my lord?”
“You might find it dull.”
“No, my lord. In the morning, I shall rejoice in the prospect of yourcoming, and in the evening dwell with delight on the happiness I haveenjoyed in your presence; then too, when alone, I can call forth mightypictures of the past, see vast horizons bounded only by the toweringmountains of Pindus and Olympus. Oh, believe me, that when three greatpassions, such as sorrow, love, and gratitude fill the heart, _ennui_can find no place.”
“You are a worthy daughter of Epirus, Haydée, and your charming andpoetical ideas prove well your descent from that race of goddesses whoclaim your country as their birthplace. Depend on my care to see thatyour youth is not blighted, or suffered to pass away in ungenialsolitude; and of this be well assured, that if you love me as a father,I love you as a child.”
“You are wrong, my lord. The love I have for you is very different fromthe love I had for my father. My father died, but I did not die. If youwere to die, I should die too.”
The count, with a smile of profound tenderness, extended his hand, andshe carried it to her lips.
Monte Cristo, thus attuned to the interview he proposed to hold withMorrel and his family, departed, murmuring as he went these lines ofPindar, “Youth is a flower of which love is the fruit; happy is he who,after having watched its silent growth, is permitted to gather and callit his own.” The carriage was prepared according to orders, andstepping lightly into it, the count drove off at his usual rapid pace.


 Chapter 50. The Morrel Family
In a very few minutes the count reached No. 7 in the Rue Meslay. Thehouse was of white stone, and in a small court before it were two smallbeds full of beautiful flowers. In the concierge that opened the gatethe count recognized Cocles; but as he had but one eye, and that eyehad become somewhat dim in the course of nine years, Cocles did notrecognize the count.
The carriages that drove up to the door were compelled to turn, toavoid a fountain that played in a basin of rockwork,—an ornament thathad excited the jealousy of the whole quarter, and had gained for theplace the appellation of _The Little Versailles_. It is needless to addthat there were gold and silver fish in the basin. The house, withkitchens and cellars below, had above the ground floor, two stories andattics. The whole of the property, consisting of an immense workshop,two pavilions at the bottom of the garden, and the garden itself, hadbeen purchased by Emmanuel, who had seen at a glance that he could makeof it a profitable speculation. He had reserved the house and half thegarden, and building a wall between the garden and the workshops, hadlet them upon lease with the pavilions at the bottom of the garden. Sothat for a trifling sum he was as well lodged, and as perfectly shutout from observation, as the inhabitants of the finest mansion in theFaubourg St. Germain.
The breakfast-room was finished in oak; the salon in mahogany, and thefurnishings were of blue velvet; the bedroom was in citronwood andgreen damask. There was a study for Emmanuel, who never studied, and amusic-room for Julie, who never played. The whole of the second storywas set apart for Maximilian; it was precisely similar to his sister’sapartments, except that for the breakfast-parlor he had abilliard-room, where he received his friends. He was superintending thegrooming of his horse, and smoking his cigar at the entrance of thegarden, when the count’s carriage stopped at the gate.
Cocles opened the gate, and Baptistin, springing from the box, inquiredwhether Monsieur and Madame Herbault and Monsieur Maximilian Morrelwould see his excellency the Count of Monte Cristo.
“The Count of Monte Cristo?” cried Morrel, throwing away his cigar andhastening to the carriage; “I should think we would see him. Ah, athousand thanks, count, for not having forgotten your promise.”
And the young officer shook the count’s hand so warmly, that MonteCristo could not be mistaken as to the sincerity of his joy, and he sawthat he had been expected with impatience, and was received withpleasure.
“Come, come,” said Maximilian, “I will serve as your guide; such a manas you are ought not to be introduced by a servant. My sister is in thegarden plucking the dead roses; my brother is reading his two papers,_la Presse_ and _les Débats_, within six steps of her; for wherever yousee Madame Herbault, you have only to look within a circle of fouryards and you will find M. Emmanuel, and ‘reciprocally,’ as they say atthe Polytechnic School.”
At the sound of their steps a young woman of twenty to five-and-twenty,dressed in a silk morning gown, and busily engaged in plucking the deadleaves off a noisette rose-tree, raised her head. This was Julie, whohad become, as the clerk of the house of Thomson & French hadpredicted, Madame Emmanuel Herbault. She uttered a cry of surprise atthe sight of a stranger, and Maximilian began to laugh.
“Don’t disturb yourself, Julie,” said he. “The count has only been twoor three days in Paris, but he already knows what a fashionable womanof the Marais is, and if he does not, you will show him.”
“Ah, monsieur,” returned Julie, “it is treason in my brother to bringyou thus, but he never has any regard for his poor sister. Penelon,Penelon!”
An old man, who was digging busily at one of the beds, stuck his spadein the earth, and approached, cap in hand, striving to conceal a quidof tobacco he had just thrust into his cheek. A few locks of graymingled with his hair, which was still thick and matted, while hisbronzed features and determined glance well suited an old sailor whohad braved the heat of the equator and the storms of the tropics.
“I think you hailed me, Mademoiselle Julie?” said he.
Penelon had still preserved the habit of calling his master’s daughter“Mademoiselle Julie,” and had never been able to change the name toMadame Herbault.
“Penelon,” replied Julie, “go and inform M. Emmanuel of thisgentleman’s visit, and Maximilian will conduct him to the salon.”
Then, turning to Monte Cristo,—“I hope you will permit me to leave youfor a few minutes,” continued she; and without awaiting any reply,disappeared behind a clump of trees, and escaped to the house by alateral alley.
30041m


“I am sorry to see,” observed Monte Cristo to Morrel, “that I cause nosmall disturbance in your house.”
“Look there,” said Maximilian, laughing; “there is her husband changinghis jacket for a coat. I assure you, you are well known in the RueMeslay.”
“Your family appears to be a very happy one,” said the count, as ifspeaking to himself.
“Oh, yes, I assure you, count, they want nothing that can render themhappy; they are young and cheerful, they are tenderly attached to eachother, and with twenty-five thousand francs a year they fancythemselves as rich as Rothschild.”
“Five-and-twenty thousand francs is not a large sum, however,” repliedMonte Cristo, with a tone so sweet and gentle, that it went toMaximilian’s heart like the voice of a father; “but they will not becontent with that. Your brother-in-law is a barrister? a doctor?”
“He was a merchant, monsieur, and had succeeded to the business of mypoor father. M. Morrel, at his death, left 500,000 francs, which weredivided between my sister and myself, for we were his only children.Her husband, who, when he married her, had no other patrimony than hisnoble probity, his first-rate ability, and his spotless reputation,wished to possess as much as his wife. He labored and toiled until hehad amassed 250,000 francs; six years sufficed to achieve this object.Oh, I assure you, sir, it was a touching spectacle to see these youngcreatures, destined by their talents for higher stations, toilingtogether, and through their unwillingness to change any of the customsof their paternal house, taking six years to accomplish what lessscrupulous people would have effected in two or three. Marseillesresounded with their well-earned praises. At last, one day, Emmanuelcame to his wife, who had just finished making up the accounts.
“‘Julie,’ said he to her, ‘Cocles has just given me the last rouleau ofa hundred francs; that completes the 250,000 francs we had fixed as thelimits of our gains. Can you content yourself with the small fortunewhich we shall possess for the future? Listen to me. Our housetransacts business to the amount of a million a year, from which wederive an income of 40,000 francs. We can dispose of the business, ifwe please, in an hour, for I have received a letter from M. Delaunay,in which he offers to purchase the good-will of the house, to unitewith his own, for 300,000 francs. Advise me what I had better do.’
“‘Emmanuel,’ returned my sister, ‘the house of Morrel can only becarried on by a Morrel. Is it not worth 300,000 francs to save ourfather’s name from the chances of evil fortune and failure?’
“‘I thought so,’ replied Emmanuel; ‘but I wished to have your advice.’
“‘This is my counsel:—Our accounts are made up and our bills paid; allwe have to do is to stop the issue of any more, and close our office.’
“This was done instantly. It was three o’clock; at a quarter past, amerchant presented himself to insure two ships; it was a clear profitof 15,000 francs.
“‘Monsieur,’ said Emmanuel, ‘have the goodness to address yourself toM. Delaunay. We have quitted business.’
“‘How long?’ inquired the astonished merchant.
30043m


“‘A quarter of an hour,’ was the reply.
“And this is the reason, monsieur,” continued Maximilian, “of my sisterand brother-in-law having only 25,000 francs a year.”
Maximilian had scarcely finished his story, during which the count’sheart had swelled within him, when Emmanuel entered wearing a hat andcoat. He saluted the count with the air of a man who is aware of therank of his guest; then, after having led Monte Cristo around thelittle garden, he returned to the house.
A large vase of Japan porcelain, filled with flowers that loaded theair with their perfume, stood in the salon. Julie, suitably dressed,and her hair arranged (she had accomplished this feat in less than tenminutes), received the count on his entrance. The songs of the birdswere heard in an aviary hard by, and the branches of laburnums and roseacacias formed an exquisite framework to the blue velvet curtains.Everything in this charming retreat, from the warble of the birds tothe smile of the mistress, breathed tranquillity and repose.
The count had felt the influence of this happiness from the moment heentered the house, and he remained silent and pensive, forgetting thathe was expected to renew the conversation, which had ceased after thefirst salutations had been exchanged. The silence became almost painfulwhen, by a violent effort, tearing himself from his pleasing reverie:
“Madame,” said he at length, “I pray you to excuse my emotion, whichmust astonish you who are only accustomed to the happiness I meet here;but contentment is so new a sight to me, that I could never be weary oflooking at yourself and your husband.”
“We are very happy, monsieur,” replied Julie; “but we have also knownunhappiness, and few have ever undergone more bitter sufferings thanourselves.”
The count’s features displayed an expression of the most intensecuriosity.
“Oh, all this is a family history, as Château-Renaud told you the otherday,” observed Maximilian. “This humble picture would have but littleinterest for you, accustomed as you are to behold the pleasures and themisfortunes of the wealthy and industrious; but such as we are, we haveexperienced bitter sorrows.”
“And God has poured balm into your wounds, as he does into those of allwho are in affliction?” said Monte Cristo inquiringly.
“Yes, count,” returned Julie, “we may indeed say he has, for he hasdone for us what he grants only to his chosen; he sent us one of hisangels.”
The count’s cheeks became scarlet, and he coughed, in order to have anexcuse for putting his handkerchief to his mouth.
“Those born to wealth, and who have the means of gratifying everywish,” said Emmanuel, “know not what is the real happiness of life,just as those who have been tossed on the stormy waters of the ocean ona few frail planks can alone realize the blessings of fair weather.”
Monte Cristo rose, and without making any answer (for the tremulousnessof his voice would have betrayed his emotion) walked up and down theapartment with a slow step.
“Our magnificence makes you smile, count,” said Maximilian, who hadfollowed him with his eyes.
“No, no,” returned Monte Cristo, pale as death, pressing one hand onhis heart to still its throbbings, while with the other he pointed to acrystal cover, beneath which a silken purse lay on a black velvetcushion. “I was wondering what could be the significance of this purse,with the paper at one end and the large diamond at the other.”
“Count,” replied Maximilian, with an air of gravity, “those are ourmost precious family treasures.”
“The stone seems very brilliant,” answered the count.
“Oh, my brother does not allude to its value, although it has beenestimated at 100,000 francs; he means, that the articles contained inthis purse are the relics of the angel I spoke of just now.”
“This I do not comprehend; and yet I may not ask for an explanation,madame,” replied Monte Cristo bowing. “Pardon me, I had no intention ofcommitting an indiscretion.”
“Indiscretion,—oh, you make us happy by giving us an excuse forexpatiating on this subject. If we wanted to conceal the noble actionthis purse commemorates, we should not expose it thus to view. Oh,would we could relate it everywhere, and to everyone, so that theemotion of our unknown benefactor might reveal his presence.”
“Ah, really,” said Monte Cristo in a half-stifled voice.
“Monsieur,” returned Maximilian, raising the glass cover, andrespectfully kissing the silken purse, “this has touched the hand of aman who saved my father from suicide, us from ruin, and our name fromshame and disgrace,—a man by whose matchless benevolence we poorchildren, doomed to want and wretchedness, can at present hear everyoneenvying our happy lot. This letter” (as he spoke, Maximilian drew aletter from the purse and gave it to the count)—“this letter waswritten by him the day that my father had taken a desperate resolution,and this diamond was given by the generous unknown to my sister as herdowry.”
Monte Cristo opened the letter, and read it with an indescribablefeeling of delight. It was the letter written (as our readers know) toJulie, and signed “Sinbad the Sailor.”
“Unknown you say, is the man who rendered you this service—unknown toyou?”
“Yes; we have never had the happiness of pressing his hand,” continuedMaximilian. “We have supplicated Heaven in vain to grant us this favor,but the whole affair has had a mysterious meaning that we cannotcomprehend—we have been guided by an invisible hand,—a hand as powerfulas that of an enchanter.”
“Oh,” cried Julie, “I have not lost all hope of some day kissing thathand, as I now kiss the purse which he has touched. Four years ago,Penelon was at Trieste—Penelon, count, is the old sailor you saw in thegarden, and who, from quartermaster, has become gardener—Penelon, whenhe was at Trieste, saw on the quay an Englishman, who was on the pointof embarking on board a yacht, and he recognized him as the person whocalled on my father the fifth of June, 1829, and who wrote me thisletter on the fifth of September. He felt convinced of his identity,but he did not venture to address him.”
“An Englishman,” said Monte Cristo, who grew uneasy at the attentionwith which Julie looked at him. “An Englishman you say?”
“Yes,” replied Maximilian, “an Englishman, who represented himself asthe confidential clerk of the house of Thomson & French, at Rome. Itwas this that made me start when you said the other day, at M. deMorcerf’s, that Messrs. Thomson & French were your bankers. Thathappened, as I told you, in 1829. For God’s sake, tell me, did you knowthis Englishman?”
“But you tell me, also, that the house of Thomson & French haveconstantly denied having rendered you this service?”
“Yes.”
“Then is it not probable that this Englishman may be someone who,grateful for a kindness your father had shown him, and which he himselfhad forgotten, has taken this method of requiting the obligation?”
“Everything is possible in this affair, even a miracle.”
“What was his name?” asked Monte Cristo.
“He gave no other name,” answered Julie, looking earnestly at thecount, “than that at the end of his letter—‘Sinbad the Sailor.’”
“Which is evidently not his real name, but a fictitious one.”
Then, noticing that Julie was struck with the sound of his voice:
“Tell me,” continued he, “was he not about my height, perhaps a littletaller, with his chin imprisoned, as it were, in a high cravat; hiscoat closely buttoned up, and constantly taking out his pencil?”
“Oh, do you then know him?” cried Julie, whose eyes sparkled with joy.
“No,” returned Monte Cristo “I only guessed. I knew a Lord Wilmore, whowas constantly doing actions of this kind.”
“Without revealing himself?”
“He was an eccentric being, and did not believe in the existence ofgratitude.”
“Oh, Heaven,” exclaimed Julie, clasping her hands, “in what did hebelieve, then?”
30047m


“He did not credit it at the period which I knew him,” said MonteCristo, touched to the heart by the accents of Julie’s voice; “but,perhaps, since then he has had proofs that gratitude does exist.”
“And do you know this gentleman, monsieur?” inquired Emmanuel.
“Oh, if you do know him,” cried Julie, “can you tell us where heis—where we can find him? Maximilian—Emmanuel—if we do but discoverhim, he must believe in the gratitude of the heart!”
Monte Cristo felt tears start into his eyes, and he again walkedhastily up and down the room.
“In the name of Heaven,” said Maximilian, “if you know anything of him,tell us what it is.”
“Alas,” cried Monte Cristo, striving to repress his emotion, “if LordWilmore was your unknown benefactor, I fear you will never see himagain. I parted from him two years ago at Palermo, and he was then onthe point of setting out for the most remote regions; so that I fear hewill never return.”
“Oh, monsieur, this is cruel of you,” said Julie, much affected; andthe young lady’s eyes swam with tears.
“Madame,” replied Monte Cristo gravely, and gazing earnestly on the twoliquid pearls that trickled down Julie’s cheeks, “had Lord Wilmore seenwhat I now see, he would become attached to life, for the tears youshed would reconcile him to mankind;” and he held out his hand toJulie, who gave him hers, carried away by the look and accent of thecount.
“But,” continued she, “Lord Wilmore had a family or friends, he musthave known someone, can we not——”
“Oh, it is useless to inquire,” returned the count; “perhaps, afterall, he was not the man you seek for. He was my friend: he had nosecrets from me, and if this had been so he would have confided in me.”
“And he told you nothing?”
“Not a word.”
“Nothing that would lead you to suppose?”
“Nothing.”
“And yet you spoke of him at once.”
“Ah, in such a case one supposes——”
“Sister, sister,” said Maximilian, coming to the count’s aid, “monsieuris quite right. Recollect what our excellent father so often told us,‘It was no Englishman that thus saved us.’”
Monte Cristo started. “What did your father tell you, M. Morrel?” saidhe eagerly.
“My father thought that this action had been miraculously performed—hebelieved that a benefactor had arisen from the grave to save us. Oh, itwas a touching superstition, monsieur, and although I did not myselfbelieve it, I would not for the world have destroyed my father’s faith.How often did he muse over it and pronounce the name of a dear friend—afriend lost to him forever; and on his death-bed, when the nearapproach of eternity seemed to have illumined his mind withsupernatural light, this thought, which had until then been but adoubt, became a conviction, and his last words were, ‘Maximilian, itwas Edmond Dantès!’”
At these words the count’s paleness, which had for some time beenincreasing, became alarming; he could not speak; he looked at his watchlike a man who has forgotten the hour, said a few hurried words toMadame Herbault, and pressing the hands of Emmanuel andMaximilian,—“Madame,” said he, “I trust you will allow me to visit youoccasionally; I value your friendship, and feel grateful to you foryour welcome, for this is the first time for many years that I havethus yielded to my feelings;” and he hastily quitted the apartment.
“This Count of Monte Cristo is a strange man,” said Emmanuel.
“Yes,” answered Maximilian, “but I feel sure he has an excellent heart,and that he likes us.”
“His voice went to my heart,” observed Julie; “and two or three times Ifancied that I had heard it before.”


 Chapter 51. Pyramus and Thisbe
About two-thirds of the way along the Faubourg Saint-Honoré, and in therear of one of the most imposing mansions in this rich neighborhood,where the various houses vie with each other for elegance of design andmagnificence of construction, extended a large garden, where thewide-spreading chestnut-trees raised their heads high above the wallsin a solid rampart, and with the coming of every spring scattered ashower of delicate pink and white blossoms into the large stone vasesthat stood upon the two square pilasters of a curiously wrought irongate, that dated from the time of Louis XIII.
This noble entrance, however, in spite of its striking appearance andthe graceful effect of the geraniums planted in the two vases, as theywaved their variegated leaves in the wind and charmed the eye withtheir scarlet bloom, had fallen into utter disuse. The proprietors ofthe mansion had many years before thought it best to confine themselvesto the possession of the house itself, with its thickly plantedcourtyard, opening into the Faubourg Saint-Honoré, and to the gardenshut in by this gate, which formerly communicated with a finekitchen-garden of about an acre. For the demon of speculation drew aline, or in other words projected a street, at the farther side of thekitchen-garden. The street was laid out, a name was chosen and postedup on an iron plate, but before construction was begun, it occurred tothe possessor of the property that a handsome sum might be obtained forthe ground then devoted to fruits and vegetables, by building along theline of the proposed street, and so making it a branch of communicationwith the Faubourg Saint-Honoré itself, one of the most importantthoroughfares in the city of Paris.
In matters of speculation, however, though “man proposes,” yet “moneydisposes.” From some such difficulty the newly named street died almostin birth, and the purchaser of the kitchen-garden, having paid a highprice for it, and being quite unable to find anyone willing to take hisbargain off his hands without a considerable loss, yet still clingingto the belief that at some future day he should obtain a sum for itthat would repay him, not only for his past outlay, but also theinterest upon the capital locked up in his new acquisition, contentedhimself with letting the ground temporarily to some market-gardeners,at a yearly rental of 500 francs.
And so, as we have said, the iron gate leading into the kitchen-gardenhad been closed up and left to the rust, which bade fair before long toeat off its hinges, while to prevent the ignoble glances of the diggersand delvers of the ground from presuming to sully the aristocraticenclosure belonging to the mansion, the gate had been boarded up to aheight of six feet. True, the planks were not so closely adjusted butthat a hasty peep might be obtained through their interstices; but thestrict decorum and rigid propriety of the inhabitants of the house leftno grounds for apprehending that advantage would be taken of thatcircumstance.
Horticulture seemed, however, to have been abandoned in the desertedkitchen-garden; and where cabbages, carrots, radishes, peas, and melonshad once flourished, a scanty crop of lucern alone bore evidence of itsbeing deemed worthy of cultivation. A small, low door gave egress fromthe walled space we have been describing into the projected street, theground having been abandoned as unproductive by its various renters,and had now fallen so completely in general estimation as to return noteven the one-half per cent it had originally paid. Towards the housethe chestnut-trees we have before mentioned rose high above the wall,without in any way affecting the growth of other luxuriant shrubs andflowers that eagerly dressed forward to fill up the vacant spaces, asthough asserting their right to enjoy the boon of light and air. At onecorner, where the foliage became so thick as almost to shut out day, alarge stone bench and sundry rustic seats indicated that this shelteredspot was either in general favor or particular use by some inhabitantof the house, which was faintly discernible through the dense mass ofverdure that partially concealed it, though situated but a hundredpaces off.
Whoever had selected this retired portion of the grounds as theboundary of a walk, or as a place for meditation, was abundantlyjustified in the choice by the absence of all glare, the cool,refreshing shade, the screen it afforded from the scorching rays of thesun, that found no entrance there even during the burning days ofhottest summer, the incessant and melodious warbling of birds, and theentire removal from either the noise of the street or the bustle of themansion. On the evening of one of the warmest days spring had yetbestowed on the inhabitants of Paris, might be seen negligently thrownupon the stone bench, a book, a parasol, and a work-basket, from whichhung a partly embroidered cambric handkerchief, while at a littledistance from these articles was a young woman, standing close to theiron gate, endeavoring to discern something on the other side by meansof the openings in the planks,—the earnestness of her attitude and thefixed gaze with which she seemed to seek the object of her wishes,proving how much her feelings were interested in the matter.
At that instant the little side-gate leading from the waste ground tothe street was noiselessly opened, and a tall, powerful young manappeared. He was dressed in a common gray blouse and velvet cap, buthis carefully arranged hair, beard and moustache, all of the richestand glossiest black, ill accorded with his plebeian attire. Aftercasting a rapid glance around him, in order to assure himself that hewas unobserved, he entered by the small gate, and, carefully closingand securing it after him, proceeded with a hurried step towards thebarrier.
At the sight of him she expected, though probably not in such acostume, the young woman started in terror, and was about to make ahasty retreat. But the eye of love had already seen, even through thenarrow chinks of the wooden palisades, the movement of the white robe,and observed the fluttering of the blue sash. Pressing his lips closeto the planks, he exclaimed:
“Don’t be alarmed, Valentine—it is I!”
Again the timid girl found courage to return to the gate, saying, asshe did so:
“And why do you come so late today? It is almost dinner-time, and I hadto use no little diplomacy to get rid of my watchful stepmother, mytoo-devoted maid, and my troublesome brother, who is always teasing meabout coming to work at my embroidery, which I am in a fair way neverto get done. So pray excuse yourself as well as you can for having mademe wait, and, after that, tell me why I see you in a dress so singularthat at first I did not recognize you.”
“Dearest Valentine,” said the young man, “the difference between ourrespective stations makes me fear to offend you by speaking of my love,but yet I cannot find myself in your presence without longing to pourforth my soul, and tell you how fondly I adore you. If it be but tocarry away with me the recollection of such sweet moments, I could eventhank you for chiding me, for it leaves me a gleam of hope, that if youdid not expect me (and that indeed would be worse than vanity tosuppose), at least I was in your thoughts. You asked me the cause of mybeing late, and why I come disguised. I will candidly explain thereason of both, and I trust to your goodness to pardon me. I havechosen a trade.”
“A trade? Oh, Maximilian, how can you jest at a time when we have suchdeep cause for uneasiness?”
“Heaven keep me from jesting with that which is far dearer to me thanlife itself! But listen to me, Valentine, and I will tell you all aboutit. I became weary of ranging fields and scaling walls, and seriouslyalarmed at the idea suggested by you, that if caught hovering abouthere your father would very likely have me sent to prison as a thief.That would compromise the honor of the French army, to say nothing ofthe fact that the continual presence of a captain of Spahis in a placewhere no warlike projects could be supposed to account for it mightwell create surprise; so I have become a gardener, and, consequently,adopted the costume of my calling.”
“What excessive nonsense you talk, Maximilian!”
“Nonsense? Pray do not call what I consider the wisest action of mylife by such a name. Consider, by becoming a gardener I effectuallyscreen our meetings from all suspicion or danger.”
30053m


“I beseech of you, Maximilian, to cease trifling, and tell me what youreally mean.”
“Simply, that having ascertained that the piece of ground on which Istand was to let, I made application for it, was readily accepted bythe proprietor, and am now master of this fine crop of lucern. Think ofthat, Valentine! There is nothing now to prevent my building myself alittle hut on my plantation, and residing not twenty yards from you.Only imagine what happiness that would afford me. I can scarcelycontain myself at the bare idea. Such felicity seems above all price—asa thing impossible and unattainable. But would you believe that Ipurchase all this delight, joy, and happiness, for which I wouldcheerfully have surrendered ten years of my life, at the small cost of500 francs per annum, paid quarterly? Henceforth we have nothing tofear. I am on my own ground, and have an undoubted right to place aladder against the wall, and to look over when I please, without havingany apprehensions of being taken off by the police as a suspiciouscharacter. I may also enjoy the precious privilege of assuring you ofmy fond, faithful, and unalterable affection, whenever you visit yourfavorite bower, unless, indeed, it offends your pride to listen toprofessions of love from the lips of a poor workingman, clad in ablouse and cap.”
A faint cry of mingled pleasure and surprise escaped from the lips ofValentine, who almost instantly said, in a saddened tone, as thoughsome envious cloud darkened the joy which illumined her heart:
“Alas, no, Maximilian, this must not be, for many reasons. We shouldpresume too much on our own strength, and, like others, perhaps, be ledastray by our blind confidence in each other’s prudence.”
“How can you for an instant entertain so unworthy a thought, dearValentine? Have I not, from the first blessed hour of our acquaintance,schooled all my words and actions to your sentiments and ideas? And youhave, I am sure, the fullest confidence in my honor. When you spoke tome of experiencing a vague and indefinite sense of coming danger, Iplaced myself blindly and devotedly at your service, asking no otherreward than the pleasure of being useful to you; and have I ever since,by word or look, given you cause of regret for having selected me fromthe numbers that would willingly have sacrificed their lives for you?You told me, my dear Valentine, that you were engaged to M. d’Épinay,and that your father was resolved upon completing the match, and thatfrom his will there was no appeal, as M. de Villefort was never knownto change a determination once formed. I kept in the background, as youwished, and waited, not for the decision of your heart or my own, buthoping that Providence would graciously interpose in our behalf, andorder events in our favor. But what cared I for delays or difficulties,Valentine, as long as you confessed that you loved me, and took pity onme? If you will only repeat that avowal now and then, I can endureanything.”
“Ah, Maximilian, that is the very thing that makes you so bold, andwhich renders me at once so happy and unhappy, that I frequently askmyself whether it is better for me to endure the harshness of mystepmother, and her blind preference for her own child, or to be, as Inow am, insensible to any pleasure save such as I find in thesemeetings, so fraught with danger to both.”
“I will not admit that word,” returned the young man; “it is at oncecruel and unjust. Is it possible to find a more submissive slave thanmyself? You have permitted me to converse with you from time to time,Valentine, but forbidden my ever following you in your walks orelsewhere—have I not obeyed? And since I found means to enter thisenclosure to exchange a few words with you through this gate—to beclose to you without really seeing you—have I ever asked so much as totouch the hem of your gown or tried to pass this barrier which is but atrifle to one of my youth and strength? Never has a complaint or amurmur escaped me. I have been bound by my promises as rigidly as anyknight of olden times. Come, come, dearest Valentine, confess that whatI say is true, lest I be tempted to call you unjust.”
30055m


“It is true,” said Valentine, as she passed the end of her slenderfingers through a small opening in the planks, and permitted Maximilianto press his lips to them, “and you are a true and faithful friend; butstill you acted from motives of self-interest, my dear Maximilian, foryou well knew that from the moment in which you had manifested anopposite spirit all would have been ended between us. You promised tobestow on me the friendly affection of a brother. For I have no friendbut yourself upon earth, who am neglected and forgotten by my father,harassed and persecuted by my stepmother, and left to the solecompanionship of a paralyzed and speechless old man, whose witheredhand can no longer press mine, and who can speak to me with the eyealone, although there still lingers in his heart the warmest tendernessfor his poor grandchild. Oh, how bitter a fate is mine, to serve eitheras a victim or an enemy to all who are stronger than myself, while myonly friend and supporter is a living corpse! Indeed, indeed,Maximilian, I am very miserable, and if you love me it must be out ofpity.”
“Valentine,” replied the young man, deeply affected, “I will not sayyou are all I love in the world, for I dearly prize my sister andbrother-in-law; but my affection for them is calm and tranquil, in nomanner resembling what I feel for you. When I think of you my heartbeats fast, the blood burns in my veins, and I can hardly breathe; butI solemnly promise you to restrain all this ardor, this fervor andintensity of feeling, until you yourself shall require me to renderthem available in serving or assisting you. M. Franz is not expected toreturn home for a year to come, I am told; in that time many favorableand unforeseen chances may befriend us. Let us, then, hope for thebest; hope is so sweet a comforter. Meanwhile, Valentine, whilereproaching me with selfishness, think a little what you have been tome—the beautiful but cold resemblance of a marble Venus. What promiseof future reward have you made me for all the submission and obedienceI have evinced?—none whatever. What granted me?—scarcely more. You tellme of M. Franz d’Épinay, your betrothed lover, and you shrink from theidea of being his wife; but tell me, Valentine, is there no othersorrow in your heart? You see me devoted to you, body and soul, my lifeand each warm drop that circles round my heart are consecrated to yourservice; you know full well that my existence is bound up in yours—thatwere I to lose you I would not outlive the hour of such crushingmisery; yet you speak with calmness of the prospect of your being thewife of another! Oh, Valentine, were I in your place, and did I feelconscious, as you do, of being worshipped, adored, with such a love asmine, a hundred times at least should I have passed my hand betweenthese iron bars, and said, ‘Take this hand, dearest Maximilian, andbelieve that, living or dead, I am yours—yours only, and forever!’”
The poor girl made no reply, but her lover could plainly hear her sobsand tears. A rapid change took place in the young man’s feelings.
“Dearest, dearest Valentine,” exclaimed he, “forgive me if I haveoffended you, and forget the words I spoke if they have unwittinglycaused you pain.”
“No, Maximilian, I am not offended,” answered she, “but do you not seewhat a poor, helpless being I am, almost a stranger and an outcast inmy father’s house, where even he is seldom seen; whose will has beenthwarted, and spirits broken, from the age of ten years, beneath theiron rod so sternly held over me; oppressed, mortified, and persecuted,day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, no person has cared for,even observed my sufferings, nor have I ever breathed one word on thesubject save to yourself. Outwardly and in the eyes of the world, I amsurrounded by kindness and affection; but the reverse is the case. Thegeneral remark is, ‘Oh, it cannot be expected that one of so stern acharacter as M. Villefort could lavish the tenderness some fathers doon their daughters. What though she has lost her own mother at a tenderage, she has had the happiness to find a second mother in Madame deVillefort.’ The world, however, is mistaken; my father abandons me fromutter indifference, while my stepmother detests me with a hatred somuch the more terrible because it is veiled beneath a continual smile.”
“Hate you, sweet Valentine,” exclaimed the young man; “how is itpossible for anyone to do that?”
“Alas,” replied the weeping girl, “I am obliged to own that mystepmother’s aversion to me arises from a very natural source—heroverweening love for her own child, my brother Edward.”
“But why should it?”
“I do not know; but, though unwilling to introduce money matters intoour present conversation, I will just say this much—that her extremedislike to me has its origin there; and I much fear she envies me thefortune I enjoy in right of my mother, and which will be more thandoubled at the death of M. and Mme. de Saint-Méran, whose sole heiressI am. Madame de Villefort has nothing of her own, and hates me forbeing so richly endowed. Alas, how gladly would I exchange the half ofthis wealth for the happiness of at least sharing my father’s love. Godknows, I would prefer sacrificing the whole, so that it would obtain mea happy and affectionate home.”
“Poor Valentine!”
“I seem to myself as though living a life of bondage, yet at the sametime am so conscious of my own weakness that I fear to break therestraint in which I am held, lest I fall utterly helpless. Then, too,my father is not a person whose orders may be infringed with impunity;protected as he is by his high position and firmly establishedreputation for talent and unswerving integrity, no one could opposehim; he is all-powerful even with the king; he would crush you at aword. Dear Maximilian, believe me when I assure you that if I do notattempt to resist my father’s commands it is more on your account thanmy own.”
“But why, Valentine, do you persist in anticipating the worst,—whypicture so gloomy a future?”
“Because I judge it from the past.”
“Still, consider that although I may not be, strictly speaking, what istermed an illustrious match for you, I am, for many reasons, notaltogether so much beneath your alliance. The days when suchdistinctions were so nicely weighed and considered no longer exist inFrance, and the first families of the monarchy have intermarried withthose of the empire. The aristocracy of the lance has allied itselfwith the nobility of the cannon. Now I belong to this last-named class;and certainly my prospects of military preferment are most encouragingas well as certain. My fortune, though small, is free and unfettered,and the memory of my late father is respected in our country,Valentine, as that of the most upright and honorable merchant of thecity; I say our country, because you were born not far fromMarseilles.”
“Don’t speak of Marseilles, I beg of you, Maximilian; that one wordbrings back my mother to my recollection—my angel mother, who died toosoon for myself and all who knew her; but who, after watching over herchild during the brief period allotted to her in this world, now, Ifondly hope, watches from her home in heaven. Oh, if my mother werestill living, there would be nothing to fear, Maximilian, for I wouldtell her that I loved you, and she would protect us.”
“I fear, Valentine,” replied the lover, “that were she living I shouldnever have had the happiness of knowing you; you would then have beentoo happy to have stooped from your grandeur to bestow a thought onme.”
“Now it is you who are unjust, Maximilian,” cried Valentine; “but thereis one thing I wish to know.”
“And what is that?” inquired the young man, perceiving that Valentinehesitated.
“Tell me truly, Maximilian, whether in former days, when our fathersdwelt at Marseilles, there was ever any misunderstanding between them?”
“Not that I am aware of,” replied the young man, “unless, indeed, anyill-feeling might have arisen from their being of opposite parties—yourfather was, as you know, a zealous partisan of the Bourbons, while minewas wholly devoted to the emperor; there could not possibly be anyother difference between them. But why do you ask?”
“I will tell you,” replied the young girl, “for it is but right youshould know. Well, on the day when your appointment as an officer ofthe Legion of Honor was announced in the papers, we were all sittingwith my grandfather, M. Noirtier; M. Danglars was there also—yourecollect M. Danglars, do you not, Maximilian, the banker, whose horsesran away with my stepmother and little brother, and very nearly killedthem? While the rest of the company were discussing the approachingmarriage of Mademoiselle Danglars, I was reading the paper to mygrandfather; but when I came to the paragraph about you, although I haddone nothing else but read it over to myself all the morning (you knowyou had told me all about it the previous evening), I felt so happy,and yet so nervous, at the idea of speaking your name aloud, and beforeso many people, that I really think I should have passed it over, butfor the fear that my doing so might create suspicions as to the causeof my silence; so I summoned up all my courage, and read it as firmlyand as steadily as I could.”
30059m


“Dear Valentine!”
“Well, would you believe it? directly my father caught the sound ofyour name he turned round quite hastily, and, like a poor silly thing,I was so persuaded that everyone must be as much affected as myself bythe utterance of your name, that I was not surprised to see my fatherstart, and almost tremble; but I even thought (though that surely musthave been a mistake) that M. Danglars trembled too.”
“‘Morrel, Morrel,’ cried my father, ‘stop a bit;’ then knitting hisbrows into a deep frown, he added, ‘surely this cannot be one of theMorrel family who lived at Marseilles, and gave us so much trouble fromtheir violent Bonapartism—I mean about the year 1815.’
“‘Yes,’ replied M. Danglars, ‘I believe he is the son of the oldshipowner.’”
“Indeed,” answered Maximilian; “and what did your father say then,Valentine?”
“Oh, such a dreadful thing, that I don’t dare to tell you.”
“Always tell me everything,” said Maximilian with a smile.
“‘Ah,’ continued my father, still frowning, ‘their idolized emperortreated these madmen as they deserved; he called them ‘food forcannon,’ which was precisely all they were good for; and I am delightedto see that the present government have adopted this salutary principlewith all its pristine vigor; if Algiers were good for nothing but tofurnish the means of carrying so admirable an idea into practice, itwould be an acquisition well worthy of struggling to obtain. Though itcertainly does cost France somewhat dear to assert her rights in thatuncivilized country.’”
“Brutal politics, I must confess.” said Maximilian; “but don’t attachany serious importance, dear, to what your father said. My father wasnot a bit behind yours in that sort of talk. ‘Why,’ said he, ‘does notthe emperor, who has devised so many clever and efficient modes ofimproving the art of war, organize a regiment of lawyers, judges andlegal practitioners, sending them in the hottest fire the enemy couldmaintain, and using them to save better men?’ You see, my dear, thatfor picturesque expression and generosity of spirit there is not muchto choose between the language of either party. But what did M.Danglars say to this outburst on the part of the procureur?”
“Oh, he laughed, and in that singular manner so peculiar tohimself—half-malicious, half-ferocious; he almost immediately got upand took his leave; then, for the first time, I observed the agitationof my grandfather, and I must tell you, Maximilian, that I am the onlyperson capable of discerning emotion in his paralyzed frame. And Isuspected that the conversation that had been carried on in hispresence (for they always say and do what they like before the dear oldman, without the smallest regard for his feelings) had made a strongimpression on his mind; for, naturally enough, it must have pained himto hear the emperor he so devotedly loved and served spoken of in thatdepreciating manner.”
“The name of M. Noirtier,” interposed Maximilian, “is celebratedthroughout Europe; he was a statesman of high standing, and you may ormay not know, Valentine, that he took a leading part in everyBonapartist conspiracy set on foot during the restoration of theBourbons.”
“Oh, I have often heard whispers of things that seem to me moststrange—the father a Bonapartist, the son a Royalist; what can havebeen the reason of so singular a difference in parties and politics?But to resume my story; I turned towards my grandfather, as though toquestion him as to the cause of his emotion; he looked expressively atthe newspaper I had been reading. ‘What is the matter, deargrandfather?’ said I, ‘are you pleased?’ He gave me a sign in theaffirmative. ‘With what my father said just now?’ He returned a sign inthe negative. ‘Perhaps you liked what M. Danglars said?’ Another signin the negative. ‘Oh, then, you were glad to hear that M. Morrel (Ididn’t dare to say Maximilian) had been made an officer of the Legionof Honor?’ He signified assent; only think of the poor old man’s beingso pleased to think that you, who were a perfect stranger to him, hadbeen made an officer of the Legion of Honor! Perhaps it was a mere whimon his part, for he is falling, they say, into second childhood, but Ilove him for showing so much interest in you.”
“How singular,” murmured Maximilian; “your father hates me, while yourgrandfather, on the contrary—What strange feelings are aroused bypolitics.”
“Hush,” cried Valentine, suddenly; “someone is coming!” Maximilianleaped at one bound into his crop of lucern, which he began to pull upin the most ruthless way, under the pretext of being occupied inweeding it.
“Mademoiselle, mademoiselle!” exclaimed a voice from behind the trees.“Madame is searching for you everywhere; there is a visitor in thedrawing-room.”
“A visitor?” inquired Valentine, much agitated; “who is it?”
“Some grand personage—a prince I believe they said—the Count of MonteCristo.”
“I will come directly,” cried Valentine aloud.
The name of Monte Cristo sent an electric shock through the young manon the other side of the iron gate, to whom Valentine’s _“I am coming”_was the customary signal of farewell.
“Now, then,” said Maximilian, leaning on the handle of his spade, “Iwould give a good deal to know how it comes about that the Count ofMonte Cristo is acquainted with M. de Villefort.”


 Chapter 52. Toxicology
It was really the Count of Monte Cristo who had just arrived at Madamede Villefort’s for the purpose of returning the procureur’s visit, andat his name, as may be easily imagined, the whole house was inconfusion.
Madame de Villefort, who was alone in her drawing-room when the countwas announced, desired that her son might be brought thither instantlyto renew his thanks to the count; and Edward, who heard this greatpersonage talked of for two whole days, made all possible haste to cometo him, not from obedience to his mother, or out of any feeling ofgratitude to the count, but from sheer curiosity, and that some chanceremark might give him the opportunity for making one of the impertinentspeeches which made his mother say:
“Oh, that naughty child! But I can’t be severe with him, he is really_so_ bright.”
After the usual civilities, the count inquired after M. de Villefort.
“My husband dines with the chancellor,” replied the young lady; “he hasjust gone, and I am sure he’ll be exceedingly sorry not to have had thepleasure of seeing you before he went.”
Two visitors who were there when the count arrived, having gazed at himwith all their eyes, retired after that reasonable delay whichpoliteness admits and curiosity requires.
“What is your sister Valentine doing?” inquired Madame de Villefort ofEdward; “tell someone to bid her come here, that I may have the honorof introducing her to the count.”
“You have a daughter, then, madame?” inquired the count; “very young, Ipresume?”
“The daughter of M. de Villefort by his first marriage,” replied theyoung wife, “a fine well-grown girl.”
“But melancholy,” interrupted Master Edward, snatching the feathers outof the tail of a splendid paroquet that was screaming on its gildedperch, in order to make a plume for his hat.
Madame de Villefort merely cried, “Be still, Edward!” She then added,“This young madcap is, however, very nearly right, and merely re-echoeswhat he has heard me say with pain a hundred times; for Mademoiselle deVillefort is, in spite of all we can do to rouse her, of a melancholydisposition and taciturn habit, which frequently injure the effect ofher beauty. But what detains her? Go, Edward, and see.”
“Because they are looking for her where she is not to be found.”
“And where are they looking for her?”
“With grandpapa Noirtier.”
“And do you think she is not there?”
“No, no, no, no, no, she is not there,” replied Edward, singing hiswords.
“And where is she, then? If you know, why don’t you tell?”
“She is under the big chestnut-tree,” replied the spoiled brat, as hegave, in spite of his mother’s commands, live flies to the parrot,which seemed keenly to relish such fare.
Madame de Villefort stretched out her hand to ring, intending to directher waiting-maid to the spot where she would find Valentine, when theyoung lady herself entered the apartment. She appeared much dejected;and any person who considered her attentively might have observed thetraces of recent tears in her eyes.
Valentine, whom we have in the rapid march of our narrative presentedto our readers without formally introducing her, was a tall andgraceful girl of nineteen, with bright chestnut hair, deep blue eyes,and that reposeful air of quiet distinction which characterized hermother. Her white and slender fingers, her pearly neck, her cheekstinted with varying hues reminded one of the lovely Englishwomen whohave been so poetically compared in their manner to the gracefulness ofa swan.
She entered the apartment, and seeing near her stepmother the strangerof whom she had already heard so much, saluted him without any girlishawkwardness, or even lowering her eyes, and with an elegance thatredoubled the count’s attention.
He rose to return the salutation.
“Mademoiselle de Villefort, my step-daughter,” said Madame de Villefortto Monte Cristo, leaning back on her sofa and motioning towardsValentine with her hand.
“And M. de Monte Cristo, King of China, Emperor of Cochin-China,” saidthe young imp, looking slyly towards his sister.
Madame de Villefort at this really did turn pale, and was very nearlyangry with this household plague, who answered to the name of Edward;but the count, on the contrary, smiled, and appeared to look at the boycomplacently, which caused the maternal heart to bound again with joyand enthusiasm.
“But, madame,” replied the count, continuing the conversation, andlooking by turns at Madame de Villefort and Valentine, “have I notalready had the honor of meeting yourself and mademoiselle before? Icould not help thinking so just now; the idea came over my mind, and asmademoiselle entered the sight of her was an additional ray of lightthrown on a confused remembrance; excuse the remark.”
“I do not think it likely, sir; Mademoiselle de Villefort is not veryfond of society, and we very seldom go out,” said the young lady.
“Then it was not in society that I met with mademoiselle or yourself,madame, or this charming little merry boy. Besides, the Parisian worldis entirely unknown to me, for, as I believe I told you, I have been inParis but very few days. No,—but, perhaps, you will permit me to callto mind—stay!”
The Count placed his hand on his brow as if to collect his thoughts.
“No—it was somewhere—away from here—it was—I do not know—but it appearsthat this recollection is connected with a lovely sky and somereligious _fête_; mademoiselle was holding flowers in her hand, theinteresting boy was chasing a beautiful peacock in a garden, and you,madame, were under the trellis of some arbor. Pray come to my aid,madame; do not these circumstances appeal to your memory?”
“No, indeed,” replied Madame de Villefort; “and yet it appears to me,sir, that if I had met you anywhere, the recollection of you must havebeen imprinted on my memory.”
“Perhaps the count saw us in Italy,” said Valentine timidly.
“Yes, in Italy; it was in Italy most probably,” replied Monte Cristo;“you have travelled then in Italy, mademoiselle?”
“Yes; madame and I were there two years ago. The doctors, anxious formy lungs, had prescribed the air of Naples. We went by Bologna,Perugia, and Rome.”
“Ah, yes—true, mademoiselle,” exclaimed Monte Cristo as if this simpleexplanation was sufficient to revive the recollection he sought. “Itwas at Perugia on Corpus Christi Day, in the garden of the Hôtel desPostes, when chance brought us together; you, Madame de Villefort, andher son; I now remember having had the honor of meeting you.”
“I perfectly well remember Perugia, sir, and the Hôtel des Postes, andthe festival of which you speak,” said Madame de Villefort, “but invain do I tax my memory, of whose treachery I am ashamed, for I reallydo not recall to mind that I ever had the pleasure of seeing youbefore.”
“It is strange, but neither do I recollect meeting with you,” observedValentine, raising her beautiful eyes to the count.
30065m


“But I remember it perfectly,” interposed the darling Edward.
“I will assist your memory, madame,” continued the count; “the day hadbeen burning hot; you were waiting for horses, which were delayed inconsequence of the festival. Mademoiselle was walking in the shade ofthe garden, and your son disappeared in pursuit of the peacock.”
“And I caught it, mamma, don’t you remember?” interposed Edward, “and Ipulled three such beautiful feathers out of his tail.”
“You, madame, remained under the arbor; do you not remember, that whileyou were seated on a stone bench, and while, as I told you,Mademoiselle de Villefort and your young son were absent, you conversedfor a considerable time with somebody?”
“Yes, in truth, yes,” answered the young lady, turning very red, “I doremember conversing with a person wrapped in a long woollen mantle; hewas a medical man, I think.”
“Precisely so, madame; this man was myself; for a fortnight I had beenat that hotel, during which period I had cured my valet de chambre of afever, and my landlord of the jaundice, so that I really acquired areputation as a skilful physician. We discoursed a long time, madame,on different subjects; of Perugino, of Raphael, of manners, customs, ofthe famous _aqua Tofana_, of which they had told you, I think you said,that certain individuals in Perugia had preserved the secret.”
“Yes, true,” replied Madame de Villefort, somewhat uneasily, “Iremember now.”
“I do not recollect now all the various subjects of which wediscoursed, madame,” continued the count with perfect calmness; “but Iperfectly remember that, falling into the error which others hadentertained respecting me, you consulted me as to the health ofMademoiselle de Villefort.”
“Yes, really, sir, you were in fact a medical man,” said Madame deVillefort, “since you had cured the sick.”
“Molière or Beaumarchais would reply to you, madame, that it wasprecisely because I was not, that I had cured my patients; for myself,I am content to say to you that I have studied chemistry and thenatural sciences somewhat deeply, but still only as an amateur, youunderstand.”
At this moment the clock struck six.
“It is six o’clock,” said Madame de Villefort, evidently agitated.“Valentine, will you not go and see if your grandpapa will have hisdinner?”
Valentine rose, and saluting the count, left the apartment withoutspeaking.
“Oh, madame,” said the count, when Valentine had left the room, “was iton my account that you sent Mademoiselle de Villefort away?”
“By no means,” replied the young lady quickly; “but this is the hourwhen we usually give M. Noirtier the unwelcome meal that sustains hispitiful existence. You are aware, sir, of the deplorable condition ofmy husband’s father?”
“Yes, madame, M. de Villefort spoke of it to me—a paralysis, I think.”
“Alas, yes; the poor old gentleman is entirely helpless; the mind aloneis still active in this human machine, and that is faint andflickering, like the light of a lamp about to expire. But excuse me,sir, for talking of our domestic misfortunes; I interrupted you at themoment when you were telling me that you were a skilful chemist.”
“No, madame, I did not say as much as that,” replied the count with asmile; “quite the contrary. I have studied chemistry because, havingdetermined to live in eastern climates I have been desirous offollowing the example of King Mithridates.”
“_Mithridates, rex Ponticus_,” said the young scamp, as he tore somebeautiful portraits out of a splendid album, “the individual who tookcream in his cup of poison every morning at breakfast.”
“Edward, you naughty boy,” exclaimed Madame de Villefort, snatching themutilated book from the urchin’s grasp, “you are positively pastbearing; you really disturb the conversation; go, leave us, and joinyour sister Valentine in dear grandpapa Noirtier’s room.”
“The album,” said Edward sulkily.
“What do you mean?—the album!”
“I want the album.”
“How dare you tear out the drawings?”
“Oh, it amuses me.”
“Go—go at once.”
“I won’t go unless you give me the album,” said the boy, seatinghimself doggedly in an armchair, according to his habit of never givingway.
“Take it, then, and pray disturb us no longer,” said Madame deVillefort, giving the album to Edward, who then went towards the door,led by his mother. The count followed her with his eyes.
“Let us see if she shuts the door after him,” he muttered.
Madame de Villefort closed the door carefully after the child, thecount appearing not to notice her; then casting a scrutinizing glancearound the chamber, the young wife returned to her chair, in which sheseated herself.
“Allow me to observe, madame,” said the count, with that kind tone hecould assume so well, “you are really very severe with that dear cleverchild.”
“Oh, sometimes severity is quite necessary,” replied Madame deVillefort, with all a mother’s real firmness.
“It was his Cornelius Nepos that Master Edward was repeating when hereferred to King Mithridates,” continued the count, “and youinterrupted him in a quotation which proves that his tutor has by nomeans neglected him, for your son is really advanced for his years.”
“The fact is, count,” answered the mother, agreeably flattered, “he hasgreat aptitude, and learns all that is set before him. He has but onefault, he is somewhat wilful; but really, on referring for the momentto what he said, do you truly believe that Mithridates used theseprecautions, and that these precautions were efficacious?”
“I think so, madame, because I myself have made use of them, that Imight not be poisoned at Naples, at Palermo, and at Smyrna—that is tosay, on three several occasions when, but for these precautions, I musthave lost my life.”
“And your precautions were successful?”
“Completely so.”
“Yes, I remember now your mentioning to me at Perugia something of thissort.”
“Indeed?” said the count with an air of surprise, remarkably wellcounterfeited; “I really did not remember.”
“I inquired of you if poisons acted equally, and with the same effect,on men of the North as on men of the South; and you answered me thatthe cold and sluggish habits of the North did not present the sameaptitude as the rich and energetic temperaments of the natives of theSouth.”
“And that is the case,” observed Monte Cristo. “I have seen Russiansdevour, without being visibly inconvenienced, vegetable substanceswhich would infallibly have killed a Neapolitan or an Arab.”
“And you really believe the result would be still more sure with usthan in the East, and in the midst of our fogs and rains a man wouldhabituate himself more easily than in a warm latitude to thisprogressive absorption of poison?”
“Certainly; it being at the same time perfectly understood that heshould have been duly fortified against the poison to which he had notbeen accustomed.”
“Yes, I understand that; and how would you habituate yourself, forinstance, or rather, how did you habituate yourself to it?”
“Oh, very easily. Suppose you knew beforehand the poison that would bemade use of against you; suppose the poison was, for instance,brucine——”
“Brucine is extracted from the false angostura8 is it not?” inquiredMadame de Villefort.
“Precisely, madame,” replied Monte Cristo; “but I perceive I have notmuch to teach you. Allow me to compliment you on your knowledge; suchlearning is very rare among ladies.”
“Oh, I am aware of that,” said Madame de Villefort; “but I have apassion for the occult sciences, which speak to the imagination likepoetry, and are reducible to figures, like an algebraic equation; butgo on, I beg of you; what you say interests me to the greatest degree.”
30069m


“Well,” replied Monte Cristo “suppose, then, that this poison wasbrucine, and you were to take a milligramme the first day, twomilligrammes the second day, and so on. Well, at the end of ten daysyou would have taken a centigramme, at the end of twenty days,increasing another milligramme, you would have taken three hundredcentigrammes; that is to say, a dose which you would support withoutinconvenience, and which would be very dangerous for any other personwho had not taken the same precautions as yourself. Well, then, at theend of a month, when drinking water from the same carafe, you wouldkill the person who drank with you, without your perceiving, otherwisethan from slight inconvenience, that there was any poisonous substancemingled with this water.”
“Do you know any other counter-poisons?”
“I do not.”
“I have often read, and read again, the history of Mithridates,” saidMadame de Villefort in a tone of reflection, “and had always consideredit a fable.”
“No, madame, contrary to most history, it is true; but what you tellme, madame, what you inquire of me, is not the result of a chancequery, for two years ago you asked me the same questions, and saidthen, that for a very long time this history of Mithridates hadoccupied your mind.”
“True, sir. The two favorite studies of my youth were botany andmineralogy, and subsequently, when I learned that the use of simplesfrequently explained the whole history of a people, and the entire lifeof individuals in the East, as flowers betoken and symbolize a loveaffair, I have regretted that I was not a man, that I might have been aFlamel, a Fontana, or a Cabanis.”
“And the more, madame,” said Monte Cristo, “as the Orientals do notconfine themselves, as did Mithridates, to make a cuirass of hispoisons, but they also made them a dagger. Science becomes, in theirhands, not only a defensive weapon, but still more frequently anoffensive one; the one serves against all their physical sufferings,the other against all their enemies. With opium, belladonna, brucea,snake-wood, and the cherry-laurel, they put to sleep all who stand intheir way. There is not one of those women, Egyptian, Turkish, orGreek, whom here you call ‘good women,’ who do not know how, by meansof chemistry, to stupefy a doctor, and in psychology to amaze aconfessor.”
“Really,” said Madame de Villefort, whose eyes sparkled with strangefire at this conversation.
“Oh, yes, indeed, madame,” continued Monte Cristo, “the secret dramasof the East begin with a love philtre and end with a death potion—beginwith paradise and end with—hell. There are as many elixirs of everykind as there are caprices and peculiarities in the physical and moralnature of humanity; and I will say further—the art of these chemists iscapable with the utmost precision to accommodate and proportion theremedy and the bane to yearnings for love or desires for vengeance.”
“But, sir,” remarked the young woman, “these Eastern societies, in themidst of which you have passed a portion of your existence, are asfantastic as the tales that come from their strange land. A man caneasily be put out of the way there, then; it is, indeed, the Bagdad andBassora of the _Thousand and One Nights_. The sultans and viziers whorule over society there, and who constitute what in France we call thegovernment, are really Haroun-al-Raschids and Giaffars, who not onlypardon a poisoner, but even make him a prime minister, if his crime hasbeen an ingenious one, and who, under such circumstances, have thewhole story written in letters of gold, to divert their hours ofidleness and _ennui_.”
“By no means, madame; the fanciful exists no longer in the East. There,disguised under other names, and concealed under other costumes, arepolice agents, magistrates, attorneys-general, and bailiffs. They hang,behead, and impale their criminals in the most agreeable possiblemanner; but some of these, like clever rogues, have contrived to escapehuman justice, and succeed in their fraudulent enterprises by cunningstratagems. Amongst us a simpleton, possessed by the demon of hate orcupidity, who has an enemy to destroy, or some near relation to disposeof, goes straight to the grocer’s or druggist’s, gives a false name,which leads more easily to his detection than his real one, and underthe pretext that the rats prevent him from sleeping, purchases five orsix grammes of arsenic—if he is really a cunning fellow, he goes tofive or six different druggists or grocers, and thereby becomes onlyfive or six times more easily traced;—then, when he has acquired hisspecific, he administers duly to his enemy, or near kinsman, a dose ofarsenic which would make a mammoth or mastodon burst, and which,without rhyme or reason, makes his victim utter groans which alarm theentire neighborhood. Then arrive a crowd of policemen and constables.They fetch a doctor, who opens the dead body, and collects from theentrails and stomach a quantity of arsenic in a spoon. Next day ahundred newspapers relate the fact, with the names of the victim andthe murderer. The same evening the grocer or grocers, druggist ordruggists, come and say, ‘It was I who sold the arsenic to thegentleman;’ and rather than not recognize the guilty purchaser, theywill recognize twenty. Then the foolish criminal is taken, imprisoned,interrogated, confronted, confounded, condemned, and cut off by hemp orsteel; or if she be a woman of any consideration, they lock her up forlife. This is the way in which you Northerns understand chemistry,madame. Desrues was, however, I must confess, more skilful.”
“What would you have, sir?” said the lady, laughing; “we do what wecan. All the world has not the secret of the Medicis or the Borgias.”
“Now,” replied the count, shrugging his shoulders, “shall I tell youthe cause of all these stupidities? It is because, at your theatres, bywhat at least I could judge by reading the pieces they play, they seepersons swallow the contents of a phial, or suck the button of a ring,and fall dead instantly. Five minutes afterwards the curtain falls, andthe spectators depart. They are ignorant of the consequences of themurder; they see neither the police commissary with his badge ofoffice, nor the corporal with his four men; and so the poor foolsbelieve that the whole thing is as easy as lying. But go a little wayfrom France—go either to Aleppo or Cairo, or only to Naples or Rome,and you will see people passing by you in the streets—people erect,smiling, and fresh-colored, of whom Asmodeus, if you were holding on bythe skirt of his mantle, would say, ‘That man was poisoned three weeksago; he will be a dead man in a month.’”
“Then,” remarked Madame de Villefort, “they have again discovered thesecret of the famous _aqua Tofana_ that they said was lost at Perugia.”
“Ah, but madame, does mankind ever lose anything? The arts change aboutand make a tour of the world; things take a different name, and thevulgar do not follow them—that is all; but there is always the sameresult. Poisons act particularly on some organ or another—one on thestomach, another on the brain, another on the intestines. Well, thepoison brings on a cough, the cough an inflammation of the lungs, orsome other complaint catalogued in the book of science, which, however,by no means precludes it from being decidedly mortal; and if it werenot, would be sure to become so, thanks to the remedies applied byfoolish doctors, who are generally bad chemists, and which will act infavor of or against the malady, as you please; and then there is ahuman being killed according to all the rules of art and skill, and ofwhom justice learns nothing, as was said by a terrible chemist of myacquaintance, the worthy Abbé Adelmonte of Taormina, in Sicily, who hasstudied these national phenomena very profoundly.”
“It is quite frightful, but deeply interesting,” said the young lady,motionless with attention. “I thought, I must confess, that thesetales, were inventions of the Middle Ages.”
“Yes, no doubt, but improved upon by ours. What is the use of time,rewards of merit, medals, crosses, Monthyon prizes, if they do not leadsociety towards more complete perfection? Yet man will never be perfectuntil he learns to create and destroy; he does know how to destroy, andthat is half the battle.”
“So,” added Madame de Villefort, constantly returning to her object,“the poisons of the Borgias, the Medicis, the Renées, the Ruggieris,and later, probably, that of Baron de Trenck, whose story has been somisused by modern drama and romance——”
“Were objects of art, madame, and nothing more,” replied the count. “Doyou suppose that the real _savant_ addresses himself stupidly to themere individual? By no means. Science loves eccentricities, leaps andbounds, trials of strength, fancies, if I may be allowed so to termthem. Thus, for instance, the excellent Abbé Adelmonte, of whom I spokejust now, made in this way some marvellous experiments.”
“Really?”
“Yes; I will mention one to you. He had a remarkably fine garden, fullof vegetables, flowers, and fruit. From amongst these vegetables heselected the most simple—a cabbage, for instance. For three days hewatered this cabbage with a distillation of arsenic; on the third, thecabbage began to droop and turn yellow. At that moment he cut it. Inthe eyes of everybody it seemed fit for table, and preserved itswholesome appearance. It was only poisoned to the Abbé Adelmonte. Hethen took the cabbage to the room where he had rabbits—for the AbbéAdelmonte had a collection of rabbits, cats, and guinea-pigs, fully asfine as his collection of vegetables, flowers, and fruit. Well, theAbbé Adelmonte took a rabbit, and made it eat a leaf of the cabbage.The rabbit died. What magistrate would find, or even venture toinsinuate, anything against this? What procureur has ever ventured todraw up an accusation against M. Magendie or M. Flourens, inconsequence of the rabbits, cats, and guinea-pigs they have killed?—notone. So, then, the rabbit dies, and justice takes no notice. Thisrabbit dead, the Abbé Adelmonte has its entrails taken out by his cookand thrown on the dunghill; on this dunghill is a hen, who, peckingthese intestines, is in her turn taken ill, and dies next day. At themoment when she is struggling in the convulsions of death, a vulture isflying by (there are a good many vultures in Adelmonte’s country); thisbird darts on the dead fowl, and carries it away to a rock, where itdines off its prey. Three days afterwards, this poor vulture, which hasbeen very much indisposed since that dinner, suddenly feels very giddywhile flying aloft in the clouds, and falls heavily into a fish-pond.The pike, eels, and carp eat greedily always, as everybody knows—well,they feast on the vulture. Now suppose that next day, one of theseeels, or pike, or carp, poisoned at the fourth remove, is served up atyour table. Well, then, your guest will be poisoned at the fifthremove, and die, at the end of eight or ten days, of pains in theintestines, sickness, or abscess of the pylorus. The doctors open thebody and say with an air of profound learning, ‘The subject has died ofa tumor on the liver, or of typhoid fever!’”
“But,” remarked Madame de Villefort, “all these circumstances which youlink thus to one another may be broken by the least accident; thevulture may not see the fowl, or may fall a hundred yards from thefish-pond.”
“Ah, that is where the art comes in. To be a great chemist in the East,one must direct chance; and this is to be achieved.”
Madame de Villefort was in deep thought, yet listened attentively.
“But,” she exclaimed, suddenly, “arsenic is indelible, indestructible;in whatsoever way it is absorbed, it will be found again in the body ofthe victim from the moment when it has been taken in sufficientquantity to cause death.”
“Precisely so,” cried Monte Cristo—“precisely so; and this is what Isaid to my worthy Adelmonte. He reflected, smiled, and replied to me bya Sicilian proverb, which I believe is also a French proverb, ‘My son,the world was not made in a day—but in seven. Return on Sunday.’ On theSunday following I did return to him. Instead of having watered hiscabbage with arsenic, he had watered it this time with a solution ofsalts, having their basis in strychnine, _strychnos colubrina_, as thelearned term it. Now, the cabbage had not the slightest appearance ofdisease in the world, and the rabbit had not the smallest distrust;yet, five minutes afterwards, the rabbit was dead. The fowl pecked atthe rabbit, and the next day was a dead hen. This time we were thevultures; so we opened the bird, and this time all special symptoms haddisappeared, there were only general symptoms. There was no peculiarindication in any organ—an excitement of the nervous system—that wasit; a case of cerebral congestion—nothing more. The fowl had not beenpoisoned—she had died of apoplexy. Apoplexy is a rare disease amongfowls, I believe, but very common among men.”
Madame de Villefort appeared more and more thoughtful.
“It is very fortunate,” she observed, “that such substances could onlybe prepared by chemists; otherwise, all the world would be poisoningeach other.”
“By chemists and persons who have a taste for chemistry,” said MonteCristo carelessly.
“And then,” said Madame de Villefort, endeavoring by a struggle, andwith effort, to get away from her thoughts, “however skilfully it isprepared, crime is always crime, and if it avoid human scrutiny, itdoes not escape the eye of God. The Orientals are stronger than we arein cases of conscience, and, very prudently, have no hell—that is thepoint.”
30075m


“Really, madame, this is a scruple which naturally must occur to a puremind like yours, but which would easily yield before sound reasoning.The bad side of human thought will always be defined by the paradox ofJean Jacques Rousseau,—you remember,—the mandarin who is killed fivehundred leagues off by raising the tip of the finger. Man’s whole lifepasses in doing these things, and his intellect is exhausted byreflecting on them. You will find very few persons who will go andbrutally thrust a knife in the heart of a fellow-creature, or willadminister to him, in order to remove him from the surface of the globeon which we move with life and animation, that quantity of arsenic ofwhich we just now talked. Such a thing is really out of rule—eccentricor stupid. To attain such a point, the blood must be heated tothirty-six degrees, the pulse be, at least, at ninety, and the feelingsexcited beyond the ordinary limit. But suppose one pass, as ispermissible in philology, from the word itself to its softened synonym,then, instead of committing an ignoble assassination you make an‘elimination;’ you merely and simply remove from your path theindividual who is in your way, and that without shock or violence,without the display of the sufferings which, in the case of becoming apunishment, make a martyr of the victim, and a butcher, in every senseof the word, of him who inflicts them. Then there will be no blood, nogroans, no convulsions, and above all, no consciousness of that horridand compromising moment of accomplishing the act,—then one escapes theclutch of the human law, which says, ‘Do not disturb society!’ This isthe mode in which they manage these things, and succeed in Easternclimes, where there are grave and phlegmatic persons who care verylittle for the questions of time in conjunctures of importance.”
“Yet conscience remains,” remarked Madame de Villefort in an agitatedvoice, and with a stifled sigh.
“Yes,” answered Monte Cristo “happily, yes, conscience does remain; andif it did not, how wretched we should be! After every action requiringexertion, it is conscience that saves us, for it supplies us with athousand good excuses, of which we alone are judges; and these reasons,howsoever excellent in producing sleep, would avail us but very littlebefore a tribunal, when we were tried for our lives. Thus Richard III.,for instance, was marvellously served by his conscience after theputting away of the two children of Edward IV.; in fact, he could say,‘These two children of a cruel and persecuting king, who have inheritedthe vices of their father, which I alone could perceive in theirjuvenile propensities—these two children are impediments in my way ofpromoting the happiness of the English people, whose unhappiness they(the children) would infallibly have caused.’ Thus was Lady Macbethserved by her conscience, when she sought to give her son, and not herhusband (whatever Shakespeare may say), a throne. Ah, maternal love isa great virtue, a powerful motive—so powerful that it excuses amultitude of things, even if, after Duncan’s death, Lady Macbeth hadbeen at all pricked by her conscience.”
Madame de Villefort listened with avidity to these appalling maxims andhorrible paradoxes, delivered by the count with that ironicalsimplicity which was peculiar to him.
After a moment’s silence, the lady inquired:
“Do you know, my dear count,” she said, “that you are a very terriblereasoner, and that you look at the world through a somewhat distemperedmedium? Have you really measured the world by scrutinies, or throughalembics and crucibles? For you must indeed be a great chemist, and theelixir you administered to my son, which recalled him to life almostinstantaneously——”
30077m


“Oh, do not place any reliance on that, madame; _one_ drop of thatelixir sufficed to recall life to a dying child, but three drops wouldhave impelled the blood into his lungs in such a way as to haveproduced most violent palpitations; six would have suspended hisrespiration, and caused syncope more serious than that in which he was;ten would have destroyed him. You know, madame, how suddenly I snatchedhim from those phials which he so imprudently touched?”
“Is it then so terrible a poison?”
“Oh, no! In the first place, let us agree that the word poison does notexist, because in medicine use is made of the most violent poisons,which become, according as they are employed, most salutary remedies.”
“What, then, is it?”
“A skilful preparation of my friend’s the worthy Abbé Adelmonte, whotaught me the use of it.”
“Oh,” observed Madame de Villefort, “it must be an admirableanti-spasmodic.”
“Perfect, madame, as you have seen,” replied the count; “and Ifrequently make use of it—with all possible prudence though, be itobserved,” he added with a smile of intelligence.
“Most assuredly,” responded Madame de Villefort in the same tone. “Asfor me, so nervous, and so subject to fainting fits, I should require aDoctor Adelmonte to invent for me some means of breathing freely andtranquillizing my mind, in the fear I have of dying some fine day ofsuffocation. In the meanwhile, as the thing is difficult to find inFrance, and your abbé is not probably disposed to make a journey toParis on my account, I must continue to use Monsieur Planche’santi-spasmodics; and mint and Hoffman’s drops are among my favoriteremedies. Here are some lozenges which I have made up on purpose; theyare compounded doubly strong.”
Monte Cristo opened the tortoise-shell box, which the lady presented tohim, and inhaled the odor of the lozenges with the air of an amateurwho thoroughly appreciated their composition.
“They are indeed exquisite,” he said; “but as they are necessarilysubmitted to the process of deglutition—a function which it isfrequently impossible for a fainting person to accomplish—I prefer myown specific.”
“Undoubtedly, and so should I prefer it, after the effects I have seenproduced; but of course it is a secret, and I am not so indiscreet asto ask it of you.”
“But I,” said Monte Cristo, rising as he spoke—“I am gallant enough tooffer it you.”
30079m


“How kind you are.”
“Only remember one thing—a small dose is a remedy, a large one ispoison. One drop will restore life, as you have seen; five or six willinevitably kill, and in a way the more terrible inasmuch as, pouredinto a glass of wine, it would not in the slightest degree affect itsflavor. But I say no more, madame; it is really as if I wereprescribing for you.”
The clock struck half-past six, and a lady was announced, a friend ofMadame de Villefort, who came to dine with her.
“If I had had the honor of seeing you for the third or fourth time,count, instead of only for the second,” said Madame de Villefort; “if Ihad had the honor of being your friend, instead of only having thehappiness of being under an obligation to you, I should insist ondetaining you to dinner, and not allow myself to be daunted by a firstrefusal.”
“A thousand thanks, madame,” replied Monte Cristo “but I have anengagement which I cannot break. I have promised to escort to theAcadémie a Greek princess of my acquaintance who has never seen yourgrand opera, and who relies on me to conduct her thither.”
“Adieu, then, sir, and do not forget the prescription.”
“Ah, in truth, madame, to do that I must forget the hour’s conversationI have had with you, which is indeed impossible.”
Monte Cristo bowed, and left the house. Madame de Villefort remainedimmersed in thought.
“He is a very strange man,” she said, “and in my opinion is himself theAdelmonte he talks about.”
As to Monte Cristo the result had surpassed his utmost expectations.
“Good,” said he, as he went away; “this is a fruitful soil, and I feelcertain that the seed sown will not be cast on barren ground.”
Next morning, faithful to his promise, he sent the prescriptionrequested.


 Chapter 53. Robert le Diable
The pretext of an opera engagement was so much the more feasible, asthere chanced to be on that very night a more than ordinary attractionat the Académie Royale. Levasseur, who had been suffering under severeillness, made his reappearance in the character of _Bertram_, and, asusual, the announcement of the most admired production of the favoritecomposer of the day had attracted a brilliant and fashionable audience.Morcerf, like most other young men of rank and fortune, had hisorchestra stall, with the certainty of always finding a seat in atleast a dozen of the principal boxes occupied by persons of hisacquaintance; he had, moreover, his right of entry into the omnibusbox. Château-Renaud rented a stall beside his own, while Beauchamp, asa journalist, had unlimited range all over the theatre. It happenedthat on this particular night the minister’s box was placed at thedisposal of Lucien Debray, who offered it to the Comte de Morcerf, whoagain, upon his rejection of it by Mercédès, sent it to Danglars, withan intimation that he should probably do himself the honor of joiningthe baroness and her daughter during the evening, in the event of theiraccepting the box in question. The ladies received the offer with toomuch pleasure to dream of a refusal. To no class of persons is thepresentation of a gratuitous opera-box more acceptable than to thewealthy millionaire, who still hugs economy while boasting of carryinga king’s ransom in his waistcoat pocket.
Danglars had, however, protested against showing himself in aministerial box, declaring that his political principles, and hisparliamentary position as member of the opposition party would notpermit him so to commit himself; the baroness had, therefore,despatched a note to Lucien Debray, bidding him call for them, it beingwholly impossible for her to go alone with Eugénie to the opera.
There is no gainsaying the fact that a very unfavorable constructionwould have been put upon the circumstance if the two women had gonewithout escort, while the addition of a third, in the person of hermother’s admitted lover, enabled Mademoiselle Danglars to defy maliceand ill-nature. One must take the world as one finds it.
30083m


The curtain rose, as usual, to an almost empty house, it being one ofthe absurdities of Parisian fashion never to appear at the opera untilafter the beginning of the performance, so that the first act isgenerally played without the slightest attention being paid to it, thatpart of the audience already assembled being too much occupied inobserving the fresh arrivals, while nothing is heard but the noise ofopening and shutting doors, and the buzz of conversation.
“Surely,” said Albert, as the door of a box on the first circle opened,“that must be the Countess G——.”
“And who is the Countess G——?” inquired Château-Renaud.
“What a question! Now, do you know, baron, I have a great mind to picka quarrel with you for asking it; as if all the world did not know whothe Countess G—— was.”
“Ah, to be sure,” replied Château-Renaud; “the lovely Venetian, is itnot?”
“Herself.” At this moment the countess perceived Albert, and returnedhis salutation with a smile.
“You know her, it seems?” said Château-Renaud.
“Franz introduced me to her at Rome,” replied Albert.
“Well, then, will you do as much for me in Paris as Franz did for youin Rome?”
“With pleasure.”
There was a cry of “Shut up!” from the audience. This manifestation onthe part of the spectators of their wish to be allowed to hear themusic, produced not the slightest effect on the two young men, whocontinued their conversation.
“The countess was present at the races in the Champ-de-Mars,” saidChâteau-Renaud.
“Today?”
“Yes.”
“Bless me, I quite forgot the races. Did you bet?”
“Oh, merely a paltry fifty louis.”
“And who was the winner?”
“Nautilus. I staked on him.”
“But there were three races, were there not?”
“Yes; there was the prize given by the Jockey Club—a gold cup, youknow—and a very singular circumstance occurred about that race.”
“What was it?”
“Oh, shut up!” again interposed some of the audience.
“Why, it was won by a horse and rider utterly unknown on the course.”
“Is that possible?”
“True as day. The fact was, nobody had observed a horse entered by thename of Vampa, or that of a jockey styled Job, when, at the lastmoment, a splendid roan, mounted by a jockey about as big as your fist,presented themselves at the starting-post. They were obliged to stuffat least twenty pounds weight of shot in the small rider’s pockets, tomake him weight; but with all that he outstripped Ariel and Barbare,against whom he ran, by at least three whole lengths.”
“And was it not found out at last to whom the horse and jockeybelonged?”
“No.”
“You say that the horse was entered under the name of Vampa?”
“Exactly; that was the title.”
“Then,” answered Albert, “I am better informed than you are, and knowwho the owner of that horse was.”
“Shut up, there!” cried the pit in chorus. And this time the tone andmanner in which the command was given, betokened such growing hostilitythat the two young men perceived, for the first time, that the mandatewas addressed to them. Leisurely turning round, they calmly scrutinizedthe various countenances around them, as though demanding some oneperson who would take upon himself the responsibility of what theydeemed excessive impertinence; but as no one responded to thechallenge, the friends turned again to the front of the theatre, andaffected to busy themselves with the stage. At this moment the door ofthe minister’s box opened, and Madame Danglars, accompanied by herdaughter, entered, escorted by Lucien Debray, who assiduously conductedthem to their seats.
“Ha, ha,” said Château-Renaud, “here come some friends of yours,viscount! What are you looking at there? don’t you see they are tryingto catch your eye?”
Albert turned round, just in time to receive a gracious wave of the fanfrom the baroness; as for Mademoiselle Eugénie, she scarcely vouchsafedto waste the glances of her large black eyes even upon the business ofthe stage.
“I tell you what, my dear fellow,” said Château-Renaud, “I cannotimagine what objection you can possibly have to MademoiselleDanglars—that is, setting aside her want of ancestry and somewhatinferior rank, which by the way I don’t think you care very much about.Now, barring all that, I mean to say she is a deuced fine girl!”
“Handsome, certainly,” replied Albert, “but not to my taste, which Iconfess, inclines to something softer, gentler, and more feminine.”
“Ah, well,” exclaimed Château-Renaud, who because he had seen histhirtieth summer fancied himself duly warranted in assuming a sort ofpaternal air with his more youthful friend, “you young people are neversatisfied; why, what would you have more? your parents have chosen youa bride built on the model of Diana, the huntress, and yet you are notcontent.”
“No, for that very resemblance affrights me; I should have likedsomething more in the manner of the Venus of Milo or Capua; but thischase-loving Diana, continually surrounded by her nymphs, gives me asort of alarm lest she should some day bring on me the fate of Actæon.”
And, indeed, it required but one glance at Mademoiselle Danglars tocomprehend the justness of Morcerf’s remark. She was beautiful, but herbeauty was of too marked and decided a character to please a fastidioustaste; her hair was raven black, but its natural waves seemed somewhatrebellious; her eyes, of the same color as her hair, were surmounted bywell-arched brows, whose great defect, however, consisted in an almosthabitual frown, while her whole physiognomy wore that expression offirmness and decision so little in accordance with the gentlerattributes of her sex—her nose was precisely what a sculptor would havechosen for a chiselled Juno. Her mouth, which might have been foundfault with as too large, displayed teeth of pearly whiteness, renderedstill more conspicuous by the brilliant carmine of her lips,contrasting vividly with her naturally pale complexion. But that whichcompleted the almost masculine look Morcerf found so little to histaste, was a dark mole, of much larger dimensions than these freaks ofnature generally are, placed just at the corner of her mouth; and theeffect tended to increase the expression of self-dependence thatcharacterized her countenance.
The rest of Mademoiselle Eugénie’s person was in perfect keeping withthe head just described; she, indeed, reminded one of Diana, asChâteau-Renaud observed, but her bearing was more haughty and resolute.
As regarded her attainments, the only fault to be found with them wasthe same that a fastidious connoisseur might have found with herbeauty, that they were somewhat too erudite and masculine for so younga person. She was a perfect linguist, a first-rate artist, wrotepoetry, and composed music; to the study of the latter she professed tobe entirely devoted, following it with an indefatigable perseverance,assisted by a schoolfellow,—a young woman without fortune whose talentpromised to develop into remarkable powers as a singer. It was rumoredthat she was an object of almost paternal interest to one of theprincipal composers of the day, who excited her to spare no pains inthe cultivation of her voice, which might hereafter prove a source ofwealth and independence. But this counsel effectually decidedMademoiselle Danglars never to commit herself by being seen in publicwith one destined for a theatrical life; and acting upon thisprinciple, the banker’s daughter, though perfectly willing to allowMademoiselle Louise d’Armilly (that was the name of the young virtuosa)to practice with her through the day, took especial care not to be seenin her company. Still, though not actually received at the HôtelDanglars in the light of an acknowledged friend, Louise was treatedwith far more kindness and consideration than is usually bestowed on agoverness.
The curtain fell almost immediately after the entrance of MadameDanglars into her box, the band quitted the orchestra for theaccustomed half-hour’s interval allowed between the acts, and theaudience were left at liberty to promenade the salon or lobbies, or topay and receive visits in their respective boxes.
Morcerf and Château-Renaud were amongst the first to avail themselvesof this permission. For an instant the idea struck Madame Danglars thatthis eagerness on the part of the young viscount arose from hisimpatience to join her party, and she whispered her expectations to herdaughter, that Albert was hurrying to pay his respects to them.Mademoiselle Eugénie, however, merely returned a dissenting movement ofthe head, while, with a cold smile, she directed the attention of hermother to an opposite box on the first circle, in which sat theCountess G——, and where Morcerf had just made his appearance.
30087m


“So we meet again, my travelling friend, do we?” cried the countess,extending her hand to him with all the warmth and cordiality of an oldacquaintance; “it was really very good of you to recognize me soquickly, and still more so to bestow your first visit on me.”
“Be assured,” replied Albert, “that if I had been aware of your arrivalin Paris, and had known your address, I should have paid my respects toyou before this. Allow me to introduce my friend, Baron deChâteau-Renaud, one of the few true gentlemen now to be found inFrance, and from whom I have just learned that you were a spectator ofthe races in the Champ-de-Mars, yesterday.”
Château-Renaud bowed to the countess.
“So you were at the races, baron?” inquired the countess eagerly.
“Yes, madame.”
“Well, then,” pursued Madame G—— with considerable animation, “you canprobably tell me who won the Jockey Club stakes?”
“I am sorry to say I cannot,” replied the baron; “and I was just askingthe same question of Albert.”
“Are you very anxious to know, countess?” asked Albert.
“To know what?”
“The name of the owner of the winning horse?”
“Excessively; only imagine—but do tell me, viscount, whether you reallyare acquainted with it or no?”
“I beg your pardon, madame, but you were about to relate some story,were you not? You said, ‘only imagine,’—and then paused. Praycontinue.”
“Well, then, listen. You must know I felt so interested in the splendidroan horse, with his elegant little rider, so tastefully dressed in apink satin jacket and cap, that I could not help praying for theirsuccess with as much earnestness as though the half of my fortune wereat stake; and when I saw them outstrip all the others, and come to thewinning-post in such gallant style, I actually clapped my hands withjoy. Imagine my surprise, when, upon returning home, the first object Imet on the staircase was the identical jockey in the pink jacket! Iconcluded that, by some singular chance, the owner of the winning horsemust live in the same hotel as myself; but, as I entered my apartments,I beheld the very gold cup awarded as a prize to the unknown horse andrider. Inside the cup was a small piece of paper, on which were writtenthese words—‘From Lord Ruthven to Countess G——.’”
“Precisely; I was sure of it,” said Morcerf.
“Sure of what?”
“That the owner of the horse was Lord Ruthven himself.”
“What Lord Ruthven do you mean?”
“Why, our Lord Ruthven—the Vampire of the Salle Argentina!”
“Is it possible?” exclaimed the countess; “is he here in Paris?”
“To be sure,—why not?”
“And you visit him?—meet him at your own house and elsewhere?”
“I assure you he is my most intimate friend, and M. de Château-Renaudhas also the honor of his acquaintance.”
“But why are you so sure of his being the winner of the Jockey Clubprize?”
“Was not the winning horse entered by the name of Vampa?”
“What of that?”
“Why, do you not recollect the name of the celebrated bandit by whom Iwas made prisoner?”
“Oh, yes.”
“And from whose hands the count extricated me in so wonderful amanner?”
“To be sure, I remember it all now.”
“He called himself Vampa. You see, it’s evident where the count got thename.”
“But what could have been his motive for sending the cup to me?”
“In the first place, because I had spoken much of you to him, as youmay believe; and in the second, because he delighted to see acountrywoman take so lively an interest in his success.”
“I trust and hope you never repeated to the count all the foolishremarks we used to make about him?”
“I should not like to affirm upon oath that I have not. Besides, hispresenting you the cup under the name of Lord Ruthven——”
“Oh, but that is dreadful! Why, the man must owe me a fearful grudge.”
“Does his action appear like that of an enemy?”
“No; certainly not.”
“Well, then——”
“And so he is in Paris?”
“Yes.”
“And what effect does he produce?”
“Why,” said Albert, “he was talked about for a week; then thecoronation of the queen of England took place, followed by the theft ofMademoiselle Mars’s diamonds; and so people talked of something else.”
“My good fellow,” said Château-Renaud, “the count is your friend andyou treat him accordingly. Do not believe what Albert is telling you,countess; so far from the sensation excited in the Parisian circles bythe appearance of the Count of Monte Cristo having abated, I take uponmyself to declare that it is as strong as ever. His first astoundingact upon coming amongst us was to present a pair of horses, worth32,000 francs, to Madame Danglars; his second, the almost miraculouspreservation of Madame de Villefort’s life; now it seems that he hascarried off the prize awarded by the Jockey Club. I therefore maintain,in spite of Morcerf, that not only is the count the object of interestat this present moment, but also that he will continue to be so for amonth longer if he pleases to exhibit an eccentricity of conduct which,after all, may be his ordinary mode of existence.”
“Perhaps you are right,” said Morcerf; “meanwhile, who is in theRussian ambassador’s box?”
“Which box do you mean?” asked the countess.
“The one between the pillars on the first tier—it seems to have beenfitted up entirely afresh.”
“Did you observe anyone during the first act?” asked Château-Renaud.
“Where?”
“In that box.”
“No,” replied the countess, “it was certainly empty during the firstact;” then, resuming the subject of their previous conversation, shesaid, “And so you really believe it was your mysterious Count of MonteCristo that gained the prize?”
“I am sure of it.”
“And who afterwards sent the cup to me?”
“Undoubtedly.”
“But I don’t know him,” said the countess; “I have a great mind toreturn it.”
“Do no such thing, I beg of you; he would only send you another, formedof a magnificent sapphire, or hollowed out of a gigantic ruby. It ishis way, and you must take him as you find him.”
At this moment the bell rang to announce the drawing up of the curtainfor the second act. Albert rose to return to his place.
“Shall I see you again?” asked the countess.
“At the end of the next act, with your permission, I will come andinquire whether there is anything I can do for you in Paris?”
“Pray take notice,” said the countess, “that my present residence is 22Rue de Rivoli, and that I am at home to my friends every Saturdayevening. So now, you are both forewarned.”
The young men bowed, and quitted the box. Upon reaching their stalls,they found the whole of the audience in the parterre standing up anddirecting their gaze towards the box formerly possessed by the Russianambassador. A man of from thirty-five to forty years of age, dressed indeep black, had just entered, accompanied by a young woman dressedafter the Eastern style. The lady was surpassingly beautiful, while therich magnificence of her attire drew all eyes upon her.
“Hullo,” said Albert; “it is Monte Cristo and his Greek!”
The strangers were, indeed, no other than the count and Haydée. In afew moments the young girl had attracted the attention of the wholehouse, and even the occupants of the boxes leaned forward to scrutinizeher magnificent diamonds.
The second act passed away during one continued buzz of voices—one deepwhisper—intimating that some great and universally interesting eventhad occurred; all eyes, all thoughts, were occupied with the young andbeautiful woman, whose gorgeous apparel and splendid jewels made a mostextraordinary spectacle.
Upon this occasion an unmistakable sign from Madame Danglars intimatedher desire to see Albert in her box directly the curtain fell on thesecond act, and neither the politeness nor good taste of Morcerf wouldpermit his neglecting an invitation so unequivocally given. At theclose of the act he therefore went to the baroness.
Having bowed to the two ladies, he extended his hand to Debray. By thebaroness he was most graciously welcomed, while Eugénie received himwith her accustomed coldness.
“My dear fellow,” said Debray, “you have come in the nick of time.There is madame overwhelming me with questions respecting the count;she insists upon it that I can tell her his birth, education, andparentage, where he came from, and whither he is going. Being nodisciple of Cagliostro, I was wholly unable to do this; so, by way ofgetting out of the scrape, I said, ‘Ask Morcerf; he has got the wholehistory of his beloved Monte Cristo at his fingers’ ends;’ whereuponthe baroness signified her desire to see you.”
“Is it not almost incredible,” said Madame Danglars, “that a personhaving at least half a million of secret-service money at his command,should possess so little information?”
“Let me assure you, madame,” said Lucien, “that had I really the sumyou mention at my disposal, I would employ it more profitably than introubling myself to obtain particulars respecting the Count of MonteCristo, whose only merit in my eyes consists in his being twice as richas a nabob. However, I have turned the business over to Morcerf, sopray settle it with him as may be most agreeable to you; for my ownpart, I care nothing about the count or his mysterious doings.”
30093m


“I am very sure no nabob would have sent me a pair of horses worth32,000 francs, wearing on their heads four diamonds valued at 5,000francs each.”
“He seems to have a mania for diamonds,” said Morcerf, smiling, “and Iverily believe that, like Potemkin, he keeps his pockets filled, forthe sake of strewing them along the road, as Tom Thumb did his flintstones.”
“Perhaps he has discovered some mine,” said Madame Danglars. “I supposeyou know he has an order for unlimited credit on the baron’s bankingestablishment?”
“I was not aware of it,” replied Albert, “but I can readily believeit.”
“And, further, that he stated to M. Danglars his intention of onlystaying a year in Paris, during which time he proposed to spend sixmillions.
“He must be the Shah of Persia, travelling _incog_.”
“Have you noticed the remarkable beauty of the young woman, M. Lucien?”inquired Eugénie.
“I really never met with one woman so ready to do justice to the charmsof another as yourself,” responded Lucien, raising his lorgnette to hiseye. “A most lovely creature, upon my soul!” was his verdict.
“Who is this young person, M. de Morcerf?” inquired Eugénie; “doesanybody know?”
“Mademoiselle,” said Albert, replying to this direct appeal, “I cangive you very exact information on that subject, as well as on mostpoints relative to the mysterious person of whom we are nowconversing—the young woman is a Greek.”
“So I should suppose by her dress; if you know no more than that,everyone here is as well-informed as yourself.”
“I am extremely sorry you find me so ignorant a _cicerone_,” repliedMorcerf, “but I am reluctantly obliged to confess, I have nothingfurther to communicate—yes, stay, I do know one thing more, namely,that she is a musician, for one day when I chanced to be breakfastingwith the count, I heard the sound of a guzla—it is impossible that itcould have been touched by any other finger than her own.”
“Then your count entertains visitors, does he?” asked Madame Danglars.
“Indeed he does, and in a most lavish manner, I can assure you.”
“I must try and persuade M. Danglars to invite him to a ball or dinner,or something of the sort, that he may be compelled to ask us inreturn.”
“What,” said Debray, laughing; “do you really mean you would go to hishouse?”
“Why not? my husband could accompany me.”
“But do you know this mysterious count is a bachelor?”
“You have ample proof to the contrary, if you look opposite,” said thebaroness, as she laughingly pointed to the beautiful Greek.
“No, no!” exclaimed Debray; “that girl is not his wife: he told ushimself she was his slave. Do you not recollect, Morcerf, his tellingus so at your breakfast?”
“Well, then,” said the baroness, “if slave she be, she has all the airand manner of a princess.”
“Of the ‘Arabian Nights’.”
“If you like; but tell me, my dear Lucien, what it is that constitutesa princess. Why, diamonds—and she is covered with them.”
“To me she seems overloaded,” observed Eugénie; “she would look farbetter if she wore fewer, and we should then be able to see her finelyformed throat and wrists.”
“See how the artist peeps out!” exclaimed Madame Danglars. “My poorEugénie, you must conceal your passion for the fine arts.”
“I admire all that is beautiful,” returned the young lady.
“What do you think of the count?” inquired Debray; “he is not muchamiss, according to my ideas of good looks.”
“The count,” repeated Eugénie, as though it had not occurred to her toobserve him sooner; “the count?—oh, he is so dreadfully pale.”
“I quite agree with you,” said Morcerf; “and the secret of that verypallor is what we want to find out. The Countess G—— insists upon itthat he is a vampire.”
“Then the Countess G—— has returned to Paris, has she?” inquired thebaroness.
“Is that she, mamma?” asked Eugénie; “almost opposite to us, with thatprofusion of beautiful light hair?”
“Yes,” said Madame Danglars, “that is she. Shall I tell you what youought to do, Morcerf?”
“Command me, madame.”
“Well, then, you should go and bring your Count of Monte Cristo to us.”
“What for?” asked Eugénie.
“What for? Why, to converse with him, of course. Have you really nodesire to meet him?”
“None whatever,” replied Eugénie.
“Strange child,” murmured the baroness.
“He will very probably come of his own accord,” said Morcerf. “There;do you see, madame, he recognizes you, and bows.”
The baroness returned the salute in the most smiling and gracefulmanner.
“Well,” said Morcerf, “I may as well be magnanimous, and tear myselfaway to forward your wishes. Adieu; I will go and try if there are anymeans of speaking to him.”
“Go straight to his box; that will be the simplest plan.”
“But I have never been presented.”
“Presented to whom?”
“To the beautiful Greek.”
“You say she is only a slave?”
“While you assert that she is a queen, or at least a princess. No; Ihope that when he sees me leave you, he will come out.”
“That is possible—go.”
“I am going,” said Albert, as he made his parting bow.
Just as he was passing the count’s box, the door opened, and MonteCristo came forth. After giving some directions to Ali, who stood inthe lobby, the count took Albert’s arm. Carefully closing the box door,Ali placed himself before it, while a crowd of spectators assembledround the Nubian.
“Upon my word,” said Monte Cristo, “Paris is a strange city, and theParisians a very singular people. See that cluster of persons collectedaround poor Ali, who is as much astonished as themselves; really onemight suppose he was the only Nubian they had ever beheld. Now I canpromise you, that a Frenchman might show himself in public, either inTunis, Constantinople, Bagdad, or Cairo, without being treated in thatway.”
“That shows that the Eastern nations have too much good sense to wastetheir time and attention on objects undeserving of either. However, asfar as Ali is concerned, I can assure you, the interest he excites ismerely from the circumstance of his being your attendant—you, who areat this moment the most celebrated and fashionable person in Paris.”
“Really? and what has procured me so flattering a distinction?”
“What? why, yourself, to be sure! You give away horses worth a thousandlouis; you save the lives of ladies of high rank and beauty; under thename of Major Black you run thoroughbreds ridden by tiny urchins notlarger than marmots; then, when you have carried off the golden trophyof victory, instead of setting any value on it, you give it to thefirst handsome woman you think of!”
“And who has filled your head with all this nonsense?”
“Why, in the first place, I heard it from Madame Danglars, who, by theby, is dying to see you in her box, or to have you seen there byothers; secondly, I learned it from Beauchamp’s journal; and thirdly,from my own imagination. Why, if you sought concealment, did you callyour horse Vampa?”
“That was an oversight, certainly,” replied the count; “but tell me,does the Count of Morcerf never visit the Opera? I have been lookingfor him, but without success.”
“He will be here tonight.”
“In what part of the house?”
“In the baroness’s box, I believe.”
“That charming young woman with her is her daughter?”
“Yes.”
“I congratulate you.”
Morcerf smiled.
“We will discuss that subject at length some future time,” said he.“But what do you think of the music?”
“What music?”
“Why, the music you have been listening to.”
“Oh, it is well enough as the production of a human composer, sung byfeatherless bipeds, to quote the late Diogenes.”
“From which it would seem, my dear count, that you can at pleasureenjoy the seraphic strains that proceed from the seven choirs ofparadise?”
30097m


“You are right, in some degree; when I wish to listen to sounds moreexquisitely attuned to melody than mortal ear ever yet listened to, Igo to sleep.”
“Then sleep here, my dear count. The conditions are favorable; whatelse was opera invented for?”
“No, thank you. Your orchestra is too noisy. To sleep after the mannerI speak of, absolute calm and silence are necessary, and then a certainpreparation——”
“I know—the famous hashish!”
“Precisely. So, my dear viscount, whenever you wish to be regaled withmusic come and sup with me.”
“I have already enjoyed that treat when breakfasting with you,” saidMorcerf.
“Do you mean at Rome?”
“I do.”
“Ah, then, I suppose you heard Haydée’s guzla; the poor exilefrequently beguiles a weary hour in playing over to me the airs of hernative land.”
Morcerf did not pursue the subject, and Monte Cristo himself fell intoa silent reverie.
The bell rang at this moment for the rising of the curtain.
“You will excuse my leaving you,” said the count, turning in thedirection of his box.
“What? Are you going?”
“Pray, say everything that is kind to Countess G—— on the part of herfriend the vampire.”
“And what message shall I convey to the baroness!”
“That, with her permission, I shall do myself the honor of paying myrespects in the course of the evening.”
The third act had begun; and during its progress the Count of Morcerf,according to his promise, made his appearance in the box of MadameDanglars. The Count of Morcerf was not a person to excite eitherinterest or curiosity in a place of public amusement; his presence,therefore, was wholly unnoticed, save by the occupants of the box inwhich he had just seated himself.
The quick eye of Monte Cristo however, marked his coming; and a slightthough meaning smile passed over his lips. Haydée, whose soul seemedcentred in the business of the stage, like all unsophisticated natures,delighted in whatever addressed itself to the eye or ear.
30099m


The third act passed off as usual. Mesdemoiselles Noblet, Julia, andLeroux executed the customary pirouettes; Robert duly challenged thePrince of Granada; and the royal father of the princess Isabella,taking his daughter by the hand, swept round the stage with majesticstrides, the better to display the rich folds of his velvet robe andmantle. After which the curtain again fell, and the spectators pouredforth from the theatre into the lobbies and salon.
The count left his box, and a moment later was saluting the BaronneDanglars, who could not restrain a cry of mingled pleasure andsurprise.
“You are welcome, count!” she exclaimed, as he entered. “I have beenmost anxious to see you, that I might repeat orally the thanks writingcan so ill express.”
“Surely so trifling a circumstance cannot deserve a place in yourremembrance. Believe me, madame, I had entirely forgotten it.”
“But it is not so easy to forget, monsieur, that the very next dayafter your princely gift you saved the life of my dear friend, Madamede Villefort, which was endangered by the very animals your generosityrestored to me.”
30101m


“This time, at least, I do not deserve your thanks. It was Ali, myNubian slave, who rendered this service to Madame de Villefort.”
“Was it Ali,” asked the Count of Morcerf, “who rescued my son from thehands of bandits?”
“No, count,” replied Monte Cristo taking the hand held out to him bythe general; “in this instance I may fairly and freely accept yourthanks; but you have already tendered them, and fully discharged yourdebt—if indeed there existed one—and I feel almost mortified to findyou still reverting to the subject. May I beg of you, baroness, tohonor me with an introduction to your daughter?”
“Oh, you are no stranger—at least not by name,” replied MadameDanglars, “and the last two or three days we have really talked ofnothing but you. Eugénie,” continued the baroness, turning towards herdaughter, “this is the Count of Monte Cristo.”
The count bowed, while Mademoiselle Danglars bent her head slightly.
“You have a charming young person with you tonight, count,” saidEugénie. “Is she your daughter?”
“No, mademoiselle,” said Monte Cristo, astonished at the coolness andfreedom of the question. “She is a poor unfortunate Greek left under mycare.”
“And what is her name?”
“Haydée,” replied Monte Cristo.
“A Greek?” murmured the Count of Morcerf.
“Yes, indeed, count,” said Madame Danglars; “and tell me, did you eversee at the court of Ali Tepelini, whom you so gloriously and valiantlyserved, a more exquisite beauty or richer costume?”
“Did I hear rightly, monsieur,” said Monte Cristo “that you served atYanina?”
“I was inspector-general of the pasha’s troops,” replied Morcerf; “andit is no secret that I owe my fortune, such as it is, to the liberalityof the illustrious Albanese chief.”
“But look!” exclaimed Madame Danglars.
“Where?” stammered Morcerf.
“There,” said Monte Cristo placing his arms around the count, andleaning with him over the front of the box, just as Haydée, whose eyeswere occupied in examining the theatre in search of her guardian,perceived his pale features close to Morcerf’s face. It was as if theyoung girl beheld the head of Medusa. She bent forwards as though toassure herself of the reality of what she saw, then, uttering a faintcry, threw herself back in her seat. The sound was heard by the peopleabout Ali, who instantly opened the box-door.
“Why, count,” exclaimed Eugénie, “what has happened to your ward? sheseems to have been taken suddenly ill.
“Very probably,” answered the count. “But do not be alarmed on heraccount. Haydée’s nervous system is delicately organized, and she ispeculiarly susceptible to the odors even of flowers—nay, there are somewhich cause her to faint if brought into her presence. However,”continued Monte Cristo, drawing a small phial from his pocket, “I havean infallible remedy.”
So saying, he bowed to the baroness and her daughter, exchanged aparting shake of the hand with Debray and the count, and left MadameDanglars’ box. Upon his return to Haydée he found her still very pale.As soon as she saw him she seized his hand; her own hands were moistand icy cold.
“Who was it you were talking with over there?” she asked.
“With the Count of Morcerf,” answered Monte Cristo. “He tells me heserved your illustrious father, and that he owes his fortune to him.”
“Wretch!” exclaimed Haydée, her eyes flashing with rage; “he sold myfather to the Turks, and the fortune he boasts of was the price of histreachery! Did not you know that, my dear lord?”
“Something of this I heard in Epirus,” said Monte Cristo; “but theparticulars are still unknown to me. You shall relate them to me, mychild. They are, no doubt, both curious and interesting.”
“Yes, yes; but let us go. I feel as though it would kill me to remainlong near that dreadful man.”
So saying, Haydée arose, and wrapping herself in her burnouse of whitecashmere embroidered with pearls and coral, she hastily quitted the boxat the moment when the curtain was rising upon the fourth act.
“Do you observe,” said the Countess G—— to Albert, who had returned toher side, “that man does nothing like other people; he listens mostdevoutly to the third act of _Robert le Diable_, and when the fourthbegins, takes his departure.”


 Chapter 54. A Flurry in Stocks
Some days after this meeting, Albert de Morcerf visited the Count ofMonte Cristo at his house in the Champs-Élysées, which had alreadyassumed that palace-like appearance which the count’s princely fortuneenabled him to give even to his most temporary residences. He came torenew the thanks of Madame Danglars which had been already conveyed tothe count through the medium of a letter, signed “Baronne Danglars,_née_ Hermine de Servieux.”
Albert was accompanied by Lucien Debray, who, joining in his friend’sconversation, added some passing compliments, the source of which thecount’s talent for finesse easily enabled him to guess. He wasconvinced that Lucien’s visit was due to a double feeling of curiosity,the larger half of which sentiment emanated from the Rue de la Chausséed’Antin. In short, Madame Danglars, not being able personally toexamine in detail the domestic economy and household arrangements of aman who gave away horses worth 30,000 francs and who went to the operawith a Greek slave wearing diamonds to the amount of a million ofmoney, had deputed those eyes, by which she was accustomed to see, togive her a faithful account of the mode of life of thisincomprehensible person. But the count did not appear to suspect thatthere could be the slightest connection between Lucien’s visit and thecuriosity of the baroness.
“You are in constant communication with the Baron Danglars?” the countinquired of Albert de Morcerf.
“Yes, count, you know what I told you?”
“All remains the same, then, in that quarter?”
“It is more than ever a settled thing,” said Lucien,—and, consideringthat this remark was all that he was at that time called upon to make,he adjusted the glass to his eye, and biting the top of his gold headedcane, began to make the tour of the apartment, examining the arms andthe pictures.
“Ah,” said Monte Cristo “I did not expect that the affair would be sopromptly concluded.”
“Oh, things take their course without our assistance. While we areforgetting them, they are falling into their appointed order; and when,again, our attention is directed to them, we are surprised at theprogress they have made towards the proposed end. My father and M.Danglars served together in Spain, my father in the army and M.Danglars in the commissariat department. It was there that my father,ruined by the revolution, and M. Danglars, who never had possessed anypatrimony, both laid the foundations of their different fortunes.”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo “I think M. Danglars mentioned that in a visitwhich I paid him; and,” continued he, casting a side-glance at Lucien,who was turning over the leaves of an album, “Mademoiselle Eugénie ispretty—I think I remember that to be her name.”
“Very pretty, or rather, very beautiful,” replied Albert, “but of thatstyle of beauty which I do not appreciate; I am an ungrateful fellow.”
“You speak as if you were already her husband.”
“Ah,” returned Albert, in his turn looking around to see what Lucienwas doing.
“Really,” said Monte Cristo, lowering his voice, “you do not appear tome to be very enthusiastic on the subject of this marriage.”
“Mademoiselle Danglars is too rich for me,” replied Morcerf, “and thatfrightens me.”
“Bah,” exclaimed Monte Cristo, “that’s a fine reason to give. Are younot rich yourself?”
“My father’s income is about 50,000 francs per annum; and he will giveme, perhaps, ten or twelve thousand when I marry.”
“That, perhaps, might not be considered a large sum, in Parisespecially,” said the count; “but everything does not depend on wealth,and it is a fine thing to have a good name, and to occupy a highstation in society. Your name is celebrated, your position magnificent;and then the Comte de Morcerf is a soldier, and it is pleasing to seethe integrity of a Bayard united to the poverty of a Duguesclin;disinterestedness is the brightest ray in which a noble sword canshine. As for me, I consider the union with Mademoiselle Danglars amost suitable one; she will enrich you, and you will ennoble her.”
Albert shook his head, and looked thoughtful.
“There is still something else,” said he.
“I confess,” observed Monte Cristo, “that I have some difficulty incomprehending your objection to a young lady who is both rich andbeautiful.”
“Oh,” said Morcerf, “this repugnance, if repugnance it may be called,is not all on my side.”
“Whence can it arise, then? for you told me your father desired themarriage.”
“It is my mother who dissents; she has a clear and penetratingjudgment, and does not smile on the proposed union. I cannot accountfor it, but she seems to entertain some prejudice against theDanglars.”
30107m


“Ah,” said the count, in a somewhat forced tone, “that may be easilyexplained; the Comtesse de Morcerf, who is aristocracy and refinementitself, does not relish the idea of being allied by your marriage withone of ignoble birth; that is natural enough.”
“I do not know if that is her reason,” said Albert, “but one thing I doknow, that if this marriage be consummated, it will render her quitemiserable. There was to have been a meeting six weeks ago in order totalk over and settle the affair; but I had such a sudden attack ofindisposition——”
“Real?” interrupted the count, smiling.
“Oh, real enough, from anxiety doubtless,—at any rate they postponedthe matter for two months. There is no hurry, you know. I am not yettwenty-one, and Eugénie is only seventeen; but the two months expirenext week. It must be done. My dear count, you cannot imagine how mymind is harassed. How happy you are in being exempt from all this!”
“Well, and why should not you be free, too? What prevents you frombeing so?”
“Oh, it will be too great a disappointment to my father if I do notmarry Mademoiselle Danglars.”
“Marry her then,” said the count, with a significant shrug of theshoulders.
“Yes,” replied Morcerf, “but that will plunge my mother into positivegrief.”
“Then do not marry her,” said the count.
“Well, I shall see. I will try and think over what is the best thing tobe done; you will give me your advice, will you not, and if possibleextricate me from my unpleasant position? I think, rather than givepain to my dear mother, I would run the risk of offending the count.”
Monte Cristo turned away; he seemed moved by this last remark.
“Ah,” said he to Debray, who had thrown himself into an easy-chair atthe farthest extremity of the salon, and who held a pencil in his righthand and an account book in his left, “what are you doing there? Areyou making a sketch after Poussin?”
“Oh, no,” was the tranquil response; “I am too fond of art to attemptanything of that sort. I am doing a little sum in arithmetic.”
“In arithmetic?”
“Yes; I am calculating—by the way, Morcerf, that indirectly concernsyou—I am calculating what the house of Danglars must have gained by thelast rise in Haiti bonds; from 206 they have risen to 409 in threedays, and the prudent banker had purchased at 206; therefore he musthave made 300,000 livres.”
“That is not his biggest scoop,” said Morcerf; “did he not make amillion in Spaniards this last year?”
“My dear fellow,” said Lucien, “here is the Count of Monte Cristo, whowill say to you, as the Italians do,—
      “‘Denaro e santità,
      Metà della metà.’9

“When they tell me such things, I only shrug my shoulders and saynothing.”
“But you were speaking of Haitians?” said Monte Cristo.
“Ah, Haitians,—that is quite another thing! Haitians are the _écarté_of French stock-jobbing. We may like bouillotte, delight in whist, beenraptured with boston, and yet grow tired of them all; but we alwayscome back to _écarté_—it is not only a game, it is a _hors-d’œuvre_! M.Danglars sold yesterday at 405, and pockets 300,000 francs. Had he butwaited till today, the price would have fallen to 205, and instead ofgaining 300,000 francs, he would have lost 20 or 25,000.”
“And what has caused the sudden fall from 409 to 206?” asked MonteCristo. “I am profoundly ignorant of all these stock-jobbingintrigues.”
“Because,” said Albert, laughing, “one piece of news follows another,and there is often great dissimilarity between them.”
“Ah,” said the count, “I see that M. Danglars is accustomed to play atgaining or losing 300,000 francs in a day; he must be enormously rich.”
“It is not he who plays!” exclaimed Lucien; “it is Madame Danglars; sheis indeed daring.”
“But you who are a reasonable being, Lucien, and who knows how littledependence is to be placed on the news, since you are at thefountain-head, surely you ought to prevent it,” said Morcerf, with asmile.
“How can I, if her husband fails in controlling her?” asked Lucien;“you know the character of the baroness—no one has any influence withher, and she does precisely what she pleases.”
“Ah, if I were in your place——” said Albert.
“Well?”
“I would reform her; it would be rendering a service to her futureson-in-law.”
“How would you set about it?”
“Ah, that would be easy enough—I would give her a lesson.”
“A lesson?”
“Yes. Your position as secretary to the minister renders your authoritygreat on the subject of political news; you never open your mouth butthe stockbrokers immediately stenograph your words. Cause her to lose ahundred thousand francs, and that would teach her prudence.”
“I do not understand,” stammered Lucien.
“It is very clear, notwithstanding,” replied the young man, with anartlessness wholly free from affectation; “tell her some fine morningan unheard-of piece of intelligence—some telegraphic despatch, of whichyou alone are in possession; for instance, that Henri IV. was seenyesterday at Gabrielle’s. That would boom the market; she will buyheavily, and she will certainly lose when Beauchamp announces thefollowing day, in his gazette, ‘The report circulated by some usuallywell-informed persons that the king was seen yesterday at Gabrielle’shouse, is totally without foundation. We can positively assert that hismajesty did not quit the Pont-Neuf.’”
Lucien half smiled. Monte Cristo, although apparently indifferent, hadnot lost one word of this conversation, and his penetrating eye hadeven read a hidden secret in the embarrassed manner of the secretary.This embarrassment had completely escaped Albert, but it caused Luciento shorten his visit; he was evidently ill at ease. The count, intaking leave of him, said something in a low voice, to which heanswered, “Willingly, count; I accept.” The count returned to youngMorcerf.
“Do you not think, on reflection,” said he to him, “that you have donewrong in thus speaking of your mother-in-law in the presence of M.Debray?”
“My dear count,” said Morcerf, “I beg of you not to apply that title soprematurely.”
“Now, speaking without any exaggeration, is your mother really so verymuch averse to this marriage?”
“So much so that the baroness very rarely comes to the house, and mymother, has not, I think, visited Madame Danglars twice in her wholelife.”
“Then,” said the count, “I am emboldened to speak openly to you. M.Danglars is my banker; M. de Villefort has overwhelmed me withpoliteness in return for a service which a casual piece of good fortuneenabled me to render him. I predict from all this an avalanche ofdinners and routs. Now, in order not to presume on this, and also to bebeforehand with them, I have, if agreeable to you, thought of invitingM. and Madame Danglars, and M. and Madame de Villefort, to mycountry-house at Auteuil. If I were to invite you and the Count andCountess of Morcerf to this dinner, I should give it the appearance ofbeing a matrimonial meeting, or at least Madame de Morcerf would lookupon the affair in that light, especially if Baron Danglars did me thehonor to bring his daughter. In that case your mother would hold me inaversion, and I do not at all wish that; on the contrary, I desire tostand high in her esteem.”
“Indeed, count,” said Morcerf, “I thank you sincerely for having usedso much candor towards me, and I gratefully accept the exclusion whichyou propose. You say you desire my mother’s good opinion; I assure youit is already yours to a very unusual extent.”
30111m


“Do you think so?” said Monte Cristo, with interest.
“Oh, I am sure of it; we talked of you an hour after you left us theother day. But to return to what we were saying. If my mother couldknow of this attention on your part—and I will venture to tell her—I amsure that she will be most grateful to you; it is true that my fatherwill be equally angry.” The count laughed.
“Well,” said he to Morcerf, “but I think your father will not be theonly angry one; M. and Madame Danglars will think me a veryill-mannered person. They know that I am intimate with you—that youare, in fact; one of the oldest of my Parisian acquaintances—and theywill not find you at my house; they will certainly ask me why I did notinvite you. Be sure to provide yourself with some previous engagementwhich shall have a semblance of probability, and communicate the factto me by a line in writing. You know that with bankers nothing but awritten document will be valid.”
“I will do better than that,” said Albert; “my mother is wishing to goto the sea-side—what day is fixed for your dinner?”
“Saturday.”
“This is Tuesday—well, tomorrow evening we leave, and the day after weshall be at Tréport. Really, count, you have a delightful way ofsetting people at their ease.”
“Indeed, you give me more credit than I deserve; I only wish to do whatwill be agreeable to you, that is all.”
“When shall you send your invitations?”
“This very day.”
“Well, I will immediately call on M. Danglars, and tell him that mymother and myself must leave Paris tomorrow. I have not seen you,consequently I know nothing of your dinner.”
“How foolish you are! Have you forgotten that M. Debray has just seenyou at my house?”
“Ah, true.”
“Fix it this way. I have seen you, and invited you without anyceremony, when you instantly answered that it would be impossible foryou to accept, as you were going to Tréport.”
“Well, then, that is settled; but you will come and call on my motherbefore tomorrow?”
“Before tomorrow?—that will be a difficult matter to arrange, besides,I shall just be in the way of all the preparations for departure.”
“Well, you can do better. You were only a charming man before, but, ifyou accede to my proposal, you will be adorable.”
“What must I do to attain such sublimity?”
“You are today free as air—come and dine with me; we shall be a smallparty—only yourself, my mother, and I. You have scarcely seen mymother; you shall have an opportunity of observing her more closely.She is a remarkable woman, and I only regret that there does not existanother like her, about twenty years younger; in that case, I assureyou, there would very soon be a Countess and Viscountess of Morcerf. Asto my father, you will not see him; he is officially engaged, and dineswith the chief referendary. We will talk over our travels; and you, whohave seen the whole world, will relate your adventures—you shall tellus the history of the beautiful Greek who was with you the other nightat the Opera, and whom you call your slave, and yet treat like aprincess. We will talk Italian and Spanish. Come, accept my invitation,and my mother will thank you.”
“A thousand thanks,” said the count, “your invitation is most gracious,and I regret exceedingly that it is not in my power to accept it. I amnot so much at liberty as you suppose; on the contrary, I have a mostimportant engagement.”
“Ah, take care, you were teaching me just now how, in case of aninvitation to dinner, one might creditably make an excuse. I requirethe proof of a pre-engagement. I am not a banker, like M. Danglars, butI am quite as incredulous as he is.”
“I am going to give you a proof,” replied the count, and he rang thebell.
“Humph,” said Morcerf, “this is the second time you have refused todine with my mother; it is evident that you wish to avoid her.”
Monte Cristo started. “Oh, you do not mean that,” said he; “besides,here comes the confirmation of my assertion.”
Baptistin entered, and remained standing at the door.
“I had no previous knowledge of your visit, had I?”
“Indeed, you are such an extraordinary person, that I would not answerfor it.”
“At all events, I could not guess that you would invite me to dinner.”
“Probably not.”
“Well, listen, Baptistin, what did I tell you this morning when Icalled you into my laboratory?”
“To close the door against visitors as soon as the clock struck five,”replied the valet.
“What then?”
“Ah, my dear count,” said Albert.
“No, no, I wish to do away with that mysterious reputation that youhave given me, my dear viscount; it is tiresome to be always actingManfred. I wish my life to be free and open. Go on, Baptistin.”
“Then to admit no one except Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and his son.”
“You hear—Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti—a man who ranks amongst the mostancient nobility of Italy, whose name Dante has celebrated in the tenthcanto of _The Inferno_, you remember it, do you not? Then there is hisson, Andrea, a charming young man, about your own age, viscount,bearing the same title as yourself, and who is making his entry intothe Parisian world, aided by his father’s millions. The major willbring his son with him this evening, the _contino_, as we say in Italy;he confides him to my care. If he proves himself worthy of it, I willdo what I can to advance his interests. You will assist me in the work,will you not?”
“Most undoubtedly. This Major Cavalcanti is an old friend of yours,then?”
“By no means. He is a perfect nobleman, very polite, modest, andagreeable, such as may be found constantly in Italy, descendants ofvery ancient families. I have met him several times at Florence,Bologna and Lucca, and he has now communicated to me the fact of hisarrival in Paris. The acquaintances one makes in travelling have a sortof claim on one; they everywhere expect to receive the same attentionwhich you once paid them by chance, as though the civilities of apassing hour were likely to awaken any lasting interest in favor of theman in whose society you may happen to be thrown in the course of yourjourney. This good Major Cavalcanti is come to take a second view ofParis, which he only saw in passing through in the time of the Empire,when he was on his way to Moscow. I shall give him a good dinner, hewill confide his son to my care, I will promise to watch over him, Ishall let him follow in whatever path his folly may lead him, and thenI shall have done my part.”
“Certainly; I see you are a model Mentor,” said Albert “Good-bye, weshall return on Sunday. By the way, I have received news of Franz.”
“Have you? Is he still amusing himself in Italy?”
“I believe so; however, he regrets your absence extremely. He says youwere the sun of Rome, and that without you all appears dark and cloudy;I do not know if he does not even go so far as to say that it rains.”
“His opinion of me is altered for the better, then?”
“No, he still persists in looking upon you as the most incomprehensibleand mysterious of beings.”
“He is a charming young man,” said Monte Cristo “and I felt a livelyinterest in him the very first evening of my introduction, when I methim in search of a supper, and prevailed upon him to accept a portionof mine. He is, I think, the son of General d’Épinay?”
“He is.”
“The same who was so shamefully assassinated in 1815?”
“By the Bonapartists.”
“Yes. Really I like him extremely; is there not also a matrimonialengagement contemplated for him?”
“Yes, he is to marry Mademoiselle de Villefort.”
“Indeed?”
30115m


“And you know I am to marry Mademoiselle Danglars,” said Albert,laughing.
“You smile.”
“Yes.”
“Why do you do so?”
“I smile because there appears to me to be about as much inclinationfor the consummation of the engagement in question as there is for myown. But really, my dear count, we are talking as much of women as theydo of us; it is unpardonable.”
Albert rose.
“Are you going?”
“Really, that is a good idea!—two hours have I been boring you to deathwith my company, and then you, with the greatest politeness, ask me ifI am going. Indeed, count, you are the most polished man in the world.And your servants, too, how very well behaved they are; there is quitea style about them. Monsieur Baptistin especially; I could never getsuch a man as that. My servants seem to imitate those you sometimes seein a play, who, because they have only a word or two to say, aquitthemselves in the most awkward manner possible. Therefore, if you partwith M. Baptistin, give me the refusal of him.”
“By all means.”
“That is not all; give my compliments to your illustrious Luccanese,Cavalcante of the Cavalcanti; and if by any chance he should be wishingto establish his son, find him a wife very rich, very noble on hermother’s side at least, and a baroness in right of her father, I willhelp you in the search.”
“Ah, ha; you will do as much as that, will you?”
“Yes.”
“Well, really, nothing is certain in this world.”
“Oh, count, what a service you might render me! I should like you ahundred times better if, by your intervention, I could manage to remaina bachelor, even were it only for ten years.”
“Nothing is impossible,” gravely replied Monte Cristo; and taking leaveof Albert, he returned into the house, and struck the gong three times.Bertuccio appeared.
“Monsieur Bertuccio, you understand that I intend entertaining companyon Saturday at Auteuil.” Bertuccio slightly started. “I shall requireyour services to see that all be properly arranged. It is a beautifulhouse, or at all events may be made so.”
“There must be a good deal done before it can deserve that title, yourexcellency, for the tapestried hangings are very old.”
“Let them all be taken away and changed, then, with the exception ofthe sleeping-chamber which is hung with red damask; you will leave thatexactly as it is.” Bertuccio bowed. “You will not touch the gardeneither; as to the yard, you may do what you please with it; I shouldprefer that being altered beyond all recognition.”
“I will do everything in my power to carry out your wishes, yourexcellency. I should be glad, however, to receive your excellency’scommands concerning the dinner.”
“Really, my dear M. Bertuccio,” said the count, “since you have been inParis, you have become quite nervous, and apparently out of yourelement; you no longer seem to understand me.”
“But surely your excellency will be so good as to inform me whom youare expecting to receive?”
“I do not yet know myself, neither is it necessary that you should doso. ‘Lucullus dines with Lucullus,’ that is quite sufficient.”
Bertuccio bowed, and left the room.


 Chapter 55. Major Cavalcanti
Both the count and Baptistin had told the truth when they announced toMorcerf the proposed visit of the major, which had served Monte Cristoas a pretext for declining Albert’s invitation. Seven o’clock had juststruck, and M. Bertuccio, according to the command which had been givenhim, had two hours before left for Auteuil, when a cab stopped at thedoor, and after depositing its occupant at the gate, immediatelyhurried away, as if ashamed of its employment. The visitor was aboutfifty-two years of age, dressed in one of the green surtouts,ornamented with black frogs, which have so long maintained theirpopularity all over Europe. He wore trousers of blue cloth, bootstolerably clean, but not of the brightest polish, and a little toothick in the soles, buckskin gloves, a hat somewhat resembling in shapethose usually worn by the gendarmes, and a black cravat striped withwhite, which, if the proprietor had not worn it of his own free will,might have passed for a halter, so much did it resemble one. Such wasthe picturesque costume of the person who rang at the gate, anddemanded if it was not at No. 30 in the Avenue des Champs-Élysées thatthe Count of Monte Cristo lived, and who, being answered by the porterin the affirmative, entered, closed the gate after him, and began toascend the steps.
The small and angular head of this man, his white hair and thick graymoustaches, caused him to be easily recognized by Baptistin, who hadreceived an exact description of the expected visitor, and who wasawaiting him in the hall. Therefore, scarcely had the stranger time topronounce his name before the count was apprised of his arrival. He wasushered into a simple and elegant drawing-room, and the count rose tomeet him with a smiling air.
“Ah, my dear sir, you are most welcome; I was expecting you.”
“Indeed,” said the Italian, “was your excellency then aware of myvisit?”
“Yes; I had been told that I should see you today at seven o’clock.”
“Then you have received full information concerning my arrival?”
“Of course.”
“Ah, so much the better, I feared this little precaution might havebeen forgotten.”
30119m


“What precaution?”
“That of informing you beforehand of my coming.”
“Oh, no, it has not.”
“But you are sure you are not mistaken.”
“Very sure.”
“It really was I whom your excellency expected at seven o’clock thisevening?”
“I will prove it to you beyond a doubt.”
“Oh, no, never mind that,” said the Italian; “it is not worth thetrouble.”
“Yes, yes,” said Monte Cristo. His visitor appeared slightly uneasy.“Let me see,” said the count; “are you not the Marquis BartolomeoCavalcanti?”
“Bartolomeo Cavalcanti,” joyfully replied the Italian; “yes, I amreally he.”
“Ex-major in the Austrian service?”
“Was I a major?” timidly asked the old soldier.
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo “you were a major; that is the title theFrench give to the post which you filled in Italy.”
“Very good,” said the major, “I do not demand more, you understand——”
“Your visit here today is not of your own suggestion, is it?” saidMonte Cristo.
“No, certainly not.”
“You were sent by some other person?”
“Yes.”
“By the excellent Abbé Busoni?”
“Exactly so,” said the delighted major.
“And you have a letter?”
“Yes, there it is.”
“Give it to me, then.” And Monte Cristo took the letter, which heopened and read. The major looked at the count with his large staringeyes, and then took a survey of the apartment, but his gaze almostimmediately reverted to the proprietor of the room.
“Yes, yes, I see. ‘Major Cavalcanti, a worthy patrician of Lucca, adescendant of the Cavalcanti of Florence,’” continued Monte Cristo,reading aloud, “‘possessing an income of half a million.’”
Monte Cristo raised his eyes from the paper, and bowed.
“Half a million,” said he, “magnificent!”
“Half a million, is it?” said the major.
“Yes, in so many words; and it must be so, for the abbé knows correctlythe amount of all the largest fortunes in Europe.”
“Be it half a million, then; but on my word of honor, I had no ideathat it was so much.”
“Because you are robbed by your steward. You must make some reformationin that quarter.”
“You have opened my eyes,” said the Italian gravely; “I will show thegentlemen the door.”
Monte Cristo resumed the perusal of the letter:
“‘And who only needs one thing more to make him happy.’”
“Yes, indeed but one!” said the major with a sigh.
“‘Which is to recover a lost and adored son.’”
“A lost and adored son!”
“‘Stolen away in his infancy, either by an enemy of his noble family orby the gypsies.’”
“At the age of five years!” said the major with a deep sigh, andraising his eye to heaven.
“Unhappy father,” said Monte Cristo. The count continued:
“‘I have given him renewed life and hope, in the assurance that youhave the power of restoring the son whom he has vainly sought forfifteen years.’”
The major looked at the count with an indescribable expression ofanxiety.
“I have the power of so doing,” said Monte Cristo. The major recoveredhis self-possession.
“So, then,” said he, “the letter was true to the end?”
“Did you doubt it, my dear Monsieur Bartolomeo?”
“No, indeed; certainly not; a good man, a man holding religious office,as does the Abbé Busoni, could not condescend to deceive or play off ajoke; but your excellency has not read all.”
“Ah, true,” said Monte Cristo “there is a postscript.”
“Yes, yes,” repeated the major, “yes—there—is—a—postscript.”
“‘In order to save Major Cavalcanti the trouble of drawing on hisbanker, I send him a draft for 2,000 francs to defray his travellingexpenses, and credit on you for the further sum of 48,000 francs, whichyou still owe me.’”
The major awaited the conclusion of the postscript, apparently withgreat anxiety.
“Very good,” said the count.
“He said ‘very good,’” muttered the major, “then—sir——” replied he.
“Then what?” asked Monte Cristo.
“Then the postscript——”
“Well; what of the postscript?”
“Then the postscript is as favorably received by you as the rest of theletter?”
“Certainly; the Abbé Busoni and myself have a small account openbetween us. I do not remember if it is exactly 48,000 francs, which Iam still owing him, but I dare say we shall not dispute the difference.You attached great importance, then, to this postscript, my dearMonsieur Cavalcanti?”
“I must explain to you,” said the major, “that, fully confiding in thesignature of the Abbé Busoni, I had not provided myself with any otherfunds; so that if this resource had failed me, I should have foundmyself very unpleasantly situated in Paris.”
“Is it possible that a man of your standing should be embarrassedanywhere?” said Monte Cristo.
“Why, really I know no one,” said the major.
“But then you yourself are known to others?”
“Yes, I am known, so that——”
“Proceed, my dear Monsieur Cavalcanti.”
“So that you will remit to me these 48,000 francs?”
“Certainly, at your first request.” The major’s eyes dilated withpleasing astonishment. “But sit down,” said Monte Cristo; “really I donot know what I have been thinking of—I have positively kept youstanding for the last quarter of an hour.”
“Don’t mention it.” The major drew an armchair towards him, andproceeded to seat himself.
“Now,” said the count, “what will you take—a glass of sherry, port, orAlicante?”
“Alicante, if you please; it is my favorite wine.”
“I have some that is very good. You will take a biscuit with it, willyou not?”
“Yes, I will take a biscuit, as you are so obliging.”
Monte Cristo rang; Baptistin appeared. The count advanced to meet him.
“Well?” said he in a low voice.
“The young man is here,” said the valet de chambre in the same tone.
“Into what room did you take him?”
“Into the blue drawing-room, according to your excellency’s orders.”
“That’s right; now bring the Alicante and some biscuits.”
Baptistin left the room.
“Really,” said the major, “I am quite ashamed of the trouble I amgiving you.”
“Pray don’t mention such a thing,” said the count. Baptistin re-enteredwith glasses, wine, and biscuits. The count filled one glass, but inthe other he only poured a few drops of the ruby-colored liquid. Thebottle was covered with spiders’ webs, and all the other signs whichindicate the age of wine more truly than do wrinkles on a man’s face.The major made a wise choice; he took the full glass and a biscuit. Thecount told Baptistin to leave the plate within reach of his guest, whobegan by sipping the Alicante with an expression of great satisfaction,and then delicately steeped his biscuit in the wine.
30123m


“So, sir, you lived at Lucca, did you? You were rich, noble, held ingreat esteem—had all that could render a man happy?”
“All,” said the major, hastily swallowing his biscuit, “positivelyall.”
“And yet there was one thing wanting in order to complete yourhappiness?”
“Only one thing,” said the Italian.
“And that one thing, your lost child.”
“Ah,” said the major, taking a second biscuit, “that consummation of myhappiness was indeed wanting.” The worthy major raised his eyes toheaven and sighed.
“Let me hear, then,” said the count, “who this deeply regretted sonwas; for I always understood you were a bachelor.”
“That was the general opinion, sir,” said the major, “and I——”
“Yes,” replied the count, “and you confirmed the report. A youthfulindiscretion, I suppose, which you were anxious to conceal from theworld at large?”
The major recovered himself, and resumed his usual calm manner, at thesame time casting his eyes down, either to give himself time to composehis countenance, or to assist his imagination, all the while giving anunder-look at the count, the protracted smile on whose lips stillannounced the same polite curiosity.
“Yes,” said the major, “I did wish this fault to be hidden from everyeye.”
“Not on your own account, surely,” replied Monte Cristo; “for a man isabove that sort of thing?”
“Oh, no, certainly not on my own account,” said the major with a smileand a shake of the head.
“But for the sake of the mother?” said the count.
“Yes, for the mother’s sake—his poor mother!” cried the major, taking athird biscuit.
“Take some more wine, my dear Cavalcanti,” said the count, pouring outfor him a second glass of Alicante; “your emotion has quite overcomeyou.”
“His poor mother,” murmured the major, trying to get the lachrymalgland in operation, so as to moisten the corner of his eye with a falsetear.
“She belonged to one of the first families in Italy, I think, did shenot?”
“She was of a noble family of Fiesole, count.”
“And her name was——”
“Do you desire to know her name——?”
“Oh,” said Monte Cristo “it would be quite superfluous for you to tellme, for I already know it.”
“The count knows everything,” said the Italian, bowing.
“Oliva Corsinari, was it not?”
“Oliva Corsinari!”
“A marchioness?”
“A marchioness!”
“And you married her at last, notwithstanding the opposition of herfamily?”
“Yes, that was the way it ended.”
“And you have doubtless brought all your papers with you?” said MonteCristo.
“What papers?”
“The certificate of your marriage with Oliva Corsinari, and theregister of your child’s birth.”
“The register of my child’s birth?”
“The register of the birth of Andrea Cavalcanti—of your son; is not hisname Andrea?”
“I believe so,” said the major.
“What? You believe so?”
“I dare not positively assert it, as he has been lost for so long atime.”
“Well, then,” said Monte Cristo “you have all the documents with you?”
“Your excellency, I regret to say that, not knowing it was necessary tocome provided with these papers, I neglected to bring them.”
“That is unfortunate,” returned Monte Cristo.
“Were they, then, so necessary?”
“They were indispensable.”
The major passed his hand across his brow. “Ah, _perbacco_,indispensable, were they?”
“Certainly they were; supposing there were to be doubts raised as tothe validity of your marriage or the legitimacy of your child?”
“True,” said the major, “there might be doubts raised.”
“In that case your son would be very unpleasantly situated.”
“It would be fatal to his interests.”
“It might cause him to fail in some desirable matrimonial alliance.”
“_O peccato!_”
“You must know that in France they are very particular on these points;it is not sufficient, as in Italy, to go to the priest and say, ‘Welove each other, and want you to marry us.’ Marriage is a civil affairin France, and in order to marry in an orthodox manner you must havepapers which undeniably establish your identity.”
“That is the misfortune! You see I have not these necessary papers.”
“Fortunately, I have them, though,” said Monte Cristo.
“You?”
“Yes.”
“You have them?”
“I have them.”
“Ah, indeed?” said the major, who, seeing the object of his journeyfrustrated by the absence of the papers, feared also that hisforgetfulness might give rise to some difficulty concerning the 48,000francs—“ah, indeed, that is a fortunate circumstance; yes, that reallyis lucky, for it never occurred to me to bring them.”
“I do not at all wonder at it—one cannot think of everything; but,happily, the Abbé Busoni thought for you.”
“He is an excellent person.”
“He is extremely prudent and thoughtful.”
“He is an admirable man,” said the major; “and he sent them to you?”
“Here they are.”
The major clasped his hands in token of admiration.
“You married Oliva Corsinari in the church of San Paolo delMonte-Cattini; here is the priest’s certificate.”
“Yes indeed, there it is truly,” said the Italian, looking on withastonishment.
“And here is Andrea Cavalcanti’s baptismal register, given by the curéof Saravezza.”
“All quite correct.”
“Take these documents, then; they do not concern me. You will give themto your son, who will, of course, take great care of them.”
“I should think so, indeed! If he were to lose them——”
“Well, and if he were to lose them?” said Monte Cristo.
“In that case,” replied the major, “it would be necessary to write tothe curé for duplicates, and it would be some time before they could beobtained.”
“It would be a difficult matter to arrange,” said Monte Cristo.
“Almost an impossibility,” replied the major.
“I am very glad to see that you understand the value of these papers.”
“I regard them as invaluable.”
“Now,” said Monte Cristo “as to the mother of the young man——”
“As to the mother of the young man——” repeated the Italian, withanxiety.
“As regards the Marchesa Corsinari——”
“Really,” said the major, “difficulties seem to thicken upon us; willshe be wanted in any way?”
“No, sir,” replied Monte Cristo; “besides, has she not——”
“Yes, sir,” said the major, “she has——”
30127m


“Paid the last debt of nature?”
“Alas, yes,” returned the Italian.
“I knew that,” said Monte Cristo; “she has been dead these ten years.”
“And I am still mourning her loss,” exclaimed the major, drawing fromhis pocket a checked handkerchief, and alternately wiping first theleft and then the right eye.
“What would you have?” said Monte Cristo; “we are all mortal. Now, youunderstand, my dear Monsieur Cavalcanti, that it is useless for you totell people in France that you have been separated from your son forfifteen years. Stories of gypsies, who steal children, are not at allin vogue in this part of the world, and would not be believed. You senthim for his education to a college in one of the provinces, and now youwish him to complete his education in the Parisian world. That is thereason which has induced you to leave Via Reggio, where you have livedsince the death of your wife. That will be sufficient.”
“You think so?”
“Certainly.”
“Very well, then.”
“If they should hear of the separation——”
“Ah, yes; what could I say?”
“That an unfaithful tutor, bought over by the enemies of your family——”
“By the Corsinari?”
“Precisely. Had stolen away this child, in order that your name mightbecome extinct.”
“That is reasonable, since he is an only son.”
“Well, now that all is arranged, do not let these newly awakenedremembrances be forgotten. You have, doubtless, already guessed that Iwas preparing a surprise for you?”
“An agreeable one?” asked the Italian.
“Ah, I see the eye of a father is no more to be deceived than hisheart.”
“Hum!” said the major.
“Someone has told you the secret; or, perhaps, you guessed that he washere.”
“That who was here?”
“Your child—your son—your Andrea!”
“I did guess it,” replied the major with the greatest possiblecoolness. “Then he is here?”
“He is,” said Monte Cristo; “when the valet de chambre came in justnow, he told me of his arrival.”
“Ah, very well, very well,” said the major, clutching the buttons ofhis coat at each exclamation.
“My dear sir,” said Monte Cristo, “I understand your emotion; you musthave time to recover yourself. I will, in the meantime, go and preparethe young man for this much-desired interview, for I presume that he isnot less impatient for it than yourself.”
“I should quite imagine that to be the case,” said Cavalcanti.
“Well, in a quarter of an hour he shall be with you.”
“You will bring him, then? You carry your goodness so far as even topresent him to me yourself?”
“No; I do not wish to come between a father and son. Your interviewwill be private. But do not be uneasy; even if the powerful voice ofnature should be silent, you cannot well mistake him; he will enter bythis door. He is a fine young man, of fair complexion—a little toofair, perhaps—pleasing in manners; but you will see and judge foryourself.”
“By the way,” said the major, “you know I have only the 2,000 francswhich the Abbé Busoni sent me; this sum I have expended upon travellingexpenses, and——”
“And you want money; that is a matter of course, my dear M. Cavalcanti.Well, here are 8,000 francs on account.”
The major’s eyes sparkled brilliantly.
“It is 40,000 francs which I now owe you,” said Monte Cristo.
“Does your excellency wish for a receipt?” said the major, at the sametime slipping the money into the inner pocket of his coat.
“For what?” said the count.
“I thought you might want it to show the Abbé Busoni.”
“Well, when you receive the remaining 40,000, you shall give me areceipt in full. Between honest men such excessive precaution is, Ithink, quite unnecessary.”
“Yes, so it is, between perfectly upright people.”
“One word more,” said Monte Cristo.
“Say on.”
“You will permit me to make one remark?”
“Certainly; pray do so.”
“Then I should advise you to leave off wearing that style of dress.”
“Indeed,” said the major, regarding himself with an air of completesatisfaction.
“Yes. It may be worn at Via Reggio; but that costume, however elegantin itself, has long been out of fashion in Paris.”
“That’s unfortunate.”
“Oh, if you really are attached to your old mode of dress; you caneasily resume it when you leave Paris.”
“But what shall I wear?”
“What you find in your trunks.”
“In my trunks? I have but one portmanteau.”
“I dare say you have nothing else with you. What is the use of boringone’s self with so many things? Besides an old soldier always likes tomarch with as little baggage as possible.”
“That is just the case—precisely so.”
“But you are a man of foresight and prudence, therefore you sent yourluggage on before you. It has arrived at the Hôtel des Princes, Rue deRichelieu. It is there you are to take up your quarters.”
“Then, in these trunks——”
“I presume you have given orders to your valet de chambre to put in allyou are likely to need,—your plain clothes and your uniform. On grandoccasions you must wear your uniform; that will look very well. Do notforget your crosses. They still laugh at them in France, and yet alwayswear them, for all that.”
“Very well, very well,” said the major, who was in ecstasy at theattention paid him by the count.
“Now,” said Monte Cristo, “that you have fortified yourself against allpainful excitement, prepare yourself, my dear M. Cavalcanti, to meetyour lost Andrea.”
Saying which Monte Cristo bowed, and disappeared behind the tapestry,leaving the major fascinated beyond expression with the delightfulreception which he had received at the hands of the count.


 Chapter 56. Andrea Cavalcanti
The Count of Monte Cristo entered the adjoining room, which Baptistinhad designated as the drawing-room, and found there a young man, ofgraceful demeanor and elegant appearance, who had arrived in a cababout half an hour previously. Baptistin had not found any difficultyin recognizing the person who presented himself at the door foradmittance. He was certainly the tall young man with light hair, redbeard, black eyes, and brilliant complexion, whom his master had soparticularly described to him. When the count entered the room theyoung man was carelessly stretched on a sofa, tapping his boot with thegold-headed cane which he held in his hand. On perceiving the count herose quickly.
“The Count of Monte Cristo, I believe?” said he.
“Yes, sir, and I think I have the honor of addressing Count AndreaCavalcanti?”
“Count Andrea Cavalcanti,” repeated the young man, accompanying hiswords with a bow.
“You are charged with a letter of introduction addressed to me, are younot?” said the count.
“I did not mention that, because the signature seemed to me sostrange.”
“The letter signed ‘Sinbad the Sailor,’ is it not?”
“Exactly so. Now, as I have never known any Sinbad, with the exceptionof the one celebrated in the _Thousand and One Nights_——”
“Well, it is one of his descendants, and a great friend of mine; he isa very rich Englishman, eccentric almost to insanity, and his real nameis Lord Wilmore.”
“Ah, indeed? Then that explains everything that is extraordinary,” saidAndrea. “He is, then, the same Englishman whom I met—at—ah—yes, indeed.Well, monsieur, I am at your service.”
“If what you say be true,” replied the count, smiling, “perhaps youwill be kind enough to give me some account of yourself and yourfamily?”
“Certainly, I will do so,” said the young man, with a quickness whichgave proof of his ready invention. “I am (as you have said) the CountAndrea Cavalcanti, son of Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti, a descendant ofthe Cavalcanti whose names are inscribed in the golden book atFlorence. Our family, although still rich (for my father’s incomeamounts to half a million), has experienced many misfortunes, and Imyself was, at the age of five years, taken away by the treachery of mytutor, so that for fifteen years I have not seen the author of myexistence. Since I have arrived at years of discretion and become myown master, I have been constantly seeking him, but all in vain. Atlength I received this letter from your friend, which states that myfather is in Paris, and authorizes me to address myself to you forinformation respecting him.”
“Really, all you have related to me is exceedingly interesting,” saidMonte Cristo, observing the young man with a gloomy satisfaction; “andyou have done well to conform in everything to the wishes of my friendSinbad; for your father is indeed here, and is seeking you.”
The count from the moment of first entering the drawing-room, had notonce lost sight of the expression of the young man’s countenance; hehad admired the assurance of his look and the firmness of his voice;but at these words, so natural in themselves, “Your father is indeedhere, and is seeking you,” young Andrea started, and exclaimed, “Myfather? Is my father here?”
“Most undoubtedly,” replied Monte Cristo; “your father, MajorBartolomeo Cavalcanti.” The expression of terror which, for the moment,had overspread the features of the young man, had now disappeared.
“Ah, yes, that is the name, certainly. Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti. Andyou really mean to say; monsieur, that my dear father is here?”
“Yes, sir; and I can even add that I have only just left his company.The history which he related to me of his lost son touched me to thequick; indeed, his griefs, hopes, and fears on that subject mightfurnish material for a most touching and pathetic poem. At length, heone day received a letter, stating that the abductors of his son nowoffered to restore him, or at least to give notice where he might befound, on condition of receiving a large sum of money, by way ofransom. Your father did not hesitate an instant, and the sum was sentto the frontier of Piedmont, with a passport signed for Italy. You werein the south of France, I think?”
“Yes,” replied Andrea, with an embarrassed air, “I was in the south ofFrance.”
“A carriage was to await you at Nice?”
“Precisely so; and it conveyed me from Nice to Genoa, from Genoa toTurin, from Turin to Chambéry, from Chambéry to Pont-de-Beauvoisin, andfrom Pont-de-Beauvoisin to Paris.”
30133m


“Indeed? Then your father ought to have met with you on the road, forit is exactly the same route which he himself took, and that is how wehave been able to trace your journey to this place.”
“But,” said Andrea, “if my father had met me, I doubt if he would haverecognized me; I must be somewhat altered since he last saw me.”
“Oh, the voice of nature,” said Monte Cristo.
“True,” interrupted the young man, “I had not looked upon it in thatlight.”
“Now,” replied Monte Cristo “there is only one source of uneasinessleft in your father’s mind, which is this—he is anxious to know how youhave been employed during your long absence from him, how you have beentreated by your persecutors, and if they have conducted themselvestowards you with all the deference due to your rank. Finally, he isanxious to see if you have been fortunate enough to escape the badmoral influence to which you have been exposed, and which is infinitelymore to be dreaded than any physical suffering; he wishes to discoverif the fine abilities with which nature had endowed you have beenweakened by want of culture; and, in short, whether you consideryourself capable of resuming and retaining in the world the highposition to which your rank entitles you.”
“Sir!” exclaimed the young man, quite astounded, “I hope no falsereport——”
“As for myself, I first heard you spoken of by my friend Wilmore, thephilanthropist. I believe he found you in some unpleasant position, butdo not know of what nature, for I did not ask, not being inquisitive.Your misfortunes engaged his sympathies, so you see you must have beeninteresting. He told me that he was anxious to restore you to theposition which you had lost, and that he would seek your father untilhe found him. He did seek, and has found him, apparently, since he ishere now; and, finally, my friend apprised me of your coming, and gaveme a few other instructions relative to your future fortune. I am quiteaware that my friend Wilmore is peculiar, but he is sincere, and asrich as a gold mine, consequently, he may indulge his eccentricitieswithout any fear of their ruining him, and I have promised to adhere tohis instructions. Now, sir, pray do not be offended at the question Iam about to put to you, as it comes in the way of my duty as yourpatron. I would wish to know if the misfortunes which have happened toyou—misfortunes entirely beyond your control, and which in no degreediminish my regard for you—I would wish to know if they have not, insome measure, contributed to render you a stranger to the world inwhich your fortune and your name entitle you to make a conspicuousfigure?”
“Sir,” returned the young man, with a reassurance of manner, “make yourmind easy on this score. Those who took me from my father, and whoalways intended, sooner or later, to sell me again to my originalproprietor, as they have now done, calculated that, in order to makethe most of their bargain, it would be politic to leave me inpossession of all my personal and hereditary worth, and even toincrease the value, if possible. I have, therefore, received a verygood education, and have been treated by these kidnappers very much asthe slaves were treated in Asia Minor, whose masters made themgrammarians, doctors, and philosophers, in order that they might fetcha higher price in the Roman market.”
Monte Cristo smiled with satisfaction; it appeared as if he had notexpected so much from M. Andrea Cavalcanti.
“Besides,” continued the young man, “if there did appear some defect ineducation, or offence against the established forms of etiquette, Isuppose it would be excused, in consideration of the misfortunes whichaccompanied my birth, and followed me through my youth.”
“Well,” said Monte Cristo in an indifferent tone, “you will do as youplease, count, for you are the master of your own actions, and are theperson most concerned in the matter, but if I were you, I would notdivulge a word of these adventures. Your history is quite a romance,and the world, which delights in romances in yellow covers, strangelymistrusts those which are bound in living parchment, even though theybe gilded like yourself. This is the kind of difficulty which I wishedto represent to you, my dear count. You would hardly have recited yourtouching history before it would go forth to the world, and be deemedunlikely and unnatural. You would be no longer a lost child found, butyou would be looked upon as an upstart, who had sprung up like amushroom in the night. You might excite a little curiosity, but it isnot everyone who likes to be made the centre of observation and thesubject of unpleasant remark.”
“I agree with you, monsieur,” said the young man, turning pale, and, inspite of himself, trembling beneath the scrutinizing look of hiscompanion, “such consequences would be extremely unpleasant.”
“Nevertheless, you must not exaggerate the evil,” said Monte Cristo,“for by endeavoring to avoid one fault you will fall into another. Youmust resolve upon one simple and single line of conduct, and for a manof your intelligence, this plan is as easy as it is necessary; you mustform honorable friendships, and by that means counteract the prejudicewhich may attach to the obscurity of your former life.”
Andrea visibly changed countenance.
“I would offer myself as your surety and friendly adviser,” said MonteCristo, “did I not possess a moral distrust of my best friends, and asort of inclination to lead others to doubt them too; therefore, indeparting from this rule, I should (as the actors say) be playing apart quite out of my line, and should, therefore, run the risk of beinghissed, which would be an act of folly.”
“However, your excellency,” said Andrea, “in consideration of LordWilmore, by whom I was recommended to you——”
“Yes, certainly,” interrupted Monte Cristo; “but Lord Wilmore did notomit to inform me, my dear M. Andrea, that the season of your youth wasrather a stormy one. Ah,” said the count, watching Andrea’scountenance, “I do not demand any confession from you; it is preciselyto avoid that necessity that your father was sent for from Lucca. Youshall soon see him. He is a little stiff and pompous in his manner, andhe is disfigured by his uniform; but when it becomes known that he hasbeen for eighteen years in the Austrian service, all that will bepardoned. We are not generally very severe with the Austrians. Inshort, you will find your father a very presentable person, I assureyou.”
“Ah, sir, you have given me confidence; it is so long since we wereseparated, that I have not the least remembrance of him, and, besides,you know that in the eyes of the world a large fortune covers alldefects.”
“He is a millionaire—his income is 500,000 francs.”
“Then,” said the young man, with anxiety, “I shall be sure to be placedin an agreeable position.”
“One of the most agreeable possible, my dear sir; he will allow you anincome of 50,000 livres per annum during the whole time of your stay inParis.”
“Then in that case I shall always choose to remain there.”
“You cannot control circumstances, my dear sir; ‘man proposes, and Goddisposes.’” Andrea sighed.
“But,” said he, “so long as I do remain in Paris, and nothing forces meto quit it, do you mean to tell me that I may rely on receiving the sumyou just now mentioned to me?”
“You may.”
“Shall I receive it from my father?” asked Andrea, with someuneasiness.
“Yes, you will receive it from your father personally, but Lord Wilmorewill be the security for the money. He has, at the request of yourfather, opened an account of 5,000 francs a month at M. Danglars’,which is one of the safest banks in Paris.”
“And does my father mean to remain long in Paris?” asked Andrea.
“Only a few days,” replied Monte Cristo. “His service does not allowhim to absent himself more than two or three weeks together.”
“Ah, my dear father!” exclaimed Andrea, evidently charmed with the ideaof his speedy departure.
“Therefore,” said Monte Cristo feigning to mistake hismeaning—“therefore I will not, for another instant, retard the pleasureof your meeting. Are you prepared to embrace your worthy father?”
“I hope you do not doubt it.”
30137m


“Go, then, into the drawing-room, my young friend, where you will findyour father awaiting you.”
Andrea made a low bow to the count, and entered the adjoining room.Monte Cristo watched him till he disappeared, and then touched a springin a panel made to look like a picture, which, in sliding partly fromthe frame, discovered to view a small opening, so cleverly contrivedthat it revealed all that was passing in the drawing-room now occupiedby Cavalcanti and Andrea. The young man closed the door behind him, andadvanced towards the major, who had risen when he heard stepsapproaching him.
“Ah, my dear father!” said Andrea in a loud voice, in order that thecount might hear him in the next room, “is it really you?”
“How do you do, my dear son?” said the major gravely.
“After so many years of painful separation,” said Andrea, in the sametone of voice, and glancing towards the door, “what a happiness it isto meet again!”
“Indeed it is, after so long a separation.”
“Will you not embrace me, sir?” said Andrea.
30139m


“If you wish it, my son,” said the major; and the two men embraced eachother after the fashion of actors on the stage; that is to say, eachrested his head on the other’s shoulder.
“Then we are once more reunited?” said Andrea.
“Once more,” replied the major.
“Never more to be separated?”
“Why, as to that—I think, my dear son, you must be by this time soaccustomed to France as to look upon it almost as a second country.”
“The fact is,” said the young man, “that I should be exceedinglygrieved to leave it.”
“As for me, you must know I cannot possibly live out of Lucca;therefore I shall return to Italy as soon as I can.”
“But before you leave France, my dear father, I hope you will put me inpossession of the documents which will be necessary to prove mydescent.”
“Certainly; I am come expressly on that account; it has cost me muchtrouble to find you, but I had resolved on giving them into your hands,and if I had to recommence my search, it would occupy all the fewremaining years of my life.”
“Where are these papers, then?”
“Here they are.”
Andrea seized the certificate of his father’s marriage and his ownbaptismal register, and after having opened them with all the eagernesswhich might be expected under the circumstances, he read them with afacility which proved that he was accustomed to similar documents, andwith an expression which plainly denoted an unusual interest in thecontents. When he had perused the documents, an indefinable expressionof pleasure lighted up his countenance, and looking at the major with amost peculiar smile, he said, in very excellent Tuscan:
“Then there is no longer any such thing, in Italy as being condemned tothe galleys?”
The major drew himself up to his full height.
“Why?—what do you mean by that question?”
“I mean that if there were, it would be impossible to draw up withimpunity two such deeds as these. In France, my dear sir, half such apiece of effrontery as that would cause you to be quickly despatched toToulon for five years, for change of air.”
“Will you be good enough to explain your meaning?” said the major,endeavoring as much as possible to assume an air of the greatestmajesty.
“My dear M. Cavalcanti,” said Andrea, taking the major by the arm in aconfidential manner, “how much are you paid for being my father?”
The major was about to speak, when Andrea continued, in a low voice:
“Nonsense, I am going to set you an example of confidence, they give me50,000 francs a year to be your son; consequently, you can understandthat it is not at all likely I shall ever deny my parent.”
The major looked anxiously around him.
“Make yourself easy, we are quite alone,” said Andrea; “besides, we areconversing in Italian.”
“Well, then,” replied the major, “they paid me 50,000 francs down.”
“Monsieur Cavalcanti,” said Andrea, “do you believe in fairy tales?”
“I used not to do so, but I really feel now almost obliged to havefaith in them.”
“You have, then, been induced to alter your opinion; you have had someproofs of their truth?” The major drew from his pocket a handful ofgold.
“Most palpable proofs,” said he, “as you may perceive.”
“You think, then, that I may rely on the count’s promises?”
“Certainly I do.”
“You are sure he will keep his word with me?”
“To the letter, but at the same time, remember, we must continue toplay our respective parts. I, as a tender father——”
“And I as a dutiful son, as they choose that I shall be descended fromyou.”
“Whom do you mean by they?”
“_Ma foi_, I can hardly tell, but I was alluding to those who wrote theletter; you received one, did you not?”
“Yes.”
“From whom?”
“From a certain Abbé Busoni.”
“Have you any knowledge of him?”
“No, I have never seen him.”
“What did he say in the letter?”
“You will promise not to betray me?”
“Rest assured of that; you well know that our interests are the same.”
“Then read for yourself;” and the major gave a letter into the youngman’s hand. Andrea read in a low voice:
“‘You are poor; a miserable old age awaits you. Would you like tobecome rich, or at least independent? Set out immediately for Paris,and demand of the Count of Monte Cristo, Avenue des Champs-Élysées, No.30, the son whom you had by the Marchesa Corsinari, and who was takenfrom you at five years of age. This son is named Andrea Cavalcanti. Inorder that you may not doubt the kind intention of the writer of thisletter, you will find enclosed an order for 2,400 francs, payable inFlorence, at Signor Gozzi’s; also a letter of introduction to the Countof Monte Cristo, on whom I give you a draft of 48,000 francs. Rememberto go to the count on the 26th May at seven o’clock in the evening.

“(Signed) ‘Abbé Busoni.’”

“It is the same.”
“What do you mean?” said the major.
“I was going to say that I received a letter almost to the sameeffect.”
“You?”
“Yes.”
“From the Abbé Busoni?”
“No.”
“From whom, then?”
“From an Englishman, called Lord Wilmore, who takes the name of Sinbadthe Sailor.”
“And of whom you have no more knowledge than I of the Abbé Busoni?”
“You are mistaken; there I am ahead of you.”
“You have seen him, then?”
“Yes, once.”
“Where?”
“Ah, that is just what I cannot tell you; if I did, I should make youas wise as myself, which it is not my intention to do.”
“And what did the letter contain?”
“Read it.”
“‘You are poor, and your future prospects are dark and gloomy. Do youwish for a name? should you like to be rich, and your own master?’”

“_Parbleu!_” said the young man; “was it possible there could be twoanswers to such a question?”
“‘Take the post-chaise which you will find waiting at the Porte deGênes, as you enter Nice; pass through Turin, Chambéry, andPont-de-Beauvoisin. Go to the Count of Monte Cristo, Avenue desChamps-Élysées, on the 26th of May, at seven o’clock in the evening,and demand of him your father. You are the son of the MarcheseCavalcanti and the Marchesa Oliva Corsinari. The marquis will give yousome papers which will certify this fact, and authorize you to appearunder that name in the Parisian world. As to your rank, an annualincome of 50,000 livres will enable you to support it admirably. Ienclose a draft for 5,000 livres, payable on M. Ferrea, banker at Nice,and also a letter of introduction to the Count of Monte Cristo, whom Ihave directed to supply all your wants.

“‘Sinbad the Sailor.’”

“Humph,” said the major; “very good. You have seen the count, you say?”
“I have only just left him.”
“And has he conformed to all that the letter specified?”
“He has.”
“Do you understand it?”
“Not in the least.”
“There is a dupe somewhere.”
“At all events, it is neither you nor I.”
“Certainly not.”
“Well, then——”
“Why, it does not much concern us, do you think it does?”
“No; I agree with you there. We must play the game to the end, andconsent to be blindfolded.”
“Ah, you shall see; I promise you I will sustain my part toadmiration.”
“I never once doubted your doing so.” Monte Cristo chose this momentfor re-entering the drawing-room. On hearing the sound of hisfootsteps, the two men threw themselves in each other’s arms, and whilethey were in the midst of this embrace, the count entered.
“Well, marquis,” said Monte Cristo, “you appear to be in no waydisappointed in the son whom your good fortune has restored to you.”
“Ah, your excellency, I am overwhelmed with delight.”
“And what are your feelings?” said Monte Cristo, turning to the youngman.
“As for me, my heart is overflowing with happiness.”
“Happy father, happy son!” said the count.
“There is only one thing which grieves me,” observed the major, “andthat is the necessity for my leaving Paris so soon.”
“Ah, my dear M. Cavalcanti, I trust you will not leave before I havehad the honor of presenting you to some of my friends.”
“I am at your service, sir,” replied the major.
“Now, sir,” said Monte Cristo, addressing Andrea, “make yourconfession.”
“To whom?”
“Tell M. Cavalcanti something of the state of your finances.”
“_Ma foi!_ monsieur, you have touched upon a tender chord.”
“Do you hear what he says, major?”
“Certainly I do.”
“But do you understand?”
“I do.”
“Your son says he requires money.”
“Well, what would you have me do?” said the major.
“You should furnish him with some of course,” replied Monte Cristo.
“I?”
“Yes, you,” said the count, at the same time advancing towards Andrea,and slipping a packet of bank-notes into the young man’s hand.
“What is this?”
“It is from your father.”
“From my father?”
“Yes; did you not tell him just now that you wanted money? Well, then,he deputes me to give you this.”
“Am I to consider this as part of my income on account?”
“No, it is for the first expenses of your settling in Paris.”
“Ah, how good my dear father is!”
“Silence,” said Monte Cristo; “he does not wish you to know that itcomes from him.”
“I fully appreciate his delicacy,” said Andrea, cramming the noteshastily into his pocket.
“And now, gentlemen, I wish you good-morning,” said Monte Cristo.
“And when shall we have the honor of seeing you again, yourexcellency?” asked Cavalcanti.
“Ah,” said Andrea, “when may we hope for that pleasure?”
“On Saturday, if you will—Yes.—Let me see—Saturday—I am to dine at mycountry house, at Auteuil, on that day, Rue de la Fontaine, No. 28.Several persons are invited, and among others, M. Danglars, yourbanker. I will introduce you to him, for it will be necessary he shouldknow you, as he is to pay your money.”
“Full dress?” said the major, half aloud.
“Oh, yes, certainly,” said the count; “uniform, cross, knee-breeches.”
“And how shall I be dressed?” demanded Andrea.
30145m


“Oh, very simply; black trousers, patent leather boots, whitewaistcoat, either a black or blue coat, and a long cravat. Go to Blinor Véronique for your clothes. Baptistin will tell you where, if you donot know their address. The less pretension there is in your attire,the better will be the effect, as you are a rich man. If you mean tobuy any horses, get them of Devedeux, and if you purchase a phaeton, goto Baptiste for it.”
“At what hour shall we come?” asked the young man.
“About half-past six.”
“We will be with you at that time,” said the major. The two Cavalcantibowed to the count, and left the house. Monte Cristo went to thewindow, and saw them crossing the street, arm in arm.
“There go two miscreants;” said he, “it is a pity they are not reallyrelated!” Then, after an instant of gloomy reflection, “Come, I will goto see the Morrels,” said he; “I think that disgust is even moresickening than hatred.”
30147m



 Chapter 57. In the Lucern Patch
Our readers must now allow us to transport them again to the enclosuresurrounding M. de Villefort’s house, and, behind the gate, halfscreened from view by the large chestnut-trees, which on all sidesspread their luxuriant branches, we shall find some people of ouracquaintance. This time Maximilian was the first to arrive. He wasintently watching for a shadow to appear among the trees, and awaitingwith anxiety the sound of a light step on the gravel walk.
At length, the long-desired sound was heard, and instead of one figure,as he had expected, he perceived that two were approaching him. Thedelay had been occasioned by a visit from Madame Danglars and Eugénie,which had been prolonged beyond the time at which Valentine wasexpected. That she might not appear to fail in her promise toMaximilian, she proposed to Mademoiselle Danglars that they should takea walk in the garden, being anxious to show that the delay, which wasdoubtless a cause of vexation to him, was not occasioned by any neglecton her part. The young man, with the intuitive perception of a lover,quickly understood the circumstances in which she was involuntarilyplaced, and he was comforted. Besides, although she avoided comingwithin speaking distance, Valentine arranged so that Maximilian couldsee her pass and repass, and each time she went by, she managed,unperceived by her companion, to cast an expressive look at the youngman, which seemed to say, “Have patience! You see it is not my fault.”
And Maximilian was patient, and employed himself in mentallycontrasting the two girls,—one fair, with soft languishing eyes, afigure gracefully bending like a weeping willow; the other a brunette,with a fierce and haughty expression, and as straight as a poplar. Itis unnecessary to state that, in the eyes of the young man, Valentinedid not suffer by the contrast. In about half an hour the girls wentaway, and Maximilian understood that Mademoiselle Danglars’ visit hadat last come to an end. In a few minutes Valentine re-entered thegarden alone. For fear that anyone should be observing her return, shewalked slowly; and instead of immediately directing her steps towardsthe gate, she seated herself on a bench, and, carefully casting hereyes around, to convince herself that she was not watched, shepresently arose, and proceeded quickly to join Maximilian.
“Good-evening, Valentine,” said a well-known voice.
“Good-evening, Maximilian; I know I have kept you waiting, but you sawthe cause of my delay.”
“Yes, I recognized Mademoiselle Danglars. I was not aware that you wereso intimate with her.”
“Who told you we were intimate, Maximilian?”
“No one, but you appeared to be so. From the manner in which you walkedand talked together, one would have thought you were two school-girlstelling your secrets to each other.”
“We were having a confidential conversation,” returned Valentine; “shewas owning to me her repugnance to the marriage with M. de Morcerf; andI, on the other hand, was confessing to her how wretched it made me tothink of marrying M. d’Épinay.”
“Dear Valentine!”
“That will account to you for the unreserved manner which you observedbetween me and Eugénie, as in speaking of the man whom I could notlove, my thoughts involuntarily reverted to him on whom my affectionswere fixed.”
“Ah, how good you are to say so, Valentine! You possess a quality whichcan never belong to Mademoiselle Danglars. It is that indefinable charmwhich is to a woman what perfume is to the flower and flavor to thefruit, for the beauty of either is not the only quality we seek.”
“It is your love which makes you look upon everything in that light.”
“No, Valentine, I assure you such is not the case. I was observing youboth when you were walking in the garden, and, on my honor, without atall wishing to depreciate the beauty of Mademoiselle Danglars, I cannotunderstand how any man can really love her.”
“The fact is, Maximilian, that I was there, and my presence had theeffect of rendering you unjust in your comparison.”
“No; but tell me—it is a question of simple curiosity, and which wassuggested by certain ideas passing in my mind relative to MademoiselleDanglars——”
“I dare say it is something disparaging which you are going to say. Itonly proves how little indulgence we may expect from your sex,”interrupted Valentine.
“You cannot, at least, deny that you are very harsh judges of eachother.”
“If we are so, it is because we generally judge under the influence ofexcitement. But return to your question.”
30151m


“Does Mademoiselle Danglars object to this marriage with M. de Morcerfon account of loving another?”
“I told you I was not on terms of strict intimacy with Eugénie.”
“Yes, but girls tell each other secrets without being particularlyintimate; own, now, that you did question her on the subject. Ah, I seeyou are smiling.”
“If you are already aware of the conversation that passed, the woodenpartition which interposed between us and you has proved but a slightsecurity.”
“Come, what did she say?”
“She told me that she loved no one,” said Valentine; “that she dislikedthe idea of being married; that she would infinitely prefer leading anindependent and unfettered life; and that she almost wished her fathermight lose his fortune, that she might become an artist, like herfriend, Mademoiselle Louise d’Armilly.”
“Ah, you see——”
“Well, what does that prove?” asked Valentine.
“Nothing,” replied Maximilian.
“Then why did you smile?”
“Why, you know very well that you are reflecting on yourself,Valentine.”
“Do you want me to go away?”
“Ah, no, no. But do not let us lose time; you are the subject on whichI wish to speak.”
“True, we must be quick, for we have scarcely ten minutes more to passtogether.”
“_Ma foi!_” said Maximilian, in consternation.
“Yes, you are right; I am but a poor friend to you. What a life I causeyou to lead, poor Maximilian, you who are formed for happiness! Ibitterly reproach myself, I assure you.”
“Well, what does it signify, Valentine, so long as I am satisfied, andfeel that even this long and painful suspense is amply repaid by fiveminutes of your society, or two words from your lips? And I have also adeep conviction that heaven would not have created two hearts,harmonizing as ours do, and almost miraculously brought us together, toseparate us at last.”
“Those are kind and cheering words. You must hope for us both,Maximilian; that will make me at least partly happy.”
“But why must you leave me so soon?”
“I do not know particulars. I can only tell you that Madame deVillefort sent to request my presence, as she had a communication tomake on which a part of my fortune depended. Let them take my fortune,I am already too rich; and, perhaps, when they have taken it, they willleave me in peace and quietness. You would love me as much if I werepoor, would you not, Maximilian?”
“Oh, I shall always love you. What should I care for either riches orpoverty, if my Valentine was near me, and I felt certain that no onecould deprive me of her? But do you not fear that this communicationmay relate to your marriage?”
“I do not think that is the case.”
“However it may be, Valentine, you must not be alarmed. I assure youthat, as long as I live, I shall never love anyone else!”
“Do you think to reassure me when you say that, Maximilian?”
“Pardon me, you are right. I am a brute. But I was going to tell youthat I met M. de Morcerf the other day.”
“Well?”
“Monsieur Franz is his friend, you know.”
“What then?”
“Monsieur de Morcerf has received a letter from Franz, announcing hisimmediate return.” Valentine turned pale, and leaned her hand againstthe gate.
“Ah heavens, if it were that! But no, the communication would not comethrough Madame de Villefort.”
“Why not?”
“Because—I scarcely know why—but it has appeared as if Madame deVillefort secretly objected to the marriage, although she did notchoose openly to oppose it.”
“Is it so? Then I feel as if I could adore Madame de Villefort.”
“Do not be in such a hurry to do that,” said Valentine, with a sadsmile.
“If she objects to your marrying M. d’Épinay, she would be all the morelikely to listen to any other proposition.”
“No, Maximilian, it is not suitors to which Madame de Villefortobjects, it is marriage itself.”
“Marriage? If she dislikes that so much, why did she ever marryherself?”
“You do not understand me, Maximilian. About a year ago, I talked ofretiring to a convent. Madame de Villefort, in spite of all the remarkswhich she considered it her duty to make, secretly approved of theproposition, my father consented to it at her instigation, and it wasonly on account of my poor grandfather that I finally abandoned theproject. You can form no idea of the expression of that old man’s eyewhen he looks at me, the only person in the world whom he loves, and, Ihad almost said, by whom he is beloved in return. When he learned myresolution, I shall never forget the reproachful look which he cast onme, and the tears of utter despair which chased each other down hislifeless cheeks. Ah, Maximilian, I experienced, at that moment, suchremorse for my intention, that, throwing myself at his feet, Iexclaimed,—‘Forgive me, pray forgive me, my dear grandfather; they maydo what they will with me, I will never leave you.’ When I had ceasedspeaking, he thankfully raised his eyes to heaven, but without utteringa word. Ah, Maximilian, I may have much to suffer, but I feel as if mygrandfather’s look at that moment would more than compensate for all.”
“Dear Valentine, you are a perfect angel, and I am sure I do not knowwhat I—sabring right and left among the Bedouins—can have done to merityour being revealed to me, unless, indeed, Heaven took intoconsideration the fact that the victims of my sword were infidels. Buttell me what interest Madame de Villefort can have in your remainingunmarried?”
“Did I not tell you just now that I was rich, Maximilian—too rich? Ipossess nearly 50,000 livres in right of my mother; my grandfather andmy grandmother, the Marquis and Marquise de Saint-Méran, will leave meas much, and M. Noirtier evidently intends making me his heir. Mybrother Edward, who inherits nothing from his mother, will, therefore,be poor in comparison with me. Now, if I had taken the veil, all thisfortune would have descended to my father, and, in reversion, to hisson.”
“Ah, how strange it seems that such a young and beautiful woman shouldbe so avaricious.”
“It is not for herself that she is so, but for her son, and what youregard as a vice becomes almost a virtue when looked at in the light ofmaternal love.”
“But could you not compromise matters, and give up a portion of yourfortune to her son?”
“How could I make such a proposition, especially to a woman who alwaysprofesses to be so entirely disinterested?”
“Valentine, I have always regarded our love in the light of somethingsacred; consequently, I have covered it with the veil of respect, andhid it in the innermost recesses of my soul. No human being, not evenmy sister, is aware of its existence. Valentine, will you permit me tomake a confidant of a friend and reveal to him the love I bear you?”
Valentine started. “A friend, Maximilian; and who is this friend? Itremble to give my permission.”
“Listen, Valentine. Have you never experienced for anyone that suddenand irresistible sympathy which made you feel as if the object of ithad been your old and familiar friend, though, in reality, it was thefirst time you had ever met? Nay, further, have you never endeavored torecall the time, place, and circumstances of your former intercourse,and failing in this attempt, have almost believed that your spiritsmust have held converse with each other in some state of being anteriorto the present, and that you are only now occupied in a reminiscence ofthe past?”
“Yes.”
“Well, that is precisely the feeling which I experienced when I firstsaw that extraordinary man.”
“Extraordinary, did you say?”
“Yes.”
“You have known him for some time, then?”
“Scarcely longer than eight or ten days.”
“And do you call a man your friend whom you have only known for eightor ten days? Ah, Maximilian, I had hoped you set a higher value on thetitle of friend.”
“Your logic is most powerful, Valentine, but say what you will, I cannever renounce the sentiment which has instinctively taken possessionof my mind. I feel as if it were ordained that this man should beassociated with all the good which the future may have in store for me,and sometimes it really seems as if his eye was able to see what was tocome, and his hand endowed with the power of directing events accordingto his own will.”
“He must be a prophet, then,” said Valentine, smiling.
“Indeed,” said Maximilian, “I have often been almost tempted toattribute to him the gift of prophecy; at all events, he has awonderful power of foretelling any future good.”
“Ah,” said Valentine in a mournful tone, “do let me see this man,Maximilian; he may tell me whether I shall ever be loved sufficientlyto make amends for all I have suffered.”
“My poor girl, you know him already.”
“I know him?”
“Yes; it was he who saved the life of your step-mother and her son.”
“The Count of Monte Cristo?”
“The same.”
“Ah,” cried Valentine, “he is too much the friend of Madame deVillefort ever to be mine.”
“The friend of Madame de Villefort! It cannot be; surely, Valentine,you are mistaken?”
“No, indeed, I am not; for I assure you, his power over our householdis almost unlimited. Courted by my step-mother, who regards him as theepitome of human wisdom; admired by my father, who says he has neverbefore heard such sublime ideas so eloquently expressed; idolized byEdward, who, notwithstanding his fear of the count’s large black eyes,runs to meet him the moment he arrives, and opens his hand, in which heis sure to find some delightful present,—M. de Monte Cristo appears toexert a mysterious and almost uncontrollable influence over all themembers of our family.”
“If such be the case, my dear Valentine, you must yourself have felt,or at all events will soon feel, the effects of his presence. He meetsAlbert de Morcerf in Italy—it is to rescue him from the hands of thebanditti; he introduces himself to Madame Danglars—it is that he maygive her a royal present; your step-mother and her son pass before hisdoor—it is that his Nubian may save them from destruction. This manevidently possesses the power of influencing events, both as regardsmen and things. I never saw more simple tastes united to greatermagnificence. His smile is so sweet when he addresses me, that I forgetit ever can be bitter to others. Ah, Valentine, tell me, if he everlooked on you with one of those sweet smiles? if so, depend on it, youwill be happy.”
“Me?” said the young girl, “he never even glances at me; on thecontrary, if I accidentally cross his path, he appears rather to avoidme. Ah, he is not generous, neither does he possess that supernaturalpenetration which you attribute to him, for if he did, he would haveperceived that I was unhappy; and if he had been generous, seeing mesad and solitary, he would have used his influence to my advantage, andsince, as you say, he resembles the sun, he would have warmed my heartwith one of his life-giving rays. You say he loves you, Maximilian; howdo you know that he does? All would pay deference to an officer likeyou, with a fierce moustache and a long sabre, but they think they maycrush a poor weeping girl with impunity.”
“Ah, Valentine, I assure you you are mistaken.”
“If it were otherwise—if he treated me diplomatically—that is to say,like a man who wishes, by some means or other, to obtain a footing inthe house, so that he may ultimately gain the power of dictating to itsoccupants—he would, if it had been but once, have honored me with thesmile which you extol so loudly; but no, he saw that I was unhappy, heunderstood that I could be of no use to him, and therefore paid noattention to me whatever. Who knows but that, in order to please Madamede Villefort and my father, he may not persecute me by every means inhis power? It is not just that he should despise me so, without anyreason. Ah, forgive me,” said Valentine, perceiving the effect whichher words were producing on Maximilian: “I have done wrong, for I havegiven utterance to thoughts concerning that man which I did not evenknow existed in my heart. I do not deny the influence of which youspeak, or that I have not myself experienced it, but with me it hasbeen productive of evil rather than good.”
“Well, Valentine,” said Morrel with a sigh, “we will not discuss thematter further. I will not make a confidant of him.”
“Alas!” said Valentine, “I see that I have given you pain. I can onlysay how sincerely I ask pardon for having grieved you. But, indeed, Iam not prejudiced beyond the power of conviction. Tell me what thisCount of Monte Cristo has done for you.”
30157m


“I own that your question embarrasses me, Valentine, for I cannot saythat the count has rendered me any ostensible service. Still, as I havealready told you, I have an instinctive affection for him, the sourceof which I cannot explain to you. Has the sun done anything for me? No;he warms me with his rays, and it is by his light that I seeyou—nothing more. Has such and such a perfume done anything for me? No;its odor charms one of my senses—that is all I can say when I am askedwhy I praise it. My friendship for him is as strange and unaccountableas his for me. A secret voice seems to whisper to me that there must besomething more than chance in this unexpected reciprocity offriendship. In his most simple actions, as well as in his most secretthoughts, I find a relation to my own. You will perhaps smile at mewhen I tell you that, ever since I have known this man, I haveinvoluntarily entertained the idea that all the good fortune which hasbefallen me originated from him. However, I have managed to live thirtyyears without this protection, you will say; but I will endeavor alittle to illustrate my meaning. He invited me to dine with him onSaturday, which was a very natural thing for him to do. Well, what haveI learned since? That your mother and M. de Villefort are both comingto this dinner. I shall meet them there, and who knows what futureadvantages may result from the interview? This may appear to you to beno unusual combination of circumstances; nevertheless, I perceive somehidden plot in the arrangement—something, in fact, more than isapparent on a casual view of the subject. I believe that this singularman, who appears to fathom the motives of everyone, has purposelyarranged for me to meet M. and Madame de Villefort, and sometimes, Iconfess, I have gone so far as to try to read in his eyes whether hewas in possession of the secret of our love.”
“My good friend,” said Valentine, “I should take you for a visionary,and should tremble for your reason, if I were always to hear you talkin a strain similar to this. Is it possible that you can see anythingmore than the merest chance in this meeting? Pray reflect a little. Myfather, who never goes out, has several times been on the point ofrefusing this invitation; Madame de Villefort, on the contrary, isburning with the desire of seeing this extraordinary nabob in his ownhouse, therefore, she has with great difficulty prevailed on my fatherto accompany her. No, no; it is as I have said, Maximilian,—there is noone in the world of whom I can ask help but yourself and mygrandfather, who is little better than a corpse—no support to cling tobut my mother in heaven!”
“I see that you are right, logically speaking,” said Maximilian; “butthe gentle voice which usually has such power over me fails to convinceme today.”
“I feel the same as regards yourself.” said Valentine; “and I own that,if you have no stronger proof to give me——”
“I have another,” replied Maximilian; “but I fear you will deem it evenmore absurd than the first.”
“So much the worse,” said Valentine, smiling.
“It is, nevertheless, conclusive to my mind. My ten years of servicehave also confirmed my ideas on the subject of sudden inspirations, forI have several times owed my life to a mysterious impulse whichdirected me to move at once either to the right or to the left, inorder to escape the ball which killed the comrade fighting by my side,while it left me unharmed.”
“Dear Maximilian, why not attribute your escape to my constant prayersfor your safety? When you are away, I no longer pray for myself, butfor you.”
30159m


“Yes, since you have known me,” said Morrel, smiling; “but that cannotapply to the time previous to our acquaintance, Valentine.”
“You are very provoking, and will not give me credit for anything; butlet me hear this second proof, which you yourself own to be absurd.”
“Well, look through this opening, and you will see the beautiful newhorse which I rode here.”
“Ah! what a beautiful creature!” cried Valentine; “why did you notbring him close to the gate, so that I could talk to him and pat him?”
“He is, as you see, a very valuable animal,” said Maximilian. “You knowthat my means are limited, and that I am what would be designated a manof moderate pretensions. Well, I went to a horse dealer’s, where I sawthis magnificent horse, which I have named Médéah. I asked the price;they told me it was 4,500 francs. I was, therefore, obliged to give itup, as you may imagine, but I own I went away with rather a heavyheart, for the horse had looked at me affectionately, had rubbed hishead against me and, when I mounted him, had pranced in the mostdelightful way imaginable, so that I was altogether fascinated withhim. The same evening some friends of mine visited me,—M. deChâteau-Renaud, M. Debray, and five or six other choice spirits, whomyou do not know, even by name. They proposed a game of _bouillotte_. Inever play, for I am not rich enough to afford to lose, or sufficientlypoor to desire to gain. But I was at my own house, you understand, sothere was nothing to be done but to send for the cards, which I did.
“Just as they were sitting down to table, M. de Monte Cristo arrived.He took his seat amongst them; they played, and I won. I am almostashamed to say that my gains amounted to 5,000 francs. We separated atmidnight. I could not defer my pleasure, so I took a cabriolet anddrove to the horse dealer’s. Feverish and excited, I rang at the door.The person who opened it must have taken me for a madman, for I rushedat once to the stable. Médéah was standing at the rack, eating his hay.I immediately put on the saddle and bridle, to which operation he lenthimself with the best grace possible; then, putting the 4,500 francsinto the hands of the astonished dealer, I proceeded to fulfil myintention of passing the night in riding in the Champs-Élysées. As Irode by the count’s house I perceived a light in one of the windows,and fancied I saw the shadow of his figure moving behind the curtain.Now, Valentine, I firmly believe that he knew of my wish to possessthis horse, and that he lost expressly to give me the means ofprocuring him.”
“My dear Maximilian, you are really too fanciful; you will not loveeven me long. A man who accustoms himself to live in such a world ofpoetry and imagination must find far too little excitement in a common,every-day sort of attachment such as ours. But they are calling me. Doyou hear?”
“Ah, Valentine,” said Maximilian, “give me but one finger through thisopening in the grating, one finger, the littlest finger of all, that Imay have the happiness of kissing it.”
“Maximilian, we said we would be to each other as two voices, twoshadows.”
“As you will, Valentine.”
“Shall you be happy if I do what you wish?”
“Oh, yes!”
Valentine mounted on a bench, and passed not only her finger but herwhole hand through the opening. Maximilian uttered a cry of delight,and, springing forwards, seized the hand extended towards him, andimprinted on it a fervent and impassioned kiss. The little hand wasthen immediately withdrawn, and the young man saw Valentine hurryingtowards the house, as though she were almost terrified at her ownsensations.


 Chapter 58. M. Noirtier de Villefort
We will now relate what was passing in the house of the king’s attorneyafter the departure of Madame Danglars and her daughter, and during thetime of the conversation between Maximilian and Valentine, which wehave just detailed.
M. de Villefort entered his father’s room, followed by Madame deVillefort. Both of the visitors, after saluting the old man andspeaking to Barrois, a faithful servant, who had been twenty-five yearsin his service, took their places on either side of the paralytic.
M. Noirtier was sitting in an armchair, which moved upon casters, inwhich he was wheeled into the room in the morning, and in the same waydrawn out again at night. He was placed before a large glass, whichreflected the whole apartment, and so, without any attempt to move,which would have been impossible, he could see all who entered the roomand everything which was going on around him. M. Noirtier, althoughalmost as immovable as a corpse, looked at the new-comers with a quickand intelligent expression, perceiving at once, by their ceremoniouscourtesy, that they were come on business of an unexpected and officialcharacter.
Sight and hearing were the only senses remaining, and they, like twosolitary sparks, remained to animate the miserable body which seemedfit for nothing but the grave; it was only, however, by means of one ofthese senses that he could reveal the thoughts and feelings that stilloccupied his mind, and the look by which he gave expression to hisinner life was like the distant gleam of a candle which a travellersees by night across some desert place, and knows that a living beingdwells beyond the silence and obscurity.
Noirtier’s hair was long and white, and flowed over his shoulders;while in his eyes, shaded by thick black lashes, was concentrated, asit often happens with an organ which is used to the exclusion of theothers, all the activity, address, force, and intelligence which wereformerly diffused over his whole body; and so although the movement ofthe arm, the sound of the voice, and the agility of the body, werewanting, the speaking eye sufficed for all. He commanded with it; itwas the medium through which his thanks were conveyed. In short, hiswhole appearance produced on the mind the impression of a corpse withliving eyes, and nothing could be more startling than to observe theexpression of anger or joy suddenly lighting up these organs, while therest of the rigid and marble-like features were utterly deprived of thepower of participation. Three persons only could understand thislanguage of the poor paralytic; these were Villefort, Valentine, andthe old servant of whom we have already spoken. But as Villefort sawhis father but seldom, and then only when absolutely obliged, and as henever took any pains to please or gratify him when he was there, allthe old man’s happiness was centred in his granddaughter. Valentine, bymeans of her love, her patience, and her devotion, had learned to readin Noirtier’s look all the varied feelings which were passing in hismind. To this dumb language, which was so unintelligible to others, sheanswered by throwing her whole soul into the expression of hercountenance, and in this manner were the conversations sustainedbetween the blooming girl and the helpless invalid, whose body couldscarcely be called a living one, but who, nevertheless, possessed afund of knowledge and penetration, united with a will as powerful asever although clogged by a body rendered utterly incapable of obeyingits impulses.
Valentine had solved the problem, and was able easily to understand histhoughts, and to convey her own in return, and, through her untiringand devoted assiduity, it was seldom that, in the ordinary transactionsof every-day life, she failed to anticipate the wishes of the living,thinking mind, or the wants of the almost inanimate body.
As to the servant, he had, as we have said, been with his master forfive-and-twenty years, therefore he knew all his habits, and it wasseldom that Noirtier found it necessary to ask for anything, so promptwas he in administering to all the necessities of the invalid.
Villefort did not need the help of either Valentine or the domestic inorder to carry on with his father the strange conversation which he wasabout to begin. As we have said, he perfectly understood the old man’svocabulary, and if he did not use it more often, it was onlyindifference and _ennui_ which prevented him from so doing. Hetherefore allowed Valentine to go into the garden, sent away Barrois,and after having seated himself at his father’s right hand, whileMadame de Villefort placed herself on the left, he addressed him thus:
“I trust you will not be displeased, sir, that Valentine has not comewith us, or that I dismissed Barrois, for our conference will be onewhich could not with propriety be carried on in the presence of either.Madame de Villefort and I have a communication to make to you.”
Noirtier’s face remained perfectly passive during this long preamble,while, on the contrary, Villefort’s eye was endeavoring to penetrateinto the inmost recesses of the old man’s heart.
“This communication,” continued the procureur, in that cold anddecisive tone which seemed at once to preclude all discussion, “will,we are sure, meet with your approbation.”
The eye of the invalid still retained that vacancy of expression whichprevented his son from obtaining any knowledge of the feelings whichwere passing in his mind; he listened, nothing more.
“Sir,” resumed Villefort, “we are thinking of marrying Valentine.” Hadthe old man’s face been moulded in wax it could not have shown lessemotion at this news than was now to be traced there. “The marriagewill take place in less than three months,” said Villefort.
Noirtier’s eye still retained its inanimate expression.
Madame de Villefort now took her part in the conversation and added:
“We thought this news would possess an interest for you, sir, who havealways entertained a great affection for Valentine; it therefore onlynow remains for us to tell you the name of the young man for whom sheis destined. It is one of the most desirable connections which couldpossibly be formed; he possesses fortune, a high rank in society, andevery personal qualification likely to render Valentine supremelyhappy,—his name, moreover, cannot be wholly unknown to you. It is M.Franz de Quesnel, Baron d’Épinay.”
While his wife was speaking, Villefort had narrowly watched the oldman’s countenance. When Madame de Villefort pronounced the name ofFranz, the pupil of M. Noirtier’s eye began to dilate, and his eyelidstrembled with the same movement that may be perceived on the lips of anindividual about to speak, and he darted a lightning glance at Madamede Villefort and his son. The procureur, who knew the political hatredwhich had formerly existed between M. Noirtier and the elder d’Épinay,well understood the agitation and anger which the announcement hadproduced; but, feigning not to perceive either, he immediately resumedthe narrative begun by his wife.
“Sir,” said he, “you are aware that Valentine is about to enter hernineteenth year, which renders it important that she should lose notime in forming a suitable alliance. Nevertheless, you have not beenforgotten in our plans, and we have fully ascertained beforehand thatValentine’s future husband will consent, not to live in this house, forthat might not be pleasant for the young people, but that you shouldlive with them; so that you and Valentine, who are so attached to eachother, would not be separated, and you would be able to pursue exactlythe same course of life which you have hitherto done, and thus, insteadof losing, you will be a gainer by the change, as it will secure to youtwo children instead of one, to watch over and comfort you.”
30165m


Noirtier’s look was furious; it was very evident that somethingdesperate was passing in the old man’s mind, for a cry of anger andgrief rose in his throat, and not being able to find vent in utterance,appeared almost to choke him, for his face and lips turned quite purplewith the struggle. Villefort quietly opened a window, saying, “It isvery warm, and the heat affects M. Noirtier.” He then returned to hisplace, but did not sit down.
“This marriage,” added Madame de Villefort, “is quite agreeable to thewishes of M. d’Épinay and his family; besides, he had no relationsnearer than an uncle and aunt, his mother having died at his birth, andhis father having been assassinated in 1815, that is to say, when hewas but two years old; it naturally followed that the child waspermitted to choose his own pursuits, and he has, therefore, seldomacknowledged any other authority but that of his own will.”
“That assassination was a mysterious affair,” said Villefort, “and theperpetrators have hitherto escaped detection, although suspicion hasfallen on the head of more than one person.”
Noirtier made such an effort that his lips expanded into a smile.
“Now,” continued Villefort, “those to whom the guilt really belongs, bywhom the crime was committed, on whose heads the justice of man mayprobably descend here, and the certain judgment of God hereafter, wouldrejoice in the opportunity thus afforded of bestowing such apeace-offering as Valentine on the son of him whose life they soruthlessly destroyed.” Noirtier had succeeded in mastering his emotionmore than could have been deemed possible with such an enfeebled andshattered frame.
“Yes, I understand,” was the reply contained in his look; and this lookexpressed a feeling of strong indignation, mixed with profoundcontempt. Villefort fully understood his father’s meaning, and answeredby a slight shrug of his shoulders. He then motioned to his wife totake leave.
“Now sir,” said Madame de Villefort, “I must bid you farewell. Wouldyou like me to send Edward to you for a short time?”
It had been agreed that the old man should express his approbation byclosing his eyes, his refusal by winking them several times, and if hehad some desire or feeling to express, he raised them to heaven. If hewanted Valentine, he closed his right eye only, and if Barrois, theleft. At Madame de Villefort’s proposition he instantly winked hiseyes.
Provoked by a complete refusal, she bit her lip and said, “Then shall Isend Valentine to you?” The old man closed his eyes eagerly, therebyintimating that such was his wish.
M. and Madame de Villefort bowed and left the room, giving orders thatValentine should be summoned to her grandfather’s presence, and feelingsure that she would have much to do to restore calmness to theperturbed spirit of the invalid. Valentine, with a color stillheightened by emotion, entered the room just after her parents hadquitted it. One look was sufficient to tell her that her grandfatherwas suffering, and that there was much on his mind which he was wishingto communicate to her.
“Dear grandpapa,” cried she, “what has happened? They have vexed you,and you are angry?”
The paralytic closed his eyes in token of assent.
“Who has displeased you? Is it my father?”
“No.”
“Madame de Villefort?”
“No.”
“Me?” The former sign was repeated.
“Are you displeased with me?” cried Valentine in astonishment. M.Noirtier again closed his eyes.
“And what have I done, dear grandpapa, that you should be angry withme?” cried Valentine.
There was no answer, and she continued:
“I have not seen you all day. Has anyone been speaking to you againstme?”
“Yes,” said the old man’s look, with eagerness.
“Let me think a moment. I do assure you, grandpapa—Ah—M. and Madame deVillefort have just left this room, have they not?”
“Yes.”
“And it was they who told you something which made you angry? What wasit then? May I go and ask them, that I may have the opportunity ofmaking my peace with you?”
“No, no,” said Noirtier’s look.
“Ah, you frighten me. What can they have said?” and she again tried tothink what it could be.
“Ah, I know,” said she, lowering her voice and going close to the oldman. “They have been speaking of my marriage,—have they not?”
“Yes,” replied the angry look.
“I understand; you are displeased at the silence I have preserved onthe subject. The reason of it was, that they had insisted on my keepingthe matter a secret, and begged me not to tell you anything of it. Theydid not even acquaint me with their intentions, and I only discoveredthem by chance, that is why I have been so reserved with you, deargrandpapa. Pray forgive me.”
But there was no look calculated to reassure her; all it seemed to saywas, “It is not only your reserve which afflicts me.”
“What is it, then?” asked the young girl. “Perhaps you think I shallabandon you, dear grandpapa, and that I shall forget you when I ammarried?”
“No.”
“They told you, then, that M. d’Épinay consented to our all livingtogether?”
“Yes.”
“Then why are you still vexed and grieved?” The old man’s eyes beamedwith an expression of gentle affection.
“Yes, I understand,” said Valentine; “it is because you love me.” Theold man assented.
“And you are afraid I shall be unhappy?”
“Yes.”
“You do not like M. Franz?” The eyes repeated several times, “No, no,no.”
“Then you are vexed with the engagement?”
“Yes.”
“Well, listen,” said Valentine, throwing herself on her knees, andputting her arm round her grandfather’s neck, “I am vexed, too, for Ido not love M. Franz d’Épinay.”
An expression of intense joy illumined the old man’s eyes.
“When I wished to retire into a convent, you remember how angry youwere with me?” A tear trembled in the eye of the invalid. “Well,”continued Valentine, “the reason of my proposing it was that I mightescape this hateful marriage, which drives me to despair.” Noirtier’sbreathing came thick and short.
“Then the idea of this marriage really grieves you too? Ah, if youcould but help me—if we could both together defeat their plan! But youare unable to oppose them,—you, whose mind is so quick, and whose willis so firm are nevertheless, as weak and unequal to the contest as I ammyself. Alas, you, who would have been such a powerful protector to mein the days of your health and strength, can now only sympathize in myjoys and sorrows, without being able to take any active part in them.However, this is much, and calls for gratitude and Heaven has not takenaway all my blessings when it leaves me your sympathy and kindness.”
At these words there appeared in Noirtier’s eye an expression of suchdeep meaning that the young girl thought she could read these wordsthere: “You are mistaken; I can still do much for you.”
“Do you think you can help me, dear grandpapa?” said Valentine.
“Yes.” Noirtier raised his eyes, it was the sign agreed on between himand Valentine when he wanted anything.
“What is it you want, dear grandpapa?” said Valentine, and sheendeavored to recall to mind all the things which he would be likely toneed; and as the ideas presented themselves to her mind, she repeatedthem aloud, then,—finding that all her efforts elicited nothing but aconstant _“No,”_—she said, “Come, since this plan does not answer, Iwill have recourse to another.”
She then recited all the letters of the alphabet from A down to N. Whenshe arrived at that letter the paralytic made her understand that shehad spoken the initial letter of the thing he wanted.
“Ah,” said Valentine, “the thing you desire begins with the letter N;it is with N that we have to do, then. Well, let me see, what can youwant that begins with N? Na—Ne—Ni—No——”
“Yes, yes, yes,” said the old man’s eye.
“Ah, it is No, then?”
“Yes.”
Valentine fetched a dictionary, which she placed on a desk beforeNoirtier; she opened it, and, seeing that the old man’s eye wasthoroughly fixed on its pages, she ran her finger quickly up and downthe columns. During the six years which had passed since Noirtier firstfell into this sad state, Valentine’s powers of invention had been toooften put to the test not to render her expert in devising expedientsfor gaining a knowledge of his wishes, and the constant practice had soperfected her in the art that she guessed the old man’s meaning asquickly as if he himself had been able to seek for what he wanted. Atthe word _Notary_, Noirtier made a sign to her to stop.
30169m


“Notary,” said she, “do you want a notary, dear grandpapa?” The old managain signified that it was a notary he desired.
“You would wish a notary to be sent for then?” said Valentine.
“Yes.”
“Shall my father be informed of your wish?”
“Yes.”
“Do you wish the notary to be sent for immediately?”
“Yes.”
“Then they shall go for him directly, dear grandpapa. Is that all youwant?”
“Yes.” Valentine rang the bell, and ordered the servant to tellMonsieur or Madame de Villefort that they were requested to come to M.Noirtier’s room.
“Are you satisfied now?” inquired Valentine.
“Yes.”
“I am sure you are; it is not very difficult to discover that.” And theyoung girl smiled on her grandfather, as if he had been a child. M. deVillefort entered, followed by Barrois.
“What do you want me for, sir?” demanded he of the paralytic.
“Sir,” said Valentine, “my grandfather wishes for a notary.” At thisstrange and unexpected demand M. de Villefort and his father exchangedlooks.
“Yes,” motioned the latter, with a firmness which seemed to declarethat with the help of Valentine and his old servant, who both knew whathis wishes were, he was quite prepared to maintain the contest.
“Do you wish for a notary?” asked Villefort.
“Yes.”
“What to do?”
Noirtier made no answer.
“What do you want with a notary?” again repeated Villefort. Theinvalid’s eye remained fixed, by which expression he intended tointimate that his resolution was unalterable.
“Is it to do us some ill turn? Do you think it is worth while?” saidVillefort.
“Still,” said Barrois, with the freedom and fidelity of an old servant,“if M. Noirtier asks for a notary, I suppose he really wishes for anotary; therefore I shall go at once and fetch one.” Barroisacknowledged no master but Noirtier, and never allowed his desires inany way to be contradicted.
30171m


“Yes, I do want a notary,” motioned the old man, shutting his eyes witha look of defiance, which seemed to say, “and I should like to see theperson who dares to refuse my request.”
“You shall have a notary, as you absolutely wish for one, sir,” saidVillefort; “but I shall explain to him your state of health, and makeexcuses for you, for the scene cannot fail of being a most ridiculousone.”
“Never mind that,” said Barrois; “I shall go and fetch a notary,nevertheless.” And the old servant departed triumphantly on hismission.


 Chapter 59. The Will
As soon as Barrois had left the room, Noirtier looked at Valentine witha malicious expression that said many things. The young girl perfectlyunderstood the look, and so did Villefort, for his countenance becameclouded, and he knitted his eyebrows angrily. He took a seat, andquietly awaited the arrival of the notary. Noirtier saw him seathimself with an appearance of perfect indifference, at the same timegiving a side look at Valentine, which made her understand that shealso was to remain in the room. Three-quarters of an hour after,Barrois returned, bringing the notary with him.
“Sir,” said Villefort, after the first salutations were over, “you weresent for by M. Noirtier, whom you see here. All his limbs have becomecompletely paralysed, he has lost his voice also, and we ourselves findmuch trouble in endeavoring to catch some fragments of his meaning.”
Noirtier cast an appealing look on Valentine, which look was at once soearnest and imperative, that she answered immediately.
“Sir,” said she, “I perfectly understand my grandfather’s meaning atall times.”
“That is quite true,” said Barrois; “and that is what I told thegentleman as we walked along.”
“Permit me,” said the notary, turning first to Villefort and then toValentine—“permit me to state that the case in question is just one ofthose in which a public officer like myself cannot proceed to actwithout thereby incurring a dangerous responsibility. The first thingnecessary to render an act valid is, that the notary should bethoroughly convinced that he has faithfully interpreted the will andwishes of the person dictating the act. Now I cannot be sure of theapprobation or disapprobation of a client who cannot speak, and as theobject of his desire or his repugnance cannot be clearly proved to me,on account of his want of speech, my services here would be quiteuseless, and cannot be legally exercised.”
The notary then prepared to retire. An imperceptible smile of triumphwas expressed on the lips of the procureur. Noirtier looked atValentine with an expression so full of grief, that she arrested thedeparture of the notary.
“Sir,” said she, “the language which I speak with my grandfather may beeasily learnt, and I can teach you in a few minutes, to understand italmost as well as I can myself. Will you tell me what you require, inorder to set your conscience quite at ease on the subject?”
“In order to render an act valid, I must be certain of the approbationor disapprobation of my client. Illness of body would not affect thevalidity of the deed, but sanity of mind is absolutely requisite.”
“Well, sir, by the help of two signs, with which I will acquaint youpresently, you may ascertain with perfect certainty that my grandfatheris still in the full possession of all his mental faculties. M.Noirtier, being deprived of voice and motion, is accustomed to conveyhis meaning by closing his eyes when he wishes to signify ‘yes,’ and towink when he means ‘no.’ You now know quite enough to enable you toconverse with M. Noirtier;—try.”
Noirtier gave Valentine such a look of tenderness and gratitude that itwas comprehended even by the notary himself.
“You have heard and understood what your granddaughter has been saying,sir, have you?” asked the notary. Noirtier closed his eyes.
“And you approve of what she said—that is to say, you declare that thesigns which she mentioned are really those by means of which you areaccustomed to convey your thoughts?”
“Yes.”
“It was you who sent for me?”
“Yes.”
“To make your will?”
“Yes.”
“And you do not wish me to go away without fulfilling your originalintentions?” The old man winked violently.
“Well, sir,” said the young girl, “do you understand now, and is yourconscience perfectly at rest on the subject?”
But before the notary could answer, Villefort had drawn him aside.
“Sir,” said he, “do you suppose for a moment that a man can sustain aphysical shock, such as M. Noirtier has received, without any detrimentto his mental faculties?”
“It is not exactly that, sir,” said the notary, “which makes me uneasy,but the difficulty will be in wording his thoughts and intentions, soas to be able to get his answers.”
“You must see that to be an utter impossibility,” said Villefort.Valentine and the old man heard this conversation, and Noirtier fixedhis eye so earnestly on Valentine that she felt bound to answer to thelook.
“Sir,” said she, “that need not make you uneasy, however difficult itmay at first sight appear to be. I can discover and explain to you mygrandfather’s thoughts, so as to put an end to all your doubts andfears on the subject. I have now been six years with M. Noirtier, andlet him tell you if ever once, during that time, he has entertained athought which he was unable to make me understand.”
“No,” signed the old man.
“Let us try what we can do, then,” said the notary. “You accept thisyoung lady as your interpreter, M. Noirtier?”
“Yes.”
“Well, sir, what do you require of me, and what document is it that youwish to be drawn up?”
Valentine named all the letters of the alphabet until she came to W. Atthis letter the eloquent eye of Noirtier gave her notice that she wasto stop.
“It is very evident that it is the letter W which M. Noirtier wants,”said the notary.
“Wait,” said Valentine; and, turning to her grandfather, she repeated,“Wa—We—Wi——” The old man stopped her at the last syllable. Valentinethen took the dictionary, and the notary watched her while she turnedover the pages.
She passed her finger slowly down the columns, and when she came to theword “Will,” M. Noirtier’s eye bade her stop.
“Will,” said the notary; “it is very evident that M. Noirtier isdesirous of making his will.”
“Yes, yes, yes,” motioned the invalid.
“Really, sir, you must allow that this is most extraordinary,” said theastonished notary, turning to M. de Villefort.
“Yes,” said the procureur, “and I think the will promises to be yetmore extraordinary, for I cannot see how it is to be drawn up withoutthe intervention of Valentine, and she may, perhaps, be considered astoo much interested in its contents to allow of her being a suitableinterpreter of the obscure and ill-defined wishes of her grandfather.”
“No, no, no,” replied the eye of the paralytic.
“What?” said Villefort, “do you mean to say that Valentine is notinterested in your will?”
“No.”
“Sir,” said the notary, whose interest had been greatly excited, andwho had resolved on publishing far and wide the account of thisextraordinary and picturesque scene, “what appeared so impossible to mean hour ago, has now become quite easy and practicable, and this may bea perfectly valid will, provided it be read in the presence of sevenwitnesses, approved by the testator, and sealed by the notary in thepresence of the witnesses. As to the time, it will not require verymuch more than the generality of wills. There are certain formsnecessary to be gone through, and which are always the same. As to thedetails, the greater part will be furnished afterwards by the state inwhich we find the affairs of the testator, and by yourself, who, havinghad the management of them, can doubtless give full information on thesubject. But besides all this, in order that the instrument may not becontested, I am anxious to give it the greatest possible authenticity,therefore, one of my colleagues will help me, and, contrary to custom,will assist in the dictation of the testament. Are you satisfied, sir?”continued the notary, addressing the old man.
30175m


“Yes,” looked the invalid, his eye beaming with delight at the readyinterpretation of his meaning.
“What is he going to do?” thought Villefort, whose position demandedmuch reserve, but who was longing to know what his father’s intentionswere. He left the room to give orders for another notary to be sent,but Barrois, who had heard all that passed, had guessed his master’swishes, and had already gone to fetch one. The procureur then told hiswife to come up. In the course of a quarter of an hour everyone hadassembled in the chamber of the paralytic; the second notary had alsoarrived.
A few words sufficed for a mutual understanding between the twoofficers of the law. They read to Noirtier the formal copy of a will,in order to give him an idea of the terms in which such documents aregenerally couched; then, in order to test the capacity of the testator,the first notary said, turning towards him:
“When an individual makes his will, it is generally in favor or inprejudice of some person.”
“Yes.”
“Have you an exact idea of the amount of your fortune?”
“Yes.”
“I will name to you several sums which will increase by gradation; youwill stop me when I reach the one representing the amount of your ownpossessions?”
“Yes.”
There was a kind of solemnity in this interrogation. Never had thestruggle between mind and matter been more apparent than now, and if itwas not a sublime, it was, at least, a curious spectacle. They hadformed a circle round the invalid; the second notary was sitting at atable, prepared for writing, and his colleague was standing before thetestator in the act of interrogating him on the subject to which wehave alluded.
“Your fortune exceeds 300,000 francs, does it not?” asked he. Noirtiermade a sign that it did.
“Do you possess 400,000 francs?” inquired the notary. Noirtier’s eyeremained immovable.
“500,000?” The same expression continued.
“600,000—700,000—800,000—900,000?”
Noirtier stopped him at the last-named sum.
“You are then in possession of 900,000 francs?” asked the notary.
“Yes.”
“In landed property?”
“No.”
“In stock?”
“Yes.”
“The stock is in your own hands?”
The look which M. Noirtier cast on Barrois showed that there wassomething wanting which he knew where to find. The old servant left theroom, and presently returned, bringing with him a small casket.
“Do you permit us to open this casket?” asked the notary. Noirtier gavehis assent.
They opened it, and found 900,000 francs in bank scrip. The firstnotary handed over each note, as he examined it, to his colleague.
The total amount was found to be as M. Noirtier had stated.
“It is all as he has said; it is very evident that the mind stillretains its full force and vigor.” Then, turning towards the paralytic,he said, “You possess, then, 900,000 francs of capital, which,according to the manner in which you have invested it, ought to bringin an income of about 40,000 livres?”
“Yes.”
“To whom do you desire to leave this fortune?”
“Oh!” said Madame de Villefort, “there is not much doubt on thatsubject. M. Noirtier tenderly loves his granddaughter, Mademoiselle deVillefort; it is she who has nursed and tended him for six years, andhas, by her devoted attention, fully secured the affection, I hadalmost said the gratitude, of her grandfather, and it is but just thatshe should reap the fruit of her devotion.”
The eye of Noirtier clearly showed by its expression that he was notdeceived by the false assent given by Madame de Villefort’s words andmanner to the motives which she supposed him to entertain.
“Is it, then, to Mademoiselle Valentine de Villefort that you leavethese 900,000 francs?” demanded the notary, thinking he had only toinsert this clause, but waiting first for the assent of Noirtier, whichit was necessary should be given before all the witnesses of thissingular scene.
Valentine, when her name was made the subject of discussion, hadstepped back, to escape unpleasant observation; her eyes were castdown, and she was crying. The old man looked at her for an instant withan expression of the deepest tenderness, then, turning towards thenotary, he significantly winked his eye in token of dissent.
“What,” said the notary, “do you not intend making MademoiselleValentine de Villefort your residuary legatee?”
“No.”
“You are not making any mistake, are you?” said the notary; “you reallymean to declare that such is not your intention?”
“No,” repeated Noirtier; “No.”
Valentine raised her head, struck dumb with astonishment. It was not somuch the conviction that she was disinherited that caused her grief,but her total inability to account for the feelings which had provokedher grandfather to such an act. But Noirtier looked at her with so muchaffectionate tenderness that she exclaimed:
“Oh, grandpapa, I see now that it is only your fortune of which youdeprive me; you still leave me the love which I have always enjoyed.”
“Ah, yes, most assuredly,” said the eyes of the paralytic, for heclosed them with an expression which Valentine could not mistake.
“Thank you, thank you,” murmured she. The old man’s declaration thatValentine was not the destined inheritor of his fortune had excited thehopes of Madame de Villefort; she gradually approached the invalid, andsaid:
“Then, doubtless, dear M. Noirtier, you intend leaving your fortune toyour grandson, Edward de Villefort?”
The winking of the eyes which answered this speech was most decided andterrible, and expressed a feeling almost amounting to hatred.
“No?” said the notary; “then, perhaps, it is to your son, M. deVillefort?”
“No.” The two notaries looked at each other in mute astonishment andinquiry as to what were the real intentions of the testator. Villefortand his wife both grew red, one from shame, the other from anger.
“What have we all done, then, dear grandpapa?” said Valentine; “you nolonger seem to love any of us?”
The old man’s eyes passed rapidly from Villefort and his wife, andrested on Valentine with a look of unutterable fondness.
“Well,” said she; “if you love me, grandpapa, try and bring that loveto bear upon your actions at this present moment. You know me wellenough to be quite sure that I have never thought of your fortune;besides, they say I am already rich in right of my mother—too rich,even. Explain yourself, then.”
Noirtier fixed his intelligent eyes on Valentine’s hand.
“My hand?” said she.
“Yes.”
“Her hand!” exclaimed everyone.
“Oh, gentlemen, you see it is all useless, and that my father’s mind isreally impaired,” said Villefort.
“Ah,” cried Valentine suddenly, “I understand. It is my marriage youmean, is it not, dear grandpapa?”
“Yes, yes, yes,” signed the paralytic, casting on Valentine a look ofjoyful gratitude for having guessed his meaning.
30179m


“You are angry with us all on account of this marriage, are you not?”
“Yes?”
“Really, this is too absurd,” said Villefort.
“Excuse me, sir,” replied the notary; “on the contrary, the meaning ofM. Noirtier is quite evident to me, and I can quite easily connect thetrain of ideas passing in his mind.”
“You do not wish me to marry M. Franz d’Épinay?” observed Valentine.
“I do not wish it,” said the eye of her grandfather.
“And you disinherit your granddaughter,” continued the notary, “becauseshe has contracted an engagement contrary to your wishes?”
“Yes.”
“So that, but for this marriage, she would have been your heir?”
“Yes.”
There was a profound silence. The two notaries were holding aconsultation as to the best means of proceeding with the affair.Valentine was looking at her grandfather with a smile of intensegratitude, and Villefort was biting his lips with vexation, whileMadame de Villefort could not succeed in repressing an inward feelingof joy, which, in spite of herself, appeared in her whole countenance.
“But,” said Villefort, who was the first to break the silence, “Iconsider that I am the best judge of the propriety of the marriage inquestion. I am the only person possessing the right to dispose of mydaughter’s hand. It is my wish that she should marry M. Franzd’Épinay—and she shall marry him.”
Valentine sank weeping into a chair.
“Sir,” said the notary, “how do you intend disposing of your fortune incase Mademoiselle de Villefort still determines on marrying M. Franz?”The old man gave no answer.
“You will, of course, dispose of it in some way or other?”
“Yes.”
“In favor of some member of your family?”
“No.”
“Do you intend devoting it to charitable purposes, then?” pursued thenotary.
“Yes.”
“But,” said the notary, “you are aware that the law does not allow ason to be entirely deprived of his patrimony?”
“Yes.”
“You only intend, then, to dispose of that part of your fortune whichthe law allows you to subtract from the inheritance of your son?”Noirtier made no answer.
“Do you still wish to dispose of all?”
“Yes.”
“But they will contest the will after your death?”
“No.”
“My father knows me,” replied Villefort; “he is quite sure that hiswishes will be held sacred by me; besides, he understands that in myposition I cannot plead against the poor.” The eye of Noirtier beamedwith triumph.
“What do you decide on, sir?” asked the notary of Villefort.
“Nothing, sir; it is a resolution which my father has taken and I knowhe never alters his mind. I am quite resigned. These 900,000 francswill go out of the family in order to enrich some hospital; but it isridiculous thus to yield to the caprices of an old man, and I shall,therefore, act according to my conscience.”
Having said this, Villefort quitted the room with his wife, leaving hisfather at liberty to do as he pleased. The same day the will was made,the witnesses were brought, it was approved by the old man, sealed inthe presence of all and given in charge to M. Deschamps, the familynotary.


 Chapter 60. The Telegraph
M. and Madame de Villefort found on their return that the Count ofMonte Cristo, who had come to visit them in their absence, had beenushered into the drawing-room, and was still awaiting them there.Madame de Villefort, who had not yet sufficiently recovered from herlate emotion to allow of her entertaining visitors so immediately,retired to her bedroom, while the procureur, who could better dependupon himself, proceeded at once to the salon.
Although M. de Villefort flattered himself that, to all outward view,he had completely masked the feelings which were passing in his mind,he did not know that the cloud was still lowering on his brow, so muchso that the count, whose smile was radiant, immediately noticed hissombre and thoughtful air.
“_Ma foi!_” said Monte Cristo, after the first compliments were over,“what is the matter with you, M. de Villefort? Have I arrived at themoment when you were drawing up an indictment for a capital crime?”
Villefort tried to smile.
“No, count,” he replied, “I am the only victim in this case. It is Iwho lose my cause, and it is ill-luck, obstinacy, and folly which havecaused it to be decided against me.”
“To what do you refer?” said Monte Cristo with well-feigned interest.“Have you really met with some great misfortune?”
“Oh, no, monsieur,” said Villefort with a bitter smile; “it is only aloss of money which I have sustained—nothing worth mentioning, I assureyou.”
“True,” said Monte Cristo, “the loss of a sum of money becomes almostimmaterial with a fortune such as you possess, and to one of yourphilosophic spirit.”
“It is not so much the loss of the money that vexes me,” saidVillefort, “though, after all, 900,000 francs are worth regretting; butI am the more annoyed with this fate, chance, or whatever you please tocall the power which has destroyed my hopes and my fortune, and mayblast the prospects of my child also, as it is all occasioned by an oldman relapsed into second childhood.”
30183m


“What do you say?” said the count; “900,000 francs? It is indeed a sumwhich might be regretted even by a philosopher. And who is the cause ofall this annoyance?”
“My father, as I told you.”
“M. Noirtier? But I thought you told me he had become entirelyparalyzed, and that all his faculties were completely destroyed?”
“Yes, his bodily faculties, for he can neither move nor speak,nevertheless he thinks, acts, and wills in the manner I have described.I left him about five minutes ago, and he is now occupied in dictatinghis will to two notaries.”
“But to do this he must have spoken?”
“He has done better than that—he has made himself understood.”
“How was such a thing possible?”
“By the help of his eyes, which are still full of life, and, as youperceive, possess the power of inflicting mortal injury.”
“My dear,” said Madame de Villefort, who had just entered the room,“perhaps you exaggerate the evil.”
“Good-morning, madame,” said the count, bowing.


Madame de Villefort acknowledged the salutation with one of her mostgracious smiles.
“What is this that M. de Villefort has been telling me?” demanded MonteCristo “and what incomprehensible misfortune——”
“Incomprehensible is the word!” interrupted the procureur, shrugginghis shoulders. “It is an old man’s caprice!”
“And is there no means of making him revoke his decision?”
“Yes,” said Madame de Villefort; “and it is still entirely in the powerof my husband to cause the will, which is now in prejudice ofValentine, to be altered in her favor.”
The count, who perceived that M. and Madame de Villefort were beginningto speak in parables, appeared to pay no attention to the conversation,and feigned to be busily engaged in watching Edward, who wasmischievously pouring some ink into the bird’s water-glass.
“My dear,” said Villefort, in answer to his wife, “you know I havenever been accustomed to play the patriarch in my family, nor have Iever considered that the fate of a universe was to be decided by mynod. Nevertheless, it is necessary that my will should be respected inmy family, and that the folly of an old man and the caprice of a childshould not be allowed to overturn a project which I have entertainedfor so many years. The Baron d’Épinay was my friend, as you know, andan alliance with his son is the most suitable thing that could possiblybe arranged.”
“Do you think,” said Madame de Villefort, “that Valentine is in leaguewith him? She has always been opposed to this marriage, and I shouldnot be at all surprised if what we have just seen and heard is nothingbut the execution of a plan concerted between them.”
“Madame,” said Villefort, “believe me, a fortune of 900,000 francs isnot so easily renounced.”
“She could, nevertheless, make up her mind to renounce the world, sir,since it is only about a year ago that she herself proposed entering aconvent.”
“Never mind,” replied Villefort; “I say that this marriage _shall_ beconsummated.”
“Notwithstanding your father’s wishes to the contrary?” said Madame deVillefort, selecting a new point of attack. “That is a serious thing.”
Monte Cristo, who pretended not to be listening, heard however, everyword that was said.
30185m


“Madame,” replied Villefort “I can truly say that I have alwaysentertained a high respect for my father, because, to the naturalfeeling of relationship was added the consciousness of his moralsuperiority. The name of father is sacred in two senses; he should bereverenced as the author of our being and as a master whom we ought toobey. But, under the present circumstances, I am justified in doubtingthe wisdom of an old man who, because he hated the father, vents hisanger on the son. It would be ridiculous in me to regulate my conductby such caprices. I shall still continue to preserve the same respecttoward M. Noirtier; I will suffer, without complaint, the pecuniarydeprivation to which he has subjected me; but I shall remain firm in mydetermination, and the world shall see which party has reason on hisside. Consequently I shall marry my daughter to the Baron Franzd’Épinay, because I consider it would be a proper and eligible matchfor her to make, and, in short, because I choose to bestow mydaughter’s hand on whomever I please.”
“What?” said the count, the approbation of whose eye Villefort hadfrequently solicited during this speech. “What? Do you say that M.Noirtier disinherits Mademoiselle de Villefort because she is going tomarry M. le Baron Franz d’Épinay?”
“Yes, sir, that is the reason,” said Villefort, shrugging hisshoulders.
“The apparent reason, at least,” said Madame de Villefort.
“The _real_ reason, madame, I can assure you; I know my father.”
“But I want to know in what way M. d’Épinay can have displeased yourfather more than any other person?”
“I believe I know M. Franz d’Épinay,” said the count; “is he not theson of General de Quesnel, who was created Baron d’Épinay by CharlesX.?”
“The same,” said Villefort.
“Well, but he is a charming young man, according to my ideas.”
“He is, which makes me believe that it is only an excuse of M. Noirtierto prevent his granddaughter marrying; old men are always so selfish intheir affection,” said Madame de Villefort.
“But,” said Monte Cristo “do you not know any cause for this hatred?”
“Ah, _ma foi!_ who is to know?”
“Perhaps it is some political difference?”
“My father and the Baron d’Épinay lived in the stormy times of which Ionly saw the ending,” said Villefort.
“Was not your father a Bonapartist?” asked Monte Cristo; “I think Iremember that you told me something of that kind.”
“My father has been a Jacobin more than anything else,” said Villefort,carried by his emotion beyond the bounds of prudence; “and thesenator’s robe, which Napoleon cast on his shoulders, only served todisguise the old man without in any degree changing him. When my fatherconspired, it was not for the emperor, it was against the Bourbons; forM. Noirtier possessed this peculiarity, he never projected any Utopianschemes which could never be realized, but strove for possibilities,and he applied to the realization of these possibilities the terribletheories of The Mountain,—theories that never shrank from any meansthat were deemed necessary to bring about the desired result.”
“Well,” said Monte Cristo, “it is just as I thought; it was politicswhich brought Noirtier and M. d’Épinay into personal contact. AlthoughGeneral d’Épinay served under Napoleon, did he not still retainroyalist sentiments? And was he not the person who was assassinated oneevening on leaving a Bonapartist meeting to which he had been invitedon the supposition that he favored the cause of the emperor?”
Villefort looked at the count almost with terror.
“Am I mistaken, then?” said Monte Cristo.
“No, sir, the facts were precisely what you have stated,” said Madamede Villefort; “and it was to prevent the renewal of old feuds that M.de Villefort formed the idea of uniting in the bonds of affection thetwo children of these inveterate enemies.”
“It was a sublime and charitable thought,” said Monte Cristo, “and thewhole world should applaud it. It would be noble to see MademoiselleNoirtier de Villefort assuming the title of Madame Franz d’Épinay.”
Villefort shuddered and looked at Monte Cristo as if he wished to readin his countenance the real feelings which had dictated the words hehad just uttered. But the count completely baffled the procureur, andprevented him from discovering anything beneath the never-varying smilehe was so constantly in the habit of assuming.
“Although,” said Villefort, “it will be a serious thing for Valentineto lose her grandfather’s fortune, I do not think that M. d’Épinay willbe frightened at this pecuniary loss. He will, perhaps, hold me ingreater esteem than the money itself, seeing that I sacrificeeverything in order to keep my word with him. Besides, he knows thatValentine is rich in right of her mother, and that she will, in allprobability, inherit the fortune of M. and Madame de Saint-Méran, hermother’s parents, who both love her tenderly.”
“And who are fully as well worth loving and tending as M. Noirtier,”said Madame de Villefort; “besides, they are to come to Paris in abouta month, and Valentine, after the affront she has received, need notconsider it necessary to continue to bury herself alive by being shutup with M. Noirtier.”
The count listened with satisfaction to this tale of wounded self-loveand defeated ambition.
“But it seems to me,” said Monte Cristo, “and I must begin by askingyour pardon for what I am about to say, that if M. Noirtier disinheritsMademoiselle de Villefort because she is going to marry a man whosefather he detested, he cannot have the same cause of complaint againstthis dear Edward.”
“True,” said Madame de Villefort, with an intonation of voice which itis impossible to describe; “is it not unjust—shamefully unjust? PoorEdward is as much M. Noirtier’s grandchild as Valentine, and yet, ifshe had not been going to marry M. Franz, M. Noirtier would have lefther all his money; and supposing Valentine to be disinherited by hergrandfather, she will still be three times richer than he.”
The count listened and said no more.
“Count,” said Villefort, “we will not entertain you any longer with ourfamily misfortunes. It is true that my patrimony will go to endowcharitable institutions, and my father will have deprived me of mylawful inheritance without any reason for doing so, but I shall havethe satisfaction of knowing that I have acted like a man of sense andfeeling. M. d’Épinay, to whom I had promised the interest of this sum,shall receive it, even if I endure the most cruel privations.”
“However,” said Madame de Villefort, returning to the one idea whichincessantly occupied her mind, “perhaps it would be better to explainthis unlucky affair to M. d’Épinay, in order to give him theopportunity of himself renouncing his claim to the hand of Mademoisellede Villefort.”
“Ah, that would be a great pity,” said Villefort.
“A great pity,” said Monte Cristo.
“Undoubtedly,” said Villefort, moderating the tones of his voice, “amarriage once concerted and then broken off, throws a sort of discrediton a young lady; then again, the old reports, which I was so anxious toput an end to, will instantly gain ground. No, it will all go well; M.d’Épinay, if he is an honorable man, will consider himself more thanever pledged to Mademoiselle de Villefort, unless he were actuated by adecided feeling of avarice, but that is impossible.”
“I agree with M. de Villefort,” said Monte Cristo, fixing his eyes onMadame de Villefort; “and if I were sufficiently intimate with him toallow of giving my advice, I would persuade him, since I have been toldM. d’Épinay is coming back, to settle this affair at once beyond allpossibility of revocation. I will answer for the success of a projectwhich will reflect so much honor on M. de Villefort.”
The procureur arose, delighted with the proposition, but his wifeslightly changed color.
“Well, that is all that I wanted, and I will be guided by a counsellorsuch as you are,” said he, extending his hand to Monte Cristo.“Therefore let everyone here look upon what has passed today as if ithad not happened, and as though we had never thought of such a thing asa change in our original plans.”
“Sir,” said the count, “the world, unjust as it is, will be pleasedwith your resolution; your friends will be proud of you, and M.d’Épinay, even if he took Mademoiselle de Villefort without any dowry,which he will not do, would be delighted with the idea of entering afamily which could make such sacrifices in order to keep a promise andfulfil a duty.”
At the conclusion of these words, the count rose to depart.
“Are you going to leave us, count?” said Madame de Villefort.
“I am sorry to say I must do so, madame, I only came to remind you ofyour promise for Saturday.”
“Did you fear that we should forget it?”
“You are very good, madame, but M. de Villefort has so many importantand urgent occupations.”
“My husband has given me his word, sir,” said Madame de Villefort; “youhave just seen him resolve to keep it when he has everything to lose,and surely there is more reason for his doing so where he haseverything to gain.”
“And,” said Villefort, “is it at your house in the Champs-Élysées thatyou receive your visitors?”
“No,” said Monte Cristo, “which is precisely the reason which rendersyour kindness more meritorious,—it is in the country.”
“In the country?”
“Yes.”
“Where is it, then? Near Paris, is it not?”
“Very near, only half a league from the Barriers,—it is at Auteuil.”
“At Auteuil?” said Villefort; “true, Madame de Villefort told me youlived at Auteuil, since it was to your house that she was taken. And inwhat part of Auteuil do you reside?”
“Rue de la Fontaine.”
“Rue de la Fontaine!” exclaimed Villefort in an agitated tone; “at whatnumber?”
“No. 28.”
“Then,” cried Villefort, “was it you who bought M. de Saint-Méran’shouse!”
“Did it belong to M. de Saint-Méran?” demanded Monte Cristo.
“Yes,” replied Madame de Villefort; “and, would you believe it,count——”
“Believe what?”
“You think this house pretty, do you not?”
“I think it charming.”
“Well, my husband would never live in it.”
“Indeed?” returned Monte Cristo, “that is a prejudice on your part, M.de Villefort, for which I am quite at a loss to account.”
“I do not like Auteuil, sir,” said the procureur, making an evidenteffort to appear calm.
“But I hope you will not carry your antipathy so far as to deprive meof the pleasure of your company, sir,” said Monte Cristo.
“No, count,—I hope—I assure you I shall do my best,” stammeredVillefort.
“Oh,” said Monte Cristo, “I allow of no excuse. On Saturday, at sixo’clock. I shall be expecting you, and if you fail to come, I shallthink—for how do I know to the contrary?—that this house, which hasremained uninhabited for twenty years, must have some gloomy traditionor dreadful legend connected with it.”
“I will come, count,—I will be sure to come,” said Villefort eagerly.
“Thank you,” said Monte Cristo; “now you must permit me to take myleave of you.”
“You said before that you were obliged to leave us, monsieur,” saidMadame de Villefort, “and you were about to tell us why when yourattention was called to some other subject.”
“Indeed madame,” said Monte Cristo: “I scarcely know if I dare tell youwhere I am going.”
“Nonsense; say on.”
“Well, then, it is to see a thing on which I have sometimes mused forhours together.”
“What is it?”
“A telegraph. So now I have told my secret.”
“A telegraph?” repeated Madame de Villefort.
“Yes, a telegraph. I had often seen one placed at the end of a road ona hillock, and in the light of the sun its black arms, bending in everydirection, always reminded me of the claws of an immense beetle, and Iassure you it was never without emotion that I gazed on it, for I couldnot help thinking how wonderful it was that these various signs shouldbe made to cleave the air with such precision as to convey to thedistance of three hundred leagues the ideas and wishes of a man sittingat a table at one end of the line to another man similarly placed atthe opposite extremity, and all this effected by a simple act ofvolition on the part of the sender of the message. I began to think ofgenii, sylphs, gnomes, in short, of all the ministers of the occultsciences, until I laughed aloud at the freaks of my own imagination.Now, it never occurred to me to wish for a nearer inspection of theselarge insects, with their long black claws, for I always feared to findunder their stone wings some little human genius fagged to death withcabals, factions, and government intrigues. But one fine day I learnedthat the mover of this telegraph was only a poor wretch, hired fortwelve hundred francs a year, and employed all day, not in studying theheavens like an astronomer, or in gazing on the water like an angler,or even in enjoying the privilege of observing the country around him,but all his monotonous life was passed in watching his white-bellied,black-clawed fellow insect, four or five leagues distant from him. Atlength I felt a desire to study this living chrysalis more closely, andto endeavor to understand the secret part played by these insect-actorswhen they occupy themselves simply with pulling different pieces ofstring.”
30191m


“And are you going there?”
“I am.”
“What telegraph do you intend visiting? that of the home department, orof the observatory?”
“Oh, no; I should find there people who would force me to understandthings of which I would prefer to remain ignorant, and who would try toexplain to me, in spite of myself, a mystery which even they do notunderstand. _Ma foi!_ I should wish to keep my illusions concerninginsects unimpaired; it is quite enough to have those dissipated which Ihad formed of my fellow-creatures. I shall, therefore, not visit eitherof these telegraphs, but one in the open country where I shall find agood-natured simpleton, who knows no more than the machine he isemployed to work.”
“You are a singular man,” said Villefort.
“What line would you advise me to study?”
“The one that is most in use just at this time.”
“The Spanish one, you mean, I suppose?”
“Yes; should you like a letter to the minister that they might explainto you——”
“No,” said Monte Cristo; “since, as I told you before, I do not wish tocomprehend it. The moment I understand it there will no longer exist atelegraph for me; it will be nothing more than a sign from M. Duchâtel,or from M. Montalivet, transmitted to the prefect of Bayonne, mystifiedby two Greek words, _têle_, _graphein_. It is the insect with blackclaws, and the awful word which I wish to retain in my imagination inall its purity and all its importance.”
“Go then; for in the course of two hours it will be dark, and you willnot be able to see anything.”
“_Ma foi!_ you frighten me. Which is the nearest way? Bayonne?”
“Yes; the road to Bayonne.”
“And afterwards the road to Châtillon?”
“Yes.”
“By the tower of Montlhéry, you mean?”
“Yes.”
“Thank you. Good-bye. On Saturday I will tell you my impressionsconcerning the telegraph.”
At the door the count was met by the two notaries, who had justcompleted the act which was to disinherit Valentine, and who wereleaving under the conviction of having done a thing which could notfail of redounding considerably to their credit.


 Chapter 61. How a Gardener May Get Rid of the Dormice that Eat His Peaches
Not on the same night as he had stated, but the next morning, the Countof Monte Cristo went out by the Barrière d’Enfer, taking the road toOrléans. Leaving the village of Linas, without stopping at thetelegraph, which flourished its great bony arms as he passed, the countreached the tower of Montlhéry, situated, as everyone knows, upon thehighest point of the plain of that name. At the foot of the hill thecount dismounted and began to ascend by a little winding path, abouteighteen inches wide; when he reached the summit he found himselfstopped by a hedge, upon which green fruit had succeeded to red andwhite flowers.
Monte Cristo looked for the entrance to the enclosure, and was not longin finding a little wooden gate, working on willow hinges, and fastenedwith a nail and string. The count soon mastered the mechanism, the gateopened, and he then found himself in a little garden, about twenty feetlong by twelve wide, bounded on one side by part of the hedge, whichcontained the ingenious contrivance we have called a gate, and on theother by the old tower, covered with ivy and studded with wall-flowers.
No one would have thought in looking at this old, weather-beaten,floral-decked tower (which might be likened to an elderly dame dressedup to receive her grandchildren at a birthday feast) that it would havebeen capable of telling strange things, if,—in addition to the menacingears which the proverb says all walls are provided with,—it had also avoice.
The garden was crossed by a path of red gravel, edged by a border ofthick box, of many years’ growth, and of a tone and color that wouldhave delighted the heart of Delacroix, our modern Rubens. This path wasformed in the shape of the figure of 8, thus, in its windings, making awalk of sixty feet in a garden of only twenty.
Never had Flora, the fresh and smiling goddess of gardeners, beenhonored with a purer or more scrupulous worship than that which waspaid to her in this little enclosure. In fact, of the twenty rose-treeswhich formed the _parterre_, not one bore the mark of the slug, norwere there evidences anywhere of the clustering aphis which is sodestructive to plants growing in a damp soil. And yet it was notbecause the damp had been excluded from the garden; the earth, black assoot, the thick foliage of the trees betrayed its presence; besides,had natural humidity been wanting, it could have been immediatelysupplied by artificial means, thanks to a tank of water, sunk in one ofthe corners of the garden, and upon which were stationed a frog and atoad, who, from antipathy, no doubt, always remained on the twoopposite sides of the basin. There was not a blade of grass to be seenin the paths, or a weed in the flower-beds; no fine lady ever trainedand watered her geraniums, her cacti, and her rhododendrons, in herporcelain _jardinière_ with more pains than this hitherto unseengardener bestowed upon his little enclosure.
Monte Cristo stopped after having closed the gate and fastened thestring to the nail, and cast a look around.
“The man at the telegraph,” said he, “must either engage a gardener ordevote himself passionately to agriculture.”
Suddenly he struck against something crouching behind a wheelbarrowfilled with leaves; the something rose, uttering an exclamation ofastonishment, and Monte Cristo found himself facing a man about fiftyyears old, who was plucking strawberries, which he was placing upongrape leaves. He had twelve leaves and about as many strawberries,which, on rising suddenly, he let fall from his hand.
“You are gathering your crop, sir?” said Monte Cristo, smiling.
30193m


“Excuse me, sir,” replied the man, raising his hand to his cap; “I amnot up there, I know, but I have only just come down.”
“Do not let me interfere with you in anything, my friend,” said thecount; “gather your strawberries, if, indeed, there are any left.”
“I have ten left,” said the man, “for here are eleven, and I hadtwenty-one, five more than last year. But I am not surprised; thespring has been warm this year, and strawberries require heat, sir.This is the reason that, instead of the sixteen I had last year, I havethis year, you see, eleven, already plucked—twelve, thirteen, fourteen,fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen. Ah, I miss three, they were herelast night, sir—I am sure they were here—I counted them. It must be theson of Mère Simon who has stolen them; I saw him strolling about herethis morning. Ah, the young rascal—stealing in a garden—he does notknow where that may lead him to.”
“Certainly, it is wrong,” said Monte Cristo, “but you should take intoconsideration the youth and greediness of the delinquent.”
“Of course,” said the gardener, “but that does not make it the lessunpleasant. But, sir, once more I beg pardon; perhaps you are anofficer that I am detaining here.” And he glanced timidly at thecount’s blue coat.
30197m


“Calm yourself, my friend,” said the count, with the smile which hemade at will either terrible or benevolent, and which now expressedonly the kindliest feeling; “I am not an inspector, but a traveller,brought here by a curiosity he half repents of, since he causes you tolose your time.”
“Ah, my time is not valuable,” replied the man with a melancholy smile.“Still it belongs to government, and I ought not to waste it; but,having received the signal that I might rest for an hour” (here heglanced at the sun-dial, for there was everything in the enclosure ofMontlhéry, even a sun-dial), “and having ten minutes before me, and mystrawberries being ripe, when a day longer—by-the-by, sir, do you thinkdormice eat them?”
“Indeed, I should think not,” replied Monte Cristo; “dormice are badneighbors for us who do not eat them preserved, as the Romans did.”
“What? Did the Romans eat them?” said the gardener—“ate dormice?”
“I have read so in Petronius,” said the count.
“Really? They can’t be nice, though they do say ‘as fat as a dormouse.’It is not a wonder they are fat, sleeping all day, and only waking toeat all night. Listen. Last year I had four apricots—they stole one, Ihad one nectarine, only one—well, sir, they ate half of it on the wall;a splendid nectarine—I never ate a better.”
“You ate it?”
“That is to say, the half that was left—you understand; it wasexquisite, sir. Ah, those gentlemen never choose the worst morsels;like Mère Simon’s son, who has not chosen the worst strawberries. Butthis year,” continued the horticulturist, “I’ll take care it shall nothappen, even if I should be forced to sit by the whole night to watchwhen the strawberries are ripe.”
Monte Cristo had seen enough. Every man has a devouring passion in hisheart, as every fruit has its worm; that of the telegraph man washorticulture. He began gathering the grape-leaves which screened thesun from the grapes, and won the heart of the gardener.
“Did you come here, sir, to see the telegraph?” he said.
“Yes, if it isn’t contrary to the rules.”
“Oh, no,” said the gardener; “not in the least, since there is nodanger that anyone can possibly understand what we are saying.”
“I have been told,” said the count, “that you do not always yourselvesunderstand the signals you repeat.”
“That is true, sir, and that is what I like best,” said the man,smiling.
“Why do you like that best?”
“Because then I have no responsibility. I am a machine then, andnothing else, and so long as I work, nothing more is required of me.”
“Is it possible,” said Monte Cristo to himself, “that I can have metwith a man that has no ambition? That would spoil my plans.”
“Sir,” said the gardener, glancing at the sun-dial, “the ten minutesare almost up; I must return to my post. Will you go up with me?”
“I follow you.”
Monte Cristo entered the tower, which was divided into three stories.The tower contained implements, such as spades, rakes, watering-pots,hung against the wall; this was all the furniture. The second was theman’s conventional abode, or rather sleeping-place; it contained a fewpoor articles of household furniture—a bed, a table, two chairs, astone pitcher—and some dry herbs, hung up to the ceiling, which thecount recognized as sweet peas, and of which the good man waspreserving the seeds; he had labelled them with as much care as if hehad been master botanist in the Jardin des Plantes.
“Does it require much study to learn the art of telegraphing?” askedMonte Cristo.
“The study does not take long; it was acting as a supernumerary thatwas so tedious.”
“And what is the pay?”
“A thousand francs, sir.”
“It is nothing.”
“No; but then we are lodged, as you perceive.”
Monte Cristo looked at the room. They passed to the third story; it wasthe telegraph room. Monte Cristo looked in turn at the two iron handlesby which the machine was worked. “It is very interesting,” he said,“but it must be very tedious for a lifetime.”
“Yes. At first my neck was cramped with looking at it, but at the endof a year I became used to it; and then we have our hours ofrecreation, and our holidays.”
“Holidays?”
“Yes.”
“When?”
“When we have a fog.”
“Ah, to be sure.”
“Those are indeed holidays to me; I go into the garden, I plant, Iprune, I trim, I kill the insects all day long.”
“How long have you been here?”
“Ten years, and five as a supernumerary make fifteen.”
“You are——”
“Fifty-five years old.”
“How long must you have served to claim the pension?”
“Oh, sir, twenty-five years.”
“And how much is the pension?”
“A hundred crowns.”
“Poor humanity!” murmured Monte Cristo.
“What did you say, sir?” asked the man.
“I was saying it was very interesting.”
“What was?”
“All you were showing me. And you really understand none of thesesignals?”
“None at all.”
“And have you never tried to understand them?”
“Never. Why should I?”
“But still there are some signals only addressed to you.”
“Certainly.”
“And do you understand them?”
“They are always the same.”
“And they mean——”
“‘_Nothing new; You have an hour;_’ or ‘_Tomorrow_.’”
“This is simple enough,” said the count; “but look, is not yourcorrespondent putting itself in motion?”
“Ah, yes; thank you, sir.”
“And what is it saying—anything you understand?”
“Yes; it asks if I am ready.”
“And you reply?”
“By the same sign, which, at the same time, tells my right-handcorrespondent that I am ready, while it gives notice to my left-handcorrespondent to prepare in his turn.”
“It is very ingenious,” said the count.
“You will see,” said the man proudly; “in five minutes he will speak.”
“I have, then, five minutes,” said Monte Cristo to himself; “it is moretime than I require. My dear sir, will you allow me to ask you aquestion?”
“What is it, sir?”
“You are fond of gardening?”
“Passionately.”
“And you would be pleased to have, instead of this terrace of twentyfeet, an enclosure of two acres?”
“Sir, I should make a terrestrial paradise of it.”
“You live badly on your thousand francs?”
“Badly enough; but yet I do live.”
“Yes; but you have a wretchedly small garden.”
“True, the garden is not large.”
“And, then, such as it is, it is filled with dormice, who eateverything.”
“Ah, they are my scourges.”
“Tell me, should you have the misfortune to turn your head while yourright-hand correspondent was telegraphing——”
“I should not see him.”
“Then what would happen?”
“I could not repeat the signals.”
“And then?”
“Not having repeated them, through negligence, I should be fined.”
“How much?”
“A hundred francs.”
“The tenth of your income—that would be fine work.”
“Ah!” said the man.
“Has it ever happened to you?” said Monte Cristo.
“Once, sir, when I was grafting a rose-tree.”
“Well, suppose you were to alter a signal, and substitute another?”
“Ah, that is another case; I should be turned off, and lose mypension.”
“Three hundred francs?”
“A hundred crowns, yes, sir; so you see that I am not likely to do anyof these things.”
“Not even for fifteen years’ wages? Come, it is worth thinking about?”
“For fifteen thousand francs?”
“Yes.”
“Sir, you alarm me.”
“Nonsense.”
“Sir, you are tempting me?”
“Just so; fifteen thousand francs, do you understand?”
“Sir, let me see my right-hand correspondent.”
“On the contrary, do not look at him, but at this.”
“What is it?”
“What? Do you not know these bits of paper?”
“Bank-notes!”
“Exactly; there are fifteen of them.”
“And whose are they?”
“Yours, if you like.”
“Mine?” exclaimed the man, half-suffocated.
“Yes; yours—your own property.”
“Sir, my right-hand correspondent is signalling.”
“Let him signal.”
“Sir, you have distracted me; I shall be fined.”
“That will cost you a hundred francs; you see it is your interest totake my bank-notes.”
“Sir, my right-hand correspondent redoubles his signals; he isimpatient.”
“Never mind—take these;” and the count placed the packet in the man’shands. “Now this is not all,” he said; “you cannot live upon yourfifteen thousand francs.”
“I shall still have my place.”
“No, you will lose it, for you are going to alter your correspondent’smessage.”
“Oh, sir, what are you proposing?”
“A jest.”
“Sir, unless you force me——”
“I think I can effectually force you;” and Monte Cristo drew anotherpacket from his pocket. “Here are ten thousand more francs,” he said,“with the fifteen thousand already in your pocket, they will maketwenty-five thousand. With five thousand you can buy a pretty littlehouse with two acres of land; the remaining twenty thousand will bringyou in a thousand francs a year.”
“A garden with two acres of land!”
“And a thousand francs a year.”
“Oh, heavens!”
“Come, take them,” and Monte Cristo forced the bank-notes into hishand.
“What am I to do?”
“Nothing very difficult.”
“But what is it?”
“To repeat these signs.” Monte Cristo took a paper from his pocket,upon which were drawn three signs, with numbers to indicate the orderin which they were to be worked.
“There, you see it will not take long.”
“Yes; but——”
“Do this, and you will have nectarines and all the rest.”
The shot told; red with fever, while the large drops fell from hisbrow, the man executed, one after the other, the three signs given bythe count, in spite of the frightful contortions of the right-handcorrespondent, who, not understanding the change, began to think thegardener had gone mad. As to the left-hand one, he conscientiouslyrepeated the same signals, which were finally transmitted to theMinister of the Interior.
“Now you are rich,” said Monte Cristo.
“Yes,” replied the man, “but at what a price!”
“Listen, friend,” said Monte Cristo. “I do not wish to cause you anyremorse; believe me, then, when I swear to you that you have wronged noman, but on the contrary have benefited mankind.”
The man looked at the bank-notes, felt them, counted them, turned pale,then red, then rushed into his room to drink a glass of water, but hehad no time to reach the water-jug, and fainted in the midst of hisdried herbs. Five minutes after the new telegram reached the minister,Debray had the horses put to his carriage, and drove to Danglars’house.
“Has your husband any Spanish bonds?” he asked of the baroness.
“I think so, indeed! He has six millions’ worth.”
“He must sell them at whatever price.”
“Why?”
“Because Don Carlos has fled from Bourges, and has returned to Spain.”
30203m


“How do you know?” Debray shrugged his shoulders.
“The idea of asking how I hear the news,” he said.
The baroness did not wait for a repetition; she ran to her husband, whoimmediately hastened to his agent, and ordered him to sell at anyprice. When it was seen that Danglars sold, the Spanish funds felldirectly. Danglars lost five hundred thousand francs; but he ridhimself of all his Spanish shares. The same evening the following wasread in _Le Messager_:
“[By telegraph.] The king, Don Carlos, has escaped the vigilance of hisguardians at Bourges, and has returned to Spain by the Catalonianfrontier. Barcelona has risen in his favor.”
All that evening nothing was spoken of but the foresight of Danglars,who had sold his shares, and of the luck of the stock-jobber, who onlylost five hundred thousand francs by such a blow. Those who had kepttheir shares, or bought those of Danglars, looked upon themselves asruined, and passed a very bad night. Next morning _Le Moniteur_contained the following:
“It was without any foundation that _Le Messager_ yesterday announcedthe flight of Don Carlos and the revolt of Barcelona. The king (DonCarlos) has not left Bourges, and the peninsula is in the enjoyment ofprofound peace. A telegraphic signal, improperly interpreted, owing tothe fog, was the cause of this error.”
The funds rose one per cent higher than before they had fallen. This,reckoning his loss, and what he had missed gaining, made the differenceof a million to Danglars.
“Good,” said Monte Cristo to Morrel, who was at his house when the newsarrived of the strange reverse of fortune of which Danglars had beenthe victim, “I have just made a discovery for twenty-five thousandfrancs, for which I would have paid a hundred thousand.”
“What have you discovered?” asked Morrel.
“I have just discovered how a gardener may get rid of the dormice thateat his peaches.”


 Chapter 62. Ghosts
At first sight, the exterior of the house at Auteuil gave noindications of splendor, nothing one would expect from the destinedresidence of the magnificent Count of Monte Cristo; but this simplicitywas according to the will of its master, who positively ordered nothingto be altered outside. The splendor was within. Indeed, almost beforethe door opened, the scene changed.
M. Bertuccio had outdone himself in the taste displayed in furnishing,and in the rapidity with which it was executed. It is told that the Ducd’Antin removed in a single night a whole avenue of trees that annoyedLouis XIV.; in three days M. Bertuccio planted an entirely bare courtwith poplars, large spreading sycamores to shade the different parts ofthe house, and in the foreground, instead of the usual paving-stones,half hidden by the grass, there extended a lawn but that morning laiddown, and upon which the water was yet glistening. For the rest, theorders had been issued by the count; he himself had given a plan toBertuccio, marking the spot where each tree was to be planted, and theshape and extent of the lawn which was to take the place of thepaving-stones.
Thus the house had become unrecognizable, and Bertuccio himselfdeclared that he scarcely knew it, encircled as it was by a frameworkof trees. The overseer would not have objected, while he was about it,to have made some improvements in the garden, but the count hadpositively forbidden it to be touched. Bertuccio made amends, however,by loading the antechambers, staircases, and mantle-pieces withflowers.
What, above all, manifested the shrewdness of the steward, and theprofound science of the master, the one in carrying out the ideas ofthe other, was that this house which appeared only the night before sosad and gloomy, impregnated with that sickly smell one can almost fancyto be the smell of time, had in a single day acquired the aspect oflife, was scented with its master’s favorite perfumes, and had the verylight regulated according to his wish. When the count arrived, he hadunder his touch his books and arms, his eyes rested upon his favoritepictures; his dogs, whose caresses he loved, welcomed him in theantechamber; the birds, whose songs delighted him, cheered him withtheir music; and the house, awakened from its long sleep, like thesleeping beauty in the wood, lived, sang, and bloomed like the houseswe have long cherished, and in which, when we are forced to leave them,we leave a part of our souls.
The servants passed gayly along the fine courtyard; some, belonging tothe kitchens, gliding down the stairs, restored but the previous day,as if they had always inhabited the house; others filling thecoach-houses, where the equipages, encased and numbered, appeared tohave been installed for the last fifty years; and in the stables thehorses replied with neighs to the grooms, who spoke to them with muchmore respect than many servants pay their masters.
The library was divided into two parts on either side of the wall, andcontained upwards of two thousand volumes; one division was entirelydevoted to novels, and even the volume which had been published but theday before was to be seen in its place in all the dignity of its redand gold binding.
On the other side of the house, to match with the library, was theconservatory, ornamented with rare flowers, that bloomed in china jars;and in the midst of the greenhouse, marvellous alike to sight andsmell, was a billiard-table which looked as if it had been abandonedduring the past hour by players who had left the balls on the cloth.
One chamber alone had been respected by the magnificent Bertuccio.Before this room, to which you could ascend by the grand, and go out bythe back staircase, the servants passed with curiosity, and Bertucciowith terror.
At five o’clock precisely, the count arrived before the house atAuteuil, followed by Ali. Bertuccio was awaiting this arrival withimpatience, mingled with uneasiness; he hoped for some compliments,while, at the same time, he feared to have frowns. Monte Cristodescended into the courtyard, walked all over the house, without givingany sign of approbation or pleasure, until he entered his bedroom,situated on the opposite side to the closed room; then he approached alittle piece of furniture, made of rosewood, which he had noticed at aprevious visit.
“That can only be to hold gloves,” he said.
“Will your excellency deign to open it?” said the delighted Bertuccio,“and you will find gloves in it.”
Elsewhere the count found everything he required—smelling-bottles,cigars, knick-knacks.
30207m


“Good,” he said; and M. Bertuccio left enraptured, so great, sopowerful, and real was the influence exercised by this man over all whosurrounded him.
At precisely six o’clock the clatter of horses’ hoofs was heard at theentrance door; it was our captain of Spahis, who had arrived on Médéah.“I am sure I am the first,” cried Morrel; “I did it on purpose to haveyou a minute to myself, before everyone came. Julie and Emmanuel have athousand things to tell you. Ah, really this is magnificent! But tellme, count, will your people take care of my horse?”
“Do not alarm yourself, my dear Maximilian—they understand.”
“I mean, because he wants petting. If you had seen at what a pace hecame—like the wind!”
“I should think so,—a horse that cost 5,000 francs!” said Monte Cristo,in the tone which a father would use towards a son.
“Do you regret them?” asked Morrel, with his open laugh.
“I? Certainly not,” replied the count. “No; I should only regret if thehorse had not proved good.”
“It is so good, that I have distanced M. de Château-Renaud, one of thebest riders in France, and M. Debray, who both mount the minister’sArabians; and close on their heels are the horses of Madame Danglars,who always go at six leagues an hour.”
“Then they follow you?” asked Monte Cristo.
“See, they are here.” And at the same minute a carriage with smokinghorses, accompanied by two mounted gentlemen, arrived at the gate,which opened before them. The carriage drove round, and stopped at thesteps, followed by the horsemen.
The instant Debray had touched the ground, he was at the carriage-door.He offered his hand to the baroness, who, descending, took it with apeculiarity of manner imperceptible to everyone but Monte Cristo. Butnothing escaped the count’s notice, and he observed a little note,passed with the facility that indicates frequent practice, from thehand of Madame Danglars to that of the minister’s secretary.
After his wife the banker descended, as pale as though he had issuedfrom his tomb instead of his carriage.
Madame Danglars threw a rapid and inquiring glance which could only beinterpreted by Monte Cristo, around the courtyard, over the peristyle,and across the front of the house, then, repressing a slight emotion,which must have been seen on her countenance if she had not kept hercolor, she ascended the steps, saying to Morrel:
“Sir, if you were a friend of mine, I should ask you if you would sellyour horse.”
Morrel smiled with an expression very like a grimace, and then turnedround to Monte Cristo, as if to ask him to extricate him from hisembarrassment. The count understood him.
“Ah, madame,” he said, “why did you not make that request of me?”
“With you, sir,” replied the baroness, “one can wish for nothing, oneis so sure to obtain it. If it were so with M. Morrel——”
“Unfortunately,” replied the count, “I am witness that M. Morrel cannotgive up his horse, his honor being engaged in keeping it.”
“How so?”
“He laid a wager he would tame Médéah in the space of six months. Youunderstand now that if he were to get rid of the animal before the timenamed, he would not only lose his bet, but people would say he wasafraid; and a brave captain of Spahis cannot risk this, even to gratifya pretty woman, which is, in my opinion, one of the most sacredobligations in the world.”
“You see my position, madame,” said Morrel, bestowing a grateful smileon Monte Cristo.
“It seems to me,” said Danglars, in his coarse tone, ill-concealed by aforced smile, “that you have already got horses enough.”
Madame Danglars seldom allowed remarks of this kind to pass unnoticed,but, to the surprise of the young people, she pretended not to hear it,and said nothing. Monte Cristo smiled at her unusual humility, andshowed her two immense porcelain jars, over which wound marine plants,of a size and delicacy that nature alone could produce. The baronesswas astonished.
“Why,” said she, “you could plant one of the chestnut-trees in theTuileries inside! How can such enormous jars have been manufactured?”
“Ah! madame,” replied Monte Cristo, “you must not ask of us, themanufacturers of fine porcelain, such a question. It is the work ofanother age, constructed by the genii of earth and water.”
“How so?—at what period can that have been?”
“I do not know; I have only heard that an emperor of China had an ovenbuilt expressly, and that in this oven twelve jars like this weresuccessively baked. Two broke, from the heat of the fire; the other tenwere sunk three hundred fathoms deep into the sea. The sea, knowingwhat was required of her, threw over them her weeds, encircled themwith coral, and encrusted them with shells; the whole was cemented bytwo hundred years beneath these almost impervious depths, for arevolution carried away the emperor who wished to make the trial, andonly left the documents proving the manufacture of the jars and theirdescent into the sea. At the end of two hundred years the documentswere found, and they thought of bringing up the jars. Divers descendedin machines, made expressly on the discovery, into the bay where theywere thrown; but of ten three only remained, the rest having beenbroken by the waves. I am fond of these jars, upon which, perhaps,misshapen, frightful monsters have fixed their cold, dull eyes, and inwhich myriads of small fish have slept, seeking a refuge from thepursuit of their enemies.”
Meanwhile, Danglars, who had cared little for curiosities, wasmechanically tearing off the blossoms of a splendid orange-tree, oneafter another. When he had finished with the orange-tree, he began atthe cactus; but this, not being so easily plucked as the orange-tree,pricked him dreadfully. He shuddered, and rubbed his eyes as thoughawaking from a dream.
“Sir,” said Monte Cristo to him, “I do not recommend my pictures toyou, who possess such splendid paintings; but, nevertheless, here aretwo by Hobbema, a Paul Potter, a Mieris, two by Gerard Douw, a Raphael,a Van Dyck, a Zurbaran, and two or three by Murillo, worth looking at.”
“Stay,” said Debray; “I recognize this Hobbema.”
“Ah, indeed!”
“Yes; it was proposed for the Museum.”
“Which, I believe, does not contain one?” said Monte Cristo.
“No; and yet they refused to buy it.”
“Why?” said Château-Renaud.
“You pretend not to know,—because government was not rich enough.”
“Ah, pardon me,” said Château-Renaud; “I have heard of these thingsevery day during the last eight years, and I cannot understand themyet.”
“You will, by and by,” said Debray.
“I think not,” replied Château-Renaud.
“Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti and Count Andrea Cavalcanti,” announcedBaptistin.
A black satin stock, fresh from the maker’s hands, gray moustaches, abold eye, a major’s uniform, ornamented with three medals and fivecrosses—in fact, the thorough bearing of an old soldier—such was theappearance of Major Bartolomeo Cavalcanti, that tender father with whomwe are already acquainted. Close to him, dressed in entirely newclothes, advanced smilingly Count Andrea Cavalcanti, the dutiful son,whom we also know. The three young people were talking together. On theentrance of the new-comers, their eyes glanced from father to son, andthen, naturally enough, rested on the latter, whom they begancriticising.
“Cavalcanti!” said Debray.
“A fine name,” said Morrel.
“Yes,” said Château-Renaud, “these Italians are well named and badlydressed.”
“You are fastidious, Château-Renaud,” replied Debray; “those clothesare well cut and quite new.”
“That is just what I find fault with. That gentleman appears to be welldressed for the first time in his life.”
“Who are those gentlemen?” asked Danglars of Monte Cristo.
“You heard—Cavalcanti.”
“That tells me their name, and nothing else.”
“Ah! true. You do not know the Italian nobility; the Cavalcanti are alldescended from princes.”
“Have they any fortune?”
“An enormous one.”
“What do they do?”
“Try to spend it all. They have some business with you, I think, fromwhat they told me the day before yesterday. I, indeed, invited themhere today on your account. I will introduce you to them.”
“But they appear to speak French with a very pure accent,” saidDanglars.
“The son has been educated in a college in the south; I believe nearMarseilles. You will find him quite enthusiastic.”
“Upon what subject?” asked Madame Danglars.
“The French ladies, madame. He has made up his mind to take a wife fromParis.”
“A fine idea that of his,” said Danglars, shrugging his shoulders.Madame Danglars looked at her husband with an expression which, at anyother time, would have indicated a storm, but for the second time shecontrolled herself.
“The baron appears thoughtful today,” said Monte Cristo to her; “arethey going to put him in the ministry?”
“Not yet, I think. More likely he has been speculating on the Bourse,and has lost money.”
“M. and Madame de Villefort,” cried Baptistin.
They entered. M. de Villefort, notwithstanding his self-control, wasvisibly affected, and when Monte Cristo touched his hand, he felt ittremble.
“Certainly, women alone know how to dissimulate,” said Monte Cristo tohimself, glancing at Madame Danglars, who was smiling on the procureur,and embracing his wife.
After a short time, the count saw Bertuccio, who, until then, had beenoccupied on the other side of the house, glide into an adjoining room.He went to him.
“What do you want, M. Bertuccio?” said he.
“Your excellency has not stated the number of guests.”
“Ah, true.”
“How many covers?”
“Count for yourself.”
“Is everyone here, your excellency?”
“Yes.”
Bertuccio glanced through the door, which was ajar. The count watchedhim. “Good heavens!” he exclaimed.
“What is the matter?” said the count.
“That woman—that woman!”
“Which?”
“The one with a white dress and so many diamonds—the fair one.”
“Madame Danglars?”
“I do not know her name; but it is she, sir, it is she!”
“Whom do you mean?”
“The woman of the garden!—she that was _enceinte_—she who was walkingwhile she waited for——”
Bertuccio stood at the open door, with his eyes starting and his hairon end.
“Waiting for whom?” Bertuccio, without answering, pointed to Villefortwith something of the gesture Macbeth uses to point out Banquo.
“Oh, oh!” he at length muttered, “do you see?”
“What? Who?”
“Him!”
“Him!—M. de Villefort, the king’s attorney? Certainly I see him.”
“Then I did not kill him?”
“Really, I think you are going mad, good Bertuccio,” said the count.
“Then he is not dead?”
30213m


“No; you see plainly he is not dead. Instead of striking between thesixth and seventh left ribs, as your countrymen do, you must havestruck higher or lower, and life is very tenacious in these lawyers, orrather there is no truth in anything you have told me—it was a frightof the imagination, a dream of your fancy. You went to sleep full ofthoughts of vengeance; they weighed heavily upon your stomach; you hadthe nightmare—that’s all. Come, calm yourself, and reckon them up—M.and Madame de Villefort, two; M. and Madame Danglars, four; M. deChâteau-Renaud, M. Debray, M. Morrel, seven; Major BartolomeoCavalcanti, eight.”
“Eight!” repeated Bertuccio.
“Stop! You are in a shocking hurry to be off—you forget one of myguests. Lean a little to the left. Stay! look at M. Andrea Cavalcanti,the young man in a black coat, looking at Murillo’s ‘Madonna’; now heis turning.”
This time Bertuccio would have uttered an exclamation, had not a lookfrom Monte Cristo silenced him.
“Benedetto?” he muttered; “fatality!”
“Half-past six o’clock has just struck, M. Bertuccio,” said the countseverely; “I ordered dinner at that hour, and I do not like to wait;”and he returned to his guests, while Bertuccio, leaning against thewall, succeeded in reaching the dining-room. Five minutes afterwardsthe doors of the drawing-room were thrown open, and Bertuccio appearingsaid, with a violent effort, “The dinner waits.”
The Count of Monte Cristo offered his arm to Madame de Villefort. “M.de Villefort,” he said, “will you conduct the Baroness Danglars?”
Villefort complied, and they passed on to the dining-room.


 Chapter 63. The Dinner
It was evident that one sentiment affected all the guests on enteringthe dining-room. Each one asked what strange influence had brought themto this house, and yet astonished, even uneasy though they were, theystill felt that they would not like to be absent. The recent events,the solitary and eccentric position of the count, his enormous, nay,almost incredible fortune, should have made men cautious, and havealtogether prevented ladies visiting a house where there was no one oftheir own sex to receive them; and yet curiosity had been enough tolead them to overleap the bounds of prudence and decorum.
And all present, even including Cavalcanti and his son, notwithstandingthe stiffness of the one and the carelessness of the other, werethoughtful, on finding themselves assembled at the house of thisincomprehensible man. Madame Danglars had started when Villefort, onthe count’s invitation, offered his arm; and Villefort felt that hisglance was uneasy beneath his gold spectacles, when he felt the arm ofthe baroness press upon his own. None of this had escaped the count,and even by this mere contact of individuals the scene had alreadyacquired considerable interest for an observer.
M. de Villefort had on the right hand Madame Danglars, on his leftMorrel. The count was seated between Madame de Villefort and Danglars;the other seats were filled by Debray, who was placed between the twoCavalcanti, and by Château-Renaud, seated between Madame de Villefortand Morrel.
The repast was magnificent; Monte Cristo had endeavored completely tooverturn the Parisian ideas, and to feed the curiosity as much as theappetite of his guests. It was an Oriental feast that he offered tothem, but of such a kind as the Arabian fairies might be supposed toprepare. Every delicious fruit that the four quarters of the globecould provide was heaped in vases from China and jars from Japan. Rarebirds, retaining their most brilliant plumage, enormous fish, spreadupon massive silver dishes, together with every wine produced in theArchipelago, Asia Minor, or the Cape, sparkling in bottles, whosegrotesque shape seemed to give an additional flavor to the draught,—allthese, like one of the displays with which Apicius of old gratified hisguests, passed in review before the eyes of the astonished Parisians,who understood that it was possible to expend a thousand louis upon adinner for ten persons, but only on the condition of eating pearls,like Cleopatra, or drinking refined gold, like Lorenzo de’ Medici.
Monte Cristo noticed the general astonishment, and began laughing andjoking about it.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “you will admit that, when arrived at a certaindegree of fortune, the superfluities of life are all that can bedesired; and the ladies will allow that, after having risen to acertain eminence of position, the ideal alone can be more exalted. Now,to follow out this reasoning, what is the marvellous?—that which we donot understand. What is it that we really desire?—that which we cannotobtain. Now, to see things which I cannot understand, to procureimpossibilities, these are the study of my life. I gratify my wishes bytwo means—my will and my money. I take as much interest in the pursuitof some whim as you do, M. Danglars, in promoting a new railway line;you, M. de Villefort, in condemning a culprit to death; you, M. Debray,in pacifying a kingdom; you, M. de Château-Renaud, in pleasing a woman;and you, Morrel, in breaking a horse that no one can ride. For example,you see these two fish; one brought from fifty leagues beyond St.Petersburg, the other five leagues from Naples. Is it not amusing tosee them both on the same table?”
“What are the two fish?” asked Danglars.
“M. Château-Renaud, who has lived in Russia, will tell you the name ofone, and Major Cavalcanti, who is an Italian, will tell you the name ofthe other.”
“This one is, I think, a sterlet,” said Château-Renaud.
“And that one, if I mistake not, a lamprey.”
“Just so. Now, M. Danglars, ask these gentlemen where they are caught.”
“Sterlets,” said Château-Renaud, “are only found in the Volga.”
“And,” said Cavalcanti, “I know that Lake Fusaro alone supplieslampreys of that size.”
“Exactly; one comes from the Volga, and the other from Lake Fusaro.”
“Impossible!” cried all the guests simultaneously.
“Well, this is just what amuses me,” said Monte Cristo. “I am likeNero—_cupitor impossibilium_; and that is what is amusing you at thismoment. This fish, which seems so exquisite to you, is very likely nobetter than perch or salmon; but it seemed impossible to procure it,and here it is.”
“But how could you have these fish brought to France?”
“Oh, nothing more easy. Each fish was brought over in a cask—one filledwith river herbs and weeds, the other with rushes and lake plants; theywere placed in a wagon built on purpose, and thus the sterlet livedtwelve days, the lamprey eight, and both were alive when my cook seizedthem, killing one with milk and the other with wine. You do not believeme, M. Danglars!”
“I cannot help doubting,” answered Danglars with his stupid smile.
“Baptistin,” said the count, “have the other fish brought in—thesterlet and the lamprey which came in the other casks, and which areyet alive.”
Danglars opened his bewildered eyes; the company clapped their hands.Four servants carried in two casks covered with aquatic plants, and ineach of which was breathing a fish similar to those on the table.
“But why have two of each sort?” asked Danglars.
“Merely because one might have died,” carelessly answered Monte Cristo.
“You are certainly an extraordinary man,” said Danglars; “andphilosophers may well say it is a fine thing to be rich.”
“And to have ideas,” added Madame Danglars.
“Oh, do not give me credit for this, madame; it was done by the Romans,who much esteemed them, and Pliny relates that they sent slaves fromOstia to Rome, who carried on their heads fish which he calls the_mulus_, and which, from the description, must probably be thegoldfish. It was also considered a luxury to have them alive, it beingan amusing sight to see them die, for, when dying, they change colorthree or four times, and like the rainbow when it disappears, passthrough all the prismatic shades, after which they were sent to thekitchen. Their agony formed part of their merit—if they were not seenalive, they were despised when dead.”
“Yes,” said Debray, “but then Ostia is only a few leagues from Rome.”
“True,” said Monte Cristo; “but what would be the use of livingeighteen hundred years after Lucullus, if we can do no better than hecould?”
The two Cavalcanti opened their enormous eyes, but had the good sensenot to say anything.
“All this is very extraordinary,” said Château-Renaud; “still, what Iadmire the most, I confess, is the marvellous promptitude with whichyour orders are executed. Is it not true that you only bought thishouse five or six days ago?”
“Certainly not longer.”
“Well, I am sure it is quite transformed since last week. If I rememberrightly, it had another entrance, and the courtyard was paved andempty; while today we have a splendid lawn, bordered by trees whichappear to be a hundred years old.”
“Why not? I am fond of grass and shade,” said Monte Cristo.
“Yes,” said Madame de Villefort, “the door was towards the road before,and on the day of my miraculous escape you brought me into the housefrom the road, I remember.”
“Yes, madame,” said Monte Cristo; “but I preferred having an entrancewhich would allow me to see the Bois de Boulogne over my gate.”
“In four days,” said Morrel; “it is extraordinary!”
“Indeed,” said Château-Renaud, “it seems quite miraculous to make a newhouse out of an old one; for it was very old, and dull too. I recollectcoming for my mother to look at it when M. de Saint-Méran advertised itfor sale two or three years ago.”
“M. de Saint-Méran?” said Madame de Villefort; “then this housebelonged to M. de Saint-Méran before you bought it?”
“It appears so,” replied Monte Cristo.
“Is it possible that you do not know of whom you purchased it?”
“Quite so; my steward transacts all this business for me.”
“It is certainly ten years since the house had been occupied,” saidChâteau-Renaud, “and it was quite melancholy to look at it, with theblinds closed, the doors locked, and the weeds in the court. Really, ifthe house had not belonged to the father-in-law of the procureur, onemight have thought it some accursed place where a horrible crime hadbeen committed.”
Villefort, who had hitherto not tasted the three or four glasses ofrare wine which were placed before him, here took one, and drank itoff. Monte Cristo allowed a short time to elapse, and then said:
“It is singular, baron, but the same idea came across me the first timeI came here; it looked so gloomy I should never have bought it if mysteward had not taken the matter into his own hands. Perhaps the fellowhad been bribed by the notary.”
“It is probable,” stammered out Villefort, trying to smile; “but I canassure you that I had nothing to do with any such proceeding. Thishouse is part of Valentine’s marriage-portion, and M. de Saint-Méranwished to sell it; for if it had remained another year or twouninhabited it would have fallen to ruin.”
It was Morrel’s turn to become pale.
“There was, above all, one room,” continued Monte Cristo, “very plainin appearance, hung with red damask, which, I know not why, appeared tome quite dramatic.”
“Why so?” said Danglars; “why dramatic?”
“Can we account for instinct?” said Monte Cristo. “Are there not someplaces where we seem to breathe sadness?—why, we cannot tell. It is achain of recollections—an idea which carries you back to other times,to other places—which, very likely, have no connection with the presenttime and place. And there is something in this room which reminds meforcibly of the chamber of the Marquise de Ganges10 or Desdemona. Stay,since we have finished dinner, I will show it to you, and then we willtake coffee in the garden. After dinner, the play.”
Monte Cristo looked inquiringly at his guests. Madame de Villefortrose, Monte Cristo did the same, and the rest followed their example.Villefort and Madame Danglars remained for a moment, as if rooted totheir seats; they questioned each other with vague and stupid glances.
“Did you hear?” said Madame Danglars.
“We must go,” replied Villefort, offering his arm.
The others, attracted by curiosity, were already scattered in differentparts of the house; for they thought the visit would not be limited tothe one room, and that, at the same time, they would obtain a view ofthe rest of the building, of which Monte Cristo had created a palace.Each one went out by the open doors. Monte Cristo waited for the twowho remained; then, when they had passed, he brought up the rear, andon his face was a smile, which, if they could have understood it, wouldhave alarmed them much more than a visit to the room they were about toenter. They began by walking through the apartments, many of which werefitted up in the Eastern style, with cushions and divans instead ofbeds, and pipes instead of furniture. The drawing-rooms were decoratedwith the rarest pictures by the old masters, the boudoirs hung withdraperies from China, of fanciful colors, fantastic design, andwonderful texture. At length they arrived at the famous room. There wasnothing particular about it, excepting that, although daylight haddisappeared, it was not lighted, and everything in it wasold-fashioned, while the rest of the rooms had been redecorated. Thesetwo causes were enough to give it a gloomy aspect.
“Oh.” cried Madame de Villefort, “it is really frightful.”
Madame Danglars tried to utter a few words, but was not heard. Manyobservations were made, the import of which was a unanimous opinionthat there was something sinister about the room.
30221m


“Is it not so?” asked Monte Cristo. “Look at that large clumsy bed,hung with such gloomy, blood-colored drapery! And those two crayonportraits, that have faded from the dampness; do they not seem to say,with their pale lips and staring eyes, ‘We have seen’?”
Villefort became livid; Madame Danglars fell into a long seat placednear the chimney.
“Oh,” said Madame de Villefort, smiling, “are you courageous enough tosit down upon the very seat perhaps upon which the crime wascommitted?”
Madame Danglars rose suddenly.
“And then,” said Monte Cristo, “this is not all.”
“What is there more?” said Debray, who had not failed to notice theagitation of Madame Danglars.
“Ah, what else is there?” said Danglars; “for, at present, I cannot saythat I have seen anything extraordinary. What do you say, M.Cavalcanti?”
“Ah,” said he, “we have at Pisa, Ugolino’s tower; at Ferrara, Tasso’sprison; at Rimini, the room of Francesca and Paolo.”
“Yes, but you have not this little staircase,” said Monte Cristo,opening a door concealed by the drapery. “Look at it, and tell me whatyou think of it.”
“What a wicked-looking, crooked staircase,” said Château-Renaud with asmile.
“I do not know whether the wine of Chios produces melancholy, butcertainly everything appears to me black in this house,” said Debray.
Ever since Valentine’s dowry had been mentioned, Morrel had been silentand sad.
“Can you imagine,” said Monte Cristo, “some Othello or Abbé de Ganges,one stormy, dark night, descending these stairs step by step, carryinga load, which he wishes to hide from the sight of man, if not fromGod?”
Madame Danglars half fainted on the arm of Villefort, who was obligedto support himself against the wall.
“Ah, madame,” cried Debray, “what is the matter with you? how pale youlook!”
“It is very evident what is the matter with her,” said Madame deVillefort; “M. de Monte Cristo is relating horrible stories to us,doubtless intending to frighten us to death.”
“Yes,” said Villefort, “really, count, you frighten the ladies.”
“What is the matter?” asked Debray, in a whisper, of Madame Danglars.
“Nothing,” she replied with a violent effort. “I want air, that isall.”
“Will you come into the garden?” said Debray, advancing towards theback staircase.
“No, no,” she answered, “I would rather remain here.”
“Are you really frightened, madame?” said Monte Cristo.
“Oh, no, sir,” said Madame Danglars; “but you suppose scenes in amanner which gives them the appearance of reality.”
30223m


“Ah, yes,” said Monte Cristo smiling; “it is all a matter ofimagination. Why should we not imagine this the apartment of an honestmother? And this bed with red hangings, a bed visited by the goddessLucina? And that mysterious staircase, the passage through which, notto disturb their sleep, the doctor and nurse pass, or even the fathercarrying the sleeping child?”
Here Madame Danglars, instead of being calmed by the soft picture,uttered a groan and fainted.
“Madame Danglars is ill,” said Villefort; “it would be better to takeher to her carriage.”
“Oh, _mon Dieu!_” said Monte Cristo, “and I have forgotten mysmelling-bottle!”
“I have mine,” said Madame de Villefort; and she passed over to MonteCristo a bottle full of the same kind of red liquid whose goodproperties the count had tested on Edward.
“Ah,” said Monte Cristo, taking it from her hand.
“Yes,” she said, “at your advice I have made the trial.”
“And have you succeeded?”
“I think so.”
Madame Danglars was carried into the adjoining room; Monte Cristodropped a very small portion of the red liquid upon her lips; shereturned to consciousness.
“Ah,” she cried, “what a frightful dream!”
Villefort pressed her hand to let her know it was not a dream. Theylooked for M. Danglars, but, as he was not especially interested inpoetical ideas, he had gone into the garden, and was talking with MajorCavalcanti on the projected railway from Leghorn to Florence. MonteCristo seemed in despair. He took the arm of Madame Danglars, andconducted her into the garden, where they found Danglars taking coffeebetween the Cavalcanti.
“Really, madame,” he said, “did I alarm you much?”
“Oh, no, sir,” she answered; “but you know, things impress usdifferently, according to the mood of our minds.” Villefort forced alaugh.
“And then, you know,” he said, “an idea, a supposition, is sufficient.”
“Well,” said Monte Cristo, “you may believe me if you like, but it ismy opinion that a crime has been committed in this house.”
“Take care,” said Madame de Villefort, “the king’s attorney is here.”
“Ah,” replied Monte Cristo, “since that is the case, I will takeadvantage of his presence to make my declaration.”
“Your declaration?” said Villefort.
“Yes, before witnesses.”
“Oh, this is very interesting,” said Debray; “if there really has beena crime, we will investigate it.”
“There has been a crime,” said Monte Cristo. “Come this way, gentlemen;come, M. Villefort, for a declaration to be available, should be madebefore the competent authorities.”
He then took Villefort’s arm, and, at the same time, holding that ofMadame Danglars under his own, he dragged the procureur to theplantain-tree, where the shade was thickest. All the other guestsfollowed.
“Stay,” said Monte Cristo, “here, in this very spot” (and he stampedupon the ground), “I had the earth dug up and fresh mould put in, torefresh these old trees; well, my man, digging, found a box, or rather,the iron-work of a box, in the midst of which was the skeleton of anewly born infant.”
30225m


Monte Cristo felt the arm of Madame Danglars stiffen, while that ofVillefort trembled.
“A newly born infant,” repeated Debray; “this affair becomes serious!”
“Well,” said Château-Renaud, “I was not wrong just now then, when Isaid that houses had souls and faces like men, and that their exteriorscarried the impress of their characters. This house was gloomy becauseit was remorseful: it was remorseful because it concealed a crime.”
“Who said it was a crime?” asked Villefort, with a last effort.
“How? is it not a crime to bury a living child in a garden?” criedMonte Cristo. “And pray what do you call such an action?”
“But who said it was buried alive?”
“Why bury it there if it were dead? This garden has never been acemetery.”
“What is done to infanticides in this country?” asked Major Cavalcantiinnocently.
“Oh, their heads are soon cut off,” said Danglars.
“Ah, indeed?” said Cavalcanti.
“I think so; am I not right, M. de Villefort?” asked Monte Cristo.
“Yes, count,” replied Villefort, in a voice now scarcely human.
Monte Cristo, seeing that the two persons for whom he had prepared thisscene could scarcely endure it, and not wishing to carry it too far,said:
“Come, gentlemen,—some coffee, we seem to have forgotten it,” and heconducted the guests back to the table on the lawn.
“Indeed, count,” said Madame Danglars, “I am ashamed to own it, but allyour frightful stories have so upset me, that I must beg you to let mesit down;” and she fell into a chair.
Monte Cristo bowed, and went to Madame de Villefort.
“I think Madame Danglars again requires your bottle,” he said. Butbefore Madame de Villefort could reach her friend, the procureur hadfound time to whisper to Madame Danglars, “I must speak to you.”
“When?”
“Tomorrow.”
“Where?”
“In my office, or in the court, if you like,—that is the surest place.”
“I will be there.”
At this moment Madame de Villefort approached.
“Thanks, my dear friend,” said Madame Danglars, trying to smile; “it isover now, and I am much better.”


 Chapter 64. The Beggar
The evening passed on; Madame de Villefort expressed a desire to returnto Paris, which Madame Danglars had not dared to do, notwithstandingthe uneasiness she experienced. On his wife’s request, M. de Villefortwas the first to give the signal of departure. He offered a seat in hislandau to Madame Danglars, that she might be under the care of hiswife. As for M. Danglars, absorbed in an interesting conversation withM. Cavalcanti, he paid no attention to anything that was passing. WhileMonte Cristo had begged the smelling-bottle of Madame de Villefort, hehad noticed the approach of Villefort to Madame Danglars, and he soonguessed all that had passed between them, though the words had beenuttered in so low a voice as hardly to be heard by Madame Danglars.Without opposing their arrangements, he allowed Morrel, Château-Renaud,and Debray to leave on horseback, and the ladies in M. de Villefort’scarriage. Danglars, more and more delighted with Major Cavalcanti, hadoffered him a seat in his carriage. Andrea Cavalcanti found his tilburywaiting at the door; the groom, in every respect a caricature of theEnglish fashion, was standing on tiptoe to hold a large iron-grayhorse.
Andrea had spoken very little during dinner; he was an intelligent lad,and he feared to utter some absurdity before so many grand people,amongst whom, with dilating eyes, he saw the king’s attorney. Then hehad been seized upon by Danglars, who, with a rapid glance at thestiff-necked old major and his modest son, and taking intoconsideration the hospitality of the count, made up his mind that hewas in the society of some nabob come to Paris to finish the worldlyeducation of his heir. He contemplated with unspeakable delight thelarge diamond which shone on the major’s little finger; for the major,like a prudent man, in case of any accident happening to hisbank-notes, had immediately converted them into an available asset.Then, after dinner, on the pretext of business, he questioned thefather and son upon their mode of living; and the father and son,previously informed that it was through Danglars the one was to receivehis 48,000 francs and the other 50,000 livres annually, were so full ofaffability that they would have shaken hands even with the banker’sservants, so much did their gratitude need an object to expend itselfupon.
One thing above all the rest heightened the respect, nay almost theveneration, of Danglars for Cavalcanti. The latter, faithful to theprinciple of Horace, _nil admirari_, had contented himself with showinghis knowledge by declaring in what lake the best lampreys were caught.Then he had eaten some without saying a word more; Danglars, therefore,concluded that such luxuries were common at the table of theillustrious descendant of the Cavalcanti, who most likely in Lucca fedupon trout brought from Switzerland, and lobsters sent from England, bythe same means used by the count to bring the lampreys from LakeFusaro, and the sterlet from the Volga. Thus it was with muchpoliteness of manner that he heard Cavalcanti pronounce these words:
“Tomorrow, sir, I shall have the honor of waiting upon you onbusiness.”
“And I, sir,” said Danglars, “shall be most happy to receive you.”
Upon which he offered to take Cavalcanti in his carriage to the Hôteldes Princes, if it would not be depriving him of the company of hisson. To this Cavalcanti replied by saying that for some time past hisson had lived independently of him, that he had his own horses andcarriages, and that not having come together, it would not be difficultfor them to leave separately. The major seated himself, therefore, bythe side of Danglars, who was more and more charmed with the ideas oforder and economy which ruled this man, and yet who, being able toallow his son 60,000 francs a year, might be supposed to possess afortune of 500,000 or 600,000 livres.
As for Andrea, he began, by way of showing off, to scold his groom,who, instead of bringing the tilbury to the steps of the house, hadtaken it to the outer door, thus giving him the trouble of walkingthirty steps to reach it. The groom heard him with humility, took thebit of the impatient animal with his left hand, and with the right heldout the reins to Andrea, who, taking them from him, rested his polishedboot lightly on the step.
At that moment a hand touched his shoulder. The young man turned round,thinking that Danglars or Monte Cristo had forgotten something theywished to tell him, and had returned just as they were starting. Butinstead of either of these, he saw nothing but a strange face,sunburnt, and encircled by a beard, with eyes brilliant as carbuncles,and a smile upon the mouth which displayed a perfect set of whiteteeth, pointed and sharp as the wolf’s or jackal’s. A red handkerchiefencircled his gray head; torn and filthy garments covered his largebony limbs, which seemed as though, like those of a skeleton, theywould rattle as he walked; and the hand with which he leaned upon theyoung man’s shoulder, and which was the first thing Andrea saw, seemedof gigantic size.
30229m


Did the young man recognize that face by the light of the lantern inhis tilbury, or was he merely struck with the horrible appearance ofhis interrogator? We cannot say; but only relate the fact that heshuddered and stepped back suddenly.
“What do you want of me?” he asked.
“Pardon me, my friend, if I disturb you,” said the man with the redhandkerchief, “but I want to speak to you.”
“You have no right to beg at night,” said the groom, endeavoring to ridhis master of the troublesome intruder.
“I am not begging, my fine fellow,” said the unknown to the servant,with so ironical an expression of the eye, and so frightful a smile,that he withdrew; “I only wish to say two or three words to yourmaster, who gave me a commission to execute about a fortnight ago.”
“Come,” said Andrea, with sufficient nerve for his servant not toperceive his agitation, “what do you want? Speak quickly, friend.”
The man said, in a low voice: “I wish—I wish you to spare me the walkback to Paris. I am very tired, and as I have not eaten so good adinner as you, I can scarcely stand.”
The young man shuddered at this strange familiarity.
“Tell me,” he said—“tell me what you want?”
“Well, then, I want you to take me up in your fine carriage, and carryme back.” Andrea turned pale, but said nothing.
“Yes,” said the man, thrusting his hands into his pockets, and lookingimpudently at the youth; “I have taken the whim into my head; do youunderstand, Master Benedetto?”
At this name, no doubt, the young man reflected a little, for he wenttowards his groom, saying:
“This man is right; I did indeed charge him with a commission, theresult of which he must tell me; walk to the barrier, there take a cab,that you may not be too late.”
The surprised groom retired.
“Let me at least reach a shady spot,” said Andrea.
“Oh, as for that, I’ll take you to a splendid place,” said the man withthe handkerchief; and taking the horse’s bit he led the tilbury whereit was certainly impossible for anyone to witness the honor that Andreaconferred upon him.
“Don’t think I want the glory of riding in your fine carriage,” saidhe; “oh, no, it’s only because I am tired, and also because I have alittle business to talk over with you.”
“Come, step in,” said the young man. It was a pity this scene had notoccurred in daylight, for it was curious to see this rascal throwinghimself heavily down on the cushion beside the young and elegant driverof the tilbury. Andrea drove past the last house in the village withoutsaying a word to his companion, who smiled complacently, as thoughwell-pleased to find himself travelling in so comfortable a vehicle.Once out of Auteuil, Andrea looked around, in order to assure himselfthat he could neither be seen nor heard, and then, stopping the horseand crossing his arms before the man, he asked:
“Now, tell me why you come to disturb my tranquillity?”
“Let me ask you why you deceived me?”
“How have I deceived you?”
“‘How,’ do you ask? When we parted at the Pont du Var, you told me youwere going to travel through Piedmont and Tuscany; but instead of that,you come to Paris.”
“How does that annoy you?”
“It does not; on the contrary, I think it will answer my purpose.”
“So,” said Andrea, “you are speculating upon me?”
“What fine words he uses!”
“I warn you, Master Caderousse, that you are mistaken.”
“Well, well, don’t be angry, my boy; you know well enough what it is tobe unfortunate; and misfortunes make us jealous. I thought you wereearning a living in Tuscany or Piedmont by acting as _facchino_ or_cicerone_, and I pitied you sincerely, as I would a child of my own.You know I always did call you my child.”
“Come, come, what then?”
“Patience—patience!”
“I am patient, but go on.”
“All at once I see you pass through the barrier with a groom, atilbury, and fine new clothes. You must have discovered a mine, or elsebecome a stockbroker.”
“So that, as you confess, you are jealous?”
“No, I am pleased—so pleased that I wished to congratulate you; but asI am not quite properly dressed, I chose my opportunity, that I mightnot compromise you.”
“Yes, and a fine opportunity you have chosen!” exclaimed Andrea; “youspeak to me before my servant.”
“How can I help that, my boy? I speak to you when I can catch you. Youhave a quick horse, a light tilbury, you are naturally as slippery asan eel; if I had missed you tonight, I might not have had anotherchance.”
“You see, I do not conceal myself.”
“You are lucky; I wish I could say as much, for I do conceal myself;and then I was afraid you would not recognize me, but you did,” addedCaderousse with his unpleasant smile. “It was very polite of you.”
“Come,” said Andrea, “what do you want?”
“You do not speak affectionately to me, Benedetto, my old friend, thatis not right—take care, or I may become troublesome.”
This menace smothered the young man’s passion. He urged the horse againinto a trot.
“You should not speak so to an old friend like me, Caderousse, as yousaid just now; you are a native of Marseilles, I am——”
“Do you know then now what you are?”
“No, but I was brought up in Corsica; you are old and obstinate, I amyoung and wilful. Between people like us threats are out of place,everything should be amicably arranged. Is it my fault if fortune,which has frowned on you, has been kind to me?”
“Fortune has been kind to you, then? Your tilbury, your groom, yourclothes, are not then hired? Good, so much the better,” saidCaderousse, his eyes sparkling with avarice.
“Oh, you knew that well enough before speaking to me,” said Andrea,becoming more and more excited. “If I had been wearing a handkerchieflike yours on my head, rags on my back, and worn-out shoes on my feet,you would not have known me.”
“You wrong me, my boy; now I have found you, nothing prevents my beingas well-dressed as anyone, knowing, as I do, the goodness of yourheart. If you have two coats you will give me one of them. I used todivide my soup and beans with you when you were hungry.”
“True,” said Andrea.
“What an appetite you used to have! Is it as good now?”
“Oh, yes,” replied Andrea, laughing.
“How did you come to be dining with that prince whose house you havejust left?”
“He is not a prince; simply a count.”
“A count, and a rich one too, eh?”
“Yes; but you had better not have anything to say to him, for he is nota very good-tempered gentleman.”
“Oh, be easy! I have no design upon your count, and you shall have himall to yourself. But,” said Caderousse, again smiling with thedisagreeable expression he had before assumed, “you must pay for it—youunderstand?”
“Well, what do you want?”
“I think that with a hundred francs a month——”
“Well?”
“I could live——”
“Upon a hundred francs!”
“Come—you understand me; but that with——”
“With?”
“With a hundred and fifty francs I should be quite happy.”
“Here are two hundred,” said Andrea; and he placed ten gold louis inthe hand of Caderousse.
30233m


“Good!” said Caderousse.
“Apply to the steward on the first day of every month, and you willreceive the same sum.”
“There now, again you degrade me.”
“How so?”
“By making me apply to the servants, when I want to transact businesswith you alone.”
“Well, be it so, then. Take it from me then, and so long at least as Ireceive my income, you shall be paid yours.”
“Come, come; I always said you were a fine fellow, and it is a blessingwhen good fortune happens to such as you. But tell me all about it?”
“Why do you wish to know?” asked Cavalcanti.
“What? do you again defy me?”
“No; the fact is, I have found my father.”
“What? a real father?”
“Yes, so long as he pays me——”
“You’ll honor and believe him—that’s right. What is his name?”
“Major Cavalcanti.”
“Is he pleased with you?”
“So far I have appeared to answer his purpose.”
“And who found this father for you?”
“The Count of Monte Cristo.”
“The man whose house you have just left?”
“Yes.”
“I wish you would try and find me a situation with him as grandfather,since he holds the money-chest!”
“Well, I will mention you to him. Meanwhile, what are you going to do?”
“I?”
“Yes, you.”
“It is very kind of you to trouble yourself about me.”
“Since you interest yourself in my affairs, I think it is now my turnto ask you some questions.”
“Ah, true. Well; I shall rent a room in some respectable house, wear adecent coat, shave every day, and go and read the papers in a café.Then, in the evening, I shall go to the theatre; I shall look like someretired baker. That is what I want.”
“Come, if you will only put this scheme into execution, and be steady,nothing could be better.”
“Do you think so, M. Bossuet? And you—what will you become? A peer ofFrance?”
“Ah,” said Andrea, “who knows?”
“Major Cavalcanti is already one, perhaps; but then, hereditary rank isabolished.”
“No politics, Caderousse. And now that you have all you want, and thatwe understand each other, jump down from the tilbury and disappear.”
“Not at all, my good friend.”
“How? Not at all?”
“Why, just think for a moment; with this red handkerchief on my head,with scarcely any shoes, no papers, and ten gold napoleons in mypocket, without reckoning what was there before—making in all about twohundred francs,—why, I should certainly be arrested at the barriers.Then, to justify myself, I should say that you gave me the money; thiswould cause inquiries, it would be found that I left Toulon withoutgiving due notice, and I should then be escorted back to the shores ofthe Mediterranean. Then I should become simply No. 106, and good-bye tomy dream of resembling the retired baker! No, no, my boy; I preferremaining honorably in the capital.”
Andrea scowled. Certainly, as he had himself owned, the reputed son ofMajor Cavalcanti was a wilful fellow. He drew up for a minute, threw arapid glance around him, and then his hand fell instantly into hispocket, where it began playing with a pistol. But, meanwhile,Caderousse, who had never taken his eyes off his companion, passed hishand behind his back, and opened a long Spanish knife, which he alwayscarried with him, to be ready in case of need. The two friends, as wesee, were worthy of and understood one another. Andrea’s hand left hispocket inoffensively, and was carried up to the red moustache, which itplayed with for some time.
“Good Caderousse,” he said, “how happy you will be.”
“I will do my best,” said the innkeeper of the Pont du Gard, shuttingup his knife.
“Well, then, we will go into Paris. But how will you pass through thebarrier without exciting suspicion? It seems to me that you are in moredanger riding than on foot.”
“Wait,” said Caderousse, “we shall see.” He then took the greatcoatwith the large collar, which the groom had left behind in the tilbury,and put it on his back; then he took off Cavalcanti’s hat, which heplaced upon his own head, and finally he assumed the careless attitudeof a servant whose master drives himself.
“But, tell me,” said Andrea, “am I to remain bareheaded?”
“Pooh,” said Caderousse; “it is so windy that your hat can easilyappear to have blown off.”
“Come, come; enough of this,” said Cavalcanti.
“What are you waiting for?” said Caderousse. “I hope I am not thecause.”
“Hush,” said Andrea. They passed the barrier without accident. At thefirst cross street Andrea stopped his horse, and Caderousse leaped out.
“Well!” said Andrea,—“my servant’s coat and my hat?”
“Ah,” said Caderousse, “you would not like me to risk taking cold?”
“But what am I to do?”
“You? Oh, you are young while I am beginning to get old. _Au revoir_,Benedetto;” and running into a court, he disappeared.
“Alas,” said Andrea, sighing, “one cannot be completely happy in thisworld!”


 Chapter 65. A Conjugal Scene
At the Place Louis XV. the three young people separated—that is to say,Morrel went to the Boulevards, Château-Renaud to the Pont de laRévolution, and Debray to the Quai. Most probably Morrel andChâteau-Renaud returned to their “domestic hearths,” as they say in thegallery of the Chamber in well-turned speeches, and in the theatre ofthe Rue Richelieu in well-written pieces; but it was not the case withDebray. When he reached the wicket of the Louvre, he turned to theleft, galloped across the Carrousel, passed through the Rue Saint-Roch,and, issuing from the Rue de la Michodière, he arrived at M. Danglars’door just at the same time that Villefort’s landau, after havingdeposited him and his wife at the Faubourg Saint-Honoré, stopped toleave the baroness at her own house.
Debray, with the air of a man familiar with the house, entered firstinto the court, threw his bridle into the hands of a footman, andreturned to the door to receive Madame Danglars, to whom he offered hisarm, to conduct her to her apartments. The gate once closed, and Debrayand the baroness alone in the court, he asked:
“What was the matter with you, Hermine? and why were you so affected atthat story, or rather fable, which the count related?”
“Because I have been in such shocking spirits all the evening, myfriend,” said the baroness.
“No, Hermine,” replied Debray; “you cannot make me believe that; on thecontrary, you were in excellent spirits when you arrived at thecount’s. M. Danglars was disagreeable, certainly, but I know how muchyou care for his ill-humor. Someone has vexed you; I will allow no oneto annoy you.”
“You are deceived, Lucien, I assure you,” replied Madame Danglars; “andwhat I have told you is really the case, added to the ill-humor youremarked, but which I did not think it worth while to allude to.”
It was evident that Madame Danglars was suffering from that nervousirritability which women frequently cannot account for even tothemselves; or that, as Debray had guessed, she had experienced somesecret agitation that she would not acknowledge to anyone. Being a manwho knew that the former of these symptoms was one of the inherentpenalties of womanhood, he did not then press his inquiries, but waitedfor a more appropriate opportunity when he should again interrogateher, or receive an avowal _proprio motu_.
At the door of her apartment the baroness met Mademoiselle Cornélie,her confidential maid.
“What is my daughter doing?” asked Madame Danglars.
“She practiced all the evening, and then went to bed,” repliedMademoiselle Cornélie.
“Yet I think I hear her piano.”
“It is Mademoiselle Louise d’Armilly, who is playing while MademoiselleDanglars is in bed.”
“Well,” said Madame Danglars, “come and undress me.”
They entered the bedroom. Debray stretched himself upon a large couch,and Madame Danglars passed into her dressing-room with MademoiselleCornélie.
“My dear M. Lucien,” said Madame Danglars through the door, “you arealways complaining that Eugénie will not address a word to you.”
“Madame,” said Lucien, playing with a little dog, who, recognizing himas a friend of the house, expected to be caressed, “I am not the onlyone who makes similar complaints, I think I heard Morcerf say that hecould not extract a word from his betrothed.”
“True,” said Madame Danglars; “yet I think this will all pass off, andthat you will one day see her enter your study.”
“My study?”
“At least that of the minister.”
“Why so!”
“To ask for an engagement at the Opera. Really, I never saw such aninfatuation for music; it is quite ridiculous for a young lady offashion.”
Debray smiled. “Well,” said he, “let her come, with your consent andthat of the baron, and we will try and give her an engagement, thoughwe are very poor to pay such talent as hers.”
“Go, Cornélie,” said Madame Danglars, “I do not require you anylonger.”
Cornélie obeyed, and the next minute Madame Danglars left her room in acharming loose dress, and came and sat down close to Debray. Then shebegan thoughtfully to caress the little spaniel. Lucien looked at herfor a moment in silence.
“Come, Hermine,” he said, after a short time, “answercandidly,—something vexes you—is it not so?”
30239m


“Nothing,” answered the baroness.
And yet, as she could scarcely breathe, she rose and went towards alooking-glass. “I am frightful tonight,” she said. Debray rose,smiling, and was about to contradict the baroness upon this latterpoint, when the door opened suddenly. M. Danglars appeared; Debrayreseated himself. At the noise of the door Madame Danglars turnedround, and looked upon her husband with an astonishment she took notrouble to conceal.
“Good-evening, madame,” said the banker; “good-evening, M. Debray.”
Probably the baroness thought this unexpected visit signified a desireto make up for the sharp words he had uttered during the day. Assuminga dignified air, she turned round to Debray, without answering herhusband.
“Read me something, M. Debray,” she said. Debray, who was slightlydisturbed at this visit, recovered himself when he saw the calmness ofthe baroness, and took up a book marked by a mother-of-pearl knifeinlaid with gold.
“Excuse me,” said the banker, “but you will tire yourself, baroness, bysuch late hours, and M. Debray lives some distance from here.”
Debray was petrified, not only to hear Danglars speak so calmly andpolitely, but because it was apparent that beneath outward politenessthere really lurked a determined spirit of opposition to anything hiswife might wish to do. The baroness was also surprised, and showed herastonishment by a look which would doubtless have had some effect uponher husband if he had not been intently occupied with the paper, wherehe was looking to see the closing stock quotations. The result was,that the proud look entirely failed of its purpose.
“M. Lucien,” said the baroness, “I assure you I have no desire tosleep, and that I have a thousand things to tell you this evening,which you must listen to, even though you slept while hearing me.”
“I am at your service, madame,” replied Lucien coldly.
“My dear M. Debray,” said the banker, “do not kill yourself tonightlistening to the follies of Madame Danglars, for you can hear them aswell tomorrow; but I claim tonight and will devote it, if you willallow me, to talk over some serious matters with my wife.”
This time the blow was so well aimed, and hit so directly, that Lucienand the baroness were staggered, and they interrogated each other withtheir eyes, as if to seek help against this aggression, but theirresistible will of the master of the house prevailed, and the husbandwas victorious.
“Do not think I wish to turn you out, my dear Debray,” continuedDanglars; “oh, no, not at all. An unexpected occurrence forces me toask my wife to have a little conversation with me; it is so rarely Imake such a request, I am sure you cannot grudge it to me.”
Debray muttered something, bowed and went out, knocking himself againstthe edge of the door, like Nathan in _Athalie_.
“It is extraordinary,” he said, when the door was closed behind him,“how easily these husbands, whom we ridicule, gain an advantage overus.”
30241m


Lucien having left, Danglars took his place on the sofa, closed theopen book, and placing himself in a dreadfully dictatorial attitude, hebegan playing with the dog; but the animal, not liking him as well asDebray, and attempting to bite him, Danglars seized him by the skin ofhis neck and threw him upon a couch on the other side of the room. Theanimal uttered a cry during the transit, but, arrived at itsdestination, it crouched behind the cushions, and stupefied at suchunusual treatment remained silent and motionless.
“Do you know, sir,” asked the baroness, “that you are improving?Generally you are only rude, but tonight you are brutal.”
“It is because I am in a worse humor than usual,” replied Danglars.Hermine looked at the banker with supreme disdain. These glancesfrequently exasperated the pride of Danglars, but this evening he tookno notice of them.
“And what have I to do with your ill-humor?” said the baroness,irritated at the impassibility of her husband; “do these things concernme? Keep your ill-humor at home in your money boxes, or, since you haveclerks whom you pay, vent it upon them.”
“Not so,” replied Danglars; “your advice is wrong, so I shall notfollow it. My money boxes are my Pactolus, as, I think, M. Demoustiersays, and I will not retard its course, or disturb its calm. My clerksare honest men, who earn my fortune, whom I pay much below theirdeserts, if I may value them according to what they bring in; thereforeI shall not get into a passion with them; those with whom I will be ina passion are those who eat my dinners, mount my horses, and exhaust myfortune.”
“And pray who are the persons who exhaust your fortune? Explainyourself more clearly, I beg, sir.”
“Oh, make yourself easy!—I am not speaking riddles, and you will soonknow what I mean. The people who exhaust my fortune are those who drawout 700,000 francs in the course of an hour.”
“I do not understand you, sir,” said the baroness, trying to disguisethe agitation of her voice and the flush of her face.
“You understand me perfectly, on the contrary,” said Danglars: “but, ifyou will persist, I will tell you that I have just lost 700,000 francsupon the Spanish loan.”
“And pray,” asked the baroness, “am I responsible for this loss?”
“Why not?”
“Is it my fault you have lost 700,000 francs?”
“Certainly it is not mine.”
“Once for all, sir,” replied the baroness sharply, “I tell you I willnot hear cash named; it is a style of language I never heard in thehouse of my parents or in that of my first husband.”
“Oh, I can well believe that, for neither of them was worth a penny.”
“The better reason for my not being conversant with the slang of thebank, which is here dinning in my ears from morning to night; thatnoise of jingling crowns, which are constantly being counted andre-counted, is odious to me. I only know one thing I dislike more,which is the sound of your voice.”
“Really?” said Danglars. “Well, this surprises me, for I thought youtook the liveliest interest in all my affairs!”
30243m


“I? What could put such an idea into your head?”
“Yourself.”
“Ah?—what next?”
“Most assuredly.”
“I should like to know upon what occasion?”
“Oh, _mon Dieu!_ that is very easily done. Last February you were thefirst who told me of the Haitian funds. You had dreamed that a ship hadentered the harbor at Le Havre, that this ship brought news that apayment we had looked upon as lost was going to be made. I know howclear-sighted your dreams are; I therefore purchased immediately asmany shares as I could of the Haitian debt, and I gained 400,000 francsby it, of which 100,000 have been honestly paid to you. You spent it asyou pleased; that was your business. In March there was a questionabout a grant to a railway. Three companies presented themselves, eachoffering equal securities. You told me that your instinct,—and althoughyou pretend to know nothing about speculations, I think on thecontrary, that your comprehension is very clear upon certainaffairs,—well, you told me that your instinct led you to believe thegrant would be given to the company called the Southern. I bought twothirds of the shares of that company; as you had foreseen, the sharestrebled in value, and I picked up a million, from which 250,000 francswere paid to you for pin-money. How have you spent this 250,000francs?—it is no business of mine.”
“When are you coming to the point?” cried the baroness, shivering withanger and impatience.
“Patience, madame, I am coming to it.”
“That’s fortunate.”
“In April you went to dine at the minister’s. You heard a privateconversation respecting Spanish affairs—on the expulsion of Don Carlos.I bought some Spanish shares. The expulsion took place and I pocketed600,000 francs the day Charles V. repassed the Bidassoa. Of these600,000 francs you took 50,000 crowns. They were yours, you disposed ofthem according to your fancy, and I asked no questions; but it is notthe less true that you have this year received 500,000 livres.”
“Well, sir, and what then?”
“Ah, yes, it was just after this that you spoiled everything.”
“Really, your manner of speaking——”
“It expresses my meaning, and that is all I want. Well, three daysafter that you talked politics with M. Debray, and you fancied from hiswords that Don Carlos had returned to Spain. Well, I sold my shares,the news got out, and I no longer sold—I gave them away, next day Ifind the news was false, and by this false report I have lost 700,000francs.”
“Well?”
“Well, since I gave you a fourth of my gains, I think you owe me afourth of my losses; the fourth of 700,000 francs is 175,000 francs.”
“What you say is absurd, and I cannot see why M. Debray’s name is mixedup in this affair.”
“Because if you do not possess the 175,000 francs I reclaim, you musthave lent them to your friends, and M. Debray is one of your friends.”
30245m


“For shame!” exclaimed the baroness.
“Oh, let us have no gestures, no screams, no modern drama, or you willoblige me to tell you that I see Debray leave here, pocketing the wholeof the 500,000 livres you have handed over to him this year, while hesmiles to himself, saying that he has found what the most skilfulplayers have never discovered—that is, a roulette where he wins withoutplaying, and is no loser when he loses.”
The baroness became enraged.
“Wretch!” she cried, “will you dare to tell me you did not know whatyou now reproach me with?”
“I do not say that I did know it, and I do not say that I did not knowit. I merely tell you to look into my conduct during the last fouryears that we have ceased to be husband and wife, and see whether ithas not always been consistent. Some time after our rupture, you wishedto study music, under the celebrated baritone who made such asuccessful appearance at the Théâtre Italien; at the same time I feltinclined to learn dancing of the _danseuse_ who acquired such areputation in London. This cost me, on your account and mine, 100,000francs. I said nothing, for we must have peace in the house; and100,000 francs for a lady and gentleman to be properly instructed inmusic and dancing are not too much. Well, you soon become tired ofsinging, and you take a fancy to study diplomacy with the minister’ssecretary. You understand, it signifies nothing to me so long as youpay for your lessons out of your own cash box. But today I find you aredrawing on mine, and that your apprenticeship may cost me 700,000francs per month. Stop there, madame, for this cannot last. Either thediplomatist must give his lessons gratis, and I will tolerate him, orhe must never set his foot again in my house;—do you understand,madame?”
“Oh, this is too much,” cried Hermine, choking, “you are worse thandespicable.”
“But,” continued Danglars, “I find you did not even pause there——”
“Insults!”
“You are right; let us leave these facts alone, and reason coolly. Ihave never interfered in your affairs excepting for your good; treat mein the same way. You say you have nothing to do with my cash box. Be itso. Do as you like with your own, but do not fill or empty mine.Besides, how do I know that this was not a political trick, that theminister enraged at seeing me in the opposition, and jealous of thepopular sympathy I excite, has not concerted with M. Debray to ruinme?”
“A probable thing!”
“Why not? Who ever heard of such an occurrence as this?—a falsetelegraphic despatch—it is almost impossible for wrong signals to bemade as they were in the last two telegrams. It was done on purpose forme—I am sure of it.”
“Sir,” said the baroness humbly, “are you not aware that the manemployed there was dismissed, that they talked of going to law withhim, that orders were issued to arrest him and that this order wouldhave been put into execution if he had not escaped by flight, whichproves that he was either mad or guilty? It was a mistake.”
“Yes, which made fools laugh, which caused the minister to have asleepless night, which has caused the minister’s secretaries to blackenseveral sheets of paper, but which has cost me 700,000 francs.”
“But, sir,” said Hermine suddenly, “if all this is, as you say, causedby M. Debray, why, instead of going direct to him, do you come and tellme of it? Why, to accuse the man, do you address the woman?”
“Do I know M. Debray?—do I wish to know him?—do I wish to know that hegives advice?—do I wish to follow it?—do I speculate? No; you do allthis, not I.”
“Still it seems to me, that as you profit by it——”
Danglars shrugged his shoulders. “Foolish creature,” he exclaimed.“Women fancy they have talent because they have managed two or threeintrigues without being the talk of Paris! But know that if you hadeven hidden your irregularities from your husband, who has but thecommencement of the art—for generally husbands _will_ not see—you wouldthen have been but a faint imitation of most of your friends among thewomen of the world. But it has not been so with me,—I see, and alwayshave seen, during the last sixteen years. You may, perhaps, have hiddena thought; but not a step, not an action, not a fault, has escaped me,while you flattered yourself upon your address, and firmly believed youhad deceived me. What has been the result?—that, thanks to my pretendedignorance, there is none of your friends, from M. de Villefort to M.Debray, who has not trembled before me. There is not one who has nottreated me as the master of the house,—the only title I desire withrespect to you; there is not one, in fact, who would have dared tospeak of me as I have spoken of them this day. I will allow you to makeme hateful, but I will prevent your rendering me ridiculous, and, aboveall, I forbid you to ruin me.”
The baroness had been tolerably composed until the name of Villeforthad been pronounced; but then she became pale, and, rising, as iftouched by a spring, she stretched out her hands as though conjuring anapparition; she then took two or three steps towards her husband, asthough to tear the secret from him, of which he was ignorant, or whichhe withheld from some odious calculation,—odious, as all hiscalculations were.
“M. de Villefort!—What do you mean?”
“I mean that M. de Nargonne, your first husband, being neither aphilosopher nor a banker, or perhaps being both, and seeing there wasnothing to be got out of a king’s attorney, died of grief or anger atfinding, after an absence of nine months, that you had been _enceinte_six. I am brutal,—I not only allow it, but boast of it; it is one ofthe reasons of my success in commercial business. Why did he killhimself instead of you? Because he had no cash to save. My life belongsto my cash. M. Debray has made me lose 700,000 francs; let him bear hisshare of the loss, and we will go on as before; if not, let him becomebankrupt for the 250,000 livres, and do as all bankrupts do—disappear.He is a charming fellow, I allow, when his news is correct; but when itis not, there are fifty others in the world who would do better thanhe.”
Madame Danglars was rooted to the spot; she made a violent effort toreply to this last attack, but she fell upon a chair thinking ofVillefort, of the dinner scene, of the strange series of misfortuneswhich had taken place in her house during the last few days, andchanged the usual calm of her establishment to a scene of scandalousdebate.
Danglars did not even look at her, though she did her best to faint. Heshut the bedroom door after him, without adding another word, andreturned to his apartments; and when Madame Danglars recovered from herhalf-fainting condition, she could almost believe that she had had adisagreeable dream.


 Chapter 66. Matrimonial Projects
The day following this scene, at the hour Debray usually chose to pay avisit to Madame Danglars on his way to his office, his _coupé_ did notappear. At this time, that is, about half-past twelve, Madame Danglarsordered her carriage, and went out. Danglars, hidden behind a curtain,watched the departure he had been waiting for. He gave orders that heshould be informed as soon as Madame Danglars appeared; but at twoo’clock she had not returned. He then called for his horses, drove tothe Chamber, and inscribed his name to speak against the budget. Fromtwelve to two o’clock Danglars had remained in his study, unsealing hisdispatches, and becoming more and more sad every minute, heaping figureupon figure, and receiving, among other visits, one from MajorCavalcanti, who, as stiff and exact as ever, presented himselfprecisely at the hour named the night before, to terminate his businesswith the banker.
On leaving the Chamber, Danglars, who had shown violent marks ofagitation during the sitting, and been more bitter than ever againstthe ministry, re-entered his carriage, and told the coachman to driveto the Avenue des Champs-Élysées, No. 30.
Monte Cristo was at home; only he was engaged with someone and beggedDanglars to wait for a moment in the drawing-room. While the banker waswaiting in the anteroom, the door opened, and a man dressed as an abbéand doubtless more familiar with the house than he was, came in andinstead of waiting, merely bowed, passed on to the farther apartments,and disappeared.
A minute after the door by which the priest had entered reopened, andMonte Cristo appeared.
“Pardon me,” said he, “my dear baron, but one of my friends, the AbbéBusoni, whom you perhaps saw pass by, has just arrived in Paris; nothaving seen him for a long time, I could not make up my mind to leavehim sooner, so I hope this will be sufficient reason for my having madeyou wait.”
“Nay,” said Danglars, “it is my fault; I have chosen my visit at awrong time, and will retire.”
“Not at all; on the contrary, be seated; but what is the matter withyou? You look careworn; really, you alarm me. Melancholy in acapitalist, like the appearance of a comet, presages some misfortune tothe world.”
“I have been in ill-luck for several days,” said Danglars, “and I haveheard nothing but bad news.”
“Ah, indeed?” said Monte Cristo. “Have you had another fall at theBourse?”
“No; I am safe for a few days at least. I am only annoyed about abankrupt of Trieste.”
“Really? Does it happen to be Jacopo Manfredi?”
“Exactly so. Imagine a man who has transacted business with me for Idon’t know how long, to the amount of 800,000 or 900,000 francs duringthe year. Never a mistake or delay—a fellow who paid like a prince.Well, I was a million in advance with him, and now my fine JacopoManfredi suspends payment!”
“Really?”
“It is an unheard-of fatality. I draw upon him for 600,000 francs, mybills are returned unpaid, and, more than that, I hold bills ofexchange signed by him to the value of 400,000 francs, payable at hiscorrespondent’s in Paris at the end of this month. Today is the 30th. Ipresent them; but my correspondent has disappeared. This, with mySpanish affairs, made a pretty end to the month.”
“Then you really lost by that affair in Spain?”
“Yes; only 700,000 francs out of my cash box—nothing more!”
“Why, how could you make such a mistake—such an old stager?”
“Oh, it is all my wife’s fault. She dreamed Don Carlos had returned toSpain; she believes in dreams. It is magnetism, she says, and when shedreams a thing it is sure to happen, she assures me. On this convictionI allow her to speculate, she having her bank and her stockbroker; shespeculated and lost. It is true she speculates with her own money, notmine; nevertheless, you can understand that when 700,000 francs leavethe wife’s pocket, the husband always finds it out. But do you mean tosay you have not heard of this? Why, the thing has made a tremendousnoise.”
“Yes, I heard it spoken of, but I did not know the details, and then noone can be more ignorant than I am of the affairs in the Bourse.”
30251m


“Then you do not speculate?”
“I?—How could I speculate when I already have so much trouble inregulating my income? I should be obliged, besides my steward, to keepa clerk and a boy. But touching these Spanish affairs, I think that thebaroness did not dream the whole of the Don Carlos matter. The paperssaid something about it, did they not?”
“Then you believe the papers?”
“I?—not the least in the world; only I fancied that the honest_Messager_ was an exception to the rule, and that it only announcedtelegraphic despatches.”
“Well, that’s what puzzles me,” replied Danglars; “the news of thereturn of Don Carlos was brought by telegraph.”
“So that,” said Monte Cristo, “you have lost nearly 1,700,000 francsthis month.”
“Not nearly, indeed; that is exactly my loss.”
“_Diable!_” said Monte Cristo compassionately, “it is a hard blow for athird-rate fortune.”
“Third-rate,” said Danglars, rather humble, “what do you mean by that?”
“Certainly,” continued Monte Cristo, “I make three assortments infortune—first-rate, second-rate, and third-rate fortunes. I call thosefirst-rate which are composed of treasures one possesses under one’shand, such as mines, lands, and funded property, in such states asFrance, Austria, and England, provided these treasures and propertyform a total of about a hundred millions; I call those second-ratefortunes, that are gained by manufacturing enterprises, joint-stockcompanies, viceroyalties, and principalities, not drawing more than1,500,000 francs, the whole forming a capital of about fifty millions;finally, I call those third-rate fortunes, which are composed of afluctuating capital, dependent upon the will of others, or upon chanceswhich a bankruptcy involves or a false telegram shakes, such as banks,speculations of the day—in fact, all operations under the influence ofgreater or less mischances, the whole bringing in a real or fictitiouscapital of about fifteen millions. I think this is about your position,is it not?”
“Confound it, yes!” replied Danglars.
“The result, then, of six more such months as this would be to reducethe third-rate house to despair.”
“Oh,” said Danglars, becoming very pale, how you are running on!”
“Let us imagine seven such months,” continued Monte Cristo, in the sametone. “Tell me, have you ever thought that seven times 1,700,000 francsmake nearly twelve millions? No, you have not;—well, you are right, forif you indulged in such reflections, you would never risk yourprincipal, which is to the speculator what the skin is to civilizedman. We have our clothes, some more splendid than others,—this is ourcredit; but when a man dies he has only his skin; in the same way, onretiring from business, you have nothing but your real principal ofabout five or six millions, at the most; for third-rate fortunes arenever more than a fourth of what they appear to be, like the locomotiveon a railway, the size of which is magnified by the smoke and steamsurrounding it. Well, out of the five or six millions which form yourreal capital, you have just lost nearly two millions, which must, ofcourse, in the same degree diminish your credit and fictitious fortune;to follow out my simile, your skin has been opened by bleeding, andthis if repeated three or four times will cause death—so pay attentionto it, my dear Monsieur Danglars. Do you want money? Do you wish me tolend you some?”
30253m


“What a bad calculator you are!” exclaimed Danglars, calling to hisassistance all his philosophy and dissimulation. “I have made money atthe same time by speculations which have succeeded. I have made up theloss of blood by nutrition. I lost a battle in Spain, I have beendefeated in Trieste, but my naval army in India will have taken somegalleons, and my Mexican pioneers will have discovered some mine.”
“Very good, very good! But the wound remains and will reopen at thefirst loss.”
“No, for I am only embarked in certainties,” replied Danglars, with theair of a mountebank sounding his own praises; “to involve me, threegovernments must crumble to dust.”
“Well, such things have been.”
“That there should be a famine!”
“Recollect the seven fat and the seven lean kine.”
“Or, that the sea should become dry, as in the days of Pharaoh, andeven then my vessels would become caravans.”
“So much the better. I congratulate you, my dear M. Danglars,” saidMonte Cristo; “I see I was deceived, and that you belong to the classof second-rate fortunes.”
“I think I may aspire to that honor,” said Danglars with a smile, whichreminded Monte Cristo of the sickly moons which bad artists are so fondof daubing into their pictures of ruins. “But, while we are speaking ofbusiness,” Danglars added, pleased to find an opportunity of changingthe subject, “tell me what I am to do for M. Cavalcanti.”
“Give him money, if he is recommended to you, and the recommendationseems good.”
“Excellent; he presented himself this morning with a bond of 40,000francs, payable at sight, on you, signed by Busoni, and returned by youto me, with your endorsement—of course, I immediately counted him overthe forty bank-notes.”
Monte Cristo nodded his head in token of assent.
“But that is not all,” continued Danglars; “he has opened an accountwith my house for his son.”
“May I ask how much he allows the young man?”
“Five thousand francs per month.”
“Sixty thousand francs per year. I thought I was right in believingthat Cavalcanti to be a stingy fellow. How can a young man live upon5,000 francs a month?”
“But you understand that if the young man should want a few thousandsmore——”
“Do not advance it; the father will never repay it. You do not knowthese ultramontane millionaires; they are regular misers. And by whomwere they recommended to you?”
“Oh, by the house of Fenzi, one of the best in Florence.”
“I do not mean to say you will lose, but, nevertheless, mind you holdto the terms of the agreement.”
“Would you not trust the Cavalcanti?”
“I? oh, I would advance ten millions on his signature. I was onlyspeaking in reference to the second-rate fortunes we were mentioningjust now.”
“And with all this, how unassuming he is! I should never have taken himfor anything more than a mere major.”
“And you would have flattered him, for certainly, as you say, he has nomanner. The first time I saw him he appeared to me like an oldlieutenant who had grown mouldy under his epaulets. But all theItalians are the same; they are like old Jews when they are notglittering in Oriental splendor.”
“The young man is better,” said Danglars.
“Yes; a little nervous, perhaps, but, upon the whole, he appearedtolerable. I was uneasy about him.”
“Why?”
“Because you met him at my house, just after his introduction into theworld, as they told me. He has been travelling with a very severetutor, and had never been to Paris before.”
“Ah, I believe noblemen marry amongst themselves, do they not?” askedDanglars carelessly; “they like to unite their fortunes.”
“It is usual, certainly; but Cavalcanti is an original who does nothinglike other people. I cannot help thinking that he has brought his sonto France to choose a wife.”
“Do you think so?”
“I am sure of it.”
“And you have heard his fortune mentioned?”
“Nothing else was talked of; only some said he was worth millions, andothers that he did not possess a farthing.”
“And what is your opinion?”
“I ought not to influence you, because it is only my own personalimpression.”
“Well, and it is that——”
“My opinion is, that all these old _podestàs_, these ancient_condottieri_,—for the Cavalcanti have commanded armies and governedprovinces,—my opinion, I say, is, that they have buried their millionsin corners, the secret of which they have transmitted only to theireldest sons, who have done the same from generation to generation; andthe proof of this is seen in their yellow and dry appearance, like theflorins of the republic, which, from being constantly gazed upon, havebecome reflected in them.”
“Certainly,” said Danglars, “and this is further supported by the factof their not possessing an inch of land.”
“Very little, at least; I know of none which Cavalcanti possesses,excepting his palace in Lucca.”
“Ah, he has a palace?” said Danglars, laughing; “come, that issomething.”
“Yes; and more than that, he lets it to the Minister of Finance whilehe lives in a simple house. Oh, as I told you before, I think the oldfellow is very close.”
“Come, you do not flatter him.”
“I scarcely know him; I think I have seen him three times in my life;all I know relating to him is through Busoni and himself. He wastelling me this morning that, tired of letting his property lie dormantin Italy, which is a dead nation, he wished to find a method, either inFrance or England, of multiplying his millions, but remember, thatthough I place great confidence in Busoni, I am not responsible forthis.”
“Never mind; accept my thanks for the client you have sent me. It is afine name to inscribe on my ledgers, and my cashier was quite proud ofit when I explained to him who the Cavalcanti were. By the way, this ismerely a simple question, when this sort of people marry their sons, dothey give them any fortune?”
“Oh, that depends upon circumstances. I know an Italian prince, rich asa gold mine, one of the noblest families in Tuscany, who, when his sonsmarried according to his wish, gave them millions; and when theymarried against his consent, merely allowed them thirty crowns a month.Should Andrea marry according to his father’s views, he will, perhaps,give him one, two, or three millions. For example, supposing it werethe daughter of a banker, he might take an interest in the house of thefather-in-law of his son; then again, if he disliked his choice, themajor takes the key, double-locks his coffer, and Master Andrea wouldbe obliged to live like the sons of a Parisian family, by shufflingcards or rattling the dice.”
“Ah, that boy will find out some Bavarian or Peruvian princess; he willwant a crown, an El Dorado, and Potosí.”
“No; these grand lords on the other side of the Alps frequently marryinto plain families; like Jupiter, they like to cross the race. But doyou wish to marry Andrea, my dear M. Danglars, that you are asking somany questions?”
“_Ma foi_,” said Danglars, “it would not be a bad speculation, I fancy,and you know I am a speculator.”
“You are not thinking of Mademoiselle Danglars, I hope; you would notlike poor Andrea to have his throat cut by Albert?”
“Albert,” repeated Danglars, shrugging his shoulders; “ah, well; hewould care very little about it, I think.”
“But he is betrothed to your daughter, I believe?”
“Well, M. de Morcerf and I have talked about this marriage, but Madamede Morcerf and Albert——”
“You do not mean to say that it would not be a good match?”
“Indeed, I imagine that Mademoiselle Danglars is as good as M. deMorcerf.”
“Mademoiselle Danglars’ fortune will be great, no doubt, especially ifthe telegraph should not make any more mistakes.”
“Oh, I do not mean her fortune only; but tell me——”
“What?”
“Why did you not invite M. and Madame de Morcerf to your dinner?”
“I did so, but he excused himself on account of Madame de Morcerf beingobliged to go to Dieppe for the benefit of sea air.”
“Yes, yes,” said Danglars, laughing, “it would do her a great deal ofgood.”
“Why so?”
“Because it is the air she always breathed in her youth.”
Monte Cristo took no notice of this ill-natured remark.
“But still, if Albert be not so rich as Mademoiselle Danglars,” saidthe count, “you must allow that he has a fine name?”
“So he has; but I like mine as well.”
“Certainly; your name is popular, and does honor to the title they haveadorned it with; but you are too intelligent not to know that accordingto a prejudice, too firmly rooted to be exterminated, a nobility whichdates back five centuries is worth more than one that can only reckontwenty years.”
“And for this very reason,” said Danglars with a smile, which he triedto make sardonic, “I prefer M. Andrea Cavalcanti to M. Albert deMorcerf.”
“Still, I should not think the Morcerfs would yield to the Cavalcanti?”
“The Morcerfs!—Stay, my dear count,” said Danglars; “you are a man ofthe world, are you not?”
“I think so.”
“And you understand heraldry?”
“A little.”
“Well, look at my coat-of-arms, it is worth more than Morcerf’s.”
“Why so?”
“Because, though I am not a baron by birth, my real name is, at least,Danglars.”
“Well, what then?”
“While his name is not Morcerf.”
“How?—not Morcerf?”
“Not the least in the world.”
“Go on.”
“I have been made a baron, so that I actually am one; he made himself acount, so that he is not one at all.”
“Impossible!”
“Listen my dear count; M. de Morcerf has been my friend, or rather myacquaintance, during the last thirty years. You know I have made themost of my arms, though I never forgot my origin.”
“A proof of great humility or great pride,” said Monte Cristo.
“Well, when I was a clerk, Morcerf was a mere fisherman.”
“And then he was called——”
“Fernand.”
“Only Fernand?”
“Fernand Mondego.”
“You are sure?”
“_Pardieu!_ I have bought enough fish of him to know his name.”
“Then, why did you think of giving your daughter to him?”
“Because Fernand and Danglars, being both parvenus, both having becomenoble, both rich, are about equal in worth, excepting that there havebeen certain things mentioned of him that were never said of me.”
“What?”
“Oh, nothing!”
“Ah, yes; what you tell me recalls to mind something about the name ofFernand Mondego. I have heard that name in Greece.”
“In conjunction with the affairs of Ali Pasha?”
“Exactly so.”
“This is the mystery,” said Danglars. “I acknowledge I would have givenanything to find it out.”
“It would be very easy if you much wished it?”
“How so?”
“Probably you have some correspondent in Greece?”
“I should think so.”
“At Yanina?”
“Everywhere.”
“Well, write to your correspondent in Yanina, and ask him what part wasplayed by a Frenchman named Fernand Mondego in the catastrophe of AliTepelini.”
“You are right,” exclaimed Danglars, rising quickly, “I will writetoday.”
“Do so.”
“I will.”
30259m


“And if you should hear of anything very scandalous——”
“I will communicate it to you.”
“You will oblige me.”
Danglars rushed out of the room, and made but one leap into his_coupé_.


 Chapter 67. The Office of the King’s Attorney
Let us leave the banker driving his horses at their fullest speed, andfollow Madame Danglars in her morning excursion. We have said that athalf-past twelve o’clock Madame Danglars had ordered her horses, andhad left home in the carriage. She directed her course towards theFaubourg Saint Germain, went down the Rue Mazarine, and stopped at thePassage du Pont-Neuf. She descended, and went through the passage. Shewas very plainly dressed, as would be the case with a woman of tastewalking in the morning. At the Rue Guénégaud she called a cab, anddirected the driver to go to the Rue de Harlay. As soon as she wasseated in the vehicle, she drew from her pocket a very thick blackveil, which she tied on to her straw bonnet. She then replaced thebonnet, and saw with pleasure, in a little pocket-mirror, that herwhite complexion and brilliant eyes were alone visible. The cab crossedthe Pont-Neuf and entered the Rue de Harlay by the Place Dauphine; thedriver was paid as the door opened, and stepping lightly up the stairsMadame Danglars soon reached the Salle des Pas-Perdus.
There was a great deal going on that morning, and many business-likepersons at the Palais; business-like persons pay very little attentionto women, and Madame Danglars crossed the hall without exciting anymore attention than any other woman calling upon her lawyer.
There was a great press of people in M. de Villefort’s antechamber, butMadame Danglars had no occasion even to pronounce her name. The instantshe appeared the door-keeper rose, came to her, and asked her whethershe was not the person with whom the procureur had made an appointment;and on her affirmative answer being given, he conducted her by aprivate passage to M. de Villefort’s office.
The magistrate was seated in an armchair, writing, with his backtowards the door; he did not move as he heard it open, and thedoor-keeper pronounce the words, “Walk in, madame,” and then recloseit; but no sooner had the man’s footsteps ceased, than he started up,drew the bolts, closed the curtains, and examined every corner of theroom. Then, when he had assured himself that he could neither be seennor heard, and was consequently relieved of doubts, he said:
“Thanks, madame,—thanks for your punctuality;” and he offered a chairto Madame Danglars, which she accepted, for her heart beat so violentlythat she felt nearly suffocated.
30261m


“It is a long time, madame,” said the procureur, describing ahalf-circle with his chair, so as to place himself exactly opposite toMadame Danglars,—“it is a long time since I had the pleasure ofspeaking alone with you, and I regret that we have only now met toenter upon a painful conversation.”
“Nevertheless, sir, you see I have answered your first appeal, althoughcertainly the conversation must be much more painful for me than foryou.” Villefort smiled bitterly.
“It is true, then,” he said, rather uttering his thoughts aloud thanaddressing his companion,—“it is true, then, that all our actions leavetheir traces—some sad, others bright—on our paths; it is true thatevery step in our lives is like the course of an insect on thesands;—it leaves its track! Alas, to many the path is traced by tears.”
“Sir,” said Madame Danglars, “you can feel for my emotion, can you not?Spare me, then, I beseech you. When I look at this room,—whence so manyguilty creatures have departed, trembling and ashamed, when I look atthat chair before which I now sit trembling and ashamed,—oh, itrequires all my reason to convince me that I am not a very guilty womanand you a menacing judge.”
Villefort dropped his head and sighed.
“And I,” he said, “I feel that my place is not in the judge’s seat, buton the prisoner’s bench.”
30263m


“You?” said Madame Danglars.
“Yes, I.”
“I think, sir, you exaggerate your situation,” said Madame Danglars,whose beautiful eyes sparkled for a moment. “The paths of which youwere just speaking have been traced by all young men of ardentimaginations. Besides the pleasure, there is always remorse from theindulgence of our passions, and, after all, what have you men to fearfrom all this? the world excuses, and notoriety ennobles you.”
“Madame,” replied Villefort, “you know that I am no hypocrite, or, atleast, that I never deceive without a reason. If my brow be severe, itis because many misfortunes have clouded it; if my heart be petrified,it is that it might sustain the blows it has received. I was not so inmy youth, I was not so on the night of the betrothal, when we were allseated around a table in the Rue du Cours at Marseilles. But since theneverything has changed in and about me; I am accustomed to bravedifficulties, and, in the conflict to crush those who, by their ownfree will, or by chance, voluntarily or involuntarily, interfere withme in my career. It is generally the case that what we most ardentlydesire is as ardently withheld from us by those who wish to obtain it,or from whom we attempt to snatch it. Thus, the greater number of aman’s errors come before him disguised under the specious form ofnecessity; then, after error has been committed in a moment ofexcitement, of delirium, or of fear, we see that we might have avoidedand escaped it. The means we might have used, which we in our blindnesscould not see, then seem simple and easy, and we say, ‘Why did I not dothis, instead of that?’ Women, on the contrary, are rarely tormentedwith remorse; for the decision does not come from you,—your misfortunesare generally imposed upon you, and your faults the results of others’crimes.”
“In any case, sir, you will allow,” replied Madame Danglars, “that,even if the fault were alone mine, I last night received a severepunishment for it.”
“Poor thing,” said Villefort, pressing her hand, “it was too severe foryour strength, for you were twice overwhelmed, and yet——”
“Well?”
“Well, I must tell you. Collect all your courage, for you have not yetheard all.”
“Ah,” exclaimed Madame Danglars, alarmed, “what is there more to hear?”
“You only look back to the past, and it is, indeed, bad enough. Well,picture to yourself a future more gloomy still—certainly frightful,perhaps sanguinary!”
The baroness knew how calm Villefort naturally was, and his presentexcitement frightened her so much that she opened her mouth to scream,but the sound died in her throat.
“How has this terrible past been recalled?” cried Villefort; “how is itthat it has escaped from the depths of the tomb and the recesses of ourhearts, where it was buried, to visit us now, like a phantom, whiteningour cheeks and flushing our brows with shame?”
“Alas,” said Hermine, “doubtless it is chance.”
“Chance?” replied Villefort; “No, no, madame, there is no such thing aschance.”
“Oh, yes; has not a fatal chance revealed all this? Was it not bychance the Count of Monte Cristo bought that house? Was it not bychance he caused the earth to be dug up? Is it not by chance that theunfortunate child was disinterred under the trees?—that poor innocentoffspring of mine, which I never even kissed, but for whom I wept many,many tears. Ah, my heart clung to the count when he mentioned the dearspoil found beneath the flowers.”
“Well, no, madame,—this is the terrible news I have to tell you,” saidVillefort in a hollow voice—“no, nothing was found beneath the flowers;there was no child disinterred—no. You must not weep, no, you must notgroan, you must tremble!”
“What can you mean?” asked Madame Danglars, shuddering.
“I mean that M. de Monte Cristo, digging underneath these trees, foundneither skeleton nor chest, because neither of them was there!”
“Neither of them there?” repeated Madame Danglars, her staring,wide-open eyes expressing her alarm. “Neither of them there!” she againsaid, as though striving to impress herself with the meaning of thewords which escaped her.
“No,” said Villefort, burying his face in his hands, “no, a hundredtimes no!”
“Then you did not bury the poor child there, sir? Why did you deceiveme? Where did you place it? tell me—where?”
“There! But listen to me—listen—and you will pity me who has for twentyyears alone borne the heavy burden of grief I am about to reveal,without casting the least portion upon you.”
“Oh, you frighten me! But speak; I will listen.”
“You recollect that sad night, when you were half-expiring on that bedin the red damask room, while I, scarcely less agitated than you,awaited your delivery. The child was born, was given to me—motionless,breathless, voiceless; we thought it dead.”
Madame Danglars moved rapidly, as though she would spring from herchair, but Villefort stopped, and clasped his hands as if to imploreher attention.
“We thought it dead,” he repeated; “I placed it in the chest, which wasto take the place of a coffin; I descended to the garden, I dug a hole,and then flung it down in haste. Scarcely had I covered it with earth,when the arm of the Corsican was stretched towards me; I saw a shadowrise, and, at the same time, a flash of light. I felt pain; I wished tocry out, but an icy shiver ran through my veins and stifled my voice; Ifell lifeless, and fancied myself killed. Never shall I forget yoursublime courage, when, having returned to consciousness, I draggedmyself to the foot of the stairs, and you, almost dying yourself, cameto meet me. We were obliged to keep silent upon the dreadfulcatastrophe. You had the fortitude to regain the house, assisted byyour nurse. A duel was the pretext for my wound. Though we scarcelyexpected it, our secret remained in our own keeping alone. I was takento Versailles; for three months I struggled with death; at last, as Iseemed to cling to life, I was ordered to the South. Four men carriedme from Paris to Châlons, walking six leagues a day; Madame deVillefort followed the litter in her carriage. At Châlons I was putupon the Saône, thence I passed on to the Rhône, whence I descended,merely with the current, to Arles; at Arles I was again placed on mylitter, and continued my journey to Marseilles. My recovery lasted sixmonths. I never heard you mentioned, and I did not dare inquire foryou. When I returned to Paris, I learned that you, the widow of M. deNargonne, had married M. Danglars.
“What was the subject of my thoughts from the time consciousnessreturned to me? Always the same—always the child’s corpse, coming everynight in my dreams, rising from the earth, and hovering over the gravewith menacing look and gesture. I inquired immediately on my return toParis; the house had not been inhabited since we left it, but it hadjust been let for nine years. I found the tenant. I pretended that Idisliked the idea that a house belonging to my wife’s father and mothershould pass into the hands of strangers. I offered to pay them forcancelling the lease; they demanded 6,000 francs. I would have given10,000—I would have given 20,000. I had the money with me; I made thetenant sign the deed of resilition, and when I had obtained what I somuch wanted, I galloped to Auteuil. No one had entered the house sinceI had left it.
“It was five o’clock in the afternoon; I ascended into the red room,and waited for night. There all the thoughts which had disturbed meduring my year of constant agony came back with double force. TheCorsican, who had declared the vendetta against me, who had followed mefrom Nîmes to Paris, who had hid himself in the garden, who had struckme, had seen me dig the grave, had seen me inter the child,—he mightbecome acquainted with your person,—nay, he might even then have knownit. Would he not one day make you pay for keeping this terrible secret?Would it not be a sweet revenge for him when he found that I had notdied from the blow of his dagger? It was therefore necessary, beforeeverything else, and at all risks, that I should cause all traces ofthe past to disappear—that I should destroy every material vestige; toomuch reality would always remain in my recollection. It was for this Ihad annulled the lease—it was for this I had come—it was for this I waswaiting.
“Night arrived; I allowed it to become quite dark. I was without alight in that room; when the wind shook all the doors, behind which Icontinually expected to see some spy concealed, I trembled. I seemedeverywhere to hear your moans behind me in the bed, and I dared notturn around. My heart beat so violently that I feared my wound wouldopen. At length, one by one, all the noises in the neighborhood ceased.I understood that I had nothing to fear, that I should neither be seennor heard, so I decided upon descending to the garden.
“Listen, Hermine; I consider myself as brave as most men, but when Idrew from my breast the little key of the staircase, which I had foundin my coat—that little key we both used to cherish so much, which youwished to have fastened to a golden ring—when I opened the door, andsaw the pale moon shedding a long stream of white light on the spiralstaircase like a spectre, I leaned against the wall, and nearlyshrieked. I seemed to be going mad. At last I mastered my agitation. Idescended the staircase step by step; the only thing I could notconquer was a strange trembling in my knees. I grasped the railings; ifI had relaxed my hold for a moment, I should have fallen. I reached thelower door. Outside this door a spade was placed against the wall; Itook it, and advanced towards the thicket. I had provided myself with adark lantern. In the middle of the lawn I stopped to light it, then Icontinued my path.
“It was the end of November, all the verdure of the garden haddisappeared, the trees were nothing more than skeletons with their longbony arms, and the dead leaves sounded on the gravel under my feet. Myterror overcame me to such a degree as I approached the thicket, that Itook a pistol from my pocket and armed myself. I fancied continuallythat I saw the figure of the Corsican between the branches. I examinedthe thicket with my dark lantern; it was empty. I looked carefullyaround; I was indeed alone,—no noise disturbed the silence but the owl,whose piercing cry seemed to be calling up the phantoms of the night. Itied my lantern to a forked branch I had noticed a year before at theprecise spot where I stopped to dig the hole.
“The grass had grown very thickly there during the summer, and whenautumn arrived no one had been there to mow it. Still one place wherethe grass was thin attracted my attention; it evidently was there I hadturned up the ground. I went to work. The hour, then, for which I hadbeen waiting during the last year had at length arrived. How I worked,how I hoped, how I struck every piece of turf, thinking to find someresistance to my spade! But no, I found nothing, though I had made ahole twice as large as the first. I thought I had been deceived—hadmistaken the spot. I turned around, I looked at the trees, I tried torecall the details which had struck me at the time. A cold, sharp windwhistled through the leafless branches, and yet the drops fell from myforehead. I recollected that I was stabbed just as I was trampling theground to fill up the hole; while doing so I had leaned against alaburnum; behind me was an artificial rockery, intended to serve as aresting-place for persons walking in the garden; in falling, my hand,relaxing its hold of the laburnum, felt the coldness of the stone. Onmy right I saw the tree, behind me the rock. I stood in the sameattitude, and threw myself down. I rose, and again began digging andenlarging the hole; still I found nothing, nothing—the chest was nolonger there!”
30269m


“The chest no longer there?” murmured Madame Danglars, choking withfear.
“Think not I contented myself with this one effort,” continuedVillefort. “No; I searched the whole thicket. I thought the assassin,having discovered the chest, and supposing it to be a treasure, hadintended carrying it off, but, perceiving his error, had dug anotherhole, and deposited it there; but I could find nothing. Then the ideastruck me that he had not taken these precautions, and had simplythrown it in a corner. In the last case I must wait for daylight torenew my search. I remained in the room and waited.”
“Oh, Heaven!”
30271m


When daylight dawned I went down again. My first visit was to thethicket. I hoped to find some traces which had escaped me in thedarkness. I had turned up the earth over a surface of more than twentyfeet square, and a depth of two feet. A laborer would not have done ina day what occupied me an hour. But I could find nothing—absolutelynothing. Then I renewed the search. Supposing it had been thrown aside,it would probably be on the path which led to the little gate; but thisexamination was as useless as the first, and with a bursting heart Ireturned to the thicket, which now contained no hope for me.”
“Oh,” cried Madame Danglars, “it was enough to drive you mad!”
“I hoped for a moment that it might,” said Villefort; “but thathappiness was denied me. However, recovering my strength and my ideas,‘Why,’ said I, ‘should that man have carried away the corpse?’”
“But you said,” replied Madame Danglars, “he would require it as aproof.”
“Ah, no, madame, that could not be. Dead bodies are not kept a year;they are shown to a magistrate, and the evidence is taken. Now, nothingof the kind has happened.”
“What then?” asked Hermine, trembling violently.
“Something more terrible, more fatal, more alarming for us—the childwas, perhaps, alive, and the assassin may have saved it!”
Madame Danglars uttered a piercing cry, and, seizing Villefort’s hands,exclaimed, “My child was alive?” said she; “you buried my child alive?You were not certain my child was dead, and you buried it? Ah——”
Madame Danglars had risen, and stood before the procureur, whose handsshe wrung in her feeble grasp.
“I know not; I merely suppose so, as I might suppose anything else,”replied Villefort with a look so fixed, it indicated that his powerfulmind was on the verge of despair and madness.
“Ah, my child, my poor child!” cried the baroness, falling on herchair, and stifling her sobs in her handkerchief. Villefort, becomingsomewhat reassured, perceived that to avert the maternal stormgathering over his head, he must inspire Madame Danglars with theterror he felt.
“You understand, then, that if it were so,” said he, rising in histurn, and approaching the baroness, to speak to her in a lower tone,“we are lost. This child lives, and someone knows it lives—someone isin possession of our secret; and since Monte Cristo speaks before us ofa child disinterred, when that child could not be found, it is he whois in possession of our secret.”
“Just God, avenging God!” murmured Madame Danglars.
Villefort’s only answer was a stifled groan.
“But the child—the child, sir?” repeated the agitated mother.
“How I have searched for him,” replied Villefort, wringing his hands;“how I have called him in my long sleepless nights; how I have longedfor royal wealth to purchase a million of secrets from a million ofmen, and to find mine among them! At last, one day, when for thehundredth time I took up my spade, I asked myself again and again whatthe Corsican could have done with the child. A child encumbers afugitive; perhaps, on perceiving it was still alive, he had thrown itinto the river.”
“Impossible!” cried Madame Danglars: “a man may murder another out ofrevenge, but he would not deliberately drown a child.”
“Perhaps,” continued Villefort, “he had put it in the foundlinghospital.”
“Oh, yes, yes,” cried the baroness; “my child is there!”
“I ran to the hospital, and learned that the same night—the night ofthe 20th of September—a child had been brought there, wrapped in partof a fine linen napkin, purposely torn in half. This portion of thenapkin was marked with half a baron’s crown, and the letter H.”
“Truly, truly,” said Madame Danglars, “all my linen is marked thus;Monsieur de Nargonne was a baron, and my name is Hermine. Thank God, mychild was not then dead!”
“No, it was not dead.”
“And you can tell me so without fearing to make me die of joy? Where isthe child?”
Villefort shrugged his shoulders.
“Do I know?” said he; “and do you believe that if I knew I would relateto you all its trials and all its adventures as would a dramatist or anovel writer? Alas, no, I know not. A woman, about six months after,came to claim it with the other half of the napkin. This woman gave allthe requisite particulars, and it was intrusted to her.”
“But you should have inquired for the woman; you should have tracedher.”
“And what do you think I did? I feigned a criminal process, andemployed all the most acute bloodhounds and skilful agents in search ofher. They traced her to Châlons, and there they lost her.”
“They lost her?”
“Yes, forever.”
Madame Danglars had listened to this recital with a sigh, a tear, or ashriek for every detail. “And this is all?” said she; “and you stoppedthere?”
“Oh, no,” said Villefort; “I never ceased to search and to inquire.However, the last two or three years I had allowed myself some respite.But now I will begin with more perseverance and fury than ever, sincefear urges me, not my conscience.”
“But,” replied Madame Danglars, “the Count of Monte Cristo can knownothing, or he would not seek our society as he does.”
“Oh, the wickedness of man is very great,” said Villefort, “since itsurpasses the goodness of God. Did you observe that man’s eyes while hewas speaking to us?”
“No.”
“But have you ever watched him carefully?”
“Doubtless he is capricious, but that is all; one thing alone struckme,—of all the exquisite things he placed before us, he touchednothing. I might have suspected he was poisoning us.”
“And you see you would have been deceived.”
“Yes, doubtless.”
“But believe me, that man has other projects. For that reason I wishedto see you, to speak to you, to warn you against everyone, butespecially against him. Tell me,” cried Villefort, fixing his eyes moresteadfastly on her than he had ever done before, “did you ever revealto anyone our connection?”
“Never, to anyone.”
“You understand me,” replied Villefort, affectionately; “when I sayanyone,—pardon my urgency,—to anyone living I mean?”
“Yes, yes, I understand very well,” ejaculated the baroness; “never, Iswear to you.”
“Were you ever in the habit of writing in the evening what hadtranspired in the morning? Do you keep a journal?”
“No, my life has been passed in frivolity; I wish to forget it myself.”
“Do you talk in your sleep?”
30275m


“I sleep soundly, like a child; do you not remember?”
The color mounted to the baroness’s face, and Villefort turned awfullypale.
“It is true,” said he, in so low a tone that he could hardly be heard.
“Well?” said the baroness.
“Well, I understand what I now have to do,” replied Villefort. “In lessthan one week from this time I will ascertain who this M. de MonteCristo is, whence he comes, where he goes, and why he speaks in ourpresence of children that have been disinterred in a garden.”
Villefort pronounced these words with an accent which would have madethe count shudder had he heard him. Then he pressed the hand thebaroness reluctantly gave him, and led her respectfully back to thedoor. Madame Danglars returned in another cab to the passage, on theother side of which she found her carriage, and her coachman sleepingpeacefully on his box while waiting for her.


 Chapter 68. A Summer Ball
The same day during the interview between Madame Danglars and theprocureur, a travelling-carriage entered the Rue du Helder, passedthrough the gateway of No. 27, and stopped in the yard. In a moment thedoor was opened, and Madame de Morcerf alighted, leaning on her son’sarm. Albert soon left her, ordered his horses, and having arranged histoilet, drove to the Champs-Élysées, to the house of Monte Cristo.
The count received him with his habitual smile. It was a strange thingthat no one ever appeared to advance a step in that man’s favor. Thosewho would, as it were, force a passage to his heart, found animpassable barrier. Morcerf, who ran towards him with open arms, waschilled as he drew near, in spite of the friendly smile, and simplyheld out his hand. Monte Cristo shook it coldly, according to hisinvariable practice.
“Here I am, dear count.”
“Welcome home again.”
“I arrived an hour since.”
“From Dieppe?”
“No, from Tréport.”
“Indeed?”
“And I have come at once to see you.”
“That is extremely kind of you,” said Monte Cristo with a tone ofperfect indifference.
“And what is the news?”
“You should not ask a stranger, a foreigner, for news.”
“I know it, but in asking for news, I mean, have you done anything forme?”
“Had you commissioned me?” said Monte Cristo, feigning uneasiness.
“Come, come,” said Albert, “do not assume so much indifference. It issaid, sympathy travels rapidly, and when at Tréport, I felt theelectric shock; you have either been working for me or thinking of me.”
“Possibly,” said Monte Cristo, “I have indeed thought of you, but themagnetic wire I was guiding acted, indeed, without my knowledge.”
30277m


“Indeed! Pray tell me how it happened.”
“Willingly. M. Danglars dined with me.”
“I know it; to avoid meeting him, my mother and I left town.”
“But he met here M. Andrea Cavalcanti.”
“Your Italian prince?”
“Not so fast; M. Andrea only calls himself count.”
“Calls himself, do you say?”
“Yes, calls himself.”
“Is he not a count?”
“What can I know of him? He calls himself so. I, of course, give himthe same title, and everyone else does likewise.”
“What a strange man you are! What next? You say M. Danglars dinedhere?”
“Yes, with Count Cavalcanti, the marquis his father, Madame Danglars,M. and Madame de Villefort,—charming people,—M. Debray, MaximilianMorrel, and M. de Château-Renaud.”
“Did they speak of me?”
“Not a word.”
“So much the worse.”
“Why so? I thought you wished them to forget you?”
“If they did not speak of me, I am sure they thought about me, and I amin despair.”
“How will that affect you, since Mademoiselle Danglars was not amongthe number here who thought of you? Truly, she might have thought ofyou at home.”
“I have no fear of that; or, if she did, it was only in the same way inwhich I think of her.”
“Touching sympathy! So you hate each other?” said the count.
“Listen,” said Morcerf—“if Mademoiselle Danglars were disposed to takepity on my supposed martyrdom on her account, and would dispense withall matrimonial formalities between our two families, I am ready toagree to the arrangement. In a word, Mademoiselle Danglars would make acharming mistress—but a wife—_diable!_”
“And this,” said Monte Cristo, “is your opinion of your intendedspouse?”
“Yes; it is rather unkind, I acknowledge, but it is true. But as thisdream cannot be realized, since Mademoiselle Danglars must become mylawful wife, live perpetually with me, sing to me, compose verses andmusic within ten paces of me, and that for my whole life, it frightensme. One may forsake a mistress, but a wife,—good heavens! There shemust always be; and to marry Mademoiselle Danglars would be awful.”
“You are difficult to please, viscount.”
“Yes, for I often wish for what is impossible.”
“What is that?”
“To find such a wife as my father found.”
Monte Cristo turned pale, and looked at Albert, while playing with somemagnificent pistols.
“Your father was fortunate, then?” said he.
“You know my opinion of my mother, count; look at her,—still beautiful,witty, more charming than ever. For any other son to have stayed withhis mother for four days at Tréport, it would have been a condescensionor a martyrdom, while I return, more contented, more peaceful—shall Isay more poetic!—than if I had taken Queen Mab or Titania as mycompanion.”
30279m


“That is an overwhelming demonstration, and you would make everyone vowto live a single life.”
“Such are my reasons for not liking to marry Mademoiselle Danglars.Have you ever noticed how much a thing is heightened in value when weobtain possession of it? The diamond which glittered in the window atMarlé’s or Fossin’s shines with more splendor when it is our own; butif we are compelled to acknowledge the superiority of another, andstill must retain the one that is inferior, do you not know what wehave to endure?”
“Worldling,” murmured the count.
“Thus I shall rejoice when Mademoiselle Eugénie perceives I am but apitiful atom, with scarcely as many hundred thousand francs as she hasmillions.” Monte Cristo smiled. “One plan occurred to me,” continuedAlbert; “Franz likes all that is eccentric; I tried to make him fall inlove with Mademoiselle Danglars; but in spite of four letters, writtenin the most alluring style, he invariably answered: ‘My eccentricitymay be great, but it will not make me break my promise.’”
“That is what I call devoted friendship, to recommend to another onewhom you would not marry yourself.” Albert smiled.
“Apropos,” continued he, “Franz is coming soon, but it will notinterest you; you dislike him, I think?”
“I?” said Monte Cristo; “my dear viscount, how have you discovered thatI did not like M. Franz! I like everyone.”
“And you include me in the expression everyone—many thanks!”
“Let us not mistake,” said Monte Cristo; “I love everyone as Godcommands us to love our neighbor, as Christians; but I thoroughly hatebut a few. Let us return to M. Franz d’Épinay. Did you say he wascoming?”
“Yes; summoned by M. de Villefort, who is apparently as anxious to getMademoiselle Valentine married as M. Danglars is to see MademoiselleEugénie settled. It must be a very irksome office to be the father of agrown-up daughter; it seems to make one feverish, and to raise one’spulse to ninety beats a minute until the deed is done.”
“But M. d’Épinay, unlike you, bears his misfortune patiently.”
“Still more, he talks seriously about the matter, puts on a white tie,and speaks of his family. He entertains a very high opinion of M. andMadame de Villefort.”
“Which they deserve, do they not?”
“I believe they do. M. de Villefort has always passed for a severe buta just man.”
“There is, then, one,” said Monte Cristo, “whom you do not condemn likepoor Danglars?”
“Because I am not compelled to marry his daughter perhaps,” repliedAlbert, laughing.
“Indeed, my dear sir,” said Monte Cristo, “you are revoltinglyfoppish.”
“I foppish? how do you mean?”
“Yes; pray take a cigar, and cease to defend yourself, and to struggleto escape marrying Mademoiselle Danglars. Let things take their course;perhaps you may not have to retract.”
“Bah!” said Albert, staring.
“Doubtless, my dear viscount, you will not be taken by force; andseriously, do you wish to break off your engagement?”
“I would give a hundred thousand francs to be able to do so.”
“Then make yourself quite easy. M. Danglars would give double that sumto attain the same end.”
“Am I, indeed, so happy?” said Albert, who still could not prevent analmost imperceptible cloud passing across his brow. “But, my dearcount, has M. Danglars any reason?”
“Ah! there is your proud and selfish nature. You would expose theself-love of another with a hatchet, but you shrink if your own isattacked with a needle.”
“But yet, M. Danglars appeared——”
“Delighted with you, was he not? Well, he is a man of bad taste, and isstill more enchanted with another. I know not whom; look and judge foryourself.”
“Thank you, I understand. But my mother—no, not my mother; I mistake—myfather intends giving a ball.”
“A ball at this season?”
“Summer balls are fashionable.”
“If they were not, the countess has only to wish it, and they wouldbecome so.”
“You are right; You know they are select affairs; those who remain inParis in July must be true Parisians. Will you take charge of ourinvitation to Messieurs Cavalcanti?”
“When will it take place?”
“On Saturday.”
“M. Cavalcanti’s father will be gone.”
“But the son will be here; will you invite young M. Cavalcanti?”
“I do not know him, viscount.”
“You do not know him?”
“No, I never saw him until a few days since, and am not responsible forhim.”
“But you receive him at your house?”
“That is another thing: he was recommended to me by a good abbé, whomay be deceived. Give him a direct invitation, but do not ask me topresent him. If he were afterwards to marry Mademoiselle Danglars, youwould accuse me of intrigue, and would be challenging me,—besides, Imay not be there myself.”
“Where?”
“At your ball.”
“Why should you not be there?”
“Because you have not yet invited me.”
“But I come expressly for that purpose.”
“You are very kind, but I may be prevented.”
“If I tell you one thing, you will be so amiable as to set aside allimpediments.”
“Tell me what it is.”
“My mother begs you to come.”
“The Comtesse de Morcerf?” said Monte Cristo, starting.
“Ah, count,” said Albert, “I assure you Madame de Morcerf speaks freelyto me, and if you have not felt those sympathetic fibres of which Ispoke just now thrill within you, you must be entirely devoid of them,for during the last four days we have spoken of no one else.”
“You have talked of me?”
“Yes, that is the penalty of being a living puzzle!”
“Then I am also a puzzle to your mother? I should have thought her tooreasonable to be led by imagination.”
“A problem, my dear count, for everyone—for my mother as well asothers; much studied, but not solved, you still remain an enigma, donot fear. My mother is only astonished that you remain so longunsolved. I believe, while the Countess G—— takes you for Lord Ruthven,my mother imagines you to be Cagliostro or the Count Saint-Germain. Thefirst opportunity you have, confirm her in her opinion; it will be easyfor you, as you have the philosophy of the one and the wit of theother.”
“I thank you for the warning,” said the count; “I shall endeavor to beprepared for all suppositions.”
“You will, then, come on Saturday?”
“Yes, since Madame de Morcerf invites me.”
“You are very kind.”
“Will M. Danglars be there?”
“He has already been invited by my father. We shall try to persuade thegreat d’Aguesseau,11 M. de Villefort, to come, but have not much hopeof seeing him.”
“‘Never despair of anything,’ says the proverb.”
“Do you dance, count?”
“I dance?”
“Yes, you; it would not be astonishing.”
“That is very well before one is over forty. No, I do not dance, but Ilike to see others do so. Does Madame de Morcerf dance?”
“Never; you can talk to her, she so delights in your conversation.”
“Indeed?”
30283m


“Yes, truly; and I assure you. You are the only man of whom I haveheard her speak with interest.” Albert rose and took his hat; the countconducted him to the door.
“I have one thing to reproach myself with,” said he, stopping Albert onthe steps. “What is it?”
“I have spoken to you indiscreetly about Danglars.”
“On the contrary, speak to me always in the same strain about him.”
“I am glad to be reassured on that point. Apropos, when do you aspectM. d’Épinay?”
“Five or six days hence at the latest.”
“And when is he to be married?”
“Immediately on the arrival of M. and Madame de Saint-Méran.”
“Bring him to see me. Although you say I do not like him, I assure youI shall be happy to see him.”
“I will obey your orders, my lord.”
“Good-bye.”
“Until Saturday, when I may expect you, may I not?”
“Yes, I promised you.” The Count watched Albert, waving his hand tohim. When he had mounted his phaeton, Monte Cristo turned, and seeingBertuccio, “What news?” said he.
“She went to the Palais,” replied the steward.
“Did she stay long there?”
“An hour and a half.”
“Did she return home?”
“Directly.”
“Well, my dear Bertuccio,” said the count, “I now advise you to go inquest of the little estate I spoke to you of in Normandy.”
Bertuccio bowed, and as his wishes were in perfect harmony with theorder he had received, he started the same evening.


 Chapter 69. The Inquiry
M. de Villefort kept the promise he had made to Madame Danglars, toendeavor to find out how the Count of Monte Cristo had discovered thehistory of the house at Auteuil. He wrote the same day for the requiredinformation to M. de Boville, who, from having been an inspector ofprisons, was promoted to a high office in the police; and the latterbegged for two days time to ascertain exactly who would be most likelyto give him full particulars. At the end of the second day M. deVillefort received the following note:
“The person called the Count of Monte Cristo is an intimateacquaintance of Lord Wilmore, a rich foreigner, who is sometimes seenin Paris and who is there at this moment; he is also known to the AbbéBusoni, a Sicilian priest, of high repute in the East, where he hasdone much good.”
M. de Villefort replied by ordering the strictest inquiries to be maderespecting these two persons; his orders were executed, and thefollowing evening he received these details:
“The abbé, who was in Paris only for a month, inhabited a smalltwo-storied house behind Saint-Sulpice; there were two rooms on eachfloor and he was the only tenant. The two lower rooms consisted of adining-room, with a table, chairs, and side-board of walnut, and awainscoted parlor, without ornaments, carpet, or timepiece. It wasevident that the abbé limited himself to objects of strict necessity.He preferred to use the sitting-room upstairs, which was more librarythan parlor, and was furnished with theological books and parchments,in which he delighted to bury himself for months at a time, accordingto his valet de chambre. His valet looked at the visitors through asort of wicket; and if their faces were unknown to him or displeasedhim, he replied that the abbé was not in Paris, an answer whichsatisfied most persons, because the abbé was known to be a greattraveller. Besides, whether at home or not, whether in Paris or Cairo,the abbé always left something to give away, which the valetdistributed through this wicket in his master’s name. The other roomnear the library was a bedroom. A bed without curtains, four armchairs,and a couch, covered with yellow Utrecht velvet, composed, with a_prie-Dieu_, all its furniture.
“Lord Wilmore resided in Rue Fontaine-Saint-Georges. He was one ofthose English tourists who consume a large fortune in travelling. Hehired the apartment in which he lived furnished, passed only a fewhours in the day there, and rarely slept there. One of hispeculiarities was never to speak a word of French, which he howeverwrote with great facility.”
The day after this important information had been given to the king’sattorney, a man alighted from a carriage at the corner of the RueFérou, and rapping at an olive-green door, asked if the Abbé Busoniwere within.
“No, he went out early this morning,” replied the valet.
“I might not always be content with that answer,” replied the visitor,“for I come from one to whom everyone must be at home. But have thekindness to give the Abbé Busoni——”
“I told you he was not at home,” repeated the valet.
“Then on his return give him that card and this sealed paper. Will hebe at home at eight o’clock this evening?”
“Doubtless, unless he is at work, which is the same as if he were out.”
“I will come again at that time,” replied the visitor, who thenretired.
At the appointed hour the same man returned in the same carriage,which, instead of stopping this time at the end of the Rue Férou, droveup to the green door. He knocked, and it opened immediately to admithim. From the signs of respect the valet paid him, he saw that his notehad produced a good effect.
“Is the abbé at home?” asked he.
“Yes; he is at work in his library, but he expects you, sir,” repliedthe valet. The stranger ascended a rough staircase, and before a table,illumined by a lamp whose light was concentrated by a large shade whilethe rest of the apartment was in partial darkness, he perceived theabbé in a monk’s dress, with a cowl on his head such as was used bylearned men of the Middle Ages.
“Have I the honor of addressing the Abbé Busoni?” asked the visitor.
“Yes, sir,” replied the abbé; “and you are the person whom M. deBoville, formerly an inspector of prisons, sends to me from the prefectof police?”
“Exactly, sir.”
“One of the agents appointed to secure the safety of Paris?”
“Yes, sir” replied the stranger with a slight hesitation, and blushing.
The abbé replaced the large spectacles, which covered not only his eyesbut his temples, and sitting down motioned to his visitor to do thesame. “I am at your service, sir,” said the abbé, with a marked Italianaccent.
“The mission with which I am charged, sir,” replied the visitor,speaking with hesitation, “is a confidential one on the part of him whofulfils it, and him by whom he is employed.” The abbé bowed. “Yourprobity,” replied the stranger, “is so well known to the prefect thathe wishes as a magistrate to ascertain from you some particularsconnected with the public safety, to ascertain which I am deputed tosee you. It is hoped that no ties of friendship or humane considerationwill induce you to conceal the truth.”
“Provided, sir, the particulars you wish for do not interfere with myscruples or my conscience. I am a priest, sir, and the secrets ofconfession, for instance, must remain between me and God, and notbetween me and human justice.”
“Do not alarm yourself, monsieur, we will duly respect yourconscience.”
At this moment the abbé pressed down his side of the shade and soraised it on the other, throwing a bright light on the stranger’s face,while his own remained obscured.
“Excuse me, abbé,” said the envoy of the prefect of the police, “butthe light tries my eyes very much.” The abbé lowered the shade.
“Now, sir, I am listening—go on.”
“I will come at once to the point. Do you know the Count of MonteCristo?”
“You mean Monsieur Zaccone, I presume?”
“Zaccone?—is not his name Monte Cristo?”
“Monte Cristo is the name of an estate, or, rather, of a rock, and nota family name.”
“Well, be it so—let us not dispute about words; and since M. de MonteCristo and M. Zaccone are the same——”
“Absolutely the same.”
“Let us speak of M. Zaccone.”
“Agreed.”
“I asked you if you knew him?”
“Extremely well.”
“Who is he?”
“The son of a rich shipbuilder in Malta.”
“I know that is the report; but, as you are aware, the police does notcontent itself with vague reports.”
“However,” replied the abbé, with an affable smile, “when that reportis in accordance with the truth, everybody must believe it, the policeas well as all the rest.”
“Are you sure of what you assert?”
“What do you mean by that question?”
“Understand, sir, I do not in the least suspect your veracity; I ask ifyou are certain of it?”
“I knew his father, M. Zaccone.”
“Ah, indeed?”
“And when a child I often played with the son in the timber-yards.”
“But whence does he derive the title of count?”
“You are aware that may be bought.”
“In Italy?”
“Everywhere.”
“And his immense riches, whence does he procure them?”
“They may not be so very great.”
“How much do you suppose he possesses?”
“From one hundred and fifty to two hundred thousand livres per annum.”
“That is reasonable,” said the visitor; “I have heard he had three orfour millions.”
“Two hundred thousand per annum would make four millions of capital.”
“But I was told he had four millions per annum.”
“That is not probable.”
“Do you know this Island of Monte Cristo?”
“Certainly, everyone who has come from Palermo, Naples, or Rome toFrance by sea must know it, since he has passed close to it and musthave seen it.”
“I am told it is a delightful place?”
“It is a rock.”
“And why has the count bought a rock?”
“For the sake of being a count. In Italy one must have territorialpossessions to be a count.”
“You have, doubtless, heard the adventures of M. Zaccone’s youth?”
“The father’s?”
“No, the son’s.”
“I know nothing certain; at that period of his life, I lost sight of myyoung comrade.”
“Was he in the wars?”
“I think he entered the service.”
“In what branch?”
“In the navy.”
“Are you not his confessor?”
“No, sir; I believe he is a Lutheran.”
“A Lutheran?”
“I say, I believe such is the case, I do not affirm it; besides,liberty of conscience is established in France.”
“Doubtless, and we are not now inquiring into his creed, but hisactions; in the name of the prefect of police, I ask you what you knowof him.
“He passes for a very charitable man. Our holy father, the pope, hasmade him a knight of Jesus Christ for the services he rendered to theChristians in the East; he has five or six rings as testimonials fromEastern monarchs of his services.”
“Does he wear them?”
“No, but he is proud of them; he is better pleased with rewards givento the benefactors of man than to his destroyers.”
“He is a Quaker then?”
“Exactly, he is a Quaker, with the exception of the peculiar dress.”
“Has he any friends?”
“Yes, everyone who knows him is his friend.”
“But has he any enemies?”
“One only.”
“What is his name?”
“Lord Wilmore.”
“Where is he?”
“He is in Paris just now.”
“Can he give me any particulars?”
“Important ones; he was in India with Zaccone.”
“Do you know his abode?”
“It’s somewhere in the Chaussée d’Antin; but I know neither the streetnor the number.”
30289m


“Are you at variance with the Englishman?”
“I love Zaccone, and he hates him; we are consequently not friends.”
“Do you think the Count of Monte Cristo had ever been in France beforehe made this visit to Paris?”
“To that question I can answer positively; no, sir, he had not, becausehe applied to me six months ago for the particulars he required, and asI did not know when I might again come to Paris, I recommended M.Cavalcanti to him.”
“Andrea?”
“No, Bartolomeo, his father.”
“Now, sir, I have but one question more to ask, and I charge you, inthe name of honor, of humanity, and of religion, to answer mecandidly.”
“What is it, sir?”
“Do you know with what design M. de Monte Cristo purchased a house atAuteuil?”
“Certainly, for he told me.”
“What is it, sir?”
“To make a lunatic asylum of it, similar to that founded by the Countof Pisani at Palermo. Do you know about that institution?”
“I have heard of it.”
“It is a magnificent charity.” Having said this, the abbé bowed toimply he wished to pursue his studies.
The visitor either understood the abbé’s meaning, or had no morequestions to ask; he arose, and the abbé accompanied him to the door.
“You are a great almsgiver,” said the visitor, “and although you aresaid to be rich, I will venture to offer you something for your poorpeople; will you accept my offering?”
“I thank you, sir; I am only jealous in one thing, and that is that therelief I give should be entirely from my own resources.”
“However——”
“My resolution, sir, is unchangeable, but you have only to search foryourself and you will find, alas, but too many objects upon whom toexercise your benevolence.”
The abbé once more bowed as he opened the door, the stranger bowed andtook his leave, and the carriage conveyed him straight to the house ofM. de Villefort. An hour afterwards the carriage was again ordered, andthis time it went to the Rue Fontaine-Saint-Georges, and stopped at No.5, where Lord Wilmore lived. The stranger had written to Lord Wilmore,requesting an interview, which the latter had fixed for ten o’clock. Asthe envoy of the prefect of police arrived ten minutes before ten, hewas told that Lord Wilmore, who was precision and punctualitypersonified, was not yet come in, but that he would be sure to returnas the clock struck.
The visitor was introduced into the drawing-room, which was like allother furnished drawing-rooms. A mantle-piece, with two modern Sèvresvases, a timepiece representing Cupid with his bent bow, a mirror withan engraving on each side—one representing Homer carrying his guide,the other, Belisarius begging—a grayish paper; red and blacktapestry—such was the appearance of Lord Wilmore’s drawing-room.
It was illuminated by lamps with ground-glass shades which gave only afeeble light, as if out of consideration for the envoy’s weak sight.After ten minutes’ expectation the clock struck ten; at the fifthstroke the door opened and Lord Wilmore appeared. He was rather abovethe middle height, with thin reddish whiskers, light complexion andlight hair, turning rather gray. He was dressed with all the Englishpeculiarity, namely, in a blue coat, with gilt buttons and high collar,in the fashion of 1811, a white kerseymere waistcoat, and nankeenpantaloons, three inches too short, but which were prevented by strapsfrom slipping up to the knee. His first remark on entering was:
“You know, sir, I do not speak French?”
“I know you do not like to converse in our language,” replied theenvoy.
“But you may use it,” replied Lord Wilmore; “I understand it.”
“And I,” replied the visitor, changing his idiom, “know enough ofEnglish to keep up the conversation. Do not put yourself to theslightest inconvenience.”
“Aw?” said Lord Wilmore, with that tone which is only known to nativesof Great Britain.
The envoy presented his letter of introduction, which the latter readwith English coolness, and having finished:
“I understand,” said he, “perfectly.”
30293m


Then began the questions, which were similar to those which had beenaddressed to the Abbé Busoni. But as Lord Wilmore, in the character ofthe count’s enemy, was less restrained in his answers, they were morenumerous; he described the youth of Monte Cristo, who he said, at tenyears of age, entered the service of one of the petty sovereigns ofIndia who make war on the English. It was there Wilmore had first methim and fought against him; and in that war Zaccone had been takenprisoner, sent to England, and consigned to the hulks, whence he hadescaped by swimming. Then began his travels, his duels, his caprices;then the insurrection in Greece broke out, and he had served in theGrecian ranks. While in that service he had discovered a silver mine inthe mountains of Thessaly, but he had been careful to conceal it fromeveryone. After the battle of Navarino, when the Greek government wasconsolidated, he asked of King Otho a mining grant for that district,which was given him. Hence that immense fortune, which, in LordWilmore’s opinion, possibly amounted to one or two millions perannum,—a precarious fortune, which might be momentarily lost by thefailure of the mine.
“But,” asked the visitor, “do you know why he came to France?”
“He is speculating in railways,” said Lord Wilmore, “and as he is anexpert chemist and physicist, he has invented a new system oftelegraphy, which he is seeking to bring to perfection.”
“How much does he spend yearly?” asked the prefect.
“Not more than five or six hundred thousand francs,” said Lord Wilmore;“he is a miser.” Hatred evidently inspired the Englishman, who, knowingno other reproach to bring on the count, accused him of avarice.
“Do you know his house at Auteuil?”
“Certainly.”
“What do you know respecting it?”
“Do you wish to know why he bought it?”
“Yes.”
“The count is a speculator, who will certainly ruin himself inexperiments. He supposes there is in the neighborhood of the house hehas bought a mineral spring equal to those at Bagnères, Luchon, andCauterets. He is going to turn his house into a _Badhaus_, as theGermans term it. He has already dug up all the garden two or threetimes to find the famous spring, and, being unsuccessful, he will soonpurchase all the contiguous houses. Now, as I dislike him, and hope hisrailway, his electric telegraph, or his search for baths, will ruinhim, I am watching for his discomfiture, which must soon take place.”
“What was the cause of your quarrel?”
“When he was in England he seduced the wife of one of my friends.”
“Why do you not seek revenge?”
“I have already fought three duels with him,” said the Englishman, “thefirst with the pistol, the second with the sword, and the third withthe sabre.”
“And what was the result of those duels?”
“The first time, he broke my arm; the second, he wounded me in thebreast; and the third time, made this large wound.” The Englishmanturned down his shirt-collar, and showed a scar, whose redness provedit to be a recent one. “So that, you see, there is a deadly feudbetween us.”
“But,” said the envoy, “you do not go about it in the right way to killhim, if I understand you correctly.”
“Aw?” said the Englishman, “I practice shooting every day, and everyother day Grisier comes to my house.”
This was all the visitor wished to ascertain, or, rather, all theEnglishman appeared to know. The agent arose, and having bowed to LordWilmore, who returned his salutation with the stiff politeness of theEnglish, he retired. Lord Wilmore, having heard the door close afterhim, returned to his bedroom, where with one hand he pulled off hislight hair, his red whiskers, his false jaw, and his wound, to resumethe black hair, dark complexion, and pearly teeth of the Count of MonteCristo.
It was M. de Villefort, and not the prefect, who returned to the houseof M. de Villefort. The procureur felt more at ease, although he hadlearned nothing really satisfactory, and, for the first time since thedinner-party at Auteuil, he slept soundly.


 Chapter 70. The Ball
It was in the warmest days of July, when in due course of time theSaturday arrived upon which the ball was to take place at M. deMorcerf’s. It was ten o’clock at night; the branches of the great treesin the garden of the count’s house stood out boldly against the azurecanopy of heaven, which was studded with golden stars, but where thelast fleeting clouds of a vanishing storm yet lingered.
From the apartments on the ground floor might be heard the sound ofmusic, with the whirl of the waltz and galop, while brilliant streamsof light shone through the openings of the Venetian blinds. At thismoment the garden was only occupied by about ten servants, who had justreceived orders from their mistress to prepare the supper, the serenityof the weather continuing to increase. Until now, it had been undecidedwhether the supper should take place in the dining-room, or under along tent erected on the lawn, but the beautiful blue sky, studded withstars, had settled the question in favor of the lawn.
The gardens were illuminated with colored lanterns, according to theItalian custom, and, as is usual in countries where the luxuries of thetable—the rarest of all luxuries in their complete form—are wellunderstood, the supper-table was loaded with wax-lights and flowers.
30297m


At the time the Countess of Morcerf returned to the rooms, after givingher orders, many guests were arriving, more attracted by the charminghospitality of the countess than by the distinguished position of thecount; for, owing to the good taste of Mercédès, one was sure offinding some devices at her entertainment worthy of describing, or evencopying in case of need.
Madame Danglars, in whom the events we have related had caused deepanxiety, had hesitated about going to Madame de Morcerf’s, when duringthe morning her carriage happened to meet that of Villefort. The lattermade a sign, and when the carriages had drawn close together, said:
“You are going to Madame de Morcerf’s, are you not?”
“No,” replied Madame Danglars, “I am too ill.”
“You are wrong,” replied Villefort, significantly; “it is importantthat you should be seen there.”
“Do you think so?” asked the baroness.
“I do.”
“In that case I will go.”
And the two carriages passed on towards their different destinations.Madame Danglars therefore came, not only beautiful in person, butradiant with splendor; she entered by one door at the time whenMercédès appeared at the door. The countess took Albert to meet MadameDanglars. He approached, paid her some well merited compliments on hertoilet, and offered his arm to conduct her to a seat. Albert lookedaround him.
“You are looking for my daughter?” said the baroness, smiling.
“I confess it,” replied Albert. “Could you have been so cruel as not tobring her?”
“Calm yourself. She has met Mademoiselle de Villefort, and has takenher arm; see, they are following us, both in white dresses, one with abouquet of camellias, the other with one of myosotis. But tell me——”
“Well, what do you wish to know?”
“Will not the Count of Monte Cristo be here tonight?”
“Seventeen!” replied Albert.
“What do you mean?”
“I only mean that the count seems the rage,” replied the viscount,smiling, “and that you are the seventeenth person that has asked me thesame question. The count is in fashion; I congratulate him upon it.”
“And have you replied to everyone as you have to me?”
“Ah, to be sure, I have not answered you; be satisfied, we shall havethis ‘lion’; we are among the privileged ones.”
“Were you at the Opera yesterday?”
“No.”
“He was there.”
“Ah, indeed? And did the eccentric person commit any new originality?”
“Can he be seen without doing so? Elssler was dancing in _Le Diableboiteux_; the Greek princess was in ecstasies. After the cachucha heplaced a magnificent ring on the stem of a bouquet, and threw it to thecharming danseuse, who, in the third act, to do honor to the gift,reappeared with it on her finger. And the Greek princess,—will she behere?”
“No, you will be deprived of that pleasure; her position in the count’sestablishment is not sufficiently understood.”
“Wait; leave me here, and go and speak to Madame de Villefort, who istrying to attract your attention.”
Albert bowed to Madame Danglars, and advanced towards Madame deVillefort, whose lips opened as he approached.
“I wager anything,” said Albert, interrupting her, “that I know whatyou were about to say.”
“Well, what is it?”
“If I guess rightly, will you confess it?”
“Yes.”
“On your honor?”
“On my honor.”
“You were going to ask me if the Count of Monte Cristo had arrived, orwas expected.”
“Not at all. It is not of him that I am now thinking. I was going toask you if you had received any news of Monsieur Franz.”
“Yes,—yesterday.”
“What did he tell you?”
“That he was leaving at the same time as his letter.”
“Well, now then, the count?”
“The count will come, of that you may be satisfied.”
“You know that he has another name besides Monte Cristo?”
“No, I did not know it.”
“Monte Cristo is the name of an island, and he has a family name.”
“I never heard it.”
“Well, then, I am better informed than you; his name is Zaccone.”
“It is possible.”
“He is a Maltese.”
“That is also possible.
“The son of a shipowner.”
“Really, you should relate all this aloud, you would have the greatestsuccess.”
“He served in India, discovered a mine in Thessaly, and comes to Paristo establish a mineral water-cure at Auteuil.”
“Well, I’m sure,” said Morcerf, “this is indeed news! Am I allowed torepeat it?”
“Yes, but cautiously, tell one thing at a time, and do not say I toldyou.”
“Why so?”
“Because it is a secret just discovered.”
“By whom?”
“The police.”
“Then the news originated——”
“At the prefect’s last night. Paris, you can understand, is astonishedat the sight of such unusual splendor, and the police have madeinquiries.”
“Well, well! Nothing more is wanting than to arrest the count as avagabond, on the pretext of his being too rich.”
“Indeed, that doubtless would have happened if his credentials had notbeen so favorable.”
“Poor count! And is he aware of the danger he has been in?”
“I think not.”
“Then it will be but charitable to inform him. When he arrives, I willnot fail to do so.”
Just then, a handsome young man, with bright eyes, black hair, andglossy moustache, respectfully bowed to Madame de Villefort. Albertextended his hand.
“Madame,” said Albert, “allow me to present to you M. MaximilianMorrel, captain of Spahis, one of our best, and, above all, of ourbravest officers.”
“I have already had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman at Auteuil,at the house of the Count of Monte Cristo,” replied Madame deVillefort, turning away with marked coldness of manner.
This answer, and especially the tone in which it was uttered, chilledthe heart of poor Morrel. But a recompense was in store for him;turning around, he saw near the door a beautiful fair face, whose largeblue eyes were, without any marked expression, fixed upon him, whilethe bouquet of myosotis was gently raised to her lips.
The salutation was so well understood that Morrel, with the sameexpression in his eyes, placed his handkerchief to his mouth; and thesetwo living statues, whose hearts beat so violently under their marbleaspect, separated from each other by the whole length of the room,forgot themselves for a moment, or rather forgot the world in theirmutual contemplation. They might have remained much longer lost in oneanother, without anyone noticing their abstraction. The Count of MonteCristo had just entered.
We have already said that there was something in the count whichattracted universal attention wherever he appeared. It was not thecoat, unexceptional in its cut, though simple and unornamented; it wasnot the plain white waistcoat; it was not the trousers, that displayedthe foot so perfectly formed—it was none of these things that attractedthe attention,—it was his pale complexion, his waving black hair, hiscalm and serene expression, his dark and melancholy eye, his mouth,chiselled with such marvellous delicacy, which so easily expressed suchhigh disdain,—these were what fixed the attention of all upon him.
Many men might have been handsomer, but certainly there could be nonewhose appearance was more _significant_, if the expression may be used.Everything about the count seemed to have its meaning, for the constanthabit of thought which he had acquired had given an ease and vigor tothe expression of his face, and even to the most trifling gesture,scarcely to be understood. Yet the Parisian world is so strange, thateven all this might not have won attention had there not been connectedwith it a mysterious story gilded by an immense fortune.
30301m


Meanwhile he advanced through the assemblage of guests under a batteryof curious glances towards Madame de Morcerf, who, standing before amantle-piece ornamented with flowers, had seen his entrance in alooking-glass placed opposite the door, and was prepared to receivehim. She turned towards him with a serene smile just at the moment hewas bowing to her. No doubt she fancied the count would speak to her,while on his side the count thought she was about to address him; butboth remained silent, and after a mere bow, Monte Cristo directed hissteps to Albert, who received him cordially.
“Have you seen my mother?” asked Albert.
“I have just had the pleasure,” replied the count; “but I have not seenyour father.”
“See, he is down there, talking politics with that little group ofgreat geniuses.”
“Indeed?” said Monte Cristo; “and so those gentlemen down there are menof great talent. I should not have guessed it. And for what kind oftalent are they celebrated? You know there are different sorts.”
“That tall, harsh-looking man is very learned, he discovered, in theneighborhood of Rome, a kind of lizard with a vertebra more thanlizards usually have, and he immediately laid his discovery before theInstitute. The thing was discussed for a long time, but finally decidedin his favor. I can assure you the vertebra made a great noise in thelearned world, and the gentleman, who was only a knight of the Legionof Honor, was made an officer.”
“Come,” said Monte Cristo, “this cross seems to me to be wiselyawarded. I suppose, had he found another additional vertebra, theywould have made him a commander.”
“Very likely,” said Albert.
“And who can that person be who has taken it into his head to wraphimself up in a blue coat embroidered with green?”
“Oh, that coat is not his own idea; it is the Republic’s, which deputedDavid12 to devise a uniform for the Academicians.”
“Indeed?” said Monte Cristo; “so this gentleman is an Academician?”
“Within the last week he has been made one of the learned assembly.”
“And what is his especial talent?”
“His talent? I believe he thrusts pins through the heads of rabbits, hemakes fowls eat madder, and punches the spinal marrow out of dogs withwhalebone.”
“And he is made a member of the Academy of Sciences for this?”
“No; of the French Academy.”
“But what has the French Academy to do with all this?”
“I was going to tell you. It seems——”
“That his experiments have very considerably advanced the cause ofscience, doubtless?”
“No; that his style of writing is very good.”
“This must be very flattering to the feelings of the rabbits into whoseheads he has thrust pins, to the fowls whose bones he has dyed red, andto the dogs whose spinal marrow he has punched out?”
Albert laughed.
“And the other one?” demanded the count.
“That one?”
“Yes, the third.”
“The one in the dark blue coat?”
“Yes.”
“He is a colleague of the count, and one of the most active opponentsto the idea of providing the Chamber of Peers with a uniform. He wasvery successful upon that question. He stood badly with the Liberalpapers, but his noble opposition to the wishes of the court is nowgetting him into favor with the journalists. They talk of making him anambassador.”
30303m


“And what are his claims to the peerage?”
“He has composed two or three comic operas, written four or fivearticles in the _Siècle_, and voted five or six years on theministerial side.”
“Bravo, viscount,” said Monte Cristo, smiling; “you are a delightful_cicerone_. And now you will do me a favor, will you not?”
“What is it?”
“Do not introduce me to any of these gentlemen; and should they wishit, you will warn me.” Just then the count felt his arm pressed. Heturned round; it was Danglars.
“Ah! is it you, baron?” said he.
“Why do you call me baron?” said Danglars; “you know that I carenothing for my title. I am not like you, viscount; you like your title,do you not?”
“Certainly,” replied Albert, “seeing that without my title I should benothing; while you, sacrificing the baron, would still remain themillionaire.”
“Which seems to me the finest title under the royalty of July,” repliedDanglars.
“Unfortunately,” said Monte Cristo, “one’s title to a millionaire doesnot last for life, like that of baron, peer of France, or academician;for example, the millionaires Franck & Poulmann, of Frankfurt, who havejust become bankrupts.”
“Indeed?” said Danglars, becoming pale.
“Yes; I received the news this evening by a courier. I had about amillion in their hands, but, warned in time, I withdrew it a monthago.”
“Ah, _mon Dieu!_” exclaimed Danglars, “they have drawn on me for200,000 francs!”
“Well, you can throw out the draft; their signature is worth five percent.”
“Yes, but it is too late,” said Danglars, “I have honored their bills.”
“Then,” said Monte Cristo, “here are 200,000 francs gone after——”
“Hush, do not mention these things,” said Danglars; then, approachingMonte Cristo, he added, “especially before young M. Cavalcanti;” afterwhich he smiled, and turned towards the young man in question.
Albert had left the count to speak to his mother, Danglars to conversewith young Cavalcanti; Monte Cristo was for an instant alone. Meanwhilethe heat became excessive. The footmen were hastening through the roomswith waiters loaded with ices. Monte Cristo wiped the perspiration fromhis forehead, but drew back when the waiter was presented to him; hetook no refreshment. Madame de Morcerf did not lose sight of MonteCristo; she saw that he took nothing, and even noticed his gesture ofrefusal.
“Albert,” she asked, “did you notice that?”
“What, mother?”
“That the count has never been willing to partake of food under theroof of M. de Morcerf.”
“Yes; but then he breakfasted with me—indeed, he made his firstappearance in the world on that occasion.”
“But your house is not M. de Morcerf’s,” murmured Mercédès; “and sincehe has been here I have watched him.”
“Well?”
“Well, he has taken nothing yet.”
“The count is very temperate.”
Mercédès smiled sadly.
“Approach him,” said she, “and when the next waiter passes, insist uponhis taking something.”
“But why, mother?”
“Just to please me, Albert,” said Mercédès. Albert kissed his mother’shand, and drew near the count. Another salver passed, loaded like thepreceding ones; she saw Albert attempt to persuade the count, but heobstinately refused. Albert rejoined his mother; she was very pale.
“Well,” said she, “you see he refuses?”
“Yes; but why need this annoy you?”
“You know, Albert, women are singular creatures. I should like to haveseen the count take something in my house, if only an ice. Perhaps hecannot reconcile himself to the French style of living, and mightprefer something else.”
“Oh, no; I have seen him eat of everything in Italy; no doubt he doesnot feel inclined this evening.”
“And besides,” said the countess, “accustomed as he is to burningclimates, possibly he does not feel the heat as we do.”
“I do not think that, for he has complained of feeling almostsuffocated, and asked why the Venetian blinds were not opened as wellas the windows.”
“In a word,” said Mercédès, “it was a way of assuring me that hisabstinence was intended.”
And she left the room.
A minute afterwards the blinds were thrown open, and through thejessamine and clematis that overhung the window one could see thegarden ornamented with lanterns, and the supper laid under the tent.Dancers, players, talkers, all uttered an exclamation of joy—everyoneinhaled with delight the breeze that floated in. At the same timeMercédès reappeared, paler than before, but with that imperturbableexpression of countenance which she sometimes wore. She went straightto the group of which her husband formed the centre.
“Do not detain those gentlemen here, count,” she said; “they wouldprefer, I should think, to breathe in the garden rather than suffocatehere, since they are not playing.”
“Ah,” said a gallant old general, who, in 1809, had sung _Partant pourla Syrie_,—“we will not go alone to the garden.”
“Then,” said Mercédès, “I will lead the way.”
Turning towards Monte Cristo, she added, “count, will you oblige mewith your arm?”
The count almost staggered at these simple words; then he fixed hiseyes on Mercédès. It was only a momentary glance, but it seemed to thecountess to have lasted for a century, so much was expressed in thatone look. He offered his arm to the countess; she took it, or ratherjust touched it with her little hand, and they together descended thesteps, lined with rhododendrons and camellias. Behind them, by anotheroutlet, a group of about twenty persons rushed into the garden withloud exclamations of delight.


 Chapter 71. Bread and Salt
Madame de Morcerf entered an archway of trees with her companion. Itled through a grove of lindens to a conservatory.
“It was too warm in the room, was it not, count?” she asked.
“Yes, madame; and it was an excellent idea of yours to open the doorsand the blinds.” As he ceased speaking, the count felt the hand ofMercédès tremble. “But you,” he said, “with that light dress, andwithout anything to cover you but that gauze scarf, perhaps you feelcold?”
“Do you know where I am leading you?” said the countess, withoutreplying to the question.
“No, madame,” replied Monte Cristo; “but you see I make no resistance.”
“We are going to the greenhouse that you see at the other end of thegrove.”
The count looked at Mercédès as if to interrogate her, but shecontinued to walk on in silence, and he refrained from speaking. Theyreached the building, ornamented with magnificent fruits, which ripenat the beginning of July in the artificial temperature which takes theplace of the sun, so frequently absent in our climate. The countessleft the arm of Monte Cristo, and gathered a bunch of Muscatel grapes.
“See, count,” she said, with a smile so sad in its expression that onecould almost detect the tears on her eyelids—“see, our French grapesare not to be compared, I know, with yours of Sicily and Cyprus, butyou will make allowance for our northern sun.” The count bowed, butstepped back.
“Do you refuse?” said Mercédès, in a tremulous voice.
“Pray excuse me, madame,” replied Monte Cristo, “but I never eatMuscatel grapes.”
Mercédès let them fall, and sighed. A magnificent peach was hangingagainst an adjoining wall, ripened by the same artificial heat.Mercédès drew near, and plucked the fruit.
“Take this peach, then,” she said. The count again refused. “What,again?” she exclaimed, in so plaintive an accent that it seemed tostifle a sob; “really, you pain me.”
A long silence followed; the peach, like the grapes, fell to theground.
“Count,” added Mercédès with a supplicating glance, “there is abeautiful Arabian custom, which makes eternal friends of those who havetogether eaten bread and salt under the same roof.”
“I know it, madame,” replied the count; “but we are in France, and notin Arabia, and in France eternal friendships are as rare as the customof dividing bread and salt with one another.”
“But,” said the countess, breathlessly, with her eyes fixed on MonteCristo, whose arm she convulsively pressed with both hands, “we arefriends, are we not?”
The count became pale as death, the blood rushed to his heart, and thenagain rising, dyed his cheeks with crimson; his eyes swam like those ofa man suddenly dazzled.
“Certainly, we are friends,” he replied; “why should we not be?”
The answer was so little like the one Mercédès desired, that she turnedaway to give vent to a sigh, which sounded more like a groan. “Thankyou,” she said. And they walked on again. They went the whole length ofthe garden without uttering a word.
“Sir,” suddenly exclaimed the countess, after their walk had continuedten minutes in silence, “is it true that you have seen so much,travelled so far, and suffered so deeply?”
“I have suffered deeply, madame,” answered Monte Cristo.
“But now you are happy?”
“Doubtless,” replied the count, “since no one hears me complain.”
“And your present happiness, has it softened your heart?”
“My present happiness equals my past misery,” said the count.
“Are you not married?” asked the countess.
“I, married?” exclaimed Monte Cristo, shuddering; “who could have toldyou so?”
“No one told me you were, but you have frequently been seen at theOpera with a young and lovely woman.”
“She is a slave whom I bought at Constantinople, madame, the daughterof a prince. I have adopted her as my daughter, having no one else tolove in the world.”
“You live alone, then?”
“I do.”
“You have no sister—no son—no father?”
“I have no one.”
“How can you exist thus without anyone to attach you to life?”
“It is not my fault, madame. At Malta, I loved a young girl, was on thepoint of marrying her, when war came and carried me away. I thought sheloved me well enough to wait for me, and even to remain faithful to mymemory. When I returned she was married. This is the history of mostmen who have passed twenty years of age. Perhaps my heart was weakerthan the hearts of most men, and I suffered more than they would havedone in my place; that is all.”
The countess stopped for a moment, as if gasping for breath. “Yes,” shesaid, “and you have still preserved this love in your heart—one canonly love once—and did you ever see her again?”
30309m


“Never.”
“Never?”
“I never returned to the country where she lived.”
“To Malta?”
“Yes; Malta.”
“She is, then, now at Malta?”
“I think so.”
“And have you forgiven her for all she has made you suffer?”
“Her,—yes.”
“But only her; do you then still hate those who separated you?”
“I hate them? Not at all; why should I?” The countess placed herselfbefore Monte Cristo, still holding in her hand a portion of theperfumed grapes.
“Take some,” she said.
“Madame, I never eat Muscatel grapes,” replied Monte Cristo, as if thesubject had not been mentioned before. The countess dashed the grapesinto the nearest thicket, with a gesture of despair.
“Inflexible man!” she murmured. Monte Cristo remained as unmoved as ifthe reproach had not been addressed to him.
Albert at this moment ran in. “Oh, mother,” he exclaimed, “such amisfortune has happened!”
“What? What has happened?” asked the countess, as though awakening froma sleep to the realities of life; “did you say a misfortune? Indeed, Ishould expect misfortunes.”
“M. de Villefort is here.”
“Well?”
“He comes to fetch his wife and daughter.”
“Why so?”
“Because Madame de Saint-Méran is just arrived in Paris, bringing thenews of M. de Saint-Méran’s death, which took place on the first stageafter he left Marseilles. Madame de Villefort, who was in very goodspirits, would neither believe nor think of the misfortune, butMademoiselle Valentine, at the first words, guessed the whole truth,notwithstanding all the precautions of her father; the blow struck herlike a thunderbolt, and she fell senseless.”
“And how was M. de Saint-Méran related to Mademoiselle de Villefort?”said the count.
“He was her grandfather on the mother’s side. He was coming here tohasten her marriage with Franz.”
“Ah, indeed!”
“So Franz must wait. Why was not M. de Saint-Méran also grandfather toMademoiselle Danglars?”
“Albert, Albert,” said Madame de Morcerf, in a tone of mild reproof,“what are you saying? Ah, count, he esteems you so highly, tell himthat he has spoken amiss.”
And she took two or three steps forward. Monte Cristo watched her withan air so thoughtful, and so full of affectionate admiration, that sheturned back and grasped his hand; at the same time she seized that ofher son, and joined them together.
“We are friends; are we not?” she asked.
“Oh, madame, I do not presume to call myself your friend, but at alltimes I am your most respectful servant.” The countess left with anindescribable pang in her heart, and before she had taken ten steps thecount saw her raise her handkerchief to her eyes.
“Do not my mother and you agree?” asked Albert, astonished.
“On the contrary,” replied the count, “did you not hear her declarethat we were friends?”
They re-entered the drawing-room, which Valentine and Madame deVillefort had just quitted. It is perhaps needless to add that Morreldeparted almost at the same time.


 Chapter 72. Madame de Saint-Méran
A gloomy scene had indeed just passed at the house of M. de Villefort.After the ladies had departed for the ball, whither all the entreatiesof Madame de Villefort had failed in persuading him to accompany them,the procureur had shut himself up in his study, according to hiscustom, with a heap of papers calculated to alarm anyone else, butwhich generally scarcely satisfied his inordinate desires.
But this time the papers were a mere matter of form. Villefort hadsecluded himself, not to study, but to reflect; and with the doorlocked and orders given that he should not be disturbed excepting forimportant business, he sat down in his armchair and began to ponderover the events, the remembrance of which had during the last eightdays filled his mind with so many gloomy thoughts and bitterrecollections.
Then, instead of plunging into the mass of documents piled before him,he opened the drawer of his desk, touched a spring, and drew out aparcel of cherished memoranda, amongst which he had carefully arranged,in characters only known to himself, the names of all those who, eitherin his political career, in money matters, at the bar, or in hismysterious love affairs, had become his enemies.
Their number was formidable, now that he had begun to fear, and yetthese names, powerful though they were, had often caused him to smilewith the same kind of satisfaction experienced by a traveller who fromthe summit of a mountain beholds at his feet the craggy eminences, thealmost impassable paths, and the fearful chasms, through which he hasso perilously climbed. When he had run over all these names in hismemory, again read and studied them, commenting meanwhile upon hislists, he shook his head.
“No,” he murmured, “none of my enemies would have waited so patientlyand laboriously for so long a space of time, that they might now comeand crush me with this secret. Sometimes, as Hamlet says:
‘Foul deeds will rise,
Though all the earth o’erwhelm them, to men’s eyes;’

but, like a phosphoric light, they rise but to mislead. The story hasbeen told by the Corsican to some priest, who in his turn has repeatedit. M. de Monte Cristo may have heard it, and to enlighten himself——
“But why should he wish to enlighten himself upon the subject?” askedVillefort, after a moment’s reflection, “what interest can this M. deMonte Cristo or M. Zaccone,—son of a shipowner of Malta, discoverer ofa mine in Thessaly, now visiting Paris for the first time,—whatinterest, I say, can he take in discovering a gloomy, mysterious, anduseless fact like this? However, among all the incoherent details givento me by the Abbé Busoni and by Lord Wilmore, by that friend and thatenemy, one thing appears certain and clear in my opinion—that in noperiod, in no case, in no circumstance, could there have been anycontact between him and me.”
But Villefort uttered words which even he himself did not believe. Hedreaded not so much the revelation, for he could reply to or deny itstruth;—he cared little for that _mene, mene, tekel upharsin_, whichappeared suddenly in letters of blood upon the wall;—but what he wasreally anxious for was to discover whose hand had traced them. While hewas endeavoring to calm his fears,—and instead of dwelling upon thepolitical future that had so often been the subject of his ambitiousdreams, was imagining a future limited to the enjoyments of home, infear of awakening the enemy that had so long slept,—the noise of acarriage sounded in the yard, then he heard the steps of an aged personascending the stairs, followed by tears and lamentations, such asservants always give vent to when they wish to appear interested intheir master’s grief.
He drew back the bolt of his door, and almost directly an old ladyentered, unannounced, carrying her shawl on her arm, and her bonnet inher hand. The white hair was thrown back from her yellow forehead, andher eyes, already sunken by the furrows of age, now almost disappearedbeneath the eyelids swollen with grief.
“Oh, sir,” she said; “oh, sir, what a misfortune! I shall die of it;oh, yes, I shall certainly die of it!”
And then, falling upon the chair nearest the door, she burst into aparoxysm of sobs. The servants, standing in the doorway, not daring toapproach nearer, were looking at Noirtier’s old servant, who had heardthe noise from his master’s room, and run there also, remaining behindthe others. Villefort rose, and ran towards his mother-in-law, for itwas she.
“Why, what can have happened?” he exclaimed, “what has thus disturbedyou? Is M. de Saint-Méran with you?”
“M. de Saint-Méran is dead,” answered the old marchioness, withoutpreface and without expression; she appeared to be stupefied. Villefortdrew back, and clasping his hands together, exclaimed:
“Dead!—so suddenly?”
“A week ago,” continued Madame de Saint-Méran, “we went out together inthe carriage after dinner. M. de Saint-Méran had been unwell for somedays; still, the idea of seeing our dear Valentine again inspired himwith courage, and notwithstanding his illness he would leave. At sixleagues from Marseilles, after having eaten some of the lozenges he isaccustomed to take, he fell into such a deep sleep, that it appeared tome unnatural; still I hesitated to wake him, although I fancied thathis face was flushed, and that the veins of his temples throbbed moreviolently than usual. However, as it became dark, and I could no longersee, I fell asleep; I was soon aroused by a piercing shriek, as from aperson suffering in his dreams, and he suddenly threw his head backviolently. I called the valet, I stopped the postilion, I spoke to M.de Saint-Méran, I applied my smelling-salts; but all was over, and Iarrived at Aix by the side of a corpse.”
Villefort stood with his mouth half open, quite stupefied.
“Of course you sent for a doctor?”
“Immediately; but, as I have told you, it was too late.”
“Yes; but then he could tell of what complaint the poor marquis haddied.”
“Oh, yes, sir, he told me; it appears to have been an apoplecticstroke.”
“And what did you do then?”
“M. de Saint-Méran had always expressed a desire, in case his deathhappened during his absence from Paris, that his body might be broughtto the family vault. I had him put into a leaden coffin, and I ampreceding him by a few days.”
“Oh! my poor mother!” said Villefort, “to have such duties to performat your age after such a blow!”
“God has supported me through all; and then, my dear marquis, he wouldcertainly have done everything for me that I performed for him. It istrue that since I left him, I seem to have lost my senses. I cannotcry; at my age they say that we have no more tears,—still I think thatwhen one is in trouble one should have the power of weeping. Where isValentine, sir? It is on her account I am here; I wish to seeValentine.”
30315m


Villefort thought it would be terrible to reply that Valentine was at aball; so he only said that she had gone out with her step-mother, andthat she should be fetched. “This instant, sir—this instant, I beseechyou!” said the old lady. Villefort placed the arm of Madame deSaint-Méran within his own, and conducted her to his apartment.
“Rest yourself, mother,” he said.
The marchioness raised her head at this word, and beholding the man whoso forcibly reminded her of her deeply-regretted child, who still livedfor her in Valentine, she felt touched at the name of mother, andbursting into tears, she fell on her knees before an armchair, whereshe buried her venerable head. Villefort left her to the care of thewomen, while old Barrois ran, half-scared, to his master; for nothingfrightens old people so much as when death relaxes its vigilance overthem for a moment in order to strike some other old person. Then, whileMadame de Saint-Méran remained on her knees, praying fervently,Villefort sent for a cab, and went himself to fetch his wife anddaughter from Madame de Morcerf’s. He was so pale when he appeared atthe door of the ball-room, that Valentine ran to him, saying:
“Oh, father, some misfortune has happened!”
“Your grandmamma has just arrived, Valentine,” said M. de Villefort.
“And grandpapa?” inquired the young girl, trembling with apprehension.M. de Villefort only replied by offering his arm to his daughter. Itwas just in time, for Valentine’s head swam, and she staggered; Madamede Villefort instantly hastened to her assistance, and aided herhusband in dragging her to the carriage, saying:
“What a singular event! Who could have thought it? Ah, yes, it isindeed strange!”
And the wretched family departed, leaving a cloud of sadness hangingover the rest of the evening. At the foot of the stairs, Valentinefound Barrois awaiting her.
“M. Noirtier wishes to see you tonight, he said, in an undertone.
“Tell him I will come when I leave my dear grandmamma,” she replied,feeling, with true delicacy, that the person to whom she could be ofthe most service just then was Madame de Saint-Méran.
Valentine found her grandmother in bed; silent caresses, heartwrungsobs, broken sighs, burning tears, were all that passed in this sadinterview, while Madame de Villefort, leaning on her husband’s arm,maintained all outward forms of respect, at least towards the poorwidow. She soon whispered to her husband:
“I think it would be better for me to retire, with your permission, forthe sight of me appears still to afflict your mother-in-law.” Madame deSaint-Méran heard her.
“Yes, yes,” she said softly to Valentine, “let her leave; but do youstay.”
Madame de Villefort left, and Valentine remained alone beside the bed,for the procureur, overcome with astonishment at the unexpected death,had followed his wife. Meanwhile, Barrois had returned for the firsttime to old Noirtier, who having heard the noise in the house, had, aswe have said, sent his old servant to inquire the cause; on his return,his quick intelligent eye interrogated the messenger.
“Alas, sir,” exclaimed Barrois, “a great misfortune has happened.Madame de Saint-Méran has arrived, and her husband is dead!”
M. de Saint-Méran and Noirtier had never been on strict terms offriendship; still, the death of one old man always considerably affectsanother. Noirtier let his head fall upon his chest, apparentlyoverwhelmed and thoughtful; then he closed one eye, in token ofinquiry.
Barrois asked, “Mademoiselle Valentine?”
Noirtier nodded his head.
“She is at the ball, as you know, since she came to say good-bye to youin full dress.” Noirtier again closed his left eye.
“Do you wish to see her?” Noirtier again made an affirmative sign.
“Well, they have gone to fetch her, no doubt, from Madame de Morcerf’s;I will await her return, and beg her to come up here. Is that what youwish for?”
“Yes,” replied the invalid.
Barrois, therefore, as we have seen, watched for Valentine, andinformed her of her grandfather’s wish. Consequently, Valentine came upto Noirtier, on leaving Madame de Saint-Méran, who in the midst of hergrief had at last yielded to fatigue and fallen into a feverish sleep.Within reach of her hand they placed a small table upon which stood abottle of orangeade, her usual beverage, and a glass. Then, as we havesaid, the young girl left the bedside to see M. Noirtier.
Valentine kissed the old man, who looked at her with such tendernessthat her eyes again filled with tears, whose sources he thought must beexhausted. The old gentleman continued to dwell upon her with the sameexpression.
“Yes, yes,” said Valentine, “you mean that I have yet a kindgrandfather left, do you not.” The old man intimated that such was hismeaning. “Ah, yes, happily I have,” replied Valentine. “Without that,what would become of me?”
It was one o’clock in the morning. Barrois, who wished to go to bedhimself, observed that after such sad events everyone stood in need ofrest. Noirtier would not say that the only rest he needed was to seehis child, but wished her good-night, for grief and fatigue had madeher appear quite ill.
The next morning she found her grandmother in bed; the fever had notabated, on the contrary her eyes glistened and she appeared to besuffering from violent nervous irritability.
“Oh, dear grandmamma, are you worse?” exclaimed Valentine, perceivingall these signs of agitation.
“No, my child, no,” said Madame de Saint-Méran; “but I was impatientlywaiting for your arrival, that I might send for your father.”
“My father?” inquired Valentine, uneasily.
“Yes, I wish to speak to him.”
Valentine durst not oppose her grandmother’s wish, the cause of whichshe did not know, and an instant afterwards Villefort entered.
“Sir,” said Madame de Saint-Méran, without using any circumlocution,and as if fearing she had no time to lose, “you wrote to me concerningthe marriage of this child?”
“Yes, madame,” replied Villefort, “it is not only projected butarranged.”
“Your intended son-in-law is named M. Franz d’Épinay?”
“Yes, madame.”
“Is he not the son of General d’Épinay who was on our side, and who wasassassinated some days before the usurper returned from the Island ofElba?”
“The same.”
“Does he not dislike the idea of marrying the granddaughter of aJacobin?”
“Our civil dissensions are now happily extinguished, mother,” saidVillefort; “M. d’Épinay was quite a child when his father died, heknows very little of M. Noirtier, and will meet him, if not withpleasure, at least with indifference.”
“Is it a suitable match?”
“In every respect.”
“And the young man?”
“Is regarded with universal esteem.”
“You approve of him?”
“He is one of the most well-bred young men I know.”
During the whole of this conversation Valentine had remained silent.
“Well, sir,” said Madame de Saint-Méran, after a few minutes’reflection, “I must hasten the marriage, for I have but a short time tolive.”
“You, madame?” “You, dear mamma?” exclaimed M. de Villefort andValentine at the same time.
“I know what I am saying,” continued the marchioness; “I must hurryyou, so that, as she has no mother, she may at least have a grandmotherto bless her marriage. I am all that is left to her belonging to mypoor Renée, whom you have so soon forgotten, sir.”
“Ah, madame,” said Villefort, “you forget that I was obliged to give amother to my child.”
“A stepmother is never a mother, sir. But this is not to thepurpose,—our business concerns Valentine, let us leave the dead inpeace.”
All this was said with such exceeding rapidity, that there wassomething in the conversation that seemed like the beginning ofdelirium.
“It shall be as you wish, madame,” said Villefort; “more especiallysince your wishes coincide with mine, and as soon as M. d’Épinayarrives in Paris——”
30319m


“My dear grandmother,” interrupted Valentine, “consider decorum—therecent death. You would not have me marry under such sad auspices?”
“My child,” exclaimed the old lady sharply, “let us hear none of theconventional objections that deter weak minds from preparing for thefuture. I also was married at the death-bed of my mother, and certainlyI have not been less happy on that account.”
“Still that idea of death, madame,” said Villefort.
“Still?—Always! I tell you I am going to die—do you understand? Well,before dying, I wish to see my son-in-law. I wish to tell him to makemy child happy; I wish to read in his eyes whether he intends to obeyme;—in fact, I will know him—I will!” continued the old lady, with afearful expression, “that I may rise from the depths of my grave tofind him, if he should not fulfil his duty!”
“Madame,” said Villefort, “you must lay aside these exalted ideas,which almost assume the appearance of madness. The dead, once buried intheir graves, rise no more.”
“And I tell you, sir, that you are mistaken. This night I have had afearful sleep. It seemed as though my soul were already hovering overmy body, my eyes, which I tried to open, closed against my will, andwhat will appear impossible above all to you, sir, I saw, with my eyesshut, in the spot where you are now standing, issuing from that cornerwhere there is a door leading into Madame Villefort’s dressing-room—Isaw, I tell you, silently enter, a white figure.”
Valentine screamed.
“It was the fever that disturbed you, madame,” said Villefort.
30321m


“Doubt, if you please, but I am sure of what I say. I saw a whitefigure, and as if to prevent my discrediting the testimony of only oneof my senses, I heard my glass removed—the same which is there now onthe table.”
“Oh, dear mother, it was a dream.”
“So little was it a dream, that I stretched my hand towards the bell;but when I did so, the shade disappeared; my maid then entered with alight.”
“But she saw no one?”
“Phantoms are visible to those only who ought to see them. It was thesoul of my husband!—Well, if my husband’s soul can come to me, whyshould not my soul reappear to guard my granddaughter? the tie is evenmore direct, it seems to me.”
“Oh, madame,” said Villefort, deeply affected, in spite of himself, “donot yield to those gloomy thoughts; you will long live with us, happy,loved, and honored, and we will make you forget——”
“Never, never, never,” said the marchioness. “When does M. d’Épinayreturn?”
“We expect him every moment.”
“It is well. As soon as he arrives inform me. We must be expeditious.And then I also wish to see a notary, that I may be assured that allour property returns to Valentine.”
“Ah, grandmamma,” murmured Valentine, pressing her lips on the burningbrow, “do you wish to kill me? Oh, how feverish you are; we must notsend for a notary, but for a doctor!”
“A doctor?” said she, shrugging her shoulders, “I am not ill; I amthirsty—that is all.”
30323m


“What are you drinking, dear grandmamma?”
“The same as usual, my dear, my glass is there on the table—give it tome, Valentine.” Valentine poured the orangeade into a glass and gave itto her grandmother with a certain degree of dread, for it was the sameglass she fancied that had been touched by the spectre.
The marchioness drained the glass at a single draught, and then turnedon her pillow, repeating,
“The notary, the notary!”
M. de Villefort left the room, and Valentine seated herself at thebedside of her grandmother. The poor child appeared herself to requirethe doctor she had recommended to her aged relative. A bright spotburned in either cheek, her respiration was short and difficult, andher pulse beat with feverish excitement. She was thinking of thedespair of Maximilian, when he should be informed that Madame deSaint-Méran, instead of being an ally, was unconsciously acting as hisenemy.
More than once she thought of revealing all to her grandmother, and shewould not have hesitated a moment, if Maximilian Morrel had been namedAlbert de Morcerf or Raoul de Château-Renaud; but Morrel was ofplebeian extraction, and Valentine knew how the haughty Marquise deSaint-Méran despised all who were not noble. Her secret had each timebeen repressed when she was about to reveal it, by the sad convictionthat it would be useless to do so; for, were it once discovered by herfather and mother, all would be lost.
Two hours passed thus; Madame de Saint-Méran was in a feverish sleep,and the notary had arrived. Though his coming was announced in a verylow tone, Madame de Saint-Méran arose from her pillow.
“The notary!” she exclaimed, “let him come in.”
The notary, who was at the door, immediately entered. “Go, Valentine,”said Madame de Saint-Méran, “and leave me with this gentleman.”
“But, grandmamma——”
“Leave me—go!”
The young girl kissed her grandmother, and left with her handkerchiefto her eyes; at the door she found the valet de chambre, who told herthat the doctor was waiting in the dining-room. Valentine instantly randown. The doctor was a friend of the family, and at the same time oneof the cleverest men of the day, and very fond of Valentine, whosebirth he had witnessed. He had himself a daughter about her age, butwhose life was one continued source of anxiety and fear to him from hermother having been consumptive.
“Oh,” said Valentine, “we have been waiting for you with suchimpatience, dear M. d’Avrigny. But, first of all, how are Madeleine andAntoinette?”
Madeleine was the daughter of M. d’Avrigny, and Antoinette his niece.M. d’Avrigny smiled sadly.
“Antoinette is very well,” he said, “and Madeleine tolerably so. Butyou sent for me, my dear child. It is not your father or Madame deVillefort who is ill. As for you, although we doctors cannot divest ourpatients of nerves, I fancy you have no further need of me than torecommend you not to allow your imagination to take too wide a field.”
Valentine colored. M. d’Avrigny carried the science of divinationalmost to a miraculous extent, for he was one of the physicians whoalways work upon the body through the mind.
30325m


“No,” she replied, “it is for my poor grandmother. You know thecalamity that has happened to us, do you not?”
“I know nothing.” said M. d’Avrigny.
“Alas,” said Valentine, restraining her tears, “my grandfather isdead.”
“M. de Saint-Méran?”
“Yes.”
“Suddenly?”
“From an apoplectic stroke.”
“An apoplectic stroke?” repeated the doctor.
“Yes, and my poor grandmother fancies that her husband, whom she neverleft, has called her, and that she must go and join him. Oh, M.d’Avrigny, I beseech you, do something for her!”
“Where is she?”
“In her room with the notary.”
“And M. Noirtier?”
“Just as he was, his mind perfectly clear, but the same incapability ofmoving or speaking.”
“And the same love for you—eh, my dear child?”
“Yes,” said Valentine, “he was very fond of me.”
“Who does not love you?” Valentine smiled sadly. “What are yourgrandmother’s symptoms?”
“An extreme nervous excitement and a strangely agitated sleep; shefancied this morning in her sleep that her soul was hovering above herbody, which she at the same time watched. It must have been delirium;she fancies, too, that she saw a phantom enter her chamber and evenheard the noise it made on touching her glass.”
“It is singular,” said the doctor; “I was not aware that Madame deSaint-Méran was subject to such hallucinations.”
“It is the first time I ever saw her in this condition,” saidValentine; “and this morning she frightened me so that I thought hermad; and my father, who you know is a strong-minded man, himselfappeared deeply impressed.”
“We will go and see,” said the doctor; “what you tell me seems verystrange.” The notary here descended, and Valentine was informed thather grandmother was alone.
“Go upstairs,” she said to the doctor.
“And you?”
“Oh, I dare not—she forbade my sending for you; and, as you say, I ammyself agitated, feverish and out of sorts. I will go and take a turnin the garden to recover myself.”
The doctor pressed Valentine’s hand, and while he visited hergrandmother, she descended the steps. We need not say which portion ofthe garden was her favorite walk. After remaining for a short time inthe parterre surrounding the house, and gathering a rose to place inher waist or hair, she turned into the dark avenue which led to thebench; then from the bench she went to the gate. As usual, Valentinestrolled for a short time among her flowers, but without gatheringthem. The mourning in her heart forbade her assuming this simpleornament, though she had not yet had time to put on the outwardsemblance of woe.
30327m


She then turned towards the avenue. As she advanced she fancied sheheard a voice speaking her name. She stopped astonished, then the voicereached her ear more distinctly, and she recognized it to be that ofMaximilian.


 Chapter 73. The Promise
It was indeed Maximilian Morrel, who had passed a wretched existencesince the previous day. With the instinct peculiar to lovers he hadanticipated after the return of Madame de Saint-Méran and the death ofthe marquis, that something would occur at M. de Villefort’s inconnection with his attachment for Valentine. His presentiments wererealized, as we shall see, and his uneasy forebodings had goaded himpale and trembling to the gate under the chestnut-trees.
Valentine was ignorant of the cause of this sorrow and anxiety, and asit was not his accustomed hour for visiting her, she had gone to thespot simply by accident or perhaps through sympathy. Morrel called her,and she ran to the gate.
“You here at this hour?” said she.
“Yes, my poor girl,” replied Morrel; “I come to bring and to hear badtidings.”
“This is, indeed, a house of mourning,” said Valentine; “speak,Maximilian, although the cup of sorrow seems already full.”
“Dear Valentine,” said Morrel, endeavoring to conceal his own emotion,“listen, I entreat you; what I am about to say is very serious. Whenare you to be married?”
“I will tell you all,” said Valentine; “from you I have nothing toconceal. This morning the subject was introduced, and my deargrandmother, on whom I depended as my only support, not only declaredherself favorable to it, but is so anxious for it, that they only awaitthe arrival of M. d’Épinay, and the following day the contract will besigned.”
A deep sigh escaped the young man, who gazed long and mournfully at herhe loved.
“Alas,” replied he, “it is dreadful thus to hear my condemnation fromyour own lips. The sentence is passed, and, in a few hours, will beexecuted; it must be so, and I will not endeavor to prevent it. But,since you say nothing remains but for M. d’Épinay to arrive that thecontract may be signed, and the following day you will be his, tomorrowyou will be engaged to M. d’Épinay, for he came this morning to Paris.”Valentine uttered a cry.
“I was at the house of Monte Cristo an hour since,” said Morrel; “wewere speaking, he of the sorrow your family had experienced, and I ofyour grief, when a carriage rolled into the courtyard. Never, tillthen, had I placed any confidence in presentiments, but now I cannothelp believing them, Valentine. At the sound of that carriage Ishuddered; soon I heard steps on the staircase, which terrified me asmuch as the footsteps of the commander did Don Juan. The door at lastopened; Albert de Morcerf entered first, and I began to hope my fearswere vain, when, after him, another young man advanced, and the countexclaimed: ‘Ah, here is the Baron Franz d’Épinay!’ I summoned all mystrength and courage to my support. Perhaps I turned pale and trembled,but certainly I smiled; and five minutes after I left, without havingheard one word that had passed.”
“Poor Maximilian!” murmured Valentine.
“Valentine, the time has arrived when you must answer me. And remembermy life depends on your answer. What do you intend doing?” Valentineheld down her head; she was overwhelmed.
“Listen,” said Morrel; “it is not the first time you have contemplatedour present position, which is a serious and urgent one; I do not thinkit is a moment to give way to useless sorrow; leave that for those wholike to suffer at their leisure and indulge their grief in secret.There are such in the world, and God will doubtless reward them inheaven for their resignation on earth, but those who mean to contendmust not lose one precious moment, but must return immediately the blowwhich fortune strikes. Do you intend to struggle against ourill-fortune? Tell me, Valentine for it is that I came to know.”
Valentine trembled, and looked at him with amazement. The idea ofresisting her father, her grandmother, and all the family, had neveroccurred to her.
“What do you say, Maximilian?” asked Valentine. “What do you mean by astruggle? Oh, it would be a sacrilege. What? I resist my father’sorder, and my dying grandmother’s wish? Impossible!”
Morrel started.
“You are too noble not to understand me, and you understand me so wellthat you already yield, dear Maximilian. No, no; I shall need all mystrength to struggle with myself and support my grief in secret, as yousay. But to grieve my father—to disturb my grandmother’s lastmoments—never!”
“You are right,” said Morrel, calmly.
“In what a tone you speak!” cried Valentine.
“I speak as one who admires you, mademoiselle.”
“Mademoiselle,” cried Valentine; “mademoiselle! Oh, selfish man! hesees me in despair, and pretends he cannot understand me!”
“You mistake—I understand you perfectly. You will not oppose M.Villefort, you will not displease the marchioness, and tomorrow youwill sign the contract which will bind you to your husband.”
“But, _mon Dieu!_ tell me, how can I do otherwise?”
“Do not appeal to me, mademoiselle; I shall be a bad judge in such acase; my selfishness will blind me,” replied Morrel, whose low voiceand clenched hands announced his growing desperation.
“What would you have proposed, Maximilian, had you found me willing toaccede?”
“It is not for me to say.”
“You are wrong; you must advise me what to do.”
“Do you seriously ask my advice, Valentine?”
“Certainly, dear Maximilian, for if it is good, I will follow it; youknow my devotion to you.”
“Valentine,” said Morrel pushing aside a loose plank, “give me yourhand in token of forgiveness of my anger; my senses are confused, andduring the last hour the most extravagant thoughts have passed throughmy brain. Oh, if you refuse my advice——”
“What do you advise?” said Valentine, raising her eyes to heaven andsighing.
“I am free,” replied Maximilian, “and rich enough to support you. Iswear to make you my lawful wife before my lips even shall haveapproached your forehead.”
“You make me tremble!” said the young girl.
“Follow me,” said Morrel; “I will take you to my sister, who is worthyalso to be yours. We will embark for Algiers, for England, for America,or, if you prefer it, retire to the country and only return to Pariswhen our friends have reconciled your family.”
Valentine shook her head.
“I feared it, Maximilian,” said she; “it is the counsel of a madman,and I should be more mad than you, did I not stop you at once with theword ‘Impossible, Morrel, impossible!’”
“You will then submit to what fate decrees for you without evenattempting to contend with it?” said Morrel sorrowfully.
“Yes,—if I die!”
“Well, Valentine,” resumed Maximilian, “I can only say again that youare right. Truly, it is I who am mad, and you prove to me that passionblinds the most well-meaning. I appreciate your calm reasoning. It isthen understood that tomorrow you will be irrevocably promised to M.Franz d’Épinay, not only by that theatrical formality invented toheighten the effect of a comedy called the signature of the contract,but your own will?”
“Again you drive me to despair, Maximilian,” said Valentine, “again youplunge the dagger into the wound! What would you do, tell me, if yoursister listened to such a proposition?”
“Mademoiselle,” replied Morrel with a bitter smile, “I am selfish—youhave already said so—and as a selfish man I think not of what otherswould do in my situation, but of what I intend doing myself. I thinkonly that I have known you not a whole year. From the day I first sawyou, all my hopes of happiness have been in securing your affection.One day you acknowledged that you loved me, and since that day my hopeof future happiness has rested on obtaining you, for to gain you wouldbe life to me. Now, I think no more; I say only that fortune has turnedagainst me—I had thought to gain heaven, and now I have lost it. It isan every-day occurrence for a gambler to lose not only what hepossesses but also what he has not.”
Morrel pronounced these words with perfect calmness; Valentine lookedat him a moment with her large, scrutinizing eyes, endeavoring not tolet Morrel discover the grief which struggled in her heart.
“But, in a word, what are you going to do?” asked she.
“I am going to have the honor of taking my leave of you, mademoiselle,solemnly assuring you that I wish your life may be so calm, so happy,and so fully occupied, that there may be no place for me even in yourmemory.”
“Oh!” murmured Valentine.
“Adieu, Valentine, adieu!” said Morrel, bowing.
“Where are you going?” cried the young girl, extending her hand throughthe opening, and seizing Maximilian by his coat, for she understoodfrom her own agitated feelings that her lover’s calmness could not bereal; “where are you going?”
“I am going, that I may not bring fresh trouble into your family: andto set an example which every honest and devoted man, situated as I am,may follow.”
“Before you leave me, tell me what you are going to do, Maximilian.”The young man smiled sorrowfully.
“Speak, speak!” said Valentine; “I entreat you.”
“Has your resolution changed, Valentine?”
“It cannot change, unhappy man; you know it must not!” cried the younggirl.
“Then adieu, Valentine!”
Valentine shook the gate with a strength of which she could not havebeen supposed to be possessed, as Morrel was going away, and passingboth her hands through the opening, she clasped and wrung them. “I mustknow what you mean to do!” said she. “Where are you going?”
“Oh, fear not,” said Maximilian, stopping at a short distance, “I donot intend to render another man responsible for the rigorous fatereserved for me. Another might threaten to seek M. Franz, to provokehim, and to fight with him; all that would be folly. What has M. Franzto do with it? He saw me this morning for the first time, and hasalready forgotten he has seen me. He did not even know I existed whenit was arranged by your two families that you should be united. I haveno enmity against M. Franz, and promise you the punishment shall notfall on him.”
“On whom, then!—on me?”
“On you? Valentine! Oh, Heaven forbid! Woman is sacred; the woman oneloves is holy.”
“On yourself, then, unhappy man; on yourself?”
“I am the only guilty person, am I not?” said Maximilian.
“Maximilian!” said Valentine, “Maximilian, come back, I entreat you!”
He drew near with his sweet smile, and but for his paleness one mighthave thought him in his usual happy mood.
“Listen, my dear, my adored Valentine,” said he in his melodious andgrave tone; “those who, like us, have never had a thought for which weneed blush before the world, such may read each other’s hearts. I neverwas romantic, and am no melancholy hero. I imitate neither Manfred norAnthony; but without words, protestations, or vows, my life hasentwined itself with yours; you leave me, and you are right in doingso,—I repeat it, you are right; but in losing you, I lose my life. Themoment you leave me, Valentine, I am alone in the world. My sister ishappily married; her husband is only my brother-in-law, that is, a manwhom the ties of social life alone attach to me; no one then longerneeds my useless life. This is what I shall do; I will wait until thevery moment you are married, for I will not lose the shadow of one ofthose unexpected chances which are sometimes reserved for us, since M.Franz may, after all, die before that time, a thunderbolt may fall evenon the altar as you approach it,—nothing appears impossible to onecondemned to die, and miracles appear quite reasonable when his escapefrom death is concerned. I will, then, wait until the last moment, andwhen my misery is certain, irremediable, hopeless, I will write aconfidential letter to my brother-in-law, another to the prefect ofpolice, to acquaint them with my intention, and at the corner of somewood, on the brink of some abyss, on the bank of some river, I will putan end to my existence, as certainly as I am the son of the most honestman who ever lived in France.”
30333m


Valentine trembled convulsively; she loosened her hold of the gate, herarms fell by her side, and two large tears rolled down her cheeks. Theyoung man stood before her, sorrowful and resolute.
“Oh, for pity’s sake,” said she, “you will live, will you not?”
“No, on my honor,” said Maximilian; “but that will not affect you. Youhave done your duty, and your conscience will be at rest.”
Valentine fell on her knees, and pressed her almost bursting heart.“Maximilian,” said she, “Maximilian, my friend, my brother on earth, mytrue husband in heaven, I entreat you, do as I do, live in suffering;perhaps we may one day be united.”
“Adieu, Valentine,” repeated Morrel.
“My God,” said Valentine, raising both her hands to heaven with asublime expression, “I have done my utmost to remain a submissivedaughter; I have begged, entreated, implored; he has regarded neithermy prayers, my entreaties, nor my tears. It is done,” cried she, wipingaway her tears, and resuming her firmness, “I am resolved not to die ofremorse, but rather of shame. Live, Maximilian, and I will be yours.Say when shall it be? Speak, command, I will obey.”
Morrel, who had already gone some few steps away, again returned, andpale with joy extended both hands towards Valentine through theopening.
“Valentine,” said he, “dear Valentine, you must not speak thus—ratherlet me die. Why should I obtain you by violence, if our love is mutual?Is it from mere humanity you bid me live? I would then rather die.”
“Truly,” murmured Valentine, “who on this earth cares for me, if hedoes not? Who has consoled me in my sorrow but he? On whom do my hopesrest? On whom does my bleeding heart repose? On him, on him, always onhim! Yes, you are right, Maximilian, I will follow you. I will leavethe paternal home, I will give up all. Oh, ungrateful girl that I am,”cried Valentine, sobbing, “I will give up all, even my dear oldgrandfather, whom I had nearly forgotten.”
“No,” said Maximilian, “you shall not leave him. M. Noirtier hasevinced, you say, a kind feeling towards me. Well, before you leave,tell him all; his consent would be your justification in God’s sight.As soon as we are married, he shall come and live with us, instead ofone child, he shall have two. You have told me how you talk to him andhow he answers you; I shall very soon learn that language by signs,Valentine, and I promise you solemnly, that instead of despair, it ishappiness that awaits us.”
“Oh, see, Maximilian, see the power you have over me, you almost makeme believe you; and yet, what you tell me is madness, for my fatherwill curse me—he is inflexible—he will never pardon me. Now listen tome, Maximilian; if by artifice, by entreaty, by accident—in short, ifby any means I can delay this marriage, will you wait?”
“Yes, I promise you, as faithfully as you have promised me that thishorrible marriage shall not take place, and that if you are draggedbefore a magistrate or a priest, you will refuse.”
“I promise you by all that is most sacred to me in the world, namely,by my mother.”
“We will wait, then,” said Morrel.
“Yes, we will wait,” replied Valentine, who revived at these words;“there are so many things which may save unhappy beings such as weare.”
“I rely on you, Valentine,” said Morrel; “all you do will be well done;only if they disregard your prayers, if your father and Madame deSaint-Méran insist that M. d’Épinay should be called tomorrow to signthe contract——”
“Then you have my promise, Maximilian.”
“Instead of signing——”
“I will go to you, and we will fly; but from this moment until then,let us not tempt Providence, let us not see each other. It is amiracle, it is a providence that we have not been discovered. If wewere surprised, if it were known that we met thus, we should have nofurther resource.”
“You are right, Valentine; but how shall I ascertain?”
“From the notary, M. Deschamps.”
“I know him.”
“And for myself—I will write to you, depend on me. I dread thismarriage, Maximilian, as much as you.”
“Thank you, my adored Valentine, thank you; that is enough. When once Iknow the hour, I will hasten to this spot, you can easily get over thisfence with my assistance, a carriage will await us at the gate, inwhich you will accompany me to my sister’s; there living, retired ormingling in society, as you wish, we shall be enabled to use our powerto resist oppression, and not suffer ourselves to be put to death likesheep, which only defend themselves by sighs.”
“Yes,” said Valentine, “I will now acknowledge you are right,Maximilian; and now are you satisfied with your betrothal?” said theyoung girl sorrowfully.
“My adored Valentine, words cannot express one half of mysatisfaction.”
Valentine had approached, or rather, had placed her lips so near thefence, that they nearly touched those of Morrel, which were pressedagainst the other side of the cold and inexorable barrier.
“Adieu, then, till we meet again,” said Valentine, tearing herselfaway. “I shall hear from you?”
“Yes.”
“Thanks, thanks, dear love, adieu!”
The sound of a kiss was heard, and Valentine fled through the avenue.Morrel listened to catch the last sound of her dress brushing thebranches, and of her footstep on the gravel, then raised his eyes withan ineffable smile of thankfulness to heaven for being permitted to bethus loved, and then also disappeared.
The young man returned home and waited all the evening and all the nextday without getting any message. It was only on the following day, atabout ten o’clock in the morning, as he was starting to call on M.Deschamps, the notary, that he received from the postman a smallbillet, which he knew to be from Valentine, although he had not beforeseen her writing. It was to this effect:
“Tears, entreaties, prayers, have availed me nothing. Yesterday, fortwo hours, I was at the church of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule, and for twohours I prayed most fervently. Heaven is as inflexible as man, and thesignature of the contract is fixed for this evening at nine o’clock. Ihave but one promise and but one heart to give; that promise is pledgedto you, that heart is also yours. This evening, then, at a quarter tonine at the gate.
“Your betrothed,
“Valentine de Villefort.”
“P.S.—My poor grandmother gets worse and worse; yesterday her feveramounted to delirium; today her delirium is almost madness. You will bevery kind to me, will you not, Morrel, to make me forget my sorrow inleaving her thus? I think it is kept a secret from grandpapa Noirtier,that the contract is to be signed this evening.”
Morrel went also to the notary, who confirmed the news that thecontract was to be signed that evening. Then he went to call on MonteCristo and heard still more. Franz had been to announce the ceremony,and Madame de Villefort had also written to beg the count to excuse hernot inviting him; the death of M. de Saint-Méran and the dangerousillness of his widow would cast a gloom over the meeting which shewould regret should be shared by the count whom she wished everyhappiness.
The day before Franz had been presented to Madame de Saint-Méran, whohad left her bed to receive him, but had been obliged to return to itimmediately after.
It is easy to suppose that Morrel’s agitation would not escape thecount’s penetrating eye. Monte Cristo was more affectionate thanever,—indeed, his manner was so kind that several times Morrel was onthe point of telling him all. But he recalled the promise he had madeto Valentine, and kept his secret.
The young man read Valentine’s letter twenty times in the course of theday. It was her first, and on what an occasion! Each time he read it herenewed his vow to make her happy. How great is the power of a womanwho has made so courageous a resolution! What devotion does she deservefrom him for whom she has sacrificed everything! How ought she reallyto be supremely loved! She becomes at once a queen and a wife, and itis impossible to thank and love her sufficiently.
Morrel longed intensely for the moment when he should hear Valentinesay, “Here I am, Maximilian; come and help me.” He had arrangedeverything for her escape; two ladders were hidden in the clover-field;a cabriolet was ordered for Maximilian alone, without a servant,without lights; at the turning of the first street they would light thelamps, as it would be foolish to attract the notice of the police bytoo many precautions. Occasionally he shuddered; he thought of themoment when, from the top of that wall, he should protect the descentof his dear Valentine, pressing in his arms for the first time her ofwhom he had yet only kissed the delicate hand.
When the afternoon arrived and he felt that the hour was drawing near,he wished for solitude, his agitation was extreme; a simple questionfrom a friend would have irritated him. He shut himself in his room,and tried to read, but his eye glanced over the page withoutunderstanding a word, and he threw away the book, and for the secondtime sat down to sketch his plan, the ladders and the fence.
At length the hour drew near. Never did a man deeply in love allow theclocks to go on peacefully. Morrel tormented his so effectually thatthey struck eight at half-past six. He then said, “It is time to start;the signature was indeed fixed to take place at nine o’clock, butperhaps Valentine will not wait for that.” Consequently, Morrel, havingleft the Rue Meslay at half-past eight by his timepiece, entered theclover-field while the clock of Saint-Philippe-du-Roule was strikingeight. The horse and cabriolet were concealed behind a small ruin,where Morrel had often waited.
The night gradually drew on, and the foliage in the garden assumed adeeper hue. Then Morrel came out from his hiding-place with a beatingheart, and looked through the small opening in the gate; there was yetno one to be seen.
The clock struck half-past eight, and still another half-hour waspassed in waiting, while Morrel walked to and fro, and gazed more andmore frequently through the opening. The garden became darker still,but in the darkness he looked in vain for the white dress, and in thesilence he vainly listened for the sound of footsteps. The house, whichwas discernible through the trees, remained in darkness, and gave noindication that so important an event as the signature of amarriage-contract was going on. Morrel looked at his watch, whichwanted a quarter to ten; but soon the same clock he had already heardstrike two or three times rectified the error by striking half-pastnine.
This was already half an hour past the time Valentine had fixed. It wasa terrible moment for the young man. The slightest rustling of thefoliage, the least whistling of the wind, attracted his attention, anddrew the perspiration to his brow; then he tremblingly fixed hisladder, and, not to lose a moment, placed his foot on the first step.Amidst all these alternations of hope and fear, the clock struck ten.“It is impossible,” said Maximilian, “that the signing of a contractshould occupy so long a time without unexpected interruptions. I haveweighed all the chances, calculated the time required for all theforms; something must have happened.”
And then he walked rapidly to and fro, and pressed his burning foreheadagainst the fence. Had Valentine fainted? or had she been discoveredand stopped in her flight? These were the only obstacles which appearedpossible to the young man.
The idea that her strength had failed her in attempting to escape, andthat she had fainted in one of the paths, was the one that mostimpressed itself upon his mind. “In that case,” said he, “I should loseher, and by my own fault.” He dwelt on this idea for a moment, then itappeared reality. He even thought he could perceive something on theground at a distance; he ventured to call, and it seemed to him thatthe wind wafted back an almost inarticulate sigh.
At last the half-hour struck. It was impossible to wait longer, histemples throbbed violently, his eyes were growing dim; he passed oneleg over the wall, and in a moment leaped down on the other side. Hewas on Villefort’s premises—had arrived there by scaling the wall. Whatmight be the consequences? However, he had not ventured thus far todraw back. He followed a short distance close under the wall, thencrossed a path, hid entered a clump of trees. In a moment he had passedthrough them, and could see the house distinctly.
30341m


Then Morrel saw that he had been right in believing that the house wasnot illuminated. Instead of lights at every window, as is customary ondays of ceremony, he saw only a gray mass, which was veiled also by acloud, which at that moment obscured the moon’s feeble light. A lightmoved rapidly from time to time past three windows of the second floor.These three windows were in Madame de Saint-Méran’s room. Anotherremained motionless behind some red curtains which were in Madame deVillefort’s bedroom. Morrel guessed all this. So many times, in orderto follow Valentine in thought at every hour in the day, had he madeher describe the whole house, that without having seen it he knew itall.
This darkness and silence alarmed Morrel still more than Valentine’sabsence had done. Almost mad with grief, and determined to ventureeverything in order to see Valentine once more, and be certain of themisfortune he feared, Morrel gained the edge of the clump of trees, andwas going to pass as quickly as possible through the flower-garden,when the sound of a voice, still at some distance, but which was borneupon the wind, reached him. At this sound, as he was already partiallyexposed to view, he stepped back and concealed himself completely,remaining perfectly motionless.
He had formed his resolution. If it was Valentine alone, he would speakas she passed; if she was accompanied, and he could not speak, still heshould see her, and know that she was safe; if they were strangers, hewould listen to their conversation, and might understand something ofthis hitherto incomprehensible mystery.
The moon had just then escaped from behind the cloud which hadconcealed it, and Morrel saw Villefort come out upon the steps,followed by a gentleman in black. They descended, and advanced towardsthe clump of trees, and Morrel soon recognized the other gentleman asDoctor d’Avrigny.
30339m


The young man, seeing them approach, drew back mechanically, until hefound himself stopped by a sycamore-tree in the centre of the clump;there he was compelled to remain. Soon the two gentlemen stopped also.
“Ah, my dear doctor,” said the procureur, “Heaven declares itselfagainst my house! What a dreadful death—what a blow! Seek not toconsole me; alas, nothing can alleviate so great a sorrow—the wound istoo deep and too fresh! Dead, dead!”
The cold sweat sprang to the young man’s brow, and his teeth chattered.Who could be dead in that house, which Villefort himself had calledaccursed?
“My dear M. de Villefort,” replied the doctor, with a tone whichredoubled the terror of the young man, “I have not led you here toconsole you; on the contrary——”
“What can you mean?” asked the procureur, alarmed.
“I mean that behind the misfortune which has just happened to you,there is another, perhaps, still greater.”
“Can it be possible?” murmured Villefort, clasping his hands. “What areyou going to tell me?”
“Are we quite alone, my friend?”
“Yes, quite; but why all these precautions?”
“Because I have a terrible secret to communicate to you,” said thedoctor. “Let us sit down.”
Villefort fell, rather than seated himself. The doctor stood beforehim, with one hand placed on his shoulder. Morrel, horrified, supportedhis head with one hand, and with the other pressed his heart, lest itsbeatings should be heard. “Dead, dead!” repeated he within himself; andhe felt as if he were also dying.
“Speak, doctor—I am listening,” said Villefort; “strike—I am preparedfor everything!”
“Madame de Saint-Méran was, doubtless, advancing in years, but sheenjoyed excellent health.” Morrel began again to breathe freely, whichhe had not done during the last ten minutes.
“Grief has consumed her,” said Villefort—“yes, grief, doctor! Afterliving forty years with the marquis——”
“It is not grief, my dear Villefort,” said the doctor; “grief may kill,although it rarely does, and never in a day, never in an hour, never inten minutes.” Villefort answered nothing, he simply raised his head,which had been cast down before, and looked at the doctor withamazement.
“Were you present during the last struggle?” asked M. d’Avrigny.
“I was,” replied the procureur; “you begged me not to leave.”
“Did you notice the symptoms of the disease to which Madame deSaint-Méran has fallen a victim?”
“I did. Madame de Saint-Méran had three successive attacks, atintervals of some minutes, each one more serious than the former. Whenyou arrived, Madame de Saint-Méran had already been panting for breathsome minutes; she then had a fit, which I took to be simply a nervousattack, and it was only when I saw her raise herself in the bed, andher limbs and neck appear stiffened, that I became really alarmed. ThenI understood from your countenance there was more to fear than I hadthought. This crisis past, I endeavored to catch your eye, but couldnot. You held her hand—you were feeling her pulse—and the second fitcame on before you had turned towards me. This was more terrible thanthe first; the same nervous movements were repeated, and the mouthcontracted and turned purple.”
“And at the third she expired.”
“At the end of the first attack I discovered symptoms of tetanus; youconfirmed my opinion.”
“Yes, before others,” replied the doctor; “but now we are alone——”
“What are you going to say? Oh, spare me!”
“That the symptoms of tetanus and poisoning by vegetable substances arethe same.”
M. de Villefort started from his seat, then in a moment fell downagain, silent and motionless. Morrel knew not if he were dreaming orawake.
“Listen,” said the doctor; “I know the full importance of the statementI have just made, and the disposition of the man to whom I have madeit.”
“Do you speak to me as a magistrate or as a friend?” asked Villefort.
“As a friend, and only as a friend, at this moment. The similarity inthe symptoms of tetanus and poisoning by vegetable substances is sogreat, that were I obliged to affirm by oath what I have now stated, Ishould hesitate; I therefore repeat to you, I speak not to amagistrate, but to a friend. And to that friend I say, ‘During thethree-quarters of an hour that the struggle continued, I watched theconvulsions and the death of Madame de Saint-Méran, and am thoroughlyconvinced that not only did her death proceed from poison, but I couldalso specify the poison.’”
“Can it be possible?”
“The symptoms are marked, do you see?—sleep broken by nervous spasms,excitation of the brain, torpor of the nerve centres. Madame deSaint-Méran succumbed to a powerful dose of brucine or of strychnine,which by some mistake, perhaps, has been given to her.”
Villefort seized the doctor’s hand.
“Oh, it is impossible,” said he, “I must be dreaming! It is frightfulto hear such things from such a man as you! Tell me, I entreat you, mydear doctor, that you may be deceived.”
“Doubtless I may, but——”
“But?”
30345m


“But I do not think so.”
“Have pity on me doctor! So many dreadful things have happened to melately that I am on the verge of madness.”
“Has anyone besides me seen Madame de Saint-Méran?”
“No.”
“Has anything been sent for from a chemist’s that I have not examined?”
“Nothing.”
“Had Madame de Saint-Méran any enemies?”
“Not to my knowledge.”
“Would her death affect anyone’s interest?”
“It could not indeed, my daughter is her only heiress—Valentine alone.Oh, if such a thought could present itself, I would stab myself topunish my heart for having for one instant harbored it.”
“Indeed, my dear friend,” said M. d’Avrigny, “I would not accuseanyone; I speak only of an accident, you understand,—of a mistake,—butwhether accident or mistake, the fact is there; it is on my conscienceand compels me to speak aloud to you. Make inquiry.”
“Of whom?—how?—of what?”
“May not Barrois, the old servant, have made a mistake, and have givenMadame de Saint-Méran a dose prepared for his master?”
“For my father?”
“Yes.”
“But how could a dose prepared for M. Noirtier poison Madame deSaint-Méran?”
“Nothing is more simple. You know poisons become remedies in certaindiseases, of which paralysis is one. For instance, having tried everyother remedy to restore movement and speech to M. Noirtier, I resolvedto try one last means, and for three months I have been giving himbrucine; so that in the last dose I ordered for him there were sixgrains. This quantity, which is perfectly safe to administer to theparalyzed frame of M. Noirtier, which has become gradually accustomedto it, would be sufficient to kill another person.”
“My dear doctor, there is no communication between M. Noirtier’sapartment and that of Madame de Saint-Méran, and Barrois never enteredmy mother-in-law’s room. In short, doctor although I know you to be themost conscientious man in the world, and although I place the utmostreliance in you, I want, notwithstanding my conviction, to believe thisaxiom, _errare humanum est_.”
“Is there one of my brethren in whom you have equal confidence withmyself?”
“Why do you ask me that?—what do you wish?”
“Send for him; I will tell him what I have seen, and we will consulttogether, and examine the body.”
“And you will find traces of poison?”
“No, I did not say of poison, but we can prove what was the state ofthe body; we shall discover the cause of her sudden death, and we shallsay, ‘Dear Villefort, if this thing has been caused by negligence,watch over your servants; if from hatred, watch your enemies.’”
“What do you propose to me, d’Avrigny?” said Villefort in despair; “sosoon as another is admitted into our secret, an inquest will becomenecessary; and an inquest in my house—impossible! Still,” continued theprocureur, looking at the doctor with uneasiness, “if you wish it—ifyou demand it, why then it shall be done. But, doctor, you see mealready so grieved—how can I introduce into my house so much scandal,after so much sorrow? My wife and my daughter would die of it! And I,doctor—you know a man does not arrive at the post I occupy—one has notbeen king’s attorney twenty-five years without having amassed atolerable number of enemies; mine are numerous. Let this affair betalked of, it will be a triumph for them, which will make them rejoice,and cover me with shame. Pardon me, doctor, these worldly ideas; wereyou a priest I should not dare tell you that, but you are a man, andyou know mankind. Doctor, pray recall your words; you have saidnothing, have you?”
“My dear M. de Villefort,” replied the doctor, “my first duty is tohumanity. I would have saved Madame de Saint-Méran, if science couldhave done it; but she is dead and my duty regards the living. Let usbury this terrible secret in the deepest recesses of our hearts; I amwilling, if anyone should suspect this, that my silence on the subjectshould be imputed to my ignorance. Meanwhile, sir, watch always—watchcarefully, for perhaps the evil may not stop here. And when you havefound the culprit, if you find him, I will say to you, ‘You are amagistrate, do as you will!’”
“I thank you, doctor,” said Villefort with indescribable joy; “I neverhad a better friend than you.” And, as if he feared Doctor d’Avrignywould recall his promise, he hurried him towards the house.
When they were gone, Morrel ventured out from under the trees, and themoon shone upon his face, which was so pale it might have been takenfor that of a ghost.
“I am manifestly protected in a most wonderful, but most terriblemanner,” said he; “but Valentine, poor girl, how will she bear so muchsorrow?”
As he thought thus, he looked alternately at the window with redcurtains and the three windows with white curtains. The light hadalmost disappeared from the former; doubtless Madame de Villefort hadjust put out her lamp, and the nightlamp alone reflected its dull lighton the window. At the extremity of the building, on the contrary, hesaw one of the three windows open. A wax-light placed on themantle-piece threw some of its pale rays without, and a shadow was seenfor one moment on the balcony. Morrel shuddered; he thought he heard asob.
It cannot be wondered at that his mind, generally so courageous, butnow disturbed by the two strongest human passions, love and fear, wasweakened even to the indulgence of superstitious thoughts. Although itwas impossible that Valentine should see him, hidden as he was, hethought he heard the shadow at the window call him; his disturbed mindtold him so. This double error became an irresistible reality, and byone of the incomprehensible transports of youth, he bounded from hishiding-place, and with two strides, at the risk of being seen, at therisk of alarming Valentine, at the risk of being discovered by someexclamation which might escape the young girl, he crossed theflower-garden, which by the light of the moon resembled a large whitelake, and having passed the rows of orange-trees which extended infront of the house, he reached the step, ran quickly up and pushed thedoor, which opened without offering any resistance.
Valentine had not seen him. Her eyes, raised towards heaven, werewatching a silvery cloud gliding over the azure, its form that of ashadow mounting towards heaven. Her poetic and excited mind pictured itas the soul of her grandmother.
Meanwhile, Morrel had traversed the anteroom and found the staircase,which, being carpeted, prevented his approach being heard, and he hadregained that degree of confidence that the presence of M. de Villeforteven would not have alarmed him. He was quite prepared for any suchencounter. He would at once approach Valentine’s father and acknowledgeall, begging Villefort to pardon and sanction the love which united twofond and loving hearts. Morrel was mad.
Happily he did not meet anyone. Now, especially, did he find thedescription Valentine had given of the interior of the house useful tohim; he arrived safely at the top of the staircase, and while he wasfeeling his way, a sob indicated the direction he was to take. Heturned back, a door partly open enabled him to see his road, and tohear the voice of one in sorrow. He pushed the door open and entered.At the other end of the room, under a white sheet which covered it, laythe corpse, still more alarming to Morrel since the account he had sounexpectedly overheard. By its side, on her knees, and with her headburied in the cushion of an easy-chair, was Valentine, trembling andsobbing, her hands extended above her head, clasped and stiff. She hadturned from the window, which remained open, and was praying in accentsthat would have affected the most unfeeling; her words were rapid,incoherent, unintelligible, for the burning weight of grief almoststopped her utterance.
The moon shining through the open blinds made the lamp appear to burnpaler, and cast a sepulchral hue over the whole scene. Morrel could notresist this; he was not exemplary for piety, he was not easilyimpressed, but Valentine suffering, weeping, wringing her hands beforehim, was more than he could bear in silence. He sighed, and whispered aname, and the head bathed in tears and pressed on the velvet cushion ofthe chair—a head like that of a Magdalen by Correggio—was raised andturned towards him. Valentine perceived him without betraying the leastsurprise. A heart overwhelmed with one great grief is insensible tominor emotions. Morrel held out his hand to her. Valentine, as her onlyapology for not having met him, pointed to the corpse under the sheet,and began to sob again.
Neither dared for some time to speak in that room. They hesitated tobreak the silence which death seemed to impose; at length Valentineventured.
“My friend,” said she, “how came you here? Alas, I would say you arewelcome, had not death opened the way for you into this house.”
“Valentine,” said Morrel with a trembling voice, “I had waited sincehalf-past eight, and did not see you come; I became uneasy, leaped thewall, found my way through the garden, when voices conversing about thefatal event——”
“What voices?” asked Valentine. Morrel shuddered as he thought of theconversation of the doctor and M. de Villefort, and he thought he couldsee through the sheet the extended hands, the stiff neck, and thepurple lips.
“Your servants,” said he, “who were repeating the whole of thesorrowful story; from them I learned it all.”
“But it was risking the failure of our plan to come up here, love.”
“Forgive me,” replied Morrel; “I will go away.”
“No,” said Valentine, “you might meet someone; stay.”
“But if anyone should come here——”
The young girl shook her head. “No one will come,” said she; “do notfear, there is our safeguard,” pointing to the bed.
“But what has become of M. d’Épinay?” replied Morrel.
30349m


“M. Franz arrived to sign the contract just as my dear grandmother wasdying.”
“Alas,” said Morrel with a feeling of selfish joy; for he thought thisdeath would cause the wedding to be postponed indefinitely.
“But what redoubles my sorrow,” continued the young girl, as if thisfeeling was to receive its immediate punishment, “is that the poor oldlady, on her death-bed, requested that the marriage might take place assoon as possible; she also, thinking to protect me, was acting againstme.”
“Hark!” said Morrel. They both listened; steps were distinctly heard inthe corridor and on the stairs.
“It is my father, who has just left his study.”
“To accompany the doctor to the door,” added Morrel.
“How do you know it is the doctor?” asked Valentine, astonished.
“I imagined it must be,” said Morrel.
Valentine looked at the young man; they heard the street door close,then M. de Villefort locked the garden door, and returned upstairs. Hestopped a moment in the anteroom, as if hesitating whether to turn tohis own apartment or into Madame de Saint-Méran’s; Morrel concealedhimself behind a door; Valentine remained motionless, grief seeming todeprive her of all fear. M. de Villefort passed on to his own room.
“Now,” said Valentine, “you can neither go out by the front door nor bythe garden.”
Morrel looked at her with astonishment.
“There is but one way left you that is safe,” said she; “it is throughmy grandfather’s room.” She rose. “Come,” she added.
“Where?” asked Maximilian.
“To my grandfather’s room.”
“I in M. Noirtier’s apartment?”
“Yes.”
“Can you mean it, Valentine?”
“I have long wished it; he is my only remaining friend and we both needhis help,—come.”
“Be careful, Valentine,” said Morrel, hesitating to comply with theyoung girl’s wishes; “I now see my error—I acted like a madman incoming in here. Are you sure you are more reasonable?”
“Yes,” said Valentine; “and I have but one scruple,—that of leaving mydear grandmother’s remains, which I had undertaken to watch.”
“Valentine,” said Morrel, “death is in itself sacred.”
“Yes,” said Valentine; “besides, it will not be for long.”
She then crossed the corridor, and led the way down a narrow staircaseto M. Noirtier’s room; Morrel followed her on tiptoe; at the door theyfound the old servant.
“Barrois,” said Valentine, “shut the door, and let no one come in.”
She passed first.
Noirtier, seated in his chair, and listening to every sound, waswatching the door; he saw Valentine, and his eye brightened. There wassomething grave and solemn in the approach of the young girl whichstruck the old man, and immediately his bright eye began tointerrogate.
“Dear grandfather.” said she hurriedly, “you know poor grandmamma diedan hour since, and now I have no friend in the world but you.”
His expressive eyes evinced the greatest tenderness.
“To you alone, then, may I confide my sorrows and my hopes?”
The paralytic motioned “Yes.”
Valentine took Maximilian’s hand.
“Look attentively, then, at this gentleman.”
The old man fixed his scrutinizing gaze with slight astonishment onMorrel.
“It is M. Maximilian Morrel,” said she; “the son of that good merchantof Marseilles, whom you doubtless recollect.”
“Yes,” said the old man.
“He brings an irreproachable name, which Maximilian is likely to renderglorious, since at thirty years of age he is a captain, an officer ofthe Legion of Honor.”
The old man signified that he recollected him.
“Well, grandpapa,” said Valentine, kneeling before him, and pointing toMaximilian, “I love him, and will be only his; were I compelled tomarry another, I would destroy myself.”
The eyes of the paralytic expressed a multitude of tumultuous thoughts.
“You like M. Maximilian Morrel, do you not, grandpapa?” askedValentine.
“Yes.”
“And you will protect us, who are your children, against the will of myfather?”
Noirtier cast an intelligent glance at Morrel, as if to say, “perhaps Imay.”
Maximilian understood him.
“Mademoiselle,” said he, “you have a sacred duty to fulfil in yourdeceased grandmother’s room, will you allow me the honor of a fewminutes’ conversation with M. Noirtier?”
“That is it,” said the old man’s eye. Then he looked anxiously atValentine.
“Do you fear he will not understand?”
“Yes.”
“Oh, we have so often spoken of you, that he knows exactly how I talkto you.” Then turning to Maximilian, with an adorable smile; althoughshaded by sorrow,—“He knows everything I know,” said she.
Valentine arose, placed a chair for Morrel, requested Barrois not toadmit anyone, and having tenderly embraced her grandfather, andsorrowfully taken leave of Morrel, she went away. To prove to Noirtierthat he was in Valentine’s confidence and knew all their secrets,Morrel took the dictionary, a pen, and some paper, and placed them allon a table where there was a light.
“But first,” said Morrel, “allow me, sir, to tell you who I am, howmuch I love Mademoiselle Valentine, and what are my designs respectingher.”
Noirtier made a sign that he would listen.
It was an imposing sight to witness this old man, apparently a mereuseless burden, becoming the sole protector, support, and adviser ofthe lovers who were both young, beautiful, and strong. His remarkablynoble and austere expression struck Morrel, who began his story withtrembling. He related the manner in which he had become acquainted withValentine, and how he had loved her, and that Valentine, in hersolitude and her misfortune, had accepted the offer of his devotion. Hetold him his birth, his position, his fortune, and more than once, whenhe consulted the look of the paralytic, that look answered, “That isgood, proceed.”
“And now,” said Morrel, when he had finished the first part of hisrecital, “now I have told you of my love and my hopes, may I inform youof my intentions?”
“Yes,” signified the old man.
“This was our resolution; a cabriolet was in waiting at the gate, inwhich I intended to carry off Valentine to my sister’s house, to marryher, and to wait respectfully M. de Villefort’s pardon.”
“No,” said Noirtier.
“We must not do so?”
“No.”
“You do not sanction our project?”
“No.”
“There is another way,” said Morrel. The old man’s interrogative eyesaid, “Which?”
“I will go,” continued Maximilian, “I will seek M. Franz d’Épinay—I amhappy to be able to mention this in Mademoiselle de Villefort’sabsence—and will conduct myself toward him so as to compel him tochallenge me.” Noirtier’s look continued to interrogate.
“You wish to know what I will do?”
“Yes.”
“I will find him, as I told you. I will tell him the ties which bind meto Mademoiselle Valentine; if he be a sensible man, he will prove it byrenouncing of his own accord the hand of his betrothed, and will securemy friendship, and love until death; if he refuse, either throughinterest or ridiculous pride, after I have proved to him that he wouldbe forcing my wife from me, that Valentine loves me, and will have noother, I will fight with him, give him every advantage, and I shallkill him, or he will kill me; if I am victorious, he will not marryValentine, and if I die, I am very sure Valentine will not marry him.”
Noirtier watched, with indescribable pleasure, this noble and sincerecountenance, on which every sentiment his tongue uttered was depicted,adding by the expression of his fine features all that coloring adds toa sound and faithful drawing.
Still, when Morrel had finished, he shut his eyes several times, whichwas his manner of saying “No.”
“No?” said Morrel; “you disapprove of this second project, as you didof the first?”
“I do,” signified the old man.
“But what then must be done?” asked Morrel. “Madame de Saint-Méran’slast request was, that the marriage might not be delayed; must I letthings take their course?” Noirtier did not move. “I understand,” saidMorrel; “I am to wait.”
“Yes.”
“But delay may ruin our plan, sir,” replied the young man. “Alone,Valentine has no power; she will be compelled to submit. I am herealmost miraculously, and can scarcely hope for so good an opportunityto occur again. Believe me, there are only the two plans I haveproposed to you; forgive my vanity, and tell me which you prefer. Doyou authorize Mademoiselle Valentine to intrust herself to my honor?”
“No.”
“Do you prefer I should seek M. d’Épinay?”
“No.”
“Whence then will come the help we need—from chance?” resumed Morrel.
“No.”
“From you?”
“Yes.”
“You thoroughly understand me, sir? Pardon my eagerness, for my lifedepends on your answer. Will our help come from you?”
“Yes.”
“You are sure of it?”
“Yes.” There was so much firmness in the look which gave this answer,no one could, at any rate, doubt his will, if they did his power.
“Oh, thank you a thousand times! But how, unless a miracle shouldrestore your speech, your gesture, your movement, how can you, chainedto that armchair, dumb and motionless, oppose this marriage?” A smilelit up the old man’s face, a strange smile of the eyes in a paralyzedface.
“Then I must wait?” asked the young man.
“Yes.”
“But the contract?” The same smile returned. “Will you assure me itshall not be signed?”
“Yes,” said Noirtier.
“The contract shall not be signed!” cried Morrel. “Oh, pardon me, sir;I can scarcely realize so great a happiness. Will they not sign it?”
“No,” said the paralytic. Notwithstanding that assurance, Morrel stillhesitated. This promise of an impotent old man was so strange that,instead of being the result of the power of his will, it might emanatefrom enfeebled organs. Is it not natural that the madman, ignorant ofhis folly, should attempt things beyond his power? The weak man talksof burdens he can raise, the timid of giants he can confront, the poorof treasures he spends, the most humble peasant, in the height of hispride, calls himself Jupiter. Whether Noirtier understood the youngman’s indecision, or whether he had not full confidence in hisdocility, he looked uneasily at him.
“What do you wish, sir?” asked Morrel; “that I should renew my promiseof remaining tranquil?” Noirtier’s eye remained fixed and firm, as ifto imply that a promise did not suffice; then it passed from his faceto his hands.
“Shall I swear to you, sir?” asked Maximilian.
“Yes,” said the paralytic with the same solemnity. Morrel understoodthat the old man attached great importance to an oath. He extended hishand.
“I swear to you, on my honor,” said he, “to await your decisionrespecting the course I am to pursue with M. d’Épinay.”
“That is right,” said the old man.
“Now,” said Morrel, “do you wish me to retire?”
“Yes.”
“Without seeing Mademoiselle Valentine?”
“Yes.”
Morrel made a sign that he was ready to obey. “But,” said he, “firstallow me to embrace you as your daughter did just now.” Noirtier’sexpression could not be understood. The young man pressed his lips onthe same spot, on the old man’s forehead, where Valentine’s had been.Then he bowed a second time and retired.
He found outside the door the old servant, to whom Valentine had givendirections. Morrel was conducted along a dark passage, which led to alittle door opening on the garden, soon found the spot where he hadentered, with the assistance of the shrubs gained the top of the wall,and by his ladder was in an instant in the clover-field where hiscabriolet was still waiting for him. He got in it, and thoroughlywearied by so many emotions, arrived about midnight in the Rue Meslay,threw himself on his bed and slept soundly.


VOLUME FOUR
40010m


40012m


40020m



 Chapter 74. The Villefort Family Vault
Two days after, a considerable crowd was assembled, towards ten o’clockin the morning, around the door of M. de Villefort’s house, and a longfile of mourning-coaches and private carriages extended along theFaubourg Saint-Honoré and the Rue de la Pépinière. Among them was oneof a very singular form, which appeared to have come from a distance.It was a kind of covered wagon, painted black, and was one of the firstto arrive. Inquiry was made, and it was ascertained that, by a strangecoincidence, this carriage contained the corpse of the Marquis deSaint-Méran, and that those who had come thinking to attend one funeralwould follow two. Their number was great. The Marquis de Saint-Méran,one of the most zealous and faithful dignitaries of Louis XVIII. andKing Charles X., had preserved a great number of friends, and these,added to the personages whom the usages of society gave Villefort aclaim on, formed a considerable body.
Due information was given to the authorities, and permission obtainedthat the two funerals should take place at the same time. A secondhearse, decked with the same funereal pomp, was brought to M. deVillefort’s door, and the coffin removed into it from the post-wagon.The two bodies were to be interred in the cemetery of Père-Lachaise,where M. de Villefort had long since had a tomb prepared for thereception of his family. The remains of poor Renée were alreadydeposited there, and now, after ten years of separation, her father andmother were to be reunited with her.
The Parisians, always curious, always affected by funereal display,looked on with religious silence while the splendid processionaccompanied to their last abode two of the number of the oldaristocracy—the greatest protectors of commerce and sincere devotees totheir principles.
In one of the mourning-coaches Beauchamp, Debray, and Château-Renaudwere talking of the very sudden death of the marchioness.
“I saw Madame de Saint-Méran only last year at Marseilles, when I wascoming back from Algiers,” said Château-Renaud; “she looked like awoman destined to live to be a hundred years old, from her apparentsound health and great activity of mind and body. How old was she?”
“Franz assured me,” replied Albert, “that she was sixty-six years old.But she has not died of old age, but of grief; it appears that sincethe death of the marquis, which affected her very deeply, she has notcompletely recovered her reason.”
“But of what disease, then, did she die?” asked Debray.
“It is said to have been a congestion of the brain, or apoplexy, whichis the same thing, is it not?”
“Nearly.”
“It is difficult to believe that it was apoplexy,” said Beauchamp.“Madame de Saint-Méran, whom I once saw, was short, of slender form,and of a much more nervous than sanguine temperament; grief couldhardly produce apoplexy in such a constitution as that of Madame deSaint-Méran.”
“At any rate,” said Albert, “whatever disease or doctor may have killedher, M. de Villefort, or rather, Mademoiselle Valentine,—or, stillrather, our friend Franz, inherits a magnificent fortune, amounting, Ibelieve, to 80,000 livres per annum.”
“And this fortune will be doubled at the death of the old Jacobin,Noirtier.”
“That is a tenacious old grandfather,” said Beauchamp. “_Tenacempropositi virum_. I think he must have made an agreement with death tooutlive all his heirs, and he appears likely to succeed. He resemblesthe old Conventionalist of ’93, who said to Napoleon, in 1814, ‘Youbend because your empire is a young stem, weakened by rapid growth.Take the Republic for a tutor; let us return with renewed strength tothe battle-field, and I promise you 500,000 soldiers, another Marengo,and a second Austerlitz. Ideas do not become extinct, sire; theyslumber sometimes, but only revive the stronger before they sleepentirely.’”
“Ideas and men appeared the same to him,” said Albert. “One thing onlypuzzles me, namely, how Franz d’Épinay will like a grandfather whocannot be separated from his wife. But where is Franz?”
“In the first carriage, with M. de Villefort, who considers him alreadyas one of the family.”
40024m


Such was the conversation in almost all the carriages; these two suddendeaths, so quickly following each other, astonished everyone, but noone suspected the terrible secret which M. d’Avrigny had communicated,in his nocturnal walk to M. de Villefort. They arrived in about an hourat the cemetery; the weather was mild, but dull, and in harmony withthe funeral ceremony. Among the groups which flocked towards the familyvault, Château-Renaud recognized Morrel, who had come alone in acabriolet, and walked silently along the path bordered with yew-trees.
“You here?” said Château-Renaud, passing his arms through the youngcaptain’s; “are you a friend of Villefort’s? How is it that I havenever met you at his house?”
“I am no acquaintance of M. de Villefort’s,” answered Morrel, “but Iwas of Madame de Saint-Méran.” Albert came up to them at this momentwith Franz.
“The time and place are but ill-suited for an introduction.” saidAlbert; “but we are not superstitious. M. Morrel, allow me to presentto you M. Franz d’Épinay, a delightful travelling companion, with whomI made the tour of Italy. My dear Franz, M. Maximilian Morrel, anexcellent friend I have acquired in your absence, and whose name youwill hear me mention every time I make any allusion to affection, wit,or amiability.”
Morrel hesitated for a moment; he feared it would be hypocritical toaccost in a friendly manner the man whom he was tacitly opposing, buthis oath and the gravity of the circumstances recurred to his memory;he struggled to conceal his emotion and bowed to Franz.
“Mademoiselle de Villefort is in deep sorrow, is she not?” said Debrayto Franz.
“Extremely,” replied he; “she looked so pale this morning, I scarcelyknew her.”
These apparently simple words pierced Morrel to the heart. This man hadseen Valentine, and spoken to her! The young and high-spirited officerrequired all his strength of mind to resist breaking his oath. He tookthe arm of Château-Renaud, and turned towards the vault, where theattendants had already placed the two coffins.
“This is a magnificent habitation,” said Beauchamp, looking towards themausoleum; “a summer and winter palace. You will, in turn, enter it, mydear d’Épinay, for you will soon be numbered as one of the family. I,as a philosopher, should like a little country-house, a cottage downthere under the trees, without so many free-stones over my poor body.In dying, I will say to those around me what Voltaire wrote to Piron:‘_Eo rus_, and all will be over.’ But come, Franz, take courage, yourwife is an heiress.”
“Indeed, Beauchamp, you are unbearable. Politics has made you laugh ateverything, and political men have made you disbelieve everything. Butwhen you have the honor of associating with ordinary men, and thepleasure of leaving politics for a moment, try to find youraffectionate heart, which you leave with your stick when you go to theChamber.”
“But tell me,” said Beauchamp, “what is life? Is it not a halt inDeath’s anteroom?”
40026m


“I am prejudiced against Beauchamp,” said Albert, drawing Franz away,and leaving the former to finish his philosophical dissertation withDebray.
The Villefort vault formed a square of white stones, about twenty feethigh; an interior partition separated the two families, and eachapartment had its entrance door. Here were not, as in other tombs,ignoble drawers, one above another, where thrift bestows its dead andlabels them like specimens in a museum; all that was visible within thebronze gates was a gloomy-looking room, separated by a wall from thevault itself. The two doors before mentioned were in the middle of thiswall, and enclosed the Villefort and Saint-Méran coffins. There griefmight freely expend itself without being disturbed by the triflingloungers who came from a picnic party to visit Père-Lachaise, or bylovers who make it their rendezvous.
The two coffins were placed on trestles previously prepared for theirreception in the right-hand crypt belonging to the Saint-Méran family.Villefort, Franz, and a few near relatives alone entered the sanctuary.
As the religious ceremonies had all been performed at the door, andthere was no address given, the party all separated; Château-Renaud,Albert, and Morrel, went one way, and Debray and Beauchamp the other.Franz remained with M. de Villefort; at the gate of the cemetery Morrelmade an excuse to wait; he saw Franz and M. de Villefort get into thesame mourning-coach, and thought this meeting forboded evil. He thenreturned to Paris, and although in the same carriage withChâteau-Renaud and Albert, he did not hear one word of theirconversation.
As Franz was about to take leave of M. de Villefort, “When shall I seeyou again?” said the latter.
“At what time you please, sir,” replied Franz.
“As soon as possible.”
“I am at your command, sir; shall we return together?”
“If not unpleasant to you.”
“On the contrary, I shall feel much pleasure.”
Thus, the future father and son-in-law stepped into the same carriage,and Morrel, seeing them pass, became uneasy. Villefort and Franzreturned to the Faubourg Saint-Honoré. The procureur, without going tosee either his wife or his daughter, went at once to his study, and,offering the young man a chair:
“M. d’Épinay,” said he, “allow me to remind you at this moment,—whichis perhaps not so ill-chosen as at first sight may appear, forobedience to the wishes of the departed is the first offering whichshould be made at their tomb,—allow me then to remind you of the wishexpressed by Madame de Saint-Méran on her death-bed, that Valentine’swedding might not be deferred. You know the affairs of the deceased arein perfect order, and her will bequeaths to Valentine the entireproperty of the Saint-Méran family; the notary showed me the documentsyesterday, which will enable us to draw up the contract immediately.You may call on the notary, M. Deschamps, Place Beauveau, FaubourgSaint-Honoré, and you have my authority to inspect those deeds.”
“Sir,” replied M. d’Épinay, “it is not, perhaps, the moment forMademoiselle Valentine, who is in deep distress, to think of a husband;indeed, I fear——”
40028m


“Valentine will have no greater pleasure than that of fulfilling hergrandmother’s last injunctions; there will be no obstacle from thatquarter, I assure you.”
“In that case,” replied Franz, “as I shall raise none, you may makearrangements when you please; I have pledged my word, and shall feelpleasure and happiness in adhering to it.”
“Then,” said Villefort, “nothing further is required. The contract wasto have been signed three days since; we shall find it all ready, andcan sign it today.”
“But the mourning?” said Franz, hesitating.
“Don’t be uneasy on that score,” replied Villefort; “no ceremony willbe neglected in my house. Mademoiselle de Villefort may retire duringthe prescribed three months to her estate of Saint-Méran; I say hers,for she inherits it today. There, after a few days, if you like, thecivil marriage shall be celebrated without pomp or ceremony. Madame deSaint-Méran wished her daughter should be married there. When that isover, you, sir, can return to Paris, while your wife passes the time ofher mourning with her mother-in-law.”
“As you please, sir,” said Franz.
“Then,” replied M. de Villefort, “have the kindness to wait half anhour; Valentine shall come down into the drawing-room. I will send forM. Deschamps; we will read and sign the contract before we separate,and this evening Madame de Villefort shall accompany Valentine to herestate, where we will rejoin them in a week.”
“Sir,” said Franz, “I have one request to make.”
“What is it?”
“I wish Albert de Morcerf and Raoul de Château-Renaud to be present atthis signature; you know they are my witnesses.”
“Half an hour will suffice to apprise them; will you go for themyourself, or shall you send?”
“I prefer going, sir.”
“I shall expect you, then, in half an hour, baron, and Valentine willbe ready.”
Franz bowed and left the room. Scarcely had the door closed, when M. deVillefort sent to tell Valentine to be ready in the drawing-room inhalf an hour, as he expected the notary and M. d’Épinay and hiswitnesses. The news caused a great sensation throughout the house;Madame de Villefort would not believe it, and Valentine wasthunderstruck. She looked around for help, and would have gone down toher grandfather’s room, but on the stairs she met M. de Villefort, whotook her arm and led her into the drawing-room. In the anteroom,Valentine met Barrois, and looked despairingly at the old servant. Amoment later, Madame de Villefort entered the drawing-room with herlittle Edward. It was evident that she had shared the grief of thefamily, for she was pale and looked fatigued. She sat down, took Edwardon her knees, and from time to time pressed this child, on whom heraffections appeared centred, almost convulsively to her bosom.
Two carriages were soon heard to enter the courtyard. One was thenotary’s; the other, that of Franz and his friends. In a moment thewhole party was assembled. Valentine was so pale one might trace theblue veins from her temples, round her eyes and down her cheeks. Franzwas deeply affected. Château-Renaud and Albert looked at each otherwith amazement; the ceremony which was just concluded had not appearedmore sorrowful than did that which was about to begin. Madame deVillefort had placed herself in the shadow behind a velvet curtain, andas she constantly bent over her child, it was difficult to read theexpression of her face. M. de Villefort was, as usual, unmoved.
The notary, after having, according to the customary method, arrangedthe papers on the table, taken his place in an armchair, and raised hisspectacles, turned towards Franz:
“Are you M. Franz de Quesnel, baron d’Épinay?” asked he, although heknew it perfectly.
“Yes, sir,” replied Franz. The notary bowed.
“I have, then, to inform you, sir, at the request of M. de Villefort,that your projected marriage with Mademoiselle de Villefort has changedthe feeling of M. Noirtier towards his grandchild, and that hedisinherits her entirely of the fortune he would have left her. Let mehasten to add,” continued he, “that the testator, having only the rightto alienate a part of his fortune, and having alienated it all, thewill will not bear scrutiny, and is declared null and void.”
“Yes.” said Villefort; “but I warn M. d’Épinay, that during mylife-time my father’s will shall never be questioned, my positionforbidding any doubt to be entertained.”
40032m


“Sir,” said Franz, “I regret much that such a question has been raisedin the presence of Mademoiselle Valentine; I have never inquired theamount of her fortune, which, however limited it may be, exceeds mine.My family has sought consideration in this alliance with M. deVillefort; all I seek is happiness.”
Valentine imperceptibly thanked him, while two silent tears rolled downher cheeks.
“Besides, sir,” said Villefort, addressing himself to his futureson-in-law, “excepting the loss of a portion of your hopes, thisunexpected will need not personally wound you; M. Noirtier’s weaknessof mind sufficiently explains it. It is not because MademoiselleValentine is going to marry you that he is angry, but because she willmarry, a union with any other would have caused him the same sorrow.Old age is selfish, sir, and Mademoiselle de Villefort has been afaithful companion to M. Noirtier, which she cannot be when she becomesthe Baroness d’Épinay. My father’s melancholy state prevents ourspeaking to him on any subjects, which the weakness of his mind wouldincapacitate him from understanding, and I am perfectly convinced thatat the present time, although, he knows that his granddaughter is goingto be married, M. Noirtier has even forgotten the name of his intendedgrandson.” M. de Villefort had scarcely said this, when the dooropened, and Barrois appeared.
“Gentlemen,” said he, in a tone strangely firm for a servant speakingto his masters under such solemn circumstances,—“gentlemen, M. Noirtierde Villefort wishes to speak immediately to M. Franz de Quesnel, barond’Épinay.” He, as well as the notary, that there might be no mistake inthe person, gave all his titles to the bridegroom elect.
Villefort started, Madame de Villefort let her son slip from her knees,Valentine rose, pale and dumb as a statue. Albert and Château-Renaudexchanged a second look, more full of amazement than the first. Thenotary looked at Villefort.
“It is impossible,” said the procureur. “M. d’Épinay cannot leave thedrawing-room at present.”
“It is at this moment,” replied Barrois with the same firmness, “thatM. Noirtier, my master, wishes to speak on important subjects to M.Franz d’Épinay.”
“Grandpapa Noirtier can speak now, then,” said Edward, with hishabitual quickness. However, his remark did not make Madame deVillefort even smile, so much was every mind engaged, and so solemn wasthe situation.
“Tell M. Nortier,” resumed Villefort, “that what he demands isimpossible.”
“Then, M. Nortier gives notice to these gentlemen,” replied Barrois,“that he will give orders to be carried to the drawing-room.”
Astonishment was at its height. Something like a smile was perceptibleon Madame de Villefort’s countenance. Valentine instinctively raisedher eyes, as if to thank heaven.
“Pray go, Valentine,” said; M. de Villefort, “and see what this newfancy of your grandfather’s is.” Valentine rose quickly, and washastening joyfully towards the door, when M. de Villefort altered hisintention.
“Stop,” said he; “I will go with you.”
“Excuse me, sir,” said Franz, “since M. Noirtier sent for me, I amready to attend to his wish; besides, I shall be happy to pay myrespects to him, not having yet had the honor of doing so.”
“Pray, sir,” said Villefort with marked uneasiness, “do not disturbyourself.”
40032m


“Forgive me, sir,” said Franz in a resolute tone. “I would not losethis opportunity of proving to M. Noirtier how wrong it would be of himto encourage feelings of dislike to me, which I am determined toconquer, whatever they may be, by my devotion.”
And without listening to Villefort he arose, and followed Valentine,who was running downstairs with the joy of a shipwrecked mariner whofinds a rock to cling to. M. de Villefort followed them. Château-Renaudand Morcerf exchanged a third look of still increasing wonder.


 Chapter 75. A Signed Statement
Noirtier was prepared to receive them, dressed in black, and installedin his armchair. When the three persons he expected had entered, helooked at the door, which his valet immediately closed.
“Listen,” whispered Villefort to Valentine, who could not conceal herjoy; “if M. Noirtier wishes to communicate anything which would delayyour marriage, I forbid you to understand him.”
Valentine blushed, but did not answer. Villefort, approached Noirtier.
“Here is M. Franz d’Épinay,” said he; “you requested to see him. Wehave all wished for this interview, and I trust it will convince youhow ill-formed are your objections to Valentine’s marriage.”
Noirtier answered only by a look which made Villefort’s blood run cold.He motioned to Valentine to approach. In a moment, thanks to her habitof conversing with her grandfather, she understood that he asked for akey. Then his eye was fixed on the drawer of a small chest between thewindows. She opened the drawer, and found a key; and, understandingthat was what he wanted, again watched his eyes, which turned toward anold secretaire which had been neglected for many years and was supposedto contain nothing but useless documents.
“Shall I open the secretaire?” asked Valentine.
“Yes,” said the old man.
“And the drawers?”
“Yes.”
“Those at the side?”
“No.”
“The middle one?”
“Yes.”
Valentine opened it and drew out a bundle of papers. “Is that what youwish for?” asked she.
“No.”
She took successively all the other papers out till the drawer wasempty. “But there are no more,” said she. Noirtier’s eye was fixed onthe dictionary.
“Yes, I understand, grandfather,” said the young girl.
40036m


She pointed to each letter of the alphabet. At the letter S the old manstopped her. She opened, and found the word “secret.”
“Ah! is there a secret spring?” said Valentine.
“Yes,” said Noirtier.
“And who knows it?” Noirtier looked at the door where the servant hadgone out.
“Barrois?” said she.
“Yes.”
“Shall I call him?”
“Yes.”
Valentine went to the door, and called Barrois. Villefort’s impatienceduring this scene made the perspiration roll from his forehead, andFranz was stupefied. The old servant came.
“Barrois,” said Valentine, “my grandfather has told me to open thatdrawer in the secretaire, but there is a secret spring in it, which youknow—will you open it?”
Barrois looked at the old man. “Obey,” said Noirtier’s intelligent eye.Barrois touched a spring, the false bottom came out, and they saw abundle of papers tied with a black string.
“Is that what you wish for?” said Barrois.
“Yes.”
“Shall I give these papers to M. de Villefort?”
“No.”
“To Mademoiselle Valentine?”
“No.”
“To M. Franz d’Épinay?”
“Yes.”
Franz, astonished, advanced a step. “To me, sir?” said he.
“Yes.”
Franz took them from Barrois and casting a glance at the cover, read:
“‘To be given, after my death, to General Durand, who shall bequeaththe packet to his son, with an injunction to preserve it as containingan important document.’
“Well, sir,” asked Franz, “what do you wish me to do with this paper?”
“To preserve it, sealed up as it is, doubtless,” said the procureur.
“No,” replied Noirtier eagerly.
“Do you wish him to read it?” said Valentine.
“Yes,” replied the old man.
“You understand, baron, my grandfather wishes you to read this paper,”said Valentine.
“Then let us sit down,” said Villefort impatiently, “for it will takesome time.”
“Sit down,” said the old man. Villefort took a chair, but Valentineremained standing by her father’s side, and Franz before him, holdingthe mysterious paper in his hand. “Read,” said the old man. Franzuntied it, and in the midst of the most profound silence read:
40038m


“‘_Extract of the report of a meeting of the Bonapartist Club in theRue Saint-Jacques, held February 5th, 1815_.’”
Franz stopped. “February 5th, 1815!” said he; “it is the day my fatherwas murdered.” Valentine and Villefort were dumb; the eye of the oldman alone seemed to say clearly, “Go on.”
“But it was on leaving this club,” said he, “my father disappeared.”
Noirtier’s eye continued to say, “Read.” He resumed:—
“‘The undersigned Louis-Jacques Beaurepaire, lieutenant-colonel ofartillery, Étienne Duchampy, general of brigade, and Claude Lecharpal,keeper of woods and forests, declare, that on the 4th of February, aletter arrived from the Island of Elba, recommending to the kindnessand the confidence of the Bonapartist Club, General Flavien de Quesnel,who having served the emperor from 1804 to 1814 was supposed to bedevoted to the interests of the Napoleon dynasty, notwithstanding thetitle of baron which Louis XVIII. had just granted to him with hisestate of Épinay.
400340m


“‘A note was in consequence addressed to General de Quesnel, begginghim to be present at the meeting next day, the 5th. The note indicatedneither the street nor the number of the house where the meeting was tobe held; it bore no signature, but it announced to the general thatsomeone would call for him if he would be ready at nine o’clock. Themeetings were always held from that time till midnight. At nine o’clockthe president of the club presented himself; the general was ready, thepresident informed him that one of the conditions of his introductionwas that he should be eternally ignorant of the place of meeting, andthat he would allow his eyes to be bandaged, swearing that he would notendeavor to take off the bandage. General de Quesnel accepted thecondition, and promised on his honor not to seek to discover the roadthey took. The general’s carriage was ready, but the president told himit was impossible for him to use it, since it was useless to blindfoldthe master if the coachman knew through what streets he went. “Whatmust be done then?” asked the general.—“I have my carriage here,” saidthe president.
“‘“Have you, then, so much confidence in your servant that you canintrust him with a secret you will not allow me to know?”
“‘“Our coachman is a member of the club,” said the president; “we shallbe driven by a State-Councillor.”
“‘“Then we run another risk,” said the general, laughing, “that ofbeing upset.” We insert this joke to prove that the general was not inthe least compelled to attend the meeting, but that he came willingly.When they were seated in the carriage the president reminded thegeneral of his promise to allow his eyes to be bandaged, to which hemade no opposition. On the road the president thought he saw thegeneral make an attempt to remove the handkerchief, and reminded him ofhis oath. “Sure enough,” said the general. The carriage stopped at analley leading out of the Rue Saint-Jacques. The general alighted,leaning on the arm of the president, of whose dignity he was not aware,considering him simply as a member of the club; they went through thealley, mounted a flight of stairs, and entered the assembly-room.
“‘The deliberations had already begun. The members, apprised of thesort of presentation which was to be made that evening, were all inattendance. When in the middle of the room the general was invited toremove his bandage, he did so immediately, and was surprised to see somany well-known faces in a society of whose existence he had till thenbeen ignorant. They questioned him as to his sentiments, but hecontented himself with answering, that the letters from the Island ofElba ought to have informed them——’”
Franz interrupted himself by saying, “My father was a royalist; theyneed not have asked his sentiments, which were well known.”
“And hence,” said Villefort, “arose my affection for your father, mydear M. Franz. Opinions held in common are a ready bond of union.”
“Read again,” said the old man.
Franz continued:
“‘The president then sought to make him speak more explicitly, but M.de Quesnel replied that he wished first to know what they wanted withhim. He was then informed of the contents of the letter from the Islandof Elba, in which he was recommended to the club as a man who would belikely to advance the interests of their party. One paragraph spoke ofthe return of Bonaparte and promised another letter and furtherdetails, on the arrival of the _Pharaon_ belonging to the shipbuilderMorrel, of Marseilles, whose captain was entirely devoted to theemperor. During all this time, the general, on whom they thought tohave relied as on a brother, manifested evidently signs of discontentand repugnance. When the reading was finished, he remained silent, withknitted brows.
“‘“Well,” asked the president, “what do you say to this letter,general?”
“‘“I say that it is too soon after declaring myself for Louis XVIII. tobreak my vow in behalf of the ex-emperor.” This answer was too clear topermit of any mistake as to his sentiments. “General,” said thepresident, “we acknowledge no King Louis XVIII., or an ex-emperor, buthis majesty the emperor and king, driven from France, which is hiskingdom, by violence and treason.”
“‘“Excuse me, gentlemen,” said the general; “you may not acknowledgeLouis XVIII., but I do, as he has made me a baron and a field-marshal,and I shall never forget that for these two titles I am indebted to hishappy return to France.”
“‘“Sir,” said the president, rising with gravity, “be careful what yousay; your words clearly show us that they are deceived concerning youin the Island of Elba, and have deceived us! The communication has beenmade to you in consequence of the confidence placed in you, and whichdoes you honor. Now we discover our error; a title and promotion attachyou to the government we wish to overturn. We will not constrain you tohelp us; we enroll no one against his conscience, but we will compelyou to act generously, even if you are not disposed to do so.”
“‘“You would call acting generously, knowing your conspiracy and notinforming against you, that is what I should call becoming youraccomplice. You see I am more candid than you.”’”
“Ah, my father!” said Franz, interrupting himself. “I understand nowwhy they murdered him.” Valentine could not help casting one glancetowards the young man, whose filial enthusiasm it was delightful tobehold. Villefort walked to and fro behind them. Noirtier watched theexpression of each one, and preserved his dignified and commandingattitude. Franz returned to the manuscript, and continued:
“‘“Sir,” said the president, “you have been invited to join thisassembly—you were not forced here; it was proposed to you to comeblindfolded—you accepted. When you complied with this twofold requestyou well knew we did not wish to secure the throne of Louis XVIII., orwe should not take so much care to avoid the vigilance of the police.It would be conceding too much to allow you to put on a mask to aid youin the discovery of our secret, and then to remove it that you may ruinthose who have confided in you. No, no, you must first say if youdeclare yourself for the king of a day who now reigns, or for hismajesty the emperor.”
“‘“I am a royalist,” replied the general; “I have taken the oath ofallegiance to Louis XVIII., and I will adhere to it.” These words werefollowed by a general murmur, and it was evident that several of themembers were discussing the propriety of making the general repent ofhis rashness.
“‘The president again arose, and having imposed silence, said,—“Sir,you are too serious and too sensible a man not to understand theconsequences of our present situation, and your candor has alreadydictated to us the conditions which remain for us to offer you.” Thegeneral, putting his hand on his sword, exclaimed,—“If you talk ofhonor, do not begin by disavowing its laws, and impose nothing byviolence.”
“‘“And you, sir,” continued the president, with a calmness still moreterrible than the general’s anger, “I advise you not to touch yoursword.” The general looked around him with slight uneasiness; howeverhe did not yield, but calling up all his fortitude, said,—“I will notswear.”
“‘“Then you must die,” replied the president calmly. M. d’Épinay becamevery pale; he looked round him a second time, several members of theclub were whispering, and getting their arms from under their cloaks.“General,” said the president, “do not alarm yourself; you are amongmen of honor who will use every means to convince you before resortingto the last extremity, but as you have said, you are amongconspirators, you are in possession of our secret, and you must restoreit to us.” A significant silence followed these words, and as thegeneral did not reply,—“Close the doors,” said the president to thedoor-keeper.
40042m


“‘The same deadly silence succeeded these words. Then the generaladvanced, and making a violent effort to control his feelings,—“I havea son,” said he, “and I ought to think of him, finding myself amongassassins.”
“‘“General,” said the chief of the assembly, “one man may insultfifty—it is the privilege of weakness. But he does wrong to use hisprivilege. Follow my advice, swear, and do not insult.” The general,again daunted by the superiority of the chief, hesitated a moment; thenadvancing to the president’s desk,—“What is the form, said he.
“‘“It is this:—‘I swear by my honor not to reveal to anyone what I haveseen and heard on the 5th of February, 1815, between nine and teno’clock in the evening; and I plead guilty of death should I everviolate this oath.’” The general appeared to be affected by a nervoustremor, which prevented his answering for some moments; then,overcoming his manifest repugnance, he pronounced the required oath,but in so low a tone as to be scarcely audible to the majority of themembers, who insisted on his repeating it clearly and distinctly, whichhe did.
“‘“Now am I at liberty to retire?” said the general. The presidentrose, appointed three members to accompany him, and got into thecarriage with the general after bandaging his eyes. One of those threemembers was the coachman who had driven them there. The other memberssilently dispersed. “Where do you wish to be taken?” asked thepresident.—“Anywhere out of your presence,” replied M. d’Épinay.“Beware, sir,” replied the president, “you are no longer in theassembly, and have only to do with individuals; do not insult themunless you wish to be held responsible.” But instead of listening, M.d’Épinay went on,—“You are still as brave in your carriage as in yourassembly because you are still four against one.” The president stoppedthe coach. They were at that part of the Quai des Ormes where the stepslead down to the river. “Why do you stop here?” asked d’Épinay.
“‘“Because, sir,” said the president, “you have insulted a man, andthat man will not go one step farther without demanding honorablereparation.”
“‘“Another method of assassination?” said the general, shrugging hisshoulders.
“‘“Make no noise, sir, unless you wish me to consider you as one of themen of whom you spoke just now as cowards, who take their weakness fora shield. You are alone, one alone shall answer you; you have a swordby your side, I have one in my cane; you have no witness, one of thesegentlemen will serve you. Now, if you please, remove your bandage.” Thegeneral tore the handkerchief from his eyes. “At last,” said he, “Ishall know with whom I have to do.” They opened the door and the fourmen alighted.’”
Franz again interrupted himself, and wiped the cold drops from hisbrow; there was something awful in hearing the son read aloud intrembling pallor these details of his father’s death, which hadhitherto been a mystery. Valentine clasped her hands as if in prayer.Noirtier looked at Villefort with an almost sublime expression ofcontempt and pride.
Franz continued:
“‘It was, as we said, the fifth of February. For three days the mercuryhad been five or six degrees below freezing and the steps were coveredwith ice. The general was stout and tall, the president offered him theside of the railing to assist him in getting down. The two witnessesfollowed. It was a dark night. The ground from the steps to the riverwas covered with snow and hoarfrost, the water of the river lookedblack and deep. One of the seconds went for a lantern in a coal-bargenear, and by its light they examined the weapons. The president’ssword, which was simply, as he had said, one he carried in his cane,was five inches shorter than the general’s, and had no guard. Thegeneral proposed to cast lots for the swords, but the president said itwas he who had given the provocation, and when he had given it he hadsupposed each would use his own arms. The witnesses endeavored toinsist, but the president bade them be silent. The lantern was placedon the ground, the two adversaries took their stations, and the duelbegan. The light made the two swords appear like flashes of lightning;as for the men, they were scarcely perceptible, the darkness was sogreat.
40044m


“‘General d’Épinay passed for one of the best swordsmen in the army,but he was pressed so closely in the onset that he missed his aim andfell. The witnesses thought he was dead, but his adversary, who knew hehad not struck him, offered him the assistance of his hand to rise. Thecircumstance irritated instead of calming the general, and he rushed onhis adversary. But his opponent did not allow his guard to be broken.He received him on his sword and three times the general drew back onfinding himself too closely engaged, and then returned to the charge.At the third he fell again. They thought he slipped, as at first, andthe witnesses, seeing he did not move, approached and endeavored toraise him, but the one who passed his arm around the body found it wasmoistened with blood. The general, who had almost fainted, revived.“Ah,” said he, “they have sent some fencing-master to fight with me.”The president, without answering, approached the witness who held thelantern, and raising his sleeve, showed him two wounds he had receivedin his arm; then opening his coat, and unbuttoning his waistcoat,displayed his side, pierced with a third wound. Still he had not evenuttered a sigh. General d’Épinay died five minutes after.’”
Franz read these last words in a voice so choked that they were hardlyaudible, and then stopped, passing his hand over his eyes as if todispel a cloud; but after a moment’s silence, he continued:
“‘The president went up the steps, after pushing his sword into hiscane; a track of blood on the snow marked his course. He had scarcelyarrived at the top when he heard a heavy splash in the water—it was thegeneral’s body, which the witnesses had just thrown into the riverafter ascertaining that he was dead. The general fell, then, in a loyalduel, and not in ambush as it might have been reported. In proof ofthis we have signed this paper to establish the truth of the facts,lest the moment should arrive when either of the actors in thisterrible scene should be accused of premeditated murder or ofinfringement of the laws of honor.
“‘Signed, Beaurepaire, Duchampy, and Lecharpal.’”
When Franz had finished reading this account, so dreadful for a son;when Valentine, pale with emotion, had wiped away a tear; whenVillefort, trembling, and crouched in a corner, had endeavored tolessen the storm by supplicating glances at the implacable old man,—
“Sir,” said d’Épinay to Noirtier, “since you are well acquainted withall these details, which are attested by honorable signatures,—sinceyou appear to take some interest in me, although you have onlymanifested it hitherto by causing me sorrow, refuse me not one finalsatisfaction—tell me the name of the president of the club, that I mayat least know who killed my father.”
Villefort mechanically felt for the handle of the door; Valentine, whounderstood sooner than anyone her grandfather’s answer, and who hadoften seen two scars upon his right arm, drew back a few steps.
“Mademoiselle,” said Franz, turning towards Valentine, “unite yourefforts with mine to find out the name of the man who made me an orphanat two years of age.” Valentine remained dumb and motionless.
“Hold, sir,” said Villefort, “do not prolong this dreadful scene. Thenames have been purposely concealed; my father himself does not knowwho this president was, and if he knows, he cannot tell you; propernames are not in the dictionary.”
“Oh, misery,” cried Franz: “the only hope which sustained me andenabled me to read to the end was that of knowing, at least, the nameof him who killed my father! Sir, sir,” cried he, turning to Noirtier,“do what you can—make me understand in some way!”
“Yes,” replied Noirtier.
“Oh, mademoiselle, mademoiselle!” cried Franz, “your grandfather sayshe can indicate the person. Help me,—lend me your assistance!”
Noirtier looked at the dictionary. Franz took it with a nervoustrembling, and repeated the letters of the alphabet successively, untilhe came to M. At that letter the old man signified “Yes.”
“M,” repeated Franz. The young man’s finger, glided over the words, butat each one Noirtier answered by a negative sign. Valentine hid herhead between her hands. At length, Franz arrived at the word MYSELF.
40046m


“Yes!”
“You!” cried Franz, whose hair stood on end; “you, M. Noirtier—youkilled my father?”
“Yes!” replied Noirtier, fixing a majestic look on the young man. Franzfell powerless on a chair; Villefort opened the door and escaped, forthe idea had entered his mind to stifle the little remaining life inthe heart of this terrible old man.



 Chapter 76. Progress of Cavalcanti the Younger
Meanwhile M. Cavalcanti the elder had returned to his service, not inthe army of his majesty the Emperor of Austria, but at the gaming-tableof the baths of Lucca, of which he was one of the most assiduouscourtiers. He had spent every farthing that had been allowed for hisjourney as a reward for the majestic and solemn manner in which he hadmaintained his assumed character of father.
M. Andrea at his departure inherited all the papers which proved thathe had indeed the honor of being the son of the Marquis Bartolomeo andthe Marchioness Oliva Corsinari. He was now fairly launched in thatParisian society which gives such ready access to foreigners, andtreats them, not as they really are, but as they wish to be considered.Besides, what is required of a young man in Paris? To speak itslanguage tolerably, to make a good appearance, to be a good gamester,and to pay in cash. They are certainly less particular with a foreignerthan with a Frenchman. Andrea had, then, in a fortnight, attained avery fair position. He was called count, he was said to possess 50,000livres per annum; and his father’s immense riches, buried in thequarries of Saravezza, were a constant theme. A learned man, beforewhom the last circumstance was mentioned as a fact, declared he hadseen the quarries in question, which gave great weight to assertionshitherto somewhat doubtful, but which now assumed the garb of reality.
Such was the state of society in Paris at the period we bring beforeour readers, when Monte Cristo went one evening to pay M. Danglars avisit. M. Danglars was out, but the count was asked to go and see thebaroness, and he accepted the invitation. It was never without anervous shudder, since the dinner at Auteuil, and the events whichfollowed it, that Madame Danglars heard Monte Cristo’s name announced.If he did not come, the painful sensation became most intense; if, onthe contrary, he appeared, his noble countenance, his brilliant eyes,his amiability, his polite attention even towards Madame Danglars, soondispelled every impression of fear. It appeared impossible to thebaroness that a man of such delightfully pleasing manners shouldentertain evil designs against her; besides, the most corrupt mindsonly suspect evil when it would answer some interested end—uselessinjury is repugnant to every mind.
40048m


When Monte Cristo entered the boudoir, to which we have already onceintroduced our readers, and where the baroness was examining somedrawings, which her daughter passed to her after having looked at themwith M. Cavalcanti, his presence soon produced its usual effect, and itwas with smiles that the baroness received the count, although she hadbeen a little disconcerted at the announcement of his name. The lattertook in the whole scene at a glance.
The baroness was partially reclining on a sofa, Eugénie sat near her,and Cavalcanti was standing. Cavalcanti, dressed in black, like one ofGoethe’s heroes, with varnished shoes and white silk open-workedstockings, passed a white and tolerably nice-looking hand through hislight hair, and so displayed a sparkling diamond, that in spite ofMonte Cristo’s advice the vain young man had been unable to resistputting on his little finger. This movement was accompanied by killingglances at Mademoiselle Danglars, and by sighs launched in the samedirection.
Mademoiselle Danglars was still the same—cold, beautiful, andsatirical. Not one of these glances, nor one sigh, was lost on her;they might have been said to fall on the shield of Minerva, which somephilosophers assert protected sometimes the breast of Sappho. Eugéniebowed coldly to the count, and availed herself of the first moment whenthe conversation became earnest to escape to her study, whence verysoon two cheerful and noisy voices being heard in connection withoccasional notes of the piano assured Monte Cristo that MademoiselleDanglars preferred to his society and to that of M. Cavalcanti thecompany of Mademoiselle Louise d’Armilly, her singing teacher.
It was then, especially while conversing with Madame Danglars, andapparently absorbed by the charm of the conversation, that the countnoticed M. Andrea Cavalcanti’s solicitude, his manner of listening tothe music at the door he dared not pass, and of manifesting hisadmiration.
The banker soon returned. His first look was certainly directed towardsMonte Cristo, but the second was for Andrea. As for his wife, he bowedto her, as some husbands do to their wives, but in a way that bachelorswill never comprehend, until a very extensive code is published onconjugal life.
“Have not the ladies invited you to join them at the piano?” saidDanglars to Andrea.
“Alas, no, sir,” replied Andrea with a sigh, still more remarkable thanthe former ones. Danglars immediately advanced towards the door andopened it.
40050m


The two young ladies were seen seated on the same chair, at the piano,accompanying themselves, each with one hand, a fancy to which they hadaccustomed themselves, and performed admirably. Mademoiselle d’Armilly,whom they then perceived through the open doorway, formed with Eugénieone of the _tableaux vivants_ of which the Germans are so fond. She wassomewhat beautiful, and exquisitely formed—a little fairy-like figure,with large curls falling on her neck, which was rather too long, asPerugino sometimes makes his Virgins, and her eyes dull from fatigue.She was said to have a weak chest, and like Antonia in the _CremonaViolin_, she would die one day while singing.
Monte Cristo cast one rapid and curious glance round this sanctum; itwas the first time he had ever seen Mademoiselle d’Armilly, of whom hehad heard much.
“Well,” said the banker to his daughter, “are we then all to beexcluded?”
He then led the young man into the study, and either by chance ormanœuvre the door was partially closed after Andrea, so that from theplace where they sat neither the Count nor the baroness could seeanything; but as the banker had accompanied Andrea, Madame Danglarsappeared to take no notice of it.
The count soon heard Andrea’s voice, singing a Corsican song,accompanied by the piano. While the count smiled at hearing this song,which made him lose sight of Andrea in the recollection of Benedetto,Madame Danglars was boasting to Monte Cristo of her husband’s strengthof mind, who that very morning had lost three or four hundred thousandfrancs by a failure at Milan. The praise was well deserved, for had notthe count heard it from the baroness, or by one of those means by whichhe knew everything, the baron’s countenance would not have led him tosuspect it.
“Hem,” thought Monte Cristo, “he begins to conceal his losses; a monthsince he boasted of them.”
Then aloud,—“Oh, madame, M. Danglars is so skilful, he will soon regainat the Bourse what he loses elsewhere.”
“I see that you participate in a prevalent error,” said MadameDanglars.
“What is it?” said Monte Cristo.
“That M. Danglars speculates, whereas he never does.”
“Truly, madame, I recollect M. Debray told me——apropos, what has becomeof him? I have seen nothing of him the last three or four days.”
“Nor I,” said Madame Danglars; “but you began a sentence, sir, and didnot finish.”
“Which?”
“M. Debray had told you——”
“Ah, yes; he told me it was you who sacrificed to the demon ofspeculation.”
“I was once very fond of it, but I do not indulge now.”
“Then you are wrong, madame. Fortune is precarious; and if I were awoman and fate had made me a banker’s wife, whatever might be myconfidence in my husband’s good fortune, still in speculation you knowthere is great risk. Well, I would secure for myself a fortuneindependent of him, even if I acquired it by placing my interests inhands unknown to him.” Madame Danglars blushed, in spite of all herefforts.
“Stay,” said Monte Cristo, as though he had not observed her confusion,“I have heard of a lucky hit that was made yesterday on the Neapolitanbonds.”
“I have none—nor have I ever possessed any; but really we have talkedlong enough of money, count, we are like two stockbrokers; have youheard how fate is persecuting the poor Villeforts?”
“What has happened?” said the count, simulating total ignorance.
“You know the Marquis of Saint-Méran died a few days after he had setout on his journey to Paris, and the marchioness a few days after herarrival?”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo, “I have heard that; but, as Claudius said toHamlet, ‘it is a law of nature; their fathers died before them, andthey mourned their loss; they will die before their children, who will,in their turn, grieve for them.’”
“But that is not all.”
“Not all!”
“No; they were going to marry their daughter——”
“To M. Franz d’Épinay. Is it broken off?”
“Yesterday morning, it appears, Franz declined the honor.”
“Indeed? And is the reason known?”
“No.”
“How extraordinary! And how does M. de Villefort bear it?”
“As usual. Like a philosopher.”
Danglars returned at this moment alone.
“Well,” said the baroness, “do you leave M. Cavalcanti with yourdaughter?”
“And Mademoiselle d’Armilly,” said the banker; “do you consider her noone?” Then, turning to Monte Cristo, he said, “Prince Cavalcanti is acharming young man, is he not? But is he really a prince?”
“I will not answer for it,” said Monte Cristo. “His father wasintroduced to me as a marquis, so he ought to be a count; but I do notthink he has much claim to that title.”
“Why?” said the banker. “If he is a prince, he is wrong not to maintainhis rank; I do not like anyone to deny his origin.”
“Oh, you are a thorough democrat,” said Monte Cristo, smiling.
“But do you see to what you are exposing yourself?” said the baroness.“If, perchance, M. de Morcerf came, he would find M. Cavalcanti in thatroom, where he, the betrothed of Eugénie, has never been admitted.”
“You may well say, perchance,” replied the banker; “for he comes soseldom, it would seem only chance that brings him.”
“But should he come and find that young man with your daughter, hemight be displeased.”
“He? You are mistaken. M. Albert would not do us the honor to bejealous; he does not like Eugénie sufficiently. Besides, I care not forhis displeasure.”
“Still, situated as we are——”
“Yes, do you know how we are situated? At his mother’s ball he dancedonce with Eugénie, and M. Cavalcanti three times, and he took no noticeof it.”
The valet announced the Vicomte Albert de Morcerf. The baroness rosehastily, and was going into the study, when Danglars stopped her.
“Let her alone,” said he.
She looked at him in amazement. Monte Cristo appeared to be unconsciousof what passed. Albert entered, looking very handsome and in highspirits. He bowed politely to the baroness, familiarly to Danglars, andaffectionately to Monte Cristo. Then turning to the baroness: “May Iask how Mademoiselle Danglars is?” said he.
“She is quite well,” replied Danglars quickly; “she is at the pianowith M. Cavalcanti.”
Albert retained his calm and indifferent manner; he might feel perhapsannoyed, but he knew Monte Cristo’s eye was on him. “M. Cavalcanti hasa fine tenor voice,” said he, “and Mademoiselle Eugénie a splendidsoprano, and then she plays the piano like Thalberg. The concert mustbe a delightful one.”
“They suit each other remarkably well,” said Danglars. Albert appearednot to notice this remark, which was, however, so rude that MadameDanglars blushed.
“I, too,” said the young man, “am a musician—at least, my masters usedto tell me so; but it is strange that my voice never would suit anyother, and a soprano less than any.”
Danglars smiled, and seemed to say, “It is of no consequence.” Then,hoping doubtless to effect his purpose, he said,—“The prince and mydaughter were universally admired yesterday. You were not of the party,M. de Morcerf?”
“What prince?” asked Albert.
“Prince Cavalcanti,” said Danglars, who persisted in giving the youngman that title.
“Pardon me,” said Albert, “I was not aware that he was a prince. AndPrince Cavalcanti sang with Mademoiselle Eugénie yesterday? It musthave been charming, indeed. I regret not having heard them. But I wasunable to accept your invitation, having promised to accompany mymother to a German concert given by the Baroness of Château-Renaud.”
This was followed by rather an awkward silence.
“May I also be allowed,” said Morcerf, “to pay my respects toMademoiselle Danglars?”
“Wait a moment,” said the banker, stopping the young man; “do you hearthat delightful cavatina? Ta, ta, ta, ti, ta, ti, ta, ta; it ischarming, let them finish—one moment. Bravo, bravi, brava!” The bankerwas enthusiastic in his applause.
40054m


“Indeed,” said Albert, “it is exquisite; it is impossible to understandthe music of his country better than Prince Cavalcanti does. You saidprince, did you not? But he can easily become one, if he is notalready; it is no uncommon thing in Italy. But to return to thecharming musicians—you should give us a treat, Danglars, withouttelling them there is a stranger. Ask them to sing one more song; it isso delightful to hear music in the distance, when the musicians areunrestrained by observation.”
Danglars was quite annoyed by the young man’s indifference. He tookMonte Cristo aside.
“What do you think of our lover?” said he.
“He appears cool. But, then your word is given.”
“Yes, doubtless I have promised to give my daughter to a man who lovesher, but not to one who does not. See him there, cold as marble andproud like his father. If he were rich, if he had Cavalcanti’s fortune,that might be pardoned. _Ma foi_, I haven’t consulted my daughter; butif she has good taste——”
“Oh,” said Monte Cristo, “my fondness may blind me, but I assure you Iconsider Morcerf a charming young man who will render your daughterhappy and will sooner or later attain a certain amount of distinction,and his father’s position is good.”
“Hem,” said Danglars.
“Why do you doubt?”
“The past—that obscurity on the past.”
“But that does not affect the son.”
“Very true.”
“Now, I beg of you, don’t go off your head. It’s a month now that youhave been thinking of this marriage, and you must see that it throwssome responsibility on me, for it was at my house you met this youngCavalcanti, whom I do not really know at all.”
“But I do.”
“Have you made inquiry?”
“Is there any need of that! Does not his appearance speak for him? Andhe is very rich.”
“I am not so sure of that.”
“And yet you said he had money.”
“Fifty thousand livres—a mere trifle.”
“He is well educated.”
“Hem,” said Monte Cristo in his turn.
“He is a musician.”
“So are all Italians.”
“Come, count, you do not do that young man justice.”
“Well, I acknowledge it annoys me, knowing your connection with theMorcerf family, to see him throw himself in the way.” Danglars burstout laughing.
“What a Puritan you are!” said he; “that happens every day.”
“But you cannot break it off in this way; the Morcerfs are depending onthis union.”
“Indeed.”
“Positively.”
“Then let them explain themselves; you should give the father a hint,you are so intimate with the family.”
“I?—where the devil did you find out that?”
“At their ball; it was apparent enough. Why, did not the countess, theproud Mercédès, the disdainful Catalane, who will scarcely open herlips to her oldest acquaintances, take your arm, lead you into thegarden, into the private walks, and remain there for half an hour?”
“Ah, baron, baron,” said Albert, “you are not listening—what barbarismin a megalomaniac like you!”
“Oh, don’t worry about me, Sir Mocker,” said Danglars; then turning toMonte Cristo he said:
“But will you undertake to speak to the father?”
“Willingly, if you wish it.”
“But let it be done explicitly and positively. If he demands mydaughter let him fix the day—declare his conditions; in short, let useither understand each other, or quarrel. You understand—no moredelay.”
“Yes, sir, I will give my attention to the subject.”
“I do not say that I await with pleasure his decision, but I do awaitit. A banker must, you know, be a slave to his promise.” And Danglarssighed as M. Cavalcanti had done half an hour before.
“Bravi! bravo! brava!” cried Morcerf, parodying the banker, as theselection came to an end. Danglars began to look suspiciously atMorcerf, when someone came and whispered a few words to him.
“I shall soon return,” said the banker to Monte Cristo; “wait for me. Ishall, perhaps, have something to say to you.” And he went out.
The baroness took advantage of her husband’s absence to push open thedoor of her daughter’s study, and M. Andrea, who was sitting before thepiano with Mademoiselle Eugénie, started up like a jack-in-the-box.Albert bowed with a smile to Mademoiselle Danglars, who did not appearin the least disturbed, and returned his bow with her usual coolness.Cavalcanti was evidently embarrassed; he bowed to Morcerf, who repliedwith the most impertinent look possible. Then Albert launched out inpraise of Mademoiselle Danglars’ voice, and on his regret, after whathe had just heard, that he had been unable to be present the previousevening.
Cavalcanti, being left alone, turned to Monte Cristo.
“Come,” said Madame Danglars, “leave music and compliments, and let usgo and take tea.”
“Come, Louise,” said Mademoiselle Danglars to her friend.
They passed into the next drawing-room, where tea was prepared. Just asthey were beginning, in the English fashion, to leave the spoons intheir cups, the door again opened and Danglars entered, visiblyagitated. Monte Cristo observed it particularly, and by a look askedthe banker for an explanation.
“I have just received my courier from Greece,” said Danglars.
“Ah, yes,” said the count; “that was the reason of your running awayfrom us.”
“Yes.”
“How is King Otho getting on?” asked Albert in the most sprightly tone.
Danglars cast another suspicious look towards him without answering,and Monte Cristo turned away to conceal the expression of pity whichpassed over his features, but which was gone in a moment.
“We shall go together, shall we not?” said Albert to the count.
“If you like,” replied the latter.
Albert could not understand the banker’s look, and turning to MonteCristo, who understood it perfectly,—“Did you see,” said he, “how helooked at me?”
“Yes,” said the count; “but did you think there was anything particularin his look?”
“Indeed, I did; and what does he mean by his news from Greece?”
“How can I tell you?”
“Because I imagine you have correspondents in that country.”
Monte Cristo smiled significantly.
“Stop,” said Albert, “here he comes. I shall compliment MademoiselleDanglars on her cameo, while the father talks to you.”
“If you compliment her at all, let it be on her voice, at least,” saidMonte Cristo.
“No, everyone would do that.”
“My dear viscount, you are dreadfully impertinent.”
Albert advanced towards Eugénie, smiling.
Meanwhile, Danglars, stooping to Monte Cristo’s ear, “Your advice wasexcellent,” said he; “there is a whole history connected with the namesFernand and Yanina.”
“Indeed?” said Monte Cristo.
“Yes, I will tell you all; but take away the young man; I cannot endurehis presence.”
“He is going with me. Shall I send the father to you?”
“Immediately.”
“Very well.” The count made a sign to Albert and they bowed to theladies, and took their leave, Albert perfectly indifferent toMademoiselle Danglars’ contempt, Monte Cristo reiterating his advice toMadame Danglars on the prudence a banker’s wife should exercise inproviding for the future.
M. Cavalcanti remained master of the field.


 Chapter 77. Haydée
Scarcely had the count’s horses cleared the angle of the boulevard,when Albert, turning towards the count, burst into a loud fit oflaughter—much too loud in fact not to give the idea of its being ratherforced and unnatural.
“Well,” said he, “I will ask you the same question which Charles IX.put to Catherine de’ Medici, after the massacre of Saint Bartholomew:‘How have I played my little part?’”
“To what do you allude?” asked Monte Cristo.
“To the installation of my rival at M. Danglars’.”
“What rival?”
“_Ma foi!_ what rival? Why, your protégé, M. Andrea Cavalcanti!”
“Ah, no joking, viscount, if you please; I do not patronize M.Andrea—at least, not as concerns M. Danglars.”
“And you would be to blame for not assisting him, if the young manreally needed your help in that quarter, but, happily for me, he candispense with it.”
“What, do you think he is paying his addresses?”
“I am certain of it; his languishing looks and modulated tones whenaddressing Mademoiselle Danglars fully proclaim his intentions. Heaspires to the hand of the proud Eugénie.”
“What does that signify, so long as they favor your suit?”
“But it is not the case, my dear count: on the contrary. I am repulsedon all sides.”
“What!”
“It is so indeed; Mademoiselle Eugénie scarcely answers me, andMademoiselle d’Armilly, her confidant, does not speak to me at all.”
“But the father has the greatest regard possible for you,” said MonteCristo.
“He? Oh, no, he has plunged a thousand daggers into my heart,tragedy-weapons, I own, which instead of wounding sheathe their pointsin their own handles, but daggers which he nevertheless believed to bereal and deadly.”
“Jealousy indicates affection.”
“True; but I am not jealous.”
“He is.”
“Of whom?—of Debray?”
“No, of you.”
“Of me? I will engage to say that before a week is past the door willbe closed against me.”
“You are mistaken, my dear viscount.”
“Prove it to me.”
“Do you wish me to do so?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I am charged with the commission of endeavoring to induce theComte de Morcerf to make some definite arrangement with the baron.”
“By whom are you charged?”
“By the baron himself.”
“Oh,” said Albert with all the cajolery of which he was capable. “Yousurely will not do that, my dear count?”
“Certainly I shall, Albert, as I have promised to do it.”
“Well,” said Albert, with a sigh, “it seems you are determined to marryme.”
“I am determined to try and be on good terms with everybody, at allevents,” said Monte Cristo. “But apropos of Debray, how is it that Ihave not seen him lately at the baron’s house?”
“There has been a misunderstanding.”
“What, with the baroness?”
“No, with the baron.”
“Has he perceived anything?”
“Ah, that is a good joke!”
“Do you think he suspects?” said Monte Cristo with charmingartlessness.
“Where have you come from, my dear count?” said Albert.
“From Congo, if you will.”
“It must be farther off than even that.”
“But what do I know of your Parisian husbands?”
“Oh, my dear count, husbands are pretty much the same everywhere; anindividual husband of any country is a pretty fair specimen of thewhole race.”
“But then, what can have led to the quarrel between Danglars andDebray? They seemed to understand each other so well,” said MonteCristo with renewed energy.
“Ah, now you are trying to penetrate into the mysteries of Isis, inwhich I am not initiated. When M. Andrea Cavalcanti has become one ofthe family, you can ask him that question.”
The carriage stopped.
“Here we are,” said Monte Cristo; “it is only half-past ten o’clock,come in.”
“Certainly, I will.”
“My carriage shall take you back.”
“No, thank you; I gave orders for my _coupé_ to follow me.”
“There it is, then,” said Monte Cristo, as he stepped out of thecarriage. They both went into the house; the drawing-room was lightedup—they went in there. “You will make tea for us, Baptistin,” said thecount. Baptistin left the room without waiting to answer, and in twoseconds reappeared, bringing on a tray, all that his master hadordered, ready prepared, and appearing to have sprung from the ground,like the repasts which we read of in fairy tales.
“Really, my dear count,” said Morcerf, “what I admire in you is, not somuch your riches, for perhaps there are people even wealthier thanyourself, nor is it only your wit, for Beaumarchais might havepossessed as much,—but it is your manner of being served, without anyquestions, in a moment, in a second; it is as if they guessed what youwanted by your manner of ringing, and made a point of keepingeverything you can possibly desire in constant readiness.”
“What you say is perhaps true; they know my habits. For instance, youshall see; how do you wish to occupy yourself during tea-time?”
“_Ma foi_, I should like to smoke.”
Monte Cristo took the gong and struck it once. In about the space of asecond a private door opened, and Ali appeared, bringing two chibouquesfilled with excellent latakia.
“It is quite wonderful,” said Albert.
“Oh no, it is as simple as possible,” replied Monte Cristo. “Ali knowsI generally smoke while I am taking my tea or coffee; he has heard thatI ordered tea, and he also knows that I brought you home with me; whenI summoned him he naturally guessed the reason of my doing so, and ashe comes from a country where hospitality is especially manifestedthrough the medium of smoking, he naturally concludes that we shallsmoke in company, and therefore brings two chibouques instead ofone—and now the mystery is solved.”
“Certainly you give a most commonplace air to your explanation, but itis not the less true that you——Ah, but what do I hear?” and Morcerfinclined his head towards the door, through which sounds seemed toissue resembling those of a guitar.
“_Ma foi_, my dear viscount, you are fated to hear music this evening;you have only escaped from Mademoiselle Danglars’ piano, to be attackedby Haydée’s guzla.”
“Haydée—what an adorable name! Are there, then, really women who bearthe name of Haydée anywhere but in Byron’s poems?”
“Certainly there are. Haydée is a very uncommon name in France, but iscommon enough in Albania and Epirus; it is as if you said, for example,Chastity, Modesty, Innocence,—it is a kind of baptismal name, as youParisians call it.”
“Oh, that is charming,” said Albert, “how I should like to hear mycountrywomen called Mademoiselle Goodness, Mademoiselle Silence,Mademoiselle Christian Charity! Only think, then, if MademoiselleDanglars, instead of being called Claire-Marie-Eugénie, had been namedMademoiselle Chastity-Modesty-Innocence Danglars; what a fine effectthat would have produced on the announcement of her marriage!”
“Hush,” said the count, “do not joke in so loud a tone; Haydée may hearyou, perhaps.”
“And you think she would be angry?”
“No, certainly not,” said the count with a haughty expression.
“She is very amiable, then, is she not?” said Albert.
“It is not to be called amiability, it is her duty; a slave does notdictate to a master.”
“Come; you are joking yourself now. Are there any more slaves to be hadwho bear this beautiful name?”
“Undoubtedly.”
“Really, count, you do nothing, and have nothing like other people. Theslave of the Count of Monte Cristo! Why, it is a rank of itself inFrance, and from the way in which you lavish money, it is a place thatmust be worth a hundred thousand francs a year.”
“A hundred thousand francs! The poor girl originally possessed muchmore than that; she was born to treasures in comparison with whichthose recorded in the _Thousand and One Nights_ would seem butpoverty.”
“She must be a princess then.”
“You are right; and she is one of the greatest in her country too.”
“I thought so. But how did it happen that such a great princess becamea slave?”
“How was it that Dionysius the Tyrant became a schoolmaster? Thefortune of war, my dear viscount,—the caprice of fortune; that is theway in which these things are to be accounted for.”
“And is her name a secret?”
“As regards the generality of mankind it is; but not for you, my dearviscount, who are one of my most intimate friends, and on whose silenceI feel I may rely, if I consider it necessary to enjoin it—may I not doso?”
“Certainly; on my word of honor.”
“You know the history of the Pasha of Yanina, do you not?”
“Of Ali Tepelini?13 Oh, yes; it was in his service that my father madehis fortune.”
“True, I had forgotten that.”
40062m


“Well, what is Haydée to Ali Tepelini?”
“Merely his daughter.”
“What? the daughter of Ali Pasha?”
“Of Ali Pasha and the beautiful Vasiliki.”
“And your slave?”
“_Ma foi_, yes.”
“But how did she become so?”
“Why, simply from the circumstance of my having bought her one day, asI was passing through the market at Constantinople.”
“Wonderful! Really, my dear count, you seem to throw a sort of magicinfluence over all in which you are concerned; when I listen to you,existence no longer seems reality, but a waking dream. Now, I amperhaps going to make an imprudent and thoughtless request, but——”
“Say on.”
“But, since you go out with Haydée, and sometimes even take her to theOpera——”
“Well?”
“I think I may venture to ask you this favor.”
“You may venture to ask me anything.”
“Well then, my dear count, present me to your princess.”
“I will do so; but on two conditions.”
“I accept them at once.”
“The first is, that you will never tell anyone that I have granted theinterview.”
“Very well,” said Albert, extending his hand; “I swear I will not.”
“The second is, that you will not tell her that your father ever servedhers.”
“I give you my oath that I will not.”
“Enough, viscount; you will remember those two vows, will you not? ButI know you to be a man of honor.”
The count again struck the gong. Ali reappeared. “Tell Haydée,” saidhe, “that I will take coffee with her, and give her to understand thatI desire permission to present one of my friends to her.”
Ali bowed and left the room.
“Now, understand me,” said the count, “no direct questions, my dearMorcerf; if you wish to know anything, tell me, and I will ask her.”
“Agreed.”
Ali reappeared for the third time, and drew back the tapestried hangingwhich concealed the door, to signify to his master and Albert that theywere at liberty to pass on.
“Let us go in,” said Monte Cristo.
Albert passed his hand through his hair, and curled his moustache,then, having satisfied himself as to his personal appearance, followedthe count into the room, the latter having previously resumed his hatand gloves. Ali was stationed as a kind of advanced guard, and the doorwas kept by the three French attendants, commanded by Myrtho.
Haydée was awaiting her visitors in the first room of her apartments,which was the drawing-room. Her large eyes were dilated with surpriseand expectation, for it was the first time that any man, except MonteCristo, had been accorded an entrance into her presence. She wassitting on a sofa placed in an angle of the room, with her legs crossedunder her in the Eastern fashion, and seemed to have made for herself,as it were, a kind of nest in the rich Indian silks which envelopedher. Near her was the instrument on which she had just been playing; itwas elegantly fashioned, and worthy of its mistress. On perceivingMonte Cristo, she arose and welcomed him with a smile peculiar toherself, expressive at once of the most implicit obedience and also ofthe deepest love. Monte Cristo advanced towards her and extended hishand, which she as usual raised to her lips.
40064m


Albert had proceeded no farther than the door, where he remained rootedto the spot, being completely fascinated by the sight of suchsurpassing beauty, beheld as it was for the first time, and of which aninhabitant of more northern climes could form no adequate idea.
“Whom do you bring?” asked the young girl in Romaic, of Monte Cristo;“is it a friend, a brother, a simple acquaintance, or an enemy.”
“A friend,” said Monte Cristo in the same language.
“What is his name?”
“Count Albert; it is the same man whom I rescued from the hands of thebanditti at Rome.”
“In what language would you like me to converse with him?”
Monte Cristo turned to Albert. “Do you know modern Greek,” asked he.
“Alas! no,” said Albert; “nor even ancient Greek, my dear count; neverhad Homer or Plato a more unworthy scholar than myself.”
“Then,” said Haydée, proving by her remark that she had quiteunderstood Monte Cristo’s question and Albert’s answer, “then I willspeak either in French or Italian, if my lord so wills it.”
Monte Cristo reflected one instant. “You will speak in Italian,” saidhe.
Then, turning towards Albert,—“It is a pity you do not understandeither ancient or modern Greek, both of which Haydée speaks sofluently; the poor child will be obliged to talk to you in Italian,which will give you but a very false idea of her powers ofconversation.”
The count made a sign to Haydée to address his visitor. “Sir,” she saidto Morcerf, “you are most welcome as the friend of my lord and master.”This was said in excellent Tuscan, and with that soft Roman accentwhich makes the language of Dante as sonorous as that of Homer. Then,turning to Ali, she directed him to bring coffee and pipes, and when hehad left the room to execute the orders of his young mistress shebeckoned Albert to approach nearer to her. Monte Cristo and Morcerfdrew their seats towards a small table, on which were arranged music,drawings, and vases of flowers. Ali then entered bringing coffee andchibouques; as to M. Baptistin, this portion of the building wasinterdicted to him. Albert refused the pipe which the Nubian offeredhim.
“Oh, take it—take it,” said the count; “Haydée is almost as civilizedas a Parisian; the smell of a Havana is disagreeable to her, but thetobacco of the East is a most delicious perfume, you know.”
Ali left the room. The cups of coffee were all prepared, with theaddition of sugar, which had been brought for Albert. Monte Cristo andHaydée took the beverage in the original Arabian manner, that is tosay, without sugar. Haydée took the porcelain cup in her little slenderfingers and conveyed it to her mouth with all the innocent artlessnessof a child when eating or drinking something which it likes. At thismoment two women entered, bringing salvers filled with ices andsherbet, which they placed on two small tables appropriated to thatpurpose.
“My dear host, and you, signora,” said Albert, in Italian, “excuse myapparent stupidity. I am quite bewildered, and it is natural that itshould be so. Here I am in the heart of Paris; but a moment ago I heardthe rumbling of the omnibuses and the tinkling of the bells of thelemonade-sellers, and now I feel as if I were suddenly transported tothe East; not such as I have seen it, but such as my dreams havepainted it. Oh, signora, if I could but speak Greek, your conversation,added to the fairy-scene which surrounds me, would furnish an eveningof such delight as it would be impossible for me ever to forget.”
“I speak sufficient Italian to enable me to converse with you, sir,”said Haydée quietly; “and if you like what is Eastern, I will do mybest to secure the gratification of your tastes while you are here.”
“On what subject shall I converse with her?” said Albert, in a low toneto Monte Cristo.
“Just what you please; you may speak of her country and of her youthfulreminiscences, or if you like it better you can talk of Rome, Naples,or Florence.”
“Oh,” said Albert, “it is of no use to be in the company of a Greek ifone converses just in the same style as with a Parisian; let me speakto her of the East.”
“Do so then, for of all themes which you could choose that will be themost agreeable to her taste.”
Albert turned towards Haydée. “At what age did you leave Greece,signora?” asked he.
“I left it when I was but five years old,” replied Haydée.
“And have you any recollection of your country?”
“When I shut my eyes and think, I seem to see it all again. The mindcan see as well as the body. The body forgets sometimes; but the mindalways remembers.”
“And how far back into the past do your recollections extend?”
“I could scarcely walk when my mother, who was called Vasiliki, whichmeans royal,” said the young girl, tossing her head proudly, “took meby the hand, and after putting in our purse all the money we possessed,we went out, both covered with veils, to solicit alms for theprisoners, saying, ‘He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.’Then when our purse was full we returned to the palace, and withoutsaying a word to my father, we sent it to the convent, where it wasdivided amongst the prisoners.”
“And how old were you at that time?”
“I was three years old,” said Haydée.
“Then you remember everything that went on about you from the time whenyou were three years old?” said Albert.
“Everything.”
“Count,” said Albert, in a low tone to Monte Cristo, “do allow thesignora to tell me something of her history. You prohibited mymentioning my father’s name to her, but perhaps she will allude to himof her own accord in the course of the recital, and you have no ideahow delighted I should be to hear our name pronounced by such beautifullips.”
Monte Cristo turned to Haydée, and with an expression of countenancewhich commanded her to pay the most implicit attention to his words, hesaid in Greek, “Πατρὸς μὲν ἄτην μήζε τὸ ὄνομα προδότου καὶ προδοσίανεἰπὲ ἡμῖν,”—that is, “Tell us the fate of your father; but neither thename of the traitor nor the treason.” Haydée sighed deeply, and a shadeof sadness clouded her beautiful brow.
“What are you saying to her?” said Morcerf in an undertone.
“I again reminded her that you were a friend, and that she need notconceal anything from you.”
“Then,” said Albert, “this pious pilgrimage in behalf of the prisonerswas your first remembrance; what is the next?”
“Oh, then I remember as if it were but yesterday sitting under theshade of some sycamore-trees, on the borders of a lake, in the watersof which the trembling foliage was reflected as in a mirror. Under theoldest and thickest of these trees, reclining on cushions, sat myfather; my mother was at his feet, and I, childlike, amused myself byplaying with his long white beard which descended to his girdle, orwith the diamond-hilt of the scimitar attached to his girdle. Then fromtime to time there came to him an Albanian who said something to whichI paid no attention, but which he always answered in the same tone ofvoice, either ‘Kill,’ or ‘Pardon.’”
“It is very strange,” said Albert, “to hear such words proceed from themouth of anyone but an actress on the stage, and one needs constantlyto be saying to one’s self, ‘This is no fiction, it is all reality,’ inorder to believe it. And how does France appear in your eyes,accustomed as they have been to gaze on such enchanted scenes?”
“I think it is a fine country,” said Haydée, “but I see France as itreally is, because I look on it with the eyes of a woman; whereas myown country, which I can only judge of from the impression produced onmy childish mind, always seems enveloped in a vague atmosphere, whichis luminous or otherwise, according as my remembrances of it are sad orjoyous.”
“So young,” said Albert, forgetting at the moment the Count’s commandthat he should ask no questions of the slave herself, “is it possiblethat you can have known what suffering is except by name?”
Haydée turned her eyes towards Monte Cristo, who, making at the sametime some imperceptible sign, murmured:
“Εἰπέ—speak.”
“Nothing is ever so firmly impressed on the mind as the memory of ourearly childhood, and with the exception of the two scenes I have justdescribed to you, all my earliest reminiscences are fraught withdeepest sadness.”
40068m


“Speak, speak, signora,” said Albert, “I am listening with the mostintense delight and interest to all you say.”
Haydée answered his remark with a melancholy smile. “You wish me, then,to relate the history of my past sorrows?” said she.
“I beg you to do so,” replied Albert.
“Well, I was but four years old when one night I was suddenly awakenedby my mother. We were in the palace of Yanina; she snatched me from thecushions on which I was sleeping, and on opening my eyes I saw hersfilled with tears. She took me away without speaking. When I saw herweeping I began to cry too. ‘Hush, child!’ said she. At other times inspite of maternal endearments or threats, I had with a child’s capricebeen accustomed to indulge my feelings of sorrow or anger by crying asmuch as I felt inclined; but on this occasion there was an intonationof such extreme terror in my mother’s voice when she enjoined me tosilence, that I ceased crying as soon as her command was given. Shebore me rapidly away.
“I saw then that we were descending a large staircase; around us wereall my mother’s servants carrying trunks, bags, ornaments, jewels,purses of gold, with which they were hurrying away in the greatestdistraction.
“Behind the women came a guard of twenty men armed with long guns andpistols, and dressed in the costume which the Greeks have assumed sincethey have again become a nation. You may imagine there was somethingstartling and ominous,” said Haydée, shaking her head and turning paleat the mere remembrance of the scene, “in this long file of slaves andwomen only half-aroused from sleep, or at least so they appeared to me,who was myself scarcely awake. Here and there on the walls of thestaircase, were reflected gigantic shadows, which trembled in theflickering light of the pine-torches till they seemed to reach to thevaulted roof above.
“‘Quick!’ said a voice at the end of the gallery. This voice madeeveryone bow before it, resembling in its effect the wind passing overa field of wheat, by its superior strength forcing every ear to yieldobeisance. As for me, it made me tremble. This voice was that of myfather. He came last, clothed in his splendid robes and holding in hishand the carbine which your emperor presented him. He was leaning onthe shoulder of his favorite Selim, and he drove us all before him, asa shepherd would his straggling flock. My father,” said Haydée, raisingher head, “was that illustrious man known in Europe under the name ofAli Tepelini, pasha of Yanina, and before whom Turkey trembled.”
Albert, without knowing why, started on hearing these words pronouncedwith such a haughty and dignified accent; it appeared to him as ifthere was something supernaturally gloomy and terrible in theexpression which gleamed from the brilliant eyes of Haydée at thismoment; she appeared like a Pythoness evoking a spectre, as sherecalled to his mind the remembrance of the fearful death of this man,to the news of which all Europe had listened with horror.
“Soon,” said Haydée, “we halted on our march, and found ourselves onthe borders of a lake. My mother pressed me to her throbbing heart, andat the distance of a few paces I saw my father, who was glancinganxiously around. Four marble steps led down to the water’s edge, andbelow them was a boat floating on the tide.
40070m


“From where we stood I could see in the middle of the lake a largeblank mass; it was the kiosk to which we were going. This kioskappeared to me to be at a considerable distance, perhaps on account ofthe darkness of the night, which prevented any object from being morethan partially discerned. We stepped into the boat. I remember wellthat the oars made no noise whatever in striking the water, and when Ileaned over to ascertain the cause I saw that they were muffled withthe sashes of our Palikares.14 Besides the rowers, the boat containedonly the women, my father, mother, Selim, and myself. The Palikares hadremained on the shore of the lake, ready to cover our retreat; theywere kneeling on the lowest of the marble steps, and in that mannerintended making a rampart of the three others, in case of pursuit. Ourbark flew before the wind. ‘Why does the boat go so fast?’ asked I ofmy mother.
“‘Silence, child! Hush, we are flying!’ I did not understand. Whyshould my father fly?—he, the all-powerful—he, before whom others wereaccustomed to fly—he, who had taken for his device,
‘They hate me; then they fear me!’

“It was, indeed, a flight which my father was trying to effect. I havebeen told since that the garrison of the castle of Yanina, fatiguedwith long service——”
Here Haydée cast a significant glance at Monte Cristo, whose eyes hadbeen riveted on her countenance during the whole course of hernarrative. The young girl then continued, speaking slowly, like aperson who is either inventing or suppressing some feature of thehistory which he is relating.
“You were saying, signora,” said Albert, who was paying the mostimplicit attention to the recital, “that the garrison of Yanina,fatigued with long service——”
“Had treated with the Seraskier15 Kourchid, who had been sent by thesultan to gain possession of the person of my father; it was then thatAli Tepelini—after having sent to the sultan a French officer in whomhe reposed great confidence—resolved to retire to the asylum which hehad long before prepared for himself, and which he called_kataphygion_, or the refuge.”
“And this officer,” asked Albert, “do you remember his name, signora?”
Monte Cristo exchanged a rapid glance with the young girl, which wasquite unperceived by Albert.
“No,” said she, “I do not remember it just at this moment; but if itshould occur to me presently, I will tell you.”
Albert was on the point of pronouncing his father’s name, when MonteCristo gently held up his finger in token of reproach; the young manrecollected his promise, and was silent.
“It was towards this kiosk that we were rowing. A ground floor,ornamented with arabesques, bathing its terraces in the water, andanother floor, looking on the lake, was all which was visible to theeye. But beneath the ground floor, stretching out into the island, wasa large subterranean cavern, to which my mother, myself, and the womenwere conducted. In this place were together 60,000 pouches and 200barrels; the pouches contained 25,000,000 of money in gold, and thebarrels were filled with 30,000 pounds of gunpowder.
“Near the barrels stood Selim, my father’s favorite, whom I mentionedto you just now. He stood watch day and night with a lance providedwith a lighted slowmatch in his hand, and he had orders to blow upeverything—kiosk, guards, women, gold, and Ali Tepelini himself—at thefirst signal given by my father. I remember well that the slaves,convinced of the precarious tenure on which they held their lives,passed whole days and nights in praying, crying, and groaning. As forme, I can never forget the pale complexion and black eyes of the youngsoldier, and whenever the angel of death summons me to another world, Iam quite sure I shall recognize Selim. I cannot tell you how long weremained in this state; at that period I did not even know what timemeant. Sometimes, but very rarely, my father summoned me and my motherto the terrace of the palace; these were hours of recreation for me, asI never saw anything in the dismal cavern but the gloomy countenancesof the slaves and Selim’s fiery lance. My father was endeavoring topierce with his eager looks the remotest verge of the horizon,examining attentively every black speck which appeared on the lake,while my mother, reclining by his side, rested her head on hisshoulder, and I played at his feet, admiring everything I saw with thatunsophisticated innocence of childhood which throws a charm roundobjects insignificant in themselves, but which in its eyes are investedwith the greatest importance. The heights of Pindus towered above us;the castle of Yanina rose white and angular from the blue waters of thelake, and the immense masses of black vegetation which, viewed in thedistance, gave the idea of lichens clinging to the rocks, were inreality gigantic fir-trees and myrtles.
“One morning my father sent for us; my mother had been crying all thenight, and was very wretched; we found the pasha calm, but paler thanusual. ‘Take courage, Vasiliki,’ said he; ‘today arrives the firman ofthe master, and my fate will be decided. If my pardon be complete, weshall return triumphant to Yanina; if the news be inauspicious, we mustfly this night.’—‘But supposing our enemy should not allow us to doso?’ said my mother. ‘Oh, make yourself easy on that head,’ said Ali,smiling; ‘Selim and his flaming lance will settle that matter. Theywould be glad to see me dead, but they would not like themselves to diewith me.’
“My mother only answered by sighs to consolations which she knew didnot come from my father’s heart. She prepared the iced water which hewas in the habit of constantly drinking,—for since his sojourn at thekiosk he had been parched by the most violent fever,—after which sheanointed his white beard with perfumed oil, and lighted his chibouque,which he sometimes smoked for hours together, quietly watching thewreaths of vapor that ascended in spiral clouds and gradually meltedaway in the surrounding atmosphere. Presently he made such a suddenmovement that I was paralyzed with fear. Then, without taking his eyesfrom the object which had first attracted his attention, he asked forhis telescope. My mother gave it him, and as she did so, looked whiterthan the marble against which she leaned. I saw my father’s handtremble. ‘A boat!—two!—three!’ murmured my, father;—‘four!’ He thenarose, seizing his arms and priming his pistols. ‘Vasiliki,’ said he tomy mother, trembling perceptibly, ‘the instant approaches which willdecide everything. In the space of half an hour we shall know theemperor’s answer. Go into the cavern with Haydée.’—‘I will not quityou,’ said Vasiliki; ‘if you die, my lord, I will die with you.’—‘Go toSelim!’ cried my father. ‘Adieu, my lord,’ murmured my mother,determining quietly to await the approach of death. ‘Take awayVasiliki!’ said my father to his Palikares.
“As for me, I had been forgotten in the general confusion; I ran towardAli Tepelini; he saw me hold out my arms to him, and he stooped downand pressed my forehead with his lips. Oh, how distinctly I rememberthat kiss!—it was the last he ever gave me, and I feel as if it werestill warm on my forehead. On descending, we saw through thelattice-work several boats which were gradually becoming more distinctto our view. At first they appeared like black specks, and now theylooked like birds skimming the surface of the waves. During this time,in the kiosk at my father’s feet, were seated twenty Palikares,concealed from view by an angle of the wall and watching with eagereyes the arrival of the boats. They were armed with their long gunsinlaid with mother-of-pearl and silver, and cartridges in great numberswere lying scattered on the floor. My father looked at his watch, andpaced up and down with a countenance expressive of the greatestanguish. This was the scene which presented itself to my view as Iquitted my father after that last kiss.
“My mother and I traversed the gloomy passage leading to the cavern.Selim was still at his post, and smiled sadly on us as we entered. Wefetched our cushions from the other end of the cavern, and sat down bySelim. In great dangers the devoted ones cling to each other; and,young as I was, I quite understood that some imminent danger washanging over our heads.”
Albert had often heard—not from his father, for he never spoke on thesubject, but from strangers—the description of the last moments of thevizier of Yanina; he had read different accounts of his death, but thestory seemed to acquire fresh meaning from the voice and expression ofthe young girl, and her sympathetic accent and the melancholyexpression of her countenance at once charmed and horrified him.
As to Haydée, these terrible reminiscences seemed to have overpoweredher for a moment, for she ceased speaking, her head leaning on her handlike a beautiful flower bowing beneath the violence of the storm; andher eyes gazing on vacancy indicated that she was mentallycontemplating the green summit of the Pindus and the blue waters of thelake of Yanina, which, like a magic mirror, seemed to reflect thesombre picture which she sketched. Monte Cristo looked at her with anindescribable expression of interest and pity.
“Go on, my child,” said the count in the Romaic language.
40074m


Haydée looked up abruptly, as if the sonorous tones of Monte Cristo’svoice had awakened her from a dream; and she resumed her narrative.
“It was about four o’clock in the afternoon, and although the day wasbrilliant out-of-doors, we were enveloped in the gloomy darkness of thecavern. One single, solitary light was burning there, and it appearedlike a star set in a heaven of blackness; it was Selim’s flaming lance.My mother was a Christian, and she prayed. Selim repeated from time totime the sacred words: ‘God is great!’ However, my mother had stillsome hope. As she was coming down, she thought she recognized theFrench officer who had been sent to Constantinople, and in whom myfather placed so much confidence; for he knew that all the soldiers ofthe French emperor were naturally noble and generous. She advanced somesteps towards the staircase, and listened. ‘They are approaching,’ saidshe; ‘perhaps they bring us peace and liberty!’
“‘What do you fear, Vasiliki?’ said Selim, in a voice at once so gentleand yet so proud. ‘If they do not bring us peace, we will give themwar; if they do not bring life, we will give them death.’ And herenewed the flame of his lance with a gesture which made one think ofDionysus of old Crete.16 But I, being only a little child, wasterrified by this undaunted courage, which appeared to me bothferocious and senseless, and I recoiled with horror from the idea ofthe frightful death amidst fire and flames which probably awaited us.
“My mother experienced the same sensations, for I felt her tremble.‘Mamma, mamma,’ said I, ‘are we really to be killed?’ And at the soundof my voice the slaves redoubled their cries and prayers andlamentations. ‘My child,’ said Vasiliki, ‘may God preserve you fromever wishing for that death which today you so much dread!’ Then,whispering to Selim, she asked what were her master’s orders. ‘If hesend me his poniard, it will signify that the emperor’s intentions arenot favorable, and I am to set fire to the powder; if, on the contrary,he send me his ring, it will be a sign that the emperor pardons him,and I am to extinguish the match and leave the magazine untouched.’—‘Myfriend,’ said my mother, ‘when your master’s orders arrive, if it isthe poniard which he sends, instead of despatching us by that horribledeath which we both so much dread, you will mercifully kill us withthis same poniard, will you not?’—‘Yes, Vasiliki,’ replied Selimtranquilly.
“Suddenly we heard loud cries; and, listening, discerned that they werecries of joy. The name of the French officer who had been sent toConstantinople resounded on all sides amongst our Palikares; it wasevident that he brought the answer of the emperor, and that it wasfavorable.”
“And do you not remember the Frenchman’s name?” said Morcerf, quiteready to aid the memory of the narrator. Monte Cristo made a sign tohim to be silent.
“I do not recollect it,” said Haydée.
“The noise increased; steps were heard approaching nearer and nearer;they were descending the steps leading to the cavern. Selim made readyhis lance. Soon a figure appeared in the gray twilight at the entranceof the cave, formed by the reflection of the few rays of daylight whichhad found their way into this gloomy retreat. ‘Who are you?’ criedSelim. ‘But whoever you may be, I charge you not to advance anotherstep.’—‘Long live the emperor!’ said the figure. ‘He grants a fullpardon to the Vizier Ali, and not only gives him his life, but restoresto him his fortune and his possessions.’ My mother uttered a cry ofjoy, and clasped me to her bosom. ‘Stop,’ said Selim, seeing that shewas about to go out; ‘you see I have not yet received thering,’—‘True,’ said my mother. And she fell on her knees, at the sametime holding me up towards heaven, as if she desired, while praying toGod in my behalf, to raise me actually to his presence.”
And for the second time Haydée stopped, overcome by such violentemotion that the perspiration stood upon her pale brow, and her stifledvoice seemed hardly able to find utterance, so parched and dry were herthroat and lips.
40076m


Monte Cristo poured a little iced water into a glass, and presented itto her, saying with a mildness in which was also a shade ofcommand,—“Courage.”
Haydée dried her eyes, and continued:
“By this time our eyes, habituated to the darkness, had recognized themessenger of the pasha,—it was a friend. Selim had also recognized him,but the brave young man only acknowledged one duty, which was to obey.‘In whose name do you come?’ said he to him. ‘I come in the name of ourmaster, Ali Tepelini.’—‘If you come from Ali himself,’ said Selim, ‘youknow what you were charged to remit to me?’—‘Yes,’ said the messenger,‘and I bring you his ring.’ At these words he raised his hand above hishead, to show the token; but it was too far off, and there was notlight enough to enable Selim, where he was standing, to distinguish andrecognize the object presented to his view. ‘I do not see what you havein your hand,’ said Selim. ‘Approach then,’ said the messenger, ‘or Iwill come nearer to you, if you prefer it.’—‘I will agree to neitherone nor the other,’ replied the young soldier; ‘place the object whichI desire to see in the ray of light which shines there, and retirewhile I examine it.’—‘Be it so,’ said the envoy; and he retired, afterhaving first deposited the token agreed on in the place pointed out tohim by Selim.
“Oh, how our hearts palpitated; for it did, indeed, seem to be a ringwhich was placed there. But was it my father’s ring? that was thequestion. Selim, still holding in his hand the lighted match, walkedtowards the opening in the cavern, and, aided by the faint light whichstreamed in through the mouth of the cave, picked up the token.
“‘It is well,’ said he, kissing it; ‘it is my master’s ring!’ Andthrowing the match on the ground, he trampled on it and extinguishedit. The messenger uttered a cry of joy and clapped his hands. At thissignal four soldiers of the Seraskier Kourchid suddenly appeared, andSelim fell, pierced by five blows. Each man had stabbed him separately,and, intoxicated by their crime, though still pale with fear, theysought all over the cavern to discover if there was any fear of fire,after which they amused themselves by rolling on the bags of gold. Atthis moment my mother seized me in her arms, and hurrying noiselesslyalong numerous turnings and windings known only to ourselves, shearrived at a private staircase of the kiosk, where was a scene offrightful tumult and confusion. The lower rooms were entirely filledwith Kourchid’s troops; that is to say, with our enemies. Just as mymother was on the point of pushing open a small door, we heard thevoice of the pasha sounding in a loud and threatening tone. My motherapplied her eye to the crack between the boards; I luckily found asmall opening which afforded me a view of the apartment and what waspassing within. ‘What do you want?’ said my father to some people whowere holding a paper inscribed with characters of gold. ‘What we want,’replied one, ‘is to communicate to you the will of his highness. Do yousee this firman?’—‘I do,’ said my father. ‘Well, read it; he demandsyour head.’
40078m


“My father answered with a loud laugh, which was more frightful thaneven threats would have been, and he had not ceased when two reports ofa pistol were heard; he had fired them himself, and had killed two men.The Palikares, who were prostrated at my father’s feet, now sprang upand fired, and the room was filled with fire and smoke. At the sameinstant the firing began on the other side, and the balls penetratedthe boards all round us. Oh, how noble did the grand vizier my fatherlook at that moment, in the midst of the flying bullets, his scimitarin his hand, and his face blackened with the powder of his enemies! andhow he terrified them, even then, and made them fly before him! ‘Selim,Selim!’ cried he, ‘guardian of the fire, do your duty!’—‘Selim isdead,’ replied a voice which seemed to come from the depths of theearth, ‘and you are lost, Ali!’ At the same moment an explosion washeard, and the flooring of the room in which my father was sitting wassuddenly torn up and shivered to atoms—the troops were firing fromunderneath. Three or four Palikares fell with their bodies literallyploughed with wounds.
“My father howled aloud, plunged his fingers into the holes which theballs had made, and tore up one of the planks entire. But immediatelythrough this opening twenty more shots were fired, and the flame,rushing up like fire from the crater of a volcano, soon reached thetapestry, which it quickly devoured. In the midst of all this frightfultumult and these terrific cries, two reports, fearfully distinct,followed by two shrieks more heartrending than all, froze me withterror. These two shots had mortally wounded my father, and it was hewho had given utterance to these frightful cries. However, he remainedstanding, clinging to a window. My mother tried to force the door, thatshe might go and die with him, but it was fastened on the inside. Allaround him were lying the Palikares, writhing in convulsive agonies,while two or three who were only slightly wounded were trying to escapeby springing from the windows. At this crisis the whole flooringsuddenly gave way, my father fell on one knee, and at the same momenttwenty hands were thrust forth, armed with sabres, pistols, andponiards—twenty blows were instantaneously directed against one man,and my father disappeared in a whirlwind of fire and smoke kindled bythese demons, and which seemed like hell itself opening beneath hisfeet. I felt myself fall to the ground, my mother had fainted.”
Haydée’s arms fell by her side, and she uttered a deep groan, at thesame time looking towards the count as if to ask if he were satisfiedwith her obedience to his commands.
Monte Cristo arose and approached her, took her hand, and said to herin Romaic:
“Calm yourself, my dear child, and take courage in remembering thatthere is a God who will punish traitors.”
“It is a frightful story, count,” said Albert, terrified at thepaleness of Haydée’s countenance, “and I reproach myself now for havingbeen so cruel and thoughtless in my request.”
“Oh, it is nothing,” said Monte Cristo. Then, patting the young girl onthe head, he continued, “Haydée is very courageous, and she sometimeseven finds consolation in the recital of her misfortunes.”
“Because, my lord,” said Haydée eagerly, “my miseries recall to me theremembrance of your goodness.”
Albert looked at her with curiosity, for she had not yet related whathe most desired to know,—how she had become the slave of the count.Haydée saw at a glance the same expression pervading the countenancesof her two auditors; she continued:
“When my mother recovered her senses we were before the seraskier.‘Kill,’ said she, ‘but spare the honor of the widow of Ali.’—‘It is notto me to whom you must address yourself,’ said Kourchid.
“‘To whom, then?’—‘To your new master.’
“‘Who and where is he?’—‘He is here.’
“And Kourchid pointed out one who had more than any contributed to thedeath of my father,” said Haydée, in a tone of chastened anger.
“Then,” said Albert, “you became the property of this man?”
40080m


“No,” replied Haydée, “he did not dare to keep us, so we were sold tosome slave-merchants who were going to Constantinople. We traversedGreece, and arrived half dead at the imperial gates. They weresurrounded by a crowd of people, who opened a way for us to pass, whensuddenly my mother, having looked closely at an object which wasattracting their attention, uttered a piercing cry and fell to theground, pointing as she did so to a head which was placed over thegates, and beneath which were inscribed these words:
‘_This is the head of Ali Tepelini, Pasha of Yanina._’
“I cried bitterly, and tried to raise my mother from the earth, but shewas dead! I was taken to the slave-market, and was purchased by a richArmenian. He caused me to be instructed, gave me masters, and when Iwas thirteen years of age he sold me to the Sultan Mahmoud.”
“Of whom I bought her,” said Monte Cristo, “as I told you, Albert, withthe emerald which formed a match to the one I had made into a box forthe purpose of holding my hashish pills.”
“Oh, you are good, you are great, my lord!” said Haydée, kissing thecount’s hand, “and I am very fortunate in belonging to such a master!”
Albert remained quite bewildered with all that he had seen and heard.
“Come, finish your cup of coffee,” said Monte Cristo; “the history isended.”


 Chapter 78. We hear From Yanina
If Valentine could have seen the trembling step and agitatedcountenance of Franz when he quitted the chamber of M. Noirtier, evenshe would have been constrained to pity him. Villefort had only justgiven utterance to a few incoherent sentences, and then retired to hisstudy, where he received about two hours afterwards the followingletter:
“After all the disclosures which were made this morning, M. Noirtier deVillefort must see the utter impossibility of any alliance being formedbetween his family and that of M. Franz d’Épinay. M. d’Épinay must saythat he is shocked and astonished that M. de Villefort, who appeared tobe aware of all the circumstances detailed this morning, should nothave anticipated him in this announcement.”

No one who had seen the magistrate at this moment, so thoroughlyunnerved by the recent inauspicious combination of circumstances, wouldhave supposed for an instant that he had anticipated the annoyance;although it certainly never had occurred to him that his father wouldcarry candor, or rather rudeness, so far as to relate such a history.And in justice to Villefort, it must be understood that M. Noirtier,who never cared for the opinion of his son on any subject, had alwaysomitted to explain the affair to Villefort, so that he had all his lifeentertained the belief that General de Quesnel, or the Baron d’Épinay,as he was alternately styled, according as the speaker wished toidentify him by his own family name, or by the title which had beenconferred on him, fell the victim of assassination, and not that he waskilled fairly in a duel. This harsh letter, coming as it did from a mangenerally so polite and respectful, struck a mortal blow at the prideof Villefort.
Hardly had he read the letter, when his wife entered. The suddendeparture of Franz, after being summoned by M. Noirtier, had so muchastonished everyone, that the position of Madame de Villefort, leftalone with the notary and the witnesses, became every moment moreembarrassing. Determined to bear it no longer, she arose and left theroom; saying she would go and make some inquiries into the cause of hissudden disappearance.
M. de Villefort’s communications on the subject were very limited andconcise; he told her, in fact, that an explanation had taken placebetween M. Noirtier, M. d’Épinay, and himself, and that the marriage ofValentine and Franz would consequently be broken off. This was anawkward and unpleasant thing to have to report to those who werewaiting. She therefore contented herself with saying that M. Noirtierhaving at the commencement of the discussion been attacked by a sort ofapoplectic fit, the affair would necessarily be deferred for some dayslonger. This news, false as it was following so singularly in the trainof the two similar misfortunes which had so recently occurred,evidently astonished the auditors, and they retired without a word.
During this time Valentine, at once terrified and happy, after havingembraced and thanked the feeble old man for thus breaking with a singleblow the chain which she had been accustomed to consider asirrefragable, asked leave to retire to her own room, in order torecover her composure. Noirtier looked the permission which shesolicited. But instead of going to her own room, Valentine, having oncegained her liberty, entered the gallery, and, opening a small door atthe end of it, found herself at once in the garden.
In the midst of all the strange events which had crowded one on theother, an indefinable sentiment of dread had taken possession ofValentine’s mind. She expected every moment that she should see Morrelappear, pale and trembling, to forbid the signing of the contract, likethe Laird of Ravenswood in _The Bride of Lammermoor_.
It was high time for her to make her appearance at the gate, forMaximilian had long awaited her coming. He had half guessed what wasgoing on when he saw Franz quit the cemetery with M. de Villefort. Hefollowed M. d’Épinay, saw him enter, afterwards go out, and thenre-enter with Albert and Château-Renaud. He had no longer any doubts asto the nature of the conference; he therefore quickly went to the gatein the clover-patch, prepared to hear the result of the proceedings,and very certain that Valentine would hasten to him the first momentshe should be set at liberty. He was not mistaken; peering through thecrevices of the wooden partition, he soon discovered the young girl,who cast aside all her usual precautions and walked at once to thebarrier. The first glance which Maximilian directed towards herentirely reassured him, and the first words she spoke made his heartbound with delight.
“We are saved!” said Valentine.
“Saved?” repeated Morrel, not being able to conceive such intensehappiness; “by whom?”
“By my grandfather. Oh, Morrel, pray love him for all his goodness tous!”
Morrel swore to love him with all his soul; and at that moment he couldsafely promise to do so, for he felt as though it were not enough tolove him merely as a friend or even as a father, he worshiped him as agod.
“But tell me, Valentine, how has it all been effected? What strangemeans has he used to compass this blessed end?”
Valentine was on the point of relating all that had passed, but shesuddenly remembered that in doing so she must reveal a terrible secretwhich concerned others as well as her grandfather, and she said:
“At some future time I will tell you all about it.”
“But when will that be?”
“When I am your wife.”
The conversation had now turned upon a topic so pleasing to Morrel,that he was ready to accede to anything that Valentine thought fit topropose, and he likewise felt that a piece of intelligence such as hejust heard ought to be more than sufficient to content him for one day.However, he would not leave without the promise of seeing Valentineagain the next night. Valentine promised all that Morrel required ofher, and certainly it was less difficult now for her to believe thatshe should marry Maximilian than it was an hour ago to assure herselfthat she should not marry Franz.
During the time occupied by the interview we have just detailed, Madamede Villefort had gone to visit M. Noirtier. The old man looked at herwith that stern and forbidding expression with which he was accustomedto receive her.
“Sir,” said she, “it is superfluous for me to tell you that Valentine’smarriage is broken off, since it was here that the affair wasconcluded.”
Noirtier’s countenance remained immovable.
“But one thing I can tell you, of which I do not think you are aware;that is, that I have always been opposed to this marriage, and that thecontract was entered into entirely without my consent or approbation.”
Noirtier regarded his daughter-in-law with the look of a man desiringan explanation.
“Now that this marriage, which I know you so much disliked, is doneaway with, I come to you on an errand which neither M. de Villefort norValentine could consistently undertake.”
Noirtier’s eyes demanded the nature of her mission.
“I come to entreat you, sir,” continued Madame de Villefort, “as theonly one who has the right of doing so, inasmuch as I am the only onewho will receive no personal benefit from the transaction,—I come toentreat you to restore, not your love, for that she has alwayspossessed, but to restore your fortune to your granddaughter.”
There was a doubtful expression in Noirtier’s eyes; he was evidentlytrying to discover the motive of this proceeding, and he could notsucceed in doing so.
“May I hope, sir,” said Madame de Villefort, “that your intentionsaccord with my request?”
Noirtier made a sign that they did.
“In that case, sir,” rejoined Madame de Villefort, “I will leave youoverwhelmed with gratitude and happiness at your prompt acquiescence tomy wishes.” She then bowed to M. Noirtier and retired.
The next day M. Noirtier sent for the notary; the first will was tornup and a second made, in which he left the whole of his fortune toValentine, on condition that she should never be separated from him. Itwas then generally reported that Mademoiselle de Villefort, the heiressof the marquis and marchioness of Saint-Méran, had regained the goodgraces of her grandfather, and that she would ultimately be inpossession of an income of 300,000 livres.
While all the proceedings relative to the dissolution of themarriage-contract were being carried on at the house of M. deVillefort, Monte Cristo had paid his visit to the Count of Morcerf,who, in order to lose no time in responding to M. Danglars’ wishes, andat the same time to pay all due deference to his position in society,donned his uniform of lieutenant-general, which he ornamented with allhis crosses, and thus attired, ordered his finest horses and drove tothe Rue de la Chaussée d’Antin.
Danglars was balancing his monthly accounts, and it was perhaps not themost favorable moment for finding him in his best humor. At the firstsight of his old friend, Danglars assumed his majestic air, and settledhimself in his easy-chair.
Morcerf, usually so stiff and formal, accosted the banker in an affableand smiling manner, and, feeling sure that the overture he was about tomake would be well received, he did not consider it necessary to adoptany manœuvres in order to gain his end, but went at once straight tothe point.
40086m


“Well, baron,” said he, “here I am at last; some time has elapsed sinceour plans were formed, and they are not yet executed.”
Morcerf paused at these words, quietly waiting till the cloud shouldhave dispersed which had gathered on the brow of Danglars, and which heattributed to his silence; but, on the contrary, to his great surprise,it grew darker and darker.
“To what do you allude, monsieur?” said Danglars; as if he were tryingin vain to guess at the possible meaning of the general’s words.
“Ah,” said Morcerf, “I see you are a stickler for forms, my dear sir,and you would remind me that the ceremonial rites should not beomitted. _Ma foi_, I beg your pardon, but as I have but one son, and itis the first time I have ever thought of marrying him, I am stillserving my apprenticeship, you know; come, I will reform.”
And Morcerf with a forced smile arose, and, making a low bow to M.Danglars, said:
“Baron, I have the honor of asking of you the hand of MademoiselleEugénie Danglars for my son, the Vicomte Albert de Morcerf.”
But Danglars, instead of receiving this address in the favorable mannerwhich Morcerf had expected, knit his brow, and without inviting thecount, who was still standing, to take a seat, he said:
“Monsieur, it will be necessary to reflect before I give you ananswer.”
“To reflect?” said Morcerf, more and more astonished; “have you not hadenough time for reflection during the eight years which have elapsedsince this marriage was first discussed between us?”
“Count,” said the banker, “things are constantly occurring in the worldto induce us to lay aside our most established opinions, or at allevents to cause us to remodel them according to the change ofcircumstances, which may have placed affairs in a totally differentlight to that in which we at first viewed them.”
“I do not understand you, baron,” said Morcerf.
“What I mean to say is this, sir,—that during the last fortnightunforeseen circumstances have occurred——”
“Excuse me,” said Morcerf, “but is it a play we are acting?”
“A play?”
“Yes, for it is like one; pray let us come more to the point, andendeavor thoroughly to understand each other.”
“That is quite my desire.”
“You have seen M. de Monte Cristo have you not?”
“I see him very often,” said Danglars, drawing himself up; “he is aparticular friend of mine.”
“Well, in one of your late conversations with him, you said that Iappeared to be forgetful and irresolute concerning this marriage, didyou not?”
“I did say so.”
“Well, here I am, proving at once that I am really neither the one northe other, by entreating you to keep your promise on that score.”
Danglars did not answer.
“Have you so soon changed your mind,” added Morcerf, “or have you onlyprovoked my request that you may have the pleasure of seeing mehumbled?”
Danglars, seeing that if he continued the conversation in the same tonein which he had begun it, the whole thing might turn out to his owndisadvantage, turned to Morcerf, and said:
“Count, you must doubtless be surprised at my reserve, and I assure youit costs me much to act in such a manner towards you; but, believe mewhen I say that imperative necessity has imposed the painful task uponme.”
“These are all so many empty words, my dear sir,” said Morcerf: “theymight satisfy a new acquaintance, but the Comte de Morcerf does notrank in that list; and when a man like him comes to another, recalls tohim his plighted word, and this man fails to redeem the pledge, he hasat least a right to exact from him a good reason for so doing.”
Danglars was a coward, but did not wish to appear so; he was piqued atthe tone which Morcerf had just assumed.
“I am not without a good reason for my conduct,” replied the banker.
“What do you mean to say?”
“I mean to say that I have a good reason, but that it is difficult toexplain.”
“You must be aware, at all events, that it is impossible for me tounderstand motives before they are explained to me; but one thing atleast is clear, which is, that you decline allying yourself with myfamily.”
“No, sir,” said Danglars; “I merely suspend my decision, that is all.”
“And do you really flatter yourself that I shall yield to all yourcaprices, and quietly and humbly await the time of again being receivedinto your good graces?”
“Then, count, if you will not wait, we must look upon these projects asif they had never been entertained.”
The count bit his lips till the blood almost started, to prevent theebullition of anger which his proud and irritable temper scarcelyallowed him to restrain; understanding, however, that in the presentstate of things the laugh would decidedly be against him, he turnedfrom the door, towards which he had been directing his steps, and againconfronted the banker. A cloud settled on his brow, evincing decidedanxiety and uneasiness, instead of the expression of offended pridewhich had lately reigned there.
“My dear Danglars,” said Morcerf, “we have been acquainted for manyyears, and consequently we ought to make some allowance for eachother’s failings. You owe me an explanation, and really it is but fairthat I should know what circumstance has occurred to deprive my son ofyour favor.”
“It is from no personal ill-feeling towards the viscount, that is all Ican say, sir,” replied Danglars, who resumed his insolent manner assoon as he perceived that Morcerf was a little softened and calmeddown.
“And towards whom do you bear this personal ill-feeling, then?” saidMorcerf, turning pale with anger. The expression of the count’s facehad not remained unperceived by the banker; he fixed on him a look ofgreater assurance than before, and said:
“You may, perhaps, be better satisfied that I should not go fartherinto particulars.”
A tremor of suppressed rage shook the whole frame of the count, andmaking a violent effort over himself, he said: “I have a right toinsist on your giving me an explanation. Is it Madame de Morcerf whohas displeased you? Is it my fortune which you find insufficient? Is itbecause my opinions differ from yours?”
“Nothing of the kind, sir,” replied Danglars: “if such had been thecase, I only should have been to blame, inasmuch as I was aware of allthese things when I made the engagement. No, do not seek any longer todiscover the reason. I really am quite ashamed to have been the causeof your undergoing such severe self-examination; let us drop thesubject, and adopt the middle course of delay, which implies neither arupture nor an engagement. _Ma foi_, there is no hurry. My daughter isonly seventeen years old, and your son twenty-one. While we wait, timewill be progressing, events will succeed each other; things which inthe evening look dark and obscure, appear but too clearly in the lightof morning, and sometimes the utterance of one word, or the lapse of asingle day, will reveal the most cruel calumnies.”
“Calumnies, did you say, sir?” cried Morcerf, turning livid with rage.“Does anyone dare to slander me?”
“Monsieur, I told you that I considered it best to avoid allexplanation.”
“Then, sir, I am patiently to submit to your refusal?”
“Yes, sir, although I assure you the refusal is as painful for me togive as it is for you to receive, for I had reckoned on the honor ofyour alliance, and the breaking off of a marriage contract alwaysinjures the lady more than the gentleman.”
“Enough, sir,” said Morcerf, “we will speak no more on the subject.”
And clutching his gloves in anger, he left the apartment. Danglarsobserved that during the whole conversation Morcerf had never oncedared to ask if it was on his own account that Danglars recalled hisword.
That evening he had a long conference with several friends; and M.Cavalcanti, who had remained in the drawing-room with the ladies, wasthe last to leave the banker’s house.
The next morning, as soon as he awoke, Danglars asked for thenewspapers; they were brought to him; he laid aside three or four, andat last fixed on _l’Impartial_, the paper of which Beauchamp was thechief editor. He hastily tore off the cover, opened the journal withnervous precipitation, passed contemptuously over the Paris jottings,and arriving at the miscellaneous intelligence, stopped with amalicious smile, at a paragraph headed
_We hear from Yanina._

“Very good,” observed Danglars, after having read the paragraph; “hereis a little article on Colonel Fernand, which, if I am not mistaken,would render the explanation which the Comte de Morcerf required of meperfectly unnecessary.”
At the same moment, that is, at nine o’clock in the morning, Albert deMorcerf, dressed in a black coat buttoned up to his chin, might havebeen seen walking with a quick and agitated step in the direction ofMonte Cristo’s house in the Champs-Élysées. When he presented himselfat the gate the porter informed him that the Count had gone out abouthalf an hour previously.
“Did he take Baptistin with him?”
“No, my lord.”
“Call him, then; I wish to speak to him.”
The concierge went to seek the valet de chambre, and returned with himin an instant.
“My good friend,” said Albert, “I beg pardon for my intrusion, but Iwas anxious to know from your own mouth if your master was really outor not.”
“He is really out, sir,” replied Baptistin.
“Out, even to me?”
“I know how happy my master always is to receive the vicomte,” saidBaptistin; “and I should therefore never think of including him in anygeneral order.”
“You are right; and now I wish to see him on an affair of greatimportance. Do you think it will be long before he comes in?”
“No, I think not, for he ordered his breakfast at ten o’clock.”
“Well, I will go and take a turn in the Champs-Élysées, and at teno’clock I will return here; meanwhile, if the count should come in,will you beg him not to go out again without seeing me?”
“You may depend on my doing so, sir,” said Baptistin.
Albert left the cab in which he had come at the count’s door, intendingto take a turn on foot. As he was passing the Allée des Veuves, hethought he saw the count’s horses standing at Gosset’sshooting-gallery; he approached, and soon recognized the coachman.
“Is the count shooting in the gallery?” said Morcerf.
“Yes, sir,” replied the coachman. While he was speaking, Albert hadheard the report of two or three pistol-shots. He entered, and on hisway met the waiter.
“Excuse me, my lord,” said the lad; “but will you have the kindness towait a moment?”
“What for, Philip?” asked Albert, who, being a constant visitor there,did not understand this opposition to his entrance.
“Because the person who is now in the gallery prefers being alone, andnever practices in the presence of anyone.”
“Not even before you, Philip? Then who loads his pistol?”
“His servant.”
“A Nubian?”
“A negro.”
“It is he, then.”
“Do you know this gentleman?”
“Yes, and I am come to look for him; he is a friend of mine.”
“Oh, that is quite another thing, then. I will go immediately andinform him of your arrival.”
And Philip, urged by his own curiosity, entered the gallery; a secondafterwards, Monte Cristo appeared on the threshold.
“I ask your pardon, my dear count,” said Albert, “for following youhere, and I must first tell you that it was not the fault of yourservants that I did so; I alone am to blame for the indiscretion. Iwent to your house, and they told me you were out, but that theyexpected you home at ten o’clock to breakfast. I was walking about inorder to pass away the time till ten o’clock, when I caught sight ofyour carriage and horses.”
“What you have just said induces me to hope that you intendbreakfasting with me.”
40092m


“No, thank you, I am thinking of other things besides breakfast justnow; perhaps we may take that meal at a later hour and in worsecompany.”
“What on earth are you talking of?”
“I am to fight today.”
“For what?”
“For the sake of fighting!”
“Yes, I understand that, but what is the quarrel? People fight for allsorts of reasons, you know.”
“I fight in the cause of honor.”
“Ah, that is something serious.”
“So serious, that I come to beg you to render me a service.”
“What is it?”
“To be my second.”
“That is a serious matter, and we will not discuss it here; let usspeak of nothing till we get home. Ali, bring me some water.”
The count turned up his sleeves, and passed into the little vestibulewhere the gentlemen were accustomed to wash their hands after shooting.
“Come in, my lord,” said Philip in a low tone, “and I will show yousomething droll.” Morcerf entered, and in place of the usual target, hesaw some playing-cards fixed against the wall. At a distance Albertthought it was a complete suit, for he counted from the ace to the ten.
“Ah, ha,” said Albert, “I see you were preparing for a game of cards.”
“No,” said the count, “I was making a suit.”
“How?” said Albert.
“Those are really aces and twos which you see, but my shots have turnedthem into threes, fives, sevens, eights, nines, and tens.”
Albert approached. In fact, the bullets had actually pierced the cardsin the exact places which the painted signs would otherwise haveoccupied, the lines and distances being as regularly kept as if theyhad been ruled with pencil. In going up to the target Morcerf picked uptwo or three swallows that had been rash enough to come within therange of the count’s pistol.
“_Diable!_” said Morcerf.
“What would you have, my dear viscount?” said Monte Cristo, wiping hishands on the towel which Ali had brought him; “I must occupy my leisuremoments in some way or other. But come, I am waiting for you.”
Both men entered Monte Cristo’s carriage, which in the course of a fewminutes deposited them safely at No. 30. Monte Cristo took Albert intohis study, and pointing to a seat, placed another for himself. “Now letus talk the matter over quietly,” said the count.
“You see I am perfectly composed,” said Albert.
“With whom are you going to fight?”
“With Beauchamp.”
“One of your friends!”
“Of course; it is always with friends that one fights.”
“I suppose you have some cause of quarrel?”
“I have.”
40094m


“What has he done to you?”
“There appeared in his journal last night—but wait, and read foryourself.” And Albert handed over the paper to the count, who read asfollows:
“A correspondent at Yanina informs us of a fact of which until now wehad remained in ignorance. The castle which formed the protection ofthe town was given up to the Turks by a French officer named Fernand,in whom the grand vizier, Ali Tepelini, had reposed the greatestconfidence.”

“Well,” said Monte Cristo, “what do you see in that to annoy you?”
“What do I see in it?”
“Yes; what does it signify to you if the castle of Yanina was given upby a French officer?”
“It signifies to my father, the Count of Morcerf, whose Christian nameis Fernand!”
“Did your father serve under Ali Pasha?”
“Yes; that is to say, he fought for the independence of the Greeks, andhence arises the calumny.”
“Oh, my dear viscount, do talk reason!”
“I do not desire to do otherwise.”
“Now, just tell me who the devil should know in France that the officerFernand and the Count of Morcerf are one and the same person? and whocares now about Yanina, which was taken as long ago as the year 1822 or1823?”
“That just shows the meanness of this slander. They have allowed allthis time to elapse, and then all of a sudden rake up events which havebeen forgotten to furnish materials for scandal, in order to tarnishthe lustre of our high position. I inherit my father’s name, and I donot choose that the shadow of disgrace should darken it. I am going toBeauchamp, in whose journal this paragraph appears, and I shall insiston his retracting the assertion before two witnesses.”
“Beauchamp will never retract.”
“Then we must fight.”
“No you will not, for he will tell you, what is very true, that perhapsthere were fifty officers in the Greek army bearing the same name.”
“We will fight, nevertheless. I will efface that blot on my father’scharacter. My father, who was such a brave soldier, whose career was sobrilliant——”
“Oh, well, he will add, ‘We are warranted in believing that thisFernand is not the illustrious Count of Morcerf, who also bears thesame Christian name.’”
“I am determined not to be content with anything short of an entireretractation.”
“And you intend to make him do it in the presence of two witnesses, doyou?”
“Yes.”
“You do wrong.”
“Which means, I suppose, that you refuse the service which I asked ofyou?”
“You know my theory regarding duels; I told you my opinion on thatsubject, if you remember, when we were at Rome.”
“Nevertheless, my dear count, I found you this morning engaged in anoccupation but little consistent with the notions you profess toentertain.”
“Because, my dear fellow, you understand one must never be eccentric.If one’s lot is cast among fools, it is necessary to study folly. Ishall perhaps find myself one day called out by some harebrained scamp,who has no more real cause of quarrel with me than you have withBeauchamp; he may take me to task for some foolish trifle or other, hewill bring his witnesses, or will insult me in some public place, and Iam expected to kill him for all that.”
“You admit that you would fight, then? Well, if so, why do you objectto my doing so?”
“I do not say that you ought not to fight, I only say that a duel is aserious thing, and ought not to be undertaken without due reflection.”
“Did he reflect before he insulted my father?”
“If he spoke hastily, and owns that he did so, you ought to besatisfied.”
“Ah, my dear count, you are far too indulgent.”
“And you are far too exacting. Supposing, for instance, and do not beangry at what I am going to say——”
“Well.”
“Supposing the assertion to be really true?”
“A son ought not to submit to such a stain on his father’s honor.”
“_Ma foi!_ we live in times when there is much to which we mustsubmit.”
“That is precisely the fault of the age.”
“And do you undertake to reform it?”
“Yes, as far as I am personally concerned.”
“Well, you are indeed exacting, my dear fellow!”
“Yes, I own it.”
“Are you quite impervious to good advice?”
“Not when it comes from a friend.”
“And do you account me that title?”
“Certainly I do.”
“Well, then, before going to Beauchamp with your witnesses, seekfurther information on the subject.”
“From whom?”
“From Haydée.”
“Why, what can be the use of mixing a woman up in the affair?—what canshe do in it?”
“She can declare to you, for example, that your father had no handwhatever in the defeat and death of the vizier; or if by chance he had,indeed, the misfortune to——”
“I have told you, my dear count, that I would not for one moment admitof such a proposition.”
“You reject this means of information, then?”
“I do—most decidedly.”
“Then let me offer one more word of advice.”
“Do so, then, but let it be the last.”
“You do not wish to hear it, perhaps?”
“On the contrary, I request it.”
“Do not take any witnesses with you when you go to Beauchamp—visit himalone.”
“That would be contrary to all custom.”
“Your case is not an ordinary one.”
“And what is your reason for advising me to go alone?”
“Because then the affair will rest between you and Beauchamp.”
“Explain yourself.”
“I will do so. If Beauchamp be disposed to retract, you ought at leastto give him the opportunity of doing it of his own free will,—thesatisfaction to you will be the same. If, on the contrary, he refusesto do so, it will then be quite time enough to admit two strangers intoyour secret.”
“They will not be strangers, they will be friends.”
“Ah, but the friends of today are the enemies of tomorrow; Beauchamp,for instance.”
“So you recommend——”
“I recommend you to be prudent.”
“Then you advise me to go alone to Beauchamp?”
“I do, and I will tell you why. When you wish to obtain some concessionfrom a man’s self-love, you must avoid even the appearance of wishingto wound it.”
“I believe you are right.”
“I am glad of it.”
“Then I will go alone.”
“Go; but you would do better still by not going at all.”
“That is impossible.”
“Do so, then; it will be a wiser plan than the first which youproposed.”
“But if, in spite of all my precautions, I am at last obliged to fight,will you not be my second?”
“My dear viscount,” said Monte Cristo gravely, “you must have seenbefore today that at all times and in all places I have been at yourdisposal, but the service which you have just demanded of me is onewhich it is out of my power to render you.”
“Why?”
“Perhaps you may know at some future period, and in the mean time Irequest you to excuse my declining to put you in possession of myreasons.”
“Well, I will have Franz and Château-Renaud; they will be the very menfor it.”
“Do so, then.”
“But if I do fight, you will surely not object to giving me a lesson ortwo in shooting and fencing?”
“That, too, is impossible.”
“What a singular being you are!—you will not interfere in anything.”
“You are right—that is the principle on which I wish to act.”
“We will say no more about it, then. Good-bye, count.”
Morcerf took his hat, and left the room. He found his carriage at thedoor, and doing his utmost to restrain his anger he went at once tofind Beauchamp, who was in his office. It was a gloomy, dusty-lookingapartment, such as journalists’ offices have always been from timeimmemorial. The servant announced M. Albert de Morcerf. Beauchamprepeated the name to himself, as though he could scarcely believe thathe had heard aright, and then gave orders for him to be admitted.Albert entered.
Beauchamp uttered an exclamation of surprise on seeing his friend leapover and trample under foot all the newspapers which were strewed aboutthe room.
“This way, this way, my dear Albert!” said he, holding out his hand tothe young man. “Are you out of your senses, or do you come peaceably totake breakfast with me? Try and find a seat—there is one by thatgeranium, which is the only thing in the room to remind me that thereare other leaves in the world besides leaves of paper.”
“Beauchamp,” said Albert, “it is of your journal that I come to speak.”
“Indeed? What do you wish to say about it?”
“I desire that a statement contained in it should be rectified.”
“To what do you refer? But pray sit down.”
“Thank you,” said Albert, with a cold and formal bow.
“Will you now have the kindness to explain the nature of the statementwhich has displeased you?”
“An announcement has been made which implicates the honor of a memberof my family.”
“What is it?” said Beauchamp, much surprised; “surely you must bemistaken.”
“The story sent you from Yanina.”
“Yanina?”
“Yes; really you appear to be totally ignorant of the cause whichbrings me here.”
“Such is really the case, I assure you, upon my honor! Baptiste, giveme yesterday’s paper,” cried Beauchamp.
“Here, I have brought mine with me,” replied Albert.
Beauchamp took the paper, and read the article to which Albert pointedin an undertone.
“You see it is a serious annoyance,” said Morcerf, when Beauchamp hadfinished the perusal of the paragraph.
“Is the officer referred to a relation of yours, then?” demanded thejournalist.
“Yes,” said Albert, blushing.
“Well, what do you wish me to do for you?” said Beauchamp mildly.
“My dear Beauchamp, I wish you to contradict this statement.” Beauchamplooked at Albert with a benevolent expression.
“Come,” said he, “this matter will want a good deal of talking over; aretractation is always a serious thing, you know. Sit down, and I willread it again.”
Albert resumed his seat, and Beauchamp read, with more attention thanat first, the lines denounced by his friend.
“Well,” said Albert in a determined tone, “you see that your paper hasinsulted a member of my family, and I insist on a retractation beingmade.”
“You insist?”
“Yes, I insist.”
“Permit me to remind you that you are not in the Chamber, my dearviscount.”
“Nor do I wish to be there,” replied the young man, rising. “I repeatthat I am determined to have the announcement of yesterdaycontradicted. You have known me long enough,” continued Albert, bitinghis lips convulsively, for he saw that Beauchamp’s anger was beginningto rise,—“you have been my friend, and therefore sufficiently intimatewith me to be aware that I am likely to maintain my resolution on thispoint.”
“If I have been your friend, Morcerf, your present manner of speakingwould almost lead me to forget that I ever bore that title. But wait amoment, do not let us get angry, or at least not yet. You are irritatedand vexed—tell me how this Fernand is related to you?”
“He is merely my father,” said Albert—“M. Fernand Mondego, Count ofMorcerf, an old soldier who has fought in twenty battles and whosehonorable scars they would denounce as badges of disgrace.”
“Is it your father?” said Beauchamp; “that is quite another thing. ThenI can well understand your indignation, my dear Albert. I will look atit again;” and he read the paragraph for the third time, laying astress on each word as he proceeded. “But the paper nowhere identifiesthis Fernand with your father.”
40100m


“No; but the connection will be seen by others, and therefore I willhave the article contradicted.”
At the words _I will_, Beauchamp steadily raised his eyes to Albert’scountenance, and then as gradually lowering them, he remainedthoughtful for a few moments.
“You will retract this assertion, will you not, Beauchamp?” said Albertwith increased though stifled anger.
“Yes,” replied Beauchamp.
“Immediately?” said Albert.
“When I am convinced that the statement is false.”
“What?”
“The thing is worth looking into, and I will take pains to investigatethe matter thoroughly.”
“But what is there to investigate, sir?” said Albert, enraged beyondmeasure at Beauchamp’s last remark. “If you do not believe that it ismy father, say so immediately; and if, on the contrary, you believe itto be him, state your reasons for doing so.”
Beauchamp looked at Albert with the smile which was so peculiar to him,and which in its numerous modifications served to express every variedemotion of his mind.
“Sir,” replied he, “if you came to me with the idea of demandingsatisfaction, you should have gone at once to the point, and not haveentertained me with the idle conversation to which I have beenpatiently listening for the last half hour. Am I to put thisconstruction on your visit?”
“Yes, if you will not consent to retract that infamous calumny.”
“Wait a moment—no threats, if you please, M. Fernand Mondego, Vicomtede Morcerf; I never allow them from my enemies, and therefore shall notput up with them from my friends. You insist on my contradicting thearticle relating to General Fernand, an article with which, I assureyou on my word of honor, I had nothing whatever to do?”
“Yes, I insist on it,” said Albert, whose mind was beginning to getbewildered with the excitement of his feelings.
“And if I refuse to retract, you wish to fight, do you?” said Beauchampin a calm tone.
“Yes,” replied Albert, raising his voice.
“Well,” said Beauchamp, “here is my answer, my dear sir. The articlewas not inserted by me—I was not even aware of it; but you have, by thestep you have taken, called my attention to the paragraph in question,and it will remain until it shall be either contradicted or confirmedby someone who has a right to do so.”
“Sir,” said Albert, rising, “I will do myself the honor of sending myseconds to you, and you will be kind enough to arrange with them theplace of meeting and the weapons.”
“Certainly, my dear sir.”
“And this evening, if you please, or tomorrow at the latest, we willmeet.”
“No, no, I will be on the ground at the proper time; but in my opinion(and I have a right to dictate the preliminaries, as it is I who havereceived the provocation)—in my opinion the time ought not to be yet. Iknow you to be well skilled in the management of the sword, while I amonly moderately so; I know, too, that you are a good marksman—there weare about equal. I know that a duel between us two would be a seriousaffair, because you are brave, and I am brave also. I do not thereforewish either to kill you, or to be killed myself without a cause. Now, Iam going to put a question to you, and one very much to the purposetoo. Do you insist on this retractation so far as to kill me if I donot make it, although I have repeated more than once, and affirmed onmy honor, that I was ignorant of the thing with which you charge me,and although I still declare that it is impossible for anyone but youto recognize the Count of Morcerf under the name of Fernand?”
“I maintain my original resolution.”
“Very well, my dear sir; then I consent to cut throats with you. But Irequire three weeks’ preparation; at the end of that time I shall comeand say to you, ‘The assertion is false, and I retract it,’ or ‘Theassertion is true,’ when I shall immediately draw the sword from itssheath, or the pistols from the case, whichever you please.”
“Three weeks!” cried Albert; “they will pass as slowly as threecenturies when I am all the time suffering dishonor.”
“Had you continued to remain on amicable terms with me, I should havesaid, ‘Patience, my friend;’ but you have constituted yourself myenemy, therefore I say, ‘What does that signify to me, sir?’”
“Well, let it be three weeks then,” said Morcerf; “but remember, at theexpiration of that time no delay or subterfuge will justify you in——”
“M. Albert de Morcerf,” said Beauchamp, rising in his turn, “I cannotthrow you out of window for three weeks—that is to say, for twenty-fourdays to come—nor have you any right to split my skull open till thattime has elapsed. Today is the 29th of August; the 21st of Septemberwill, therefore, be the conclusion of the term agreed on, and till thattime arrives—and it is the advice of a gentleman which I am about togive you—till then we will refrain from growling and barking like twodogs chained within sight of each other.”
When he had concluded his speech, Beauchamp bowed coldly to Albert,turned his back upon him, and went to the press-room. Albert vented hisanger on a pile of newspapers, which he sent flying all over the officeby switching them violently with his stick; after which ebullition hedeparted—not, however, without walking several times to the door of thepress-room, as if he had half a mind to enter.
40104m


While Albert was lashing the front of his carriage in the same mannerthat he had the newspapers which were the innocent agents of hisdiscomfiture, as he was crossing the barrier he perceived Morrel, whowas walking with a quick step and a bright eye. He was passing theChinese Baths, and appeared to have come from the direction of thePorte Saint-Martin, and to be going towards the Madeleine.
“Ah,” said Morcerf, “there goes a happy man!” And it so happened Albertwas not mistaken in his opinion.


 Chapter 79. The Lemonade
Morrel was, in fact, very happy. M. Noirtier had just sent for him, andhe was in such haste to know the reason of his doing so that he had notstopped to take a cab, placing infinitely more dependence on his owntwo legs than on the four legs of a cab-horse. He had therefore set offat a furious rate from the Rue Meslay, and was hastening with rapidstrides in the direction of the Faubourg Saint-Honoré.
Morrel advanced with a firm, manly tread, and poor Barrois followed himas he best might. Morrel was only thirty-one, Barrois was sixty yearsof age; Morrel was deeply in love, and Barrois was dying with heat andexertion. These two men, thus opposed in age and interests, resembledtwo parts of a triangle, presenting the extremes of separation, yetnevertheless possessing their point of union. This point of union wasNoirtier, and it was he who had just sent for Morrel, with the requestthat the latter would lose no time in coming to him—a command whichMorrel obeyed to the letter, to the great discomfiture of Barrois. Onarriving at the house, Morrel was not even out of breath, for lovelends wings to our desires; but Barrois, who had long forgotten what itwas to love, was sorely fatigued by the expedition he had beenconstrained to use.
The old servant introduced Morrel by a private entrance, closed thedoor of the study, and soon the rustling of a dress announced thearrival of Valentine. She looked marvellously beautiful in her deepmourning dress, and Morrel experienced such intense delight in gazingupon her that he felt as if he could almost have dispensed with theconversation of her grandfather.
But the easy-chair of the old man was heard rolling along the floor,and he soon made his appearance in the room. Noirtier acknowledged by alook of extreme kindness and benevolence the thanks which Morrellavished on him for his timely intervention on behalf of Valentine andhimself—an intervention which had saved them from despair. Morrel thencast on the invalid an interrogative look as to the new favor which hedesigned to bestow on him. Valentine was sitting at a little distancefrom them, timidly awaiting the moment when she should be obliged tospeak. Noirtier fixed his eyes on her.
“Am I to say what you told me?” asked Valentine. Noirtier made a signthat she was to do so.
“Monsieur Morrel,” said Valentine to the young man, who was regardingher with the most intense interest, “my grandfather, M. Noirtier, had athousand things to say, which he told me three days ago; and now, hehas sent for you, that I may repeat them to you. I will repeat them,then; and since he has chosen me as his interpreter, I will be faithfulto the trust, and will not alter a word of his intentions.”
“Oh, I am listening with the greatest impatience,” replied the youngman; “speak, I beg of you.”
Valentine cast down her eyes; this was a good omen for Morrel, for heknew that nothing but happiness could have the power of thus overcomingValentine.
“My grandfather intends leaving this house,” said she, “and Barrois islooking out for suitable apartments for him in another.”
“But you, Mademoiselle de Villefort,—you, who are necessary to M.Noirtier’s happiness——”
“I?” interrupted Valentine; “I shall not leave my grandfather,—that isan understood thing between us. My apartment will be close to his. Now,M. de Villefort must either give his consent to this plan or hisrefusal; in the first case, I shall leave directly, and in the second,I shall wait till I am of age, which will be in about ten months. ThenI shall be free, I shall have an independent fortune, and”—
“And what?” demanded Morrel.
“And with my grandfather’s consent I shall fulfil the promise which Ihave made you.”
Valentine pronounced these last few words in such a low tone, thatnothing but Morrel’s intense interest in what she was saying could haveenabled him to hear them.
“Have I not explained your wishes, grandpapa?” said Valentine,addressing Noirtier.
“Yes,” looked the old man.
“Once under my grandfather’s roof, M. Morrel can visit me in thepresence of my good and worthy protector, if we still feel that theunion we contemplated will be likely to insure our future comfort andhappiness; in that case I shall expect M. Morrel to come and claim meat my own hands. But, alas, I have heard it said that hearts inflamedby obstacles to their desire grew cold in time of security; I trust weshall never find it so in our experience!”
“Oh,” cried Morrel, almost tempted to throw himself on his knees beforeNoirtier and Valentine, and to adore them as two superior beings, “whathave I ever done in my life to merit such unbounded happiness?”
“Until that time,” continued the young girl in a calm andself-possessed tone of voice, “we will conform to circumstances, and beguided by the wishes of our friends, so long as those wishes do nottend finally to separate us; in a word, and I repeat it, because itexpresses all I wish to convey,—we will wait.”
“And I swear to make all the sacrifices which this word imposes, sir,”said Morrel, “not only with resignation, but with cheerfulness.”
“Therefore,” continued Valentine, looking playfully at Maximilian, “nomore inconsiderate actions—no more rash projects; for you surely wouldnot wish to compromise one who from this day regards herself asdestined, honorably and happily, to bear your name?”
Morrel looked obedience to her commands. Noirtier regarded the loverswith a look of ineffable tenderness, while Barrois, who had remained inthe room in the character of a man privileged to know everything thatpassed, smiled on the youthful couple as he wiped the perspiration fromhis bald forehead.
“How hot you look, my good Barrois,” said Valentine.
“Ah, I have been running very fast, mademoiselle, but I must do M.Morrel the justice to say that he ran still faster.”
Noirtier directed their attention to a waiter, on which was placed adecanter containing lemonade and a glass. The decanter was nearly full,with the exception of a little, which had been already drunk by M.Noirtier.
“Come, Barrois,” said the young girl, “take some of this lemonade; Isee you are coveting a good draught of it.”
“The fact is, mademoiselle,” said Barrois, “I am dying with thirst, andsince you are so kind as to offer it me, I cannot say I should at allobject to drinking your health in a glass of it.”
“Take some, then, and come back immediately.”
Barrois took away the waiter, and hardly was he outside the door, whichin his haste he forgot to shut, than they saw him throw back his headand empty to the very dregs the glass which Valentine had filled.Valentine and Morrel were exchanging their adieux in the presence ofNoirtier when a ring was heard at the door-bell. It was the signal of avisit. Valentine looked at her watch.
“It is past noon,” said she, “and today is Saturday; I dare say it isthe doctor, grandpapa.”
Noirtier looked his conviction that she was right in her supposition.
“He will come in here, and M. Morrel had better go,—do you not thinkso, grandpapa?”
“Yes,” signed the old man.
“Barrois,” cried Valentine, “Barrois!”
“I am coming, mademoiselle,” replied he.
“Barrois will open the door for you,” said Valentine, addressingMorrel. “And now remember one thing, Monsieur Officer, that mygrandfather commands you not to take any rash or ill-advised step whichwould be likely to compromise our happiness.”
40108m


“I promised him to wait,” replied Morrel; “and I will wait.”
At this moment Barrois entered. “Who rang?” asked Valentine.
“Doctor d’Avrigny,” said Barrois, staggering as if he would fall.
“What is the matter, Barrois?” said Valentine. The old man did notanswer, but looked at his master with wild staring eyes, while with hiscramped hand he grasped a piece of furniture to enable him to standupright.
“He is going to fall!” cried Morrel.
The rigors which had attacked Barrois gradually increased, the featuresof the face became quite altered, and the convulsive movement of themuscles appeared to indicate the approach of a most serious nervousdisorder. Noirtier, seeing Barrois in this pitiable condition, showedby his looks all the various emotions of sorrow and sympathy which cananimate the heart of man. Barrois made some steps towards his master.
“Ah, sir,” said he, “tell me what is the matter with me. I amsuffering—I cannot see. A thousand fiery darts are piercing my brain.Ah, don’t touch me, pray don’t.”
By this time his haggard eyes had the appearance of being ready tostart from their sockets; his head fell back, and the lower extremitiesof the body began to stiffen. Valentine uttered a cry of horror; Morreltook her in his arms, as if to defend her from some unknown danger.
“M. d’Avrigny, M. d’Avrigny,” cried she, in a stifled voice. “Help,help!”
Barrois turned round and with a great effort stumbled a few steps, thenfell at the feet of Noirtier, and resting his hand on the knee of theinvalid, exclaimed:
“My master, my good master!”
At this moment M. de Villefort, attracted by the noise, appeared on thethreshold. Morrel relaxed his hold of Valentine, and retreating to adistant corner of the room remained half hidden behind a curtain. Paleas if he had been gazing on a serpent, he fixed his terrified eye onthe agonized sufferer.
Noirtier, burning with impatience and terror, was in despair at hisutter inability to help his old domestic, whom he regarded more in thelight of a friend than a servant. One might by the fearful swelling ofthe veins of his forehead and the contraction of the muscles round theeye, trace the terrible conflict which was going on between the livingenergetic mind and the inanimate and helpless body.
Barrois, his features convulsed, his eyes suffused with blood, and hishead thrown back, was lying at full length, beating the floor with hishands, while his legs had become so stiff, that they looked as if theywould break rather than bend. A slight appearance of foam was visiblearound the mouth, and he breathed painfully, and with extremedifficulty.
Villefort seemed stupefied with astonishment, and remained gazingintently on the scene before him without uttering a word. He had notseen Morrel. After a moment of dumb contemplation, during which hisface became pale and his hair seemed to stand on end, he sprang towardsthe door, crying out:
“Doctor, doctor! come instantly, pray come!”
“Madame, madame!” cried Valentine, calling her step-mother, and runningupstairs to meet her; “come quick, quick!—and bring your bottle ofsmelling-salts with you.”
“What is the matter?” said Madame de Villefort in a harsh andconstrained tone.
“Oh! come! come!”
“But where is the doctor?” exclaimed Villefort; “where is he?”
Madame de Villefort now deliberately descended the staircase. In onehand she held her handkerchief, with which she appeared to be wipingher face, and in the other a bottle of English smelling-salts. Herfirst look on entering the room was at Noirtier, whose face,independent of the emotion which such a scene could not fail ofproducing, proclaimed him to be in possession of his usual health; hersecond glance was at the dying man. She turned pale, and her eye passedquickly from the servant and rested on the master.
“In the name of heaven, madame,” said Villefort, “where is the doctor?He was with you just now. You see this is a fit of apoplexy, and hemight be saved if he could but be bled!”
“Has he eaten anything lately?” asked Madame de Villefort, eluding herhusband’s question.
“Madame,” replied Valentine, “he has not even breakfasted. He has beenrunning very fast on an errand with which my grandfather charged him,and when he returned, took nothing but a glass of lemonade.”
“Ah,” said Madame de Villefort, “why did he not take wine? Lemonade wasa very bad thing for him.”
“Grandpapa’s bottle of lemonade was standing just by his side; poorBarrois was very thirsty, and was thankful to drink anything he couldfind.”
Madame de Villefort started. Noirtier looked at her with a glance ofthe most profound scrutiny.
“He has such a short neck,” said she.
“Madame,” said Villefort, “I ask where is M. d’Avrigny? In God’s nameanswer me!”
“He is with Edward, who is not quite well,” replied Madame deVillefort, no longer being able to avoid answering.
Villefort rushed upstairs to fetch him.
“Take this,” said Madame de Villefort, giving her smelling-bottle toValentine. “They will, no doubt, bleed him; therefore I will retire,for I cannot endure the sight of blood;” and she followed her husbandupstairs. Morrel now emerged from his hiding-place, where he hadremained quite unperceived, so great had been the general confusion.
“Go away as quick as you can, Maximilian,” said Valentine, “and staytill I send for you. Go.”
Morrel looked towards Noirtier for permission to retire. The old man,who had preserved all his usual coolness, made a sign to him to do so.The young man pressed Valentine’s hand to his lips, and then left thehouse by a back staircase.
At the same moment that he quitted the room, Villefort and the doctorentered by an opposite door. Barrois was now showing signs of returningconsciousness. The risis seemed past, a low moaning was heard, and heraised himself on one knee. D’Avrigny and Villefort laid him on acouch.
“What do you prescribe, doctor?” demanded Villefort.
“Give me some water and ether. You have some in the house, have younot?”
“Yes.”
“Send for some oil of turpentine and tartar emetic.”
Villefort immediately despatched a messenger. “And now let everyoneretire.”
“Must I go too?” asked Valentine timidly.
“Yes, mademoiselle, you especially,” replied the doctor abruptly.
Valentine looked at M. d’Avrigny with astonishment, kissed hergrandfather on the forehead, and left the room. The doctor closed thedoor after her with a gloomy air.
“Look, look, doctor,” said Villefort, “he is quite coming round again;I really do not think, after all, it is anything of consequence.”
M. d’Avrigny answered by a melancholy smile.
“How do you feel, Barrois?” asked he.
“A little better, sir.”
“Will you drink some of this ether and water?”
“I will try; but don’t touch me.”
“Why not?”
“Because I feel that if you were only to touch me with the tip of yourfinger the fit would return.”
“Drink.”
Barrois took the glass, and, raising it to his purple lips, took abouthalf of the liquid offered him.
“Where do you suffer?” asked the doctor.
“Everywhere. I feel cramps over my whole body.”
“Do you find any dazzling sensation before the eyes?”
“Yes.”
“Any noise in the ears?”
“Frightful.”
40112m


“When did you first feel that?”
“Just now.”
“Suddenly?”
“Yes, like a clap of thunder.”
“Did you feel nothing of it yesterday or the day before?”
“Nothing.”
“No drowsiness?”
“None.”
“What have you eaten today?”
“I have eaten nothing; I only drank a glass of my master’slemonade—that’s all.” And Barrois turned towards Noirtier, who,immovably fixed in his armchair, was contemplating this terrible scenewithout allowing a word or a movement to escape him.
“Where is this lemonade?” asked the doctor eagerly.
“Downstairs in the decanter.”
“Whereabouts downstairs?”
“In the kitchen.”
“Shall I go and fetch it, doctor?” inquired Villefort.
“No, stay here and try to make Barrois drink the rest of this glass ofether and water. I will go myself and fetch the lemonade.”
D’Avrigny bounded towards the door, flew down the back staircase, andalmost knocked down Madame de Villefort, in his haste, who was herselfgoing down to the kitchen. She cried out, but d’Avrigny paid noattention to her; possessed with but one idea, he cleared the last foursteps with a bound, and rushed into the kitchen, where he saw thedecanter about three parts empty still standing on the waiter, where ithad been left. He darted upon it as an eagle would seize upon its prey.Panting with loss of breath, he returned to the room he had just left.Madame de Villefort was slowly ascending the steps which led to herroom.
“Is this the decanter you spoke of?” asked d’Avrigny.
“Yes, doctor.”
“Is this the same lemonade of which you partook?”
“I believe so.”
“What did it taste like?”
“It had a bitter taste.”
The doctor poured some drops of the lemonade into the palm of his hand,put his lips to it, and after having rinsed his mouth as a man doeswhen he is tasting wine, he spat the liquor into the fireplace.
“It is no doubt the same,” said he. “Did you drink some too, M.Noirtier?”
“Yes.”
“And did you also discover a bitter taste?”
“Yes.”
“Oh, doctor,” cried Barrois, “the fit is coming on again. Oh, dosomething for me.” The doctor flew to his patient.
“That emetic, Villefort—see if it is coming.”
Villefort sprang into the passage, exclaiming, “The emetic! theemetic!—is it come yet?” No one answered. The most profound terrorreigned throughout the house.
“If I had anything by means of which I could inflate the lungs,” saidd’Avrigny, looking around him, “perhaps I might prevent suffocation.But there is nothing which would do!—nothing!”
40114m


“Oh, sir,” cried Barrois, “are you going to let me die without help?Oh, I am dying! Oh, save me!”
“A pen, a pen!” said the doctor. There was one lying on the table; heendeavored to introduce it into the mouth of the patient, who, in themidst of his convulsions, was making vain attempts to vomit; but thejaws were so clenched that the pen could not pass them. This secondattack was much more violent than the first, and he had slipped fromthe couch to the ground, where he was writhing in agony. The doctorleft him in this paroxysm, knowing that he could do nothing toalleviate it, and, going up to Noirtier, said abruptly:
“How do you find yourself?—well?”
“Yes.”
“Have you any weight on the chest; or does your stomach feel light andcomfortable—eh?”
“Yes.”
“Then you feel pretty much as you generally do after you have had thedose which I am accustomed to give you every Sunday?”
“Yes.”
“Did Barrois make your lemonade?”
“Yes.”
“Was it you who asked him to drink some of it?”
“No.”
“Was it M. de Villefort?”
“No.”
“Madame?”
“No.”
“It was your granddaughter, then, was it not?”
“Yes.”
A groan from Barrois, accompanied by a yawn which seemed to crack thevery jawbones, attracted the attention of M. d’Avrigny; he left M.Noirtier, and returned to the sick man.
“Barrois,” said the doctor, “can you speak?” Barrois muttered a fewunintelligible words. “Try and make an effort to do so, my good man.”said d’Avrigny. Barrois reopened his bloodshot eyes.
“Who made the lemonade?”
“I did.”
“Did you bring it to your master directly it was made?”
“No.”
“You left it somewhere, then, in the meantime?”
“Yes; I left it in the pantry, because I was called away.”
“Who brought it into this room, then?”
“Mademoiselle Valentine.” D’Avrigny struck his forehead with his hand.
“Gracious heaven,” exclaimed he.
“Doctor, doctor!” cried Barrois, who felt another fit coming.
“Will they never bring that emetic?” asked the doctor.
“Here is a glass with one already prepared,” said Villefort, enteringthe room.
“Who prepared it?”
“The chemist who came here with me.”
40116m


“Drink it,” said the doctor to Barrois.
“Impossible, doctor; it is too late; my throat is closing up. I amchoking! Oh, my heart! Ah, my head!—Oh, what agony!—Shall I suffer likethis long?”
“No, no, friend,” replied the doctor, “you will soon cease to suffer.”
“Ah, I understand you,” said the unhappy man. “My God, have mercy uponme!” and, uttering a fearful cry, Barrois fell back as if he had beenstruck by lightning. D’Avrigny put his hand to his heart, and placed aglass before his lips.
“Well?” said Villefort.
“Go to the kitchen and get me some syrup of violets.”
Villefort went immediately.
“Do not be alarmed, M. Noirtier,” said d’Avrigny; “I am going to takemy patient into the next room to bleed him; this sort of attack is veryfrightful to witness.”
And taking Barrois under the arms, he dragged him into an adjoiningroom; but almost immediately he returned to fetch the lemonade.Noirtier closed his right eye.
“You want Valentine, do you not? I will tell them to send her to you.”
Villefort returned, and d’Avrigny met him in the passage.
“Well, how is he now?” asked he.
“Come in here,” said d’Avrigny, and he took him into the chamber wherethe sick man lay.
“Is he still in a fit?” said the procureur.
“He is dead.”
Villefort drew back a few steps, and, clasping his hands, exclaimed,with real amazement and sympathy, “Dead?—and so soon too!”
“Yes, it is very soon,” said the doctor, looking at the corpse beforehim; “but that ought not to astonish you; Monsieur and Madame deSaint-Méran died as soon. People die very suddenly in your house, M. deVillefort.”
“What?” cried the magistrate, with an accent of horror andconsternation, “are you still harping on that terrible idea?”
“Still, sir; and I shall always do so,” replied d’Avrigny, “for it hasnever for one instant ceased to retain possession of my mind; and thatyou may be quite sure I am not mistaken this time, listen well to whatI am going to say, M. de Villefort.”
The magistrate trembled convulsively.
“There is a poison which destroys life almost without leaving anyperceptible traces. I know it well; I have studied it in all its formsand in the effects which it produces. I recognized the presence of thispoison in the case of poor Barrois as well as in that of Madame deSaint-Méran. There is a way of detecting its presence. It restores theblue color of litmus-paper reddened by an acid, and it turns syrup ofviolets green. We have no litmus-paper, but, see, here they come withthe syrup of violets.”
The doctor was right; steps were heard in the passage. M. d’Avrignyopened the door, and took from the hands of the chambermaid a cup whichcontained two or three spoonfuls of the syrup, he then carefully closedthe door.
“Look,” said he to the procureur, whose heart beat so loudly that itmight almost be heard, “here is in this cup some syrup of violets, andthis decanter contains the remainder of the lemonade of which M.Noirtier and Barrois partook. If the lemonade be pure and inoffensive,the syrup will retain its color; if, on the contrary, the lemonade bedrugged with poison, the syrup will become green. Look closely!”
The doctor then slowly poured some drops of the lemonade from thedecanter into the cup, and in an instant a light cloudy sediment beganto form at the bottom of the cup; this sediment first took a blueshade, then from the color of sapphire it passed to that of opal, andfrom opal to emerald. Arrived at this last hue, it changed no more. Theresult of the experiment left no doubt whatever on the mind.
“The unfortunate Barrois has been poisoned,” said d’Avrigny, “and Iwill maintain this assertion before God and man.”
Villefort said nothing, but he clasped his hands, opened his haggardeyes, and, overcome with his emotion, sank into a chair.


 Chapter 80. The Accusation
M. d’Avrigny soon restored the magistrate to consciousness, who hadlooked like a second corpse in that chamber of death.
“Oh, death is in my house!” cried Villefort.
“Say, rather, crime!” replied the doctor.
“M. d’Avrigny,” cried Villefort, “I cannot tell you all I feel at thismoment,—terror, grief, madness.”
“Yes,” said M. d’Avrigny, with an imposing calmness, “but I think it isnow time to act. I think it is time to stop this torrent of mortality.I can no longer bear to be in possession of these secrets without thehope of seeing the victims and society generally revenged.”
Villefort cast a gloomy look around him. “In my house,” murmured he,“in my house!”
“Come, magistrate,” said M. d’Avrigny, “show yourself a man; as aninterpreter of the law, do honor to your profession by sacrificing yourselfish interests to it.”
“You make me shudder, doctor. Do you talk of a sacrifice?”
“I do.”
“Do you then suspect anyone?”
“I suspect no one; death raps at your door—it enters—it goes, notblindfolded, but circumspectly, from room to room. Well, I follow itscourse, I track its passage; I adopt the wisdom of the ancients, andfeel my way, for my friendship for your family and my respect for youare as a twofold bandage over my eyes; well——”
“Oh, speak, speak, doctor; I shall have courage.”
“Well, sir, you have in your establishment, or in your family, perhaps,one of the frightful monstrosities of which each century produces onlyone. Locusta and Agrippina, living at the same time, were an exception,and proved the determination of Providence to effect the entire ruin ofthe Roman empire, sullied by so many crimes. Brunhilda and Fredegundwere the results of the painful struggle of civilization in itsinfancy, when man was learning to control mind, were it even by anemissary from the realms of darkness. All these women had been, orwere, beautiful. The same flower of innocence had flourished, or wasstill flourishing, on their brow, that is seen on the brow of theculprit in your house.”
40120m


Villefort shrieked, clasped his hands, and looked at the doctor with asupplicating air. But the latter went on without pity:
“‘Seek whom the crime will profit,’ says an axiom of jurisprudence.”
“Doctor,” cried Villefort, “alas, doctor, how often has man’s justicebeen deceived by those fatal words. I know not why, but I feel thatthis crime——”
“You acknowledge, then, the existence of the crime?”
“Yes, I see too plainly that it does exist. But it seems that it isintended to affect me personally. I fear an attack myself, after allthese disasters.”
“Oh, man!” murmured d’Avrigny, “the most selfish of all animals, themost personal of all creatures, who believes the earth turns, the sunshines, and death strikes for him alone,—an ant cursing God from thetop of a blade of grass! And have those who have lost their lives lostnothing?—M. de Saint-Méran, Madame de Saint-Méran, M. Noirtier——”
“How? M. Noirtier?”
“Yes; think you it was the poor servant’s life was coveted? No, no;like Shakespeare’s Polonius, he died for another. It was Noirtier thelemonade was intended for—it is Noirtier, logically speaking, who drankit. The other drank it only by accident, and, although Barrois is dead,it was Noirtier whose death was wished for.”
“But why did it not kill my father?”
“I told you one evening in the garden after Madame de Saint-Méran’sdeath—because his system is accustomed to that very poison, and thedose was trifling to him, which would be fatal to another; because noone knows, not even the assassin, that, for the last twelve months, Ihave given M. Noirtier brucine for his paralytic affection, while theassassin is not ignorant, for he has proved that brucine is a violentpoison.”
“Oh, have pity—have pity!” murmured Villefort, wringing his hands.
“Follow the culprit’s steps; he first kills M. de Saint-Méran——”
“Oh, doctor!”
“I would swear to it; what I heard of his symptoms agrees too well withwhat I have seen in the other cases.” Villefort ceased to contend; heonly groaned. “He first kills M. de Saint-Méran,” repeated the doctor,“then Madame de Saint-Méran,—a double fortune to inherit.” Villefortwiped the perspiration from his forehead. “Listen attentively.”
“Alas,” stammered Villefort, “I do not lose a single word.”
“M. Noirtier,” resumed M. d’Avrigny in the same pitiless tone,—“M.Noirtier had once made a will against you—against your family—in favorof the poor, in fact; M. Noirtier is spared, because nothing isexpected from him. But he has no sooner destroyed his first will andmade a second, than, for fear he should make a third, he is struckdown. The will was made the day before yesterday, I believe; you seethere has been no time lost.”
“Oh, mercy, M. d’Avrigny!”
“No mercy, sir! The physician has a sacred mission on earth; and tofulfil it he begins at the source of life, and goes down to themysterious darkness of the tomb. When crime has been committed, andGod, doubtless in anger, turns away his face, it is for the physicianto bring the culprit to justice.”
40122m


“Have mercy on my child, sir,” murmured Villefort.
“You see it is yourself who have first named her—you, her father.”
“Have pity on Valentine! Listen, it is impossible. I would as willinglyaccuse myself! Valentine, whose heart is pure as a diamond or a lily!”
“No pity, procureur; the crime is fragrant. Mademoiselle herself packedall the medicines which were sent to M. de Saint-Méran; and M. deSaint-Méran is dead. Mademoiselle de Villefort prepared all the coolingdraughts which Madame de Saint-Méran took, and Madame de Saint-Méran isdead. Mademoiselle de Villefort took from the hands of Barrois, who wassent out, the lemonade which M. Noirtier had every morning, and he hasescaped by a miracle. Mademoiselle de Villefort is the culprit—she isthe poisoner! To you, as the king’s attorney, I denounce Mademoisellede Villefort, do your duty.”
“Doctor, I resist no longer—I can no longer defend myself—I believeyou; but, for pity’s sake, spare my life, my honor!”
“M. de Villefort,” replied the doctor, with increased vehemence, “thereare occasions when I dispense with all foolish human circumspection. Ifyour daughter had committed only one crime, and I saw her meditatinganother, I would say ‘Warn her, punish her, let her pass the remainderof her life in a convent, weeping and praying.’ If she had committedtwo crimes, I would say, ‘Here, M. de Villefort, is a poison that theprisoner is not acquainted with,—one that has no known antidote, quickas thought, rapid as lightning, mortal as the thunderbolt; give herthat poison, recommending her soul to God, and save your honor and yourlife, for it is yours she aims at; and I can picture her approachingyour pillow with her hypocritical smiles and her sweet exhortations.Woe to you, M. de Villefort, if you do not strike first!’ This is whatI would say had she only killed two persons but she has seen threedeaths,—has contemplated three murdered persons,—has knelt by threecorpses! To the scaffold with the poisoner—to the scaffold! Do you talkof your honor? Do what I tell you, and immortality awaits you!”
Villefort fell on his knees.
“Listen,” said he; “I have not the strength of mind you have, or ratherthat which you would not have, if instead of my daughter Valentine yourdaughter Madeleine were concerned.” The doctor turned pale. “Doctor,every son of woman is born to suffer and to die; I am content to sufferand to await death.”
“Beware,” said M. d’Avrigny, “it may come slowly; you will see itapproach after having struck your father, your wife, perhaps your son.”
Villefort, suffocating, pressed the doctor’s arm.
40124m


“Listen,” cried he; “pity me—help me! No, my daughter is not guilty. Ifyou drag us both before a tribunal I will still say, ‘No, my daughteris not guilty;—there is no crime in my house. I will not acknowledge acrime in my house; for when crime enters a dwelling, it is likedeath—it does not come alone.’ Listen. What does it signify to you if Iam murdered? Are you my friend? Are you a man? Have you a heart? No,you are a physician! Well, I tell you I will not drag my daughterbefore a tribunal, and give her up to the executioner! The bare ideawould kill me—would drive me like a madman to dig my heart out with myfinger-nails! And if you were mistaken, doctor—if it were not mydaughter—if I should come one day, pale as a spectre, and say to you,‘Assassin, you have killed my child!’—hold—if that should happen,although I am a Christian, M. d’Avrigny, I should kill myself.”
“Well,” said the doctor, after a moment’s silence, “I will wait.”
Villefort looked at him as if he had doubted his words.
“Only,” continued M. d’Avrigny, with a slow and solemn tone, “if anyonefalls ill in your house, if you feel yourself attacked, do not send forme, for I will come no more. I will consent to share this dreadfulsecret with you, but I will not allow shame and remorse to grow andincrease in my conscience, as crime and misery will in your house.”
“Then you abandon me, doctor?”
“Yes, for I can follow you no farther, and I only stop at the foot ofthe scaffold. Some further discovery will be made, which will bringthis dreadful tragedy to a close. Adieu.”
“I entreat you, doctor!”
“All the horrors that disturb my thoughts make your house odious andfatal. Adieu, sir.”
“One word—one single word more, doctor! You go, leaving me in all thehorror of my situation, after increasing it by what you have revealedto me. But what will be reported of the sudden death of the poor oldservant?”
“True,” said M. d’Avrigny; “we will return.”
The doctor went out first, followed by M. de Villefort. The terrifiedservants were on the stairs and in the passage where the doctor wouldpass.
“Sir,” said d’Avrigny to Villefort, so loud that all might hear, “poorBarrois has led too sedentary a life of late; accustomed formerly toride on horseback, or in the carriage, to the four corners of Europe,the monotonous walk around that armchair has killed him—his blood hasthickened. He was stout, had a short, thick neck; he was attacked withapoplexy, and I was called in too late. By the way,” added he in a lowtone, “take care to throw away that cup of syrup of violets in theashes.”
The doctor, without shaking hands with Villefort, without adding a wordto what he had said, went out, amid the tears and lamentations of thewhole household. The same evening all Villefort’s servants, who hadassembled in the kitchen, and had a long consultation, came to tellMadame de Villefort that they wished to leave. No entreaty, noproposition of increased wages, could induce them to remain; to everyargument they replied, “We must go, for death is in this house.”
They all left, in spite of prayers and entreaties, testifying theirregret at leaving so good a master and mistress, and especiallyMademoiselle Valentine, so good, so kind, and so gentle.
Villefort looked at Valentine as they said this. She was in tears, and,strange as it was, in spite of the emotions he felt at the sight ofthese tears, he looked also at Madame de Villefort, and it appeared tohim as if a slight gloomy smile had passed over her thin lips, like ameteor seen passing inauspiciously between two clouds in a stormy sky.


 Chapter 81. The Room of the Retired Baker
The evening of the day on which the Count of Morcerf had left Danglars’house with feelings of shame and anger at the rejection of theprojected alliance, M. Andrea Cavalcanti, with curled hair, moustachesin perfect order, and white gloves which fitted admirably, had enteredthe courtyard of the banker’s house in Rue de la Chaussée d’Antin. Hehad not been more than ten minutes in the drawing-room before he drewDanglars aside into the recess of a bow-window, and, after an ingeniouspreamble, related to him all his anxieties and cares since his noblefather’s departure. He acknowledged the extreme kindness which had beenshown him by the banker’s family, in which he had been received as ason, and where, besides, his warmest affections had found an object onwhich to centre in Mademoiselle Danglars.
Danglars listened with the most profound attention; he had expectedthis declaration for the last two or three days, and when at last itcame his eyes glistened as much as they had lowered on listening toMorcerf. He would not, however, yield immediately to the young man’srequest, but made a few conscientious objections.
“Are you not rather young, M. Andrea, to think of marrying?”
“I think not, sir,” replied M. Cavalcanti; “in Italy the nobilitygenerally marry young. Life is so uncertain, that we ought to securehappiness while it is within our reach.”
“Well, sir,” said Danglars, “in case your proposals, which do me honor,are accepted by my wife and daughter, by whom shall the preliminaryarrangements be settled? So important a negotiation should, I think, beconducted by the respective fathers of the young people.”
“Sir, my father is a man of great foresight and prudence. Thinking thatI might wish to settle in France, he left me at his departure, togetherwith the papers establishing my identity, a letter promising, if heapproved of my choice, 150,000 livres per annum from the day I wasmarried. So far as I can judge, I suppose this to be a quarter of myfather’s revenue.”
“I,” said Danglars, “have always intended giving my daughter 500,000francs as her dowry; she is, besides, my sole heiress.”
“All would then be easily arranged if the baroness and her daughter arewilling. We should command an annuity of 175,000 livres. Supposing,also, I should persuade the marquis to give me my capital, which is notlikely, but still is possible, we would place these two or threemillions in your hands, whose talent might make it realize ten percent.”
“I never give more than four per cent, and generally only three and ahalf; but to my son-in-law I would give five, and we would share theprofits.”
“Very good, father-in-law,” said Cavalcanti, yielding to his low-bornnature, which would escape sometimes through the aristocratic glosswith which he sought to conceal it. Correcting himself immediately, hesaid, “Excuse me, sir; hope alone makes me almost mad,—what will notreality do?”
“But,” said Danglars, who, on his part, did not perceive how soon theconversation, which was at first disinterested, was turning to abusiness transaction, “there is, doubtless, a part of your fortune yourfather could not refuse you?”
“Which?” asked the young man.
“That you inherit from your mother.”
“Truly, from my mother, Leonora Corsinari.”
“How much may it amount to?”
“Indeed, sir,” said Andrea, “I assure you I have never given thesubject a thought, but I suppose it must have been at least twomillions.”
Danglars felt as much overcome with joy as the miser who finds a losttreasure, or as the shipwrecked mariner who feels himself on solidground instead of in the abyss which he expected would swallow him up.
“Well, sir,” said Andrea, bowing to the banker respectfully, “may Ihope?”
“You may not only hope,” said Danglars, “but consider it a settledthing, if no obstacle arises on your part.”
“I am, indeed, rejoiced,” said Andrea.
“But,” said Danglars thoughtfully, “how is it that your patron, M. deMonte Cristo, did not make his proposal for you?”
Andrea blushed imperceptibly.
“I have just left the count, sir,” said he; “he is, doubtless, adelightful man but inconceivably peculiar in his ideas. He esteems mehighly. He even told me he had not the slightest doubt that my fatherwould give me the capital instead of the interest of my property. Hehas promised to use his influence to obtain it for me; but he alsodeclared that he never had taken on himself the responsibility ofmaking proposals for another, and he never would. I must, however, dohim the justice to add that he assured me if ever he had regretted therepugnance he felt to such a step it was on this occasion, because hethought the projected union would be a happy and suitable one. Besides,if he will do nothing officially, he will answer any questions youpropose to him. And now,” continued he, with one of his most charmingsmiles, “having finished talking to the father-in-law, I must addressmyself to the banker.”
“And what may you have to say to him?” said Danglars, laughing in histurn.
“That the day after tomorrow I shall have to draw upon you for aboutfour thousand francs; but the count, expecting my bachelor’s revenuecould not suffice for the coming month’s outlay, has offered me a draftfor twenty thousand francs. It bears his signature, as you see, whichis all-sufficient.”
“Bring me a million such as that,” said Danglars, “I shall be wellpleased,” putting the draft in his pocket. “Fix your own hour fortomorrow, and my cashier shall call on you with a check for eightythousand francs.”
“At ten o’clock then, if you please; I should like it early, as I amgoing into the country tomorrow.”
“Very well, at ten o’clock; you are still at the Hôtel des Princes?”
“Yes.”
The following morning, with the banker’s usual punctuality, the eightythousand francs were placed in the young man’s hands, as he was on thepoint of starting, after having left two hundred francs for Caderousse.He went out chiefly to avoid this dangerous enemy, and returned as lateas possible in the evening.
But scarcely had he stepped out of his carriage when the porter met himwith a parcel in his hand.
“Sir,” said he, “that man has been here.”
“What man?” said Andrea carelessly, apparently forgetting him whom hebut too well recollected.
“Him to whom your excellency pays that little annuity.”
“Oh,” said Andrea, “my father’s old servant. Well, you gave him the twohundred francs I had left for him?”
“Yes, your excellency.” Andrea had expressed a wish to be thusaddressed. “But,” continued the porter, “he would not take them.”
Andrea turned pale, but as it was dark his pallor was not perceptible.“What? he would not take them?” said he with slight emotion.
40130m


“No, he wished to speak to your excellency; I told him you were goneout, and after some dispute he believed me and gave me this letter,which he had brought with him already sealed.”
“Give it me,” said Andrea, and he read by the light of hiscarriage-lamp:
“‘You know where I live; I expect you tomorrow morning at nineo’clock.’”
Andrea examined it carefully, to ascertain if the letter had beenopened, or if any indiscreet eyes had seen its contents; but it was socarefully folded, that no one could have read it, and the seal wasperfect.
“Very well,” said he. “Poor man, he is a worthy creature.” He left theporter to ponder on these words, not knowing which most to admire, themaster or the servant.
“Take out the horses quickly, and come up to me,” said Andrea to hisgroom. In two seconds the young man had reached his room and burntCaderousse’s letter. The servant entered just as he had finished.
“You are about my height, Pierre,” said he.
“I have that honor, your excellency.”
“You had a new livery yesterday?”
“Yes, sir.”
“I have an engagement with a pretty little girl for this evening, anddo not wish to be known; lend me your livery till tomorrow. I maysleep, perhaps, at an inn.”
Pierre obeyed. Five minutes after, Andrea left the hotel, completelydisguised, took a cabriolet, and ordered the driver to take him to theCheval Rouge, at Picpus. The next morning he left that inn as he hadleft the Hôtel des Princes, without being noticed, walked down theFaubourg Saint-Antoine, along the boulevard to Rue Ménilmontant, andstopping at the door of the third house on the left looked for someoneof whom to make inquiry in the porter’s absence.
“For whom are you looking, my fine fellow?” asked the fruiteress on theopposite side.
“Monsieur Pailletin, if you please, my good woman,” replied Andrea.
“A retired baker?” asked the fruiteress.
“Exactly.”
“He lives at the end of the yard, on the left, on the third story.”
40132m


Andrea went as she directed him, and on the third floor he found ahare’s paw, which, by the hasty ringing of the bell, it was evident hepulled with considerable ill-temper. A moment after Caderousse’s faceappeared at the grating in the door.
“Ah! you are punctual,” said he, as he drew back the door.
“Confound you and your punctuality!” said Andrea, throwing himself intoa chair in a manner which implied that he would rather have flung it atthe head of his host.
“Come, come, my little fellow, don’t be angry. See, I have thoughtabout you—look at the good breakfast we are going to have; nothing butwhat you are fond of.”
Andrea, indeed, inhaled the scent of something cooking which was notunwelcome to him, hungry as he was; it was that mixture of fat andgarlic peculiar to Provençal kitchens of an inferior order, added tothat of dried fish, and above all, the pungent smell of musk andcloves. These odors escaped from two deep dishes which were covered andplaced on a stove, and from a copper pan placed in an old iron pot. Inan adjoining room Andrea saw also a tolerably clean table prepared fortwo, two bottles of wine sealed, the one with green, the other withyellow, a supply of brandy in a decanter, and a measure of fruit in acabbage-leaf, cleverly arranged on an earthenware plate.
“What do you think of it, my little fellow?” said Caderousse. “Ay, thatsmells good! You know I used to be a good cook; do you recollect howyou used to lick your fingers? You were among the first who tasted anyof my dishes, and I think you relished them tolerably.” While speaking,Caderousse went on peeling a fresh supply of onions.
“But,” said Andrea, ill-temperedly, “by my faith, if it was only tobreakfast with you, that you disturbed me, I wish the devil had takenyou!”
“My boy,” said Caderousse sententiously, “one can talk while eating.And then, you ungrateful being, you are not pleased to see an oldfriend? I am weeping with joy.”
He was truly crying, but it would have been difficult to say whetherjoy or the onions produced the greatest effect on the lachrymal glandsof the old innkeeper of the Pont-du-Gard.
“Hold your tongue, hypocrite,” said Andrea; “you love me!”
“Yes, I do, or may the devil take me. I know it is a weakness,” saidCaderousse, “but it overpowers me.”
“And yet it has not prevented your sending for me to play me sometrick.”
“Come,” said Caderousse, wiping his large knife on his apron, “if I didnot like you, do you think I should endure the wretched life you leadme? Think for a moment. You have your servant’s clothes on—youtherefore keep a servant; I have none, and am obliged to prepare my ownmeals. You abuse my cookery because you dine at the table d’hôte of theHôtel des Princes, or the Café de Paris. Well, I too could keep aservant; I too could have a tilbury; I too could dine where I like; butwhy do I not? Because I would not annoy my little Benedetto. Come, justacknowledge that I could, eh?”
This address was accompanied by a look which was by no means difficultto understand.
“Well,” said Andrea, “admitting your love, why do you want me tobreakfast with you?”
“That I may have the pleasure of seeing you, my little fellow.”
“What is the use of seeing me after we have made all our arrangements?”
“Eh, dear friend,” said Caderousse, “are wills ever made withoutcodicils? But you first came to breakfast, did you not? Well, sit down,and let us begin with these pilchards, and this fresh butter; which Ihave put on some vine-leaves to please you, wicked one. Ah, yes; youlook at my room, my four straw chairs, my images, three francs each.But what do you expect? This is not the Hôtel des Princes.”
“Come, you are growing discontented, you are no longer happy; you, whoonly wish to live like a retired baker.”
Caderousse sighed.
“Well, what have you to say? you have seen your dream realized.”
“I can still say it is a dream; a retired baker, my poor Benedetto, isrich—he has an annuity.”
“Well, you have an annuity.”
“I have?”
40134m


“Yes, since I bring you your two hundred francs.”
Caderousse shrugged his shoulders.
“It is humiliating,” said he, “thus to receive money givengrudgingly,—an uncertain supply which may soon fail. You see I amobliged to economize, in case your prosperity should cease. Well, myfriend, fortune is inconstant, as the chaplain of the regiment said. Iknow your prosperity is great, you rascal; you are to marry thedaughter of Danglars.”
“What? of Danglars?”
“Yes, to be sure; must I say Baron Danglars? I might as well say CountBenedetto. He was an old friend of mine and if he had not so bad amemory he ought to invite me to your wedding, seeing he came to mine.Yes, yes, to mine; gad, he was not so proud then,—he was an under-clerkto the good M. Morrel. I have dined many times with him and the Countof Morcerf, so you see I have some high connections and were I tocultivate them a little, we might meet in the same drawing-rooms.”
“Come, your jealousy represents everything to you in the wrong light.”
“That is all very fine, Benedetto mio, but I know what I am saying.Perhaps I may one day put on my best coat, and presenting myself at thegreat gate, introduce myself. Meanwhile let us sit down and eat.”
Caderousse set the example and attacked the breakfast with goodappetite, praising each dish he set before his visitor. The latterseemed to have resigned himself; he drew the corks, and partook largelyof the fish with the garlic and fat.
“Ah, mate,” said Caderousse, “you are getting on better terms with yourold landlord!”
“Faith, yes,” replied Andrea, whose hunger prevailed over every otherfeeling.
“So you like it, you rogue?”
“So much that I wonder how a man who can cook thus can complain of hardliving.”
“Do you see,” said Caderousse, “all my happiness is marred by onethought?”
“What is that?”
“That I am dependent on another, I who have always gained my ownlivelihood honestly.”
“Do not let that disturb you, I have enough for two.”
“No, truly; you may believe me if you will; at the end of every month Iam tormented by remorse.”
“Good Caderousse!”
“So much so, that yesterday I would not take the two hundred francs.”
“Yes, you wished to speak to me; but was it indeed remorse, tell me?”
“True remorse; and, besides, an idea had struck me.”
Andrea shuddered; he always did so at Caderousse’s ideas.
“It is miserable—do you see?—always to wait till the end of the month.”
“Oh,” said Andrea philosophically, determined to watch his companionnarrowly, “does not life pass in waiting? Do I, for instance, farebetter? Well, I wait patiently, do I not?”
“Yes; because instead of expecting two hundred wretched francs, youexpect five or six thousand, perhaps ten, perhaps even twelve, for youtake care not to let anyone know the utmost. Down there, you always hadlittle presents and Christmas-boxes, which you tried to hide from yourpoor friend Caderousse. Fortunately he is a cunning fellow, that friendCaderousse.”
“There you are beginning again to ramble, to talk again and again ofthe past! But what is the use of teasing me with going all over thatagain?”
“Ah, you are only one-and-twenty, and can forget the past; I am fifty,and am obliged to recollect it. But let us return to business.”
“Yes.”
“I was going to say, if I were in your place——”
“Well.”
“I would realize——”
“How would you realize?”
“I would ask for six months’ in advance, under pretence of being ableto purchase a farm, then with my six months I would decamp.”
“Well, well,” said Andrea, “that isn’t a bad idea.”
“My dear friend,” said Caderousse, “eat of my bread, and take myadvice; you will be none the worse off, physically or morally.”
“But,” said Andrea, “why do you not act on the advice you gave me? Whydo you not realize a six months’, a year’s advance even, and retire toBrussels? Instead of living the retired baker, you might live as abankrupt, using his privileges; that would be very good.”
“But how the devil would you have me retire on twelve hundred francs?”
“Ah, Caderousse,” said Andrea, “how covetous you are! Two months agoyou were dying with hunger.”
“The appetite grows by what it feeds on,” said Caderousse, grinning andshowing his teeth, like a monkey laughing or a tiger growling. “And,”added he, biting off with his large white teeth an enormous mouthful ofbread, “I have formed a plan.”
Caderousse’s plans alarmed Andrea still more than his ideas; ideas werebut the germ, the plan was reality.
“Let me see your plan; I dare say it is a pretty one.”
“Why not? Who formed the plan by which we left the establishment ofM——! eh? was it not I? and it was no bad one I believe, since here weare!”
“I do not say,” replied Andrea, “that you never make a good one; butlet us see your plan.”
“Well,” pursued Caderousse, “can you without expending one sou, put mein the way of getting fifteen thousand francs? No, fifteen thousand arenot enough,—I cannot again become an honest man with less than thirtythousand francs.”
“No,” replied Andrea, dryly, “no, I cannot.”
“I do not think you understand me,” replied Caderousse, calmly; “I saidwithout your laying out a sou.”
“Do you want me to commit a robbery, to spoil all my good fortune—andyours with mine—and both of us to be dragged down there again?”
“It would make very little difference to me,” said Caderousse, “if Iwere retaken, I am a poor creature to live alone, and sometimes pinefor my old comrades; not like you, heartless creature, who would beglad never to see them again.”
Andrea did more than tremble this time, he turned pale.
“Come, Caderousse, no nonsense!” said he.
“Don’t alarm yourself, my little Benedetto, but just point out to mesome means of gaining those thirty thousand francs without yourassistance, and I will contrive it.”
“Well, I’ll see—I’ll try to contrive some way,” said Andrea.
“Meanwhile you will raise my monthly allowance to five hundred francs,my little fellow? I have a fancy, and mean to get a housekeeper.”
“Well, you shall have your five hundred francs,” said Andrea; “but itis very hard for me, my poor Caderousse—you take advantage——”
“Bah,” said Caderousse, “when you have access to countless stores.”
One would have said Andrea anticipated his companion’s words, so didhis eye flash like lightning, but it was but for a moment.
“True,” he replied, “and my protector is very kind.”
“That dear protector,” said Caderousse; “and how much does he give youmonthly?”
“Five thousand francs.”
“As many thousands as you give me hundreds! Truly, it is only bastardswho are thus fortunate. Five thousand francs per month! What the devilcan you do with all that?”
“Oh, it is no trouble to spend that; and I am like you, I wantcapital.”
“Capital?—yes—I understand—everyone would like capital.”
“Well, and I shall get it.”
“Who will give it to you—your prince?”
“Yes, my prince. But unfortunately I must wait.”
40138m


“You must wait for what?” asked Caderousse.
“For his death.”
“The death of your prince?”
“Yes.”
“How so?”
“Because he has made his will in my favor.”
“Indeed?”
“On my honor.”
“For how much?”
“For five hundred thousand.”
“Only that? It’s little enough.”
“But so it is.”
“No, it cannot be!”
“Are you my friend, Caderousse?”
“Yes, in life or death.”
“Well, I will tell you a secret.”
“What is it?”
“But remember——”
“Ah! _pardieu!_ mute as a carp.”
“Well, I think——”
Andrea stopped and looked around.
“You think? Do not fear; _pardieu!_ we are alone.”
“I think I have discovered my father.”
“Your true father?”
“Yes.”
“Not old Cavalcanti?”
“No, for he has gone again; the true one, as you say.”
“And that father is——”
“Well, Caderousse, it is Monte Cristo.”
“Bah!”
“Yes, you understand, that explains all. He cannot acknowledge meopenly, it appears, but he does it through M. Cavalcanti, and gives himfifty thousand francs for it.”
“Fifty thousand francs for being your father? I would have done it forhalf that, for twenty thousand, for fifteen thousand; why did you notthink of me, ungrateful man?”
“Did I know anything about it, when it was all done when I was downthere?”
“Ah, truly? And you say that by his will——”
“He leaves me five hundred thousand livres.”
“Are you sure of it?”
“He showed it me; but that is not all—there is a codicil, as I saidjust now.”
“Probably.”
“And in that codicil he acknowledges me.”
“Oh, the good father, the brave father, the very honest father!” saidCaderousse, twirling a plate in the air between his two hands.
“Now, say if I conceal anything from you?”
“No, and your confidence makes you honorable in my opinion; and yourprincely father, is he rich, very rich?”
“Yes, he is that; he does not himself know the amount of his fortune.”
“Is it possible?”
“It is evident enough to me, who am always at his house. The other daya banker’s clerk brought him fifty thousand francs in a portfolio aboutthe size of your plate; yesterday his banker brought him a hundredthousand francs in gold.”
Caderousse was filled with wonder; the young man’s words sounded to himlike metal, and he thought he could hear the rushing of cascades oflouis.
“And you go into that house?” cried he briskly.
“When I like.”
Caderousse was thoughtful for a moment. It was easy to perceive he wasrevolving some unfortunate idea in his mind. Then suddenly,—
“How I should like to see all that,” cried he; “how beautiful it mustbe!”
“It is, in fact, magnificent,” said Andrea.
“And does he not live in the Champs-Élysées?”
“Yes, No. 30.”
“Ah,” said Caderousse, “No. 30.”
“Yes, a fine house standing alone, between a courtyard and agarden,—you must know it.”
“Possibly; but it is not the exterior I care for, it is the interior.What beautiful furniture there must be in it!”
“Have you ever seen the Tuileries?”
“No.”
“Well, it surpasses that.”
“It must be worth one’s while to stoop, Andrea, when that good M. MonteCristo lets fall his purse.”
“It is not worthwhile to wait for that,” said Andrea; “money is asplentiful in that house as fruit in an orchard.”
“But you should take me there one day with you.”
“How can I? On what plea?”
“You are right; but you have made my mouth water. I must absolutely seeit; I shall find a way.”
“No nonsense, Caderousse!”
“I will offer myself as floor-polisher.”
“The rooms are all carpeted.”
“Well, then, I must be contented to imagine it.”
“That is the best plan, believe me.”
“Try, at least, to give me an idea of what it is.”
“How can I?”
“Nothing is easier. Is it large?”
“Middling.”
“How is it arranged?”
“Faith, I should require pen, ink, and paper to make a plan.”
“They are all here,” said Caderousse, briskly. He fetched from an oldsecretaire a sheet of white paper and pen and ink. “Here,” saidCaderousse, “draw me all that on the paper, my boy.”
Andrea took the pen with an imperceptible smile and began.
“The house, as I said, is between the court and the garden; in thisway, do you see?” Andrea drew the garden, the court and the house.
40142m


“High walls?”
“Not more than eight or ten feet.”
“That is not prudent,” said Caderousse.
“In the court are orange-trees in pots, turf, and clumps of flowers.”
“And no steel-traps?”
“No.”
“The stables?”
“Are on either side of the gate, which you see there.” And Andreacontinued his plan.
“Let us see the ground floor,” said Caderousse.
“On the ground floor, dining-room, two drawing-rooms, billiard-room,staircase in the hall, and a little back staircase.”
“Windows?”
“Magnificent windows, so beautiful, so large, that I believe a man ofyour size should pass through each frame.”
“Why the devil have they any stairs with such windows?”
“Luxury has everything.”
“But shutters?”
“Yes, but they are never used. That Count of Monte Cristo is anoriginal, who loves to look at the sky even at night.”
“And where do the servants sleep?”
“Oh, they have a house to themselves. Picture to yourself a prettycoach-house at the right-hand side where the ladders are kept. Well,over that coach-house are the servants’ rooms, with bells correspondingwith the different apartments.”
“Ah, _diable!_ bells did you say?”
“What do you mean?”
“Oh, nothing! I only say they cost a load of money to hang, and what isthe use of them, I should like to know?”
“There used to be a dog let loose in the yard at night, but it has beentaken to the house at Auteuil, to that you went to, you know.”
“Yes.”
“I was saying to him only yesterday, ‘You are imprudent, MonsieurCount; for when you go to Auteuil and take your servants the house isleft unprotected.’ ‘Well,’ said he, ‘what next?’ ‘Well, next, some dayyou will be robbed.’”
“What did he answer?”
“He quietly said, ‘What do I care if I am?’”
“Andrea, he has some secretaire with a spring.”
“How do you know?”
“Yes, which catches the thief in a trap and plays a tune. I was toldthere were such at the last exhibition.”
“He has simply a mahogany secretaire, in which the key is always kept.”
“And he is not robbed?”
“No; his servants are all devoted to him.”
“There ought to be some money in that secretaire?”
“There may be. No one knows what there is.”
“And where is it?”
“On the first floor.”
“Sketch me the plan of that floor, as you have done of the groundfloor, my boy.”
“That is very simple.” Andrea took the pen. “On the first story, do yousee, there is the anteroom and the drawing-room; to the right of thedrawing-room, a library and a study; to the left, a bedroom and adressing-room. The famous secretaire is in the dressing-room.”
“Is there a window in the dressing-room?”
“Two,—one here and one there.” Andrea sketched two windows in the room,which formed an angle on the plan, and appeared as a small square addedto the rectangle of the bedroom. Caderousse became thoughtful.
“Does he often go to Auteuil?” added he.
“Two or three times a week. Tomorrow, for instance, he is going tospend the day and night there.”
“Are you sure of it?”
“He has invited me to dine there.”
“There’s a life for you,” said Caderousse; “a town house and a countryhouse.”
“That is what it is to be rich.”
“And shall you dine there?”
“Probably.”
“When you dine there, do you sleep there?”
“If I like; I am at home there.”
Caderousse looked at the young man, as if to get at the truth from thebottom of his heart. But Andrea drew a cigar-case from his pocket, tooka Havana, quietly lit it, and began smoking.
“When do you want your twelve hundred francs?” said he to Caderousse.
“Now, if you have them.” Andrea took five-and-twenty louis from hispocket.
“Yellow boys?” said Caderousse; “no, I thank you.”
“Oh, you despise them.”
“On the contrary, I esteem them, but will not have them.”
“You can change them, idiot; gold is worth five sous.”
“Exactly; and he who changes them will follow friend Caderousse, layhands on him, and demand what farmers pay him their rent in gold. Nononsense, my good fellow; silver simply, round coins with the head ofsome monarch or other on them. Anybody may possess a five-franc piece.”
“But do you suppose I carry five hundred francs about with me? I shouldwant a porter.”
“Well, leave them with your porter; he is to be trusted. I will callfor them.”
“Today?”
“No, tomorrow; I shall not have time today.”
“Well, tomorrow I will leave them when I go to Auteuil.”
“May I depend on it?”
“Certainly.”
“Because I shall secure my housekeeper on the strength of it.”
“Now see here, will that be all? Eh? And will you not torment me anymore?”
“Never.”
Caderousse had become so gloomy that Andrea feared he should be obligedto notice the change. He redoubled his gayety and carelessness.
“How sprightly you are,” said Caderousse; “One would say you werealready in possession of your property.”
“No, unfortunately; but when I do obtain it——”
“Well?”
“I shall remember old friends, I can tell you that.”
“Yes, since you have such a good memory.”
“What do you want? It looks as if you were trying to fleece me?”
“I? What an idea! I, who am going to give you another piece of goodadvice.”
“What is it?”
“To leave behind you the diamond you have on your finger. We shall bothget into trouble. You will ruin both yourself and me by your folly.”
“How so?” said Andrea.
“How? You put on a livery, you disguise yourself as a servant, and yetkeep a diamond on your finger worth four or five thousand francs.”
“You guess well.”
“I know something of diamonds; I have had some.”
“You do well to boast of it,” said Andrea, who, without becoming angry,as Caderousse feared, at this new extortion, quietly resigned the ring.Caderousse looked so closely at it that Andrea well knew that he wasexamining to see if all the edges were perfect.
“It is a false diamond,” said Caderousse.
“You are joking now,” replied Andrea.
“Do not be angry, we can try it.” Caderousse went to the window,touched the glass with it, and found it would cut.
“_Confiteor!_” said Caderousse, putting the diamond on his littlefinger; “I was mistaken; but those thieves of jewellers imitate so wellthat it is no longer worthwhile to rob a jeweller’s shop—it is anotherbranch of industry paralyzed.”
“Have you finished?” said Andrea,—“do you want anything more?—will youhave my waistcoat or my hat? Make free, now you have begun.”
“No; you are, after all, a good companion; I will not detain you, andwill try to cure myself of my ambition.”
“But take care the same thing does not happen to you in selling thediamond you feared with the gold.”
“I shall not sell it—do not fear.”
“Not at least till the day after tomorrow,” thought the young man.
“Happy rogue,” said Caderousse; “you are going to find your servants,your horses, your carriage, and your betrothed!”
“Yes,” said Andrea.
“Well, I hope you will make a handsome wedding-present the day youmarry Mademoiselle Danglars.”
“I have already told you it is a fancy you have taken in your head.”
“What fortune has she?”
“But I tell you——”
“A million?”
Andrea shrugged his shoulders.
“Let it be a million,” said Caderousse; “you can never have so much asI wish you.”
“Thank you,” said the young man.
“Oh, I wish it you with all my heart!” added Caderousse with his hoarselaugh. “Stop, let me show you the way.”
“It is not worthwhile.”
“Yes, it is.”
“Why?”
“Because there is a little secret, a precaution I thought it desirableto take, one of Huret & Fichet’s locks, revised and improved by GaspardCaderousse; I will manufacture you a similar one when you are acapitalist.”
“Thank you,” said Andrea; “I will let you know a week beforehand.”
They parted. Caderousse remained on the landing until he had not onlyseen Andrea go down the three stories, but also cross the court. Thenhe returned hastily, shut his door carefully, and began to study, likea clever architect, the plan Andrea had left him.
“Dear Benedetto,” said he, “I think he will not be sorry to inherit hisfortune, and he who hastens the day when he can touch his five hundredthousand will not be his worst friend.”


 Chapter 82. The Burglary
The day following that on which the conversation we have related tookplace, the Count of Monte Cristo set out for Auteuil, accompanied byAli and several attendants, and also taking with him some horses whosequalities he was desirous of ascertaining. He was induced to undertakethis journey, of which the day before he had not even thought and whichhad not occurred to Andrea either, by the arrival of Bertuccio fromNormandy with intelligence respecting the house and sloop. The housewas ready, and the sloop which had arrived a week before lay at anchorin a small creek with her crew of six men, who had observed all therequisite formalities and were ready again to put to sea.
The count praised Bertuccio’s zeal, and ordered him to prepare for aspeedy departure, as his stay in France would not be prolonged morethan a month.
“Now,” said he, “I may require to go in one night from Paris toTréport; let eight fresh horses be in readiness on the road, which willenable me to go fifty leagues in ten hours.”
“Your highness had already expressed that wish,” said Bertuccio, “andthe horses are ready. I have bought them, and stationed them myself atthe most desirable posts, that is, in villages, where no one generallystops.”
“That’s well,” said Monte Cristo; “I remain here a day or two—arrangeaccordingly.”
As Bertuccio was leaving the room to give the requisite orders,Baptistin opened the door: he held a letter on a silver waiter.
“What are you doing here?” asked the count, seeing him covered withdust; “I did not send for you, I think?”
Baptistin, without answering, approached the count, and presented theletter. “Important and urgent,” said he.
The count opened the letter, and read:
“‘M. de Monte Cristo is apprised that this night a man will enter hishouse in the Champs-Élysées with the intention of carrying off somepapers supposed to be in the secretaire in the dressing-room. Thecount’s well-known courage will render unnecessary the aid of thepolice, whose interference might seriously affect him who sends thisadvice. The count, by any opening from the bedroom, or by concealinghimself in the dressing-room, would be able to defend his propertyhimself. Many attendants or apparent precautions would prevent thevillain from the attempt, and M. de Monte Cristo would lose theopportunity of discovering an enemy whom chance has revealed to him whonow sends this warning to the count,—a warning he might not be able tosend another time, if this first attempt should fail and another bemade.’”

The count’s first idea was that this was an artifice—a gross deception,to draw his attention from a minor danger in order to expose him to agreater. He was on the point of sending the letter to the commissary ofpolice, notwithstanding the advice of his anonymous friend, or perhapsbecause of that advice, when suddenly the idea occurred to him that itmight be some personal enemy, whom he alone should recognize and overwhom, if such were the case, he alone would gain any advantage, asFiesco17 had done over the Moor who would have killed him. We know thecount’s vigorous and daring mind, denying anything to be impossible,with that energy which marks the great man.
From his past life, from his resolution to shrink from nothing, thecount had acquired an inconceivable relish for the contests in which hehad engaged, sometimes against nature, that is to say, against God, andsometimes against the world, that is, against the devil.
“They do not want my papers,” said Monte Cristo, “they want to kill me;they are no robbers, but assassins. I will not allow the prefect ofpolice to interfere with my private affairs. I am rich enough,forsooth, to distribute his authority on this occasion.”
The count recalled Baptistin, who had left the room after deliveringthe letter.
“Return to Paris,” said he; “assemble the servants who remain there. Iwant all my household at Auteuil.”
“But will no one remain in the house, my lord?” asked Baptistin.
“Yes, the porter.”
“My lord will remember that the lodge is at a distance from the house.”
“Well?”
“The house might be stripped without his hearing the least noise.”
“By whom?”
“By thieves.”
“You are a fool, M. Baptistin. Thieves might strip the house—it wouldannoy me less than to be disobeyed.” Baptistin bowed.
40150m


“You understand me?” said the count. “Bring your comrades here, one andall; but let everything remain as usual, only close the shutters of theground floor.”
“And those of the first floor?”
“You know they are never closed. Go!”
The count signified his intention of dining alone, and that no one butAli should attend him. Having dined with his usual tranquillity andmoderation, the count, making a signal to Ali to follow him, went outby the side-gate and on reaching the Bois de Boulogne turned,apparently without design towards Paris and at twilight; found himselfopposite his house in the Champs-Élysées. All was dark; one solitary,feeble light was burning in the porter’s lodge, about forty pacesdistant from the house, as Baptistin had said.
Monte Cristo leaned against a tree, and with that scrutinizing glancewhich was so rarely deceived, looked up and down the avenue, examinedthe passers-by, and carefully looked down the neighboring streets, tosee that no one was concealed. Ten minutes passed thus, and he wasconvinced that no one was watching him. He hastened to the side-doorwith Ali, entered hurriedly, and by the servants’ staircase, of whichhe had the key, gained his bedroom without opening or disarranging asingle curtain, without even the porter having the slightest suspicionthat the house, which he supposed empty, contained its chief occupant.
Arrived in his bedroom, the count motioned to Ali to stop; then hepassed into the dressing-room, which he examined. Everything appearedas usual—the precious secretaire in its place, and the key in thesecretaire. He double locked it, took the key, returned to the bedroomdoor, removed the double staple of the bolt, and went in. Meanwhile Alihad procured the arms the count required—namely, a short carbine and apair of double-barrelled pistols, with which as sure an aim might betaken as with a single-barrelled one. Thus armed, the count held thelives of five men in his hands. It was about half-past nine.
The count and Ali ate in haste a crust of bread and drank a glass ofSpanish wine; then Monte Cristo slipped aside one of the movablepanels, which enabled him to see into the adjoining room. He had withinhis reach his pistols and carbine, and Ali, standing near him, held oneof the small Arabian hatchets, whose form has not varied since theCrusades. Through one of the windows of the bedroom, on a line withthat in the dressing-room, the count could see into the street.
Two hours passed thus. It was intensely dark; still Ali, thanks to hiswild nature, and the count, thanks doubtless to his long confinement,could distinguish in the darkness the slightest movement of the trees.The little light in the lodge had long been extinct. It might beexpected that the attack, if indeed an attack was projected, would bemade from the staircase of the ground floor, and not from a window; inMonte Cristo’s opinion, the villains sought his life, not his money. Itwould be his bedroom they would attack, and they must reach it by theback staircase, or by the window in the dressing-room.
The clock of the Invalides struck a quarter to twelve; the west windbore on its moistened gusts the doleful vibration of the three strokes.
40152m


As the last stroke died away, the count thought he heard a slight noisein the dressing-room; this first sound, or rather this first grinding,was followed by a second, then a third; at the fourth, the count knewwhat to expect. A firm and well-practised hand was engaged in cuttingthe four sides of a pane of glass with a diamond. The count felt hisheart beat more rapidly.
Inured as men may be to danger, forewarned as they may be of peril,they understand, by the fluttering of the heart and the shuddering ofthe frame, the enormous difference between a dream and a reality,between the project and the execution. However, Monte Cristo only madea sign to apprise Ali, who, understanding that danger was approachingfrom the other side, drew nearer to his master. Monte Cristo was eagerto ascertain the strength and number of his enemies.
The window whence the noise proceeded was opposite the opening by whichthe count could see into the dressing-room. He fixed his eyes on thatwindow—he distinguished a shadow in the darkness; then one of the panesbecame quite opaque, as if a sheet of paper were stuck on the outside,then the square cracked without falling. Through the opening an arm waspassed to find the fastening, then a second; the window turned on itshinges, and a man entered. He was alone.
“That’s a daring rascal,” whispered the count.
At that moment Ali touched him slightly on the shoulder. He turned; Alipointed to the window of the room in which they were, facing thestreet.
“I see!” said he, “there are two of them; one does the work while theother stands guard.” He made a sign to Ali not to lose sight of the manin the street, and turned to the one in the dressing-room.
The glass-cutter had entered, and was feeling his way, his armsstretched out before him. At last he appeared to have made himselffamiliar with his surroundings. There were two doors; he bolted themboth.
When he drew near to the bedroom door, Monte Cristo expected that hewas coming in, and raised one of his pistols; but he simply heard thesound of the bolts sliding in their copper rings. It was only aprecaution. The nocturnal visitor, ignorant of the fact that the counthad removed the staples, might now think himself at home, and pursuehis purpose with full security. Alone and free to act as he wished, theman then drew from his pocket something which the count could notdiscern, placed it on a stand, then went straight to the secretaire,felt the lock, and contrary to his expectation found that the key wasmissing. But the glass-cutter was a prudent man who had provided forall emergencies. The count soon heard the rattling of a bunch ofskeleton keys, such as the locksmith brings when called to force alock, and which thieves call nightingales, doubtless from the music oftheir nightly song when they grind against the bolt.
“Ah, ha,” whispered Monte Cristo with a smile of disappointment, “he isonly a thief.”
But the man in the dark could not find the right key. He reached theinstrument he had placed on the stand, touched a spring, andimmediately a pale light, just bright enough to render objectsdistinct, was reflected on his hands and countenance.
“By heavens,” exclaimed Monte Cristo, starting back, “it is——”
Ali raised his hatchet.
“Don’t stir,” whispered Monte Cristo, “and put down your hatchet; weshall require no arms.”
40154m


Then he added some words in a low tone, for the exclamation whichsurprise had drawn from the count, faint as it had been, had startledthe man who remained in the pose of the old knife-grinder.
It was an order the count had just given, for immediately Ali wentnoiselessly, and returned, bearing a black dress and a three-corneredhat. Meanwhile Monte Cristo had rapidly taken off his greatcoat,waistcoat, and shirt, and one might distinguish by the glimmeringthrough the open panel that he wore a pliant tunic of steel mail, ofwhich the last in France, where daggers are no longer dreaded, was wornby King Louis XVI., who feared the dagger at his breast, and whose headwas cleft with a hatchet. The tunic soon disappeared under a longcassock, as did his hair under a priest’s wig; the three-cornered hatover this effectually transformed the count into an abbé.
The man, hearing nothing more, stood erect, and while Monte Cristo wascompleting his disguise had advanced straight to the secretaire, whoselock was beginning to crack under his nightingale.
“Try again,” whispered the count, who depended on the secret spring,which was unknown to the picklock, clever as he might be—“try again,you have a few minutes’ work there.”
And he advanced to the window. The man whom he had seen seated on afence had got down, and was still pacing the street; but, strange as itappeared, he cared not for those who might pass from the avenue of theChamps-Élysées or by the Faubourg Saint-Honoré; his attention wasengrossed with what was passing at the count’s, and his only aimappeared to be to discern every movement in the dressing-room.
Monte Cristo suddenly struck his finger on his forehead and a smilepassed over his lips; then drawing near to Ali, he whispered:
“Remain here, concealed in the dark, and whatever noise you hear,whatever passes, only come in or show yourself if I call you.”
Ali bowed in token of strict obedience. Monte Cristo then drew alighted taper from a closet, and when the thief was deeply engaged withhis lock, silently opened the door, taking care that the light shouldshine directly on his face. The door opened so quietly that the thiefheard no sound; but, to his astonishment, the room was suddenlyilluminated. He turned.
“Ah, good-evening, my dear M. Caderousse,” said Monte Cristo; “what areyou doing here, at such an hour?”
40156m


“The Abbé Busoni!” exclaimed Caderousse; and, not knowing how thisstrange apparition could have entered when he had bolted the doors, helet fall his bunch of keys, and remained motionless and stupefied. Thecount placed himself between Caderousse and the window, thus cuttingoff from the thief his only chance of retreat.
“The Abbé Busoni!” repeated Caderousse, fixing his haggard gaze on thecount.
“Yes, undoubtedly, the Abbé Busoni himself,” replied Monte Cristo. “AndI am very glad you recognize me, dear M. Caderousse; it proves you havea good memory, for it must be about ten years since we last met.”
This calmness of Busoni, combined with his irony and boldness,staggered Caderousse.
“The abbé, the abbé!” murmured he, clenching his fists, and his teethchattering.
“So you would rob the Count of Monte Cristo?” continued the false abbé.
“Reverend sir,” murmured Caderousse, seeking to regain the window,which the count pitilessly blocked—“reverend sir, I don’t know—believeme—I take my oath——”
“A pane of glass out,” continued the count, “a dark lantern, a bunch offalse keys, a secretaire half forced—it is tolerably evident——”
Caderousse was choking; he looked around for some corner to hide in,some way of escape.
“Come, come,” continued the count, “I see you are still the same,—anassassin.”
“Reverend sir, since you know everything, you know it was not I—it wasLa Carconte; that was proved at the trial, since I was only condemnedto the galleys.”
“Is your time, then, expired, since I find you in a fair way to returnthere?”
“No, reverend sir; I have been liberated by someone.”
“That someone has done society a great kindness.”
“Ah,” said Caderousse, “I had promised——”
“And you are breaking your promise!” interrupted Monte Cristo.
“Alas, yes!” said Caderousse very uneasily.
“A bad relapse, that will lead you, if I mistake not, to the Place deGrève. So much the worse, so much the worse—_diavolo!_ as they say inmy country.”
“Reverend sir, I am impelled——”
“Every criminal says the same thing.”
“Poverty——”
“Pshaw!” said Busoni disdainfully; “poverty may make a man beg, steal aloaf of bread at a baker’s door, but not cause him to open a secretairein a house supposed to be inhabited. And when the jeweller Johannes hadjust paid you 45,000 francs for the diamond I had given you, and youkilled him to get the diamond and the money both, was that alsopoverty?”
“Pardon, reverend sir,” said Caderousse; “you have saved my life once,save me again!”
“That is but poor encouragement.”
“Are you alone, reverend sir, or have you there soldiers ready to seizeme?”
“I am alone,” said the abbé, “and I will again have pity on you, andwill let you escape, at the risk of the fresh miseries my weakness maylead to, if you tell me the truth.”
“Ah, reverend sir,” cried Caderousse, clasping his hands, and drawingnearer to Monte Cristo, “I may indeed say you are my deliverer!”
“You mean to say you have been freed from confinement?”
“Yes, that is true, reverend sir.”
“Who was your liberator?”
“An Englishman.”
“What was his name?”
“Lord Wilmore.”
“I know him; I shall know if you lie.”
“Ah, reverend sir, I tell you the simple truth.”
“Was this Englishman protecting you?”
“No, not me, but a young Corsican, my companion.”
“What was this young Corsican’s name?”
“Benedetto.”
“Is that his Christian name?”
“He had no other; he was a foundling.”
“Then this young man escaped with you?”
“He did.”
“In what way?”
“We were working at Saint-Mandrier, near Toulon. Do you knowSaint-Mandrier?”
“I do.”
“In the hour of rest, between noon and one o’clock——”
“Galley-slaves having a nap after dinner! We may well pity the poorfellows!” said the abbé.
“Nay,” said Caderousse, “one can’t always work—one is not a dog.”
“So much the better for the dogs,” said Monte Cristo.
“While the rest slept, then, we went away a short distance; we severedour fetters with a file the Englishman had given us, and swam away.”
“And what is become of this Benedetto?”
“I don’t know.”
“You ought to know.”
“No, in truth; we parted at Hyères.” And, to give more weight to hisprotestation, Caderousse advanced another step towards the abbé, whoremained motionless in his place, as calm as ever, and pursuing hisinterrogation.
“You lie,” said the Abbé Busoni, with a tone of irresistible authority.
“Reverend sir!”
“You lie! This man is still your friend, and you, perhaps, make use ofhim as your accomplice.”
40160m


“Oh, reverend sir!”
“Since you left Toulon what have you lived on? Answer me!”
“On what I could get.”
“You lie,” repeated the abbé a third time, with a still more imperativetone. Caderousse, terrified, looked at the count. “You have lived onthe money he has given you.”
“True,” said Caderousse; “Benedetto has become the son of a greatlord.”
“How can he be the son of a great lord?”
“A natural son.”
“And what is that great lord’s name?”
“The Count of Monte Cristo, the very same in whose house we are.”
“Benedetto the count’s son?” replied Monte Cristo, astonished in histurn.
“Well, I should think so, since the count has found him a falsefather—since the count gives him four thousand francs a month, andleaves him 500,000 francs in his will.”
“Ah, yes,” said the factitious abbé, who began to understand; “and whatname does the young man bear meanwhile?”
“Andrea Cavalcanti.”
“Is it, then, that young man whom my friend the Count of Monte Cristohas received into his house, and who is going to marry MademoiselleDanglars?”
“Exactly.”
“And you suffer that, you wretch!—you, who know his life and hiscrime?”
“Why should I stand in a comrade’s way?” said Caderousse.
“You are right; it is not you who should apprise M. Danglars, it is I.”
“Do not do so, reverend sir.”
“Why not?”
“Because you would bring us to ruin.”
“And you think that to save such villains as you I will become anabettor of their plot, an accomplice in their crimes?”
“Reverend sir,” said Caderousse, drawing still nearer.
“I will expose all.”
“To whom?”
“To M. Danglars.”
“By Heaven!” cried Caderousse, drawing from his waistcoat an openknife, and striking the count in the breast, “you shall disclosenothing, reverend sir!”
To Caderousse’s great astonishment, the knife, instead of piercing thecount’s breast, flew back blunted. At the same moment the count seizedwith his left hand the assassin’s wrist, and wrung it with suchstrength that the knife fell from his stiffened fingers, and Caderousseuttered a cry of pain. But the count, disregarding his cry, continuedto wring the bandit’s wrist, until, his arm being dislocated, he fellfirst on his knees, then flat on the floor.
The count then placed his foot on his head, saying, “I know not whatrestrains me from crushing thy skull, rascal.”
“Ah, mercy—mercy!” cried Caderousse.
The count withdrew his foot.
40162m


“Rise!” said he. Caderousse rose.
“What a wrist you have, reverend sir!” said Caderousse, stroking hisarm, all bruised by the fleshy pincers which had held it; “what awrist!”
“Silence! God gives me strength to overcome a wild beast like you; inthe name of that God I act,—remember that, wretch,—and to spare thee atthis moment is still serving him.”
“Oh!” said Caderousse, groaning with pain.
“Take this pen and paper, and write what I dictate.”
“I don’t know how to write, reverend sir.”
“You lie! Take this pen, and write!”
Caderousse, awed by the superior power of the abbé, sat down and wrote:
“Sir,—The man whom you are receiving at your house, and to whom youintend to marry your daughter, is a felon who escaped with me fromconfinement at Toulon. He was No. 59, and I No. 58. He was calledBenedetto, but he is ignorant of his real name, having never known hisparents.”

“Sign it!” continued the count.
“But would you ruin me?”
“If I sought your ruin, fool, I should drag you to the firstguard-house; besides, when that note is delivered, in all probabilityyou will have no more to fear. Sign it, then!”
Caderousse signed it.
“The address, ‘To monsieur the Baron Danglars, banker, Rue de laChaussée d’Antin.’”
Caderousse wrote the address. The abbé took the note.
“Now,” said he, “that suffices—begone!”
“Which way?”
“The way you came.”
“You wish me to get out at that window?”
“You got in very well.”
“Oh, you have some design against me, reverend sir.”
“Idiot! what design can I have?”
“Why, then, not let me out by the door?”
“What would be the advantage of waking the porter?”
“Ah, reverend sir, tell me, do you wish me dead?”
“I wish what God wills.”
“But swear that you will not strike me as I go down.”
“Cowardly fool!”
“What do you intend doing with me?”
“I ask you what can I do? I have tried to make you a happy man, and youhave turned out a murderer.”
“Oh, monsieur,” said Caderousse, “make one more attempt—try me oncemore!”
“I will,” said the count. “Listen—you know if I may be relied on.”
“Yes,” said Caderousse.
“If you arrive safely at home——”
“What have I to fear, except from you?”
“If you reach your home safely, leave Paris, leave France, and whereveryou may be, so long as you conduct yourself well, I will send you asmall annuity; for, if you return home safely, then——”
“Then?” asked Caderousse, shuddering.
40164m


“Then I shall believe God has forgiven you, and I will forgive youtoo.”
“As true as I am a Christian,” stammered Caderousse, “you will make medie of fright!”
“Now begone,” said the count, pointing to the window.
Caderousse, scarcely yet relying on this promise, put his legs out ofthe window and stood on the ladder.
“Now go down,” said the abbé, folding his arms. Understanding he hadnothing more to fear from him, Caderousse began to go down. Then thecount brought the taper to the window, that it might be seen in theChamps-Élysées that a man was getting out of the window while anotherheld a light.
“What are you doing, reverend sir? Suppose a watchman should pass?” Andhe blew out the light. He then descended, but it was only when he felthis foot touch the ground that he was satisfied of his safety.
Monte Cristo returned to his bedroom, and, glancing rapidly from thegarden to the street, he saw first Caderousse, who after walking to theend of the garden, fixed his ladder against the wall at a differentpart from where he came in. The count then looking over into thestreet, saw the man who appeared to be waiting run in the samedirection, and place himself against the angle of the wall whereCaderousse would come over. Caderousse climbed the ladder slowly, andlooked over the coping to see if the street was quiet. No one could beseen or heard. The clock of the Invalides struck one. Then Caderoussesat astride the coping, and drawing up his ladder passed it over thewall; then he began to descend, or rather to slide down by the twostanchions, which he did with an ease which proved how accustomed hewas to the exercise. But, once started, he could not stop. In vain didhe see a man start from the shadow when he was halfway down—in vain didhe see an arm raised as he touched the ground.
Before he could defend himself that arm struck him so violently in theback that he let go the ladder, crying, “Help!” A second blow struckhim almost immediately in the side, and he fell, calling, “Help,murder!” Then, as he rolled on the ground, his adversary seized him bythe hair, and struck him a third blow in the chest.
This time Caderousse endeavored to call again, but he could only uttera groan, and he shuddered as the blood flowed from his three wounds.The assassin, finding that he no longer cried out, lifted his head upby the hair; his eyes were closed, and the mouth was distorted. Themurderer, supposing him dead, let fall his head and disappeared.
Then Caderousse, feeling that he was leaving him, raised himself on hiselbow, and with a dying voice cried with great effort:
“Murder! I am dying! Help, reverend sir,—help!”
This mournful appeal pierced the darkness. The door of theback-staircase opened, then the side-gate of the garden, and Ali andhis master were on the spot with lights.


 Chapter 83. The Hand of God
Caderousse continued to call piteously, “Help, reverend sir, help!”
“What is the matter?” asked Monte Cristo.
“Help,” cried Caderousse; “I am murdered!”
“We are here;—take courage.”
“Ah, it’s all over! You are come too late—you are come to see me die.What blows, what blood!”
He fainted. Ali and his master conveyed the wounded man into a room.Monte Cristo motioned to Ali to undress him, and he then examined hisdreadful wounds.
“My God!” he exclaimed, “thy vengeance is sometimes delayed, but onlythat it may fall the more effectually.” Ali looked at his master forfurther instructions. “Bring here immediately the king’s attorney, M.de Villefort, who lives in the Faubourg Saint-Honoré. As you pass thelodge, wake the porter, and send him for a surgeon.”
Ali obeyed, leaving the abbé alone with Caderousse, who had not yetrevived.
When the wretched man again opened his eyes, the count looked at himwith a mournful expression of pity, and his lips moved as if in prayer.“A surgeon, reverend sir—a surgeon!” said Caderousse.
“I have sent for one,” replied the abbé.
“I know he cannot save my life, but he may strengthen me to give myevidence.”
“Against whom?”
“Against my murderer.”
“Did you recognize him?”
“Yes; it was Benedetto.”
“The young Corsican?”
“Himself.”
“Your comrade?”
“Yes. After giving me the plan of this house, doubtless hoping I shouldkill the count and he thus become his heir, or that the count wouldkill me and I should be out of his way, he waylaid me, and has murderedme.”
“I have also sent for the procureur.”
“He will not come in time; I feel my life fast ebbing.”
“Wait a moment,” said Monte Cristo. He left the room, and returned infive minutes with a phial. The dying man’s eyes were all the timeriveted on the door, through which he hoped succor would arrive.
“Hasten, reverend sir, hasten! I shall faint again!” Monte Cristoapproached, and dropped on his purple lips three or four drops of thecontents of the phial. Caderousse drew a deep breath. “Oh,” said he,“that is life to me; more, more!”
“Two drops more would kill you,” replied the abbé.
“Oh, send for someone to whom I can denounce the wretch!”
“Shall I write your deposition? You can sign it.”
“Yes, yes,” said Caderousse; and his eyes glistened at the thought ofthis posthumous revenge. Monte Cristo wrote:
“I die, murdered by the Corsican Benedetto, my comrade in the galleysat Toulon, No. 59.”

“Quick, quick!” said Caderousse, “or I shall be unable to sign it.”
Monte Cristo gave the pen to Caderousse, who collected all hisstrength, signed it, and fell back on his bed, saying:
“You will relate all the rest, reverend sir; you will say he callshimself Andrea Cavalcanti. He lodges at the Hôtel des Princes. Oh, I amdying!” He again fainted. The abbé made him smell the contents of thephial, and he again opened his eyes. His desire for revenge had notforsaken him.
“Ah, you will tell all I have said, will you not, reverend sir?”
“Yes, and much more.”
“What more will you say?”
“I will say he had doubtless given you the plan of this house, in thehope the count would kill you. I will say, likewise, he had apprisedthe count, by a note, of your intention, and, the count being absent, Iread the note and sat up to await you.”
“And he will be guillotined, will be not?” said Caderousse. “Promise methat, and I will die with that hope.”
“I will say,” continued the count, “that he followed and watched youthe whole time, and when he saw you leave the house, ran to the angleof the wall to conceal himself.”
“Did you see all that?”
“Remember my words: ‘If you return home safely, I shall believe God hasforgiven you, and I will forgive you also.’”
“And you did not warn me!” cried Caderousse, raising himself on hiselbows. “You knew I should be killed on leaving this house, and did notwarn me!”
40168m


“No; for I saw God’s justice placed in the hands of Benedetto, andshould have thought it sacrilege to oppose the designs of Providence.”
“God’s justice! Speak not of it, reverend sir. If God were just, youknow how many would be punished who now escape.”
“Patience,” said the abbé, in a tone which made the dying man shudder;“have patience!”
Caderousse looked at him with amazement.
“Besides,” said the abbé, “God is merciful to all, as he has been toyou; he is first a father, then a judge.”
“Do you then believe in God?” said Caderousse.
“Had I been so unhappy as not to believe in him until now,” said MonteCristo, “I must believe on seeing you.”
Caderousse raised his clenched hands towards heaven.
“Listen,” said the abbé, extending his hand over the wounded man, as ifto command him to believe; “this is what the God in whom, on yourdeath-bed, you refuse to believe, has done for you—he gave you health,strength, regular employment, even friends—a life, in fact, which a manmight enjoy with a calm conscience. Instead of improving these gifts,rarely granted so abundantly, this has been your course—you have givenyourself up to sloth and drunkenness, and in a fit of intoxication haveruined your best friend.”
“Help!” cried Caderousse; “I require a surgeon, not a priest; perhaps Iam not mortally wounded—I may not die; perhaps they can yet save mylife.”
“Your wounds are so far mortal that, without the three drops I gaveyou, you would now be dead. Listen, then.”
“Ah,” murmured Caderousse, “what a strange priest you are; you drivethe dying to despair, instead of consoling them.”
“Listen,” continued the abbé. “When you had betrayed your friend, Godbegan not to strike, but to warn you. Poverty overtook you. You hadalready passed half your life in coveting that which you might havehonorably acquired; and already you contemplated crime under the excuseof want, when God worked a miracle in your behalf, sending you, by myhands, a fortune—brilliant, indeed, for you, who had never possessedany. But this unexpected, unhoped-for, unheard-of fortune sufficed youno longer when you once possessed it; you wished to double it, andhow?—by a murder! You succeeded, and then God snatched it from you, andbrought you to justice.”
“It was not I who wished to kill the Jew,” said Caderousse; “it was LaCarconte.”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo, “and God,—I cannot say in justice, for hisjustice would have slain you,—but God, in his mercy, spared your life.”
“_Pardieu!_ to transport me for life, how merciful!”
“You thought it a mercy then, miserable wretch! The coward who feareddeath rejoiced at perpetual disgrace; for like all galley-slaves, yousaid, ‘I may escape from prison, I cannot from the grave.’ And you saidtruly; the way was opened for you unexpectedly. An Englishman visitedToulon, who had vowed to rescue two men from infamy, and his choicefell on you and your companion. You received a second fortune, moneyand tranquillity were restored to you, and you, who had been condemnedto a felon’s life, might live as other men. Then, wretched creature,then you tempted God a third time. ‘I have not enough,’ you said, whenyou had more than you before possessed, and you committed a thirdcrime, without reason, without excuse. God is wearied; he has punishedyou.”
Caderousse was fast sinking. “Give me drink,” said he: “I thirst—Iburn!” Monte Cristo gave him a glass of water. “And yet that villain,Benedetto, will escape!”
“No one, I tell you, will escape; Benedetto will be punished.”
“Then, you, too, will be punished, for you did not do your duty as apriest—you should have prevented Benedetto from killing me.”
“I?” said the count, with a smile which petrified the dying man, “whenyou had just broken your knife against the coat of mail which protectedmy breast! Yet perhaps if I had found you humble and penitent, I mighthave prevented Benedetto from killing you; but I found you proud andblood-thirsty, and I left you in the hands of God.”
“I do not believe there is a God,” howled Caderousse; “you do notbelieve it; you lie—you lie!”
“Silence,” said the abbé; “you will force the last drop of blood fromyour veins. What! you do not believe in God when he is striking youdead? you will not believe in him, who requires but a prayer, a word, atear, and he will forgive? God, who might have directed the assassin’sdagger so as to end your career in a moment, has given you this quarterof an hour for repentance. Reflect, then, wretched man, and repent.”
“No,” said Caderousse, “no; I will not repent. There is no God; thereis no Providence—all comes by chance.”
“There is a Providence; there is a God,” said Monte Cristo, “of whomyou are a striking proof, as you lie in utter despair, denying him,while I stand before you, rich, happy, safe and entreating that God inwhom you endeavor not to believe, while in your heart you still believein him.”
“But who are you, then?” asked Caderousse, fixing his dying eyes on thecount.
“Look well at me!” said Monte Cristo, putting the light near his face.
“Well, the abbé—the Abbé Busoni.” Monte Cristo took off the wig whichdisfigured him, and let fall his black hair, which added so much to thebeauty of his pallid features.
“Oh?” said Caderousse, thunderstruck, “but for that black hair, Ishould say you were the Englishman, Lord Wilmore.”
“I am neither the Abbé Busoni nor Lord Wilmore,” said Monte Cristo;“think again,—do you not recollect me?”
There was a magic effect in the count’s words, which once more revivedthe exhausted powers of the miserable man.
“Yes, indeed,” said he; “I think I have seen you and known youformerly.”
“Yes, Caderousse, you have seen me; you knew me once.”
“Who, then, are you? and why, if you knew me, do you let me die?”
“Because nothing can save you; your wounds are mortal. Had it beenpossible to save you, I should have considered it another proof ofGod’s mercy, and I would again have endeavored to restore you, I swearby my father’s tomb.”
“By your father’s tomb!” said Caderousse, supported by a supernaturalpower, and half-raising himself to see more distinctly the man who hadjust taken the oath which all men hold sacred; “who, then, are you?”
The count had watched the approach of death. He knew this was the laststruggle. He approached the dying man, and, leaning over him with acalm and melancholy look, he whispered, “I am—I am——”
And his almost closed lips uttered a name so low that the count himselfappeared afraid to hear it. Caderousse, who had raised himself on hisknees, and stretched out his arm, tried to draw back, then clasping hishands, and raising them with a desperate effort, “Oh, my God, my God!”said he, “pardon me for having denied thee; thou dost exist, thou artindeed man’s father in heaven, and his judge on earth. My God, my Lord,I have long despised thee! Pardon me, my God; receive me, Oh, my Lord!”
Caderousse sighed deeply, and fell back with a groan. The blood nolonger flowed from his wounds. He was dead.
“_One!_” said the count mysteriously, his eyes fixed on the corpse,disfigured by so awful a death.
Ten minutes afterwards the surgeon and the procureur arrived, the oneaccompanied by the porter, the other by Ali, and were received by theAbbé Busoni, who was praying by the side of the corpse.


 Chapter 84. Beauchamp
The daring attempt to rob the count was the topic of conversationthroughout Paris for the next fortnight. The dying man had signed adeposition declaring Benedetto to be the assassin. The police hadorders to make the strictest search for the murderer. Caderousse’sknife, dark lantern, bunch of keys, and clothing, excepting thewaistcoat, which could not be found, were deposited at the registry;the corpse was conveyed to the morgue. The count told everyone thatthis adventure had happened during his absence at Auteuil, and that heonly knew what was related by the Abbé Busoni, who that evening, bymere chance, had requested to pass the night in his house, to examinesome valuable books in his library.
Bertuccio alone turned pale whenever Benedetto’s name was mentioned inhis presence, but there was no reason why anyone should notice hisdoing so.
Villefort, being called on to prove the crime, was preparing his briefwith the same ardor that he was accustomed to exercise when required tospeak in criminal cases.
But three weeks had already passed, and the most diligent search hadbeen unsuccessful; the attempted robbery and the murder of the robberby his comrade were almost forgotten in anticipation of the approachingmarriage of Mademoiselle Danglars to the Count Andrea Cavalcanti. Itwas expected that this wedding would shortly take place, as the youngman was received at the banker’s as the betrothed.
Letters had been despatched to M. Cavalcanti, as the count’s father,who highly approved of the union, regretted his inability to leaveParma at that time, and promised a wedding gift of a hundred and fiftythousand livres. It was agreed that the three millions should beintrusted to Danglars to invest; some persons had warned the young manof the circumstances of his future father-in-law, who had of latesustained repeated losses; but with sublime disinterestedness andconfidence the young man refused to listen, or to express a singledoubt to the baron.
The baron adored Count Andrea Cavalcanti; not so Mademoiselle EugénieDanglars. With an instinctive hatred of matrimony, she sufferedAndrea’s attentions in order to get rid of Morcerf; but when Andreaurged his suit, she betrayed an entire dislike to him. The baron mightpossibly have perceived it, but, attributing it to a caprice, feignedignorance.
The delay demanded by Beauchamp had nearly expired. Morcerf appreciatedthe advice of Monte Cristo to let things die away of their own accord.No one had taken up the remark about the general, and no one hadrecognized in the officer who betrayed the castle of Yanina the noblecount in the House of Peers.
Albert, however, felt no less insulted; the few lines which hadirritated him were certainly intended as an insult. Besides, the mannerin which Beauchamp had closed the conference left a bitter recollectionin his heart. He cherished the thought of the duel, hoping to concealits true cause even from his seconds. Beauchamp had not been seen sincethe day he visited Albert, and those of whom the latter inquired alwaystold him he was out on a journey which would detain him some days.Where he was no one knew.
One morning Albert was awakened by his valet de chambre, who announcedBeauchamp. Albert rubbed his eyes, ordered his servant to introduce himinto the small smoking-room on the ground floor, dressed himselfquickly, and went down.
He found Beauchamp pacing the room; on perceiving him Beauchampstopped.
“Your arrival here, without waiting my visit at your house today, lookswell, sir,” said Albert. “Tell me, may I shake hands with you, saying,‘Beauchamp, acknowledge you have injured me, and retain my friendship,’or must I simply propose to you a choice of arms?”
“Albert,” said Beauchamp, with a look of sorrow which stupefied theyoung man, “let us first sit down and talk.”
“Rather, sir, before we sit down, I must demand your answer.”
“Albert,” said the journalist, “these are questions which it isdifficult to answer.”
“I will facilitate it by repeating the question, ‘Will you, or will younot, retract?’”
“Morcerf, it is not enough to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to questions whichconcern the honor, the social interest, and the life of such a man asLieutenant-général the Count of Morcerf, peer of France.”
“What must then be done?”
40174m


“What I have done, Albert. I reasoned thus—money, time, and fatigue arenothing compared with the reputation and interests of a whole family;probabilities will not suffice, only facts will justify a deadly combatwith a friend. If I strike with the sword, or discharge the contents ofa pistol at man with whom, for three years, I have been on terms ofintimacy, I must, at least, know why I do so; I must meet him with aheart at ease, and that quiet conscience which a man needs when his ownarm must save his life.”
“Well,” said Morcerf, impatiently, “what does all this mean?”
“It means that I have just returned from Yanina.”
“From Yanina?”
“Yes.”
“Impossible!”
“Here is my passport; examine the visa—Geneva, Milan, Venice, Trieste,Delvino, Yanina. Will you believe the government of a republic, akingdom, and an empire?” Albert cast his eyes on the passport, thenraised them in astonishment to Beauchamp.
“You have been to Yanina?” said he.
“Albert, had you been a stranger, a foreigner, a simple lord, like thatEnglishman who came to demand satisfaction three or four months since,and whom I killed to get rid of, I should not have taken this trouble;but I thought this mark of consideration due to you. I took a week togo, another to return, four days of quarantine, and forty-eight hoursto stay there; that makes three weeks. I returned last night, and hereI am.”
“What circumlocution! How long you are before you tell me what I mostwish to know?”
“Because, in truth, Albert——”
“You hesitate?”
“Yes,—I fear.”
“You fear to acknowledge that your correspondent has deceived you? Oh,no self-love, Beauchamp. Acknowledge it, Beauchamp; your courage cannotbe doubted.”
“Not so,” murmured the journalist; “on the contrary——”
Albert turned frightfully pale; he endeavored to speak, but the wordsdied on his lips.
“My friend,” said Beauchamp, in the most affectionate tone, “I shouldgladly make an apology; but, alas!——”
“But what?”
“The paragraph was correct, my friend.”
“What? That French officer——”
“Yes.”
“Fernand?”
“Yes.”
“The traitor who surrendered the castle of the man in whose service hewas——”
“Pardon me, my friend, that man was your father!”
Albert advanced furiously towards Beauchamp, but the latter restrainedhim more by a mild look than by his extended hand.
“My friend,” said he, “here is a proof of it.”
40176m


Albert opened the paper, it was an attestation of four notableinhabitants of Yanina, proving that Colonel Fernand Mondego, in theservice of Ali Tepelini, had surrendered the castle for two millioncrowns. The signatures were perfectly legal. Albert tottered and felloverpowered in a chair. It could no longer be doubted; the family namewas fully given. After a moment’s mournful silence, his heartoverflowed, and he gave way to a flood of tears. Beauchamp, who hadwatched with sincere pity the young man’s paroxysm of grief, approachedhim.
“Now, Albert,” said he, “you understand me—do you not? I wished to seeall, and to judge of everything for myself, hoping the explanationwould be in your father’s favor, and that I might do him justice. But,on the contrary, the particulars which are given prove that FernandMondego, raised by Ali Pasha to the rank of governor-general, is noother than Count Fernand of Morcerf; then, recollecting the honor youhad done me, in admitting me to your friendship, I hastened to you.”
Albert, still extended on the chair, covered his face with both hands,as if to prevent the light from reaching him.
“I hastened to you,” continued Beauchamp, “to tell you, Albert, that inthis changing age, the faults of a father cannot revert upon hischildren. Few have passed through this revolutionary period, in themidst of which we were born, without some stain of infamy or blood tosoil the uniform of the soldier, or the gown of the magistrate. Now Ihave these proofs, Albert, and I am in your confidence, no human powercan force me to a duel which your own conscience would reproach youwith as criminal, but I come to offer you what you can no longer demandof me. Do you wish these proofs, these attestations, which I alonepossess, to be destroyed? Do you wish this frightful secret to remainwith us? Confided to me, it shall never escape my lips; say, Albert, myfriend, do you wish it?”
Albert threw himself on Beauchamp’s neck.
“Ah, noble fellow!” cried he.
“Take these,” said Beauchamp, presenting the papers to Albert.
Albert seized them with a convulsive hand, tore them in pieces, andtrembling lest the least vestige should escape and one day appear toconfront him, he approached the wax-light, always kept burning forcigars, and burned every fragment.
“Dear, excellent friend,” murmured Albert, still burning the papers.
“Let all be forgotten as a sorrowful dream,” said Beauchamp; “let itvanish as the last sparks from the blackened paper, and disappear asthe smoke from those silent ashes.”
“Yes, yes,” said Albert, “and may there remain only the eternalfriendship which I promised to my deliverer, which shall be transmittedto our children’s children, and shall always remind me that I owe mylife and the honor of my name to you,—for had this been known, oh,Beauchamp, I should have destroyed myself; or,—no, my poor mother! Icould not have killed her by the same blow,—I should have fled from mycountry.”
“Dear Albert,” said Beauchamp. But this sudden and factitious joy soonforsook the young man, and was succeeded by a still greater grief.
“Well,” said Beauchamp, “what still oppresses you, my friend?”
40178m


“I am broken-hearted,” said Albert. “Listen, Beauchamp! I cannot thus,in a moment relinquish the respect, the confidence, and pride withwhich a father’s untarnished name inspires a son. Oh, Beauchamp,Beauchamp, how shall I now approach mine? Shall I draw back my foreheadfrom his embrace, or withhold my hand from his? I am the most wretchedof men. Ah, my mother, my poor mother!” said Albert, gazing through histears at his mother’s portrait; “if you know this, how much must yousuffer!”
“Come,” said Beauchamp, taking both his hands, “take courage, myfriend.”
“But how came that first note to be inserted in your journal? Someunknown enemy—an invisible foe—has done this.”
“The more must you fortify yourself, Albert. Let no trace of emotion bevisible on your countenance, bear your grief as the cloud bears withinit ruin and death—a fatal secret, known only when the storm bursts. Go,my friend, reserve your strength for the moment when the crash shallcome.”
40179m


“You think, then, all is not over yet?” said Albert, horror-stricken.
“I think nothing, my friend; but all things are possible. By the way——”
“What?” said Albert, seeing that Beauchamp hesitated.
“Are you going to marry Mademoiselle Danglars?”
“Why do you ask me now?”
“Because the rupture or fulfilment of this engagement is connected withthe person of whom we were speaking.”
“How?” said Albert, whose brow reddened; “you think M. Danglars——”
“I ask you only how your engagement stands? Pray put no construction onmy words I do not mean they should convey, and give them no undueweight.”
“No.” said Albert, “the engagement is broken off.”
“Well,” said Beauchamp. Then, seeing the young man was about to relapseinto melancholy, “Let us go out, Albert,” said he; “a ride in the woodin the phaeton, or on horseback, will refresh you; we will then returnto breakfast, and you shall attend to your affairs, and I to mine.”
“Willingly,” said Albert; “but let us walk. I think a little exertionwould do me good.”
The two friends walked out on the fortress. When they arrived at theMadeleine:
“Since we are out,” said Beauchamp, “let us call on M. de Monte Cristo;he is admirably adapted to revive one’s spirits, because he neverinterrogates, and in my opinion those who ask no questions are the bestcomforters.”
“Gladly,” said Albert; “let us call—I love him.”


 Chapter 85. The Journey
Monte Cristo uttered a joyful exclamation on seeing the young mentogether. “Ah, ha!” said he, “I hope all is over, explained andsettled.”
“Yes,” said Beauchamp; “the absurd reports have died away, and shouldthey be renewed, I would be the first to oppose them; so let us speakno more of it.”
“Albert will tell you,” replied the count “that I gave him the sameadvice. Look,” added he. “I am finishing the most execrable morning’swork.”
“What is it?” said Albert; “arranging your papers, apparently.”
“My papers, thank God, no,—my papers are all in capital order, becauseI have none; but M. Cavalcanti’s.”
“M. Cavalcanti’s?” asked Beauchamp.
“Yes; do you not know that this is a young man whom the count isintroducing?” said Morcerf.
“Let us not misunderstand each other,” replied Monte Cristo; “Iintroduce no one, and certainly not M. Cavalcanti.”
“And who,” said Albert with a forced smile, “is to marry MademoiselleDanglars instead of me, which grieves me cruelly.”
“What? Cavalcanti is going to marry Mademoiselle Danglars?” askedBeauchamp.
“Certainly! do you come from the end of the world?” said Monte Cristo;“you, a journalist, the husband of renown? It is the talk of allParis.”
“And you, count, have made this match?” asked Beauchamp.
“I? Silence, purveyor of gossip, do not spread that report. I make amatch? No, you do not know me; I have done all in my power to opposeit.”
“Ah, I understand,” said Beauchamp, “on our friend Albert’s account.”
“On my account?” said the young man; “oh, no, indeed, the count will dome the justice to assert that I have, on the contrary, always entreatedhim to break off my engagement, and happily it is ended. The countpretends I have not him to thank;—so be it—I will erect an altar _Deoignoto_.”
“Listen,” said Monte Cristo; “I have had little to do with it, for I amat variance both with the father-in-law and the young man; there isonly Mademoiselle Eugénie, who appears but little charmed with thethoughts of matrimony, and who, seeing how little I was disposed topersuade her to renounce her dear liberty, retains any affection forme.”
“And do you say this wedding is at hand?”
“Oh, yes, in spite of all I could say. I do not know the young man; heis said to be of good family and rich, but I never trust to vagueassertions. I have warned M. Danglars of it till I am tired, but he isfascinated with his Luccanese. I have even informed him of acircumstance I consider very serious; the young man was either charmedby his nurse, stolen by gypsies, or lost by his tutor, I scarcely knowwhich. But I do know his father lost sight of him for more than tenyears; what he did during these ten years, God only knows. Well, allthat was useless. They have commissioned me to write to the major todemand papers, and here they are. I send them, but like Pilate—washingmy hands.”
“And what does Mademoiselle d’Armilly say to you for robbing her of herpupil?”
“Oh, well, I don’t know; but I understand that she is going to Italy.Madame Danglars asked me for letters of recommendation for the_impresari_; I gave her a few lines for the director of the ValleTheatre, who is under some obligation to me. But what is the matter,Albert? you look dull; are you, after all, unconsciously in love withMademoiselle Eugénie?”
“I am not aware of it,” said Albert, smiling sorrowfully. Beauchampturned to look at some paintings.
“But,” continued Monte Cristo, “you are not in your usual spirits?”
“I have a dreadful headache,” said Albert.
“Well, my dear viscount,” said Monte Cristo, “I have an infallibleremedy to propose to you.”
“What is that?” asked the young man.
“A change.”
“Indeed?” said Albert.
“Yes; and as I am just now excessively annoyed, I shall go from home.Shall we go together?”
“You annoyed, count?” said Beauchamp; “and by what?”
“Ah, you think very lightly of it; I should like to see you with abrief preparing in your house.”
“What brief?”
“The one M. de Villefort is preparing against my amiable assassin—somebrigand escaped from the gallows apparently.”
“True,” said Beauchamp; “I saw it in the paper. Who is thisCaderousse?”
“Some Provençal, it appears. M. de Villefort heard of him atMarseilles, and M. Danglars recollects having seen him. Consequently,the procureur is very active in the affair, and the prefect of policevery much interested; and, thanks to that interest, for which I am verygrateful, they send me all the robbers of Paris and the neighborhood,under pretence of their being Caderousse’s murderers, so that in threemonths, if this continues, every robber and assassin in France willhave the plan of my house at his fingers’ ends. I am resolved to desertthem and go to some remote corner of the earth, and shall be happy ifyou will accompany me, viscount.”
“Willingly.”
“Then it is settled?”
“Yes, but where?”
“I have told you, where the air is pure, where every sound soothes,where one is sure to be humbled, however proud may be his nature. Ilove that humiliation, I, who am master of the universe, as wasAugustus.”
“But where are you really going?”
“To sea, viscount; you know I am a sailor. I was rocked when an infantin the arms of old Ocean, and on the bosom of the beautiful Amphitrite;I have sported with the green mantle of the one and the azure robe ofthe other; I love the sea as a mistress, and pine if I do not often seeher.”
“Let us go, count.”
“To sea?”
“Yes.”
“You accept my proposal?”
“I do.”
“Well, viscount, there will be in my courtyard this evening a goodtravelling britzka, with four post-horses, in which one may rest as ina bed. M. Beauchamp, it holds four very well, will you accompany us?”
“Thank you, I have just returned from sea.”
“What? you have been to sea?”
“Yes; I have just made a little excursion to the Borromean Islands18.”
“What of that? come with us,” said Albert.
“No, dear Morcerf; you know I only refuse when the thing is impossible.Besides, it is important,” added he in a low tone, “that I shouldremain in Paris just now to watch the paper.”
“Ah, you are a good and an excellent friend,” said Albert; “yes, youare right; watch, watch, Beauchamp, and try to discover the enemy whomade this disclosure.”
Albert and Beauchamp parted, the last pressure of their handsexpressing what their tongues could not before a stranger.
“Beauchamp is a worthy fellow,” said Monte Cristo, when the journalistwas gone; “is he not, Albert?”
“Yes, and a sincere friend; I love him devotedly. But now we arealone,—although it is immaterial to me,—where are we going?”
“Into Normandy, if you like.”
“Delightful; shall we be quite retired? have no society, no neighbors?”
“Our companions will be riding-horses, dogs to hunt with, and afishing-boat.”
“Exactly what I wish for; I will apprise my mother of my intention, andreturn to you.”
“But shall you be allowed to go into Normandy?”
“I may go where I please.”
“Yes, I am aware you may go alone, since I once met you in Italy—but toaccompany the mysterious Monte Cristo?”
“You forget, count, that I have often told you of the deep interest mymother takes in you.”
“‘Woman is fickle.’ said Francis I.; ‘woman is like a wave of the sea,’said Shakespeare; both the great king and the great poet ought to haveknown woman’s nature well.”
“Woman’s, yes; my mother is not woman, but _a_ woman.”
“As I am only a humble foreigner, you must pardon me if I do notunderstand all the subtle refinements of your language.”
“What I mean to say is, that my mother is not quick to give herconfidence, but when she does she never changes.”
“Ah, yes, indeed,” said Monte Cristo with a sigh; “and do you think sheis in the least interested in me?”
“I repeat it, you must really be a very strange and superior man, formy mother is so absorbed by the interest you have excited, that when Iam with her she speaks of no one else.”
“And does she try to make you dislike me?”
“On the contrary, she often says, ‘Morcerf, I believe the count has anoble nature; try to gain his esteem.’”
“Indeed?” said Monte Cristo, sighing.
“You see, then,” said Albert, “that instead of opposing, she willencourage me.”
“Adieu, then, until five o’clock; be punctual, and we shall arrive attwelve or one.”
“At Tréport?”
“Yes; or in the neighborhood.”
“But can we travel forty-eight leagues in eight hours?”
“Easily,” said Monte Cristo.
“You are certainly a prodigy; you will soon not only surpass therailway, which would not be very difficult in France, but even thetelegraph.”
“But, viscount, since we cannot perform the journey in less than sevenor eight hours, do not keep me waiting.”
“Do not fear, I have little to prepare.”
Monte Cristo smiled as he nodded to Albert, then remained a momentabsorbed in deep meditation. But passing his hand across his foreheadas if to dispel his reverie, he rang the bell twice and Bertuccioentered.
“Bertuccio,” said he, “I intend going this evening to Normandy, insteadof tomorrow or the next day. You will have sufficient time before fiveo’clock; despatch a messenger to apprise the grooms at the firststation. M. de Morcerf will accompany me.”
Bertuccio obeyed and despatched a courier to Pontoise to say thetravelling-carriage would arrive at six o’clock. From Pontoise anotherexpress was sent to the next stage, and in six hours all the horsesstationed on the road were ready.
Before his departure, the count went to Haydée’s apartments, told herhis intention, and resigned everything to her care.
Albert was punctual. The journey soon became interesting from itsrapidity, of which Morcerf had formed no previous idea.
“Truly,” said Monte Cristo, “with your post-horses going at the rate oftwo leagues an hour, and that absurd law that one traveller shall notpass another without permission, so that an invalid or ill-temperedtraveller may detain those who are well and active, it is impossible tomove; I escape this annoyance by travelling with my own postilion andhorses; do I not, Ali?”
The count put his head out of the window and whistled, and the horsesappeared to fly. The carriage rolled with a thundering noise over thepavement, and everyone turned to notice the dazzling meteor. Ali,smiling, repeated the sound, grasped the reins with a firm hand, andspurred his horses, whose beautiful manes floated in the breeze. Thischild of the desert was in his element, and with his black face andsparkling eyes appeared, in the cloud of dust he raised, like thegenius of the simoom and the god of the hurricane.
“I never knew till now the delight of speed,” said Morcerf, and thelast cloud disappeared from his brow; “but where the devil do you getsuch horses? Are they made to order?”
“Precisely,” said the count; “six years since I bought a horse inHungary remarkable for its swiftness. The thirty-two that we shall usetonight are its progeny; they are all entirely black, with theexception of a star upon the forehead.”
“That is perfectly admirable; but what do you do, count, with all thesehorses?”
“You see, I travel with them.”
“But you are not always travelling.”
“When I no longer require them, Bertuccio will sell them, and heexpects to realize thirty or forty thousand francs by the sale.”
“But no monarch in Europe will be wealthy enough to purchase them.”
“Then he will sell them to some Eastern vizier, who will empty hiscoffers to purchase them, and refill them by applying the bastinado tohis subjects.”
“Count, may I suggest one idea to you?”
“Certainly.”
“It is that, next to you, Bertuccio must be the richest gentleman inEurope.”
“You are mistaken, viscount; I believe he has not a franc in hispossession.”
“Then he must be a wonder. My dear count, if you tell me many moremarvellous things, I warn you I shall not believe them.”
“I countenance nothing that is marvellous, M. Albert. Tell me, why doesa steward rob his master?”
“Because, I suppose, it is his nature to do so, for the love ofrobbing.”
“You are mistaken; it is because he has a wife and family, andambitious desires for himself and them. Also because he is not sure ofalways retaining his situation, and wishes to provide for the future.Now, M. Bertuccio is alone in the world; he uses my property withoutaccounting for the use he makes of it; he is sure never to leave myservice.”
“Why?”
“Because I should never get a better.”
“Probabilities are deceptive.”
“But I deal in certainties; he is the best servant over whom one hasthe power of life and death.”
“Do you possess that right over Bertuccio?”
“Yes.”
There are words which close a conversation with an iron door; such wasthe count’s “yes.”
The whole journey was performed with equal rapidity; the thirty-twohorses, dispersed over seven stages, brought them to their destinationin eight hours. At midnight they arrived at the gate of a beautifulpark. The porter was in attendance; he had been apprised by the groomof the last stage of the count’s approach. At half past two in themorning Morcerf was conducted to his apartments, where a bath andsupper were prepared. The servant who had travelled at the back of thecarriage waited on him; Baptistin, who rode in front, attended thecount.
Albert bathed, took his supper, and went to bed. All night he waslulled by the melancholy noise of the surf. On rising, he went to hiswindow, which opened on a terrace, having the sea in front, and at theback a pretty park bounded by a small forest.
In a creek lay a little sloop, with a narrow keel and high masts,bearing on its flag the Monte Cristo arms which were a mountain _or_,on a sea _azure_, with a cross _gules_ in chief which might be anallusion to his name that recalled Calvary, the mount rendered by ourLord’s passion more precious than gold, and to the degrading crosswhich his blood had rendered holy; or it might be some personalremembrance of suffering and regeneration buried in the night of thismysterious personage’s pas life.
Around the schooner lay a number of small fishing-boats belonging tothe fishermen of the neighboring village, like humble subjects awaitingorders from their queen. There, as in every spot where Monte Cristostopped, if but for two days, luxury abounded and life went on with theutmost ease.
Albert found in his anteroom two guns, with all the accoutrements forhunting; a lofty room on the ground floor containing all the ingeniousinstruments the English—eminent in piscatory pursuits, since they arepatient and sluggish—have invented for fishing. The day passed inpursuing those exercises in which Monte Cristo excelled. They killed adozen pheasants in the park, as many trout in the stream, dined in asummer-house overlooking the ocean, and took tea in the library.
Towards the evening of the third day. Albert, completely exhausted withthe exercise which invigorated Monte Cristo, was sleeping in anarmchair near the window, while the count was designing with hisarchitect the plan of a conservatory in his house, when the sound of ahorse at full speed on the high road made Albert look up. He wasdisagreeably surprised to see his own valet de chambre, whom he had notbrought, that he might not inconvenience Monte Cristo.
40188m


“Florentin here!” cried he, starting up; “is my mother ill?” And hehastened to the door. Monte Cristo watched and saw him approach thevalet, who drew a small sealed parcel from his pocket, containing anewspaper and a letter.
“From whom is this?” said he eagerly.
“From M. Beauchamp,” replied Florentin.
“Did he send you?”
“Yes, sir; he sent for me to his house, gave me money for my journey,procured a horse, and made me promise not to stop till I had reachedyou, I have come in fifteen hours.”
Albert opened the letter with fear, uttered a shriek on reading thefirst line, and seized the paper. His sight was dimmed, his legs sankunder him, and he would have fallen had not Florentin supported him.
“Poor young man,” said Monte Cristo in a low voice; “it is then truethat the sin of the father shall fall on the children to the third andfourth generation.”
Meanwhile Albert had revived, and, continuing to read, he threw backhis head, saying:
“Florentin, is your horse fit to return immediately?”
“It is a poor, lame post-horse.”
“In what state was the house when you left?”
“All was quiet, but on returning from M. Beauchamp’s, I found madame intears; she had sent for me to know when you would return. I told her myorders from M. Beauchamp; she first extended her arms to prevent me,but after a moment’s reflection, ‘Yes, go, Florentin,’ said she, ‘andmay he come quickly.’”
“Yes, my mother,” said Albert, “I will return, and woe to the infamouswretch! But first of all I must get there.”
He went back to the room where he had left Monte Cristo. Five minuteshad sufficed to make a complete transformation in his appearance. Hisvoice had become rough and hoarse; his face was furrowed with wrinkles;his eyes burned under the blue-veined lids, and he tottered like adrunken man.
“Count,” said he, “I thank you for your hospitality, which I wouldgladly have enjoyed longer; but I must return to Paris.”
“What has happened?”
“A great misfortune, more important to me than life. Don’t question me,I beg of you, but lend me a horse.”
“My stables are at your command, viscount; but you will kill yourselfby riding on horseback. Take a post-chaise or a carriage.”
“No, it would delay me, and I need the fatigue you warn me of; it willdo me good.”
Albert reeled as if he had been shot, and fell on a chair near thedoor. Monte Cristo did not see this second manifestation of physicalexhaustion; he was at the window, calling:
“Ali, a horse for M. de Morcerf—quick! he is in a hurry!”
40190m


These words restored Albert; he darted from the room, followed by thecount.
“Thank you!” cried he, throwing himself on his horse.
“Return as soon as you can, Florentin. Must I use any password toprocure a horse?”
“Only dismount; another will be immediately saddled.”
Albert hesitated a moment. “You may think my departure strange andfoolish,” said the young man; “you do not know how a paragraph in anewspaper may exasperate one. Read that,” said he, “when I am gone,that you may not be witness of my anger.”
While the count picked up the paper he put spurs to his horse, whichleaped in astonishment at such an unusual stimulus, and shot away withthe rapidity of an arrow. The count watched him with a feeling ofcompassion, and when he had completely disappeared, read as follows:
“The French officer in the service of Ali Pasha of Yanina alluded tothree weeks since in _l’Impartial_, who not only surrendered the castleof Yanina, but sold his benefactor to the Turks, styled himself trulyat that time Fernand, as our esteemed contemporary states; but he hassince added to his Christian name a title of nobility and a familyname. He now calls himself the Count of Morcerf, and ranks among thepeers.”
Thus the terrible secret, which Beauchamp had so generously destroyed,appeared again like an armed phantom; and another paper, deriving itsinformation from some malicious source, had published two days afterAlbert’s departure for Normandy the few lines which had rendered theunfortunate young man almost crazy.


 Chapter 86. The Trial
At eight o’clock in the morning Albert had arrived at Beauchamp’s door.The valet de chambre had received orders to usher him in at once.Beauchamp was in his bath.
“Here I am,” Albert said.
“Well, my poor friend,” replied Beauchamp, “I expected you.”
“I need not say I think you are too faithful and too kind to havespoken of that painful circumstance. Your having sent for me is anotherproof of your affection. So, without losing time, tell me, have you theslightest idea whence this terrible blow proceeds?”
“I think I have some clew.”
“But first tell me all the particulars of this shameful plot.”
Beauchamp proceeded to relate to the young man, who was overwhelmedwith shame and grief, the following facts. Two days previously, thearticle had appeared in another paper besides _ l’Impartial_, and, whatwas more serious, one that was well known as a government paper.Beauchamp was breakfasting when he read the paragraph. He sentimmediately for a cabriolet, and hastened to the publisher’s office.Although professing diametrically opposite principles from those of theeditor of the other paper, Beauchamp—as it sometimes, we may say often,happens—was his intimate friend. The editor was reading, with apparentdelight, a leading article in the same paper on beet-sugar, probably acomposition of his own.
“Ah, _pardieu!_” said Beauchamp, “with the paper in your hand, myfriend, I need not tell you the cause of my visit.”
“Are you interested in the sugar question?” asked the editor of theministerial paper.
“No,” replied Beauchamp, “I have not considered the question; a totallydifferent subject interests me.”
“What is it?”
“The article relative to Morcerf.”
“Indeed? Is it not a curious affair?”
“So curious, that I think you are running a great risk of a prosecutionfor defamation of character.”
“Not at all; we have received with the information all the requisiteproofs, and we are quite sure M. de Morcerf will not raise his voiceagainst us; besides, it is rendering a service to one’s country todenounce these wretched criminals who are unworthy of the honorbestowed on them.”
Beauchamp was thunderstruck.
“Who, then, has so correctly informed you?” asked he; “for my paper,which gave the first information on the subject, has been obliged tostop for want of proof; and yet we are more interested than you inexposing M. de Morcerf, as he is a peer of France, and we are of theopposition.”
“Oh, that is very simple; we have not sought to scandalize. This newswas brought to us. A man arrived yesterday from Yanina, bringing aformidable array of documents; and when we hesitated to publish theaccusatory article, he told us it should be inserted in some otherpaper.”
Beauchamp understood that nothing remained but to submit, and left theoffice to despatch a courier to Morcerf. But he had been unable to sendto Albert the following particulars, as the events had transpired afterthe messenger’s departure; namely, that the same day a great agitationwas manifest in the House of Peers among the usually calm members ofthat dignified assembly. Everyone had arrived almost before the usualhour, and was conversing on the melancholy event which was to attractthe attention of the public towards one of their most illustriouscolleagues. Some were perusing the article, others making comments andrecalling circumstances which substantiated the charges still more.
The Count of Morcerf was no favorite with his colleagues. Like allupstarts, he had had recourse to a great deal of haughtiness tomaintain his position. The true nobility laughed at him, the talentedrepelled him, and the honorable instinctively despised him. He was, infact, in the unhappy position of the victim marked for sacrifice; thefinger of God once pointed at him, everyone was prepared to raise thehue and cry.
The Count of Morcerf alone was ignorant of the news. He did not take inthe paper containing the defamatory article, and had passed the morningin writing letters and in trying a horse. He arrived at his usual hour,with a proud look and insolent demeanor; he alighted, passed throughthe corridors, and entered the house without observing the hesitationof the door-keepers or the coolness of his colleagues.
40194m


Business had already been going on for half an hour when he entered.Everyone held the accusing paper, but, as usual, no one liked to takeupon himself the responsibility of the attack. At length an honorablepeer, Morcerf’s acknowledged enemy, ascended the tribune with thatsolemnity which announced that the expected moment had arrived. Therewas an impressive silence; Morcerf alone knew not why such profoundattention was given to an orator who was not always listened to with somuch complacency.
The count did not notice the introduction, in which the speakerannounced that his communication would be of that vital importance thatit demanded the undivided attention of the House; but at the mention ofYanina and Colonel Fernand, he turned so frightfully pale that everymember shuddered and fixed his eyes upon him. Moral wounds have thispeculiarity,—they may be hidden, but they never close; always painful,always ready to bleed when touched, they remain fresh and open in theheart.
The article having been read during the painful hush that followed, auniversal shudder pervaded the assembly, and immediately the closestattention was given to the orator as he resumed his remarks. He statedhis scruples and the difficulties of the case; it was the honor of M.de Morcerf, and that of the whole House, he proposed to defend, byprovoking a debate on personal questions, which are always such painfulthemes of discussion. He concluded by calling for an investigation,which might dispose of the calumnious report before it had time tospread, and restore M. de Morcerf to the position he had long held inpublic opinion.
Morcerf was so completely overwhelmed by this great and unexpectedcalamity that he could scarcely stammer a few words as he looked aroundon the assembly. This timidity, which might proceed from theastonishment of innocence as well as the shame of guilt, conciliatedsome in his favor; for men who are truly generous are always ready tocompassionate when the misfortune of their enemy surpasses the limitsof their hatred.
The president put it to the vote, and it was decided that theinvestigation should take place. The count was asked what time herequired to prepare his defence. Morcerf’s courage had revived when hefound himself alive after this horrible blow.
“My lords,” answered he, “it is not by time I could repel the attackmade on me by enemies unknown to me, and, doubtless, hidden inobscurity; it is immediately, and by a thunderbolt, that I must repelthe flash of lightning which, for a moment, startled me. Oh, that Icould, instead of taking up this defence, shed my last drop of blood toprove to my noble colleagues that I am their equal in worth.”
These words made a favorable impression on behalf of the accused.
“I demand, then, that the examination shall take place as soon aspossible, and I will furnish the house with all necessary information.”
“What day do you fix?” asked the president.
“Today I am at your service,” replied the count.
The president rang the bell. “Does the House approve that theexamination should take place today?”
40196m


“Yes,” was the unanimous answer.
A committee of twelve members was chosen to examine the proofs broughtforward by Morcerf. The investigation would begin at eight o’clock thatevening in the committee-room, and if postponement were necessary, theproceedings would be resumed each evening at the same hour. Morcerfasked leave to retire; he had to collect the documents he had long beenpreparing against this storm, which his sagacity had foreseen.
Beauchamp related to the young man all the facts we have just narrated;his story, however, had over ours all the advantage of the animation ofliving things over the coldness of dead things.
Albert listened, trembling now with hope, then with anger, and thenagain with shame, for from Beauchamp’s confidence he knew his fatherwas guilty, and he asked himself how, since he was guilty, he couldprove his innocence. Beauchamp hesitated to continue his narrative.
“What next?” asked Albert.
“What next? My friend, you impose a painful task on me. Must you knowall?”
“Absolutely; and rather from your lips than another’s.”
“Muster up all your courage, then, for never have you required itmore.”
Albert passed his hand over his forehead, as if to try his strength, asa man who is preparing to defend his life proves his shield and bendshis sword. He thought himself strong enough, for he mistook fever forenergy. “Go on,” said he.
“The evening arrived; all Paris was in expectation. Many said yourfather had only to show himself to crush the charge against him; manyothers said he would not appear; while some asserted that they had seenhim start for Brussels; and others went to the police-office to inquireif he had taken out a passport. I used all my influence with one of thecommittee, a young peer of my acquaintance, to get admission to one ofthe galleries. He called for me at seven o’clock, and, before anyonehad arrived, asked one of the door-keepers to place me in a box. I wasconcealed by a column, and might witness the whole of the terriblescene which was about to take place. At eight o’clock all were in theirplaces, and M. de Morcerf entered at the last stroke. He held somepapers in his hand; his countenance was calm, and his step firm, and hewas dressed with great care in his military uniform, which was buttonedcompletely up to the chin. His presence produced a good effect. Thecommittee was made up of Liberals, several of whom came forward toshake hands with him.”
Albert felt his heart bursting at these particulars, but gratitudemingled with his sorrow: he would gladly have embraced those who hadgiven his father this proof of esteem at a moment when his honor was sopowerfully attacked.
“At this moment one of the door-keepers brought in a letter for thepresident. ‘You are at liberty to speak, M. de Morcerf,’ said thepresident, as he unsealed the letter; and the count began his defence,I assure you, Albert, in a most eloquent and skilful manner. Heproduced documents proving that the Vizier of Yanina had up to the lastmoment honored him with his entire confidence, since he had interestedhim with a negotiation of life and death with the emperor. He producedthe ring, his mark of authority, with which Ali Pasha generally sealedhis letters, and which the latter had given him, that he might, on hisreturn at any hour of the day or night, gain access to the presence,even in the harem. Unfortunately, the negotiation failed, and when hereturned to defend his benefactor, he was dead. ‘But,’ said the count,‘so great was Ali Pasha’s confidence, that on his death-bed he resignedhis favorite mistress and her daughter to my care.’”
Albert started on hearing these words; the history of Haydée recurredto him, and he remembered what she had said of that message and thering, and the manner in which she had been sold and made a slave.
“And what effect did this discourse produce?” anxiously inquiredAlbert.
“I acknowledge it affected me, and, indeed, all the committee also,”said Beauchamp.
“Meanwhile, the president carelessly opened the letter which had beenbrought to him; but the first lines aroused his attention; he read themagain and again, and fixing his eyes on M. de Morcerf, ‘Count,’ saidhe, ‘you have said that the Vizier of Yanina confided his wife anddaughter to your care?’—‘Yes, sir,’ replied Morcerf; ‘but in that, likeall the rest, misfortune pursued me. On my return, Vasiliki and herdaughter Haydée had disappeared.’—‘Did you know them?’—‘My intimacywith the pasha and his unlimited confidence had gained me anintroduction to them, and I had seen them above twenty times.’
“‘Have you any idea what became of them?’—‘Yes, sir; I heard they hadfallen victims to their sorrow, and, perhaps, to their poverty. I wasnot rich; my life was in constant danger; I could not seek them, to mygreat regret.’ The president frowned imperceptibly. ‘Gentlemen,’ saidhe, ‘you have heard the Comte de Morcerf’s defence. Can you, sir,produce any witnesses to the truth of what you have asserted?’—‘Alas,no, monsieur,’ replied the count; ‘all those who surrounded the vizier,or who knew me at his court, are either dead or gone away, I know notwhere. I believe that I alone, of all my countrymen, survived thatdreadful war. I have only the letters of Ali Tepelini, which I haveplaced before you; the ring, a token of his good-will, which is here;and, lastly, the most convincing proof I can offer, after an anonymousattack, and that is the absence of any witness against my veracity andthe purity of my military life.’
“A murmur of approbation ran through the assembly; and at this moment,Albert, had nothing more transpired, your father’s cause had beengained. It only remained to put it to the vote, when the presidentresumed: ‘Gentlemen and you, monsieur,—you will not be displeased, Ipresume, to listen to one who calls himself a very important witness,and who has just presented himself. He is, doubtless, come to prove theperfect innocence of our colleague. Here is a letter I have justreceived on the subject; shall it be read, or shall it be passed over?and shall we take no notice of this incident?’ M. de Morcerf turnedpale, and clenched his hands on the papers he held. The committeedecided to hear the letter; the count was thoughtful and silent. Thepresident read:
“‘Mr. President,—I can furnish the committee of inquiry into theconduct of the Lieutenant-General the Count of Morcerf in Epirus and inMacedonia with important particulars.’
“The president paused, and the count turned pale. The president lookedat his auditors. ‘Proceed,’ was heard on all sides. The presidentresumed:
“‘I was on the spot at the death of Ali Pasha. I was present during hislast moments. I know what is become of Vasiliki and Haydée. I am at thecommand of the committee, and even claim the honor of being heard. Ishall be in the lobby when this note is delivered to you.’
“‘And who is this witness, or rather this enemy?’ asked the count, in atone in which there was a visible alteration. ‘We shall know, sir,’replied the president. ‘Is the committee willing to hear thiswitness?’—‘Yes, yes,’ they all said at once. The door-keeper wascalled. ‘Is there anyone in the lobby?’ said the president.
“‘Yes, sir.’—‘Who is it?’—‘A woman, accompanied by a servant.’ Everyonelooked at his neighbor. ‘Bring her in,’ said the president. Fiveminutes after the door-keeper again appeared; all eyes were fixed onthe door, and I,” said Beauchamp, “shared the general expectation andanxiety. Behind the door-keeper walked a woman enveloped in a largeveil, which completely concealed her. It was evident, from her figureand the perfumes she had about her, that she was young and fastidiousin her tastes, but that was all. The president requested her to throwaside her veil, and it was then seen that she was dressed in theGrecian costume, and was remarkably beautiful.”
“Ah,” said Albert, “it was she.”
“Who?”
“Haydée.”
“Who told you that?”
“Alas, I guess it. But go on, Beauchamp. You see I am calm and strong.And yet we must be drawing near the disclosure.”
“M. de Morcerf,” continued Beauchamp, “looked at this woman withsurprise and terror. Her lips were about to pass his sentence of lifeor death. To the committee the adventure was so extraordinary andcurious, that the interest they had felt for the count’s safety becamenow quite a secondary matter. The president himself advanced to place aseat for the young lady; but she declined availing herself of it. Asfor the count, he had fallen on his chair; it was evident that his legsrefused to support him.
“‘Madame,’ said the president, ‘you have engaged to furnish thecommittee with some important particulars respecting the affair atYanina, and you have stated that you were an eyewitness of theevent.’—‘I was, indeed,’ said the stranger, with a tone of sweetmelancholy, and with the sonorous voice peculiar to the East.
“‘But allow me to say that you must have been very young then.’—‘I wasfour years old; but as those events deeply concerned me, not a singledetail has escaped my memory.’—‘In what manner could these eventsconcern you? and who are you, that they should have made so deep animpression on you?’—‘On them depended my father’s life,’ replied she.‘I am Haydée, the daughter of Ali Tepelini, pasha of Yanina, and ofVasiliki, his beloved wife.’
40202m


“The blush of mingled pride and modesty which suddenly suffused thecheeks of the young woman, the brilliancy of her eye, and her highlyimportant communication, produced an indescribable effect on theassembly. As for the count, he could not have been more overwhelmed ifa thunderbolt had fallen at his feet and opened an immense gulf beforehim.
“‘Madame,’ replied the president, bowing with profound respect, ‘allowme to ask one question; it shall be the last: Can you prove theauthenticity of what you have now stated?’
“‘I can, sir,’ said Haydée, drawing from under her veil a satin satchelhighly perfumed; ‘for here is the register of my birth, signed by myfather and his principal officers, and that of my baptism, my fatherhaving consented to my being brought up in my mother’s faith,—thislatter has been sealed by the grand primate of Macedonia and Epirus;and lastly (and perhaps the most important), the record of the sale ofmy person and that of my mother to the Armenian merchant El-Kobbir, bythe French officer, who, in his infamous bargain with the Porte, hadreserved as his part of the booty the wife and daughter of hisbenefactor, whom he sold for the sum of four hundred thousand francs.’A greenish pallor spread over the count’s cheeks, and his eyes becamebloodshot at these terrible imputations, which were listened to by theassembly with ominous silence.
“Haydée, still calm, but with a calmness more dreadful than the angerof another would have been, handed to the president the record of hersale, written in Arabic. It had been supposed some of the papers mightbe in the Arabian, Romaic, or Turkish language, and the interpreter ofthe House was in attendance. One of the noble peers, who was familiarwith the Arabic language, having studied it during the famous Egyptiancampaign, followed with his eye as the translator read aloud:
“‘I, El-Kobbir, a slave-merchant, and purveyor of the harem of hishighness, acknowledge having received for transmission to the sublimeemperor, from the French lord, the Count of Monte Cristo, an emeraldvalued at eight hundred thousand francs; as the ransom of a youngChristian slave of eleven years of age, named Haydée, the acknowledgeddaughter of the late lord Ali Tepelini, pasha of Yanina, and ofVasiliki, his favorite; she having been sold to me seven yearspreviously, with her mother, who had died on arriving atConstantinople, by a French colonel in the service of the Vizier AliTepelini, named Fernand Mondego. The above-mentioned purchase was madeon his highness’s account, whose mandate I had, for the sum of fourhundred thousand francs.
“‘Given at Constantinople, by authority of his highness, in the year1247 of the Hegira.
“‘Signed, El-Kobbir.’
“‘That this record should have all due authority, it shall bear theimperial seal, which the vendor is bound to have affixed to it.’
“Near the merchant’s signature there was, indeed, the seal of thesublime emperor. A dreadful silence followed the reading of thisdocument; the count could only stare, and his gaze, fixed as ifunconsciously on Haydée, seemed one of fire and blood. ‘Madame,’ saidthe president, ‘may reference be made to the Count of Monte Cristo, whois now, I believe, in Paris?’
“‘Sir,’ replied Haydée, ‘the Count of Monte Cristo, my foster-father,has been in Normandy the last three days.’
“‘Who, then, has counselled you to take this step, one for which thecourt is deeply indebted to you, and which is perfectly natural,considering your birth and your misfortunes?’—‘Sir,’ replied Haydée, ‘Ihave been led to take this step from a feeling of respect and grief.Although a Christian, may God forgive me, I have always sought torevenge my illustrious father. Since I set my foot in France, and knewthe traitor lived in Paris, I have watched carefully. I live retired inthe house of my noble protector, but I do it from choice. I loveretirement and silence, because I can live with my thoughts andrecollections of past days. But the Count of Monte Cristo surrounds mewith every paternal care, and I am ignorant of nothing which passes inthe world. I learn all in the silence of my apartments,—for instance, Isee all the newspapers, every periodical, as well as every new piece ofmusic; and by thus watching the course of the life of others, I learnedwhat had transpired this morning in the House of Peers, and what was totake place this evening; then I wrote.’
40204m


“‘Then,’ remarked the president, ‘the Count of Monte Cristo knowsnothing of your present proceedings?’—‘He is quite unaware of them, andI have but one fear, which is that he should disapprove of what I havedone. But it is a glorious day for me,’ continued the young girl,raising her ardent gaze to heaven, ‘that on which I find at last anopportunity of avenging my father!’
“The count had not uttered one word the whole of this time. Hiscolleagues looked at him, and doubtless pitied his prospects, blightedunder the perfumed breath of a woman. His misery was depicted insinister lines on his countenance. ‘M. de Morcerf,’ said the president,‘do you recognize this lady as the daughter of Ali Tepelini, pasha ofYanina?’—‘No,’ said Morcerf, attempting to rise, ‘it is a base plot,contrived by my enemies.’ Haydée, whose eyes had been fixed on thedoor, as if expecting someone, turned hastily, and, seeing the countstanding, shrieked, ‘You do not know me?’ said she. ‘Well, Ifortunately recognize you! You are Fernand Mondego, the French officerwho led the troops of my noble father! It is you who surrendered thecastle of Yanina! It is you who, sent by him to Constantinople, totreat with the emperor for the life or death of your benefactor,brought back a false mandate granting full pardon! It is you who, withthat mandate, obtained the pasha’s ring, which gave you authority overSelim, the fire-keeper! It is you who stabbed Selim. It is you who soldus, my mother and me, to the merchant, El-Kobbir! Assassin, assassin,assassin, you have still on your brow your master’s blood! Look,gentlemen, all!’
“These words had been pronounced with such enthusiasm and evidenttruth, that every eye was fixed on the count’s forehead, and he himselfpassed his hand across it, as if he felt Ali’s blood still lingeringthere. ‘You positively recognize M. de Morcerf as the officer, FernandMondego?’—‘Indeed I do!’ cried Haydée. ‘Oh, my mother, it was you whosaid, “You were free, you had a beloved father, you were destined to bealmost a queen. Look well at that man; it is he who raised yourfather’s head on the point of a spear; it is he who sold us; it is hewho forsook us! Look well at his right hand, on which he has a largewound; if you forgot his features, you would know him by that hand,into which fell, one by one, the gold pieces of the merchantEl-Kobbir!” I know him! Ah, let him say now if he does not recognizeme!’ Each word fell like a dagger on Morcerf, and deprived him of aportion of his energy; as she uttered the last, he hid his mutilatedhand hastily in his bosom, and fell back on his seat, overwhelmed bywretchedness and despair. This scene completely changed the opinion ofthe assembly respecting the accused count.
“‘Count of Morcerf,’ said the president, ‘do not allow yourself to becast down; answer. The justice of the court is supreme and impartial asthat of God; it will not suffer you to be trampled on by your enemieswithout giving you an opportunity of defending yourself. Shall furtherinquiries be made? Shall two members of the House be sent to Yanina?Speak!’ Morcerf did not reply. Then all the members looked at eachother with terror. They knew the count’s energetic and violent temper;it must be, indeed, a dreadful blow which would deprive him of courageto defend himself. They expected that his stupefied silence would befollowed by a fiery outburst. ‘Well,’ asked the president, ‘what isyour decision?’
40206m


“‘I have no reply to make,’ said the count in a low tone.
“‘Has the daughter of Ali Tepelini spoken the truth?’ said thepresident. ‘Is she, then, the terrible witness to whose charge you darenot plead “Not guilty”? Have you really committed the crimes of whichyou are accused?’ The count looked around him with an expression whichmight have softened tigers, but which could not disarm his judges. Thenhe raised his eyes towards the ceiling, but withdrew then, immediately,as if he feared the roof would open and reveal to his distressed viewthat second tribunal called heaven, and that other judge named God.Then, with a hasty movement, he tore open his coat, which seemed tostifle him, and flew from the room like a madman; his footstep washeard one moment in the corridor, then the rattling of hiscarriage-wheels as he was driven rapidly away. ‘Gentlemen,’ said thepresident, when silence was restored, ‘is the Count of Morcerfconvicted of felony, treason, and conduct unbecoming a member of thisHouse?’—‘Yes,’ replied all the members of the committee of inquiry witha unanimous voice.
“Haydée had remained until the close of the meeting. She heard thecount’s sentence pronounced without betraying an expression of joy orpity; then drawing her veil over her face she bowed majestically to thecouncillors, and left with that dignified step which Virgil attributesto his goddesses.”


 Chapter 87. The Challenge
Then,” continued Beauchamp, “I took advantage of the silence and thedarkness to leave the house without being seen. The usher who hadintroduced me was waiting for me at the door, and he conducted methrough the corridors to a private entrance opening into the Rue deVaugirard. I left with mingled feelings of sorrow and delight. Excuseme, Albert,—sorrow on your account, and delight with that noble girl,thus pursuing paternal vengeance. Yes, Albert, from whatever source theblow may have proceeded—it may be from an enemy, but that enemy is onlythe agent of Providence.”
Albert held his head between his hands; he raised his face, red withshame and bathed in tears, and seizing Beauchamp’s arm:
“My friend,” said he, “my life is ended. I cannot calmly say with you,‘Providence has struck the blow;’ but I must discover who pursues mewith this hatred, and when I have found him I shall kill him, or hewill kill me. I rely on your friendship to assist me, Beauchamp, ifcontempt has not banished it from your heart.”
“Contempt, my friend? How does this misfortune affect you? No, happilythat unjust prejudice is forgotten which made the son responsible forthe father’s actions. Review your life, Albert; although it is onlyjust beginning, did a lovely summer’s day ever dawn with greater puritythan has marked the commencement of your career? No, Albert, take myadvice. You are young and rich—leave Paris—all is soon forgotten inthis great Babylon of excitement and changing tastes. You will returnafter three or four years with a Russian princess for a bride, and noone will think more of what occurred yesterday than if it had happenedsixteen years ago.”
“Thank you, my dear Beauchamp, thank you for the excellent feelingwhich prompts your advice; but it cannot be. I have told you my wish,or rather my determination. You understand that, interested as I am inthis affair, I cannot see it in the same light as you do. What appearsto you to emanate from a celestial source, seems to me to proceed fromone far less pure. Providence appears to me to have no share in thisaffair; and happily so, for instead of the invisible, impalpable agentof celestial rewards and punishments, I shall find one both palpableand visible, on whom I shall revenge myself, I assure you, for all Ihave suffered during the last month. Now, I repeat, Beauchamp, I wishto return to human and material existence, and if you are still thefriend you profess to be, help me to discover the hand that struck theblow.”
“Be it so,” said Beauchamp; “if you must have me descend to earth, Isubmit; and if you will seek your enemy, I will assist you, and I willengage to find him, my honor being almost as deeply interested asyours.”
“Well, then, you understand, Beauchamp, that we begin our searchimmediately. Each moment’s delay is an eternity for me. The calumniatoris not yet punished, and he may hope that he will not be; but, on myhonor, if he thinks so, he deceives himself.”
“Well, listen, Morcerf.”
“Ah, Beauchamp, I see you know something already; you will restore meto life.”
“I do not say there is any truth in what I am going to tell you, but itis, at least, a ray of light in a dark night; by following it we may,perhaps, discover something more certain.”
“Tell me; satisfy my impatience.”
“Well, I will tell you what I did not like to mention on my return fromYanina.”
“Say on.”
“I went, of course, to the chief banker of the town to make inquiries.At the first word, before I had even mentioned your father’s name”—
“‘Ah,’ said he. ‘I guess what brings you here.’
“‘How, and why?’
“‘Because a fortnight since I was questioned on the same subject.’
“‘By whom?’
“‘By a banker of Paris, my correspondent.’
“‘Whose name is——’
“‘Danglars.’”
“He!” cried Albert; “yes, it is indeed he who has so long pursued myfather with jealous hatred. He, the man who would be popular, cannotforgive the Count of Morcerf for being created a peer; and thismarriage broken off without a reason being assigned—yes, it is all fromthe same cause.”
“Make inquiries, Albert, but do not be angry without reason; makeinquiries, and if it be true——”
“Oh, yes, if it be true,” cried the young man, “he shall pay me all Ihave suffered.”
“Beware, Morcerf, he is already an old man.”
“I will respect his age as he has respected the honor of my family; ifmy father had offended him, why did he not attack him personally? Oh,no, he was afraid to encounter him face to face.”
“I do not condemn you, Albert; I only restrain you. Act prudently.”
“Oh, do not fear; besides, you will accompany me. Beauchamp, solemntransactions should be sanctioned by a witness. Before this day closes,if M. Danglars is guilty, he shall cease to live, or I shall die._Pardieu_, Beauchamp, mine shall be a splendid funeral!”
“When such resolutions are made, Albert, they should be promptlyexecuted. Do you wish to go to M. Danglars? Let us go immediately.”
They sent for a cabriolet. On entering the banker’s mansion, theyperceived the phaeton and servant of M. Andrea Cavalcanti.
“Ah! _parbleu!_ that’s good,” said Albert, with a gloomy tone. “If M.Danglars will not fight with me, I will kill his son-in-law; Cavalcantiwill certainly fight.”
The servant announced the young man; but the banker, recollecting whathad transpired the day before, did not wish him admitted. It was,however, too late; Albert had followed the footman, and, hearing theorder given, forced the door open, and followed by Beauchamp foundhimself in the banker’s study.
“Sir,” cried the latter, “am I no longer at liberty to receive whom Ichoose in my house? You appear to forget yourself sadly.”
“No, sir,” said Albert, coldly; “there are circumstances in which onecannot, except through cowardice,—I offer you that refuge,—refuse toadmit certain persons at least.”
“What is your errand, then, with me, sir?”
“I mean,” said Albert, drawing near, and without apparently noticingCavalcanti, who stood with his back towards the fireplace—“I mean topropose a meeting in some retired corner where no one will interrupt usfor ten minutes; that will be sufficient—where two men having met, oneof them will remain on the ground.”
Danglars turned pale; Cavalcanti moved a step forward, and Albertturned towards him.
“And you, too,” said he, “come, if you like, monsieur; you have aclaim, being almost one of the family, and I will give as manyrendezvous of that kind as I can find persons willing to accept them.”
Cavalcanti looked at Danglars with a stupefied air, and the latter,making an effort, arose and stepped between the two young men. Albert’sattack on Andrea had placed him on a different footing, and he hopedthis visit had another cause than that he had at first supposed.
“Indeed, sir,” said he to Albert, “if you are come to quarrel with thisgentleman because I have preferred him to you, I shall resign the caseto the king’s attorney.”
“You mistake, sir,” said Morcerf with a gloomy smile; “I am notreferring in the least to matrimony, and I only addressed myself to M.Cavalcanti because he appeared disposed to interfere between us. In onerespect you are right, for I am ready to quarrel with everyone today;but you have the first claim, M. Danglars.”
40212m


“Sir,” replied Danglars, pale with anger and fear, “I warn you, when Ihave the misfortune to meet with a mad dog, I kill it; and far fromthinking myself guilty of a crime, I believe I do society a kindness.Now, if you are mad and try to bite me, I will kill you without pity.Is it my fault that your father has dishonored himself?”
“Yes, miserable wretch!” cried Morcerf, “it is your fault.”
Danglars retreated a few steps. “My fault?” said he; “you must be mad!What do I know of the Grecian affair? Have I travelled in that country?Did I advise your father to sell the castle of Yanina—to betray——”
“Silence!” said Albert, with a thundering voice. “No; it is not you whohave directly made this exposure and brought this sorrow on us, but youhypocritically provoked it.”
“I?”
“Yes; you! How came it known?”
“I suppose you read it in the paper in the account from Yanina?”
“Who wrote to Yanina?”
“To Yanina?”
“Yes. Who wrote for particulars concerning my father?”
“I imagine anyone may write to Yanina.”
“But one person only wrote!”
“One only?”
“Yes; and that was you!”
“I, doubtless, wrote. It appears to me that when about to marry yourdaughter to a young man, it is right to make some inquiries respectinghis family; it is not only a right, but a duty.”
“You wrote, sir, knowing what answer you would receive.”
“I, indeed? I assure you,” cried Danglars, with a confidence andsecurity proceeding less from fear than from the interest he reallyfelt for the young man, “I solemnly declare to you, that I should neverhave thought of writing to Yanina, did I know anything of Ali Pasha’smisfortunes.”
“Who, then, urged you to write? Tell me.”
“_Pardieu!_ it was the most simple thing in the world. I was speakingof your father’s past history. I said the origin of his fortuneremained obscure. The person to whom I addressed my scruples asked mewhere your father had acquired his property? I answered, ‘InGreece.’—‘Then,’ said he, ‘write to Yanina.’”
“And who thus advised you?”
“No other than your friend, Monte Cristo.”
“The Count of Monte Cristo told you to write to Yanina?”
“Yes; and I wrote, and will show you my correspondence, if you like.”
Albert and Beauchamp looked at each other.
“Sir,” said Beauchamp, who had not yet spoken, “you appear to accusethe count, who is absent from Paris at this moment, and cannot justifyhimself.”
“I accuse no one, sir,” said Danglars; “I relate, and I will repeatbefore the count what I have said to you.”
“Does the count know what answer you received?”
“Yes; I showed it to him.”
“Did he know my father’s Christian name was Fernand, and his familyname Mondego?”
“Yes, I had told him that long since, and I did only what any otherwould have done in my circumstances, and perhaps less. When, the dayafter the arrival of this answer, your father came by the advice ofMonte Cristo to ask my daughter’s hand for you, I decidedly refusedhim, but without any explanation or exposure. In short, why should Ihave any more to do with the affair? How did the honor or disgrace ofM. de Morcerf affect me? It neither increased nor decreased my income.”
Albert felt the blood mounting to his brow; there was no doubt upon thesubject. Danglars defended himself with the baseness, but at the sametime with the assurance, of a man who speaks the truth, at least inpart, if not wholly—not for conscience’ sake, but through fear.Besides, what was Morcerf seeking? It was not whether Danglars or MonteCristo was more or less guilty; it was a man who would answer for theoffence, whether trifling or serious; it was a man who would fight, andit was evident Danglars would not fight.
In addition to this, everything forgotten or unperceived beforepresented itself now to his recollection. Monte Cristo knew everything,as he had bought the daughter of Ali Pasha; and, knowing everything, hehad advised Danglars to write to Yanina. The answer known, he hadyielded to Albert’s wish to be introduced to Haydée, and allowed theconversation to turn on the death of Ali, and had not opposed Haydée’srecital (but having, doubtless, warned the young girl, in the fewRomaic words he spoke to her, not to implicate Morcerf’s father).Besides, had he not begged of Morcerf not to mention his father’s namebefore Haydée? Lastly, he had taken Albert to Normandy when he knew thefinal blow was near. There could be no doubt that all had beencalculated and previously arranged; Monte Cristo then was in leaguewith his father’s enemies. Albert took Beauchamp aside, andcommunicated these ideas to him.
“You are right,” said the latter; “M. Danglars has only been asecondary agent in this sad affair, and it is of M. de Monte Cristothat you must demand an explanation.”
Albert turned.
“Sir,” said he to Danglars, “understand that I do not take a finalleave of you; I must ascertain if your insinuations are just, and amgoing now to inquire of the Count of Monte Cristo.”
He bowed to the banker, and went out with Beauchamp, without appearingto notice Cavalcanti. Danglars accompanied him to the door, where heagain assured Albert that no motive of personal hatred had influencedhim against the Count of Morcerf.


 Chapter 88. The Insult
At the banker’s door Beauchamp stopped Morcerf.
“Listen,” said he; “just now I told you it was of M. de Monte Cristoyou must demand an explanation.”
“Yes; and we are going to his house.”
“Reflect, Morcerf, one moment before you go.”
“On what shall I reflect?”
“On the importance of the step you are taking.”
“Is it more serious than going to M. Danglars?”
“Yes; M. Danglars is a money-lover, and those who love money, you know,think too much of what they risk to be easily induced to fight a duel.The other is, on the contrary, to all appearance a true nobleman; butdo you not fear to find him a bully?”
“I only fear one thing; namely, to find a man who will not fight.”
“Do not be alarmed,” said Beauchamp; “he will meet you. My only fear isthat he will be too strong for you.”
“My friend,” said Morcerf, with a sweet smile, “that is what I wish.The happiest thing that could occur to me, would be to die in myfather’s stead; that would save us all.”
“Your mother would die of grief.”
“My poor mother!” said Albert, passing his hand across his eyes, “Iknow she would; but better so than die of shame.”
“Are you quite decided, Albert?”
“Yes; let us go.”
“But do you think we shall find the count at home?”
“He intended returning some hours after me, and doubtless he is now athome.”
They ordered the driver to take them to No. 30 Champs-Élysées.Beauchamp wished to go in alone, but Albert observed that as this wasan unusual circumstance he might be allowed to deviate from the usualetiquette of duels. The cause which the young man espoused was one sosacred that Beauchamp had only to comply with all his wishes; heyielded and contented himself with following Morcerf. Albert sprangfrom the porter’s lodge to the steps. He was received by Baptistin. Thecount had, indeed, just arrived, but he was in his bath, and hadforbidden that anyone should be admitted.
“But after his bath?” asked Morcerf.
“My master will go to dinner.”
“And after dinner?”
“He will sleep an hour.”
“Then?”
“He is going to the Opera.”
“Are you sure of it?” asked Albert.
“Quite, sir; my master has ordered his horses at eight o’clockprecisely.”
“Very good,” replied Albert; “that is all I wished to know.”
Then, turning towards Beauchamp, “If you have anything to attend to,Beauchamp, do it directly; if you have any appointment for thisevening, defer it till tomorrow. I depend on you to accompany me to theOpera; and if you can, bring Château-Renaud with you.”
Beauchamp availed himself of Albert’s permission, and left him,promising to call for him at a quarter before eight. On his returnhome, Albert expressed his wish to Franz Debray, and Morrel, to seethem at the Opera that evening. Then he went to see his mother, whosince the events of the day before had refused to see anyone, and hadkept her room. He found her in bed, overwhelmed with grief at thispublic humiliation.
The sight of Albert produced the effect which might naturally beexpected on Mercédès; she pressed her son’s hand and sobbed aloud, buther tears relieved her. Albert stood one moment speechless by the sideof his mother’s bed. It was evident from his pale face and knit browsthat his resolution to revenge himself was growing weaker.
“My dear mother,” said he, “do you know if M. de Morcerf has anyenemy?”
Mercédès started; she noticed that the young man did not say “myfather.”
“My son,” she said, “persons in the count’s situation have many secretenemies. Those who are known are not the most dangerous.”
“I know it, and appeal to your penetration. You are of so superior amind, nothing escapes you.”
“Why do you say so?”
“Because, for instance, you noticed on the evening of the ball we gave,that M. de Monte Cristo would eat nothing in our house.”
Mercédès raised herself on her feverish arm.
“M. de Monte Cristo!” she exclaimed; “and how is he connected with thequestion you asked me?”
40219m


“You know, mother, M. de Monte Cristo is almost an Oriental, and it iscustomary with the Orientals to secure full liberty for revenge by noteating or drinking in the houses of their enemies.”
“Do you say M. de Monte Cristo is our enemy?” replied Mercédès,becoming paler than the sheet which covered her. “Who told you so? Why,you are mad, Albert! M. de Monte Cristo has only shown us kindness. M.de Monte Cristo saved your life; you yourself presented him to us. Oh,I entreat you, my son, if you had entertained such an idea, dispel it;and my counsel to you—nay, my prayer—is to retain his friendship.”
“Mother,” replied the young man, “you have special reasons for tellingme to conciliate that man.”
“I?” said Mercédès, blushing as rapidly as she had turned pale, andagain becoming paler than ever.
“Yes, doubtless; and is it not that he may never do us any harm?”
Mercédès shuddered, and, fixing on her son a scrutinizing gaze, “Youspeak strangely,” said she to Albert, “and you appear to have somesingular prejudices. What has the count done? Three days since you werewith him in Normandy; only three days since we looked on him as ourbest friend.”
An ironical smile passed over Albert’s lips. Mercédès saw it and withthe double instinct of woman and mother guessed all; but as she wasprudent and strong-minded she concealed both her sorrows and her fears.Albert was silent; an instant after, the countess resumed:
“You came to inquire after my health; I will candidly acknowledge thatI am not well. You should install yourself here, and cheer my solitude.I do not wish to be left alone.”
“Mother,” said the young man, “you know how gladly I would obey yourwish, but an urgent and important affair obliges me to leave you forthe whole evening.”
“Well,” replied Mercédès, sighing, “go, Albert; I will not make you aslave to your filial piety.”
Albert pretended he did not hear, bowed to his mother, and quitted her.Scarcely had he shut her door, when Mercédès called a confidentialservant, and ordered him to follow Albert wherever he should go thatevening, and to come and tell her immediately what he observed. Thenshe rang for her lady’s maid, and, weak as she was, she dressed, inorder to be ready for whatever might happen. The footman’s mission wasan easy one. Albert went to his room, and dressed with unusual care. Atten minutes to eight Beauchamp arrived; he had seen Château-Renaud, whohad promised to be in the orchestra before the curtain was raised. Bothgot into Albert’s _coupé_; and, as the young man had no reason toconceal where he was going, he called aloud, “To the Opera.” In hisimpatience he arrived before the beginning of the performance.
40221m


Château-Renaud was at his post; apprised by Beauchamp of thecircumstances, he required no explanation from Albert. The conduct ofthe son in seeking to avenge his father was so natural thatChâteau-Renaud did not seek to dissuade him, and was content withrenewing his assurances of devotion. Debray was not yet come, butAlbert knew that he seldom lost a scene at the Opera.
Albert wandered about the theatre until the curtain was drawn up. Hehoped to meet with M. de Monte Cristo either in the lobby or on thestairs. The bell summoned him to his seat, and he entered the orchestrawith Château-Renaud and Beauchamp. But his eyes scarcely quitted thebox between the columns, which remained obstinately closed during thewhole of the first act. At last, as Albert was looking at his watch forabout the hundredth time, at the beginning of the second act the dooropened, and Monte Cristo entered, dressed in black, and, leaning overthe front of the box, looked around the pit. Morrel followed him, andlooked also for his sister and brother in-law; he soon discovered themin another box, and kissed his hand to them.
The count, in his survey of the pit, encountered a pale face andthreatening eyes, which evidently sought to gain his attention. Herecognized Albert, but thought it better not to notice him, as helooked so angry and discomposed. Without communicating his thoughts tohis companion, he sat down, drew out his opera-glass, and lookedanother way. Although apparently not noticing Albert, he did not,however, lose sight of him, and when the curtain fell at the end of thesecond act, he saw him leave the orchestra with his two friends. Thenhis head was seen passing at the back of the boxes, and the count knewthat the approaching storm was intended to fall on him. He was at themoment conversing cheerfully with Morrel, but he was well prepared forwhat might happen.
The door opened, and Monte Cristo, turning round, saw Albert, pale andtrembling, followed by Beauchamp and Château-Renaud.
“Well,” cried he, with that benevolent politeness which distinguishedhis salutation from the common civilities of the world, “my cavalierhas attained his object. Good-evening, M. de Morcerf.”
The countenance of this man, who possessed such extraordinary controlover his feelings, expressed the most perfect cordiality. Morrel onlythen recollected the letter he had received from the viscount, inwhich, without assigning any reason, he begged him to go to the Opera,but he understood that something terrible was brooding.
“We are not come here, sir, to exchange hypocritical expressions ofpoliteness, or false professions of friendship,” said Albert, “but todemand an explanation.”
The young man’s trembling voice was scarcely audible.
“An explanation at the Opera?” said the count, with that calm tone andpenetrating eye which characterize the man who knows his cause is good.“Little acquainted as I am with the habits of Parisians, I should nothave thought this the place for such a demand.”
“Still, if people will shut themselves up,” said Albert, “and cannot beseen because they are bathing, dining, or asleep, we must availourselves of the opportunity whenever they are to be seen.”
“I am not difficult of access, sir; for yesterday, if my memory doesnot deceive me, you were at my house.”
“Yesterday I was at your house, sir,” said the young man; “because thenI knew not who you were.”
In pronouncing these words Albert had raised his voice so as to beheard by those in the adjoining boxes and in the lobby. Thus theattention of many was attracted by this altercation.
“Where are you come from, sir? “ said Monte Cristo “You do not appearto be in the possession of your senses.”
“Provided I understand your perfidy, sir, and succeed in making youunderstand that I will be revenged, I shall be reasonable enough,” saidAlbert furiously.
“I do not understand you, sir,” replied Monte Cristo; “and if I did,your tone is too high. I am at home here, and I alone have a right toraise my voice above another’s. Leave the box, sir!”
Monte Cristo pointed towards the door with the most commanding dignity.
“Ah, I shall know how to make you leave your home!” replied Albert,clasping in his convulsed grasp the glove, which Monte Cristo did notlose sight of.
“Well, well,” said Monte Cristo quietly, “I see you wish to quarrelwith me; but I would give you one piece of advice, which you will dowell to keep in mind. It is in poor taste to make a display of achallenge. Display is not becoming to everyone, M. de Morcerf.”
At this name a murmur of astonishment passed around the group ofspectators of this scene. They had talked of no one but Morcerf thewhole day. Albert understood the allusion in a moment, and was about tothrow his glove at the count, when Morrel seized his hand, whileBeauchamp and Château-Renaud, fearing the scene would surpass thelimits of a challenge, held him back. But Monte Cristo, without rising,and leaning forward in his chair, merely stretched out his arm and,taking the damp, crushed glove from the clenched hand of the young man:
“Sir,” said he in a solemn tone, “I consider your glove thrown, andwill return it to you wrapped around a bullet. Now leave me or I willsummon my servants to throw you out at the door.”
Wild, almost unconscious, and with eyes inflamed, Albert stepped back,and Morrel closed the door. Monte Cristo took up his glass again as ifnothing had happened; his face was like marble, and his heart was likebronze. Morrel whispered, “What have you done to him?”
“I? Nothing—at least personally,” said Monte Cristo.
“But there must be some cause for this strange scene.”
“The Count of Morcerf’s adventure exasperates the young man.”
“Have you anything to do with it?”
“It was through Haydée that the Chamber was informed of his father’streason.”
“Indeed?” said Morrel. “I had been told, but would not credit it, thatthe Grecian slave I have seen with you here in this very box was thedaughter of Ali Pasha.”
“It is true, nevertheless.”
“Then,” said Morrel, “I understand it all, and this scene waspremeditated.”
“How so?”
“Yes. Albert wrote to request me to come to the Opera, doubtless that Imight be a witness to the insult he meant to offer you.”
“Probably,” said Monte Cristo with his imperturbable tranquillity.
“But what shall you do with him?”
“With whom?”
“With Albert.”
“What shall I do with Albert? As certainly, Maximilian, as I now pressyour hand, I shall kill him before ten o’clock tomorrow morning.”Morrel, in his turn, took Monte Cristo’s hand in both of his, and heshuddered to feel how cold and steady it was.
“Ah, count,” said he, “his father loves him so much!”
“Do not speak to me of that,” said Monte Cristo, with the firstmovement of anger he had betrayed; “I will make him suffer.”
Morrel, amazed, let fall Monte Cristo’s hand. “Count, count!” said he.
“Dear Maximilian,” interrupted the count, “listen how adorably Duprezis singing that line,—
‘O Mathilde! idole de mon âme!’

“I was the first to discover Duprez at Naples, and the first to applaudhim. Bravo, bravo!”
Morrel saw it was useless to say more, and refrained. The curtain,which had risen at the close of the scene with Albert, again fell, anda rap was heard at the door.
“Come in,” said Monte Cristo with a voice that betrayed not the leastemotion; and immediately Beauchamp appeared. “Good-evening, M.Beauchamp,” said Monte Cristo, as if this was the first time he hadseen the journalist that evening; “be seated.”
Beauchamp bowed, and, sitting down, “Sir,” said he, “I just nowaccompanied M. de Morcerf, as you saw.”
“And that means,” replied Monte Cristo, laughing, “that you had,probably, just dined together. I am happy to see, M. Beauchamp, thatyou are more sober than he was.”
“Sir,” said M. Beauchamp, “Albert was wrong, I acknowledge, to betrayso much anger, and I come, on my own account, to apologize for him. Andhaving done so, entirely on my own account, be it understood, I wouldadd that I believe you too gentlemanly to refuse giving him someexplanation concerning your connection with Yanina. Then I will add twowords about the young Greek girl.”
Monte Cristo motioned him to be silent. “Come,” said he, laughing,“there are all my hopes about to be destroyed.”
“How so?” asked Beauchamp.
“Doubtless you wish to make me appear a very eccentric character. I am,in your opinion, a Lara, a Manfred, a Lord Ruthven; then, just as I amarriving at the climax, you defeat your own end, and seek to make anordinary man of me. You bring me down to your own level, and demandexplanations! Indeed, M. Beauchamp, it is quite laughable.”
“Yet,” replied Beauchamp haughtily, “there are occasions when probitycommands——”
“M. Beauchamp,” interposed this strange man, “the Count of Monte Cristobows to none but the Count of Monte Cristo himself. Say no more, Ientreat you. I do what I please, M. Beauchamp, and it is always welldone.”
“Sir,” replied the young man, “honest men are not to be paid with suchcoin. I require honorable guaranties.”
“I am, sir, a living guaranty,” replied Monte Cristo, motionless, butwith a threatening look; “we have both blood in our veins which we wishto shed—that is our mutual guaranty. Tell the viscount so, and thattomorrow, before ten o’clock, I shall see what color his is.”
“Then I have only to make arrangements for the duel,” said Beauchamp.
“It is quite immaterial to me,” said Monte Cristo, “and it was veryunnecessary to disturb me at the Opera for such a trifle. In Francepeople fight with the sword or pistol, in the colonies with thecarbine, in Arabia with the dagger. Tell your client that, although Iam the insulted party, in order to carry out my eccentricity, I leavehim the choice of arms, and will accept without discussion, withoutdispute, anything, even combat by drawing lots, which is always stupid,but with me different from other people, as I am sure to gain.”
“Sure to gain!” repeated Beauchamp, looking with amazement at thecount.
“Certainly,” said Monte Cristo, slightly shrugging his shoulders;“otherwise I would not fight with M. de Morcerf. I shall kill him—Icannot help it. Only by a single line this evening at my house let meknow the arms and the hour; I do not like to be kept waiting.”
“Pistols, then, at eight o’clock, in the Bois de Vincennes,” saidBeauchamp, quite disconcerted, not knowing if he was dealing with anarrogant braggadocio or a supernatural being.
“Very well, sir,” said Monte Cristo. “Now all that is settled, do letme see the performance, and tell your friend Albert not to come anymore this evening; he will hurt himself with all his ill-chosenbarbarisms: let him go home and go to sleep.”
Beauchamp left the box, perfectly amazed.
“Now,” said Monte Cristo, turning towards Morrel, “I may depend uponyou, may I not?”
“Certainly,” said Morrel, “I am at your service, count; still——”
“What?”
“It is desirable I should know the real cause.”
“That is to say, you would rather not?”
“No.”
“The young man himself is acting blindfolded, and knows not the truecause, which is known only to God and to me; but I give you my word,Morrel, that God, who does know it, will be on our side.”
“Enough,” said Morrel; “who is your second witness?”
“I know no one in Paris, Morrel, on whom I could confer that honorbesides you and your brother Emmanuel. Do you think Emmanuel wouldoblige me?”
“I will answer for him, count.”
“Well? that is all I require. Tomorrow morning, at seven o’clock, youwill be with me, will you not?”
“We will.”
“Hush, the curtain is rising. Listen! I never lose a note of this operaif I can avoid it; the music of _William Tell_ is so sweet.”


 Chapter 89. The Night
Monte Cristo waited, according to his usual custom, until Duprez hadsung his famous “_Suivez-moi!_” then he rose and went out. Morrel tookleave of him at the door, renewing his promise to be with him the nextmorning at seven o’clock, and to bring Emmanuel. Then he stepped intohis _coupé_, calm and smiling, and was at home in five minutes. No onewho knew the count could mistake his expression when, on entering, hesaid:
“Ali, bring me my pistols with the ivory cross.”
Ali brought the box to his master, who examined the weapons with asolicitude very natural to a man who is about to intrust his life to alittle powder and shot. These were pistols of an especial pattern,which Monte Cristo had had made for target practice in his own room. Acap was sufficient to drive out the bullet, and from the adjoining roomno one would have suspected that the count was, as sportsmen would say,keeping his hand in.
He was just taking one up and looking for the point to aim at on alittle iron plate which served him as a target, when his study dooropened, and Baptistin entered. Before he had spoken a word, the countsaw in the next room a veiled woman, who had followed closely afterBaptistin, and now, seeing the count with a pistol in his hand andswords on the table, rushed in. Baptistin looked at his master, whomade a sign to him, and he went out, closing the door after him.
“Who are you, madame?” said the count to the veiled woman.
40227m


The stranger cast one look around her, to be certain that they werequite alone; then bending as if she would have knelt, and joining herhands, she said with an accent of despair:
“Edmond, you will not kill my son!”
The count retreated a step, uttered a slight exclamation, and let fallthe pistol he held.
“What name did you pronounce then, Madame de Morcerf?” said he.
“Yours!” cried she, throwing back her veil,—“yours, which I alone,perhaps, have not forgotten. Edmond, it is not Madame de Morcerf who iscome to you, it is Mercédès.”
“Mercédès is dead, madame,” said Monte Cristo; “I know no one now ofthat name.”
“Mercédès lives, sir, and she remembers, for she alone recognized youwhen she saw you, and even before she saw you, by your voice,Edmond,—by the simple sound of your voice; and from that moment she hasfollowed your steps, watched you, feared you, and she needs not toinquire what hand has dealt the blow which now strikes M. de Morcerf.”
“Fernand, do you mean?” replied Monte Cristo, with bitter irony; “sincewe are recalling names, let us remember them all.” Monte Cristo hadpronounced the name of Fernand with such an expression of hatred thatMercédès felt a thrill of horror run through every vein.
“You see, Edmond, I am not mistaken, and have cause to say, ‘Spare myson!’”
“And who told you, madame, that I have any hostile intentions againstyour son?”
“No one, in truth; but a mother has twofold sight. I guessed all; Ifollowed him this evening to the Opera, and, concealed in a parquetbox, have seen all.”
“If you have seen all, madame, you know that the son of Fernand haspublicly insulted me,” said Monte Cristo with awful calmness.
“Oh, for pity’s sake!”
“You have seen that he would have thrown his glove in my face ifMorrel, one of my friends, had not stopped him.”
“Listen to me, my son has also guessed who you are,—he attributes hisfather’s misfortunes to you.”
“Madame, you are mistaken, they are not misfortunes,—it is apunishment. It is not I who strike M. de Morcerf; it is Providencewhich punishes him.”
“And why do you represent Providence?” cried Mercédès. “Why do youremember when it forgets? What are Yanina and its vizier to you,Edmond? What injury has Fernand Mondego done you in betraying AliTepelini?”
“Ah, madame,” replied Monte Cristo, “all this is an affair between theFrench captain and the daughter of Vasiliki. It does not concern me,you are right; and if I have sworn to revenge myself, it is not on theFrench captain, or the Count of Morcerf, but on the fisherman Fernand,the husband of Mercédès the Catalane.”
“Ah, sir!” cried the countess, “how terrible a vengeance for a faultwhich fatality made me commit!—for I am the only culprit, Edmond, andif you owe revenge to anyone, it is to me, who had not fortitude tobear your absence and my solitude.”
“But,” exclaimed Monte Cristo, “why was I absent? And why were youalone?”
40231m


“Because you had been arrested, Edmond, and were a prisoner.”
“And why was I arrested? Why was I a prisoner?”
“I do not know,” said Mercédès.
“You do not, madame; at least, I hope not. But I will tell you. I wasarrested and became a prisoner because, under the arbor of La Réserve,the day before I was to marry you, a man named Danglars wrote thisletter, which the fisherman Fernand himself posted.”
Monte Cristo went to a secretaire, opened a drawer by a spring, fromwhich he took a paper which had lost its original color, and the ink ofwhich had become of a rusty hue—this he placed in the hands ofMercédès. It was Danglars’ letter to the king’s attorney, which theCount of Monte Cristo, disguised as a clerk from the house of Thomson &French, had taken from the file against Edmond Dantès, on the day hehad paid the two hundred thousand francs to M. de Boville. Mercédèsread with terror the following lines:
“The king’s attorney is informed by a friend to the throne and religionthat one Edmond Dantès, second in command on board the _Pharaon_, thisday arrived from Smyrna, after having touched at Naples andPorto-Ferrajo, is the bearer of a letter from Murat to the usurper, andof another letter from the usurper to the Bonapartist club in Paris.Ample corroboration of this statement may be obtained by arresting theabove-mentioned Edmond Dantès, who either carries the letter for Parisabout with him, or has it at his father’s abode. Should it not be foundin possession of either father or son, then it will assuredly bediscovered in the cabin belonging to the said Dantès on board the_Pharaon_.”

“How dreadful!” said Mercédès, passing her hand across her brow, moistwith perspiration; “and that letter——”
“I bought it for two hundred thousand francs, madame,” said MonteCristo; “but that is a trifle, since it enables me to justify myself toyou.”
“And the result of that letter——”
“You well know, madame, was my arrest; but you do not know how longthat arrest lasted. You do not know that I remained for fourteen yearswithin a quarter of a league of you, in a dungeon in the Château d’If.You do not know that every day of those fourteen years I renewed thevow of vengeance which I had made the first day; and yet I was notaware that you had married Fernand, my calumniator, and that my fatherhad died of hunger!”
“Can it be?” cried Mercédès, shuddering.
“That is what I heard on leaving my prison fourteen years after I hadentered it; and that is why, on account of the living Mercédès and mydeceased father, I have sworn to revenge myself on Fernand, and—I haverevenged myself.”
“And you are sure the unhappy Fernand did that?”
“I am satisfied, madame, that he did what I have told you; besides,that is not much more odious than that a Frenchman by adoption shouldpass over to the English; that a Spaniard by birth should have foughtagainst the Spaniards; that a stipendiary of Ali should have betrayedand murdered Ali. Compared with such things, what is the letter youhave just read?—a lover’s deception, which the woman who has marriedthat man ought certainly to forgive; but not so the lover who was tohave married her. Well, the French did not avenge themselves on thetraitor, the Spaniards did not shoot the traitor, Ali in his tomb leftthe traitor unpunished; but I, betrayed, sacrificed, buried, have risenfrom my tomb, by the grace of God, to punish that man. He sends me forthat purpose, and here I am.”
The poor woman’s head and arms fell; her legs bent under her, and shefell on her knees.
“Forgive, Edmond, forgive for my sake, who love you still!”
The dignity of the wife checked the fervor of the lover and the mother.Her forehead almost touched the carpet, when the count sprang forwardand raised her. Then seated on a chair, she looked at the manlycountenance of Monte Cristo, on which grief and hatred still impresseda threatening expression.
“Not crush that accursed race?” murmured he; “abandon my purpose at themoment of its accomplishment? Impossible, madame, impossible!”
“Edmond,” said the poor mother, who tried every means, “when I call youEdmond, why do you not call me Mercédès?”
“Mercédès!” repeated Monte Cristo; “Mercédès! Well yes, you are right;that name has still its charms, and this is the first time for a longperiod that I have pronounced it so distinctly. Oh, Mercédès, I haveuttered your name with the sigh of melancholy, with the groan ofsorrow, with the last effort of despair; I have uttered it when frozenwith cold, crouched on the straw in my dungeon; I have uttered it,consumed with heat, rolling on the stone floor of my prison. Mercédès,I must revenge myself, for I suffered fourteen years,—fourteen years Iwept, I cursed; now I tell you, Mercédès, I must revenge myself.”
The count, fearing to yield to the entreaties of her he had so ardentlyloved, called his sufferings to the assistance of his hatred.
“Revenge yourself, then, Edmond,” cried the poor mother; “but let yourvengeance fall on the culprits,—on him, on me, but not on my son!”
“It is written in the good book,” said Monte Cristo, “that the sins ofthe fathers shall fall upon their children to the third and fourthgeneration. Since God himself dictated those words to his prophet, whyshould I seek to make myself better than God?”
“Edmond,” continued Mercédès, with her arms extended towards the count,“since I first knew you, I have adored your name, have respected yourmemory. Edmond, my friend, do not compel me to tarnish that noble andpure image reflected incessantly on the mirror of my heart. Edmond, ifyou knew all the prayers I have addressed to God for you while Ithought you were living and since I have thought you must be dead! Yes,dead, alas! I imagined your dead body buried at the foot of some gloomytower, or cast to the bottom of a pit by hateful jailers, and I wept!What could I do for you, Edmond, besides pray and weep? Listen; for tenyears I dreamed each night the same dream. I had been told that you hadendeavored to escape; that you had taken the place of another prisoner;that you had slipped into the winding sheet of a dead body; that youhad been thrown alive from the top of the Château d’If, and that thecry you uttered as you dashed upon the rocks first revealed to yourjailers that they were your murderers. Well, Edmond, I swear to you, bythe head of that son for whom I entreat your pity,—Edmond, for tenyears I saw every night every detail of that frightful tragedy, and forten years I heard every night the cry which awoke me, shuddering andcold. And I, too, Edmond—oh! believe me—guilty as I was—oh, yes, I,too, have suffered much!”
“Have you known what it is to have your father starve to death in yourabsence?” cried Monte Cristo, thrusting his hands into his hair; “haveyou seen the woman you loved giving her hand to your rival, while youwere perishing at the bottom of a dungeon?”
“No,” interrupted Mercédès, “but I have seen him whom I loved on thepoint of murdering my son.”
Mercédès uttered these words with such deep anguish, with an accent ofsuch intense despair, that Monte Cristo could not restrain a sob. Thelion was daunted; the avenger was conquered.
“What do you ask of me?” said he,—“your son’s life? Well, he shalllive!”
Mercédès uttered a cry which made the tears start from Monte Cristo’seyes; but these tears disappeared almost instantaneously, for,doubtless, God had sent some angel to collect them—far more preciouswere they in his eyes than the richest pearls of Guzerat and Ophir.
“Oh,” said she, seizing the count’s hand and raising it to her lips;“oh, thank you, thank you, Edmond! Now you are exactly what I dreamtyou were,—the man I always loved. Oh, now I may say so!”
“So much the better,” replied Monte Cristo; “as that poor Edmond willnot have long to be loved by you. Death is about to return to the tomb,the phantom to retire in darkness.”
“What do you say, Edmond?”
“I say, since you command me, Mercédès, I must die.”
“Die? and why so? Who talks of dying? Whence have you these ideas ofdeath?”
“You do not suppose that, publicly outraged in the face of a wholetheatre, in the presence of your friends and those of yourson—challenged by a boy who will glory in my forgiveness as if it werea victory—you do not suppose that I can for one moment wish to live.What I most loved after you, Mercédès, was myself, my dignity, and thatstrength which rendered me superior to other men; that strength was mylife. With one word you have crushed it, and I die.”
“But the duel will not take place, Edmond, since you forgive?”
“It will take place,” said Monte Cristo, in a most solemn tone; “butinstead of your son’s blood to stain the ground, mine will flow.”
Mercédès shrieked, and sprang towards Monte Cristo, but, suddenlystopping, “Edmond,” said she, “there is a God above us, since you liveand since I have seen you again; I trust to him from my heart. Whilewaiting his assistance I trust to your word; you have said that my sonshould live, have you not?”
“Yes, madame, he shall live,” said Monte Cristo, surprised that withoutmore emotion Mercédès had accepted the heroic sacrifice he made forher. Mercédès extended her hand to the count.
“Edmond,” said she, and her eyes were wet with tears while looking athim to whom she spoke, “how noble it is of you, how great the actionyou have just performed, how sublime to have taken pity on a poor womanwho appealed to you with every chance against her, Alas, I am grown oldwith grief more than with years, and cannot now remind my Edmond by asmile, or by a look, of that Mercédès whom he once spent so many hoursin contemplating. Ah, believe me, Edmond, as I told you, I too havesuffered much; I repeat, it is melancholy to pass one’s life withouthaving one joy to recall, without preserving a single hope; but thatproves that all is not yet over. No, it is not finished; I feel it bywhat remains in my heart. Oh, I repeat it, Edmond; what you have justdone is beautiful—it is grand; it is sublime.”
“Do you say so now, Mercédès?—then what would you say if you knew theextent of the sacrifice I make to you? Suppose that the Supreme Being,after having created the world and fertilized chaos, had paused in thework to spare an angel the tears that might one day flow for mortalsins from her immortal eyes; suppose that when everything was inreadiness and the moment had come for God to look upon his work and seethat it was good—suppose he had snuffed out the sun and tossed theworld back into eternal night—then—even then, Mercédès, you could notimagine what I lose in sacrificing my life at this moment.”
Mercédès looked at the count in a way which expressed at the same timeher astonishment, her admiration, and her gratitude. Monte Cristopressed his forehead on his burning hands, as if his brain could nolonger bear alone the weight of its thoughts.
“Edmond,” said Mercédès, “I have but one word more to say to you.”
The count smiled bitterly.
“Edmond,” continued she, “you will see that if my face is pale, if myeyes are dull, if my beauty is gone; if Mercédès, in short, no longerresembles her former self in her features, you will see that her heartis still the same. Adieu, then, Edmond; I have nothing more to ask ofheaven—I have seen you again, and have found you as noble and as greatas formerly you were. Adieu, Edmond, adieu, and thank you.”
But the count did not answer. Mercédès opened the door of the study andhad disappeared before he had recovered from the painful and profoundreverie into which his thwarted vengeance had plunged him.
The clock of the Invalides struck one when the carriage which conveyedMadame de Morcerf rolled away on the pavement of the Champs-Élysées,and made Monte Cristo raise his head.
“What a fool I was,” said he, “not to tear my heart out on the day whenI resolved to avenge myself!”


 Chapter 90. The Meeting
After Mercédès had left Monte Cristo, he fell into profound gloom.Around him and within him the flight of thought seemed to have stopped;his energetic mind slumbered, as the body does after extreme fatigue.
“What?” said he to himself, while the lamp and the wax lights werenearly burnt out, and the servants were waiting impatiently in theanteroom; “what? this edifice which I have been so long preparing,which I have reared with so much care and toil, is to be crushed by asingle touch, a word, a breath! Yes, this self, of whom I thought somuch, of whom I was so proud, who had appeared so worthless in thedungeons of the Château d’If, and whom I had succeeded in making sogreat, will be but a lump of clay tomorrow. Alas, it is not the deathof the body I regret; for is not the destruction of the vitalprinciple, the repose to which everything is tending, to which everyunhappy being aspires,—is not this the repose of matter after which Iso long sighed, and which I was seeking to attain by the painfulprocess of starvation when Faria appeared in my dungeon? What is deathfor me? One step farther into rest,—two, perhaps, into silence. No, itis not existence, then, that I regret, but the ruin of projects soslowly carried out, so laboriously framed. Providence is now opposed tothem, when I most thought it would be propitious. It is not God’s willthat they should be accomplished. This burden, almost as heavy as aworld, which I had raised, and I had thought to bear to the end, wastoo great for my strength, and I was compelled to lay it down in themiddle of my career. Oh, shall I then, again become a fatalist, whomfourteen years of despair and ten of hope had rendered a believer inProvidence?
“And all this—all this, because my heart, which I thought dead, wasonly sleeping; because it has awakened and has begun to beat again,because I have yielded to the pain of the emotion excited in my breastby a woman’s voice.
“Yet,” continued the count, becoming each moment more absorbed in theanticipation of the dreadful sacrifice for the morrow, which Mercédèshad accepted, “yet, it is impossible that so noble-minded a womanshould thus through selfishness consent to my death when I am in theprime of life and strength; it is impossible that she can carry to sucha point maternal love, or rather delirium. There are virtues whichbecome crimes by exaggeration. No, she must have conceived somepathetic scene; she will come and throw herself between us; and whatwould be sublime here will there appear ridiculous.”
The blush of pride mounted to the count’s forehead as this thoughtpassed through his mind.
“Ridiculous?” repeated he; “and the ridicule will fall on me. Iridiculous? No, I would rather die.”
By thus exaggerating to his own mind the anticipated ill-fortune of thenext day, to which he had condemned himself by promising Mercédès tospare her son, the count at last exclaimed:
“Folly, folly, folly!—to carry generosity so far as to put myself up asa mark for that young man to aim at. He will never believe that mydeath was suicide; and yet it is important for the honor of mymemory,—and this surely is not vanity, but a justifiable pride,—it isimportant the world should know that I have consented, by my free will,to stop my arm, already raised to strike, and that with the arm whichhas been so powerful against others I have struck myself. It must be;it shall be.”
Seizing a pen, he drew a paper from a secret drawer in his desk, andwrote at the bottom of the document (which was no other than his will,made since his arrival in Paris) a sort of codicil, clearly explainingthe nature of his death.
“I do this, Oh, my God,” said he, with his eyes raised to heaven, “asmuch for thy honor as for mine. I have during ten years consideredmyself the agent of thy vengeance, and other wretches, like Morcerf,Danglars, Villefort, even Morcerf himself, must not imagine that chancehas freed them from their enemy. Let them know, on the contrary, thattheir punishment, which had been decreed by Providence, is only delayedby my present determination, and although they escape it in this world,it awaits them in another, and that they are only exchanging time foreternity.”
While he was thus agitated by gloomy uncertainties,—wretched wakingdreams of grief,—the first rays of morning pierced his windows, andshone upon the pale blue paper on which he had just inscribed hisjustification of Providence.
It was just five o’clock in the morning when a slight noise like astifled sigh reached his ear. He turned his head, looked around him,and saw no one; but the sound was repeated distinctly enough toconvince him of its reality.
He arose, and quietly opening the door of the drawing-room, saw Haydée,who had fallen on a chair, with her arms hanging down and her beautifulhead thrown back. She had been standing at the door, to prevent hisgoing out without seeing her, until sleep, which the young cannotresist, had overpowered her frame, wearied as she was with watching.The noise of the door did not awaken her, and Monte Cristo gazed at herwith affectionate regret.
“She remembered that she had a son,” said he; “and I forgot I had adaughter.” Then, shaking his head sorrowfully, “Poor Haydée,” said he;“she wished to see me, to speak to me; she has feared or guessedsomething. Oh, I cannot go without taking leave of her; I cannot diewithout confiding her to someone.”
He quietly regained his seat, and wrote under the other lines:
“I bequeath to Maximilian Morrel, captain of Spahis,—and son of myformer patron, Pierre Morrel, shipowner at Marseilles,—the sum oftwenty millions, a part of which may be offered to his sister Julie andbrother-in-law Emmanuel, if he does not fear this increase of fortunemay mar their happiness. These twenty millions are concealed in mygrotto at Monte Cristo, of which Bertuccio knows the secret. If hisheart is free, and he will marry Haydée, the daughter of Ali Pasha ofYanina, whom I have brought up with the love of a father, and who hasshown the love and tenderness of a daughter for me, he will thusaccomplish my last wish. This will has already constituted Haydéeheiress of the rest of my fortune, consisting of lands, funds inEngland, Austria, and Holland, furniture in my different palaces andhouses, and which without the twenty millions and the legacies to myservants, may still amount to sixty millions.”

40241m


He was finishing the last line when a cry behind him made him start,and the pen fell from his hand.
“Haydée,” said he, “did you read it?”
“Oh, my lord,” said she, “why are you writing thus at such an hour? Whyare you bequeathing all your fortune to me? Are you going to leave me?”
“I am going on a journey, dear child,” said Monte Cristo, with anexpression of infinite tenderness and melancholy; “and if anymisfortune should happen to me——”
The count stopped.
“Well?” asked the young girl, with an authoritative tone the count hadnever observed before, and which startled him.
“Well, if any misfortune happen to me,” replied Monte Cristo, “I wishmy daughter to be happy.” Haydée smiled sorrowfully, and shook herhead.
“Do you think of dying, my lord?” said she.
“The wise man, my child, has said, ‘It is good to think of death.’”
“Well, if you die,” said she, “bequeath your fortune to others, for ifyou die I shall require nothing;” and, taking the paper, she tore it infour pieces, and threw it into the middle of the room. Then, the efforthaving exhausted her strength, she fell, not asleep this time, butfainting on the floor.
The count leaned over her and raised her in his arms; and seeing thatsweet pale face, those lovely eyes closed, that beautiful formmotionless and to all appearance lifeless, the idea occurred to him forthe first time, that perhaps she loved him otherwise than as a daughterloves a father.
“Alas,” murmured he, with intense suffering, “I might, then, have beenhappy yet.”
Then he carried Haydée to her room, resigned her to the care of herattendants, and returning to his study, which he shut quickly thistime, he again copied the destroyed will. As he was finishing, thesound of a cabriolet entering the yard was heard. Monte Cristoapproached the window, and saw Maximilian and Emmanuel alight. “Good,”said he; “it was time,”—and he sealed his will with three seals.
A moment afterwards he heard a noise in the drawing-room, and went toopen the door himself. Morrel was there; he had come twenty minutesbefore the time appointed.
“I am perhaps come too soon, count,” said he, “but I franklyacknowledge that I have not closed my eyes all night, nor has anyone inmy house. I need to see you strong in your courageous assurance, torecover myself.”
Monte Cristo could not resist this proof of affection; he not onlyextended his hand to the young man, but flew to him with open arms.
“Morrel,” said he, “it is a happy day for me, to feel that I am belovedby such a man as you. Good-morning, Emmanuel; you will come with methen, Maximilian?”
“Did you doubt it?” said the young captain.
“But if I were wrong——”
“I watched you during the whole scene of that challenge yesterday; Ihave been thinking of your firmness all night, and I said to myselfthat justice must be on your side, or man’s countenance is no longer tobe relied on.”
“But, Morrel, Albert is your friend?”
“Simply an acquaintance, sir.”
“You met on the same day you first saw me?”
“Yes, that is true; but I should not have recollected it if you had notreminded me.”
“Thank you, Morrel.” Then ringing the bell once, “Look.” said he toAli, who came immediately, “take that to my solicitor. It is my will,Morrel. When I am dead, you will go and examine it.”
“What?” said Morrel, “you dead?”
“Yes; must I not be prepared for everything, dear friend? But what didyou do yesterday after you left me?”
“I went to Tortoni’s, where, as I expected, I found Beauchamp andChâteau-Renaud. I own I was seeking them.”
“Why, when all was arranged?”
“Listen, count; the affair is serious and unavoidable.”
“Did you doubt it!”
“No; the offence was public, and everyone is already talking of it.”
“Well?”
“Well, I hoped to get an exchange of arms,—to substitute the sword forthe pistol; the pistol is blind.”
“Have you succeeded?” asked Monte Cristo quickly, with an imperceptiblegleam of hope.
“No; for your skill with the sword is so well known.”
“Ah?—who has betrayed me?”
“The skilful swordsman whom you have conquered.”
“And you failed?”
“They positively refused.”
“Morrel,” said the count, “have you ever seen me fire a pistol?”
“Never.”
“Well, we have time; look.” Monte Cristo took the pistols he held inhis hand when Mercédès entered, and fixing an ace of clubs against theiron plate, with four shots he successively shot off the four sides ofthe club. At each shot Morrel turned pale. He examined the bullets withwhich Monte Cristo performed this dexterous feat, and saw that theywere no larger than buckshot.
“It is astonishing,” said he. “Look, Emmanuel.” Then turning towardsMonte Cristo, “Count,” said he, “in the name of all that is dear toyou, I entreat you not to kill Albert!—the unhappy youth has a mother.”
“You are right,” said Monte Cristo; “and I have none.” These words wereuttered in a tone which made Morrel shudder.
“You are the offended party, count.”
“Doubtless; what does that imply?”
“That you will fire first.”
“I fire first?”
“Oh, I obtained, or rather claimed that; we had conceded enough forthem to yield us that.”
“And at what distance?”
“Twenty paces.” A smile of terrible import passed over the count’slips.
“Morrel,” said he, “do not forget what you have just seen.”
“The only chance for Albert’s safety, then, will arise from youremotion.”
“I suffer from emotion?” said Monte Cristo.
“Or from your generosity, my friend; to so good a marksman as you are,I may say what would appear absurd to another.”
“What is that?”
“Break his arm—wound him—but do not kill him.”
“I will tell you, Morrel,” said the count, “that I do not needentreating to spare the life of M. de Morcerf; he shall be so wellspared, that he will return quietly with his two friends, while I——”
“And you?”
“That will be another thing; I shall be brought home.”
“No, no,” cried Maximilian, quite unable to restrain his feelings.
“As I told you, my dear Morrel, M. de Morcerf will kill me.”
Morrel looked at him in utter amazement. “But what has happened, then,since last evening, count?”
“The same thing that happened to Brutus the night before the battle ofPhilippi; I have seen a ghost.”
“And that ghost——”
“Told me, Morrel, that I had lived long enough.”
Maximilian and Emmanuel looked at each other. Monte Cristo drew out hiswatch. “Let us go,” said he; “it is five minutes past seven, and theappointment was for eight o’clock.”
A carriage was in readiness at the door. Monte Cristo stepped into itwith his two friends. He had stopped a moment in the passage to listenat a door, and Maximilian and Emmanuel, who had considerately passedforward a few steps, thought they heard him answer by a sigh to a sobfrom within. As the clock struck eight they drove up to the place ofmeeting.
“We are first,” said Morrel, looking out of the window.
“Excuse me, sir,” said Baptistin, who had followed his master withindescribable terror, “but I think I see a carriage down there underthe trees.”
Monte Cristo sprang lightly from the carriage, and offered his hand toassist Emmanuel and Maximilian. The latter retained the count’s handbetween his.
“I like,” said he, “to feel a hand like this, when its owner relies onthe goodness of his cause.”
“It seems to me,” said Emmanuel, “that I see two young men down there,who are evidently, waiting.”
Monte Cristo drew Morrel a step or two behind his brother-in-law.
“Maximilian,” said he, “are your affections disengaged?” Morrel lookedat Monte Cristo with astonishment. “I do not seek your confidence, mydear friend. I only ask you a simple question; answer it;—that is all Irequire.”
“I love a young girl, count.”
“Do you love her much?”
“More than my life.”
“Another hope defeated!” said the count. Then, with a sigh, “PoorHaydée!” murmured he.
“To tell the truth, count, if I knew less of you, I should think thatyou were less brave than you are.”
“Because I sigh when thinking of someone I am leaving? Come, Morrel, itis not like a soldier to be so bad a judge of courage. Do I regretlife? What is it to me, who have passed twenty years between life anddeath? Moreover, do not alarm yourself, Morrel; this weakness, if it issuch, is betrayed to you alone. I know the world is a drawing-room,from which we must retire politely and honestly; that is, with a bow,and our debts of honor paid.”
“That is to the purpose. Have you brought your arms?”
“I?—what for? I hope these gentlemen have theirs.”
“I will inquire,” said Morrel.
“Do; but make no treaty—you understand me?”
“You need not fear.” Morrel advanced towards Beauchamp andChâteau-Renaud, who, seeing his intention, came to meet him. The threeyoung men bowed to each other courteously, if not affably.
“Excuse me, gentlemen,” said Morrel, “but I do not see M. de Morcerf.”
“He sent us word this morning,” replied Château-Renaud, “that he wouldmeet us on the ground.”
“Ah,” said Morrel. Beauchamp pulled out his watch.
“It is only five minutes past eight,” said he to Morrel; “there is notmuch time lost yet.”
“Oh, I made no allusion of that kind,” replied Morrel.
“There is a carriage coming,” said Château-Renaud. It advanced rapidlyalong one of the avenues leading towards the open space where they wereassembled.
“You are doubtless provided with pistols, gentlemen? M. de Monte Cristoyields his right of using his.”
“We had anticipated this kindness on the part of the count,” saidBeauchamp, “and I have brought some weapons which I bought eight or tendays since, thinking to want them on a similar occasion. They are quitenew, and have not yet been used. Will you examine them.”
“Oh, M. Beauchamp, if you assure me that M. de Morcerf does not knowthese pistols, you may readily believe that your word will be quitesufficient.”
“Gentlemen,” said Château-Renaud, “it is not Morcerf coming in thatcarriage;—faith, it is Franz and Debray!”
The two young men he announced were indeed approaching. “What chancebrings you here, gentlemen?” said Château-Renaud, shaking hands witheach of them.
“Because,” said Debray, “Albert sent this morning to request us tocome.” Beauchamp and Château-Renaud exchanged looks of astonishment. “Ithink I understand his reason,” said Morrel.
“What is it?”
“Yesterday afternoon I received a letter from M. de Morcerf, begging meto attend the Opera.”
“And I,” said Debray.
“And I also,” said Franz.
“And we, too,” added Beauchamp and Château-Renaud.
“Having wished you all to witness the challenge, he now wishes you tobe present at the combat.”
“Exactly so,” said the young men; “you have probably guessed right.”
“But, after all these arrangements, he does not come himself,” saidChâteau-Renaud. “Albert is ten minutes after time.”
“There he comes,” said Beauchamp, “on horseback, at full gallop,followed by a servant.”
“How imprudent,” said Château-Renaud, “to come on horseback to fight aduel with pistols, after all the instructions I had given him.”
“And besides,” said Beauchamp, “with a collar above his cravat, an opencoat and white waistcoat! Why has he not painted a spot upon hisheart?—it would have been more simple.”
Meanwhile Albert had arrived within ten paces of the group formed bythe five young men. He jumped from his horse, threw the bridle on hisservant’s arms, and joined them. He was pale, and his eyes were red andswollen; it was evident that he had not slept. A shade of melancholygravity overspread his countenance, which was not natural to him.
“I thank you, gentlemen,” said he, “for having complied with myrequest; I feel extremely grateful for this mark of friendship.” Morrelhad stepped back as Morcerf approached, and remained at a shortdistance. “And to you also, M. Morrel, my thanks are due. Come, therecannot be too many.”
40248m


“Sir,” said Maximilian, “you are not perhaps aware that I am M. deMonte Cristo’s friend?”
“I was not sure, but I thought it might be so. So much the better; themore honorable men there are here the better I shall be satisfied.”
“M. Morrel,” said Château-Renaud, “will you apprise the Count of MonteCristo that M. de Morcerf is arrived, and we are at his disposal?”
Morrel was preparing to fulfil his commission. Beauchamp had meanwhiledrawn the box of pistols from the carriage.
“Stop, gentlemen,” said Albert; “I have two words to say to the Countof Monte Cristo.”
“In private?” asked Morrel.
“No, sir; before all who are here.”
Albert’s witnesses looked at each other. Franz and Debray exchangedsome words in a whisper, and Morrel, rejoiced at this unexpectedincident, went to fetch the count, who was walking in a retired pathwith Emmanuel.
“What does he want with me?” said Monte Cristo.
“I do not know, but he wishes to speak to you.”
“Ah?” said Monte Cristo, “I trust he is not going to tempt me by somefresh insult!”
“I do not think that such is his intention,” said Morrel.
The count advanced, accompanied by Maximilian and Emmanuel. His calmand serene look formed a singular contrast to Albert’s grief-strickenface, who approached also, followed by the other four young men.
When at three paces distant from each other, Albert and the countstopped.
“Approach, gentlemen,” said Albert; “I wish you not to lose one word ofwhat I am about to have the honor of saying to the Count of MonteCristo, for it must be repeated by you to all who will listen to it,strange as it may appear to you.”
“Proceed, sir,” said the count.
“Sir,” said Albert, at first with a tremulous voice, but whichgradually became firmer, “I reproached you with exposing the conduct ofM. de Morcerf in Epirus, for guilty as I knew he was, I thought you hadno right to punish him; but I have since learned that you had thatright. It is not Fernand Mondego’s treachery towards Ali Pasha whichinduces me so readily to excuse you, but the treachery of the fishermanFernand towards you, and the almost unheard-of miseries which were itsconsequences; and I say, and proclaim it publicly, that you werejustified in revenging yourself on my father, and I, his son, thank youfor not using greater severity.”
Had a thunderbolt fallen in the midst of the spectators of thisunexpected scene, it would not have surprised them more than didAlbert’s declaration. As for Monte Cristo, his eyes slowly rose towardsheaven with an expression of infinite gratitude. He could notunderstand how Albert’s fiery nature, of which he had seen so muchamong the Roman bandits, had suddenly stooped to this humiliation. Herecognized the influence of Mercédès, and saw why her noble heart hadnot opposed the sacrifice she knew beforehand would be useless.
“Now, sir,” said Albert, “if you think my apology sufficient, pray giveme your hand. Next to the merit of infallibility which you appear topossess, I rank that of candidly acknowledging a fault. But thisconfession concerns me only. I acted well as a man, but you have actedbetter than man. An angel alone could have saved one of us fromdeath—that angel came from heaven, if not to make us friends (which,alas, fatality renders impossible), at least to make us esteem eachother.”
Monte Cristo, with moistened eye, heaving breast, and lips half open,extended to Albert a hand which the latter pressed with a sentimentresembling respectful fear.
“Gentlemen,” said he, “M. de Monte Cristo receives my apology. I hadacted hastily towards him. Hasty actions are generally bad ones. Now myfault is repaired. I hope the world will not call me cowardly foracting as my conscience dictated. But if anyone should entertain afalse opinion of me,” added he, drawing himself up as if he wouldchallenge both friends and enemies, “I shall endeavor to correct hismistake.”
“What happened during the night?” asked Beauchamp of Château-Renaud;“we appear to make a very sorry figure here.”
“In truth, what Albert has just done is either very despicable or verynoble,” replied the baron.
“What can it mean?” said Debray to Franz.
“The Count of Monte Cristo acts dishonorably to M. de Morcerf, and isjustified by his son! Had I ten Yaninas in my family, I should onlyconsider myself the more bound to fight ten times.”
As for Monte Cristo, his head was bent down, his arms were powerless.Bowing under the weight of twenty-four years’ reminiscences, he thoughtnot of Albert, of Beauchamp, of Château-Renaud, or of any of thatgroup; but he thought of that courageous woman who had come to pleadfor her son’s life, to whom he had offered his, and who had now savedit by the revelation of a dreadful family secret, capable of destroyingforever in that young man’s heart every feeling of filial piety.
“Providence still,” murmured he; “now only am I fully convinced ofbeing the emissary of God!”


 Chapter 91. Mother and Son
The Count of Monte Cristo bowed to the five young men with a melancholyand dignified smile, and got into his carriage with Maximilian andEmmanuel. Albert, Beauchamp, and Château-Renaud remained alone. Albertlooked at his two friends, not timidly, but in a way that appeared toask their opinion of what he had just done.
“Indeed, my dear friend,” said Beauchamp first, who had either the mostfeeling or the least dissimulation, “allow me to congratulate you; thisis a very unhoped-for conclusion of a very disagreeable affair.”
Albert remained silent and wrapped in thought. Château-Renaud contentedhimself with tapping his boot with his flexible cane.
“Are we not going?” said he, after this embarrassing silence.
“When you please,” replied Beauchamp; “allow me only to compliment M.de Morcerf, who has given proof today of rare chivalric generosity.”
“Oh, yes,” said Château-Renaud.
“It is magnificent,” continued Beauchamp, “to be able to exercise somuch self-control!”
“Assuredly; as for me, I should have been incapable of it,” saidChâteau-Renaud, with most significant coolness.
“Gentlemen,” interrupted Albert, “I think you did not understand thatsomething very serious had passed between M. de Monte Cristo andmyself.”
“Possibly, possibly,” said Beauchamp immediately; “but every simpletonwould not be able to understand your heroism, and sooner or later youwill find yourself compelled to explain it to them more energeticallythan would be convenient to your bodily health and the duration of yourlife. May I give you a friendly counsel? Set out for Naples, the Hague,or St. Petersburg—calm countries, where the point of honor is betterunderstood than among our hot-headed Parisians. Seek quietude andoblivion, so that you may return peaceably to France after a few years.Am I not right, M. de Château-Renaud?”
40252m


“That is quite my opinion,” said the gentleman; “nothing inducesserious duels so much as a duel forsworn.”
“Thank you, gentlemen,” replied Albert, with a smile of indifference;“I shall follow your advice—not because you give it, but because I hadbefore intended to quit France. I thank you equally for the service youhave rendered me in being my seconds. It is deeply engraved on myheart, and, after what you have just said, I remember that only.”
Château-Renaud and Beauchamp looked at each other; the impression wasthe same on both of them, and the tone in which Morcerf had justexpressed his thanks was so determined that the position would havebecome embarrassing for all if the conversation had continued.
“Good-bye, Albert,” said Beauchamp suddenly, carelessly extending hishand to the young man. The latter did not appear to arouse from hislethargy; in fact, he did not notice the offered hand.
“Good-bye,” said Château-Renaud in his turn, keeping his little cane inhis left hand, and saluting with his right.
Albert’s lips scarcely whispered “Good-bye,” but his look was moreexplicit; it expressed a whole poem of restrained anger, proud disdain,and generous indignation. He preserved his melancholy and motionlessposition for some time after his two friends had regained theircarriage; then suddenly unfastening his horse from the little tree towhich his servant had tied it, he mounted and galloped off in thedirection of Paris.
In a quarter of an hour he was entering the house in the Rue du Helder.As he alighted, he thought he saw his father’s pale face behind thecurtain of the count’s bedroom. Albert turned away his head with asigh, and went to his own apartments. He cast one lingering look on allthe luxuries which had rendered life so easy and so happy since hisinfancy; he looked at the pictures, whose faces seemed to smile, andthe landscapes, which appeared painted in brighter colors. Then he tookaway his mother’s portrait, with its oaken frame, leaving the giltframe from which he took it black and empty. Then he arranged all hisbeautiful Turkish arms, his fine English guns, his Japanese china, hiscups mounted in silver, his artistic bronzes by Feuchères or Barye;examined the cupboards, and placed the key in each; threw into a drawerof his secretaire, which he left open, all the pocket-money he hadabout him, and with it the thousand fancy jewels from his vases and hisjewel-boxes; then he made an exact inventory of everything, and placedit in the most conspicuous part of the table, after putting aside thebooks and papers which had collected there.
At the beginning of this work, his servant, notwithstanding orders tothe contrary, came to his room.
“What do you want?” asked he, with a more sorrowful than angry tone.
“Pardon me, sir,” replied the valet; “you had forbidden me to disturbyou, but the Count of Morcerf has called me.”
“Well!” said Albert.
“I did not like to go to him without first seeing you.”
“Why?”
“Because the count is doubtless aware that I accompanied you to themeeting this morning.”
40254m


“It is probable,” said Albert.
“And since he has sent for me, it is doubtless to question me on whathappened there. What must I answer?”
“The truth.”
“Then I shall say the duel did not take place?”
“You will say I apologized to the Count of Monte Cristo. Go.”
The valet bowed and retired, and Albert returned to his inventory. Ashe was finishing this work, the sound of horses prancing in the yard,and the wheels of a carriage shaking his window, attracted hisattention. He approached the window, and saw his father get into it,and drive away. The door was scarcely closed when Albert bent his stepsto his mother’s room; and, no one being there to announce him, headvanced to her bedchamber, and distressed by what he saw and guessed,stopped for one moment at the door.
As if the same idea had animated these two beings, Mercédès was doingthe same in her apartments that he had just done in his. Everything wasin order,—laces, dresses, jewels, linen, money, all were arranged inthe drawers, and the countess was carefully collecting the keys. Albertsaw all these preparations and understood them, and exclaiming, “Mymother!” he threw his arms around her neck.
The artist who could have depicted the expression of these twocountenances would certainly have made of them a beautiful picture. Allthese proofs of an energetic resolution, which Albert did not fear onhis own account, alarmed him for his mother. “What are you doing?”asked he.
“What were you doing?” replied she.
“Oh, my mother!” exclaimed Albert, so overcome he could scarcely speak;“it is not the same with you and me—you cannot have made the sameresolution I have, for I have come to warn you that I bid adieu to yourhouse, and—and to you.”
“I also,” replied Mercédès, “am going, and I acknowledge I had dependedon your accompanying me; have I deceived myself?”
“Mother,” said Albert with firmness. “I cannot make you share the fateI have planned for myself. I must live henceforth without rank andfortune, and to begin this hard apprenticeship I must borrow from afriend the loaf I shall eat until I have earned one. So, my dearmother, I am going at once to ask Franz to lend me the small sum Ishall require to supply my present wants.”
“You, my poor child, suffer poverty and hunger? Oh, do not say so; itwill break my resolutions.”
“But not mine, mother,” replied Albert. “I am young and strong; Ibelieve I am courageous, and since yesterday I have learned the powerof will. Alas, my dear mother, some have suffered so much, and yetlive, and have raised a new fortune on the ruin of all the promises ofhappiness which heaven had made them—on the fragments of all the hopewhich God had given them! I have seen that, mother; I know that fromthe gulf in which their enemies have plunged them they have risen withso much vigor and glory that in their turn they have ruled their formerconquerors, and have punished them. No, mother; from this moment I havedone with the past, and accept nothing from it—not even a name, becauseyou can understand that your son cannot bear the name of a man whoought to blush for it before another.”
“Albert, my child,” said Mercédès, “if I had a stronger heart, that isthe counsel I would have given you; your conscience has spoken when myvoice became too weak; listen to its dictates. You had friends, Albert;break off their acquaintance. But do not despair; you have life beforeyou, my dear Albert, for you are yet scarcely twenty-two years old; andas a pure heart like yours wants a spotless name, take my father’s—itwas Herrera. I am sure, my dear Albert, whatever may be your career,you will soon render that name illustrious. Then, my son, return to theworld still more brilliant because of your former sorrows; and if I amwrong, still let me cherish these hopes, for I have no future to lookforward to. For me the grave opens when I pass the threshold of thishouse.”
“I will fulfil all your wishes, my dear mother,” said the young man.“Yes, I share your hopes; the anger of Heaven will not pursue us, sinceyou are pure and I am innocent. But, since our resolution is formed,let us act promptly. M. de Morcerf went out about half an hour ago; theopportunity is favorable to avoid an explanation.”
“I am ready, my son,” said Mercédès.
Albert ran to fetch a carriage. He recollected that there was a smallfurnished house to let in the Rue des Saints-Pères, where his motherwould find a humble but decent lodging, and thither he intendedconducting the countess. As the carriage stopped at the door, andAlbert was alighting, a man approached and gave him a letter.
Albert recognized the bearer. “From the count,” said Bertuccio. Alberttook the letter, opened, and read it, then looked round for Bertuccio,but he was gone.
He returned to Mercédès with tears in his eyes and heaving breast, andwithout uttering a word he gave her the letter. Mercédès read:
“Albert,—While showing you that I have discovered your plans, I hopealso to convince you of my delicacy. You are free, you leave thecount’s house, and you take your mother to your home; but reflect,Albert, you owe her more than your poor noble heart can pay her. Keepthe struggle for yourself, bear all the suffering, but spare her thetrial of poverty which must accompany your first efforts; for shedeserves not even the shadow of the misfortune which has this dayfallen on her, and Providence is not willing that the innocent shouldsuffer for the guilty. I know you are going to leave the Rue du Helderwithout taking anything with you. Do not seek to know how I discoveredit; I know it—that is sufficient.
“Now, listen, Albert. Twenty-four years ago I returned, proud andjoyful, to my country. I had a betrothed, Albert, a lovely girl whom Iadored, and I was bringing to my betrothed a hundred and fifty louis,painfully amassed by ceaseless toil. This money was for her; I destinedit for her, and, knowing the treachery of the sea I buried our treasurein the little garden of the house my father lived in at Marseilles, onthe Allées de Meilhan. Your mother, Albert, knows that poor house well.A short time since I passed through Marseilles, and went to see the oldplace, which revived so many painful recollections; and in the eveningI took a spade and dug in the corner of the garden where I hadconcealed my treasure. The iron box was there—no one had touchedit—under a beautiful fig-tree my father had planted the day I was born,which overshadowed the spot. Well, Albert, this money, which wasformerly designed to promote the comfort and tranquillity of the womanI adored, may now, through strange and painful circumstances, bedevoted to the same purpose.
“Oh, feel for me, who could offer millions to that poor woman, but whoreturn her only the piece of black bread forgotten under my poor roofsince the day I was torn from her I loved. You are a generous man,Albert, but perhaps you may be blinded by pride or resentment; if yourefuse me, if you ask another for what I have a right to offer you, Iwill say it is ungenerous of you to refuse the life of your mother atthe hands of a man whose father was allowed by your father to die inall the horrors of poverty and despair.”
Albert stood pale and motionless to hear what his mother would decideafter she had finished reading this letter. Mercédès turned her eyeswith an ineffable look towards heaven.
“I accept it,” said she; “he has a right to pay the dowry, which Ishall take with me to some convent!”
Putting the letter in her bosom, she took her son’s arm, and with afirmer step than she even herself expected she went downstairs.


 Chapter 92. The Suicide
Meanwhile Monte Cristo had also returned to town with Emmanuel andMaximilian. Their return was cheerful. Emmanuel did not conceal his joyat the peaceful termination of the affair, and was loud in hisexpressions of delight. Morrel, in a corner of the carriage, allowedhis brother-in-law’s gayety to expend itself in words, while he feltequal inward joy, which, however, betrayed itself only in hiscountenance.
At the Barrière du Trône they met Bertuccio, who was waiting there,motionless as a sentinel at his post. Monte Cristo put his head out ofthe window, exchanged a few words with him in a low tone, and thesteward disappeared.
“Count,” said Emmanuel, when they were at the end of the Place Royale,“put me down at my door, that my wife may not have a single moment ofneedless anxiety on my account or yours.”
“If it were not ridiculous to make a display of our triumph, saidMorrel, I would invite the count to our house; besides that, hedoubtless has some trembling heart to comfort. So we will take leave ofour friend, and let him hasten home.”
“Stop a moment,” said Monte Cristo; “do not let me lose both mycompanions. Return, Emmanuel, to your charming wife, and present mybest compliments to her; and do you, Morrel, accompany me to theChamps-Élysées.”
“Willingly,” said Maximilian; “particularly as I have business in thatquarter.”
“Shall we wait breakfast for you?” asked Emmanuel.
“No,” replied the young man. The door was closed, and the carriageproceeded. “See what good fortune I brought you!” said Morrel, when hewas alone with the count. “Have you not thought so?”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo; “for that reason I wished to keep you nearme.”
“It is miraculous!” continued Morrel, answering his own thoughts.
“What?” said Monte Cristo.
“What has just happened.”
“Yes,” said the Count, “you are right—it is miraculous.”
“For Albert is brave,” resumed Morrel.
“Very brave,” said Monte Cristo; “I have seen him sleep with a swordsuspended over his head.”
“And I know he has fought two duels,” said Morrel. “How can youreconcile that with his conduct this morning?”
“All owing to your influence,” replied Monte Cristo, smiling.
“It is well for Albert he is not in the army,” said Morrel.
“Why?”
“An apology on the ground!” said the young captain, shaking his head.
“Come,” said the count mildly, “do not entertain the prejudices ofordinary men, Morrel! Acknowledge, that if Albert is brave, he cannotbe a coward; he must then have had some reason for acting as he didthis morning, and confess that his conduct is more heroic thanotherwise.”
“Doubtless, doubtless,” said Morrel; “but I shall say, like theSpaniard, ‘He has not been so brave today as he was yesterday.’”
“You will breakfast with me, will you not, Morrel?” said the count, toturn the conversation.
“No; I must leave you at ten o’clock.”
“Your engagement was for breakfast, then?” said the count.
Morrel smiled, and shook his head.
“Still you must breakfast somewhere.”
“But if I am not hungry?” said the young man.
“Oh,” said the count, “I only know two things which destroy theappetite,—grief—and as I am happy to see you very cheerful, it is notthat—and love. Now after what you told me this morning of your heart, Imay believe——”
“Well, count,” replied Morrel gayly, “I will not dispute it.”
“But you will not make me your confidant, Maximilian?” said the count,in a tone which showed how gladly he would have been admitted to thesecret.
“I showed you this morning that I had a heart, did I not, count?” MonteCristo only answered by extending his hand to the young man. “Well,”continued the latter, “since that heart is no longer with you in theBois de Vincennes, it is elsewhere, and I must go and find it.”
“Go,” said the count deliberately; “go, dear friend, but promise me ifyou meet with any obstacle to remember that I have some power in thisworld, that I am happy to use that power in the behalf of those I love,and that I love you, Morrel.”
40260m


“I will remember it,” said the young man, “as selfish childrenrecollect their parents when they want their aid. When I need yourassistance, and the moment arrives, I will come to you, count.”
“Well, I rely upon your promise. Good-bye, then.”
“Good-bye, till we meet again.”
They had arrived in the Champs-Élysées. Monte Cristo opened thecarriage-door, Morrel sprang out on the pavement, Bertuccio was waitingon the steps. Morrel disappeared down the Avenue de Marigny, and MonteCristo hastened to join Bertuccio.
“Well?” asked he.
“She is going to leave her house,” said the steward.
“And her son?”
“Florentin, his valet, thinks he is going to do the same.”
“Come this way.” Monte Cristo took Bertuccio into his study, wrote theletter we have seen, and gave it to the steward. “Go,” said he quickly.“But first, let Haydée be informed that I have returned.”
“Here I am,” said the young girl, who at the sound of the carriage hadrun downstairs and whose face was radiant with joy at seeing the countreturn safely. Bertuccio left. Every transport of a daughter finding afather, all the delight of a mistress seeing an adored lover, were feltby Haydée during the first moments of this meeting, which she had soeagerly expected. Doubtless, although less evident, Monte Cristo’s joywas not less intense. Joy to hearts which have suffered long is likethe dew on the ground after a long drought; both the heart and theground absorb that beneficent moisture falling on them, and nothing isoutwardly apparent.
Monte Cristo was beginning to think, what he had not for a long timedared to believe, that there were two Mercédès in the world, and hemight yet be happy. His eye, elate with happiness, was reading eagerlythe tearful gaze of Haydée, when suddenly the door opened. The countknit his brow.
“M. de Morcerf!” said Baptistin, as if that name sufficed for hisexcuse. In fact, the count’s face brightened.
“Which,” asked he, “the viscount or the count?”
“The count.”
“Oh,” exclaimed Haydée, “is it not yet over?”
“I know not if it is finished, my beloved child,” said Monte Cristo,taking the young girl’s hands; “but I do know you have nothing more tofear.”
“But it is the wretched——”
“That man cannot injure me, Haydée,” said Monte Cristo; “it was his sonalone that there was cause to fear.”
“And what I have suffered,” said the young girl, “you shall never know,my lord.”
Monte Cristo smiled. “By my father’s tomb,” said he, extending his handover the head of the young girl, “I swear to you, Haydée, that if anymisfortune happens, it will not be to me.”
“I believe you, my lord, as implicitly as if God had spoken to me,”said the young girl, presenting her forehead to him. Monte Cristopressed on that pure beautiful forehead a kiss which made two heartsthrob at once, the one violently, the other secretly.
“Oh,” murmured the count, “shall I then be permitted to love again? AskM. de Morcerf into the drawing-room,” said he to Baptistin, while heled the beautiful Greek girl to a private staircase.
We must explain this visit, which although expected by Monte Cristo, isunexpected to our readers. While Mercédès, as we have said, was makinga similar inventory of her property to Albert’s, while she wasarranging her jewels, shutting her drawers, collecting her keys, toleave everything in perfect order, she did not perceive a pale andsinister face at a glass door which threw light into the passage, fromwhich everything could be both seen and heard. He who was thus looking,without being heard or seen, probably heard and saw all that passed inMadame de Morcerf’s apartments. From that glass door the pale-faced manwent to the count’s bedroom and raised with a constricted hand thecurtain of a window overlooking the courtyard. He remained there tenminutes, motionless and dumb, listening to the beating of his ownheart. For him those ten minutes were very long. It was then Albert,returning from his meeting with the count, perceived his fatherwatching for his arrival behind a curtain, and turned aside. Thecount’s eye expanded; he knew Albert had insulted the count dreadfully,and that in every country in the world such an insult would lead to adeadly duel. Albert returned safely—then the count was revenged.
An indescribable ray of joy illumined that wretched countenance likethe last ray of the sun before it disappears behind the clouds whichbear the aspect, not of a downy couch, but of a tomb. But as we havesaid, he waited in vain for his son to come to his apartment with theaccount of his triumph. He easily understood why his son did not cometo see him before he went to avenge his father’s honor; but when thatwas done, why did not his son come and throw himself into his arms?
It was then, when the count could not see Albert, that he sent for hisservant, who he knew was authorized not to conceal anything from him.Ten minutes afterwards, General Morcerf was seen on the steps in ablack coat with a military collar, black pantaloons, and black gloves.He had apparently given previous orders, for as he reached the bottomstep his carriage came from the coach-house ready for him. The valetthrew into the carriage his military cloak, in which two swords werewrapped, and, shutting the door, he took his seat by the side of thecoachman. The coachman stooped down for his orders.
“To the Champs-Élysées,” said the general; “the Count of MonteCristo’s. Hurry!”
The horses bounded beneath the whip; and in five minutes they stoppedbefore the count’s door. M. de Morcerf opened the door himself, and asthe carriage rolled away he passed up the walk, rang, and entered theopen door with his servant.
A moment afterwards, Baptistin announced the Count of Morcerf to MonteCristo, and the latter, leading Haydée aside, ordered that Morcerf beasked into the drawing-room. The general was pacing the room the thirdtime when, in turning, he perceived Monte Cristo at the door.
“Ah, it is M. de Morcerf,” said Monte Cristo quietly; “I thought I hadnot heard aright.”
“Yes, it is I,” said the count, whom a frightful contraction of thelips prevented from articulating freely.
“May I know the cause which procures me the pleasure of seeing M. deMorcerf so early?”
“Had you not a meeting with my son this morning?” asked the general.
“I had,” replied the count.
“And I know my son had good reasons to wish to fight with you, and toendeavor to kill you.”
“Yes, sir, he had very good ones; but you see that in spite of them hehas not killed me, and did not even fight.”
“Yet he considered you the cause of his father’s dishonor, the cause ofthe fearful ruin which has fallen on my house.”
“It is true, sir,” said Monte Cristo with his dreadful calmness; “asecondary cause, but not the principal.”
“Doubtless you made, then, some apology or explanation?”
“I explained nothing, and it is he who apologized to me.”
“But to what do you attribute this conduct?”
“To the conviction, probably, that there was one more guilty than I.”
“And who was that?”
“His father.”
“That may be,” said the count, turning pale; “but you know the guiltydo not like to find themselves convicted.”
“I know it, and I expected this result.”
“You expected my son would be a coward?” cried the count.
“M. Albert de Morcerf is no coward!” said Monte Cristo.
“A man who holds a sword in his hand, and sees a mortal enemy withinreach of that sword, and does not fight, is a coward! Why is he nothere that I may tell him so?”
“Sir,” replied Monte Cristo coldly, “I did not expect that you had comehere to relate to me your little family affairs. Go and tell M. Albertthat, and he may know what to answer you.”
“Oh, no, no,” said the general, smiling faintly, “I did not come forthat purpose; you are right. I came to tell you that I also look uponyou as my enemy. I came to tell you that I hate you instinctively; thatit seems as if I had always known you, and always hated you; and, inshort, since the young people of the present day will not fight, itremains for us to do so. Do you think so, sir?”
“Certainly. And when I told you I had foreseen the result, it is thehonor of your visit I alluded to.”
“So much the better. Are you prepared?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You know that we shall fight till one of us is dead,” said thegeneral, whose teeth were clenched with rage.
40262m


“Until one of us dies,” repeated Monte Cristo, moving his head slightlyup and down.
“Let us start, then; we need no witnesses.”
“Very true,” said Monte Cristo; “it is unnecessary, we know each otherso well!”
“On the contrary,” said the count, “we know so little of each other.”
“Indeed?” said Monte Cristo, with the same indomitable coolness; “letus see. Are you not the soldier Fernand who deserted on the eve of thebattle of Waterloo? Are you not the Lieutenant Fernand who served asguide and spy to the French army in Spain? Are you not the CaptainFernand who betrayed, sold, and murdered his benefactor, Ali? And havenot all these Fernands, united, made Lieutenant-General, the Count ofMorcerf, peer of France?”
“Oh,” cried the general, as if branded with a hot iron, “wretch,—toreproach me with my shame when about, perhaps, to kill me! No, I didnot say I was a stranger to you. I know well, demon, that you havepenetrated into the darkness of the past, and that you have read, bythe light of what torch I know not, every page of my life; but perhapsI may be more honorable in my shame than you under your pompouscoverings. No—no, I am aware you know me; but I know you only as anadventurer sewn up in gold and jewellery. You call yourself, in Paris,the Count of Monte Cristo; in Italy, Sinbad the Sailor; in Malta, Iforget what. But it is your real name I want to know, in the midst ofyour hundred names, that I may pronounce it when we meet to fight, atthe moment when I plunge my sword through your heart.”
The Count of Monte Cristo turned dreadfully pale; his eye seemed toburn with a devouring fire. He leaped towards a dressing-room near hisbedroom, and in less than a moment, tearing off his cravat, his coatand waistcoat, he put on a sailor’s jacket and hat, from beneath whichrolled his long black hair. He returned thus, formidable andimplacable, advancing with his arms crossed on his breast, towards thegeneral, who could not understand why he had disappeared, but who onseeing him again, and feeling his teeth chatter and his legs sink underhim, drew back, and only stopped when he found a table to support hisclenched hand.
“Fernand,” cried he, “of my hundred names I need only tell you one, tooverwhelm you! But you guess it now, do you not?—or, rather, youremember it? For, notwithstanding all my sorrows and my tortures, Ishow you today a face which the happiness of revenge makes youngagain—a face you must often have seen in your dreams since yourmarriage with Mercédès, my betrothed!”
40268m


The general, with his head thrown back, hands extended, gaze fixed,looked silently at this dreadful apparition; then seeking the wall tosupport him, he glided along close to it until he reached the door,through which he went out backwards, uttering this single mournful,lamentable, distressing cry:
“Edmond Dantès!”
Then, with sighs which were unlike any human sound, he dragged himselfto the door, reeled across the courtyard, and falling into the arms ofhis valet, he said in a voice scarcely intelligible,—“Home, home.”
The fresh air and the shame he felt at having exposed himself beforehis servants, partly recalled his senses, but the ride was short, andas he drew near his house all his wretchedness revived. He stopped at ashort distance from the house and alighted. The door was wide open, ahackney-coach was standing in the middle of the yard—a strange sightbefore so noble a mansion; the count looked at it with terror, butwithout daring to inquire its meaning, he rushed towards his apartment.
Two persons were coming down the stairs; he had only time to creep intoan alcove to avoid them. It was Mercédès leaning on her son’s arm andleaving the house. They passed close by the unhappy being, who,concealed behind the damask curtain, almost felt Mercédès dress brushpast him, and his son’s warm breath, pronouncing these words:
“Courage, mother! Come, this is no longer our home!”
The words died away, the steps were lost in the distance. The generaldrew himself up, clinging to the curtain; he uttered the most dreadfulsob which ever escaped from the bosom of a father abandoned at the sametime by his wife and son. He soon heard the clatter of the iron step ofthe hackney-coach, then the coachman’s voice, and then the rolling ofthe heavy vehicle shook the windows. He darted to his bedroom to seeonce more all he had loved in the world; but the hackney-coach drove onand the head of neither Mercédès nor her son appeared at the window totake a last look at the house or the deserted father and husband.
And at the very moment when the wheels of that coach crossed thegateway a report was heard, and a thick smoke escaped through one ofthe panes of the window, which was broken by the explosion.
40270m



 Chapter 93. Valentine
We may easily conceive where Morrel’s appointment was. On leaving MonteCristo he walked slowly towards Villefort’s; we say slowly, for Morrelhad more than half an hour to spare to go five hundred steps, but hehad hastened to take leave of Monte Cristo because he wished to bealone with his thoughts. He knew his time well—the hour when Valentinewas giving Noirtier his breakfast, and was sure not to be disturbed inthe performance of this pious duty. Noirtier and Valentine had givenhim leave to go twice a week, and he was now availing himself of thatpermission.
He arrived; Valentine was expecting him. Uneasy and almost crazed, sheseized his hand and led him to her grandfather. This uneasiness,amounting almost to frenzy, arose from the report Morcerf’s adventurehad made in the world, for the affair at the Opera was generally known.No one at Villefort’s doubted that a duel would ensue from it.Valentine, with her woman’s instinct, guessed that Morrel would beMonte Cristo’s second, and from the young man’s well-known courage andhis great affection for the count, she feared that he would not contenthimself with the passive part assigned to him. We may easily understandhow eagerly the particulars were asked for, given, and received; andMorrel could read an indescribable joy in the eyes of his beloved, whenshe knew that the termination of this affair was as happy as it wasunexpected.
“Now,” said Valentine, motioning to Morrel to sit down near hergrandfather, while she took her seat on his footstool,—“now let us talkabout our own affairs. You know, Maximilian, grandpapa once thought ofleaving this house, and taking an apartment away from M. deVillefort’s.”
“Yes,” said Maximilian, “I recollect the project, of which I highlyapproved.”
“Well,” said Valentine, “you may approve again, for grandpapa is againthinking of it.”
“Bravo,” said Maximilian.
40272m


“And do you know,” said Valentine, “what reason grandpapa gives forleaving this house.” Noirtier looked at Valentine to impose silence,but she did not notice him; her looks, her eyes, her smile, were allfor Morrel.
“Oh, whatever may be M. Noirtier’s reason,” answered Morrel, “I canreadily believe it to be a good one.”
“An excellent one,” said Valentine. “He pretends the air of theFaubourg Saint-Honoré is not good for me.”
“Indeed?” said Morrel; “in that M. Noirtier may be right; you have notseemed to be well for the last fortnight.”
“Not very,” said Valentine. “And grandpapa has become my physician, andI have the greatest confidence in him, because he knows everything.”
“Do you then really suffer?” asked Morrel quickly.
“Oh, it must not be called suffering; I feel a general uneasiness, thatis all. I have lost my appetite, and my stomach feels as if it werestruggling to get accustomed to something.” Noirtier did not lose aword of what Valentine said.
“And what treatment do you adopt for this singular complaint?”
“A very simple one,” said Valentine. “I swallow every morning aspoonful of the mixture prepared for my grandfather. When I say onespoonful, I began by one—now I take four. Grandpapa says it is apanacea.” Valentine smiled, but it was evident that she suffered.
Maximilian, in his devotedness, gazed silently at her. She was verybeautiful, but her usual pallor had increased; her eyes were morebrilliant than ever, and her hands, which were generally white likemother-of-pearl, now more resembled wax, to which time was adding ayellowish hue.
From Valentine the young man looked towards Noirtier. The latterwatched with strange and deep interest the young girl, absorbed by heraffection, and he also, like Morrel, followed those traces of inwardsuffering which was so little perceptible to a common observer thatthey escaped the notice of everyone but the grandfather and the lover.
“But,” said Morrel, “I thought this mixture, of which you now take fourspoonfuls, was prepared for M. Noirtier?”
“I know it is very bitter,” said Valentine; “so bitter, that all Idrink afterwards appears to have the same taste.” Noirtier lookedinquiringly at his granddaughter. “Yes, grandpapa,” said Valentine; “itis so. Just now, before I came down to you, I drank a glass of sugaredwater; I left half, because it seemed so bitter.” Noirtier turned pale,and made a sign that he wished to speak.
Valentine rose to fetch the dictionary. Noirtier watched her withevident anguish. In fact, the blood was rushing to the young girl’shead already, her cheeks were becoming red.
“Oh,” cried she, without losing any of her cheerfulness, “this issingular! I can’t see! Did the sun shine in my eyes?” And she leanedagainst the window.
“The sun is not shining,” said Morrel, more alarmed by Noirtier’sexpression than by Valentine’s indisposition. He ran towards her. Theyoung girl smiled.
“Cheer up,” said she to Noirtier. “Do not be alarmed, Maximilian; it isnothing, and has already passed away. But listen! Do I not hear acarriage in the courtyard?” She opened Noirtier’s door, ran to a windowin the passage, and returned hastily. “Yes,” said she, “it is MadameDanglars and her daughter, who have come to call on us. Good-bye;—Imust run away, for they would send here for me, or, rather, farewelltill I see you again. Stay with grandpapa, Maximilian; I promise younot to persuade them to stay.”
40274m


Morrel watched her as she left the room; he heard her ascend the littlestaircase which led both to Madame de Villefort’s apartments and tohers. As soon as she was gone, Noirtier made a sign to Morrel to takethe dictionary. Morrel obeyed; guided by Valentine, he had learned howto understand the old man quickly. Accustomed, however, as he was tothe work, he had to repeat most of the letters of the alphabet and tofind every word in the dictionary, so that it was ten minutes beforethe thought of the old man was translated by these words,
“Fetch the glass of water and the decanter from Valentine’s room.”
Morrel rang immediately for the servant who had taken Barrois’ssituation, and in Noirtier’s name gave that order. The servant soonreturned. The decanter and the glass were completely empty. Noirtiermade a sign that he wished to speak.
“Why are the glass and decanter empty?” asked he; “Valentine said sheonly drank half the glassful.”
The translation of this new question occupied another five minutes.
“I do not know,” said the servant, “but the housemaid is inMademoiselle Valentine’s room: perhaps she has emptied them.”
“Ask her,” said Morrel, translating Noirtier’s thought this time by hislook. The servant went out, but returned almost immediately.“Mademoiselle Valentine passed through the room to go to Madame deVillefort’s,” said he; “and in passing, as she was thirsty, she drankwhat remained in the glass; as for the decanter, Master Edward hademptied that to make a pond for his ducks.”
Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven, as a gambler does who stakes hisall on one stroke. From that moment the old man’s eyes were fixed onthe door, and did not quit it.
It was indeed Madame Danglars and her daughter whom Valentine had seen;they had been ushered into Madame de Villefort’s room, who had said shewould receive them there. That is why Valentine passed through herroom, which was on a level with Valentine’s, and only separated from itby Edward’s. The two ladies entered the drawing-room with that sort ofofficial stiffness which preludes a formal communication. Among worldlypeople manner is contagious. Madame de Villefort received them withequal solemnity. Valentine entered at this moment, and the formalitieswere resumed.
“My dear friend,” said the baroness, while the two young people wereshaking hands, “I and Eugénie are come to be the first to announce toyou the approaching marriage of my daughter with Prince Cavalcanti.”Danglars kept up the title of prince. The popular banker found that itanswered better than count.
“Allow me to present you my sincere congratulations,” replied Madame deVillefort. “Prince Cavalcanti appears to be a young man of rarequalities.”
40276m


“Listen,” said the baroness, smiling; “speaking to you as a friend Ican say that the prince does not yet appear all he will be. He hasabout him a little of that foreign manner by which French personsrecognize, at first sight, the Italian or German nobleman. Besides, hegives evidence of great kindness of disposition, much keenness of wit,and as to suitability, M. Danglars assures me that his fortune ismajestic—that is his word.”
“And then,” said Eugénie, while turning over the leaves of Madame deVillefort’s album, “add that you have taken a great fancy to the youngman.”
“And,” said Madame de Villefort, “I need not ask you if you share thatfancy.”
“I?” replied Eugénie with her usual candor. “Oh, not the least in theworld, madame! My wish was not to confine myself to domestic cares, orthe caprices of any man, but to be an artist, and consequently free inheart, in person, and in thought.”
Eugénie pronounced these words with so firm a tone that the colormounted to Valentine’s cheeks. The timid girl could not understand thatvigorous nature which appeared to have none of the timidities of woman.
“At any rate,” said she, “since I am to be married whether I will ornot, I ought to be thankful to Providence for having released me frommy engagement with M. Albert de Morcerf, or I should this day have beenthe wife of a dishonored man.”
“It is true,” said the baroness, with that strange simplicity sometimesmet with among fashionable ladies, and of which plebeian intercoursecan never entirely deprive them,—“it is very true that had not theMorcerfs hesitated, my daughter would have married Monsieur Albert. Thegeneral depended much on it; he even came to force M. Danglars. We havehad a narrow escape.”
“But,” said Valentine, timidly, “does all the father’s shame revertupon the son? Monsieur Albert appears to me quite innocent of thetreason charged against the general.”
“Excuse me,” said the implacable young girl, “Monsieur Albert claimsand well deserves his share. It appears that after having challenged M.de Monte Cristo at the Opera yesterday, he apologized on the groundtoday.”
“Impossible,” said Madame de Villefort.
“Ah, my dear friend,” said Madame Danglars, with the same simplicity webefore noticed, “it is a fact. I heard it from M. Debray, who waspresent at the explanation.”
Valentine also knew the truth, but she did not answer. A single wordhad reminded her that Morrel was expecting her in M. Noirtier’s room.Deeply engaged with a sort of inward contemplation, Valentine hadceased for a moment to join in the conversation. She would, indeed,have found it impossible to repeat what had been said the last fewminutes, when suddenly Madame Danglars’ hand, pressed on her arm,aroused her from her lethargy.
“What is it?” said she, starting at Madame Danglars’ touch as she wouldhave done from an electric shock.
“It is, my dear Valentine,” said the baroness, “that you are,doubtless, suffering.”
40280m


“I?” said the young girl, passing her hand across her burning forehead.
“Yes, look at yourself in that glass; you have turned pale and then redsuccessively, three or four times in one minute.”
“Indeed,” cried Eugénie, “you are very pale!”
“Oh, do not be alarmed; I have been so for many days.” Artless as shewas, the young girl knew that this was an opportunity to leave, andbesides, Madame de Villefort came to her assistance.
“Retire, Valentine,” said she; “you are really suffering, and theseladies will excuse you; drink a glass of pure water, it will restoreyou.”
Valentine kissed Eugénie, bowed to Madame Danglars, who had alreadyrisen to take her leave, and went out.
“That poor child,” said Madame de Villefort when Valentine was gone,“she makes me very uneasy, and I should not be astonished if she hadsome serious illness.”
Meanwhile, Valentine, in a sort of excitement which she could not quiteunderstand, had crossed Edward’s room without noticing some trick ofthe child, and through her own had reached the little staircase.
She was within three steps of the bottom; she already heard Morrel’svoice, when suddenly a cloud passed over her eyes, her stiffened footmissed the step, her hands had no power to hold the baluster, andfalling against the wall she lost her balance wholly and toppled to thefloor. Morrel bounded to the door, opened it, and found Valentinestretched out at the bottom of the stairs. Quick as a flash, he raisedher in his arms and placed her in a chair. Valentine opened her eyes.
“Oh, what a clumsy thing I am,” said she with feverish volubility; “Idon’t know my way. I forgot there were three more steps before thelanding.”
“You have hurt yourself, perhaps,” said Morrel. “What can I do for you,Valentine?”
Valentine looked around her; she saw the deepest terror depicted inNoirtier’s eyes.
“Don’t worry, dear grandpapa,” said she, endeavoring to smile; “it isnothing—it is nothing; I was giddy, that is all.”
“Another attack of giddiness,” said Morrel, clasping his hands. “Oh,attend to it, Valentine, I entreat you.”
“But no,” said Valentine,—“no, I tell you it is all past, and it wasnothing. Now, let me tell you some news; Eugénie is to be married in aweek, and in three days there is to be a grand feast, a betrothalfestival. We are all invited, my father, Madame de Villefort, and I—atleast, I understood it so.”
“When will it be our turn to think of these things? Oh, Valentine, youwho have so much influence over your grandpapa, try to make himanswer—Soon.”
“And do you,” said Valentine, “depend on me to stimulate the tardinessand arouse the memory of grandpapa?”
“Yes,” cried Morrel, “make haste. So long as you are not mine,Valentine, I shall always think I may lose you.”
“Oh,” replied Valentine with a convulsive movement, “oh, indeed,Maximilian, you are too timid for an officer, for a soldier who, theysay, never knows fear. Ha, ha, ha!”
She burst into a forced and melancholy laugh, her arms stiffened andtwisted, her head fell back on her chair, and she remained motionless.The cry of terror which was stopped on Noirtier’s lips, seemed to startfrom his eyes. Morrel understood it; he knew he must call assistance.The young man rang the bell violently; the housemaid who had been inMademoiselle Valentine’s room, and the servant who had replacedBarrois, ran in at the same moment. Valentine was so pale, so cold, soinanimate that without listening to what was said to them they wereseized with the fear which pervaded that house, and they flew into thepassage crying for help. Madame Danglars and Eugénie were going out atthat moment; they heard the cause of the disturbance.
“I told you so!” exclaimed Madame de Villefort. “Poor child!”
40278m



 Chapter 94. Maximilian’s Avowal
At the same moment M. de Villefort’s voice was heard calling from hisstudy, “What is the matter?”
Morrel looked at Noirtier who had recovered his self-command, and witha glance indicated the closet where once before under somewhat similarcircumstances, he had taken refuge. He had only time to get his hat andthrow himself breathless into the closet when the procureur’s footstepwas heard in the passage.
Villefort sprang into the room, ran to Valentine, and took her in hisarms.
“A physician, a physician,—M. d’Avrigny!” cried Villefort; “or rather Iwill go for him myself.”
He flew from the apartment, and Morrel at the same moment darted out atthe other door. He had been struck to the heart by a frightfulrecollection—the conversation he had heard between the doctor andVillefort the night of Madame de Saint-Méran’s death, recurred to him;these symptoms, to a less alarming extent, were the same which hadpreceded the death of Barrois. At the same time Monte Cristo’s voiceseemed to resound in his ear with the words he had heard only two hoursbefore, “Whatever you want, Morrel, come to me; I have great power.”
More rapidly than thought, he darted down the Rue Matignon, and thenceto the Avenue des Champs-Élysées.
Meanwhile M. de Villefort arrived in a hired cabriolet at M.d’Avrigny’s door. He rang so violently that the porter was alarmed.Villefort ran upstairs without saying a word. The porter knew him, andlet him pass, only calling to him:
“In his study, Monsieur Procureur—in his study!” Villefort pushed, orrather forced, the door open.
“Ah,” said the doctor, “is it you?”
“Yes,” said Villefort, closing the door after him, “it is I, who amcome in my turn to ask you if we are quite alone. Doctor, my house isaccursed!”
“What?” said the latter with apparent coolness, but with deep emotion,“have you another invalid?”
“Yes, doctor,” cried Villefort, clutching his hair, “yes!”
D’Avrigny’s look implied, “I told you it would be so.” Then he slowlyuttered these words, “Who is now dying in your house? What new victimis going to accuse you of weakness before God?”
A mournful sob burst from Villefort’s heart; he approached the doctor,and seizing his arm,—“Valentine,” said he, “it is Valentine’s turn!”
40284m


“Your daughter!” cried d’Avrigny with grief and surprise.
“You see you were deceived,” murmured the magistrate; “come and seeher, and on her bed of agony entreat her pardon for having suspectedher.”
“Each time you have applied to me,” said the doctor, “it has been toolate; still I will go. But let us make haste, sir; with the enemies youhave to do with there is no time to be lost.”
“Oh, this time, doctor, you shall not have to reproach me withweakness. This time I will know the assassin, and will pursue him.”
“Let us try first to save the victim before we think of revenging her,”said d’Avrigny. “Come.”
The same cabriolet which had brought Villefort took them back at fullspeed, and at this moment Morrel rapped at Monte Cristo’s door.
The count was in his study and was reading with an angry look somethingwhich Bertuccio had brought in haste. Hearing the name of Morrel, whohad left him only two hours before, the count raised his head, arose,and sprang to meet him.
“What is the matter, Maximilian?” asked he; “you are pale, and theperspiration rolls from your forehead.” Morrel fell into a chair.
“Yes,” said he, “I came quickly; I wanted to speak to you.”
“Are all your family well?” asked the count, with an affectionatebenevolence, whose sincerity no one could for a moment doubt.
“Thank you, count—thank you,” said the young man, evidently embarrassedhow to begin the conversation; “yes, everyone in my family is well.”
“So much the better; yet you have something to tell me?” replied thecount with increased anxiety.
“Yes,” said Morrel, “it is true; I have but now left a house wheredeath has just entered, to run to you.”
“Are you then come from M. de Morcerf’s?” asked Monte Cristo.
“No,” said Morrel; “is someone dead in his house?”
“The general has just blown his brains out,” replied Monte Cristo withgreat coolness.
“Oh, what a dreadful event!” cried Maximilian.
“Not for the countess, or for Albert,” said Monte Cristo; “a deadfather or husband is better than a dishonored one,—blood washes outshame.”
“Poor countess,” said Maximilian, “I pity her very much; she is sonoble a woman!”
“Pity Albert also, Maximilian; for believe me he is the worthy son ofthe countess. But let us return to yourself. You have hastened tome—can I have the happiness of being useful to you?”
40286m


“Yes, I need your help: that is I thought like a madman that you couldlend me your assistance in a case where God alone can succor me.”
“Tell me what it is,” replied Monte Cristo.
“Oh,” said Morrel, “I know not, indeed, if I may reveal this secret tomortal ears, but fatality impels me, necessity constrains me, count——”Morrel hesitated.
“Do you think I love you?” said Monte Cristo, taking the young man’shand affectionately in his.
“Oh, you encourage me, and something tells me there,” placing his handon his heart, “that I ought to have no secret from you.”
“You are right, Morrel; God is speaking to your heart, and your heartspeaks to you. Tell me what it says.”
“Count, will you allow me to send Baptistin to inquire after someoneyou know?”
“I am at your service, and still more my servants.”
“Oh, I cannot live if she is not better.”
“Shall I ring for Baptistin?”
“No, I will go and speak to him myself.” Morrel went out, calledBaptistin, and whispered a few words to him. The valet ran directly.
“Well, have you sent?” asked Monte Cristo, seeing Morrel return.
“Yes, and now I shall be more calm.”
“You know I am waiting,” said Monte Cristo, smiling.
“Yes, and I will tell you. One evening I was in a garden; a clump oftrees concealed me; no one suspected I was there. Two persons passednear me—allow me to conceal their names for the present; they werespeaking in an undertone, and yet I was so interested in what they saidthat I did not lose a single word.”
“This is a gloomy introduction, if I may judge from your pallor andshuddering, Morrel.”
“Oh, yes, very gloomy, my friend. Someone had just died in the house towhich that garden belonged. One of the persons whose conversation Ioverheard was the master of the house; the other, the physician. Theformer was confiding to the latter his grief and fear, for it was thesecond time within a month that death had suddenly and unexpectedlyentered that house which was apparently destined to destruction by someexterminating angel, as an object of God’s anger.”
“Ah, indeed?” said Monte Cristo, looking earnestly at the young man,and by an imperceptible movement turning his chair, so that he remainedin the shade while the light fell full on Maximilian’s face.
“Yes,” continued Morrel, “death had entered that house twice within onemonth.”
“And what did the doctor answer?” asked Monte Cristo.
“He replied—he replied, that the death was not a natural one, and mustbe attributed”—
“To what?”
“To poison.”
“Indeed!” said Monte Cristo with a slight cough which in moments ofextreme emotion helped him to disguise a blush, or his pallor, or theintense interest with which he listened; “indeed, Maximilian, did youhear that?”
“Yes, my dear count, I heard it; and the doctor added that if anotherdeath occurred in a similar way he must appeal to justice.”
Monte Cristo listened, or appeared to do so, with the greatestcalmness.
“Well,” said Maximilian, “death came a third time, and neither themaster of the house nor the doctor said a word. Death is now, perhaps,striking a fourth blow. Count, what am I bound to do, being inpossession of this secret?”
“My dear friend,” said Monte Cristo, “you appear to be relating anadventure which we all know by heart. I know the house where you heardit, or one very similar to it; a house with a garden, a master, aphysician, and where there have been three unexpected and suddendeaths. Well, I have not intercepted your confidence, and yet I knowall that as well as you, and I have no conscientious scruples. No, itdoes not concern me. You say an exterminating angel appears to havedevoted that house to God’s anger—well, who says your supposition isnot reality? Do not notice things which those whose interest it is tosee them pass over. If it is God’s justice, instead of his anger, whichis walking through that house, Maximilian, turn away your face and lethis justice accomplish its purpose.”
Morrel shuddered. There was something mournful, solemn, and terrible inthe count’s manner.
“Besides,” continued he, in so changed a tone that no one would havesupposed it was the same person speaking—“besides, who says that itwill begin again?”
“It has returned, count,” exclaimed Morrel; “that is why I hastened toyou.”
“Well, what do you wish me to do? Do you wish me, for instance, to giveinformation to the procureur?” Monte Cristo uttered the last words withso much meaning that Morrel, starting up, cried out:
“You know of whom I speak, count, do you not?”
“Perfectly well, my good friend; and I will prove it to you by puttingthe dots to the _i_, or rather by naming the persons. You were walkingone evening in M. de Villefort’s garden; from what you relate, Isuppose it to have been the evening of Madame de Saint-Méran’s death.You heard M. de Villefort talking to M. d’Avrigny about the death of M.de Saint-Méran, and that no less surprising, of the countess. M.d’Avrigny said he believed they both proceeded from poison; and you,honest man, have ever since been asking your heart and sounding yourconscience to know if you ought to expose or conceal this secret. Weare no longer in the Middle Ages; there is no longer a Vehmgericht, orFree Tribunals; what do you want to ask these people? ‘Conscience, whathast thou to do with me?’ as Sterne said. My dear fellow, let themsleep on, if they are asleep; let them grow pale in their drowsiness,if they are disposed to do so, and pray do you remain in peace, whohave no remorse to disturb you.”
Deep grief was depicted on Morrel’s features; he seized Monte Cristo’shand. “But it is beginning again, I say!”
“Well,” said the Count, astonished at his perseverance, which he couldnot understand, and looking still more earnestly at Maximilian, “let itbegin again,—it is like the house of the Atreidae;19 God has condemnedthem, and they must submit to their punishment. They will alldisappear, like the fabrics children build with cards, and which fall,one by one, under the breath of their builder, even if there are twohundred of them. Three months since it was M. de Saint-Méran; Madame deSaint-Méran two months since; the other day it was Barrois; today, theold Noirtier, or young Valentine.”
“You knew it?” cried Morrel, in such a paroxysm of terror that MonteCristo started,—he whom the falling heavens would have found unmoved;“you knew it, and said nothing?”
“And what is it to me?” replied Monte Cristo, shrugging his shoulders;“do I know those people? and must I lose the one to save the other?Faith, no, for between the culprit and the victim I have no choice.”
“But I,” cried Morrel, groaning with sorrow, “I love her!”
“You love?—whom?” cried Monte Cristo, starting to his feet, and seizingthe two hands which Morrel was raising towards heaven.
“I love most fondly—I love madly—I love as a man who would give hislife-blood to spare her a tear—I love Valentine de Villefort, who isbeing murdered at this moment! Do you understand me? I love her; and Iask God and you how I can save her?”
Monte Cristo uttered a cry which those only can conceive who have heardthe roar of a wounded lion. “Unhappy man,” cried he, wringing his handsin his turn; “you love Valentine,—that daughter of an accursed race!”
Never had Morrel witnessed such an expression—never had so terrible aneye flashed before his face—never had the genius of terror he had sooften seen, either on the battle-field or in the murderous nights ofAlgeria, shaken around him more dreadful fire. He drew back terrified.
As for Monte Cristo, after this ebullition he closed his eyes as ifdazzled by internal light. In a moment he restrained himself sopowerfully that the tempestuous heaving of his breast subsided, asturbulent and foaming waves yield to the sun’s genial influence whenthe cloud has passed. This silence, self-control, and struggle lastedabout twenty seconds, then the count raised his pallid face.
“See,” said he, “my dear friend, how God punishes the most thoughtlessand unfeeling men for their indifference, by presenting dreadful scenesto their view. I, who was looking on, an eager and curiousspectator,—I, who was watching the working of this mournful tragedy,—I,who like a wicked angel was laughing at the evil men committedprotected by secrecy (a secret is easily kept by the rich andpowerful), I am in my turn bitten by the serpent whose tortuous courseI was watching, and bitten to the heart!”
Morrel groaned.
“Come, come,” continued the count, “complaints are unavailing, be aman, be strong, be full of hope, for I am here and will watch overyou.”
Morrel shook his head sorrowfully.
“I tell you to hope. Do you understand me?” cried Monte Cristo.“Remember that I never uttered a falsehood and am never deceived. It istwelve o’clock, Maximilian; thank heaven that you came at noon ratherthan in the evening, or tomorrow morning. Listen, Morrel—it is noon; ifValentine is not now dead, she will not die.”
“How so?” cried Morrel, “when I left her dying?”
Monte Cristo pressed his hands to his forehead. What was passing inthat brain, so loaded with dreadful secrets? What does the angel oflight or the angel of darkness say to that mind, at once implacable andgenerous? God only knows.
Monte Cristo raised his head once more, and this time he was calm as achild awaking from its sleep.
“Maximilian,” said he, “return home. I command you not to stir—attemptnothing, not to let your countenance betray a thought, and I will sendyou tidings. Go.”
“Oh, count, you overwhelm me with that coolness. Have you, then, poweragainst death? Are you superhuman? Are you an angel?” And the youngman, who had never shrunk from danger, shrank before Monte Cristo withindescribable terror. But Monte Cristo looked at him with so melancholyand sweet a smile, that Maximilian felt the tears filling his eyes.
“I can do much for you, my friend,” replied the count. “Go; I must bealone.”
Morrel, subdued by the extraordinary ascendancy Monte Cristo exercisedover everything around him, did not endeavor to resist it. He pressedthe count’s hand and left. He stopped one moment at the door forBaptistin, whom he saw in the Rue Matignon, and who was running.
Meanwhile, Villefort and d’Avrigny had made all possible haste,Valentine had not revived from her fainting fit on their arrival, andthe doctor examined the invalid with all the care the circumstancesdemanded, and with an interest which the knowledge of the secretintensified twofold. Villefort, closely watching his countenance andhis lips, awaited the result of the examination. Noirtier, paler thaneven the young girl, more eager than Villefort for the decision, waswatching also intently and affectionately.
At last d’Avrigny slowly uttered these words: “She is still alive!”
“Still?” cried Villefort; “oh, doctor, what a dreadful word is that.”
“Yes,” said the physician, “I repeat it; she is still alive, and I amastonished at it.”
“But is she safe?” asked the father.
“Yes, since she lives.”
At that moment d’Avrigny’s glance met Noirtier’s eye. It glistened withsuch extraordinary joy, so rich and full of thought, that the physicianwas struck. He placed the young girl again on the chair,—her lips werescarcely discernible, they were so pale and white, as well as her wholeface,—and remained motionless, looking at Noirtier, who appeared toanticipate and commend all he did.
“Sir,” said d’Avrigny to Villefort, “call Mademoiselle Valentine’smaid, if you please.”
Villefort went himself to find her; and d’Avrigny approached Noirtier.
“Have you something to tell me?” asked he. The old man winked his eyesexpressively, which we may remember was his only way of expressing hisapproval.
“Privately?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I will remain with you.” At this moment Villefort returned,followed by the lady’s maid; and after her came Madame de Villefort.
“What is the matter, then, with this dear child? she has just left me,and she complained of being indisposed, but I did not think seriouslyof it.”
The young woman with tears in her eyes and every mark of affection of atrue mother, approached Valentine and took her hand. D’Avrignycontinued to look at Noirtier; he saw the eyes of the old man dilateand become round, his cheeks turn pale and tremble; the perspirationstood in drops upon his forehead.
“Ah,” said he, involuntarily following Noirtier’s eyes, which werefixed on Madame de Villefort, who repeated:
“This poor child would be better in bed. Come, Fanny, we will put herto bed.”
M. d’Avrigny, who saw that would be a means of his remaining alone withNoirtier, expressed his opinion that it was the best thing that couldbe done; but he forbade that anything should be given to her exceptwhat he ordered.
They carried Valentine away; she had revived, but could scarcely moveor speak, so shaken was her frame by the attack. She had, however, justpower to give one parting look to her grandfather, who in losing herseemed to be resigning his very soul. D’Avrigny followed the invalid,wrote a prescription, ordered Villefort to take a cabriolet, go inperson to a chemist’s to get the prescribed medicine, bring it himself,and wait for him in his daughter’s room. Then, having renewed hisinjunction not to give Valentine anything, he went down again toNoirtier, shut the doors carefully, and after convincing himself thatno one was listening:
“Do you,” said he, “know anything of this young lady’s illness?”
“Yes,” said the old man.
“We have no time to lose; I will question, and do you answer me.”Noirtier made a sign that he was ready to answer. “Did you anticipatethe accident which has happened to your granddaughter?”
“Yes.” D’Avrigny reflected a moment; then approaching Noirtier:
“Pardon what I am going to say,” added he, “but no indication should beneglected in this terrible situation. Did you see poor Barrois die?”Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven.
“Do you know of what he died!” asked d’Avrigny, placing his hand onNoirtier’s shoulder.
“Yes,” replied the old man.
“Do you think he died a natural death?” A sort of smile was discernibleon the motionless lips of Noirtier.
“Then you have thought that Barrois was poisoned?”
“Yes.”
“Do you think the poison he fell a victim to was intended for him?”
“No.”
“Do you think the same hand which unintentionally struck Barrois hasnow attacked Valentine?”
“Yes.”
“Then will she die too?” asked d’Avrigny, fixing his penetrating gazeon Noirtier. He watched the effect of this question on the old man.
“No,” replied he with an air of triumph which would have puzzled themost clever diviner.
“Then you hope?” said d’Avrigny, with surprise.
“Yes.”
“What do you hope?” The old man made him understand with his eyes thathe could not answer.
“Ah, yes, it is true,” murmured d’Avrigny. Then, turning toNoirtier,—“Do you hope the assassin will be tried?”
“No.”
“Then you hope the poison will take no effect on Valentine?”
“Yes.”
“It is no news to you,” added d’Avrigny, “to tell you that an attempthas been made to poison her?” The old man made a sign that heentertained no doubt upon the subject. “Then how do you hope Valentinewill escape?”
Noirtier kept his eyes steadfastly fixed on the same spot. D’Avrignyfollowed the direction and saw that they were fixed on a bottlecontaining the mixture which he took every morning. “Ah, indeed?” saidd’Avrigny, struck with a sudden thought, “has it occurred toyou”—Noirtier did not let him finish.
“Yes,” said he.
“To prepare her system to resist poison?”
“Yes.”
“By accustoming her by degrees——”
“Yes, yes, yes,” said Noirtier, delighted to be understood.
“Of course. I had told you that there was brucine in the mixture I giveyou.”
“Yes.”
“And by accustoming her to that poison, you have endeavored toneutralize the effect of a similar poison?” Noirtier’s joy continued.“And you have succeeded,” exclaimed d’Avrigny. “Without that precautionValentine would have died before assistance could have been procured.The dose has been excessive, but she has only been shaken by it; andthis time, at any rate, Valentine will not die.”
A superhuman joy expanded the old man’s eyes, which were raised towardsheaven with an expression of infinite gratitude. At this momentVillefort returned.
“Here, doctor,” said he, “is what you sent me for.”
“Was this prepared in your presence?”
“Yes,” replied the procureur.
“Have you not let it go out of your hands?”
“No.”
D’Avrigny took the bottle, poured some drops of the mixture itcontained in the hollow of his hand, and swallowed them.
“Well,” said he, “let us go to Valentine; I will give instructions toeveryone, and you, M. de Villefort, will yourself see that no onedeviates from them.”
40294m


At the moment when d’Avrigny was returning to Valentine’s room,accompanied by Villefort, an Italian priest, of serious demeanor andcalm and firm tone, hired for his use the house adjoining the hotel ofM. de Villefort. No one knew how the three former tenants of that houseleft it. About two hours afterwards its foundation was reported to beunsafe; but the report did not prevent the new occupant establishinghimself there with his modest furniture the same day at five o’clock.The lease was drawn up for three, six, or nine years by the new tenant,who, according to the rule of the proprietor, paid six months inadvance.
This new tenant, who, as we have said, was an Italian, was called IlSignor Giacomo Busoni. Workmen were immediately called in, and thatsame night the passengers at the end of the faubourg saw with surprisethat carpenters and masons were occupied in repairing the lower part ofthe tottering house.


 Chapter 95. Father and Daughter
We saw in a preceding chapter how Madame Danglars went formally toannounce to Madame de Villefort the approaching marriage of EugénieDanglars and M. Andrea Cavalcanti. This formal announcement, whichimplied or appeared to imply, the approval of all the persons concernedin this momentous affair, had been preceded by a scene to which ourreaders must be admitted. We beg them to take one step backward, and totransport themselves, the morning of that day of great catastrophes,into the showy, gilded salon we have before shown them, and which wasthe pride of its owner, Baron Danglars.
In this room, at about ten o’clock in the morning, the banker himselfhad been walking to and fro for some minutes thoughtfully and inevident uneasiness, watching both doors, and listening to every sound.When his patience was exhausted, he called his valet.
“Étienne,” said he, “see why Mademoiselle Eugénie has asked me to meether in the drawing-room, and why she makes me wait so long.”
Having given this vent to his ill-humor, the baron became more calm;Mademoiselle Danglars had that morning requested an interview with herfather, and had fixed on the gilded drawing-room as the spot. Thesingularity of this step, and above all its formality, had not a littlesurprised the banker, who had immediately obeyed his daughter byrepairing first to the drawing-room. Étienne soon returned from hiserrand.
“Mademoiselle’s lady’s maid says, sir, that mademoiselle is finishingher toilette, and will be here shortly.”
Danglars nodded, to signify that he was satisfied. To the world and tohis servants Danglars assumed the character of the good-natured man andthe indulgent father. This was one of his parts in the popular comedyhe was performing,—a make-up he had adopted and which suited him aboutas well as the masks worn on the classic stage by paternal actors, whoseen from one side, were the image of geniality, and from the othershowed lips drawn down in chronic ill-temper. Let us hasten to say thatin private the genial side descended to the level of the other, so thatgenerally the indulgent man disappeared to give place to the brutalhusband and domineering father.
“Why the devil does that foolish girl, who pretends to wish to speak tome, not come into my study? and why on earth does she want to speak tome at all?”
He was turning this thought over in his brain for the twentieth time,when the door opened and Eugénie appeared, attired in a figured blacksatin dress, her hair dressed and gloves on, as if she were going tothe Italian Opera.
“Well, Eugénie, what is it you want with me? and why in this solemndrawing-room when the study is so comfortable?”
“I quite understand why you ask, sir,” said Eugénie, making a sign thather father might be seated, “and in fact your two questions suggestfully the theme of our conversation. I will answer them both, andcontrary to the usual method, the last first, because it is the leastdifficult. I have chosen the drawing-room, sir, as our place ofmeeting, in order to avoid the disagreeable impressions and influencesof a banker’s study. Those gilded cashbooks, drawers locked like gatesof fortresses, heaps of bank-bills, come from I know not where, and thequantities of letters from England, Holland, Spain, India, China, andPeru, have generally a strange influence on a father’s mind, and makehim forget that there is in the world an interest greater and moresacred than the good opinion of his correspondents. I have, therefore,chosen this drawing-room, where you see, smiling and happy in theirmagnificent frames, your portrait, mine, my mother’s, and all sorts ofrural landscapes and touching pastorals. I rely much on externalimpressions; perhaps, with regard to you, they are immaterial, but Ishould be no artist if I had not some fancies.”
“Very well,” replied M. Danglars, who had listened to all this preamblewith imperturbable coolness, but without understanding a word, sincelike every man burdened with thoughts of the past, he was occupied withseeking the thread of his own ideas in those of the speaker.
“There is, then, the second point cleared up, or nearly so,” saidEugénie, without the least confusion, and with that masculinepointedness which distinguished her gesture and her language; “and youappear satisfied with the explanation. Now, let us return to the first.You ask me why I have requested this interview; I will tell you in twowords, sir; I will not marry count Andrea Cavalcanti.”
Danglars leaped from his chair and raised his eyes and arms towardsheaven.
40298m


“Yes, indeed, sir,” continued Eugénie, still quite calm; “you areastonished, I see; for since this little affair began, I have notmanifested the slightest opposition, and yet I am always sure, when theopportunity arrives, to oppose a determined and absolute will to peoplewho have not consulted me, and things which displease me. However, thistime, my tranquillity, or passiveness as philosophers say, proceededfrom another source; it proceeded from a wish, like a submissive anddevoted daughter” (a slight smile was observable on the purple lips ofthe young girl), “to practice obedience.”
“Well?” asked Danglars.
“Well, sir,” replied Eugénie, “I have tried to the very last and nowthat the moment has come, I feel in spite of all my efforts that it isimpossible.”
“But,” said Danglars, whose weak mind was at first quite overwhelmedwith the weight of this pitiless logic, marking evident premeditationand force of will, “what is your reason for this refusal, Eugénie? whatreason do you assign?”
“My reason?” replied the young girl. “Well, it is not that the man ismore ugly, more foolish, or more disagreeable than any other; no, M.Andrea Cavalcanti may appear to those who look at men’s faces andfigures as a very good specimen of his kind. It is not, either, that myheart is less touched by him than any other; that would be aschoolgirl’s reason, which I consider quite beneath me. I actually loveno one, sir; you know it, do you not? I do not then see why, withoutreal necessity, I should encumber my life with a perpetual companion.Has not some sage said, ‘Nothing too much’? and another, ‘I carry allmy effects with me’? I have been taught these two aphorisms in Latinand in Greek; one is, I believe, from Phædrus, and the other from Bias.Well, my dear father, in the shipwreck of life—for life is an eternalshipwreck of our hopes—I cast into the sea my useless encumbrance, thatis all, and I remain with my own will, disposed to live perfectlyalone, and consequently perfectly free.”
“Unhappy girl, unhappy girl!” murmured Danglars, turning pale, for heknew from long experience the solidity of the obstacle he had sosuddenly encountered.
“Unhappy girl,” replied Eugénie, “unhappy girl, do you say, sir? No,indeed; the exclamation appears quite theatrical and affected. Happy,on the contrary, for what am I in want of? The world calls mebeautiful. It is something to be well received. I like a favorablereception; it expands the countenance, and those around me do not thenappear so ugly. I possess a share of wit, and a certain relativesensibility, which enables me to draw from life in general, for thesupport of mine, all I meet with that is good, like the monkey whocracks the nut to get at its contents. I am rich, for you have one ofthe first fortunes in France. I am your only daughter, and you are notso exacting as the fathers of the Porte Saint-Martin and Gaîté, whodisinherit their daughters for not giving them grandchildren. Besides,the provident law has deprived you of the power to disinherit me, atleast entirely, as it has also of the power to compel me to marryMonsieur This or Monsieur That. And so—being, beautiful, witty,somewhat talented, as the comic operas say, and rich—and that ishappiness, sir—why do you call me unhappy?”
Danglars, seeing his daughter smiling, and proud even to insolence,could not entirely repress his brutal feelings, but they betrayedthemselves only by an exclamation. Under the fixed and inquiring gazelevelled at him from under those beautiful black eyebrows, he prudentlyturned away, and calmed himself immediately, daunted by the power of aresolute mind.
“Truly, my daughter,” replied he with a smile, “you are all you boastof being, excepting one thing; I will not too hastily tell you which,but would rather leave you to guess it.”
Eugénie looked at Danglars, much surprised that one flower of her crownof pride, with which she had so superbly decked herself, should bedisputed.
“My daughter,” continued the banker, “you have perfectly explained tome the sentiments which influence a girl like you, who is determinedshe will not marry; now it remains for me to tell you the motives of afather like me, who has decided that his daughter shall marry.”
Eugénie bowed, not as a submissive daughter, but as an adversaryprepared for a discussion.
“My daughter,” continued Danglars, “when a father asks his daughter tochoose a husband, he has always some reason for wishing her to marry.Some are affected with the mania of which you spoke just now, that ofliving again in their grandchildren. This is not my weakness, I tellyou at once; family joys have no charm for me. I may acknowledge thisto a daughter whom I know to be philosophical enough to understand myindifference, and not to impute it to me as a crime.”
“This is not to the purpose,” said Eugénie; “let us speak candidly,sir; I admire candor.”
“Oh,” said Danglars, “I can, when circumstances render it desirable,adopt your system, although it may not be my general practice. I willtherefore proceed. I have proposed to you to marry, not for your sake,for indeed I did not think of you in the least at the moment (youadmire candor, and will now be satisfied, I hope); but because itsuited me to marry you as soon as possible, on account of certaincommercial speculations I am desirous of entering into.” Eugénie becameuneasy.
40302m


“It is just as I tell you, I assure you, and you must not be angry withme, for you have sought this disclosure. I do not willingly enter intoarithmetical explanations with an artist like you, who fears to entermy study lest she should imbibe disagreeable or anti-poetic impressionsand sensations. But in that same banker’s study, where you verywillingly presented yourself yesterday to ask for the thousand francs Igive you monthly for pocket-money, you must know, my dear young lady,that many things may be learned, useful even to a girl who will notmarry. There one may learn, for instance, what, out of regard to yournervous susceptibility, I will inform you of in the drawing-room,namely, that the credit of a banker is his physical and moral life;that credit sustains him as breath animates the body; and M. de MonteCristo once gave me a lecture on that subject, which I have neverforgotten. There we may learn that as credit sinks, the body becomes acorpse, and this is what must happen very soon to the banker who isproud to own so good a logician as you for his daughter.”
But Eugénie, instead of stooping, drew herself up under the blow.“Ruined?” said she.
“Exactly, my daughter; that is precisely what I mean,” said Danglars,almost digging his nails into his breast, while he preserved on hisharsh features the smile of the heartless though clever man;“ruined—yes, that is it.”
“Ah!” said Eugénie.
“Yes, ruined! Now it is revealed, this secret so full of horror, as thetragic poet says. Now, my daughter, learn from my lips how you mayalleviate this misfortune, so far as it will affect you.”
“Oh,” cried Eugénie, “you are a bad physiognomist, if you imagine Ideplore on my own account the catastrophe of which you warn me. Iruined? and what will that signify to me? Have I not my talent left?Can I not, like Pasta, Malibran, Grisi, acquire for myself what youwould never have given me, whatever might have been your fortune, ahundred or a hundred and fifty thousand livres per annum, for which Ishall be indebted to no one but myself; and which, instead of beinggiven as you gave me those poor twelve thousand francs, with sour looksand reproaches for my prodigality, will be accompanied withacclamations, with bravos, and with flowers? And if I do not possessthat talent, which your smiles prove to me you doubt, should I notstill have that ardent love of independence, which will be a substitutefor wealth, and which in my mind supersedes even the instinct ofself-preservation? No, I grieve not on my own account, I shall alwaysfind a resource; my books, my pencils, my piano, all the things whichcost but little, and which I shall be able to procure, will remain myown.
“Do you think that I sorrow for Madame Danglars? Undeceive yourselfagain; either I am greatly mistaken, or she has provided against thecatastrophe which threatens you, and, which will pass over withoutaffecting her. She has taken care for herself,—at least I hope so,—forher attention has not been diverted from her projects by watching overme. She has fostered my independence by professedly indulging my lovefor liberty. Oh, no, sir; from my childhood I have seen too much, andunderstood too much, of what has passed around me, for misfortune tohave an undue power over me. From my earliest recollections, I havebeen beloved by no one—so much the worse; that has naturally led me tolove no one—so much the better—now you have my profession of faith.”
“Then,” said Danglars, pale with anger, which was not at all due tooffended paternal love,—“then, mademoiselle, you persist in yourdetermination to accelerate my ruin?”
“Your ruin? I accelerate your ruin? What do you mean? I do notunderstand you.”
“So much the better, I have a ray of hope left; listen.”
“I am all attention,” said Eugénie, looking so earnestly at her fatherthat it was an effort for the latter to endure her unrelenting gaze.
“M. Cavalcanti,” continued Danglars, “is about to marry you, and willplace in my hands his fortune, amounting to three million livres.”
“That is admirable!” said Eugénie with sovereign contempt, smoothingher gloves out one upon the other.
“You think I shall deprive you of those three millions,” said Danglars;“but do not fear it. They are destined to produce at least ten. I and abrother banker have obtained a grant of a railway, the only industrialenterprise which in these days promises to make good the fabulousprospects that Law once held out to the eternally deluded Parisians, inthe fantastic Mississippi scheme. As I look at it, a millionth part ofa railway is worth fully as much as an acre of waste land on the banksof the Ohio. We make in our case a deposit, on a mortgage, which is anadvance, as you see, since we gain at least ten, fifteen, twenty, or ahundred livres’ worth of iron in exchange for our money. Well, within aweek I am to deposit four millions for my share; the four millions, Ipromise you, will produce ten or twelve.”
“But during my visit to you the day before yesterday, sir, which youappear to recollect so well,” replied Eugénie, “I saw you arranging adeposit—is not that the term?—of five millions and a half; you evenpointed it out to me in two drafts on the treasury, and you wereastonished that so valuable a paper did not dazzle my eyes likelightning.”
“Yes, but those five millions and a half are not mine, and are only aproof of the great confidence placed in me; my title of popular bankerhas gained me the confidence of charitable institutions, and the fivemillions and a half belong to them; at any other time I should not havehesitated to make use of them, but the great losses I have recentlysustained are well known, and, as I told you, my credit is rathershaken. That deposit may be at any moment withdrawn, and if I hademployed it for another purpose, I should bring on me a disgracefulbankruptcy. I do not despise bankruptcies, believe me, but they must bethose which enrich, not those which ruin. Now, if you marry M.Cavalcanti, and I get the three millions, or even if it is thought I amgoing to get them, my credit will be restored, and my fortune, whichfor the last month or two has been swallowed up in gulfs which havebeen opened in my path by an inconceivable fatality, will revive. Doyou understand me?”
“Perfectly; you pledge me for three millions, do you not?”
“The greater the amount, the more flattering it is to you; it gives youan idea of your value.”
“Thank you. One word more, sir; do you promise me to make what use youcan of the report of the fortune M. Cavalcanti will bring withouttouching the money? This is no act of selfishness, but of delicacy. Iam willing to help rebuild your fortune, but I will not be anaccomplice in the ruin of others.”
“But since I tell you,” cried Danglars, “that with these threemillion——”
“Do you expect to recover your position, sir, without touching thosethree million?”
“I hope so, if the marriage should take place and confirm my credit.”
“Shall you be able to pay M. Cavalcanti the five hundred thousandfrancs you promise for my dowry?”
“He shall receive them on returning from the mayor’s20.”
“Very well!”
“What next? what more do you want?”
“I wish to know if, in demanding my signature, you leave me entirelyfree in my person?”
“Absolutely.”
“Then, as I said before, sir,—very well; I am ready to marry M.Cavalcanti.”
“But what are you up to?”
“Ah, that is my affair. What advantage should I have over you, ifknowing your secret I were to tell you mine?”
Danglars bit his lips. “Then,” said he, “you are ready to pay theofficial visits, which are absolutely indispensable?”
“Yes,” replied Eugénie.
“And to sign the contract in three days?”
“Yes.”
“Then, in my turn, I also say, very well!”
Danglars pressed his daughter’s hand in his. But, extraordinary torelate, the father did not say, “Thank you, my child,” nor did thedaughter smile at her father.
“Is the conference ended?” asked Eugénie, rising.
Danglars motioned that he had nothing more to say. Five minutesafterwards the piano resounded to the touch of Mademoiselle d’Armilly’sfingers, and Mademoiselle Danglars was singing Brabantio’s maledictionon Desdemona. At the end of the piece Étienne entered, and announced toEugénie that the horses were to the carriage, and that the baroness waswaiting for her to pay her visits. We have seen them at Villefort’s;they proceeded then on their course.
40306m



VOLUME FIVE
50009m


50011m


50019m



 Chapter 96. The Contract
Three days after the scene we have just described, namely towards fiveo’clock in the afternoon of the day fixed for the signature of thecontract between Mademoiselle Eugénie Danglars and Andrea Cavalcanti,whom the banker persisted in calling prince, a fresh breeze wasstirring the leaves in the little garden in front of the Count of MonteCristo’s house, and the count was preparing to go out. While his horseswere impatiently pawing the ground, held in by the coachman, who hadbeen seated a quarter of an hour on his box, the elegant phaeton withwhich we are familiar rapidly turned the angle of the entrance-gate,and cast out on the doorsteps M. Andrea Cavalcanti, as decked up andgay as if he were going to marry a princess.
He inquired after the count with his usual familiarity, and ascendinglightly to the first story met him at the top of the stairs.
The count stopped on seeing the young man. As for Andrea, he waslaunched, and when he was once launched nothing stopped him.
“Ah, good morning, my dear count,” said he.
“Ah, M. Andrea,” said the latter, with his half-jesting tone; “how doyou do?”
“Charmingly, as you see. I am come to talk to you about a thousandthings; but, first tell me, were you going out or just returned?”
“I was going out, sir.”
“Then, in order not to hinder you, I will get up with you if you pleasein your carriage, and Tom shall follow with my phaeton in tow.”
“No,” said the count, with an imperceptible smile of contempt, for hehad no wish to be seen in the young man’s society,—“no; I preferlistening to you here, my dear M. Andrea; we can chat better in-doors,and there is no coachman to overhear our conversation.”
The count returned to a small drawing-room on the first floor, satdown, and crossing his legs motioned to the young man to take a seatalso. Andrea assumed his gayest manner.
“You know, my dear count,” said he, “the ceremony is to take place thisevening. At nine o’clock the contract is to be signed at myfather-in-law’s.”
“Ah, indeed?” said Monte Cristo.
“What; is it news to you? Has not M. Danglars informed you of theceremony?”
“Oh, yes,” said the count; “I received a letter from him yesterday, butI do not think the hour was mentioned.”
“Possibly my father-in-law trusted to its general notoriety.”
“Well,” said Monte Cristo, “you are fortunate, M. Cavalcanti; it is amost suitable alliance you are contracting, and Mademoiselle Danglarsis a handsome girl.”
“Yes, indeed she is,” replied Cavalcanti, in a very modest tone.
“Above all, she is very rich,—at least, I believe so,” said MonteCristo.
“Very rich, do you think?” replied the young man.
“Doubtless; it is said M. Danglars conceals at least half of hisfortune.”
“And he acknowledges fifteen or twenty millions,” said Andrea with alook sparkling with joy.
“Without reckoning,” added Monte Cristo, “that he is on the eve ofentering into a sort of speculation already in vogue in the UnitedStates and in England, but quite novel in France.”
“Yes, yes, I know what you mean,—the railway, of which he has obtainedthe grant, is it not?”
“Precisely; it is generally believed he will gain ten millions by thataffair.”
“Ten millions! Do you think so? It is magnificent!” said Cavalcanti,who was quite confounded at the metallic sound of these golden words.
“Without reckoning,” replied Monte Cristo, “that all his fortune willcome to you, and justly too, since Mademoiselle Danglars is an onlydaughter. Besides, your own fortune, as your father assured me, isalmost equal to that of your betrothed. But enough of money matters. Doyou know, M. Andrea, I think you have managed this affair ratherskilfully?”
“Not badly, by any means,” said the young man; “I was born for adiplomatist.”
“Well, you must become a diplomatist; diplomacy, you know, is somethingthat is not to be acquired; it is instinctive. Have you lost yourheart?”
“Indeed, I fear it,” replied Andrea, in the tone in which he had heardDorante or Valère reply to Alceste21 at the Théâtre Français.
“Is your love returned?”
“I suppose so,” said Andrea with a triumphant smile, “since I amaccepted. But I must not forget one grand point.”
“Which?”
“That I have been singularly assisted.”
“Nonsense.”
“I have, indeed.”
“By circumstances?”
“No; by you.”
“By me? Not at all, prince,” said Monte Cristo laying a marked stresson the title, “what have I done for you? Are not your name, your socialposition, and your merit sufficient?”
“No,” said Andrea,—“no; it is useless for you to say so, count. Imaintain that the position of a man like you has done more than myname, my social position, and my merit.”
“You are completely mistaken, sir,” said Monte Cristo coldly, who feltthe perfidious manœuvre of the young man, and understood the bearing ofhis words; “you only acquired my protection after the influence andfortune of your father had been ascertained; for, after all, whoprocured for me, who had never seen either you or your illustriousfather, the pleasure of your acquaintance?—two of my good friends, LordWilmore and the Abbé Busoni. What encouraged me not to become yoursurety, but to patronize you?—your father’s name, so well known inItaly and so highly honored. Personally, I do not know you.”
This calm tone and perfect ease made Andrea feel that he was, for themoment, restrained by a more muscular hand than his own, and that therestraint could not be easily broken through.
“Oh, then my father has really a very large fortune, count?”
“It appears so, sir,” replied Monte Cristo.
“Do you know if the marriage settlement he promised me has come?”
“I have been advised of it.”
“But the three millions?”
“The three millions are probably on the road.”
“Then I shall really have them?”
“Oh, well,” said the count, “I do not think you have yet known the wantof money.”
Andrea was so surprised that he pondered the matter for a moment. Then,arousing from his reverie:
“Now, sir, I have one request to make to you, which you willunderstand, even if it should be disagreeable to you.”
“Proceed,” said Monte Cristo.
“I have formed an acquaintance, thanks to my good fortune, with manynoted persons, and have, at least for the moment, a crowd of friends.But marrying, as I am about to do, before all Paris, I ought to besupported by an illustrious name, and in the absence of the paternalhand some powerful one ought to lead me to the altar; now, my father isnot coming to Paris, is he?”
“He is old, covered with wounds, and suffers dreadfully, he says, intravelling.”
“I understand; well, I am come to ask a favor of you.”
“Of me?”
“Yes, of you.”
“And pray what may it be?”
“Well, to take his part.”
“Ah, my dear sir! What?—after the varied relations I have had thehappiness to sustain towards you, can it be that you know me so littleas to ask such a thing? Ask me to lend you half a million and, althoughsuch a loan is somewhat rare, on my honor, you would annoy me less!Know, then, what I thought I had already told you, that inparticipation in this world’s affairs, more especially in their moralaspects, the Count of Monte Cristo has never ceased to entertain thescruples and even the superstitions of the East. I, who have a seraglioat Cairo, one at Smyrna, and one at Constantinople, preside at awedding?—never!”
“Then you refuse me?”
“Decidedly; and were you my son or my brother I would refuse you in thesame way.”
“But what must be done?” said Andrea, disappointed.
“You said just now that you had a hundred friends.”
“Very true, but you introduced me at M. Danglars’.”
“Not at all! Let us recall the exact facts. You met him at a dinnerparty at my house, and you introduced yourself at his house; that is atotally different affair.”
“Yes, but, by my marriage, you have forwarded that.”
“I?—not in the least, I beg you to believe. Recollect what I told youwhen you asked me to propose you. ‘Oh, I never make matches, my dearprince, it is my settled principle.’” Andrea bit his lips.
50025m


“But, at least, you will be there?”
“Will all Paris be there?”
“Oh, certainly.”
“Well, like all Paris, I shall be there too,” said the count.
“And will you sign the contract?”
“I see no objection to that; my scruples do not go thus far.”
“Well, since you will grant me no more, I must be content with what yougive me. But one word more, count.”
“What is it?”
“Advice.”
“Be careful; advice is worse than a service.”
“Oh, you can give me this without compromising yourself.”
“Tell me what it is.”
“Is my wife’s fortune five hundred thousand livres?”
“That is the sum M. Danglars himself announced.”
“Must I receive it, or leave it in the hands of the notary?”
“This is the way such affairs are generally arranged when it is wishedto do them stylishly: Your two solicitors appoint a meeting, when thecontract is signed, for the next or the following day; then theyexchange the two portions, for which they each give a receipt; then,when the marriage is celebrated, they place the amount at your disposalas the chief member of the alliance.”
“Because,” said Andrea, with a certain ill-concealed uneasiness, “Ithought I heard my father-in-law say that he intended embarking ourproperty in that famous railway affair of which you spoke just now.”
“Well,” replied Monte Cristo, “it will be the way, everybody says, oftrebling your fortune in twelve months. Baron Danglars is a goodfather, and knows how to calculate.”
“In that case,” said Andrea, “everything is all right, excepting yourrefusal, which quite grieves me.”
“You must attribute it only to natural scruples under similarcircumstances.”
“Well,” said Andrea, “let it be as you wish. This evening, then, atnine o’clock.”
“Adieu till then.”
Notwithstanding a slight resistance on the part of Monte Cristo, whoselips turned pale, but who preserved his ceremonious smile, Andreaseized the count’s hand, pressed it, jumped into his phaeton, anddisappeared.
The four or five remaining hours before nine o’clock arrived, Andreaemployed in riding, paying visits,—designed to induce those of whom hehad spoken to appear at the banker’s in their gayestequipages,—dazzling them by promises of shares in schemes which havesince turned every brain, and in which Danglars was just taking theinitiative.
In fact, at half-past eight in the evening the grand salon, the galleryadjoining, and the three other drawing-rooms on the same floor, werefilled with a perfumed crowd, who sympathized but little in the event,but who all participated in that love of being present wherever thereis anything fresh to be seen. An Academician would say that theentertainments of the fashionable world are collections of flowerswhich attract inconstant butterflies, famished bees, and buzzingdrones.
50025m


No one could deny that the rooms were splendidly illuminated; the lightstreamed forth on the gilt mouldings and the silk hangings; and all thebad taste of decorations, which had only their richness to boast of,shone in its splendor. Mademoiselle Eugénie was dressed with elegantsimplicity in a figured white silk dress, and a white rose halfconcealed in her jet black hair was her only ornament, unaccompanied bya single jewel. Her eyes, however, betrayed that perfect confidencewhich contradicted the girlish simplicity of this modest attire.
Madame Danglars was chatting at a short distance with Debray,Beauchamp, and Château-Renaud. Debray was admitted to the house forthis grand ceremony, but on the same plane with everyone else, andwithout any particular privilege. M. Danglars, surrounded by deputiesand men connected with the revenue, was explaining a new theory oftaxation which he intended to adopt when the course of events hadcompelled the government to call him into the ministry. Andrea, onwhose arm hung one of the most consummate dandies of the Opera, wasexplaining to him rather cleverly, since he was obliged to be bold toappear at ease, his future projects, and the new luxuries he meant tointroduce to Parisian fashions with his hundred and seventy-fivethousand livres per annum.
The crowd moved to and fro in the rooms like an ebb and flow ofturquoises, rubies, emeralds, opals, and diamonds. As usual, the oldestwomen were the most decorated, and the ugliest the most conspicuous. Ifthere was a beautiful lily, or a sweet rose, you had to search for it,concealed in some corner behind a mother with a turban, or an aunt witha bird-of-paradise.
At each moment, in the midst of the crowd, the buzzing, and thelaughter, the door-keeper’s voice was heard announcing some name wellknown in the financial department, respected in the army, orillustrious in the literary world, and which was acknowledged by aslight movement in the different groups. But for one whose privilege itwas to agitate that ocean of human waves, how many were received with alook of indifference or a sneer of disdain!
At the moment when the hand of the massive time-piece, representingEndymion asleep, pointed to nine on its golden face, and the hammer,the faithful type of mechanical thought, struck nine times, the name ofthe Count of Monte Cristo resounded in its turn, and as if by anelectric shock all the assembly turned towards the door. The count wasdressed in black and with his habitual simplicity; his white waistcoatdisplayed his expansive noble chest and his black stock was singularlynoticeable because of its contrast with the deadly paleness of hisface. His only jewellery was a chain, so fine that the slender goldthread was scarcely perceptible on his white waistcoat.
A circle was immediately formed around the door. The count perceived atone glance Madame Danglars at one end of the drawing-room, M. Danglarsat the other, and Eugénie in front of him. He first advanced towardsthe baroness, who was chatting with Madame de Villefort, who had comealone, Valentine being still an invalid; and without turning aside, soclear was the road left for him, he passed from the baroness toEugénie, whom he complimented in such rapid and measured terms, thatthe proud artist was quite struck. Near her was Mademoiselle Louised’Armilly, who thanked the count for the letters of introduction he hadso kindly given her for Italy, which she intended immediately to makeuse of. On leaving these ladies he found himself with Danglars, who hadadvanced to meet him.
Having accomplished these three social duties, Monte Cristo stopped,looking around him with that expression peculiar to a certain class,which seems to say, “I have done my duty, now let others do theirs.”
Andrea, who was in an adjoining room, had shared in the sensationcaused by the arrival of Monte Cristo, and now came forward to pay hisrespects to the count. He found him completely surrounded; all wereeager to speak to him, as is always the case with those whose words arefew and weighty. The solicitors arrived at this moment and arrangedtheir scrawled papers on the velvet cloth embroidered with gold whichcovered the table prepared for the signature; it was a gilt tablesupported on lions’ claws. One of the notaries sat down, the otherremained standing. They were about to proceed to the reading of thecontract, which half Paris assembled was to sign. All took theirplaces, or rather the ladies formed a circle, while the gentlemen (moreindifferent to the restraints of what Boileau calls the _styleénergique_) commented on the feverish agitation of Andrea, on M.Danglars’ riveted attention, Eugénie’s composure, and the light andsprightly manner in which the baroness treated this important affair.
The contract was read during a profound silence. But as soon as it wasfinished, the buzz was redoubled through all the drawing-rooms; thebrilliant sums, the rolling millions which were to be at the command ofthe two young people, and which crowned the display of the weddingpresents and the young lady’s diamonds, which had been made in a roomentirely appropriated for that purpose, had exercised to the full theirdelusions over the envious assembly.
Mademoiselle Danglars’ charms were heightened in the opinion of theyoung men, and for the moment seemed to outvie the sun in splendor. Asfor the ladies, it is needless to say that while they coveted themillions, they thought they did not need them for themselves, as theywere beautiful enough without them. Andrea, surrounded by his friends,complimented, flattered, beginning to believe in the reality of hisdream, was almost bewildered. The notary solemnly took the pen,flourished it above his head, and said:
“Gentlemen, we are about to sign the contract.”
The baron was to sign first, then the representative of M. Cavalcanti,senior, then the baroness, afterwards the “future couple,” as they arestyled in the abominable phraseology of legal documents.
The baron took the pen and signed, then the representative. Thebaroness approached, leaning on Madame de Villefort’s arm.
“My dear,” said she, as she took the pen, “is it not vexatious? Anunexpected incident, in the affair of murder and theft at the Count ofMonte Cristo’s, in which he nearly fell a victim, deprives us of thepleasure of seeing M. de Villefort.”
“Indeed?” said M. Danglars, in the same tone in which he would havesaid, “Oh, well, what do I care?”
“As a matter of fact,” said Monte Cristo, approaching, “I am muchafraid that I am the involuntary cause of his absence.”
“What, you, count?” said Madame Danglars, signing; “if you are, takecare, for I shall never forgive you.”
Andrea pricked up his ears.
“But it is not my fault, as I shall endeavor to prove.”
Everyone listened eagerly; Monte Cristo who so rarely opened his lips,was about to speak.
“You remember,” said the count, during the most profound silence, “thatthe unhappy wretch who came to rob me died at my house; the suppositionis that he was stabbed by his accomplice, on attempting to leave it.”
“Yes,” said Danglars.
“In order that his wounds might be examined he was undressed, and hisclothes were thrown into a corner, where the police picked them up,with the exception of the waistcoat, which they overlooked.”
Andrea turned pale, and drew towards the door; he saw a cloud rising inthe horizon, which appeared to forebode a coming storm.
“Well, this waistcoat was discovered today, covered with blood, andwith a hole over the heart.” The ladies screamed, and two or threeprepared to faint. “It was brought to me. No one could guess what thedirty rag could be; I alone suspected that it was the waistcoat of themurdered man. My valet, in examining this mournful relic, felt a paperin the pocket and drew it out; it was a letter addressed to you,baron.”
“To me?” cried Danglars.
“Yes, indeed, to you; I succeeded in deciphering your name under theblood with which the letter was stained,” replied Monte Cristo, amidthe general outburst of amazement.
“But,” asked Madame Danglars, looking at her husband with uneasiness,“how could that prevent M. de Villefort——”
“In this simple way, madame,” replied Monte Cristo; “the waistcoat andthe letter were both what is termed circumstantial evidence; Itherefore sent them to the king’s attorney. You understand, my dearbaron, that legal methods are the safest in criminal cases; it was,perhaps, some plot against you.” Andrea looked steadily at Monte Cristoand disappeared in the second drawing-room.
“Possibly,” said Danglars; “was not this murdered man an oldgalley-slave?”
50025m


“Yes,” replied the count; “a felon named Caderousse.” Danglars turnedslightly pale; Andrea reached the anteroom beyond the littledrawing-room.
“But go on signing,” said Monte Cristo; “I perceive that my story hascaused a general emotion, and I beg to apologize to you, baroness, andto Mademoiselle Danglars.”
The baroness, who had signed, returned the pen to the notary.
“Prince Cavalcanti,” said the latter; “Prince Cavalcanti, where areyou?”
“Andrea, Andrea,” repeated several young people, who were already onsufficiently intimate terms with him to call him by his Christian name.
“Call the prince; inform him that it is his turn to sign,” criedDanglars to one of the floorkeepers.
But at the same instant the crowd of guests rushed in alarm into theprincipal salon as if some frightful monster had entered theapartments, _quærens quem devoret_. There was, indeed, reason toretreat, to be alarmed, and to scream. An officer was placing twosoldiers at the door of each drawing-room, and was advancing towardsDanglars, preceded by a commissary of police, girded with his scarf.Madame Danglars uttered a scream and fainted. Danglars, who thoughthimself threatened (certain consciences are never calm),—Danglars evenbefore his guests showed a countenance of abject terror.
“What is the matter, sir?” asked Monte Cristo, advancing to meet thecommissioner.
“Which of you gentlemen,” asked the magistrate, without replying to thecount, “answers to the name of Andrea Cavalcanti?”
A cry of astonishment was heard from all parts of the room. Theysearched; they questioned.
“But who then is Andrea Cavalcanti?” asked Danglars in amazement.
“A galley-slave, escaped from confinement at Toulon.”
“And what crime has he committed?”
“He is accused,” said the commissary with his inflexible voice, “ofhaving assassinated the man named Caderousse, his former companion inprison, at the moment he was making his escape from the house of theCount of Monte Cristo.”
Monte Cristo cast a rapid glance around him. Andrea was gone.


 Chapter 97. The Departure for Belgium
A few minutes after the scene of confusion produced in the salons of M.Danglars by the unexpected appearance of the brigade of soldiers, andby the disclosure which had followed, the mansion was deserted with asmuch rapidity as if a case of plague or of cholera morbus had brokenout among the guests.
In a few minutes, through all the doors, down all the staircases, byevery exit, everyone hastened to retire, or rather to fly; for it was asituation where the ordinary condolences,—which even the best friendsare so eager to offer in great catastrophes,—were seen to be utterlyfutile. There remained in the banker’s house only Danglars, closeted inhis study, and making his statement to the officer of gendarmes; MadameDanglars, terrified, in the boudoir with which we are acquainted; andEugénie, who with haughty air and disdainful lip had retired to herroom with her inseparable companion, Mademoiselle Louise d’Armilly.
As for the numerous servants (more numerous that evening than usual,for their number was augmented by cooks and butlers from the Café deParis), venting on their employers their anger at what they termed theinsult to which they had been subjected, they collected in groups inthe hall, in the kitchens, or in their rooms, thinking very little oftheir duty, which was thus naturally interrupted. Of all thishousehold, only two persons deserve our notice; these are MademoiselleEugénie Danglars and Mademoiselle Louise d’Armilly.
The betrothed had retired, as we said, with haughty air, disdainfullip, and the demeanor of an outraged queen, followed by her companion,who was paler and more disturbed than herself. On reaching her roomEugénie locked her door, while Louise fell on a chair.
“Ah, what a dreadful thing,” said the young musician; “who would havesuspected it? M. Andrea Cavalcanti a murderer—a galley-slave escaped—aconvict!”
An ironical smile curled the lip of Eugénie. “In truth, I was fated,”said she. “I escaped the Morcerf only to fall into the Cavalcanti.”
“Oh, do not confound the two, Eugénie.”
“Hold your tongue! The men are all infamous, and I am happy to be ablenow to do more than detest them—I despise them.”
“What shall we do?” asked Louise.
“What shall we do?”
“Yes.”
“Why, the same we had intended doing three days since—set off.”
“What?—although you are not now going to be married, you intendstill——”
“Listen, Louise. I hate this life of the fashionable world, alwaysordered, measured, ruled, like our music-paper. What I have alwayswished for, desired, and coveted, is the life of an artist, free andindependent, relying only on my own resources, and accountable only tomyself. Remain here? What for?—that they may try, a month hence, tomarry me again; and to whom?—M. Debray, perhaps, as it was onceproposed. No, Louise, no! This evening’s adventure will serve for myexcuse. I did not seek one, I did not ask for one. God sends me this,and I hail it joyfully!”
“How strong and courageous you are!” said the fair, frail girl to herbrunette companion.
“Did you not yet know me? Come, Louise, let us talk of our affairs. Thepost-chaise——”
“Was happily bought three days since.”
“Have you had it sent where we are to go for it?”
“Yes.”
“Our passport?”
“Here it is.”
And Eugénie, with her usual precision, opened a printed paper, andread:
“M. Léon d’Armilly, twenty years of age; profession, artist; hairblack, eyes black; travelling with his sister.”
“Capital! How did you get this passport?”
“When I went to ask M. de Monte Cristo for letters to the directors ofthe theatres at Rome and Naples, I expressed my fears of travelling asa woman; he perfectly understood them, and undertook to procure for mea man’s passport, and two days after I received this, to which I haveadded with my own hand, ‘travelling with his sister.’”
50035m


“Well,” said Eugénie cheerfully, “we have then only to pack up ourtrunks; we shall start the evening of the signing of the contract,instead of the evening of the wedding—that is all.”
“But consider the matter seriously, Eugénie!”
“Oh, I am done with considering! I am tired of hearing only of marketreports, of the end of the month, of the rise and fall of Spanishfunds, of Haitian bonds. Instead of that, Louise—do youunderstand?—air, liberty, melody of birds, plains of Lombardy, Venetiancanals, Roman palaces, the Bay of Naples. How much have we, Louise?”
The young girl to whom this question was addressed drew from an inlaidsecretaire a small portfolio with a lock, in which she countedtwenty-three bank-notes.
“Twenty-three thousand francs,” said she.
“And as much, at least, in pearls, diamonds, and jewels,” said Eugénie.“We are rich. With forty-five thousand francs we can live likeprincesses for two years, and comfortably for four; but before sixmonths—you with your music, and I with my voice—we shall double ourcapital. Come, you shall take charge of the money, I of the jewel-box;so that if one of us had the misfortune to lose her treasure, the otherwould still have hers left. Now, the portmanteau—let us make haste—theportmanteau!”
“Stop!” said Louise, going to listen at Madame Danglars’ door.
“What do you fear?”
“That we may be discovered.”
“The door is locked.”
“They may tell us to open it.”
“They may if they like, but we will not.”
“You are a perfect Amazon, Eugénie!” And the two young girls began toheap into a trunk all the things they thought they should require.
“There now,” said Eugénie, “while I change my costume do you lock theportmanteau.” Louise pressed with all the strength of her little handson the top of the portmanteau.
“But I cannot,” said she; “I am not strong enough; do you shut it.”
“Ah, you do well to ask,” said Eugénie, laughing; “I forgot that I wasHercules, and you only the pale Omphale!”
And the young girl, kneeling on the top, pressed the two parts of theportmanteau together, and Mademoiselle d’Armilly passed the bolt of thepadlock through. When this was done, Eugénie opened a drawer, of whichshe kept the key, and took from it a wadded violet silk travellingcloak.
“Here,” said she, “you see I have thought of everything; with thiscloak you will not be cold.”
“But you?”
“Oh, I am never cold, you know! Besides, with these men’s clothes——”
“Will you dress here?”
“Certainly.”
“Shall you have time?”
“Do not be uneasy, you little coward! All our servants are busy,discussing the grand affair. Besides, what is there astonishing, whenyou think of the grief I ought to be in, that I shut myself up?—tellme!”
“No, truly—you comfort me.”
“Come and help me.”
From the same drawer she took a man’s complete costume, from the bootsto the coat, and a provision of linen, where there was nothingsuperfluous, but every requisite. Then, with a promptitude whichindicated that this was not the first time she had amused herself byadopting the garb of the opposite sex, Eugénie drew on the boots andpantaloons, tied her cravat, buttoned her waistcoat up to the throat,and put on a coat which admirably fitted her beautiful figure.
“Oh, that is very good—indeed, it is very good!” said Louise, lookingat her with admiration; “but that beautiful black hair, thosemagnificent braids, which made all the ladies sigh with envy,—will theygo under a man’s hat like the one I see down there?”
“You shall see,” said Eugénie. And with her left hand seizing the thickmass, which her long fingers could scarcely grasp, she took in herright hand a pair of long scissors, and soon the steel met through therich and splendid hair, which fell in a cluster at her feet as sheleaned back to keep it from her coat. Then she grasped the front hair,which she also cut off, without expressing the least regret; on thecontrary, her eyes sparkled with greater pleasure than usual under herebony eyebrows.
50039m


“Oh, the magnificent hair!” said Louise, with regret.
“And am I not a hundred times better thus?” cried Eugénie, smoothingthe scattered curls of her hair, which had now quite a masculineappearance; “and do you not think me handsomer so?”
“Oh, you are beautiful—always beautiful!” cried Louise. “Now, where areyou going?”
“To Brussels, if you like; it is the nearest frontier. We can go toBrussels, Liège, Aix-la-Chapelle; then up the Rhine to Strasbourg. Wewill cross Switzerland, and go down into Italy by the Saint-Gothard.Will that do?”
“Yes.”
“What are you looking at?”
“I am looking at you; indeed you are adorable like that! One would sayyou were carrying me off.”
“And they would be right, _pardieu!_”
“Oh, I think you swore, Eugénie.”
And the two young girls, whom everyone might have thought plunged ingrief, the one on her own account, the other from interest in herfriend, burst out laughing, as they cleared away every visible trace ofthe disorder which had naturally accompanied the preparations for theirescape. Then, having blown out the lights, the two fugitives, lookingand listening eagerly, with outstretched necks, opened the door of adressing-room which led by a side staircase down to the yard,—Eugéniegoing first, and holding with one arm the portmanteau, which by theopposite handle Mademoiselle d’Armilly scarcely raised with both hands.The yard was empty; the clock was striking twelve. The porter was notyet gone to bed. Eugénie approached softly, and saw the old mansleeping soundly in an armchair in his lodge. She returned to Louise,took up the portmanteau, which she had placed for a moment on theground, and they reached the archway under the shadow of the wall.
Eugénie concealed Louise in an angle of the gateway, so that if theporter chanced to awake he might see but one person. Then placingherself in the full light of the lamp which lit the yard:
“Gate!” cried she, with her finest contralto voice, and rapping at thewindow.
The porter got up as Eugénie expected, and even advanced some steps torecognize the person who was going out, but seeing a young man strikinghis boot impatiently with his riding-whip, he opened it immediately.Louise slid through the half-open gate like a snake, and boundedlightly forward. Eugénie, apparently calm, although in all probabilityher heart beat somewhat faster than usual, went out in her turn.
A porter was passing and they gave him the portmanteau; then the twoyoung girls, having told him to take it to No. 36, Rue de la Victoire,walked behind this man, whose presence comforted Louise. As forEugénie, she was as strong as a Judith or a Delilah. They arrived atthe appointed spot. Eugénie ordered the porter to put down theportmanteau, gave him some pieces of money, and having rapped at theshutter sent him away. The shutter where Eugénie had rapped was that ofa little laundress, who had been previously warned, and was not yetgone to bed. She opened the door.
“Mademoiselle,” said Eugénie, “let the porter get the post-chaise fromthe coach-house, and fetch some post-horses from the hotel. Here arefive francs for his trouble.”
“Indeed,” said Louise, “I admire you, and I could almost say respectyou.” The laundress looked on in astonishment, but as she had beenpromised twenty louis, she made no remark.
In a quarter of an hour the porter returned with a post-boy and horses,which were harnessed, and put in the post-chaise in a minute, while theporter fastened the portmanteau on with the assistance of a cord andstrap.
“Here is the passport,” said the postilion, “which way are we going,young gentleman?”
“To Fontainebleau,” replied Eugénie with an almost masculine voice.
“What do you say?” said Louise.
“I am giving them the slip,” said Eugénie; “this woman to whom we havegiven twenty louis may betray us for forty; we will soon alter ourdirection.”
And the young girl jumped into the britzka, which was admirablyarranged for sleeping in, without scarcely touching the step.
“You are always right,” said the music teacher, seating herself by theside of her friend.
A quarter of an hour afterwards the postilion, having been put in theright road, passed with a crack of his whip through the gateway of theBarrière Saint-Martin.
“Ah,” said Louise, breathing freely, “here we are out of Paris.”
“Yes, my dear, the abduction is an accomplished fact,” replied Eugénie.
“Yes, and without violence,” said Louise.
“I shall bring that forward as an extenuating circumstance,” repliedEugénie.
These words were lost in the noise which the carriage made in rollingover the pavement of La Villette. M. Danglars no longer had a daughter.


 Chapter 98. The Bell and Bottle Tavern
And now let us leave Mademoiselle Danglars and her friend pursuingtheir way to Brussels, and return to poor Andrea Cavalcanti, soinopportunely interrupted in his rise to fortune. Notwithstanding hisyouth, Master Andrea was a very skilful and intelligent boy. We haveseen that on the first rumor which reached the salon he had graduallyapproached the door, and crossing two or three rooms at lastdisappeared. But we have forgotten to mention one circumstance, whichnevertheless ought not to be omitted; in one of the rooms he crossed,the _trousseau_ of the bride-elect was on exhibition. There werecaskets of diamonds, cashmere shawls, Valenciennes lace, English veils,and in fact all the tempting things, the bare mention of which makesthe hearts of young girls bound with joy, and which is called the_corbeille_.22 Now, in passing through this room, Andrea proved himselfnot only to be clever and intelligent, but also provident, for hehelped himself to the most valuable of the ornaments before him.
Furnished with this plunder, Andrea leaped with a lighter heart fromthe window, intending to slip through the hands of the gendarmes. Talland well proportioned as an ancient gladiator, and muscular as aSpartan, he walked for a quarter of an hour without knowing where todirect his steps, actuated by the sole idea of getting away from thespot where if he lingered he knew that he would surely be taken. Havingpassed through the Rue du Mont-Blanc, guided by the instinct whichleads thieves always to take the safest path, he found himself at theend of the Rue La Fayette. There he stopped, breathless and panting. Hewas quite alone; on one side was the vast wilderness of theSaint-Lazare, on the other, Paris enshrouded in darkness.
“Am I to be captured?” he cried; “no, not if I can use more activitythan my enemies. My safety is now a mere question of speed.”
At this moment he saw a cab at the top of the Faubourg Poissonnière.The dull driver, smoking his pipe, was plodding along toward the limitsof the Faubourg Saint-Denis, where no doubt he ordinarily had hisstation.
“Ho, friend!” said Benedetto.
“What do you want, sir?” asked the driver.
“Is your horse tired?”
“Tired? oh, yes, tired enough—he has done nothing the whole of thisblessed day! Four wretched fares, and twenty sous over, making in allseven francs, are all that I have earned, and I ought to take ten tothe owner.”
“Will you add these twenty francs to the seven you have?”
“With pleasure, sir; twenty francs are not to be despised. Tell me whatI am to do for this.”
“A very easy thing, if your horse isn’t tired.”
“I tell you he’ll go like the wind,—only tell me which way to drive.”
“Towards the Louvres.”
“Ah, I know the way—you get good sweetened rum over there.”
“Exactly so; I merely wish to overtake one of my friends, with whom Iam going to hunt tomorrow at Chapelle-en-Serval. He should have waitedfor me here with a cabriolet till half-past eleven; it is twelve, and,tired of waiting, he must have gone on.”
“It is likely.”
“Well, will you try and overtake him?”
“Nothing I should like better.”
“If you do not overtake him before we reach Bourget you shall havetwenty francs; if not before Louvres, thirty.”
“And if we do overtake him?”
“Forty,” said Andrea, after a moment’s hesitation, at the end of whichhe remembered that he might safely promise.
“That’s all right,” said the man; “hop in, and we’re off! Who-o-o-pla!”
Andrea got into the cab, which passed rapidly through the FaubourgSaint-Denis, along the Faubourg Saint-Martin, crossed the barrier, andthreaded its way through the interminable Villette. They never overtookthe chimerical friend, yet Andrea frequently inquired of people on footwhom he passed and at the inns which were not yet closed, for a greencabriolet and bay horse; and as there are a great many cabriolets to beseen on the road to the Low Countries, and as nine-tenths of them aregreen, the inquiries increased at every step. Everyone had just seen itpass; it was only five hundred, two hundred, one hundred steps inadvance; at length they reached it, but it was not the friend. Once thecab was also passed by a calash rapidly whirled along by twopost-horses.
“Ah,” said Cavalcanti to himself, “if I only had that britzka, thosetwo good post-horses, and above all the passport that carries them on!”And he sighed deeply.
The calash contained Mademoiselle Danglars and Mademoiselle d’Armilly.
“Hurry, hurry!” said Andrea, “we must overtake him soon.”
And the poor horse resumed the desperate gallop it had kept up sinceleaving the barrier, and arrived steaming at Louvres.
“Certainly,” said Andrea, “I shall not overtake my friend, but I shallkill your horse, therefore I had better stop. Here are thirty francs; Iwill sleep at the _Cheval Rouge_, and will secure a place in the firstcoach. Good-night, friend.”
And Andrea, after placing six pieces of five francs each in the man’shand, leaped lightly on to the pathway. The cabman joyfully pocketedthe sum, and turned back on his road to Paris. Andrea pretended to gotowards the hotel of the _Cheval Rouge_, but after leaning an instantagainst the door, and hearing the last sound of the cab, which wasdisappearing from view, he went on his road, and with a lusty stridesoon traversed the space of two leagues. Then he rested; he must benear Chapelle-en-Serval, where he pretended to be going.
It was not fatigue that stayed Andrea here; it was that he might formsome resolution, adopt some plan. It would be impossible to make use ofa diligence, equally so to engage post-horses; to travel either way apassport was necessary. It was still more impossible to remain in thedepartment of the Oise, one of the most open and strictly guarded inFrance; this was quite out of the question, especially to a man likeAndrea, perfectly conversant with criminal matters.
He sat down by the side of the moat, buried his face in his hands andreflected. Ten minutes after he raised his head; his resolution wasmade. He threw some dust over the topcoat, which he had found time tounhook from the antechamber and button over his ball costume, and goingto Chapelle-en-Serval he knocked loudly at the door of the only inn inthe place.
The host opened.
“My friend,” said Andrea, “I was coming from Mortefontaine to Senlis,when my horse, which is a troublesome creature, stumbled and threw me.I must reach Compiègne tonight, or I shall cause deep anxiety to myfamily. Could you let me hire a horse of you?”
An innkeeper has always a horse to let, whether it be good or bad. Thehost called the stable-boy, and ordered him to saddle _Le Blanc_ thenhe awoke his son, a child of seven years, whom he ordered to ridebefore the gentleman and bring back the horse. Andrea gave theinnkeeper twenty francs, and in taking them from his pocket dropped avisiting card. This belonged to one of his friends at the Café deParis, so that the innkeeper, picking it up after Andrea had left, wasconvinced that he had let his horse to the Count of Mauléon, 25 RueSaint-Dominique, that being the name and address on the card.
_Le Blanc_ was not a fast animal, but he kept up an easy, steady pace;in three hours and a half Andrea had traversed the nine leagues whichseparated him from Compiègne, and four o’clock struck as he reached theplace where the coaches stop. There is an excellent tavern atCompiègne, well remembered by those who have ever been there. Andrea,who had often stayed there in his rides about Paris, recollected theBell and Bottle inn; he turned around, saw the sign by the light of areflected lamp, and having dismissed the child, giving him all thesmall coin he had about him, he began knocking at the door, veryreasonably concluding that having now three or four hours before him hehad best fortify himself against the fatigues of the morrow by a soundsleep and a good supper. A waiter opened the door.
“My friend,” said Andrea, “I have been dining at Saint-Jean-aux-Bois,and expected to catch the coach which passes by at midnight, but like afool I have lost my way, and have been walking for the last four hoursin the forest. Show me into one of those pretty little rooms whichoverlook the court, and bring me a cold fowl and a bottle of Bordeaux.”
The waiter had no suspicions; Andrea spoke with perfect composure, hehad a cigar in his mouth, and his hands in the pocket of his top coat;his clothes were fashionably made, his chin smooth, his bootsirreproachable; he looked merely as if he had stayed out very late,that was all. While the waiter was preparing his room, the hostessarose; Andrea assumed his most charming smile, and asked if he couldhave No. 3, which he had occupied on his last stay at Compiègne.Unfortunately, No. 3 was engaged by a young man who was travelling withhis sister. Andrea appeared in despair, but consoled himself when thehostess assured him that No. 7, prepared for him, was situatedprecisely the same as No. 3, and while warming his feet and chattingabout the last races at Chantilly, he waited until they announced hisroom to be ready.
Andrea had not spoken without cause of the pretty rooms looking outupon the court of the Bell Hotel, which with its triple galleries likethose of a theatre, with the jessamine and clematis twining round thelight columns, forms one of the prettiest entrances to an inn that youcan imagine. The fowl was tender, the wine old, the fire clear andsparkling, and Andrea was surprised to find himself eating with as goodan appetite as though nothing had happened. Then he went to bed andalmost immediately fell into that deep sleep which is sure to visit menof twenty years of age, even when they are torn with remorse. Now, herewe are obliged to own that Andrea ought to have felt remorse, but thathe did not.
This was the plan which had appealed to him to afford the best chanceof his security. Before daybreak he would awake, leave the inn afterrigorously paying his bill, and reaching the forest, he would, underpretence of making studies in painting, test the hospitality of somepeasants, procure himself the dress of a woodcutter and a hatchet,casting off the lion’s skin to assume that of the woodman; then, withhis hands covered with dirt, his hair darkened by means of a leadencomb, his complexion embrowned with a preparation for which one of hisold comrades had given him the recipe, he intended, by following thewooded districts, to reach the nearest frontier, walking by night andsleeping in the day in the forests and quarries, and only enteringinhabited regions to buy a loaf from time to time.
Once past the frontier, Andrea proposed making money of his diamonds;and by uniting the proceeds to ten bank-notes he always carried aboutwith him in case of accident, he would then find himself possessor ofabout 50,000 livres, which he philosophically considered as no verydeplorable condition after all. Moreover, he reckoned much on theinterest of the Danglars to hush up the rumor of their ownmisadventures. These were the reasons which, added to the fatigue,caused Andrea to sleep so soundly. In order that he might wake early hedid not close the shutters, but contented himself with bolting the doorand placing on the table an unclasped and long-pointed knife, whosetemper he well knew, and which was never absent from him.
About seven in the morning Andrea was awakened by a ray of sunlight,which played, warm and brilliant, upon his face. In all well-organizedbrains, the predominating idea—and there always is one—is sure to bethe last thought before sleeping, and the first upon waking in themorning. Andrea had scarcely opened his eyes when his predominatingidea presented itself, and whispered in his ear that he had slept toolong. He jumped out of bed and ran to the window. A gendarme wascrossing the court. A gendarme is one of the most striking objects inthe world, even to a man void of uneasiness; but for one who has atimid conscience, and with good cause too, the yellow, blue, and whiteuniform is really very alarming.
“Why is that gendarme there?” asked Andrea of himself.
Then, all at once, he replied, with that logic which the reader has,doubtless, remarked in him, “There is nothing astonishing in seeing agendarme at an inn; instead of being astonished, let me dress myself.”And the youth dressed himself with a facility his valet de chambre hadfailed to rob him of during the two months of fashionable life he hadled in Paris.
“Now then,” said Andrea, while dressing himself, “I’ll wait till heleaves, and then I’ll slip away.”
50047m


And, saying this, Andrea, who had now put on his boots and cravat,stole gently to the window, and a second time lifted up the muslincurtain. Not only was the first gendarme still there, but the young mannow perceived a second yellow, blue, and white uniform at the foot ofthe staircase, the only one by which he could descend, while a third,on horseback, holding a musket in his fist, was posted as a sentinel atthe great street-door which alone afforded the means of egress. Theappearance of the third gendarme settled the matter, for a crowd ofcurious loungers was extended before him, effectually blocking theentrance to the hotel.
“They’re after me!” was Andrea’s first thought. “_Diable!_”
A pallor overspread the young man’s forehead, and he looked around himwith anxiety. His room, like all those on the same floor, had but oneoutlet to the gallery in the sight of everybody. “I am lost!” was hissecond thought; and, indeed, for a man in Andrea’s situation, an arrestmeant the assizes, trial, and death,—death without mercy or delay.
For a moment he convulsively pressed his head within his hands, andduring that brief period he became nearly mad with terror; but soon aray of hope glimmered in the multitude of thoughts which bewildered hismind, and a faint smile played upon his white lips and pallid cheeks.He looked around and saw the objects of his search upon thechimney-piece; they were a pen, ink, and paper. With forced composurehe dipped the pen in the ink, and wrote the following lines upon asheet of paper:
“I have no money to pay my bill, but I am not a dishonest man; I leavebehind me as a pledge this pin, worth ten times the amount. I shall beexcused for leaving at daybreak, for I was ashamed.”
He then drew the pin from his cravat and placed it on the paper. Thisdone, instead of leaving the door fastened, he drew back the bolts andeven placed the door ajar, as though he had left the room, forgettingto close it, and slipping into the chimney like a man accustomed tothat kind of gymnastic exercise, after replacing the chimney-board,which represented Achilles with Deidamia, and effacing the very marksof his feet upon the ashes, he commenced climbing the hollow tunnel,which afforded him the only means of escape left.
At this precise time, the first gendarme Andrea had noticed walkedupstairs, preceded by the commissary of police, and supported by thesecond gendarme who guarded the staircase and was himself reinforced bythe one stationed at the door.
Andrea was indebted for this visit to the following circumstances. Atdaybreak, the telegraphs were set at work in all directions, and almostimmediately the authorities in every district had exerted their utmostendeavors to arrest the murderer of Caderousse. Compiègne, that royalresidence and fortified town, is well furnished with authorities,gendarmes, and commissaries of police; they therefore began operationsas soon as the telegraphic despatch arrived, and the Bell and Bottlebeing the best-known hotel in the town, they had naturally directedtheir first inquiries there.
Now, besides the reports of the sentinels guarding the Hôtel de Ville,which is next door to the Bell and Bottle, it had been stated by othersthat a number of travellers had arrived during the night. The sentinelwho was relieved at six o’clock in the morning, remembered perfectlythat, just as he was taking his post a few minutes past four, a youngman arrived on horseback, with a little boy before him. The young man,having dismissed the boy and horse, knocked at the door of the hotel,which was opened, and again closed after his entrance. This latearrival had attracted much suspicion, and the young man being no otherthan Andrea, the commissary and gendarme, who was a brigadier, directedtheir steps towards his room. They found the door ajar.
“Oh, oh,” said the brigadier, who thoroughly understood the trick; “abad sign to find the door open! I would rather find it triply bolted.”
And, indeed, the little note and pin upon the table confirmed, orrather corroborated, the sad truth. Andrea had fled. We saycorroborated, because the brigadier was too experienced to be convincedby a single proof. He glanced around, looked in the bed, shook thecurtains, opened the closets, and finally stopped at the chimney.Andrea had taken the precaution to leave no traces of his feet in theashes, but still it was an outlet, and in this light was not to bepassed over without serious investigation.
The brigadier sent for some sticks and straw, and having filled thechimney with them, set a light to it. The fire crackled, and the smokeascended like the dull vapor from a volcano; but still no prisoner felldown, as they expected. The fact was, that Andrea, at war with societyever since his youth, was quite as deep as a gendarme, even though hewere advanced to the rank of brigadier, and quite prepared for thefire, he had climbed out on the roof and was crouching down against thechimney-pots.
50049m


At one time he thought he was saved, for he heard the brigadier exclaimin a loud voice, to the two gendarmes, “He is not here!” But venturingto peep, he perceived that the latter, instead of retiring, as mighthave been reasonably expected upon this announcement, were watchingwith increased attention.
It was now his turn to look about him; the Hôtel de Ville, a massivesixteenth century building, was on his right; anyone could descend fromthe openings in the tower, and examine every corner of the roof below,and Andrea expected momentarily to see the head of a gendarme appear atone of these openings. If once discovered, he knew he would be lost,for the roof afforded no chance of escape; he therefore resolved todescend, not through the same chimney by which he had come up, but by asimilar one conducting to another room.
He looked around for a chimney from which no smoke issued, and havingreached it, he disappeared through the orifice without being seen byanyone. At the same minute, one of the little windows of the Hôtel deVille was thrown open, and the head of a gendarme appeared. For aninstant it remained motionless as one of the stone decorations of thebuilding, then after a long sigh of disappointment the headdisappeared. The brigadier, calm and dignified as the law herepresented, passed through the crowd, without answering the thousandquestions addressed to him, and re-entered the hotel.
“Well?” asked the two gendarmes.
“Well, my boys,” said the brigadier, “the brigand must really haveescaped early this morning; but we will send to the Villers-Coteretsand Noyon roads, and search the forest, when we shall catch him, nodoubt.”
The honorable functionary had scarcely expressed himself thus, in thatintonation which is peculiar to brigadiers of the gendarmerie, when aloud scream, accompanied by the violent ringing of a bell, resoundedthrough the court of the hotel.
“Ah, what is that?” cried the brigadier.
“Some traveller seems impatient,” said the host. “What number was itthat rang?”
“Number 3.”
“Run, waiter!”
At this moment the screams and ringing were redoubled.
“Aha!” said the brigadier, stopping the servant, “the person who isringing appears to want something more than amwaiter; we will attendupon him with a gendarme. Who occupies Number 3?”
“The little fellow who arrived last night in a post-chaise with hissister, and who asked for an apartment with two beds.”
The bell here rang for the third time, with another shriek of anguish.
“Follow me, Mr. Commissary!” said the brigadier; “tread in my steps.”
“Wait an instant,” said the host; “Number 3 has two staircases,—insideand outside.”
“Good,” said the brigadier. “I will take charge of the inside one. Arethe carbines loaded?”
“Yes, brigadier.”
“Well, you guard the exterior, and if he attempts to fly, fire uponhim; he must be a great criminal, from what the telegraph says.”
The brigadier, followed by the commissary, disappeared by the insidestaircase, accompanied by the noise which his assertions respectingAndrea had excited in the crowd.
This is what had happened: Andrea had very cleverly managed to descendtwo-thirds of the chimney, but then his foot slipped, andnotwithstanding his endeavors, he came into the room with more speedand noise than he intended. It would have signified little had the roombeen empty, but unfortunately it was occupied. Two ladies, sleeping inone bed, were awakened by the noise, and fixing their eyes upon thespot whence the sound proceeded, they saw a man. One of these ladies,the fair one, uttered those terrible shrieks which resounded throughthe house, while the other, rushing to the bell-rope, rang with all herstrength. Andrea, as we can see, was surrounded by misfortune.
“For pity’s sake,” he cried, pale and bewildered, without seeing whomhe was addressing,—“for pity’s sake do not call assistance! Save me!—Iwill not harm you.”
“Andrea, the murderer!” cried one of the ladies.
“Eugénie! Mademoiselle Danglars!” exclaimed Andrea, stupefied.
“Help, help!” cried Mademoiselle d’Armilly, taking the bell from hercompanion’s hand, and ringing it yet more violently.
“Save me, I am pursued!” said Andrea, clasping his hands. “For pity,for mercy’s sake do not deliver me up!”
“It is too late, they are coming,” said Eugénie.
“Well, conceal me somewhere; you can say you were needlessly alarmed;you can turn their suspicions and save my life!”
50053m


The two ladies, pressing closely to one another, and drawing thebedclothes tightly around them, remained silent to this supplicatingvoice, repugnance and fear taking possession of their minds.
“Well, be it so,” at length said Eugénie; “return by the same road youcame, and we will say nothing about you, unhappy wretch.”
“Here he is, here he is!” cried a voice from the landing; “here he is!I see him!”
The brigadier had put his eye to the keyhole, and had discovered Andreain a posture of entreaty. A violent blow from the butt end of themusket burst open the lock, two more forced out the bolts, and thebroken door fell in. Andrea ran to the other door, leading to thegallery, ready to rush out; but he was stopped short, and he stood withhis body a little thrown back, pale, and with the useless knife in hisclenched hand.
“Fly, then!” cried Mademoiselle d’Armilly, whose pity returned as herfears diminished; “fly!”
“Or kill yourself!” said Eugénie (in a tone which a Vestal in theamphitheatre would have used, when urging the victorious gladiator tofinish his vanquished adversary). Andrea shuddered, and looked on theyoung girl with an expression which proved how little he understoodsuch ferocious honor.
“Kill myself?” he cried, throwing down his knife; “why should I do so?”
“Why, you said,” answered Mademoiselle Danglars, “that you would becondemned to die like the worst criminals.”
50055m


“Bah,” said Cavalcanti, crossing his arms, “one has friends.”
The brigadier advanced to him, sword in hand.
“Come, come,” said Andrea, “sheathe your sword, my fine fellow; thereis no occasion to make such a fuss, since I give myself up;” and heheld out his hands to be manacled.
The two girls looked with horror upon this shameful metamorphosis, theman of the world shaking off his covering and appearing as agalley-slave. Andrea turned towards them, and with an impertinent smileasked, “Have you any message for your father, Mademoiselle Danglars,for in all probability I shall return to Paris?”
Eugénie covered her face with her hands.
“Oh, oh!” said Andrea, “you need not be ashamed, even though you didpost after me. Was I not nearly your husband?”
50056m


And with this raillery Andrea went out, leaving the two girls a prey totheir own feelings of shame, and to the comments of the crowd. An hourafter they stepped into their calash, both dressed in feminine attire.The gate of the hotel had been closed to screen them from sight, butthey were forced, when the door was open, to pass through a throng ofcurious glances and whispering voices.
Eugénie closed her eyes; but though she could not see, she could hear,and the sneers of the crowd reached her in the carriage.
“Oh, why is not the world a wilderness?” she exclaimed, throwingherself into the arms of Mademoiselle d’Armilly, her eyes sparklingwith the same kind of rage which made Nero wish that the Roman worldhad but one neck, that he might sever it at a single blow.
The next day they stopped at the Hôtel de Flandre, at Brussels. Thesame evening Andrea was incarcerated in the Conciergerie.


 Chapter 99. The Law
We have seen how quietly Mademoiselle Danglars and Mademoiselled’Armilly accomplished their transformation and flight; the fact beingthat everyone was too much occupied in his or her own affairs to thinkof theirs.
We will leave the banker contemplating the enormous magnitude of hisdebt before the phantom of bankruptcy, and follow the baroness, whoafter being momentarily crushed under the weight of the blow which hadstruck her, had gone to seek her usual adviser, Lucien Debray. Thebaroness had looked forward to this marriage as a means of ridding herof a guardianship which, over a girl of Eugénie’s character, could notfail to be rather a troublesome undertaking; for in the tacit relationswhich maintain the bond of family union, the mother, to maintain herascendancy over her daughter, must never fail to be a model of wisdomand a type of perfection.
Now, Madame Danglars feared Eugénie’s sagacity and the influence ofMademoiselle d’Armilly; she had frequently observed the contemptuousexpression with which her daughter looked upon Debray,—an expressionwhich seemed to imply that she understood all her mother’s amorous andpecuniary relationships with the intimate secretary; moreover, she sawthat Eugénie detested Debray, not only because he was a source ofdissension and scandal under the paternal roof, but because she had atonce classed him in that catalogue of bipeds whom Plato endeavors towithdraw from the appellation of men, and whom Diogenes designated asanimals upon two legs without feathers.
Unfortunately, in this world of ours, each person views things througha certain medium, and so is prevented from seeing in the same light asothers, and Madame Danglars, therefore, very much regretted that themarriage of Eugénie had not taken place, not only because the match wasgood, and likely to insure the happiness of her child, but because itwould also set her at liberty. She ran therefore to Debray, who, afterhaving, like the rest of Paris, witnessed the contract scene and thescandal attending it, had retired in haste to his club, where he waschatting with some friends upon the events which served as a subject ofconversation for three-fourths of that city known as the capital of theworld.
At the precise time when Madame Danglars, dressed in black andconcealed in a long veil, was ascending the stairs leading to Debray’sapartments, notwithstanding the assurances of the concierge that theyoung man was not at home, Debray was occupied in repelling theinsinuations of a friend, who tried to persuade him that after theterrible scene which had just taken place he ought, as a friend of thefamily, to marry Mademoiselle Danglars and her two millions. Debray didnot defend himself very warmly, for the idea had sometimes crossed hismind; still, when he recollected the independent, proud spirit ofEugénie, he positively rejected it as utterly impossible, though thesame thought again continually recurred and found a resting-place inhis heart. Tea, play, and the conversation, which had becomeinteresting during the discussion of such serious affairs, lasted tillone o’clock in the morning.
Meanwhile Madame Danglars, veiled and uneasy, awaited the return ofDebray in the little green room, seated between two baskets of flowers,which she had that morning sent, and which, it must be confessed,Debray had himself arranged and watered with so much care that hisabsence was half excused in the eyes of the poor woman.
At twenty minutes to twelve, Madame Danglars, tired of waiting,returned home. Women of a certain grade are like prosperous grisettesin one respect, they seldom return home after twelve o’clock. Thebaroness returned to the hotel with as much caution as Eugénie used inleaving it; she ran lightly upstairs, and with an aching heart enteredher apartment, contiguous, as we know, to that of Eugénie. She wasfearful of exciting any remark, and believed firmly in her daughter’sinnocence and fidelity to the paternal roof. She listened at Eugénie’sdoor, and hearing no sound tried to enter, but the bolts were in place.Madame Danglars then concluded that the young girl had been overcomewith the terrible excitement of the evening, and had gone to bed and tosleep. She called the maid and questioned her.
“Mademoiselle Eugénie,” said the maid, “retired to her apartment withMademoiselle d’Armilly; they then took tea together, after which theydesired me to leave, saying that they needed me no longer.”
Since then the maid had been below, and like everyone else she thoughtthe young ladies were in their own room; Madame Danglars, therefore,went to bed without a shadow of suspicion, and began to muse over therecent events. In proportion as her memory became clearer, theoccurrences of the evening were revealed in their true light; what shehad taken for confusion was a tumult; what she had regarded assomething distressing, was in reality a disgrace. And then the baronessremembered that she had felt no pity for poor Mercédès, who had beenafflicted with as severe a blow through her husband and son.
“Eugénie,” she said to herself, “is lost, and so are we. The affair, asit will be reported, will cover us with shame; for in a society such asours satire inflicts a painful and incurable wound. How fortunate thatEugénie is possessed of that strange character which has so often mademe tremble!”
And her glance was turned towards heaven, where a mysterious Providencedisposes all things, and out of a fault, nay, even a vice, sometimesproduces a blessing. And then her thoughts, cleaving through space likea bird in the air, rested on Cavalcanti. This Andrea was a wretch, arobber, an assassin, and yet his manners showed the effects of a sortof education, if not a complete one; he had been presented to the worldwith the appearance of an immense fortune, supported by an honorablename. How could she extricate herself from this labyrinth? To whomwould she apply to help her out of this painful situation? Debray, towhom she had run, with the first instinct of a woman towards the manshe loves, and who yet betrays her,—Debray could but give her advice,she must apply to someone more powerful than he.
The baroness then thought of M. de Villefort. It was M. de Villefortwho had remorselessly brought misfortune into her family, as thoughthey had been strangers. But, no; on reflection, the procureur was nota merciless man; and it was not the magistrate, slave to his duties,but the friend, the loyal friend, who roughly but firmly cut into thevery core of the corruption; it was not the executioner, but thesurgeon, who wished to withdraw the honor of Danglars from ignominiousassociation with the disgraced young man they had presented to theworld as their son-in-law. And since Villefort, the friend of Danglars,had acted in this way, no one could suppose that he had been previouslyacquainted with, or had lent himself to, any of Andrea’s intrigues.Villefort’s conduct, therefore, upon reflection, appeared to thebaroness as if shaped for their mutual advantage. But the inflexibilityof the procureur should stop there; she would see him the next day, andif she could not make him fail in his duties as a magistrate, shewould, at least, obtain all the indulgence he could allow. She wouldinvoke the past, recall old recollections; she would supplicate him bythe remembrance of guilty, yet happy days. M. de Villefort would stiflethe affair; he had only to turn his eyes on one side, and allow Andreato fly, and follow up the crime under that shadow of guilt calledcontempt of court. And after this reasoning she slept easily.
At nine o’clock next morning she arose, and without ringing for hermaid or giving the least sign of her activity, she dressed herself inthe same simple style as on the previous night; then runningdownstairs, she left the hotel, walked to the Rue de Provence, called acab, and drove to M. de Villefort’s house.
For the last month this wretched house had presented the gloomyappearance of a lazaretto infected with the plague. Some of theapartments were closed within and without; the shutters were onlyopened to admit a minute’s air, showing the scared face of a footman,and immediately afterwards the window would be closed, like agravestone falling on a sepulchre, and the neighbors would say to eachother in a low voice, “Will there be another funeral today at theprocureur’s house?”
Madame Danglars involuntarily shuddered at the desolate aspect of themansion; descending from the cab, she approached the door withtrembling knees, and rang the bell. Three times did the bell ring witha dull, heavy sound, seeming to participate, in the general sadness,before the concierge appeared and peeped through the door, which heopened just wide enough to allow his words to be heard. He saw a lady,a fashionable, elegantly dressed lady, and yet the door remained almostclosed.
“Do you intend opening the door?” said the baroness.
“First, madame, who are you?”
“Who am I? You know me well enough.”
“We no longer know anyone, madame.”
“You must be mad, my friend,” said the baroness.
“Where do you come from?”
“Oh, this is too much!”
“Madame, these are my orders; excuse me. Your name?”
“The baroness Danglars; you have seen me twenty times.”
“Possibly, madame. And now, what do you want?”
“Oh, how extraordinary! I shall complain to M. de Villefort of theimpertinence of his servants.”
“Madame, this is precaution, not impertinence; no one enters herewithout an order from M. d’Avrigny, or without speaking to theprocureur.”
“Well, I have business with the procureur.”
“Is it pressing business?”
“You can imagine so, since I have not even brought my carriage out yet.But enough of this—here is my card, take it to your master.”
“Madame will await my return?”
“Yes; go.”
The concierge closed the door, leaving Madame Danglars in the street.She had not long to wait; directly afterwards the door was opened wideenough to admit her, and when she had passed through, it was againshut. Without losing sight of her for an instant, the concierge took awhistle from his pocket as soon as they entered the court, and blew it.The valet de chambre appeared on the door-steps.
“You will excuse this poor fellow, madame,” he said, as he preceded thebaroness, “but his orders are precise, and M. de Villefort begged me totell you that he could not act otherwise.”
In the court showing his merchandise, was a tradesman who had beenadmitted with the same precautions. The baroness ascended the steps;she felt herself strongly infected with the sadness which seemed tomagnify her own, and still guided by the valet de chambre, who neverlost sight of her for an instant, she was introduced to themagistrate’s study.
Preoccupied as Madame Danglars had been with the object of her visit,the treatment she had received from these underlings appeared to her soinsulting, that she began by complaining of it. But Villefort, raisinghis head, bowed down by grief, looked up at her with so sad a smilethat her complaints died upon her lips.
“Forgive my servants,” he said, “for a terror I cannot blame them for;from being suspected they have become suspicious.”
Madame Danglars had often heard of the terror to which the magistratealluded, but without the evidence of her own eyesight she could neverhave believed that the sentiment had been carried so far.
“You too, then, are unhappy?” she said.
“Yes, madame,” replied the magistrate.
“Then you pity me!”
“Sincerely, madame.”
“And you understand what brings me here?”
“You wish to speak to me about the circumstance which has justhappened?”
“Yes, sir,—a fearful misfortune.”
“You mean a mischance.”
“A mischance?” repeated the baroness.
“Alas, madame,” said the procureur with his imperturbable calmness ofmanner, “I consider those alone misfortunes which are irreparable.”
“And do you suppose this will be forgotten?”
“Everything will be forgotten, madame,” said Villefort. “Your daughterwill be married tomorrow, if not today—in a week, if not tomorrow; andI do not think you can regret the intended husband of your daughter.”
Madame Danglars gazed on Villefort, stupefied to find him so almostinsultingly calm. “Am I come to a friend?” she asked in a tone full ofmournful dignity.
“You know that you are, madame,” said Villefort, whose pale cheeksbecame slightly flushed as he gave her the assurance. And truly thisassurance carried him back to different events from those now occupyingthe baroness and him.
“Well, then, be more affectionate, my dear Villefort,” said thebaroness. “Speak to me not as a magistrate, but as a friend; and when Iam in bitter anguish of spirit, do not tell me that I ought to be gay.”Villefort bowed.
“When I hear misfortunes named, madame,” he said, “I have within thelast few months contracted the bad habit of thinking of my own, andthen I cannot help drawing up an egotistical parallel in my mind. Thatis the reason that by the side of my misfortunes yours appear to memere mischances; that is why my dreadful position makes yours appearenviable. But this annoys you; let us change the subject. You weresaying, madame——”
“I came to ask you, my friend,” said the baroness, “what will be donewith this impostor?”
“Impostor,” repeated Villefort; “certainly, madame, you appear toextenuate some cases, and exaggerate others. Impostor, indeed!—M.Andrea Cavalcanti, or rather M. Benedetto, is nothing more nor lessthan an assassin!”
“Sir, I do not deny the justice of your correction, but the moreseverely you arm yourself against that unfortunate man, the more deeplywill you strike our family. Come, forget him for a moment, and insteadof pursuing him, let him go.”
“You are too late, madame; the orders are issued.”
“Well, should he be arrested—do they think they will arrest him?”
“I hope so.”
“If they should arrest him (I know that sometimes prisons afford meansof escape), will you leave him in prison?”
The procureur shook his head.
“At least keep him there till my daughter be married.”
“Impossible, madame; justice has its formalities.”
“What, even for me?” said the baroness, half jesting, half in earnest.
“For all, even for myself among the rest,” replied Villefort.
50063m


“Ah!” exclaimed the baroness, without expressing the ideas which theexclamation betrayed. Villefort looked at her with that piercing glancewhich reads the secrets of the heart.
“Yes, I know what you mean,” he said; “you refer to the terrible rumorsspread abroad in the world, that the deaths which have kept me inmourning for the last three months, and from which Valentine has onlyescaped by a miracle, have not happened by natural means.”
“I was not thinking of that,” replied Madame Danglars quickly.
“Yes, you were thinking of it, and with justice. You could not helpthinking of it, and saying to yourself, ‘you, who pursue crime sovindictively, answer now, why are there unpunished crimes in yourdwelling?’” The baroness became pale. “You were saying this, were younot?”
“Well, I own it.”
“I will answer you.”
Villefort drew his armchair nearer to Madame Danglars; then restingboth hands upon his desk he said in a voice more hollow than usual:
“There are crimes which remain unpunished because the criminals areunknown, and we might strike the innocent instead of the guilty; butwhen the culprits are discovered” (Villefort here extended his handtoward a large crucifix placed opposite to his desk)—“when they arediscovered, I swear to you, by all I hold most sacred, that whoeverthey may be they shall die. Now, after the oath I have just taken, andwhich I will keep, madame, dare you ask for mercy for that wretch!”
“But, sir, are you sure he is as guilty as they say?”
“Listen; this is his description: ‘Benedetto, condemned, at the age ofsixteen, for five years to the galleys for forgery.’ He promised well,as you see—first a runaway, then an assassin.”
“And who is this wretch?”
“Who can tell?—a vagabond, a Corsican.”
“Has no one owned him?”
“No one; his parents are unknown.”
“But who was the man who brought him from Lucca?”
“Another rascal like himself, perhaps his accomplice.” The baronessclasped her hands.
“Villefort,” she exclaimed in her softest and most captivating manner.
“For Heaven’s sake, madame,” said Villefort, with a firmness ofexpression not altogether free from harshness—“for Heaven’s sake, donot ask pardon of me for a guilty wretch! What am I?—the law. Has thelaw any eyes to witness your grief? Has the law ears to be melted byyour sweet voice? Has the law a memory for all those soft recollectionsyou endeavor to recall? No, madame; the law has commanded, and when itcommands it strikes. You will tell me that I am a living being, and nota code—a man, and not a volume. Look at me, madame—look around me. Hasmankind treated me as a brother? Have men loved me? Have they sparedme? Has anyone shown the mercy towards me that you now ask at my hands?No, madame, they struck me, always struck me!
50065m


“Woman, siren that you are, do you persist in fixing on me thatfascinating eye, which reminds me that I ought to blush? Well, be itso; let me blush for the faults you know, and perhaps—perhaps for evenmore than those! But having sinned myself,—it may be more deeply thanothers,—I never rest till I have torn the disguises from myfellow-creatures, and found out their weaknesses. I have always foundthem; and more,—I repeat it with joy, with triumph,—I have always foundsome proof of human perversity or error. Every criminal I condemn seemsto me living evidence that I am not a hideous exception to the rest.Alas, alas, alas; all the world is wicked; let us therefore strike atwickedness!”
Villefort pronounced these last words with a feverish rage, which gavea ferocious eloquence to his words.
“But”’ said Madame Danglars, resolving to make a last effort, “thisyoung man, though a murderer, is an orphan, abandoned by everybody.”
“So much the worse, or rather, so much the better; it has been soordained that he may have none to weep his fate.”
“But this is trampling on the weak, sir.”
“The weakness of a murderer!”
“His dishonor reflects upon us.”
“Is not death in my house?”
“Oh, sir,” exclaimed the baroness, “you are without pity for others,well, then, I tell you they will have no mercy on you!”
“Be it so!” said Villefort, raising his arms to heaven with athreatening gesture.
“At least, delay the trial till the next assizes; we shall then havesix months before us.”
“No, madame,” said Villefort; “instructions have been given. There areyet five days left; five days are more than I require. Do you not thinkthat I also long for forgetfulness? While working night and day, Isometimes lose all recollection of the past, and then I experience thesame sort of happiness I can imagine the dead feel; still, it is betterthan suffering.”
“But, sir, he has fled; let him escape—inaction is a pardonableoffence.”
“I tell you it is too late; early this morning the telegraph wasemployed, and at this very minute——”
“Sir,” said the valet de chambre, entering the room, “a dragoon hasbrought this despatch from the Minister of the Interior.”
Villefort seized the letter, and hastily broke the seal. MadameDanglars trembled with fear; Villefort started with joy.
“Arrested!” he exclaimed; “he was taken at Compiègne, and all is over.”
Madame Danglars rose from her seat, pale and cold.
“Adieu, sir,” she said.
“Adieu, madame,” replied the king’s attorney, as in an almost joyfulmanner he conducted her to the door. Then, turning to his desk, hesaid, striking the letter with the back of his right hand:
“Come, I had a forgery, three robberies, and two cases of arson, I onlywanted a murder, and here it is. It will be a splendid session!”


 Chapter 100. The Apparition
As the procureur had told Madame Danglars, Valentine was not yetrecovered. Bowed down with fatigue, she was indeed confined to her bed;and it was in her own room, and from the lips of Madame de Villefort,that she heard all the strange events we have related; we mean theflight of Eugénie and the arrest of Andrea Cavalcanti, or ratherBenedetto, together with the accusation of murder pronounced againsthim. But Valentine was so weak that this recital scarcely produced thesame effect it would have done had she been in her usual state ofhealth. Indeed, her brain was only the seat of vague ideas, andconfused forms, mingled with strange fancies, alone presentedthemselves before her eyes.
During the daytime Valentine’s perceptions remained tolerably clear,owing to the constant presence of M. Noirtier, who caused himself to becarried to his granddaughter’s room, and watched her with his paternaltenderness; Villefort also, on his return from the law courts,frequently passed an hour or two with his father and child.
At six o’clock Villefort retired to his study, at eight M. d’Avrignyhimself arrived, bringing the night draught prepared for the younggirl, and then M. Noirtier was carried away. A nurse of the doctor’schoice succeeded them, and never left till about ten or eleven o’clock,when Valentine was asleep. As she went downstairs she gave the keys ofValentine’s room to M. de Villefort, so that no one could reach thesick-room excepting through that of Madame de Villefort and littleEdward.
Every morning Morrel called on Noirtier to receive news of Valentine,and, extraordinary as it seemed, each day found him less uneasy.Certainly, though Valentine still labored under dreadful nervousexcitement, she was better; and moreover, Monte Cristo had told himwhen, half distracted, he had rushed to the count’s house, that if shewere not dead in two hours she would be saved. Now four days hadelapsed, and Valentine still lived.
The nervous excitement of which we speak pursued Valentine even in hersleep, or rather in that state of somnolence which succeeded her wakinghours; it was then, in the silence of night, in the dim light shed fromthe alabaster lamp on the chimney-piece, that she saw the shadows passand repass which hover over the bed of sickness, and fan the fever withtheir trembling wings. First she fancied she saw her stepmotherthreatening her, then Morrel stretched his arms towards her; sometimesmere strangers, like the Count of Monte Cristo came to visit her; eventhe very furniture, in these moments of delirium, seemed to move, andthis state lasted till about three o’clock in the morning, when a deep,heavy slumber overcame the young girl, from which she did not awaketill daylight.
On the evening of the day on which Valentine had learned of the flightof Eugénie and the arrest of Benedetto,—Villefort having retired aswell as Noirtier and d’Avrigny,—her thoughts wandered in a confusedmaze, alternately reviewing her own situation and the events she hadjust heard.
Eleven o’clock had struck. The nurse, having placed the beverageprepared by the doctor within reach of the patient, and locked thedoor, was listening with terror to the comments of the servants in thekitchen, and storing her memory with all the horrible stories which hadfor some months past amused the occupants of the antechambers in thehouse of the king’s attorney. Meanwhile an unexpected scene was passingin the room which had been so carefully locked.
Ten minutes had elapsed since the nurse had left; Valentine, who forthe last hour had been suffering from the fever which returned nightly,incapable of controlling her ideas, was forced to yield to theexcitement which exhausted itself in producing and reproducing asuccession and recurrence of the same fancies and images. Thenight-lamp threw out countless rays, each resolving itself into somestrange form to her disordered imagination, when suddenly by itsflickering light Valentine thought she saw the door of her library,which was in the recess by the chimney-piece, open slowly, though shein vain listened for the sound of the hinges on which it turned.
At any other time Valentine would have seized the silken bell-pull andsummoned assistance, but nothing astonished her in her presentsituation. Her reason told her that all the visions she beheld were butthe children of her imagination, and the conviction was strengthened bythe fact that in the morning no traces remained of the nocturnalphantoms, who disappeared with the coming of daylight.
From behind the door a human figure appeared, but the girl was toofamiliar with such apparitions to be alarmed, and therefore onlystared, hoping to recognize Morrel. The figure advanced towards the bedand appeared to listen with profound attention. At this moment a ray oflight glanced across the face of the midnight visitor.
“It is not he,” she murmured, and waited, in the assurance that thiswas but a dream, for the man to disappear or assume some other form.Still, she felt her pulse, and finding it throb violently sheremembered that the best method of dispelling such illusions was todrink, for a draught of the beverage prepared by the doctor to allayher fever seemed to cause a reaction of the brain, and for a short timeshe suffered less. Valentine therefore reached her hand towards theglass, but as soon as her trembling arm left the bed the apparitionadvanced more quickly towards her, and approached the young girl soclosely that she fancied she heard his breath, and felt the pressure ofhis hand.
This time the illusion, or rather the reality, surpassed anythingValentine had before experienced; she began to believe herself reallyalive and awake, and the belief that her reason was this time notdeceived made her shudder. The pressure she felt was evidently intendedto arrest her arm, and she slowly withdrew it. Then the figure, fromwhom she could not detach her eyes, and who appeared more protectingthan menacing, took the glass, and walking towards the night-light heldit up, as if to test its transparency. This did not seem sufficient;the man, or rather the ghost—for he trod so softly that no sound washeard—then poured out about a spoonful into the glass, and drank it.
Valentine witnessed this scene with a sentiment of stupefaction. Everyminute she had expected that it would vanish and give place to anothervision; but the man, instead of dissolving like a shadow, againapproached her, and said in an agitated voice, “Now you may drink.”
Valentine shuddered. It was the first time one of these visions hadever addressed her in a living voice, and she was about to utter anexclamation. The man placed his finger on her lips.
“The Count of Monte Cristo!” she murmured.
It was easy to see that no doubt now remained in the young girl’s mindas to the reality of the scene; her eyes started with terror, her handstrembled, and she rapidly drew the bedclothes closer to her. Still, thepresence of Monte Cristo at such an hour, his mysterious, fanciful, andextraordinary entrance into her room through the wall, might well seemimpossibilities to her shattered reason.
“Do not call anyone—do not be alarmed,” said the count; “do not let ashade of suspicion or uneasiness remain in your breast; the manstanding before you, Valentine (for this time it is no ghost), isnothing more than the tenderest father and the most respectful friendyou could dream of.”
Valentine could not reply; the voice which indicated the real presenceof a being in the room, alarmed her so much that she feared to utter asyllable; still the expression of her eyes seemed to inquire, “If yourintentions are pure, why are you here?” The count’s marvellous sagacityunderstood all that was passing in the young girl’s mind.
“Listen to me,” he said, “or, rather, look upon me; look at my face,paler even than usual, and my eyes, red with weariness—for four days Ihave not closed them, for I have been constantly watching you, toprotect and preserve you for Maximilian.”
The blood mounted rapidly to the cheeks of Valentine, for the name justannounced by the count dispelled all the fear with which his presencehad inspired her.
“Maximilian!” she exclaimed, and so sweet did the sound appear to her,that she repeated it—“Maximilian!—has he then owned all to you?”
“Everything. He told me your life was his, and I have promised him thatyou shall live.”
“You have promised him that I shall live?”
“Yes.”
“But, sir, you spoke of vigilance and protection. Are you a doctor?”
“Yes; the best you could have at the present time, believe me.”
“But you say you have watched?” said Valentine uneasily; “where haveyou been?—I have not seen you.”
The count extended his hand towards the library.
“I was hidden behind that door,” he said, “which leads into the nexthouse, which I have rented.”
Valentine turned her eyes away, and, with an indignant expression ofpride and modest fear, exclaimed:
“Sir, I think you have been guilty of an unparalleled intrusion, andthat what you call protection is more like an insult.”
“Valentine,” he answered, “during my long watch over you, all I haveobserved has been what people visited you, what nourishment wasprepared, and what beverage was served; then, when the latter appeareddangerous to me, I entered, as I have now done, and substituted, in theplace of the poison, a healthful draught; which, instead of producingthe death intended, caused life to circulate in your veins.”
“Poison—death!” exclaimed Valentine, half believing herself under theinfluence of some feverish hallucination; “what are you saying, sir?”
50071m


“Hush, my child,” said Monte Cristo, again placing his finger upon herlips, “I did say poison and death. But drink some of this;” and thecount took a bottle from his pocket, containing a red liquid, of whichhe poured a few drops into the glass. “Drink this, and then takenothing more tonight.”
Valentine stretched out her hand, but scarcely had she touched theglass when she drew back in fear. Monte Cristo took the glass, drankhalf its contents, and then presented it to Valentine, who smiled andswallowed the rest.
“Oh, yes,” she exclaimed, “I recognize the flavor of my nocturnalbeverage which refreshed me so much, and seemed to ease my achingbrain. Thank you, sir, thank you!”
“This is how you have lived during the last four nights, Valentine,”said the count. “But, oh, how I passed that time! Oh, the wretchedhours I have endured—the torture to which I have submitted when I sawthe deadly poison poured into your glass, and how I trembled lest youshould drink it before I could find time to throw it away!”
“Sir,” said Valentine, at the height of her terror, “you say youendured tortures when you saw the deadly poison poured into my glass;but if you saw this, you must also have seen the person who poured it?”
“Yes.”
Valentine raised herself in bed, and drew over her chest, whichappeared whiter than snow, the embroidered cambric, still moist withthe cold dews of delirium, to which were now added those of terror.“You saw the person?” repeated the young girl.
“Yes,” repeated the count.
“What you tell me is horrible, sir. You wish to make me believesomething too dreadful. What?—attempt to murder me in my father’shouse, in my room, on my bed of sickness? Oh, leave me, sir; you aretempting me—you make me doubt the goodness of Providence—it isimpossible, it cannot be!”
“Are you the first that this hand has stricken? Have you not seen M. deSaint-Méran, Madame de Saint-Méran, Barrois, all fall? Would not M.Noirtier also have fallen a victim, had not the treatment he has beenpursuing for the last three years neutralized the effects of thepoison?”
“Oh, Heaven,” said Valentine; “is this the reason why grandpapa hasmade me share all his beverages during the last month?”
“And have they all tasted of a slightly bitter flavor, like that ofdried orange-peel?”
“Oh, yes, yes!”
“Then that explains all,” said Monte Cristo. “Your grandfather knows,then, that a poisoner lives here; perhaps he even suspects the person.He has been fortifying you, his beloved child, against the fataleffects of the poison, which has failed because your system was alreadyimpregnated with it. But even this would have availed little against amore deadly medium of death employed four days ago, which is generallybut too fatal.”
“But who, then, is this assassin, this murderer?”
“Let me also ask you a question. Have you never seen anyone enter yourroom at night?”
“Oh, yes; I have frequently seen shadows pass close to me, approach,and disappear; but I took them for visions raised by my feverishimagination, and indeed when you entered I thought I was under theinfluence of delirium.”
“Then you do not know who it is that attempts your life?”
50073m


“No,” said Valentine; “who could desire my death?”
“You shall know it now, then,” said Monte Cristo, listening.
“How do you mean?” said Valentine, looking anxiously around.
“Because you are not feverish or delirious tonight, but thoroughlyawake; midnight is striking, which is the hour murderers choose.”
“Oh, heavens,” exclaimed Valentine, wiping off the drops which ran downher forehead. Midnight struck slowly and sadly; every hour seemed tostrike with leaden weight upon the heart of the poor girl.
“Valentine,” said the count, “summon up all your courage; still thebeatings of your heart; do not let a sound escape you, and feign to beasleep; then you will see.”
Valentine seized the count’s hand. “I think I hear a noise,” she said;“leave me.”
“Good-bye, for the present,” replied the count, walking upon tiptoetowards the library door, and smiling with an expression so sad andpaternal that the young girl’s heart was filled with gratitude.
Before closing the door he turned around once more, and said, “Not amovement—not a word; let them think you asleep, or perhaps you may bekilled before I have the power of helping you.”
And with this fearful injunction the count disappeared through thedoor, which noiselessly closed after him.


 Chapter 101. Locusta
Valentine was alone; two other clocks, slower than that ofSaint-Philippe-du-Roule, struck the hour of midnight from differentdirections, and excepting the rumbling of a few carriages all wassilent. Then Valentine’s attention was engrossed by the clock in herroom, which marked the seconds. She began counting them, remarking thatthey were much slower than the beatings of her heart; and still shedoubted,—the inoffensive Valentine could not imagine that anyone shoulddesire her death. Why should they? To what end? What had she done toexcite the malice of an enemy?
There was no fear of her falling asleep. One terrible idea pressed uponher mind,—that someone existed in the world who had attempted toassassinate her, and who was about to endeavor to do so again.Supposing this person, wearied at the inefficacy of the poison, should,as Monte Cristo intimated, have recourse to steel!—What if the countshould have no time to run to her rescue!—What if her last moments wereapproaching, and she should never again see Morrel!
When this terrible chain of ideas presented itself, Valentine wasnearly persuaded to ring the bell, and call for help. But through thedoor she fancied she saw the luminous eye of the count—that eye whichlived in her memory, and the recollection overwhelmed her with so muchshame that she asked herself whether any amount of gratitude could everrepay his adventurous and devoted friendship.
Twenty minutes, twenty tedious minutes, passed thus, then ten more, andat last the clock struck the half-hour.
Just then the sound of finger-nails slightly grating against the doorof the library informed Valentine that the count was still watching,and recommended her to do the same; at the same time, on the oppositeside, that is towards Edward’s room, Valentine fancied that she heardthe creaking of the floor; she listened attentively, holding her breathtill she was nearly suffocated; the lock turned, and the door slowlyopened. Valentine had raised herself upon her elbow, and had scarcelytime to throw herself down on the bed and shade her eyes with her arm;then, trembling, agitated, and her heart beating with indescribableterror, she awaited the event.
Someone approached the bed and drew back the curtains. Valentinesummoned every effort, and breathed with that regular respiration whichannounces tranquil sleep.
“Valentine!” said a low voice.
The girl shuddered to the heart but did not reply.
“Valentine,” repeated the same voice.
Still silent: Valentine had promised not to wake. Then everything wasstill, excepting that Valentine heard the almost noiseless sound ofsome liquid being poured into the glass she had just emptied. Then sheventured to open her eyelids, and glance over her extended arm. She sawa woman in a white dressing-gown pouring a liquor from a phial into herglass. During this short time Valentine must have held her breath, ormoved in some slight degree, for the woman, disturbed, stopped andleaned over the bed, in order the better to ascertain whether Valentineslept: it was Madame de Villefort.
On recognizing her step-mother, Valentine could not repress a shudder,which caused a vibration in the bed. Madame de Villefort instantlystepped back close to the wall, and there, shaded by the bed-curtains,she silently and attentively watched the slightest movement ofValentine. The latter recollected the terrible caution of Monte Cristo;she fancied that the hand not holding the phial clasped a long sharpknife. Then collecting all her remaining strength, she forced herselfto close her eyes; but this simple operation upon the most delicateorgans of our frame, generally so easy to accomplish, became almostimpossible at this moment, so much did curiosity struggle to retain theeyelid open and learn the truth. Madame de Villefort, however,reassured by the silence, which was alone disturbed by the regularbreathing of Valentine, again extended her hand, and half hidden by thecurtains succeeded in emptying the contents of the phial into theglass. Then she retired so gently that Valentine did not know she hadleft the room. She only witnessed the withdrawal of the arm—the fairround arm of a woman but twenty-five years old, and who yet spreaddeath around her.
50077m


It is impossible to describe the sensations experienced by Valentineduring the minute and a half Madame de Villefort remained in the room.
The grating against the library-door aroused the young girl from thestupor in which she was plunged, and which almost amounted toinsensibility. She raised her head with an effort. The noiseless dooragain turned on its hinges, and the Count of Monte Cristo reappeared.
“Well,” said he, “do you still doubt?”
“Oh,” murmured the young girl.
“Have you seen?”
“Alas!”
“Did you recognize?” Valentine groaned.
“Oh, yes;” she said, “I saw, but I cannot believe!”
“Would you rather die, then, and cause Maximilian’s death?”
“Oh,” repeated the young girl, almost bewildered, “can I not leave thehouse?—can I not escape?”
“Valentine, the hand which now threatens you will pursue youeverywhere; your servants will be seduced with gold, and death will beoffered to you disguised in every shape. You will find it in the wateryou drink from the spring, in the fruit you pluck from the tree.”
“But did you not say that my kind grandfather’s precaution hadneutralized the poison?”
“Yes, but not against a strong dose; the poison will be changed, andthe quantity increased.” He took the glass and raised it to his lips.“It is already done,” he said; “brucine is no longer employed, but asimple narcotic! I can recognize the flavor of the alcohol in which ithas been dissolved. If you had taken what Madame de Villefort haspoured into your glass, Valentine—Valentine—you would have beendoomed!”
“But,” exclaimed the young girl, “why am I thus pursued?”
“Why?—are you so kind—so good—so unsuspicious of ill, that you cannotunderstand, Valentine?”
“No, I have never injured her.”
“But you are rich, Valentine; you have 200,000 livres a year, and youprevent her son from enjoying these 200,000 livres.”
“How so? The fortune is not her gift, but is inherited from myrelations.”
“Certainly; and that is why M. and Madame de Saint-Méran have died;that is why M. Noirtier was sentenced the day he made you his heir;that is why you, in your turn, are to die—it is because your fatherwould inherit your property, and your brother, his only son, succeed tohis.”
“Edward? Poor child! Are all these crimes committed on his account?”
“Ah, then you at length understand?”
“Heaven grant that this may not be visited upon him!”
“Valentine, you are an angel!”
“But why is my grandfather allowed to live?”
“It was considered, that you dead, the fortune would naturally revertto your brother, unless he were disinherited; and besides, the crimeappearing useless, it would be folly to commit it.”
“And is it possible that this frightful combination of crimes has beeninvented by a woman?”
“Do you recollect in the arbor of the Hôtel des Postes, at Perugia,seeing a man in a brown cloak, whom your stepmother was questioningupon _aqua tofana_? Well, ever since then, the infernal project hasbeen ripening in her brain.”
“Ah, then, indeed, sir,” said the sweet girl, bathed in tears, “I seethat I am condemned to die!”
“No, Valentine, for I have foreseen all their plots; no, your enemy isconquered since we know her, and you will live, Valentine—live to behappy yourself, and to confer happiness upon a noble heart; but toinsure this you must rely on me.”
“Command me, sir—what am I to do?”
“You must blindly take what I give you.”
“Alas, were it only for my own sake, I should prefer to die!”
“You must not confide in anyone—not even in your father.”
“My father is not engaged in this fearful plot, is he, sir?” askedValentine, clasping her hands.
“No; and yet your father, a man accustomed to judicial accusations,ought to have known that all these deaths have not happened naturally;it is he who should have watched over you—he should have occupied myplace—he should have emptied that glass—he should have risen againstthe assassin. Spectre against spectre!” he murmured in a low voice, ashe concluded his sentence.
“Sir,” said Valentine, “I will do all I can to live, for there are twobeings who love me and will die if I die—my grandfather andMaximilian.”
“I will watch over them as I have over you.”
“Well, sir, do as you will with me;” and then she added, in a lowvoice, “oh, heavens, what will befall me?”
“Whatever may happen, Valentine, do not be alarmed; though you suffer;though you lose sight, hearing, consciousness, fear nothing; though youshould awake and be ignorant where you are, still do not fear; eventhough you should find yourself in a sepulchral vault or coffin.Reassure yourself, then, and say to yourself: ‘At this moment, afriend, a father, who lives for my happiness and that of Maximilian,watches over me!’”
“Alas, alas, what a fearful extremity!”
“Valentine, would you rather denounce your stepmother?”
“I would rather die a hundred times—oh, yes, die!”
“No, you will not die; but will you promise me, whatever happens, thatyou will not complain, but hope?”
“I will think of Maximilian!”
“You are my own darling child, Valentine! I alone can save you, and Iwill.”
Valentine in the extremity of her terror joined her hands,—for she feltthat the moment had arrived to ask for courage,—and began to pray, andwhile uttering little more than incoherent words, she forgot that herwhite shoulders had no other covering than her long hair, and that thepulsations of her heart could be seen through the lace of hernightdress. Monte Cristo gently laid his hand on the young girl’s arm,drew the velvet coverlet close to her throat, and said with a paternalsmile:
“My child, believe in my devotion to you as you believe in the goodnessof Providence and the love of Maximilian.” Valentine gave him a lookfull of gratitude, and remained as docile as a child.
Then he drew from his waistcoat-pocket the little emerald box, raisedthe golden lid, and took from it a pastille about the size of a pea,which he placed in her hand. She took it, and looked attentively on thecount; there was an expression on the face of her intrepid protectorwhich commanded her veneration. She evidently interrogated him by herlook.
“Yes,” said he.
Valentine carried the pastille to her mouth, and swallowed it.
“And now, my dear child, adieu for the present. I will try and gain alittle sleep, for you are saved.”
“Go,” said Valentine, “whatever happens, I promise you not to fear.”
Monte Cristo for some time kept his eyes fixed on the young girl, whogradually fell asleep, yielding to the effects of the narcotic thecount had given her. Then he took the glass, emptied three parts of thecontents in the fireplace, that it might be supposed Valentine hadtaken it, and replaced it on the table; then he disappeared, afterthrowing a farewell glance on Valentine, who slept with the confidenceand innocence of an angel at the feet of the Lord.


 Chapter 102. Valentine
The night-light continued to burn on the chimney-piece, exhausting thelast drops of oil which floated on the surface of the water. The globeof the lamp appeared of a reddish hue, and the flame, brighteningbefore it expired, threw out the last flickerings which in an inanimateobject have been so often compared with the convulsions of a humancreature in its final agonies. A dull and dismal light was shed overthe bedclothes and curtains surrounding the young girl. All noise inthe streets had ceased, and the silence was frightful.
It was then that the door of Edward’s room opened, and a head we havebefore noticed appeared in the glass opposite; it was Madame deVillefort, who came to witness the effects of the drink she hadprepared. She stopped in the doorway, listened for a moment to theflickering of the lamp, the only sound in that deserted room, and thenadvanced to the table to see if Valentine’s glass were empty. It wasstill about a quarter full, as we before stated. Madame de Villefortemptied the contents into the ashes, which she disturbed that theymight the more readily absorb the liquid; then she carefully rinsed theglass, and wiping it with her handkerchief replaced it on the table.
If anyone could have looked into the room just then he would havenoticed the hesitation with which Madame de Villefort approached thebed and looked fixedly on Valentine. The dim light, the profoundsilence, and the gloomy thoughts inspired by the hour, and still moreby her own conscience, all combined to produce a sensation of fear; thepoisoner was terrified at the contemplation of her own work.
At length she rallied, drew aside the curtain, and leaning over thepillow gazed intently on Valentine. The young girl no longer breathed,no breath issued through the half-closed teeth; the white lips nolonger quivered—the eyes were suffused with a bluish vapor, and thelong black lashes rested on a cheek white as wax. Madame de Villefortgazed upon the face so expressive even in its stillness; then sheventured to raise the coverlet and press her hand upon the young girl’sheart. It was cold and motionless. She only felt the pulsation in herown fingers, and withdrew her hand with a shudder. One arm was hangingout of the bed; from shoulder to elbow it was moulded after the arms ofGermain Pillon’s “Graces,”23 but the fore-arm seemed to be slightlydistorted by convulsion, and the hand, so delicately formed, wasresting with stiff outstretched fingers on the framework of the bed.The nails, too, were turning blue.
Madame de Villefort had no longer any doubt; all was over—she hadconsummated the last terrible work she had to accomplish. There was nomore to do in the room, so the poisoner retired stealthily, as thoughfearing to hear the sound of her own footsteps; but as she withdrew shestill held aside the curtain, absorbed in the irresistible attractionalways exerted by the picture of death, so long as it is merelymysterious and does not excite disgust.
The minutes passed; Madame de Villefort could not drop the curtainwhich she held like a funeral pall over the head of Valentine. She waslost in reverie, and the reverie of crime is remorse.
Just then the lamp again flickered; the noise startled Madame deVillefort, who shuddered and dropped the curtain. Immediatelyafterwards the light expired, and the room was plunged in frightfulobscurity, while the clock at that minute struck half-past four.
Overpowered with agitation, the poisoner succeeded in groping her wayto the door, and reached her room in an agony of fear. The darknesslasted two hours longer; then by degrees a cold light crept through theVenetian blinds, until at length it revealed the objects in the room.
About this time the nurse’s cough was heard on the stairs and the womanentered the room with a cup in her hand. To the tender eye of a fatheror a lover, the first glance would have sufficed to reveal Valentine’scondition; but to this hireling, Valentine only appeared to sleep.
“Good,” she exclaimed, approaching the table, “she has taken part ofher draught; the glass is three-quarters empty.”
Then she went to the fireplace and lit the fire, and although she hadjust left her bed, she could not resist the temptation offered byValentine’s sleep, so she threw herself into an armchair to snatch alittle more rest. The clock striking eight awoke her. Astonished at theprolonged slumber of the patient, and frightened to see that the armwas still hanging out of the bed, she advanced towards Valentine, andfor the first time noticed the white lips. She tried to replace thearm, but it moved with a frightful rigidity which could not deceive asick-nurse. She screamed aloud; then running to the door exclaimed:
“Help, help!”
50083m


“What is the matter?” asked M. d’Avrigny, at the foot of the stairs, itbeing the hour he usually visited her.
“What is it?” asked Villefort, rushing from his room. “Doctor, do youhear them call for help?”
“Yes, yes; let us hasten up; it was in Valentine’s room.”
But before the doctor and the father could reach the room, the servantswho were on the same floor had entered, and seeing Valentine pale andmotionless on her bed, they lifted up their hands towards heaven andstood transfixed, as though struck by lightening.
“Call Madame de Villefort!—Wake Madame de Villefort!” cried theprocureur from the door of his chamber, which apparently he scarcelydared to leave. But instead of obeying him, the servants stood watchingM. d’Avrigny, who ran to Valentine, and raised her in his arms.
“What?—this one, too?” he exclaimed. “Oh, where will be the end?”
Villefort rushed into the room.
“What are you saying, doctor?” he exclaimed, raising his hands toheaven.
“I say that Valentine is dead!” replied d’Avrigny, in a voice terriblein its solemn calmness.
50085m


M. de Villefort staggered and buried his head in the bed. On theexclamation of the doctor and the cry of the father, the servants allfled with muttered imprecations; they were heard running down thestairs and through the long passages, then there was a rush in thecourt, afterwards all was still; they had, one and all, deserted theaccursed house.
Just then, Madame de Villefort, in the act of slipping on herdressing-gown, threw aside the drapery and for a moment stoodmotionless, as though interrogating the occupants of the room, whileshe endeavored to call up some rebellious tears. On a sudden shestepped, or rather bounded, with outstretched arms, towards the table.She saw d’Avrigny curiously examining the glass, which she felt certainof having emptied during the night. It was now a third full, just as itwas when she threw the contents into the ashes. The spectre ofValentine rising before the poisoner would have alarmed her less. Itwas, indeed, the same color as the draught she had poured into theglass, and which Valentine had drunk; it was indeed the poison, whichcould not deceive M. d’Avrigny, which he now examined so closely; itwas doubtless a miracle from heaven, that, notwithstanding herprecautions, there should be some trace, some proof remaining to revealthe crime.
While Madame de Villefort remained rooted to the spot like a statue ofterror, and Villefort, with his head hidden in the bedclothes, sawnothing around him, d’Avrigny approached the window, that he might thebetter examine the contents of the glass, and dipping the tip of hisfinger in, tasted it.
“Ah,” he exclaimed, “it is no longer brucine that is used; let me seewhat it is!”
Then he ran to one of the cupboards in Valentine’s room, which had beentransformed into a medicine closet, and taking from its silver case asmall bottle of nitric acid, dropped a little of it into the liquor,which immediately changed to a blood-red color.
“Ah,” exclaimed d’Avrigny, in a voice in which the horror of a judgeunveiling the truth was mingled with the delight of a student making adiscovery.
Madame de Villefort was overpowered; her eyes first flashed and thenswam, she staggered towards the door and disappeared. Directlyafterwards the distant sound of a heavy weight falling on the groundwas heard, but no one paid any attention to it; the nurse was engagedin watching the chemical analysis, and Villefort was still absorbed ingrief. M. d’Avrigny alone had followed Madame de Villefort with hiseyes, and watched her hurried retreat. He lifted up the drapery overthe entrance to Edward’s room, and his eye reaching as far as Madame deVillefort’s apartment, he beheld her extended lifeless on the floor.
“Go to the assistance of Madame de Villefort,” he said to the nurse.“Madame de Villefort is ill.”
50087m


“But Mademoiselle de Villefort——” stammered the nurse.
“Mademoiselle de Villefort no longer requires help,” said d’Avrigny,“since she is dead.”
“Dead,—dead!” groaned forth Villefort, in a paroxysm of grief, whichwas the more terrible from the novelty of the sensation in the ironheart of that man.
“Dead!” repeated a third voice. “Who said Valentine was dead?”
The two men turned round, and saw Morrel standing at the door, pale andterror-stricken. This is what had happened. At the usual time, Morrelhad presented himself at the little door leading to Noirtier’s room.Contrary to custom, the door was open, and having no occasion to ringhe entered. He waited for a moment in the hall and called for a servantto conduct him to M. Noirtier; but no one answered, the servantshaving, as we know, deserted the house. Morrel had no particular reasonfor uneasiness; Monte Cristo had promised him that Valentine shouldlive, and so far he had always fulfilled his word. Every night thecount had given him news, which was the next morning confirmed byNoirtier. Still this extraordinary silence appeared strange to him, andhe called a second and third time; still no answer. Then he determinedto go up. Noirtier’s room was opened, like all the rest. The firstthing he saw was the old man sitting in his armchair in his usualplace, but his eyes expressed alarm, which was confirmed by the pallorwhich overspread his features.
“How are you, sir?” asked Morrel, with a sickness of heart.
“Well,” answered the old man, by closing his eyes; but his appearancemanifested increasing uneasiness.
“You are thoughtful, sir,” continued Morrel; “you want something; shallI call one of the servants?”
“Yes,” replied Noirtier.
Morrel pulled the bell, but though he nearly broke the cord no oneanswered. He turned towards Noirtier; the pallor and anguish expressedon his countenance momentarily increased.
“Oh,” exclaimed Morrel, “why do they not come? Is anyone ill in thehouse?” The eyes of Noirtier seemed as though they would start fromtheir sockets. “What is the matter? You alarm me. Valentine?Valentine?”
“Yes, yes,” signed Noirtier.
Maximilian tried to speak, but he could articulate nothing; hestaggered, and supported himself against the wainscot. Then he pointedto the door.
“Yes, yes, yes!” continued the old man.
50089m


Maximilian rushed up the little staircase, while Noirtier’s eyes seemedto say,—“Quicker, quicker!”
In a minute the young man darted through several rooms, till at lengthhe reached Valentine’s.
There was no occasion to push the door, it was wide open. A sob was theonly sound he heard. He saw as though in a mist, a black figurekneeling and buried in a confused mass of white drapery. A terriblefear transfixed him. It was then he heard a voice exclaim “Valentine isdead!” and another voice which, like an echo repeated:
“Dead,—dead!”
50090m



 Chapter 103. Maximilian
Villefort rose, half-ashamed of being surprised in such a paroxysm ofgrief. The terrible office he had held for twenty-five years hadsucceeded in making him more or less than man. His glance, at firstwandering, fixed itself upon Morrel. “Who are you, sir,” he asked,“that forget that this is not the manner to enter a house stricken withdeath? Go, sir, go!”
But Morrel remained motionless; he could not detach his eyes from thatdisordered bed, and the pale corpse of the young girl who was lying onit.
“Go!—do you hear?” said Villefort, while d’Avrigny advanced to leadMorrel out. Maximilian stared for a moment at the corpse, gazed allaround the room, then upon the two men; he opened his mouth to speak,but finding it impossible to give utterance to the innumerable ideasthat occupied his brain, he went out, thrusting his hands through hishair in such a manner that Villefort and d’Avrigny, for a momentdiverted from the engrossing topic, exchanged glances, which seemed tosay,—“He is mad!”
But in less than five minutes the staircase groaned beneath anextraordinary weight. Morrel was seen carrying, with superhumanstrength, the armchair containing Noirtier upstairs. When he reachedthe landing he placed the armchair on the floor and rapidly rolled itinto Valentine’s room. This could only have been accomplished by meansof unnatural strength supplied by powerful excitement. But the mostfearful spectacle was Noirtier being pushed towards the bed, his faceexpressing all his meaning, and his eyes supplying the want of everyother faculty. That pale face and flaming glance appeared to Villefortlike a frightful apparition. Each time he had been brought into contactwith his father, something terrible had happened.
“See what they have done!” cried Morrel, with one hand leaning on theback of the chair, and the other extended towards Valentine. “See, myfather, see!”
Villefort drew back and looked with astonishment on the young man, who,almost a stranger to him, called Noirtier his father. At this momentthe whole soul of the old man seemed centred in his eyes which becamebloodshot; the veins of the throat swelled; his cheeks and templesbecame purple, as though he was struck with epilepsy; nothing waswanting to complete this but the utterance of a cry. And the cry issuedfrom his pores, if we may thus speak—a cry frightful in its silence.D’Avrigny rushed towards the old man and made him inhale a powerfulrestorative.
“Sir,” cried Morrel, seizing the moist hand of the paralytic, “they askme who I am, and what right I have to be here. Oh, you know it, tellthem, tell them!” And the young man’s voice was choked by sobs.
As for the old man, his chest heaved with his panting respiration. Onecould have thought that he was undergoing the agonies preceding death.At length, happier than the young man, who sobbed without weeping,tears glistened in the eyes of Noirtier.
“Tell them,” said Morrel in a hoarse voice, “tell them that I am herbetrothed. Tell them she was my beloved, my noble girl, my onlyblessing in the world. Tell them—oh, tell them, that corpse belongs tome!”
The young man overwhelmed by the weight of his anguish, fell heavily onhis knees before the bed, which his fingers grasped with convulsiveenergy. D’Avrigny, unable to bear the sight of this touching emotion,turned away; and Villefort, without seeking any further explanation,and attracted towards him by the irresistible magnetism which draws ustowards those who have loved the people for whom we mourn, extended hishand towards the young man.
But Morrel saw nothing; he had grasped the hand of Valentine, andunable to weep vented his agony in groans as he bit the sheets. Forsome time nothing was heard in that chamber but sobs, exclamations, andprayers. At length Villefort, the most composed of all, spoke:
“Sir,” said he to Maximilian, “you say you loved Valentine, that youwere betrothed to her. I knew nothing of this engagement, of this love,yet I, her father, forgive you, for I see that your grief is real anddeep; and besides my own sorrow is too great for anger to find a placein my heart. But you see that the angel whom you hoped for has leftthis earth—she has nothing more to do with the adoration of men. Take alast farewell, sir, of her sad remains; take the hand you expected topossess once more within your own, and then separate yourself from herforever. Valentine now requires only the ministrations of the priest.”
50093m


“You are mistaken, sir,” exclaimed Morrel, raising himself on one knee,his heart pierced by a more acute pang than any he had yet felt—“youare mistaken; Valentine, dying as she has, not only requires a priest,but an avenger. _You_, M. de Villefort, send for the priest; _I_ willbe the avenger.”
“What do you mean, sir?” asked Villefort, trembling at the new ideainspired by the delirium of Morrel.
“I tell you, sir, that two persons exist in you; the father has mournedsufficiently, now let the procureur fulfil his office.”
The eyes of Noirtier glistened, and d’Avrigny approached.
“Gentlemen,” said Morrel, reading all that passed through the minds ofthe witnesses to the scene, “I know what I am saying, and you know aswell as I do what I am about to say—Valentine has been assassinated!”
Villefort hung his head, d’Avrigny approached nearer, and Noirtier said“Yes” with his eyes.
“Now, sir,” continued Morrel, “in these days no one can disappear byviolent means without some inquiries being made as to the cause of herdisappearance, even were she not a young, beautiful, and adorablecreature like Valentine. Now, M. le Procureur du Roi,” said Morrel withincreasing vehemence, “no mercy is allowed; I denounce the crime; it isyour place to seek the assassin.”
The young man’s implacable eyes interrogated Villefort, who, on hisside, glanced from Noirtier to d’Avrigny. But instead of findingsympathy in the eyes of the doctor and his father, he only saw anexpression as inflexible as that of Maximilian.
“Yes,” indicated the old man.
“Assuredly,” said d’Avrigny.
“Sir,” said Villefort, striving to struggle against this triple forceand his own emotion,—“sir, you are deceived; no one commits crimeshere. I am stricken by fate. It is horrible, indeed, but no oneassassinates.”
The eyes of Noirtier lighted up with rage, and d’Avrigny prepared tospeak. Morrel, however, extended his arm, and commanded silence.
“And I say that murders _are_ committed here,” said Morrel, whosevoice, though lower in tone, lost none of its terrible distinctness: “Itell you that this is the fourth victim within the last four months. Itell you, Valentine’s life was attempted by poison four days ago,though she escaped, owing to the precautions of M. Noirtier. I tell youthat the dose has been double, the poison changed, and that this timeit has succeeded. I tell you that you know these things as well as Ido, since this gentleman has forewarned you, both as a doctor and as afriend.”
“Oh, you rave, sir,” exclaimed Villefort, in vain endeavoring to escapethe net in which he was taken.
50095m


“I rave?” said Morrel; “well, then, I appeal to M. d’Avrigny himself.Ask him, sir, if he recollects the words he uttered in the garden ofthis house on the night of Madame de Saint-Méran’s death. You thoughtyourselves alone, and talked about that tragical death, and thefatality you mentioned then is the same which has caused the murder ofValentine.” Villefort and d’Avrigny exchanged looks.
“Yes, yes,” continued Morrel; “recall the scene, for the words youthought were only given to silence and solitude fell into my ears.Certainly, after witnessing the culpable indolence manifested by M. deVillefort towards his own relations, I ought to have denounced him tothe authorities; then I should not have been an accomplice to thydeath, as I now am, sweet, beloved Valentine; but the accomplice shallbecome the avenger. This fourth murder is apparent to all, and if thyfather abandon thee, Valentine, it is I, and I swear it, that shallpursue the assassin.”
And this time, as though nature had at least taken compassion on thevigorous frame, nearly bursting with its own strength, the words ofMorrel were stifled in his throat; his breast heaved; the tears, solong rebellious, gushed from his eyes; and he threw himself weeping onhis knees by the side of the bed.
Then d’Avrigny spoke. “And I, too,” he exclaimed in a low voice, “Iunite with M. Morrel in demanding justice for crime; my blood boils atthe idea of having encouraged a murderer by my cowardly concession.”
“Oh, merciful Heavens!” murmured Villefort. Morrel raised his head, andreading the eyes of the old man, which gleamed with unnatural lustre,—
“Stay,” he said, “M. Noirtier wishes to speak.”
“Yes,” indicated Noirtier, with an expression the more terrible, fromall his faculties being centred in his glance.
“Do you know the assassin?” asked Morrel.
“Yes,” replied Noirtier.
“And will you direct us?” exclaimed the young man. “Listen, M.d’Avrigny, listen!”
Noirtier looked upon Morrel with one of those melancholy smiles whichhad so often made Valentine happy, and thus fixed his attention. Then,having riveted the eyes of his interlocutor on his own, he glancedtowards the door.
“Do you wish me to leave?” said Morrel, sadly.
“Yes,” replied Noirtier.
“Alas, alas, sir, have pity on me!”
The old man’s eyes remained fixed on the door.
“May I, at least, return?” asked Morrel.
“Yes.”
“Must I leave alone?”
“No.”
“Whom am I to take with me? The procureur?”
“No.”
“The doctor?”
“Yes.”
“You wish to remain alone with M. de Villefort?”
“Yes.”
“But can he understand you?”
“Yes.”
“Oh,” said Villefort, inexpressibly delighted to think that theinquiries were to be made by him alone,—“oh, be satisfied, I canunderstand my father.” While uttering these words with this expressionof joy, his teeth clashed together violently.
D’Avrigny took the young man’s arm, and led him out of the room. A morethan deathlike silence then reigned in the house. At the end of aquarter of an hour a faltering footstep was heard, and Villefortappeared at the door of the apartment where d’Avrigny and Morrel hadbeen staying, one absorbed in meditation, the other in grief.
“You can come,” he said, and led them back to Noirtier.
Morrel looked attentively on Villefort. His face was livid, large dropsrolled down his face, and in his fingers he held the fragments of aquill pen which he had torn to atoms.
“Gentlemen,” he said in a hoarse voice, “give me your word of honorthat this horrible secret shall forever remain buried amongstourselves!” The two men drew back.
“I entreat you——” continued Villefort.
“But,” said Morrel, “the culprit—the murderer—the assassin.”
“Do not alarm yourself, sir; justice will be done,” said Villefort. “Myfather has revealed the culprit’s name; my father thirsts for revengeas much as you do, yet even he conjures you as I do to keep thissecret. Do you not, father?”
“Yes,” resolutely replied Noirtier. Morrel suffered an exclamation ofhorror and surprise to escape him.
“Oh, sir,” said Villefort, arresting Maximilian by the arm, “if myfather, the inflexible man, makes this request, it is because he knows,be assured, that Valentine will be terribly revenged. Is it not so,father?”
The old man made a sign in the affirmative. Villefort continued:
“He knows me, and I have pledged my word to him. Rest assured,gentlemen, that within three days, in a less time than justice woulddemand, the revenge I shall have taken for the murder of my child willbe such as to make the boldest heart tremble;” and as he spoke thesewords he ground his teeth, and grasped the old man’s senseless hand.
“Will this promise be fulfilled, M. Noirtier?” asked Morrel, whiled’Avrigny looked inquiringly.
“Yes,” replied Noirtier with an expression of sinister joy.
“Swear, then,” said Villefort, joining the hands of Morrel andd’Avrigny, “swear that you will spare the honor of my house, and leaveme to avenge my child.”
D’Avrigny turned round and uttered a very feeble “Yes,” but Morrel,disengaging his hand, rushed to the bed, and after having pressed thecold lips of Valentine with his own, hurriedly left, uttering a long,deep groan of despair and anguish.
We have before stated that all the servants had fled. M. de Villefortwas therefore obliged to request M. d’Avrigny to superintend all thearrangements consequent upon a death in a large city, more especially adeath under such suspicious circumstances.
It was something terrible to witness the silent agony, the mute despairof Noirtier, whose tears silently rolled down his cheeks. Villefortretired to his study, and d’Avrigny left to summon the doctor of themayoralty, whose office it is to examine bodies after decease, and whois expressly named “the doctor of the dead.” M. Noirtier could not bepersuaded to quit his grandchild. At the end of a quarter of an hour M.d’Avrigny returned with his associate; they found the outer gateclosed, and not a servant remaining in the house; Villefort himself wasobliged to open to them. But he stopped on the landing; he had not thecourage to again visit the death chamber. The two doctors, therefore,entered the room alone. Noirtier was near the bed, pale, motionless,and silent as the corpse. The district doctor approached with theindifference of a man accustomed to spend half his time amongst thedead; he then lifted the sheet which was placed over the face, and justunclosed the lips.
“Alas,” said d’Avrigny, “she is indeed dead, poor child!”
50099m


“Yes,” answered the doctor laconically, dropping the sheet he hadraised. Noirtier uttered a kind of hoarse, rattling sound; the oldman’s eyes sparkled, and the good doctor understood that he wished tobehold his child. He therefore approached the bed, and while hiscompanion was dipping the fingers with which he had touched the lips ofthe corpse in chloride of lime, he uncovered the calm and pale face,which looked like that of a sleeping angel.
A tear, which appeared in the old man’s eye, expressed his thanks tothe doctor. The doctor of the dead then laid his permit on the cornerof the table, and having fulfilled his duty, was conducted out byd’Avrigny. Villefort met them at the door of his study; having in a fewwords thanked the district doctor, he turned to d’Avrigny, and said:
“And now the priest.”
“Is there any particular priest you wish to pray with Valentine?” askedd’Avrigny.
“No.” said Villefort; “fetch the nearest.”
“The nearest,” said the district doctor, “is a good Italian abbé, wholives next door to you. Shall I call on him as I pass?”
“D’Avrigny,” said Villefort, “be so kind, I beseech you, as toaccompany this gentleman. Here is the key of the door, so that you cango in and out as you please; you will bring the priest with you, andwill oblige me by introducing him into my child’s room.”
50101m


“Do you wish to see him?”
“I only wish to be alone. You will excuse me, will you not? A priestcan understand a father’s grief.”
And M. de Villefort, giving the key to d’Avrigny, again bade farewellto the strange doctor, and retired to his study, where he began towork. For some temperaments work is a remedy for all afflictions.
As the doctors entered the street, they saw a man in a cassock standingon the threshold of the next door.
“This is the abbé of whom I spoke,” said the doctor to d’Avrigny.D’Avrigny accosted the priest.
“Sir,” he said, “are you disposed to confer a great obligation on anunhappy father who has just lost his daughter? I mean M. de Villefort,the king’s attorney.”
“Ah,” said the priest, in a marked Italian accent; “yes, I have heardthat death is in that house.”
“Then I need not tell you what kind of service he requires of you.”
“I was about to offer myself, sir,” said the priest; “it is our missionto forestall our duties.”
“It is a young girl.”
“I know it, sir; the servants who fled from the house informed me. Ialso know that her name is Valentine, and I have already prayed forher.”
“Thank you, sir,” said d’Avrigny; “since you have commenced your sacredoffice, deign to continue it. Come and watch by the dead, and all thewretched family will be grateful to you.”
“I am going, sir; and I do not hesitate to say that no prayers will bemore fervent than mine.”
D’Avrigny took the priest’s hand, and without meeting Villefort, whowas engaged in his study, they reached Valentine’s room, which on thefollowing night was to be occupied by the undertakers. On entering theroom, Noirtier’s eyes met those of the abbé, and no doubt he read someparticular expression in them, for he remained in the room. D’Avrignyrecommended the attention of the priest to the living as well as to thedead, and the abbé promised to devote his prayers to Valentine and hisattentions to Noirtier.
In order, doubtless, that he might not be disturbed while fulfillinghis sacred mission, the priest rose as soon as d’Avrigny departed, andnot only bolted the door through which the doctor had just left, butalso that leading to Madame de Villefort’s room.


 Chapter 104. Danglars’ Signature
The next morning dawned dull and cloudy. During the night theundertakers had executed their melancholy office, and wrapped thecorpse in the winding-sheet, which, whatever may be said about theequality of death, is at least a last proof of the luxury so pleasingin life. This winding-sheet was nothing more than a beautiful piece ofcambric, which the young girl had bought a fortnight before.
During the evening two men, engaged for the purpose, had carriedNoirtier from Valentine’s room into his own, and contrary to allexpectation there was no difficulty in withdrawing him from his child.The Abbé Busoni had watched till daylight, and then left withoutcalling anyone. D’Avrigny returned about eight o’clock in the morning;he met Villefort on his way to Noirtier’s room, and accompanied him tosee how the old man had slept. They found him in the large armchair,which served him for a bed, enjoying a calm, nay, almost a smilingsleep. They both stood in amazement at the door.
“See,” said d’Avrigny to Villefort, “nature knows how to alleviate thedeepest sorrow. No one can say that M. Noirtier did not love his child,and yet he sleeps.”
“Yes, you are right,” replied Villefort, surprised; “he sleeps, indeed!And this is the more strange, since the least contradiction keeps himawake all night.”
“Grief has stunned him,” replied d’Avrigny; and they both returnedthoughtfully to the procureur’s study.
“See, I have not slept,” said Villefort, showing his undisturbed bed;“grief does not stun me. I have not been in bed for two nights; butthen look at my desk; see what I have written during these two days andnights. I have filled those papers, and have made out the accusationagainst the assassin Benedetto. Oh, work, work,—my passion, my joy, mydelight,—it is for thee to alleviate my sorrows!” and he convulsivelygrasped the hand of d’Avrigny.
“Do you require my services now?” asked d’Avrigny.
“No,” said Villefort; “only return again at eleven o’clock; at twelvethe—the—oh, Heavens, my poor, poor child!” and the procureur againbecoming a man, lifted up his eyes and groaned.
“Shall you be present in the reception-room?”
“No; I have a cousin who has undertaken this sad office. I shall work,doctor—when I work I forget everything.”
And, indeed, no sooner had the doctor left the room, than he was againabsorbed in work. On the doorsteps d’Avrigny met the cousin whomVillefort had mentioned, a personage as insignificant in our story asin the world he occupied—one of those beings designed from their birthto make themselves useful to others. He was punctual, dressed in black,with crape around his hat, and presented himself at his cousin’s with aface made up for the occasion, and which he could alter as might berequired.
At eleven o’clock the mourning-coaches rolled into the paved court, andthe Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honoré was filled with a crowd of idlers,equally pleased to witness the festivities or the mourning of the rich,and who rush with the same avidity to a funeral procession as to themarriage of a duchess.
Gradually the reception-room filled, and some of our old friends madetheir appearance—we mean Debray, Château-Renaud, and Beauchamp,accompanied by all the leading men of the day at the bar, inliterature, or the army, for M. de Villefort moved in the firstParisian circles, less owing to his social position than to hispersonal merit.
The cousin standing at the door ushered in the guests, and it wasrather a relief to the indifferent to see a person as unmoved asthemselves, and who did not exact a mournful face or force tears, aswould have been the case with a father, a brother, or a lover. Thosewho were acquainted soon formed into little groups. One of them wasmade of Debray, Château-Renaud, and Beauchamp.
“Poor girl,” said Debray, like the rest, paying an involuntary tributeto the sad event,—“poor girl, so young, so rich, so beautiful! Couldyou have imagined this scene, Château-Renaud, when we saw her, at themost three weeks ago, about to sign that contract?”
“Indeed, no,” said Château-Renaud.”
“Did you know her?”
“I spoke to her once or twice at Madame de Morcerf’s, among the rest;she appeared to me charming, though rather melancholy. Where is herstepmother? Do you know?”
“She is spending the day with the wife of the worthy gentleman who isreceiving us.”
50105m


“Who is he?”
“Whom do you mean?”
“The gentleman who receives us? Is he a deputy?”
“Oh, no. I am condemned to witness those gentlemen every day,” saidBeauchamp; “but he is perfectly unknown to me.”
“Have you mentioned this death in your paper?”
“It has been mentioned, but the article is not mine; indeed, I doubt ifit will please M. Villefort, for it says that if four successive deathshad happened anywhere else than in the house of the king’s attorney, hewould have interested himself somewhat more about it.”
“Still,” said Château-Renaud, “Dr. d’Avrigny, who attends my mother,declares he is in despair about it. But whom are you seeking, Debray?”
“I am seeking the Count of Monte Cristo” said the young man.
“I met him on the boulevard, on my way here,” said Beauchamp. “I thinkhe is about to leave Paris; he was going to his banker.”
“His banker? Danglars is his banker, is he not?” asked Château-Renaudof Debray.
“I believe so,” replied the secretary with slight uneasiness. “ButMonte Cristo is not the only one I miss here; I do not see Morrel.”
“Morrel? Do they know him?” asked Château-Renaud. “I think he has onlybeen introduced to Madame de Villefort.”
“Still, he ought to have been here,” said Debray; “I wonder what willbe talked about tonight; this funeral is the news of the day. But hush,here comes our minister of justice; he will feel obliged to make somelittle speech to the cousin,” and the three young men drew near tolisten.
Beauchamp told the truth when he said that on his way to the funeral hehad met Monte Cristo, who was directing his steps towards the Rue de laChaussée d’Antin, to M. Danglars’. The banker saw the carriage of thecount enter the courtyard, and advanced to meet him with a sad, thoughaffable smile.
“Well,” said he, extending his hand to Monte Cristo, “I suppose youhave come to sympathize with me, for indeed misfortune has takenpossession of my house. When I perceived you, I was just asking myselfwhether I had not wished harm towards those poor Morcerfs, which wouldhave justified the proverb of ‘He who wishes misfortunes to happen toothers experiences them himself.’ Well, on my word of honor, Ianswered, ‘No!’ I wished no ill to Morcerf; he was a little proud,perhaps, for a man who like myself has risen from nothing; but we allhave our faults. Do you know, count, that persons of our time oflife—not that you belong to the class, you are still a young man,—butas I was saying, persons of our time of life have been very unfortunatethis year. For example, look at the puritanical procureur, who has justlost his daughter, and in fact nearly all his family, in so singular amanner; Morcerf dishonored and dead; and then myself covered withridicule through the villany of Benedetto; besides——”
“Besides what?” asked the Count.
“Alas, do you not know?”
“What new calamity?”
“My daughter——”
“Mademoiselle Danglars?”
“Eugénie has left us!”
“Good heavens, what are you telling me?”
“The truth, my dear count. Oh, how happy you must be in not havingeither wife or children!”
“Do you think so?”
“Indeed I do.”
“And so Mademoiselle Danglars——”
“She could not endure the insult offered to us by that wretch, so sheasked permission to travel.”
“And is she gone?”
“The other night she left.”
“With Madame Danglars?”
“No, with a relation. But still, we have quite lost our dear Eugénie;for I doubt whether her pride will ever allow her to return to France.”
“Still, baron,” said Monte Cristo, “family griefs, or indeed any otheraffliction which would crush a man whose child was his only treasure,are endurable to a millionaire. Philosophers may well say, andpractical men will always support the opinion, that money mitigatesmany trials; and if you admit the efficacy of this sovereign balm, youought to be very easily consoled—you, the king of finance, the focus ofimmeasurable power.”
Danglars looked at him askance, as though to ascertain whether he spokeseriously.
“Yes,” he answered, “if a fortune brings consolation, I ought to beconsoled; I am rich.”
“So rich, dear sir, that your fortune resembles the pyramids; if youwished to demolish them you could not, and if it were possible, youwould not dare!”
Danglars smiled at the good-natured pleasantry of the count. “Thatreminds me,” he said, “that when you entered I was on the point ofsigning five little bonds; I have already signed two: will you allow meto do the same to the others?”
“Pray do so.”
There was a moment’s silence, during which the noise of the banker’spen was alone heard, while Monte Cristo examined the gilt mouldings onthe ceiling.
“Are they Spanish, Haitian, or Neapolitan bonds?” said Monte Cristo.
“No,” said Danglars, smiling, “they are bonds on the bank of France,payable to bearer. Stay, count,” he added, “you, who may be called theemperor, if I claim the title of king of finance, have you many piecesof paper of this size, each worth a million?”
The count took into his hands the papers, which Danglars had so proudlypresented to him, and read:—
“‘To the Governor of the Bank. Please pay to my order, from the funddeposited by me, the sum of a million, and charge the same to myaccount.
“Baron Danglars.’”
“One, two, three, four, five,” said Monte Cristo; “five millions—whywhat a Crœsus you are!”
“This is how I transact business,” said Danglars.
“It is really wonderful,” said the count; “above all, if, as I suppose,it is payable at sight.”
“It is, indeed, said Danglars.
“It is a fine thing to have such credit; really, it is only in Francethese things are done. Five millions on five little scraps of paper!—itmust be seen to be believed.”
“You do not doubt it?”
“No!”
“You say so with an accent—stay, you shall be convinced; take my clerkto the bank, and you will see him leave it with an order on theTreasury for the same sum.”
“No,” said Monte Cristo folding the five notes, “most decidedly not;the thing is so curious, I will make the experiment myself. I amcredited on you for six millions. I have drawn nine hundred thousandfrancs, you therefore still owe me five millions and a hundred thousandfrancs. I will take the five scraps of paper that I now hold as bonds,with your signature alone, and here is a receipt in full for the sixmillions between us. I had prepared it beforehand, for I am much inwant of money today.”
And Monte Cristo placed the bonds in his pocket with one hand, whilewith the other he held out the receipt to Danglars. If a thunderbolthad fallen at the banker’s feet, he could not have experienced greaterterror.
“What,” he stammered, “do you mean to keep that money? Excuse me,excuse me, but I owe this money to the charity fund,—a deposit which Ipromised to pay this morning.”
“Oh, well, then,” said Monte Cristo, “I am not particular about thesefive notes, pay me in a different form; I wished, from curiosity, totake these, that I might be able to say that without any advice orpreparation the house of Danglars had paid me five millions without aminute’s delay; it would have been remarkable. But here are your bonds;pay me differently;” and he held the bonds towards Danglars, who seizedthem like a vulture extending its claws to withhold the food that isbeing wrested from its grasp.
Suddenly he rallied, made a violent effort to restrain himself, andthen a smile gradually widened the features of his disturbedcountenance.
50109m


“Certainly,” he said, “your receipt is money.”
“Oh dear, yes; and if you were at Rome, the house of Thomson & Frenchwould make no more difficulty about paying the money on my receipt thanyou have just done.”
“Pardon me, count, pardon me.”
“Then I may keep this money?”
“Yes,” said Danglars, while the perspiration started from the roots ofhis hair. “Yes, keep it—keep it.”
Monte Cristo replaced the notes in his pocket with that indescribableexpression which seemed to say, “Come, reflect; if you repent there isstill time.”
“No,” said Danglars, “no, decidedly no; keep my signatures. But youknow none are so formal as bankers in transacting business; I intendedthis money for the charity fund, and I seemed to be robbing them if Idid not pay them with these precise bonds. How absurd—as if one crownwere not as good as another. Excuse me;” and he began to laugh loudly,but nervously.
“Certainly, I excuse you,” said Monte Cristo graciously, “and pocketthem.” And he placed the bonds in his pocket-book.
“But,” said Danglars, “there is still a sum of one hundred thousandfrancs?”
“Oh, a mere nothing,” said Monte Cristo. “The balance would come toabout that sum; but keep it, and we shall be quits.”
“Count,” said Danglars, “are you speaking seriously?”
“I never joke with bankers,” said Monte Cristo in a freezing manner,which repelled impertinence; and he turned to the door, just as thevalet de chambre announced:
“M. de Boville, Receiver-General of the charities.”
“_Ma foi_,” said Monte Cristo; “I think I arrived just in time toobtain your signatures, or they would have been disputed with me.”
Danglars again became pale, and hastened to conduct the count out.Monte Cristo exchanged a ceremonious bow with M. de Boville, who wasstanding in the waiting-room, and who was introduced into Danglars’room as soon as the count had left.
The count’s serious face was illumined by a faint smile, as he noticedthe portfolio which the receiver-general held in his hand. At the doorhe found his carriage, and was immediately driven to the bank.Meanwhile Danglars, repressing all emotion, advanced to meet thereceiver-general. We need not say that a smile of condescension wasstamped upon his lips.
“Good-morning, creditor,” said he; “for I wager anything it is thecreditor who visits me.”
“You are right, baron,” answered M. de Boville; “the charities presentthemselves to you through me; the widows and orphans depute me toreceive alms to the amount of five millions from you.”
“And yet they say orphans are to be pitied,” said Danglars, wishing toprolong the jest. “Poor things!”
“Here I am in their name,” said M. de Boville; “but did you receive myletter yesterday?”
“Yes.”
“I have brought my receipt.”
50111m


“My dear M. de Boville, your widows and orphans must oblige me bywaiting twenty-four hours, since M. de Monte Cristo whom you just sawleaving here—you did see him, I think?”
“Yes; well?”
“Well, M. de Monte Cristo has just carried off their five millions.”
“How so?”
“The count has an unlimited credit upon me; a credit opened by Thomson& French, of Rome; he came to demand five millions at once, which Ipaid him with checks on the bank. My funds are deposited there, and youcan understand that if I draw out ten millions on the same day it willappear rather strange to the governor. Two days will be a differentthing,” said Danglars, smiling.
“Come,” said Boville, with a tone of entire incredulity, “five millionsto that gentleman who just left, and who bowed to me as though he knewme?”
“Perhaps he knows you, though you do not know him; M. de Monte Cristoknows everybody.”
“Five millions!”
“Here is his receipt. Believe your own eyes.” M. de Boville took thepaper Danglars presented him, and read:
“Received of Baron Danglars the sum of five million one hundredthousand francs, to be repaid on demand by the house of Thomson &French of Rome.”
“It is really true,” said M. de Boville.
“Do you know the house of Thomson & French?”
“Yes, I once had business to transact with it to the amount of 200,000francs; but since then I have not heard it mentioned.”
“It is one of the best houses in Europe,” said Danglars, carelesslythrowing down the receipt on his desk.
“And he had five millions in your hands alone! Why, this Count of MonteCristo must be a nabob?”
“Indeed I do not know what he is; he has three unlimited credits—one onme, one on Rothschild, one on Lafitte; and, you see,” he addedcarelessly, “he has given me the preference, by leaving a balance of100,000 francs.”
M. de Boville manifested signs of extraordinary admiration.
“I must visit him,” he said, “and obtain some pious grant from him.”
“Oh, you may make sure of him; his charities alone amount to 20,000francs a month.”
“It is magnificent! I will set before him the example of Madame deMorcerf and her son.”
“What example?”
“They gave all their fortune to the hospitals.”
“What fortune?”
“Their own—M. de Morcerf’s, who is deceased.”
“For what reason?”
“Because they would not spend money so guiltily acquired.”
“And what are they to live upon?”
“The mother retires into the country, and the son enters the army.”
50113m


“Well, I must confess, these are scruples.”
“I registered their deed of gift yesterday.”
“And how much did they possess?”
“Oh, not much—from twelve to thirteen hundred thousand francs. But toreturn to our millions.”
“Certainly,” said Danglars, in the most natural tone in the world. “Areyou then pressed for this money?”
“Yes; for the examination of our cash takes place tomorrow.”
“Tomorrow? Why did you not tell me so before? Why, it is as good as acentury! At what hour does the examination take place?”
“At two o’clock.”
“Send at twelve,” said Danglars, smiling.
M. de Boville said nothing, but nodded his head, and took up theportfolio.
“Now I think of it, you can do better,” said Danglars.
“How do you mean?”
“The receipt of M. de Monte Cristo is as good as money; take it toRothschild’s or Lafitte’s, and they will take it off your hands atonce.”
“What, though payable at Rome?”
“Certainly; it will only cost you a discount of 5,000 or 6,000 francs.”
The receiver started back.
“_Ma foi!_” he said, “I prefer waiting till tomorrow. What aproposition!”
“I thought, perhaps,” said Danglars with supreme impertinence, “thatyou had a deficiency to make up?”
“Indeed,” said the receiver.
“And if that were the case it would be worth while to make somesacrifice.”
“Thank you, no, sir.”
“Then it will be tomorrow.”
“Yes; but without fail.”
“Ah, you are laughing at me; send tomorrow at twelve, and the bankshall be notified.”
“I will come myself.”
“Better still, since it will afford me the pleasure of seeing you.”They shook hands.
“By the way,” said M. de Boville, “are you not going to the funeral ofpoor Mademoiselle de Villefort, which I met on my road here?”
“No,” said the banker; “I have appeared rather ridiculous since thataffair of Benedetto, so I remain in the background.”
“Bah, you are wrong. How were you to blame in that affair?”
“Listen—when one bears an irreproachable name, as I do, one is rathersensitive.”
“Everybody pities you, sir; and, above all, Mademoiselle Danglars!”
“Poor Eugénie!” said Danglars; “do you know she is going to embrace areligious life?”
“No.”
“Alas, it is unhappily but too true. The day after the event, shedecided on leaving Paris with a nun of her acquaintance; they are goneto seek a very strict convent in Italy or Spain.”
“Oh, it is terrible!” and M. de Boville retired with this exclamation,after expressing acute sympathy with the father. But he had scarcelyleft before Danglars, with an energy of action those can aloneunderstand who have seen Robert Macaire represented by Frédérick,24exclaimed:
“Fool!”
Then enclosing Monte Cristo’s receipt in a little pocket-book, headded:—“Yes, come at twelve o’clock; I shall then be far away.”
Then he double-locked his door, emptied all his drawers, collectedabout fifty thousand francs in bank-notes, burned several papers, leftothers exposed to view, and then commenced writing a letter which headdressed:
“To Madame la Baronne Danglars.”
“I will place it on her table myself tonight,” he murmured. Then takinga passport from his drawer he said,—“Good, it is available for twomonths longer.”


 Chapter 105. The Cemetery of Père-Lachaise
M. de Boville had indeed met the funeral procession which was takingValentine to her last home on earth. The weather was dull and stormy, acold wind shook the few remaining yellow leaves from the boughs of thetrees, and scattered them among the crowd which filled the boulevards.M. de Villefort, a true Parisian, considered the cemetery ofPère-Lachaise alone worthy of receiving the mortal remains of aParisian family; there alone the corpses belonging to him would besurrounded by worthy associates. He had therefore purchased a vault,which was quickly occupied by members of his family. On the front ofthe monument was inscribed: “The families of Saint-Méran andVillefort,” for such had been the last wish expressed by poor Renée,Valentine’s mother. The pompous procession therefore wended its waytowards Père-Lachaise from the Faubourg Saint-Honoré. Having crossedParis, it passed through the Faubourg du Temple, then leaving theexterior boulevards, it reached the cemetery. More than fifty privatecarriages followed the twenty mourning-coaches, and behind them morethan five hundred persons joined in the procession on foot.
50117m


These last consisted of all the young people whom Valentine’s death hadstruck like a thunderbolt, and who, notwithstanding the raw chillinessof the season, could not refrain from paying a last tribute to thememory of the beautiful, chaste, and adorable girl, thus cut off in theflower of her youth.
As they left Paris, an equipage with four horses, at full speed, wasseen to draw up suddenly; it contained Monte Cristo. The count left thecarriage and mingled in the crowd who followed on foot. Château-Renaudperceived him and immediately alighting from his _coupé_, joined him;Beauchamp did the same.
The count looked attentively through every opening in the crowd; he wasevidently watching for someone, but his search ended in disappointment.
50119m


“Where is Morrel?” he asked; “do either of these gentlemen know wherehe is?”
“We have already asked that question,” said Château-Renaud, “for noneof us has seen him.”
The count was silent, but continued to gaze around him. At length theyarrived at the cemetery. The piercing eye of Monte Cristo glancedthrough clusters of bushes and trees, and was soon relieved from allanxiety, for seeing a shadow glide between the yew-trees, Monte Cristorecognized him whom he sought.
One funeral is generally very much like another in this magnificentmetropolis. Black figures are seen scattered over the long whiteavenues; the silence of earth and heaven is alone broken by the noisemade by the crackling branches of hedges planted around the monuments;then follows the melancholy chant of the priests, mingled now and thenwith a sob of anguish, escaping from some woman concealed behind a massof flowers.
The shadow Monte Cristo had noticed passed rapidly behind the tomb ofAbélard and Héloïse, placed itself close to the heads of the horsesbelonging to the hearse, and following the undertaker’s men, arrivedwith them at the spot appointed for the burial. Each person’s attentionwas occupied. Monte Cristo saw nothing but the shadow, which no oneelse observed. Twice the count left the ranks to see whether the objectof his interest had any concealed weapon beneath his clothes. When theprocession stopped, this shadow was recognized as Morrel, who, with hiscoat buttoned up to his throat, his face livid, and convulsivelycrushing his hat between his fingers, leaned against a tree, situatedon an elevation commanding the mausoleum, so that none of the funeraldetails could escape his observation.
Everything was conducted in the usual manner. A few men, the leastimpressed of all by the scene, pronounced a discourse, some deploringthis premature death, others expatiating on the grief of the father,and one very ingenious person quoting the fact that Valentine hadsolicited pardon of her father for criminals on whom the arm of justicewas ready to fall—until at length they exhausted their stores ofmetaphor and mournful speeches, elaborate variations on the stanzas ofMalherbe to Du Périer.
Monte Cristo heard and saw nothing, or rather he only saw Morrel, whosecalmness had a frightful effect on those who knew what was passing inhis heart.
“See,” said Beauchamp, pointing out Morrel to Debray. “What is he doingup there?” And they called Château-Renaud’s attention to him.
“How pale he is!” said Château-Renaud, shuddering.
“He is cold,” said Debray.
“Not at all,” said Château-Renaud, slowly; “I think he is violentlyagitated. He is very susceptible.”
“Bah,” said Debray; “he scarcely knew Mademoiselle de Villefort; yousaid so yourself.”
“True. Still I remember he danced three times with her at Madame deMorcerf’s. Do you recollect that ball, count, where you produced suchan effect?”
50121m


“No, I do not,” replied Monte Cristo, without even knowing of what orto whom he was speaking, so much was he occupied in watching Morrel,who was holding his breath with emotion.
“The discourse is over; farewell, gentlemen,” said the count,unceremoniously.
And he disappeared without anyone seeing whither he went.
The funeral being over, the guests returned to Paris. Château-Renaudlooked for a moment for Morrel; but while they were watching thedeparture of the count, Morrel had quitted his post, andChâteau-Renaud, failing in his search, joined Debray and Beauchamp.
Monte Cristo concealed himself behind a large tomb and awaited thearrival of Morrel, who by degrees approached the tomb now abandoned byspectators and workmen. Morrel threw a glance around, but before itreached the spot occupied by Monte Cristo the latter had advanced yetnearer, still unperceived. The young man knelt down. The count, withoutstretched neck and glaring eyes, stood in an attitude ready topounce upon Morrel upon the first occasion. Morrel bent his head tillit touched the stone, then clutching the grating with both hands, hemurmured:
“Oh, Valentine!”
The count’s heart was pierced by the utterance of these two words; hestepped forward, and touching the young man’s shoulder, said:
“I was looking for you, my friend.” Monte Cristo expected a burst ofpassion, but he was deceived, for Morrel turning round, said calmly,—
“You see I was praying.” The scrutinizing glance of the count searchedthe young man from head to foot. He then seemed more easy.
“Shall I drive you back to Paris?” he asked.
“No, thank you.”
“Do you wish anything?”
“Leave me to pray.”
The count withdrew without opposition, but it was only to place himselfin a situation where he could watch every movement of Morrel, who atlength arose, brushed the dust from his knees, and turned towardsParis, without once looking back. He walked slowly down the Rue de laRoquette. The count, dismissing his carriage, followed him about ahundred paces behind. Maximilian crossed the canal and entered the RueMeslay by the boulevards.
Five minutes after the door had been closed on Morrel’s entrance, itwas again opened for the count. Julie was at the entrance of thegarden, where she was attentively watching Penelon, who, entering withzeal into his profession of gardener, was very busy grafting someBengal roses. “Ah, count,” she exclaimed, with the delight manifestedby every member of the family whenever he visited the Rue Meslay.
“Maximilian has just returned, has he not, madame?” asked the count.
50123m


“Yes, I think I saw him pass; but pray, call Emmanuel.”
“Excuse me, madame, but I must go up to Maximilian’s room thisinstant,” replied Monte Cristo, “I have something of the greatestimportance to tell him.”
“Go, then,” she said with a charming smile, which accompanied him untilhe had disappeared.
Monte Cristo soon ran up the staircase conducting from the ground floorto Maximilian’s room; when he reached the landing he listenedattentively, but all was still. Like many old houses occupied by asingle family, the room door was panelled with glass; but it waslocked, Maximilian was shut in, and it was impossible to see what waspassing in the room, because a red curtain was drawn before the glass.The count’s anxiety was manifested by a bright color which seldomappeared on the face of that imperturbable man.
“What shall I do!” he uttered, and reflected for a moment; “shall Iring? No, the sound of a bell, announcing a visitor, will butaccelerate the resolution of one in Maximilian’s situation, and thenthe bell would be followed by a louder noise.”
Monte Cristo trembled from head to foot and as if his determination hadbeen taken with the rapidity of lightning, he struck one of the panesof glass with his elbow; the glass was shivered to atoms, thenwithdrawing the curtain he saw Morrel, who had been writing at hisdesk, bound from his seat at the noise of the broken window.
“I beg a thousand pardons,” said the count, “there is nothing thematter, but I slipped down and broke one of your panes of glass with myelbow. Since it is opened, I will take advantage of it to enter yourroom; do not disturb yourself—do not disturb yourself!”
And passing his hand through the broken glass, the count opened thedoor. Morrel, evidently discomposed, came to meet Monte Cristo lesswith the intention of receiving him than to exclude his entry.
“_Ma foi_,” said Monte Cristo, rubbing his elbow, “it’s all yourservant’s fault; your stairs are so polished, it is like walking onglass.”
“Are you hurt, sir?” coldly asked Morrel.
“I believe not. But what are you about there? You were writing.”
“I?”
“Your fingers are stained with ink.”
“Ah, true, I was writing. I do sometimes, soldier though I am.”
Monte Cristo advanced into the room; Maximilian was obliged to let himpass, but he followed him.
“You were writing?” said Monte Cristo with a searching look.
“I have already had the honor of telling you I was,” said Morrel.
The count looked around him.
“Your pistols are beside your desk,” said Monte Cristo, pointing withhis finger to the pistols on the table.
“I am on the point of starting on a journey,” replied Morreldisdainfully.
“My friend,” exclaimed Monte Cristo in a tone of exquisite sweetness.
“Sir?”
“My friend, my dear Maximilian, do not make a hasty resolution, Ientreat you.”
“I make a hasty resolution?” said Morrel, shrugging his shoulders; “isthere anything extraordinary in a journey?”
50125m


“Maximilian,” said the count, “let us both lay aside the mask we haveassumed. You no more deceive me with that false calmness than I imposeupon you with my frivolous solicitude. You can understand, can you not,that to have acted as I have done, to have broken that glass, to haveintruded on the solitude of a friend—you can understand that, to havedone all this, I must have been actuated by real uneasiness, or ratherby a terrible conviction. Morrel, you are going to destroy yourself!”
“Indeed, count,” said Morrel, shuddering; “what has put this into yourhead?”
“I tell you that you are about to destroy yourself,” continued thecount, “and here is proof of what I say;” and, approaching the desk, heremoved the sheet of paper which Morrel had placed over the letter hehad begun, and took the latter in his hands.
Morrel rushed forward to tear it from him, but Monte Cristo perceivinghis intention, seized his wrist with his iron grasp.
“You wish to destroy yourself,” said the count; “you have written it.”
“Well,” said Morrel, changing his expression of calmness for one ofviolence—“well, and if I do intend to turn this pistol against myself,who shall prevent me—who will dare prevent me? All my hopes areblighted, my heart is broken, my life a burden, everything around me issad and mournful; earth has become distasteful to me, and human voicesdistract me. It is a mercy to let me die, for if I live I shall lose myreason and become mad. When, sir, I tell you all this with tears ofheartfelt anguish, can you reply that I am wrong, can you prevent myputting an end to my miserable existence? Tell me, sir, could you havethe courage to do so?”
“Yes, Morrel,” said Monte Cristo, with a calmness which contrastedstrangely with the young man’s excitement; “yes, I would do so.”
“You?” exclaimed Morrel, with increasing anger and reproach—“you, whohave deceived me with false hopes, who have cheered and soothed me withvain promises, when I might, if not have saved her, at least have seenher die in my arms! You, who pretend to understand everything, even thehidden sources of knowledge,—and who enact the part of a guardian angelupon earth, and could not even find an antidote to a poisonadministered to a young girl! Ah, sir, indeed you would inspire me withpity, were you not hateful in my eyes.”
“Morrel——”
“Yes; you tell me to lay aside the mask, and I will do so, besatisfied! When you spoke to me at the cemetery, I answered you—myheart was softened; when you arrived here, I allowed you to enter. Butsince you abuse my confidence, since you have devised a new tortureafter I thought I had exhausted them all, then, Count of Monte Cristomy pretended benefactor—then, Count of Monte Cristo, the universalguardian, be satisfied, you shall witness the death of your friend;”and Morrel, with a maniacal laugh, again rushed towards the pistols.
“And I again repeat, you shall not commit suicide.”
“Prevent me, then!” replied Morrel, with another struggle, which, likethe first, failed in releasing him from the count’s iron grasp.
“I will prevent you.”
50127m


“And who are you, then, that arrogate to yourself this tyrannical rightover free and rational beings?”
“Who am I?” repeated Monte Cristo. “Listen; I am the only man in theworld having the right to say to you, ‘Morrel, your father’s son shallnot die today;’” and Monte Cristo, with an expression of majesty andsublimity, advanced with arms folded toward the young man, who,involuntarily overcome by the commanding manner of this man, recoiled astep.
“Why do you mention my father?” stammered he; “why do you mingle arecollection of him with the affairs of today?”
“Because I am he who saved your father’s life when he wished to destroyhimself, as you do today—because I am the man who sent the purse toyour young sister, and the _Pharaon_ to old Morrel—because I am theEdmond Dantès who nursed you, a child, on my knees.”
Morrel made another step back, staggering, breathless, crushed; thenall his strength give way, and he fell prostrate at the feet of MonteCristo. Then his admirable nature underwent a complete and suddenrevulsion; he arose, rushed out of the room and to the stairs,exclaiming energetically, “Julie, Julie—Emmanuel, Emmanuel!”
Monte Cristo endeavored also to leave, but Maximilian would have diedrather than relax his hold of the handle of the door, which he closedupon the count. Julie, Emmanuel, and some of the servants, ran up inalarm on hearing the cries of Maximilian. Morrel seized their hands,and opening the door exclaimed in a voice choked with sobs:
“On your knees—on your knees—he is our benefactor—the saviour of ourfather! He is——”
He would have added “Edmond Dantès,” but the count seized his arm andprevented him.
Julie threw herself into the arms of the count; Emmanuel embraced himas a guardian angel; Morrel again fell on his knees, and struck theground with his forehead. Then the iron-hearted man felt his heartswell in his breast; a flame seemed to rush from his throat to hiseyes, he bent his head and wept. For a while nothing was heard in theroom but a succession of sobs, while the incense from their gratefulhearts mounted to heaven. Julie had scarcely recovered from her deepemotion when she rushed out of the room, descended to the next floor,ran into the drawing-room with childlike joy and raised the crystalglobe which covered the purse given by the unknown of the Allées deMeilhan. Meanwhile, Emmanuel in a broken voice said to the count:
“Oh, count, how could you, hearing us so often speak of our unknownbenefactor, seeing us pay such homage of gratitude and adoration to hismemory,—how could you continue so long without discovering yourself tous? Oh, it was cruel to us, and—dare I say it?—to you also.”
“Listen, my friends,” said the count—“I may call you so since we havereally been friends for the last eleven years—the discovery of thissecret has been occasioned by a great event which you must never know.I wished to bury it during my whole life in my own bosom, but yourbrother Maximilian wrested it from me by a violence he repents of now,I am sure.”
Then turning around, and seeing that Morrel, still on his knees, hadthrown himself into an armchair, he added in a low voice, pressingEmmanuel’s hand significantly, “Watch over him.”
“Why so?” asked the young man, surprised.
“I cannot explain myself; but watch over him.” Emmanuel looked aroundthe room and caught sight of the pistols; his eyes rested on theweapons, and he pointed to them. Monte Cristo bent his head. Emmanuelwent towards the pistols.
“Leave them,” said Monte Cristo. Then walking towards Morrel, he tookhis hand; the tumultuous agitation of the young man was succeeded by aprofound stupor. Julie returned, holding the silken purse in her hands,while tears of joy rolled down her cheeks, like dewdrops on the rose.
“Here is the relic,” she said; “do not think it will be less dear to usnow we are acquainted with our benefactor!”
“My child,” said Monte Cristo, coloring, “allow me to take back thatpurse? Since you now know my face, I wish to be remembered alonethrough the affection I hope you will grant me.
“Oh,” said Julie, pressing the purse to her heart, “no, no, I beseechyou do not take it, for some unhappy day you will leave us, will younot?”
“You have guessed rightly, madame,” replied Monte Cristo, smiling; “ina week I shall have left this country, where so many persons who meritthe vengeance of Heaven lived happily, while my father perished ofhunger and grief.”
While announcing his departure, the count fixed his eyes on Morrel, andremarked that the words, “I shall have left this country,” had failedto rouse him from his lethargy. He then saw that he must make anotherstruggle against the grief of his friend, and taking the hands ofEmmanuel and Julie, which he pressed within his own, he said with themild authority of a father:
“My kind friends, leave me alone with Maximilian.”
Julie saw the means offered of carrying off her precious relic, whichMonte Cristo had forgotten. She drew her husband to the door. “Let usleave them,” she said.
The count was alone with Morrel, who remained motionless as a statue.
“Come,” said Monte-Cristo, touching his shoulder with his finger, “areyou a man again, Maximilian?”
“Yes; for I begin to suffer again.”
The count frowned, apparently in gloomy hesitation.
“Maximilian, Maximilian,” he said, “the ideas you yield to are unworthyof a Christian.”
“Oh, do not fear, my friend,” said Morrel, raising his head, andsmiling with a sweet expression on the count; “I shall no longerattempt my life.”
“Then we are to have no more pistols—no more despair?”
“No; I have found a better remedy for my grief than either a bullet ora knife.”
“Poor fellow, what is it?”
“My grief will kill me of itself.”
“My friend,” said Monte Cristo, with an expression of melancholy equalto his own, “listen to me. One day, in a moment of despair like yours,since it led to a similar resolution, I also wished to kill myself; oneday your father, equally desperate, wished to kill himself too. Ifanyone had said to your father, at the moment he raised the pistol tohis head—if anyone had told me, when in my prison I pushed back thefood I had not tasted for three days—if anyone had said to either of usthen, ‘Live—the day will come when you will be happy, and will blesslife!’—no matter whose voice had spoken, we should have heard him withthe smile of doubt, or the anguish of incredulity,—and yet how manytimes has your father blessed life while embracing you—how often have Imyself——”
“Ah,” exclaimed Morrel, interrupting the count, “you had only lost yourliberty, my father had only lost his fortune, but I have lostValentine.”
“Look at me,” said Monte Cristo, with that expression which sometimesmade him so eloquent and persuasive—“look at me. There are no tears inmy eyes, nor is there fever in my veins, yet I see you suffer—you,Maximilian, whom I love as my own son. Well, does not this tell youthat in grief, as in life, there is always something to look forward tobeyond? Now, if I entreat, if I order you to live, Morrel, it is in theconviction that one day you will thank me for having preserved yourlife.”
“Oh, heavens,” said the young man, “oh, heavens—what are you saying,count? Take care. But perhaps you have never loved!”
“Child!” replied the count.
“I mean, as I love. You see, I have been a soldier ever since Iattained manhood. I reached the age of twenty-nine without loving, fornone of the feelings I before then experienced merit the appellation oflove. Well, at twenty-nine I saw Valentine; for two years I have lovedher, for two years I have seen written in her heart, as in a book, allthe virtues of a daughter and wife. Count, to possess Valentine wouldhave been a happiness too infinite, too ecstatic, too complete, toodivine for this world, since it has been denied me; but withoutValentine the earth is desolate.”
“I have told you to hope,” said the count.
“Then have a care, I repeat, for you seek to persuade me, and if yousucceed I should lose my reason, for I should hope that I could againbehold Valentine.”
The count smiled.
“My friend, my father,” said Morrel with excitement, “have a care, Iagain repeat, for the power you wield over me alarms me. Weigh yourwords before you speak, for my eyes have already become brighter, andmy heart beats strongly; be cautious, or you will make me believe insupernatural agencies. I must obey you, though you bade me call forththe dead or walk upon the water.”
“Hope, my friend,” repeated the count.
“Ah,” said Morrel, falling from the height of excitement to the abyssof despair—“ah, you are playing with me, like those good, or ratherselfish mothers who soothe their children with honeyed words, becausetheir screams annoy them. No, my friend, I was wrong to caution you; donot fear, I will bury my grief so deep in my heart, I will disguise itso, that you shall not even care to sympathize with me. Adieu, myfriend, adieu!”
“On the contrary,” said the count, “after this time you must live withme—you must not leave me, and in a week we shall have left Francebehind us.”
“And you still bid me hope?”
“I tell you to hope, because I have a method of curing you.”
“Count, you render me sadder than before, if it be possible. You thinkthe result of this blow has been to produce an ordinary grief, and youwould cure it by an ordinary remedy—change of scene.” And Morreldropped his head with disdainful incredulity.
“What can I say more?” asked Monte Cristo. “I have confidence in theremedy I propose, and only ask you to permit me to assure you of itsefficacy.”
“Count, you prolong my agony.”
“Then,” said the count, “your feeble spirit will not even grant me thetrial I request? Come—do you know of what the Count of Monte Cristo iscapable? do you know that he holds terrestrial beings under hiscontrol? nay, that he can almost work a miracle? Well, wait for themiracle I hope to accomplish, or——”
“Or?” repeated Morrel.
“Or, take care, Morrel, lest I call you ungrateful.”
“Have pity on me, count!”
“I feel so much pity towards you, Maximilian, that—listen to meattentively—if I do not cure you in a month, to the day, to the veryhour, mark my words, Morrel, I will place loaded pistols before you,and a cup of the deadliest Italian poison—a poison more sure and promptthan that which has killed Valentine.”
“Will you promise me?”
“Yes; for I am a man, and have suffered like yourself, and alsocontemplated suicide; indeed, often since misfortune has left me I havelonged for the delights of an eternal sleep.”
“But you are sure you will promise me this?” said Morrel, intoxicated.
“I not only promise, but swear it!” said Monte Cristo extending hishand.
“In a month, then, on your honor, if I am not consoled, you will let metake my life into my own hands, and whatever may happen you will notcall me ungrateful?”
“In a month, to the day, the very hour and the date is a sacred one,Maximilian. I do not know whether you remember that this is the 5th ofSeptember; it is ten years today since I saved your father’s life, whowished to die.”
Morrel seized the count’s hand and kissed it; the count allowed him topay the homage he felt due to him.
“In a month you will find on the table, at which we shall be thensitting, good pistols and a delicious draught; but, on the other hand,you must promise me not to attempt your life before that time.”
“Oh, I also swear it!”
Monte Cristo drew the young man towards him, and pressed him for sometime to his heart. “And now,” he said, “after today, you will come andlive with me; you can occupy Haydée’s apartment, and my daughter willat least be replaced by my son.”
“Haydée?” said Morrel, “what has become of her?”
“She departed last night.”
“To leave you?”
“To wait for me. Hold yourself ready then to join me at theChamps-Élysées, and lead me out of this house without anyone seeing mydeparture.”
Maximilian hung his head, and obeyed with childlike reverence.


 Chapter 106. Dividing the Proceeds
The apartment on the first floor of the house in the RueSaint-Germain-des-Prés, where Albert de Morcerf had selected a home forhis mother, was let to a very mysterious person. This was a man whoseface the concierge himself had never seen, for in the winter his chinwas buried in one of the large red handkerchiefs worn by gentlemen’scoachmen on a cold night, and in the summer he made a point of alwaysblowing his nose just as he approached the door. Contrary to custom,this gentleman had not been watched, for as the report ran that he wasa person of high rank, and one who would allow no impertinentinterference, his _incognito_ was strictly respected.
His visits were tolerably regular, though occasionally he appeared alittle before or after his time, but generally, both in summer andwinter, he took possession of his apartment about four o’clock, thoughhe never spent the night there. At half-past three in the winter thefire was lighted by the discreet servant, who had the superintendenceof the little apartment, and in the summer ices were placed on thetable at the same hour. At four o’clock, as we have already stated, themysterious personage arrived.
Twenty minutes afterwards a carriage stopped at the house, a ladyalighted in a black or dark blue dress, and always thickly veiled; shepassed like a shadow through the lodge, and ran upstairs without asound escaping under the touch of her light foot. No one ever asked herwhere she was going. Her face, therefore, like that of the gentleman,was perfectly unknown to the two concierges, who were perhapsunequalled throughout the capital for discretion. We need not say shestopped at the first floor. Then she tapped in a peculiar manner at adoor, which after being opened to admit her was again fastened, andcuriosity penetrated no farther. They used the same precautions inleaving as in entering the house. The lady always left first, and assoon as she had stepped into her carriage, it drove away, sometimestowards the right hand, sometimes to the left; then about twentyminutes afterwards the gentleman would also leave, buried in his cravator concealed by his handkerchief.
The day after Monte Cristo had called upon Danglars, the mysteriouslodger entered at ten o’clock in the morning instead of four in theafternoon. Almost directly afterwards, without the usual interval oftime, a cab arrived, and the veiled lady ran hastily upstairs. The dooropened, but before it could be closed, the lady exclaimed:
“Oh, Lucien—oh, my friend!”
The concierge therefore heard for the first time that the lodger’s namewas Lucien; still, as he was the very perfection of a door-keeper, hemade up his mind not to tell his wife.
“Well, what is the matter, my dear?” asked the gentleman whose name thelady’s agitation revealed; “tell me what is the matter.”
“Oh, Lucien, can I confide in you?”
“Of course, you know you can do so. But what can be the matter? Yournote of this morning has completely bewildered me. Thisprecipitation—this unusual appointment. Come, ease me of my anxiety, orelse frighten me at once.”
“Lucien, a great event has happened!” said the lady, glancinginquiringly at Lucien,—“M. Danglars left last night!”
“Left?—M. Danglars left? Where has he gone?”
“I do not know.”
“What do you mean? Has he gone intending not to return?”
“Undoubtedly;—at ten o’clock at night his horses took him to thebarrier of Charenton; there a post-chaise was waiting for him—heentered it with his valet de chambre, saying that he was going toFontainebleau.”
“Then what did you mean——”
“Stay—he left a letter for me.”
“A letter?”
“Yes; read it.”
And the baroness took from her pocket a letter which she gave toDebray. Debray paused a moment before reading, as if trying to guessits contents, or perhaps while making up his mind how to act, whateverit might contain. No doubt his ideas were arranged in a few minutes,for he began reading the letter which caused so much uneasiness in theheart of the baroness, and which ran as follows:
“‘Madame and most faithful wife.’”
Debray mechanically stopped and looked at the baroness, whose facebecame covered with blushes.
“Read,” she said.
Debray continued:
“‘When you receive this, you will no longer have a husband. Oh, youneed not be alarmed, you will only have lost him as you have lost yourdaughter; I mean that I shall be travelling on one of the thirty orforty roads leading out of France. I owe you some explanations for myconduct, and as you are a woman that can perfectly understand me, Iwill give them. Listen, then. I received this morning five millionswhich I paid away; almost directly afterwards another demand for thesame sum was presented to me; I put this creditor off till tomorrow andI intend leaving today, to escape that tomorrow, which would be rathertoo unpleasant for me to endure. You understand this, do you not, mymost precious wife? I say you understand this, because you are asconversant with my affairs as I am; indeed, I think you understand thembetter, since I am ignorant of what has become of a considerableportion of my fortune, once very tolerable, while I am sure, madame,that you know perfectly well. For women have infallible instincts; theycan even explain the marvellous by an algebraic calculation they haveinvented; but I, who only understand my own figures, know nothing morethan that one day these figures deceived me. Have you admired therapidity of my fall? Have you been slightly dazzled at the suddenfusion of my ingots? I confess I have seen nothing but the fire; let ushope you have found some gold among the ashes. With this consolingidea, I leave you, madame, and most prudent wife, without anyconscientious reproach for abandoning you; you have friends left, andthe ashes I have already mentioned, and above all the liberty I hastento restore to you. And here, madame, I must add another word ofexplanation. So long as I hoped you were working for the good of ourhouse and for the fortune of our daughter, I philosophically closed myeyes; but as you have transformed that house into a vast ruin I willnot be the foundation of another man’s fortune. You were rich when Imarried you, but little respected. Excuse me for speaking so verycandidly, but as this is intended only for ourselves, I do not see whyI should weigh my words. I have augmented our fortune, and it hascontinued to increase during the last fifteen years, till extraordinaryand unexpected catastrophes have suddenly overturned it,—without anyfault of mine, I can honestly declare. You, madame, have only sought toincrease your own, and I am convinced that you have succeeded. I leaveyou, therefore, as I took you,—rich, but little respected. Adieu! Ialso intend from this time to work on my own account. Accept myacknowledgments for the example you have set me, and which I intendfollowing.
“‘Your very devoted husband,
“‘Baron Danglars.’”
The baroness had watched Debray while he read this long and painfulletter, and saw him, notwithstanding his self-control, change coloronce or twice. When he had ended the perusal, he folded the letter andresumed his pensive attitude.
“Well?” asked Madame Danglars, with an anxiety easy to be understood.
“Well, madame?” unhesitatingly repeated Debray.
“With what ideas does that letter inspire you?”
“Oh, it is simple enough, madame; it inspires me with the idea that M.Danglars has left suspiciously.”
“Certainly; but is this all you have to say to me?”
“I do not understand you,” said Debray with freezing coldness.
“He is gone! Gone, never to return!”
“Oh, madame, do not think that!”
“I tell you he will never return. I know his character; he isinflexible in any resolutions formed for his own interests. If he couldhave made any use of me, he would have taken me with him; he leaves mein Paris, as our separation will conduce to his benefit;—therefore hehas gone, and I am free forever,” added Madame Danglars, in the samesupplicating tone.
Debray, instead of answering, allowed her to remain in an attitude ofnervous inquiry.
“Well?” she said at length, “do you not answer me?”
“I have but one question to ask you,—what do you intend to do?”
“I was going to ask you,” replied the baroness with a beating heart.
“Ah, then, you wish to ask advice of me?”
“Yes; I do wish to ask your advice,” said Madame Danglars with anxiousexpectation.
“Then if you wish to take my advice,” said the young man coldly, “Iwould recommend you to travel.”
“To travel!” she murmured.
“Certainly; as M. Danglars says, you are rich, and perfectly free. Inmy opinion, a withdrawal from Paris is absolutely necessary after thedouble catastrophe of Mademoiselle Danglars’ broken contract and M.Danglars’ disappearance. The world will think you abandoned and poor,for the wife of a bankrupt would never be forgiven, were she to keep upan appearance of opulence. You have only to remain in Paris for about afortnight, telling the world you are abandoned, and relating thedetails of this desertion to your best friends, who will soon spreadthe report. Then you can quit your house, leaving your jewels andgiving up your jointure, and everyone’s mouth will be filled withpraises of your disinterestedness. They will know you are deserted, andthink you also poor, for I alone know your real financial position, andam quite ready to give up my accounts as an honest partner.”
The dread with which the pale and motionless baroness listened to this,was equalled by the calm indifference with which Debray had spoken.
“Deserted?” she repeated; “ah, yes, I am, indeed, deserted! You areright, sir, and no one can doubt my position.”
These were the only words that this proud and violently enamoured womancould utter in response to Debray.
50137m


“But then you are rich,—very rich, indeed,” continued Debray, takingout some papers from his pocket-book, which he spread upon the table.Madame Danglars did not see them; she was engaged in stilling thebeatings of her heart, and restraining the tears which were ready togush forth. At length a sense of dignity prevailed, and if she did notentirely master her agitation, she at least succeeded in preventing thefall of a single tear.
“Madame,” said Debray, “it is nearly six months since we have beenassociated. You furnished a principal of 100,000 francs. Ourpartnership began in the month of April. In May we commencedoperations, and in the course of the month gained 450,000 francs. InJune the profit amounted to 900,000. In July we added 1,700,000francs,—it was, you know, the month of the Spanish bonds. In August welost 300,000 francs at the beginning of the month, but on the 13th wemade up for it, and we now find that our accounts, reckoning from thefirst day of partnership up to yesterday, when I closed them, showed acapital of 2,400,000 francs, that is, 1,200,000 for each of us. Now,madame,” said Debray, delivering up his accounts in the methodicalmanner of a stockbroker, “there are still 80,000 francs, the interestof this money, in my hands.”
“But,” said the baroness, “I thought you never put the money out tointerest.”
“Excuse me, madame,” said Debray coldly, “I had your permission to doso, and I have made use of it. There are, then, 40,000 francs for yourshare, besides the 100,000 you furnished me to begin with, making inall 1,340,000 francs for your portion. Now, madame, I took theprecaution of drawing out your money the day before yesterday; it isnot long ago, you see, and I was in continual expectation of beingcalled on to deliver up my accounts. There is your money,—half inbank-notes, the other half in checks payable to bearer. I say _there_,for as I did not consider my house safe enough, or lawyers sufficientlydiscreet, and as landed property carries evidence with it, and moreoversince you have no right to possess anything independent of yourhusband, I have kept this sum, now your whole fortune, in a chestconcealed under that closet, and for greater security I myselfconcealed it there.
“Now, madame,” continued Debray, first opening the closet, then thechest;—“now, madame, here are 800 notes of 1,000 francs each,resembling, as you see, a large book bound in iron; to this I add acertificate in the funds of 25,000 francs; then, for the odd cash,making I think about 110,000 francs, here is a check upon my banker,who, not being M. Danglars, will pay you the amount, you may restassured.”
Madame Danglars mechanically took the check, the bond, and the heap ofbank-notes. This enormous fortune made no great appearance on thetable. Madame Danglars, with tearless eyes, but with her breast heavingwith concealed emotion, placed the bank-notes in her bag, put thecertificate and check into her pocket-book, and then, standing pale andmute, awaited one kind word of consolation.
But she waited in vain.
“Now, madame,” said Debray, “you have a splendid fortune, an income ofabout 60,000 livres a year, which is enormous for a woman who cannotkeep an establishment here for a year, at least. You will be able toindulge all your fancies; besides, should you find your incomeinsufficient, you can, for the sake of the past, madame, make use ofmine; and I am ready to offer you all I possess, on loan.”
“Thank you, sir—thank you,” replied the baroness; “you forget that whatyou have just paid me is much more than a poor woman requires, whointends for some time, at least, to retire from the world.”
Debray was, for a moment, surprised, but immediately recoveringhimself, he bowed with an air which seemed to say, “As you please,madame.”
Madame Danglars had until then, perhaps, hoped for something; but whenshe saw the careless bow of Debray, and the glance by which it wasaccompanied, together with his significant silence, she raised herhead, and without passion or violence or even hesitation, randownstairs, disdaining to address a last farewell to one who could thuspart from her.
“Bah,” said Debray, when she had left, “these are fine projects! Shewill remain at home, read novels, and speculate at cards, since she canno longer do so on the Bourse.”
Then taking up his account book, he cancelled with the greatest careall the entries of the amounts he had just paid away.
“I have 1,060,000 francs remaining,” he said. “What a pity Mademoisellede Villefort is dead! She suited me in every respect, and I would havemarried her.”
And he calmly waited until the twenty minutes had elapsed after MadameDanglars’ departure before he left the house. During this time heoccupied himself in making figures, with his watch by his side.
Asmodeus—that diabolical personage, who would have been created byevery fertile imagination if Le Sage had not acquired the priority inhis great masterpiece—would have enjoyed a singular spectacle, if hehad lifted up the roof of the little house in the RueSaint-Germain-des-Prés, while Debray was casting up his figures.
Above the room in which Debray had been dividing two millions and ahalf with Madame Danglars was another, inhabited by persons who haveplayed too prominent a part in the incidents we have related for theirappearance not to create some interest.
Mercédès and Albert were in that room.
Mercédès was much changed within the last few days; not that even inher days of fortune she had ever dressed with the magnificent displaywhich makes us no longer able to recognize a woman when she appears ina plain and simple attire; nor indeed, had she fallen into that stateof depression where it is impossible to conceal the garb of misery; no,the change in Mercédès was that her eye no longer sparkled, her lips nolonger smiled, and there was now a hesitation in uttering the wordswhich formerly sprang so fluently from her ready wit.
It was not poverty which had broken her spirit; it was not a want ofcourage which rendered her poverty burdensome. Mercédès, althoughdeposed from the exalted position she had occupied, lost in the sphereshe had now chosen, like a person passing from a room splendidlylighted into utter darkness, appeared like a queen, fallen from herpalace to a hovel, and who, reduced to strict necessity, could neitherbecome reconciled to the earthen vessels she was herself forced toplace upon the table, nor to the humble pallet which had become herbed.
The beautiful Catalane and noble countess had lost both her proudglance and charming smile, because she saw nothing but misery aroundher; the walls were hung with one of the gray papers which economicallandlords choose as not likely to show the dirt; the floor wasuncarpeted; the furniture attracted the attention to the poor attemptat luxury; indeed, everything offended eyes accustomed to refinementand elegance.
Madame de Morcerf had lived there since leaving her house; thecontinual silence of the spot oppressed her; still, seeing that Albertcontinually watched her countenance to judge the state of her feelings,she constrained herself to assume a monotonous smile of the lips alone,which, contrasted with the sweet and beaming expression that usuallyshone from her eyes, seemed like “moonlight on a statue,”—yieldinglight without warmth.
Albert, too, was ill at ease; the remains of luxury prevented him fromsinking into his actual position. If he wished to go out withoutgloves, his hands appeared too white; if he wished to walk through thetown, his boots seemed too highly polished. Yet these two noble andintelligent creatures, united by the indissoluble ties of maternal andfilial love, had succeeded in tacitly understanding one another, andeconomizing their stores, and Albert had been able to tell his motherwithout extorting a change of countenance:
“Mother, we have no more money.”
50141m


Mercédès had never known misery; she had often, in her youth, spoken ofpoverty, but between want and necessity, those synonymous words, thereis a wide difference.
Amongst the Catalans, Mercédès wished for a thousand things, but stillshe never really wanted any. So long as the nets were good, they caughtfish; and so long as they sold their fish, they were able to buy twinefor new nets. And then, shut out from friendship, having but oneaffection, which could not be mixed up with her ordinary pursuits, shethought of herself—of no one but herself. Upon the little she earnedshe lived as well as she could; now there were two to be supported, andnothing to live upon.
Winter approached. Mercédès had no fire in that cold and nakedroom—she, who was accustomed to stoves which heated the house from thehall to the boudoir; she had not even one little flower—she whoseapartment had been a conservatory of costly exotics. But she had herson. Hitherto the excitement of fulfilling a duty had sustained them.Excitement, like enthusiasm, sometimes renders us unconscious to thethings of earth. But the excitement had calmed down, and they feltthemselves obliged to descend from dreams to reality; after havingexhausted the ideal, they found they must talk of the actual.
“Mother,” exclaimed Albert, just as Madame Danglars was descending thestairs, “let us reckon our riches, if you please; I want capital tobuild my plans upon.”
“Capital—nothing!” replied Mercédès with a mournful smile.
“No, mother,—capital 3,000 francs. And I have an idea of our leading adelightful life upon this 3,000 francs.”
“Child!” sighed Mercédès.
“Alas, dear mother,” said the young man, “I have unhappily spent toomuch of your money not to know the value of it. These 3,000 francs areenormous, and I intend building upon this foundation a miraculouscertainty for the future.”
“You say this, my dear boy; but do you think we ought to accept these3,000 francs?” said Mercédès, coloring.
“I think so,” answered Albert in a firm tone. “We will accept them themore readily, since we have them not here; you know they are buried inthe garden of the little house in the Allées de Meilhan, at Marseilles.With 200 francs we can reach Marseilles.”
“With 200 francs?—are you sure, Albert?”
“Oh, as for that, I have made inquiries respecting the diligences andsteamboats, and my calculations are made. You will take your place inthe _coupé_ to Châlons. You see, mother, I treat you handsomely forthirty-five francs.”
Albert then took a pen, and wrote:

                                                         Frs. _Coupé_,                                                         thirty-five                                                         francs........                                                         ..............                                                         ........ 35.                                                         From Châlons                                                         to Lyons you                                                         will go on by                                                         the                                                         steamboat..                                                          6. From Lyons                                                         to Avignon                                                         (still by                                                         steamboat)....                                                         ......... 16.                                                         From Avignon                                                         to Marseilles,                                                         seven                                                         francs........                                                         .......  7.                                                         Expenses on                                                         the road,                                                         about fifty                                                         francs........                                                         ....... 50.                                                         Total.........                                                         ..............                                                         ..............                                                         ............                                                         114 frs.
“Let us put down 120,” added Albert, smiling. “You see I am generous,am I not, mother?”
“But you, my poor child?”
“I? do you not see that I reserve eighty francs for myself? A young mandoes not require luxuries; besides, I know what travelling is.”
“With a post-chaise and valet de chambre?”
“Any way, mother.”
“Well, be it so. But these 200 francs?”
“Here they are, and 200 more besides. See, I have sold my watch for 100francs, and the guard and seals for 300. How fortunate that theornaments were worth more than the watch. Still the same story ofsuperfluities! Now I think we are rich, since instead of the 114 francswe require for the journey we find ourselves in possession of 250.”
“But we owe something in this house?”
“Thirty francs; but I pay that out of my 150 francs,—that isunderstood,—and as I require only eighty francs for my journey, you seeI am overwhelmed with luxury. But that is not all. What do you say tothis, mother?”
And Albert took out of a little pocket-book with golden clasps, aremnant of his old fancies, or perhaps a tender souvenir from one ofthe mysterious and veiled ladies who used to knock at his littledoor,—Albert took out of this pocket-book a note of 1,000 francs.
“What is this?” asked Mercédès.
“A thousand francs.”
“But whence have you obtained them?”
“Listen to me, mother, and do not yield too much to agitation.” AndAlbert, rising, kissed his mother on both cheeks, then stood looking ather. “You cannot imagine, mother, how beautiful I think you!” said theyoung man, impressed with a profound feeling of filial love. “You are,indeed, the most beautiful and most noble woman I ever saw!”
“Dear child!” said Mercédès, endeavoring in vain to restrain a tearwhich glistened in the corner of her eye. “Indeed, you only wantedmisfortune to change my love for you to admiration. I am not unhappywhile I possess my son!”
“Ah, just so,” said Albert; “here begins the trial. Do you know thedecision we have come to, mother?”
“Have we come to any?”
“Yes; it is decided that you are to live at Marseilles, and that I amto leave for Africa, where I will earn for myself the right to use thename I now bear, instead of the one I have thrown aside.” Mercédèssighed. “Well, mother, I yesterday engaged myself as substitute in theSpahis,”25 added the young man, lowering his eyes with a certainfeeling of shame, for even he was unconscious of the sublimity of hisself-abasement. “I thought my body was my own, and that I might sellit. I yesterday took the place of another. I sold myself for more thanI thought I was worth,” he added, attempting to smile; “I fetched 2,000francs.”
“Then these 1,000 francs——” said Mercédès, shuddering.
“Are the half of the sum, mother; the other will be paid in a year.”
Mercédès raised her eyes to heaven with an expression it would beimpossible to describe, and tears, which had hitherto been restrained,now yielded to her emotion, and ran down her cheeks.
“The price of his blood!” she murmured.
“Yes, if I am killed,” said Albert, laughing. “But I assure you,mother, I have a strong intention of defending my person, and I neverfelt half so strong an inclination to live as I do now.”
“Merciful Heavens!”
“Besides, mother, why should you make up your mind that I am to bekilled? Has Lamoricière, that Ney of the South, been killed? HasChangarnier been killed? Has Bedeau been killed? Has Morrel, whom weknow, been killed? Think of your joy, mother, when you see me returnwith an embroidered uniform! I declare, I expect to look magnificent init, and chose that regiment only from vanity.”
Mercédès sighed while endeavoring to smile; the devoted mother feltthat she ought not to allow the whole weight of the sacrifice to fallupon her son.
“Well, now you understand, mother!” continued Albert; “here are morethan 4,000 francs settled on you; upon these you can live at least twoyears.”
“Do you think so?” said Mercédès.
These words were uttered in so mournful a tone that their real meaningdid not escape Albert; he felt his heart beat, and taking his mother’shand within his own he said, tenderly:
“Yes, you will live!”
“I shall live!—then you will not leave me, Albert?”
“Mother, I must go,” said Albert in a firm, calm voice; “you love metoo well to wish me to remain useless and idle with you; besides, Ihave signed.”
50145m


“You will obey your own wish and the will of Heaven!”
“Not my own wish, mother, but reason—necessity. Are we not twodespairing creatures? What is life to you?—Nothing. What is life tome?—Very little without you, mother; for believe me, but for you Ishould have ceased to live on the day I doubted my father and renouncedhis name. Well, I will live, if you promise me still to hope; and ifyou grant me the care of your future prospects, you will redouble mystrength. Then I will go to the governor of Algeria; he has a royalheart, and is essentially a soldier; I will tell him my gloomy story. Iwill beg him to turn his eyes now and then towards me, and if he keephis word and interest himself for me, in six months I shall be anofficer, or dead. If I am an officer, your fortune is certain, for Ishall have money enough for both, and, moreover, a name we shall bothbe proud of, since it will be our own. If I am killed—well then mother,you can also die, and there will be an end of our misfortunes.”
“It is well,” replied Mercédès, with her eloquent glance; “you areright, my love; let us prove to those who are watching our actions thatwe are worthy of compassion.”
“But let us not yield to gloomy apprehensions,” said the young man; “Iassure you we are, or rather we shall be, very happy. You are a womanat once full of spirit and resignation; I have become simple in mytastes, and am without passion, I hope. Once in service, I shall berich—once in M. Dantès’ house, you will be at rest. Let us strive, Ibeseech you,—let us strive to be cheerful.”
“Yes, let us strive, for you ought to live, and to be happy, Albert.”
“And so our division is made, mother,” said the young man, affectingease of mind. “We can now part; come, I shall engage your passage.”
“And you, my dear boy?”
“I shall stay here for a few days longer; we must accustom ourselves toparting. I want recommendations and some information relative toAfrica. I will join you again at Marseilles.”
“Well, be it so—let us part,” said Mercédès, folding around hershoulders the only shawl she had taken away, and which accidentallyhappened to be a valuable black cashmere. Albert gathered up his papershastily, rang the bell to pay the thirty francs he owed to thelandlord, and offering his arm to his mother, they descended thestairs.
Someone was walking down before them, and this person, hearing therustling of a silk dress, turned around. “Debray!” muttered Albert.
“You, Morcerf?” replied the secretary, resting on the stairs. Curiosityhad vanquished the desire of preserving his _incognito_, and he wasrecognized. It was, indeed, strange in this unknown spot to find theyoung man whose misfortunes had made so much noise in Paris.
“Morcerf!” repeated Debray. Then noticing in the dim light the stillyouthful and veiled figure of Madame de Morcerf:
“Pardon me,” he added with a smile, “I leave you, Albert.” Albertunderstood his thoughts.
“Mother,” he said, turning towards Mercédès, “this is M. Debray,secretary of the Minister for the Interior, once a friend of mine.”
“How once?” stammered Debray; “what do you mean?”
“I say so, M. Debray, because I have no friends now, and I ought not tohave any. I thank you for having recognized me, sir.” Debray steppedforward, and cordially pressed the hand of his interlocutor.
“Believe me, dear Albert,” he said, with all the emotion he was capableof feeling,—“believe me, I feel deeply for your misfortunes, and if inany way I can serve you, I am yours.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Albert, smiling. “In the midst of ourmisfortunes, we are still rich enough not to require assistance fromanyone. We are leaving Paris, and when our journey is paid, we shallhave 5,000 francs left.”
The blood mounted to the temples of Debray, who held a million in hispocket-book, and unimaginative as he was he could not help reflectingthat the same house had contained two women, one of whom, justlydishonored, had left it poor with 1,500,000 francs under her cloak,while the other, unjustly stricken, but sublime in her misfortune, wasyet rich with a few deniers. This parallel disturbed his usualpoliteness, the philosophy he witnessed appalled him, he muttered a fewwords of general civility and ran downstairs.
That day the minister’s clerks and the subordinates had a great deal toput up with from his ill-humor. But that same night, he found himselfthe possessor of a fine house, situated on the Boulevard de laMadeleine, and an income of 50,000 livres.
The next day, just as Debray was signing the deed, that is about fiveo’clock in the afternoon, Madame de Morcerf, after havingaffectionately embraced her son, entered the _coupé_ of the diligence,which closed upon her.
A man was hidden in Lafitte’s banking-house, behind one of the littlearched windows which are placed above each desk; he saw Mercédès enterthe diligence, and he also saw Albert withdraw. Then he passed his handacross his forehead, which was clouded with doubt.
“Alas,” he exclaimed, “how can I restore the happiness I have takenaway from these poor innocent creatures? God help me!”


 Chapter 107. The Lions’ Den
One division of La Force, in which the most dangerous and desperateprisoners are confined, is called the court of Saint-Bernard. Theprisoners, in their expressive language, have named it the “Lions’Den,” probably because the captives possess teeth which frequently gnawthe bars, and sometimes the keepers also. It is a prison within aprison; the walls are double the thickness of the rest. The gratingsare every day carefully examined by jailers, whose herculeanproportions and cold pitiless expression prove them to have been chosento reign over their subjects for their superior activity andintelligence.
The courtyard of this quarter is enclosed by enormous walls, over whichthe sun glances obliquely, when it deigns to penetrate into this gulfof moral and physical deformity. On this paved yard are to beseen,—pacing to and fro from morning till night, pale, careworn, andhaggard, like so many shadows,—the men whom justice holds beneath thesteel she is sharpening. There, crouched against the side of the wallwhich attracts and retains the most heat, they may be seen sometimestalking to one another, but more frequently alone, watching the door,which sometimes opens to call forth one from the gloomy assemblage, orto throw in another outcast from society.
The court of Saint-Bernard has its own particular apartment for thereception of guests; it is a long rectangle, divided by two uprightgratings placed at a distance of three feet from one another to preventa visitor from shaking hands with or passing anything to the prisoners.It is a wretched, damp, nay, even horrible spot, more especially whenwe consider the agonizing conferences which have taken place betweenthose iron bars. And yet, frightful though this spot may be, it islooked upon as a kind of paradise by the men whose days are numbered;it is so rare for them to leave the Lions’ Den for any other place thanthe barrier Saint-Jacques, the galleys! or solitary confinement.
In the court which we have attempted to describe, and from which a dampvapor was rising, a young man with his hands in his pockets, who hadexcited much curiosity among the inhabitants of the “Den,” might beseen walking. The cut of his clothes would have made him pass for anelegant man, if those clothes had not been torn to shreds; still theydid not show signs of wear, and the fine cloth, beneath the carefulhands of the prisoner, soon recovered its gloss in the parts which werestill perfect, for the wearer tried his best to make it assume theappearance of a new coat. He bestowed the same attention upon thecambric front of a shirt, which had considerably changed in color sincehis entrance into the prison, and he polished his varnished boots withthe corner of a handkerchief embroidered with initials surmounted by acoronet.
Some of the inmates of the “Lions’ Den” were watching the operations ofthe prisoner’s toilet with considerable interest.
“See, the prince is pluming himself,” said one of the thieves.
“He’s a fine looking fellow,” said another; “if he had only a comb andhair-grease, he’d take the shine off the gentlemen in white kids.”
“His coat looks nearly new, and his boots are brilliant. It is pleasantto have such well-dressed brethren; and those gendarmes behavedshamefully. What jealousy; to tear such clothes!”
“He looks like a big-bug,” said another; “dresses in fine style. And,then, to be here so young! Oh, what larks!”
Meanwhile the object of this hideous admiration approached the wicket,against which one of the keepers was leaning.
“Come, sir,” he said, “lend me twenty francs; you will soon be paid;you run no risks with me. Remember, I have relations who possess moremillions than you have deniers. Come, I beseech you, lend me twentyfrancs, so that I may buy a dressing-gown; it is intolerable always tobe in a coat and boots! And what a coat, sir, for a prince of theCavalcanti!”
The keeper turned his back, and shrugged his shoulders; he did not evenlaugh at what would have caused anyone else to do so; he had heard somany utter the same things,—indeed, he heard nothing else.
“Come,” said Andrea, “you are a man void of compassion; I’ll have youturned out.”
This made the keeper turn around, and he burst into a loud laugh. Theprisoners then approached and formed a circle.
“I tell you that with that wretched sum,” continued Andrea, “I couldobtain a coat, and a room in which to receive the illustrious visitor Iam daily expecting.”
“Of course—of course,” said the prisoners;—“anyone can see he’s agentleman!”
“Well, then, lend him the twenty francs,” said the keeper, leaning onthe other shoulder; “surely you will not refuse a comrade!”
50151m


“I am no comrade of these people,” said the young man, proudly, “youhave no right to insult me thus.”
The thieves looked at one another with low murmurs, and a stormgathered over the head of the aristocratic prisoner, raised less by hisown words than by the manner of the keeper. The latter, sure ofquelling the tempest when the waves became too violent, allowed them torise to a certain pitch that he might be revenged on the importunateAndrea, and besides it would afford him some recreation during the longday.
The thieves had already approached Andrea, some screaming, _“Lasavate—La savate!”_26 a cruel operation, which consists in cuffing acomrade who may have fallen into disgrace, not with an old shoe, butwith an iron-heeled one. Others proposed the _anguille_, another kindof recreation, in which a handkerchief is filled with sand, pebbles,and two-sous pieces, when they have them, which the wretches beat likea flail over the head and shoulders of the unhappy sufferer.
“Let us horsewhip the fine gentleman!” said others.
But Andrea, turning towards them, winked his eyes, rolled his tonguearound his cheeks, and smacked his lips in a manner equivalent to ahundred words among the bandits when forced to be silent. It was aMasonic sign Caderousse had taught him. He was immediately recognizedas one of them; the handkerchief was thrown down, and the iron-heeledshoe replaced on the foot of the wretch to whom it belonged.
Some voices were heard to say that the gentleman was right; that heintended to be civil, in his way, and that they would set the exampleof liberty of conscience,—and the mob retired. The keeper was sostupefied at this scene that he took Andrea by the hands and beganexamining his person, attributing the sudden submission of the inmatesof the Lions’ Den to something more substantial than mere fascination.
Andrea made no resistance, although he protested against it. Suddenly avoice was heard at the wicket.
“Benedetto!” exclaimed an inspector. The keeper relaxed his hold.
“I am called,” said Andrea.
“To the visitors’ room!” said the same voice.
“You see someone pays me a visit. Ah, my dear sir, you will see whethera Cavalcanti is to be treated like a common person!”
And Andrea, gliding through the court like a black shadow, rushed outthrough the wicket, leaving his comrades, and even the keeper, lost inwonder. Certainly a call to the visitors’ room had scarcely astonishedAndrea less than themselves, for the wily youth, instead of making useof his privilege of waiting to be claimed on his entry into La Force,had maintained a rigid silence.
50153m


“Everything,” he said, “proves me to be under the protection of somepowerful person,—this sudden fortune, the facility with which I haveovercome all obstacles, an unexpected family and an illustrious nameawarded to me, gold showered down upon me, and the most splendidalliances about to be entered into. An unhappy lapse of fortune and theabsence of my protector have cast me down, certainly, but not forever.The hand which has retreated for a while will be again stretched forthto save me at the very moment when I shall think myself sinking intothe abyss. Why should I risk an imprudent step? It might alienate myprotector. He has two means of extricating me from this dilemma,—theone by a mysterious escape, managed through bribery; the other bybuying off my judges with gold. I will say and do nothing until I amconvinced that he has quite abandoned me, and then——”
Andrea had formed a plan which was tolerably clever. The unfortunateyouth was intrepid in the attack, and rude in the defence. He had bornewith the public prison, and with privations of all sorts; still, bydegrees nature, or rather custom, had prevailed, and he suffered frombeing naked, dirty, and hungry. It was at this moment of discomfortthat the inspector’s voice called him to the visiting-room. Andrea felthis heart leap with joy. It was too soon for a visit from the examiningmagistrate, and too late for one from the director of the prison, orthe doctor; it must, then, be the visitor he hoped for. Behind thegrating of the room into which Andrea had been led, he saw, while hiseyes dilated with surprise, the dark and intelligent face of M.Bertuccio, who was also gazing with sad astonishment upon the ironbars, the bolted doors, and the shadow which moved behind the othergrating.
“Ah,” said Andrea, deeply affected.
“Good morning, Benedetto,” said Bertuccio, with his deep, hollow voice.
“You—you?” said the young man, looking fearfully around him.
“Do you not recognize me, unhappy child?”
“Silence,—be silent!” said Andrea, who knew the delicate sense ofhearing possessed by the walls; “for Heaven’s sake, do not speak soloud!”
“You wish to speak with me alone, do you not?” said Bertuccio.
“Oh, yes.”
“That is well.”
And Bertuccio, feeling in his pocket, signed to a keeper whom he sawthrough the window of the wicket.
“Read?” he said.
“What is that?” asked Andrea.
“An order to conduct you to a room, and to leave you there to talk tome.”
“Oh,” cried Andrea, leaping with joy. Then he mentally added,—“Still myunknown protector! I am not forgotten. They wish for secrecy, since weare to converse in a private room. I understand, Bertuccio has beensent by my protector.”
The keeper spoke for a moment with an official, then opened the irongates and conducted Andrea to a room on the first floor. The room waswhitewashed, as is the custom in prisons, but it looked quite brilliantto a prisoner, though a stove, a bed, a chair, and a table formed thewhole of its sumptuous furniture. Bertuccio sat down upon the chair,Andrea threw himself upon the bed; the keeper retired.
“Now,” said the steward, “what have you to tell me?”
“And you?” said Andrea.
“You speak first.”
“Oh, no. You must have much to tell me, since you have come to seekme.”
50155m


“Well, be it so. You have continued your course of villany; you haverobbed—you have assassinated.”
“Well, I should say! If you had me taken to a private room only to tellme this, you might have saved yourself the trouble. I know all thesethings. But there are some with which, on the contrary, I am notacquainted. Let us talk of those, if you please. Who sent you?”
“Come, come, you are going on quickly, M. Benedetto!”
“Yes, and to the point. Let us dispense with useless words. Who sendsyou?”
“No one.”
“How did you know I was in prison?”
“I recognized you, some time since, as the insolent dandy who sogracefully mounted his horse in the Champs-Élysées.”
“Oh, the Champs-Élysées? Ah, yes; we burn, as they say at the game ofpincette. The Champs-Élysées? Come, let us talk a little about myfather.”
“Who, then, am I?”
“You, sir?—you are my adopted father. But it was not you, I presume,who placed at my disposal 100,000 francs, which I spent in four or fivemonths; it was not you who manufactured an Italian gentleman for myfather; it was not you who introduced me into the world, and had meinvited to a certain dinner at Auteuil, which I fancy I am eating atthis moment, in company with the most distinguished people inParis—amongst the rest with a certain procureur, whose acquaintance Idid very wrong not to cultivate, for he would have been very useful tome just now;—it was not you, in fact, who bailed me for one or twomillions, when the fatal discovery of my little secret took place.Come, speak, my worthy Corsican, speak!”
“What do you wish me to say?”
“I will help you. You were speaking of the Champs-Élysées just now,worthy foster-father.”
“Well?”
“Well, in the Champs-Élysées there resides a very rich gentleman.”
“At whose house you robbed and murdered, did you not?”
“I believe I did.”
“The Count of Monte Cristo?”
“’Tis you who have named him, as M. Racine says. Well, am I to rushinto his arms, and strain him to my heart, crying, ‘My father, myfather!’ like Monsieur Pixérécourt.”27
“Do not let us jest,” gravely replied Bertuccio, “and dare not to utterthat name again as you have pronounced it.”
“Bah,” said Andrea, a little overcome, by the solemnity of Bertuccio’smanner, “why not?”
“Because the person who bears it is too highly favored by Heaven to bethe father of such a wretch as you.”
“Oh, these are fine words.”
“And there will be fine doings, if you do not take care.”
“Menaces—I do not fear them. I will say——”
“Do you think you are engaged with a pygmy like yourself?” saidBertuccio, in so calm a tone, and with so steadfast a look, that Andreawas moved to the very soul. “Do you think you have to do withgalley-slaves, or novices in the world? Benedetto, you are fallen intoterrible hands; they are ready to open for you—make use of them. Do notplay with the thunderbolt they have laid aside for a moment, but whichthey can take up again instantly, if you attempt to intercept theirmovements.”
50157m


“My father—I will know who my father is,” said the obstinate youth; “Iwill perish if I must, but I _will_ know it. What does scandal signifyto me? What possessions, what reputation, what ‘pull,’ as Beauchampsays,—have I? You great people always lose something by scandal,notwithstanding your millions. Come, who is my father?”
“I came to tell you.”
“Ah,” cried Benedetto, his eyes sparkling with joy. Just then the dooropened, and the jailer, addressing himself to Bertuccio, said:
“Excuse me, sir, but the examining magistrate is waiting for theprisoner.”
“And so closes our interview,” said Andrea to the worthy steward; “Iwish the troublesome fellow were at the devil!”
“I will return tomorrow,” said Bertuccio.
“Good! Gendarmes, I am at your service. Ah, sir, do leave a few crownsfor me at the gate that I may have some things I am in need of!”
“It shall be done,” replied Bertuccio.
Andrea extended his hand; Bertuccio kept his own in his pocket, andmerely jingled a few pieces of money.
“That’s what I mean,” said Andrea, endeavoring to smile, quite overcomeby the strange tranquillity of Bertuccio.
“Can I be deceived?” he murmured, as he stepped into the oblong andgrated vehicle which they call “the salad basket.”
“Never mind, we shall see! Tomorrow, then!” he added, turning towardsBertuccio.
“Tomorrow!” replied the steward.


 Chapter 108. The Judge
We remember that the Abbé Busoni remained alone with Noirtier in thechamber of death, and that the old man and the priest were the soleguardians of the young girl’s body. Perhaps it was the Christianexhortations of the abbé, perhaps his kind charity, perhaps hispersuasive words, which had restored the courage of Noirtier, for eversince he had conversed with the priest his violent despair had yieldedto a calm resignation which surprised all who knew his excessiveaffection for Valentine.
M. de Villefort had not seen his father since the morning of the death.The whole establishment had been changed; another valet was engaged forhimself, a new servant for Noirtier, two women had entered Madame deVillefort’s service,—in fact, everywhere, to the concierge andcoachmen, new faces were presented to the different masters of thehouse, thus widening the division which had always existed between themembers of the same family. The assizes, also, were about to begin, andVillefort, shut up in his room, exerted himself with feverish anxietyin drawing up the case against the murderer of Caderousse. This affair,like all those in which the Count of Monte Cristo had interfered,caused a great sensation in Paris. The proofs were certainly notconvincing, since they rested upon a few words written by an escapedgalley-slave on his death-bed, and who might have been actuated byhatred or revenge in accusing his companion. But the mind of theprocureur was made up; he felt assured that Benedetto was guilty, andhe hoped by his skill in conducting this aggravated case to flatter hisself-love, which was about the only vulnerable point left in his frozenheart.
The case was therefore prepared owing to the incessant labor ofVillefort, who wished it to be the first on the list in the comingassizes. He had been obliged to seclude himself more than ever, toevade the enormous number of applications presented to him for thepurpose of obtaining tickets of admission to the court on the day oftrial. And then so short a time had elapsed since the death of poorValentine, and the gloom which overshadowed the house was so recent,that no one wondered to see the father so absorbed in his professionalduties, which were the only means he had of dissipating his grief.
Once only had Villefort seen his father; it was the day after that uponwhich Bertuccio had paid his second visit to Benedetto, when the latterwas to learn his father’s name. The magistrate, harassed and fatigued,had descended to the garden of his house, and in a gloomy mood, similarto that in which Tarquin lopped off the tallest poppies, he beganknocking off with his cane the long and dying branches of therose-trees, which, placed along the avenue, seemed like the spectres ofthe brilliant flowers which had bloomed in the past season.
More than once he had reached that part of the garden where the famousboarded gate stood overlooking the deserted enclosure, always returningby the same path, to begin his walk again, at the same pace and withthe same gesture, when he accidentally turned his eyes towards thehouse, whence he heard the noisy play of his son, who had returned fromschool to spend the Sunday and Monday with his mother.
While doing so, he observed M. Noirtier at one of the open windows,where the old man had been placed that he might enjoy the last rays ofthe sun which yet yielded some heat, and was now shining upon the dyingflowers and red leaves of the creeper which twined around the balcony.
The eye of the old man was riveted upon a spot which Villefort couldscarcely distinguish. His glance was so full of hate, of ferocity, andsavage impatience, that Villefort turned out of the path he had beenpursuing, to see upon what person this dark look was directed.
Then he saw beneath a thick clump of linden-trees, which were nearlydivested of foliage, Madame de Villefort sitting with a book in herhand, the perusal of which she frequently interrupted to smile upon herson, or to throw back his elastic ball, which he obstinately threw fromthe drawing-room into the garden.
Villefort became pale; he understood the old man’s meaning.
Noirtier continued to look at the same object, but suddenly his glancewas transferred from the wife to the husband, and Villefort himself hadto submit to the searching investigation of eyes, which, while changingtheir direction and even their language, had lost none of theirmenacing expression. Madame de Villefort, unconscious of the passionsthat exhausted their fire over her head, at that moment held her son’sball, and was making signs to him to reclaim it with a kiss. Edwardbegged for a long while, the maternal kiss probably not offeringsufficient recompense for the trouble he must take to obtain it;however at length he decided, leaped out of the window into a clusterof heliotropes and daisies, and ran to his mother, his foreheadstreaming with perspiration. Madame de Villefort wiped his forehead,pressed her lips upon it, and sent him back with the ball in one handand some bonbons in the other.
Villefort, drawn by an irresistible attraction, like that of the birdto the serpent, walked towards the house. As he approached it,Noirtier’s gaze followed him, and his eyes appeared of such a fierybrightness that Villefort felt them pierce to the depths of his heart.In that earnest look might be read a deep reproach, as well as aterrible menace. Then Noirtier raised his eyes to heaven, as though toremind his son of a forgotten oath.
“It is well, sir,” replied Villefort from below,—“it is well; havepatience but one day longer; what I have said I will do.”
Noirtier seemed to be calmed by these words, and turned his eyes withindifference to the other side. Villefort violently unbuttoned hisgreatcoat, which seemed to strangle him, and passing his livid handacross his forehead, entered his study.
The night was cold and still; the family had all retired to rest butVillefort, who alone remained up, and worked till five o’clock in themorning, reviewing the last interrogatories made the night before bythe examining magistrates, compiling the depositions of the witnesses,and putting the finishing stroke to the deed of accusation, which wasone of the most energetic and best conceived of any he had yetdelivered.
The next day, Monday, was the first sitting of the assizes. The morningdawned dull and gloomy, and Villefort saw the dim gray light shine uponthe lines he had traced in red ink. The magistrate had slept for ashort time while the lamp sent forth its final struggles; itsflickerings awoke him, and he found his fingers as damp and purple asthough they had been dipped in blood.
He opened the window; a bright yellow streak crossed the sky, andseemed to divide in half the poplars, which stood out in black reliefon the horizon. In the clover-fields beyond the chestnut-trees, a larkwas mounting up to heaven, while pouring out her clear morning song.The damps of the dew bathed the head of Villefort, and refreshed hismemory.
“Today,” he said with an effort,—“today the man who holds the blade ofjustice must strike wherever there is guilt.”
Involuntarily his eyes wandered towards the window of Noirtier’s room,where he had seen him the preceding night. The curtain was drawn, andyet the image of his father was so vivid to his mind that he addressedthe closed window as though it had been open, and as if through theopening he had beheld the menacing old man.
“Yes,” he murmured,—“yes, be satisfied.”
His head dropped upon his chest, and in this position he paced hisstudy; then he threw himself, dressed as he was, upon a sofa, less tosleep than to rest his limbs, cramped with cold and study. By degreeseveryone awoke. Villefort, from his study, heard the successive noiseswhich accompany the life of a house,—the opening and shutting of doors,the ringing of Madame de Villefort’s bell, to summon the waiting-maid,mingled with the first shouts of the child, who rose full of theenjoyment of his age. Villefort also rang; his new valet brought himthe papers, and with them a cup of chocolate.
“What are you bringing me?” said he.
“A cup of chocolate.”
“I did not ask for it. Who has paid me this attention?”
“My mistress, sir. She said you would have to speak a great deal in themurder case, and that you should take something to keep up yourstrength;” and the valet placed the cup on the table nearest to thesofa, which was, like all the rest, covered with papers.
The valet then left the room. Villefort looked for an instant with agloomy expression, then, suddenly, taking it up with a nervous motion,he swallowed its contents at one draught. It might have been thoughtthat he hoped the beverage would be mortal, and that he sought fordeath to deliver him from a duty which he would rather die than fulfil.He then rose, and paced his room with a smile it would have beenterrible to witness. The chocolate was inoffensive, for M. de Villefortfelt no effects.
The breakfast-hour arrived, but M. de Villefort was not at table. Thevalet re-entered.
“Madame de Villefort wishes to remind you, sir,” he said, “that eleveno’clock has just struck, and that the trial commences at twelve.”
“Well,” said Villefort, “what then?”
“Madame de Villefort is dressed; she is quite ready, and wishes to knowif she is to accompany you, sir?”
“Where to?”
“To the Palais.”
“What to do?”
“My mistress wishes much to be present at the trial.”
“Ah,” said Villefort, with a startling accent; “does she wish that?”
The servant drew back and said, “If you wish to go alone, sir, I willgo and tell my mistress.”
Villefort remained silent for a moment, and dented his pale cheeks withhis nails.
“Tell your mistress,” he at length answered, “that I wish to speak toher, and I beg she will wait for me in her own room.”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then come to dress and shave me.”
“Directly, sir.”
The valet re-appeared almost instantly, and, having shaved his master,assisted him to dress entirely in black. When he had finished, he said:
“My mistress said she should expect you, sir, as soon as you hadfinished dressing.”
“I am going to her.”
And Villefort, with his papers under his arm and hat in hand, directedhis steps toward the apartment of his wife.
At the door he paused for a moment to wipe his damp, pale brow. He thenentered the room. Madame de Villefort was sitting on an ottoman andimpatiently turning over the leaves of some newspapers and pamphletswhich young Edward, by way of amusing himself, was tearing to piecesbefore his mother could finish reading them. She was dressed to go out,her bonnet was placed beside her on a chair, and her gloves were on herhands.
“Ah, here you are, monsieur,” she said in her naturally calm voice;“but how pale you are! Have you been working all night? Why did you notcome down to breakfast? Well, will you take me, or shall I takeEdward?”
Madame de Villefort had multiplied her questions in order to gain oneanswer, but to all her inquiries M. de Villefort remained mute and coldas a statue.
“Edward,” said Villefort, fixing an imperious glance on the child, “goand play in the drawing-room, my dear; I wish to speak to your mamma.”
Madame de Villefort shuddered at the sight of that cold countenance,that resolute tone, and the awfully strange preliminaries. Edwardraised his head, looked at his mother, and then, finding that she didnot confirm the order, began cutting off the heads of his leadensoldiers.
“Edward,” cried M. de Villefort, so harshly that the child started upfrom the floor, “do you hear me?—Go!”
The child, unaccustomed to such treatment, arose, pale and trembling;it would be difficult to say whether his emotion were caused by fear orpassion. His father went up to him, took him in his arms, and kissedhis forehead.
“Go,” he said: “go, my child.” Edward ran out.
M. de Villefort went to the door, which he closed behind the child, andbolted.
“Dear me!” said the young woman, endeavoring to read her husband’sinmost thoughts, while a smile passed over her countenance which frozethe impassibility of Villefort; “what is the matter?”
“Madame, where do you keep the poison you generally use?” said themagistrate, without any introduction, placing himself between his wifeand the door.
Madame de Villefort must have experienced something of the sensation ofa bird which, looking up, sees the murderous trap closing over itshead.
A hoarse, broken tone, which was neither a cry nor a sigh, escaped fromher, while she became deadly pale.
“Monsieur,” she said, “I—I do not understand you.”
And, in her first paroxysm of terror, she had raised herself from thesofa, in the next, stronger very likely than the other, she fell downagain on the cushions.
“I asked you,” continued Villefort, in a perfectly calm tone, “whereyou conceal the poison by the aid of which you have killed myfather-in-law, M. de Saint-Méran, my mother-in-law, Madame deSaint-Méran, Barrois, and my daughter Valentine.”
“Ah, sir,” exclaimed Madame de Villefort, clasping her hands, “what doyou say?”
“It is not for you to interrogate, but to answer.”
“Is it to the judge or to the husband?” stammered Madame de Villefort.
“To the judge—to the judge, madame!” It was terrible to behold thefrightful pallor of that woman, the anguish of her look, the tremblingof her whole frame.
“Ah, sir,” she muttered, “ah, sir,” and this was all.
“You do not answer, madame!” exclaimed the terrible interrogator. Thenhe added, with a smile yet more terrible than his anger, “It is true,then; you do not deny it!” She moved forward. “And you cannot deny it!”added Villefort, extending his hand toward her, as though to seize herin the name of justice. “You have accomplished these different crimeswith impudent address, but which could only deceive those whoseaffections for you blinded them. Since the death of Madame deSaint-Méran, I have known that a poisoner lived in my house. M.d’Avrigny warned me of it. After the death of Barrois my suspicionswere directed towards an angel,—those suspicions which, even when thereis no crime, are always alive in my heart; but after the death ofValentine, there has been no doubt in my mind, madame, and not only inmine, but in those of others; thus your crime, known by two persons,suspected by many, will soon become public, and, as I told you justnow, you no longer speak to the husband, but to the judge.”
50165m


The young woman hid her face in her hands.
“Oh, sir,” she stammered, “I beseech you, do not believe appearances.”
“Are you, then, a coward?” cried Villefort, in a contemptuous voice.“But I have always observed that poisoners were cowards. Can you be acoward, you, who have had the courage to witness the death of two oldmen and a young girl murdered by you?”
“Sir! sir!”
“Can you be a coward?” continued Villefort, with increasing excitement,“you, who could count, one by one, the minutes of four death agonies?_You_, who have arranged your infernal plans, and removed the beverageswith a talent and precision almost miraculous? Have you, then, who havecalculated everything with such nicety, have you forgotten to calculateone thing—I mean where the revelation of your crimes will lead you to?Oh, it is impossible—you must have saved some surer, more subtle anddeadly poison than any other, that you might escape the punishment thatyou deserve. You have done this—I hope so, at least.”
Madame de Villefort stretched out her hands, and fell on her knees.
“I understand,” he said, “you confess; but a confession made to thejudges, a confession made at the last moment, extorted when the crimecannot be denied, diminishes not the punishment inflicted on theguilty!”
“The punishment?” exclaimed Madame de Villefort, “the punishment,monsieur? Twice you have pronounced that word!”
“Certainly. Did you hope to escape it because you were four timesguilty? Did you think the punishment would be withheld because you arethe wife of him who pronounces it?—No, madame, no; the scaffold awaitsthe poisoner, whoever she may be, unless, as I just said, the poisonerhas taken the precaution of keeping for herself a few drops of herdeadliest poison.”
Madame de Villefort uttered a wild cry, and a hideous anduncontrollable terror spread over her distorted features.
“Oh, do not fear the scaffold, madame,” said the magistrate; “I willnot dishonor you, since that would be dishonor to myself; no, if youhave heard me distinctly, you will understand that you are not to dieon the scaffold.”
“No, I do not understand; what do you mean?” stammered the unhappywoman, completely overwhelmed.
“I mean that the wife of the first magistrate in the capital shall not,by her infamy, soil an unblemished name; that she shall not, with oneblow, dishonor her husband and her child.”
“No, no—oh, no!”
“Well, madame, it will be a laudable action on your part, and I willthank you for it!”
“You will thank me—for what?”
“For what you have just said.”
“What did I say? Oh, my brain whirls; I no longer understand anything.Oh, my God, my God!”
And she rose, with her hair dishevelled, and her lips foaming.
“Have you answered the question I put to you on entering theroom?—where do you keep the poison you generally use, madame?”
Madame de Villefort raised her arms to heaven, and convulsively struckone hand against the other.
“No, no,” she vociferated, “no, you cannot wish that!”
50169m


“What I do not wish, madame, is that you should perish on the scaffold.Do you understand?” asked Villefort.
“Oh, mercy, mercy, monsieur!”
“What I require is, that justice be done. I am on the earth to punish,madame,” he added, with a flaming glance; “any other woman, were it thequeen herself, I would send to the executioner; but to you I shall bemerciful. To you I will say, ‘Have you not, madame, put aside some ofthe surest, deadliest, most speedy poison?’”
50170m


“Oh, pardon me, sir; let me live!”
“She is cowardly,” said Villefort.
“Reflect that I am your wife!”
“You are a poisoner.”
“In the name of Heaven!”
“No!”
“In the name of the love you once bore me!”
“No, no!”
“In the name of our child! Ah, for the sake of our child, let me live!”
50167m


“No, no, no, I tell you; one day, if I allow you to live, you willperhaps kill him, as you have the others!”
“I?—I kill my boy?” cried the distracted mother, rushing towardVillefort; “I kill my son? Ha, ha, ha!” and a frightful, demoniac laughfinished the sentence, which was lost in a hoarse rattle.
Madame de Villefort fell at her husband’s feet. He approached her.
“Think of it, madame,” he said; “if, on my return, justice has not beensatisfied, I will denounce you with my own mouth, and arrest you withmy own hands!”
She listened, panting, overwhelmed, crushed; her eye alone lived, andglared horribly.
“Do you understand me?” he said. “I am going down there to pronouncethe sentence of death against a murderer. If I find you alive on myreturn, you shall sleep tonight in the conciergerie.”
Madame de Villefort sighed; her nerves gave way, and she sunk on thecarpet. The king’s attorney seemed to experience a sensation of pity;he looked upon her less severely, and, bowing to her, said slowly:
“Farewell, madame, farewell!”
That farewell struck Madame de Villefort like the executioner’s knife.She fainted. The procureur went out, after having double-locked thedoor.


 Chapter 109. The Assizes
The Benedetto affair, as it was called at the Palais, and by people ingeneral, had produced a tremendous sensation. Frequenting the Café deParis, the Boulevard de Gand, and the Bois de Boulogne, during hisbrief career of splendor, the false Cavalcanti had formed a host ofacquaintances. The papers had related his various adventures, both asthe man of fashion and the galley-slave; and as everyone who had beenpersonally acquainted with Prince Andrea Cavalcanti experienced alively curiosity in his fate, they all determined to spare no troublein endeavoring to witness the trial of M. Benedetto for the murder ofhis comrade in chains.
In the eyes of many, Benedetto appeared, if not a victim to, at leastan instance of, the fallibility of the law. M. Cavalcanti, his father,had been seen in Paris, and it was expected that he would re-appear toclaim the illustrious outcast. Many, also, who were not aware of thecircumstances attending his withdrawal from Paris, were struck with theworthy appearance, the gentlemanly bearing, and the knowledge of theworld displayed by the old patrician, who certainly played the noblemanvery well, so long as he said nothing, and made no arithmeticalcalculations.
As for the accused himself, many remembered him as being so amiable, sohandsome, and so liberal, that they chose to think him the victim ofsome conspiracy, since in this world large fortunes frequently excitethe malevolence and jealousy of some unknown enemy.
Everyone, therefore, ran to the court; some to witness the sight,others to comment upon it. From seven o’clock in the morning a crowdwas stationed at the iron gates, and an hour before the trial commencedthe hall was full of the privileged. Before the entrance of themagistrates, and indeed frequently afterwards, a court of justice, ondays when some especial trial is to take place, resembles adrawing-room where many persons recognize each other and converse ifthey can do so without losing their seats; or, if they are separated bytoo great a number of lawyers, communicate by signs.
It was one of the magnificent autumn days which make amends for a shortsummer; the clouds which M. de Villefort had perceived at sunrise hadall disappeared as if by magic, and one of the softest and mostbrilliant days of September shone forth in all its splendor.
Beauchamp, one of the kings of the press, and therefore claiming theright of a throne everywhere, was eying everybody through his monocle.He perceived Château-Renaud and Debray, who had just gained the goodgraces of a sergeant-at-arms, and who had persuaded the latter to letthem stand before, instead of behind him, as they ought to have done.The worthy sergeant had recognized the minister’s secretary and themillionnaire, and, by way of paying extra attention to his nobleneighbors, promised to keep their places while they paid a visit toBeauchamp.
“Well,” said Beauchamp, “we shall see our friend!”
“Yes, indeed!” replied Debray. “That worthy prince. Deuce take thoseItalian princes!”
“A man, too, who could boast of Dante for a genealogist, and couldreckon back to the _Divina Comedia_.”
“A nobility of the rope!” said Château-Renaud phlegmatically.
“He will be condemned, will he not?” asked Debray of Beauchamp.
“My dear fellow, I think we should ask you that question; you know suchnews much better than we do. Did you see the president at theminister’s last night?”
“Yes.”
“What did he say?”
“Something which will surprise you.”
“Oh, make haste and tell me, then; it is a long time since that hashappened.”
“Well, he told me that Benedetto, who is considered a serpent ofsubtlety and a giant of cunning, is really but a very commonplace,silly rascal, and altogether unworthy of the experiments that will bemade on his phrenological organs after his death.”
“Bah,” said Beauchamp, “he played the prince very well.”
“Yes, for you who detest those unhappy princes, Beauchamp, and arealways delighted to find fault with them; but not for me, who discovera gentleman by instinct, and who scent out an aristocratic family likea very bloodhound of heraldry.”
“Then you never believed in the principality?”
“Yes.—in the principality, but not in the prince.”
“Not so bad,” said Beauchamp; “still, I assure you, he passed very wellwith many people; I saw him at the ministers’ houses.”
“Ah, yes,” said Château-Renaud. “The idea of thinking ministersunderstand anything about princes!”
“There is something in what you have just said,” said Beauchamp,laughing.
“But,” said Debray to Beauchamp, “if I spoke to the president, _you_must have been with the procureur.”
“It was an impossibility; for the last week M. de Villefort hassecluded himself. It is natural enough; this strange chain of domesticafflictions, followed by the no less strange death of his daughter——”
“Strange? What do you mean, Beauchamp?”
“Oh, yes; do you pretend that all this has been unobserved at theminister’s?” said Beauchamp, placing his eye-glass in his eye, where hetried to make it remain.
“My dear sir,” said Château-Renaud, “allow me to tell you that you donot understand that manœuvre with the eye-glass half so well as Debray.Give him a lesson, Debray.”
“Stay,” said Beauchamp, “surely I am not deceived.”
“What is it?”
“It is she!”
“Whom do you mean?”
“They said she had left.”
“Mademoiselle Eugénie?” said Château-Renaud; “has she returned?”
“No, but her mother.”
“Madame Danglars? Nonsense! Impossible!” said Château-Renaud; “only tendays after the flight of her daughter, and three days from thebankruptcy of her husband?”
Debray colored slightly, and followed with his eyes the direction ofBeauchamp’s glance.
“Come,” he said, “it is only a veiled lady, some foreign princess,perhaps the mother of Cavalcanti. But you were just speaking on a veryinteresting topic, Beauchamp.”
“I?”
“Yes; you were telling us about the extraordinary death of Valentine.”
“Ah, yes, so I was. But how is it that Madame de Villefort is nothere?”
“Poor, dear woman,” said Debray, “she is no doubt occupied indistilling balm for the hospitals, or in making cosmetics for herselfor friends. Do you know she spends two or three thousand crowns a yearin this amusement? But I wonder she is not here. I should have beenpleased to see her, for I like her very much.”
“And I hate her,” said Château-Renaud.
“Why?”
“I do not know. Why do we love? Why do we hate? I detest her, fromantipathy.”
“Or, rather, by instinct.”
“Perhaps so. But to return to what you were saying, Beauchamp.”
“Well, do you know why they die so multitudinously at M. deVillefort’s?”
“‘Multitudinously’ is good,” said Château-Renaud.
“My good fellow, you’ll find the word in Saint-Simon.”
“But the thing itself is at M. de Villefort’s; but let’s get back tothe subject.”
“Talking of that,” said Debray, “Madame was making inquiries about thathouse, which for the last three months has been hung with black.”
“Who is Madame?” asked Château-Renaud.
“The minister’s wife, _pardieu!_”
“Oh, your pardon! I never visit ministers; I leave that to theprinces.”
“Really, you were only before sparkling, but now you are brilliant;take compassion on us, or, like Jupiter, you will wither us up.”
“I will not speak again,” said Château-Renaud; “pray have compassionupon me, and do not take up every word I say.”
“Come, let us endeavor to get to the end of our story, Beauchamp; Itold you that yesterday Madame made inquiries of me upon the subject;enlighten me, and I will then communicate my information to her.”
“Well, gentlemen, the reason people die so multitudinously (I like theword) at M. de Villefort’s is that there is an assassin in the house!”
The two young men shuddered, for the same idea had more than onceoccurred to them.
“And who is the assassin;” they asked together.
“Young Edward!” A burst of laughter from the auditors did not in theleast disconcert the speaker, who continued,—“Yes, gentlemen; Edward,the infant phenomenon, who is quite an adept in the art of killing.”
“You are jesting.”
“Not at all. I yesterday engaged a servant, who had just left M. deVillefort—I intend sending him away tomorrow, for he eats soenormously, to make up for the fast imposed upon him by his terror inthat house. Well, now listen.”
“We are listening.”
“It appears the dear child has obtained possession of a bottlecontaining some drug, which he every now and then uses against thosewho have displeased him. First, M. and Madame de Saint-Méran incurredhis displeasure, so he poured out three drops of his elixir—three dropswere sufficient; then followed Barrois, the old servant of M. Noirtier,who sometimes rebuffed this little wretch—he therefore received thesame quantity of the elixir; the same happened to Valentine, of whom hewas jealous; he gave her the same dose as the others, and all was overfor her as well as the rest.”
“Why, what nonsense are you telling us?” said Château-Renaud.
“Yes, it is an extraordinary story,” said Beauchamp; “is it not?”
“It is absurd,” said Debray.
“Ah,” said Beauchamp, “you doubt me? Well, you can ask my servant, orrather him who will no longer be my servant tomorrow, it was the talkof the house.”
“And this elixir, where is it? what is it?”
“The child conceals it.”
“But where did he find it?”
“In his mother’s laboratory.”
“Does his mother then, keep poisons in her laboratory?”
“How can I tell? You are questioning me like a king’s attorney. I onlyrepeat what I have been told, and like my informant I can do no more.The poor devil would eat nothing, from fear.”
“It is incredible!”
“No, my dear fellow, it is not at all incredible. You saw the childpass through the Rue Richelieu last year, who amused himself withkilling his brothers and sisters by sticking pins in their ears whilethey slept. The generation who follow us are very precocious.”
“Come, Beauchamp,” said Château-Renaud, “I will bet anything you do notbelieve a word of all you have been telling us. But I do not see theCount of Monte Cristo here.”
“He is worn out,” said Debray; “besides, he could not well appear inpublic, since he has been the dupe of the Cavalcanti, who, it appears,presented themselves to him with false letters of credit, and cheatedhim out of 100,000 francs upon the hypothesis of this principality.”
“By the way, M. de Château-Renaud,” asked Beauchamp, “how is Morrel?”
“_Ma foi_, I have called three times without once seeing him. Still,his sister did not seem uneasy, and told me that though she had notseen him for two or three days, she was sure he was well.”
“Ah, now I think of it, the Count of Monte Cristo cannot appear in thehall,” said Beauchamp.
“Why not?”
“Because he is an actor in the drama.”
“Has he assassinated anyone, then?”
“No, on the contrary, they wished to assassinate him. You know that itwas in leaving his house that M. de Caderousse was murdered by hisfriend Benedetto. You know that the famous waistcoat was found in hishouse, containing the letter which stopped the signature of themarriage-contract. Do you see the waistcoat? There it is, allblood-stained, on the desk, as a testimony of the crime.”
“Ah, very good.”
“Hush, gentlemen, here is the court; let us go back to our places.”
A noise was heard in the hall; the sergeant called his two patrons withan energetic “hem!” and the door-keeper appearing, called out with thatshrill voice peculiar to his order, ever since the days ofBeaumarchais:
“The court, gentlemen!”


 Chapter 110. The Indictment
The judges took their places in the midst of the most profound silence;the jury took their seats; M. de Villefort, the object of unusualattention, and we had almost said of general admiration, sat in thearmchair and cast a tranquil glance around him. Everyone looked withastonishment on that grave and severe face, whose calm expressionpersonal griefs had been unable to disturb, and the aspect of a man whowas a stranger to all human emotions excited something very liketerror.
“Gendarmes,” said the president, “lead in the accused.”
At these words the public attention became more intense, and all eyeswere turned towards the door through which Benedetto was to enter. Thedoor soon opened and the accused appeared.
The same impression was experienced by all present, and no one wasdeceived by the expression of his countenance. His features bore nosign of that deep emotion which stops the beating of the heart andblanches the cheek. His hands, gracefully placed, one upon his hat, theother in the opening of his white waistcoat, were not at all tremulous;his eye was calm and even brilliant. Scarcely had he entered the hallwhen he glanced at the whole body of magistrates and assistants; hiseye rested longer on the president, and still more so on the king’sattorney.
By the side of Andrea was stationed the lawyer who was to conduct hisdefence, and who had been appointed by the court, for Andrea disdainedto pay any attention to those details, to which he appeared to attachno importance. The lawyer was a young man with light hair whose faceexpressed a hundred times more emotion than that which characterizedthe prisoner.
50181m


The president called for the indictment, revised as we know, by theclever and implacable pen of Villefort. During the reading of this,which was long, the public attention was continually drawn towardsAndrea, who bore the inspection with Spartan unconcern. Villefort hadnever been so concise and eloquent. The crime was depicted in the mostvivid colors; the former life of the prisoner, his transformation, areview of his life from the earliest period, were set forth with allthe talent that a knowledge of human life could furnish to a mind likethat of the procureur. Benedetto was thus forever condemned in publicopinion before the sentence of the law could be pronounced.
Andrea paid no attention to the successive charges which were broughtagainst him. M. de Villefort, who examined him attentively, and who nodoubt practiced upon him all the psychological studies he wasaccustomed to use, in vain endeavored to make him lower his eyes,notwithstanding the depth and profundity of his gaze. At length thereading of the indictment was ended.
“Accused,” said the president, “your name and surname?”
Andrea arose.
“Excuse me, Mr. President,” he said, in a clear voice, “but I see youare going to adopt a course of questions through which I cannot followyou. I have an idea, which I will explain by and by, of making anexception to the usual form of accusation. Allow me, then, if youplease, to answer in different order, or I will not do so at all.”
The astonished president looked at the jury, who in turn looked atVillefort. The whole assembly manifested great surprise, but Andreaappeared quite unmoved.
“Your age?” said the president; “will you answer that question?”
“I will answer that question, as well as the rest, Mr. President, butin its turn.”
“Your age?” repeated the president.
“I am twenty-one years old, or rather I shall be in a few days, as Iwas born the night of the 27th of September, 1817.”
M. de Villefort, who was busy taking down some notes, raised his headat the mention of this date.
“Where were you born?” continued the president.
“At Auteuil, near Paris.”
M. de Villefort a second time raised his head, looked at Benedetto asif he had been gazing at the head of Medusa, and became livid. As forBenedetto, he gracefully wiped his lips with a fine cambricpocket-handkerchief.
“Your profession?”
“First I was a forger,” answered Andrea, as calmly as possible; “then Ibecame a thief, and lately have become an assassin.”
A murmur, or rather storm, of indignation burst from all parts of theassembly. The judges themselves appeared to be stupefied, and the jurymanifested tokens of disgust for a cynicism so unexpected in a man offashion. M. de Villefort pressed his hand upon his brow, which, atfirst pale, had become red and burning; then he suddenly arose andlooked around as though he had lost his senses—he wanted air.
50183m


“Are you looking for anything, Mr. Procureur?” asked Benedetto, withhis most ingratiating smile.
M. de Villefort answered nothing, but sat, or rather threw himself downagain upon his chair.
“And now, prisoner, will you consent to tell your name?” said thepresident. “The brutal affectation with which you have enumerated andclassified your crimes calls for a severe reprimand on the part of thecourt, both in the name of morality, and for the respect due tohumanity. You appear to consider this a point of honor, and it may befor this reason, that you have delayed acknowledging your name. Youwished it to be preceded by all these titles.”
“It is quite wonderful, Mr. President, how entirely you have read mythoughts,” said Benedetto, in his softest voice and most polite manner.“This is, indeed, the reason why I begged you to alter the order of thequestions.”
The public astonishment had reached its height. There was no longer anydeceit or bravado in the manner of the accused. The audience felt thata startling revelation was to follow this ominous prelude.
“Well,” said the president; “your name?”
“I cannot tell you my name, since I do not know it; but I know myfather’s, and can tell it to you.”
A painful giddiness overwhelmed Villefort; great drops of acrid sweatfell from his face upon the papers which he held in his convulsed hand.
“Repeat your father’s name,” said the president.
Not a whisper, not a breath, was heard in that vast assembly; everyonewaited anxiously.
“My father is king’s attorney,” replied Andrea calmly.
50179m


“King’s attorney?” said the president, stupefied, and without noticingthe agitation which spread over the face of M. de Villefort; “king’sattorney?”
“Yes; and if you wish to know his name, I will tell it,—he is namedVillefort.”
The explosion, which had been so long restrained from a feeling ofrespect to the court of justice, now burst forth like thunder from thebreasts of all present; the court itself did not seek to restrain thefeelings of the audience. The exclamations, the insults addressed toBenedetto, who remained perfectly unconcerned, the energetic gestures,the movement of the gendarmes, the sneers of the scum of the crowdalways sure to rise to the surface in case of any disturbance—all thislasted five minutes, before the door-keepers and magistrates were ableto restore silence. In the midst of this tumult the voice ofthepresident was heard to exclaim:
“Are you playing with justice, accused, and do you dare set yourfellow-citizens an example of disorder which even in these times hasnever been equalled?”
Several persons hurried up to M. de Villefort, who sat half bowed overin his chair, offering him consolation, encouragement, andprotestations of zeal and sympathy. Order was re-established in thehall, except that a few people still moved about and whispered to oneanother. A lady, it was said, had just fainted; they had supplied herwith a smelling-bottle, and she had recovered. During the scene oftumult, Andrea had turned his smiling face towards the assembly; then,leaning with one hand on the oaken rail of the dock, in the mostgraceful attitude possible, he said:
“Gentlemen, I assure you I had no idea of insulting the court, or ofmaking a useless disturbance in the presence of this honorableassembly. They ask my age; I tell it. They ask where I was born; Ianswer. They ask my name, I cannot give it, since my parents abandonedme. But though I cannot give my own name, not possessing one, I cantell them my father’s. Now I repeat, my father is named M. deVillefort, and I am ready to prove it.”
There was an energy, a conviction, and a sincerity in the manner of theyoung man, which silenced the tumult. All eyes were turned for a momenttowards the procureur, who sat as motionless as though a thunderbolthad changed him into a corpse.
“Gentlemen,” said Andrea, commanding silence by his voice and manner;“I owe you the proofs and explanations of what I have said.”
“But,” said the irritated president, “you called yourself Benedetto,declared yourself an orphan, and claimed Corsica as your country.”
“I said anything I pleased, in order that the solemn declaration I havejust made should not be withheld, which otherwise would certainly havebeen the case. I now repeat that I was born at Auteuil on the night ofthe 27th of September, 1817, and that I am the son of the procureur, M.de Villefort. Do you wish for any further details? I will give them. Iwas born in No. 28, Rue de la Fontaine, in a room hung with red damask;my father took me in his arms, telling my mother I was dead, wrapped mein a napkin marked with an H and an N, and carried me into a garden,where he buried me alive.”
A shudder ran through the assembly when they saw that the confidence ofthe prisoner increased in proportion to the terror of M. de Villefort.
“But how have you become acquainted with all these details?” asked thepresident.
“I will tell you, Mr. President. A man who had sworn vengeance againstmy father, and had long watched his opportunity to kill him, hadintroduced himself that night into the garden in which my father buriedme. He was concealed in a thicket; he saw my father bury something inthe ground, and stabbed him; then thinking the deposit might containsome treasure he turned up the ground, and found me still living. Theman carried me to the foundling asylum, where I was registered underthe number 37. Three months afterwards, a woman travelled from Roglianoto Paris to fetch me, and having claimed me as her son, carried meaway. Thus, you see, though born in Paris, I was brought up inCorsica.”
There was a moment’s silence, during which one could have fancied thehall empty, so profound was the stillness.
“Proceed,” said the president.
“Certainly, I might have lived happily amongst those good people, whoadored me, but my perverse disposition prevailed over the virtues whichmy adopted mother endeavored to instil into my heart. I increased inwickedness till I committed crime. One day when I cursed Providence formaking me so wicked, and ordaining me to such a fate, my adopted fathersaid to me, ‘Do not blaspheme, unhappy child, the crime is that of yourfather, not yours,—of your father, who consigned you to hell if youdied, and to misery if a miracle preserved you alive.’ After that Iceased to blaspheme, but I cursed my father. That is why I have utteredthe words for which you blame me; that is why I have filled this wholeassembly with horror. If I have committed an additional crime, punishme, but if you will allow that ever since the day of my birth my fatehas been sad, bitter, and lamentable, then pity me.”
“But your mother?” asked the president.
“My mother thought me dead; she is not guilty. I did not even wish toknow her name, nor do I know it.”
Just then a piercing cry, ending in a sob, burst from the centre of thecrowd, who encircled the lady who had before fainted, and who now fellinto a violent fit of hysterics. She was carried out of the hall, thethick veil which concealed her face dropped off, and Madame Danglarswas recognized. Notwithstanding his shattered nerves, the ringingsensation in his ears, and the madness which turned his brain,Villefort rose as he perceived her.
“The proofs, the proofs!” said the president; “remember this tissue ofhorrors must be supported by the clearest proofs.”
“The proofs?” said Benedetto, laughing; “do you want proofs?”
“Yes.”
“Well, then, look at M. de Villefort, and then ask me for proofs.”
Everyone turned towards the procureur, who, unable to bear theuniversal gaze now riveted on him alone, advanced staggering into themidst of the tribunal, with his hair dishevelled and his face indentedwith the mark of his nails. The whole assembly uttered a long murmur ofastonishment.
“Father,” said Benedetto, “I am asked for proofs, do you wish me togive them?”
“No, no, it is useless,” stammered M. de Villefort in a hoarse voice;“no, it is useless!”
“How useless?” cried the president, “what do you mean?”
“I mean that I feel it impossible to struggle against this deadlyweight which crushes me. Gentlemen, I know I am in the hands of anavenging God! We need no proofs; everything relating to this young manis true.”
A dull, gloomy silence, like that which precedes some awful phenomenonof nature, pervaded the assembly, who shuddered in dismay.
“What, M. de Villefort,” cried the president, “do you yield to anhallucination? What, are you no longer in possession of your senses?This strange, unexpected, terrible accusation has disordered yourreason. Come, recover.”
The procureur dropped his head; his teeth chattered like those of a manunder a violent attack of fever, and yet he was deadly pale.
“I am in possession of all my senses, sir,” he said; “my body alonesuffers, as you may suppose. I acknowledge myself guilty of all theyoung man has brought against me, and from this hour hold myself underthe authority of the procureur who will succeed me.”
And as he spoke these words with a hoarse, choking voice, he staggeredtowards the door, which was mechanically opened by a door-keeper. Thewhole assembly were dumb with astonishment at the revelation andconfession which had produced a catastrophe so different from thatwhich had been expected during the last fortnight by the Parisianworld.
“Well,” said Beauchamp, “let them now say that drama is unnatural!”
“_Ma foi!_” said Château-Renaud, “I would rather end my career like M.de Morcerf; a pistol-shot seems quite delightful compared with thiscatastrophe.”
“And moreover, it kills,” said Beauchamp.
“And to think that I had an idea of marrying his daughter,” saidDebray. “She did well to die, poor girl!”
“The sitting is adjourned, gentlemen,” said the president; “freshinquiries will be made, and the case will be tried next session byanother magistrate.”
As for Andrea, who was calm and more interesting than ever, he left thehall, escorted by gendarmes, who involuntarily paid him some attention.
“Well, what do you think of this, my fine fellow?” asked Debray of thesergeant-at-arms, slipping a louis into his hand.
“There will be extenuating circumstances,” he replied.


 Chapter 111. Expiation
Notwithstanding the density of the crowd, M. de Villefort saw it openbefore him. There is something so awe-inspiring in great afflictionsthat even in the worst times the first emotion of a crowd has generallybeen to sympathize with the sufferer in a great catastrophe. Manypeople have been assassinated in a tumult, but even criminals haverarely been insulted during trial. Thus Villefort passed through themass of spectators and officers of the Palais, and withdrew. Though hehad acknowledged his guilt, he was protected by his grief. There aresome situations which men understand by instinct, but which reason ispowerless to explain; in such cases the greatest poet is he who givesutterance to the most natural and vehement outburst of sorrow. Thosewho hear the bitter cry are as much impressed as if they listened to anentire poem, and when the sufferer is sincere they are right inregarding his outburst as sublime.
It would be difficult to describe the state of stupor in whichVillefort left the Palais. Every pulse beat with feverish excitement,every nerve was strained, every vein swollen, and every part of hisbody seemed to suffer distinctly from the rest, thus multiplying hisagony a thousand-fold. He made his way along the corridors throughforce of habit; he threw aside his magisterial robe, not out ofdeference to etiquette, but because it was an unbearable burden, averitable garb of Nessus, insatiate in torture. Having staggered as faras the Rue Dauphine, he perceived his carriage, awoke his sleepingcoachman by opening the door himself, threw himself on the cushions,and pointed towards the Faubourg Saint-Honoré; the carriage drove on.
All the weight of his fallen fortune seemed suddenly to crush him; hecould not foresee the consequences; he could not contemplate the futurewith the indifference of the hardened criminal who merely faces acontingency already familiar.


God was still in his heart. “God,” he murmured, not knowing what hesaid,—“God—God!” Behind the event that had overwhelmed him he saw thehand of God. The carriage rolled rapidly onward. Villefort, whileturning restlessly on the cushions, felt something press against him.He put out his hand to remove the object; it was a fan which Madame deVillefort had left in the carriage; this fan awakened a recollectionwhich darted through his mind like lightning. He thought of his wife.
50189m


“Oh!” he exclaimed, as though a red-hot iron were piercing his heart.
During the last hour his own crime had alone been presented to hismind; now another object, not less terrible, suddenly presented itself.His wife! He had just acted the inexorable judge with her, he hadcondemned her to death, and she, crushed by remorse, struck withterror, covered with the shame inspired by the eloquence of _his_irreproachable virtue,—she, a poor, weak woman, without help or thepower of defending herself against his absolute and supreme will,—shemight at that very moment, perhaps, be preparing to die!
An hour had elapsed since her condemnation; at that moment, doubtless,she was recalling all her crimes to her memory; she was asking pardonfor her sins; perhaps she was even writing a letter imploringforgiveness from her virtuous husband—a forgiveness she was purchasingwith her death! Villefort again groaned with anguish and despair.
“Ah,” he exclaimed, “that woman became criminal only from associatingwith me! I carried the infection of crime with me, and she has caughtit as she would the typhus fever, the cholera, the plague! And yet Ihave punished her—I have dared to tell her—_I_ have—‘Repent and die!’But no, she must not die; she shall live, and with me. We will fleefrom Paris and go as far as the earth reaches. I told her of thescaffold; oh, Heavens, I forgot that it awaits me also! How could Ipronounce that word? Yes, we will fly; I will confess all to her,—Iwill tell her daily that I also have committed a crime!—Oh, what analliance—the tiger and the serpent; worthy wife of such as I am! She_must_ live that my infamy may diminish hers.”
And Villefort dashed open the window in front of the carriage.
“Faster, faster!” he cried, in a tone which electrified the coachman.The horses, impelled by fear, flew towards the house.
“Yes, yes,” repeated Villefort, as he approached his home—“yes, thatwoman must live; she must repent, and educate my son, the solesurvivor, with the exception of the indestructible old man, of thewreck of my house. She loves him; it was for his sake she has committedthese crimes. We ought never to despair of softening the heart of amother who loves her child. She will repent, and no one will know thatshe has been guilty. The events which have taken place in my house,though they now occupy the public mind, will be forgotten in time, orif, indeed, a few enemies should persist in remembering them, why thenI will add them to my list of crimes. What will it signify if one, two,or three more are added? My wife and child shall escape from this gulf,carrying treasures with them; she will live and may yet be happy, sinceher child, in whom all her love is centred, will be with her. I shallhave performed a good action, and my heart will be lighter.”
And the procureur breathed more freely than he had done for some time.
50191m


The carriage stopped at the door of the house. Villefort leaped out ofthe carriage, and saw that his servants were surprised at his earlyreturn; he could read no other expression on their features. Neither ofthem spoke to him; they merely stood aside to let him pass by, asusual, nothing more. As he passed by M. Noirtier’s room, he perceivedtwo figures through the half-open door; but he experienced no curiosityto know who was visiting his father; anxiety carried him on further.
“Come,” he said, as he ascended the stairs leading to his wife’s room,“nothing is changed here.”
He then closed the door of the landing.
“No one must disturb us,” he said; “I must speak freely to her, accusemyself, and say”—he approached the door, touched the crystal handle,which yielded to his hand. “Not locked,” he cried; “that is well.”
And he entered the little room in which Edward slept; for though thechild went to school during the day, his mother could not allow him tobe separated from her at night. With a single glance Villefort’s eyeran through the room.
“Not here,” he said; “doubtless she is in her bedroom.” He rushedtowards the door, found it bolted, and stopped, shuddering.
“Héloïse!” he cried. He fancied he heard the sound of a piece offurniture being removed.
“Héloïse!” he repeated.
“Who is there?” answered the voice of her he sought. He thought thatvoice more feeble than usual.
“Open the door!” cried Villefort. “Open; it is I.”
But notwithstanding this request, notwithstanding the tone of anguishin which it was uttered, the door remained closed. Villefort burst itopen with a violent blow. At the entrance of the room which led to herboudoir, Madame de Villefort was standing erect, pale, her featurescontracted, and her eyes glaring horribly.
“Héloïse, Héloïse!” he said, “what is the matter? Speak!” The youngwoman extended her stiff white hands towards him.
“It is done, monsieur,” she said with a rattling noise which seemed totear her throat. “What more do you want?” and she fell full length onthe floor.
Villefort ran to her and seized her hand, which convulsively clasped acrystal bottle with a golden stopper. Madame de Villefort was dead.Villefort, maddened with horror, stepped back to the threshhold of thedoor, fixing his eyes on the corpse.
“My son!” he exclaimed suddenly, “where is my son?—Edward, Edward!” andhe rushed out of the room, still crying, “Edward, Edward!” The name waspronounced in such a tone of anguish that the servants ran up.
“Where is my son?” asked Villefort; “let him be removed from the house,that he may not see——”
“Master Edward is not downstairs, sir,” replied the valet.
“Then he must be playing in the garden; go and see.”
50193m


“No, sir; Madame de Villefort sent for him half an hour ago; he wentinto her room, and has not been downstairs since.”
A cold perspiration burst out on Villefort’s brow; his legs trembled,and his thoughts flew about madly in his brain like the wheels of adisordered watch.
“In Madame de Villefort’s room?” he murmured and slowly returned, withone hand wiping his forehead, and with the other supporting himselfagainst the wall. To enter the room he must again see the body of hisunfortunate wife. To call Edward he must reawaken the echo of that roomwhich now appeared like a sepulchre; to speak seemed like violating thesilence of the tomb. His tongue was paralyzed in his mouth.
“Edward!” he stammered—“Edward!”
The child did not answer. Where, then, could he be, if he had enteredhis mother’s room and not since returned? He stepped forward. Thecorpse of Madame de Villefort was stretched across the doorway leadingto the room in which Edward must be; those glaring eyes seemed to watchover the threshold, and the lips bore the stamp of a terrible andmysterious irony. Through the open door was visible a portion of theboudoir, containing an upright piano and a blue satin couch. Villefortstepped forward two or three paces, and beheld his child lying—no doubtasleep—on the sofa. The unhappy man uttered an exclamation of joy; aray of light seemed to penetrate the abyss of despair and darkness. Hehad only to step over the corpse, enter the boudoir, take the child inhis arms, and flee far, far away.
Villefort was no longer the civilized man; he was a tiger hurt untodeath, gnashing his teeth in his wound. He no longer feared realities,but phantoms. He leaped over the corpse as if it had been a burningbrazier. He took the child in his arms, embraced him, shook him, calledhim, but the child made no response. He pressed his burning lips to thecheeks, but they were icy cold and pale; he felt the stiffened limbs;he pressed his hand upon the heart, but it no longer beat,—the childwas dead.
A folded paper fell from Edward’s breast. Villefort, thunderstruck,fell upon his knees; the child dropped from his arms, and rolled on thefloor by the side of its mother. He picked up the paper, and,recognizing his wife’s writing, ran his eyes rapidly over its contents;it ran as follows:
“You know that I was a good mother, since it was for my son’s sake Ibecame criminal. A good mother cannot depart without her son.”
Villefort could not believe his eyes,—he could not believe his reason;he dragged himself towards the child’s body, and examined it as alioness contemplates its dead cub. Then a piercing cry escaped from hisbreast, and he cried,
“Still the hand of God.”
The presence of the two victims alarmed him; he could not bear solitudeshared only by two corpses. Until then he had been sustained by rage,by his strength of mind, by despair, by the supreme agony which led theTitans to scale the heavens, and Ajax to defy the gods. He now arose,his head bowed beneath the weight of grief, and, shaking his damp,dishevelled hair, he who had never felt compassion for anyonedetermined to seek his father, that he might have someone to whom hecould relate his misfortunes,—someone by whose side he might weep.
50195m


He descended the little staircase with which we are acquainted, andentered Noirtier’s room. The old man appeared to be listeningattentively and as affectionately as his infirmities would allow to theAbbé Busoni, who looked cold and calm, as usual. Villefort, perceivingthe abbé, passed his hand across his brow. The past came to him likeone of those waves whose wrath foams fiercer than the others.
He recollected the call he had made upon him after the dinner atAuteuil, and then the visit the abbé had himself paid to his house onthe day of Valentine’s death.
“You here, sir!” he exclaimed; “do you, then, never appear but to actas an escort to death?”
Busoni turned around, and, perceiving the excitement depicted on themagistrate’s face, the savage lustre of his eyes, he understood thatthe revelation had been made at the assizes; but beyond this he wasignorant.
“I came to pray over the body of your daughter.”
“And now why are you here?”
“I come to tell you that you have sufficiently repaid your debt, andthat from this moment I will pray to God to forgive you, as I do.”
“Good heavens!” exclaimed Villefort, stepping back fearfully, “surelythat is not the voice of the Abbé Busoni!”
“No!” The abbé threw off his wig, shook his head, and his hair, nolonger confined, fell in black masses around his manly face.
“It is the face of the Count of Monte Cristo!” exclaimed the procureur,with a haggard expression.
“You are not exactly right, M. Procureur; you must go farther back.”
“That voice, that voice!—where did I first hear it?”
“You heard it for the first time at Marseilles, twenty-three years ago,the day of your marriage with Mademoiselle de Saint-Méran. Refer toyour papers.”
“You are not Busoni?—you are not Monte Cristo? Oh, heavens! you are,then, some secret, implacable, and mortal enemy! I must have wrongedyou in some way at Marseilles. Oh, woe to me!”
“Yes; you are now on the right path,” said the count, crossing his armsover his broad chest; “search—search!”
“But what have I done to you?” exclaimed Villefort, whose mind wasbalancing between reason and insanity, in that cloud which is neither adream nor reality; “what have I done to you? Tell me, then! Speak!”
“You condemned me to a horrible, tedious death; you killed my father;you deprived me of liberty, of love, and happiness.”
“Who are you, then? Who are you?”
“I am the spectre of a wretch you buried in the dungeons of the Châteaud’If. God gave that spectre the form of the Count of Monte Cristo whenhe at length issued from his tomb, enriched him with gold and diamonds,and led him to you!”
“Ah, I recognize you—I recognize you!” exclaimed the king’s attorney;“you are——”
“I am Edmond Dantès!”
“You are Edmond Dantès,” cried Villefort, seizing the count by thewrist; “then come here!”
And up the stairs he dragged Monte Cristo; who, ignorant of what hadhappened, followed him in astonishment, foreseeing some newcatastrophe.
“There, Edmond Dantès!” he said, pointing to the bodies of his wife andchild, “see, are you well avenged?”
Monte Cristo became pale at this horrible sight; he felt that he hadpassed beyond the bounds of vengeance, and that he could no longer say,“God is for and with me.” With an expression of indescribable anguishhe threw himself upon the body of the child, reopened its eyes, feltits pulse, and then rushed with him into Valentine’s room, of which hedouble-locked the door.
“My child,” cried Villefort, “he carries away the body of my child! Oh,curses, woe, death to you!”
He tried to follow Monte Cristo; but as though in a dream he wastransfixed to the spot,—his eyes glared as though they were startingthrough the sockets; he griped the flesh on his chest until his nailswere stained with blood; the veins of his temples swelled and boiled asthough they would burst their narrow boundary, and deluge his brainwith living fire. This lasted several minutes, until the frightfuloverturn of reason was accomplished; then uttering a loud cry followedby a burst of laughter, he rushed down the stairs.
A quarter of an hour afterwards the door of Valentine’s room opened,and Monte Cristo reappeared. Pale, with a dull eye and heavy heart, allthe noble features of that face, usually so calm and serene, wereovercast by grief. In his arms he held the child, whom no skill hadbeen able to recall to life. Bending on one knee, he placed itreverently by the side of its mother, with its head upon her breast.Then, rising, he went out, and meeting a servant on the stairs, heasked:
“Where is M. de Villefort?”
The servant, instead of answering, pointed to the garden. Monte Cristoran down the steps, and advancing towards the spot designated beheldVillefort, encircled by his servants, with a spade in his hand, anddigging the earth with fury.
“It is not here!” he cried. “It is not here!”
50197m


And then he moved farther on, and began again to dig.
Monte Cristo approached him, and said in a low voice, with anexpression almost humble:
“Sir, you have indeed lost a son; but——”
Villefort interrupted him; he had neither listened nor heard.
“Oh, I _will_ find it,” he cried; “you may pretend he is not here, butI _will_ find him, though I dig forever!”
Monte Cristo drew back in horror.
“Oh,” he said, “he is mad!” And as though he feared that the walls ofthe accursed house would crumble around him, he rushed into the street,for the first time doubting whether he had the right to do as he haddone. “Oh, enough of this,—enough of this,” he cried; “let me save thelast.” On entering his house, he met Morrel, who wandered about like aghost awaiting the heavenly mandate for return to the tomb.
“Prepare yourself, Maximilian,” he said with a smile; “we leave Paristomorrow.”
“Have you nothing more to do there?” asked Morrel.
“No,” replied Monte Cristo; “God grant I may not have done too muchalready.”
The next day they indeed left, accompanied only by Baptistin. Haydéehad taken away Ali, and Bertuccio remained with Noirtier.


 Chapter 112. The Departure
The recent events formed the theme of conversation throughout allParis. Emmanuel and his wife conversed with natural astonishment intheir little apartment in the Rue Meslay upon the three successive,sudden, and most unexpected catastrophes of Morcerf, Danglars, andVillefort. Maximilian, who was paying them a visit, listened to theirconversation, or rather was present at it, plunged in his accustomedstate of apathy.
“Indeed,” said Julie, “might we not almost fancy, Emmanuel, that thosepeople, so rich, so happy but yesterday, had forgotten in theirprosperity that an evil genius—like the wicked fairies in Perrault’sstories who present themselves unbidden at a wedding or baptism—hoveredover them, and appeared all at once to revenge himself for their fatalneglect?”
“What a dire misfortune!” said Emmanuel, thinking of Morcerf andDanglars.
“What dreadful sufferings!” said Julie, remembering Valentine, butwhom, with a delicacy natural to women, she did not name before herbrother.
“If the Supreme Being has directed the fatal blow,” said Emmanuel, “itmust be that he in his great goodness has perceived nothing in the pastlives of these people to merit mitigation of their awful punishment.”
“Do you not form a very rash judgment, Emmanuel?” said Julie. “When myfather, with a pistol in his hand, was once on the point of committingsuicide, had anyone then said, ‘This man deserves his misery,’ wouldnot that person have been deceived?”
“Yes; but your father was not allowed to fall. A being was commissionedto arrest the fatal hand of death about to descend on him.”
Emmanuel had scarcely uttered these words when the sound of the bellwas heard, the well-known signal given by the porter that a visitor hadarrived. Nearly at the same instant the door was opened and the Countof Monte Cristo appeared on the threshold. The young people uttered acry of joy, while Maximilian raised his head, but let it fall againimmediately.
50201m


“Maximilian,” said the count, without appearing to notice the differentimpressions which his presence produced on the little circle, “I cometo seek you.”
“To seek me?” repeated Morrel, as if awakening from a dream.
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo; “has it not been agreed that I should takeyou with me, and did I not tell you yesterday to prepare fordeparture?”
“I am ready,” said Maximilian; “I came expressly to wish themfarewell.”
“Whither are you going, count?” asked Julie.
“In the first instance to Marseilles, madame.”
“To Marseilles!” exclaimed the young couple.
“Yes, and I take your brother with me.”
“Oh, count.” said Julie, “will you restore him to us cured of hismelancholy?” Morrel turned away to conceal the confusion of hiscountenance.
“You perceive, then, that he is not happy?” said the count.
“Yes,” replied the young woman; “and fear much that he finds our homebut a dull one.”
“I will undertake to divert him,” replied the count.
“I am ready to accompany you, sir,” said Maximilian. “Adieu, my kindfriends! Emmanuel—Julie—farewell!”
“How farewell?” exclaimed Julie; “do you leave us thus, so suddenly,without any preparations for your journey, without even a passport?”
“Needless delays but increase the grief of parting,” said Monte Cristo,“and Maximilian has doubtless provided himself with everythingrequisite; at least, I advised him to do so.”
“I have a passport, and my clothes are ready packed,” said Morrel inhis tranquil but mournful manner.
“Good,” said Monte Cristo, smiling; “in these prompt arrangements werecognize the order of a well-disciplined soldier.”
“And you leave us,” said Julie, “at a moment’s warning? you do not giveus a day—no, not even an hour before your departure?”
“My carriage is at the door, madame, and I must be in Rome in fivedays.”
“But does Maximilian go to Rome?” exclaimed Emmanuel.
“I am going wherever it may please the count to take me,” said Morrel,with a smile full of grief; “I am under his orders for the next month.”
“Oh, heavens, how strangely he expresses himself, count!” said Julie.
“Maximilian goes with _me_,” said the count, in his kindest and mostpersuasive manner; “therefore do not make yourself uneasy on yourbrother’s account.”
“Once more farewell, my dear sister; Emmanuel, adieu!” Morrel repeated.
“His carelessness and indifference touch me to the heart,” said Julie.“Oh, Maximilian, Maximilian, you are certainly concealing somethingfrom us.”
“Pshaw!” said Monte Cristo, “you will see him return to you gay,smiling, and joyful.”
Maximilian cast a look of disdain, almost of anger, on the count.
“We must leave you,” said Monte Cristo.
50203m


“Before you quit us, count,” said Julie, “will you permit us to expressto you all that the other day——”
“Madame,” interrupted the count, taking her two hands in his, “all thatyou could say in words would never express what I read in your eyes;the thoughts of your heart are fully understood by mine. Like benefactors in romances, I should have left you without seeing youagain, but that would have been a virtue beyond my strength, because Iam a weak and vain man, fond of the tender, kind, and thankful glancesof my fellow-creatures. On the eve of departure I carry my egotism sofar as to say, ‘Do not forget me, my kind friends, for probably youwill never see me again.’”
“Never see you again?” exclaimed Emmanuel, while two large tears rolleddown Julie’s cheeks, “never behold you again? It is not a man, then,but some angel that leaves us, and this angel is on the point ofreturning to heaven after having appeared on earth to do good.”
“Say not so,” quickly returned Monte Cristo—“say not so, my friends;angels never err, celestial beings remain where they wish to be. Fateis not more powerful than they; it is they who, on the contrary,overcome fate. No, Emmanuel, I am but a man, and your admiration is asunmerited as your words are sacrilegious.”
And pressing his lips on the hand of Julie, who rushed into his arms,he extended his other hand to Emmanuel; then tearing himself from thisabode of peace and happiness, he made a sign to Maximilian, whofollowed him passively, with the indifference which had beenperceptible in him ever since the death of Valentine had so stunnedhim.
“Restore my brother to peace and happiness,” whispered Julie to MonteCristo. And the count pressed her hand in reply, as he had done elevenyears before on the staircase leading to Morrel’s study.
“You still confide, then, in Sinbad the Sailor?” asked he, smiling.
“Oh, yes,” was the ready answer.
“Well, then, sleep in peace, and put your trust in the Lord.”
As we have before said, the post-chaise was waiting; four powerfulhorses were already pawing the ground with impatience, while Ali,apparently just arrived from a long walk, was standing at the foot ofthe steps, his face bathed in perspiration.
“Well,” asked the count in Arabic, “have you been to see the old man?”Ali made a sign in the affirmative.
“And have you placed the letter before him, as I ordered you to do?”
The slave respectfully signalized that he had.
“And what did he say, or rather do?” Ali placed himself in the light,so that his master might see him distinctly, and then imitating in hisintelligent manner the countenance of the old man, he closed his eyes,as Noirtier was in the custom of doing when saying “Yes.”
“Good; he accepts,” said Monte Cristo. “Now let us go.”
50205m


These words had scarcely escaped him, when the carriage was on its way,and the feet of the horses struck a shower of sparks from the pavement.Maximilian settled himself in his corner without uttering a word. Halfan hour had passed when the carriage stopped suddenly; the count hadjust pulled the silken check-string, which was fastened to Ali’sfinger. The Nubian immediately descended and opened the carriage door.It was a lovely starlight night—they had just reached the top of thehill Villejuif, from whence Paris appears like a sombre sea tossing itsmillions of phosphoric waves into light—waves indeed more noisy, morepassionate, more changeable, more furious, more greedy, than those ofthe tempestuous ocean,—waves which never rest as those of the seasometimes do,—waves ever dashing, ever foaming, ever ingulfing whatfalls within their grasp.
The count stood alone, and at a sign from his hand, the carriage wenton for a short distance. With folded arms, he gazed for some time uponthe great city. When he had fixed his piercing look on this modernBabylon, which equally engages the contemplation of the religiousenthusiast, the materialist, and the scoffer,—
“Great city,” murmured he, inclining his head, and joining his hands asif in prayer, “less than six months have elapsed since first I enteredthy gates. I believe that the Spirit of God led my steps to thee andthat he also enables me to quit thee in triumph; the secret cause of mypresence within thy walls I have confided alone to him who only has hadthe power to read my heart. God only knows that I retire from theewithout pride or hatred, but not without many regrets; he only knowsthat the power confided to me has never been made subservient to mypersonal good or to any useless cause. Oh, great city, it is in thypalpitating bosom that I have found that which I sought; like a patientminer, I have dug deep into thy very entrails to root out evil thence.Now my work is accomplished, my mission is terminated, now thou canstneither afford me pain nor pleasure. Adieu, Paris, adieu!”
His look wandered over the vast plain like that of some genius of thenight; he passed his hand over his brow, got into the carriage, thedoor was closed on him, and the vehicle quickly disappeared down theother side of the hill in a whirlwind of dust and noise.
Ten leagues were passed and not a single word was uttered. Morrel wasdreaming, and Monte Cristo was looking at the dreamer.
“Morrel,” said the count to him at length, “do you repent havingfollowed me?”
“No, count; but to leave Paris——”
“If I thought happiness might await you in Paris, Morrel, I would haveleft you there.”
“Valentine reposes within the walls of Paris, and to leave Paris islike losing her a second time.”
“Maximilian,” said the count, “the friends that we have lost do notrepose in the bosom of the earth, but are buried deep in our hearts,and it has been thus ordained that we may always be accompanied bythem. I have two friends, who in this way never depart from me; the onewho gave me being, and the other who conferred knowledge andintelligence on me. Their spirits live in me. I consult them whendoubtful, and if I ever do any good, it is due to their beneficentcounsels. Listen to the voice of your heart, Morrel, and ask it whetheryou ought to preserve this melancholy exterior towards me.”
“My friend,” said Maximilian, “the voice of my heart is very sorrowful,and promises me nothing but misfortune.”
“It is the way of weakened minds to see everything through a blackcloud. The soul forms its own horizons; your soul is darkened, andconsequently the sky of the future appears stormy and unpromising.”
“That may possibly be true,” said Maximilian, and he again subsidedinto his thoughtful mood.
The journey was performed with that marvellous rapidity which theunlimited power of the count ever commanded. Towns fled from them likeshadows on their path, and trees shaken by the first winds of autumnseemed like giants madly rushing on to meet them, and retreating asrapidly when once reached. The following morning they arrived atChâlons, where the count’s steamboat waited for them. Without the lossof an instant, the carriage was placed on board and the two travellersembarked without delay. The boat was built for speed; her twopaddle-wheels were like two wings with which she skimmed the water likea bird.
Morrel was not insensible to that sensation of delight which isgenerally experienced in passing rapidly through the air, and the windwhich occasionally raised the hair from his forehead seemed on thepoint of dispelling momentarily the clouds collected there.
As the distance increased between the travellers and Paris, almostsuperhuman serenity appeared to surround the count; he might have beentaken for an exile about to revisit his native land.
Ere long Marseilles presented herself to view,—Marseilles, white,fervid, full of life and energy,—Marseilles, the younger sister of Tyreand Carthage, the successor to them in the empire of theMediterranean,—Marseilles, old, yet always young. Powerful memorieswere stirred within them by the sight of the round tower, FortSaint-Nicolas, the City Hall designed by Puget,28 the port with itsbrick quays, where they had both played in childhood, and it was withone accord that they stopped on the Canebière.
A vessel was setting sail for Algiers, on board of which the bustleusually attending departure prevailed. The passengers and theirrelations crowded on the deck, friends taking a tender but sorrowfulleave of each other, some weeping, others noisy in their grief, thewhole forming a spectacle that might be exciting even to those whowitnessed similar sights daily, but which had no power to disturb thecurrent of thought that had taken possession of the mind of Maximilianfrom the moment he had set foot on the broad pavement of the quay.
“Here,” said he, leaning heavily on the arm of Monte Cristo,—“here isthe spot where my father stopped, when the _Pharaon_ entered the port;it was here that the good old man, whom you saved from death anddishonor, threw himself into my arms. I yet feel his warm tears on myface, and his were not the only tears shed, for many who witnessed ourmeeting wept also.”
Monte Cristo gently smiled and said,—“I was there;” at the same timepointing to the corner of a street. As he spoke, and in the verydirection he indicated, a groan, expressive of bitter grief, was heard,and a woman was seen waving her hand to a passenger on board the vesselabout to sail. Monte Cristo looked at her with an emotion that musthave been remarked by Morrel had not his eyes been fixed on the vessel.
“Oh, heavens!” exclaimed Morrel, “I do not deceive myself—that youngman who is waving his hat, that youth in the uniform of a lieutenant,is Albert de Morcerf!”
“Yes,” said Monte Cristo, “I recognized him.”
“How so?—you were looking the other way.”
50209m


The count smiled, as he was in the habit of doing when he did not wantto make any reply, and he again turned towards the veiled woman, whosoon disappeared at the corner of the street. Turning to his friend:
“Dear Maximilian,” said the count, “have you nothing to do in thisland?”
“I have to weep over the grave of my father,” replied Morrel in abroken voice.
“Well, then, go,—wait for me there, and I will soon join you.”
“You leave me, then?”
“Yes; I also have a pious visit to pay.”
Morrel allowed his hand to fall into that which the count extended tohim; then with an inexpressibly sorrowful inclination of the head hequitted the count and bent his steps to the east of the city. MonteCristo remained on the same spot until Maximilian was out of sight; hethen walked slowly towards the Allées de Meilhan to seek out a smallhouse with which our readers were made familiar at the beginning ofthis story.
It yet stood, under the shade of the fine avenue of lime-trees, whichforms one of the most frequent walks of the idlers of Marseilles,covered by an immense vine, which spreads its aged and blackenedbranches over the stone front, burnt yellow by the ardent sun of thesouth. Two stone steps worn away by the friction of many feet led tothe door, which was made of three planks; the door had never beenpainted or varnished, so great cracks yawned in it during the dryseason to close again when the rains came on. The house, with all itscrumbling antiquity and apparent misery, was yet cheerful andpicturesque, and was the same that old Dantès formerly inhabited—theonly difference being that the old man occupied merely the garret,while the whole house was now placed at the command of Mercédès by thecount.
The woman whom the count had seen leave the ship with so much regretentered this house; she had scarcely closed the door after her whenMonte Cristo appeared at the corner of a street, so that he found andlost her again almost at the same instant. The worn out steps were oldacquaintances of his; he knew better than anyone else how to open thatweather-beaten door with the large headed nail which served to raisethe latch within. He entered without knocking, or giving any otherintimation of his presence, as if he had been a friend or the master ofthe place. At the end of a passage paved with bricks, was a littlegarden, bathed in sunshine, and rich in warmth and light. In thisgarden Mercédès had found, at the place indicated by the count, the sumof money which he, through a sense of delicacy, had described as havingbeen placed there twenty-four years previously. The trees of the gardenwere easily seen from the steps of the street-door.
Monte Cristo, on stepping into the house, heard a sigh that was almosta deep sob; he looked in the direction whence it came, and there underan arbor of Virginia jessamine,29 with its thick foliage and beautifullong purple flowers, he saw Mercédès seated, with her head bowed, andweeping bitterly. She had raised her veil, and with her face hidden byher hands was giving free scope to the sighs and tears which had beenso long restrained by the presence of her son.
Monte Cristo advanced a few steps, which were heard on the gravel.Mercédès raised her head, and uttered a cry of terror on beholding aman before her.
50211m


“Madame,” said the count, “it is no longer in my power to restore youto happiness, but I offer you consolation; will you deign to accept itas coming from a friend?”
“I am, indeed, most wretched,” replied Mercédès. “Alone in the world, Ihad but my son, and he has left me!”
“He possesses a noble heart, madame,” replied the count, “and he hasacted rightly. He feels that every man owes a tribute to his country;some contribute their talents, others their industry; these devotetheir blood, those their nightly labors, to the same cause. Had heremained with you, his life must have become a hateful burden, norwould he have participated in your griefs. He will increase in strengthand honor by struggling with adversity, which he will convert intoprosperity. Leave him to build up the future for you, and I venture tosay you will confide it to safe hands.”
“Oh,” replied the wretched woman, mournfully shaking her head, “theprosperity of which you speak, and which, from the bottom of my heart,I pray God in his mercy to grant him, I can never enjoy. The bitter cupof adversity has been drained by me to the very dregs, and I feel thatthe grave is not far distant. You have acted kindly, count, in bringingme back to the place where I have enjoyed so much bliss. I ought tomeet death on the same spot where happiness was once all my own.”
“Alas,” said Monte Cristo, “your words sear and embitter my heart, themore so as you have every reason to hate me. I have been the cause ofall your misfortunes; but why do you pity, instead of blaming me? Yourender me still more unhappy——”
“Hate you, blame you—_you_, Edmond! Hate, reproach, the man that hasspared my son’s life! For was it not your fatal and sanguinaryintention to destroy that son of whom M. de Morcerf was so proud? Oh,look at me closely, and discover, if you can, even the semblance of areproach in me.”
The count looked up and fixed his eyes on Mercédès, who arose partlyfrom her seat and extended both her hands towards him.
“Oh, look at me,” continued she, with a feeling of profound melancholy,“my eyes no longer dazzle by their brilliancy, for the time has longfled since I used to smile on Edmond Dantès, who anxiously looked outfor me from the window of yonder garret, then inhabited by his oldfather. Years of grief have created an abyss between those days and thepresent. I neither reproach you nor hate you, my friend. Oh, no,Edmond, it is myself that I blame, myself that I hate! Oh, miserablecreature that I am!” cried she, clasping her hands, and raising hereyes to heaven. “I once possessed piety, innocence, and love, the threeingredients of the happiness of angels, and now what am I?”
Monte Cristo approached her, and silently took her hand.
“No,” said she, withdrawing it gently—“no, my friend, touch me not. Youhave spared me, yet of all those who have fallen under your vengeance Iwas the most guilty. They were influenced by hatred, by avarice, and byself-love; but I was base, and for want of courage acted against myjudgment. Nay, do not press my hand, Edmond; you are thinking, I amsure, of some kind speech to console me, but do not utter it to me,reserve it for others more worthy of your kindness. See” (and sheexposed her face completely to view)—“see, misfortune has silvered myhair, my eyes have shed so many tears that they are encircled by a rimof purple, and my brow is wrinkled. You, Edmond, on the contrary,—youare still young, handsome, dignified; it is because you have had faith;because you have had strength, because you have had trust in God, andGod has sustained you. But as for me, I have been a coward; I havedenied God and he has abandoned me.”
50213m


Mercédès burst into tears; her woman’s heart was breaking under itsload of memories. Monte Cristo took her hand and imprinted a kiss onit; but she herself felt that it was a kiss of no greater warmth thanhe would have bestowed on the hand of some marble statue of a saint.
“It often happens,” continued she, “that a first fault destroys theprospects of a whole life. I believed you dead; why did I survive you?What good has it done me to mourn for you eternally in the secretrecesses of my heart?—only to make a woman of thirty-nine look like awoman of fifty. Why, having recognized you, and I the only one to doso—why was I able to save my son alone? Ought I not also to haverescued the man that I had accepted for a husband, guilty though hewere? Yet I let him die! What do I say? Oh, merciful heavens, was I notaccessory to his death by my supine insensibility, by my contempt forhim, not remembering, or not willing to remember, that it was for mysake he had become a traitor and a perjurer? In what am I benefited byaccompanying my son so far, since I now abandon him, and allow him todepart alone to the baneful climate of Africa? Oh, I have been base,cowardly, I tell you; I have abjured my affections, and like allrenegades I am of evil omen to those who surround me!”
“No, Mercédès,” said Monte Cristo, “no; you judge yourself with toomuch severity. You are a noble-minded woman, and it was your grief thatdisarmed me. Still I was but an agent, led on by an invisible andoffended Deity, who chose not to withhold the fatal blow that I wasdestined to hurl. I take that God to witness, at whose feet I haveprostrated myself daily for the last ten years, that I would havesacrificed my life to you, and with my life the projects that wereindissolubly linked with it. But—and I say it with some pride,Mercédès—God needed me, and I lived. Examine the past and the present,and endeavor to dive into futurity, and then say whether I am not adivine instrument. The most dreadful misfortunes, the most frightfulsufferings, the abandonment of all those who loved me, the persecutionof those who did not know me, formed the trials of my youth; whensuddenly, from captivity, solitude, misery, I was restored to light andliberty, and became the possessor of a fortune so brilliant, sounbounded, so unheard-of, that I must have been blind not to beconscious that God had endowed me with it to work out his own greatdesigns. From that time I looked upon this fortune as somethingconfided to me for a particular purpose. Not a thought was given to alife which you once, Mercédès, had the power to render blissful; notone hour of peaceful calm was mine; but I felt myself driven on like anexterminating angel. Like adventurous captains about to embark on someenterprise full of danger, I laid in my provisions, I loaded myweapons, I collected every means of attack and defence; I inured mybody to the most violent exercises, my soul to the bitterest trials; Itaught my arm to slay, my eyes to behold excruciating sufferings, andmy mouth to smile at the most horrid spectacles. Good-natured,confiding, and forgiving as I had been, I became revengeful, cunning,and wicked, or rather, immovable as fate. Then I launched out into thepath that was opened to me. I overcame every obstacle, and reached thegoal; but woe to those who stood in my pathway!”
50215m


“Enough,” said Mercédès; “enough, Edmond! Believe me, that she whoalone recognized you has been the only one to comprehend you; and hadshe crossed your path, and you had crushed her like glass, still,Edmond, still she must have admired you! Like the gulf between me andthe past, there is an abyss between you, Edmond, and the rest ofmankind; and I tell you freely that the comparison I draw between youand other men will ever be one of my greatest tortures. No, there isnothing in the world to resemble you in worth and goodness! But we mustsay farewell, Edmond, and let us part.”
“Before I leave you, Mercédès, have you no request to make?” said thecount.
“I desire but one thing in this world, Edmond,—the happiness of myson.”
“Pray to the Almighty to spare his life, and I will take upon myself topromote his happiness.”
“Thank you, Edmond.”
“But have you no request to make for yourself, Mercédès?”
“For myself I want nothing. I live, as it were, between two graves. Oneis that of Edmond Dantès, lost to me long, long since. He had my love!That word ill becomes my faded lip now, but it is a memory dear to myheart, and one that I would not lose for all that the world contains.The other grave is that of the man who met his death from the hand ofEdmond Dantès. I approve of the deed, but I must pray for the dead.”
“Your son shall be happy, Mercédès,” repeated the count.
“Then I shall enjoy as much happiness as this world can possiblyconfer.”
“But what are your intentions?”
Mercédès smiled sadly.
“To say that I shall live here, like the Mercédès of other times,gaining my bread by labor, would not be true, nor would you believe me.I have no longer the strength to do anything but to spend my days inprayer. However, I shall have no occasion to work, for the little sumof money buried by you, and which I found in the place you mentioned,will be sufficient to maintain me. Rumor will probably be busyrespecting me, my occupations, my manner of living—that will signifybut little, that concerns God, you, and myself.”
“Mercédès,” said the count, “I do not say it to blame you, but you madean unnecessary sacrifice in relinquishing the whole of the fortuneamassed by M. de Morcerf; half of it at least by right belonged to you,in virtue of your vigilance and economy.”
“I perceive what you are intending to propose to me; but I cannotaccept it, Edmond—my son would not permit it.”
“Nothing shall be done without the full approbation of Albert deMorcerf. I will make myself acquainted with his intentions and willsubmit to them. But if he be willing to accept my offers, will youoppose them?”
“You well know, Edmond, that I am no longer a reasoning creature; Ihave no will, unless it be the will never to decide. I have been sooverwhelmed by the many storms that have broken over my head, that I ambecome passive in the hands of the Almighty, like a sparrow in thetalons of an eagle. I live, because it is not ordained for me to die.If succor be sent to me, I will accept it.”
“Ah, madame,” said Monte Cristo, “you should not talk thus! It is notso we should evince our resignation to the will of heaven; on thecontrary, we are all free agents.”
“Alas!” exclaimed Mercédès, “if it were so, if I possessed free-will,but without the power to render that will efficacious, it would driveme to despair.”
Monte Cristo dropped his head and shrank from the vehemence of hergrief.
“Will you not even say you will see me again?” he asked.
“On the contrary, we shall meet again,” said Mercédès, pointing toheaven with solemnity. “I tell you so to prove to you that I stillhope.”
And after pressing her own trembling hand upon that of the count,Mercédès rushed up the stairs and disappeared. Monte Cristo slowly leftthe house and turned towards the quay. But Mercédès did not witness hisdeparture, although she was seated at the little window of the roomwhich had been occupied by old Dantès. Her eyes were straining to seethe ship which was carrying her son over the vast sea; but still hervoice involuntarily murmured softly:
“Edmond, Edmond, Edmond!”


 Chapter 113. The Past
The count departed with a sad heart from the house in which he had leftMercédès, probably never to behold her again. Since the death of littleEdward a great change had taken place in Monte Cristo. Having reachedthe summit of his vengeance by a long and tortuous path, he saw anabyss of doubt yawning before him. More than this, the conversationwhich had just taken place between Mercédès and himself had awakened somany recollections in his heart that he felt it necessary to combatwith them. A man of the count’s temperament could not long indulge inthat melancholy which can exist in common minds, but which destroyssuperior ones. He thought he must have made an error in hiscalculations if he now found cause to blame himself.
“I cannot have deceived myself,” he said; “I must look upon the past ina false light. What!” he continued, “can I have been following a falsepath?—can the end which I proposed be a mistaken end?—can one hour havesufficed to prove to an architect that the work upon which he foundedall his hopes was an impossible, if not a sacrilegious, undertaking? Icannot reconcile myself to this idea—it would madden me. The reason whyI am now dissatisfied is that I have not a clear appreciation of thepast. The past, like the country through which we walk, becomesindistinct as we advance. My position is like that of a person woundedin a dream; he feels the wound, though he cannot recollect when hereceived it.
“Come, then, thou regenerate man, thou extravagant prodigal, thouawakened sleeper, thou all-powerful visionary, thou invinciblemillionaire,—once again review thy past life of starvation andwretchedness, revisit the scenes where fate and misfortune conducted,and where despair received thee. Too many diamonds, too much gold andsplendor, are now reflected by the mirror in which Monte Cristo seeksto behold Dantès. Hide thy diamonds, bury thy gold, shroud thysplendor, exchange riches for poverty, liberty for a prison, a livingbody for a corpse!”
As he thus reasoned, Monte Cristo walked down the Rue de la Caisserie.It was the same through which, twenty-four years ago, he had beenconducted by a silent and nocturnal guard; the houses, today so smilingand animated, were on that night dark, mute, and closed.
“And yet they were the same,” murmured Monte Cristo, “only now it isbroad daylight instead of night; it is the sun which brightens theplace, and makes it appear so cheerful.”
He proceeded towards the quay by the Rue Saint-Laurent, and advanced tothe Consigne; it was the point where he had embarked. A pleasure-boatwith striped awning was going by. Monte Cristo called the owner, whoimmediately rowed up to him with the eagerness of a boatman hoping fora good fare.
The weather was magnificent, and the excursion a treat. The sun, redand flaming, was sinking into the embrace of the welcoming ocean. Thesea, smooth as crystal, was now and then disturbed by the leaping offish, which were pursued by some unseen enemy and sought for safety inanother element; while on the extreme verge of the horizon might beseen the fishermen’s boats, white and graceful as the sea-gull, or themerchant vessels bound for Corsica or Spain.
But notwithstanding the serene sky, the gracefully formed boats, andthe golden light in which the whole scene was bathed, the Count ofMonte Cristo, wrapped in his cloak, could think only of this terriblevoyage, the details of which were one by one recalled to his memory.The solitary light burning at the Catalans; that first sight of theChâteau d’If, which told him whither they were leading him; thestruggle with the gendarmes when he wished to throw himself overboard;his despair when he found himself vanquished, and the sensation whenthe muzzle of the carbine touched his forehead—all these were broughtbefore him in vivid and frightful reality.
Like the streams which the heat of the summer has dried up, and whichafter the autumnal storms gradually begin oozing drop by drop, so didthe count feel his heart gradually fill with the bitterness whichformerly nearly overwhelmed Edmond Dantès. Clear sky, swift-flittingboats, and brilliant sunshine disappeared; the heavens were hung withblack, and the gigantic structure of the Château d’If seemed like thephantom of a mortal enemy. As they reached the shore, the countinstinctively shrunk to the extreme end of the boat, and the owner wasobliged to call out, in his sweetest tone of voice:
“Sir, we are at the landing.”
Monte Cristo remembered that on that very spot, on the same rock, hehad been violently dragged by the guards, who forced him to ascend theslope at the points of their bayonets. The journey had seemed very longto Dantès, but Monte Cristo found it equally short. Each stroke of theoar seemed to awaken a new throng of ideas, which sprang up with theflying spray of the sea.
50219m


There had been no prisoners confined in the Château d’If since therevolution of July; it was only inhabited by a guard, kept there forthe prevention of smuggling. A concierge waited at the door to exhibitto visitors this monument of curiosity, once a scene of terror.
The count inquired whether any of the ancient jailers were still there;but they had all been pensioned, or had passed on to some otheremployment. The concierge who attended him had only been there since1830. He visited his own dungeon. He again beheld the dull light vainlyendeavoring to penetrate the narrow opening. His eyes rested upon thespot where had stood his bed, since then removed, and behind the bedthe new stones indicated where the breach made by the Abbé Faria hadbeen. Monte Cristo felt his limbs tremble; he seated himself upon a logof wood.
“Are there any stories connected with this prison besides the onerelating to the poisoning of Mirabeau?” asked the count; “are there anytraditions respecting these dismal abodes,—in which it is difficult tobelieve men can ever have imprisoned their fellow-creatures?”
“Yes, sir; indeed, the jailer Antoine told me one connected with thisvery dungeon.”
Monte Cristo shuddered; Antoine had been his jailer. He had almostforgotten his name and face, but at the mention of the name he recalledhis person as he used to see it, the face encircled by a beard, wearingthe brown jacket, the bunch of keys, the jingling of which he stillseemed to hear. The count turned around, and fancied he saw him in thecorridor, rendered still darker by the torch carried by the concierge.
“Would you like to hear the story, sir?”
“Yes; relate it,” said Monte Cristo, pressing his hand to his heart tostill its violent beatings; he felt afraid of hearing his own history.
“This dungeon,” said the concierge, “was, it appears, some time agooccupied by a very dangerous prisoner, the more so since he was full ofindustry. Another person was confined in the Château at the same time,but he was not wicked, he was only a poor mad priest.”
“Ah, indeed?—mad!” repeated Monte Cristo; “and what was his mania?”
“He offered millions to anyone who would set him at liberty.”
Monte Cristo raised his eyes, but he could not see the heavens; therewas a stone veil between him and the firmament. He thought that therehad been no less thick a veil before the eyes of those to whom Fariaoffered the treasures.
“Could the prisoners see each other?” he asked.
“Oh, no, sir, it was expressly forbidden; but they eluded the vigilanceof the guards, and made a passage from one dungeon to the other.”
“And which of them made this passage?”
“Oh, it must have been the young man, certainly, for he was strong andindustrious, while the abbé was aged and weak; besides, his mind wastoo vacillating to allow him to carry out an idea.”
“Blind fools!” murmured the count.
“However, be that as it may, the young man made a tunnel, how or bywhat means no one knows; but he made it, and there is the evidence yetremaining of his work. Do you see it?” and the man held the torch tothe wall.
50223m


“Ah, yes; I see,” said the count, in a voice hoarse from emotion.
“The result was that the two men communicated with one another; howlong they did so, nobody knows. One day the old man fell ill and died.Now guess what the young one did?”
“Tell me.”
“He carried off the corpse, which he placed in his own bed with itsface to the wall; then he entered the empty dungeon, closed theentrance, and slipped into the sack which had contained the dead body.Did you ever hear of such an idea?”
Monte Cristo closed his eyes, and seemed again to experience all thesensations he had felt when the coarse canvas, yet moist with the colddews of death, had touched his face.
The jailer continued:
“Now this was his project. He fancied that they buried the dead at theChâteau d’If, and imagining they would not expend much labor on thegrave of a prisoner, he calculated on raising the earth with hisshoulders, but unfortunately their arrangements at the Châteaufrustrated his projects. They never buried the dead; they merelyattached a heavy cannon-ball to the feet, and then threw them into thesea. This is what was done. The young man was thrown from the top ofthe rock; the corpse was found on the bed next day, and the whole truthwas guessed, for the men who performed the office then mentioned whatthey had not dared to speak of before, that at the moment the corpsewas thrown into the deep, they heard a shriek, which was almostimmediately stifled by the water in which it disappeared.”
The count breathed with difficulty; the cold drops ran down hisforehead, and his heart was full of anguish.
“No,” he muttered, “the doubt I felt was but the commencement offorgetfulness; but here the wound reopens, and the heart again thirstsfor vengeance. And the prisoner,” he continued aloud, “was he everheard of afterwards?”
“Oh, no; of course not. You can understand that one of two things musthave happened; he must either have fallen flat, in which case the blow,from a height of ninety feet, must have killed him instantly, or hemust have fallen upright, and then the weight would have dragged him tothe bottom, where he remained—poor fellow!”
“Then you pity him?” said the count.
“_Ma foi_, yes; though he was in his own element.”
“What do you mean?”
“The report was that he had been a naval officer, who had been confinedfor plotting with the Bonapartists.”
“Great is truth,” muttered the count, “fire cannot burn, nor waterdrown it! Thus the poor sailor lives in the recollection of those whonarrate his history; his terrible story is recited in thechimney-corner, and a shudder is felt at the description of his transitthrough the air to be swallowed by the deep.” Then, the count addedaloud, “Was his name ever known?”
“Oh, yes; but only as No. 34.”
“Oh, Villefort, Villefort,” murmured the count, “this scene must oftenhave haunted thy sleepless hours!”
“Do you wish to see anything more, sir?” said the concierge.
“Yes, especially if you will show me the poor abbé’s room.”
“Ah! No. 27.”
“Yes; No. 27.” repeated the count, who seemed to hear the voice of theabbé answering him in those very words through the wall when asked hisname.
“Come, sir.”
“Wait,” said Monte Cristo, “I wish to take one final glance around thisroom.”
“This is fortunate,” said the guide; “I have forgotten the other key.”
“Go and fetch it.”
“I will leave you the torch, sir.”
“No, take it away; I can see in the dark.”
“Why, you are like No. 34. They said he was so accustomed to darknessthat he could see a pin in the darkest corner of his dungeon.”
“He spent fourteen years to arrive at that,” muttered the count.
The guide carried away the torch. The count had spoken correctly.Scarcely had a few seconds elapsed, ere he saw everything as distinctlyas by daylight. Then he looked around him, and really recognized hisdungeon.
“Yes,” he said, “there is the stone upon which I used to sit; there isthe impression made by my shoulders on the wall; there is the mark ofmy blood made when one day I dashed my head against the wall. Oh, thosefigures, how well I remember them! I made them one day to calculate theage of my father, that I might know whether I should find him stillliving, and that of Mercédès, to know if I should find her still free.After finishing that calculation, I had a minute’s hope. I did notreckon upon hunger and infidelity!” and a bitter laugh escaped thecount.
He saw in fancy the burial of his father, and the marriage of Mercédès.On the other side of the dungeon he perceived an inscription, the whiteletters of which were still visible on the green wall:
“‘_Oh, God!_’” he read, “‘_preserve my memory!_’”
“Oh, yes,” he cried, “that was my only prayer at last; I no longerbegged for liberty, but memory; I dreaded to become mad and forgetful.Oh, God, thou hast preserved my memory; I thank thee, I thank thee!”
At this moment the light of the torch was reflected on the wall; theguide was coming; Monte Cristo went to meet him.
“Follow me, sir;” and without ascending the stairs the guide conductedhim by a subterraneous passage to another entrance. There, again, MonteCristo was assailed by a multitude of thoughts. The first thing thatmet his eye was the meridian, drawn by the abbé on the wall, by whichhe calculated the time; then he saw the remains of the bed on which thepoor prisoner had died. The sight of this, instead of exciting theanguish experienced by the count in the dungeon, filled his heart witha soft and grateful sentiment, and tears fell from his eyes.
“This is where the mad abbé was kept, sir, and that is where the youngman entered;” and the guide pointed to the opening, which had remainedunclosed. “From the appearance of the stone,” he continued, “a learnedgentleman discovered that the prisoners might have communicatedtogether for ten years. Poor things! Those must have been ten wearyyears.”
Dantès took some louis from his pocket, and gave them to the man whohad twice unconsciously pitied him. The guide took them, thinking themmerely a few pieces of little value; but the light of the torchrevealed their true worth.
“Sir,” he said, “you have made a mistake; you have given me gold.”
“I know it.”
The concierge looked upon the count with surprise.
“Sir,” he cried, scarcely able to believe his good fortune—“sir, Icannot understand your generosity!”
“Oh, it is very simple, my good fellow; I have been a sailor, and yourstory touched me more than it would others.”
“Then, sir, since you are so liberal, I ought to offer you something.”
50227m


“What have you to offer to me, my friend? Shells? Straw-work? Thankyou!”
“No, sir, neither of those; something connected with this story.”
“Really? What is it?”
“Listen,” said the guide; “I said to myself, ‘Something is always leftin a cell inhabited by one prisoner for fifteen years,’ so I began tosound the wall.”
“Ah,” cried Monte Cristo, remembering the abbé’s two hiding-places.
“After some search, I found that the floor gave a hollow sound near thehead of the bed, and at the hearth.”
“Yes,” said the count, “yes.”
“I raised the stones, and found——”
“A rope-ladder and some tools?”
“How do you know that?” asked the guide in astonishment.
“I do not know—I only guess it, because that sort of thing is generallyfound in prisoners’ cells.”
“Yes, sir, a rope-ladder and tools.”
“And have you them yet?”
“No, sir; I sold them to visitors, who considered them greatcuriosities; but I have still something left.”
“What is it?” asked the count, impatiently.
“A sort of book, written upon strips of cloth.”
“Go and fetch it, my good fellow; and if it be what I hope, you will dowell.”
“I will run for it, sir;” and the guide went out.
Then the count knelt down by the side of the bed, which death hadconverted into an altar.
“Oh, second father,” he exclaimed, “thou who hast given me liberty,knowledge, riches; thou who, like beings of a superior order toourselves, couldst understand the science of good and evil; if in thedepths of the tomb there still remain something within us which canrespond to the voice of those who are left on earth; if after death thesoul ever revisit the places where we have lived and suffered,—then,noble heart, sublime soul, then I conjure thee by the paternal lovethou didst bear me, by the filial obedience I vowed to thee, grant mesome sign, some revelation! Remove from me the remains of doubt, which,if it change not to conviction, must become remorse!” The count bowedhis head, and clasped his hands together.
“Here, sir,” said a voice behind him.
Monte Cristo shuddered, and arose. The concierge held out the strips ofcloth upon which the Abbé Faria had spread the riches of his mind. Themanuscript was the great work by the Abbé Faria upon the kingdoms ofItaly. The count seized it hastily, his eyes immediately fell upon theepigraph, and he read:
“Thou shalt tear out the dragons’ teeth, and shall trample the lionsunder foot, saith the Lord.”
“Ah,” he exclaimed, “here is my answer. Thanks, father, thanks.” Andfeeling in his pocket, he took thence a small pocket-book, whichcontained ten bank-notes, each of 1,000 francs.
“Here,” he said, “take this pocket-book.”
“Do you give it to me?”
“Yes; but only on condition that you will not open it till I am gone;”and placing in his breast the treasure he had just found, which wasmore valuable to him than the richest jewel, he rushed out of thecorridor, and reaching his boat, cried, “To Marseilles!”
Then, as he departed, he fixed his eyes upon the gloomy prison.
“Woe,” he cried, “to those who confined me in that wretched prison; andwoe to those who forgot that I was there!”
50229m


As he repassed the Catalans, the count turned around and burying hishead in his cloak murmured the name of a woman. The victory wascomplete; twice he had overcome his doubts. The name he pronounced, ina voice of tenderness, amounting almost to love, was that of Haydée.
On landing, the count turned towards the cemetery, where he felt sureof finding Morrel. He, too, ten years ago, had piously sought out atomb, and sought it vainly. He, who returned to France with millions,had been unable to find the grave of his father, who had perished fromhunger. Morrel had indeed placed a cross over the spot, but it hadfallen down and the grave-digger had burnt it, as he did all the oldwood in the churchyard.
The worthy merchant had been more fortunate. Dying in the arms of hischildren, he had been by them laid by the side of his wife, who hadpreceded him in eternity by two years. Two large slabs of marble, onwhich were inscribed their names, were placed on either side of alittle enclosure, railed in, and shaded by four cypress-trees. Morrelwas leaning against one of these, mechanically fixing his eyes on thegraves. His grief was so profound that he was nearly unconscious.
50231m


“Maximilian,” said the count, “you should not look on the graves, butthere;” and he pointed upwards.
“The dead are everywhere,” said Morrel; “did you not yourself tell meso as we left Paris?”
“Maximilian,” said the count, “you asked me during the journey to allowyou to remain some days at Marseilles. Do you still wish to do so?”
“I have no wishes, count; only I fancy I could pass the time lesspainfully here than anywhere else.”
“So much the better, for I must leave you; but I carry your word withme, do I not?”
“Ah, count, I shall forget it.”
“No, you will not forget it, because you are a man of honor, Morrel,because you have taken an oath, and are about to do so again.”
“Oh, count, have pity upon me. I am so unhappy.”
“I have known a man much more unfortunate than you, Morrel.”
“Impossible!”
“Alas,” said Monte Cristo, “it is the infirmity of our nature always tobelieve ourselves much more unhappy than those who groan by our sides!”
“What can be more wretched than the man who has lost all he loved anddesired in the world?”
“Listen, Morrel, and pay attention to what I am about to tell you. Iknew a man who like you had fixed all his hopes of happiness upon awoman. He was young, he had an old father whom he loved, a betrothedbride whom he adored. He was about to marry her, when one of thecaprices of fate,—which would almost make us doubt the goodness ofProvidence, if that Providence did not afterwards reveal itself byproving that all is but a means of conducting to an end,—one of thosecaprices deprived him of his mistress, of the future of which he haddreamed (for in his blindness he forgot he could only read thepresent), and cast him into a dungeon.”
“Ah,” said Morrel, “one quits a dungeon in a week, a month, or a year.”
“He remained there fourteen years, Morrel,” said the count, placing hishand on the young man’s shoulder. Maximilian shuddered.
“Fourteen years!” he muttered.
“Fourteen years!” repeated the count. “During that time he had manymoments of despair. He also, Morrel, like you, considered himself theunhappiest of men.”
“Well?” asked Morrel.
“Well, at the height of his despair God assisted him through humanmeans. At first, perhaps, he did not recognize the infinite mercy ofthe Lord, but at last he took patience and waited. One day hemiraculously left the prison, transformed, rich, powerful. His firstcry was for his father; but that father was dead.”
“My father, too, is dead,” said Morrel.
“Yes; but your father died in your arms, happy, respected, rich, andfull of years; his father died poor, despairing, almost doubtful ofProvidence; and when his son sought his grave ten years afterwards, histomb had disappeared, and no one could say, ‘There sleeps the fatheryou so well loved.’”
“Oh!” exclaimed Morrel.
“He was, then, a more unhappy son than you, Morrel, for he could noteven find his father’s grave.”
“But then he had the woman he loved still remaining?”
“You are deceived, Morrel, that woman——”
“She was dead?”
“Worse than that, she was faithless, and had married one of thepersecutors of her betrothed. You see, then, Morrel, that he was a moreunhappy lover than you.”
“And has he found consolation?”
“He has at least found peace.”
“And does he ever expect to be happy?”
“He hopes so, Maximilian.”
The young man’s head fell on his breast.
“You have my promise,” he said, after a minute’s pause, extending hishand to Monte Cristo. “Only remember——”
“On the 5th of October, Morrel, I shall expect you at the Island ofMonte Cristo. On the 4th a yacht will wait for you in the port ofBastia, it will be called the _Eurus_. You will give your name to thecaptain, who will bring you to me. It is understood—is it not?”
“But, count, do you remember that the 5th of October——”
“Child,” replied the count, “not to know the value of a man’s word! Ihave told you twenty times that if you wish to die on that day, I willassist you. Morrel, farewell!”
“Do you leave me?”
“Yes; I have business in Italy. I leave you alone in your struggle withmisfortune—alone with that strong-winged eagle which God sends to bearaloft the elect to his feet. The story of Ganymede, Maximilian, is nota fable, but an allegory.”
“When do you leave?”
“Immediately; the steamer waits, and in an hour I shall be far fromyou. Will you accompany me to the harbor, Maximilian?”
50233m


“I am entirely yours, count.”
Morrel accompanied the count to the harbor. The white steam wasascending like a plume of feathers from the black chimney. The steamersoon disappeared, and in an hour afterwards, as the count had said, wasscarcely distinguishable in the horizon amidst the fogs of the night.


 Chapter 114. Peppino
At the same time that the steamer disappeared behind Cape Morgiou, aman travelling post on the road from Florence to Rome had just passedthe little town of Aquapendente. He was travelling fast enough to covera great deal of ground without exciting suspicion. This man was dressedin a greatcoat, or rather a surtout, a little worse for the journey,but which exhibited the ribbon of the Legion of Honor still fresh andbrilliant, a decoration which also ornamented the under coat. He mightbe recognized, not only by these signs, but also from the accent withwhich he spoke to the postilion, as a Frenchman.
Another proof that he was a native of the universal country wasapparent in the fact of his knowing no other Italian words than theterms used in music, and which like the “goddam” of Figaro, served allpossible linguistic requirements. “_Allegro!_” he called out to thepostilions at every ascent. “_Moderato!_” he cried as they descended.And heaven knows there are hills enough between Rome and Florence bythe way of Aquapendente! These two words greatly amused the men to whomthey were addressed. On reaching La Storta, the point from whence Romeis first visible, the traveller evinced none of the enthusiasticcuriosity which usually leads strangers to stand up and endeavor tocatch sight of the dome of Saint Peter’s, which may be seen long beforeany other object is distinguishable. No, he merely drew a pocketbookfrom his pocket, and took from it a paper folded in four, and afterhaving examined it in a manner almost reverential, he said:
“Good! I have it still!”
50235m


The carriage entered by the Porta del Popolo, turned to the left, andstopped at the Hôtel d’Espagne. Old Pastrini, our former acquaintance,received the traveller at the door, hat in hand. The travelleralighted, ordered a good dinner, and inquired the address of the houseof Thomson & French, which was immediately given to him, as it was oneof the most celebrated in Rome. It was situated in the Via dei Banchi,near St. Peter’s.
In Rome, as everywhere else, the arrival of a post-chaise is an event.Ten young descendants of Marius and the Gracchi, barefooted and out atelbows, with one hand resting on the hip and the other gracefullycurved above the head, stared at the traveller, the post-chaise, andthe horses; to these were added about fifty little vagabonds from thePapal States, who earned a pittance by diving into the Tiber at highwater from the bridge of St. Angelo. Now, as these street Arabs ofRome, more fortunate than those of Paris, understand every language,more especially the French, they heard the traveller order anapartment, a dinner, and finally inquire the way to the house ofThomson & French.
The result was that when the new-comer left the hotel with the_cicerone_, a man detached himself from the rest of the idlers, andwithout having been seen by the traveller, and appearing to excite noattention from the guide, followed the stranger with as much skill as aParisian police agent would have used.
The Frenchman had been so impatient to reach the house of Thomson &French that he would not wait for the horses to be harnessed, but leftword for the carriage to overtake him on the road, or to wait for himat the bankers’ door. He reached it before the carriage arrived. TheFrenchman entered, leaving in the anteroom his guide, who immediatelyentered into conversation with two or three of the industrious idlerswho are always to be found in Rome at the doors of banking-houses,churches, museums, or theatres. With the Frenchman, the man who hadfollowed him entered too; the Frenchman knocked at the inner door, andentered the first room; his shadow did the same.
“Messrs. Thomson & French?” inquired the stranger.
An attendant arose at a sign from a confidential clerk at the firstdesk.
“Whom shall I announce?” said the attendant.
“Baron Danglars.”
“Follow me,” said the man.
A door opened, through which the attendant and the baron disappeared.The man who had followed Danglars sat down on a bench. The clerkcontinued to write for the next five minutes; the man preservedprofound silence, and remained perfectly motionless. Then the pen ofthe clerk ceased to move over the paper; he raised his head, andappearing to be perfectly sure of privacy:
“Ah, ha,” he said, “here you are, Peppino!”
“Yes,” was the laconic reply. “You have found out that there issomething worth having about this large gentleman?”
“There is no great merit due to me, for we were informed of it.”
“You know his business here, then.”
“_Pardieu_, he has come to draw, but I don’t know how much!”
“You will know presently, my friend.”
“Very well, only do not give me false information as you did the otherday.”
“What do you mean?—of whom do you speak? Was it the Englishman whocarried off 3,000 crowns from here the other day?”
50237m


“No; he really had 3,000 crowns, and we found them. I mean the Russianprince, who you said had 30,000 livres, and we only found 22,000.”
“You must have searched badly.”
“Luigi Vampa himself searched.”
“In that case he must either have paid his debts——”
“A Russian do that?”
“Or spent the money?”
“Possibly, after all.”
“Certainly. But you must let me make my observations, or the Frenchmanwill transact his business without my knowing the sum.”
Peppino nodded, and taking a rosary from his pocket began to mutter afew prayers while the clerk disappeared through the same door by whichDanglars and the attendant had gone out. At the expiration of tenminutes the clerk returned with a beaming countenance.
“Well?” asked Peppino of his friend.
“Joy, joy—the sum is large!”
“Five or six millions, is it not?”
“Yes, you know the amount.”
“On the receipt of the Count of Monte Cristo?”
“Why, how came you to be so well acquainted with all this?”
“I told you we were informed beforehand.”
“Then why do you apply to me?”
“That I may be sure I have the right man.”
“Yes, it is indeed he. Five millions—a pretty sum, eh, Peppino?”
“Hush—here is our man!” The clerk seized his pen, and Peppino hisbeads; one was writing and the other praying when the door opened.Danglars looked radiant with joy; the banker accompanied him to thedoor. Peppino followed Danglars.
According to the arrangements, the carriage was waiting at the door.The guide held the door open. Guides are useful people, who will turntheir hands to anything. Danglars leaped into the carriage like a youngman of twenty. The _cicerone_ reclosed the door, and sprang up by theside of the coachman. Peppino mounted the seat behind.
“Will your excellency visit Saint Peter’s?” asked the _cicerone_.
“I did not come to Rome to see,” said Danglars aloud; then he addedsoftly, with an avaricious smile, “I came to touch!” and he rapped hispocket-book, in which he had just placed a letter.
“Then your excellency is going——”
“To the hotel.”
“Casa Pastrini!” said the _cicerone_ to the coachman, and the carriagedrove rapidly on.
50239m


Ten minutes afterwards the baron entered his apartment, and Peppinostationed himself on the bench outside the door of the hotel, afterhaving whispered something in the ear of one of the descendants ofMarius and the Gracchi whom we noticed at the beginning of the chapter,who immediately ran down the road leading to the Capitol at his fullestspeed. Danglars was tired and sleepy; he therefore went to bed, placinghis pocketbook under his pillow. Peppino had a little spare time, so hehad a game of _morra_ with the facchini, lost three crowns, and then toconsole himself drank a bottle of Orvieto.
The next morning Danglars awoke late, though he went to bed so early;he had not slept well for five or six nights, even if he had slept atall. He breakfasted heartily, and caring little, as he said, for thebeauties of the Eternal City, ordered post-horses at noon. But Danglarshad not reckoned upon the formalities of the police and the idleness ofthe posting-master. The horses only arrived at two o’clock, and the_cicerone_ did not bring the passport till three.
All these preparations had collected a number of idlers round the doorof Signor Pastrini’s; the descendants of Marius and the Gracchi werealso not wanting. The baron walked triumphantly through the crowd, whofor the sake of gain styled him “your excellency.” As Danglars hadhitherto contented himself with being called a baron, he felt ratherflattered at the title of excellency, and distributed a dozen silvercoins among the beggars, who were ready, for twelve more, to call him“your highness.”
“Which road?” asked the postilion in Italian.
“The Ancona road,” replied the baron. Signor Pastrini interpreted thequestion and answer, and the horses galloped off.
Danglars intended travelling to Venice, where he would receive one partof his fortune, and then proceeding to Vienna, where he would find therest, he meant to take up his residence in the latter town, which hehad been told was a city of pleasure.
He had scarcely advanced three leagues out of Rome when daylight beganto disappear. Danglars had not intended starting so late, or he wouldhave remained; he put his head out and asked the postilion how long itwould be before they reached the next town. “_Non capisco_” (do notunderstand), was the reply. Danglars bent his head, which he meant toimply, “Very well.” The carriage again moved on.
“I will stop at the first posting-house,” said Danglars to himself.
He still felt the same self-satisfaction which he had experienced theprevious evening, and which had procured him so good a night’s rest. Hewas luxuriously stretched in a good English calash, with doublesprings; he was drawn by four good horses, at full gallop; he knew therelay to be at a distance of seven leagues. What subject of meditationcould present itself to the banker, so fortunately become bankrupt?
Danglars thought for ten minutes about his wife in Paris; another tenminutes about his daughter travelling with Mademoiselle d’Armilly; thesame period was given to his creditors, and the manner in which heintended spending their money; and then, having no subject left forcontemplation, he shut his eyes, and fell asleep. Now and then a joltmore violent than the rest caused him to open his eyes; then he feltthat he was still being carried with great rapidity over the samecountry, thickly strewn with broken aqueducts, which looked likegranite giants petrified while running a race. But the night was cold,dull, and rainy, and it was much more pleasant for a traveller toremain in the warm carriage than to put his head out of the window tomake inquiries of a postilion whose only answer was “_Non capisco_.”
50241m


Danglars therefore continued to sleep, saying to himself that he wouldbe sure to awake at the posting-house. The carriage stopped. Danglarsfancied that they had reached the long-desired point; he opened hiseyes and looked through the window, expecting to find himself in themidst of some town, or at least village; but he saw nothing except whatseemed like a ruin, where three or four men went and came like shadows.
Danglars waited a moment, expecting the postilion to come and demandpayment with the termination of his stage. He intended taking advantageof the opportunity to make fresh inquiries of the new conductor; butthe horses were unharnessed, and others put in their places, withoutanyone claiming money from the traveller. Danglars, astonished, openedthe door; but a strong hand pushed him back, and the carriage rolledon. The baron was completely roused.
“Eh?” he said to the postilion, “eh, _mio caro?_”
This was another little piece of Italian the baron had learned fromhearing his daughter sing Italian duets with Cavalcanti. But _mio caro_did not reply. Danglars then opened the window.
“Come, my friend,” he said, thrusting his hand through the opening,“where are we going?”
“_Dentro la testa!_” answered a solemn and imperious voice, accompaniedby a menacing gesture.
Danglars thought _dentro la testa_ meant, “Put in your head!” He wasmaking rapid progress in Italian. He obeyed, not without someuneasiness, which, momentarily increasing, caused his mind, instead ofbeing as unoccupied as it was when he began his journey, to fill withideas which were very likely to keep a traveller awake, more especiallyone in such a situation as Danglars. His eyes acquired that qualitywhich in the first moment of strong emotion enables them to seedistinctly, and which afterwards fails from being too much taxed.Before we are alarmed, we see correctly; when we are alarmed, we seedouble; and when we have been alarmed, we see nothing but trouble.Danglars observed a man in a cloak galloping at the right hand of thecarriage.
“Some gendarme!” he exclaimed. “Can I have been intercepted by Frenchtelegrams to the pontifical authorities?”
He resolved to end his anxiety. “Where are you taking me?” he asked.
“_Dentro la testa_,” replied the same voice, with the same menacingaccent.
Danglars turned to the left; another man on horseback was galloping onthat side.
“Decidedly,” said Danglars, with the perspiration on his forehead, “Imust be under arrest.” And he threw himself back in the calash, notthis time to sleep, but to think.
Directly afterwards the moon rose. He then saw the great aqueducts,those stone phantoms which he had before remarked, only then they wereon the right hand, now they were on the left. He understood that theyhad described a circle, and were bringing him back to Rome.
“Oh, unfortunate!” he cried, “they must have obtained my arrest.”
The carriage continued to roll on with frightful speed. An hour ofterror elapsed, for every spot they passed showed that they were on theroad back. At length he saw a dark mass, against which it seemed as ifthe carriage was about to dash; but the vehicle turned to one side,leaving the barrier behind and Danglars saw that it was one of theramparts encircling Rome.
50243m


“_Mon dieu!_” cried Danglars, “we are not returning to Rome; then it isnot justice which is pursuing me! Gracious heavens; another ideapresents itself—what if they should be——”
His hair stood on end. He remembered those interesting stories, solittle believed in Paris, respecting Roman bandits; he remembered theadventures that Albert de Morcerf had related when it was intended thathe should marry Mademoiselle Eugénie. “They are robbers, perhaps,” hemuttered.
Just then the carriage rolled on something harder than gravel road.Danglars hazarded a look on both sides of the road, and perceivedmonuments of a singular form, and his mind now recalled all the detailsMorcerf had related, and comparing them with his own situation, he feltsure that he must be on the Appian Way. On the left, in a sort ofvalley, he perceived a circular excavation. It was Caracalla’s circus.On a word from the man who rode at the side of the carriage, itstopped. At the same time the door was opened. “_Scendi!_” exclaimed acommanding voice.
Danglars instantly descended; although he did not yet speak Italian, heunderstood it very well. More dead than alive, he looked around him.Four men surrounded him, besides the postilion.
“_Di quà_,” said one of the men, descending a little path leading outof the Appian Way. Danglars followed his guide without opposition, andhad no occasion to turn around to see whether the three others werefollowing him. Still it appeared as though they were stationed at equaldistances from one another, like sentinels. After walking for about tenminutes, during which Danglars did not exchange a single word with hisguide, he found himself between a hillock and a clump of high weeds;three men, standing silent, formed a triangle, of which he was thecentre. He wished to speak, but his tongue refused to move.
“_Avanti!_” said the same sharp and imperative voice.
This time Danglars had double reason to understand, for if the word andgesture had not explained the speaker’s meaning, it was clearlyexpressed by the man walking behind him, who pushed him so rudely thathe struck against the guide. This guide was our friend Peppino, whodashed into the thicket of high weeds, through a path which none butlizards or polecats could have imagined to be an open road.
Peppino stopped before a rock overhung by thick hedges; the rock, halfopen, afforded a passage to the young man, who disappeared like theevil spirits in the fairy tales. The voice and gesture of the man whofollowed Danglars ordered him to do the same. There was no longer anydoubt, the bankrupt was in the hands of Roman banditti. Danglarsacquitted himself like a man placed between two dangerous positions,and who is rendered brave by fear. Notwithstanding his large stomach,certainly not intended to penetrate the fissures of the Campagna, heslid down like Peppino, and closing his eyes fell upon his feet. As hetouched the ground, he opened his eyes.
50245m


The path was wide, but dark. Peppino, who cared little for beingrecognized now that he was in his own territories, struck a light andlit a torch. Two other men descended after Danglars forming therearguard, and pushing Danglars whenever he happened to stop, they cameby a gentle declivity to the intersection of two corridors. The wallswere hollowed out in sepulchres, one above the other, and which seemedin contrast with the white stones to open their large dark eyes, likethose which we see on the faces of the dead. A sentinel struck therings of his carbine against his left hand.
“Who comes there?” he cried.
“A friend, a friend!” said Peppino; “but where is the captain?”
“There,” said the sentinel, pointing over his shoulder to a spaciouscrypt, hollowed out of the rock, the lights from which shone into thepassage through the large arched openings.
“Fine spoil, captain, fine spoil!” said Peppino in Italian, and takingDanglars by the collar of his coat he dragged him to an openingresembling a door, through which they entered the apartment which thecaptain appeared to have made his dwelling-place.
“Is this the man?” asked the captain, who was attentively readingPlutarch’s _Life of Alexander_.
“Himself, captain—himself.”
“Very well, show him to me.”
At this rather impertinent order, Peppino raised his torch to the faceof Danglars, who hastily withdrew that he might not have his eyelashesburnt. His agitated features presented the appearance of pale andhideous terror.
“The man is tired,” said the captain, “conduct him to his bed.”
“Oh,” murmured Danglars, “that bed is probably one of the coffinshollowed in the wall, and the sleep I shall enjoy will be death fromone of the poniards I see glistening in the darkness.”
From their beds of dried leaves or wolf-skins at the back of thechamber now arose the companions of the man who had been found byAlbert de Morcerf reading _Cæsar’s Commentaries_, and by Danglarsstudying the _Life of Alexander_. The banker uttered a groan andfollowed his guide; he neither supplicated nor exclaimed. He no longerpossessed strength, will, power, or feeling; he followed where they ledhim. At length he found himself at the foot of a staircase, and hemechanically lifted his foot five or six times. Then a low door wasopened before him, and bending his head to avoid striking his foreheadhe entered a small room cut out of the rock. The cell was clean, thoughempty, and dry, though situated at an immeasurable distance under theearth. A bed of dried grass covered with goat-skins was placed in onecorner. Danglars brightened up on beholding it, fancying that it gavesome promise of safety.
“Oh, God be praised,” he said; “it is a real bed!”
This was the second time within the hour that he had invoked the nameof God. He had not done so for ten years before.
“_Ecco!_” said the guide, and pushing Danglars into the cell, he closedthe door upon him.
A bolt grated and Danglars was a prisoner. If there had been no bolt,it would have been impossible for him to pass through the midst of thegarrison who held the catacombs of St. Sebastian, encamped round amaster whom our readers must have recognized as the famous Luigi Vampa.
Danglars, too, had recognized the bandit, whose existence he would notbelieve when Albert de Morcerf mentioned him in Paris; and not only didhe recognize him, but the cell in which Albert had been confined, andwhich was probably kept for the accommodation of strangers. Theserecollections were dwelt upon with some pleasure by Danglars, andrestored him to some degree of tranquillity. Since the bandits had notdespatched him at once, he felt that they would not kill him at all.They had arrested him for the purpose of robbery, and as he had only afew louis about him, he doubted not he would be ransomed.
He remembered that Morcerf had been taxed at 4,000 crowns, and as heconsidered himself of much greater importance than Morcerf he fixed hisown price at 8,000 crowns. Eight thousand crowns amounted to 48,000livres; he would then have about 5,050,000 francs left. With this sumhe could manage to keep out of difficulties. Therefore, tolerablysecure in being able to extricate himself from his position, providedhe were not rated at the unreasonable sum of 5,050,000 francs, hestretched himself on his bed, and after turning over two or threetimes, fell asleep with the tranquillity of the hero whose life LuigiVampa was studying.


 Chapter 115. Luigi Vampa’s Bill of Fare
We awake from every sleep except the one dreaded by Danglars. He awoke.To a Parisian accustomed to silken curtains, walls hung with velvetdrapery, and the soft perfume of burning wood, the white smoke of whichdiffuses itself in graceful curves around the room, the appearance ofthe whitewashed cell which greeted his eyes on awakening seemed likethe continuation of some disagreeable dream. But in such a situation asingle moment suffices to change the strongest doubt into certainty.
“Yes, yes,” he murmured, “I am in the hands of the brigands of whomAlbert de Morcerf spoke.” His first idea was to breathe, that he mightknow whether he was wounded. He borrowed this from _Don Quixote_, theonly book he had ever read, but which he still slightly remembered.
“No,” he cried, “they have not wounded, but perhaps they have robbedme!” and he thrust his hands into his pockets. They were untouched; thehundred louis he had reserved for his journey from Rome to Venice werein his trousers pocket, and in that of his greatcoat he found thelittle note-case containing his letter of credit for 5,050,000 francs.
“Singular bandits!” he exclaimed; “they have left me my purse andpocket-book. As I was saying last night, they intend me to be ransomed.Hello, here is my watch! Let me see what time it is.”
Danglars’ watch, one of Breguet’s repeaters, which he had carefullywound up on the previous night, struck half past five. Without this,Danglars would have been quite ignorant of the time, for daylight didnot reach his cell. Should he demand an explanation from the bandits,or should he wait patiently for them to propose it? The lastalternative seemed the most prudent, so he waited until twelve o’clock.During all this time a sentinel, who had been relieved at eighto’clock, had been watching his door.
50249m


Danglars suddenly felt a strong inclination to see the person who keptwatch over him. He had noticed that a few rays, not of daylight, butfrom a lamp, penetrated through the ill-joined planks of the door; heapproached just as the brigand was refreshing himself with a mouthfulof brandy, which, owing to the leathern bottle containing it, sentforth an odor which was extremely unpleasant to Danglars. “Faugh!” heexclaimed, retreating to the farther corner of his cell.
At twelve this man was replaced by another functionary, and Danglars,wishing to catch sight of his new guardian, approached the door again.
He was an athletic, gigantic bandit, with large eyes, thick lips, and aflat nose; his red hair fell in dishevelled masses like snakes aroundhis shoulders.
“Ah, ha,” cried Danglars, “this fellow is more like an ogre thananything else; however, I am rather too old and tough to be very goodeating!”
We see that Danglars was collected enough to jest; at the same time, asthough to disprove the ogreish propensities, the man took some blackbread, cheese, and onions from his wallet, which he began devouringvoraciously.
“May I be hanged,” said Danglars, glancing at the bandit’s dinnerthrough the crevices of the door,—“may I be hanged if I can understandhow people can eat such filth!” and he withdrew to seat himself uponhis goat-skin, which reminded him of the smell of the brandy.
But the mysteries of nature are incomprehensible, and there are certaininvitations contained in even the coarsest food which appeal veryirresistibly to a fasting stomach. Danglars felt his own not to be verywell supplied just then, and gradually the man appeared less ugly, thebread less black, and the cheese more fresh, while those dreadfulvulgar onions recalled to his mind certain sauces and side-dishes,which his cook prepared in a very superior manner whenever he said,“Monsieur Deniseau, let me have a nice little fricassee today.” He gotup and knocked on the door; the bandit raised his head. Danglars knewthat he was heard, so he redoubled his blows.
“_Che cosa?_” asked the bandit.
“Come, come,” said Danglars, tapping his fingers against the door, “Ithink it is quite time to think of giving me something to eat!”
But whether he did not understand him, or whether he had received noorders respecting the nourishment of Danglars, the giant, withoutanswering, went on with his dinner. Danglars’ feelings were hurt, andnot wishing to put himself under obligations to the brute, the bankerthrew himself down again on his goat-skin and did not breathe anotherword.
Four hours passed by and the giant was replaced by another bandit.Danglars, who really began to experience sundry gnawings at thestomach, arose softly, again applied his eye to the crack of the door,and recognized the intelligent countenance of his guide. It was,indeed, Peppino who was preparing to mount guard as comfortably aspossible by seating himself opposite to the door, and placing betweenhis legs an earthen pan, containing chick-peas stewed with bacon. Nearthe pan he also placed a pretty little basket of Villetri grapes and aflask of Orvieto. Peppino was decidedly an epicure. Danglars watchedthese preparations and his mouth watered.
“Come,” he said to himself, “let me try if he will be more tractablethan the other;” and he tapped gently at the door.
“_On y va_,” (coming) exclaimed Peppino, who from frequenting the houseof Signor Pastrini understood French perfectly in all its idioms.
Danglars immediately recognized him as the man who had called out insuch a furious manner, “Put in your head!” But this was not the timefor recrimination, so he assumed his most agreeable manner and saidwith a gracious smile:
“Excuse me, sir, but are they not going to give me any dinner?”
“Does your excellency happen to be hungry?”
“Happen to be hungry,—that’s pretty good, when I haven’t eaten fortwenty-four hours!” muttered Danglars. Then he added aloud, “Yes, sir,I am hungry—very hungry.”
“And your excellency wants something to eat?”
“At once, if possible”
“Nothing easier,” said Peppino. “Here you can get anything you want; bypaying for it, of course, as among honest folk.”
“Of course!” cried Danglars. “Although, in justice, the people whoarrest and imprison you, ought, at least, to feed you.”
“That is not the custom, excellency,” said Peppino.
“A bad reason,” replied Danglars, who reckoned on conciliating hiskeeper; “but I am content. Let me have some dinner!”
“At once! What would your excellency like?”
And Peppino placed his pan on the ground, so that the steam rosedirectly under the nostrils of Danglars. “Give your orders.”
“Have you kitchens here?”
“Kitchens?—of course—complete ones.”
“And cooks?”
“Excellent!”
“Well, a fowl, fish, game,—it signifies little, so that I eat.”
“As your excellency pleases. You mentioned a fowl, I think?”
“Yes, a fowl.”
Peppino, turning around, shouted, “A fowl for his excellency!” Hisvoice yet echoed in the archway when a handsome, graceful, andhalf-naked young man appeared, bearing a fowl in a silver dish on hishead, without the assistance of his hands.
“I could almost believe myself at the Café de Paris,” murmuredDanglars.
“Here, your excellency,” said Peppino, taking the fowl from the youngbandit and placing it on the worm-eaten table, which with the stool andthe goat-skin bed formed the entire furniture of the cell. Danglarsasked for a knife and fork.
“Here, excellency,” said Peppino, offering him a little blunt knife anda boxwood fork. Danglars took the knife in one hand and the fork in theother, and was about to cut up the fowl.
“Pardon me, excellency,” said Peppino, placing his hand on the banker’sshoulder; “people pay here before they eat. They might not besatisfied, and——”
“Ah, ha,” thought Danglars, “this is not so much like Paris, exceptthat I shall probably be skinned! Never mind, I’ll fix that all right.I have always heard how cheap poultry is in Italy; I should think afowl is worth about twelve sous at Rome.—There,” he said, throwing alouis down.
Peppino picked up the louis, and Danglars again prepared to carve thefowl.
“Stay a moment, your excellency,” said Peppino, rising; “you still oweme something.”
“I said they would skin me,” thought Danglars; but resolving to resistthe extortion, he said, “Come, how much do I owe you for this fowl?”
“Your excellency has given me a louis on account.”
“A louis on account for a fowl?”
“Certainly; and your excellency now owes me 4,999 louis.”
Danglars opened his enormous eyes on hearing this gigantic joke.
“Very droll,” he muttered, “very droll indeed,” and he again began tocarve the fowl, when Peppino stopped the baron’s right hand with hisleft, and held out his other hand.
“Come, now,” he said.
“Is it not a joke?” said Danglars.
“We never joke,” replied Peppino, solemn as a Quaker.
“What! A hundred thousand francs for a fowl!”
“Ah, excellency, you cannot imagine how hard it is to rear fowls inthese horrible caves!”
“Come, come, this is very droll—very amusing—I allow; but, as I am veryhungry, pray allow me to eat. Stay, here is another louis for you.”
“Then that will make only 4,998 louis more,” said Peppino with the sameindifference. “I shall get them all in time.”
“Oh, as for that,” said Danglars, angry at this prolongation of thejest,—“as for that you won’t get them at all. Go to the devil! You donot know with whom you have to deal!”
50253m


Peppino made a sign, and the youth hastily removed the fowl. Danglarsthrew himself upon his goat-skin, and Peppino, reclosing the door,again began eating his peas and bacon. Though Danglars could not seePeppino, the noise of his teeth allowed no doubt as to his occupation.He was certainly eating, and noisily too, like an ill-bred man.“Brute!” said Danglars. Peppino pretended not to hear him, and withouteven turning his head continued to eat slowly. Danglars’ stomach feltso empty, that it seemed as if it would be impossible ever to fill itagain; still he had patience for another half-hour, which appeared tohim like a century. He again arose and went to the door.
“Come, sir, do not keep me starving here any longer, but tell me whatthey want.”
“Nay, your excellency, it is you who should tell us what you want. Giveyour orders, and we will execute them.”
“Then open the door directly.” Peppino obeyed. “Now look here, I wantsomething to eat! To eat—do you hear?”
“Are you hungry?”
“Come, you understand me.”
“What would your excellency like to eat?”
“A piece of dry bread, since the fowls are beyond all price in thisaccursed place.”
“Bread? Very well. Holloa, there, some bread!” he called. The youthbrought a small loaf. “How much?” asked Danglars.
“Four thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight louis,” said Peppino; “Youhave paid two louis in advance.”
50255m


“What? One hundred thousand francs for a loaf?”
“One hundred thousand francs,” repeated Peppino.
“But you only asked 100,000 francs for a fowl!”
“We have a fixed price for all our provisions. It signifies nothingwhether you eat much or little—whether you have ten dishes or one—it isalways the same price.”
“What, still keeping up this silly jest? My dear fellow, it isperfectly ridiculous—stupid! You had better tell me at once that youintend starving me to death.”
“Oh, dear, no, your excellency, unless you intend to commit suicide.Pay and eat.”
“And what am I to pay with, brute?” said Danglars, enraged. “Do yousuppose I carry 100,000 francs in my pocket?”
“Your excellency has 5,050,000 francs in your pocket; that will befifty fowls at 100,000 francs apiece, and half a fowl for the 50,000.”
Danglars shuddered. The bandage fell from his eyes, and he understoodthe joke, which he did not think quite so stupid as he had done justbefore.
“Come,” he said, “if I pay you the 100,000 francs, will you besatisfied, and allow me to eat at my ease?”
“Certainly,” said Peppino.
“But how can I pay them?”
“Oh, nothing easier; you have an account open with Messrs. Thomson &French, Via dei Banchi, Rome; give me a draft for 4,998 louis on thesegentlemen, and our banker shall take it.”
Danglars thought it as well to comply with a good grace, so he took thepen, ink, and paper Peppino offered him, wrote the draft, and signedit.
“Here,” he said, “here is a draft at sight.”
“And here is your fowl.”
Danglars sighed while he carved the fowl; it appeared very thin for theprice it had cost. As for Peppino, he examined the paper attentively,put it into his pocket, and continued eating his peas.


 Chapter 116. The Pardon
The next day Danglars was again hungry; certainly the air of thatdungeon was very provocative of appetite. The prisoner expected that hewould be at no expense that day, for like an economical man he hadconcealed half of his fowl and a piece of the bread in the corner ofhis cell. But he had no sooner eaten than he felt thirsty; he hadforgotten that. He struggled against his thirst till his tongue claveto the roof of his mouth; then, no longer able to resist, he calledout. The sentinel opened the door; it was a new face. He thought itwould be better to transact business with his old acquaintance, so hesent for Peppino.
“Here I am, your excellency,” said Peppino, with an eagerness whichDanglars thought favorable to him. “What do you want?”
“Something to drink.”
“Your excellency knows that wine is beyond all price near Rome.”
“Then give me water,” cried Danglars, endeavoring to parry the blow.
“Oh, water is even more scarce than wine, your excellency,—there hasbeen such a drought.”
“Come,” thought Danglars, “it is the same old story.” And while hesmiled as he attempted to regard the affair as a joke, he felt histemples get moist with perspiration.
“Come, my friend,” said Danglars, seeing that he made no impression onPeppino, “you will not refuse me a glass of wine?”
“I have already told you that we do not sell at retail.”
“Well, then, let me have a bottle of the least expensive.”
“They are all the same price.”
“And what is that?”
“Twenty-five thousand francs a bottle.”
“Tell me,” cried Danglars, in a tone whose bitterness Harpagon30 alonehas been capable of revealing—“tell me that you wish to despoil me ofall; it will be sooner over than devouring me piecemeal.”
“It is possible such may be the master’s intention.”
“The master?—who is he?”
“The person to whom you were conducted yesterday.”
“Where is he?”
“Here.”
“Let me see him.”
“Certainly.”
And the next moment Luigi Vampa appeared before Danglars.
“You sent for me?” he said to the prisoner.
“Are you, sir, the chief of the people who brought me here?”
“Yes, your excellency. What then?”
“How much do you require for my ransom?”
“Merely the 5,000,000 you have about you.” Danglars felt a dreadfulspasm dart through his heart.
“But this is all I have left in the world,” he said, “out of an immensefortune. If you deprive me of that, take away my life also.”
“We are forbidden to shed your blood.”
“And by whom are you forbidden?”
“By him we obey.”
“You do, then, obey someone?”
“Yes, a chief.”
“I thought you said you were the chief?”
“So I am of these men; but there is another over me.”
“And did your superior order you to treat me in this way?”
“Yes.”
“But my purse will be exhausted.”
“Probably.”
“Come,” said Danglars, “will you take a million?”
“No.”
“Two millions?—three?—four? Come, four? I will give them to you oncondition that you let me go.”
“Why do you offer me 4,000,000 for what is worth 5,000,000? This is akind of usury, banker, that I do not understand.”
“Take all, then—take all, I tell you, and kill me!”
“Come, come, calm yourself. You will excite your blood, and that wouldproduce an appetite it would require a million a day to satisfy. Bemore economical.”
“But when I have no more money left to pay you?” asked the infuriatedDanglars.
“Then you must suffer hunger.”
“Suffer hunger?” said Danglars, becoming pale.
“Most likely,” replied Vampa coolly.
“But you say you do not wish to kill me?”
“No.”
“And yet you will let me perish with hunger?”
“Ah, that is a different thing.”
“Well, then, wretches,” cried Danglars, “I will defy your infamouscalculations—I would rather die at once! You may torture, torment, killme, but you shall not have my signature again!”
“As your excellency pleases,” said Vampa, as he left the cell.
Danglars, raving, threw himself on the goat-skin. Who could these menbe? Who was the invisible chief? What could be his intentions towardshim? And why, when everyone else was allowed to be ransomed, might henot also be? Oh, yes; certainly a speedy, violent death would be a finemeans of deceiving these remorseless enemies, who appeared to pursuehim with such incomprehensible vengeance. But to die? For the firsttime in his life, Danglars contemplated death with a mixture of dreadand desire; the time had come when the implacable spectre, which existsin the mind of every human creature, arrested his attention and calledout with every pulsation of his heart, “Thou shalt die!”
Danglars resembled a timid animal excited in the chase; first it flies,then despairs, and at last, by the very force of desperation, sometimessucceeds in eluding its pursuers. Danglars meditated an escape; but thewalls were solid rock, a man was sitting reading at the only outlet tothe cell, and behind that man shapes armed with guns continuallypassed. His resolution not to sign lasted two days, after which heoffered a million for some food. They sent him a magnificent supper,and took his million.
From this time the prisoner resolved to suffer no longer, but to haveeverything he wanted. At the end of twelve days, after having made asplendid dinner, he reckoned his accounts, and found that he had only50,000 francs left. Then a strange reaction took place; he who had justabandoned 5,000,000 endeavored to save the 50,000 francs he had left,and sooner than give them up he resolved to enter again upon a life ofprivation—he was deluded by the hopefulness that is a premonition ofmadness.
He, who for so long a time had forgotten God, began to think thatmiracles were possible—that the accursed cavern might be discovered bythe officers of the Papal States, who would release him; that then hewould have 50,000 remaining, which would be sufficient to save him fromstarvation; and finally he prayed that this sum might be preserved tohim, and as he prayed he wept. Three days passed thus, during which hisprayers were frequent, if not heartfelt. Sometimes he was delirious,and fancied he saw an old man stretched on a pallet; he, also, wasdying of hunger.
On the fourth, he was no longer a man, but a living corpse. He hadpicked up every crumb that had been left from his former meals, and wasbeginning to eat the matting which covered the floor of his cell. Thenhe entreated Peppino, as he would a guardian angel, to give him food;he offered him 1,000 francs for a mouthful of bread. But Peppino didnot answer. On the fifth day he dragged himself to the door of thecell.
“Are you not a Christian?” he said, falling on his knees. “Do you wishto assassinate a man who, in the eyes of Heaven, is a brother? Oh, myformer friends, my former friends!” he murmured, and fell with his faceto the ground. Then rising in despair, he exclaimed, “The chief, thechief!”
“Here I am,” said Vampa, instantly appearing; “what do you want?”
“Take my last gold,” muttered Danglars, holding out his pocket-book,“and let me live here; I ask no more for liberty—I only ask to live!”
“Then you suffer a great deal?”
“Oh, yes, yes, cruelly!”
“Still, there have been men who suffered more than you.”
“I do not think so.”
“Yes; those who have died of hunger.”
Danglars thought of the old man whom, in his hours of delirium, he hadseen groaning on his bed. He struck his forehead on the ground andgroaned. “Yes,” he said, “there have been some who have suffered morethan I have, but then they must have been martyrs at least.”
“Do you repent?” asked a deep, solemn voice, which caused Danglars’hair to stand on end. His feeble eyes endeavored to distinguishobjects, and behind the bandit he saw a man enveloped in a cloak, halflost in the shadow of a stone column.
“Of what must I repent?” stammered Danglars.
“Of the evil you have done,” said the voice.
“Oh, yes; oh, yes, I do indeed repent.” And he struck his breast withhis emaciated fist.
“Then I forgive you,” said the man, dropping his cloak, and advancingto the light.
“The Count of Monte Cristo!” said Danglars, more pale from terror thanhe had been just before from hunger and misery.
“You are mistaken—I am not the Count of Monte Cristo.”
“Then who are you?”
50261m


“I am he whom you sold and dishonored—I am he whose betrothed youprostituted—I am he upon whom you trampled that you might raiseyourself to fortune—I am he whose father you condemned to die ofhunger—I am he whom you also condemned to starvation, and who yetforgives you, because he hopes to be forgiven—I am Edmond Dantès!”
Danglars uttered a cry, and fell prostrate.
“Rise,” said the count, “your life is safe; the same good fortune hasnot happened to your accomplices—one is mad, the other dead. Keep the50,000 francs you have left—I give them to you. The 5,000,000 you stolefrom the hospitals has been restored to them by an unknown hand. Andnow eat and drink; I will entertain you tonight. Vampa, when this manis satisfied, let him be free.”
Danglars remained prostrate while the count withdrew; when he raisedhis head he saw disappearing down the passage nothing but a shadow,before which the bandits bowed.
According to the count’s directions, Danglars was waited on by Vampa,who brought him the best wine and fruits of Italy; then, havingconducted him to the road, and pointed to the post-chaise, left himleaning against a tree. He remained there all night, not knowing wherehe was. When daylight dawned he saw that he was near a stream; he wasthirsty, and dragged himself towards it. As he stooped down to drink,he saw that his hair had become entirely white.


 Chapter 117. The Fifth of October
It was about six o’clock in the evening; an opal-colored light, throughwhich an autumnal sun shed its golden rays, descended on the blueocean. The heat of the day had gradually decreased, and a light breezearose, seeming like the respiration of nature on awakening from theburning siesta of the south. A delicious zephyr played along the coastsof the Mediterranean, and wafted from shore to shore the sweet perfumeof plants, mingled with the fresh smell of the sea.
A light yacht, chaste and elegant in its form, was gliding amidst thefirst dews of night over the immense lake, extending from Gibraltar tothe Dardanelles, and from Tunis to Venice. The vessel resembled a swanwith its wings opened towards the wind, gliding on the water. Itadvanced swiftly and gracefully, leaving behind it a glittering stretchof foam. By degrees the sun disappeared behind the western horizon; butas though to prove the truth of the fanciful ideas in heathenmythology, its indiscreet rays reappeared on the summit of every wave,as if the god of fire had just sunk upon the bosom of Amphitrite, whoin vain endeavored to hide her lover beneath her azure mantle.
The yacht moved rapidly on, though there did not appear to besufficient wind to ruffle the curls on the head of a young girl.Standing on the prow was a tall man, of a dark complexion, who saw withdilating eyes that they were approaching a dark mass of land in theshape of a cone, which rose from the midst of the waves like the hat ofa Catalan.
“Is that Monte Cristo?” asked the traveller, to whose orders the yachtwas for the time submitted, in a melancholy voice.
“Yes, your excellency,” said the captain, “we have reached it.”
“We have reached it!” repeated the traveller in an accent ofindescribable sadness.
Then he added, in a low tone, “Yes; that is the haven.”
And then he again plunged into a train of thought, the character ofwhich was better revealed by a sad smile, than it would have been bytears. A few minutes afterwards a flash of light, which wasextinguished instantly, was seen on the land, and the sound of firearmsreached the yacht.
“Your excellency,” said the captain, “that was the land signal, willyou answer yourself?”
“What signal?”
The captain pointed towards the island, up the side of which ascended avolume of smoke, increasing as it rose.
“Ah, yes,” he said, as if awaking from a dream. “Give it to me.”
The captain gave him a loaded carbine; the traveller slowly raised it,and fired in the air. Ten minutes afterwards, the sails were furled,and they cast anchor about a hundred fathoms from the little harbor.The gig was already lowered, and in it were four oarsmen and acoxswain. The traveller descended, and instead of sitting down at thestern of the boat, which had been decorated with a blue carpet for hisaccommodation, stood up with his arms crossed. The rowers waited, theiroars half lifted out of the water, like birds drying their wings.
50265m


“Give way,” said the traveller. The eight oars fell into the seasimultaneously without splashing a drop of water, and the boat,yielding to the impulsion, glided forward. In an instant they foundthemselves in a little harbor, formed in a natural creek; the boatgrounded on the fine sand.
“Will your excellency be so good as to mount the shoulders of two ofour men, they will carry you ashore?” The young man answered thisinvitation with a gesture of indifference, and stepped out of the boat;the sea immediately rose to his waist.
“Ah, your excellency,” murmured the pilot, “you should not have doneso; our master will scold us for it.”
The young man continued to advance, following the sailors, who chose afirm footing. Thirty strides brought them to dry land; the young manstamped on the ground to shake off the wet, and looked around forsomeone to show him his road, for it was quite dark. Just as he turned,a hand rested on his shoulder, and a voice which made him shudderexclaimed:
“Good-evening, Maximilian; you are punctual, thank you!”
“Ah, is it you, count?” said the young man, in an almost joyful accent,pressing Monte Cristo’s hand with both his own.
“Yes; you see I am as exact as you are. But you are dripping, my dearfellow; you must change your clothes, as Calypso said to Telemachus.Come, I have a habitation prepared for you in which you will soonforget fatigue and cold.”
Monte Cristo perceived that the young man had turned around; indeed,Morrel saw with surprise that the men who had brought him had leftwithout being paid, or uttering a word. Already the sound of their oarsmight be heard as they returned to the yacht.
“Oh, yes,” said the count, “you are looking for the sailors.”
“Yes, I paid them nothing, and yet they are gone.”
“Never mind that, Maximilian,” said Monte Cristo, smiling. “I have madean agreement with the navy, that the access to my island shall be freeof all charge. I have made a bargain.”
Morrel looked at the count with surprise. “Count,” he said, “you arenot the same here as in Paris.”
“How so?”
“Here you laugh.” The count’s brow became clouded.
“You are right to recall me to myself, Maximilian,” he said; “I wasdelighted to see you again, and forgot for the moment that allhappiness is fleeting.”
“Oh, no, no, count,” cried Maximilian, seizing the count’s hands, “praylaugh; be happy, and prove to me, by your indifference, that life isendurable to sufferers. Oh, how charitable, kind, and good you are; youaffect this gayety to inspire me with courage.”
“You are wrong, Morrel; I was really happy.”
“Then you forget me, so much the better.”
“How so?”
“Yes; for as the gladiator said to the emperor, when he entered thearena, ‘He who is about to die salutes you.’”
“Then you are not consoled?” asked the count, surprised.
“Oh,” exclaimed Morrel, with a glance full of bitter reproach, “do youthink it possible that I could be?”
“Listen,” said the count. “Do you understand the meaning of my words?You cannot take me for a commonplace man, a mere rattle, emitting avague and senseless noise. When I ask you if you are consoled, I speakto you as a man for whom the human heart has no secrets. Well, Morrel,let us both examine the depths of your heart. Do you still feel thesame feverish impatience of grief which made you start like a woundedlion? Have you still that devouring thirst which can only be appeasedin the grave? Are you still actuated by the regret which drags theliving to the pursuit of death; or are you only suffering from theprostration of fatigue and the weariness of hope deferred? Has the lossof memory rendered it impossible for you to weep? Oh, my dear friend,if this be the case,—if you can no longer weep, if your frozen heart bedead, if you put all your trust in God, then, Maximilian, you areconsoled—do not complain.”
“Count,” said Morrel, in a firm and at the same time soft voice,“listen to me, as to a man whose thoughts are raised to heaven, thoughhe remains on earth; I come to die in the arms of a friend. Certainly,there are people whom I love. I love my sister Julie,—I love herhusband Emmanuel; but I require a strong mind to smile on my lastmoments. My sister would be bathed in tears and fainting; I could notbear to see her suffer. Emmanuel would tear the weapon from my hand,and alarm the house with his cries. You, count, who are more thanmortal, will, I am sure, lead me to death by a pleasant path, will younot?”
50267m


“My friend,” said the count, “I have still one doubt,—are you weakenough to pride yourself upon your sufferings?”
“No, indeed,—I am calm,” said Morrel, giving his hand to the count; “mypulse does not beat slower or faster than usual. No, I feel that I havereached the goal, and I will go no farther. You told me to wait andhope; do you know what you did, unfortunate adviser? I waited a month,or rather I suffered for a month! I did hope (man is a poor wretchedcreature), I did hope. What I cannot tell,—something wonderful, anabsurdity, a miracle,—of what nature he alone can tell who has mingledwith our reason that folly we call hope. Yes, I did wait—yes, I didhope, count, and during this quarter of an hour we have been talkingtogether, you have unconsciously wounded, tortured my heart, for everyword you have uttered proved that there was no hope for me. Oh, count,I shall sleep calmly, deliciously in the arms of death.”
Morrel uttered these words with an energy which made the count shudder.
“My friend,” continued Morrel, “you named the fifth of October as theend of the period of waiting,—today is the fifth of October,” he tookout his watch, “it is now nine o’clock,—I have yet three hours tolive.”
“Be it so,” said the count, “come.” Morrel mechanically followed thecount, and they had entered the grotto before he perceived it. He felta carpet under his feet, a door opened, perfumes surrounded him, and abrilliant light dazzled his eyes. Morrel hesitated to advance; hedreaded the enervating effect of all that he saw. Monte Cristo drew himin gently.
“Why should we not spend the last three hours remaining to us of life,like those ancient Romans, who when condemned by Nero, their emperorand heir, sat down at a table covered with flowers, and gently glidedinto death, amid the perfume of heliotropes and roses?”
Morrel smiled. “As you please,” he said; “death is always death,—thatis forgetfulness, repose, exclusion from life, and therefore fromgrief.”
He sat down, and Monte Cristo placed himself opposite to him. They werein the marvellous dining-room before described, where the statues hadbaskets on their heads always filled with fruits and flowers. Morrelhad looked carelessly around, and had probably noticed nothing.
“Let us talk like men,” he said, looking at the count.
“Go on!”
“Count,” said Morrel, “you are the epitome of all human knowledge, andyou seem like a being descended from a wiser and more advanced worldthan ours.”
“There is something true in what you say,” said the count, with thatsmile which made him so handsome; “I have descended from a planetcalled grief.”
50269m


“I believe all you tell me without questioning its meaning; forinstance, you told me to live, and I did live; you told me to hope, andI almost did so. I am almost inclined to ask you, as though you hadexperienced death, ‘is it painful to die?’”
Monte Cristo looked upon Morrel with indescribable tenderness. “Yes,”he said, “yes, doubtless it is painful, if you violently break theouter covering which obstinately begs for life. If you plunge a daggerinto your flesh, if you insinuate a bullet into your brain, which theleast shock disorders,—then certainly, you will suffer pain, and youwill repent quitting a life for a repose you have bought at so dear aprice.”
“Yes; I know that there is a secret of luxury and pain in death, aswell as in life; the only thing is to understand it.”
“You have spoken truly, Maximilian; according to the care we bestowupon it, death is either a friend who rocks us gently as a nurse, or anenemy who violently drags the soul from the body. Some day, when theworld is much older, and when mankind will be masters of all thedestructive powers in nature, to serve for the general good ofhumanity; when mankind, as you were just saying, have discovered thesecrets of death, then that death will become as sweet and voluptuousas a slumber in the arms of your beloved.”
“And if you wished to die, you would choose this death, count?”
“Yes.”
Morrel extended his hand. “Now I understand,” he said, “why you had mebrought here to this desolate spot, in the midst of the ocean, to thissubterranean palace; it was because you loved me, was it not, count? Itwas because you loved me well enough to give me one of those sweetmeans of death of which we were speaking; a death without agony, adeath which allows me to fade away while pronouncing Valentine’s nameand pressing your hand.”
“Yes, you have guessed rightly, Morrel,” said the count, “that is whatI intended.”
“Thanks; the idea that tomorrow I shall no longer suffer, is sweet tomy heart.”
“Do you then regret nothing?”
“No,” replied Morrel.
“Not even me?” asked the count with deep emotion. Morrel’s clear eyewas for the moment clouded, then it shone with unusual lustre, and alarge tear rolled down his cheek.
“What,” said the count, “do you still regret anything in the world, andyet die?”
“Oh, I entreat you,” exclaimed Morrel in a low voice, “do not speakanother word, count; do not prolong my punishment.”
The count fancied that he was yielding, and this belief revived thehorrible doubt that had overwhelmed him at the Château d’If.
“I am endeavoring,” he thought, “to make this man happy; I look uponthis restitution as a weight thrown into the scale to balance the evilI have wrought. Now, supposing I am deceived, supposing this man hasnot been unhappy enough to merit happiness. Alas, what would become ofme who can only atone for evil by doing good?”
50271m


Then he said aloud: “Listen, Morrel, I see your grief is great, butstill you do not like to risk your soul.” Morrel smiled sadly.
“Count,” he said, “I swear to you my soul is no longer my own.”
“Maximilian, you know I have no relation in the world. I haveaccustomed myself to regard you as my son: well, then, to save my son,I will sacrifice my life, nay, even my fortune.”
“What do you mean?”
“I mean, that you wish to quit life because you do not understand allthe enjoyments which are the fruits of a large fortune. Morrel, Ipossess nearly a hundred millions and I give them to you; with such afortune you can attain every wish. Are you ambitious? Every career isopen to you. Overturn the world, change its character, yield to madideas, be even criminal—but live.”
“Count, I have your word,” said Morrel coldly; then taking out hiswatch, he added, “It is half-past eleven.”
“Morrel, can you intend it in my house, under my very eyes?”
“Then let me go,” said Maximilian, “or I shall think you did not loveme for my own sake, but for yours;” and he arose.
“It is well,” said Monte Cristo whose countenance brightened at thesewords; “you wish it—you are inflexible. Yes, as you said, you areindeed wretched and a miracle alone can cure you. Sit down, Morrel, andwait.”
Morrel obeyed; the count arose, and unlocking a closet with a keysuspended from his gold chain, took from it a little silver casket,beautifully carved and chased, the corners of which represented fourbending figures, similar to the Caryatides, the forms of women, symbolsof the angels aspiring to heaven.
He placed the casket on the table; then opening it took out a littlegolden box, the top of which flew open when touched by a secret spring.This box contained an unctuous substance partly solid, of which it wasimpossible to discover the color, owing to the reflection of thepolished gold, sapphires, rubies, emeralds, which ornamented the box.It was a mixed mass of blue, red, and gold.
The count took out a small quantity of this with a gilt spoon, andoffered it to Morrel, fixing a long steadfast glance upon him. It wasthen observable that the substance was greenish.
“This is what you asked for,” he said, “and what I promised to giveyou.”
“I thank you from the depths of my heart,” said the young man, takingthe spoon from the hands of Monte Cristo. The count took another spoon,and again dipped it into the golden box. “What are you going to do, myfriend?” asked Morrel, arresting his hand.
“Well, the fact is, Morrel, I was thinking that I too am weary of life,and since an opportunity presents itself——”
“Stay!” said the young man. “You who love, and are beloved; you, whohave faith and hope,—oh, do not follow my example. In your case itwould be a crime. Adieu, my noble and generous friend, adieu; I will goand tell Valentine what you have done for me.”
And slowly, though without any hesitation, only waiting to press thecount’s hand fervently, he swallowed the mysterious substance offeredby Monte Cristo. Then they were both silent. Ali, mute and attentive,brought the pipes and coffee, and disappeared. By degrees, the light ofthe lamps gradually faded in the hands of the marble statues which heldthem, and the perfumes appeared less powerful to Morrel. Seatedopposite to him, Monte Cristo watched him in the shadow, and Morrel sawnothing but the bright eyes of the count. An overpowering sadness tookpossession of the young man, his hands relaxed their hold, the objectsin the room gradually lost their form and color, and his disturbedvision seemed to perceive doors and curtains open in the wall.
50273m


“Friend,” he cried, “I feel that I am dying; thanks!”
He made a last effort to extend his hand, but it fell powerless besidehim. Then it appeared to him that Monte Cristo smiled, not with thestrange and fearful expression which had sometimes revealed to him thesecrets of his heart, but with the benevolent kindness of a father fora child. At the same time the count appeared to increase in stature,his form, nearly double its usual height, stood out in relief againstthe red tapestry, his black hair was thrown back, and he stood in theattitude of an avenging angel. Morrel, overpowered, turned around inthe armchair; a delicious torpor permeated every vein. A change ofideas presented themselves to his brain, like a new design on thekaleidoscope. Enervated, prostrate, and breathless, he becameunconscious of outward objects; he seemed to be entering that vaguedelirium preceding death. He wished once again to press the count’shand, but his own was immovable. He wished to articulate a lastfarewell, but his tongue lay motionless and heavy in his throat, like astone at the mouth of a sepulchre. Involuntarily his languid eyesclosed, and still through his eyelashes a well-known form seemed tomove amid the obscurity with which he thought himself enveloped.
The count had just opened a door. Immediately a brilliant light fromthe next room, or rather from the palace adjoining, shone upon the roomin which he was gently gliding into his last sleep. Then he saw a womanof marvellous beauty appear on the threshold of the door separating thetwo rooms. Pale, and sweetly smiling, she looked like an angel of mercyconjuring the angel of vengeance.
“Is it heaven that opens before me?” thought the dying man; “that angelresembles the one I have lost.”
Monte Cristo pointed out Morrel to the young woman, who advancedtowards him with clasped hands and a smile upon her lips.
“Valentine, Valentine!” he mentally ejaculated; but his lips uttered nosound, and as though all his strength were centred in that internalemotion, he sighed and closed his eyes. Valentine rushed towards him;his lips again moved.
“He is calling you,” said the count; “he to whom you have confided yourdestiny—he from whom death would have separated you, calls you to him.Happily, I vanquished death. Henceforth, Valentine, you will neveragain be separated on earth, since he has rushed into death to findyou. Without me, you would both have died. May God accept my atonementin the preservation of these two existences!”
Valentine seized the count’s hand, and in her irresistible impulse ofjoy carried it to her lips.
50275m


“Oh, thank me again!” said the count; “tell me till you are weary, thatI have restored you to happiness; you do not know how much I requirethis assurance.”
“Oh, yes, yes, I thank you with all my heart,” said Valentine; “and ifyou doubt the sincerity of my gratitude, oh, then, ask Haydée! ask mybeloved sister Haydée, who ever since our departure from France, hascaused me to wait patiently for this happy day, while talking to me ofyou.”
“You then love Haydée?” asked Monte Cristo with an emotion he in vainendeavored to dissimulate.
“Oh, yes, with all my soul.”
“Well, then, listen, Valentine,” said the count; “I have a favor to askof you.”
“Of me? Oh, am I happy enough for that?”
“Yes; you have called Haydée your sister,—let her become so indeed,Valentine; render her all the gratitude you fancy that you owe to me;protect her, for” (the count’s voice was thick with emotion)“henceforth she will be alone in the world.”
“Alone in the world!” repeated a voice behind the count, “and why?”
Monte Cristo turned around; Haydée was standing pale, motionless,looking at the count with an expression of fearful amazement.
“Because tomorrow, Haydée, you will be free; you will then assume yourproper position in society, for I will not allow my destiny toovershadow yours. Daughter of a prince, I restore to you the riches andname of your father.”
Haydée became pale, and lifting her transparent hands to heaven,exclaimed in a voice stifled with tears, “Then you leave me, my lord?”
“Haydée, Haydée, you are young and beautiful; forget even my name, andbe happy.”
“It is well,” said Haydée; “your order shall be executed, my lord; Iwill forget even your name, and be happy.” And she stepped back toretire.
“Oh, heavens,” exclaimed Valentine, who was supporting the head ofMorrel on her shoulder, “do you not see how pale she is? Do you not seehow she suffers?”
Haydée answered with a heartrending expression,
“Why should he understand this, my sister? He is my master, and I amhis slave; he has the right to notice nothing.”
The count shuddered at the tones of a voice which penetrated the inmostrecesses of his heart; his eyes met those of the young girl and hecould not bear their brilliancy.
“Oh, heavens,” exclaimed Monte Cristo, “can my suspicions be correct?Haydée, would it please you not to leave me?”
“I am young,” gently replied Haydée; “I love the life you have made sosweet to me, and I should be sorry to die.”
“You mean, then, that if I leave you, Haydée——”
“I should die; yes, my lord.”
“Do you then love me?”
“Oh, Valentine, he asks if I love him. Valentine, tell him if you loveMaximilian.”
The count felt his heart dilate and throb; he opened his arms, andHaydée, uttering a cry, sprang into them.
“Oh, yes,” she cried, “I do love you! I love you as one loves a father,brother, husband! I love you as my life, for you are the best, thenoblest of created beings!”
50277m


“Let it be, then, as you wish, sweet angel; God has sustained me in mystruggle with my enemies, and has given me this reward; he will not letme end my triumph in suffering; I wished to punish myself, but he haspardoned me. Love me then, Haydée! Who knows? perhaps your love willmake me forget all that I do not wish to remember.”
“What do you mean, my lord?”
“I mean that one word from you has enlightened me more than twentyyears of slow experience; I have but you in the world, Haydée; throughyou I again take hold on life, through you I shall suffer, through yourejoice.”
“Do you hear him, Valentine?” exclaimed Haydée; “he says that throughme he will suffer—through _me_, who would yield my life for his.”
The count withdrew for a moment. “Have I discovered the truth?” hesaid; “but whether it be for recompense or punishment, I accept myfate. Come, Haydée, come!” and throwing his arm around the young girl’swaist, he pressed the hand of Valentine, and disappeared.
50279m


An hour had nearly passed, during which Valentine, breathless andmotionless, watched steadfastly over Morrel. At length she felt hisheart beat, a faint breath played upon his lips, a slight shudder,announcing the return of life, passed through the young man’s frame. Atlength his eyes opened, but they were at first fixed andexpressionless; then sight returned, and with it feeling and grief.
“Oh,” he cried, in an accent of despair, “the count has deceived me; Iam yet living;” and extending his hand towards the table, he seized aknife.
“Dearest,” exclaimed Valentine, with her adorable smile, “awake, andlook at me!” Morrel uttered a loud exclamation, and frantic, doubtful,dazzled, as though by a celestial vision, he fell upon his knees.
The next morning at daybreak, Valentine and Morrel were walkingarm-in-arm on the seashore, Valentine relating how Monte Cristo hadappeared in her room, explained everything, revealed the crime, and,finally, how he had saved her life by enabling her to simulate death.
They had found the door of the grotto opened, and gone forth; on theazure dome of heaven still glittered a few remaining stars.
Morrel soon perceived a man standing among the rocks, apparentlyawaiting a sign from them to advance, and pointed him out to Valentine.
“Ah, it is Jacopo,” she said, “the captain of the yacht;” and shebeckoned him towards them.
“Do you wish to speak to us?” asked Morrel.
“I have a letter to give you from the count.”
“From the count!” murmured the two young people.
“Yes; read it.”
50281m


Morrel opened the letter, and read:
“My Dear Maximilian,
“There is a felucca for you at anchor. Jacopo will carry you toLeghorn, where Monsieur Noirtier awaits his granddaughter, whom hewishes to bless before you lead her to the altar. All that is in thisgrotto, my friend, my house in the Champs-Élysées, and my château atTréport, are the marriage gifts bestowed by Edmond Dantès upon the sonof his old master, Morrel. Mademoiselle de Villefort will share themwith you; for I entreat her to give to the poor the immense fortunereverting to her from her father, now a madman, and her brother whodied last September with his mother. Tell the angel who will watch overyour future destiny, Morrel, to pray sometimes for a man, who, likeSatan, thought himself for an instant equal to God, but who nowacknowledges with Christian humility that God alone possesses supremepower and infinite wisdom. Perhaps those prayers may soften the remorsehe feels in his heart. As for you, Morrel, this is the secret of myconduct towards you. There is neither happiness nor misery in theworld; there is only the comparison of one state with another, nothingmore. He who has felt the deepest grief is best able to experiencesupreme happiness. We must have felt what it is to die, Morrel, that wemay appreciate the enjoyments of living.
“Live, then, and be happy, beloved children of my heart, and neverforget that until the day when God shall deign to reveal the future toman, all human wisdom is summed up in these two words,—‘_Wait andhope_.’—Your friend,
“Edmond Dantès, _Count of Monte Cristo_.”
50282m


During the perusal of this letter, which informed Valentine for thefirst time of the madness of her father and the death of her brother,she became pale, a heavy sigh escaped from her bosom, and tears, notthe less painful because they were silent, ran down her cheeks; herhappiness cost her very dear.
Morrel looked around uneasily.
“But,” he said, “the count’s generosity is too overwhelming; Valentinewill be satisfied with my humble fortune. Where is the count, friend?Lead me to him.”
Jacopo pointed towards the horizon.
“What do you mean?” asked Valentine. “Where is the count?—where isHaydée?”
“Look!” said Jacopo.
The eyes of both were fixed upon the spot indicated by the sailor, andon the blue line separating the sky from the Mediterranean Sea, theyperceived a large white sail.
“Gone,” said Morrel; “gone!—adieu, my friend—adieu, my father!”
“Gone,” murmured Valentine; “adieu, my sweet Haydée—adieu, my sister!”
“Who can say whether we shall ever see them again?” said Morrel withtearful eyes.
“Darling,” replied Valentine, “has not the count just told us that allhuman wisdom is summed up in two words:
“‘_Wait and hope_ (Fac et spera)!’”