I

JIMMY SKUNK IS PUZZLED
Old Mother West Wind had just come down from the Purple Hills and turnedloose her children, the Merry Little Breezes, from the big bag in which shehad been carrying them. They were very lively and very merry as they dancedand raced across the Green Meadows in all directions, for it was good to beback there once more. Old Mother West Wind almost sighed as she watchedthem for a few minutes. She felt that she would like to join them. Alwaysthe springtime made her feel this way,--young, mad, carefree, and happy.But she had work to do. She had to turn the windmill to pump water forFarmer Brown's cows, and this was only one of many mills standing idle asthey waited for her. So she puffed her cheeks out and started about herbusiness.
Jimmy Skunk sat at the top of the hill that overlooks the Green Meadows andwatched her out of sight. Then he started to amble down the Lone LittlePath to look for some beetles. He was ambling along in his lazy way, foryou know he never hurries, when he heard some one puffing and blowingbehind him. Of course he turned to see who it was, and he was greatlysurprised when he discovered Old Mr. Toad. Yes, Sir, it was Old Mr. Toad,and he seemed in a great hurry. He was quite short of breath, but he washopping along in the most determined way as if he were in a great hurry toget somewhere.
Now it is a very unusual thing for Mr. Toad to hurry, very unusual indeed.As a rule he hops a few steps and then sits down to think it over. Jimmyhad never before seen him hop more than a few steps unless he was trying toget away from danger, from Mr. Blacksnake for instance. Of course the firstthing Jimmy thought of was Mr. Blacksnake, and he looked for him. But therewas no sign of Mr. Blacksnake nor of any other danger. Then he looked veryhard at Old Mr. Toad, and he saw right away that Old Mr. Toad didn't seemto be frightened at all, only very determined, and as if he had somethingimportant on his mind.
"Well, well," exclaimed Jimmy Skunk, "whatever has got into those long hindlegs of yours to make them work so fast?"
Old Mr. Toad didn't say a word, but simply tried to get past Jimmy and keepon his way. Jimmy put out one hand and turned Old Mr. Toad right over onhis back, where he kicked and struggled in an effort to get on his feetagain, and looked very ridiculous.
"Don't you know that it isn't polite not to speak when you are spoken to?"demanded Jimmy severely, though his eyes twinkled.
"I--I beg your pardon. I didn't have any breath to spare," panted Old Mr.Toad. "You see I'm in a great hurry."
"Yes, I see," replied Jimmy. "But don't you know that it isn't good for thehealth to hurry so? Now, pray, what are you in such a hurry for? I don'tsee anything to run away from."
"I'm not running away," retorted Old Mr. Toad indignantly. "I've businessto attend to at the Smiling Pool, and I'm late as it is."
"Business!" exclaimed Jimmy as if he could hardly believe his ears. "Whatbusiness have you at the Smiling Pool?"
"That is my own affair," retorted Old Mr. Toad, "but if you really want toknow, I'll tell you. I have a very important part in the spring chorus, andI'm going down there to sing. I have a very beautiful voice."
That was too much for Jimmy Skunk. He just lay down and rolled over andover with laughter. The idea of any one so homely, almost ugly-looking, asMr. Toad thinking that he had a beautiful voice! "Ha, ha, ha! Ho, ho, ho!"roared Jimmy.
When at last he stopped because he couldn't laugh any more, he discoveredthat Old Mr. Toad was on his way again. Hop, hop, hipperty-hop, hop, hop,hipperty-hop went Mr. Toad. Jimmy watched him, and he confessed that he waspuzzled.



II

JIMMY SKUNK CONSULTS HIS FRIENDS
Jimmy Skunk scratched his head thoughtfully as he watched Old Mr. Toad godown the Lone Little Path, hop, hop, hipperty-hop, towards the SmilingPool. He certainly was puzzled, was Jimmy Skunk. If Old Mr. Toad had toldhim that he could fly, Jimmy would not have been more surprised, or foundit harder to believe than that Old Mr. Toad had a beautiful voice. Thetruth is, Jimmy didn't believe it. He thought that Old Mr. Toad was tryingto fool him.
Presently Peter Rabbit came along. He found Jimmy Skunk sitting in a brownstudy. He had quite forgotten to look for fat beetles, and when heforgets to do that you may make up your mind that Jimmy is doing some hardthinking.
"Hello, old Striped-coat, what have you got on your mind this finemorning?" cried Peter Rabbit.
"Him," said Jimmy simply, pointing down the Lone Little Path.
Peter looked. "Do you mean Old Mr. Toad!" he asked.
Jimmy nodded. "Do you see anything queer about him?" he asked in his turn.

Peter stared down the Lone Little Path. "No," he replied, "except that heseems in a great hurry."
"That's just it," Jimmy returned promptly. "Did you ever see him hurryunless he was frightened?"
Peter confessed that he never had.
"Well, he isn't frightened now, yet just look at him go," retorted Jimmy."Says he has got a beautiful voice, and that he has to take part in thespring chorus at the Smiling Pool and that he is late."
Peter looked very hard at Jimmy to see if he was fooling or telling thetruth. Then he began to laugh. "Old Mr. Toad sing! The very idea!" hecried. "He can sing about as much as I can, and that is not at all."
Jimmy grinned. "I think he's crazy, if you ask me," said he. "And yet hewas just as earnest about it as if it were really so. I think he must haveeaten something that has gone to his head. There's Unc' Billy Possum overthere. Let's ask him what he thinks."
So Jimmy and Peter joined Unc' Billy, and Jimmy told the story about OldMr. Toad all over again. Unc' Billy chuckled and laughed just as they hadat the idea of Old Mr. Toad's saying he had a beautiful voice. But Unc'Billy has a shrewd little head on his shoulders. After a few minutes hestopped laughing.
"Ah done learn a right smart long time ago that Ah don' know all there isto know about mah neighbors," said he. "We-uns done think of Brer Toad asugly-lookin' fo' so long that we-uns may have overlooked something. Ah don'reckon Brer Toad can sing, but Ah 'lows that perhaps he thinks he can. Whatdo you-alls say to we-uns going down to the Smiling Pool and finding outwhat he really is up to?"
"The very thing!" cried Peter, kicking up his heels. You know Peter isalways ready to go anywhere or do anything that will satisfy his curiosity.
Jimmy Skunk thought it over for a few minutes, and then he decided that ashe hadn't anything in particular to do, and as he might find some fatbeetles on the way, he would go too. So off they started after Old Mr.Toad, Peter Rabbit in the lead as usual, Unc' Billy Possum next, grinningas only he can grin, and in the rear Jimmy Skunk, taking his time andkeeping a sharp eye out for fat beetles.



III

THE HUNT FOR OLD MR. TOAD
Now, though Old Mr. Toad was hurrying as fast as ever he could and wasquite out of breath, he wasn't getting along very fast compared with theway Peter Rabbit or Jimmy Skunk or Unc' Billy Possum could cover theground. You see he cannot make long jumps like his cousin, GrandfatherFrog, but only little short hops.
So Peter and Jimmy and Unc' Billy took their time about following him. Theystopped to hunt for fat beetles for Jimmy Skunk, and at every little patchof sweet clover for Peter Rabbit to help himself. Once they wasted a lot oftime while Unc' Billy Possum hunted for a nest of Carol the Meadow Lark, onthe chance that he would find some fresh eggs there. He didn't find thenest for the very good reason that Carol hadn't built one yet. Peter wassecretly glad. You know he doesn't eat eggs, and he is always sorry for hisfeathered friends when their eggs are stolen.
Half way across the Green Meadows they stopped to play with the MerryLittle Breezes, and because it was very pleasant there, they played longerthan they realized. When at last they started on again, Old Mr. Toad wasout of sight. You see all the time he had kept right on going, hop, hop,hipperty-hop.
"Never mind," said Peter, "we can catch up with him easy enough, he's sucha slow-poke."
But even a slow-poke who keeps right on doing a thing without wasting anytime always gets somewhere sooner or later, very often sooner than thosewho are naturally quicker, but who waste their time. So it was with Old Mr.Toad. He kept right on, hop, hop, hipperty-hop, while the others wereplaying, and so it happened that when at last Peter and Jimmy and Unc'Billy reached the Smiling Pool, they hadn't caught another glimpse of OldMr. Toad.
"Do you suppose he hid somewhere, and we passed him?" asked Peter.
Unc' Billy shook his head. "Ah don' reckon so," said he. "We-uns done beenfoolin' away our time, an' Brer Toad done stole a march on us. Ah reckonswe-uns will find him sittin' on the bank here somewhere."
So right away the three separated to look for Old Mr. Toad. All along thebank of the Smiling Pool they looked. They peeped under old leaves andsticks. They looked in every place where Old Mr. Toad might have hidden,but not a trace of him did they find.
  "Tra-la-la-lee! Oka-chee! Oka-chee!  Happy am I as I can be!"
sang Mr. Redwing, as he swayed to and fro among the bulrushes.
"Say, Mr. Redwing, have you seen Old Mr. Toad?" called Peter Rabbit.
"No," replied Mr. Redwing. "Is that whom you fellows are looking for? Iwondered if you had lost something. What do you want with Old Mr. Toad?"
Peter explained how they had followed Old Mr. Toad just to see what hereally was up to. "Of course we know that he hasn't any more voice than Ihave," declared Peter, "but we are curious to know if he really thinks hehas, and why he should be in such a hurry to reach the Smiling Pool. Itlooks to us as if the spring has made Old Mr. Toad crazy."
"Oh, that's it, is it?" replied Mr. Redwing, his bright eyes twinkling."Some people don't know as much as they might. I've been wondering whereOld Mr. Toad was, and I'm ever so glad to learn that he hasn't forgottenthat he has a very important part in our beautiful spring chorus." Thenonce more Mr. Redwing began to sing.



IV

PETER RABBIT FINDS OLD MR. TOAD
It isn't often that Peter Rabbit is truly envious, but sometimes in thejoyousness of spring he is. He envies the birds because they can pour outin beautiful song the joy that is in them. The only way he can express hisfeelings is by kicking his long heels, jumping about, and such foolishthings. While that gives Peter a great deal of satisfaction, it doesn't addto the joy of other people as do the songs of the birds, and you know togive joy to others is to add to your own joy. So there are times when Peterwishes he could sing.
He was wishing this very thing now, as he sat on the bank of the SmilingPool, listening to the great spring chorus.
  "Tra-la-la-lee! Oka-chee! Oka-chee!  There's joy in the spring for you and for me."
sang Redwing the Blackbird from the bulrushes.
From over in the Green Meadows rose the clear lilt of Carol the MeadowLark, and among the alders just where the Laughing Brook ran into theSmiling Pool a flood of happiness was pouring from the throat of LittleFriend the Song Sparrow. Winsome Bluebird's sweet, almost plaintive,whistle seemed to fairly float in the air, so that it was hard to say justwhere it did come from, and in the top of the Big Hickory-tree, WelcomeRobin was singing as if his heart were bursting with joy. Even Sammy Jaywas adding a beautiful, bell-like note instead of his usual harsh scream.As for the Smiling Pool, it seemed as if the very water itself sang, for amighty chorus of clear piping voices from unseen singers rose from allaround its banks. Peter knew who those singers were, although look as hewould he could see none of them. They were hylas, the tiny cousins ofStickytoes the Tree Toad.
Listening to all these joyous voices, Peter forgot for a time what hadbrought him to the Smiling Pool. But Jimmy Skunk and Unc' Billy Possumdidn't forget. They were still hunting for Old Mr. Toad.
"Well, old Mr. Dreamer, have you found him yet?" asked Jimmy Skunk,stealing up behind Peter and poking him in the back.
Peter came to himself with a start. "No," said he. "I was just listeningand wishing that I could sing, too. Don't you ever wish you could sing,Jimmy?"
"No," replied Jimmy. "I never waste time wishing I could do things it wasnever meant I should do. It's funny where Old Mr. Toad is. He said that hewas coming down here to sing, and Redwing the Blackbird seemed to beexpecting him. I've looked everywhere I can think of without finding him,but I don't believe in giving up without another try. Stop your dreamingand come help us hunt."
So Peter stopped his dreaming and joined in the search. Now there was oneplace where neither Peter nor Jimmy nor Unc' Billy had thought of looking.That was in the Smiling Pool itself. They just took it for granted that OldMr. Toad was somewhere on the bank. Presently Peter came to a place wherethe bank was very low and the water was shallow for quite a little distanceout in the Smiling Pool. From out of that shallow water came the pipingvoice of a hyla, and Peter stopped to stare, trying to see the tiny singer.
Suddenly he jumped right up in the air with surprise. There was afamiliar-looking head sticking out of the water. Peter had found Old Mr.Toad!



V

OLD MR. TOAD'S MUSIC BAG
  Never think that you have learned    All there is to know.  That's the surest way of all    Ignorance to show.
"I've found Old Mr. Toad!" cried Peter Rabbit, hurrying after Jimmy Skunk.
"Where?" demanded Jimmy.
"In the water," declared Peter. "He's sitting right over there where thewater is shallow, and he didn't notice me at all. Let's get Unc' Billy, andthen creep over to the edge of the Smiling Pool and watch to see if Old Mr.Toad really does try to sing."
So they hunted up Unc' Billy Possum, and the three stole very softly overto the edge of the Smiling Pool, where the bank was low and the watershallow. Sure enough, there sat Old Mr. Toad with just his head out ofwater. And while they were watching him, something very strange happened.
"What--what's the matter with him?" whispered Peter, his big eyes lookingas if they might pop out of his head.
"If he don't watch out, he'll blow up and bust!" exclaimed Jimmy.

"Listen!" whispered Unc' Billy Possum. "Do mah ol' ears hear right? 'Pearsto me that that song is coming right from where Brer Toad is sitting."
It certainly did appear so, and of all the songs that glad spring day therewas none sweeter. Indeed there were few as sweet. The only trouble was thesong was so very short. It lasted only for two or three seconds. And whenit ended, Old Mr. Toad looked quite his natural self again; just ascommonplace, almost ugly, as ever. Peter looked at Jimmy Skunk, Jimmylooked at Unc' Billy Possum, and Unc' Billy looked at Peter. And no one hada word to say. Then all three looked back at Old Mr. Toad.
And even as they looked, his throat began to swell and swell and swell,until it was no wonder that Jimmy Skunk had thought that he was in dangerof blowing up. And then, when it stopped swelling, there came again thosebeautiful little notes, so sweet and tremulous that Peter actually held hisbreath to listen. There was no doubt that Old Mr. Toad was singing just ashe had said he was going to, and it was just as true that his song was oneof the sweetest if not _the_ sweetest of all the chorus from and around theSmiling Pool. It was very hard to believe, but Peter and Jimmy and Unc'Billy both saw and heard, and that was enough. Their respect for Old Mr.Toad grew tremendously as they listened.
"How does he do it?" whispered Peter.
"With that bag under his chin, of course," replied Jimmy Skunk. "Don't yousee it's only when that is swelled out that he sings? It's a regular musicbag. And I didn't know he had any such bag there at all."
"I wish," said Peter Rabbit, feeling of his throat, "that I had a music baglike that in my throat."
And then he joined in the laugh of Jimmy and Unc' Billy, but still withsomething of a look of wistfulness in his eyes.



VI

PETER DISCOVERS SOMETHING MORE
  There are stranger things in the world to-day    Than ever you dreamed could be.  There's beauty in some of the commonest things    If only you've eyes to see.
Ever since Peter Rabbit was a little chap and had first ran away from home,he had known Old Mr. Toad, and never once had Peter suspected that he couldsing. Also he had thought Old Mr. Toad almost ugly-looking, and he knewthat most of his neighbors thought the same way. They were fond of Old Mr.Toad, for he was always good-natured and attended strictly to his ownaffairs; but they liked to poke fun at him, and as for there being anythingbeautiful about him, such a thing never entered their heads.
Now that they had discovered that he really has a very beautiful voice,they began to look on him with a great deal more respect. This wasespecially so with Peter. He got in the habit of going over to the SmilingPool every day, when the way was clear, just to sit on the bank and listento Old Mr. Toad.
"Why didn't you ever tell us before that you could sing?" he asked one day,as Old Mr. Toad looked up at him from the Smiling Pool.
"What was the use of wasting my breath?" demanded Old Mr. Toad. "Youwouldn't have believed me if I had. You didn't believe me when I did tellyou."
Peter knew that this was true, and he couldn't find any answer ready. Atlast he ventured another question. "Why haven't I ever heard you singbefore?"
"You have," replied Old Mr. Toad tartly. "I sang right in this very placelast spring, and the spring before, and the spring before that. You've saton that very bank lots of times while I was singing. The trouble with you,Peter, is that you don't use your eyes or your ears."
Peter looked more foolish than ever. But he ventured another question. Itwouldn't be Peter to let a chance for questions go by. "Have I ever heardyou singing up on the meadows or in the Old Orchard?"
"No," replied Old Mr. Toad, "I only sing in the springtime. That's the timefor singing. I just _have_ to sing then. In the summer it is too hot, andin the winter I sleep. I always return to my old home to sing. You know Iwas born here. All my family gathers here in the spring to sing, so ofcourse I come too."
Old Mr. Toad filled out his queer music bag under his chin and began tosing again. Peter watched him. Now it just happened that Old Mr. Toad wasfacing him, and so Peter looked down straight into his eyes. He never hadlooked into Mr. Toad's eyes before, and now he just stared and stared, forit came over him that those eyes were very beautiful, very beautifulindeed.
"Oh!" he exclaimed, "what beautiful eyes you have, Mr. Toad!"
"So I've been told before," replied Old Mr. Toad. "My family always has hadbeautiful eyes. There is an old saying that every Toad has jewels in hishead, but of course he hasn't, not real jewels. It is just the beautifuleyes. Excuse me, Peter, but I'm needed in that chorus." Old Mr. Toad oncemore swelled out his throat and began to sing.
Peter watched him a while longer, then hopped away to the dear OldBriarpatch, and he was very thoughtful.
"Never again will I call anybody homely and ugly until I know all abouthim," said Peter, which was a very wise decision. Don't you think so?



VII

A SHADOW PASSES OVER THE SMILING POOL
  Here's what Mr. Toad says;    Heed it well, my dear:  "Time to watch for clouds is   When the sky is clear."
He says that that is the reason that he lives to a good old age, does OldMr. Toad. I suppose he means that when the sky is cloudy, everybody islooking for rain and is prepared for it, but when the sun is shining, mostpeople forget that there is such a thing as a storm, so when it comessuddenly very few are prepared for it. It is the same way with danger andtrouble. So Old Mr. Toad very wisely watches out when there seems to be theleast need of it, and he finds it always pays.
It was a beautiful spring evening. Over back of the Purple Hills to whichOld Mother West Wind had taken her children, the Merry Little Breezes, andbehind which jolly, round, red Mr. Sun had gone to bed, there was still afaint, clear light. But over the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool theshadows had drawn a curtain of soft dusk which in the Green Forest becameblack. The little stars looked down from the sky and twinkled just to seetheir reflections twinkle back at them from the Smiling Pool. And there andall around it was perfect peace. Jerry Muskrat swam back and forth, makinglittle silver lines on the surface of the Smiling Pool and squeakingcontentedly, for it was the hour which he loves best. Little Friend theSong Sparrow had tucked his head under his wing and gone to sleep among thealders along the Laughing Brook and Redwing the Blackbird had done the samething among the bulrushes. All the feathered songsters who had made joyousthe bright day had gone to bed.
But this did not mean that the glad spring chorus was silent. Oh, my, no!No indeed! The Green Meadows were silent, and the Green Forest was silent,but as if to make up for this, the sweet singers of the Smiling Pool, thehylas and the frogs and Old Mr. Toad, were pouring out their gladness as ifthey had not been singing most of the departed day. You see it was the hourthey love best of all, the hour which seems to them just made for singing,and they were doing their best to tell Old Mother Nature how they love her,and how glad they were that she had brought back sweet Mistress Spring towaken them from their long sleep.
It was so peaceful and beautiful there that it didn't seem possible thatdanger of any kind could be lurking near. But Old Mr. Toad, swelling outthat queer music bag in his throat and singing with all his might, neveronce forgot that wise saying of his, and so he was the first to see whatlooked like nothing so much as a little detached bit of the blackness ofthe Green Forest floating out towards the Smiling Pool. Instantly hestopped singing. Now that was a signal. When he stopped singing, hisnearest neighbor stopped singing, then the next one and the next, and in aminute there wasn't a sound from the Smiling Pool save the squeak of JerryMuskrat hidden among the bulrushes. That great chorus stopped as abruptlyas the electric lights go out when you press a button.
Back and forth over the Smiling Pool, this way and that way, floated theshadow, but there was no sign of any living thing in the Smiling Pool.After awhile the shadow floated away over the Green Meadows without asound.
"Hooty the Owl didn't get one of us that time," said Old Mr. Toad to hisnearest neighbor with a chuckle of satisfaction. Then he swelled out hismusic bag and began to sing again. And at once, as abruptly as it hadstopped, the great chorus began again as joyous as before, for nothing hadhappened to bring sadness as might have but for the watchfulness of Old Mr.Toad.



VIII

OLD MR. TOAD'S BABIES
  The Smiling Pool's a nursery    Where all the sunny day  A thousand funny babies    Are taught while at their play.
Really the Smiling Pool is a sort of kindergarten, one of the mostinteresting kindergartens in the world. Little Joe Otter's children learnto swim there. So do Jerry Muskrat's babies and those of Billy Mink, theTrout and Minnow babies, and a lot more. And there you will find thechildren and grandchildren of Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad.
Peter Rabbit had known for a long time about the Frog babies, but though heknew that Old Mr. Toad was own cousin to Grandfather Frog, he hadn't knownanything about Toad babies, except that at a certain time in the year hewas forever running across tiny Toads, especially on rainy days, and eachlittle Toad was just like Old Mr. Toad, except for his size. Peter hadheard it said that Toads rain down from the sky, and sometimes it seems asif this must be so. Of course he knew it couldn't be, but it puzzled him agreat deal. There wouldn't be a Toad in sight. Then it would begin to rain,and right away there would be so many tiny Toads that it was hard work tojump without stepping on some.
He remembered this as he went to pay his daily call on Old Mr. Toad in theSmiling Pool and listen to his sweet song. He hadn't seen any little Toadsthis year, but he remembered his experiences with them in other years, andhe meant to ask about them.
Old Mr. Toad was sitting in his usual place, but he wasn't singing. He wasstaring at something in the water. When Peter said "Good morning," Old Mr.Toad didn't seem to hear him. He was too much interested in what he waswatching. Peter stared down into the water to see what was interesting OldMr. Toad so much, but he saw nothing but a lot of wriggling tadpoles.
"What are you staring at so, Mr. Sobersides?" asked Peter, speaking alittle louder than before.
Old Mr. Toad turned and looked at Peter, and there was a look of greatpride in his face. "I'm just watching my babies. Aren't they lovely?" saidhe.
Peter stared harder than ever, but he couldn't see anything that lookedlike a baby Toad.
"Where are they?" asked he. "I don't see any babies but those ofGrandfather Frog, and if you ask me, I always did think tadpoles about thehomeliest things in th' world."
Old Mr. Toad grew indignant. "Those are not Grandfather Frog's children;they're mine!" he sputtered. "And I'll have you know that they are the mostbeautiful babies in th' world!"
Peter drew a hand across his mouth to hide a smile. "I beg your pardon, Mr.Toad," said he. "I--I thought all tadpoles were Frog babies. They all lookalike to me."
"Well, they're not," declared Old Mr. Toad. "How any one can mistake mybabies for their cousins I cannot understand. Now mine are beautiful,while--"
"Chug-arum!" interrupted the great deep voice of Grandfather Frog. "Whatare you talking about? Why, your babies are no more to be compared with mybabies for real beauty than nothing at all! I'll leave it to Peter if theyare."
But Peter wisely held his tongue. To tell the truth, he couldn't see beautyin any of them. To him they were all just wriggling pollywogs. They weremore interesting now, because he had found out that some of them were Toadsand some were Frogs, and he hadn't known before that baby Toads begin lifeas tadpoles, but he had no intention of being drawn into the dispute nowwaxing furious between Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad.



IX

THE SMILING POOL KINDERGARTEN
  Play a little, learn a little, grow a little too;  That's what every pollywoggy tries his best to do.
Of course. That's what a kindergarten is for. And you may be sure that thebabies of Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad and Stickytoes the Tree Toaddid all of these things in the kindergarten of the Smiling Pool. Theylooked considerably alike, did these little cousins, for they were allpollywogs to begin with. Peter Rabbit came over every day to watch them.Always he had thought pollywogs just homely, wriggling things, not theleast bit interesting, but since he had discovered how proud of them wereGrandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad, he had begun to wonder about them andthen to watch them.
"There's one thing about them, and that is they are not in danger the wayany babies are," said Peter, talking to himself as is his way when there isno one else to talk to. Just then a funny little black pollywog wriggledinto sight, and while Peter was watching him, a stout-jawed water-beetlesuddenly rushed from among the water grass, seized the pollywog by histail, and dragged him down. Peter stared. Could it be that thatugly-looking bug was as dangerous an enemy to the baby Toad as Reddy Fox isto a baby Rabbit? He began to suspect so, and a little later he knew so,for there was that same little pollywog trying hard to swim and making badwork of it, because he had lost half of his long tail.
That set Peter to watching sharper than ever, and presently he discoveredthat pollywogs have to keep their eyes open quite as much as do babyRabbits, if they would live to grow up. There were several kinds of queer,ugly-looking bugs forever darting out at the wriggling pollywogs.Hungry-looking fish lay in wait for them, and Longlegs the Blue Heronseemed to have a special liking for them. But the pollywogs were spry, andseemed to have learned to watch out. They seemed to Peter to spend alltheir time swimming and eating and growing. They grew so fast that itseemed to him that he could almost _see_ them grow. And just imagine howsurprised Peter was to discover one day that that very pollywog which hehad seen lose his tail had grown a _new_ one. That puzzled Peter more thananything he had seen in a long time.
"Why, I couldn't do that!" he exclaimed right out loud.
"Do what?" demanded Jerry Muskrat, who happened along just then.
"Why, grow a new tail like that pollywog," replied Peter, and told Jerryall that he had seen. Jerry laughed.
"You'll see queerer things than that if you watch those pollywogs longenough," said he. "They are a queer lot of babies, and very interesting towatch if you've got the time for it. I haven't. This Smiling Pool is agreat kindergarten, and there's something happening here every minute.There's no place like it."
"Are those great big fat pollywogs Grandfather Frog's children, or Old Mr.Toad's?" asked Peter.
"Grandfather Frog's last year's children," replied Jerry. "They'll growinto real Frogs this summer, if nothing happens to them."
"Where are Old Mr. Toad's last year's children?" asked Peter.
"Don't ask me," replied Jerry. "They hopped away last summer. Never sawanything like the way those Toad youngsters grow. Those Toad pollywogs yousee now will turn into real Toads, and be leaving the Smiling Pool in a fewweeks. People think Old Mr. Toad is slow, but there is nothing slow abouthis children. Look at that little fellow over there; he's begun to growlegs already."
Peter looked, and sure enough there was a pollywog with a pair of legssprouting out. They were his fore legs, and they certainly did make himlook funny. And only a few days before there hadn't been a sign of legs.
"My gracious!" exclaimed Peter. "What a funny sight! I thought my babiesgrew fast, but these beat them."



X

THE LITTLE TOADS START OUT TO SEE THE WORLD
  The world is a wonderful great big place    And in it the young must roam  To learn what their elders have long since learned--    There's never a place like home.
It had been some time since Peter Rabbit had visited the Smiling Pool towatch the pollywogs. But one cloudy morning he happened to think of them,and decided that he would run over there and see how they were gettingalong. So off he started, lipperty-lipperty-lip. He wondered if thosepollywog children of Old Mr. Toad would be much changed. The last time hesaw them some of them had just begun to grow legs, although they still hadlong tails.
He had almost reached the Smiling Pool when great big drops of rain beganto splash down. And with those first raindrops something funny happened.Anyway, it seemed funny to Peter. Right away he was surrounded by tinylittle Toads. Everywhere he looked he saw Toads, tiny little Toads justlike Old Mr. Toad, only so tiny that one could have sat comfortably on aten-cent piece and still had plenty of room.
Peter's big eyes grew round with surprise as he stared. Where had they allcome from so suddenly? A minute before he hadn't seen a single one, and nowhe could hardly move without stepping on one. It seemed, it really seemed,as if each raindrop turned into a tiny Toad the instant it struck theground. Of course Peter knew that that couldn't be, but it was verypuzzling. And all those little Toads were bravely hopping along as if theywere bound for some particular place.
Peter watched them for a few minutes, then he once more started for theSmiling Pool. On the very bank whom should he meet but Old Mr. Toad. Helooked rather thin, and his back was to the Smiling Pool. Yes, Sir, he washopping away from the Smiling Pool where he had been all the spring,singing in the great chorus. Peter was almost as surprised to see him as hehad been to see the little Toads, but just then he was most interested inthose little Toads.
"Good morning, Old Mr. Toad," said Peter in his most polite manner. "Canyou tell me where all these little Toads came from?"

"Certainly," replied Old Mr. Toad. "They came from the Smiling Pool, ofcourse. Where did you suppose they came from?"
"I--I didn't know. There wasn't one to be seen, and then it began to rain,and right away they were everywhere. It--it almost seemed as if they hadrained down out of the sky."
Old Mr. Toad chuckled. "They've got good sense, if I must say it about myown children," said he. "They know that wet weather is the only weather forToads to travel in. They left the Smiling Pool in the night while it wasdamp and comfortable, and then, when the sun came up, they hid, likesensible children, under anything they could find, sticks, stones, piecesof bark, grass. The minute this shower came up, they knew it was goodtraveling weather and out they popped."
"But what did they leave the Smiling Pool for?" Peter asked.
"To see the Great World," replied Old Mr. Toad. "Foolish, very foolish ofthem, but they would do it. I did the same thing myself when I was theirage. Couldn't stop me any more than I could stop them. They don't know whenthey're well off, but young folks never do. Fine weather, isn't it?"



XI

OLD MR. TOAD'S QUEER TONGUE
  Old Mother Nature doth provide    For all her children, large or small.  Her wisdom foresees all their needs    And makes provision for them all.
If you don't believe it, just you go ask Old Mr. Toad, as Peter Rabbit did,how such a slow-moving fellow as he is can catch enough bugs and insects tokeep him alive. Perhaps you'll learn something just as Peter did. Peter andOld Mr. Toad sat in the rain watching the tiny Toads, who, you know, wereMr. Toad's children, leaving their kindergarten in the Smiling Pool andstarting out to see the Great World. When the last little Toad had passedthem, Old Mr. Toad suddenly remembered that he was hungry, very hungryindeed.
"Didn't have time to eat much while I was in the Smiling Pool," heexplained. "Couldn't eat and sing too, and while I was down there, I wassupposed to sing. Now that it is time to quit singing, I begin to realizethat I've got a stomach to look out for as well as a voice. See that bugover there on that leaf? Watch him."
Peter looked, and sure enough there was a fat bug crawling along on an oldleaf. He was about two inches from Old Mr. Toad, and he was crawling veryfast. And right while Peter was looking at him he disappeared. Peter turnedto look at Old Mr. Toad. He hadn't budged. He was sitting exactly where hehad been sitting all the time, but he was smacking his lips, and there wasa twinkle of satisfaction in his eyes. Peter opened his eyes very wide.
"Wha--what--" he began.
"Nice bug," interrupted Old Mr. Toad. "Nicest bug I've eaten for alongtime."
"But I didn't see you catch him!" protested Peter, looking at Old Mr. Toadas if he suspected him of joking.
"Anything wrong with your eyes?" inquired Old Mr. Toad.
"No," replied Peter just a wee bit crossly. "My eyes are just as good asever."
"Then watch me catch that fly over yonder," said Old Mr. Toad. He hoppedtowards a fly which had lighted on a blade of grass just ahead. About twoinches from it he stopped, and so far as Peter could see, he sat perfectlystill. But the fly disappeared, and it wasn't because it flew away, either.Peter was sure of that. As he told Mrs. Peter about it afterwards, "It wasthere, and then it wasn't, and that was all there was to it."
Old Mr. Toad chuckled. "Didn't you see that one go, Peter?" he asked.
Peter shook his head. "I wish you Would stop fooling me," said Peter. "Thejoke is on me, but now you've had your laugh at my expense, I wish youwould tell me how you do it. Please, Mr. Toad."
Now when Peter said please that way, of course Old Mr. Toad couldn't resisthim. Nobody could.
"Here comes an ant this way. Now you watch my mouth instead of the ant andsee what happens," said Old Mr. Toad.
Peter looked and saw a big black ant coming. Then he kept his eyes on OldMr. Toad's mouth. Suddenly there was a little flash of red from it, so tinyand so quick that Peter couldn't be absolutely sure that he saw it. Butwhen he looked for the ant, it was nowhere to be seen. Peter looked at OldMr. Toad very hard.
"Do you mean to tell me, Mr. Toad, that you've got a tongue long enough toreach way over to where that ant was?" he asked.
Old Mr. Toad chuckled again. With every insect swallowed he felt betternatured. "You've guessed it, Peter," said he. "Handy tongue, isn't it?"
"I think it's a very queer tongue," retorted Peter, "and I don't understandit at all. If it's so long as all that, where do you keep it when it isn'tin use? I should think you'd have to swallow it to get it out of the way,or else leave it hanging out of your mouth."
"Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!" laughed Old Mr. Toad. "My tongue never is in the way,and it's the handiest tongue in the world. I'll show it to you."



XII

OLD MR. TOAD SHOWS HIS TONGUE
  To show one's tongue, as you well know,    Is not considered nice to do;  But if it were like Mr. Toad's    I'd want to show it--wouldn't you?
I'm quite sure you would. You see, if it were like Old Mr. Toad's, it wouldbe such a wonderful tongue that I suspect you would want everybody to seeit. Old Mr. Toad thinks his tongue the most satisfactory tongue in theworld. In fact, he is quite sure that without it he couldn't get along atall, and I don't know as he could. And yet very few of his neighbors knowanything about that tongue and how different it is from most other tongues.Peter Rabbit didn't until Old Mr. Toad showed him after Peter had puzzledand puzzled over the mysterious way in which bugs and flies disappearedwhenever they happened to come within two inches or less of Old Mr. Toad.
What Peter couldn't understand was what Old Mr. Toad did with a tongue thatwould reach two inches beyond his mouth. He said as much.
"I'll show you my tongue, and then you'll wish you had one just like it,"said Old Mr. Toad, with a twinkle in his eyes.
He opened his big mouth and slowly ran his tongue out its full length."Why! Why-ee!" exclaimed Peter. "It's fastened at the wrong end!"
"No such thing!" replied Old Mr. Toad indignantly. "If it was fastened atthe other end, how could I run it out so far?"
"But mine and all other tongues that I ever have seen are fastened way downin the throat," protested Peter. "Yours is fastened at the other end, wayin the very front of your mouth. I never heard of such a thing."
"There are a great many things you have never heard of, Peter Rabbit,"replied Old Mr. Toad drily. "Mine is the right way to have a tongue.Because it is fastened way up in the front of my mouth that way, I can usethe whole of it. You see it goes out its full length. Then, when I draw itin with a bug on the end of it, I just turn it over so that the end thatwas out goes way back in my throat and takes the bug with it to just theright place to swallow."
Peter thought this over for a few minutes before he ventured anotherquestion. "I begin to understand," said he, "but how do you hold on to thebug with your tongue?"
"My tongue is sticky, of course, Mr. Stupid," replied Old Mr. Toad, lookingvery much disgusted. "Just let me touch a bug with it, and he's mine everytime."
Peter thought this over. Then he felt of his own tongue. "Mine isn'tsticky," said he very innocently.
Old Mr. Toad laughed right out. "Perhaps if it was, you couldn't ask somany questions," said he. "Now watch me catch that fly." His funny littletongue darted out, and the fly was gone.
"It certainly is very handy," said Peter politely. "I think we are going tohave more rain, and I'd better be getting back to the dear Old Briarpatch.Very much obliged to you, Mr. Toad. I think you are very wonderful."
"Not at all," replied Old Mr. Toad. "I've simply got the things I need inorder to live, just as you have the things you need. I couldn't get alongwith your kind of a tongue, but no more could you get along with mine. Ifyou live long enough, you will learn that Old Mother Nature makes nomistakes. She gives each of us what we need, and each one has differentneeds."



XIII

PETER RABBIT IS IMPOLITE
Peter Rabbit couldn't get Old Mr. Toad off his mind. He had discovered somany interesting things about Old Mr. Toad that he was almost on the pointof believing him to be the most interesting of all his neighbors. And hisrespect for Old Mr. Toad had become very great indeed. Of course. Whowouldn't respect any one with such beautiful eyes and such a sweet voiceand such a wonderful tongue? Yet at the same time Peter felt very foolishwhenever he remembered that all his life he had been acquainted with OldMr. Toad without really knowing him at all. There was one comfortingthought, and that was that most of his neighbors were just as ignorantregarding Old Mr. Toad as Peter had been.
"Funny," mused Peter, "how we can live right beside people all our livesand not really know them at all. I suppose that is why we should neverjudge people hastily. I believe I will go hunt up Old Mr. Toad and see if Ican find out anything more."
Off started Peter, lipperty-lipperty-lip. He didn't know just where to go,now that Old Mr. Toad had left the Smiling Pool, but he had an idea that hewould not be far from their meeting place of the day before, when Old Mr.Toad had explained about his wonderful tongue. But when he got there, Peterfound no trace of Old Mr. Toad. You see, it had rained the day before, andthat is just the kind of weather that a Toad likes best for traveling.Peter ought to have thought of that, but he didn't. He hunted for awhileand finally gave it up and started up the Crooked Little Path with the ideaof running over for a call on Johnny Chuck in the Old Orchard.
Jolly, round, bright Mr. Sun was shining his brightest, and Peter soonforgot all about Old Mr. Toad. He scampered along up the Crooked LittlePath, thinking of nothing in particular but how good it was to be alive,and occasionally kicking up his heels for pure joy. He had just done thiswhen his ears caught the sound of a queer noise a little to one side of theCrooked Little Path. Instantly Peter stopped and sat up to listen. There itwas again, and it seemed to come from under an old piece of board. It wasjust a little, rustling sound, hardly to be heard.
"There's some one under that old board," thought Peter, and peeped under.All he could see was that there was something moving. Instantly Peter wasall curiosity. Whoever was there was not very big. He was sure of that. Ofcourse that meant that he had nothing to fear. So what do you think Peterdid? Why, he just pulled that old board over. And when he did that, he saw,whom do you think? Why, Old Mr. Toad, to be sure.
But such a sight as Old Mr. Toad was! Peter just stared. For a full minutehe couldn't find his voice. Old Mr. Toad was changing his clothes! Yes,Sir, that is just what Old Mr. Toad was doing. He was taking off his oldsuit, and under it was a brand new one. But such a time as he was having!He was opening and shutting his big mouth, and drawing his hind legs underhim, and rubbing them against his body. Then Peter saw a strange thing. Hesaw that Old Mr. Toad's old suit had split in several places, and he wasgetting it off by sucking it into his mouth!
In a few minutes his hind legs were free of the old suit, and little bylittle it began to be pulled free from his body. All the time Old Mr. Toadwas working very hard to suck it at the corners of his big mouth. He glaredangrily at Peter, but he couldn't say anything because his mouth was toofull. He looked so funny that Peter just threw himself on the ground androlled over and over with laughter. This made Old Mr. Toad glare moreangrily than ever, but he couldn't say anything, not a word.
When he had got his hands free by pulling the sleeves of his old coat offinside out, he used his hands to pull the last of it over his head. Then hegulped very hard two or three times to swallow his old suit, and when thelast of it had disappeared, he found his voice.
"Don't you know that it is the most impolite thing in the world to look atpeople when they are changing their clothes?" he sputtered.



XIV

OLD MR. TOAD DISAPPEARS
  Admit your fault when you've done wrong,  And don't postpone it over long.
Peter Rabbit didn't blame Old Mr. Toad a bit for being indignant becausePeter had watched him change his suit. It wasn't a nice thing to do. OldMr. Toad had looked very funny while he was struggling out of his old suit,and Peter just couldn't help laughing at him. But he realized that he hadbeen very impolite, and he very meekly told Old Mr. Toad so.
"You see, it was this way," explained Peter. "I heard something under thatold board, and I just naturally turned it over to find out what was there."
"Hump!" grunted Old Mr. Toad.
"I didn't have the least idea that you were there," continued Peter. "WhenI found who it was, and what you were doing, I couldn't help watchingbecause it was so interesting, and I couldn't help laughing because youreally did look so funny. But I'm sorry, Mr. Toad. Truly I am. I didn'tmean to be so impolite. I promise never to do it again. I don't suppose,Mr. Toad, that it seems at all wonderful to you that you can change yoursuit that way, but it does to me. I had heard that you swallowed your oldsuits, but I never half believed it. Now I know it is so and just how youdo it, and I feel as if I had learned something worth knowing. Do you know,I think you are one of the most interesting and wonderful of all myneighbors, and I'll never laugh at or tease you again, Mr. Toad."
"Hump!" grunted Old Mr. Toad again, but it was very clear that he was alittle flattered by Peter's interest in him and was rapidly recovering hisgood nature.
"There is one thing I don't understand yet," said Peter, "and that is whereyou go to to sleep all winter. Do you go down into the mud at the bottom ofthe Smiling Pool the way Grandfather Frog does?"
"Certainly not!" retorted Old Mr. Toad. "Use your common sense, PeterRabbit. If I had spent the winter in the Smiling Pool, do you suppose Iwould have left it to come way up here and then have turned right aroundand gone back there to sing? I'm not so fond of long journeys as all that."
"That's so." Peter looked foolish. "I didn't think of that when I spoke."
"The trouble with you, and with a lot of other people, is that you speakfirst and do your thinking afterward, when you do any thinking at all,"grunted Old Mr. Toad. "Now if I wanted to, I could disappear right here."
"You mean that you would hide under that old board just as you did before,"said Peter, with a very wise look.
"Nothing of the sort!" snapped Old Mr. Toad. "I could disappear and not gonear that old board, not a step nearer than I am now."
Peter looked in all directions carefully, but not a thing could he seeunder which Old Mr. Toad could possibly hide except the old board, and hehad said he wouldn't hide under that. "I don't like to doubt your word,Mr. Toad," said he, "but you'll have to show me before I can believe that."
Old Mr. Toad's eyes twinkled. Here was a chance to get even with Peter forwatching him change his suit. "If you'll turn your back to me and lookstraight down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes, I'll disappear,"said he. "More than that, I give you my word of honor that I will not hopthree feet from where I am sitting."
"All right," replied Peter promptly, turning his back to Old Mr. Toad."I'll look down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes and promise not topeek."
So Peter sat and gazed straight down the Crooked Little Path. It was agreat temptation to roll his eyes back and peep behind him, but he hadgiven his word that he wouldn't, and he didn't. When he thought the fiveminutes were up, he turned around. Old Mr. Toad was nowhere to be seen.Peter looked hastily this way and that way, but there was not a sign of OldMr. Toad. He had disappeared as completely as if he never had been there.



XV

OLD MR. TOAD GIVES PETER A SCARE
  If you play pranks on other folks    You may be sure that they  Will take the first chance that they get    A joke on you to play.
Old Mr. Toad was getting even with Peter for laughing at him. While Peter'sback had been turned, Old Mr. Toad had disappeared.
It was too much for Peter. Look as he would, he couldn't see so much as achip under which Old Mr. Toad might have hidden, excepting the old board,and Old Mr. Toad had given his word of honor that he wouldn't hide underthat. Nevertheless, Peter hopped over to it and turned it over again,because he couldn't think of any other place to look. Of course, Old Mr.Toad wasn't there. Of course not. He had given his word that he wouldn'thide there, and he always lives up to his word. Peter should have knownbetter than to have looked there.
Old Mr. Toad had also said that he would not go three feet from the spotwhere he was sitting at the time, so Peter should have known better than tohave raced up the Crooked Little Path as he did. But if Old Mr. Toad hadnothing to hide under, of course he must have hopped away, reasoned Peter.He couldn't hop far in five minutes, that was sure, and so Peter ran thisway and that way a great deal farther than it would have been possible forOld Mr. Toad to have gone. But it was a wholly useless search, andpresently Peter returned and sat down on the very spot where he had lastseen Old Mr. Toad. Peter never had felt more foolish in all his life. Hebegan to think that Old Mr. Toad must be bewitched and had some strangepower of making himself invisible.
For a long time Peter sat perfectly still, trying to puzzle out how Old Mr.Toad had disappeared, but the more he puzzled over it, the more impossibleit seemed. And yet Old Mr. Toad had disappeared. Suddenly Peter gave afrightened scream and jumped higher than he ever had jumped before in allhis life. A voice, the voice of Old Mr. Toad himself, had said, "Well, noware you satisfied?" _And that voice had come from right under Peter!_ Doyou wonder that he was frightened? When he turned to look, there sat OldMr. Toad right where he himself had been sitting a moment before. Peterrubbed his eyes and stared very foolishly.
"Wh-wh-where did you come from?" he stammered at last.
Old Mr. Toad grinned. "I'll show you," said he. And right while Peter waslooking at him, he began to sink down into the ground until only the top ofhis head could be seen. Then that disappeared. Old Mr. Toad had gone down,and the sand had fallen right back over him. Peter just had to rub his eyesagain. He had to! Then, to make sure, he began to dig away the sand whereOld Mr. Toad had been sitting. In a minute he felt Old Mr. Toad, who atonce came out again.
Old Mr. Toad's beautiful eyes twinkled more than ever. "I guess we are evennow, Peter," said he.
Peter nodded. "More than that, Mr. Toad. I think you have a little the bestof it," he replied. "Now won't you tell me how you did it?"
Old Mr. Toad held up one of his stout hind feet, and on it was a kind ofspur. "There's another just like that on the other foot," said he, "and Iuse them to dig with. You go into a hole headfirst, but I go in the otherway. I make my hole in soft earth and back into it at the same time, thisway." He began to work his stout hind feet, and as he kicked the earth out,he backed in at the same time. When he was deep enough, the earth just fellback over him, for you see it was very loose and not packed down at all.When he once more reappeared, Peter thanked him. Then he asked one morequestion.
"Is that the way you go into winter quarters?"
Old Mr. Toad nodded. "And it's the way I escape from my enemies."



XVI

JIMMY SKUNK IS SURPRISED
Jimmy Skunk ambled along the Crooked Little Path down the hill. He didn'thurry because Jimmy doesn't believe in hurrying. The only time he everhurries is when he sees a fat beetle trying to get out of sight. Then Jimmy_does_ hurry. But just now he didn't see any fat beetles, although he waslooking for them. So he just ambled along as if he had all the time in theworld, as indeed he had. He was feeling very good-natured, was Jimmy Skunk.And why shouldn't he? There was everything to make him feel good-natured.Summer had arrived to stay. On every side he heard glad voices. Bumble theBee was humming a song. Best of all, Jimmy had found three beetles thatvery morning, and he knew that there were more if he could find them. Sowhy shouldn't he feel good?
Jimmy had laughed at Peter Rabbit for being so anxious for Summer toarrive, but he was just as glad as Peter that she had come, although hewouldn't have said so for the world. His sharp little eyes twinkled as heambled along, and there wasn't much that they missed. As he walked hetalked, quite to himself of course, because there was nobody near to hear,and this is what he was saying:
  "Beetle, beetle, smooth and smug,  You are nothing but a bug.  Bugs were made for Skunks to eat,  So come out from your retreat.
"Hello! There's a nice big piece of bark over there that looks as if itought to have a dozen fat beetles under it. It's great fun to pull overpieces of bark and see fat beetles run all ways at once. I'll just have tosee what is under that piece."
Jimmy tiptoed softly over to the big piece of bark, and then as he madeready to turn it over, he began again that foolish little verse.
  "Beetle, beetle, smooth and smug,  You are nothing but a bug."
As he said the last word, he suddenly pulled the piece of bark over.
"Who's a bug?" asked a funny voice, and it sounded rather cross. JimmySkunk nearly tumbled over backward in surprise, and for a minute hecouldn't find his tongue. There, instead of the fat beetles he had been sosure of, sat Old Mr. Toad, and he didn't look at all pleased.
"Who's a bug?" he repeated.
Instead of answering, Jimmy Skunk began to laugh. "Who's a bug?" demandedOld Mr. Toad, more crossly than before.
"There isn't any bug, Mr. Toad, and I beg your pardon," replied Jimmy,remembering his politeness. "I just thought there was. You see, I didn'tknow you were under that piece of bark. I hope you will excuse me, Mr.Toad. Have you seen any fat beetles this morning?"
"No," said Old Mr. Toad grumpily, and yawned and rubbed his eyes.
"Why," exclaimed Jimmy Skunk, "I believe you have just waked up!"
"What if I have?" demanded Old Mr. Toad.
"Oh, nothing, nothing at all, Mr. Toad," replied Jimmy Skunk, "only you arethe second one I've met this morning who had just waked up."
"Who was the other?" asked Old Mr. Toad.
"Mr. Blacksnake," replied Jimmy. "He inquired for you."
Old Mr. Toad turned quite pale. "I--I think I'll be moving along," said he.



XVII

OLD MR. TOAD'S MISTAKE
If is a very little word to look at, but the biggest word you have everseen doesn't begin to have so much meaning as little "if." _If_ Jimmy Skunkhadn't ambled down the Crooked Little Path just when he did; _if_ he hadn'tbeen looking for fat beetles; _if_ he hadn't seen that big piece of bark atone side and decided to pull it over; _if_ it hadn't been for all these"ifs," why Old Mr. Toad wouldn't have made the mistake he did, and youwouldn't have had this story. But Jimmy Skunk _did_ amble down the CrookedLittle Path, he _did_ look for beetles, and he _did_ pull over that bigpiece of bark. And when he had pulled it over, he found Old Mr. Toad there.
Old Mr. Toad had crept under that piece of bark because he wanted to take anap. But when Jimmy Skunk told him that he had seen Mr. Blacksnake thatvery morning, and that Mr. Blacksnake had asked after Old Mr. Toad, thevery last bit of sleepiness left Old Mr. Toad. Yes, Sir, he was wide awakeright away. You see, he knew right away why Mr. Blacksnake had asked afterhim. He knew that Mr. Blacksnake has a fondness for Toads. He turned quitepale when he heard that Mr. Blacksnake had asked after him, and right thenhe made his mistake. He was in such a hurry to get away from thatneighborhood that he forgot to ask Jimmy Skunk just where he had seen Mr.Blacksnake. He hardly waited long enough to say good-by to Jimmy Skunk, butstarted off as fast as he could go.
Now it just happened that Old Mr. Toad started up the Crooked Little Path,and it just happened that Mr. Blacksnake was coming down the Crooked LittlePath. Now when people are very much afraid, they almost always seem tothink that danger is behind instead of in front of them. It was so with OldMr. Toad. Instead of watching out in front as he hopped along, he keptwatching over his shoulder, and that was his second mistake. He was so surethat Mr. Blacksnake was somewhere behind him that he didn't look to seewhere he was going, and you know that people who don't look to see wherethey are going are almost sure to go headfirst right into trouble.
Old Mr. Toad went hopping up the Crooked Little Path as fast as he could,which wasn't very fast, because he never can hop very fast. And all thetime he kept looking behind for Mr. Blacksnake. Presently he came to a turnin the Crooked Little Path, and as he hurried around it, he almost ran intoMr. Blacksnake himself. It was a question which was more surprised. Forjust a wee second they stared at each other. Then Mr. Blacksnake's eyesbegan to sparkle.
"Good morning, Mr. Toad. Isn't this a beautiful morning? I was justthinking about you," said he.
But poor Old Mr. Toad didn't say good morning. He didn't say anything. Hecouldn't, because he was too scared. He just gave a frightened littlesqueal, turned around, and started down the Crooked Little Path twice asfast as he had come up. Mr. Blacksnake grinned and started after him, notvery fast because he knew that he wouldn't have to run very fast to catchOld Mr. Toad, and he thought the exercise would do him good.
And this is how it happened that summer morning that jolly, bright Mr. Sun,looking down from the blue, blue sky and smiling to see how happy everybodyseemed, suddenly discovered that there was one of the little meadow peoplewho wasn't happy, but instead was terribly, terribly unhappy. It was OldMr. Toad hopping down the Crooked Little Path for his life, while afterhim, and getting nearer and nearer, glided Mr. Blacksnake.



XVIII

JIMMY SKUNK IS JUST IN TIME
Jimmy Skunk ambled slowly along, chuckling as he thought of what a hurryMr. Toad had been in, when he had heard that Mr. Blacksnake had asked afterhim. It had been funny, very funny indeed, to see Mr. Toad try to hurry.
Suddenly Jimmy stopped chuckling. Then he stopped ambling along the CrookedLittle Path. He turned around and looked back, and as he did so hescratched his head thoughtfully. He had just happened to think that Old Mr.Toad had gone up the Crooked Little Path, and it was _up_ the CrookedLittle Path that Mr. Blacksnake had shown himself that morning.
"If he's still up there," thought Jimmy, "Old Mr. Toad is hopping rightstraight into the very worst kind of trouble. How stupid of him not to haveasked me where Mr. Blacksnake was! Well, it's none of my business. I guessI'll go on."
But he had gone on down the Crooked Little Path only a few steps when hestopped again. You see, Jimmy is really a very kind-hearted little fellow,and somehow he didn't like to think of what might happen to Old Mr. Toad.
"I hate to go way back there," he grumbled, for you know he is naturallyrather lazy. "Still, the Green Meadows wouldn't be quite the same withoutOld Mr. Toad. I should miss him if anything happened to him. I suppose itwould be partly my fault, too, for if I hadn't pulled over that piece ofbark, he probably would have stayed there the rest of the day and beensafe."
"Maybe he won't meet Mr. Blacksnake," said a little voice inside of Jimmy.
"And maybe he will," said Jimmy right out loud. And with that, he startedback up the Crooked Little Path, and strange to say Jimmy hurried.
He had just reached a turn in the Crooked Little Path when who should runright plump into him but poor Old Mr. Toad. He gave a frightened squeal andfell right over on his back, and kicked foolishly as he tried to get on hisfeet again. But he was all out of breath, and so frightened and tired thatall he could do was to kick and kick. He hadn't seen Jimmy at all, for hehad been looking behind him, and he didn't even know who it was he had runinto.
Right behind him came Mr. Blacksnake. Of course he saw Jimmy, and hestopped short and hissed angrily.
"What were you going to do to Mr. Toad?" demanded Jimmy.
"None of your business!" hissed Mr. Blacksnake. "Get out of my way, oryou'll be sorry."
Jimmy Skunk just laughed and stepped in front of poor Old Mr. Toad. Mr.Blacksnake coiled himself up in the path and darted his tongue out at Jimmyin the most impudent way. Then he tried to make himself look very fierce.Then he jumped straight at Jimmy Skunk with his mouth wide open, but hetook great care not to jump quite far enough to reach Jimmy. You see, hewas just trying to scare Jimmy. But Jimmy didn't scare. He knows allabout Mr. Blacksnake and that really he is a coward. So he suddenly grittedhis teeth in a way not at all pleasant to hear and started for Mr.Blacksnake. Mr. Blacksnake didn't wait. No, Sir, he didn't wait. Hesuddenly turned and glided back up the Crooked Little Path, hissingangrily. Jimmy followed him a little way, and then he went back to Old Mr.Toad.
"Oh," panted Mr. Toad, "you came just in time! I couldn't have hoppedanother hop."
"I guess I did," replied Jimmy. "Now you get your breath and come alongwith me." And Old Mr. Toad did.



XIX

OLD MR. TOAD GETS HIS STOMACH FULL
  Pray do not tip your nose in scorn    At things which others eat,  For things to you not good at all    To others are most sweet.
There are ants, for instance. You wouldn't want to eat them even if youwere dreadfully hungry. But Old Mr. Toad and Buster Bear think there isnothing much nicer. Now Buster Bear had found Old Mr. Toad catching ants,one at a time, as he kept watch beside their home, and it had pleasedBuster to find some one else who liked ants. Right away he invited Old Mr.Toad to dine with him. But poor Old Mr. Toad was frightened almost to deathwhen he heard the deep, grumbly-rumbly voice of Buster Bear, for he hadbeen so busy watching the ants that he hadn't seen Buster coming.
He fell right over on his back, which wasn't at all dignified, and madeBuster Bear laugh. That frightened Mr. Toad more than ever. You see hedidn't have the least doubt in the world that Buster Bear meant to eat him,and when Buster invited him to dinner, he was sure that that was just ajoke on Buster's part.
But there was no way to escape, and after a little Old Mr. Toad thought itbest to be polite, because, you know, it always pays to be polite. So hesaid in a very faint voice that he would be pleased to dine with Buster.Then he waved his feet feebly, trying to get on his feet again. BusterBear laughed harder than ever. It was a low, deep, grumbly-rumbly laugh,and sent cold shivers all over poor Old Mr. Toad. But when Buster reachedout a great paw with great cruel-looking claws Mr. Toad quite gave up. Hedidn't have strength enough left to even kick. He just closed his eyes andwaited for the end.
What do you think happened? Why, he was rolled over on to his feet sogently that he just gasped with surprise. It didn't seem possible that sucha great paw could be so gentle.
"Now," said Buster Bear in a voice which he tried to make sound pleasant,but which was grumbly-rumbly just the same, "I know where there is a finedinner waiting for us just a little way from here. You follow me, and we'llhave it in no time."
So Buster Bear led the way, and Old Mr. Toad followed as fast as he could,because he didn't dare not to. Presently Buster stopped beside a bigdecayed old log. "If you are ready, Mr. Toad, we will dine now," said he.
Old Mr. Toad didn't see anything to eat. His heart sank again, and he shookall over. "I--I'm not hungry," said he in a very faint voice.
Buster Bear didn't seem to hear. He hooked his great claws into the old logand gave a mighty pull. Over rolled the log, and there were ants and antsand ants, hurrying this way and scurrying that way, more ants than Mr. Toadhad seen in all his life before!
"Help yourself," said Buster Bear politely.
Old Mr. Toad didn't wait to be told twice. He forgot all about his fright.He forgot all about Buster Bear. He forgot that he wasn't hungry. Heforgot his manners. He jumped right in among those ants, and for a littlewhile he was the busiest Toad ever seen. Buster Bear was busy too. He swepthis long tongue this way, and he swept it that way, and each time he drewit back into his mouth, it was covered with ants. At last Old Mr. Toadcouldn't hold another ant. Then he remembered Buster Bear and looked up alittle fearfully. Buster was smacking his lips, and there was a twinkle ineach eye.
"Good, aren't they?" said he.
"The best I ever ate," declared Old Mr. Toad with a sigh of satisfaction.
"Come dine with me again," said Buster Bear, and somehow this time Old Mr.Toad didn't mind because his voice sounded grumbly-rumbly.
"Thank you, I will," replied Old Mr. Toad.



XX

OLD MR. TOAD IS PUFFED UP
Old Mr. Toad hopped slowly down the Lone Little Path. He usually does hopslowly, but this time he hopped slower than ever. You see, he was so puffedup that he couldn't have hopped fast if he had wanted to, and he didn'twant to. In the first place his stomach was so full of ants that therewasn't room for another one. No, Sir, Old Mr. Toad couldn't have swallowedanother ant if he had tried. Of course they made his stomach stick out, butit wasn't the ants that puffed him out all over. Oh, my, no! It was pride.That's what it was--pride. You know nothing can puff any one up quite likefoolish pride.
Old Mr. Toad was old enough to have known better. It is bad enough to seeyoung and foolish creatures puffed up with pride, but it is worse to seeany one as old as Old Mr. Toad that way. He held his head so high that hecouldn't see his own feet, and more than once he stubbed his toes.Presently he met his old friend, Danny Meadow Mouse. He tipped his head alittle higher, puffed himself out a little more, and pretended not to seeDanny.
"Hello, Mr. Toad," said Danny.
Mr. Toad pretended not to hear. Danny looked puzzled. Then he spoke again,and this time he shouted: "Hello, Mr. Toad! I haven't seen you for sometime."
It wouldn't do to pretend not to hear this time. "Oh, how do you do,Danny?" said Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air, and pretending to be muchsurprised. "Sorry I can't stop, but I've been dining with, my friend,Buster Bear, and now I must get home." When he mentioned the name of BusterBear, he puffed himself out a little more.
Danny grinned as he watched him hop on down the Lone Little Path. "Can'ttalk with common folks any more," he muttered. "I've heard that pride isvery apt to turn people's heads, but I never expected to see Old Mr. Toadproud."
Mr. Toad kept on his way, and presently he met Peter Rabbit. Peter stoppedto gossip, as is his way. But Old Mr. Toad took no notice of him at all. Hekept right on with his head high, and all puffed out. Peter might have beena stick or a stone for all the notice Old Mr. Toad took of him. Peterlooked puzzled. Then he hurried down to tell Danny Meadow Mouse about it.
"Oh," said Danny, "he's been to dine with Buster Bear, and now he has nouse for his old friends."
Pretty soon along came Johnny Chuck, and he was very much put out becausehe had been treated by Old Mr. Toad just as Peter Rabbit had. StripedChipmunk told the same story. So did Unc' Billy Possum. It was the samewith all of Old Mr. Toad's old friends and neighbors, excepting Bobby Coon,who, you know, is Buster Bear's little cousin. To him Old Mr. Toad was verypolite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear, and thought that Bobbymust be very proud to be related to Buster.
At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed upwith, pride, but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by theirold friend and neighbor, and began to say unpleasant things about him. Thenthey decided that what Old Mr. Toad needed was a lesson, so they put theirheads together and planned how they would teach Old Mr. Toad how foolish itis for any one to be puffed up with pride.



XXI

OLD MR. TOAD RECEIVES ANOTHER INVITATION
The friends and neighbors of Old Mr. Toad decided that he needed to betaught a lesson. At first, you know, every one had laughed at him, becausehe had grown too proud to speak to them, but after a little they grew tiredof being treated so, and some of them put their heads together to think ofsome plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and what a very, very foolishthing false pride is. The very next day Jimmy Skunk went into the GreenForest to look for Buster Bear. You know Jimmy isn't afraid of Buster. Hedidn't have to look long, and when he had found him, the very first thinghe did was to ask Buster if he had seen any fat beetles that morning. Youknow Jimmy is very fond of fat beetles, and the first thing he asks any onehe may happen to meet is if they have seen any.
Buster Bear grinned and said he thought he knew where there might be a few,and he would be pleased to have Jimmy go with him to see. Sure enough,under an old log he found five fat beetles, and these Jimmy gobbled upwithout even asking Buster if he would have one. Jimmy is usually verypolite, but this time he quite forgot politeness. I am afraid he is ratherapt to when fat beetles are concerned. But Buster didn't seem to mind. Whenthe last beetle had disappeared Jimmy smacked his lips, and then he toldBuster Bear what he had come for. Of course, at first Buster had thought itwas for the fat beetles. But it wasn't. No, Sir, it wasn't for the fatbeetles at all. It was to get Buster Bear's help in a plan to teach Old Mr.Toad a lesson.
First Jimmy told Buster all about how puffed up Old Mr. Toad was because hehad dined with Buster, and how ever since then he had refused even to speakto his old friends and neighbors. It tickled Buster Bear so to think thatlittle homely Old Mr. Toad could be proud of anything that he laughed andlaughed, and his laugh was deep and grumbly-rumbly. Then Jimmy told him theplan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and asked Buster if he would help.Buster's eyes twinkled as he promised to do what Jimmy asked.
Then Jimmy went straight to where Old Mr. Toad was sitting all puffed up,taking a sun-bath.
"Buster Bear has just sent word by me to ask if you will honor him bydining with him to-morrow at the rotted chestnut stump near the edge of theGreen Forest," said Jimmy in his politest manner.
Now if Old Mr. Toad was puffed up before, just think how he swelled outwhen he heard that. Jimmy Skunk was actually afraid that he would burst.
"You may tell my friend, Buster Bear, that I shall be very happy to honorhim by dining with him," replied Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air.
Jimmy went off to deliver his reply, and Old Mr. Toad sat and puffedhimself out until he could hardly breathe. "Honor him by dining with him,"said he over and over to himself. "I never was so flattered in my life."



XXII

OLD MR. TOAD LEARNS A LESSON
  Pride is like a great big bubble;    You'll find there's nothing in it.  Prick it and for all your trouble    It has vanished in a minute.
Old Mr. Toad was so puffed out with pride as he started for the GreenForest to dine with Buster Bear that those who saw him wondered if hewouldn't burst before he got there. Everybody knew where he was going, andthis made Old Mr. Toad feel more important and proud than ever. He mightnot have felt quite so puffed up if he had known just how it had come aboutthat he received this second invitation to dine with Buster Bear. WhenJimmy Skunk brought it to him, Jimmy didn't tell him that Buster had beenasked to send the invitation, and that it was all part of a plan on thepart of some of Old Mr. Toad's old friends and neighbors to teach him alesson. No, indeed, Jimmy didn't say anything at all about that!
So Old Mr. Toad went hopping along and stumbling over his own feet, becausehis head was held so high and he was so puffed out that he couldn't seewhere he was going. He could think of nothing but how important Buster Bearmust consider him to invite him to dinner a second time, and of thedelicious ants he was sure he would have to eat.
"What very good taste Buster Bear has," thought he, "and how very fortunateit is that he found out that I also am fond of ants."
He was so busy with these pleasant thoughts and of the good dinner that heexpected to have that he took no notice of what was going on about him. Hedidn't see his old friends and neighbors peeping out at him and laughingbecause he looked so foolish and silly. He was dressed in his very best,which was nothing at all to be proud of, for you know Old Mr. Toad has nofine clothes. And being puffed up so, he was homelier than ever, which issaying a great deal, for at best Mr. Toad is anything but handsome.
He was beginning to get pretty tired by the time he reached the GreenForest and came in sight of the rotted old chestnut stump where he was tomeet Buster Bear.
Buster was waiting for him. "How do you do this fine day? You look a littletired and rather warm, Mr. Toad," said he.
"I am a little warm," replied Mr. Toad in his most polite manner, althoughhe couldn't help panting for breath as he said it. "I hope you are feelingas well as you are looking, Mr. Bear."
Buster Bear laughed a great, grumbly-rumbly laugh. "I always feel fine whenthere is a dinner of fat ants ready for me," said he. "It is fine of you tohonor me by coming to dine."
Here Mr. Toad put one hand on his stomach and tried to make a very grandbow. Peter Rabbit, hiding behind a near-by tree, almost giggled aloud, helooked so funny.
"I have ventured to invite another to enjoy the dinner with us," continuedBuster Bear. Mr. Toad's face fell. You see he was selfish. He wanted to bethe only one to have the honor of dining with Buster Bear. "He's a littlelate," went on Buster, "but I think he will be here soon, and I hope youwill be glad to meet him. Ah, there he comes now!"
Old Mr. Toad looked in the direction in which Buster Bear was looking. Hegave a little gasp and turned quite pale. All his puffiness disappeared. Hedidn't look like the same Toad at all. The newcomer was Mr. Blacksnake."Oh!" cried Old Mr. Toad, and then, without even asking to be excused, heturned his back on Buster Bear and started back the way he had come, withlong, frightened hops.
"Ha, ha, ha!" shouted Peter Rabbit, jumping out from behind a tree.
"Ho, ho, ho!" shouted Jimmy Skunk from behind another.
"Hee, hee, hee!" shouted Johnny Chuck from behind a third.
Then Old Mr. Toad knew that his old friends and neighbors had planned thisto teach him a lesson.



XXIII

OLD MR. TOAD IS VERY HUMBLE
When Old Mr. Toad saw Mr. Blacksnake and turned his back on Buster Bear andthe fine dinner to which Buster had invited him, he had but just one ideain his head, and that was to get out of sight of Mr. Blacksnake as soon aspossible. He forgot to ask Buster Bear to excuse him. He forgot that he wastired and hot. He forgot all the pride with which he had been so puffed up.He forgot everything but the need of getting out of sight of Mr. Blacksnakeas soon as ever he could. So away went Old Mr. Toad, hop, hop,hipperty-hop, hop, hop, hipperty-hop! He heard Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunkand Johnny Chuck and others of his old friends and neighbors shouting withlaughter. Yes, and he heard the deep, grumbly-rumbly laugh of Buster Bear.But he didn't mind it. Not then, anyway. He hadn't room for any feelingexcept fear of Mr. Blacksnake.
But Old Mr. Toad had to stop after a while. You see, his legs were so tiredthey just wouldn't go any longer. And he was so out of breath that hewheezed. He crawled under a big piece of bark, and there he lay flat on theground and panted and panted for breath. He would stay there until jolly,round, bright Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills. Then Mr.Blacksnake would go to bed too, and it would be safe for him to go home.Now, lying there in the dark, for it was dark under that big piece of bark,Old Mr. Toad had time to think. Little by little he began to understandthat his invitation to dine with Buster Bear had been part of a plan by hisold friends and neighbors whom he had so snubbed and looked down on when hehad been puffed up with pride, to teach him a lesson. At first he wasangry, very angry indeed. Then he began to see how foolish and silly he hadbeen, and shame took the place of anger. As he remembered the deep,grumbly-rumbly laughter of Buster Bear, the feeling of shame grew.
"I deserve it," thought Old Mr. Toad. "Yes, Sir, I deserve every bit of it.The only thing that I have to be proud of is that I'm honest and work formy living. Yes, Sir, that's all."
When darkness came at last, and he crawled out to go home, he was feelingvery humble. Peter Rabbit happened along just then. Old Mr. Toad opened hismouth to speak, but Peter suddenly threw his head up very high and struttedpast as if he didn't see Old Mr. Toad at all. Mr. Toad gulped and went on.Pretty soon he met Jimmy Skunk. Jimmy went right on about his business andactually stepped right over Old Mr. Toad as if he had been a stick or astone. Old Mr. Toad gulped again and went on. The next day he went down tosee Danny Meadow Mouse. He meant to tell Danny how ashamed he was for theway he had treated Danny and his other friends. But Danny brushed rightpast without even a glance at him. Old Mr. Toad gulped and started up tosee Johnny Chuck. The same thing happened again. So it did when he metStriped Chipmunk.
At last Old Mr. Toad gave up and went home, where he sat under a bigmullein leaf the rest of the day, feeling very miserable and lonely. Hedidn't have appetite enough to snap at a single fly. Late that afternoon heheard a little noise and looked up to find all his old friends andneighbors forming a circle around him. Suddenly they began to dance andshout:
  "Old Mr. Toad is a jolly good fellow!  His temper is sweet, disposition is mellow!  And now that his bubble of pride is quite busted  We know that he knows that his friends can be trusted."
Then Old Mr. Toad knew that all was well once more, and presently he beganto dance too, the funniest dance that ever was seen.
This is all for now about homely Old Mr. Toad, because I have just got totell you about another homely fellow,--Prickly Porky the Porcupine,--whocarries a thousand little spears. The next book will tell you all about_his_ adventures.