PREFACE

SUPPOSING that Truth is a woman--what then? Is there not groundfor suspecting that all philosophers, in so far as they have beendogmatists, have failed to understand women--that the terribleseriousness and clumsy importunity with which they have usually paidtheir addresses to Truth, have been unskilled and unseemly methods forwinning a woman? Certainly she has never allowed herself to be won; andat present every kind of dogma stands with sad and discouraged mien--IF,indeed, it stands at all! For there are scoffers who maintain that ithas fallen, that all dogma lies on the ground--nay more, that it is atits last gasp. But to speak seriously, there are good grounds for hopingthat all dogmatizing in philosophy, whatever solemn, whatever conclusiveand decided airs it has assumed, may have been only a noble puerilismand tyronism; and probably the time is at hand when it will be onceand again understood WHAT has actually sufficed for the basis of suchimposing and absolute philosophical edifices as the dogmatists havehitherto reared: perhaps some popular superstition of immemorial time(such as the soul-superstition, which, in the form of subject- andego-superstition, has not yet ceased doing mischief): perhaps someplay upon words, a deception on the part of grammar, or anaudacious generalization of very restricted, very personal, veryhuman--all-too-human facts. The philosophy of the dogmatists, it is tobe hoped, was only a promise for thousands of years afterwards, as wasastrology in still earlier times, in the service of which probably morelabour, gold, acuteness, and patience have been spent than on anyactual science hitherto: we owe to it, and to its "super-terrestrial"pretensions in Asia and Egypt, the grand style of architecture. It seemsthat in order to inscribe themselves upon the heart of humanity witheverlasting claims, all great things have first to wander about theearth as enormous and awe-inspiring caricatures: dogmatic philosophy hasbeen a caricature of this kind--for instance, the Vedanta doctrine inAsia, and Platonism in Europe. Let us not be ungrateful to it, althoughit must certainly be confessed that the worst, the most tiresome,and the most dangerous of errors hitherto has been a dogmatisterror--namely, Plato's invention of Pure Spirit and the Good in Itself.But now when it has been surmounted, when Europe, rid of this nightmare,can again draw breath freely and at least enjoy a healthier--sleep,we, WHOSE DUTY IS WAKEFULNESS ITSELF, are the heirs of all the strengthwhich the struggle against this error has fostered. It amounted tothe very inversion of truth, and the denial of the PERSPECTIVE--thefundamental condition--of life, to speak of Spirit and the Good as Platospoke of them; indeed one might ask, as a physician: "How did such amalady attack that finest product of antiquity, Plato? Had the wickedSocrates really corrupted him? Was Socrates after all a corrupter ofyouths, and deserved his hemlock?" But the struggle against Plato,or--to speak plainer, and for the "people"--the struggle againstthe ecclesiastical oppression of millenniums of Christianity (FORCHRISTIANITY IS PLATONISM FOR THE "PEOPLE"), produced in Europea magnificent tension of soul, such as had not existed anywherepreviously; with such a tensely strained bow one can now aim at thefurthest goals. As a matter of fact, the European feels this tension asa state of distress, and twice attempts have been made in grand style tounbend the bow: once by means of Jesuitism, and the second time by meansof democratic enlightenment--which, with the aid of liberty of the pressand newspaper-reading, might, in fact, bring it about that the spiritwould not so easily find itself in "distress"! (The Germans inventedgunpowder--all credit to them! but they again made things square--theyinvented printing.) But we, who are neither Jesuits, nor democrats,nor even sufficiently Germans, we GOOD EUROPEANS, and free, VERY freespirits--we have it still, all the distress of spirit and all thetension of its bow! And perhaps also the arrow, the duty, and, whoknows? THE GOAL TO AIM AT....
Sils Maria Upper Engadine, JUNE, 1885.



CHAPTER I. PREJUDICES OF PHILOSOPHERS

1. The Will to Truth, which is to tempt us to many a hazardousenterprise, the famous Truthfulness of which all philosophers havehitherto spoken with respect, what questions has this Will to Truth notlaid before us! What strange, perplexing, questionable questions! It isalready a long story; yet it seems as if it were hardly commenced. Isit any wonder if we at last grow distrustful, lose patience, and turnimpatiently away? That this Sphinx teaches us at last to ask questionsourselves? WHO is it really that puts questions to us here? WHAT reallyis this "Will to Truth" in us? In fact we made a long halt at thequestion as to the origin of this Will--until at last we came to anabsolute standstill before a yet more fundamental question. We inquiredabout the VALUE of this Will. Granted that we want the truth: WHY NOTRATHER untruth? And uncertainty? Even ignorance? The problem of thevalue of truth presented itself before us--or was it we who presentedourselves before the problem? Which of us is the Oedipus here? Whichthe Sphinx? It would seem to be a rendezvous of questions and notes ofinterrogation. And could it be believed that it at last seems to us asif the problem had never been propounded before, as if we were the firstto discern it, get a sight of it, and RISK RAISING it? For there is riskin raising it, perhaps there is no greater risk.
2. "HOW COULD anything originate out of its opposite? For example, truthout of error? or the Will to Truth out of the will to deception? or thegenerous deed out of selfishness? or the pure sun-bright vision of thewise man out of covetousness? Such genesis is impossible; whoever dreamsof it is a fool, nay, worse than a fool; things of the highestvalue must have a different origin, an origin of THEIR own--in thistransitory, seductive, illusory, paltry world, in this turmoil ofdelusion and cupidity, they cannot have their source. But rather inthe lap of Being, in the intransitory, in the concealed God, in the'Thing-in-itself--THERE must be their source, and nowhere else!"--Thismode of reasoning discloses the typical prejudice by whichmetaphysicians of all times can be recognized, this mode of valuationis at the back of all their logical procedure; through this "belief" oftheirs, they exert themselves for their "knowledge," for something thatis in the end solemnly christened "the Truth." The fundamental belief ofmetaphysicians is THE BELIEF IN ANTITHESES OF VALUES. It never occurredeven to the wariest of them to doubt here on the very threshold (wheredoubt, however, was most necessary); though they had made a solemnvow, "DE OMNIBUS DUBITANDUM." For it may be doubted, firstly, whetherantitheses exist at all; and secondly, whether the popular valuationsand antitheses of value upon which metaphysicians have set theirseal, are not perhaps merely superficial estimates, merely provisionalperspectives, besides being probably made from some corner, perhaps frombelow--"frog perspectives," as it were, to borrow an expression currentamong painters. In spite of all the value which may belong to the true,the positive, and the unselfish, it might be possible that a higherand more fundamental value for life generally should be assigned topretence, to the will to delusion, to selfishness, and cupidity. Itmight even be possible that WHAT constitutes the value of those good andrespected things, consists precisely in their being insidiouslyrelated, knotted, and crocheted to these evil and apparently opposedthings--perhaps even in being essentially identical with them. Perhaps!But who wishes to concern himself with such dangerous "Perhapses"!For that investigation one must await the advent of a new order ofphilosophers, such as will have other tastes and inclinations, thereverse of those hitherto prevalent--philosophers of the dangerous"Perhaps" in every sense of the term. And to speak in all seriousness, Isee such new philosophers beginning to appear.
3. Having kept a sharp eye on philosophers, and having read betweentheir lines long enough, I now say to myself that the greater part ofconscious thinking must be counted among the instinctive functions, andit is so even in the case of philosophical thinking; one has here tolearn anew, as one learned anew about heredity and "innateness." Aslittle as the act of birth comes into consideration in the whole processand procedure of heredity, just as little is "being-conscious" OPPOSEDto the instinctive in any decisive sense; the greater part of theconscious thinking of a philosopher is secretly influenced by hisinstincts, and forced into definite channels. And behind all logic andits seeming sovereignty of movement, there are valuations, or to speakmore plainly, physiological demands, for the maintenance of a definitemode of life For example, that the certain is worth more than theuncertain, that illusion is less valuable than "truth" such valuations,in spite of their regulative importance for US, might notwithstanding beonly superficial valuations, special kinds of _niaiserie_, such as maybe necessary for the maintenance of beings such as ourselves. Supposing,in effect, that man is not just the "measure of things."
4. The falseness of an opinion is not for us any objection to it: it ishere, perhaps, that our new language sounds most strangely. Thequestion is, how far an opinion is life-furthering, life-preserving,species-preserving, perhaps species-rearing, and we are fundamentallyinclined to maintain that the falsest opinions (to which the syntheticjudgments a priori belong), are the most indispensable to us, thatwithout a recognition of logical fictions, without a comparison ofreality with the purely IMAGINED world of the absolute and immutable,without a constant counterfeiting of the world by means of numbers,man could not live--that the renunciation of false opinions would bea renunciation of life, a negation of life. TO RECOGNISE UNTRUTH AS ACONDITION OF LIFE; that is certainly to impugn the traditional ideas ofvalue in a dangerous manner, and a philosophy which ventures to do so,has thereby alone placed itself beyond good and evil.
5. That which causes philosophers to be regarded half-distrustfullyand half-mockingly, is not the oft-repeated discovery how innocent theyare--how often and easily they make mistakes and lose their way, inshort, how childish and childlike they are,--but that there is notenough honest dealing with them, whereas they all raise a loud andvirtuous outcry when the problem of truthfulness is even hinted at inthe remotest manner. They all pose as though their real opinions hadbeen discovered and attained through the self-evolving of a cold, pure,divinely indifferent dialectic (in contrast to all sorts of mystics,who, fairer and foolisher, talk of "inspiration"), whereas, in fact, aprejudiced proposition, idea, or "suggestion," which is generallytheir heart's desire abstracted and refined, is defended by them witharguments sought out after the event. They are all advocates who do notwish to be regarded as such, generally astute defenders, also, of theirprejudices, which they dub "truths,"--and VERY far from having theconscience which bravely admits this to itself, very far from havingthe good taste of the courage which goes so far as to let this beunderstood, perhaps to warn friend or foe, or in cheerful confidenceand self-ridicule. The spectacle of the Tartuffery of old Kant, equallystiff and decent, with which he entices us into the dialecticby-ways that lead (more correctly mislead) to his "categoricalimperative"--makes us fastidious ones smile, we who find no smallamusement in spying out the subtle tricks of old moralists and ethicalpreachers. Or, still more so, the hocus-pocus in mathematical form, bymeans of which Spinoza has, as it were, clad his philosophy in mail andmask--in fact, the "love of HIS wisdom," to translate the term fairlyand squarely--in order thereby to strike terror at once into the heartof the assailant who should dare to cast a glance on that invinciblemaiden, that Pallas Athene:--how much of personal timidity andvulnerability does this masquerade of a sickly recluse betray!
6. It has gradually become clear to me what every great philosophy uptill now has consisted of--namely, the confession of its originator, anda species of involuntary and unconscious auto-biography; and moreoverthat the moral (or immoral) purpose in every philosophy has constitutedthe true vital germ out of which the entire plant has always grown.Indeed, to understand how the abstrusest metaphysical assertions of aphilosopher have been arrived at, it is always well (and wise) to firstask oneself: "What morality do they (or does he) aim at?" Accordingly,I do not believe that an "impulse to knowledge" is the father ofphilosophy; but that another impulse, here as elsewhere, has only madeuse of knowledge (and mistaken knowledge!) as an instrument. But whoeverconsiders the fundamental impulses of man with a view to determininghow far they may have here acted as INSPIRING GENII (or as demons andcobolds), will find that they have all practiced philosophy at one timeor another, and that each one of them would have been only too glad tolook upon itself as the ultimate end of existence and the legitimateLORD over all the other impulses. For every impulse is imperious, and asSUCH, attempts to philosophize. To be sure, in the case of scholars, inthe case of really scientific men, it may be otherwise--"better," ifyou will; there there may really be such a thing as an "impulse toknowledge," some kind of small, independent clock-work, which, when wellwound up, works away industriously to that end, WITHOUT the rest ofthe scholarly impulses taking any material part therein. The actual"interests" of the scholar, therefore, are generally in quite anotherdirection--in the family, perhaps, or in money-making, or in politics;it is, in fact, almost indifferent at what point of research his littlemachine is placed, and whether the hopeful young worker becomes agood philologist, a mushroom specialist, or a chemist; he is notCHARACTERISED by becoming this or that. In the philosopher, on thecontrary, there is absolutely nothing impersonal; and above all,his morality furnishes a decided and decisive testimony as to WHO HEIS,--that is to say, in what order the deepest impulses of his naturestand to each other.
7. How malicious philosophers can be! I know of nothing more stingingthan the joke Epicurus took the liberty of making on Plato and thePlatonists; he called them Dionysiokolakes. In its original sense,and on the face of it, the word signifies "Flatterers ofDionysius"--consequently, tyrants' accessories and lick-spittles;besides this, however, it is as much as to say, "They are all ACTORS,there is nothing genuine about them" (for Dionysiokolax was a popularname for an actor). And the latter is really the malignant reproach thatEpicurus cast upon Plato: he was annoyed by the grandiose manner, themise en scene style of which Plato and his scholars were masters--ofwhich Epicurus was not a master! He, the old school-teacher of Samos,who sat concealed in his little garden at Athens, and wrote threehundred books, perhaps out of rage and ambitious envy of Plato, whoknows! Greece took a hundred years to find out who the garden-godEpicurus really was. Did she ever find out?
8. There is a point in every philosophy at which the "conviction" ofthe philosopher appears on the scene; or, to put it in the words of anancient mystery:
Adventavit asinus, Pulcher et fortissimus.
9. You desire to LIVE "according to Nature"? Oh, you noble Stoics, whatfraud of words! Imagine to yourselves a being like Nature, boundlesslyextravagant, boundlessly indifferent, without purpose or consideration,without pity or justice, at once fruitful and barren and uncertain:imagine to yourselves INDIFFERENCE as a power--how COULD you livein accordance with such indifference? To live--is not that justendeavouring to be otherwise than this Nature? Is not living valuing,preferring, being unjust, being limited, endeavouring to be different?And granted that your imperative, "living according to Nature," meansactually the same as "living according to life"--how could you doDIFFERENTLY? Why should you make a principle out of what you yourselvesare, and must be? In reality, however, it is quite otherwise with you:while you pretend to read with rapture the canon of your law in Nature,you want something quite the contrary, you extraordinary stage-playersand self-deluders! In your pride you wish to dictate your morals andideals to Nature, to Nature herself, and to incorporate them therein;you insist that it shall be Nature "according to the Stoa," and wouldlike everything to be made after your own image, as a vast, eternalglorification and generalism of Stoicism! With all your love for truth,you have forced yourselves so long, so persistently, and with suchhypnotic rigidity to see Nature FALSELY, that is to say, Stoically,that you are no longer able to see it otherwise--and to crown all, someunfathomable superciliousness gives you the Bedlamite hope thatBECAUSE you are able to tyrannize over yourselves--Stoicism isself-tyranny--Nature will also allow herself to be tyrannized over: isnot the Stoic a PART of Nature?... But this is an old and everlastingstory: what happened in old times with the Stoics still happens today,as soon as ever a philosophy begins to believe in itself. It alwayscreates the world in its own image; it cannot do otherwise; philosophyis this tyrannical impulse itself, the most spiritual Will to Power, thewill to "creation of the world," the will to the causa prima.
10. The eagerness and subtlety, I should even say craftiness, withwhich the problem of "the real and the apparent world" is dealt with atpresent throughout Europe, furnishes food for thought and attention; andhe who hears only a "Will to Truth" in the background, and nothing else,cannot certainly boast of the sharpest ears. In rare and isolatedcases, it may really have happened that such a Will to Truth--a certainextravagant and adventurous pluck, a metaphysician's ambition of theforlorn hope--has participated therein: that which in the end alwaysprefers a handful of "certainty" to a whole cartload of beautifulpossibilities; there may even be puritanical fanatics of conscience,who prefer to put their last trust in a sure nothing, rather than in anuncertain something. But that is Nihilism, and the sign of a despairing,mortally wearied soul, notwithstanding the courageous bearing such avirtue may display. It seems, however, to be otherwise with strongerand livelier thinkers who are still eager for life. In that they sideAGAINST appearance, and speak superciliously of "perspective," inthat they rank the credibility of their own bodies about as low as thecredibility of the ocular evidence that "the earth stands still," andthus, apparently, allowing with complacency their securest possessionto escape (for what does one at present believe in more firmly thanin one's body?),--who knows if they are not really trying to win backsomething which was formerly an even securer possession, somethingof the old domain of the faith of former times, perhaps the "immortalsoul," perhaps "the old God," in short, ideas by which they could livebetter, that is to say, more vigorously and more joyously, than by"modern ideas"? There is DISTRUST of these modern ideas in this modeof looking at things, a disbelief in all that has been constructedyesterday and today; there is perhaps some slight admixture of satietyand scorn, which can no longer endure the BRIC-A-BRAC of ideas of themost varied origin, such as so-called Positivism at present throws onthe market; a disgust of the more refined taste at the village-fairmotleyness and patchiness of all these reality-philosophasters, in whomthere is nothing either new or true, except this motleyness. Therein itseems to me that we should agree with those skeptical anti-realists andknowledge-microscopists of the present day; their instinct, which repelsthem from MODERN reality, is unrefuted... what do their retrogradeby-paths concern us! The main thing about them is NOT that they wishto go "back," but that they wish to get AWAY therefrom. A little MOREstrength, swing, courage, and artistic power, and they would be OFF--andnot back!
11. It seems to me that there is everywhere an attempt at present todivert attention from the actual influence which Kant exercised onGerman philosophy, and especially to ignore prudently the value whichhe set upon himself. Kant was first and foremost proud of his Table ofCategories; with it in his hand he said: "This is the most difficultthing that could ever be undertaken on behalf of metaphysics." Let usonly understand this "could be"! He was proud of having DISCOVERED anew faculty in man, the faculty of synthetic judgment a priori. Grantingthat he deceived himself in this matter; the development and rapidflourishing of German philosophy depended nevertheless on his pride, andon the eager rivalry of the younger generation to discover if possiblesomething--at all events "new faculties"--of which to be stillprouder!--But let us reflect for a moment--it is high time to do so."How are synthetic judgments a priori POSSIBLE?" Kant asks himself--andwhat is really his answer? "BY MEANS OF A MEANS (faculty)"--butunfortunately not in five words, but so circumstantially, imposingly,and with such display of German profundity and verbal flourishes, thatone altogether loses sight of the comical niaiserie allemande involvedin such an answer. People were beside themselves with delight over thisnew faculty, and the jubilation reached its climax when Kant furtherdiscovered a moral faculty in man--for at that time Germans were stillmoral, not yet dabbling in the "Politics of hard fact." Then camethe honeymoon of German philosophy. All the young theologians of theTubingen institution went immediately into the groves--all seeking for"faculties." And what did they not find--in that innocent, rich, andstill youthful period of the German spirit, to which Romanticism, themalicious fairy, piped and sang, when one could not yet distinguishbetween "finding" and "inventing"! Above all a faculty for the"transcendental"; Schelling christened it, intellectual intuition,and thereby gratified the most earnest longings of the naturallypious-inclined Germans. One can do no greater wrong to the whole ofthis exuberant and eccentric movement (which was really youthfulness,notwithstanding that it disguised itself so boldly, in hoary and senileconceptions), than to take it seriously, or even treat it with moralindignation. Enough, however--the world grew older, and the dreamvanished. A time came when people rubbed their foreheads, and they stillrub them today. People had been dreaming, and first and foremost--oldKant. "By means of a means (faculty)"--he had said, or at least meant tosay. But, is that--an answer? An explanation? Or is it not rather merelya repetition of the question? How does opium induce sleep? "By means ofa means (faculty)," namely the virtus dormitiva, replies the doctor inMoliere,
    Quia est in eo virtus dormitiva,    Cujus est natura sensus assoupire.
But such replies belong to the realm of comedy, and it is high timeto replace the Kantian question, "How are synthetic judgments a PRIORIpossible?" by another question, "Why is belief in such judgmentsnecessary?"--in effect, it is high time that we should understandthat such judgments must be believed to be true, for the sake of thepreservation of creatures like ourselves; though they still mightnaturally be false judgments! Or, more plainly spoken, and roughly andreadily--synthetic judgments a priori should not "be possible" at all;we have no right to them; in our mouths they are nothing but falsejudgments. Only, of course, the belief in their truth is necessary, asplausible belief and ocular evidence belonging to the perspective viewof life. And finally, to call to mind the enormous influence which"German philosophy"--I hope you understand its right to inverted commas(goosefeet)?--has exercised throughout the whole of Europe, there isno doubt that a certain VIRTUS DORMITIVA had a share in it; thanks toGerman philosophy, it was a delight to the noble idlers, the virtuous,the mystics, the artiste, the three-fourths Christians, and thepolitical obscurantists of all nations, to find an antidote to the stilloverwhelming sensualism which overflowed from the last century intothis, in short--"sensus assoupire."...
12. As regards materialistic atomism, it is one of the best-refutedtheories that have been advanced, and in Europe there is now perhapsno one in the learned world so unscholarly as to attach serioussignification to it, except for convenient everyday use (as anabbreviation of the means of expression)--thanks chiefly to the PoleBoscovich: he and the Pole Copernicus have hitherto been the greatestand most successful opponents of ocular evidence. For while Copernicushas persuaded us to believe, contrary to all the senses, that the earthdoes NOT stand fast, Boscovich has taught us to abjure the belief in thelast thing that "stood fast" of the earth--the belief in "substance," in"matter," in the earth-residuum, and particle-atom: it is the greatesttriumph over the senses that has hitherto been gained on earth. Onemust, however, go still further, and also declare war, relentless warto the knife, against the "atomistic requirements" which still lead adangerous after-life in places where no one suspects them, like the morecelebrated "metaphysical requirements": one must also above all givethe finishing stroke to that other and more portentous atomism whichChristianity has taught best and longest, the SOUL-ATOMISM. Let it bepermitted to designate by this expression the belief which regards thesoul as something indestructible, eternal, indivisible, as a monad,as an atomon: this belief ought to be expelled from science! Betweenourselves, it is not at all necessary to get rid of "the soul" thereby,and thus renounce one of the oldest and most venerated hypotheses--ashappens frequently to the clumsiness of naturalists, who can hardlytouch on the soul without immediately losing it. But the way is openfor new acceptations and refinements of the soul-hypothesis; and suchconceptions as "mortal soul," and "soul of subjective multiplicity,"and "soul as social structure of the instincts and passions," wanthenceforth to have legitimate rights in science. In that the NEWpsychologist is about to put an end to the superstitions which havehitherto flourished with almost tropical luxuriance around the idea ofthe soul, he is really, as it were, thrusting himself into a new desertand a new distrust--it is possible that the older psychologists had amerrier and more comfortable time of it; eventually, however, he findsthat precisely thereby he is also condemned to INVENT--and, who knows?perhaps to DISCOVER the new.
13. Psychologists should bethink themselves before putting down theinstinct of self-preservation as the cardinal instinct of an organicbeing. A living thing seeks above all to DISCHARGE its strength--lifeitself is WILL TO POWER; self-preservation is only one of the indirectand most frequent RESULTS thereof. In short, here, as everywhere else,let us beware of SUPERFLUOUS teleological principles!--one of whichis the instinct of self-preservation (we owe it to Spinoza'sinconsistency). It is thus, in effect, that method ordains, which mustbe essentially economy of principles.
14. It is perhaps just dawning on five or six minds that naturalphilosophy is only a world-exposition and world-arrangement (accordingto us, if I may say so!) and NOT a world-explanation; but in so far asit is based on belief in the senses, it is regarded as more, and for along time to come must be regarded as more--namely, as an explanation.It has eyes and fingers of its own, it has ocular evidence andpalpableness of its own: this operates fascinatingly, persuasively, andCONVINCINGLY upon an age with fundamentally plebeian tastes--in fact, itfollows instinctively the canon of truth of eternal popular sensualism.What is clear, what is "explained"? Only that which can be seen andfelt--one must pursue every problem thus far. Obversely, however, thecharm of the Platonic mode of thought, which was an ARISTOCRATIC mode,consisted precisely in RESISTANCE to obvious sense-evidence--perhapsamong men who enjoyed even stronger and more fastidious senses than ourcontemporaries, but who knew how to find a higher triumph in remainingmasters of them: and this by means of pale, cold, grey conceptionalnetworks which they threw over the motley whirl of the senses--themob of the senses, as Plato said. In this overcoming of the world, andinterpreting of the world in the manner of Plato, there was an ENJOYMENTdifferent from that which the physicists of today offer us--and likewisethe Darwinists and anti-teleologists among the physiological workers,with their principle of the "smallest possible effort," and the greatestpossible blunder. "Where there is nothing more to see or to grasp, thereis also nothing more for men to do"--that is certainly an imperativedifferent from the Platonic one, but it may notwithstanding be the rightimperative for a hardy, laborious race of machinists and bridge-buildersof the future, who have nothing but ROUGH work to perform.
15. To study physiology with a clear conscience, one must insist onthe fact that the sense-organs are not phenomena in the sense of theidealistic philosophy; as such they certainly could not be causes!Sensualism, therefore, at least as regulative hypothesis, if not asheuristic principle. What? And others say even that the external worldis the work of our organs? But then our body, as a part of this externalworld, would be the work of our organs! But then our organs themselveswould be the work of our organs! It seems to me that this is acomplete REDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM, if the conception CAUSA SUI is somethingfundamentally absurd. Consequently, the external world is NOT the workof our organs--?
16. There are still harmless self-observers who believe that there are"immediate certainties"; for instance, "I think," or as the superstitionof Schopenhauer puts it, "I will"; as though cognition here got holdof its object purely and simply as "the thing in itself," without anyfalsification taking place either on the part of the subject or theobject. I would repeat it, however, a hundred times, that "immediatecertainty," as well as "absolute knowledge" and the "thing in itself,"involve a CONTRADICTIO IN ADJECTO; we really ought to free ourselvesfrom the misleading significance of words! The people on their part maythink that cognition is knowing all about things, but the philosophermust say to himself: "When I analyze the process that is expressed inthe sentence, 'I think,' I find a whole series of daring assertions, theargumentative proof of which would be difficult, perhaps impossible:for instance, that it is _I_ who think, that there must necessarily besomething that thinks, that thinking is an activity and operation on thepart of a being who is thought of as a cause, that there is an 'ego,'and finally, that it is already determined what is to be designated bythinking--that I KNOW what thinking is. For if I had not already decidedwithin myself what it is, by what standard could I determine whetherthat which is just happening is not perhaps 'willing' or 'feeling'? Inshort, the assertion 'I think,' assumes that I COMPARE my state at thepresent moment with other states of myself which I know, in order todetermine what it is; on account of this retrospective connection withfurther 'knowledge,' it has, at any rate, no immediate certainty forme."--In place of the "immediate certainty" in which the people maybelieve in the special case, the philosopher thus finds a series ofmetaphysical questions presented to him, veritable conscience questionsof the intellect, to wit: "Whence did I get the notion of 'thinking'?Why do I believe in cause and effect? What gives me the right to speakof an 'ego,' and even of an 'ego' as cause, and finally of an 'ego'as cause of thought?" He who ventures to answer these metaphysicalquestions at once by an appeal to a sort of INTUITIVE perception, likethe person who says, "I think, and know that this, at least, istrue, actual, and certain"--will encounter a smile and two notes ofinterrogation in a philosopher nowadays. "Sir," the philosopher willperhaps give him to understand, "it is improbable that you are notmistaken, but why should it be the truth?"
17. With regard to the superstitions of logicians, I shall never tireof emphasizing a small, terse fact, which is unwillingly recognized bythese credulous minds--namely, that a thought comes when "it" wishes,and not when "I" wish; so that it is a PERVERSION of the facts of thecase to say that the subject "I" is the condition of the predicate"think." ONE thinks; but that this "one" is precisely the famous old"ego," is, to put it mildly, only a supposition, an assertion, andassuredly not an "immediate certainty." After all, one has even gone toofar with this "one thinks"--even the "one" contains an INTERPRETATION ofthe process, and does not belong to the process itself. One infers hereaccording to the usual grammatical formula--"To think is an activity;every activity requires an agency that is active; consequently"... Itwas pretty much on the same lines that the older atomism sought, besidesthe operating "power," the material particle wherein it resides and outof which it operates--the atom. More rigorous minds, however, learnt atlast to get along without this "earth-residuum," and perhaps some day weshall accustom ourselves, even from the logician's point of view, toget along without the little "one" (to which the worthy old "ego" hasrefined itself).
18. It is certainly not the least charm of a theory that it isrefutable; it is precisely thereby that it attracts the more subtleminds. It seems that the hundred-times-refuted theory of the "free will"owes its persistence to this charm alone; some one is always appearingwho feels himself strong enough to refute it.
19. Philosophers are accustomed to speak of the will as though it werethe best-known thing in the world; indeed, Schopenhauer has given usto understand that the will alone is really known to us, absolutely andcompletely known, without deduction or addition. But it again andagain seems to me that in this case Schopenhauer also only did whatphilosophers are in the habit of doing--he seems to have adopted aPOPULAR PREJUDICE and exaggerated it. Willing seems to me to be aboveall something COMPLICATED, something that is a unity only in name--andit is precisely in a name that popular prejudice lurks, which has gotthe mastery over the inadequate precautions of philosophers in all ages.So let us for once be more cautious, let us be "unphilosophical": letus say that in all willing there is firstly a plurality of sensations,namely, the sensation of the condition "AWAY FROM WHICH we go," thesensation of the condition "TOWARDS WHICH we go," the sensation of this"FROM" and "TOWARDS" itself, and then besides, an accompanying muscularsensation, which, even without our putting in motion "arms and legs,"commences its action by force of habit, directly we "will" anything.Therefore, just as sensations (and indeed many kinds of sensations) areto be recognized as ingredients of the will, so, in the second place,thinking is also to be recognized; in every act of the will there isa ruling thought;--and let us not imagine it possible to sever thisthought from the "willing," as if the will would then remain over!In the third place, the will is not only a complex of sensation andthinking, but it is above all an EMOTION, and in fact the emotion of thecommand. That which is termed "freedom of the will" is essentially theemotion of supremacy in respect to him who must obey: "I am free, 'he'must obey"--this consciousness is inherent in every will; and equallyso the straining of the attention, the straight look which fixes itselfexclusively on one thing, the unconditional judgment that "this andnothing else is necessary now," the inward certainty that obediencewill be rendered--and whatever else pertains to the position of thecommander. A man who WILLS commands something within himself whichrenders obedience, or which he believes renders obedience. But now letus notice what is the strangest thing about the will,--this affair soextremely complex, for which the people have only one name. Inasmuch asin the given circumstances we are at the same time the commanding ANDthe obeying parties, and as the obeying party we know the sensations ofconstraint, impulsion, pressure, resistance, and motion, which usuallycommence immediately after the act of will; inasmuch as, on the otherhand, we are accustomed to disregard this duality, and to deceiveourselves about it by means of the synthetic term "I": a whole seriesof erroneous conclusions, and consequently of false judgments about thewill itself, has become attached to the act of willing--to such a degreethat he who wills believes firmly that willing SUFFICES for action.Since in the majority of cases there has only been exercise of willwhen the effect of the command--consequently obedience, and thereforeaction--was to be EXPECTED, the APPEARANCE has translated itself intothe sentiment, as if there were a NECESSITY OF EFFECT; in a word, he whowills believes with a fair amount of certainty that will and action aresomehow one; he ascribes the success, the carrying out of the willing,to the will itself, and thereby enjoys an increase of the sensationof power which accompanies all success. "Freedom of Will"--that is theexpression for the complex state of delight of the person exercisingvolition, who commands and at the same time identifies himself withthe executor of the order--who, as such, enjoys also the triumph overobstacles, but thinks within himself that it was really his own willthat overcame them. In this way the person exercising volition adds thefeelings of delight of his successful executive instruments, the useful"underwills" or under-souls--indeed, our body is but a social structurecomposed of many souls--to his feelings of delight as commander. L'EFFETC'EST MOI. what happens here is what happens in every well-constructedand happy commonwealth, namely, that the governing class identifiesitself with the successes of the commonwealth. In all willing it isabsolutely a question of commanding and obeying, on the basis, asalready said, of a social structure composed of many "souls", on whichaccount a philosopher should claim the right to include willing-as-suchwithin the sphere of morals--regarded as the doctrine of the relationsof supremacy under which the phenomenon of "life" manifests itself.
20. That the separate philosophical ideas are not anything optional orautonomously evolving, but grow up in connection and relationship witheach other, that, however suddenly and arbitrarily they seem to appearin the history of thought, they nevertheless belong just as much toa system as the collective members of the fauna of a Continent--isbetrayed in the end by the circumstance: how unfailingly the mostdiverse philosophers always fill in again a definite fundamental schemeof POSSIBLE philosophies. Under an invisible spell, they always revolveonce more in the same orbit, however independent of each other theymay feel themselves with their critical or systematic wills, somethingwithin them leads them, something impels them in definite order theone after the other--to wit, the innate methodology and relationshipof their ideas. Their thinking is, in fact, far less a discovery than are-recognizing, a remembering, a return and a home-coming to a far-off,ancient common-household of the soul, out of which those ideas formerlygrew: philosophizing is so far a kind of atavism of the highest order.The wonderful family resemblance of all Indian, Greek, and Germanphilosophizing is easily enough explained. In fact, where there isaffinity of language, owing to the common philosophy of grammar--I meanowing to the unconscious domination and guidance of similar grammaticalfunctions--it cannot but be that everything is prepared at the outsetfor a similar development and succession of philosophical systems,just as the way seems barred against certain other possibilities ofworld-interpretation. It is highly probable that philosophers within thedomain of the Ural-Altaic languages (where the conception of the subjectis least developed) look otherwise "into the world," and will befound on paths of thought different from those of the Indo-Germans andMussulmans, the spell of certain grammatical functions is ultimatelyalso the spell of PHYSIOLOGICAL valuations and racial conditions.--Somuch by way of rejecting Locke's superficiality with regard to theorigin of ideas.
21. The CAUSA SUI is the best self-contradiction that has yet beenconceived, it is a sort of logical violation and unnaturalness; but theextravagant pride of man has managed to entangle itself profoundly andfrightfully with this very folly. The desire for "freedom of will"in the superlative, metaphysical sense, such as still holds sway,unfortunately, in the minds of the half-educated, the desire to bearthe entire and ultimate responsibility for one's actions oneself, andto absolve God, the world, ancestors, chance, and society therefrom,involves nothing less than to be precisely this CAUSA SUI, and, withmore than Munchausen daring, to pull oneself up into existence by thehair, out of the slough of nothingness. If any one should find out inthis manner the crass stupidity of the celebrated conception of "freewill" and put it out of his head altogether, I beg of him to carryhis "enlightenment" a step further, and also put out of his head thecontrary of this monstrous conception of "free will": I mean "non-freewill," which is tantamount to a misuse of cause and effect. Oneshould not wrongly MATERIALISE "cause" and "effect," as the naturalphilosophers do (and whoever like them naturalize in thinking atpresent), according to the prevailing mechanical doltishness which makesthe cause press and push until it "effects" its end; one should use"cause" and "effect" only as pure CONCEPTIONS, that is to say, asconventional fictions for the purpose of designation and mutualunderstanding,--NOT for explanation. In "being-in-itself" there isnothing of "casual-connection," of "necessity," or of "psychologicalnon-freedom"; there the effect does NOT follow the cause, there "law"does not obtain. It is WE alone who have devised cause, sequence,reciprocity, relativity, constraint, number, law, freedom, motive,and purpose; and when we interpret and intermix this symbol-world,as "being-in-itself," with things, we act once more as we have alwaysacted--MYTHOLOGICALLY. The "non-free will" is mythology; in real lifeit is only a question of STRONG and WEAK wills.--It is almost alwaysa symptom of what is lacking in himself, when a thinker, in every"causal-connection" and "psychological necessity," manifests somethingof compulsion, indigence, obsequiousness, oppression, and non-freedom;it is suspicious to have such feelings--the person betrays himself. Andin general, if I have observed correctly, the "non-freedom of the will"is regarded as a problem from two entirely opposite standpoints, butalways in a profoundly PERSONAL manner: some will not give up their"responsibility," their belief in THEMSELVES, the personal right toTHEIR merits, at any price (the vain races belong to this class); otherson the contrary, do not wish to be answerable for anything, or blamedfor anything, and owing to an inward self-contempt, seek to GET OUT OFTHE BUSINESS, no matter how. The latter, when they write books, arein the habit at present of taking the side of criminals; a sort ofsocialistic sympathy is their favourite disguise. And as a matter offact, the fatalism of the weak-willed embellishes itself surprisinglywhen it can pose as "la religion de la souffrance humaine"; that is ITS"good taste."
22. Let me be pardoned, as an old philologist who cannot desist fromthe mischief of putting his finger on bad modes of interpretation, but"Nature's conformity to law," of which you physicists talk so proudly,as though--why, it exists only owing to your interpretation and bad"philology." It is no matter of fact, no "text," but rather just anaively humanitarian adjustment and perversion of meaning, with whichyou make abundant concessions to the democratic instincts of the modernsoul! "Everywhere equality before the law--Nature is not different inthat respect, nor better than we": a fine instance of secret motive,in which the vulgar antagonism to everything privileged andautocratic--likewise a second and more refined atheism--is once moredisguised. "Ni dieu, ni maitre"--that, also, is what you want; andtherefore "Cheers for natural law!"--is it not so? But, as has beensaid, that is interpretation, not text; and somebody might come along,who, with opposite intentions and modes of interpretation, could readout of the same "Nature," and with regard to the same phenomena, justthe tyrannically inconsiderate and relentless enforcement of the claimsof power--an interpreter who should so place the unexceptionalness andunconditionalness of all "Will to Power" before your eyes, that almostevery word, and the word "tyranny" itself, would eventually seemunsuitable, or like a weakening and softening metaphor--as being toohuman; and who should, nevertheless, end by asserting the same aboutthis world as you do, namely, that it has a "necessary" and "calculable"course, NOT, however, because laws obtain in it, but because they areabsolutely LACKING, and every power effects its ultimate consequencesevery moment. Granted that this also is only interpretation--and youwill be eager enough to make this objection?--well, so much the better.
23. All psychology hitherto has run aground on moral prejudices andtimidities, it has not dared to launch out into the depths. In so faras it is allowable to recognize in that which has hitherto been written,evidence of that which has hitherto been kept silent, it seems as ifnobody had yet harboured the notion of psychology as the Morphologyand DEVELOPMENT-DOCTRINE OF THE WILL TO POWER, as I conceive of it.The power of moral prejudices has penetrated deeply into the mostintellectual world, the world apparently most indifferent andunprejudiced, and has obviously operated in an injurious, obstructive,blinding, and distorting manner. A proper physio-psychology has tocontend with unconscious antagonism in the heart of the investigator,it has "the heart" against it even a doctrine of the reciprocalconditionalness of the "good" and the "bad" impulses, causes (asrefined immorality) distress and aversion in a still strong and manlyconscience--still more so, a doctrine of the derivation of all goodimpulses from bad ones. If, however, a person should regard eventhe emotions of hatred, envy, covetousness, and imperiousnessas life-conditioning emotions, as factors which must be present,fundamentally and essentially, in the general economy of life (whichmust, therefore, be further developed if life is to be furtherdeveloped), he will suffer from such a view of things as fromsea-sickness. And yet this hypothesis is far from being the strangestand most painful in this immense and almost new domain of dangerousknowledge, and there are in fact a hundred good reasons why every oneshould keep away from it who CAN do so! On the other hand, if one hasonce drifted hither with one's bark, well! very good! now let us set ourteeth firmly! let us open our eyes and keep our hand fast on the helm!We sail away right OVER morality, we crush out, we destroy perhaps theremains of our own morality by daring to make our voyage thither--butwhat do WE matter. Never yet did a PROFOUNDER world of insight revealitself to daring travelers and adventurers, and the psychologist whothus "makes a sacrifice"--it is not the sacrifizio dell' intelletto,on the contrary!--will at least be entitled to demand in return thatpsychology shall once more be recognized as the queen of the sciences,for whose service and equipment the other sciences exist. For psychologyis once more the path to the fundamental problems.


CHAPTER II. THE FREE SPIRIT

24. O sancta simplicitas! In what strange simplification andfalsification man lives! One can never cease wondering when once one hasgot eyes for beholding this marvel! How we have made everything aroundus clear and free and easy and simple! how we have been able to giveour senses a passport to everything superficial, our thoughts a godlikedesire for wanton pranks and wrong inferences!--how from the beginning,we have contrived to retain our ignorance in order to enjoy an almostinconceivable freedom, thoughtlessness, imprudence, heartiness,and gaiety--in order to enjoy life! And only on this solidified,granite-like foundation of ignorance could knowledge rear itselfhitherto, the will to knowledge on the foundation of a far more powerfulwill, the will to ignorance, to the uncertain, to the untrue! Not asits opposite, but--as its refinement! It is to be hoped, indeed, thatLANGUAGE, here as elsewhere, will not get over its awkwardness, and thatit will continue to talk of opposites where there are only degreesand many refinements of gradation; it is equally to be hoped that theincarnated Tartuffery of morals, which now belongs to our unconquerable"flesh and blood," will turn the words round in the mouths of usdiscerning ones. Here and there we understand it, and laugh at the wayin which precisely the best knowledge seeks most to retain us in thisSIMPLIFIED, thoroughly artificial, suitably imagined, and suitablyfalsified world: at the way in which, whether it will or not, it loveserror, because, as living itself, it loves life!
25. After such a cheerful commencement, a serious word would fain beheard; it appeals to the most serious minds. Take care, ye philosophersand friends of knowledge, and beware of martyrdom! Of suffering "for thetruth's sake"! even in your own defense! It spoils all the innocenceand fine neutrality of your conscience; it makes you headstrong againstobjections and red rags; it stupefies, animalizes, and brutalizes, whenin the struggle with danger, slander, suspicion, expulsion, and evenworse consequences of enmity, ye have at last to play your last cardas protectors of truth upon earth--as though "the Truth" were such aninnocent and incompetent creature as to require protectors! and you ofall people, ye knights of the sorrowful countenance, Messrs Loafers andCobweb-spinners of the spirit! Finally, ye know sufficiently well thatit cannot be of any consequence if YE just carry your point; ye knowthat hitherto no philosopher has carried his point, and that there mightbe a more laudable truthfulness in every little interrogative markwhich you place after your special words and favourite doctrines (andoccasionally after yourselves) than in all the solemn pantomime andtrumping games before accusers and law-courts! Rather go out of the way!Flee into concealment! And have your masks and your ruses, that ye maybe mistaken for what you are, or somewhat feared! And pray, don't forgetthe garden, the garden with golden trellis-work! And have people aroundyou who are as a garden--or as music on the waters at eventide, whenalready the day becomes a memory. Choose the GOOD solitude, the free,wanton, lightsome solitude, which also gives you the right still toremain good in any sense whatsoever! How poisonous, how crafty, how bad,does every long war make one, which cannot be waged openly by meansof force! How PERSONAL does a long fear make one, a long watchingof enemies, of possible enemies! These pariahs of society, theselong-pursued, badly-persecuted ones--also the compulsory recluses, theSpinozas or Giordano Brunos--always become in the end, even under themost intellectual masquerade, and perhaps without being themselves awareof it, refined vengeance-seekers and poison-Brewers (just lay barethe foundation of Spinoza's ethics and theology!), not to speak ofthe stupidity of moral indignation, which is the unfailing sign in aphilosopher that the sense of philosophical humour has left him. Themartyrdom of the philosopher, his "sacrifice for the sake of truth,"forces into the light whatever of the agitator and actor lurks in him;and if one has hitherto contemplated him only with artistic curiosity,with regard to many a philosopher it is easy to understand the dangerousdesire to see him also in his deterioration (deteriorated into a"martyr," into a stage-and-tribune-bawler). Only, that it is necessarywith such a desire to be clear WHAT spectacle one will see in anycase--merely a satyric play, merely an epilogue farce, merely thecontinued proof that the long, real tragedy IS AT AN END, supposing thatevery philosophy has been a long tragedy in its origin.
26. Every select man strives instinctively for a citadel and a privacy,where he is FREE from the crowd, the many, the majority--where he mayforget "men who are the rule," as their exception;--exclusive only ofthe case in which he is pushed straight to such men by a still strongerinstinct, as a discerner in the great and exceptional sense. Whoever, inintercourse with men, does not occasionally glisten in all the greenand grey colours of distress, owing to disgust, satiety, sympathy,gloominess, and solitariness, is assuredly not a man of elevated tastes;supposing, however, that he does not voluntarily take all this burdenand disgust upon himself, that he persistently avoids it, and remains,as I said, quietly and proudly hidden in his citadel, one thing is thencertain: he was not made, he was not predestined for knowledge. For assuch, he would one day have to say to himself: "The devil take my goodtaste! but 'the rule' is more interesting than the exception--thanmyself, the exception!" And he would go DOWN, and above all, he wouldgo "inside." The long and serious study of the AVERAGE man--andconsequently much disguise, self-overcoming, familiarity, and badintercourse (all intercourse is bad intercourse except with one'sequals):--that constitutes a necessary part of the life-history of everyphilosopher; perhaps the most disagreeable, odious, and disappointingpart. If he is fortunate, however, as a favourite child of knowledgeshould be, he will meet with suitable auxiliaries who will shorten andlighten his task; I mean so-called cynics, those who simply recognizethe animal, the commonplace and "the rule" in themselves, and at thesame time have so much spirituality and ticklishness as to make themtalk of themselves and their like BEFORE WITNESSES--sometimes theywallow, even in books, as on their own dung-hill. Cynicism is the onlyform in which base souls approach what is called honesty; and thehigher man must open his ears to all the coarser or finer cynicism, andcongratulate himself when the clown becomes shameless right beforehim, or the scientific satyr speaks out. There are even cases whereenchantment mixes with the disgust--namely, where by a freak of nature,genius is bound to some such indiscreet billy-goat and ape, as in thecase of the Abbe Galiani, the profoundest, acutest, and perhaps alsofilthiest man of his century--he was far profounder than Voltaire, andconsequently also, a good deal more silent. It happens more frequently,as has been hinted, that a scientific head is placed on an ape's body, afine exceptional understanding in a base soul, an occurrence by no meansrare, especially among doctors and moral physiologists. And wheneveranyone speaks without bitterness, or rather quite innocently, of manas a belly with two requirements, and a head with one; whenever any onesees, seeks, and WANTS to see only hunger, sexual instinct, and vanityas the real and only motives of human actions; in short, when any onespeaks "badly"--and not even "ill"--of man, then ought the lover ofknowledge to hearken attentively and diligently; he ought, in general,to have an open ear wherever there is talk without indignation. For theindignant man, and he who perpetually tears and lacerates himself withhis own teeth (or, in place of himself, the world, God, or society),may indeed, morally speaking, stand higher than the laughing andself-satisfied satyr, but in every other sense he is the more ordinary,more indifferent, and less instructive case. And no one is such a LIARas the indignant man.
27. It is difficult to be understood, especially when one thinks andlives gangasrotogati [Footnote: Like the river Ganges: presto.] amongthose only who think and live otherwise--namely, kurmagati [Footnote:Like the tortoise: lento.], or at best "froglike," mandeikagati[Footnote: Like the frog: staccato.] (I do everything to be "difficultlyunderstood" myself!)--and one should be heartily grateful for thegood will to some refinement of interpretation. As regards "the goodfriends," however, who are always too easy-going, and think that asfriends they have a right to ease, one does well at the very first togrant them a play-ground and romping-place for misunderstanding--one canthus laugh still; or get rid of them altogether, these good friends--andlaugh then also!
28. What is most difficult to render from one language into anotheris the TEMPO of its style, which has its basis in the character of therace, or to speak more physiologically, in the average TEMPO of theassimilation of its nutriment. There are honestly meant translations,which, as involuntary vulgarizations, are almost falsifications of theoriginal, merely because its lively and merry TEMPO (which overleaps andobviates all dangers in word and expression) could not also berendered. A German is almost incapacitated for PRESTO in his language;consequently also, as may be reasonably inferred, for many of the mostdelightful and daring NUANCES of free, free-spirited thought. And justas the buffoon and satyr are foreign to him in body and conscience,so Aristophanes and Petronius are untranslatable for him. Everythingponderous, viscous, and pompously clumsy, all long-winded and wearyingspecies of style, are developed in profuse variety among Germans--pardonme for stating the fact that even Goethe's prose, in its mixture ofstiffness and elegance, is no exception, as a reflection of the "goodold time" to which it belongs, and as an expression of German taste at atime when there was still a "German taste," which was a rococo-tastein moribus et artibus. Lessing is an exception, owing to his histrionicnature, which understood much, and was versed in many things; he who wasnot the translator of Bayle to no purpose, who took refuge willingly inthe shadow of Diderot and Voltaire, and still more willingly among theRoman comedy-writers--Lessing loved also free-spiritism in the TEMPO,and flight out of Germany. But how could the German language, evenin the prose of Lessing, imitate the TEMPO of Machiavelli, who in his"Principe" makes us breathe the dry, fine air of Florence, and cannothelp presenting the most serious events in a boisterous allegrissimo,perhaps not without a malicious artistic sense of the contrast heventures to present--long, heavy, difficult, dangerous thoughts, anda TEMPO of the gallop, and of the best, wantonest humour? Finally, whowould venture on a German translation of Petronius, who, more than anygreat musician hitherto, was a master of PRESTO in invention, ideas, andwords? What matter in the end about the swamps of the sick, evil world,or of the "ancient world," when like him, one has the feet of a wind,the rush, the breath, the emancipating scorn of a wind, which makeseverything healthy, by making everything RUN! And with regard toAristophanes--that transfiguring, complementary genius, for whosesake one PARDONS all Hellenism for having existed, provided one hasunderstood in its full profundity ALL that there requires pardon andtransfiguration; there is nothing that has caused me to meditate more onPLATO'S secrecy and sphinx-like nature, than the happily preserved petitfait that under the pillow of his death-bed there was found no"Bible," nor anything Egyptian, Pythagorean, or Platonic--but a book ofAristophanes. How could even Plato have endured life--a Greek life whichhe repudiated--without an Aristophanes!
29. It is the business of the very few to be independent; it is aprivilege of the strong. And whoever attempts it, even with the bestright, but without being OBLIGED to do so, proves that he is probablynot only strong, but also daring beyond measure. He enters into alabyrinth, he multiplies a thousandfold the dangers which life in itselfalready brings with it; not the least of which is that no one can seehow and where he loses his way, becomes isolated, and is torn piecemealby some minotaur of conscience. Supposing such a one comes to grief, itis so far from the comprehension of men that they neither feel it, norsympathize with it. And he cannot any longer go back! He cannot even goback again to the sympathy of men!
30. Our deepest insights must--and should--appear as follies, and undercertain circumstances as crimes, when they come unauthorizedly tothe ears of those who are not disposed and predestined for them. Theexoteric and the esoteric, as they were formerly distinguished byphilosophers--among the Indians, as among the Greeks, Persians, andMussulmans, in short, wherever people believed in gradations of rank andNOT in equality and equal rights--are not so much in contradistinctionto one another in respect to the exoteric class, standing without, andviewing, estimating, measuring, and judging from the outside, and notfrom the inside; the more essential distinction is that the class inquestion views things from below upwards--while the esoteric class viewsthings FROM ABOVE DOWNWARDS. There are heights of the soul from whichtragedy itself no longer appears to operate tragically; and if all thewoe in the world were taken together, who would dare to decide whetherthe sight of it would NECESSARILY seduce and constrain to sympathy, andthus to a doubling of the woe?... That which serves the higher class ofmen for nourishment or refreshment, must be almost poison to an entirelydifferent and lower order of human beings. The virtues of the commonman would perhaps mean vice and weakness in a philosopher; it might bepossible for a highly developed man, supposing him to degenerate and goto ruin, to acquire qualities thereby alone, for the sake of which hewould have to be honoured as a saint in the lower world into which hehad sunk. There are books which have an inverse value for the soul andthe health according as the inferior soul and the lower vitality, or thehigher and more powerful, make use of them. In the former case they aredangerous, disturbing, unsettling books, in the latter case they areherald-calls which summon the bravest to THEIR bravery. Books for thegeneral reader are always ill-smelling books, the odour of paltry peopleclings to them. Where the populace eat and drink, and even where theyreverence, it is accustomed to stink. One should not go into churches ifone wishes to breathe PURE air.
31. In our youthful years we still venerate and despise without the artof NUANCE, which is the best gain of life, and we have rightly to dohard penance for having fallen upon men and things with Yea and Nay.Everything is so arranged that the worst of all tastes, THE TASTE FORTHE UNCONDITIONAL, is cruelly befooled and abused, until a man learnsto introduce a little art into his sentiments, and prefers to tryconclusions with the artificial, as do the real artists of life. Theangry and reverent spirit peculiar to youth appears to allow itself nopeace, until it has suitably falsified men and things, to be ableto vent its passion upon them: youth in itself even, is somethingfalsifying and deceptive. Later on, when the young soul, tortured bycontinual disillusions, finally turns suspiciously against itself--stillardent and savage even in its suspicion and remorse of conscience: howit upbraids itself, how impatiently it tears itself, how it revengesitself for its long self-blinding, as though it had been a voluntaryblindness! In this transition one punishes oneself by distrust of one'ssentiments; one tortures one's enthusiasm with doubt, one feels even thegood conscience to be a danger, as if it were the self-concealment andlassitude of a more refined uprightness; and above all, one espousesupon principle the cause AGAINST "youth."--A decade later, and onecomprehends that all this was also still--youth!
32. Throughout the longest period of human history--one calls it theprehistoric period--the value or non-value of an action was inferredfrom its CONSEQUENCES; the action in itself was not taken intoconsideration, any more than its origin; but pretty much as in China atpresent, where the distinction or disgrace of a child redounds toits parents, the retro-operating power of success or failure was whatinduced men to think well or ill of an action. Let us call this periodthe PRE-MORAL period of mankind; the imperative, "Know thyself!" wasthen still unknown.--In the last ten thousand years, on the other hand,on certain large portions of the earth, one has gradually got so far,that one no longer lets the consequences of an action, but its origin,decide with regard to its worth: a great achievement as a whole, animportant refinement of vision and of criterion, the unconscious effectof the supremacy of aristocratic values and of the belief in "origin,"the mark of a period which may be designated in the narrower sense asthe MORAL one: the first attempt at self-knowledge is therebymade. Instead of the consequences, the origin--what an inversionof perspective! And assuredly an inversion effected only after longstruggle and wavering! To be sure, an ominous new superstition, apeculiar narrowness of interpretation, attained supremacy preciselythereby: the origin of an action was interpreted in the most definitesense possible, as origin out of an INTENTION; people were agreed in thebelief that the value of an action lay in the value of its intention.The intention as the sole origin and antecedent history of an action:under the influence of this prejudice moral praise and blame have beenbestowed, and men have judged and even philosophized almost up to thepresent day.--Is it not possible, however, that the necessity may nowhave arisen of again making up our minds with regard to the reversingand fundamental shifting of values, owing to a new self-consciousnessand acuteness in man--is it not possible that we may be standing onthe threshold of a period which to begin with, would be distinguishednegatively as ULTRA-MORAL: nowadays when, at least among us immoralists,the suspicion arises that the decisive value of an action lies preciselyin that which is NOT INTENTIONAL, and that all its intentionalness, allthat is seen, sensible, or "sensed" in it, belongs to its surface orskin--which, like every skin, betrays something, but CONCEALS stillmore? In short, we believe that the intention is only a sign or symptom,which first requires an explanation--a sign, moreover, which has toomany interpretations, and consequently hardly any meaning in itselfalone: that morality, in the sense in which it has been understoodhitherto, as intention-morality, has been a prejudice, perhaps aprematureness or preliminariness, probably something of the same rankas astrology and alchemy, but in any case something which must besurmounted. The surmounting of morality, in a certain sense even theself-mounting of morality--let that be the name for the long-secretlabour which has been reserved for the most refined, the most upright,and also the most wicked consciences of today, as the living touchstonesof the soul.
33. It cannot be helped: the sentiment of surrender, of sacrifice forone's neighbour, and all self-renunciation-morality, must be mercilesslycalled to account, and brought to judgment; just as the aestheticsof "disinterested contemplation," under which the emasculation of artnowadays seeks insidiously enough to create itself a good conscience.There is far too much witchery and sugar in the sentiments "for others"and "NOT for myself," for one not needing to be doubly distrustful here,and for one asking promptly: "Are they not perhaps--DECEPTIONS?"--Thatthey PLEASE--him who has them, and him who enjoys their fruit, and alsothe mere spectator--that is still no argument in their FAVOUR, but justcalls for caution. Let us therefore be cautious!
34. At whatever standpoint of philosophy one may place oneself nowadays,seen from every position, the ERRONEOUSNESS of the world in which wethink we live is the surest and most certain thing our eyes can lightupon: we find proof after proof thereof, which would fain allure us intosurmises concerning a deceptive principle in the "nature of things."He, however, who makes thinking itself, and consequently "the spirit,"responsible for the falseness of the world--an honourable exit, whichevery conscious or unconscious advocatus dei avails himself of--hewho regards this world, including space, time, form, and movement, asfalsely DEDUCED, would have at least good reason in the end to becomedistrustful also of all thinking; has it not hitherto been playing uponus the worst of scurvy tricks? and what guarantee would it give thatit would not continue to do what it has always been doing? In allseriousness, the innocence of thinkers has something touching andrespect-inspiring in it, which even nowadays permits them to wait uponconsciousness with the request that it will give them HONEST answers:for example, whether it be "real" or not, and why it keeps the outerworld so resolutely at a distance, and other questions of the samedescription. The belief in "immediate certainties" is a MORAL NAIVETEwhich does honour to us philosophers; but--we have now to cease being"MERELY moral" men! Apart from morality, such belief is a folly whichdoes little honour to us! If in middle-class life an ever-ready distrustis regarded as the sign of a "bad character," and consequently as animprudence, here among us, beyond the middle-class world and its Yeasand Nays, what should prevent our being imprudent and saying: thephilosopher has at length a RIGHT to "bad character," as the being whohas hitherto been most befooled on earth--he is now under OBLIGATIONto distrustfulness, to the wickedest squinting out of every abyss ofsuspicion.--Forgive me the joke of this gloomy grimace and turn ofexpression; for I myself have long ago learned to think and estimatedifferently with regard to deceiving and being deceived, and I keep atleast a couple of pokes in the ribs ready for the blind rage with whichphilosophers struggle against being deceived. Why NOT? It is nothingmore than a moral prejudice that truth is worth more than semblance; itis, in fact, the worst proved supposition in the world. So much must beconceded: there could have been no life at all except upon the basisof perspective estimates and semblances; and if, with the virtuousenthusiasm and stupidity of many philosophers, one wished to do awayaltogether with the "seeming world"--well, granted that YOU could dothat,--at least nothing of your "truth" would thereby remain! Indeed,what is it that forces us in general to the supposition that there is anessential opposition of "true" and "false"? Is it not enough to supposedegrees of seemingness, and as it were lighter and darker shades andtones of semblance--different valeurs, as the painters say? Why mightnot the world WHICH CONCERNS US--be a fiction? And to any one whosuggested: "But to a fiction belongs an originator?"--might it not bebluntly replied: WHY? May not this "belong" also belong to the fiction?Is it not at length permitted to be a little ironical towards thesubject, just as towards the predicate and object? Might not thephilosopher elevate himself above faith in grammar? All respectto governesses, but is it not time that philosophy should renouncegoverness-faith?
35. O Voltaire! O humanity! O idiocy! There is something ticklish in"the truth," and in the SEARCH for the truth; and if man goes about ittoo humanely--"il ne cherche le vrai que pour faire le bien"--I wager hefinds nothing!
36. Supposing that nothing else is "given" as real but our world ofdesires and passions, that we cannot sink or rise to any other "reality"but just that of our impulses--for thinking is only a relation of theseimpulses to one another:--are we not permitted to make the attempt andto ask the question whether this which is "given" does not SUFFICE, bymeans of our counterparts, for the understanding even of the so-calledmechanical (or "material") world? I do not mean as an illusion, a"semblance," a "representation" (in the Berkeleyan and Schopenhaueriansense), but as possessing the same degree of reality as our emotionsthemselves--as a more primitive form of the world of emotions, inwhich everything still lies locked in a mighty unity, which afterwardsbranches off and develops itself in organic processes (naturally also,refines and debilitates)--as a kind of instinctive life in which allorganic functions, including self-regulation, assimilation, nutrition,secretion, and change of matter, are still synthetically united withone another--as a PRIMARY FORM of life?--In the end, it is not onlypermitted to make this attempt, it is commanded by the conscience ofLOGICAL METHOD. Not to assume several kinds of causality, so long asthe attempt to get along with a single one has not been pushed to itsfurthest extent (to absurdity, if I may be allowed to say so): that isa morality of method which one may not repudiate nowadays--it follows"from its definition," as mathematicians say. The question is ultimatelywhether we really recognize the will as OPERATING, whether we believe inthe causality of the will; if we do so--and fundamentally our belief INTHIS is just our belief in causality itself--we MUST make the attemptto posit hypothetically the causality of the will as the only causality."Will" can naturally only operate on "will"--and not on "matter" (noton "nerves," for instance): in short, the hypothesis must behazarded, whether will does not operate on will wherever "effects"are recognized--and whether all mechanical action, inasmuch as a poweroperates therein, is not just the power of will, the effect of will.Granted, finally, that we succeeded in explaining our entire instinctivelife as the development and ramification of one fundamental form ofwill--namely, the Will to Power, as my thesis puts it; granted that allorganic functions could be traced back to this Will to Power, and thatthe solution of the problem of generation and nutrition--it is oneproblem--could also be found therein: one would thus have acquired theright to define ALL active force unequivocally as WILL TO POWER. Theworld seen from within, the world defined and designated according toits "intelligible character"--it would simply be "Will to Power," andnothing else.
37. "What? Does not that mean in popular language: God is disproved, butnot the devil?"--On the contrary! On the contrary, my friends! And whothe devil also compels you to speak popularly!
38. As happened finally in all the enlightenment of modern times withthe French Revolution (that terrible farce, quite superfluous whenjudged close at hand, into which, however, the noble and visionaryspectators of all Europe have interpreted from a distance their ownindignation and enthusiasm so long and passionately, UNTIL THE TEXT HASDISAPPEARED UNDER THE INTERPRETATION), so a noble posterity might oncemore misunderstand the whole of the past, and perhaps only thereby makeITS aspect endurable.--Or rather, has not this already happened? Havenot we ourselves been--that "noble posterity"? And, in so far as we nowcomprehend this, is it not--thereby already past?
39. Nobody will very readily regard a doctrine as true merely becauseit makes people happy or virtuous--excepting, perhaps, the amiable"Idealists," who are enthusiastic about the good, true, and beautiful,and let all kinds of motley, coarse, and good-natured desirabilitiesswim about promiscuously in their pond. Happiness and virtue are noarguments. It is willingly forgotten, however, even on the part ofthoughtful minds, that to make unhappy and to make bad are just aslittle counter-arguments. A thing could be TRUE, although it were inthe highest degree injurious and dangerous; indeed, the fundamentalconstitution of existence might be such that one succumbed by a fullknowledge of it--so that the strength of a mind might be measured bythe amount of "truth" it could endure--or to speak more plainly, by theextent to which it REQUIRED truth attenuated, veiled, sweetened, damped,and falsified. But there is no doubt that for the discovery of certainPORTIONS of truth the wicked and unfortunate are more favourablysituated and have a greater likelihood of success; not to speak of thewicked who are happy--a species about whom moralists are silent. Perhapsseverity and craft are more favourable conditions for the development ofstrong, independent spirits and philosophers than the gentle, refined,yielding good-nature, and habit of taking things easily, which areprized, and rightly prized in a learned man. Presupposing always,to begin with, that the term "philosopher" be not confined to thephilosopher who writes books, or even introduces HIS philosophy intobooks!--Stendhal furnishes a last feature of the portrait of thefree-spirited philosopher, which for the sake of German taste I willnot omit to underline--for it is OPPOSED to German taste. "Pour etrebon philosophe," says this last great psychologist, "il faut etre sec,clair, sans illusion. Un banquier, qui a fait fortune, a une partie ducaractere requis pour faire des decouvertes en philosophie, c'est-a-direpour voir clair dans ce qui est."
40. Everything that is profound loves the mask: the profoundest thingshave a hatred even of figure and likeness. Should not the CONTRARY onlybe the right disguise for the shame of a God to go about in? A questionworth asking!--it would be strange if some mystic has not alreadyventured on the same kind of thing. There are proceedings of such adelicate nature that it is well to overwhelm them with coarsenessand make them unrecognizable; there are actions of love and of anextravagant magnanimity after which nothing can be wiser than to takea stick and thrash the witness soundly: one thereby obscures hisrecollection. Many a one is able to obscure and abuse his own memory, inorder at least to have vengeance on this sole party in the secret:shame is inventive. They are not the worst things of which one ismost ashamed: there is not only deceit behind a mask--there is so muchgoodness in craft. I could imagine that a man with something costly andfragile to conceal, would roll through life clumsily and rotundly likean old, green, heavily-hooped wine-cask: the refinement of his shamerequiring it to be so. A man who has depths in his shame meets hisdestiny and his delicate decisions upon paths which few ever reach,and with regard to the existence of which his nearest and most intimatefriends may be ignorant; his mortal danger conceals itself from theireyes, and equally so his regained security. Such a hidden nature,which instinctively employs speech for silence and concealment, and isinexhaustible in evasion of communication, DESIRES and insists that amask of himself shall occupy his place in the hearts and heads of hisfriends; and supposing he does not desire it, his eyes will some day beopened to the fact that there is nevertheless a mask of him there--andthat it is well to be so. Every profound spirit needs a mask; nay, more,around every profound spirit there continually grows a mask, owing tothe constantly false, that is to say, SUPERFICIAL interpretationof every word he utters, every step he takes, every sign of life hemanifests.
41. One must subject oneself to one's own tests that one is destinedfor independence and command, and do so at the right time. One must notavoid one's tests, although they constitute perhaps the most dangerousgame one can play, and are in the end tests made only before ourselvesand before no other judge. Not to cleave to any person, be it even thedearest--every person is a prison and also a recess. Not to cleave toa fatherland, be it even the most suffering and necessitous--it is evenless difficult to detach one's heart from a victorious fatherland. Notto cleave to a sympathy, be it even for higher men, into whose peculiartorture and helplessness chance has given us an insight. Not to cleaveto a science, though it tempt one with the most valuable discoveries,apparently specially reserved for us. Not to cleave to one's ownliberation, to the voluptuous distance and remoteness of the bird, whichalways flies further aloft in order always to see more under it--thedanger of the flier. Not to cleave to our own virtues, nor become asa whole a victim to any of our specialties, to our "hospitality" forinstance, which is the danger of dangers for highly developedand wealthy souls, who deal prodigally, almost indifferently withthemselves, and push the virtue of liberality so far that it becomesa vice. One must know how TO CONSERVE ONESELF--the best test ofindependence.
42. A new order of philosophers is appearing; I shall venture to baptizethem by a name not without danger. As far as I understand them, as faras they allow themselves to be understood--for it is their nature toWISH to remain something of a puzzle--these philosophers of thefuture might rightly, perhaps also wrongly, claim to be designated as"tempters." This name itself is after all only an attempt, or, if it bepreferred, a temptation.
43. Will they be new friends of "truth," these coming philosophers? Veryprobably, for all philosophers hitherto have loved their truths. Butassuredly they will not be dogmatists. It must be contrary to theirpride, and also contrary to their taste, that their truth should stillbe truth for every one--that which has hitherto been the secret wishand ultimate purpose of all dogmatic efforts. "My opinion is MY opinion:another person has not easily a right to it"--such a philosopher of thefuture will say, perhaps. One must renounce the bad taste of wishing toagree with many people. "Good" is no longer good when one's neighbourtakes it into his mouth. And how could there be a "common good"! Theexpression contradicts itself; that which can be common is always ofsmall value. In the end things must be as they are and have alwaysbeen--the great things remain for the great, the abysses for theprofound, the delicacies and thrills for the refined, and, to sum upshortly, everything rare for the rare.

44. Need I say expressly after all this that they will be free, VERYfree spirits, these philosophers of the future--as certainly also theywill not be merely free spirits, but something more, higher, greater,and fundamentally different, which does not wish to be misunderstood andmistaken? But while I say this, I feel under OBLIGATION almost as muchto them as to ourselves (we free spirits who are their heralds andforerunners), to sweep away from ourselves altogether a stupid oldprejudice and misunderstanding, which, like a fog, has too long made theconception of "free spirit" obscure. In every country of Europe, and thesame in America, there is at present something which makes an abuse ofthis name a very narrow, prepossessed, enchained class of spirits,who desire almost the opposite of what our intentions and instinctsprompt--not to mention that in respect to the NEW philosophers who areappearing, they must still more be closed windows and bolted doors.Briefly and regrettably, they belong to the LEVELLERS, these wronglynamed "free spirits"--as glib-tongued and scribe-fingered slaves ofthe democratic taste and its "modern ideas" all of them men withoutsolitude, without personal solitude, blunt honest fellows to whomneither courage nor honourable conduct ought to be denied, only, theyare not free, and are ludicrously superficial, especially in theirinnate partiality for seeing the cause of almost ALL human misery andfailure in the old forms in which society has hitherto existed--a notionwhich happily inverts the truth entirely! What they would fain attainwith all their strength, is the universal, green-meadow happiness of theherd, together with security, safety, comfort, and alleviation of lifefor every one, their two most frequently chanted songs and doctrinesare called "Equality of Rights" and "Sympathy with All Sufferers"--andsuffering itself is looked upon by them as something which must beDONE AWAY WITH. We opposite ones, however, who have opened our eye andconscience to the question how and where the plant "man" has hithertogrown most vigorously, believe that this has always taken place underthe opposite conditions, that for this end the dangerousness of hissituation had to be increased enormously, his inventive faculty anddissembling power (his "spirit") had to develop into subtlety and daringunder long oppression and compulsion, and his Will to Life had to beincreased to the unconditioned Will to Power--we believe that severity,violence, slavery, danger in the street and in the heart, secrecy,stoicism, tempter's art and devilry of every kind,--that everythingwicked, terrible, tyrannical, predatory, and serpentine in man, servesas well for the elevation of the human species as its opposite--we donot even say enough when we only say THIS MUCH, and in any case wefind ourselves here, both with our speech and our silence, at the OTHERextreme of all modern ideology and gregarious desirability, as theirantipodes perhaps? What wonder that we "free spirits" are not exactlythe most communicative spirits? that we do not wish to betray in everyrespect WHAT a spirit can free itself from, and WHERE perhaps it willthen be driven? And as to the import of the dangerous formula, "BeyondGood and Evil," with which we at least avoid confusion, we ARE somethingelse than "libres-penseurs," "liben pensatori" "free-thinkers,"and whatever these honest advocates of "modern ideas" like to callthemselves. Having been at home, or at least guests, in many realms ofthe spirit, having escaped again and again from the gloomy, agreeablenooks in which preferences and prejudices, youth, origin, the accidentof men and books, or even the weariness of travel seemed to confine us,full of malice against the seductions of dependency which he concealedin honours, money, positions, or exaltation of the senses, grateful evenfor distress and the vicissitudes of illness, because they always freeus from some rule, and its "prejudice," grateful to the God, devil,sheep, and worm in us, inquisitive to a fault, investigators to thepoint of cruelty, with unhesitating fingers for the intangible, withteeth and stomachs for the most indigestible, ready for any businessthat requires sagacity and acute senses, ready for every adventure,owing to an excess of "free will", with anterior and posterior souls,into the ultimate intentions of which it is difficult to pry, withforegrounds and backgrounds to the end of which no foot may run, hiddenones under the mantles of light, appropriators, although we resembleheirs and spendthrifts, arrangers and collectors from morning tillnight, misers of our wealth and our full-crammed drawers, economicalin learning and forgetting, inventive in scheming, sometimes proud oftables of categories, sometimes pedants, sometimes night-owls ofwork even in full day, yea, if necessary, even scarecrows--and it isnecessary nowadays, that is to say, inasmuch as we are the born, sworn,jealous friends of SOLITUDE, of our own profoundest midnight and middaysolitude--such kind of men are we, we free spirits! And perhaps ye arealso something of the same kind, ye coming ones? ye NEW philosophers?


CHAPTER III. THE RELIGIOUS MOOD

45. The human soul and its limits, the range of man's inner experienceshitherto attained, the heights, depths, and distances of theseexperiences, the entire history of the soul UP TO THE PRESENT TIME,and its still unexhausted possibilities: this is the preordainedhunting-domain for a born psychologist and lover of a "big hunt". Buthow often must he say despairingly to himself: "A single individual!alas, only a single individual! and this great forest, this virginforest!" So he would like to have some hundreds of hunting assistants,and fine trained hounds, that he could send into the history of thehuman soul, to drive HIS game together. In vain: again and again heexperiences, profoundly and bitterly, how difficult it is to findassistants and dogs for all the things that directly excite hiscuriosity. The evil of sending scholars into new and dangeroushunting-domains, where courage, sagacity, and subtlety in every senseare required, is that they are no longer serviceable just when the "BIGhunt," and also the great danger commences,--it is precisely then thatthey lose their keen eye and nose. In order, for instance, to divine anddetermine what sort of history the problem of KNOWLEDGE AND CONSCIENCEhas hitherto had in the souls of homines religiosi, a person wouldperhaps himself have to possess as profound, as bruised, as immense anexperience as the intellectual conscience of Pascal; and then he wouldstill require that wide-spread heaven of clear, wicked spirituality,which, from above, would be able to oversee, arrange, and effectivelyformulize this mass of dangerous and painful experiences.--But whocould do me this service! And who would have time to wait for suchservants!--they evidently appear too rarely, they are so improbable atall times! Eventually one must do everything ONESELF in order to knowsomething; which means that one has MUCH to do!--But a curiosity likemine is once for all the most agreeable of vices--pardon me! I mean tosay that the love of truth has its reward in heaven, and already uponearth.
46. Faith, such as early Christianity desired, and not infrequentlyachieved in the midst of a skeptical and southernly free-spirited world,which had centuries of struggle between philosophical schools behindit and in it, counting besides the education in tolerance whichthe Imperium Romanum gave--this faith is NOT that sincere, austereslave-faith by which perhaps a Luther or a Cromwell, or some othernorthern barbarian of the spirit remained attached to his God andChristianity, it is much rather the faith of Pascal, which resembles ina terrible manner a continuous suicide of reason--a tough, long-lived,worm-like reason, which is not to be slain at once and with a singleblow. The Christian faith from the beginning, is sacrifice the sacrificeof all freedom, all pride, all self-confidence of spirit, it is atthe same time subjection, self-derision, and self-mutilation. There iscruelty and religious Phoenicianism in this faith, which is adapted to atender, many-sided, and very fastidious conscience, it takes for grantedthat the subjection of the spirit is indescribably PAINFUL, that all thepast and all the habits of such a spirit resist the absurdissimum, inthe form of which "faith" comes to it. Modern men, with their obtusenessas regards all Christian nomenclature, have no longer the sense for theterribly superlative conception which was implied to an antique taste bythe paradox of the formula, "God on the Cross". Hitherto there had neverand nowhere been such boldness in inversion, nor anything at once sodreadful, questioning, and questionable as this formula: it promised atransvaluation of all ancient values--It was the Orient, the PROFOUNDOrient, it was the Oriental slave who thus took revenge on Rome and itsnoble, light-minded toleration, on the Roman "Catholicism" of non-faith,and it was always not the faith, but the freedom from the faith, thehalf-stoical and smiling indifference to the seriousness of the faith,which made the slaves indignant at their masters and revolt againstthem. "Enlightenment" causes revolt, for the slave desires theunconditioned, he understands nothing but the tyrannous, even in morals,he loves as he hates, without NUANCE, to the very depths, to the pointof pain, to the point of sickness--his many HIDDEN sufferings makehim revolt against the noble taste which seems to DENY suffering. Theskepticism with regard to suffering, fundamentally only an attitude ofaristocratic morality, was not the least of the causes, also, of thelast great slave-insurrection which began with the French Revolution.
47. Wherever the religious neurosis has appeared on the earth so far,we find it connected with three dangerous prescriptions as to regimen:solitude, fasting, and sexual abstinence--but without its being possibleto determine with certainty which is cause and which is effect, or IFany relation at all of cause and effect exists there. This latter doubtis justified by the fact that one of the most regular symptoms amongsavage as well as among civilized peoples is the most sudden andexcessive sensuality, which then with equal suddenness transforms intopenitential paroxysms, world-renunciation, and will-renunciation, bothsymptoms perhaps explainable as disguised epilepsy? But nowhere is itMORE obligatory to put aside explanations around no other type has theregrown such a mass of absurdity and superstition, no other type seems tohave been more interesting to men and even to philosophers--perhaps itis time to become just a little indifferent here, to learn caution, or,better still, to look AWAY, TO GO AWAY--Yet in the background of themost recent philosophy, that of Schopenhauer, we find almost as theproblem in itself, this terrible note of interrogation of the religiouscrisis and awakening. How is the negation of will POSSIBLE? how is thesaint possible?--that seems to have been the very question with whichSchopenhauer made a start and became a philosopher. And thus it was agenuine Schopenhauerian consequence, that his most convinced adherent(perhaps also his last, as far as Germany is concerned), namely, RichardWagner, should bring his own life-work to an end just here, and shouldfinally put that terrible and eternal type upon the stage as Kundry,type vecu, and as it loved and lived, at the very time that themad-doctors in almost all European countries had an opportunity to studythe type close at hand, wherever the religious neurosis--or as I callit, "the religious mood"--made its latest epidemical outbreak anddisplay as the "Salvation Army"--If it be a question, however, as towhat has been so extremely interesting to men of all sorts in all ages,and even to philosophers, in the whole phenomenon of the saint, itis undoubtedly the appearance of the miraculous therein--namely, theimmediate SUCCESSION OF OPPOSITES, of states of the soul regarded asmorally antithetical: it was believed here to be self-evident thata "bad man" was all at once turned into a "saint," a good man. Thehitherto existing psychology was wrecked at this point, is it notpossible it may have happened principally because psychology had placeditself under the dominion of morals, because it BELIEVED in oppositionsof moral values, and saw, read, and INTERPRETED these oppositionsinto the text and facts of the case? What? "Miracle" only an error ofinterpretation? A lack of philology?
48. It seems that the Latin races are far more deeply attached to theirCatholicism than we Northerners are to Christianity generally, andthat consequently unbelief in Catholic countries means something quitedifferent from what it does among Protestants--namely, a sort of revoltagainst the spirit of the race, while with us it is rather a return tothe spirit (or non-spirit) of the race.
We Northerners undoubtedly derive our origin from barbarous races, evenas regards our talents for religion--we have POOR talents for it. Onemay make an exception in the case of the Celts, who have theretoforefurnished also the best soil for Christian infection in the North: theChristian ideal blossomed forth in France as much as ever the pale sunof the north would allow it. How strangely pious for our taste are stillthese later French skeptics, whenever there is any Celtic blood in theirorigin! How Catholic, how un-German does Auguste Comte's Sociologyseem to us, with the Roman logic of its instincts! How Jesuitical, thatamiable and shrewd cicerone of Port Royal, Sainte-Beuve, in spite of allhis hostility to Jesuits! And even Ernest Renan: how inaccessible tous Northerners does the language of such a Renan appear, in whomevery instant the merest touch of religious thrill throws his refinedvoluptuous and comfortably couching soul off its balance! Let us repeatafter him these fine sentences--and what wickedness and haughtiness isimmediately aroused by way of answer in our probably less beautiful butharder souls, that is to say, in our more German souls!--"DISONS DONCHARDIMENT QUE LA RELIGION EST UN PRODUIT DE L'HOMME NORMAL, QUE L'HOMMEEST LE PLUS DANS LE VRAI QUANT IL EST LE PLUS RELIGIEUX ET LE PLUSASSURE D'UNE DESTINEE INFINIE.... C'EST QUAND IL EST BON QU'IL VEUT QUELA VIRTU CORRESPONDE A UN ORDER ETERNAL, C'EST QUAND IL CONTEMPLE LESCHOSES D'UNE MANIERE DESINTERESSEE QU'IL TROUVE LA MORT REVOLTANTE ETABSURDE. COMMENT NE PAS SUPPOSER QUE C'EST DANS CES MOMENTS-LA, QUEL'HOMME VOIT LE MIEUX?"... These sentences are so extremely ANTIPODALto my ears and habits of thought, that in my first impulse of rageon finding them, I wrote on the margin, "LA NIAISERIE RELIGIEUSE PAREXCELLENCE!"--until in my later rage I even took a fancy to them, thesesentences with their truth absolutely inverted! It is so nice and such adistinction to have one's own antipodes!
49. That which is so astonishing in the religious life of the ancientGreeks is the irrestrainable stream of GRATITUDE which it poursforth--it is a very superior kind of man who takes SUCH an attitudetowards nature and life.--Later on, when the populace got the upper handin Greece, FEAR became rampant also in religion; and Christianity waspreparing itself.
50. The passion for God: there are churlish, honest-hearted, andimportunate kinds of it, like that of Luther--the whole of Protestantismlacks the southern DELICATEZZA. There is an Oriental exaltation of themind in it, like that of an undeservedly favoured or elevated slave, asin the case of St. Augustine, for instance, who lacks in an offensivemanner, all nobility in bearing and desires. There is a femininetenderness and sensuality in it, which modestly and unconsciously longsfor a UNIO MYSTICA ET PHYSICA, as in the case of Madame de Guyon. Inmany cases it appears, curiously enough, as the disguise of a girl'sor youth's puberty; here and there even as the hysteria of an old maid,also as her last ambition. The Church has frequently canonized the womanin such a case.
51. The mightiest men have hitherto always bowed reverently beforethe saint, as the enigma of self-subjugation and utter voluntaryprivation--why did they thus bow? They divined in him--and as it werebehind the questionableness of his frail and wretched appearance--thesuperior force which wished to test itself by such a subjugation; thestrength of will, in which they recognized their own strength andlove of power, and knew how to honour it: they honoured somethingin themselves when they honoured the saint. In addition to this, thecontemplation of the saint suggested to them a suspicion: such anenormity of self-negation and anti-naturalness will not have beencoveted for nothing--they have said, inquiringly. There is perhaps areason for it, some very great danger, about which the ascetic mightwish to be more accurately informed through his secret interlocutors andvisitors? In a word, the mighty ones of the world learned to have a newfear before him, they divined a new power, a strange, still unconqueredenemy:--it was the "Will to Power" which obliged them to halt before thesaint. They had to question him.
52. In the Jewish "Old Testament," the book of divine justice, there aremen, things, and sayings on such an immense scale, that Greek and Indianliterature has nothing to compare with it. One stands with fear andreverence before those stupendous remains of what man was formerly, andone has sad thoughts about old Asia and its little out-pushed peninsulaEurope, which would like, by all means, to figure before Asia as the"Progress of Mankind." To be sure, he who is himself only a slender,tame house-animal, and knows only the wants of a house-animal (likeour cultured people of today, including the Christians of "cultured"Christianity), need neither be amazed nor even sad amid those ruins--thetaste for the Old Testament is a touchstone with respect to "great" and"small": perhaps he will find that the New Testament, the book of grace,still appeals more to his heart (there is much of the odour of thegenuine, tender, stupid beadsman and petty soul in it). To have boundup this New Testament (a kind of ROCOCO of taste in every respect) alongwith the Old Testament into one book, as the "Bible," as "The Book inItself," is perhaps the greatest audacity and "sin against the Spirit"which literary Europe has upon its conscience.
53. Why Atheism nowadays? "The father" in God is thoroughly refuted;equally so "the judge," "the rewarder." Also his "free will": he doesnot hear--and even if he did, he would not know how to help. The worstis that he seems incapable of communicating himself clearly; is heuncertain?--This is what I have made out (by questioning and listeningat a variety of conversations) to be the cause of the decline ofEuropean theism; it appears to me that though the religious instinct isin vigorous growth,--it rejects the theistic satisfaction with profounddistrust.
54. What does all modern philosophy mainly do? Since Descartes--andindeed more in defiance of him than on the basis of his procedure--anATTENTAT has been made on the part of all philosophers on the oldconception of the soul, under the guise of a criticism of the subjectand predicate conception--that is to say, an ATTENTAT on thefundamental presupposition of Christian doctrine. Modern philosophy,as epistemological skepticism, is secretly or openly ANTI-CHRISTIAN,although (for keener ears, be it said) by no means anti-religious.Formerly, in effect, one believed in "the soul" as one believed ingrammar and the grammatical subject: one said, "I" is the condition,"think" is the predicate and is conditioned--to think is an activity forwhich one MUST suppose a subject as cause. The attempt was then made,with marvelous tenacity and subtlety, to see if one could not get outof this net,--to see if the opposite was not perhaps true: "think" thecondition, and "I" the conditioned; "I," therefore, only a synthesiswhich has been MADE by thinking itself. KANT really wished to provethat, starting from the subject, the subject could not be proved--northe object either: the possibility of an APPARENT EXISTENCE of thesubject, and therefore of "the soul," may not always have been strangeto him,--the thought which once had an immense power on earth as theVedanta philosophy.
55. There is a great ladder of religious cruelty, with many rounds; butthree of these are the most important. Once on a time men sacrificedhuman beings to their God, and perhaps just those they loved thebest--to this category belong the firstling sacrifices of all primitivereligions, and also the sacrifice of the Emperor Tiberius in theMithra-Grotto on the Island of Capri, that most terrible of all Romananachronisms. Then, during the moral epoch of mankind, they sacrificedto their God the strongest instincts they possessed, their "nature";THIS festal joy shines in the cruel glances of ascetics and"anti-natural" fanatics. Finally, what still remained to be sacrificed?Was it not necessary in the end for men to sacrifice everythingcomforting, holy, healing, all hope, all faith in hidden harmonies, infuture blessedness and justice? Was it not necessary to sacrifice Godhimself, and out of cruelty to themselves to worship stone, stupidity,gravity, fate, nothingness? To sacrifice God for nothingness--thisparadoxical mystery of the ultimate cruelty has been reserved for therising generation; we all know something thereof already.
56. Whoever, like myself, prompted by some enigmatical desire, has longendeavoured to go to the bottom of the question of pessimism and free itfrom the half-Christian, half-German narrowness and stupidity in whichit has finally presented itself to this century, namely, in the form ofSchopenhauer's philosophy; whoever, with an Asiatic and super-Asiaticeye, has actually looked inside, and into the most world-renouncing ofall possible modes of thought--beyond good and evil, and no longerlike Buddha and Schopenhauer, under the dominion and delusion ofmorality,--whoever has done this, has perhaps just thereby, withoutreally desiring it, opened his eyes to behold the opposite ideal: theideal of the most world-approving, exuberant, and vivacious man, who hasnot only learnt to compromise and arrange with that which was andis, but wishes to have it again AS IT WAS AND IS, for all eternity,insatiably calling out da capo, not only to himself, but to the wholepiece and play; and not only the play, but actually to him who requiresthe play--and makes it necessary; because he always requireshimself anew--and makes himself necessary.--What? And this would notbe--circulus vitiosus deus?
57. The distance, and as it were the space around man, grows with thestrength of his intellectual vision and insight: his world becomesprofounder; new stars, new enigmas, and notions are ever coming intoview. Perhaps everything on which the intellectual eye has exercisedits acuteness and profundity has just been an occasion for its exercise,something of a game, something for children and childish minds. Perhapsthe most solemn conceptions that have caused the most fighting andsuffering, the conceptions "God" and "sin," will one day seem to us ofno more importance than a child's plaything or a child's pain seems toan old man;--and perhaps another plaything and another pain will thenbe necessary once more for "the old man"--always childish enough, aneternal child!
58. Has it been observed to what extent outward idleness, orsemi-idleness, is necessary to a real religious life (alike for itsfavourite microscopic labour of self-examination, and for its softplacidity called "prayer," the state of perpetual readiness for the"coming of God"), I mean the idleness with a good conscience, theidleness of olden times and of blood, to which the aristocraticsentiment that work is DISHONOURING--that it vulgarizes body andsoul--is not quite unfamiliar? And that consequently the modern, noisy,time-engrossing, conceited, foolishly proud laboriousness educatesand prepares for "unbelief" more than anything else? Among these, forinstance, who are at present living apart from religion in Germany, Ifind "free-thinkers" of diversified species and origin, but above alla majority of those in whom laboriousness from generation to generationhas dissolved the religious instincts; so that they no longer know whatpurpose religions serve, and only note their existence in the worldwith a kind of dull astonishment. They feel themselves already fullyoccupied, these good people, be it by their business or by theirpleasures, not to mention the "Fatherland," and the newspapers, andtheir "family duties"; it seems that they have no time whatever leftfor religion; and above all, it is not obvious to them whether it is aquestion of a new business or a new pleasure--for it is impossible, theysay to themselves, that people should go to church merely to spoiltheir tempers. They are by no means enemies of religious customs;should certain circumstances, State affairs perhaps, require theirparticipation in such customs, they do what is required, as so manythings are done--with a patient and unassuming seriousness, and withoutmuch curiosity or discomfort;--they live too much apart and outsideto feel even the necessity for a FOR or AGAINST in such matters. Amongthose indifferent persons may be reckoned nowadays the majority ofGerman Protestants of the middle classes, especially in the greatlaborious centres of trade and commerce; also the majority of laboriousscholars, and the entire University personnel (with the exception ofthe theologians, whose existence and possibility there always givespsychologists new and more subtle puzzles to solve). On the part ofpious, or merely church-going people, there is seldom any idea of HOWMUCH good-will, one might say arbitrary will, is now necessary for aGerman scholar to take the problem of religion seriously; his wholeprofession (and as I have said, his whole workmanlike laboriousness, towhich he is compelled by his modern conscience) inclines him to alofty and almost charitable serenity as regards religion, with which isoccasionally mingled a slight disdain for the "uncleanliness" of spiritwhich he takes for granted wherever any one still professes to belongto the Church. It is only with the help of history (NOT through his ownpersonal experience, therefore) that the scholar succeeds in bringinghimself to a respectful seriousness, and to a certain timid deferencein presence of religions; but even when his sentiments have reached thestage of gratitude towards them, he has not personally advanced onestep nearer to that which still maintains itself as Church or as piety;perhaps even the contrary. The practical indifference to religiousmatters in the midst of which he has been born and brought up, usuallysublimates itself in his case into circumspection and cleanliness, whichshuns contact with religious men and things; and it may be just thedepth of his tolerance and humanity which prompts him to avoid thedelicate trouble which tolerance itself brings with it.--Every age hasits own divine type of naivete, for the discovery of which other agesmay envy it: and how much naivete--adorable, childlike, and boundlesslyfoolish naivete is involved in this belief of the scholar inhis superiority, in the good conscience of his tolerance, in theunsuspecting, simple certainty with which his instinct treats thereligious man as a lower and less valuable type, beyond, before, andABOVE which he himself has developed--he, the little arrogant dwarfand mob-man, the sedulously alert, head-and-hand drudge of "ideas," of"modern ideas"!
59. Whoever has seen deeply into the world has doubtless divined whatwisdom there is in the fact that men are superficial. It is theirpreservative instinct which teaches them to be flighty, lightsome, andfalse. Here and there one finds a passionate and exaggerated adorationof "pure forms" in philosophers as well as in artists: it is not to bedoubted that whoever has NEED of the cult of the superficial to thatextent, has at one time or another made an unlucky dive BENEATH it.Perhaps there is even an order of rank with respect to those burntchildren, the born artists who find the enjoyment of life only in tryingto FALSIFY its image (as if taking wearisome revenge on it), one mightguess to what degree life has disgusted them, by the extent to whichthey wish to see its image falsified, attenuated, ultrified, anddeified,--one might reckon the homines religiosi among the artists, astheir HIGHEST rank. It is the profound, suspicious fear of an incurablepessimism which compels whole centuries to fasten their teeth into areligious interpretation of existence: the fear of the instinct whichdivines that truth might be attained TOO soon, before man has becomestrong enough, hard enough, artist enough.... Piety, the "Life in God,"regarded in this light, would appear as the most elaborate andultimate product of the FEAR of truth, as artist-adorationand artist-intoxication in presence of the most logical of allfalsifications, as the will to the inversion of truth, to untruth atany price. Perhaps there has hitherto been no more effective means ofbeautifying man than piety, by means of it man can become so artful, sosuperficial, so iridescent, and so good, that his appearance no longeroffends.
60. To love mankind FOR GOD'S SAKE--this has so far been the noblest andremotest sentiment to which mankind has attained. That love to mankind,without any redeeming intention in the background, is only an ADDITIONALfolly and brutishness, that the inclination to this love has first toget its proportion, its delicacy, its gram of salt and sprinklingof ambergris from a higher inclination--whoever first perceivedand "experienced" this, however his tongue may have stammered as itattempted to express such a delicate matter, let him for all time beholy and respected, as the man who has so far flown highest and goneastray in the finest fashion!
61. The philosopher, as WE free spirits understand him--as the man ofthe greatest responsibility, who has the conscience for the generaldevelopment of mankind,--will use religion for his disciplining andeducating work, just as he will use the contemporary politicaland economic conditions. The selecting and disciplininginfluence--destructive, as well as creative and fashioning--which can beexercised by means of religion is manifold and varied, according to thesort of people placed under its spell and protection. For those who arestrong and independent, destined and trained to command, in whom thejudgment and skill of a ruling race is incorporated, religion isan additional means for overcoming resistance in the exercise ofauthority--as a bond which binds rulers and subjects in common,betraying and surrendering to the former the conscience of the latter,their inmost heart, which would fain escape obedience. And in thecase of the unique natures of noble origin, if by virtue of superiorspirituality they should incline to a more retired and contemplativelife, reserving to themselves only the more refined forms of government(over chosen disciples or members of an order), religion itself maybe used as a means for obtaining peace from the noise and trouble ofmanaging GROSSER affairs, and for securing immunity from the UNAVOIDABLEfilth of all political agitation. The Brahmins, for instance, understoodthis fact. With the help of a religious organization, they secured tothemselves the power of nominating kings for the people, while theirsentiments prompted them to keep apart and outside, as men with a higherand super-regal mission. At the same time religion gives inducement andopportunity to some of the subjects to qualify themselves for futureruling and commanding the slowly ascending ranks and classes, in which,through fortunate marriage customs, volitional power and delight inself-control are on the increase. To them religion offers sufficientincentives and temptations to aspire to higher intellectuality, and toexperience the sentiments of authoritative self-control, of silence, andof solitude. Asceticism and Puritanism are almost indispensable means ofeducating and ennobling a race which seeks to rise above its hereditarybaseness and work itself upwards to future supremacy. And finally, toordinary men, to the majority of the people, who exist for service andgeneral utility, and are only so far entitled to exist, religion givesinvaluable contentedness with their lot and condition, peace of heart,ennoblement of obedience, additional social happiness and sympathy,with something of transfiguration and embellishment, something ofjustification of all the commonplaceness, all the meanness, allthe semi-animal poverty of their souls. Religion, together with thereligious significance of life, sheds sunshine over such perpetuallyharassed men, and makes even their own aspect endurable to them, itoperates upon them as the Epicurean philosophy usually operates uponsufferers of a higher order, in a refreshing and refining manner,almost TURNING suffering TO ACCOUNT, and in the end even hallowing andvindicating it. There is perhaps nothing so admirable in Christianityand Buddhism as their art of teaching even the lowest to elevatethemselves by piety to a seemingly higher order of things, and therebyto retain their satisfaction with the actual world in which they find itdifficult enough to live--this very difficulty being necessary.
62. To be sure--to make also the bad counter-reckoning against suchreligions, and to bring to light their secret dangers--the cost isalways excessive and terrible when religions do NOT operate as aneducational and disciplinary medium in the hands of the philosopher, butrule voluntarily and PARAMOUNTLY, when they wish to be the final end,and not a means along with other means. Among men, as among all otheranimals, there is a surplus of defective, diseased, degenerating,infirm, and necessarily suffering individuals; the successful cases,among men also, are always the exception; and in view of the fact thatman is THE ANIMAL NOT YET PROPERLY ADAPTED TO HIS ENVIRONMENT, the rareexception. But worse still. The higher the type a man represents, thegreater is the improbability that he will SUCCEED; the accidental, thelaw of irrationality in the general constitution of mankind, manifestsitself most terribly in its destructive effect on the higher orders ofmen, the conditions of whose lives are delicate, diverse, and difficultto determine. What, then, is the attitude of the two greatest religionsabove-mentioned to the SURPLUS of failures in life? They endeavourto preserve and keep alive whatever can be preserved; in fact, as thereligions FOR SUFFERERS, they take the part of these upon principle;they are always in favour of those who suffer from life as from adisease, and they would fain treat every other experience of life asfalse and impossible. However highly we may esteem this indulgent andpreservative care (inasmuch as in applying to others, it has applied,and applies also to the highest and usually the most suffering type ofman), the hitherto PARAMOUNT religions--to give a general appreciationof them--are among the principal causes which have kept the type of"man" upon a lower level--they have preserved too much THAT WHICH SHOULDHAVE PERISHED. One has to thank them for invaluable services; and who issufficiently rich in gratitude not to feel poor at the contemplationof all that the "spiritual men" of Christianity have done for Europehitherto! But when they had given comfort to the sufferers, courage tothe oppressed and despairing, a staff and support to the helpless,and when they had allured from society into convents and spiritualpenitentiaries the broken-hearted and distracted: what else had theyto do in order to work systematically in that fashion, and with a goodconscience, for the preservation of all the sick and suffering, whichmeans, in deed and in truth, to work for the DETERIORATION OF THEEUROPEAN RACE? To REVERSE all estimates of value--THAT is what theyhad to do! And to shatter the strong, to spoil great hopes, to castsuspicion on the delight in beauty, to break down everything autonomous,manly, conquering, and imperious--all instincts which are natural to thehighest and most successful type of "man"--into uncertainty, distressof conscience, and self-destruction; forsooth, to invert all love of theearthly and of supremacy over the earth, into hatred of the earth andearthly things--THAT is the task the Church imposed on itself, andwas obliged to impose, until, according to its standard of value,"unworldliness," "unsensuousness," and "higher man" fused into onesentiment. If one could observe the strangely painful, equally coarseand refined comedy of European Christianity with the derisive andimpartial eye of an Epicurean god, I should think one would never ceasemarvelling and laughing; does it not actually seem that some single willhas ruled over Europe for eighteen centuries in order to make a SUBLIMEABORTION of man? He, however, who, with opposite requirements (no longerEpicurean) and with some divine hammer in his hand, could approach thisalmost voluntary degeneration and stunting of mankind, as exemplified inthe European Christian (Pascal, for instance), would he not have tocry aloud with rage, pity, and horror: "Oh, you bunglers, presumptuouspitiful bunglers, what have you done! Was that a work for your hands?How you have hacked and botched my finest stone! What have you presumedto do!"--I should say that Christianity has hitherto been the mostportentous of presumptions. Men, not great enough, nor hard enough,to be entitled as artists to take part in fashioning MAN; men,not sufficiently strong and far-sighted to ALLOW, with sublimeself-constraint, the obvious law of the thousandfold failures andperishings to prevail; men, not sufficiently noble to see the radicallydifferent grades of rank and intervals of rank that separate man fromman:--SUCH men, with their "equality before God," have hitherto swayedthe destiny of Europe; until at last a dwarfed, almost ludicrous specieshas been produced, a gregarious animal, something obliging, sickly,mediocre, the European of the present day.


CHAPTER IV. APOPHTHEGMS AND INTERLUDES

63. He who is a thorough teacher takes things seriously--and evenhimself--only in relation to his pupils.
64. "Knowledge for its own sake"--that is the last snare laid bymorality: we are thereby completely entangled in morals once more.
65. The charm of knowledge would be small, were it not so much shame hasto be overcome on the way to it.
65A. We are most dishonourable towards our God: he is not PERMITTED tosin.
66. The tendency of a person to allow himself to be degraded, robbed,deceived, and exploited might be the diffidence of a God among men.
67. Love to one only is a barbarity, for it is exercised at the expenseof all others. Love to God also!
68. "I did that," says my memory. "I could not have done that," says mypride, and remains inexorable. Eventually--the memory yields.
69. One has regarded life carelessly, if one has failed to see the handthat--kills with leniency.
70. If a man has character, he has also his typical experience, whichalways recurs.
71. THE SAGE AS ASTRONOMER.--So long as thou feelest the stars as an"above thee," thou lackest the eye of the discerning one.
72. It is not the strength, but the duration of great sentiments thatmakes great men.
73. He who attains his ideal, precisely thereby surpasses it.
73A. Many a peacock hides his tail from every eye--and calls it hispride.
74. A man of genius is unbearable, unless he possess at least two thingsbesides: gratitude and purity.
75. The degree and nature of a man's sensuality extends to the highestaltitudes of his spirit.
76. Under peaceful conditions the militant man attacks himself.
77. With his principles a man seeks either to dominate, or justify,or honour, or reproach, or conceal his habits: two men with the sameprinciples probably seek fundamentally different ends therewith.
78. He who despises himself, nevertheless esteems himself thereby, as adespiser.
79. A soul which knows that it is loved, but does not itself love,betrays its sediment: its dregs come up.
80. A thing that is explained ceases to concern us--What did the Godmean who gave the advice, "Know thyself!" Did it perhaps imply "Cease tobe concerned about thyself! become objective!"--And Socrates?--And the"scientific man"?
81. It is terrible to die of thirst at sea. Is it necessary that youshould so salt your truth that it will no longer--quench thirst?
82. "Sympathy for all"--would be harshness and tyranny for THEE, my goodneighbour.
83. INSTINCT--When the house is on fire one forgets even thedinner--Yes, but one recovers it from among the ashes.
84. Woman learns how to hate in proportion as she--forgets how to charm.
85. The same emotions are in man and woman, but in different TEMPO, onthat account man and woman never cease to misunderstand each other.
86. In the background of all their personal vanity, women themselveshave still their impersonal scorn--for "woman".
87. FETTERED HEART, FREE SPIRIT--When one firmly fetters one's heartand keeps it prisoner, one can allow one's spirit many liberties: I saidthis once before But people do not believe it when I say so, unless theyknow it already.
88. One begins to distrust very clever persons when they becomeembarrassed.
89. Dreadful experiences raise the question whether he who experiencesthem is not something dreadful also.
90. Heavy, melancholy men turn lighter, and come temporarily to theirsurface, precisely by that which makes others heavy--by hatred and love.
91. So cold, so icy, that one burns one's finger at the touch of him!Every hand that lays hold of him shrinks back!--And for that very reasonmany think him red-hot.
92. Who has not, at one time or another--sacrificed himself for the sakeof his good name?
93. In affability there is no hatred of men, but precisely on thataccount a great deal too much contempt of men.
94. The maturity of man--that means, to have reacquired the seriousnessthat one had as a child at play.
95. To be ashamed of one's immorality is a step on the ladder at the endof which one is ashamed also of one's morality.
96. One should part from life as Ulysses parted from Nausicaa--blessingit rather than in love with it.
97. What? A great man? I always see merely the play-actor of his ownideal.
98. When one trains one's conscience, it kisses one while it bites.
99. THE DISAPPOINTED ONE SPEAKS--"I listened for the echo and I heardonly praise."
100. We all feign to ourselves that we are simpler than we are, we thusrelax ourselves away from our fellows.
101. A discerning one might easily regard himself at present as theanimalization of God.
102. Discovering reciprocal love should really disenchant the lover withregard to the beloved. "What! She is modest enough to love even you? Orstupid enough? Or--or---"
103. THE DANGER IN HAPPINESS.--"Everything now turns out best for me, Inow love every fate:--who would like to be my fate?"
104. Not their love of humanity, but the impotence of their love,prevents the Christians of today--burning us.
105. The pia fraus is still more repugnant to the taste (the "piety")of the free spirit (the "pious man of knowledge") than the impia fraus.Hence the profound lack of judgment, in comparison with the Church,characteristic of the type "free spirit"--as ITS non-freedom.
106. By means of music the very passions enjoy themselves.
107. A sign of strong character, when once the resolution has beentaken, to shut the ear even to the best counter-arguments. Occasionally,therefore, a will to stupidity.
108. There is no such thing as moral phenomena, but only a moralinterpretation of phenomena.
109. The criminal is often enough not equal to his deed: he extenuatesand maligns it.
110. The advocates of a criminal are seldom artists enough to turn thebeautiful terribleness of the deed to the advantage of the doer.
111. Our vanity is most difficult to wound just when our pride has beenwounded.
112. To him who feels himself preordained to contemplation and not tobelief, all believers are too noisy and obtrusive; he guards againstthem.
113. "You want to prepossess him in your favour? Then you must beembarrassed before him."
114. The immense expectation with regard to sexual love, and the coynessin this expectation, spoils all the perspectives of women at the outset.
115. Where there is neither love nor hatred in the game, woman's play ismediocre.
116. The great epochs of our life are at the points when we gain courageto rebaptize our badness as the best in us.
117. The will to overcome an emotion, is ultimately only the will ofanother, or of several other, emotions.
118. There is an innocence of admiration: it is possessed by him to whomit has not yet occurred that he himself may be admired some day.
119. Our loathing of dirt may be so great as to prevent our cleaningourselves--"justifying" ourselves.
120. Sensuality often forces the growth of love too much, so that itsroot remains weak, and is easily torn up.
121. It is a curious thing that God learned Greek when he wished to turnauthor--and that he did not learn it better.
122. To rejoice on account of praise is in many cases merely politenessof heart--and the very opposite of vanity of spirit.
123. Even concubinage has been corrupted--by marriage.
124. He who exults at the stake, does not triumph over pain, but becauseof the fact that he does not feel pain where he expected it. A parable.
125. When we have to change an opinion about any one, we charge heavilyto his account the inconvenience he thereby causes us.
126. A nation is a detour of nature to arrive at six or seven greatmen.--Yes, and then to get round them.
127. In the eyes of all true women science is hostile to the sense ofshame. They feel as if one wished to peep under their skin with it--orworse still! under their dress and finery.
128. The more abstract the truth you wish to teach, the more must youallure the senses to it.
129. The devil has the most extensive perspectives for God; on thataccount he keeps so far away from him:--the devil, in effect, as theoldest friend of knowledge.
130. What a person IS begins to betray itself when his talentdecreases,--when he ceases to show what he CAN do. Talent is also anadornment; an adornment is also a concealment.
131. The sexes deceive themselves about each other: the reason is thatin reality they honour and love only themselves (or their own ideal, toexpress it more agreeably). Thus man wishes woman to be peaceable: butin fact woman is ESSENTIALLY unpeaceable, like the cat, however well shemay have assumed the peaceable demeanour.
132. One is punished best for one's virtues.
133. He who cannot find the way to HIS ideal, lives more frivolously andshamelessly than the man without an ideal.
134. From the senses originate all trustworthiness, all good conscience,all evidence of truth.
135. Pharisaism is not a deterioration of the good man; a considerablepart of it is rather an essential condition of being good.
136. The one seeks an accoucheur for his thoughts, the other seeks someone whom he can assist: a good conversation thus originates.
137. In intercourse with scholars and artists one readily makes mistakesof opposite kinds: in a remarkable scholar one not infrequently findsa mediocre man; and often, even in a mediocre artist, one finds a veryremarkable man.
138. We do the same when awake as when dreaming: we only invent andimagine him with whom we have intercourse--and forget it immediately.
139. In revenge and in love woman is more barbarous than man.
140. ADVICE AS A RIDDLE.--"If the band is not to break, bite itfirst--secure to make!"
141. The belly is the reason why man does not so readily take himselffor a God.
142. The chastest utterance I ever heard: "Dans le veritable amour c'estl'ame qui enveloppe le corps."
143. Our vanity would like what we do best to pass precisely for what ismost difficult to us.--Concerning the origin of many systems of morals.
144. When a woman has scholarly inclinations there is generallysomething wrong with her sexual nature. Barrenness itself conduces to acertain virility of taste; man, indeed, if I may say so, is "the barrenanimal."
145. Comparing man and woman generally, one may say that woman wouldnot have the genius for adornment, if she had not the instinct for theSECONDARY role.
146. He who fights with monsters should be careful lest he therebybecome a monster. And if thou gaze long into an abyss, the abyss willalso gaze into thee.
147. From old Florentine novels--moreover, from life: Buona femmina emala femmina vuol bastone.--Sacchetti, Nov. 86.
148. To seduce their neighbour to a favourable opinion, and afterwardsto believe implicitly in this opinion of their neighbour--who can dothis conjuring trick so well as women?
149. That which an age considers evil is usually an unseasonable echo ofwhat was formerly considered good--the atavism of an old ideal.
150. Around the hero everything becomes a tragedy; around thedemigod everything becomes a satyr-play; and around God everythingbecomes--what? perhaps a "world"?
151. It is not enough to possess a talent: one must also have yourpermission to possess it;--eh, my friends?
152. "Where there is the tree of knowledge, there is always Paradise":so say the most ancient and the most modern serpents.
153. What is done out of love always takes place beyond good and evil.
154. Objection, evasion, joyous distrust, and love of irony are signs ofhealth; everything absolute belongs to pathology.
155. The sense of the tragic increases and declines with sensuousness.
156. Insanity in individuals is something rare--but in groups, parties,nations, and epochs it is the rule.
157. The thought of suicide is a great consolation: by means of it onegets successfully through many a bad night.
158. Not only our reason, but also our conscience, truckles to ourstrongest impulse--the tyrant in us.
159. One MUST repay good and ill; but why just to the person who did usgood or ill?
160. One no longer loves one's knowledge sufficiently after one hascommunicated it.
161. Poets act shamelessly towards their experiences: they exploit them.
162. "Our fellow-creature is not our neighbour, but our neighbour'sneighbour":--so thinks every nation.
163. Love brings to light the noble and hidden qualities of a lover--hisrare and exceptional traits: it is thus liable to be deceptive as to hisnormal character.
164. Jesus said to his Jews: "The law was for servants;--love God as Ilove him, as his Son! What have we Sons of God to do with morals!"
165. IN SIGHT OF EVERY PARTY.--A shepherd has always need of abell-wether--or he has himself to be a wether occasionally.
166. One may indeed lie with the mouth; but with the accompanyinggrimace one nevertheless tells the truth.
167. To vigorous men intimacy is a matter of shame--and somethingprecious.
168. Christianity gave Eros poison to drink; he did not die of it,certainly, but degenerated to Vice.
169. To talk much about oneself may also be a means of concealingoneself.
170. In praise there is more obtrusiveness than in blame.
171. Pity has an almost ludicrous effect on a man of knowledge, liketender hands on a Cyclops.
172. One occasionally embraces some one or other, out of love to mankind(because one cannot embrace all); but this is what one must neverconfess to the individual.
173. One does not hate as long as one disesteems, but only when oneesteems equal or superior.
174. Ye Utilitarians--ye, too, love the UTILE only as a VEHICLE foryour inclinations,--ye, too, really find the noise of its wheelsinsupportable!
175. One loves ultimately one's desires, not the thing desired.
176. The vanity of others is only counter to our taste when it iscounter to our vanity.
177. With regard to what "truthfulness" is, perhaps nobody has ever beensufficiently truthful.
178. One does not believe in the follies of clever men: what aforfeiture of the rights of man!
179. The consequences of our actions seize us by the forelock, veryindifferent to the fact that we have meanwhile "reformed."
180. There is an innocence in lying which is the sign of good faith in acause.
181. It is inhuman to bless when one is being cursed.
182. The familiarity of superiors embitters one, because it may not bereturned.
183. "I am affected, not because you have deceived me, but because I canno longer believe in you."
184. There is a haughtiness of kindness which has the appearance ofwickedness.
185. "I dislike him."--Why?--"I am not a match for him."--Did any oneever answer so?


CHAPTER V. THE NATURAL HISTORY OF MORALS

186. The moral sentiment in Europe at present is perhaps as subtle,belated, diverse, sensitive, and refined, as the "Science of Morals"belonging thereto is recent, initial, awkward, and coarse-fingered:--aninteresting contrast, which sometimes becomes incarnate and obviousin the very person of a moralist. Indeed, the expression, "Scienceof Morals" is, in respect to what is designated thereby, far toopresumptuous and counter to GOOD taste,--which is always a foretaste ofmore modest expressions. One ought to avow with the utmost fairness WHATis still necessary here for a long time, WHAT is alone proper for thepresent: namely, the collection of material, the comprehensive surveyand classification of an immense domain of delicate sentiments of worth,and distinctions of worth, which live, grow, propagate, and perish--andperhaps attempts to give a clear idea of the recurring and more commonforms of these living crystallizations--as preparation for a THEORY OFTYPES of morality. To be sure, people have not hitherto been so modest.All the philosophers, with a pedantic and ridiculous seriousness,demanded of themselves something very much higher, more pretentious, andceremonious, when they concerned themselves with morality as a science:they wanted to GIVE A BASIC to morality--and every philosopher hithertohas believed that he has given it a basis; morality itself, however, hasbeen regarded as something "given." How far from their awkward pridewas the seemingly insignificant problem--left in dust and decay--of adescription of forms of morality, notwithstanding that the finest handsand senses could hardly be fine enough for it! It was precisely owing tomoral philosophers' knowing the moral facts imperfectly, in an arbitraryepitome, or an accidental abridgement--perhaps as the morality oftheir environment, their position, their church, their Zeitgeist, theirclimate and zone--it was precisely because they were badly instructedwith regard to nations, eras, and past ages, and were by no means eagerto know about these matters, that they did not even come in sight of thereal problems of morals--problems which only disclose themselves bya comparison of MANY kinds of morality. In every "Science of Morals"hitherto, strange as it may sound, the problem of morality itselfhas been OMITTED: there has been no suspicion that there was anythingproblematic there! That which philosophers called "giving a basis tomorality," and endeavoured to realize, has, when seen in a right light,proved merely a learned form of good FAITH in prevailing morality, a newmeans of its EXPRESSION, consequently just a matter-of-fact within thesphere of a definite morality, yea, in its ultimate motive, a sort ofdenial that it is LAWFUL for this morality to be called in question--andin any case the reverse of the testing, analyzing, doubting, andvivisecting of this very faith. Hear, for instance, with whatinnocence--almost worthy of honour--Schopenhauer represents his owntask, and draw your conclusions concerning the scientificness of a"Science" whose latest master still talks in the strain of children andold wives: "The principle," he says (page 136 of the Grundprobleme derEthik), [Footnote: Pages 54-55 of Schopenhauer's Basis of Morality,translated by Arthur B. Bullock, M.A. (1903).] "the axiom about thepurport of which all moralists are PRACTICALLY agreed: neminem laede,immo omnes quantum potes juva--is REALLY the proposition which all moralteachers strive to establish, ... the REAL basis of ethics whichhas been sought, like the philosopher's stone, for centuries."--Thedifficulty of establishing the proposition referred to may indeed begreat--it is well known that Schopenhauer also was unsuccessful in hisefforts; and whoever has thoroughly realized how absurdly false andsentimental this proposition is, in a world whose essence is Willto Power, may be reminded that Schopenhauer, although a pessimist,ACTUALLY--played the flute... daily after dinner: one may read aboutthe matter in his biography. A question by the way: a pessimist, arepudiator of God and of the world, who MAKES A HALT at morality--whoassents to morality, and plays the flute to laede-neminem morals, what?Is that really--a pessimist?
187. Apart from the value of such assertions as "there is a categoricalimperative in us," one can always ask: What does such an assertionindicate about him who makes it? There are systems of morals which aremeant to justify their author in the eyes of other people; other systemsof morals are meant to tranquilize him, and make him self-satisfied;with other systems he wants to crucify and humble himself, with othershe wishes to take revenge, with others to conceal himself, with othersto glorify himself and gave superiority and distinction,--this system ofmorals helps its author to forget, that system makes him, or somethingof him, forgotten, many a moralist would like to exercise power andcreative arbitrariness over mankind, many another, perhaps, Kantespecially, gives us to understand by his morals that "what is estimablein me, is that I know how to obey--and with you it SHALL not beotherwise than with me!" In short, systems of morals are only aSIGN-LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS.
188. In contrast to laisser-aller, every system of morals is a sort oftyranny against "nature" and also against "reason", that is, however, noobjection, unless one should again decree by some system of morals, thatall kinds of tyranny and unreasonableness are unlawful What isessential and invaluable in every system of morals, is that it is along constraint. In order to understand Stoicism, or Port Royal,or Puritanism, one should remember the constraint under which everylanguage has attained to strength and freedom--the metrical constraint,the tyranny of rhyme and rhythm. How much trouble have the poets andorators of every nation given themselves!--not excepting some ofthe prose writers of today, in whose ear dwells an inexorableconscientiousness--"for the sake of a folly," as utilitarian bunglerssay, and thereby deem themselves wise--"from submission to arbitrarylaws," as the anarchists say, and thereby fancy themselves "free," evenfree-spirited. The singular fact remains, however, that everythingof the nature of freedom, elegance, boldness, dance, and masterlycertainty, which exists or has existed, whether it be in thought itself,or in administration, or in speaking and persuading, in art just as inconduct, has only developed by means of the tyranny of such arbitrarylaw, and in all seriousness, it is not at all improbable that preciselythis is "nature" and "natural"--and not laisser-aller! Every artistknows how different from the state of letting himself go, is his"most natural" condition, the free arranging, locating, disposing,and constructing in the moments of "inspiration"--and how strictly anddelicately he then obeys a thousand laws, which, by their very rigidnessand precision, defy all formulation by means of ideas (even the moststable idea has, in comparison therewith, something floating, manifold,and ambiguous in it). The essential thing "in heaven and in earth" is,apparently (to repeat it once more), that there should be long OBEDIENCEin the same direction, there thereby results, and has always resulted inthe long run, something which has made life worth living; for instance,virtue, art, music, dancing, reason, spirituality--anything whateverthat is transfiguring, refined, foolish, or divine. The long bondage ofthe spirit, the distrustful constraint in the communicability ofideas, the discipline which the thinker imposed on himself to thinkin accordance with the rules of a church or a court, or conformableto Aristotelian premises, the persistent spiritual will to interpreteverything that happened according to a Christian scheme, and in everyoccurrence to rediscover and justify the Christian God:--all thisviolence, arbitrariness, severity, dreadfulness, and unreasonableness,has proved itself the disciplinary means whereby the European spirit hasattained its strength, its remorseless curiosity and subtle mobility;granted also that much irrecoverable strength and spirit had to bestifled, suffocated, and spoilt in the process (for here, as everywhere,"nature" shows herself as she is, in all her extravagant and INDIFFERENTmagnificence, which is shocking, but nevertheless noble). Thatfor centuries European thinkers only thought in order to provesomething--nowadays, on the contrary, we are suspicious of every thinkerwho "wishes to prove something"--that it was always settled beforehandwhat WAS TO BE the result of their strictest thinking, as it was perhapsin the Asiatic astrology of former times, or as it is still at thepresent day in the innocent, Christian-moral explanation of immediatepersonal events "for the glory of God," or "for the good of thesoul":--this tyranny, this arbitrariness, this severe and magnificentstupidity, has EDUCATED the spirit; slavery, both in the coarser andthe finer sense, is apparently an indispensable means even of spiritualeducation and discipline. One may look at every system of morals in thislight: it is "nature" therein which teaches to hate the laisser-aller,the too great freedom, and implants the need for limited horizons, forimmediate duties--it teaches the NARROWING OF PERSPECTIVES, and thus, ina certain sense, that stupidity is a condition of life and development."Thou must obey some one, and for a long time; OTHERWISE thou wilt cometo grief, and lose all respect for thyself"--this seems to me to be themoral imperative of nature, which is certainly neither "categorical,"as old Kant wished (consequently the "otherwise"), nor does it addressitself to the individual (what does nature care for the individual!),but to nations, races, ages, and ranks; above all, however, to theanimal "man" generally, to MANKIND.
189. Industrious races find it a great hardship to be idle: it was amaster stroke of ENGLISH instinct to hallow and begloom Sunday to suchan extent that the Englishman unconsciously hankers for his week--andwork-day again:--as a kind of cleverly devised, cleverly intercalatedFAST, such as is also frequently found in the ancient world (although,as is appropriate in southern nations, not precisely with respectto work). Many kinds of fasts are necessary; and wherever powerfulinfluences and habits prevail, legislators have to see that intercalarydays are appointed, on which such impulses are fettered, and learn tohunger anew. Viewed from a higher standpoint, whole generations andepochs, when they show themselves infected with any moral fanaticism,seem like those intercalated periods of restraint and fasting, duringwhich an impulse learns to humble and submit itself--at the same timealso to PURIFY and SHARPEN itself; certain philosophical sects likewiseadmit of a similar interpretation (for instance, the Stoa, in the midstof Hellenic culture, with the atmosphere rank and overcharged withAphrodisiacal odours).--Here also is a hint for the explanation of theparadox, why it was precisely in the most Christian period of Europeanhistory, and in general only under the pressure of Christian sentiments,that the sexual impulse sublimated into love (amour-passion).
190. There is something in the morality of Plato which does not reallybelong to Plato, but which only appears in his philosophy, one mightsay, in spite of him: namely, Socratism, for which he himself wastoo noble. "No one desires to injure himself, hence all evil is doneunwittingly. The evil man inflicts injury on himself; he would not doso, however, if he knew that evil is evil. The evil man, therefore, isonly evil through error; if one free him from error one will necessarilymake him--good."--This mode of reasoning savours of the POPULACE, whoperceive only the unpleasant consequences of evil-doing, and practicallyjudge that "it is STUPID to do wrong"; while they accept "good" asidentical with "useful and pleasant," without further thought. Asregards every system of utilitarianism, one may at once assume that ithas the same origin, and follow the scent: one will seldom err.--Platodid all he could to interpret something refined and noble into thetenets of his teacher, and above all to interpret himself into them--he,the most daring of all interpreters, who lifted the entire Socrates outof the street, as a popular theme and song, to exhibit him in endlessand impossible modifications--namely, in all his own disguises andmultiplicities. In jest, and in Homeric language as well, what is thePlatonic Socrates, if not--[Greek words inserted here.]
191. The old theological problem of "Faith" and "Knowledge," or moreplainly, of instinct and reason--the question whether, in respect to thevaluation of things, instinct deserves more authority than rationality,which wants to appreciate and act according to motives, according toa "Why," that is to say, in conformity to purpose and utility--itis always the old moral problem that first appeared in the person ofSocrates, and had divided men's minds long before Christianity. Socrateshimself, following, of course, the taste of his talent--that of asurpassing dialectician--took first the side of reason; and, in fact,what did he do all his life but laugh at the awkward incapacity of thenoble Athenians, who were men of instinct, like all noble men, and couldnever give satisfactory answers concerning the motives of their actions?In the end, however, though silently and secretly, he laughed alsoat himself: with his finer conscience and introspection, he foundin himself the same difficulty and incapacity. "But why"--he saidto himself--"should one on that account separate oneself from theinstincts! One must set them right, and the reason ALSO--one must followthe instincts, but at the same time persuade the reason to support themwith good arguments." This was the real FALSENESS of that great andmysterious ironist; he brought his conscience up to the point that hewas satisfied with a kind of self-outwitting: in fact, he perceivedthe irrationality in the moral judgment.--Plato, more innocent in suchmatters, and without the craftiness of the plebeian, wished to prove tohimself, at the expenditure of all his strength--the greatest strengtha philosopher had ever expended--that reason and instinct leadspontaneously to one goal, to the good, to "God"; and since Plato, alltheologians and philosophers have followed the same path--which meansthat in matters of morality, instinct (or as Christians call it,"Faith," or as I call it, "the herd") has hitherto triumphed. Unlessone should make an exception in the case of Descartes, the father ofrationalism (and consequently the grandfather of the Revolution), whorecognized only the authority of reason: but reason is only a tool, andDescartes was superficial.
192. Whoever has followed the history of a single science, finds inits development a clue to the understanding of the oldest and commonestprocesses of all "knowledge and cognizance": there, as here, thepremature hypotheses, the fictions, the good stupid will to "belief,"and the lack of distrust and patience are first developed--our senseslearn late, and never learn completely, to be subtle, reliable, andcautious organs of knowledge. Our eyes find it easier on a givenoccasion to produce a picture already often produced, than to seize uponthe divergence and novelty of an impression: the latter requires moreforce, more "morality." It is difficult and painful for the ear tolisten to anything new; we hear strange music badly. When we hearanother language spoken, we involuntarily attempt to form the soundsinto words with which we are more familiar and conversant--it was thus,for example, that the Germans modified the spoken word ARCUBALISTA intoARMBRUST (cross-bow). Our senses are also hostile and averse to thenew; and generally, even in the "simplest" processes of sensation, theemotions DOMINATE--such as fear, love, hatred, and the passive emotionof indolence.--As little as a reader nowadays reads all the single words(not to speak of syllables) of a page--he rather takes about five outof every twenty words at random, and "guesses" the probably appropriatesense to them--just as little do we see a tree correctly and completelyin respect to its leaves, branches, colour, and shape; we find it somuch easier to fancy the chance of a tree. Even in the midst of themost remarkable experiences, we still do just the same; we fabricate thegreater part of the experience, and can hardly be made to contemplateany event, EXCEPT as "inventors" thereof. All this goes to provethat from our fundamental nature and from remote ages we havebeen--ACCUSTOMED TO LYING. Or, to express it more politely andhypocritically, in short, more pleasantly--one is much more of an artistthan one is aware of.--In an animated conversation, I often see the faceof the person with whom I am speaking so clearly and sharply definedbefore me, according to the thought he expresses, or which I believe tobe evoked in his mind, that the degree of distinctness far exceeds theSTRENGTH of my visual faculty--the delicacy of the play of the musclesand of the expression of the eyes MUST therefore be imagined by me.Probably the person put on quite a different expression, or none at all.
193. Quidquid luce fuit, tenebris agit: but also contrariwise. What weexperience in dreams, provided we experience it often, pertains atlast just as much to the general belongings of our soul as anything"actually" experienced; by virtue thereof we are richer or poorer, wehave a requirement more or less, and finally, in broad daylight, andeven in the brightest moments of our waking life, we are ruled to someextent by the nature of our dreams. Supposing that someone has oftenflown in his dreams, and that at last, as soon as he dreams, he isconscious of the power and art of flying as his privilege and hispeculiarly enviable happiness; such a person, who believes that on theslightest impulse, he can actualize all sorts of curves and angles, whoknows the sensation of a certain divine levity, an "upwards"without effort or constraint, a "downwards" without descendingor lowering--without TROUBLE!--how could the man with suchdream-experiences and dream-habits fail to find "happiness" differentlycoloured and defined, even in his waking hours! How could he fail--tolong DIFFERENTLY for happiness? "Flight," such as is described by poets,must, when compared with his own "flying," be far too earthly, muscular,violent, far too "troublesome" for him.
194. The difference among men does not manifest itself only in thedifference of their lists of desirable things--in their regardingdifferent good things as worth striving for, and being disagreed as tothe greater or less value, the order of rank, of the commonly recognizeddesirable things:--it manifests itself much more in what they regard asactually HAVING and POSSESSING a desirable thing. As regards a woman,for instance, the control over her body and her sexual gratificationserves as an amply sufficient sign of ownership and possession to themore modest man; another with a more suspicious and ambitious thirst forpossession, sees the "questionableness," the mere apparentness of suchownership, and wishes to have finer tests in order to know especiallywhether the woman not only gives herself to him, but also gives up forhis sake what she has or would like to have--only THEN does he look uponher as "possessed." A third, however, has not even here got to the limitof his distrust and his desire for possession: he asks himself whetherthe woman, when she gives up everything for him, does not perhaps doso for a phantom of him; he wishes first to be thoroughly, indeed,profoundly well known; in order to be loved at all he ventures to lethimself be found out. Only then does he feel the beloved one fully inhis possession, when she no longer deceives herself about him, whenshe loves him just as much for the sake of his devilry and concealedinsatiability, as for his goodness, patience, and spirituality. Oneman would like to possess a nation, and he finds all the higher arts ofCagliostro and Catalina suitable for his purpose. Another, with a morerefined thirst for possession, says to himself: "One may not deceivewhere one desires to possess"--he is irritated and impatient at the ideathat a mask of him should rule in the hearts of the people: "I must,therefore, MAKE myself known, and first of all learn to know myself!"Among helpful and charitable people, one almost always finds the awkwardcraftiness which first gets up suitably him who has to be helped, asthough, for instance, he should "merit" help, seek just THEIR help, andwould show himself deeply grateful, attached, and subservient to themfor all help. With these conceits, they take control of the needy as aproperty, just as in general they are charitable and helpful out of adesire for property. One finds them jealous when they are crossed orforestalled in their charity. Parents involuntarily make something likethemselves out of their children--they call that "education"; no motherdoubts at the bottom of her heart that the child she has borne isthereby her property, no father hesitates about his right to HIS OWNideas and notions of worth. Indeed, in former times fathers deemed itright to use their discretion concerning the life or death of the newlyborn (as among the ancient Germans). And like the father, so also do theteacher, the class, the priest, and the prince still see in every newindividual an unobjectionable opportunity for a new possession. Theconsequence is...
195. The Jews--a people "born for slavery," as Tacitus and the wholeancient world say of them; "the chosen people among the nations," asthey themselves say and believe--the Jews performed the miracle of theinversion of valuations, by means of which life on earth obtained a newand dangerous charm for a couple of millenniums. Their prophets fusedinto one the expressions "rich," "godless," "wicked," "violent,""sensual," and for the first time coined the word "world" as a term ofreproach. In this inversion of valuations (in which is also includedthe use of the word "poor" as synonymous with "saint" and "friend") thesignificance of the Jewish people is to be found; it is with THEM thatthe SLAVE-INSURRECTION IN MORALS commences.
196. It is to be INFERRED that there are countless dark bodies near thesun--such as we shall never see. Among ourselves, this is an allegory;and the psychologist of morals reads the whole star-writing merely as anallegorical and symbolic language in which much may be unexpressed.
197. The beast of prey and the man of prey (for instance, Caesar Borgia)are fundamentally misunderstood, "nature" is misunderstood, so long asone seeks a "morbidness" in the constitution of these healthiest ofall tropical monsters and growths, or even an innate "hell" in them--asalmost all moralists have done hitherto. Does it not seem that there isa hatred of the virgin forest and of the tropics among moralists? Andthat the "tropical man" must be discredited at all costs, whetheras disease and deterioration of mankind, or as his own hell andself-torture? And why? In favour of the "temperate zones"? In favourof the temperate men? The "moral"? The mediocre?--This for the chapter:"Morals as Timidity."
198. All the systems of morals which address themselves with a view totheir "happiness," as it is called--what else are they but suggestionsfor behaviour adapted to the degree of DANGER from themselves in whichthe individuals live; recipes for their passions, their good and badpropensities, insofar as such have the Will to Power and would liketo play the master; small and great expediencies and elaborations,permeated with the musty odour of old family medicines and old-wifewisdom; all of them grotesque and absurd in their form--becausethey address themselves to "all," because they generalize wheregeneralization is not authorized; all of them speaking unconditionally,and taking themselves unconditionally; all of them flavoured not merelywith one grain of salt, but rather endurable only, and sometimes evenseductive, when they are over-spiced and begin to smell dangerously,especially of "the other world." That is all of little value whenestimated intellectually, and is far from being "science," much less"wisdom"; but, repeated once more, and three times repeated, it isexpediency, expediency, expediency, mixed with stupidity, stupidity,stupidity--whether it be the indifference and statuesque coldnesstowards the heated folly of the emotions, which the Stoics advised andfostered; or the no-more-laughing and no-more-weeping of Spinoza, thedestruction of the emotions by their analysis and vivisection, which herecommended so naively; or the lowering of the emotions to an innocentmean at which they may be satisfied, the Aristotelianism of morals;or even morality as the enjoyment of the emotions in a voluntaryattenuation and spiritualization by the symbolism of art, perhaps asmusic, or as love of God, and of mankind for God's sake--for in religionthe passions are once more enfranchised, provided that...; or, finally,even the complaisant and wanton surrender to the emotions, as hasbeen taught by Hafis and Goethe, the bold letting-go of the reins, thespiritual and corporeal licentia morum in the exceptional cases ofwise old codgers and drunkards, with whom it "no longer has muchdanger."--This also for the chapter: "Morals as Timidity."
199. Inasmuch as in all ages, as long as mankind has existed, there havealso been human herds (family alliances, communities, tribes, peoples,states, churches), and always a great number who obey in proportionto the small number who command--in view, therefore, of the fact thatobedience has been most practiced and fostered among mankind hitherto,one may reasonably suppose that, generally speaking, the need thereof isnow innate in every one, as a kind of FORMAL CONSCIENCE which givesthe command "Thou shalt unconditionally do something, unconditionallyrefrain from something", in short, "Thou shalt". This need tries tosatisfy itself and to fill its form with a content, according to itsstrength, impatience, and eagerness, it at once seizes as an omnivorousappetite with little selection, and accepts whatever is shouted intoits ear by all sorts of commanders--parents, teachers, laws, classprejudices, or public opinion. The extraordinary limitation of humandevelopment, the hesitation, protractedness, frequent retrogression, andturning thereof, is attributable to the fact that the herd-instinct ofobedience is transmitted best, and at the cost of the art of command. Ifone imagine this instinct increasing to its greatest extent, commandersand independent individuals will finally be lacking altogether, or theywill suffer inwardly from a bad conscience, and will have to imposea deception on themselves in the first place in order to be able tocommand just as if they also were only obeying. This condition of thingsactually exists in Europe at present--I call it the moral hypocrisy ofthe commanding class. They know no other way of protecting themselvesfrom their bad conscience than by playing the role of executors of olderand higher orders (of predecessors, of the constitution, of justice, ofthe law, or of God himself), or they even justify themselves by maximsfrom the current opinions of the herd, as "first servants of theirpeople," or "instruments of the public weal". On the other hand, thegregarious European man nowadays assumes an air as if he were the onlykind of man that is allowable, he glorifies his qualities, such aspublic spirit, kindness, deference, industry, temperance, modesty,indulgence, sympathy, by virtue of which he is gentle, endurable, anduseful to the herd, as the peculiarly human virtues. In cases, however,where it is believed that the leader and bell-wether cannot be dispensedwith, attempt after attempt is made nowadays to replace commandersby the summing together of clever gregarious men all representativeconstitutions, for example, are of this origin. In spite of all, what ablessing, what a deliverance from a weight becoming unendurable, is theappearance of an absolute ruler for these gregarious Europeans--of thisfact the effect of the appearance of Napoleon was the last great proofthe history of the influence of Napoleon is almost the history ofthe higher happiness to which the entire century has attained in itsworthiest individuals and periods.
200. The man of an age of dissolution which mixes the races withone another, who has the inheritance of a diversified descent in hisbody--that is to say, contrary, and often not only contrary, instinctsand standards of value, which struggle with one another and are seldomat peace--such a man of late culture and broken lights, will, on anaverage, be a weak man. His fundamental desire is that the war which isIN HIM should come to an end; happiness appears to him in the characterof a soothing medicine and mode of thought (for instance, Epicureanor Christian); it is above all things the happiness of repose, ofundisturbedness, of repletion, of final unity--it is the "Sabbath ofSabbaths," to use the expression of the holy rhetorician, St. Augustine,who was himself such a man.--Should, however, the contrariety andconflict in such natures operate as an ADDITIONAL incentive and stimulusto life--and if, on the other hand, in addition to their powerful andirreconcilable instincts, they have also inherited and indoctrinatedinto them a proper mastery and subtlety for carrying on the conflictwith themselves (that is to say, the faculty of self-control andself-deception), there then arise those marvelously incomprehensible andinexplicable beings, those enigmatical men, predestined for conqueringand circumventing others, the finest examples of which are Alcibiadesand Caesar (with whom I should like to associate the FIRST of Europeansaccording to my taste, the Hohenstaufen, Frederick the Second), andamong artists, perhaps Leonardo da Vinci. They appear precisely in thesame periods when that weaker type, with its longing for repose, comesto the front; the two types are complementary to each other, and springfrom the same causes.
201. As long as the utility which determines moral estimates is onlygregarious utility, as long as the preservation of the community is onlykept in view, and the immoral is sought precisely and exclusively inwhat seems dangerous to the maintenance of the community, there can beno "morality of love to one's neighbour." Granted even that there isalready a little constant exercise of consideration, sympathy, fairness,gentleness, and mutual assistance, granted that even in this conditionof society all those instincts are already active which are latterlydistinguished by honourable names as "virtues," and eventually almostcoincide with the conception "morality": in that period they do notas yet belong to the domain of moral valuations--they are stillULTRA-MORAL. A sympathetic action, for instance, is neither called goodnor bad, moral nor immoral, in the best period of the Romans; and shouldit be praised, a sort of resentful disdain is compatible with thispraise, even at the best, directly the sympathetic action is comparedwith one which contributes to the welfare of the whole, to the RESPUBLICA. After all, "love to our neighbour" is always a secondarymatter, partly conventional and arbitrarily manifested in relation toour FEAR OF OUR NEIGHBOUR. After the fabric of society seems on thewhole established and secured against external dangers, it is thisfear of our neighbour which again creates new perspectives of moralvaluation. Certain strong and dangerous instincts, such as the love ofenterprise, foolhardiness, revengefulness, astuteness, rapacity, andlove of power, which up till then had not only to be honoured from thepoint of view of general utility--under other names, of course, thanthose here given--but had to be fostered and cultivated (because theywere perpetually required in the common danger against the commonenemies), are now felt in their dangerousness to be doubly strong--whenthe outlets for them are lacking--and are gradually branded as immoraland given over to calumny. The contrary instincts and inclinations nowattain to moral honour, the gregarious instinct gradually draws itsconclusions. How much or how little dangerousness to the community orto equality is contained in an opinion, a condition, an emotion, adisposition, or an endowment--that is now the moral perspective, hereagain fear is the mother of morals. It is by the loftiest and strongestinstincts, when they break out passionately and carry the individualfar above and beyond the average, and the low level of the gregariousconscience, that the self-reliance of the community is destroyed, itsbelief in itself, its backbone, as it were, breaks, consequently thesevery instincts will be most branded and defamed. The lofty independentspirituality, the will to stand alone, and even the cogent reason, arefelt to be dangers, everything that elevates the individual above theherd, and is a source of fear to the neighbour, is henceforth calledEVIL, the tolerant, unassuming, self-adapting, self-equalizingdisposition, the MEDIOCRITY of desires, attains to moral distinction andhonour. Finally, under very peaceful circumstances, there is alwaysless opportunity and necessity for training the feelings to severityand rigour, and now every form of severity, even in justice, beginsto disturb the conscience, a lofty and rigorous nobleness andself-responsibility almost offends, and awakens distrust, "the lamb,"and still more "the sheep," wins respect. There is a point of diseasedmellowness and effeminacy in the history of society, at which societyitself takes the part of him who injures it, the part of the CRIMINAL,and does so, in fact, seriously and honestly. To punish, appears to itto be somehow unfair--it is certain that the idea of "punishment" and"the obligation to punish" are then painful and alarming to people. "Isit not sufficient if the criminal be rendered HARMLESS? Why should westill punish? Punishment itself is terrible!"--with these questionsgregarious morality, the morality of fear, draws its ultimateconclusion. If one could at all do away with danger, the cause of fear,one would have done away with this morality at the same time, itwould no longer be necessary, it WOULD NOT CONSIDER ITSELF any longernecessary!--Whoever examines the conscience of the present-day European,will always elicit the same imperative from its thousand moral foldsand hidden recesses, the imperative of the timidity of the herd "we wishthat some time or other there may be NOTHING MORE TO FEAR!" Some timeor other--the will and the way THERETO is nowadays called "progress" allover Europe.
202. Let us at once say again what we have already said a hundredtimes, for people's ears nowadays are unwilling to hear such truths--OURtruths. We know well enough how offensive it sounds when any oneplainly, and without metaphor, counts man among the animals, but it willbe accounted to us almost a CRIME, that it is precisely in respect tomen of "modern ideas" that we have constantly applied the terms "herd,""herd-instincts," and such like expressions. What avail is it? We cannotdo otherwise, for it is precisely here that our new insight is. Wehave found that in all the principal moral judgments, Europe has becomeunanimous, including likewise the countries where European influenceprevails in Europe people evidently KNOW what Socrates thought hedid not know, and what the famous serpent of old once promised toteach--they "know" today what is good and evil. It must then sound hardand be distasteful to the ear, when we always insist that that whichhere thinks it knows, that which here glorifies itself with praiseand blame, and calls itself good, is the instinct of the herding humananimal, the instinct which has come and is ever coming more and moreto the front, to preponderance and supremacy over other instincts,according to the increasing physiological approximation and resemblanceof which it is the symptom. MORALITY IN EUROPE AT PRESENT ISHERDING-ANIMAL MORALITY, and therefore, as we understand the matter,only one kind of human morality, beside which, before which, and afterwhich many other moralities, and above all HIGHER moralities, are orshould be possible. Against such a "possibility," against such a "shouldbe," however, this morality defends itself with all its strength, itsays obstinately and inexorably "I am morality itself and nothing elseis morality!" Indeed, with the help of a religion which has humouredand flattered the sublimest desires of the herding-animal, things havereached such a point that we always find a more visible expression ofthis morality even in political and social arrangements: the DEMOCRATICmovement is the inheritance of the Christian movement. That its TEMPO,however, is much too slow and sleepy for the more impatient ones, forthose who are sick and distracted by the herding-instinct, is indicatedby the increasingly furious howling, and always less disguisedteeth-gnashing of the anarchist dogs, who are now roving through thehighways of European culture. Apparently in opposition to the peacefullyindustrious democrats and Revolution-ideologues, and still more soto the awkward philosophasters and fraternity-visionaries who callthemselves Socialists and want a "free society," those are really at onewith them all in their thorough and instinctive hostility to every formof society other than that of the AUTONOMOUS herd (to the extent even ofrepudiating the notions "master" and "servant"--ni dieu ni maitre, saysa socialist formula); at one in their tenacious opposition to everyspecial claim, every special right and privilege (this means ultimatelyopposition to EVERY right, for when all are equal, no one needs "rights"any longer); at one in their distrust of punitive justice (as though itwere a violation of the weak, unfair to the NECESSARY consequences ofall former society); but equally at one in their religion of sympathy,in their compassion for all that feels, lives, and suffers (down to thevery animals, up even to "God"--the extravagance of "sympathy forGod" belongs to a democratic age); altogether at one in the cry andimpatience of their sympathy, in their deadly hatred of sufferinggenerally, in their almost feminine incapacity for witnessing it orALLOWING it; at one in their involuntary beglooming and heart-softening,under the spell of which Europe seems to be threatened with a newBuddhism; at one in their belief in the morality of MUTUAL sympathy, asthough it were morality in itself, the climax, the ATTAINED climax ofmankind, the sole hope of the future, the consolation of the present,the great discharge from all the obligations of the past; altogether atone in their belief in the community as the DELIVERER, in the herd, andtherefore in "themselves."
203. We, who hold a different belief--we, who regard the democraticmovement, not only as a degenerating form of political organization, butas equivalent to a degenerating, a waning type of man, as involving hismediocrising and depreciation: where have WE to fix our hopes? InNEW PHILOSOPHERS--there is no other alternative: in minds strong andoriginal enough to initiate opposite estimates of value, to transvalueand invert "eternal valuations"; in forerunners, in men of the future,who in the present shall fix the constraints and fasten the knots whichwill compel millenniums to take NEW paths. To teach man the futureof humanity as his WILL, as depending on human will, and to makepreparation for vast hazardous enterprises and collective attempts inrearing and educating, in order thereby to put an end to the frightfulrule of folly and chance which has hitherto gone by the name of"history" (the folly of the "greatest number" is only its lastform)--for that purpose a new type of philosopher and commander willsome time or other be needed, at the very idea of which everything thathas existed in the way of occult, terrible, and benevolent beings mightlook pale and dwarfed. The image of such leaders hovers before OUReyes:--is it lawful for me to say it aloud, ye free spirits? Theconditions which one would partly have to create and partly utilize fortheir genesis; the presumptive methods and tests by virtue of whicha soul should grow up to such an elevation and power as to feel aCONSTRAINT to these tasks; a transvaluation of values, under the newpressure and hammer of which a conscience should be steeled and a hearttransformed into brass, so as to bear the weight of such responsibility;and on the other hand the necessity for such leaders, the dreadfuldanger that they might be lacking, or miscarry and degenerate:--theseare OUR real anxieties and glooms, ye know it well, ye free spirits!these are the heavy distant thoughts and storms which sweep across theheaven of OUR life. There are few pains so grievous as to have seen,divined, or experienced how an exceptional man has missed his way anddeteriorated; but he who has the rare eye for the universal dangerof "man" himself DETERIORATING, he who like us has recognized theextraordinary fortuitousness which has hitherto played its game inrespect to the future of mankind--a game in which neither the hand, noreven a "finger of God" has participated!--he who divines the fate thatis hidden under the idiotic unwariness and blind confidence of"modern ideas," and still more under the whole of Christo-Europeanmorality--suffers from an anguish with which no other is to be compared.He sees at a glance all that could still BE MADE OUT OF MAN througha favourable accumulation and augmentation of human powers andarrangements; he knows with all the knowledge of his conviction howunexhausted man still is for the greatest possibilities, and how oftenin the past the type man has stood in presence of mysterious decisionsand new paths:--he knows still better from his painfulest recollectionson what wretched obstacles promising developments of the highest rankhave hitherto usually gone to pieces, broken down, sunk, and becomecontemptible. The UNIVERSAL DEGENERACY OF MANKIND to the level ofthe "man of the future"--as idealized by the socialistic fools andshallow-pates--this degeneracy and dwarfing of man to an absolutelygregarious animal (or as they call it, to a man of "free society"),this brutalizing of man into a pigmy with equal rights and claims, isundoubtedly POSSIBLE! He who has thought out this possibility to itsultimate conclusion knows ANOTHER loathing unknown to the rest ofmankind--and perhaps also a new MISSION!


CHAPTER VI. WE SCHOLARS

204. At the risk that moralizing may also reveal itself here as thatwhich it has always been--namely, resolutely MONTRER SES PLAIES,according to Balzac--I would venture to protest against an improper andinjurious alteration of rank, which quite unnoticed, and as if with thebest conscience, threatens nowadays to establish itself in the relationsof science and philosophy. I mean to say that one must have the rightout of one's own EXPERIENCE--experience, as it seems to me, alwaysimplies unfortunate experience?--to treat of such an important questionof rank, so as not to speak of colour like the blind, or AGAINST sciencelike women and artists ("Ah! this dreadful science!" sigh their instinctand their shame, "it always FINDS THINGS OUT!"). The declaration ofindependence of the scientific man, his emancipation from philosophy,is one of the subtler after-effects of democratic organization anddisorganization: the self-glorification and self-conceitedness ofthe learned man is now everywhere in full bloom, and in its bestspringtime--which does not mean to imply that in this case self-praisesmells sweet. Here also the instinct of the populace cries, "Freedomfrom all masters!" and after science has, with the happiest results,resisted theology, whose "hand-maid" it had been too long, it nowproposes in its wantonness and indiscretion to lay down laws forphilosophy, and in its turn to play the "master"--what am I saying!to play the PHILOSOPHER on its own account. My memory--the memory ofa scientific man, if you please!--teems with the naivetes of insolencewhich I have heard about philosophy and philosophers from youngnaturalists and old physicians (not to mention the most cultured andmost conceited of all learned men, the philologists and schoolmasters,who are both the one and the other by profession). On one occasion itwas the specialist and the Jack Horner who instinctively stood on thedefensive against all synthetic tasks and capabilities; at another timeit was the industrious worker who had got a scent of OTIUM and refinedluxuriousness in the internal economy of the philosopher, and felthimself aggrieved and belittled thereby. On another occasion it was thecolour-blindness of the utilitarian, who sees nothing in philosophy buta series of REFUTED systems, and an extravagant expenditure which "doesnobody any good". At another time the fear of disguised mysticism and ofthe boundary-adjustment of knowledge became conspicuous, at anothertime the disregard of individual philosophers, which had involuntarilyextended to disregard of philosophy generally. In fine, I found mostfrequently, behind the proud disdain of philosophy in young scholars,the evil after-effect of some particular philosopher, to whom on thewhole obedience had been foresworn, without, however, the spell of hisscornful estimates of other philosophers having been got rid of--theresult being a general ill-will to all philosophy. (Such seems tome, for instance, the after-effect of Schopenhauer on the most modernGermany: by his unintelligent rage against Hegel, he has succeeded insevering the whole of the last generation of Germans from its connectionwith German culture, which culture, all things considered, has beenan elevation and a divining refinement of the HISTORICAL SENSE, butprecisely at this point Schopenhauer himself was poor, irreceptive,and un-German to the extent of ingeniousness.) On the whole, speakinggenerally, it may just have been the humanness, all-too-humanness of themodern philosophers themselves, in short, their contemptibleness, whichhas injured most radically the reverence for philosophy and opened thedoors to the instinct of the populace. Let it but be acknowledged towhat an extent our modern world diverges from the whole style of theworld of Heraclitus, Plato, Empedocles, and whatever else all the royaland magnificent anchorites of the spirit were called, and with whatjustice an honest man of science MAY feel himself of a better family andorigin, in view of such representatives of philosophy, who, owing tothe fashion of the present day, are just as much aloft as they are downbelow--in Germany, for instance, the two lions of Berlin, the anarchistEugen Duhring and the amalgamist Eduard von Hartmann. It is especiallythe sight of those hotch-potch philosophers, who call themselves"realists," or "positivists," which is calculated to implant adangerous distrust in the soul of a young and ambitious scholar thosephilosophers, at the best, are themselves but scholars and specialists,that is very evident! All of them are persons who have been vanquishedand BROUGHT BACK AGAIN under the dominion of science, who at one timeor another claimed more from themselves, without having a right to the"more" and its responsibility--and who now, creditably, rancorously, andvindictively, represent in word and deed, DISBELIEF in the master-taskand supremacy of philosophy After all, how could it be otherwise?Science flourishes nowadays and has the good conscience clearly visibleon its countenance, while that to which the entire modern philosophy hasgradually sunk, the remnant of philosophy of the present day, excitesdistrust and displeasure, if not scorn and pity Philosophy reduced toa "theory of knowledge," no more in fact than a diffident science ofepochs and doctrine of forbearance a philosophy that never evengets beyond the threshold, and rigorously DENIES itself the rightto enter--that is philosophy in its last throes, an end, an agony,something that awakens pity. How could such a philosophy--RULE!
205. The dangers that beset the evolution of the philosopher are, infact, so manifold nowadays, that one might doubt whether this fruitcould still come to maturity. The extent and towering structure of thesciences have increased enormously, and therewith also the probabilitythat the philosopher will grow tired even as a learner, or will attachhimself somewhere and "specialize" so that he will no longer attain tohis elevation, that is to say, to his superspection, his circumspection,and his DESPECTION. Or he gets aloft too late, when the best of hismaturity and strength is past, or when he is impaired, coarsened, anddeteriorated, so that his view, his general estimate of things, is nolonger of much importance. It is perhaps just the refinement of hisintellectual conscience that makes him hesitate and linger on theway, he dreads the temptation to become a dilettante, a millepede, amilleantenna, he knows too well that as a discerner, one who has losthis self-respect no longer commands, no longer LEADS, unless he shouldaspire to become a great play-actor, a philosophical Cagliostro andspiritual rat-catcher--in short, a misleader. This is in the lastinstance a question of taste, if it has not really been a question ofconscience. To double once more the philosopher's difficulties, there isalso the fact that he demands from himself a verdict, a Yea or Nay, notconcerning science, but concerning life and the worth of life--he learnsunwillingly to believe that it is his right and even his duty to obtainthis verdict, and he has to seek his way to the right and the beliefonly through the most extensive (perhaps disturbing and destroying)experiences, often hesitating, doubting, and dumbfounded. In fact, thephilosopher has long been mistaken and confused by the multitude, eitherwith the scientific man and ideal scholar, or with the religiouslyelevated, desensualized, desecularized visionary and God-intoxicatedman; and even yet when one hears anybody praised, because he lives"wisely," or "as a philosopher," it hardly means anything more than"prudently and apart." Wisdom: that seems to the populace to be a kindof flight, a means and artifice for withdrawing successfully from abad game; but the GENUINE philosopher--does it not seem so to US,my friends?--lives "unphilosophically" and "unwisely," above all,IMPRUDENTLY, and feels the obligation and burden of a hundred attemptsand temptations of life--he risks HIMSELF constantly, he plays THIS badgame.
206. In relation to the genius, that is to say, a being who eitherENGENDERS or PRODUCES--both words understood in their fullest sense--theman of learning, the scientific average man, has always something ofthe old maid about him; for, like her, he is not conversant with the twoprincipal functions of man. To both, of course, to the scholar andto the old maid, one concedes respectability, as if by way ofindemnification--in these cases one emphasizes the respectability--andyet, in the compulsion of this concession, one has the same admixtureof vexation. Let us examine more closely: what is the scientific man?Firstly, a commonplace type of man, with commonplace virtues: that isto say, a non-ruling, non-authoritative, and non-self-sufficient typeof man; he possesses industry, patient adaptableness to rank and file,equability and moderation in capacity and requirement; he has theinstinct for people like himself, and for that which they require--forinstance: the portion of independence and green meadow without whichthere is no rest from labour, the claim to honour and consideration(which first and foremost presupposes recognition and recognisability),the sunshine of a good name, the perpetual ratification of his value andusefulness, with which the inward DISTRUST which lies at the bottom ofthe heart of all dependent men and gregarious animals, has again andagain to be overcome. The learned man, as is appropriate, has alsomaladies and faults of an ignoble kind: he is full of petty envy, andhas a lynx-eye for the weak points in those natures to whose elevationshe cannot attain. He is confiding, yet only as one who lets himself go,but does not FLOW; and precisely before the man of the great current hestands all the colder and more reserved--his eye is then like a smoothand irresponsive lake, which is no longer moved by rapture or sympathy.The worst and most dangerous thing of which a scholar is capable resultsfrom the instinct of mediocrity of his type, from the Jesuitism ofmediocrity, which labours instinctively for the destruction ofthe exceptional man, and endeavours to break--or still better, torelax--every bent bow To relax, of course, with consideration, andnaturally with an indulgent hand--to RELAX with confiding sympathythat is the real art of Jesuitism, which has always understood how tointroduce itself as the religion of sympathy.
207. However gratefully one may welcome the OBJECTIVE spirit--andwho has not been sick to death of all subjectivity and its confoundedIPSISIMOSITY!--in the end, however, one must learn caution even withregard to one's gratitude, and put a stop to the exaggeration withwhich the unselfing and depersonalizing of the spirit has recently beencelebrated, as if it were the goal in itself, as if it were salvationand glorification--as is especially accustomed to happen in thepessimist school, which has also in its turn good reasons for paying thehighest honours to "disinterested knowledge" The objective man, who nolonger curses and scolds like the pessimist, the IDEAL man of learningin whom the scientific instinct blossoms forth fully after a thousandcomplete and partial failures, is assuredly one of the most costlyinstruments that exist, but his place is in the hand of one who is morepowerful He is only an instrument, we may say, he is a MIRROR--he is no"purpose in himself" The objective man is in truth a mirror accustomedto prostration before everything that wants to be known, with suchdesires only as knowing or "reflecting" implies--he waits untilsomething comes, and then expands himself sensitively, so that even thelight footsteps and gliding-past of spiritual beings may not be lost onhis surface and film Whatever "personality" he still possesses seems tohim accidental, arbitrary, or still oftener, disturbing, so much has hecome to regard himself as the passage and reflection of outside formsand events He calls up the recollection of "himself" with an effort,and not infrequently wrongly, he readily confounds himself with otherpersons, he makes mistakes with regard to his own needs, and here onlyis he unrefined and negligent Perhaps he is troubled about the health,or the pettiness and confined atmosphere of wife and friend, or the lackof companions and society--indeed, he sets himself to reflect on hissuffering, but in vain! His thoughts already rove away to the MOREGENERAL case, and tomorrow he knows as little as he knew yesterday howto help himself He does not now take himself seriously and devote timeto himself he is serene, NOT from lack of trouble, but from lackof capacity for grasping and dealing with HIS trouble The habitualcomplaisance with respect to all objects and experiences, the radiantand impartial hospitality with which he receives everything thatcomes his way, his habit of inconsiderate good-nature, of dangerousindifference as to Yea and Nay: alas! there are enough of cases in whichhe has to atone for these virtues of his!--and as man generally, hebecomes far too easily the CAPUT MORTUUM of such virtues. Should onewish love or hatred from him--I mean love and hatred as God, woman, andanimal understand them--he will do what he can, and furnish what he can.But one must not be surprised if it should not be much--if he shouldshow himself just at this point to be false, fragile, questionable, anddeteriorated. His love is constrained, his hatred is artificial, andrather UN TOUR DE FORCE, a slight ostentation and exaggeration. He isonly genuine so far as he can be objective; only in his serene totalityis he still "nature" and "natural." His mirroring and eternallyself-polishing soul no longer knows how to affirm, no longer how todeny; he does not command; neither does he destroy. "JE NE MEPRISEPRESQUE RIEN"--he says, with Leibniz: let us not overlook nor undervaluethe PRESQUE! Neither is he a model man; he does not go in advance of anyone, nor after, either; he places himself generally too far off to haveany reason for espousing the cause of either good or evil. If he hasbeen so long confounded with the PHILOSOPHER, with the Caesarian trainerand dictator of civilization, he has had far too much honour, and whatis more essential in him has been overlooked--he is an instrument,something of a slave, though certainly the sublimest sort of slave, butnothing in himself--PRESQUE RIEN! The objective man is an instrument,a costly, easily injured, easily tarnished measuring instrument andmirroring apparatus, which is to be taken care of and respected; but heis no goal, not outgoing nor upgoing, no complementary man in whom theREST of existence justifies itself, no termination--and still less acommencement, an engendering, or primary cause, nothing hardy, powerful,self-centred, that wants to be master; but rather only a soft, inflated,delicate, movable potter's-form, that must wait for some kind of contentand frame to "shape" itself thereto--for the most part a man withoutframe and content, a "selfless" man. Consequently, also, nothing forwomen, IN PARENTHESI.
208. When a philosopher nowadays makes known that he is not a skeptic--Ihope that has been gathered from the foregoing description of theobjective spirit?--people all hear it impatiently; they regard him onthat account with some apprehension, they would like to ask so many,many questions... indeed among timid hearers, of whom there are now somany, he is henceforth said to be dangerous. With his repudiation ofskepticism, it seems to them as if they heard some evil-threateningsound in the distance, as if a new kind of explosive were being triedsomewhere, a dynamite of the spirit, perhaps a newly discovered RussianNIHILINE, a pessimism BONAE VOLUNTATIS, that not only denies, meansdenial, but--dreadful thought! PRACTISES denial. Against this kind of"good-will"--a will to the veritable, actual negation of life--there is,as is generally acknowledged nowadays, no better soporific and sedativethan skepticism, the mild, pleasing, lulling poppy of skepticism;and Hamlet himself is now prescribed by the doctors of the day as anantidote to the "spirit," and its underground noises. "Are not our earsalready full of bad sounds?" say the skeptics, as lovers of repose, andalmost as a kind of safety police; "this subterranean Nay is terrible!Be still, ye pessimistic moles!" The skeptic, in effect, that delicatecreature, is far too easily frightened; his conscience is schooled soas to start at every Nay, and even at that sharp, decided Yea, and feelssomething like a bite thereby. Yea! and Nay!--they seem to him opposedto morality; he loves, on the contrary, to make a festival to his virtueby a noble aloofness, while perhaps he says with Montaigne: "What do Iknow?" Or with Socrates: "I know that I know nothing." Or: "Here I donot trust myself, no door is open to me." Or: "Even if the door wereopen, why should I enter immediately?" Or: "What is the use of any hastyhypotheses? It might quite well be in good taste to make no hypothesesat all. Are you absolutely obliged to straighten at once what iscrooked? to stuff every hole with some kind of oakum? Is there not timeenough for that? Has not the time leisure? Oh, ye demons, can ye notat all WAIT? The uncertain also has its charms, the Sphinx, too, is aCirce, and Circe, too, was a philosopher."--Thus does a skeptic consolehimself; and in truth he needs some consolation. For skepticism isthe most spiritual expression of a certain many-sided physiologicaltemperament, which in ordinary language is called nervous debility andsickliness; it arises whenever races or classes which have been longseparated, decisively and suddenly blend with one another. In the newgeneration, which has inherited as it were different standards andvaluations in its blood, everything is disquiet, derangement, doubt, andtentativeness; the best powers operate restrictively, the very virtuesprevent each other growing and becoming strong, equilibrium, ballast,and perpendicular stability are lacking in body and soul. That, however,which is most diseased and degenerated in such nondescripts is theWILL; they are no longer familiar with independence of decision, orthe courageous feeling of pleasure in willing--they are doubtful of the"freedom of the will" even in their dreams Our present-day Europe,the scene of a senseless, precipitate attempt at a radical blending ofclasses, and CONSEQUENTLY of races, is therefore skeptical in all itsheights and depths, sometimes exhibiting the mobile skepticism whichsprings impatiently and wantonly from branch to branch, sometimes withgloomy aspect, like a cloud over-charged with interrogative signs--andoften sick unto death of its will! Paralysis of will, where do we notfind this cripple sitting nowadays! And yet how bedecked oftentimes' Howseductively ornamented! There are the finest gala dresses and disguisesfor this disease, and that, for instance, most of what places itselfnowadays in the show-cases as "objectiveness," "the scientific spirit,""L'ART POUR L'ART," and "pure voluntary knowledge," is only decked-outskepticism and paralysis of will--I am ready to answer for thisdiagnosis of the European disease--The disease of the will is diffusedunequally over Europe, it is worst and most varied where civilizationhas longest prevailed, it decreases according as "the barbarian"still--or again--asserts his claims under the loose drapery of Westernculture It is therefore in the France of today, as can be readilydisclosed and comprehended, that the will is most infirm, and France,which has always had a masterly aptitude for converting even theportentous crises of its spirit into something charming and seductive,now manifests emphatically its intellectual ascendancy over Europe,by being the school and exhibition of all the charms of skepticism Thepower to will and to persist, moreover, in a resolution, is alreadysomewhat stronger in Germany, and again in the North of Germany itis stronger than in Central Germany, it is considerably stronger inEngland, Spain, and Corsica, associated with phlegm in the former andwith hard skulls in the latter--not to mention Italy, which is too youngyet to know what it wants, and must first show whether it can exercisewill, but it is strongest and most surprising of all in that immensemiddle empire where Europe as it were flows back to Asia--namely, inRussia There the power to will has been long stored up and accumulated,there the will--uncertain whether to be negative or affirmative--waitsthreateningly to be discharged (to borrow their pet phrase from ourphysicists) Perhaps not only Indian wars and complications in Asia wouldbe necessary to free Europe from its greatest danger, but also internalsubversion, the shattering of the empire into small states, and aboveall the introduction of parliamentary imbecility, together with theobligation of every one to read his newspaper at breakfast I do notsay this as one who desires it, in my heart I should rather prefer thecontrary--I mean such an increase in the threatening attitude ofRussia, that Europe would have to make up its mind to become equallythreatening--namely, TO ACQUIRE ONE WILL, by means of a new caste torule over the Continent, a persistent, dreadful will of its own, thatcan set its aims thousands of years ahead; so that the long spun-outcomedy of its petty-statism, and its dynastic as well as its democraticmany-willed-ness, might finally be brought to a close. The time forpetty politics is past; the next century will bring the struggle for thedominion of the world--the COMPULSION to great politics.
209. As to how far the new warlike age on which we Europeans haveevidently entered may perhaps favour the growth of another and strongerkind of skepticism, I should like to express myself preliminarilymerely by a parable, which the lovers of German history will alreadyunderstand. That unscrupulous enthusiast for big, handsome grenadiers(who, as King of Prussia, brought into being a military and skepticalgenius--and therewith, in reality, the new and now triumphantly emergedtype of German), the problematic, crazy father of Frederick the Great,had on one point the very knack and lucky grasp of the genius: he knewwhat was then lacking in Germany, the want of which was a hundred timesmore alarming and serious than any lack of culture and social form--hisill-will to the young Frederick resulted from the anxiety of a profoundinstinct. MEN WERE LACKING; and he suspected, to his bitterest regret,that his own son was not man enough. There, however, he deceivedhimself; but who would not have deceived himself in his place? He sawhis son lapsed to atheism, to the ESPRIT, to the pleasant frivolity ofclever Frenchmen--he saw in the background the great bloodsucker, thespider skepticism; he suspected the incurable wretchedness of a heart nolonger hard enough either for evil or good, and of a broken will that nolonger commands, is no longer ABLE to command. Meanwhile, however,there grew up in his son that new kind of harder and more dangerousskepticism--who knows TO WHAT EXTENT it was encouraged just byhis father's hatred and the icy melancholy of a will condemned tosolitude?--the skepticism of daring manliness, which is closely relatedto the genius for war and conquest, and made its first entrance intoGermany in the person of the great Frederick. This skepticism despisesand nevertheless grasps; it undermines and takes possession; it doesnot believe, but it does not thereby lose itself; it gives the spirit adangerous liberty, but it keeps strict guard over the heart. It is theGERMAN form of skepticism, which, as a continued Fredericianism, risento the highest spirituality, has kept Europe for a considerable timeunder the dominion of the German spirit and its critical and historicaldistrust Owing to the insuperably strong and tough masculine characterof the great German philologists and historical critics (who,rightly estimated, were also all of them artists of destructionand dissolution), a NEW conception of the German spirit graduallyestablished itself--in spite of all Romanticism in music andphilosophy--in which the leaning towards masculine skepticism wasdecidedly prominent whether, for instance, as fearlessness of gaze, ascourage and sternness of the dissecting hand, or as resolute will todangerous voyages of discovery, to spiritualized North Pole expeditionsunder barren and dangerous skies. There may be good grounds for it whenwarm-blooded and superficial humanitarians cross themselves before thisspirit, CET ESPRIT FATALISTE, IRONIQUE, MEPHISTOPHELIQUE, as Micheletcalls it, not without a shudder. But if one would realize howcharacteristic is this fear of the "man" in the German spirit whichawakened Europe out of its "dogmatic slumber," let us call to mind theformer conception which had to be overcome by this new one--and thatit is not so very long ago that a masculinized woman could dare, withunbridled presumption, to recommend the Germans to the interest ofEurope as gentle, good-hearted, weak-willed, and poetical fools.Finally, let us only understand profoundly enough Napoleon'sastonishment when he saw Goethe it reveals what had been regarded forcenturies as the "German spirit" "VOILA UN HOMME!"--that was as much asto say "But this is a MAN! And I only expected to see a German!"
210. Supposing, then, that in the picture of the philosophers of thefuture, some trait suggests the question whether they must not perhapsbe skeptics in the last-mentioned sense, something in them would only bedesignated thereby--and not they themselves. With equal right they mightcall themselves critics, and assuredly they will be men of experiments.By the name with which I ventured to baptize them, I have alreadyexpressly emphasized their attempting and their love of attempting isthis because, as critics in body and soul, they will love to make useof experiments in a new, and perhaps wider and more dangerous sense? Intheir passion for knowledge, will they have to go further in daring andpainful attempts than the sensitive and pampered taste of a democraticcentury can approve of?--There is no doubt these coming ones will beleast able to dispense with the serious and not unscrupulous qualitieswhich distinguish the critic from the skeptic I mean the certainty as tostandards of worth, the conscious employment of a unity of method,the wary courage, the standing-alone, and the capacity forself-responsibility, indeed, they will avow among themselves a DELIGHTin denial and dissection, and a certain considerate cruelty, which knowshow to handle the knife surely and deftly, even when the heart bleedsThey will be STERNER (and perhaps not always towards themselves only)than humane people may desire, they will not deal with the "truth" inorder that it may "please" them, or "elevate" and "inspire" them--theywill rather have little faith in "TRUTH" bringing with it such revelsfor the feelings. They will smile, those rigorous spirits, when any onesays in their presence "That thought elevates me, why should it not betrue?" or "That work enchants me, why should it not be beautiful?" or"That artist enlarges me, why should he not be great?" Perhaps theywill not only have a smile, but a genuine disgust for all that is thusrapturous, idealistic, feminine, and hermaphroditic, and if any onecould look into their inmost hearts, he would not easily find thereinthe intention to reconcile "Christian sentiments" with "antique taste,"or even with "modern parliamentarism" (the kind of reconciliationnecessarily found even among philosophers in our very uncertain andconsequently very conciliatory century). Critical discipline, and everyhabit that conduces to purity and rigour in intellectual matters,will not only be demanded from themselves by these philosophers ofthe future, they may even make a display thereof as their specialadornment--nevertheless they will not want to be called critics on thataccount. It will seem to them no small indignity to philosophy tohave it decreed, as is so welcome nowadays, that "philosophy itself iscriticism and critical science--and nothing else whatever!" Though thisestimate of philosophy may enjoy the approval of all the Positivists ofFrance and Germany (and possibly it even flattered the heart and tasteof KANT: let us call to mind the titles of his principal works), our newphilosophers will say, notwithstanding, that critics are instruments ofthe philosopher, and just on that account, as instruments, they arefar from being philosophers themselves! Even the great Chinaman ofKonigsberg was only a great critic.
211. I insist upon it that people finally cease confoundingphilosophical workers, and in general scientific men, withphilosophers--that precisely here one should strictly give "each hisown," and not give those far too much, these far too little. It maybe necessary for the education of the real philosopher that he himselfshould have once stood upon all those steps upon which his servants,the scientific workers of philosophy, remain standing, and MUST remainstanding he himself must perhaps have been critic, and dogmatist,and historian, and besides, poet, and collector, and traveler, andriddle-reader, and moralist, and seer, and "free spirit," and almosteverything, in order to traverse the whole range of human valuesand estimations, and that he may BE ABLE with a variety of eyes andconsciences to look from a height to any distance, from a depth upto any height, from a nook into any expanse. But all these are onlypreliminary conditions for his task; this task itself demands somethingelse--it requires him TO CREATE VALUES. The philosophical workers, afterthe excellent pattern of Kant and Hegel, have to fix and formalize somegreat existing body of valuations--that is to say, former DETERMINATIONSOF VALUE, creations of value, which have become prevalent, and are fora time called "truths"--whether in the domain of the LOGICAL, thePOLITICAL (moral), or the ARTISTIC. It is for these investigators tomake whatever has happened and been esteemed hitherto, conspicuous,conceivable, intelligible, and manageable, to shorten everything long,even "time" itself, and to SUBJUGATE the entire past: an immense andwonderful task, in the carrying out of which all refined pride, alltenacious will, can surely find satisfaction. THE REAL PHILOSOPHERS,HOWEVER, ARE COMMANDERS AND LAW-GIVERS; they say: "Thus SHALL it be!"They determine first the Whither and the Why of mankind, and therebyset aside the previous labour of all philosophical workers, and allsubjugators of the past--they grasp at the future with a creativehand, and whatever is and was, becomes for them thereby a means, aninstrument, and a hammer. Their "knowing" is CREATING, their creatingis a law-giving, their will to truth is--WILL TO POWER.--Are there atpresent such philosophers? Have there ever been such philosophers? MUSTthere not be such philosophers some day? ...
212. It is always more obvious to me that the philosopher, as a manINDISPENSABLE for the morrow and the day after the morrow, has everfound himself, and HAS BEEN OBLIGED to find himself, in contradictionto the day in which he lives; his enemy has always been the ideal of hisday. Hitherto all those extraordinary furtherers of humanity whom onecalls philosophers--who rarely regarded themselves as lovers of wisdom,but rather as disagreeable fools and dangerous interrogators--have foundtheir mission, their hard, involuntary, imperative mission (in the end,however, the greatness of their mission), in being the bad conscience oftheir age. In putting the vivisector's knife to the breast of the veryVIRTUES OF THEIR AGE, they have betrayed their own secret; it has beenfor the sake of a NEW greatness of man, a new untrodden path tohis aggrandizement. They have always disclosed how much hypocrisy,indolence, self-indulgence, and self-neglect, how much falsehood wasconcealed under the most venerated types of contemporary morality, howmuch virtue was OUTLIVED, they have always said "We must remove hence towhere YOU are least at home" In the face of a world of "modern ideas,"which would like to confine every one in a corner, in a "specialty," aphilosopher, if there could be philosophers nowadays, would be compelledto place the greatness of man, the conception of "greatness," preciselyin his comprehensiveness and multifariousness, in his all-roundness, hewould even determine worth and rank according to the amount and varietyof that which a man could bear and take upon himself, according to theEXTENT to which a man could stretch his responsibility Nowadays thetaste and virtue of the age weaken and attenuate the will, nothing isso adapted to the spirit of the age as weakness of will consequently, inthe ideal of the philosopher, strength of will, sternness, and capacityfor prolonged resolution, must specially be included in the conceptionof "greatness", with as good a right as the opposite doctrine, with itsideal of a silly, renouncing, humble, selfless humanity, was suited toan opposite age--such as the sixteenth century, which suffered from itsaccumulated energy of will, and from the wildest torrents and floodsof selfishness In the time of Socrates, among men only of worn-outinstincts, old conservative Athenians who let themselves go--"for thesake of happiness," as they said, for the sake of pleasure, as theirconduct indicated--and who had continually on their lips the old pompouswords to which they had long forfeited the right by the life they led,IRONY was perhaps necessary for greatness of soul, the wicked Socraticassurance of the old physician and plebeian, who cut ruthlessly into hisown flesh, as into the flesh and heart of the "noble," with a look thatsaid plainly enough "Do not dissemble before me! here--we are equal!"At present, on the contrary, when throughout Europe the herding-animalalone attains to honours, and dispenses honours, when "equality ofright" can too readily be transformed into equality in wrong--I mean tosay into general war against everything rare, strange, and privileged,against the higher man, the higher soul, the higher duty, the higherresponsibility, the creative plenipotence and lordliness--at presentit belongs to the conception of "greatness" to be noble, to wish to beapart, to be capable of being different, to stand alone, to have to liveby personal initiative, and the philosopher will betray something of hisown ideal when he asserts "He shall be the greatest who can be the mostsolitary, the most concealed, the most divergent, the man beyond goodand evil, the master of his virtues, and of super-abundance of will;precisely this shall be called GREATNESS: as diversified as can beentire, as ample as can be full." And to ask once more the question: Isgreatness POSSIBLE--nowadays?
213. It is difficult to learn what a philosopher is, because it cannotbe taught: one must "know" it by experience--or one should have thepride NOT to know it. The fact that at present people all talk of thingsof which they CANNOT have any experience, is true more especiallyand unfortunately as concerns the philosopher and philosophicalmatters:--the very few know them, are permitted to know them, andall popular ideas about them are false. Thus, for instance, the trulyphilosophical combination of a bold, exuberant spirituality which runsat presto pace, and a dialectic rigour and necessity which makes nofalse step, is unknown to most thinkers and scholars from their ownexperience, and therefore, should any one speak of it in theirpresence, it is incredible to them. They conceive of every necessity astroublesome, as a painful compulsory obedience and state of constraint;thinking itself is regarded by them as something slow and hesitating,almost as a trouble, and often enough as "worthy of the SWEAT of thenoble"--but not at all as something easy and divine, closely relatedto dancing and exuberance! "To think" and to take a matter "seriously,""arduously"--that is one and the same thing to them; such only has beentheir "experience."--Artists have here perhaps a finer intuition; theywho know only too well that precisely when they no longer do anything"arbitrarily," and everything of necessity, their feeling of freedom,of subtlety, of power, of creatively fixing, disposing, and shaping,reaches its climax--in short, that necessity and "freedom of will" arethen the same thing with them. There is, in fine, a gradation of rankin psychical states, to which the gradation of rank in the problemscorresponds; and the highest problems repel ruthlessly every one whoventures too near them, without being predestined for their solutionby the loftiness and power of his spirituality. Of what use is it fornimble, everyday intellects, or clumsy, honest mechanics and empiriciststo press, in their plebeian ambition, close to such problems, and asit were into this "holy of holies"--as so often happens nowadays! Butcoarse feet must never tread upon such carpets: this is provided for inthe primary law of things; the doors remain closed to those intruders,though they may dash and break their heads thereon. People have alwaysto be born to a high station, or, more definitely, they have to be BREDfor it: a person has only a right to philosophy--taking the word inits higher significance--in virtue of his descent; the ancestors, the"blood," decide here also. Many generations must have prepared the wayfor the coming of the philosopher; each of his virtues must have beenseparately acquired, nurtured, transmitted, and embodied; not only thebold, easy, delicate course and current of his thoughts, but above allthe readiness for great responsibilities, the majesty of ruling glanceand contemning look, the feeling of separation from the multitude withtheir duties and virtues, the kindly patronage and defense of whateveris misunderstood and calumniated, be it God or devil, the delight andpractice of supreme justice, the art of commanding, the amplitude ofwill, the lingering eye which rarely admires, rarely looks up, rarelyloves....


CHAPTER VII. OUR VIRTUES

214. OUR Virtues?--It is probable that we, too, have still our virtues,although naturally they are not those sincere and massive virtues onaccount of which we hold our grandfathers in esteem and also at a littledistance from us. We Europeans of the day after tomorrow, we firstlingsof the twentieth century--with all our dangerous curiosity, ourmultifariousness and art of disguising, our mellow and seeminglysweetened cruelty in sense and spirit--we shall presumably, IF we musthave virtues, have those only which have come to agreement with our mostsecret and heartfelt inclinations, with our most ardent requirements:well, then, let us look for them in our labyrinths!--where, as we know,so many things lose themselves, so many things get quite lost! And isthere anything finer than to SEARCH for one's own virtues? Is it notalmost to BELIEVE in one's own virtues? But this "believing in one'sown virtues"--is it not practically the same as what was formerly calledone's "good conscience," that long, respectable pigtail of an idea,which our grandfathers used to hang behind their heads, and often enoughalso behind their understandings? It seems, therefore, that howeverlittle we may imagine ourselves to be old-fashioned and grandfatherlyrespectable in other respects, in one thing we are nevertheless theworthy grandchildren of our grandfathers, we last Europeans with goodconsciences: we also still wear their pigtail.--Ah! if you only knew howsoon, so very soon--it will be different!
215. As in the stellar firmament there are sometimes two suns whichdetermine the path of one planet, and in certain cases suns of differentcolours shine around a single planet, now with red light, now withgreen, and then simultaneously illumine and flood it with motleycolours: so we modern men, owing to the complicated mechanism of our"firmament," are determined by DIFFERENT moralities; our actions shinealternately in different colours, and are seldom unequivocal--and thereare often cases, also, in which our actions are MOTLEY-COLOURED.
216. To love one's enemies? I think that has been well learnt: it takesplace thousands of times at present on a large and small scale; indeed,at times the higher and sublimer thing takes place:--we learn to DESPISEwhen we love, and precisely when we love best; all of it, however,unconsciously, without noise, without ostentation, with the shame andsecrecy of goodness, which forbids the utterance of the pompous wordand the formula of virtue. Morality as attitude--is opposed to our tastenowadays. This is ALSO an advance, as it was an advance in our fathersthat religion as an attitude finally became opposed to their taste,including the enmity and Voltairean bitterness against religion (and allthat formerly belonged to freethinker-pantomime). It is the music in ourconscience, the dance in our spirit, to which Puritan litanies, moralsermons, and goody-goodness won't chime.
217. Let us be careful in dealing with those who attach great importanceto being credited with moral tact and subtlety in moral discernment!They never forgive us if they have once made a mistake BEFORE us(or even with REGARD to us)--they inevitably become our instinctivecalumniators and detractors, even when they still remain our"friends."--Blessed are the forgetful: for they "get the better" even oftheir blunders.
218. The psychologists of France--and where else are there stillpsychologists nowadays?--have never yet exhausted their bitter andmanifold enjoyment of the betise bourgeoise, just as though... inshort, they betray something thereby. Flaubert, for instance, the honestcitizen of Rouen, neither saw, heard, nor tasted anything else in theend; it was his mode of self-torment and refined cruelty. As this isgrowing wearisome, I would now recommend for a change something elsefor a pleasure--namely, the unconscious astuteness with which good, fat,honest mediocrity always behaves towards loftier spirits and the tasksthey have to perform, the subtle, barbed, Jesuitical astuteness, whichis a thousand times subtler than the taste and understanding of themiddle-class in its best moments--subtler even than the understanding ofits victims:--a repeated proof that "instinct" is the most intelligentof all kinds of intelligence which have hitherto been discovered. Inshort, you psychologists, study the philosophy of the "rule" in itsstruggle with the "exception": there you have a spectacle fit for Godsand godlike malignity! Or, in plainer words, practise vivisection on"good people," on the "homo bonae voluntatis," ON YOURSELVES!
219. The practice of judging and condemning morally, is the favouriterevenge of the intellectually shallow on those who are less so, it isalso a kind of indemnity for their being badly endowed by nature,and finally, it is an opportunity for acquiring spirit and BECOMINGsubtle--malice spiritualises. They are glad in their inmost heart thatthere is a standard according to which those who are over-endowed withintellectual goods and privileges, are equal to them, they contend forthe "equality of all before God," and almost NEED the belief in God forthis purpose. It is among them that the most powerful antagonists ofatheism are found. If any one were to say to them "A lofty spiritualityis beyond all comparison with the honesty and respectability of a merelymoral man"--it would make them furious, I shall take care not to sayso. I would rather flatter them with my theory that lofty spiritualityitself exists only as the ultimate product of moral qualities, that itis a synthesis of all qualities attributed to the "merely moral" man,after they have been acquired singly through long training and practice,perhaps during a whole series of generations, that lofty spiritualityis precisely the spiritualising of justice, and the beneficent severitywhich knows that it is authorized to maintain GRADATIONS OF RANK in theworld, even among things--and not only among men.
220. Now that the praise of the "disinterested person" is so popularone must--probably not without some danger--get an idea of WHAT peopleactually take an interest in, and what are the things generally whichfundamentally and profoundly concern ordinary men--including thecultured, even the learned, and perhaps philosophers also, ifappearances do not deceive. The fact thereby becomes obvious that thegreater part of what interests and charms higher natures, and morerefined and fastidious tastes, seems absolutely "uninteresting" tothe average man--if, notwithstanding, he perceive devotion to theseinterests, he calls it desinteresse, and wonders how it is possible toact "disinterestedly." There have been philosophers who could give thispopular astonishment a seductive and mystical, other-worldly expression(perhaps because they did not know the higher nature by experience?),instead of stating the naked and candidly reasonable truth that"disinterested" action is very interesting and "interested" action,provided that... "And love?"--What! Even an action for love's sakeshall be "unegoistic"? But you fools--! "And the praise of theself-sacrificer?"--But whoever has really offered sacrifice knows thathe wanted and obtained something for it--perhaps something from himselffor something from himself; that he relinquished here in order to havemore there, perhaps in general to be more, or even feel himself "more."But this is a realm of questions and answers in which a more fastidiousspirit does not like to stay: for here truth has to stifle her yawns somuch when she is obliged to answer. And after all, truth is a woman; onemust not use force with her.
221. "It sometimes happens," said a moralistic pedant andtrifle-retailer, "that I honour and respect an unselfish man: not,however, because he is unselfish, but because I think he has a right tobe useful to another man at his own expense. In short, the questionis always who HE is, and who THE OTHER is. For instance, in a personcreated and destined for command, self-denial and modest retirement,instead of being virtues, would be the waste of virtues: so it seemsto me. Every system of unegoistic morality which takes itselfunconditionally and appeals to every one, not only sins against goodtaste, but is also an incentive to sins of omission, an ADDITIONALseduction under the mask of philanthropy--and precisely a seduction andinjury to the higher, rarer, and more privileged types of men. Moralsystems must be compelled first of all to bow before the GRADATIONS OFRANK; their presumption must be driven home to their conscience--untilthey thoroughly understand at last that it is IMMORAL to say that 'whatis right for one is proper for another.'"--So said my moralistic pedantand bonhomme. Did he perhaps deserve to be laughed at when he thusexhorted systems of morals to practise morality? But one should not betoo much in the right if one wishes to have the laughers on ONE'S OWNside; a grain of wrong pertains even to good taste.
222. Wherever sympathy (fellow-suffering) is preached nowadays--and,if I gather rightly, no other religion is any longer preached--let thepsychologist have his ears open through all the vanity, through all thenoise which is natural to these preachers (as to all preachers), he willhear a hoarse, groaning, genuine note of SELF-CONTEMPT. It belongsto the overshadowing and uglifying of Europe, which has been onthe increase for a century (the first symptoms of which are alreadyspecified documentarily in a thoughtful letter of Galiani to Madamed'Epinay)--IF IT IS NOT REALLY THE CAUSE THEREOF! The man of"modern ideas," the conceited ape, is excessively dissatisfied withhimself--this is perfectly certain. He suffers, and his vanity wants himonly "to suffer with his fellows."
223. The hybrid European--a tolerably ugly plebeian, taken all inall--absolutely requires a costume: he needs history as a storeroomof costumes. To be sure, he notices that none of the costumes fit himproperly--he changes and changes. Let us look at the nineteenth centurywith respect to these hasty preferences and changes in its masqueradesof style, and also with respect to its moments of desperation on accountof "nothing suiting" us. It is in vain to get ourselves up as romantic,or classical, or Christian, or Florentine, or barocco, or "national,"in moribus et artibus: it does not "clothe us"! But the "spirit,"especially the "historical spirit," profits even by this desperation:once and again a new sample of the past or of the foreign is tested,put on, taken off, packed up, and above all studied--we are the firststudious age in puncto of "costumes," I mean as concerns morals,articles of belief, artistic tastes, and religions; we are prepared asno other age has ever been for a carnival in the grand style, for themost spiritual festival--laughter and arrogance, for the transcendentalheight of supreme folly and Aristophanic ridicule of the world. Perhapswe are still discovering the domain of our invention just here, thedomain where even we can still be original, probably as parodists ofthe world's history and as God's Merry-Andrews,--perhaps, though nothingelse of the present have a future, our laughter itself may have afuture!
224. The historical sense (or the capacity for divining quicklythe order of rank of the valuations according to which a people, acommunity, or an individual has lived, the "divining instinct" for therelationships of these valuations, for the relation of the authorityof the valuations to the authority of the operating forces),--thishistorical sense, which we Europeans claim as our specialty, has cometo us in the train of the enchanting and mad semi-barbarity into whichEurope has been plunged by the democratic mingling of classes andraces--it is only the nineteenth century that has recognized thisfaculty as its sixth sense. Owing to this mingling, the past of everyform and mode of life, and of cultures which were formerly closelycontiguous and superimposed on one another, flows forth into us "modernsouls"; our instincts now run back in all directions, we ourselves area kind of chaos: in the end, as we have said, the spirit perceives itsadvantage therein. By means of our semi-barbarity in body and in desire,we have secret access everywhere, such as a noble age never had; we haveaccess above all to the labyrinth of imperfect civilizations, and toevery form of semi-barbarity that has at any time existed on earth; andin so far as the most considerable part of human civilization hithertohas just been semi-barbarity, the "historical sense" implies almost thesense and instinct for everything, the taste and tongue for everything:whereby it immediately proves itself to be an IGNOBLE sense. Forinstance, we enjoy Homer once more: it is perhaps our happiestacquisition that we know how to appreciate Homer, whom men ofdistinguished culture (as the French of the seventeenth century, likeSaint-Evremond, who reproached him for his ESPRIT VASTE, and evenVoltaire, the last echo of the century) cannot and could not so easilyappropriate--whom they scarcely permitted themselves to enjoy. The verydecided Yea and Nay of their palate, their promptly ready disgust, theirhesitating reluctance with regard to everything strange, their horror ofthe bad taste even of lively curiosity, and in general the averseness ofevery distinguished and self-sufficing culture to avow a new desire,a dissatisfaction with its own condition, or an admiration of what isstrange: all this determines and disposes them unfavourably even towardsthe best things of the world which are not their property or could notbecome their prey--and no faculty is more unintelligible to such menthan just this historical sense, with its truckling, plebeiancuriosity. The case is not different with Shakespeare, that marvelousSpanish-Moorish-Saxon synthesis of taste, over whom an ancient Athenianof the circle of AEschylus would have half-killed himself with laughteror irritation: but we--accept precisely this wild motleyness, thismedley of the most delicate, the most coarse, and the most artificial,with a secret confidence and cordiality; we enjoy it as a refinementof art reserved expressly for us, and allow ourselves to be as littledisturbed by the repulsive fumes and the proximity of the Englishpopulace in which Shakespeare's art and taste lives, as perhaps onthe Chiaja of Naples, where, with all our senses awake, we go our way,enchanted and voluntarily, in spite of the drain-odour of the lowerquarters of the town. That as men of the "historical sense" we haveour virtues, is not to be disputed:--we are unpretentious, unselfish,modest, brave, habituated to self-control and self-renunciation, verygrateful, very patient, very complaisant--but with all this we areperhaps not very "tasteful." Let us finally confess it, that what ismost difficult for us men of the "historical sense" to grasp, feel,taste, and love, what finds us fundamentally prejudiced and almosthostile, is precisely the perfection and ultimate maturity in everyculture and art, the essentially noble in works and men, their momentof smooth sea and halcyon self-sufficiency, the goldenness and coldnesswhich all things show that have perfected themselves. Perhaps our greatvirtue of the historical sense is in necessary contrast to GOOD taste,at least to the very bad taste; and we can only evoke in ourselvesimperfectly, hesitatingly, and with compulsion the small, short, andhappy godsends and glorifications of human life as they shine here andthere: those moments and marvelous experiences when a great power hasvoluntarily come to a halt before the boundless and infinite,--when asuper-abundance of refined delight has been enjoyed by a sudden checkingand petrifying, by standing firmly and planting oneself fixedly on stilltrembling ground. PROPORTIONATENESS is strange to us, let us confess itto ourselves; our itching is really the itching for the infinite, theimmeasurable. Like the rider on his forward panting horse, we let thereins fall before the infinite, we modern men, we semi-barbarians--andare only in OUR highest bliss when we--ARE IN MOST DANGER.
225. Whether it be hedonism, pessimism, utilitarianism, or eudaemonism,all those modes of thinking which measure the worth of things accordingto PLEASURE and PAIN, that is, according to accompanying circumstancesand secondary considerations, are plausible modes of thought andnaivetes, which every one conscious of CREATIVE powers and an artist'sconscience will look down upon with scorn, though not without sympathy.Sympathy for you!--to be sure, that is not sympathy as you understandit: it is not sympathy for social "distress," for "society" with itssick and misfortuned, for the hereditarily vicious and defective who lieon the ground around us; still less is it sympathy for the grumbling,vexed, revolutionary slave-classes who strive after power--they call it"freedom." OUR sympathy is a loftier and further-sighted sympathy:--wesee how MAN dwarfs himself, how YOU dwarf him! and there are momentswhen we view YOUR sympathy with an indescribable anguish, when we resistit,--when we regard your seriousness as more dangerous than any kindof levity. You want, if possible--and there is not a more foolish "ifpossible"--TO DO AWAY WITH SUFFERING; and we?--it really seems that WEwould rather have it increased and made worse than it has ever been!Well-being, as you understand it--is certainly not a goal; it seemsto us an END; a condition which at once renders man ludicrous andcontemptible--and makes his destruction DESIRABLE! The disciplineof suffering, of GREAT suffering--know ye not that it is only THISdiscipline that has produced all the elevations of humanity hitherto?The tension of soul in misfortune which communicates to it its energy,its shuddering in view of rack and ruin, its inventiveness and braveryin undergoing, enduring, interpreting, and exploiting misfortune, andwhatever depth, mystery, disguise, spirit, artifice, or greatness hasbeen bestowed upon the soul--has it not been bestowed through suffering,through the discipline of great suffering? In man CREATURE and CREATORare united: in man there is not only matter, shred, excess, clay, mire,folly, chaos; but there is also the creator, the sculptor, the hardnessof the hammer, the divinity of the spectator, and the seventh day--doye understand this contrast? And that YOUR sympathy for the "creaturein man" applies to that which has to be fashioned, bruised, forged,stretched, roasted, annealed, refined--to that which must necessarilySUFFER, and IS MEANT to suffer? And our sympathy--do ye not understandwhat our REVERSE sympathy applies to, when it resists your sympathy asthe worst of all pampering and enervation?--So it is sympathy AGAINSTsympathy!--But to repeat it once more, there are higher problems thanthe problems of pleasure and pain and sympathy; and all systems ofphilosophy which deal only with these are naivetes.
226. WE IMMORALISTS.--This world with which WE are concerned, in whichwe have to fear and love, this almost invisible, inaudible world ofdelicate command and delicate obedience, a world of "almost" in everyrespect, captious, insidious, sharp, and tender--yes, it is wellprotected from clumsy spectators and familiar curiosity! We arewoven into a strong net and garment of duties, and CANNOT disengageourselves--precisely here, we are "men of duty," even we! Occasionally,it is true, we dance in our "chains" and betwixt our "swords"; itis none the less true that more often we gnash our teeth under thecircumstances, and are impatient at the secret hardship of our lot. Butdo what we will, fools and appearances say of us: "These are men WITHOUTduty,"--we have always fools and appearances against us!
227. Honesty, granting that it is the virtue of which we cannot ridourselves, we free spirits--well, we will labour at it with all ourperversity and love, and not tire of "perfecting" ourselves in OURvirtue, which alone remains: may its glance some day overspread likea gilded, blue, mocking twilight this aging civilization with its dullgloomy seriousness! And if, nevertheless, our honesty should one daygrow weary, and sigh, and stretch its limbs, and find us too hard, andwould fain have it pleasanter, easier, and gentler, like an agreeablevice, let us remain HARD, we latest Stoics, and let us send to itshelp whatever devilry we have in us:--our disgust at the clumsyand undefined, our "NITIMUR IN VETITUM," our love of adventure,our sharpened and fastidious curiosity, our most subtle, disguised,intellectual Will to Power and universal conquest, which rambles androves avidiously around all the realms of the future--let us go with allour "devils" to the help of our "God"! It is probable that people willmisunderstand and mistake us on that account: what does it matter! Theywill say: "Their 'honesty'--that is their devilry, and nothing else!"What does it matter! And even if they were right--have not all Godshitherto been such sanctified, re-baptized devils? And after all, whatdo we know of ourselves? And what the spirit that leads us wants TO BECALLED? (It is a question of names.) And how many spirits we harbour?Our honesty, we free spirits--let us be careful lest it become ourvanity, our ornament and ostentation, our limitation, our stupidity!Every virtue inclines to stupidity, every stupidity to virtue; "stupidto the point of sanctity," they say in Russia,--let us be careful lestout of pure honesty we eventually become saints and bores! Is not lifea hundred times too short for us--to bore ourselves? One would have tobelieve in eternal life in order to...
228. I hope to be forgiven for discovering that all moral philosophyhitherto has been tedious and has belonged to the soporificappliances--and that "virtue," in my opinion, has been MORE injuredby the TEDIOUSNESS of its advocates than by anything else; at the sametime, however, I would not wish to overlook their general usefulness. Itis desirable that as few people as possible should reflect upon morals,and consequently it is very desirable that morals should not some daybecome interesting! But let us not be afraid! Things still remain todayas they have always been: I see no one in Europe who has (or DISCLOSES)an idea of the fact that philosophizing concerning morals might beconducted in a dangerous, captious, and ensnaring manner--that CALAMITYmight be involved therein. Observe, for example, the indefatigable,inevitable English utilitarians: how ponderously and respectably theystalk on, stalk along (a Homeric metaphor expresses it better) in thefootsteps of Bentham, just as he had already stalked in the footsteps ofthe respectable Helvetius! (no, he was not a dangerous man, Helvetius,CE SENATEUR POCOCURANTE, to use an expression of Galiani). No newthought, nothing of the nature of a finer turning or better expressionof an old thought, not even a proper history of what has been previouslythought on the subject: an IMPOSSIBLE literature, taking it all in all,unless one knows how to leaven it with some mischief. In effect, theold English vice called CANT, which is MORAL TARTUFFISM, has insinuateditself also into these moralists (whom one must certainly read with aneye to their motives if one MUST read them), concealed this time underthe new form of the scientific spirit; moreover, there is not absentfrom them a secret struggle with the pangs of conscience, from which arace of former Puritans must naturally suffer, in all their scientifictinkering with morals. (Is not a moralist the opposite of a Puritan?That is to say, as a thinker who regards morality as questionable,as worthy of interrogation, in short, as a problem? Is moralizingnot-immoral?) In the end, they all want English morality to berecognized as authoritative, inasmuch as mankind, or the "generalutility," or "the happiness of the greatest number,"--no! the happinessof ENGLAND, will be best served thereby. They would like, by all means,to convince themselves that the striving after English happiness, Imean after COMFORT and FASHION (and in the highest instance, a seat inParliament), is at the same time the true path of virtue; in fact, thatin so far as there has been virtue in the world hitherto, it hasjust consisted in such striving. Not one of those ponderous,conscience-stricken herding-animals (who undertake to advocate thecause of egoism as conducive to the general welfare) wants to haveany knowledge or inkling of the facts that the "general welfare" isno ideal, no goal, no notion that can be at all grasped, but is only anostrum,--that what is fair to one MAY NOT at all be fair to another,that the requirement of one morality for all is really a detriment tohigher men, in short, that there is a DISTINCTION OF RANK between manand man, and consequently between morality and morality. They are anunassuming and fundamentally mediocre species of men, these utilitarianEnglishmen, and, as already remarked, in so far as they are tedious, onecannot think highly enough of their utility. One ought even to ENCOURAGEthem, as has been partially attempted in the following rhymes:--
    Hail, ye worthies, barrow-wheeling,    "Longer--better," aye revealing,
    Stiffer aye in head and knee;    Unenraptured, never jesting,    Mediocre everlasting,
    SANS GENIE ET SANS ESPRIT!

229. In these later ages, which may be proud of their humanity, therestill remains so much fear, so much SUPERSTITION of the fear, of the"cruel wild beast," the mastering of which constitutes the very pride ofthese humaner ages--that even obvious truths, as if by the agreementof centuries, have long remained unuttered, because they have theappearance of helping the finally slain wild beast back to life again.I perhaps risk something when I allow such a truth to escape; letothers capture it again and give it so much "milk of pious sentiment"[FOOTNOTE: An expression from Schiller's William Tell, Act IV, Scene3.] to drink, that it will lie down quiet and forgotten, in its oldcorner.--One ought to learn anew about cruelty, and open one's eyes;one ought at last to learn impatience, in order that such immodestgross errors--as, for instance, have been fostered by ancient andmodern philosophers with regard to tragedy--may no longer wander aboutvirtuously and boldly. Almost everything that we call "higher culture"is based upon the spiritualising and intensifying of CRUELTY--this ismy thesis; the "wild beast" has not been slain at all, it lives, itflourishes, it has only been--transfigured. That which constitutes thepainful delight of tragedy is cruelty; that which operates agreeably inso-called tragic sympathy, and at the basis even of everything sublime,up to the highest and most delicate thrills of metaphysics, obtains itssweetness solely from the intermingled ingredient of cruelty. What theRoman enjoys in the arena, the Christian in the ecstasies of the cross,the Spaniard at the sight of the faggot and stake, or of the bull-fight,the present-day Japanese who presses his way to the tragedy, the workmanof the Parisian suburbs who has a homesickness for bloody revolutions,the Wagnerienne who, with unhinged will, "undergoes" the performance of"Tristan and Isolde"--what all these enjoy, and strive with mysteriousardour to drink in, is the philtre of the great Circe "cruelty." Here,to be sure, we must put aside entirely the blundering psychology offormer times, which could only teach with regard to cruelty thatit originated at the sight of the suffering of OTHERS: there is anabundant, super-abundant enjoyment even in one's own suffering, incausing one's own suffering--and wherever man has allowed himself to bepersuaded to self-denial in the RELIGIOUS sense, or to self-mutilation,as among the Phoenicians and ascetics, or in general, todesensualisation, decarnalisation, and contrition, to Puritanicalrepentance-spasms, to vivisection of conscience and to Pascal-likeSACRIFIZIA DELL' INTELLETO, he is secretly allured and impelledforwards by his cruelty, by the dangerous thrill of cruelty TOWARDSHIMSELF.--Finally, let us consider that even the seeker of knowledgeoperates as an artist and glorifier of cruelty, in that he compels hisspirit to perceive AGAINST its own inclination, and often enough againstthe wishes of his heart:--he forces it to say Nay, where he would liketo affirm, love, and adore; indeed, every instance of taking a thingprofoundly and fundamentally, is a violation, an intentional injuringof the fundamental will of the spirit, which instinctively aims atappearance and superficiality,--even in every desire for knowledge thereis a drop of cruelty.
230. Perhaps what I have said here about a "fundamental will of thespirit" may not be understood without further details; I may be alloweda word of explanation.--That imperious something which is popularlycalled "the spirit," wishes to be master internally and externally,and to feel itself master; it has the will of a multiplicity for asimplicity, a binding, taming, imperious, and essentially ruling will.Its requirements and capacities here, are the same as those assigned byphysiologists to everything that lives, grows, and multiplies. The powerof the spirit to appropriate foreign elements reveals itself in a strongtendency to assimilate the new to the old, to simplify the manifold,to overlook or repudiate the absolutely contradictory; just as itarbitrarily re-underlines, makes prominent, and falsifies for itselfcertain traits and lines in the foreign elements, in every portion ofthe "outside world." Its object thereby is the incorporation of new"experiences," the assortment of new things in the old arrangements--inshort, growth; or more properly, the FEELING of growth, the feeling ofincreased power--is its object. This same will has at its service anapparently opposed impulse of the spirit, a suddenly adopted preferenceof ignorance, of arbitrary shutting out, a closing of windows, an innerdenial of this or that, a prohibition to approach, a sort of defensiveattitude against much that is knowable, a contentment with obscurity,with the shutting-in horizon, an acceptance and approval of ignorance:as that which is all necessary according to the degree of itsappropriating power, its "digestive power," to speak figuratively (andin fact "the spirit" resembles a stomach more than anything else). Herealso belong an occasional propensity of the spirit to let itself bedeceived (perhaps with a waggish suspicion that it is NOT so and so,but is only allowed to pass as such), a delight in uncertainty andambiguity, an exulting enjoyment of arbitrary, out-of-the-way narrownessand mystery, of the too-near, of the foreground, of the magnified,the diminished, the misshapen, the beautified--an enjoyment of thearbitrariness of all these manifestations of power. Finally, in thisconnection, there is the not unscrupulous readiness of the spirit todeceive other spirits and dissemble before them--the constant pressingand straining of a creating, shaping, changeable power: the spiritenjoys therein its craftiness and its variety of disguises, it enjoysalso its feeling of security therein--it is precisely by its Proteanarts that it is best protected and concealed!--COUNTER TO thispropensity for appearance, for simplification, for a disguise, for acloak, in short, for an outside--for every outside is a cloak--thereoperates the sublime tendency of the man of knowledge, which takes, andINSISTS on taking things profoundly, variously, and thoroughly; as akind of cruelty of the intellectual conscience and taste, which everycourageous thinker will acknowledge in himself, provided, as it oughtto be, that he has sharpened and hardened his eye sufficiently long forintrospection, and is accustomed to severe discipline and even severewords. He will say: "There is something cruel in the tendency of myspirit": let the virtuous and amiable try to convince him that it is notso! In fact, it would sound nicer, if, instead of our cruelty, perhapsour "extravagant honesty" were talked about, whispered about, andglorified--we free, VERY free spirits--and some day perhaps SUCH willactually be our--posthumous glory! Meanwhile--for there is plenty oftime until then--we should be least inclined to deck ourselves out insuch florid and fringed moral verbiage; our whole former work hasjust made us sick of this taste and its sprightly exuberance. They arebeautiful, glistening, jingling, festive words: honesty, love of truth,love of wisdom, sacrifice for knowledge, heroism of the truthful--thereis something in them that makes one's heart swell with pride. But weanchorites and marmots have long ago persuaded ourselves in all thesecrecy of an anchorite's conscience, that this worthy parade ofverbiage also belongs to the old false adornment, frippery, andgold-dust of unconscious human vanity, and that even under suchflattering colour and repainting, the terrible original text HOMO NATURAmust again be recognized. In effect, to translate man back again intonature; to master the many vain and visionary interpretations andsubordinate meanings which have hitherto been scratched and daubed overthe eternal original text, HOMO NATURA; to bring it about that man shallhenceforth stand before man as he now, hardened by the disciplineof science, stands before the OTHER forms of nature, with fearlessOedipus-eyes, and stopped Ulysses-ears, deaf to the enticements of oldmetaphysical bird-catchers, who have piped to him far too long: "Thouart more! thou art higher! thou hast a different origin!"--this may bea strange and foolish task, but that it is a TASK, who can deny! Why didwe choose it, this foolish task? Or, to put the question differently:"Why knowledge at all?" Every one will ask us about this. And thuspressed, we, who have asked ourselves the question a hundred times, havenot found and cannot find any better answer....
231. Learning alters us, it does what all nourishment does that does notmerely "conserve"--as the physiologist knows. But at the bottom of oursouls, quite "down below," there is certainly something unteachable,a granite of spiritual fate, of predetermined decision and answer topredetermined, chosen questions. In each cardinal problem there speaksan unchangeable "I am this"; a thinker cannot learn anew about man andwoman, for instance, but can only learn fully--he can only follow to theend what is "fixed" about them in himself. Occasionally we find certainsolutions of problems which make strong beliefs for us; perhaps theyare henceforth called "convictions." Later on--one sees in them onlyfootsteps to self-knowledge, guide-posts to the problem which weourselves ARE--or more correctly to the great stupidity which we embody,our spiritual fate, the UNTEACHABLE in us, quite "down below."--In viewof this liberal compliment which I have just paid myself, permissionwill perhaps be more readily allowed me to utter some truths about"woman as she is," provided that it is known at the outset how literallythey are merely--MY truths.
232. Woman wishes to be independent, and therefore she begins toenlighten men about "woman as she is"--THIS is one of the worstdevelopments of the general UGLIFYING of Europe. For what must theseclumsy attempts of feminine scientificality and self-exposure bringto light! Woman has so much cause for shame; in woman there is somuch pedantry, superficiality, schoolmasterliness, petty presumption,unbridledness, and indiscretion concealed--study only woman's behaviourtowards children!--which has really been best restrained and dominatedhitherto by the FEAR of man. Alas, if ever the "eternally tedious inwoman"--she has plenty of it!--is allowed to venture forth! if shebegins radically and on principle to unlearn her wisdom and art-ofcharming, of playing, of frightening away sorrow, of alleviating andtaking easily; if she forgets her delicate aptitude for agreeabledesires! Female voices are already raised, which, by Saint Aristophanes!make one afraid:--with medical explicitness it is stated in athreatening manner what woman first and last REQUIRES from man. Isit not in the very worst taste that woman thus sets herself up to bescientific? Enlightenment hitherto has fortunately been men's affair,men's gift--we remained therewith "among ourselves"; and in the end,in view of all that women write about "woman," we may well haveconsiderable doubt as to whether woman really DESIRES enlightenmentabout herself--and CAN desire it. If woman does not thereby seek a newORNAMENT for herself--I believe ornamentation belongs to the eternallyfeminine?--why, then, she wishes to make herself feared: perhaps shethereby wishes to get the mastery. But she does not want truth--whatdoes woman care for truth? From the very first, nothing is more foreign,more repugnant, or more hostile to woman than truth--her great art isfalsehood, her chief concern is appearance and beauty. Let us confessit, we men: we honour and love this very art and this very instinct inwoman: we who have the hard task, and for our recreation gladly seek thecompany of beings under whose hands, glances, and delicate follies, ourseriousness, our gravity, and profundity appear almost like follies tous. Finally, I ask the question: Did a woman herself ever acknowledgeprofundity in a woman's mind, or justice in a woman's heart? And is itnot true that on the whole "woman" has hitherto been most despised bywoman herself, and not at all by us?--We men desire that woman shouldnot continue to compromise herself by enlightening us; just as it wasman's care and the consideration for woman, when the church decreed:mulier taceat in ecclesia. It was to the benefit of woman when Napoleongave the too eloquent Madame de Stael to understand: mulier taceat inpoliticis!--and in my opinion, he is a true friend of woman who callsout to women today: mulier taceat de mulierel.
233. It betrays corruption of the instincts--apart from the fact thatit betrays bad taste--when a woman refers to Madame Roland, or Madame deStael, or Monsieur George Sand, as though something were proved therebyin favour of "woman as she is." Among men, these are the three comicalwomen as they are--nothing more!--and just the best involuntarycounter-arguments against feminine emancipation and autonomy.
234. Stupidity in the kitchen; woman as cook; the terriblethoughtlessness with which the feeding of the family and the master ofthe house is managed! Woman does not understand what food means, and sheinsists on being cook! If woman had been a thinking creature, she shouldcertainly, as cook for thousands of years, have discovered the mostimportant physiological facts, and should likewise have got possessionof the healing art! Through bad female cooks--through the entire lackof reason in the kitchen--the development of mankind has been longestretarded and most interfered with: even today matters are very littlebetter. A word to High School girls.
235. There are turns and casts of fancy, there are sentences, littlehandfuls of words, in which a whole culture, a whole society suddenlycrystallises itself. Among these is the incidental remark of Madame deLambert to her son: "MON AMI, NE VOUS PERMETTEZ JAMAIS QUE DES FOLIES,QUI VOUS FERONT GRAND PLAISIR"--the motherliest and wisest remark, bythe way, that was ever addressed to a son.
236. I have no doubt that every noble woman will oppose what Dante andGoethe believed about woman--the former when he sang, "ELLA GUARDAVASUSO, ED IO IN LEI," and the latter when he interpreted it, "theeternally feminine draws us ALOFT"; for THIS is just what she believesof the eternally masculine.
237.
SEVEN APOPHTHEGMS FOR WOMEN
How the longest ennui flees, When a man comes to our knees!
Age, alas! and science staid, Furnish even weak virtue aid.
Sombre garb and silence meet: Dress for every dame--discreet.
Whom I thank when in my bliss? God!--and my good tailoress!
Young, a flower-decked cavern home; Old, a dragon thence doth roam.
Noble title, leg that's fine, Man as well: Oh, were HE mine!
Speech in brief and sense in mass--Slippery for the jenny-ass!
237A. Woman has hitherto been treated by men like birds, which, losingtheir way, have come down among them from an elevation: as somethingdelicate, fragile, wild, strange, sweet, and animating--but as somethingalso which must be cooped up to prevent it flying away.
238. To be mistaken in the fundamental problem of "man and woman," todeny here the profoundest antagonism and the necessity for an eternallyhostile tension, to dream here perhaps of equal rights, equaltraining, equal claims and obligations: that is a TYPICAL sign ofshallow-mindedness; and a thinker who has proved himself shallow atthis dangerous spot--shallow in instinct!--may generally be regarded assuspicious, nay more, as betrayed, as discovered; he will probably provetoo "short" for all fundamental questions of life, future as well aspresent, and will be unable to descend into ANY of the depths. On theother hand, a man who has depth of spirit as well as of desires, andhas also the depth of benevolence which is capable of severity andharshness, and easily confounded with them, can only think of woman asORIENTALS do: he must conceive of her as a possession, as confinableproperty, as a being predestined for service and accomplishing hermission therein--he must take his stand in this matter upon the immenserationality of Asia, upon the superiority of the instinct of Asia, asthe Greeks did formerly; those best heirs and scholars of Asia--who,as is well known, with their INCREASING culture and amplitude of power,from Homer to the time of Pericles, became gradually STRICTER towardswoman, in short, more Oriental. HOW necessary, HOW logical, even HOWhumanely desirable this was, let us consider for ourselves!
239. The weaker sex has in no previous age been treated with somuch respect by men as at present--this belongs to the tendency andfundamental taste of democracy, in the same way as disrespectfulness toold age--what wonder is it that abuse should be immediately made ofthis respect? They want more, they learn to make claims, the tributeof respect is at last felt to be well-nigh galling; rivalry for rights,indeed actual strife itself, would be preferred: in a word, woman islosing modesty. And let us immediately add that she is also losingtaste. She is unlearning to FEAR man: but the woman who "unlearns tofear" sacrifices her most womanly instincts. That woman should ventureforward when the fear-inspiring quality in man--or more definitely,the MAN in man--is no longer either desired or fully developed, isreasonable enough and also intelligible enough; what is more difficultto understand is that precisely thereby--woman deteriorates. This iswhat is happening nowadays: let us not deceive ourselves about it!Wherever the industrial spirit has triumphed over the militaryand aristocratic spirit, woman strives for the economic and legalindependence of a clerk: "woman as clerkess" is inscribed on the portalof the modern society which is in course of formation. While shethus appropriates new rights, aspires to be "master," and inscribes"progress" of woman on her flags and banners, the very opposite realisesitself with terrible obviousness: WOMAN RETROGRADES. Since the FrenchRevolution the influence of woman in Europe has DECLINED in proportionas she has increased her rights and claims; and the "emancipation ofwoman," insofar as it is desired and demanded by women themselves (andnot only by masculine shallow-pates), thus proves to be a remarkablesymptom of the increased weakening and deadening of the most womanlyinstincts. There is STUPIDITY in this movement, an almost masculinestupidity, of which a well-reared woman--who is always a sensiblewoman--might be heartily ashamed. To lose the intuition as to the groundupon which she can most surely achieve victory; to neglect exercise inthe use of her proper weapons; to let-herself-go before man, perhapseven "to the book," where formerly she kept herself in control and inrefined, artful humility; to neutralize with her virtuous audacity man'sfaith in a VEILED, fundamentally different ideal in woman, somethingeternally, necessarily feminine; to emphatically and loquaciouslydissuade man from the idea that woman must be preserved, cared for,protected, and indulged, like some delicate, strangely wild, andoften pleasant domestic animal; the clumsy and indignant collection ofeverything of the nature of servitude and bondage which the position ofwoman in the hitherto existing order of society has entailed and stillentails (as though slavery were a counter-argument, and not rather acondition of every higher culture, of every elevation of culture):--whatdoes all this betoken, if not a disintegration of womanly instincts,a defeminising? Certainly, there are enough of idiotic friends andcorrupters of woman among the learned asses of the masculine sex, whoadvise woman to defeminize herself in this manner, and to imitateall the stupidities from which "man" in Europe, European "manliness,"suffers,--who would like to lower woman to "general culture," indeedeven to newspaper reading and meddling with politics. Here and therethey wish even to make women into free spirits and literary workers: asthough a woman without piety would not be something perfectly obnoxiousor ludicrous to a profound and godless man;--almost everywhere hernerves are being ruined by the most morbid and dangerous kind of music(our latest German music), and she is daily being made more hystericaland more incapable of fulfilling her first and last function, that ofbearing robust children. They wish to "cultivate" her in general stillmore, and intend, as they say, to make the "weaker sex" STRONG byculture: as if history did not teach in the most emphatic manner thatthe "cultivating" of mankind and his weakening--that is to say, theweakening, dissipating, and languishing of his FORCE OF WILL--havealways kept pace with one another, and that the most powerful andinfluential women in the world (and lastly, the mother of Napoleon)had just to thank their force of will--and not their schoolmasters--fortheir power and ascendancy over men. That which inspires respectin woman, and often enough fear also, is her NATURE, which is more"natural" than that of man, her genuine, carnivora-like, cunningflexibility, her tiger-claws beneath the glove, her NAIVETE in egoism,her untrainableness and innate wildness, the incomprehensibleness,extent, and deviation of her desires and virtues. That which, in spiteof fear, excites one's sympathy for the dangerous and beautiful cat,"woman," is that she seems more afflicted, more vulnerable, morenecessitous of love, and more condemned to disillusionment than anyother creature. Fear and sympathy it is with these feelings that man hashitherto stood in the presence of woman, always with one foot already intragedy, which rends while it delights--What? And all that is now tobe at an end? And the DISENCHANTMENT of woman is in progress? Thetediousness of woman is slowly evolving? Oh Europe! Europe! We knowthe horned animal which was always most attractive to thee, from whichdanger is ever again threatening thee! Thy old fable might once morebecome "history"--an immense stupidity might once again overmasterthee and carry thee away! And no God concealed beneath it--no! only an"idea," a "modern idea"!


CHAPTER VIII. PEOPLES AND COUNTRIES

240. I HEARD, once again for the first time, Richard Wagner's overtureto the Mastersinger: it is a piece of magnificent, gorgeous, heavy,latter-day art, which has the pride to presuppose two centuries of musicas still living, in order that it may be understood:--it is an honourto Germans that such a pride did not miscalculate! What flavoursand forces, what seasons and climes do we not find mingled in it! Itimpresses us at one time as ancient, at another time as foreign, bitter,and too modern, it is as arbitrary as it is pompously traditional, itis not infrequently roguish, still oftener rough and coarse--it has fireand courage, and at the same time the loose, dun-coloured skin of fruitswhich ripen too late. It flows broad and full: and suddenly there is amoment of inexplicable hesitation, like a gap that opens between causeand effect, an oppression that makes us dream, almost a nightmare; butalready it broadens and widens anew, the old stream of delight--the mostmanifold delight,--of old and new happiness; including ESPECIALLYthe joy of the artist in himself, which he refuses to conceal, hisastonished, happy cognizance of his mastery of the expedients hereemployed, the new, newly acquired, imperfectly tested expedients of artwhich he apparently betrays to us. All in all, however, no beauty, noSouth, nothing of the delicate southern clearness of the sky, nothingof grace, no dance, hardly a will to logic; a certain clumsiness even,which is also emphasized, as though the artist wished to say to us: "Itis part of my intention"; a cumbersome drapery, something arbitrarilybarbaric and ceremonious, a flirring of learned and venerable conceitsand witticisms; something German in the best and worst sense ofthe word, something in the German style, manifold, formless, andinexhaustible; a certain German potency and super-plenitude ofsoul, which is not afraid to hide itself under the RAFFINEMENTS ofdecadence--which, perhaps, feels itself most at ease there; a real,genuine token of the German soul, which is at the same time young andaged, too ripe and yet still too rich in futurity. This kind of musicexpresses best what I think of the Germans: they belong to the daybefore yesterday and the day after tomorrow--THEY HAVE AS YET NO TODAY.
241. We "good Europeans," we also have hours when we allow ourselves awarm-hearted patriotism, a plunge and relapse into old loves and narrowviews--I have just given an example of it--hours of national excitement,of patriotic anguish, and all other sorts of old-fashioned floods ofsentiment. Duller spirits may perhaps only get done with what confinesits operations in us to hours and plays itself out in hours--in aconsiderable time: some in half a year, others in half a lifetime,according to the speed and strength with which they digest and "changetheir material." Indeed, I could think of sluggish, hesitating races,which even in our rapidly moving Europe, would require half a centuryere they could surmount such atavistic attacks of patriotism andsoil-attachment, and return once more to reason, that is to say, to"good Europeanism." And while digressing on this possibility, Ihappen to become an ear-witness of a conversation between two oldpatriots--they were evidently both hard of hearing and consequentlyspoke all the louder. "HE has as much, and knows as much, philosophy asa peasant or a corps-student," said the one--"he is still innocent. Butwhat does that matter nowadays! It is the age of the masses: they lie ontheir belly before everything that is massive. And so also in politicis.A statesman who rears up for them a new Tower of Babel, some monstrosityof empire and power, they call 'great'--what does it matter that we moreprudent and conservative ones do not meanwhile give up the old beliefthat it is only the great thought that gives greatness to an action oraffair. Supposing a statesman were to bring his people into the positionof being obliged henceforth to practise 'high politics,' for which theywere by nature badly endowed and prepared, so that they would haveto sacrifice their old and reliable virtues, out of love to a new anddoubtful mediocrity;--supposing a statesman were to condemn his peoplegenerally to 'practise politics,' when they have hitherto had somethingbetter to do and think about, and when in the depths of their soulsthey have been unable to free themselves from a prudent loathing ofthe restlessness, emptiness, and noisy wranglings of the essentiallypolitics-practising nations;--supposing such a statesman were tostimulate the slumbering passions and avidities of his people, were tomake a stigma out of their former diffidence and delight in aloofness,an offence out of their exoticism and hidden permanency, were todepreciate their most radical proclivities, subvert their consciences,make their minds narrow, and their tastes 'national'--what! a statesmanwho should do all this, which his people would have to do penance forthroughout their whole future, if they had a future, such a statesmanwould be GREAT, would he?"--"Undoubtedly!" replied the other old patriotvehemently, "otherwise he COULD NOT have done it! It was mad perhaps towish such a thing! But perhaps everything great has been just as madat its commencement!"--"Misuse of words!" cried his interlocutor,contradictorily--"strong! strong! Strong and mad! NOT great!"--The oldmen had obviously become heated as they thus shouted their "truths" ineach other's faces, but I, in my happiness and apartness, considered howsoon a stronger one may become master of the strong, and also thatthere is a compensation for the intellectual superficialising of anation--namely, in the deepening of another.
242. Whether we call it "civilization," or "humanising," or "progress,"which now distinguishes the European, whether we call it simply, withoutpraise or blame, by the political formula the DEMOCRATIC movement inEurope--behind all the moral and political foregrounds pointed to bysuch formulas, an immense PHYSIOLOGICAL PROCESS goes on, which is everextending the process of the assimilation of Europeans, theirincreasing detachment from the conditions under which, climatically andhereditarily, united races originate, their increasing independence ofevery definite milieu, that for centuries would fain inscribe itselfwith equal demands on soul and body,--that is to say, the slow emergenceof an essentially SUPER-NATIONAL and nomadic species of man, whopossesses, physiologically speaking, a maximum of the art and powerof adaptation as his typical distinction. This process of the EVOLVINGEUROPEAN, which can be retarded in its TEMPO by great relapses, butwill perhaps just gain and grow thereby in vehemence and depth--thestill-raging storm and stress of "national sentiment" pertains to it,and also the anarchism which is appearing at present--this processwill probably arrive at results on which its naive propagators andpanegyrists, the apostles of "modern ideas," would least care to reckon.The same new conditions under which on an average a levelling andmediocrising of man will take place--a useful, industrious, variouslyserviceable, and clever gregarious man--are in the highest degreesuitable to give rise to exceptional men of the most dangerous andattractive qualities. For, while the capacity for adaptation, which isevery day trying changing conditions, and begins a new work with everygeneration, almost with every decade, makes the POWERFULNESS of the typeimpossible; while the collective impression of such future Europeanswill probably be that of numerous, talkative, weak-willed, and veryhandy workmen who REQUIRE a master, a commander, as they require theirdaily bread; while, therefore, the democratising of Europe will tend tothe production of a type prepared for SLAVERY in the most subtlesense of the term: the STRONG man will necessarily in individual andexceptional cases, become stronger and richer than he has perhaps everbeen before--owing to the unprejudicedness of his schooling, owing tothe immense variety of practice, art, and disguise. I meant to saythat the democratising of Europe is at the same time an involuntaryarrangement for the rearing of TYRANTS--taking the word in all itsmeanings, even in its most spiritual sense.
243. I hear with pleasure that our sun is moving rapidly towards theconstellation Hercules: and I hope that the men on this earth will dolike the sun. And we foremost, we good Europeans!
244. There was a time when it was customary to call Germans "deep"by way of distinction; but now that the most successful type of newGermanism is covetous of quite other honours, and perhaps misses"smartness" in all that has depth, it is almost opportune and patrioticto doubt whether we did not formerly deceive ourselves with thatcommendation: in short, whether German depth is not at bottom somethingdifferent and worse--and something from which, thank God, we are on thepoint of successfully ridding ourselves. Let us try, then, to relearnwith regard to German depth; the only thing necessary for the purpose isa little vivisection of the German soul.--The German soul is above allmanifold, varied in its source, aggregated and super-imposed, ratherthan actually built: this is owing to its origin. A German who wouldembolden himself to assert: "Two souls, alas, dwell in my breast," wouldmake a bad guess at the truth, or, more correctly, he would come farshort of the truth about the number of souls. As a people made up ofthe most extraordinary mixing and mingling of races, perhaps even with apreponderance of the pre-Aryan element as the "people of the centre" inevery sense of the term, the Germans are more intangible, more ample,more contradictory, more unknown, more incalculable, more surprising,and even more terrifying than other peoples are to themselves:--theyescape DEFINITION, and are thereby alone the despair of the French. ItIS characteristic of the Germans that the question: "What is German?"never dies out among them. Kotzebue certainly knew his Germans wellenough: "We are known," they cried jubilantly to him--but Sand alsothought he knew them. Jean Paul knew what he was doing when he declaredhimself incensed at Fichte's lying but patriotic flatteries andexaggerations,--but it is probable that Goethe thought differently aboutGermans from Jean Paul, even though he acknowledged him to be right withregard to Fichte. It is a question what Goethe really thought about theGermans?--But about many things around him he never spoke explicitly,and all his life he knew how to keep an astute silence--probably hehad good reason for it. It is certain that it was not the "Wars ofIndependence" that made him look up more joyfully, any more than it wasthe French Revolution,--the event on account of which he RECONSTRUCTEDhis "Faust," and indeed the whole problem of "man," was the appearanceof Napoleon. There are words of Goethe in which he condemns withimpatient severity, as from a foreign land, that which Germans take apride in, he once defined the famous German turn of mind as "Indulgencetowards its own and others' weaknesses." Was he wrong? it ischaracteristic of Germans that one is seldom entirely wrong about them.The German soul has passages and galleries in it, there are caves,hiding-places, and dungeons therein, its disorder has much of the charmof the mysterious, the German is well acquainted with the bypaths tochaos. And as everything loves its symbol, so the German loves theclouds and all that is obscure, evolving, crepuscular, damp, andshrouded, it seems to him that everything uncertain, undeveloped,self-displacing, and growing is "deep". The German himself does notEXIST, he is BECOMING, he is "developing himself". "Development" istherefore the essentially German discovery and hit in the great domainof philosophical formulas,--a ruling idea, which, together with Germanbeer and German music, is labouring to Germanise all Europe. Foreignersare astonished and attracted by the riddles which the conflicting natureat the basis of the German soul propounds to them (riddles whichHegel systematised and Richard Wagner has in the end set to music)."Good-natured and spiteful"--such a juxtaposition, preposterous in thecase of every other people, is unfortunately only too often justifiedin Germany one has only to live for a while among Swabians to know this!The clumsiness of the German scholar and his social distastefulnessagree alarmingly well with his physical rope-dancing and nimbleboldness, of which all the Gods have learnt to be afraid. If any onewishes to see the "German soul" demonstrated ad oculos, let himonly look at German taste, at German arts and manners what boorishindifference to "taste"! How the noblest and the commonest stand therein juxtaposition! How disorderly and how rich is the whole constitutionof this soul! The German DRAGS at his soul, he drags at everything heexperiences. He digests his events badly; he never gets "done"with them; and German depth is often only a difficult, hesitating"digestion." And just as all chronic invalids, all dyspeptics like whatis convenient, so the German loves "frankness" and "honesty"; it isso CONVENIENT to be frank and honest!--This confidingness, thiscomplaisance, this showing-the-cards of German HONESTY, is probably themost dangerous and most successful disguise which the German is up tonowadays: it is his proper Mephistophelean art; with this he can "stillachieve much"! The German lets himself go, and thereby gazes withfaithful, blue, empty German eyes--and other countries immediatelyconfound him with his dressing-gown!--I meant to say that, let "Germandepth" be what it will--among ourselves alone we perhaps take theliberty to laugh at it--we shall do well to continue henceforth tohonour its appearance and good name, and not barter away too cheaply ourold reputation as a people of depth for Prussian "smartness," andBerlin wit and sand. It is wise for a people to pose, and LET itselfbe regarded, as profound, clumsy, good-natured, honest, and foolish: itmight even be--profound to do so! Finally, we should do honour toour name--we are not called the "TIUSCHE VOLK" (deceptive people) fornothing....
245. The "good old" time is past, it sang itself out in Mozart--howhappy are WE that his ROCOCO still speaks to us, that his "goodcompany," his tender enthusiasm, his childish delight in the Chinese andits flourishes, his courtesy of heart, his longing for the elegant, theamorous, the tripping, the tearful, and his belief in the South, canstill appeal to SOMETHING LEFT in us! Ah, some time or other it will beover with it!--but who can doubt that it will be over still sooner withthe intelligence and taste for Beethoven! For he was only the last echoof a break and transition in style, and NOT, like Mozart, the last echoof a great European taste which had existed for centuries. Beethovenis the intermediate event between an old mellow soul that is constantlybreaking down, and a future over-young soul that is always COMING;there is spread over his music the twilight of eternal loss and eternalextravagant hope,--the same light in which Europe was bathed when itdreamed with Rousseau, when it danced round the Tree of Liberty of theRevolution, and finally almost fell down in adoration before Napoleon.But how rapidly does THIS very sentiment now pale, how difficultnowadays is even the APPREHENSION of this sentiment, how strangely doesthe language of Rousseau, Schiller, Shelley, and Byron sound to our ear,in whom COLLECTIVELY the same fate of Europe was able to SPEAK, whichknew how to SING in Beethoven!--Whatever German music came afterwards,belongs to Romanticism, that is to say, to a movement which,historically considered, was still shorter, more fleeting, and moresuperficial than that great interlude, the transition of Europe fromRousseau to Napoleon, and to the rise of democracy. Weber--but what doWE care nowadays for "Freischutz" and "Oberon"! Or Marschner's "HansHeiling" and "Vampyre"! Or even Wagner's "Tannhauser"! That is extinct,although not yet forgotten music. This whole music of Romanticism,besides, was not noble enough, was not musical enough, to maintain itsposition anywhere but in the theatre and before the masses; from thebeginning it was second-rate music, which was little thought of bygenuine musicians. It was different with Felix Mendelssohn, that halcyonmaster, who, on account of his lighter, purer, happier soul, quicklyacquired admiration, and was equally quickly forgotten: as the beautifulEPISODE of German music. But with regard to Robert Schumann, who tookthings seriously, and has been taken seriously from the first--hewas the last that founded a school,--do we not now regard it as asatisfaction, a relief, a deliverance, that this very Romanticismof Schumann's has been surmounted? Schumann, fleeing into the "SaxonSwitzerland" of his soul, with a half Werther-like, half Jean-Paul-likenature (assuredly not like Beethoven! assuredly not like Byron!)--hisMANFRED music is a mistake and a misunderstanding to the extent ofinjustice; Schumann, with his taste, which was fundamentally a PETTYtaste (that is to say, a dangerous propensity--doubly dangerous amongGermans--for quiet lyricism and intoxication of the feelings), goingconstantly apart, timidly withdrawing and retiring, a noble weakling whorevelled in nothing but anonymous joy and sorrow, from the beginninga sort of girl and NOLI ME TANGERE--this Schumann was already merely aGERMAN event in music, and no longer a European event, as Beethoven hadbeen, as in a still greater degree Mozart had been; with Schumann Germanmusic was threatened with its greatest danger, that of LOSING THE VOICEFOR THE SOUL OF EUROPE and sinking into a merely national affair.
246. What a torture are books written in German to a reader who has aTHIRD ear! How indignantly he stands beside the slowly turning swampof sounds without tune and rhythms without dance, which Germans calla "book"! And even the German who READS books! How lazily, howreluctantly, how badly he reads! How many Germans know, and consider itobligatory to know, that there is ART in every good sentence--art whichmust be divined, if the sentence is to be understood! If there is amisunderstanding about its TEMPO, for instance, the sentence itselfis misunderstood! That one must not be doubtful about therhythm-determining syllables, that one should feel the breaking of thetoo-rigid symmetry as intentional and as a charm, that one should lend afine and patient ear to every STACCATO and every RUBATO, that one shoulddivine the sense in the sequence of the vowels and diphthongs, and howdelicately and richly they can be tinted and retinted in the order oftheir arrangement--who among book-reading Germans is complaisant enoughto recognize such duties and requirements, and to listen to so much artand intention in language? After all, one just "has no ear for it";and so the most marked contrasts of style are not heard, and the mostdelicate artistry is as it were SQUANDERED on the deaf.--These were mythoughts when I noticed how clumsily and unintuitively two masters inthe art of prose-writing have been confounded: one, whose words dropdown hesitatingly and coldly, as from the roof of a damp cave--he countson their dull sound and echo; and another who manipulates his languagelike a flexible sword, and from his arm down into his toes feels thedangerous bliss of the quivering, over-sharp blade, which wishes tobite, hiss, and cut.
247. How little the German style has to do with harmony and with theear, is shown by the fact that precisely our good musicians themselveswrite badly. The German does not read aloud, he does not read for theear, but only with his eyes; he has put his ears away in the drawer forthe time. In antiquity when a man read--which was seldom enough--he readsomething to himself, and in a loud voice; they were surprised whenany one read silently, and sought secretly the reason of it. In aloud voice: that is to say, with all the swellings, inflections, andvariations of key and changes of TEMPO, in which the ancient PUBLICworld took delight. The laws of the written style were then the sameas those of the spoken style; and these laws depended partly on thesurprising development and refined requirements of the ear and larynx;partly on the strength, endurance, and power of the ancient lungs. Inthe ancient sense, a period is above all a physiological whole, inasmuchas it is comprised in one breath. Such periods as occur in Demosthenesand Cicero, swelling twice and sinking twice, and all in one breath,were pleasures to the men of ANTIQUITY, who knew by their own schoolinghow to appreciate the virtue therein, the rareness and the difficultyin the deliverance of such a period;--WE have really no right to theBIG period, we modern men, who are short of breath in every sense! Thoseancients, indeed, were all of them dilettanti in speaking, consequentlyconnoisseurs, consequently critics--they thus brought their orators tothe highest pitch; in the same manner as in the last century, when allItalian ladies and gentlemen knew how to sing, the virtuosoship of song(and with it also the art of melody) reached its elevation. In Germany,however (until quite recently when a kind of platform eloquence beganshyly and awkwardly enough to flutter its young wings), there wasproperly speaking only one kind of public and APPROXIMATELY artisticaldiscourse--that delivered from the pulpit. The preacher was the only onein Germany who knew the weight of a syllable or a word, in what manner asentence strikes, springs, rushes, flows, and comes to a close; he alonehad a conscience in his ears, often enough a bad conscience: for reasonsare not lacking why proficiency in oratory should be especially seldomattained by a German, or almost always too late. The masterpiece ofGerman prose is therefore with good reason the masterpiece of itsgreatest preacher: the BIBLE has hitherto been the best Germanbook. Compared with Luther's Bible, almost everything else is merely"literature"--something which has not grown in Germany, and thereforehas not taken and does not take root in German hearts, as the Bible hasdone.
248. There are two kinds of geniuses: one which above all engenders andseeks to engender, and another which willingly lets itself be fructifiedand brings forth. And similarly, among the gifted nations, there arethose on whom the woman's problem of pregnancy has devolved, and thesecret task of forming, maturing, and perfecting--the Greeks, forinstance, were a nation of this kind, and so are the French; and otherswhich have to fructify and become the cause of new modes of life--likethe Jews, the Romans, and, in all modesty be it asked: like theGermans?--nations tortured and enraptured by unknown fevers andirresistibly forced out of themselves, amorous and longing forforeign races (for such as "let themselves be fructified"), and withalimperious, like everything conscious of being full of generative force,and consequently empowered "by the grace of God." These two kinds ofgeniuses seek each other like man and woman; but they also misunderstandeach other--like man and woman.
249. Every nation has its own "Tartuffery," and calls that itsvirtue.--One does not know--cannot know, the best that is in one.
250. What Europe owes to the Jews?--Many things, good and bad, and aboveall one thing of the nature both of the best and the worst: the grandstyle in morality, the fearfulness and majesty of infinite demands, ofinfinite significations, the whole Romanticism and sublimity of moralquestionableness--and consequently just the most attractive, ensnaring,and exquisite element in those iridescences and allurements to life,in the aftersheen of which the sky of our European culture, its eveningsky, now glows--perhaps glows out. For this, we artists among thespectators and philosophers, are--grateful to the Jews.
251. It must be taken into the bargain, if various clouds anddisturbances--in short, slight attacks of stupidity--pass over thespirit of a people that suffers and WANTS to suffer from nationalnervous fever and political ambition: for instance, among present-dayGermans there is alternately the anti-French folly, the anti-Semiticfolly, the anti-Polish folly, the Christian-romantic folly, theWagnerian folly, the Teutonic folly, the Prussian folly (just look atthose poor historians, the Sybels and Treitschkes, and their closelybandaged heads), and whatever else these little obscurations of theGerman spirit and conscience may be called. May it be forgiven me thatI, too, when on a short daring sojourn on very infected ground, did notremain wholly exempt from the disease, but like every one else, beganto entertain thoughts about matters which did not concern me--the firstsymptom of political infection. About the Jews, for instance, listento the following:--I have never yet met a German who was favourablyinclined to the Jews; and however decided the repudiation of actualanti-Semitism may be on the part of all prudent and political men, thisprudence and policy is not perhaps directed against the nature of thesentiment itself, but only against its dangerous excess, and especiallyagainst the distasteful and infamous expression of this excess ofsentiment;--on this point we must not deceive ourselves. That Germanyhas amply SUFFICIENT Jews, that the German stomach, the German blood,has difficulty (and will long have difficulty) in disposing only of thisquantity of "Jew"--as the Italian, the Frenchman, and the Englishmanhave done by means of a stronger digestion:--that is the unmistakabledeclaration and language of a general instinct, to which one must listenand according to which one must act. "Let no more Jews come in! And shutthe doors, especially towards the East (also towards Austria)!"--thuscommands the instinct of a people whose nature is still feeble anduncertain, so that it could be easily wiped out, easily extinguished, bya stronger race. The Jews, however, are beyond all doubt the strongest,toughest, and purest race at present living in Europe, they know howto succeed even under the worst conditions (in fact better than underfavourable ones), by means of virtues of some sort, which one would likenowadays to label as vices--owing above all to a resolute faith whichdoes not need to be ashamed before "modern ideas", they alter only,WHEN they do alter, in the same way that the Russian Empire makesits conquest--as an empire that has plenty of time and is not ofyesterday--namely, according to the principle, "as slowly as possible"!A thinker who has the future of Europe at heart, will, in all hisperspectives concerning the future, calculate upon the Jews, as hewill calculate upon the Russians, as above all the surest and likeliestfactors in the great play and battle of forces. That which is at presentcalled a "nation" in Europe, and is really rather a RES FACTA than NATA(indeed, sometimes confusingly similar to a RES FICTA ET PICTA), is inevery case something evolving, young, easily displaced, and not yeta race, much less such a race AERE PERENNUS, as the Jews are such"nations" should most carefully avoid all hot-headed rivalry andhostility! It is certain that the Jews, if they desired--or if theywere driven to it, as the anti-Semites seem to wish--COULD now have theascendancy, nay, literally the supremacy, over Europe, that they are NOTworking and planning for that end is equally certain. Meanwhile, theyrather wish and desire, even somewhat importunely, to be insorbed andabsorbed by Europe, they long to be finally settled, authorized, andrespected somewhere, and wish to put an end to the nomadic life, to the"wandering Jew",--and one should certainly take account of this impulseand tendency, and MAKE ADVANCES to it (it possibly betokens a mitigationof the Jewish instincts) for which purpose it would perhaps be usefuland fair to banish the anti-Semitic bawlers out of the country. Oneshould make advances with all prudence, and with selection, pretty muchas the English nobility do It stands to reason that the more powerfuland strongly marked types of new Germanism could enter into relationwith the Jews with the least hesitation, for instance, the noblemanofficer from the Prussian border it would be interesting in many waysto see whether the genius for money and patience (and especially someintellect and intellectuality--sadly lacking in the place referred to)could not in addition be annexed and trained to the hereditary art ofcommanding and obeying--for both of which the country in question hasnow a classic reputation But here it is expedient to break off my festaldiscourse and my sprightly Teutonomania for I have already reached mySERIOUS TOPIC, the "European problem," as I understand it, the rearingof a new ruling caste for Europe.
252. They are not a philosophical race--the English: Bacon represents anATTACK on the philosophical spirit generally, Hobbes, Hume, and Locke,an abasement, and a depreciation of the idea of a "philosopher" for morethan a century. It was AGAINST Hume that Kant uprose and raised himself;it was Locke of whom Schelling RIGHTLY said, "JE MEPRISE LOCKE"; in thestruggle against the English mechanical stultification of the world,Hegel and Schopenhauer (along with Goethe) were of one accord; thetwo hostile brother-geniuses in philosophy, who pushed in differentdirections towards the opposite poles of German thought, and therebywronged each other as only brothers will do.--What is lacking inEngland, and has always been lacking, that half-actor and rhetoricianknew well enough, the absurd muddle-head, Carlyle, who sought to concealunder passionate grimaces what he knew about himself: namely, what wasLACKING in Carlyle--real POWER of intellect, real DEPTH of intellectualperception, in short, philosophy. It is characteristic of such anunphilosophical race to hold on firmly to Christianity--they NEED itsdiscipline for "moralizing" and humanizing. The Englishman, more gloomy,sensual, headstrong, and brutal than the German--is for that veryreason, as the baser of the two, also the most pious: he has all theMORE NEED of Christianity. To finer nostrils, this English Christianityitself has still a characteristic English taint of spleen and alcoholicexcess, for which, owing to good reasons, it is used as an antidote--thefiner poison to neutralize the coarser: a finer form of poisoning isin fact a step in advance with coarse-mannered people, a step towardsspiritualization. The English coarseness and rustic demureness is stillmost satisfactorily disguised by Christian pantomime, and by prayingand psalm-singing (or, more correctly, it is thereby explained anddifferently expressed); and for the herd of drunkards and rakes whoformerly learned moral grunting under the influence of Methodism (andmore recently as the "Salvation Army"), a penitential fit may really bethe relatively highest manifestation of "humanity" to which they canbe elevated: so much may reasonably be admitted. That, however, whichoffends even in the humanest Englishman is his lack of music, to speakfiguratively (and also literally): he has neither rhythm nor dance inthe movements of his soul and body; indeed, not even the desire forrhythm and dance, for "music." Listen to him speaking; look at the mostbeautiful Englishwoman WALKING--in no country on earth are there morebeautiful doves and swans; finally, listen to them singing! But I asktoo much...
253. There are truths which are best recognized by mediocre minds,because they are best adapted for them, there are truths which onlypossess charms and seductive power for mediocre spirits:--one is pushedto this probably unpleasant conclusion, now that the influence ofrespectable but mediocre Englishmen--I may mention Darwin, JohnStuart Mill, and Herbert Spencer--begins to gain the ascendancy in themiddle-class region of European taste. Indeed, who could doubt that itis a useful thing for SUCH minds to have the ascendancy for a time? Itwould be an error to consider the highly developed and independentlysoaring minds as specially qualified for determining and collecting manylittle common facts, and deducing conclusions from them; as exceptions,they are rather from the first in no very favourable position towardsthose who are "the rules." After all, they have more to do than merelyto perceive:--in effect, they have to BE something new, they have toSIGNIFY something new, they have to REPRESENT new values! The gulfbetween knowledge and capacity is perhaps greater, and also moremysterious, than one thinks: the capable man in the grand style, thecreator, will possibly have to be an ignorant person;--while on theother hand, for scientific discoveries like those of Darwin, a certainnarrowness, aridity, and industrious carefulness (in short, somethingEnglish) may not be unfavourable for arriving at them.--Finally, letit not be forgotten that the English, with their profound mediocrity,brought about once before a general depression of European intelligence.
What is called "modern ideas," or "the ideas of the eighteenth century,"or "French ideas"--that, consequently, against which the GERMAN mindrose up with profound disgust--is of English origin, there is no doubtabout it. The French were only the apes and actors of these ideas, theirbest soldiers, and likewise, alas! their first and profoundest VICTIMS;for owing to the diabolical Anglomania of "modern ideas," the AMEFRANCAIS has in the end become so thin and emaciated, that at presentone recalls its sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, its profound,passionate strength, its inventive excellency, almost with disbelief.One must, however, maintain this verdict of historical justice ina determined manner, and defend it against present prejudices andappearances: the European NOBLESSE--of sentiment, taste, and manners,taking the word in every high sense--is the work and invention ofFRANCE; the European ignobleness, the plebeianism of modern ideas--isENGLAND'S work and invention.
254. Even at present France is still the seat of the most intellectualand refined culture of Europe, it is still the high school of taste; butone must know how to find this "France of taste." He who belongs to itkeeps himself well concealed:--they may be a small number in whom itlives and is embodied, besides perhaps being men who do not stand uponthe strongest legs, in part fatalists, hypochondriacs, invalids, inpart persons over-indulged, over-refined, such as have the AMBITION toconceal themselves.
They have all something in common: they keep their ears closed inpresence of the delirious folly and noisy spouting of the democraticBOURGEOIS. In fact, a besotted and brutalized France at present sprawlsin the foreground--it recently celebrated a veritable orgy of bad taste,and at the same time of self-admiration, at the funeral of Victor Hugo.There is also something else common to them: a predilection to resistintellectual Germanizing--and a still greater inability to do so!In this France of intellect, which is also a France of pessimism,Schopenhauer has perhaps become more at home, and more indigenous thanhe has ever been in Germany; not to speak of Heinrich Heine, who haslong ago been re-incarnated in the more refined and fastidious lyristsof Paris; or of Hegel, who at present, in the form of Taine--the FIRSTof living historians--exercises an almost tyrannical influence. Asregards Richard Wagner, however, the more French music learns toadapt itself to the actual needs of the AME MODERNE, the more will it"Wagnerite"; one can safely predict that beforehand,--it is alreadytaking place sufficiently! There are, however, three things which theFrench can still boast of with pride as their heritage and possession,and as indelible tokens of their ancient intellectual superiorityin Europe, in spite of all voluntary or involuntary Germanizing andvulgarizing of taste. FIRSTLY, the capacity for artistic emotion, fordevotion to "form," for which the expression, L'ART POUR L'ART, alongwith numerous others, has been invented:--such capacity has not beenlacking in France for three centuries; and owing to its reverence forthe "small number," it has again and again made a sort of chambermusic of literature possible, which is sought for in vain elsewherein Europe.--The SECOND thing whereby the French can lay claim toa superiority over Europe is their ancient, many-sided, MORALISTICculture, owing to which one finds on an average, even in the pettyROMANCIERS of the newspapers and chance BOULEVARDIERS DE PARIS, apsychological sensitiveness and curiosity, of which, for example, onehas no conception (to say nothing of the thing itself!) in Germany.The Germans lack a couple of centuries of the moralistic work requisitethereto, which, as we have said, France has not grudged: those who callthe Germans "naive" on that account give them commendation for a defect.(As the opposite of the German inexperience and innocence IN VOLUPTATEPSYCHOLOGICA, which is not too remotely associated with the tediousnessof German intercourse,--and as the most successful expression ofgenuine French curiosity and inventive talent in this domain of delicatethrills, Henri Beyle may be noted; that remarkable anticipatory andforerunning man, who, with a Napoleonic TEMPO, traversed HIS Europe,in fact, several centuries of the European soul, as a surveyor anddiscoverer thereof:--it has required two generations to OVERTAKE himone way or other, to divine long afterwards some of the riddlesthat perplexed and enraptured him--this strange Epicurean and man ofinterrogation, the last great psychologist of France).--There is yeta THIRD claim to superiority: in the French character there is asuccessful half-way synthesis of the North and South, which makes themcomprehend many things, and enjoins upon them other things, which anEnglishman can never comprehend. Their temperament, turned alternatelyto and from the South, in which from time to time the Provencal andLigurian blood froths over, preserves them from the dreadful, northerngrey-in-grey, from sunless conceptual-spectrism and from poverty ofblood--our GERMAN infirmity of taste, for the excessive prevalenceof which at the present moment, blood and iron, that is to say "highpolitics," has with great resolution been prescribed (according toa dangerous healing art, which bids me wait and wait, but not yethope).--There is also still in France a pre-understanding andready welcome for those rarer and rarely gratified men, who are toocomprehensive to find satisfaction in any kind of fatherlandism, andknow how to love the South when in the North and the North when in theSouth--the born Midlanders, the "good Europeans." For them BIZEThas made music, this latest genius, who has seen a new beauty andseduction,--who has discovered a piece of the SOUTH IN MUSIC.
255. I hold that many precautions should be taken against German music.Suppose a person loves the South as I love it--as a great schoolof recovery for the most spiritual and the most sensuous ills, as aboundless solar profusion and effulgence which o'erspreads a sovereignexistence believing in itself--well, such a person will learn to besomewhat on his guard against German music, because, in injuring histaste anew, it will also injure his health anew. Such a Southerner, aSoutherner not by origin but by BELIEF, if he should dream of the futureof music, must also dream of it being freed from the influence of theNorth; and must have in his ears the prelude to a deeper, mightier, andperhaps more perverse and mysterious music, a super-German music, whichdoes not fade, pale, and die away, as all German music does, at thesight of the blue, wanton sea and the Mediterranean clearness of sky--asuper-European music, which holds its own even in presence of the brownsunsets of the desert, whose soul is akin to the palm-tree, and can beat home and can roam with big, beautiful, lonely beasts of prey... Icould imagine a music of which the rarest charm would be that it knewnothing more of good and evil; only that here and there perhaps somesailor's home-sickness, some golden shadows and tender weaknesses mightsweep lightly over it; an art which, from the far distance, would seethe colours of a sinking and almost incomprehensible MORAL world fleeingtowards it, and would be hospitable enough and profound enough toreceive such belated fugitives.
256. Owing to the morbid estrangement which the nationality-craze hasinduced and still induces among the nations of Europe, owing also to theshort-sighted and hasty-handed politicians, who with the help of thiscraze, are at present in power, and do not suspect to what extent thedisintegrating policy they pursue must necessarily be only an interludepolicy--owing to all this and much else that is altogether unmentionableat present, the most unmistakable signs that EUROPE WISHES TO BE ONE,are now overlooked, or arbitrarily and falsely misinterpreted. With allthe more profound and large-minded men of this century, the real generaltendency of the mysterious labour of their souls was to prepare the wayfor that new SYNTHESIS, and tentatively to anticipate the European ofthe future; only in their simulations, or in their weaker moments, inold age perhaps, did they belong to the "fatherlands"--they only restedfrom themselves when they became "patriots." I think of such men asNapoleon, Goethe, Beethoven, Stendhal, Heinrich Heine, Schopenhauer: itmust not be taken amiss if I also count Richard Wagner among them, aboutwhom one must not let oneself be deceived by his own misunderstandings(geniuses like him have seldom the right to understand themselves),still less, of course, by the unseemly noise with which he is nowresisted and opposed in France: the fact remains, nevertheless, thatRichard Wagner and the LATER FRENCH ROMANTICISM of the forties, aremost closely and intimately related to one another. They are akin,fundamentally akin, in all the heights and depths of their requirements;it is Europe, the ONE Europe, whose soul presses urgently and longingly,outwards and upwards, in their multifarious and boisterous art--whither?into a new light? towards a new sun? But who would attempt to expressaccurately what all these masters of new modes of speech could notexpress distinctly? It is certain that the same storm and stresstormented them, that they SOUGHT in the same manner, these last greatseekers! All of them steeped in literature to their eyes and ears--thefirst artists of universal literary culture--for the most part eventhemselves writers, poets, intermediaries and blenders of the arts andthe senses (Wagner, as musician is reckoned among painters, as poetamong musicians, as artist generally among actors); all of them fanaticsfor EXPRESSION "at any cost"--I specially mention Delacroix, the nearestrelated to Wagner; all of them great discoverers in the realm of thesublime, also of the loathsome and dreadful, still greater discoverersin effect, in display, in the art of the show-shop; all of them talentedfar beyond their genius, out and out VIRTUOSI, with mysterious accessesto all that seduces, allures, constrains, and upsets; born enemies oflogic and of the straight line, hankering after the strange, theexotic, the monstrous, the crooked, and the self-contradictory; as men,Tantaluses of the will, plebeian parvenus, who knew themselves to beincapable of a noble TEMPO or of a LENTO in life and action--thinkof Balzac, for instance,--unrestrained workers, almost destroyingthemselves by work; antinomians and rebels in manners, ambitious andinsatiable, without equilibrium and enjoyment; all of them finallyshattering and sinking down at the Christian cross (and with rightand reason, for who of them would have been sufficiently profound andsufficiently original for an ANTI-CHRISTIAN philosophy?);--on thewhole, a boldly daring, splendidly overbearing, high-flying, andaloft-up-dragging class of higher men, who had first to teach theircentury--and it is the century of the MASSES--the conception "higherman."... Let the German friends of Richard Wagner advise together as towhether there is anything purely German in the Wagnerian art, or whetherits distinction does not consist precisely in coming from SUPER-GERMANsources and impulses: in which connection it may not be underratedhow indispensable Paris was to the development of his type, which thestrength of his instincts made him long to visit at the mostdecisive time--and how the whole style of his proceedings, of hisself-apostolate, could only perfect itself in sight of the Frenchsocialistic original. On a more subtle comparison it will perhaps befound, to the honour of Richard Wagner's German nature, that he hasacted in everything with more strength, daring, severity, and elevationthan a nineteenth-century Frenchman could have done--owing to thecircumstance that we Germans are as yet nearer to barbarism than theFrench;--perhaps even the most remarkable creation of Richard Wagner isnot only at present, but for ever inaccessible, incomprehensible, andinimitable to the whole latter-day Latin race: the figure of Siegfried,that VERY FREE man, who is probably far too free, too hard, toocheerful, too healthy, too ANTI-CATHOLIC for the taste of old and mellowcivilized nations. He may even have been a sin against Romanticism, thisanti-Latin Siegfried: well, Wagner atoned amply for this sin in his oldsad days, when--anticipating a taste which has meanwhile passed intopolitics--he began, with the religious vehemence peculiar to him, topreach, at least, THE WAY TO ROME, if not to walk therein.--Thatthese last words may not be misunderstood, I will call to my aid a fewpowerful rhymes, which will even betray to less delicate ears what Imean--what I mean COUNTER TO the "last Wagner" and his Parsifal music:--
--Is this our mode?--From German heart came this vexed ululating? FromGerman body, this self-lacerating? Is ours this priestly hand-dilation,This incense-fuming exaltation? Is ours this faltering, falling,shambling, This quite uncertain ding-dong-dangling? This slynun-ogling, Ave-hour-bell ringing, This wholly false enrapturedheaven-o'erspringing?--Is this our mode?--Think well!--ye still wait foradmission--For what ye hear is ROME--ROME'S FAITH BY INTUITION!


CHAPTER IX. WHAT IS NOBLE?

257. EVERY elevation of the type "man," has hitherto been the work of anaristocratic society and so it will always be--a society believing ina long scale of gradations of rank and differences of worth among humanbeings, and requiring slavery in some form or other. Without the PATHOSOF DISTANCE, such as grows out of the incarnated difference of classes,out of the constant out-looking and down-looking of the ruling caste onsubordinates and instruments, and out of their equally constantpractice of obeying and commanding, of keeping down and keeping at adistance--that other more mysterious pathos could never have arisen, thelonging for an ever new widening of distance within the soul itself,the formation of ever higher, rarer, further, more extended, morecomprehensive states, in short, just the elevation of the type "man,"the continued "self-surmounting of man," to use a moral formula ina supermoral sense. To be sure, one must not resign oneself toany humanitarian illusions about the history of the origin of anaristocratic society (that is to say, of the preliminary condition forthe elevation of the type "man"): the truth is hard. Let us acknowledgeunprejudicedly how every higher civilization hitherto has ORIGINATED!Men with a still natural nature, barbarians in every terrible sense ofthe word, men of prey, still in possession of unbroken strength of willand desire for power, threw themselves upon weaker, more moral, morepeaceful races (perhaps trading or cattle-rearing communities), or uponold mellow civilizations in which the final vital force was flickeringout in brilliant fireworks of wit and depravity. At the commencement,the noble caste was always the barbarian caste: their superiority didnot consist first of all in their physical, but in their psychicalpower--they were more COMPLETE men (which at every point also impliesthe same as "more complete beasts").
258. Corruption--as the indication that anarchy threatens to break outamong the instincts, and that the foundation of the emotions, called"life," is convulsed--is something radically different according tothe organization in which it manifests itself. When, for instance, anaristocracy like that of France at the beginning of the Revolution,flung away its privileges with sublime disgust and sacrificed itselfto an excess of its moral sentiments, it was corruption:--it was reallyonly the closing act of the corruption which had existed for centuries,by virtue of which that aristocracy had abdicated step by step itslordly prerogatives and lowered itself to a FUNCTION of royalty (inthe end even to its decoration and parade-dress). The essential thing,however, in a good and healthy aristocracy is that it should not regarditself as a function either of the kingship or the commonwealth, butas the SIGNIFICANCE and highest justification thereof--that it shouldtherefore accept with a good conscience the sacrifice of a legionof individuals, who, FOR ITS SAKE, must be suppressed and reduced toimperfect men, to slaves and instruments. Its fundamental belief mustbe precisely that society is NOT allowed to exist for its own sake, butonly as a foundation and scaffolding, by means of which a select classof beings may be able to elevate themselves to their higher duties, andin general to a higher EXISTENCE: like those sun-seeking climbing plantsin Java--they are called Sipo Matador,--which encircle an oak solong and so often with their arms, until at last, high above it, butsupported by it, they can unfold their tops in the open light, andexhibit their happiness.
259. To refrain mutually from injury, from violence, from exploitation,and put one's will on a par with that of others: this may result in acertain rough sense in good conduct among individuals when the necessaryconditions are given (namely, the actual similarity of the individualsin amount of force and degree of worth, and their co-relation within oneorganization). As soon, however, as one wished to take this principlemore generally, and if possible even as the FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OFSOCIETY, it would immediately disclose what it really is--namely, a Willto the DENIAL of life, a principle of dissolution and decay. Here onemust think profoundly to the very basis and resist all sentimentalweakness: life itself is ESSENTIALLY appropriation, injury, conquestof the strange and weak, suppression, severity, obtrusion ofpeculiar forms, incorporation, and at the least, putting it mildest,exploitation;--but why should one for ever use precisely these wordson which for ages a disparaging purpose has been stamped? Even theorganization within which, as was previously supposed, theindividuals treat each other as equal--it takes place in everyhealthy aristocracy--must itself, if it be a living and not a dyingorganization, do all that towards other bodies, which the individualswithin it refrain from doing to each other it will have to be theincarnated Will to Power, it will endeavour to grow, to gain ground,attract to itself and acquire ascendancy--not owing to any morality orimmorality, but because it LIVES, and because life IS precisely Will toPower. On no point, however, is the ordinary consciousness of Europeansmore unwilling to be corrected than on this matter, people now raveeverywhere, even under the guise of science, about coming conditions ofsociety in which "the exploiting character" is to be absent--that soundsto my ears as if they promised to invent a mode of life which shouldrefrain from all organic functions. "Exploitation" does not belong to adepraved, or imperfect and primitive society it belongs to the nature ofthe living being as a primary organic function, it is a consequenceof the intrinsic Will to Power, which is precisely the Will toLife--Granting that as a theory this is a novelty--as a reality it isthe FUNDAMENTAL FACT of all history let us be so far honest towardsourselves!
260. In a tour through the many finer and coarser moralities which havehitherto prevailed or still prevail on the earth, I found certain traitsrecurring regularly together, and connected with one another, untilfinally two primary types revealed themselves to me, and a radicaldistinction was brought to light. There is MASTER-MORALITY andSLAVE-MORALITY,--I would at once add, however, that in all higher andmixed civilizations, there are also attempts at the reconciliation ofthe two moralities, but one finds still oftener the confusion andmutual misunderstanding of them, indeed sometimes their closejuxtaposition--even in the same man, within one soul. The distinctionsof moral values have either originated in a ruling caste, pleasantlyconscious of being different from the ruled--or among the ruled class,the slaves and dependents of all sorts. In the first case, when it isthe rulers who determine the conception "good," it is the exalted, prouddisposition which is regarded as the distinguishing feature, and thatwhich determines the order of rank. The noble type of man separatesfrom himself the beings in whom the opposite of this exalted, prouddisposition displays itself he despises them. Let it at once be notedthat in this first kind of morality the antithesis "good" and "bad"means practically the same as "noble" and "despicable",--the antithesis"good" and "EVIL" is of a different origin. The cowardly, the timid, theinsignificant, and those thinking merely of narrow utility are despised;moreover, also, the distrustful, with their constrained glances, theself-abasing, the dog-like kind of men who let themselves be abused,the mendicant flatterers, and above all the liars:--it is a fundamentalbelief of all aristocrats that the common people are untruthful. "Wetruthful ones"--the nobility in ancient Greece called themselves. It isobvious that everywhere the designations of moral value were at firstapplied to MEN; and were only derivatively and at a later period appliedto ACTIONS; it is a gross mistake, therefore, when historians of moralsstart with questions like, "Why have sympathetic actions been praised?"The noble type of man regards HIMSELF as a determiner of values; hedoes not require to be approved of; he passes the judgment: "What isinjurious to me is injurious in itself;" he knows that it is he himselfonly who confers honour on things; he is a CREATOR OF VALUES. Hehonours whatever he recognizes in himself: such morality equalsself-glorification. In the foreground there is the feeling of plenitude,of power, which seeks to overflow, the happiness of high tension, theconsciousness of a wealth which would fain give and bestow:--the nobleman also helps the unfortunate, but not--or scarcely--out of pity, butrather from an impulse generated by the super-abundance of power. Thenoble man honours in himself the powerful one, him also who has powerover himself, who knows how to speak and how to keep silence, whotakes pleasure in subjecting himself to severity and hardness, and hasreverence for all that is severe and hard. "Wotan placed a hard heart inmy breast," says an old Scandinavian Saga: it is thus rightly expressedfrom the soul of a proud Viking. Such a type of man is even proud of notbeing made for sympathy; the hero of the Saga therefore adds warningly:"He who has not a hard heart when young, will never have one." The nobleand brave who think thus are the furthest removed from the moralitywhich sees precisely in sympathy, or in acting for the good of others,or in DESINTERESSEMENT, the characteristic of the moral; faithin oneself, pride in oneself, a radical enmity and irony towards"selflessness," belong as definitely to noble morality, as do a carelessscorn and precaution in presence of sympathy and the "warm heart."--Itis the powerful who KNOW how to honour, it is their art, their domainfor invention. The profound reverence for age and for tradition--all lawrests on this double reverence,--the belief and prejudice in favour ofancestors and unfavourable to newcomers, is typical in the morality ofthe powerful; and if, reversely, men of "modern ideas" believe almostinstinctively in "progress" and the "future," and are more and morelacking in respect for old age, the ignoble origin of these "ideas" hascomplacently betrayed itself thereby. A morality of the ruling class,however, is more especially foreign and irritating to present-day tastein the sternness of its principle that one has duties only to one'sequals; that one may act towards beings of a lower rank, towards allthat is foreign, just as seems good to one, or "as the heart desires,"and in any case "beyond good and evil": it is here that sympathy andsimilar sentiments can have a place. The ability and obligation toexercise prolonged gratitude and prolonged revenge--both only within thecircle of equals,--artfulness in retaliation, RAFFINEMENT of the ideain friendship, a certain necessity to have enemies (as outlets for theemotions of envy, quarrelsomeness, arrogance--in fact, in order to bea good FRIEND): all these are typical characteristics of the noblemorality, which, as has been pointed out, is not the morality of "modernideas," and is therefore at present difficult to realize, and also tounearth and disclose.--It is otherwise with the second type of morality,SLAVE-MORALITY. Supposing that the abused, the oppressed, the suffering,the unemancipated, the weary, and those uncertain of themselves shouldmoralize, what will be the common element in their moral estimates?Probably a pessimistic suspicion with regard to the entire situation ofman will find expression, perhaps a condemnation of man, together withhis situation. The slave has an unfavourable eye for the virtues of thepowerful; he has a skepticism and distrust, a REFINEMENT of distrust ofeverything "good" that is there honoured--he would fain persuade himselfthat the very happiness there is not genuine. On the other hand, THOSEqualities which serve to alleviate the existence of sufferers arebrought into prominence and flooded with light; it is here thatsympathy, the kind, helping hand, the warm heart, patience, diligence,humility, and friendliness attain to honour; for here these are the mostuseful qualities, and almost the only means of supporting the burden ofexistence. Slave-morality is essentially the morality of utility.Here is the seat of the origin of the famous antithesis "good" and"evil":--power and dangerousness are assumed to reside in the evil,a certain dreadfulness, subtlety, and strength, which do not admit ofbeing despised. According to slave-morality, therefore, the "evil" manarouses fear; according to master-morality, it is precisely the "good"man who arouses fear and seeks to arouse it, while the bad man isregarded as the despicable being. The contrast attains its maximum when,in accordance with the logical consequences of slave-morality, a shadeof depreciation--it may be slight and well-intentioned--at last attachesitself to the "good" man of this morality; because, according to theservile mode of thought, the good man must in any case be the SAFEman: he is good-natured, easily deceived, perhaps a little stupid, unbonhomme. Everywhere that slave-morality gains the ascendancy, languageshows a tendency to approximate the significations of the words "good"and "stupid."--A last fundamental difference: the desire for FREEDOM,the instinct for happiness and the refinements of the feeling of libertybelong as necessarily to slave-morals and morality, as artifice andenthusiasm in reverence and devotion are the regular symptoms of anaristocratic mode of thinking and estimating.--Hence we can understandwithout further detail why love AS A PASSION--it is our Europeanspecialty--must absolutely be of noble origin; as is well known, itsinvention is due to the Provencal poet-cavaliers, those brilliant,ingenious men of the "gai saber," to whom Europe owes so much, andalmost owes itself.
261. Vanity is one of the things which are perhaps most difficult fora noble man to understand: he will be tempted to deny it, where anotherkind of man thinks he sees it self-evidently. The problem for him isto represent to his mind beings who seek to arouse a good opinion ofthemselves which they themselves do not possess--and consequently alsodo not "deserve,"--and who yet BELIEVE in this good opinionafterwards. This seems to him on the one hand such bad taste and soself-disrespectful, and on the other hand so grotesquely unreasonable,that he would like to consider vanity an exception, and is doubtfulabout it in most cases when it is spoken of. He will say, forinstance: "I may be mistaken about my value, and on the other handmay nevertheless demand that my value should be acknowledged by othersprecisely as I rate it:--that, however, is not vanity (but self-conceit,or, in most cases, that which is called 'humility,' and also'modesty')." Or he will even say: "For many reasons I can delight inthe good opinion of others, perhaps because I love and honour them,and rejoice in all their joys, perhaps also because their good opinionendorses and strengthens my belief in my own good opinion, perhapsbecause the good opinion of others, even in cases where I do not shareit, is useful to me, or gives promise of usefulness:--all this, however,is not vanity." The man of noble character must first bring it homeforcibly to his mind, especially with the aid of history, that, fromtime immemorial, in all social strata in any way dependent, the ordinaryman WAS only that which he PASSED FOR:--not being at all accustomed tofix values, he did not assign even to himself any other value than thatwhich his master assigned to him (it is the peculiar RIGHT OF MASTERS tocreate values). It may be looked upon as the result of an extraordinaryatavism, that the ordinary man, even at present, is still always WAITINGfor an opinion about himself, and then instinctively submitting himselfto it; yet by no means only to a "good" opinion, but also to a badand unjust one (think, for instance, of the greater part of theself-appreciations and self-depreciations which believing women learnfrom their confessors, and which in general the believing Christianlearns from his Church). In fact, conformably to the slow rise of thedemocratic social order (and its cause, the blending of the bloodof masters and slaves), the originally noble and rare impulse ofthe masters to assign a value to themselves and to "think well" ofthemselves, will now be more and more encouraged and extended; butit has at all times an older, ampler, and more radically ingrainedpropensity opposed to it--and in the phenomenon of "vanity" this olderpropensity overmasters the younger. The vain person rejoices over EVERYgood opinion which he hears about himself (quite apart from the pointof view of its usefulness, and equally regardless of its truth orfalsehood), just as he suffers from every bad opinion: for he subjectshimself to both, he feels himself subjected to both, by that oldestinstinct of subjection which breaks forth in him.--It is "the slave"in the vain man's blood, the remains of the slave's craftiness--and howmuch of the "slave" is still left in woman, for instance!--whichseeks to SEDUCE to good opinions of itself; it is the slave, too, whoimmediately afterwards falls prostrate himself before these opinions, asthough he had not called them forth.--And to repeat it again: vanity isan atavism.
262. A SPECIES originates, and a type becomes established and strong inthe long struggle with essentially constant UNFAVOURABLE conditions. Onthe other hand, it is known by the experience of breeders that specieswhich receive super-abundant nourishment, and in general a surplus ofprotection and care, immediately tend in the most marked way to developvariations, and are fertile in prodigies and monstrosities (also inmonstrous vices). Now look at an aristocratic commonwealth, sayan ancient Greek polis, or Venice, as a voluntary or involuntarycontrivance for the purpose of REARING human beings; there are there menbeside one another, thrown upon their own resources, who want to maketheir species prevail, chiefly because they MUST prevail, or elserun the terrible danger of being exterminated. The favour, thesuper-abundance, the protection are there lacking under which variationsare fostered; the species needs itself as species, as something which,precisely by virtue of its hardness, its uniformity, and simplicity ofstructure, can in general prevail and make itself permanent inconstant struggle with its neighbours, or with rebellious orrebellion-threatening vassals. The most varied experience teaches itwhat are the qualities to which it principally owes the fact thatit still exists, in spite of all Gods and men, and has hitherto beenvictorious: these qualities it calls virtues, and these virtues aloneit develops to maturity. It does so with severity, indeed it desiresseverity; every aristocratic morality is intolerant in the educationof youth, in the control of women, in the marriage customs, in therelations of old and young, in the penal laws (which have an eye onlyfor the degenerating): it counts intolerance itself among the virtues,under the name of "justice." A type with few, but very marked features,a species of severe, warlike, wisely silent, reserved, and reticentmen (and as such, with the most delicate sensibility for the charm andnuances of society) is thus established, unaffected by the vicissitudesof generations; the constant struggle with uniform UNFAVOURABLEconditions is, as already remarked, the cause of a type becomingstable and hard. Finally, however, a happy state of things results, theenormous tension is relaxed; there are perhaps no more enemies among theneighbouring peoples, and the means of life, even of the enjoymentof life, are present in superabundance. With one stroke the bond andconstraint of the old discipline severs: it is no longer regarded asnecessary, as a condition of existence--if it would continue, it canonly do so as a form of LUXURY, as an archaizing TASTE. Variations,whether they be deviations (into the higher, finer, and rarer), ordeteriorations and monstrosities, appear suddenly on the scene in thegreatest exuberance and splendour; the individual dares to be individualand detach himself. At this turning-point of history there manifestthemselves, side by side, and often mixed and entangled together, amagnificent, manifold, virgin-forest-like up-growth and up-striving, akind of TROPICAL TEMPO in the rivalry of growth, and an extraordinarydecay and self-destruction, owing to the savagely opposing and seeminglyexploding egoisms, which strive with one another "for sun and light,"and can no longer assign any limit, restraint, or forbearance forthemselves by means of the hitherto existing morality. It was thismorality itself which piled up the strength so enormously, which bentthe bow in so threatening a manner:--it is now "out of date," it isgetting "out of date." The dangerous and disquieting point has beenreached when the greater, more manifold, more comprehensive life ISLIVED BEYOND the old morality; the "individual" stands out, and isobliged to have recourse to his own law-giving, his own arts andartifices for self-preservation, self-elevation, and self-deliverance.Nothing but new "Whys," nothing but new "Hows," no common formulas anylonger, misunderstanding and disregard in league with each other, decay,deterioration, and the loftiest desires frightfully entangled, thegenius of the race overflowing from all the cornucopias of good and bad,a portentous simultaneousness of Spring and Autumn, full of new charmsand mysteries peculiar to the fresh, still inexhausted, still unweariedcorruption. Danger is again present, the mother of morality, greatdanger; this time shifted into the individual, into the neighbour andfriend, into the street, into their own child, into their own heart,into all the most personal and secret recesses of their desires andvolitions. What will the moral philosophers who appear at this time haveto preach? They discover, these sharp onlookers and loafers, that theend is quickly approaching, that everything around them decays andproduces decay, that nothing will endure until the day after tomorrow,except one species of man, the incurably MEDIOCRE. The mediocre alonehave a prospect of continuing and propagating themselves--they willbe the men of the future, the sole survivors; "be like them! becomemediocre!" is now the only morality which has still a significance,which still obtains a hearing.--But it is difficult to preach thismorality of mediocrity! it can never avow what it is and what itdesires! it has to talk of moderation and dignity and duty and brotherlylove--it will have difficulty IN CONCEALING ITS IRONY!
263. There is an INSTINCT FOR RANK, which more than anything else isalready the sign of a HIGH rank; there is a DELIGHT in the NUANCESof reverence which leads one to infer noble origin and habits. Therefinement, goodness, and loftiness of a soul are put to a perilous testwhen something passes by that is of the highest rank, but is notyet protected by the awe of authority from obtrusive touches andincivilities: something that goes its way like a living touchstone,undistinguished, undiscovered, and tentative, perhaps voluntarily veiledand disguised. He whose task and practice it is to investigate souls,will avail himself of many varieties of this very art to determine theultimate value of a soul, the unalterable, innate order of rank to whichit belongs: he will test it by its INSTINCT FOR REVERENCE. DIFFERENCEENGENDRE HAINE: the vulgarity of many a nature spurts up suddenly likedirty water, when any holy vessel, any jewel from closed shrines, anybook bearing the marks of great destiny, is brought before it; whileon the other hand, there is an involuntary silence, a hesitation of theeye, a cessation of all gestures, by which it is indicated that a soulFEELS the nearness of what is worthiest of respect. The way in which, onthe whole, the reverence for the BIBLE has hitherto been maintainedin Europe, is perhaps the best example of discipline and refinement ofmanners which Europe owes to Christianity: books of such profoundnessand supreme significance require for their protection an externaltyranny of authority, in order to acquire the PERIOD of thousands ofyears which is necessary to exhaust and unriddle them. Much has beenachieved when the sentiment has been at last instilled into the masses(the shallow-pates and the boobies of every kind) that they are notallowed to touch everything, that there are holy experiences beforewhich they must take off their shoes and keep away the unclean hand--itis almost their highest advance towards humanity. On the contrary, inthe so-called cultured classes, the believers in "modern ideas," nothingis perhaps so repulsive as their lack of shame, the easy insolence ofeye and hand with which they touch, taste, and finger everything; and itis possible that even yet there is more RELATIVE nobility of taste, andmore tact for reverence among the people, among the lower classes ofthe people, especially among peasants, than among the newspaper-readingDEMIMONDE of intellect, the cultured class.
264. It cannot be effaced from a man's soul what his ancestors havepreferably and most constantly done: whether they were perhaps diligenteconomizers attached to a desk and a cash-box, modest and citizen-likein their desires, modest also in their virtues; or whether they wereaccustomed to commanding from morning till night, fond of rude pleasuresand probably of still ruder duties and responsibilities; or whether,finally, at one time or another, they have sacrificed old privileges ofbirth and possession, in order to live wholly for their faith--for their"God,"--as men of an inexorable and sensitive conscience, which blushesat every compromise. It is quite impossible for a man NOT to havethe qualities and predilections of his parents and ancestors in hisconstitution, whatever appearances may suggest to the contrary. This isthe problem of race. Granted that one knows something of the parents,it is admissible to draw a conclusion about the child: any kindof offensive incontinence, any kind of sordid envy, or of clumsyself-vaunting--the three things which together have constituted thegenuine plebeian type in all times--such must pass over to the child, assurely as bad blood; and with the help of the best education and cultureone will only succeed in DECEIVING with regard to such heredity.--Andwhat else does education and culture try to do nowadays! In our verydemocratic, or rather, very plebeian age, "education" and "culture" MUSTbe essentially the art of deceiving--deceiving with regard to origin,with regard to the inherited plebeianism in body and soul. An educatorwho nowadays preached truthfulness above everything else, and called outconstantly to his pupils: "Be true! Be natural! Show yourselves as youare!"--even such a virtuous and sincere ass would learn in a short timeto have recourse to the FURCA of Horace, NATURAM EXPELLERE: with whatresults? "Plebeianism" USQUE RECURRET. [FOOTNOTE: Horace's "Epistles,"I. x. 24.]
265. At the risk of displeasing innocent ears, I submit that egoismbelongs to the essence of a noble soul, I mean the unalterable beliefthat to a being such as "we," other beings must naturally be insubjection, and have to sacrifice themselves. The noble soul accepts thefact of his egoism without question, and also without consciousness ofharshness, constraint, or arbitrariness therein, but rather as somethingthat may have its basis in the primary law of things:--if he sought adesignation for it he would say: "It is justice itself." He acknowledgesunder certain circumstances, which made him hesitate at first, thatthere are other equally privileged ones; as soon as he has settled thisquestion of rank, he moves among those equals and equally privilegedones with the same assurance, as regards modesty and delicate respect,which he enjoys in intercourse with himself--in accordance with aninnate heavenly mechanism which all the stars understand. It is anADDITIONAL instance of his egoism, this artfulness and self-limitationin intercourse with his equals--every star is a similar egoist; hehonours HIMSELF in them, and in the rights which he concedes to them, hehas no doubt that the exchange of honours and rights, as the ESSENCE ofall intercourse, belongs also to the natural condition of things. Thenoble soul gives as he takes, prompted by the passionate and sensitiveinstinct of requital, which is at the root of his nature. The notion of"favour" has, INTER PARES, neither significance nor good repute; theremay be a sublime way of letting gifts as it were light upon one fromabove, and of drinking them thirstily like dew-drops; but for thosearts and displays the noble soul has no aptitude. His egoism hinders himhere: in general, he looks "aloft" unwillingly--he looks either FORWARD,horizontally and deliberately, or downwards--HE KNOWS THAT HE IS ON AHEIGHT.
266. "One can only truly esteem him who does not LOOK OUT FORhimself."--Goethe to Rath Schlosser.
267. The Chinese have a proverb which mothers even teach their children:"SIAO-SIN" ("MAKE THY HEART SMALL"). This is the essentially fundamentaltendency in latter-day civilizations. I have no doubt that an ancientGreek, also, would first of all remark the self-dwarfing in us Europeansof today--in this respect alone we should immediately be "distasteful"to him.
268. What, after all, is ignobleness?--Words are vocal symbols forideas; ideas, however, are more or less definite mental symbolsfor frequently returning and concurring sensations, for groups ofsensations. It is not sufficient to use the same words in order tounderstand one another: we must also employ the same words for the samekind of internal experiences, we must in the end have experiences INCOMMON. On this account the people of one nation understand one anotherbetter than those belonging to different nations, even when they usethe same language; or rather, when people have lived long together undersimilar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, requirement, toil) thereORIGINATES therefrom an entity that "understands itself"--namely, anation. In all souls a like number of frequently recurring experienceshave gained the upper hand over those occurring more rarely: aboutthese matters people understand one another rapidly and always morerapidly--the history of language is the history of a process ofabbreviation; on the basis of this quick comprehension people alwaysunite closer and closer. The greater the danger, the greater is theneed of agreeing quickly and readily about what is necessary; not tomisunderstand one another in danger--that is what cannot at all bedispensed with in intercourse. Also in all loves and friendships one hasthe experience that nothing of the kind continues when the discoveryhas been made that in using the same words, one of the two parties hasfeelings, thoughts, intuitions, wishes, or fears different from those ofthe other. (The fear of the "eternal misunderstanding": that is the goodgenius which so often keeps persons of different sexes from toohasty attachments, to which sense and heart prompt them--and NOT someSchopenhauerian "genius of the species"!) Whichever groups of sensationswithin a soul awaken most readily, begin to speak, and give the word ofcommand--these decide as to the general order of rank of its values, anddetermine ultimately its list of desirable things. A man's estimates ofvalue betray something of the STRUCTURE of his soul, and wherein itsees its conditions of life, its intrinsic needs. Supposing now thatnecessity has from all time drawn together only such men as couldexpress similar requirements and similar experiences by similar symbols,it results on the whole that the easy COMMUNICABILITY of need,which implies ultimately the undergoing only of average and COMMONexperiences, must have been the most potent of all the forces whichhave hitherto operated upon mankind. The more similar, the more ordinarypeople, have always had and are still having the advantage; the moreselect, more refined, more unique, and difficultly comprehensible, areliable to stand alone; they succumb to accidents in their isolation, andseldom propagate themselves. One must appeal to immense opposing forces,in order to thwart this natural, all-too-natural PROGRESSUS IN SIMILE,the evolution of man to the similar, the ordinary, the average, thegregarious--to the IGNOBLE--!
269. The more a psychologist--a born, an unavoidable psychologistand soul-diviner--turns his attention to the more select cases andindividuals, the greater is his danger of being suffocated by sympathy:he NEEDS sternness and cheerfulness more than any other man. Forthe corruption, the ruination of higher men, of the more unusuallyconstituted souls, is in fact, the rule: it is dreadful to have such arule always before one's eyes. The manifold torment of the psychologistwho has discovered this ruination, who discovers once, and thendiscovers ALMOST repeatedly throughout all history, this universalinner "desperateness" of higher men, this eternal "too late!" in everysense--may perhaps one day be the cause of his turning withbitterness against his own lot, and of his making an attempt atself-destruction--of his "going to ruin" himself. One may perceivein almost every psychologist a tell-tale inclination for delightfulintercourse with commonplace and well-ordered men; the fact is therebydisclosed that he always requires healing, that he needs a sortof flight and forgetfulness, away from what his insight andincisiveness--from what his "business"--has laid upon his conscience.The fear of his memory is peculiar to him. He is easily silenced by thejudgment of others; he hears with unmoved countenance how people honour,admire, love, and glorify, where he has PERCEIVED--or he even concealshis silence by expressly assenting to some plausible opinion. Perhapsthe paradox of his situation becomes so dreadful that, preciselywhere he has learnt GREAT SYMPATHY, together with great CONTEMPT, themultitude, the educated, and the visionaries, have on their part learntgreat reverence--reverence for "great men" and marvelous animals, forthe sake of whom one blesses and honours the fatherland, the earth, thedignity of mankind, and one's own self, to whom one points the young,and in view of whom one educates them. And who knows but in all greatinstances hitherto just the same happened: that the multitude worshippeda God, and that the "God" was only a poor sacrificial animal! SUCCESShas always been the greatest liar--and the "work" itself is a success;the great statesman, the conqueror, the discoverer, are disguised intheir creations until they are unrecognizable; the "work" of the artist,of the philosopher, only invents him who has created it, is REPUTEDto have created it; the "great men," as they are reverenced, are poorlittle fictions composed afterwards; in the world of historical valuesspurious coinage PREVAILS. Those great poets, for example, such asByron, Musset, Poe, Leopardi, Kleist, Gogol (I do not venture to mentionmuch greater names, but I have them in my mind), as they now appear, andwere perhaps obliged to be: men of the moment, enthusiastic, sensuous,and childish, light-minded and impulsive in their trust and distrust;with souls in which usually some flaw has to be concealed; often takingrevenge with their works for an internal defilement, often seekingforgetfulness in their soaring from a too true memory, often lost inthe mud and almost in love with it, until they become like theWill-o'-the-Wisps around the swamps, and PRETEND TO BE stars--the peoplethen call them idealists,--often struggling with protracted disgust,with an ever-reappearing phantom of disbelief, which makes them cold,and obliges them to languish for GLORIA and devour "faith as it is"out of the hands of intoxicated adulators:--what a TORMENT these greatartists are and the so-called higher men in general, to him who has oncefound them out! It is thus conceivable that it is just from woman--whois clairvoyant in the world of suffering, and also unfortunately eagerto help and save to an extent far beyond her powers--that THEY havelearnt so readily those outbreaks of boundless devoted SYMPATHY, whichthe multitude, above all the reverent multitude, do not understand,and overwhelm with prying and self-gratifying interpretations. Thissympathizing invariably deceives itself as to its power; woman wouldlike to believe that love can do EVERYTHING--it is the SUPERSTITIONpeculiar to her. Alas, he who knows the heart finds out how poor,helpless, pretentious, and blundering even the best and deepest loveis--he finds that it rather DESTROYS than saves!--It is possible thatunder the holy fable and travesty of the life of Jesus there is hiddenone of the most painful cases of the martyrdom of KNOWLEDGE ABOUT LOVE:the martyrdom of the most innocent and most craving heart, thatnever had enough of any human love, that DEMANDED love, that demandedinexorably and frantically to be loved and nothing else, with terribleoutbursts against those who refused him their love; the story of a poorsoul insatiated and insatiable in love, that had to invent hell to sendthither those who WOULD NOT love him--and that at last, enlightenedabout human love, had to invent a God who is entire love, entireCAPACITY for love--who takes pity on human love, because it is sopaltry, so ignorant! He who has such sentiments, he who has suchKNOWLEDGE about love--SEEKS for death!--But why should one deal withsuch painful matters? Provided, of course, that one is not obliged to doso.
270. The intellectual haughtiness and loathing of every man who hassuffered deeply--it almost determines the order of rank HOW deeply mencan suffer--the chilling certainty, with which he is thoroughly imbuedand coloured, that by virtue of his suffering he KNOWS MORE than theshrewdest and wisest can ever know, that he has been familiar with,and "at home" in, many distant, dreadful worlds of which "YOU knownothing"!--this silent intellectual haughtiness of the sufferer, thispride of the elect of knowledge, of the "initiated," of the almostsacrificed, finds all forms of disguise necessary to protect itself fromcontact with officious and sympathizing hands, and in general from allthat is not its equal in suffering. Profound suffering makes noble:it separates.--One of the most refined forms of disguise is Epicurism,along with a certain ostentatious boldness of taste, which takessuffering lightly, and puts itself on the defensive against all thatis sorrowful and profound. They are "gay men" who make use of gaiety,because they are misunderstood on account of it--they WISH to bemisunderstood. There are "scientific minds" who make use of science,because it gives a gay appearance, and because scientificness leads tothe conclusion that a person is superficial--they WISH to mislead to afalse conclusion. There are free insolent minds which would fain concealand deny that they are broken, proud, incurable hearts (the cynicism ofHamlet--the case of Galiani); and occasionally folly itself is the maskof an unfortunate OVER-ASSURED knowledge.--From which it follows that itis the part of a more refined humanity to have reverence "for the mask,"and not to make use of psychology and curiosity in the wrong place.
271. That which separates two men most profoundly is a different senseand grade of purity. What does it matter about all their honesty andreciprocal usefulness, what does it matter about all their mutualgood-will: the fact still remains--they "cannot smell each other!" Thehighest instinct for purity places him who is affected with it in themost extraordinary and dangerous isolation, as a saint: for it is justholiness--the highest spiritualization of the instinct in question. Anykind of cognizance of an indescribable excess in the joy of the bath,any kind of ardour or thirst which perpetually impels the soul outof night into the morning, and out of gloom, out of "affliction" intoclearness, brightness, depth, and refinement:--just as much as such atendency DISTINGUISHES--it is a noble tendency--it also SEPARATES.--Thepity of the saint is pity for the FILTH of the human, all-too-human.And there are grades and heights where pity itself is regarded by him asimpurity, as filth.
272. Signs of nobility: never to think of lowering our duties to therank of duties for everybody; to be unwilling to renounce or to shareour responsibilities; to count our prerogatives, and the exercise ofthem, among our DUTIES.
273. A man who strives after great things, looks upon every one whomhe encounters on his way either as a means of advance, or a delay andhindrance--or as a temporary resting-place. His peculiar lofty BOUNTYto his fellow-men is only possible when he attains his elevation anddominates. Impatience, and the consciousness of being always condemnedto comedy up to that time--for even strife is a comedy, and conceals theend, as every means does--spoil all intercourse for him; this kind ofman is acquainted with solitude, and what is most poisonous in it.
274. THE PROBLEM OF THOSE WHO WAIT.--Happy chances are necessary, andmany incalculable elements, in order that a higher man in whom thesolution of a problem is dormant, may yet take action, or "break forth,"as one might say--at the right moment. On an average it DOES NOT happen;and in all corners of the earth there are waiting ones sitting whohardly know to what extent they are waiting, and still less that theywait in vain. Occasionally, too, the waking call comes too late--thechance which gives "permission" to take action--when their best youth,and strength for action have been used up in sitting still; and how manya one, just as he "sprang up," has found with horror that his limbs arebenumbed and his spirits are now too heavy! "It is too late," he hassaid to himself--and has become self-distrustful and henceforth for everuseless.--In the domain of genius, may not the "Raphael withouthands" (taking the expression in its widest sense) perhaps not be theexception, but the rule?--Perhaps genius is by no means so rare: butrather the five hundred HANDS which it requires in order to tyrannizeover the [GREEK INSERTED HERE], "the right time"--in order to takechance by the forelock!
275. He who does not WISH to see the height of a man, looks all themore sharply at what is low in him, and in the foreground--and therebybetrays himself.
276. In all kinds of injury and loss the lower and coarser soul isbetter off than the nobler soul: the dangers of the latter must begreater, the probability that it will come to grief and perish is infact immense, considering the multiplicity of the conditions of itsexistence.--In a lizard a finger grows again which has been lost; not soin man.--
277. It is too bad! Always the old story! When a man has finishedbuilding his house, he finds that he has learnt unawares somethingwhich he OUGHT absolutely to have known before he--began to build. Theeternal, fatal "Too late!" The melancholia of everything COMPLETED--!
278.--Wanderer, who art thou? I see thee follow thy path without scorn,without love, with unfathomable eyes, wet and sad as a plummet which hasreturned to the light insatiated out of every depth--what did it seekdown there?--with a bosom that never sighs, with lips that conceal theirloathing, with a hand which only slowly grasps: who art thou? whathast thou done? Rest thee here: this place has hospitality for everyone--refresh thyself! And whoever thou art, what is it that now pleasesthee? What will serve to refresh thee? Only name it, whatever I haveI offer thee! "To refresh me? To refresh me? Oh, thou prying one,what sayest thou! But give me, I pray thee---" What? what? Speak out!"Another mask! A second mask!"
279. Men of profound sadness betray themselves when they are happy: theyhave a mode of seizing upon happiness as though they would choke andstrangle it, out of jealousy--ah, they know only too well that it willflee from them!
280. "Bad! Bad! What? Does he not--go back?" Yes! But you misunderstandhim when you complain about it. He goes back like every one who is aboutto make a great spring.
281.--"Will people believe it of me? But I insist that they believe itof me: I have always thought very unsatisfactorily of myself and aboutmyself, only in very rare cases, only compulsorily, always withoutdelight in 'the subject,' ready to digress from 'myself,' and alwayswithout faith in the result, owing to an unconquerable distrust of thePOSSIBILITY of self-knowledge, which has led me so far as to feel aCONTRADICTIO IN ADJECTO even in the idea of 'direct knowledge' whichtheorists allow themselves:--this matter of fact is almost the mostcertain thing I know about myself. There must be a sort of repugnancein me to BELIEVE anything definite about myself.--Is there perhapssome enigma therein? Probably; but fortunately nothing for my ownteeth.--Perhaps it betrays the species to which I belong?--but not tomyself, as is sufficiently agreeable to me."
282.--"But what has happened to you?"--"I do not know," he said,hesitatingly; "perhaps the Harpies have flown over my table."--Itsometimes happens nowadays that a gentle, sober, retiring man becomessuddenly mad, breaks the plates, upsets the table, shrieks, raves,and shocks everybody--and finally withdraws, ashamed, and raging athimself--whither? for what purpose? To famish apart? To suffocate withhis memories?--To him who has the desires of a lofty and dainty soul,and only seldom finds his table laid and his food prepared, the dangerwill always be great--nowadays, however, it is extraordinarily so.Thrown into the midst of a noisy and plebeian age, with which he doesnot like to eat out of the same dish, he may readily perish of hungerand thirst--or, should he nevertheless finally "fall to," of suddennausea.--We have probably all sat at tables to which we did not belong;and precisely the most spiritual of us, who are most difficult tonourish, know the dangerous DYSPEPSIA which originates from a suddeninsight and disillusionment about our food and our messmates--theAFTER-DINNER NAUSEA.
283. If one wishes to praise at all, it is a delicate and at thesame time a noble self-control, to praise only where one DOES NOTagree--otherwise in fact one would praise oneself, which is contraryto good taste:--a self-control, to be sure, which offers excellentopportunity and provocation to constant MISUNDERSTANDING. To be able toallow oneself this veritable luxury of taste and morality, one mustnot live among intellectual imbeciles, but rather among men whosemisunderstandings and mistakes amuse by their refinement--or one willhave to pay dearly for it!--"He praises me, THEREFORE he acknowledges meto be right"--this asinine method of inference spoils half of the lifeof us recluses, for it brings the asses into our neighbourhood andfriendship.
284. To live in a vast and proud tranquility; always beyond... To have,or not to have, one's emotions, one's For and Against, according tochoice; to lower oneself to them for hours; to SEAT oneself on them asupon horses, and often as upon asses:--for one must know how to makeuse of their stupidity as well as of their fire. To conserve one'sthree hundred foregrounds; also one's black spectacles: for there arecircumstances when nobody must look into our eyes, still less into our"motives." And to choose for company that roguish and cheerful vice,politeness. And to remain master of one's four virtues, courage,insight, sympathy, and solitude. For solitude is a virtue with us, asa sublime bent and bias to purity, which divines that in the contact ofman and man--"in society"--it must be unavoidably impure. All societymakes one somehow, somewhere, or sometime--"commonplace."
285. The greatest events and thoughts--the greatest thoughts, however,are the greatest events--are longest in being comprehended: thegenerations which are contemporary with them do not EXPERIENCE suchevents--they live past them. Something happens there as in the realm ofstars. The light of the furthest stars is longest in reaching man; andbefore it has arrived man DENIES--that there are stars there. "Howmany centuries does a mind require to be understood?"--that is also astandard, one also makes a gradation of rank and an etiquette therewith,such as is necessary for mind and for star.
286. "Here is the prospect free, the mind exalted." [FOOTNOTE: Goethe's"Faust," Part II, Act V. The words of Dr. Marianus.]--But there is areverse kind of man, who is also upon a height, and has also a freeprospect--but looks DOWNWARDS.
287. What is noble? What does the word "noble" still mean for usnowadays? How does the noble man betray himself, how is he recognizedunder this heavy overcast sky of the commencing plebeianism, by whicheverything is rendered opaque and leaden?--It is not his actions whichestablish his claim--actions are always ambiguous, always inscrutable;neither is it his "works." One finds nowadays among artists and scholarsplenty of those who betray by their works that a profound longing fornobleness impels them; but this very NEED of nobleness is radicallydifferent from the needs of the noble soul itself, and is in fact theeloquent and dangerous sign of the lack thereof. It is not the works,but the BELIEF which is here decisive and determines the order ofrank--to employ once more an old religious formula with a new and deepermeaning--it is some fundamental certainty which a noble soul has aboutitself, something which is not to be sought, is not to be found, andperhaps, also, is not to be lost.--THE NOBLE SOUL HAS REVERENCE FORITSELF.--
288. There are men who are unavoidably intellectual, let them turnand twist themselves as they will, and hold their hands before theirtreacherous eyes--as though the hand were not a betrayer; it alwayscomes out at last that they have something which they hide--namely,intellect. One of the subtlest means of deceiving, at least as long aspossible, and of successfully representing oneself to be stupiderthan one really is--which in everyday life is often as desirable asan umbrella,--is called ENTHUSIASM, including what belongs to it, forinstance, virtue. For as Galiani said, who was obliged to know it: VERTUEST ENTHOUSIASME.
289. In the writings of a recluse one always hears something of the echoof the wilderness, something of the murmuring tones and timid vigilanceof solitude; in his strongest words, even in his cry itself, theresounds a new and more dangerous kind of silence, of concealment. He whohas sat day and night, from year's end to year's end, alone with hissoul in familiar discord and discourse, he who has become a cave-bear,or a treasure-seeker, or a treasure-guardian and dragon in his cave--itmay be a labyrinth, but can also be a gold-mine--his ideas themselveseventually acquire a twilight-colour of their own, and an odour, as muchof the depth as of the mould, something uncommunicative and repulsive,which blows chilly upon every passer-by. The recluse does not believethat a philosopher--supposing that a philosopher has always in the firstplace been a recluse--ever expressed his actual and ultimate opinions inbooks: are not books written precisely to hide what is in us?--indeed,he will doubt whether a philosopher CAN have "ultimate and actual"opinions at all; whether behind every cave in him there is not, and mustnecessarily be, a still deeper cave: an ampler, stranger, richerworld beyond the surface, an abyss behind every bottom, beneath every"foundation." Every philosophy is a foreground philosophy--this is arecluse's verdict: "There is something arbitrary in the fact that thePHILOSOPHER came to a stand here, took a retrospect, and looked around;that he HERE laid his spade aside and did not dig any deeper--thereis also something suspicious in it." Every philosophy also CONCEALS aphilosophy; every opinion is also a LURKING-PLACE, every word is also aMASK.
290. Every deep thinker is more afraid of being understood than of beingmisunderstood. The latter perhaps wounds his vanity; but the formerwounds his heart, his sympathy, which always says: "Ah, why would youalso have as hard a time of it as I have?"
291. Man, a COMPLEX, mendacious, artful, and inscrutable animal, uncannyto the other animals by his artifice and sagacity, rather than by hisstrength, has invented the good conscience in order finally to enjoy hissoul as something SIMPLE; and the whole of morality is a long, audaciousfalsification, by virtue of which generally enjoyment at the sight ofthe soul becomes possible. From this point of view there is perhaps muchmore in the conception of "art" than is generally believed.
292. A philosopher: that is a man who constantly experiences, sees,hears, suspects, hopes, and dreams extraordinary things; who is struckby his own thoughts as if they came from the outside, from above andbelow, as a species of events and lightning-flashes PECULIAR TO HIM; whois perhaps himself a storm pregnant with new lightnings; a portentousman, around whom there is always rumbling and mumbling and gaping andsomething uncanny going on. A philosopher: alas, a being who oftenruns away from himself, is often afraid of himself--but whose curiosityalways makes him "come to himself" again.
293. A man who says: "I like that, I take it for my own, and mean toguard and protect it from every one"; a man who can conduct a case,carry out a resolution, remain true to an opinion, keep hold of a woman,punish and overthrow insolence; a man who has his indignation and hissword, and to whom the weak, the suffering, the oppressed, and even theanimals willingly submit and naturally belong; in short, a man who is aMASTER by nature--when such a man has sympathy, well! THAT sympathy hasvalue! But of what account is the sympathy of those who suffer! Or ofthose even who preach sympathy! There is nowadays, throughout almost thewhole of Europe, a sickly irritability and sensitiveness towards pain,and also a repulsive irrestrainableness in complaining, an effeminizing,which, with the aid of religion and philosophical nonsense, seeksto deck itself out as something superior--there is a regular cult ofsuffering. The UNMANLINESS of that which is called "sympathy" by suchgroups of visionaries, is always, I believe, the first thing thatstrikes the eye.--One must resolutely and radically taboo this latestform of bad taste; and finally I wish people to put the good amulet,"GAI SABER" ("gay science," in ordinary language), on heart and neck, asa protection against it.
294. THE OLYMPIAN VICE.--Despite the philosopher who, as a genuineEnglishman, tried to bring laughter into bad repute in all thinkingminds--"Laughing is a bad infirmity of human nature, which everythinking mind will strive to overcome" (Hobbes),--I would evenallow myself to rank philosophers according to the quality of theirlaughing--up to those who are capable of GOLDEN laughter. And supposingthat Gods also philosophize, which I am strongly inclined to believe,owing to many reasons--I have no doubt that they also know how to laughthereby in an overman-like and new fashion--and at the expense of allserious things! Gods are fond of ridicule: it seems that they cannotrefrain from laughter even in holy matters.
295. The genius of the heart, as that great mysterious one possessesit, the tempter-god and born rat-catcher of consciences, whose voice candescend into the nether-world of every soul, who neither speaks a wordnor casts a glance in which there may not be some motive or touchof allurement, to whose perfection it pertains that he knows how toappear,--not as he is, but in a guise which acts as an ADDITIONALconstraint on his followers to press ever closer to him, to follow himmore cordially and thoroughly;--the genius of the heart, which imposessilence and attention on everything loud and self-conceited, whichsmoothes rough souls and makes them taste a new longing--to lie placidas a mirror, that the deep heavens may be reflected in them;--the geniusof the heart, which teaches the clumsy and too hasty hand to hesitate,and to grasp more delicately; which scents the hidden and forgottentreasure, the drop of goodness and sweet spirituality under thick darkice, and is a divining-rod for every grain of gold, long buried andimprisoned in mud and sand; the genius of the heart, from contact withwhich every one goes away richer; not favoured or surprised, not asthough gratified and oppressed by the good things of others; but richerin himself, newer than before, broken up, blown upon, and sounded by athawing wind; more uncertain, perhaps, more delicate, more fragile, morebruised, but full of hopes which as yet lack names, full of a new willand current, full of a new ill-will and counter-current... but what am Idoing, my friends? Of whom am I talking to you? Have I forgotten myselfso far that I have not even told you his name? Unless it be that youhave already divined of your own accord who this questionable Godand spirit is, that wishes to be PRAISED in such a manner? For, as ithappens to every one who from childhood onward has always been on hislegs, and in foreign lands, I have also encountered on my path manystrange and dangerous spirits; above all, however, and again and again,the one of whom I have just spoken: in fact, no less a personage thanthe God DIONYSUS, the great equivocator and tempter, to whom, as youknow, I once offered in all secrecy and reverence my first-fruits--thelast, as it seems to me, who has offered a SACRIFICE to him, for Ihave found no one who could understand what I was then doing. Inthe meantime, however, I have learned much, far too much, about thephilosophy of this God, and, as I said, from mouth to mouth--I, the lastdisciple and initiate of the God Dionysus: and perhaps I might at lastbegin to give you, my friends, as far as I am allowed, a little taste ofthis philosophy? In a hushed voice, as is but seemly: for it has to dowith much that is secret, new, strange, wonderful, and uncanny. Thevery fact that Dionysus is a philosopher, and that therefore Gods alsophilosophize, seems to me a novelty which is not unensnaring, and mightperhaps arouse suspicion precisely among philosophers;--among you, myfriends, there is less to be said against it, except that it comes toolate and not at the right time; for, as it has been disclosed to me, youare loth nowadays to believe in God and gods. It may happen, too, thatin the frankness of my story I must go further than is agreeable to thestrict usages of your ears? Certainly the God in question went further,very much further, in such dialogues, and was always many paces ahead ofme... Indeed, if it were allowed, I should have to give him, accordingto human usage, fine ceremonious tides of lustre and merit, I shouldhave to extol his courage as investigator and discoverer, his fearlesshonesty, truthfulness, and love of wisdom. But such a God does not knowwhat to do with all that respectable trumpery and pomp. "Keep that," hewould say, "for thyself and those like thee, and whoever else requireit! I--have no reason to cover my nakedness!" One suspects that thiskind of divinity and philosopher perhaps lacks shame?--He once said:"Under certain circumstances I love mankind"--and referred thereby toAriadne, who was present; "in my opinion man is an agreeable, brave,inventive animal, that has not his equal upon earth, he makes his wayeven through all labyrinths. I like man, and often think how I canstill further advance him, and make him stronger, more evil, and moreprofound."--"Stronger, more evil, and more profound?" I asked in horror."Yes," he said again, "stronger, more evil, and more profound; also morebeautiful"--and thereby the tempter-god smiled with his halcyon smile,as though he had just paid some charming compliment. One here sees atonce that it is not only shame that this divinity lacks;--and in generalthere are good grounds for supposing that in some things the Gods couldall of them come to us men for instruction. We men are--more human.--
296. Alas! what are you, after all, my written and painted thoughts! Notlong ago you were so variegated, young and malicious, so full of thornsand secret spices, that you made me sneeze and laugh--and now? Youhave already doffed your novelty, and some of you, I fear, are readyto become truths, so immortal do they look, so pathetically honest, sotedious! And was it ever otherwise? What then do we write and paint,we mandarins with Chinese brush, we immortalisers of things which LENDthemselves to writing, what are we alone capable of painting? Alas, onlythat which is just about to fade and begins to lose its odour! Alas,only exhausted and departing storms and belated yellow sentiments! Alas,only birds strayed and fatigued by flight, which now let themselves becaptured with the hand--with OUR hand! We immortalize what cannot liveand fly much longer, things only which are exhausted and mellow! And itis only for your AFTERNOON, you, my written and painted thoughts, forwhich alone I have colours, many colours, perhaps, many variegatedsoftenings, and fifty yellows and browns and greens and reds;--butnobody will divine thereby how ye looked in your morning, you suddensparks and marvels of my solitude, you, my old, beloved--EVIL thoughts!



FROM THE HEIGHTS
By F W Nietzsche
Translated by L. A. Magnus

                       1.
     MIDDAY of Life! Oh, season of delight!                      My summer's park!     Uneaseful joy to look, to lurk, to hark--     I peer for friends, am ready day and night,--     Where linger ye, my friends? The time is right!
                       2.
     Is not the glacier's grey today for you                         Rose-garlanded?     The brooklet seeks you, wind, cloud, with longing thread     And thrust themselves yet higher to the blue,     To spy for you from farthest eagle's view.
                       3.
     My table was spread out for you on high--                      Who dwelleth so     Star-near, so near the grisly pit below?--     My realm--what realm hath wider boundary?     My honey--who hath sipped its fragrancy?
                       4.
     Friends, ye are there! Woe me,--yet I am not                        He whom ye seek?     Ye stare and stop--better your wrath could speak!     I am not I? Hand, gait, face, changed? And what     I am, to you my friends, now am I not?
                       5.
     Am I an other? Strange am I to Me?                      Yet from Me sprung?     A wrestler, by himself too oft self-wrung?     Hindering too oft my own self's potency,     Wounded and hampered by self-victory?
                       6.
     I sought where-so the wind blows keenest. There                     I learned to dwell     Where no man dwells, on lonesome ice-lorn fell,     And unlearned Man and God and curse and prayer?     Became a ghost haunting the glaciers bare?
                       7.
     Ye, my old friends! Look! Ye turn pale, filled o'er                      With love and fear!     Go! Yet not in wrath. Ye could ne'er live here.     Here in the farthest realm of ice and scaur,     A huntsman must one be, like chamois soar.
                       8.
     An evil huntsman was I? See how taut                    My bow was bent!     Strongest was he by whom such bolt were sent--     Woe now! That arrow is with peril fraught,     Perilous as none.--Have yon safe home ye sought!
                       9.
     Ye go! Thou didst endure enough, oh, heart;--                     Strong was thy hope;     Unto new friends thy portals widely ope,     Let old ones be. Bid memory depart!     Wast thou young then, now--better young thou art!
                       10.
     What linked us once together, one hope's tie--                    (Who now doth con     Those lines, now fading, Love once wrote thereon?)--     Is like a parchment, which the hand is shy     To touch--like crackling leaves, all seared, all dry.
                       11.
     Oh! Friends no more! They are--what name for those?--                           Friends' phantom-flight     Knocking at my heart's window-pane at night,     Gazing on me, that speaks "We were" and goes,--     Oh, withered words, once fragrant as the rose!
                       12.
     Pinings of youth that might not understand!                       For which I pined,     Which I deemed changed with me, kin of my kind:     But they grew old, and thus were doomed and banned:     None but new kith are native of my land!
                       13.
     Midday of life! My second youth's delight!                       My summer's park!     Unrestful joy to long, to lurk, to hark!     I peer for friends!--am ready day and night,     For my new friends. Come! Come! The time is right!
                       14.
     This song is done,--the sweet sad cry of rue                       Sang out its end;     A wizard wrought it, he the timely friend,     The midday-friend,--no, do not ask me who;     At midday 'twas, when one became as two.
                       15.
     We keep our Feast of Feasts, sure of our bourne,                      Our aims self-same:     The Guest of Guests, friend Zarathustra, came!     The world now laughs, the grisly veil was torn,     And Light and Dark were one that wedding-morn.