CHAPTER I.
STORM AND SHIPWRECK.

The Count of Monte-Cristo, with the beautiful Haydée clinging lovinglyabout his neck, her head pillowed upon his shoulder, stood on the deckof his superb yacht, the Alcyon, gazing at the fast-vanishing isle wherehe had left Maximilian Morrel and Valentine de Villefort.
It was just daybreak, but by the faint glimmering light he could plainlydistinguish the figures of a man and a woman upon the distant beach.They were walking arm in arm. Presently another figure, a man's,approached them and seemed to deliver something.
"Look," said the Count to Haydée, "Jacopo has given Maximilian myletter; he reads it to Valentine, and now they know all. Jacopo pointstoward the yacht; they see us and are waving their handkerchiefs intoken of adieu."
Haydée raised her head and glanced in the direction of the Isle ofMonte-Cristo.
"I see them, my lord," she replied, in a joyous tone; "they are happy."
"Yes," said the Count, "they are happy, but they deserve theirhappiness, and all is well."
"They owe their happiness to you, my lord," resumed Haydée, meekly.
"They owe it to God," answered Monte-Cristo, solemnly; "I was but Hishumble instrument, and He has allowed me in this to make some slightatonement for the wrong I committed in taking vengeance into my ownmortal hands."
Haydée was silent. She knew the sad history of Edmond Dantès, and wasaware of how remorselessly the Count of Monte-Cristo had avenged thewrongs of the humble sailor of Marseilles. This she had learned from herlord's own lips within the past few days. The strict seclusion in whichshe had lived in Paris had necessarily excluded her from all personalknowledge of the Count's subtle war upon his enemies; true, she hademerged from her retirement to testify against Morcerf at his trialbefore the House of Peers, but at that time she was ignorant of the factthat by causing the foe of her family to be convicted of felony, treasonand outrage she had simply promoted Monte-Cristo's vengeance on Fernand,the Catalan. But, though silent, the beautiful Greek girl, with herthoroughly oriental ideas, could not realize that the man who stoodbeside her, the being she almost worshiped, had been guilty of the leastwrong in avenging himself. Besides, she would never have admitted, evenin the most secret recesses of her own heart, that Monte-Cristo, who toher mind symbolized all that was good, pure and heroic in human nature,could have been wrong in anything he did.
Meanwhile the Count also had been silent, and a shade of the deepestsadness had settled upon his pallid but intellectual visage. He gazed atthe Isle of Monte-Cristo until it became a mere dot in the distance;then, putting his arm tenderly about his lovely companion's waist, hedrew her gently toward the cabin.
As they vanished down the companion-way, Bertuccio and the captain ofthe Alcyon, followed by Ali, the Nubian, advanced to the prow of theyacht.
"Captain," said Bertuccio, "can you tell me whither we are bound? I feelan irresistible desire to know."
"Yes," answered the captain, "I can tell you. The Count ordered me tomake with all possible speed for the Island of Crete."
Bertuccio gave a sigh of relief.
"I feared we were bound for Italy," he said. "But," he added, after aninstant's thought, "why should we go to Rome? Luigi Vampa is amply ableto care for all the Count's interests there, if, indeed, any remain nowthat the Baron Danglars has been attended to."
The captain, who was an old Italian smuggler, placed his fingerwarningly upon his lips and glanced warily around when Luigi Vampa'sname was mentioned, but said nothing. Bertuccio took the hint and theconversation was dropped.
Pressing onward under full sail, the magnificent yacht shot over theblue waters of the Mediterranean with the speed of an eagle on the wing.It sped past Corsica and Sardinia, and soon the arid, uninviting shoresof Tunis were visible; then it passed between Sicily and Malta, steeringdirectly toward the Island of Crete.
Up to this time the weather had been of the most delightful description.Not a cloud had obscured the sky, and during the entire voyage theunruffled surface of the Mediterranean had resembled that of somepeaceful lake. It was now the tenth of October, and just cool enough tobe pleasant; the spice-laden breezes from the coast of Africa reachedthe yacht tempered by the moist atmosphere of the sea, furnishing anadditional element of enjoyment.
The Count of Monte-Cristo and Haydée, who seemed inseparable, came ondeck every morning at dawn, and each evening walked back and forth,admiring the gorgeous sunset and watching the shades of night as theygradually settled down upon the wide expanse of the waters.
It required no unusual penetration to see that they were lovers and thattheir delight in each other's society was unalloyed. Haydée clung to theCount, who, with his arm wound about her slender waist, looked downinto the liquid depths of her eyes with a smile of perfect content,while his free hand ever and anon toyed with her night-black tresses.
One evening as they were walking thus--it was the evening of thefifteenth of October, and Crete was distant but two days'sail--Monte-Cristo tenderly took Haydée's hand in his and said to her ina tone of ineffable softness:
"Haydée, do you remember what you said to me on the Isle of Monte-Cristojust before we parted from Valentine and Maximilian?"
"Oh! yes, my lord," was the low reply. "I said I loved you as one lovesa father, brother, husband--I loved you as my life."
"And do you now regret those words?"
"Regret them! Oh! my lord, how could I do that?"
"I asked you," said the Count, slowly, "because we are nearing ourdestination. In two days we shall land upon the shore of Crete, and,once there, it is my intention to make you my wife, provided yourfeelings toward me are still unchanged. Marriage, my child, is the mostimportant step in life, and I do not wish you to take that step withoutfully understanding the promptings of your own dear heart. Only miserycan follow the union of two souls not in perfect accord, not entirelydevoted the one to the other. I am much older than you, Haydée, and mysufferings have aged me still more than years. I am a sad and wearyman. You, on the contrary, stand just upon the threshold of existence;the world and its pleasures are all before you. Think, my child, thinkdeeply before you pronounce the irrevocable vow."
Haydée threw herself passionately upon Monte-Cristo's breast.
"My lord," she cried, in accents broken by extreme agitation andemotion, "am I not your slave?"
"No, Haydée," answered the Count, his bosom heaving and his eyeslighting up with a strange flash, "you are free, your fate rests in yourown hands."
"Then," said the young girl, ardently, "I will decide it this veryinstant. I accept my freedom that I may voluntarily offer myself to you,my love, my husband. You have suffered. Granted. So have I. Yoursufferings have aged you; mine have transformed a child into a woman--awoman who knows the promptings of her heart, who knows that it beats foryou, and you alone in all the world. My lord, I resign myself to you. Doyou accept the gift?"
As Haydée concluded, her beautiful eyes were suffused with tears and herwhole frame quivered with intense excitement.
Monte-Cristo bent down and kissed her upon the forehead.
"Haydée, my own Haydée," he said, with a slight tremor in his manlyvoice, "I accept the gift. Be my wife, the wife of Monte-Cristo, and noeffort of mine shall be wanting to assure your happiness."
At that moment there was a sinister flash in the heavens, that were asyet without a cloud. The livid light shot downward to the water andseemingly plunged to the depths of the Mediterranean.
The Count gave a start and drew his beloved Haydée closer to him; thefrightened girl trembled from head to foot and clung to him forprotection.
"Oh! my lord, my lord," she murmured, "does Heaven disapprove of ourplighted troth?"
"Calm yourself, Haydée," answered Monte-Cristo. "The lightning is God'sseal, and He has set it upon our betrothal."
The flash was now repeated and was succeeded by several others ofincreased intensity, but as yet no thunder rolled and there was not theslightest indication of an approaching storm.
Monte-Cristo took Haydée's hand and led her to the side of the yacht.Not a single wave wrinkled the surface of the sea for miles and miles;the water seemed asleep, while down upon it the moon poured a flood ofsilvery radiance. The stars, too, were beaming brightly. Still, however,the intense lightning shot athwart the placid sky. It had become almostincessant. Monte-Cristo could not account for the bewilderingphenomenon. He summoned the captain of the Alcyon and said to him:
"Giacomo, you have sailed the Mediterranean all your life, have younot?"
"All my life, Excellency," replied he, touching his cap.
"Have you ever before seen lightning such as this on a calm night?"
"Never, Excellency."
"It certainly cannot be heat-lightning."
"I think not, Excellency. Heat-lightning has a quicker flash and is muchless intense."
"What do you suppose it portends?"
"I can form no idea, Excellency."
"Oh! my lord," said Haydée, "a terrible storm is coming, I am sure; Ifeel a premonition Of approaching danger. I pray you, guard against it."
"Nonsense, my child," returned Monte-Cristo, with a laugh that, in spiteof all his efforts at self-control, betrayed nervous agitation and anundefinable dread. "The sky is clear, the moon is shining brilliantlyand the sea is altogether tranquil; if a storm were coming it would notbe so. Banish your fears and reassure yourself; the lightning is but afreak of nature."
The captain, too, was disturbed, though he could give himself nosatisfactory reason for his uneasiness.
Ali, with the characteristic superstition of the Nubian race, hadprostrated himself upon the deck, and was making signs the Moslems ofhis country use to drive away malignant spirits.
The night, however, passed without accident, though the singularlightning continued for several hours.
Next morning the sun rose, encircled by a ruddy band, fringed on theouter rim with a faint yellow, while its beams had a sullen glareinstead of their normal brilliancy. The lightning of the previous nightwas absent, but soon another and not less disquieting phenomenonmanifested itself; as far as the eye could reach the sea seemed boiling,and, at intervals, a puff, as if of vapor, would filter through thewaves, rising and disappearing in the heavens. Meanwhile the wind hadfallen, and amid an almost dead calm the sails of the Alcyon hunglistlessly, with only an occasional flapping. The yacht moved forward,indeed, but so slowly that it scarcely appeared to move at all.
Monte-Cristo and Haydée came on deck at dawn, but the young girldisplayed such terror at the unwonted aspect of the sun and the sea thatthe Count speedily persuaded her to return with him to the cabin. Thereshe cowered upon a divan, hiding her face in her hands and moaningpiteously. Her fiancé, distressed at her condition, endeavored to sootheand comfort her, but utterly without avail; her fears could neither bebanished nor allayed. At length he threw himself on a rug at her feet,and, disengaging her hands from her face, drew them about his neck;Haydée clasped him frantically and clung to him as if she deemed thatembrace a final one.
As they were sitting thus, the Alcyon received a sudden and violentshock that shook the noble yacht from stem to stern. Instantly there wasa sound of hurrying feet on deck, and the captain could be heardshouting hoarsely to the sailors.
Monte-Cristo leaped up and caught Haydée in his arms. At that moment Alidarted down the companion-way and stood trembling before his master.
"What was that shock?" demanded the Count, hurriedly.
The agitated Nubian made a sign signifying he did not know, but that allwas yet safe.
"Remain with your mistress, Ali," said Monte-Cristo. "I am going to seewhat is the matter."
"Oh! no, no," cried Haydée, imploringly, as the Count placed her againon the divan and was moving away. "Oh! no, no; do not leave me, my lord,or I shall die!"
Ashy pale, Haydée arose from the divan, and cast herself on her knees atMonte-Cristo's feet.
"Swear to me, at least, that you will not needlessly expose yourself todanger," she uttered, in a pleading tone.
"I swear it," answered the Count. "Ali will faithfully guard you while Iam gone," he added, "and ere you can realize my absence, I shall beagain at your side."
With these words he tore himself away and hastened to the deck.
There a scene met his eye as unexpected as it was appalling. The entiresurface of the Mediterranean was aglow with phosphorescence, and the sunwas veiled completely by a heavy cloud that seemed to cover the wholeexpanse of the sky. This cloud was not black, but of a bloody hue, andthe atmosphere was so densely charged with sulphur that it was almostimpossible to breathe. The sea was boiling more furiously than ever, andthe puffs of vapor that had before only occasionally filtered throughthe waves now leaped up incessantly, each puff attended with a slightexplosion; the vapor was grayish when it first arose from the water, butas it ascended it became red, mingling at length with the bloody cloudthat each moment acquired greater density. The wind blew fitfully,sometimes amounting to a gale and then utterly vanishing without theslightest warning. Soon the bloody cloud seemed to settle of its ownweight upon the sea, growing so thick that the eye could not penetrateit, and a few feet from the yacht all was inky darkness.
Monte-Cristo hurried to the captain, who was endeavoring to quiet thesuperstitious fears of the sailors. Drawing him aside, he said, in a lowtone:
"Giacomo, we are in frightful danger. This elemental disturbance isvolcanic, and how it will end cannot be foretold. No doubt an earthquakeis devastating the nearest land, or will do so before many hours haveelapsed. At any moment rocks or islands may arise from the sea, andobstruct our passage. All we can do is to hold ourselves in readinessfor whatever calamity may happen, and make for Crete as rapidly aspossible, with the hope of eventually getting beyond the volcanic zone.Do not enlighten the crew as to the cause of the disturbance; did theyknow, or even suspect it, they could not be controlled, but would becomeeither stupefied or reckless. Try to convince them that we are simply inthe midst of a severe electrical storm that will speedily exhaust itsfury and subside. Now, to work, and remember that everything dependsupon your courage and resolution."
Giacomo rejoined the sailors, who were huddled together at the stern ofthe yacht like so many frightened sheep. He spoke to them, doing hisutmost to reassure them, and ultimately succeeded so well that theyresumed their neglected duties with some show of alacrity and evencheerfulness.
Meanwhile, Monte-Cristo, with folded arms and an outward show ofcalmness, was pacing the deck as if nothing unusual were in progress,and his demeanor was not without its effect on the sailors, who lookedupon him with a species of awe and admiration. At times he went below tocheer the drooping spirits of his beloved Haydée, but speedily returnedthat the influence of his presence might not be lost.
Thus the day passed. A night of painful suspense succeeded it, duringwhich not a soul on board the Alcyon thought of sleeping. Nothing,however, occurred, save that the intense lightning of the previous nightwas renewed. Toward eleven o'clock the breeze freshened to such anextent that the yacht sped along on her course with great fleetness.
In the morning the sun arose amid a purple haze, and the Mediterraneanpresented a more tumultuous and threatening aspect than it had thepreceding day. The breeze was still blowing stiffly, and the lightningcontinued. Giacomo informed Monte-Cristo that unless a calm shouldsuddenly come on they would certainly arrive at Crete by noon. Thesailors, he added, were in good spirits, and might be relied upon,though they were much fatigued by reason of their unceasing labor.
At ten o'clock the man at the wheel hurriedly summoned the captain tohis side, and, with a look of terror and bewilderment, directed hisattention to the compass, the needle of which no longer pointed to thenorth, but was dancing a mad dance, not remaining stationary for asingle instant. To complicate the situation still further, the sun wassuddenly obscured, absolute darkness invading both sea and sky. Onlywhen the vivid lightning tore the dense clouds apart were those on boardthe Alcyon enabled to catch a glimpse of what was going on about them,and that glimpse was but momentary. Thunder peals were now added to theterrors of the time, while the yacht tossed and plunged on angry,threatening billows. Showers of sparks and glowing cinders, as if fromsome mighty conflagration, poured down into the water, striking itssurface with an ominous hiss; they resembled meteors, and theirbrilliancy was augmented by the surrounding gloom. Rain also began todescend, not in drops, but in broad sheets and with the roar of acataract; in a moment everybody on the Alcyon's deck was drenched to theskin.
Haydée had not ventured from the cabin since the first day of theelemental commotion; in obedience to his master's commands, Aliconstantly watched over her whenever the Count was facing the strangestorm with Giacomo and the sailors.
As the captain approached the man at the wheel, Monte-Cristo fixed hiseyes upon the old Italian's countenance and saw it assume a deathlypallor as he noticed that the needle of the compass could no longer bedepended on.
In an instant the Count was beside him and realized the extent of thenew evil that had befallen them.
"We can steer but by guess now," said Giacomo, in a low, hoarse whisper."God grant that we may be able to reach our destination."
As he spoke, a loud crash was heard, and the rudder, torn from itsfastenings by the violence of the tempest, swept by them, vanishing amidthe darkness. The man at the wheel gazed after it, uttering a cry ofdespair.
"We are completely at the mercy of the wind and waves!" saidMonte-Cristo, in an undertone. "Can nothing be done?" he added,hurriedly.
"Nothing, Excellency," returned the captain. "A temporary rudder mightbe rigged were the sea calmer, but, boiling and seething as it is, sucha thing is utterly impossible."
A panic had seized upon the sailors as they witnessed the catastrophethat rendered the Alcyon helpless, but this immediately gave place tostupor, and the men stood silent and overwhelmed.
Bertuccio, from the time the dread storm had broken forth, had beengloomy and uncommunicative; he had held persistently aloof both fromMonte-Cristo and the crew. In the general turmoil and confusion hisbearing and behavior had passed unnoticed even by the vigilant eye ofthe Count.
The steward now approached his master, and, taking him aside, whisperedin his ear:
"Heaven's vengeance is pursuing the Alcyon and all on board because ofmy crimes! I feel it--I know it!"
The steward's face was as white as a sheet, but his eye betokened fixedresolution.
"Not another word of this," cried Monte-Cristo, sternly. "Should thesuperstitious sailors hear you, they would demand with one voice thatyou be cast into the boiling sea."
"And they would be right," rejoined Bertuccio, doggedly. "If I remainwhere I am, the Alcyon's doom is sealed. On the other hand, the momentyou are rid of me the storm will cease as if by magic, and you will besaved."
"Be silent!" commanded Monte-Cristo. "You are a Corsican--show aCorsican's courage!"
"I will!" was the determined reply, and the steward walked with a firmtread to the side of the yacht.
"What do you mean?" said the Count, hurrying after him and placing hishand on his shoulder.
"You shall see!" answered Bertuccio.
Shaking off Monte-Cristo's grasp, he leaped upon the bulwarks andsuddenly sprang far out amid the seething waves. The Count uttered a cryof horror that was echoed by the captain. As for the crew, so utterlystupefied were they that they did not seem to comprehend the suicidalact. For an instant Monte-Cristo and Giacomo saw the steward whirlingabout amid the tumultuous flood; then he was swept away, and vanished inthe impenetrable darkness beyond.
The force of the wind had meanwhile augmented until a perfect hurricanewas raging about the Alcyon; the noise was deafening, and the sailsswelled to such an extent that they threatened to snap asunder. Suddenlythey gave way, and the tattered shreds flew in all directions, likewhite-winged sea-fowl. Simultaneously the mast toppled and went by theboard. The yacht, now a helpless wreck, pitched and tossed, but stillshot onward, impelled by the wild fury of the gale. Gigantic waves atintervals swept the deck, each torrent as it retreated carrying with itall it could tear away, and making huge gaps in the bulwarks, to whichthe sailors were clinging with all the energy of desperation.Monte-Cristo had grasped the stump of the mast, and the captain clungwith all his strength to the remains of the wheel. The lightning hadbecome terrific, and the almost continuous roar of the thunder wassufficient to drown the mad din of the waters.
All at once the jagged outlines of a gigantic rock loomed up, directlyin the course of the fated vessel; in another instant the Alcyon struckand remained fast, while a vivid flash of lightning revealed whatappeared to be an island, about a quarter of a mile away. But though thewreck of the yacht was motionless, the furious sea continued to breakover the deck, and it seemed only a question of a few moments when thebattered and torn hull of the Alcyon would go to pieces. The boat thevessel carried had long since been wrenched from its fastenings andswept into the whirlpool.
Monte-Cristo, quitting the stump of the mast, darted down thecompanion-way into the cabin, and quickly returned to the deck bearingin his arms the swooning form of his adored Haydée. Ali followed him.The Nubian seemed to have entirely recovered from his fear, andmanifested both alertness and decision.
Shifting his lifeless burden to his left arm and grasping her firmly,Monte-Cristo advanced to the side of the Alcyon. Pausing there for aninstant, he said, addressing Giacomo and the crew:
"The yacht cannot hold together much longer; if we remain where we arewe shall inevitably be ground to powder on the rock with our vessel.There is an island some distance to the right of us, and, sustained byProvidence, we may succeed in reaching it by swimming. For my part, Ishall try the venture and endeavor to save this lady. You, men, areuntrammeled and stand a better chance of success than I do. I advise youall to follow my example; to cling further to the wreck is death!"
With these words the Count made his way to a gap in the bulwarks and,grasping Haydée tightly, leaped with her into the midst of the angrysea. Ali followed his master, and soon they were seen far in thedistance, struggling and battling with the waves.



CHAPTER II.
THE ISLAND.

It was the month of December, but on the little Island of Salmis in theGrecian Archipelago the temperature was as mild and genial as that ofJune. The grass was rank and thick, while the blooming almond treesfilled the atmosphere with fragrance. On a narrow strip of sandy beachthree or four fishermen were preparing their nets and boats for afishing expedition to the waters beyond. They chatted as they toiled.The eldest of them, a man about sixty, with silvered locks and a longgray beard, said:
"You may talk of storms as much as you please, but I maintain that themost severe tempest ever experienced in this neighborhood was the one Iwitnessed ten years ago last October, when we had the earthquake and thestrange man, who now owns this island, was washed ashore."
"The Count of Monte-Cristo you mean?" remarked one of the party.
"Yes, the Count of Monte-Cristo, who has done so much for us all andwhose wife is nothing less than an angel of goodness and charity."
"You rescued him, did you not, Alexis?"
"I found him lying upon the beach, with the lady who is now his wifetightly clasped in his arms, so tightly that I had no end of trouble toseparate them. Both were unconscious at the time, and no wonder, for thesea was furious and they must have been dashed about at a fearful rate.It was a miracle they escaped with their lives. Near them lay thatdark-skinned African, their servant, who styles himself Ali, as well asthe corpses of several sailors. The African, however, revived just as Iapproached him. He's a man of iron, I tell you, for he immediatelyleaped to his feet and helped me to restore his master and mistress.When they came to, I took the whole party to my hut and cared for them.The next day I rowed the Count and the African out to the wreck of theirvessel on that rock you see away over there, and they brought back withthem a fabulous amount of money and jewels that they found in thestrangest closets I ever saw in the cabin. Then the Count bought thisisland and has lived here ever since. He took the lady to Athens and wasmarried to her there, and on his return he had the palace they nowoccupy built in the midst of the palm grove."
By this time the fishermen had completed their preparations and,leaping into their boats, they started on their expedition.
The palace in the palm grove to which old Alexis had alluded was,indeed, a magnificent dwelling, suitable in every respect for theresidence of an oriental monarch. It was built in the Turkish fashionand its exterior was singularly beautiful and imposing. Huge palm treessurrounded it; they were planted in regular rows upon a vast lawn thatwas adorned with costly statues and fountains, while at intervals werescattered great flower beds filled with choice exotics and bloomingplants of endless variety. A wide graveled walk and carriage-road led tothe palace, the main entrance to which was flanked on either side bycolumns of dark-veined marble. The edifice itself was of green stone,and sparkled in the sunlight like a colossal emerald. It was surmountedby three zinc-covered domes, above each of which towered a gildedcrescent.
Within all was elegance and luxury. There were immense salons, withmarble floors, and walls covered with Smyrna hangings of the mostbeautiful description that of themselves must have cost a fortune. Thesesalons were furnished with rich divans, tables of malachite, cabinets ofebony, and oriental rugs of the most artistic and complicatedworkmanship. There were dazzling reception rooms filled with exquisitestatues and superb paintings, the works of the greatest sculptors andartists of the east and west, of the past and the present. Figures byThorwaldsen, Powers and other modern celebrities of the block and chiselstood beside antique masterpieces framed by the genius of Phidias andhis brother sculptors of old Greece and Rome, masterpieces that had beentorn from the ruins of antiquity by the hand of the untiring andenterprising excavator. Among the paintings were fine specimens of theskill of Albert Dürer, Murillo, Rubens, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, Sir JoshuaReynolds and other votaries of the brush whose names are immortal. Thesepaintings did not hang on the walls, for they were covered with richtapestry from the looms of Benares and the Gobelins, but rested ondelicately fashioned easels, themselves entitled to a high, rank asworks of art. In the salons were statues by Michael Angelo, Pierre Pugetand Pompeo Marchesi, and paintings by Claude Lorraine, Titian, SirThomas Lawrence, Correggio and Salvator Rosa.
The vast library was encircled by lofty bookcases of walnut and ebony,filled with rare and costly volumes from the curiously illuminatedmissals of monkish days to the latest scientific works, together with aliberal sprinkling of poetry and fiction; upon tables, stands andmantels were superb ornaments in brass repoussé work and grand oldfaïence, including some wonderful specimens of ancient Chinese crackleware, the peculiar secret of the manufacture of which had been lost inthe flight of ages.
At an exquisite desk of walnut, carved with grotesque images, sat theCount of Monte-Cristo; he was busily engaged in writing, and beside himlay a huge pile of manuscript that was ever and anon augmented by anadditional sheet, hastily scrawled in strange, bewildering Semiticcharacters.
The Count showed but small trace of the passage of years; he did notlook much older than when he left the Isle of Monte-Cristo with Haydéeon that voyage which was destined to result so disastrously for theAlcyon and her ill-fated crew. To be sure, his hair was slightly fleckedwith gray, but his visage still retained its full outline, and not awrinkle marred its masculine beauty. He was clad in an exceedinglypicturesque costume, half Greek and half Turkish, while upon his headwas a red fez from the centre of which hung down a gilt tassel.
As he wrote his eyes sparkled and he seemed filled with enthusiasm. Atlength he threw aside his pen, and rising began to pace the vastapartment with long strides. "Alas!" he muttered, "perhaps after all Iam only a vain dreamer, as hosts of others have been before me. But no,my scheme is feasible and cannot fail; it is based on sound principlesand a thorough knowledge of mankind; besides, the immense wealth that anall-wise God has placed at my disposal will aid me and form a mightyfactor in the cause. In the past I used that wealth solely for my ownselfish ends, but now all is different; I have no thought of self--thephilanthropist has replaced the egotist; I have aided the poor, relievedthe stricken and brought joy to many a sorrowing home, but hitherto Ihave acted only in isolated cases; now I meditate a grand, a sublimestroke--to give freedom to man throughout the entire length and breadthof the Continent of Europe. If I succeed, and succeed I must, everydown-trodden human being from the coast of France to the Ural Mountains,from the sunny Mediterranean to the frozen Arctic Ocean, will reap thebenefit of my efforts and shake off the yoke of tyranny. Where shall Ibegin? Ah! with France, my own country, the land that gave me birth. Ishall thus return good for evil, and Edmond Dantès, the prisoner of theChâteau d'If, will free the masses from their galling chains. My mostpotent instrument will be the public press; by means of journals I willfound, or buy, the minds of all Europeans shall become familiarized withthe theory of universal liberty and ripened for sweeping revolutions andthe establishment of republics; I will also call fiction to my aid;struggling novelists and feuilletonists shall receive liberal subsidiesfrom my hand on condition that they disseminate my ideas, theories andplans in their romances and feuilletons; thus will I reach thousandsupon thousands who hold themselves aloof from politics, and almostinsensibly they will be transformed into zealous, active partisans ofthe order of things that is to be; poets, too, shall sing the praises offreedom louder and more enthusiastically than ever before; in fine, noinstrument, no means, however humble and apparently insignificant, shallbe neglected when the proper moment arrives, but until it does arrive Imust wait, wait patiently, wait though while waiting an internal fireconsume me, and my veins throb with anxiety and expectation to the pointof bursting."
He sank into a chair, and, burying his face in his hands, was lost inprofound thought.
Meanwhile, a lovely woman, leading a beautiful girl of eight years and ahandsome boy of nine, had noiselessly entered the apartment. It wasHaydée, the wife of Monte-Cristo, Haydée grown mature and more beautifulthan ever. Her night-black tresses were gathered in two wide braids atthe back of her shapely head, so long that they reached below her waist.Her eyes were as bright as stars, and her slender hands, tipped withtheir pink nails, as white as the lily; her tiny feet, encased inCinderella slippers of rose-hued satin, peeped out from beneath ampleTurkish trousers, which were semi-transparent and disclosed the outlinesof her beautifully turned limbs; she wore a close-fitting gilet ofpearly silk, adorned with gilt fringe and cut low, displaying her snowyneck and magnificent shoulders; her arms were encompassed but not hiddenby flowing sleeves of filmy gauze as fine as the tissue of a spider'sweb; about her neck flashed a collar of brilliant diamonds of enormousvalue, and on her tapering fingers were rings of emerald, ruby andsapphire; on her head was a red fez, precisely similar to her husband's;her countenance, a perfect revelation of angelic beauty, was wreathedin sunny smiles that betokened thorough happiness and contentment.
The little girl, Zuleika, the daughter of Monte-Cristo, was her exactimage, a reproduction of her lovely mother in miniature, a promise ofrare delight for the future. The child's costume was also modeled afterHaydée's, but with modifications suited to her tender years. Zuleika wasof a gentle, loving disposition, but a vein of romance and poetry hadalready developed itself in her notwithstanding her extreme youth. Shesighed for the unknown delights of the sea, and the wail of the surfsounded to her like the most delicious of mysterious harmonies. Herinfant imagination peopled the watery realm with spirits of good andevil always in contention, and the great ships, with their huge whitesails, that she saw in the distance from the sandy beach of the Islandof Salmis, were in her eyes the mighty birds of Arabian story.
The boy, Espérance, the son of Monte-Cristo, resembled his father bothin disposition and appearance; his youthful soul was full of nobleaspirations, while his daring and bravery filled even the hardyfishermen of the coast with wonder and amazement. He was a very manlyand handsome child; quick, enthusiastic and energetic; his father's hopeand his mother's idol; though Haydée saw, with extreme uneasiness, thatthe little lad was wise beyond his years, and was already devoted toMonte-Cristo's somewhat visionary schemes, which he appeared to grasp inall their complicated details. His attire was that of a Greek fisherboy; his trousers, rolled up above his knees, displayed his naked legsand bare feet; in one hand he held a rough sea cap that he had removedfrom his head at the door of the library. Espérance loved, above allother things, to be with the fishermen on the beach, and his joy knew nobounds when he was permitted to accompany them on their fishingexpeditions to the waters beyond.
Haydée remained silently gazing at Monte-Cristo for a moment; then,advancing into the middle of the room, she stood beside him with thechildren. Zuleika, dropping her mother's hand, sprang lightly upon herfather's knees, and, clasping him about the neck with her chubby arms,kissed him rapturously.
The Count started from his deep reverie and returned his daughter'skiss; then, looking up, he perceived Haydée and Espérance.
"Ah! my loved ones," said he, "so you are all here!"
"Yes, papa," returned Zuleika, in a clear, crystal voice, that soundedlike the tinkle of a fairy bell, "we are all here--mamma, Espérance and'Leika!"
Monte-Cristo smiled faintly, and patted the little girl tenderly on thecheek.
"Haydée," said he, "fortune favors us in our children; they are, indeed,a blessing to us."
"A veritable blessing, my lord," answered the lovely Haydée, "but stillI cannot help feeling some terror at the thought that Espérance may oneday be drawn into those political struggles you have so often foretold,and in which it is your intention to act a prominent part."
"Papa will lead the people to victory, and I will fight by his side!"cried Espérance, proudly.
Haydée gazed sadly at the enthusiastic boy, and tears came into hergazelle-like eyes.
"Oh! my lord," she said to her husband, "teach Espérance the arts ofpeace, implant in his boyish bosom, while there is yet time, the love ofhome and domestic joys."
The Count glanced admiringly at the little lad, who stood with dilatednostrils and eyes flashing fire; then, turning to Haydée, he said in animpressive tone:
"My beloved wife, Espérance is but an infant, and it may be years ereEurope shall awake from her lethargy and strive to overturn the thronesof her despots; before that period, the period of revolution andbloodshed, our son may change his opinions and cease to be the ardentRepublican he is now."
"No, no," protested the enthusiastic boy; "I will be a Republican all mylife!"
Monte-Cristo smiled sadly, and, drawing the lad to his knee, said tohim:
"Espérance, my son, you are yet too young to know the ways of the worldand the snares that monarchs set for the inexperienced and unwary. Thereare temptations at their command capable of winning over even the mostzealous enemies, and they never hesitate to use them when theopportunity offers. At the proper time I will instruct you fully aboutall this; now, you cannot understand it."
As Monte-Cristo ceased to speak, Ali entered the library, followed bythree native servants attached to the palace. The Nubian bowed lowbefore his master and reverently kissed Haydée's hand; the servants didlikewise. Then Ali handed the Count a sealed letter, making signs to theeffect that he had found it tied with a cord to one of the palm trees onthe lawn.
Monte-Cristo opened the letter and glanced at the signature; as he didso a look of surprise and annoyance settled upon his face.
The note was written in the French language, and read as follows:

     COUNT OF MONTE-CRISTO: I am in hiding on the Island of Salmis and     must see you without delay. Meet me at midnight in the almond grove     near the eastern shore. Be sure to come alone.                                                         BENEDETTO.

"Humph!" said the Count to himself as he finished reading this singularepistle. "I thought I was rid of that scoundrel forever, but it seemsthat the galleys at Toulon cannot hold him. Well, I suppose I must meethim; otherwise he may take a notion to come here, which would be bothinconvenient and disagreeable. I imagine he wants a little money toenable him to escape to the east; if that is all, I will gladly give itto be rid of his presence, on the island. I prefer not to have as aneighbor a thief and an assassin, even if he did shine so brilliantlyonce in aristocratic Parisian society as the Prince Cavalcanti!"
"What is the matter, my lord?" asked Haydée, noticing the expression onMonte-Cristo's countenance. "From whom is the letter?"
"Oh! it is nothing," answered the Count, with a smile. "A poor fellowwishes my assistance, and is too modest to ask it in person; that'sall!"
Haydée was not satisfied with this indefinite reply; she knew that thecontents of the letter so strangely conveyed to her husband had vexedand troubled him; but she also knew that Monte-Cristo could be as silentas the tomb about anything he wished to keep secret, and, therefore,judged it useless to attempt further questions. Besides, a singularpresentiment of evil had taken possession of her at the sight of theominous note, and she felt certain that some disaster was threatened;hence, she determined to be watchful and keep strict guard over herchildren until the mystery, whatever it was, should be cleared up.
As the clock in his library struck the quarter before midnight,Monte-Cristo arose from the chair in which he had been sitting; donninghis fez and a light cloak, he prepared to go to the almond grove on theeastern portion of the island, the spot Benedetto had appointed fortheir meeting; prior to setting out he slipped into his pocket awell-filled purse, and thrust a loaded revolver into the belt he woreabout his waist.
"The scoundrel was anxious that I should come alone, but he did notprohibit me from arming myself," muttered he, with a grim smile, "and Ihave seen too much of Signor Benedetto to care to leave the gameentirely in his hands!"
Quitting the palace by a private door, after making sure that everybodywas asleep and that he was unobserved, Monte-Cristo bent his steps inthe direction of the almond grove. It was a moonless night and verydark; the air was rather chill, while the roar of the surf soundedlouder than usual in the crisp, bracing atmosphere. The Count gatheredhis cloak tightly about him and walked steadily onward, notwithstandingthe thick darkness. At length the heavy odor of the almond blossomswarned him that he was approaching his destination, and he paused tosurvey the scene.
About fifty yards away the almond grove loomed up, casting a densershade upon the surrounding blackness. The Count hastened his steps andin a few seconds stood among the trees. As he paused the figure of a manemerged from behind a huge fragment of rock and thus hailed him:
"Are you the Count of Monte-Cristo?"
"I am," was the firm reply.
"And are you alone, as I recommended?"
"Entirely alone. Now, if you have finished your questions, pray who areyou?"
"Why do you ask?"
"Merely for form's sake."
"Well, then, I am Benedetto."
"Of course. As it was too dark for me to distinguish your features, Isimply wanted to identify you. Now, state your business as briefly aspossible."
"I escaped from Toulon long ago, and, after wandering all over Europe,settled in Athens, where I remained until a week since, when the resultof a difficulty compelled me to quit the city."
"An assassination?"
"Yes, an assassination!"
Monte-Cristo shuddered to hear the cold-blooded villain talk so calmlyof his foul crime, but, conquering his aversion, he said between histeeth:
"Proceed."
"I fled from Athens under cover of the night and the next morning hireda fisherman to bring me here in his boat, thinking that the island wasinhabited only by a few poverty-stricken wretches who gained a scantysubsistence from the sea. On my arrival I was filled with terror atbeholding your magnificent palace, which I was told belonged to a greatlord. I naturally imagined that no one could inhabit such a dwellingsave some high official of the Greek Government, and, without makingfurther inquiries, again secured the services of the fisherman, who tookme to the neighboring Island of Kylo. There I was in safety, for I fellin with a band of stout-hearted men, of whom I eventually became thechief."
"Bandits, no doubt!"
"Yes, bandits, if you will, but valiant men all the same. We prosperedexceedingly and imagined that our career could be continued withimpunity as long as we might desire; in this, however, we were sadlymistaken, for one fatal night the Greek soldiery suddenly descended uponus and hemmed us in on every side ere we were aware of their presence.We fought none the less desperately on that account, and in thesanguinary conflict all my companions were slain. I was grievouslywounded and left for dead, but the following day managed to crawl to thebeach and contrived to be conveyed hither, having learned by accidentthat the great lord of the Island of Salmis was no other than my oldfriend of happier days, the Count of Monte-Cristo, in short, yourself.Now, you know my story. I am a fugitive here as in France, and need youraid to enable me to escape."
"You want money?"
"Yes."
"How much?"
"A million of francs!"
"Man!" cried Monte-Cristo, breathless with astonishment at Benedetto'saudacious demand, "you are out of your senses! I will give you athousand francs, but not a sou more!"
"Beware how you trifle with a desperate man!" hissed Benedetto.
"What have I to fear?" said Monte-Cristo, calmly. "You are alone."
"I am not alone, Count of Monte-Cristo; my stout-hearted friends of theIsland of Kylo are with me, and ready to support my demand!"
"Then you lied to me; your story was a base fabrication."
"Partly, Count; but enough of this--I want the million of francs; it isa small sum for you to spare an old friend, who did you as much serviceas Prince Andrea Cavalcanti! Are you going to give me the money?"
"I am not!" replied Monte-Cristo, drawing his revolver from his belt andcocking it.
"Ho! ho!" laughed Benedetto, mockingly, "that's your game, is it? AgainI tell you to beware how you trifle with a desperate man!"
At the repetition of this phrase, as if it had been a preconcertedsignal, a dozen stalwart figures started up from the darkness andsurrounded Monte-Cristo, who instantly discharged his weapon right andleft among them. Several of the bandits fell, pierced by the balls, andBenedetto, with a loud oath, leaped at the Count's throat, brandishing along, keen-bladed dagger above his head.
Raising his empty revolver, Monte-Cristo with a hand of iron struck hison-coming assailant full in the face, stretching him instantly at hisfeet; but scarcely had he accomplished this when three of the banditssprang upon him and hurled him to the earth beside Benedetto.
"Now," cried one of the miscreants with a frightful curse, at the sametime placing the muzzle of a pistol at the Count's temple, "now, mylord of Salmis, your time has come!"
As he was about to fire, there arose a tremendous shout, and, headed byAli, who swung aloft a Turkish yataghan, the entire force ofMonte-Cristo's servants, armed to the teeth, swept down upon theastonished bandits. At the same instant a pistol-shot rang out, and theman who had threatened to take the Count's life fell to the ground acorpse. As Monte-Cristo regained his feet he saw Espérance standing ashort distance away, the smoking weapon with which he had just killedhis father's would-be murderer still clenched in his boyish hand. Thestruggle that ensued was of short duration, for the bandits, findingthemselves outnumbered, speedily fled to their boats, leaving theirwounded comrades behind them.
When the Count realized that Espérance, his beloved son, had saved himfrom death, he rushed to the heroic lad, took him in his arms and borehim beyond the reach of danger; this done, he returned to aid Ali andthe servants, but they were already victors and in full possession ofthe field.
A search was made for the body of Benedetto, but it had disappeared.



CHAPTER III.
THE CONFLAGRATION.

As the Count of Monte-Cristo, Espérance, Ali and the servants approachedthe palace on their return from the struggle with the bandits in thealmond grove, their ears were suddenly saluted by loud cries of terror.They came from the library and thither Monte-Cristo hurried, followed byhis son. On the floor in the centre of the apartment Haydée lay in aswoon, and bending over her mother was Zuleika, screaming and wringingher little hands. The Count raised his wife and placed her upon a divan,while Espérance brought a water-jar and bathed her temples with itscool, refreshing contents, Zuleika meanwhile holding her mother's handsand sobbing violently.
At last Haydée recovered consciousness, and opening her eyes gazedwildly around her; seeing her husband, Espérance and Zuleika safe besideher, she uttered a faint sigh of relief. It was several moments longerbefore she could speak; then she exclaimed in a tremulous voice:
"Oh! my lord, did you meet that terrible man?"
"What man, Haydée?" asked the Count. "Do you mean Benedetto?"
"I do not know his name; I never saw him before," answered Haydée; "buthis face was all battered and bleeding; on his uncovered head the lockswere matted and unkempt, and his garments were torn as if in wrenchinghis way through a thicket of tangled briers."
"Benedetto, it was Benedetto!" cried Monte-Cristo. "You do not mean tosay he was here, in this room?"
"He was here and only a short time ago," replied Haydée, with a shudder."I was standing at the window with Zuleika when he rushed by me like awhirlwind, and going to your secretary endeavored to open it, but invain; then with a cry of rage he ran to the window, leaped out into thedarkness and was gone! I know nothing further, for as he vanished I fellto the floor in a swoon."
Monte-Cristo touched a bell and almost immediately Ali stood bowingbefore him, as calm and unmoved as though nothing unusual had occurred.
"Ali," said the Count, "post all the servants within and without thepalace, and let the strictest watch be kept until dawn. The chief of thebandits, who is no other than the former Prince Cavalcanti, was here inour absence and must yet be hovering in the vicinity. See that he doesnot effect another entrance, as his purpose is robbery if not murder!"
Ali signified by his eloquent pantomime that he had already taken itupon himself to station the servants as his master directed, and that itwould be utterly impossible for any one to approach the palace withoutbeing seen and seized.
As the faithful Nubian turned to retire, Monte-Cristo noticed that hisright hand was bandaged as if wounded, and inquired whether he had beenhurt in the conflict with the bandits. Ali explained that a daggerthrust had cut his palm, but that the wound had been properly cared forand would soon heal.
When the Count and his family were once more alone together, Haydéethrew herself at her husband's feet and humbly demanded pardon.
"What have you done to require pardon?" asked Monte-Cristo, inastonishment. "Speak, but I forgive you beforehand.'
"Oh! my lord," said Haydée, still maintaining her kneeling posturedespite her husband's efforts to raise her, "oh! my lord, I have beenguilty of a despicable act, but my love for you and fears for yoursafety must be my excuse. You left the letter you received so strangelythis morning lying upon your secretary. I opened it and hurriedly mademyself acquainted with its contents, for I had a premonition that someterrible danger threatened you. Oh! my lord, pardon, pardon!"
Monte-Cristo raised her to her feet, and imprinted a kiss upon herpallid brow.
"So then, it is to you, Haydée, that I owe my timely rescue from thehands of Benedetto and his band of cut-throats! Had you committed even amuch more serious fault than peeping into my correspondence, that wouldbe more than sufficient to secure my full forgiveness. But do you knowthat Espérance shot and killed the miscreant who held his pistol to mytemple and was about to blow out my brains?"
"Espérance?" said Haydée in bewilderment. "Did he not remain behind withZuleika and myself?"
"No, mamma," said the boy, holding his head proudly erect. "I could notremain behind. I knew papa was in danger, and, taking a pistol that Ihad seen Ali load this morning from the cabinet of fire-arms, I followedthe servants, arriving at the almond grove just in time."
Haydée ran to her son, and, taking him in her arms, pressed him fondlyto her heart, kissing him again and again.
"Oh! Espérance," she cried, "had I known you were in the midst of thosebloodthirsty cut-throats I should have died of terror! But you havesaved your father's life, my son, and I bless you for it!"
"He is a little hero," said Monte-Cristo, impressively.
Zuleika had thrown herself upon the divan, and, utterly worn out by theexcitement through which she had passed, was already wrapped in a deepslumber. The Count, Haydée and Espérance, however, could not resignthemselves to sleep, and when the gray light of dawn appeared in theeastern sky, they were still in the library and still watching.
Benedetto had not been seen again, and a diligent search of the entireisland, made by Ali and the servants, failed to reveal even theslightest trace of him. He had evidently succeeded in finding somefisherman's skiff and in it had made his escape.
This view of the case was confirmed a few hours later, when old Alexiscame to the palace and informed Monte-Cristo that his smack had vanishedduring the night, having, in all probability, been carried off bythieves.
"I knew," said the fisherman, "that the Island of Kylo was infested bybandits, but I had no idea they would venture here. Now, however, Ithought I had better put you on your guard."
"I am much indebted to you, Alexis," said the Count; then, slipping apurse of money into his hand, he added: "Take that and provide yourselfwith a new boat."
Alexis touched his cap, bowed and was about to withdraw whenMonte-Cristo said to him, assuming a careless tone:
"By the way, my good fellow, have you ever chanced to meet any of thebandits you mentioned?"
"Often, Excellency," replied Alexis.
"What kind of men are they?"
"Bold, bad wretches, whose hands have been more than once stained withinnocent blood."
"What is their strength?"
"They number about fifty."
"Do any women dwell among them?"
"Yes, Excellency, their wives and sweethearts."
"Who is the leader of the band?"
"A strange, morose man, who has not been long in their midst."
"Is he a Greek?"
"No, Excellency, he is a foreigner."
"A Frenchman?"
"Quite likely, though I am not sure."
"What is his name?"
"He calls himself Demetrius."
"Did he ever question you about me?"
"Yes, Excellency."
"And what did you reply?"
"I told him you were the Count of Monte-Cristo."
"Ah! What did he say then?"
"He said he had heard of you before."
"That will do, Alexis; I have all the information I require."
The fisherman again touched his cap, and, making a low bow, took hisdeparture.
Under ordinary circumstances Monte-Cristo would not have been disturbedby the presence of bandits so near the Island of Salmis, but it becamean altogether different thing when those bandits were led by Benedetto.
A month passed, but in it nothing occurred calculated to break thetranquillity of the Count and his family. The bandits had not reappearedand Benedetto had given no sign of life. The faithful Ali no longerdeemed it necessary to maintain his precautions against surprise, andthe strict watch that had been kept up day and night ever since theconflict in the almond grove was abandoned. Haydée, Zuleika andEspérance resumed their usual mode of life, having apparently dismissedthe robbers from their minds, while even Monte-Cristo seemed free fromall uneasiness.
One night, while the Count was writing at a late hour in the library, heyielded to fatigue and fell asleep over his papers. His slumber wastroubled with a strange and vivid dream.
A man in the picturesque garb of a Greek peasant, and wearing a mask onhis face, suddenly stood before him, with his arms folded upon hisbreast. Monte-Cristo saw him distinctly, though unable to stir eitherhand or foot. The singular visitant surveyed the Count long andsteadily. There was something vaguely familiar about him, but as to hisidentity the sleeper could form no idea. At last he slowly removed themask, and recognition was instantaneous. The man was Danglars. He raisedhis right hand, and, pointing with his forefinger at the Count, saiddeliberately, with a hiss like some venomous serpent:
"Edmond Dantès, there is a bitter account open between us, and I am hereto force you to a bitter settlement!"
The light of the huge lamp, suspended from the ceiling, fell full uponDanglars' countenance; it was as bloodless as that of a corpse, and theeyes shone with a remorseless, vindictive glare. The banker continued inthe same hissing tone, his words penetrating to the very marrow of theslumberer's bones:
"Count of Monte-Cristo, for by that name it still pleases you to becalled, listen to me. By the most ingenious and fiendish combinationspossible for a human being to contrive, you wrecked my fortune and withit my hopes. You drove me ignominiously from Paris; in Rome you causedme to be starved and robbed by Luigi Vampa and his brigands; then withthe malevolent magnanimity of an arch-demon you sent me forth into theworld a fugitive and an outcast. Count of Monte-Cristo, Edmond Dantès,low-born sailor of Marseilles, modern Mephistopheles as you are, I willbe even with you! You have had your vengeance; now you shall feel mine!Here in the Grecian Archipelago, on the Island of Salmis, I will tortureyou through your dearest affections, and grind you to dust beneath myheel!"
As Danglars finished, his features changed and became those ofVillefort, while his Greek peasant's garb was transformed into thesombre habiliments of the Procureur du Roi. Villefort's face wore thelook of madness, but there was a freezing calmness in his voice as hesaid:
"Edmond Dantès, Count of Monte-Cristo, gaze upon the ruin you have made.Through you I was dragged down from my high position, exposed,humiliated and deprived of reason. But although the mere wreck of myformer self, I am not utterly powerless, as you shall learn to yourcost. You raised up my infamous son, Benedetto, to be the instrument ofmy destruction. Now, he shall work yours, and avenge his unhappyfather!"
The apparition paused, sighed deeply, and then resumed in a tone ofstill greater menace:
"Count of Monte-Cristo, look well to your beloved wife, Haydée, lookwell to your heroic son, Espérance, look well to your darling daughter,Zuleika, for this night they are in frightful danger! Look well to yourfabulous riches, for they are threatened; look well to your stately andmagnificent palace, for already the element that shall devour it isnoiselessly and stealthily at work! Count of Monte-Cristo, farewell!"
A heart-rending shriek rang in the sleeper's ears, a mighty flashdazzled his eyes, and, with a grim smile upon his pallid countenance,Villefort vanished.
Monte-Cristo awoke with a quick start and passed his hand across hisforehead, as if dazed; then he leaped to his feet and glancedbreathlessly about him. Danglars and Villefort had been only the idlecoinage of his brain, but the heart-rending shriek, the mighty flash,they were, indeed, stern realities--the shriek was Haydée's, and theflash was fire!
"My God!" cried Monte-Cristo, standing for an instant rooted to thespot, "can it be possible that this dream is the truth after all, andthat I am even now to feel the vengeance of those two men?"
He sprang into the spacious hall that was as light as day, and, as hedid so, the figure of a man rushed by him--it was Benedetto, and in hishand he held a long knife dripping with blood. The Count turned andpursued him, snatching a dagger from a table as he ran. At the doorleading to the lawn, he grasped him firmly by the shoulder and held him.
"Murderer!" he shouted, "whose blood is that upon your knife?"
"The blood of Haydée, the Greek slave!" hissed Benedetto, with a glareof ferocious triumph, "the blood of Haydée, your wife! Edmond Dantès, Iam even with you!"
Monte-Cristo struck at the assassin with his dagger, but Benedettoeluded the blow, and raising his own weapon inflicted a frightful gashupon the Count's cheek.
A terrible struggle ensued. Monte-Cristo was possessed of wonderfulstrength and activity, but in both these respects the two desperateantagonists seemed fairly matched. Three times did the Count bury hisdagger in Benedetto's body, but, though the assassin's blood gushedcopiously from his wounds, he continued to fight with the utmostdetermination. At length the men grappled in a supreme, deadly effort,but Monte-Cristo, making a false step, slipped on the blood-spatteredmarble floor, and Benedetto, with the quickness of thought, hurling himbackward, freed himself and bounding through the open doorway vanishedin the darkness beyond.
The Count uttered a groan of despair as he saw Haydée's self-confessedmurderer escape him, and staggered to his feet; the fierce conflict withBenedetto had exhausted him, and he stood for an instant panting andbreathless. The shrieks had now grown fainter and the hall was full ofsmoke. During all this time neither Ali nor any of the servants underhim had appeared, a circumstance that, to Monte-Cristo, seemedinexplicable. He, however, did not pause to give it thought, but dashedup the stairway and strove to reach his wife's apartment; blinding,stifling clouds of smoke, through which penetrated the glare of theconflagration, drove him back again and again, but he renewed hisattempts to force a passage with undaunted energy and courage. Finally,compressing his lips and holding his nostrils with the thumb andforefinger of his right hand, he gave a headlong plunge, and succeededin reaching Haydée's door; it was open, displaying a scene that causedthe Count's heart to sink within him; the whole chamber was one sea offlame; fiery tongues, like so many writhing and hissing serpents, werelicking and consuming the costly tapestry, the richly carved furnitureand the magnificent objects of art; the curtains of the bed wereblazing, and upon the couch lay the senseless form of the wife ofMonte-Cristo, the pallor of her faultless countenance contrastingpainfully with the ruddy glow of the devouring element. In Haydée'sbreast was a gaping wound, from which her life blood was slowly oozingin ruby drops.
Rendered utterly reckless by the terrible sight, the Count madly rushedto the couch, tore his beloved Haydée from it, and, clasping her tightlyagainst his bosom, staggered into the corridor with his preciousburden. There the smoke had increased in volume and density, but,summoning all his resolution and endurance to his aid, he plungedthrough it, and finally was successful in reaching the library.
Then, with the swiftness of a flash of lightning, the husband wasreplaced by the father, and Monte-Cristo, for the first time sinceHaydée's shrieks had awakened him from his dream, thought of hischildren. Where were they and what had happened to them? The Count felta cold perspiration break out upon his forehead, and a feeling ofunspeakable dread took entire possession of him. Haydée demandedimmediate attention, but Espérance and Zuleika must instantly be foundand rescued. At the top of his voice Monte-Cristo shouted for Ali, butno reply was returned. Fearing to leave Haydée for even a moment, theCount strode about the library like a caged wild animal, still holdingher in his arms. He shouted again and again until he was hoarse, callingdistractedly upon Espérance, Zuleika and all the servants in turn.
At last an answering shout came suddenly from the lawn, and old Alexis,followed by several fishermen, leaped into the library through an openwindow.
Resigning Haydée to Alexis, the Count, accompanied by the fishermen,fairly flew to the apartment of his children, situated on a corridor inanother portion of the palace. There Espérance and Zuleika werediscovered gagged and bound; they lay upon the floor of their chamber,while Ali, who had been treated in like manner, was extended near them.To release the prisoners was but the work of a moment, and then it waslearned that all the servants under Ali were confined in theirdormitory. They, as well as Monte-Cristo's children and the Nubian, hadbeen suddenly seized by a party of rough-looking Greeks, evidently aportion of Benedetto's band.
Meanwhile the flames had spread from Haydée's chamber to the adjoiningquarters of the edifice, and the entire palace seemed doomed, for tocheck the conflagration appeared impossible, but so happy had the Countbeen made by the recovery of his son and daughter, unharmed, that hegave himself no concern about the probable destruction of hismagnificent property.
Seizing his children, he directed Ali and the fishermen to release thecaptive servants, and hastily returned to the library. As he entered theroom Haydée uttered a low groan and opened her eyes; she was lying on adivan, where old Alexis had placed her. Espérance and Zuleika sprang toher side; she took each by the hand, and as she did so they saw thewound in her breast. Zuleika burst into tears. Espérance compressed hislips and grew deadly pale.
"My loved ones," said Haydée, faintly, "I feel that I am about to leaveyou forever, perhaps in a few moments. Be good children and obey yourfather in all things. Espérance, Zuleika, stoop and kiss me."
They did as she desired; her lips were already purple and cold; thestamp of death was upon her features. Suddenly her frame was convulsedand her eyes assumed a glassy look.
"Monte-Cristo, my husband, where are you?" she said, in a broken voice.
"Here, Haydée," answered the Count, approaching.
He strove to appear calm, but could not control his emotion.
"Nearer, nearer, Edmond," said Haydée, growing weaker and weaker.
The Count sank on his knees beside his dying wife and put his arms abouther neck.
"Oh! Haydée, Haydée," he sobbed; "thrice accursed be the infamous wretchwho has done this!"
"Edmond, my children, farewell," gasped Haydée; "I am going to a betterland!"
The death rattle was in her throat; she raised herself with a mightyeffort, gazed lovingly at her husband and children, and strove to speakagain, but could not; then a flickering shade of violet passed over hercountenance, and she fell back dead.
Espérance and Zuleika stood as if stunned; Monte-Cristo was overwhelmedwith grief and despair.
"The whole palace is in flames! Save yourselves, save yourselves!"cried a fisherman, rushing into the library, followed by his companions,Ali and the servants.
Monte-Cristo leaped to his feet, seizing the corpse of Haydée andraising it in his arms. Ali grasped Espérance and Zuleika, and theentire party hastened from the burning edifice. They were not an instanttoo soon, for as they quitted the library the tempest of fire burst intoit, accompanied by torrents of smoke. The fishermen and servants,commanded by the Nubian, had made every effort to save the doomedmansion, but in vain.
Monte-Cristo and his children found refuge in the hut of Alexis, towhich Haydée's body was reverently borne.
The wife of Monte-Cristo was buried on the Island of Salmis, and overher remains her husband erected a massive monument.
Shortly afterwards the Count, Espérance and Zuleika, attended by thefaithful Ali, quitted the Island and took passage on a vessel bound forFrance.



CHAPTER IV.
THE NEWS FROM ALGERIA.

Beauchamp, the journalist, sat at his desk in his editorial sanctumearly one bright morning in the autumn of 1841. He had gone to work longbefore his usual hour, for important movements were on foot, thepolitical atmosphere was agitated and Paris was in a state of feverishexcitement; besides, Beauchamp had that day printed in his journal adispatch from Algeria that would be certain to cause a great sensation,and, with the proper spirit of pride, the journalist desired to be athis post that he might receive the numerous congratulations his friendscould not fail to offer, as the dispatch had appeared in his paperalone.
The sanctum had not an attractive look; in fact, it was ratherdilapidated, while, in addition, the disorder occasioned by the previousnight's work had not been repaired, and all was chaos and confusion.
Beauchamp was busily engaged in glancing over the rival morning paperswhen Lucien Debray entered and seated himself at another desk. TheMinisterial Secretary smiled upon the journalist in a knowing way, andthe latter, nodding to him with an air of triumph, silently pointed tothe pile of journals he had finished examining. Lucien took them up,and without a word began scanning their contents.
"Glorious news that from the army in Algeria!" cried Château-Renaud,rushing into the sanctum.
"Glorious, indeed!" replied the editor, looking up from the paper overwhich he was hurriedly skimming. On the huge table at his side, as wellas beneath it, and under his feet and his capacious arm-chair, nothingwas to be seen but newspapers.
"Take a chair, Renaud, if you can find one, and help yourself to thenews. You see I have Lucien similarly engaged yonder."
The Ministerial Secretary glanced up from his papers, returned hisfriend's salutation and resumed his reading. He was dressed with hiscustomary elegance and richness, but his form and face were fuller thanwhen last before the reader, and his brown hair was besprinkled withgray.
"I congratulate you, Beauchamp, on being the first to give the news,"continued Château-Renaud. "Not a paper in Paris but your own has a linefrom the army this morning."
"Rather congratulate me and my paper on having a friend at court."
"Ha! and that explains the fact, otherwise inexplicable, that anopposition journal has intelligence, which only the Bureau of War couldhave anticipated! Treason--treason!"
The editor and the Secretary exchanged significant smiles.
"Oh! I don't doubt that your favors are reciprocal," continued theyoung aristocrat, laughing. "I've half a mind to be something usefulmyself--Minister--editor--anything but an idler and a law-giver--just toexperience the exquisite sensation of a new pleasure--the pleasure ofrevealing and publishing to the world something it knew not before. Why,you two fellows, in this dark and dirty little room, are the twogreatest men in Paris this morning--or were, rather, before your paper,Beauchamp, laid before the world what only you and Lucien knewpreviously. Oh! the delight, the rapture of knowing something thatnobody else knows, and then of making the revelation!"
"And this news from Algeria is really important," remarked the editor.
"Important! So important that it will be before the Chambers thismorning," replied the Secretary.
"So I supposed," said the Deputy, "and called to learn additionalparticulars, if you had any, on my way to the Chambers."
"We gave all we had, my dear Lycurgus, and for that were indebted to anofficial dispatch, telegraphed to the War Office, and faithfullyre-telegraphed to us by our well-beloved Lucien."
"It's true, then, as I have sometimes suspected, that the wires radiatefrom the Minister's sanctum to the editor's?" was the laughingrejoinder.
"It must be so, or there's witchcraft in it. There's witchcraft, at anyrate, in this new invention. Speed, secrecy, security and surety--noeastern genius of Arabian fiction can be compared to the electrictelegraph; and how Ministers or editors continued to keep the world invassalage, as they always have done, without this ready slave, seems nowscarce less wonderful than the invention itself. Instead of detractingfrom the power of the press, the telegraph renders it more powerful thanever."
"But affairs in Algeria--is not the news splendid!" cried the editor."Why did we not all become Spahis and win immortality, as some of ourgenerals have?"
"As to immortality," said the Secretary, "we should have been far morelikely to win the phantom as dead men than as living heroes."
"Debray was at the raising of the siege of Constantine," said Beauchamplaughing, "and knows all about the honors of war."
"Yes, indeed, and all about the raptures of starvation, of cold andhunger, after victory, and the ecstatic felicity of being pursued by sixBedouins, and after having slain five having my own neck encircled bythe yataghan of the sixth!"
"And how chanced it that you saved your head, Lucien?" asked the Count.
"Save it--I didn't save it; but a most excellent friend of mine--afriend in need--galloped up and saved it for me."
"Yes," replied Beauchamp, "our gallant friend, Maximilian Morrel, theCaptain of Spahis--now colonel of a regiment, and in the direct line ofpromotion to the first vacant bâton--eh, Lucien? A lucky thing to savethe head of one of the War Office from a Bedouin's yataghan. Up--up--up,like a balloon, has this young Spahi risen ever since."
"You are wrong, Beauchamp. Not like a balloon. Rather like a planet.Maximilian Morrel is one of the most gallant young men in the Frencharmy, and step by step, from rank to rank, has he hewn his own path withhis good sabre, in a strong hand, nerved by a brave heart and proudambition, to the position he now holds."
"His name I see among the immortals in the dispatch of this morning.Well, well, Morrel is a splendid fellow, no doubt, but it's a splendidthing to have friends in the War Office, nevertheless, who will givethat splendor a chance to shine--will plant the lighted candle in acandlestick, and not smother its beams under a bushel."
"Morrel has now been in Africa five whole years," said the Secretary--"afew months only excepted after his marriage with Villefort's fairdaughter, Valentine, (as was said) when he was indulged with a furloughfor his honeymoon."
"She is not in Paris?" asked Beauchamp.
"No; she leads the life of a perfect recluse with her child, during herhusband's absence, at his villa somewhere in the south--near Marseilles,where the department forwards her letters."
"Yet she is said to be a magnificent woman," remarked the Count.
"Wonderful!" cried Beauchamp. "A magnificent woman and a recluse!"
"Oh! but it was a love-match of the most devoted species, you mustremember."
"True; she was to have married our friend, Franz d'Epinay."
"And died to save herself from that fate, I suppose--and afterwards wasresurrected and blessed Morrel with her hand and heart, and the mostexquisite person that even a jaded voluptuary could covet.Happy--happy--happy man!"
"Apropos of dying," said the Secretary, "do you remember how fast peopledied at M. de Villefort's house about that time?"
"Horrible! A whole family of two or three generations, one after theother! First M. and Madame de Saint-Méran--then Barrois, the old servantof M. Noirtier--then Valentine, and, last of all, Madame de Villefortand Edward, her idol. No wonder that M. le Procureur du Roi himself wentmad under such an accumulation of horrors! By the by, Debray, is M. deVillefort still an inmate of the Maison Royale de Charenton?"
"I know nothing to the contrary," replied the Secretary, who had resumedhis paper, and to whom the subject seemed not altogether agreeable. "Heis an incurable." Then, as if to turn the subject, he continued:"Apropos of the immortals of Algeria, here is a name that seems destinedeven to a more rapid apotheosis than that of the favored Morrel."
"You mean Joliette?" said the editor. "Who, in the name of all that ismysterious and heroic, is this same Joliette? I have found it impossibleto discover, with all the means at the command of the press."
"And I, with all the means at the command of the Government. All we candiscover is this--that he is a man of about twenty-five; that heenlisted at Marseilles, and in less than three years has risen from theranks to the command of a battalion. His career has been mostbrilliant."
"And to whose favor does he owe his wonderful advancement, Beauchamp?"asked the Deputy, laughing.
"To that of Marshal Bugeaud, Governor-General of Algeria."
"Ah!"
"Who has indulged him with an appointment in every forlorn hope!"
"Excellent!" cried the Count. "What more could a man resolved to be amilitary immortal desire? Immortality the goal--two paths conduct toit--each sure--death--life!--the former the shorter, and, perhaps, thesurer! But there is one name I never see in the war dispatches. Do youever meet with it, Messrs. editor and Secretary--I mean the name of ourbrilliant friend, Albert de Morcerf? The rumor ran that, after thedisgrace and suicide of the Count, his father, he and his mother wentsouth, and he later to Africa."
"I have hardly seen the name of Morcerf in print since the paragraphheaded 'Yanina' in my paper, about which poor Albert was so anxious tofight me."
"Nor I," said Debray. "But where now is Madame de Morcerf? Withoutexception, she was the most splendid specimen of a woman I ever saw!"
"High praise, that!" cried the Count, laughing. "Who would suppose ourcold, calculating, ambitious, haughty, talented and opulent diplomat andaristocrat had so much blood in his veins? When before was he known toadmire anything, male or female--but himself--or, at all events, to beguilty of the bad taste of expressing that admiration?"
"Debray is right," replied the journalist, somewhat gravely. "Madame deMorcerf was, indeed, a noble and dignified woman--accomplished, lovely,dignified, amiable--"
"Stop!--stop!--in the name of all that's forbearing, be considerate ofmy weak nerves! You, too, Beauchamp. Well, she must have been a paragonto make the conquest of two of the most inveterate bachelors in allParis! But where is this marvel of excellence--pardon me, Beauchamp,"perceiving that the journalist looked yet more grave, and seemed in nomood for bantering or being bantered--"where is Madame de Morcerf at thepresent time?"
"At Marseilles, I have heard."
"And is married again?"
"No. She is yet a widow."
"And is a recluse, like Morrel's beautiful wife?"
"So says report. They dwell together."
"How romantic! The young wife, whose hero-husband is winning glory amidthe perils of war and pestilence, pours her griefs, joys andanticipations into the bosom of the young mother, who appreciates andreciprocates all, because she has a son exposed to the same perils--andboth beautiful as the morning! A charming picture! Two immortals inepaulets and sashes in the background are only wanted instead of one.But I must to the Chambers. M. Dantès is expected to speak in thetribune this morning upon his measure for the workmen."
"Do you know, Count, who this M. Dantès really is?" asked Debray.
"There's a question for a Ministerial Secretary to ask a member while ajournalist sits by! I only know of M. Dantès that he is the mosteloquent man I ever listened to. I don't mean that he's the greatestman, or the profoundest statesman, or the wisest politician, or thesagest political economist; but I do mean that, for natural powers ofpersuasion and denunciation--for natural oratory--I have never known hisrival. If Plato's maxim, 'that oratory must be estimated by itseffects,' is at all correct, then is M. Dantès the greatest orator inFrance, for the effect of his oratory is miraculous. There is a sort ofmagic in his clear, sonorous, powerful, yet most exquisitely modulatedvoice, and the wave of his arm is like that of a necromancer's wand."
"You are enthusiastic, Count," observed Beauchamp, "but very just. M.Dantès is, indeed, a remarkable man, and possessed of remarkableendowments, both of mind and body. His personal advantages arewonderful. Such a figure and grace as his are alone worth more than allthe powers of other distinguished speakers for popular effect. 'The eyesof the multitude are more eloquent than their ears,' as the EnglishShakespeare says."
"I never saw such eyes and such a face," remarked Debray, "but once inmy life. Do you remember the Count of Monte-Cristo, Messieurs?"
"We shall not soon forget him," was the reply. "But this man differsgreatly from the Count in most respects, though certainly not unlike himin others."
"True," replied the Secretary; "in manners, habits, costume and athousand other things there is a marked difference. Besides, the Countwas said to be incalculably rich, while the Deputy has every appearanceof being in very moderate circumstances. But he leads a life so retiredthat he is known only in the Chambers and in his public character. Iallude to the Deputy's person, when I speak of resemblance to thatwonderful Count, who set all Paris in a fever, and, more wonderfulstill, kept it so for a whole season. There is I know not what in hisair and manners that often recalls to me that extraordinary man. Thereare the same large and powerful eyes, the same brilliant teeth for whichthe women envied the Count so much, the same graceful and dignifiedfigure, the same peculiar voice, the same good taste in dress, and,above all, the same colorless, pallid face, as if, to borrow the idea ofthe Countess of G----, he had risen from the dead, or was a visitantfrom another world, or a vampire of this. Her celebrated friend, LordB----, she used to say, was the only man she ever knew with such acomplexion."
"But, if I recollect rightly," said Beauchamp, "the Count ofMonte-Cristo was somewhat noted for his profusion of black hair andbeard. The Deputy Dantès is so utterly out of the mode, and out of goodtaste, too, as to wear no beard, and his hair is short. His face is assmooth as a woman's, and he always wears a white cravat like a curé."
"But he is, nevertheless, one of the handsomest men in Paris," added theCount--"at least the women say so. You might add, the Deputy has manygray hairs among his black ones, and many furrows on his white brow,while Monte-Cristo had neither. Besides, M. Dantès has a handsomedaughter and a son who resembles him greatly, both well grown, while theCount was childless."
"Well, well, be his person and family what they may," said theSecretary, rising, "I wish to God the Ministry could secure his talents.I tell you, Messieurs, that man's influence over the destinies of Franceis to be almost omnipotent. His powerful mind has grasped the greatproblem of the age--remuneration for labor. The next revolution inFrance will hinge upon that--mark the prediction--and this man and hiscoadjutors, among whom Beauchamp here is one, are doing all they can tohasten the crisis. The whole soul of this remarkable man seems devotedto the elevation of the masses--the laboring classes--the people--and tothe amelioration of their condition. His efforts and those of all likehim cannot ultimately succeed. But they will have a temporary triumph,and the streets of Paris will run with blood! These men are rousingterrible agencies. They are evoking the fiends of hunger and misery,which will neither obey them nor lie down at their bidding."
"And the magicians who have summoned these foul fiends will prove theirearliest victims!" said Château-Renaud, in some excitement.
"Messieurs, listen a moment!" cried Beauchamp, rising. "Pardon me, butthis discussion must cease, at least here. It can lead to no goodresult. As the conductor of a reform journal, I entirely differ with youboth. But let not political differences interfere with our personalfriendship. Come, come, old friends, let us forsake this place, redolentwith politics, having a very atmosphere of discussion, and repair to theChambers, taking Véry's on our way."
"Agreed!" cried the Deputy and the Secretary, and the three left thejournalist's sanctum arm in arm.



CHAPTER V.
EDMOND DANTÈS, DEPUTY FROM MARSEILLES.

Beauchamp, Lucien Debray and Château-Renaud were not the only personspuzzled with regard to the enigmatical M. Dantès; all Paris was more orless bothered about him; his entire career prior to his appearance atthe capital as the Deputy from Marseilles seemed shrouded inimpenetrable mystery, and this was the more galling to the curiousParisians as his wonderful oratorical powers and his intenserepublicanism rendered him the cynosure of all eyes and made him thesensation of the hour. The Government had instituted investigationsconcerning him, but without result; even in Marseilles his antecedentswere unknown; he had come there from the east utterly unheralded,attended only by a black servant, and bringing with him his son anddaughter, but almost immediately he had plunged into politics, winninghis way to the front with startling rapidity. From the first he hadardently espoused the cause of the working people, and such was hispersonal magnetism that he had made hosts of admirers, and had beenchosen Deputy with hardly a dissenting voice. Some of the inhabitants ofMarseilles, indeed, remembered a youthful sailor named Edmond Dantès,but they asserted that he had been dead many years, and that the Deputywas unlike him in every particular.
As the young men passed the Théâtre Français, on their way to theChamber of Deputies, after a glass of sherry and a biscuit at Véry's,their attention was attracted by a crowd gathered around an immenseposter spread upon the bill-board. There seemed no little excitementamong the throng, a large proportion of whom appeared to be artisans andlaborers, and loud expressions of admiration, accompanied by animatedgestures, were heard. Nor were there wanting also words of deepdenunciation and of significant threatening.
"Down! down with the tyrants! Bread or blood! Wages for work! Food forthe laborer!" and other cries of equally fearful significance wereaudible.
"Do you hear that, Beauchamp?" said Debray, quietly.
"Undoubtedly," was the equally quiet reply.
"Those laborers have deserted the daily toil which would give them thebread they so fiercely demand, in order to discuss their imaginarymisery, and denounce those who are richer than themselves."
"But what brings them to the theatre at this hour?" askedChâteau-Renaud.
"The new play," suggested Beauchamp.
"Ah! the new play. 'The Laborer of Lyons,' is it not?"
"Yes," said Debray, "and one of the most dangerous productions of thehour."
"It is evidently from the pen of one unaccustomed to dramaticcomposition, yet familiar with stage effect," added the journalist. "Andyet, without the least claptrap, with but little melodramatic power,against strong opposition and bitter prejudices, and without claqueurs,its own native force and the popularity of the principles it supportshave carried it triumphantly through the ordeal of two representations.It will, doubtless, have a long run, and its influence will beincalculable in the cause it advocates--the cause of human liberty andhuman right."
"No doubt it will exert a most baneful influence," bitterly rejoinedDebray. "Without containing a syllable to which the Ministry can object,at least sufficiently to warrant its suppression, it yet abounds withprinciples, sentiments and theories of the most incendiary description,well calculated to rouse the disaffection of the laboring classes tofrenzy. Its inevitable effect will be to give them a false andexaggerated idea of their wrongs and their rights, and to stimulate themto revolution. Oh! these men have much to answer for. They are drawingdown an avalanche."
"They are the champions of human liberty," said Beauchamp, warmly, "andwill be blessed by posterity, if not by the men of the presentgeneration."
"Truce to politics, Messieurs!" cried the Deputy, observing that hisfriends were becoming excited. "I had heard of this play and itspowerful character. Who's the author, Beauchamp?"
"The production is attributed to M. Dantès, the Deputy from Marseilles,with what truth I know not; but he is fully capable of composing such adrama. To-morrow night, it is supposed, the author, whoever he may be,will be compelled by the people to appear and claim the laurels ready tobe showered on him in such profusion. But it is nearly three o'clock,"continued Beauchamp, "and M. Dantès is expected to speak in the earlypart of the sitting."
"To the Chamber, then," said the others, and the trio mingled with thecrowd hurrying in the same direction.
"What a glorious thing is popularity!" exclaimed the Count.
"What a glorious thing to be the champion of the people!" rejoinedBeauchamp.
"And how glorious is that champion's glorious career!" cried theSecretary. "Let the hydra alone. Like the antique god of mythology, iteats up its own children as soon as they get large enough to be eaten.It is a fickle beast, and the idol of to-day it crushes to-morrow."
The hall of the Chamber of Deputies was crowded when the three friendsentered. Although the hour for the President to take the chair had notyet arrived, the benches were full, and the galleries, public andprivate, were overflowing. Strong agitation was visible among theMinisterial benches of the extreme left. The Premier himself waspresent, although his cold countenance, like the surface of a frozenlake, betrayed neither apprehension nor the reverse. Self-reliant,self-poised, calm, seemingly insensible to surrounding objects andevents, this man of iron, with a heart of ice and a brain of fire,glanced quietly and fixedly around him, with his cold, dark eye, which,from time to time, rested on the Communist benches of the extreme right,unmoved by the stern glances hurled at him by his many fierce opponentsand the almost tumultuous excitement by which they were agitated.
At length President Sauzet took the chair. The house came to order, andthe sitting opened with the usual preliminary business. A large numberof petitions from the workmen of Paris for employment by the Governmentwere presented and referred, and one immense roll containing a hundredthousand names, which came from the manufacturing districts, was broughtin on the shoulders of two men and placed in the area before thePresident's chair, escorted by a deputation from the artisans; it wasreceived with an uproar of applause from the centre of the extreme rightof the benches, and from the throngs of blouses in the galleries. Thetumult having, at length, subsided, the order of the day was announcedto be the discussion of the bill introduced by M. Dantès, having for itspurpose the general amelioration of the condition of the industrialclasses in the Kingdom; and M. Dantès was himself announced to be thefirst on the list to occupy the tribune. A deep murmur of anticipationran around the vast hall at this announcement. The multitudes in thegalleries leaned forward to gain a better view of this idol, and tocatch every syllable that might fall from his lips; and every eye amongthe members was turned to the seat of M. Dantès, on the centre right ofthe benches.
A tall figure in black, with a white cravat, rose and advanced to thetribune slowly, amid a stillness as hushed and breathless as the priorexcitement had been noisy. In age, M. Dantès seemed about fifty orfifty-five. His form was slight and his movements were graceful anddignified. His face was livid and as calm as marble; but for the largeand eloquent eye, dark as night, one might have thought that broad whitebrow, that massive chin, those firmly compressed lips and that colorlessmouth were those of a statue. Yet in the furrows of that forehead andthe deep lines of that face could be read the record of thought andsuffering. The busy plowshare had turned up the deep graves of departedpassions. No one could gaze or even glance at that face and not perceiveat once that it was the visage of a man of many sorrows--yet of a manproud, calm, self-possessed, self-poised and indomitable. His hair,which had been raven black, now rested in thin waves around hisexpansive forehead and was sprinkled with gray, while his intellectualcountenance wore that expression of weariness and melancholy whichillness, deep study and grief invariably trace.
Mounting the steps of the tribune with slow and deliberate tread, hedrew up his tall figure, and resting his left hand, which grasped a rollof papers, upon the marble slab, glanced around on the turbulent billowsof upturned and excited faces, as if at a loss how to address them.Having read the bill, after the usual prefatory remarks, he began bylaying down the platform which he proposed occupying in its advocacy andsupport, consisting, of course, of abstract, self-evident propositions,which none could have the hardihood to gainsay, yet, when once admitted,the deductions inevitably flowing therefrom none could resist. Thepropositions seemed safe and indisputable, but the deductions evolvedfrom those propositions were as frightful to the legitimist as they weredelightful to the liberal. That each man is born the heir to the samenatural rights--that each man, alike and equally with all others, has abirthright of which he cannot be divested and of which he cannot divesthimself, to act, to think and to pursue happiness wherever he can findit without infringement on the rights of his fellow beings--none weredisposed to deny. That each human animal, as each animal of inferiorgrade, has, also, the right of subsistence, drained from the bosom ofthe earth, the great mother of us all, which without his foreknowledgeor wish gave him being, seemed, also, indisputable. But when from thesepropositions were deduced that crime is rather the result of miserythan depravity, and that the office of government is more to preventcrime by creating happiness than to punish it by creating misery, andthat for the natural rights resigned by the individual in entering intoand upholding the social system human government is bound to affordemployment and subsistence to each of its members, that labor and itsproduce should be in partnership, that competition should be abolished,and work and wages so distributed by the State as to equalize thecondition of each individual in the community, and, finally, that theclaims of labor are not satisfied by wages, but the workman is entitledto a proprietary share in the capital which employs him, inasmuch as allthe woes and miseries of the laborer arise exclusively from thecompetition for work--when these deductions were advanced the opulentand the conservative started back in terror and dismay. Distribution ofproperty, universal plunder, havoc, bloodshed, sans culottism, a redrepublic and the ghastly shapes of another Reign of Terror rose infrightful vividness before the fancy. As the speaker proceeded toillustrate and sustain his positions, which were those of the Communist,Socialist, Fourierist, call them which we may, and poured forth a fieryflood of persuasion, invective, denunciation and shouts of applause,mingled with cries of rage and dismay, rose from all quarters of thehall. Unmoved and undaunted, that marble man, livid as a spectre, hisdark eyes blazing, his thin and writhing lip flecked with foam, histall form swaying to and fro, rising, bending--now thrown back, thenleaning over the marble bar of the tribune--continued to pour forth hisscathing sarcasm, his crushing invective, his eloquent persuasion andhis unanswerable argument in tones, now soft and tuneful as a silverybell, then sad and pitiful as an evening zephyr, then clear, high andsonorous as a clarion, then hoarse and deep as the thunder, for a periodof four hours, unbroken and continuous, without stop or stay.
The effect of this speech, as the orator, pale, exhausted, shattered,unstrung, with nerves like the torn cordage of a ship that has outriddenthe tempest, descended from the tribune, baffles all description.Fearful of its influence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs at once arose,and in order to divert the attention of the Chamber asked leave to laybefore it the late dispatches from the seat of war, setting forth theglorious triumphs of the French arms in Algeria. This intelligence,which, at any other time, would have been received with rapturousenthusiasm, was listened to under the influence of a counterirritantalready at work, with comparative calmness, and its only effect was tocause a postponement of the vote on the laborers' bill upon the plea ofthe lateness of the hour, although not without strenuous opposition fromthe extreme right. The rejoicing of the galleries at the triumph oftheir champion and their fierce applause knew no bounds at the close ofthe sitting, and their idol escaped being borne in his chair to hislodgings only by gliding through a private exit from the hall to thefirst carriage he could find.
"What think you?" cried Beauchamp, triumphantly, to the MinisterialSecretary, as they were pressed together for an instant by the excitedthrong on the steps as they left the hall.
"Think, Monsieur!" was the bitter rejoinder of the Secretary, whoseagitation completely overcame his habitual and constitutionalself-possession, "I think Paris is on the eve of another Reign ofTerror!"
Beauchamp laughed, and the friends were drawn apart by the conflictingbillows of the crowd.



CHAPTER VI.
THE MYSTERY THICKENS.

M. Dantès' wonderful speech was the principal topic of conversation inevery quarter of Paris, exciting comment of the most animateddescription. Of course, the workmen and their friends were delightedwith it, and could not find words strong enough to adequately expresstheir enthusiastic admiration for the gifted orator. Those belonging tothe Government party, on the other hand, denounced the speaker as ademagogue and the speech as in the highest degree incendiary anddangerous. Strange to relate, whoever spoke of the oration alwaysmentioned the new play, "The Laborer of Lyons," attributing itsauthorship to the mysterious Deputy from Marseilles, and the dramareceived cordial endorsement or scathing censure, according to thepolitical opinions of those who alluded to it.
For these reasons curiosity in regard to M. Dantès ran higher than ever,but instead of decreasing as he became more prominent, the mysterysurrounding him seemed only to thicken. Nevertheless, the Deputy was thelion of the hour, or rather would have been, had he permitted himself tobe lionized, but this he persistently declined to do, holding aloof fromsociety and mingling with none save his political associates, thougheven to them he was a problem they could not solve; they, however,recognized in him a powerful coadjutor, and with that were forced to becontent.

     "THE HALL OF THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES was last evening thronged to     overflowing. It had been understood that M. Dantès was to advocate     the People's Bill, and, as usual, it had but to be known that this     distinguished orator was to occupy the tribune to draw out all     classes of citizens. Nor was the vast multitude disappointed. A     more powerful speech has never been heard within those walls. More     than four hours was the audience enchained by the matchless     eloquence of this remarkable man, which was received with thunders     of applause. A report of this speech will be found under the     appropriate head."
     "THE NEW PLAY entitled, 'The Laborer of Lyons,' recently produced     at the Théâtre Français with triumphant success, and which has     caused such a deep and universal sensation, is repeated to-night.     There is reason to anticipate that the author, who is supposed to     be a celebrated orator of the opposition, may be induced to comply     with the call, which will be again renewed, to avow himself."

Such were two paragraphs which the following morning appeared inBeauchamp's journal, and similar notices of both speech and drama werepublished in every other opposition sheet in Paris. In the Ministerialorgan, on the contrary, and in all the papers of like political bias,appeared the following and similar paragraphs:

     "THE SPEECH OF M. DANTÈS, last evening, in the Chamber of Deputies,     was one of the most dangerous diatribes to which we ever     listened--dangerous for the insidious and sophistical principles it     advanced, and the almost fiend-like eloquence with which they were     urged. Where are these things to stop? At what terrible catastrophe     do these men aim? What crisis do they contemplate?"

     "THE NEW DRAMA at the Théâtre Français, called 'The Laborer of     Lyons,' which is to-night to be repeated, is calculated and seems     to have been designed by its reckless author to produce the very     worst effects among the laboring classes. We deeply regret that it     has been suffered by the censors to be brought out."

The multitude called forth by paragraphs like these to witness the newplay was, of course, immense. Long before the time for the curtain torise, the vast edifice was crowded to its utmost capacity with an eagerand enthusiastic assemblage. Not only were the galleries, parquette andlobbies filled with blouses, but the boxes were glittering with aperfect galaxy of fashion, loveliness and rank. Conspicuous in theorchestra stalls were the three friends--the Secretary, the journalistand the Deputy. In a small and private loge in the second tier,concealed from all eyes by its light curtain of green silk, and itsposition, but himself viewing everything upon the stage or in the house,sat the author of the play, calmly awaiting the rising of the curtain.
The performance at length began, and the piece proceeded to itstermination amid thunders of applause, which, as the curtain finallydescended on the last scene of the last act, became perfectly deafening,accompanied by cries for the author. But no author appeared behind thefootlights or in the proscenium box; and, at last, the uproar becomingredoubled, the manager came forward, and, in the author's behalf,tendered grateful acknowledgments for the unprecedented favor, even by aParisian audience, with which the production had been received, but, atthe same time, entreated the additional favor that they would grant theauthor's request, and permit his name, for the present, to remainunknown. He would, however, venture to reveal this much, that the authorwas a distinguished friend of the people. The earthquake of applausewhich succeeded this announcement was almost frightful, and while thescene was at its height, the three friends with great difficulty managedto extricate themselves from the multitude which wedged up the lobbies,and to make their escape.
"A friend of the people!" cried Debray, bitterly, as his coupé,containing himself and companions, drove off to Véry's. "From suchfriends let the people be saved, and they may save themselves from theirfoes."
"And the play, what think you of that?" cried Beauchamp.
"That it is a most able and abominable production, eminently calculatedto cause exactly the evils which we have this night perceived--to exciteand rouse the worst passions of the mob, and render the massesdissatisfied with their inevitable and irredeemable lot, and asdangerous as wild beasts to all whose lot is more favored."
"Man has rights as man, and men in masses have rights, and one of thoserights is to know actually what those rights are," said Beauchamp. "Themost melancholy feature in the oppression of man is his ignorance thathe is oppressed. Enlighten him as to those rights, elevate his mind toappreciate and value them, and then counsel him firmly and resolutely todemand those rights, and quietly and wisely to obtain them."
"Aye! but will he obey such counsel?" exclaimed Château-Renaud. "Willnot the result of such enlightenment and excitement prove, as it everhas proved, anarchy, revolution, guilt, blood? Who shall restrain themonster once lashed into madness?"
"But you can surely perceive no such design in this play, and no sucheffect," rejoined Beauchamp.
"In the abstract," replied the Count, "this production isunexceptionable--most beautiful, yet most powerful. How it could havebeen the work of an unpracticed pen, embodying as it does passages ofwhich the first dramatists of the romantic school might be proud, Icannot imagine. Besides, there seems familiar acquaintance with stageeffect and the way in which it is produced. But that might have been,and probably was, the result of some professional player's suggestions."
"And, then, the profound knowledge of the human heart evinced--itspassions, motives and principles of action," added the journalist."There seems an individuality, a personality in the production, whichcompels the idea that the author is himself the hero, that he hashimself experienced the evils he so vividly portrays, that the drama isat once the effusion of his own heart and the embodiment of his ownhistory. Can that man be M. Dantès?"
"If it be he," cried the Secretary, "there is more reason than ever tocall him the most dangerous man in Paris. What with his speeches in theChamber and his plays at the theatre, all tending to one mostunrighteous end, and all aiming to inflame such an explosive mass as theworkmen of Paris, he may be regarded as little less than the very agentof the fiend to accomplish havoc on earth!"
"Yet, strange to say, my dear Secretary," said the journalist,laughing, "you have not yet estimated the tithe of this man's influencefor good, or, as you think, for evil. Rumor proclaims him to be asimmensely opulent as appearances would indicate him to be impoverished.That his whole soul, as you say, is devoted to the people, with all hiswonderful powers of mind and person, is undoubted. That he has availedhimself of that grand lever, the press, to accomplish his purposes, bethey good or bad, seems equally certain. 'La Réforme,' the new daily, isundoubtedly under his control, if not sustained by his pen and hispurse, for it has a wider circulation than all the other Parisian papersput together. It goes everywhere--it seeks the alleys, not theboulevards, finds its way to the threshold of all, whether paid for ornot."
"Ah!" cried Debray, in great agitation. "Is it so?"
"And, then, not only is the public press subsidized by this man, ifreport is not even falser than usual, but a whole army of pamphleteers,journalists, littérateurs and students await his bidding, as well assome of the most distinguished novelists and dramatists of the nationand age!"
"My God!" exclaimed the Count. "Can this be so?"
"Nay--nay," replied Beauchamp, "I make no assertions, I merely retailrumors. But what cannot uncounted wealth achieve, directed by genius andintelligence?"
"But is this man actually so wealthy?" asked Debray, pale withagitation. "His manners, dress, equipage, residence and mode of lifewould indicate just the reverse."
"I know not--no one knows," said Beauchamp. "It is only known to myselfand to a few others that he dwells in the mansion No. 27 Rue du Helder,formerly the residence of the Count de Morcerf, and that his privateapartment is that pavilion at the corner of the court, where athalf-past ten, on the morning of the 21st of May, 1838, we breakfastedwith our amiable friend Albert, and were met by that remarkable man, theCount of Monte-Cristo."
"I remember that morning well," said Château-Renaud.
"Everything, it is said, remains in that once splendid mansion preciselyas when it was deserted by the Countess and her son, at the time of thesuicide of the Count--everything except that glorious picture of theCatalan fisherman by Leopold Robert, in Albert's exquisite chamber,which alone he took with him."
"It is strange that a man so opulent as you represent M. Dantès to be,should adopt his magnificence at second hand," observed Debray, coolly.
"But I do not represent him as opulent, my dear Lucien; and he certainlyis the last man either to invent magnificence or to adopt it. Why, he isas plain in manners and mode as St. Simon himself. His dress you haveseen; as to equipage his only conveyance is a public fiacre; as todiet, household arrangements and everything else of a personal nature,nothing can be more republican and less epicurean than is witnessed athis house. His study, Albert de Morcerf's pavilion, is said to be theonly sumptuous apartment in the whole establishment; and thatsumptuousness is of a character entirely literary and practical. Hisretinue consists of three servants, called Baptistin, Bertuccio and Ali,the latter being a Nubian, although fame gives him a perfect army ofservitors prompt to execute his bidding. But I will not indulge yourskeptical and sarcastic nature, Lucien, with a detail of all that rumorsays of this wonderful man. I will only say that all he is, and has orhopes for seems devoted to one single object--the welfare of his race."
"Has he a wife?" asked Debray.
"He is a widower, with two children, a young girl, called Zuleika, and ayouthful son, called Espérance. But my acquaintance with him is whollyof a public character. I have never been in his house, and very fewthere are who have been. But here we are."
And the coupé stopped at Véry's.



CHAPTER VII.
DANTÈS AND HIS DAUGHTER.

Even in the immediate vicinity of the Morcerf mansion, No. 27 Rue duHelder, no one was aware that its new tenant was M. Dantès, the famousDeputy from Marseilles. All the neighbors knew was that the palatialedifice had been purchased by a stranger, who said he was acting for hismaster, a man of great wealth lately arrived from the east. No repairsor alterations had been made, while the Morcerf furniture was boughtwith the house, the only new articles making their appearance beingseveral huge bookcases and a number of large boxes evidently containingbooks, together with a host of traveling trunks filled, as was to bepresumed, with the wardrobe of the family. The servants took possessionduring the day and were duly noted, but how or when the proprietor camecould not be ascertained, while after his installation glimpses of himwere exceedingly rare.
Occasionally, however, a beautiful girl, with an oriental looknotwithstanding her tasteful and elegant Parisian attire, would be seenfor a moment at the windows, but she invariably vanished on realizingthat she was observed. Sometimes, a handsome young man stood at herside, but he also seemed anxious to avoid the scrutiny of the curious,although he evinced less timidity than his companion, always withdrawingslowly and with great deliberation.
It was after midnight. On the second floor of the pavilion onceinhabited by the Viscount Albert de Morcerf was now a spacious library.The walls were lined with tall book-shelves, mounting to the loftyceiling, and groaning under ponderous piles of volumes, from the hugeblack letter folio of the Middle Ages to the lightest duodecimo of theday; while in all parts of the chamber, on the floor, tables and chairs,and in the deep embrasures of the windows, were scattered huge masses ofpapers, pamphlets, manuscripts and charts. Over the bookcases stoodmarble busts of Danton, Mirabeau, Napoleon, Armand Carrel, the Duc deSt. Simon and other great men whose names are identified with France;between the windows looking out on the garden, shrouded in shrubs andcreeping plants, hung a full-length and magnificent picture of Fourier.Near the centre of the apartment stood a vast table covered with books,papers, manuscripts and writing materials, beside which stood one ofthose sombre and massive arm-chairs, on the possession of which theformer proprietor had so felicitated himself, bearing on a carved shieldthe fleur-de-lis of the Louvre, and in whose sumptuous and antiqueembrace had, perhaps, reposed a Richelieu, a Mazarin or a Sully. Thewindows were hung with heavy tapestry of ancient pattern and rich dye,and also the walls, save where covered with books. A soft and summeryatmosphere, the warmth of which emanated from concealed furnaces,neutralized the chill of an autumnal night, and the mellow chiaro-oscuroof a vast astral diffused its lunar effulgence on all around.
Within this chamber was a man, who, with arms crossed upon his bosom andeyes fastened in profound and seemingly mournful contemplation upon thefloor, slowly paced from one extremity of the spacious apartment to theother.
This man was M. Dantès, representative of Marseilles in the FrenchChamber of Deputies.
"At last, at last," he murmured, "the avenging Nemesis ceases to gnaw!At length the angel Peace begins to smile! The tempest, which, fornearly thirty years, has raved and swelled in my heart, begins to lull!At length I commence to live--at length I realize and pursue life's trueend. Let me reflect," he continued, after a pause, "let me review thepast. The past! alas! my past is a painful blank! At twenty, from thevery marriage-feast, from the side of her whom more than life I loved, Iwas torn by the envy of one man and the jealousy of another, and then,by the ambition of a third, to whom nothing was crime if it butministered to that unhallowed impulse, I was plunged into a dungeon,whose counterpart only the vaults of hell can furnish. For fourteen longyears I was the tenant of a sombre tomb. The agony, the despair ofthose awful years--oh! God! oh! God!" and he shuddered and clasped hishands over his head as if to crush the recollection.
After a pause he resumed: "And then those daily vows of vengeance! oh!vain and impotent vows as then they seemed! vows of awful agony, offiendish retribution, though at that time I knew not all! I knew notthat a venerable father had pined and died of starvation through thewrong done to me! I knew not that the woman I loved had become the brideof my destroyer! Yet those vows, awful and blasphemous as they were,those vows of vengeance have been terribly, dreadfully fulfilled! As thedestroying angel of God's retributive providence, I was endowed withsuperhuman powers to walk the earth, to administer His justice and toexecute His decrees. For fourteen years was that vengeance prepared, yetdelayed. At last, it fell--it fell. All who had wronged me met theirdreadful doom. Ambition was changed to madness. Avarice was torturedwith bankruptcy. Falsehood sought refuge in self destruction; andall--all--all--even the meanest of those who had contributed to blightmy life--perished miserably at my will! And did the guilty suffer alone?Alas! impious, remorseless, horrible revenge! The innocent and thecriminal suffered alike. A might approaching omnipotence was vouchsafedme, but no power of omniscience to direct my hand or stay its effects.Blind and mad I knew not what I did. Those I most loved fell beneath theblow which crushed those I most abhorred, and shared the same fate. Theterrible agencies I had summoned as my slaves became my masters. Thefiends which, as ministers of God's justice, garbed in the guise ofangels of light, I had, by hideous necromancy, evoked to aid me inrighteous retribution, proved the dark demons of hell and derided allorders to accomplish my bidding. The awful engines I had set in motion Ifound myself powerless to arrest or control. Effects ceased not with thecauses in which they had their origin. The stroke of vengeance, aimed atfoes, recoiled on friends--recoiled on myself. And when I fain wouldstop, when I would arrest the awful havoc which my will had commenced,the dark ministers I had called up howled in my ears, 'On! on! on!vengeance is thine! vengeance is thine!' They mocked my terror andlaughed at my apprehensions.
"At last there seemed a pause. Fate appeared to have done her worst, tohave executed her decrees. The blind agencies of vengeance blasted nomore, because there seemed no more to blast. The misery I had caused Istrove to alleviate, the innocent hearts I had crushed I endeavored toheal; rejoicing in the joy I had created and the affection I gratified,once more I loved--loved, but, oh! not as I first had loved--not withthat deep, adoring, delirious passion of my youth, and yet with asubdued, fraternal feeling I loved; in the calm and sweet seclusion of afavored clime, parted from the world with all its miseries and itscrimes, environed by all that man or nature could contribute to humanbliss, I began to dream of happiness, in the happiness I had created.But, alas! I forgot that man's happiness lies not in his own hand, butin the hand of his Maker. I forgot that an omniscient eye pursued me,that a blasphemed and omnipotent Power was over me. The blowpaused--hovered--fell, not upon me, not on the guilty, but again it fellon the innocent; and she, who was my only hope, my beloved Haydée, mywife, was snatched from my heart, ruthlessly murdered by that fiend,Benedetto!"
The unhappy man pressed his hand to his forehead, and for some timepaced the chamber in silence; then, approaching a small alcove at oneextremity of the apartment, he raised the heavy and sumptuous hangingsand revealed a small silver casket of exquisite workmanship andappointments, that sparkled as the mellow light poured in upon it. M.Dantès knelt beside the ebony table on which this casket rested, and forsome moments seemed absorbed in prayer; then, rising and taking thecasket in his hands, he touched a spring, when the lid flew open,disclosing a miniature portrait of Haydée, set in a frame of gold,ornamented with flashing diamonds and emeralds; he gazed long andlovingly at this portrait, that seemed designed to show how exquisitelyfair God's creatures may be, after which he kissed it reverently, closedthe casket, restored it to the table, and slowly dropped the hangings totheir place. Resuming his walk, he said, mournfully: "But the deepestwound will close; the heaviest grief, the bitterest woe, becomesassuaged. Time, the comforter, soothes and consoles. From this stroke ofbereavement I at length awoke, and, at the same moment, awoke to theconviction that my whole past had been an error; that my life had been alie; that the years which had succeeded my imprisonment had been moreutterly lost than those passed within my dungeon itself; and there cameto me the conviction that time, talent, power and wealth had been worsethan wasted--that the wondrous riches, undreamed of save in the wildestflights of oriental fiction, and by a miracle bestowed upon me, weredesigned for nobler, holier purposes than to subserve a fiendish andblasphemous vengeance for even unutterable wrongs, or to minister to thegratification of pride, and the satisfaction of selfish tastes andappetites, however refined and sublimated.
"I looked around me--the world was full of misery--and the samedisposition which had plunged me into a dungeon was crushing the heartsand hopes of millions of my race. My bosom softened by bereavementyearned toward my suffering fellows, and the path of duty, peace andhappiness seemed open to my desolate and despairing heart. Resolutionfollowed conviction; the world was my field; liberty, equality andfraternity were my objects. Not France alone, with her miserablemillions, but Russia with her serfs, Poland with her wrongs, theenslaved Italian, the oppressed German, the starving son of Erin, thesqualid operative of England, the priest-ridden slave of Jesuit Spain,and the oppressed but free-born Switzer. Great men and good men I foundhad already, with superhuman skill, constructed a system, a machine forthe amelioration of mankind's condition, which needed only theco-operation of boundless wealth to set it in motion. That wealth wasmine! The common house for the laborer, the asylum for the insane, forthe orphan, the Magdalen, the destitute, the sick, the friendless, thedeserted, the bereaved, or the asylum for the victim of his own vices,or the vices of others, for the depravity which originates in misery,ignorance or fate--all these my riches could sustain. Around me, in theaccomplishment of this design, the uncounted wealth intrusted to mystewardship has already gathered the mightiest minds in every departmentof intellect, and the best hearts; and if but a few years are vouchsafedus to carry out the system we have adopted, all Europe, despite herthroned and sceptred tyrants, impiously claiming the right to oppress bythe will of God, shall be free! Silently but surely, the principle ofhuman liberty is ceaselessly at work, undermining thrones andoverthrowing dynasties. The hush that precedes the tornado even nowbroods over Europe; nations slumber the heavy sleep that preludes theearthquake. The hour of revolution is at hand--of social regeneration,disenthrallment, redemption, over all the world. In every capital ofEurope the mine is prepared--the train laid to be lighted, and from thissolitary chamber the free thought on the lightning's pinion flies toVienna, St. Petersburg, Rome, Madrid, Berlin, London, over mountain andplain--over sea and land--through the forest wilderness and the throngedcity; taken up by the press, it makes thrones totter and tyrantstremble--tremble at an influence which emanates they know not whence andcontemplates a purpose they know not what--an influence whose mysterythey are impotent to penetrate, and whose shadowy but awful right theyare powerless to resist!"
At that instant the silvery tinkle of a bell was heard at the table, anda low and continuous whizzing as of clockwork at once commenced. TheDeputy advanced hastily to the table. The register of the electrictelegraph like a living thing was unfolding the secrets of events atthat moment transpiring at the furthest extremity of the Kingdom!Eagerly seizing the slip of paper which was gliding through the machine,he glanced over the cabalistic cipher there traced."Lyons--Marseilles--Rome--Algeria," he murmured. "All goes well." Andwhile the wonderful register, like a thing of life, still whizzed,clicked and delivered its magic scroll, covered with charactersunintelligible to all but him for whose eye they were designed, hetouched a spring, and a row of ivory keys resembling those of apiano-forte was revealed. Then rapidly touching them with the fingers ofone hand, while he held up before him the endless slip of paper in theother as it was evolved, he transferred its cabalistic contents,character by character, to their distant destination.
And when the day dawned on Paris, Berlin, Vienna and Madrid, theintelligence thus concentrated, and thus distributed in that solitarychamber, was laid by the press before a hundred thousand eyes, in alanguage which each could comprehend, for in every capital of Europeunbounded wealth had established a press which groaned in unceasingparturition for human rights, causing princes to tremble and ministersto wonder and grow pale; over each press, thus set in motion as ifliterally by an electric touch a thousand miles away, presided men ofthe greatest powers and most varied attainments which philanthropy orcovetousness could enlist, while the result of their labors was sownbroadcast among the poorest and humblest, without price or compensation,pouring light upon their darkened understandings and giving themknowledge of their rights.
Nor was the newspaper press alone active. The feuilleton press was alsoat work; and magazines, reviews, pamphlets, whole libraries of volumes,were flung like Sibylline leaves on the four winds of heaven. Fiction,the drama, religion, art, literature, moral and mechanical science--alldepartments of intellect--silently, unseen, yet surely exerted theiromnipotent influence for the attainment of one single glorious end--thehappiness, rights, freedom of man; all this was under the guidance ofone powerful mind and benevolent heart, wielding the resistlessnecromancy of countless and exhaustless treasure! Not a point in allEurope whence influence could radiate and be distributed was there atwhich this man, in one brief year, had not set in motion the press andthe telegraph, those tremendous levers of the age to move the world, andall the more powerfully to move it because oft unseen. Not a court wasthere of emperor or prince, czar or kaiser, king, duke or potentate inwhich dwelt not his emissary, who suspected, least of all, kneweverything that occurred, and, on the lightning's wing, dispatched it toits destination, so that the most important decrees of thecabinet-council of Vienna were exposed to the whole world by theParisian press long before they had been communicated by Metternich tohis sovereign. And thus, often, the ruler first learned the purposes ofthe Minister. Not a city or village was there in all Europe whichnourished not in its bosom the germ of reform and revolution, while thegreat principle of association combined, embodied, and concentrated intoa focus energies and influences which would otherwise have provedcomparatively powerless.
The click and buzz of the register ceased--the engine had revealed itssecret--the shadowy tale had been caught up as it fell and given to thepress of all Europe, thence to be laid before men's minds.
Exhausted by the severe mental toil, and by the lateness of the hour,the Deputy sank back into his arm-chair and clasped his hands."Glorious, omnipotent science!" he exclaimed in low and trembling, yeteager and enthusiastic tones. "Wealth must yield in power to thee, forwhat wealth can rival thy achievements or secure thy results? Thou hastgirt the earth with web-work, forced the lightning to syllable theunspoken thought and made man's mind ubiquitous like God's; ere long,thou wilt have knit together with thy magic spells a world of mankindinto one vast brotherhood!"
M. Dantès ceased and, closing his eyes wearily, continued to think overthe possibilities of the future. As he sat there motionless andseemingly asleep, a light footfall was heard in the apartment and hisdaughter stood before him. Zuleika was now sixteen, tall and maturedbeyond her years; she greatly resembled her dead mother, Haydée, thebeautiful Greek, and the half-oriental costume she wore helped to renderthe resemblance still more striking; her abundant hair was the hue ofthe raven's wing, her feet and hands were those of a fairy, while herlarge and expressive eyes flashed like diamonds, and her parted lips, asred as rubies, disclosed perfect teeth of the whiteness of pearls. Ashade of anxiety settled upon her handsome countenance as she bent overher weary father. The Deputy opened his eyes and glanced at her.
"Why are you up so late, my child?" he asked, fondly. "I thought youwere sleeping soundly long ere this."
"I was waiting for you, papa," replied Zuleika, in a low, musical voice,that sounded like a chime of tiny bells; "I could not retire to mycouch while you were toiling."
M. Dantès pointed to a stool; the young girl brought it and seatedherself at his feet; he drew her to his knee, smoothing her tressesgently and affectionately.
"So you would not desert me, darling?" he said, with a glad smile.
"No, indeed, dear papa," answered she, nestling closer to him.
"Will you always love me as you do now, Zuleika?" asked the father,looking down into the liquid depths of her eyes.
"Oh! papa, what a question, what a singular question!" said the girl,springing to her feet, throwing her arms around his neck, and kissinghim again and again.
"But love of another kind and for another will come along after awhile,"said the Deputy sadly, "and then you will forget your father."
Zuleika blushed and hung her head in maidenly modesty; then sheexclaimed:
"No, no, papa; never will I forget you whatever may happen!"
"Ah! my darling, you know not what you are saying; it is only naturalfor a woman to cast her father aside and cleave unto her husband."
"But, papa, I have not even a lover yet, and, besides, I am not a woman;I am merely a little girl and your own, true, loving daughter."
"Yes, yes, but you must remember that last year, young as you werethen, you attracted marked attention from several youthful Romans of thebest families in the Eternal City, and that one of them, the ViscountGiovanni Massetti, went so far as to ask me for your hand."
At the mention of Massetti's name the blush upon Zuleika's cheekdeepened. She trembled slightly, but said nothing; her heart flutteredpainfully, but the pain was not altogether disagreeable. The youngViscount was evidently not unpleasing to her.
M. Dantès resumed, looking at her fixedly the while:
"My daughter, as you were then attending the convent school I felt it myduty to deny Giovanni Massetti's solicitation, nay, his ardent,impetuous prayer, but I did not deprive him of all hope; I gave himpermission to urge his suit with you personally after a year from thattime had elapsed. Did I do right?"
Zuleika maintained silence, but blushed and trembled more than ever,while her heart fluttered so that she placed her hand upon her breast tostill it.
"Come, come, my daughter, answer me," said the Deputy, kindly, "did I doright? Tell me what your little heart says."
"I do not know, oh! I do not know!" cried Zuleika, bursting into tears.
"There, there now," said her father, soothingly; "I did not mean eitherto frighten or wound you. If the Viscount is displeasing to you I willanswer his letter to-morrow and tell him as gently as possible that hehas no hope of winning your hand."
"What! have you received a letter from Giovanni?" exclaimed Zuleika,with sudden interest, her tears vanishing instantly and her pretty facebrightening up.
"Ho! ho!" said M. Dantès to himself, "Mademoiselle has waked up inearnest now." Then he added aloud: "Yes, one came this afternoon. TheViscount is in Paris, and has claimed the privilege I accorded him ayear ago, provided you interposed no objection. However, the matter canspeedily be settled. Young Massetti is a man of honor, and will not foran instant think of troubling with his attentions a lady to whom theycannot prove acceptable."
"Oh! papa, papa, don't tell him that; he wouldn't come here if you did;besides, did--did--did I ever tell you that Giovanni's attentions wouldprove unacceptable to me?"
"No, not in so many words," answered M. Dantès, archly, "but I inferredas much from your manner and tears just now. So I am to understand thatyou do not want me to reply to the Viscount's letter, am I?"
"Oh! yes, I want you to reply to his letter, but--but----"
"But what, darling?"
"I do not wish you to tell him there is no hope!"
"You think there is hope, then?"
"I--I--am afraid so, dear papa!"
"Yet a moment ago you told me you had no lover, and were merely a littlegirl!"
"I did not know then that Giovanni was in Paris, and I--I--thought hehad forgotten all about me."
M. Dantès smiled as he said:
"That makes all the difference in the world, doesn't it, Mademoiselle?"
"Yes," answered Zuleika, innocently; then she added in a tone of greatearnestness: "Write to Giovanni in the morning, and--and tell him Ishall be delighted to see him."
"I will write and inform him that, so far as I have been able todiscover, my daughter does not object to receiving a visit from him."
"Oh! that would be too cold and formal, and Giovanni is such an oldfriend."
"Well, well," said M. Dantès, "I will so frame my reply as to giveentire satisfaction both to you and him. Now, my child, kiss me andretire to your couch, for it is very, very late."
Zuleika embraced her father and kissed him repeatedly; then, withbeaming eyes and a countenance overflowing with happiness she ranlightly from the apartment.
As she tripped joyously away, M. Dantès arose from his arm-chair andgazed after her with a look of the utmost sadness.
"Oh! my daughter, my daughter," he murmured, "soon will you also quitme, and then I shall be alone, indeed! True, Espérance will remain,but, generous, manly and heroic as he is, he can never fill the voidZuleika will leave. Oh! Haydée, Haydée, my beloved wife, why were youtorn so ruthlessly from your husband's heart!"
Zuleika's dreams that night were rose-hued and delicious, and in all ofthem the central figure was the youthful Roman Viscount.
When day dawned M. Dantès was still pacing his library.



CHAPTER VIII.
A VAST PRINTING HOUSE.

A street somewhat famous in Paris is the Rue Lepelletier, famous not forits length, for its breadth, for the splendid edifices it exhibits, orfor the scenes and events it has witnessed, but famous for the exploitsbeheld by its neighbors, and the magnificent structures by themdisplayed. Not that the Rue Lepelletier can boast no fine edifices, forthe grand opera-house would give the loud lie to such an assertion. Andthen there is the Foreign Office near by, the Hôtel of the Minister ofForeign Affairs at the corner of the Boulevard and the Rue desCapucines, and other noted places.
But there is one structure on the Rue Lepelletier not very noticeablesave for its immense size and its ancient and dingy aspect, which haswitnessed more scenes and events, and is more important than all itsmore splendid neighbors put together.
This edifice is of brick, five stories in height, and, as has beenintimated, is time-stained, storm-stained, smoke-stained and stained, itwould seem, by all other conceivable causes of stain, so begrimed anddingy, yet so venerable and imposing, does it seem.
This vast and ancient pile can be said to represent no order ofarchitecture. Architectural elegance appears not to have been thought ofwhen it was designed, and yet the façade of the old building seems tobear the same relation to the building itself as the face of an old manbears to his body, and that face is full of character, as are the facesof some men--sombre, sedate, serious, almost sinister in aspect. Thisold face, too, seemed full of apertures, through which unceasing andsleepless espionage could be kept up on the good citizens of the goodCity of Paris. Doors, and especially windows, numberless, opened andlooked upon the street, and on a cul de sac at one end of the edifice.
One of the doors opening on the cul de sac, at its further extremity,was broad, low, dark and sombre; like the gates of hell, as portrayed bythe English bard, it "stood open night and day." If you entered thisdoor and advanced, you would immediately find yourself ascending anarrow, gloomy and winding flight of stairs. Having with difficultygroped your way to the top, without having broken your neck, by havingfirst reached the point from which you started, to wit, the bottom; oryour shins, by stumbling against the steps--having, I say, accomplishedthe ascent to the first landing, your further passage is effectuallystopped by a massive door, which resists all your efforts to open it;and, as you are contemplating the dangerous descent which you now thinkyou are immediately and inevitably forced to make, an ivory bell-handleagainst the wall, beside the door, arrests your attention, with thewords around it, which, with difficulty, you decipher by the dim light,"Editor's Room--No Admittance," followed by the encouraging, butsomewhat contradictory word, "Ring," which, doubtless, means this: "Ifyou are a particular friend of the editor, or have particular businesswith him as a journalist, ring the bell, and perhaps you may beadmitted." Supposing either of these positions yours, you "ring thebell," and immediately you are startled by the tinkling of a small bellin the darkness close beside you, and the ponderous door, firm as abarricade till then, is now opened by unseen hands--by the same hand,indeed, and by the same action of that hand which caused the bell totinkle.
You enter the door, and find yourself in a corridor or passage, long anddark, for everything in this building is dark, and gaslight is the onlylight eighteen hours in the twenty-four; you find yourself in acorridor, I say, running the entire depth of the building, and bringingyou back again toward the Rue Lepelletier, which you left on enteringthe cul de sac, to seek the low entrance below. As you traverse theendless gallery, your attention is arrested by a deep hum, as of manyvoices at a distance, with which the entire structure seems pervaded,accompanied by a heavier sound, which rises and falls with measuredstroke. This mysterious hum might have been heard when you firstapproached or entered the building; but the silence and solitude of thecorridor have caused you to notice it now for the first time, and towonder at its cause.
Now had you the power of those magicians, necromancers, clairvoyants anddemi-devils, whether of the flesh or the spirit, who, at a glance, cangaze through massive walls and peer down the chimneys of a great city,and who, almost without glancing at all, can see through partitions,key-holes and iron doors, your wonder at the cause of these unknownsounds would instantly cease, while it would be yet more excited bythose causes themselves, for the vast building all around you, andthrough which you are passing, and which envelops you in its ceaselesshum, like the voice of a great city, would seem to you nothing less thana leviathan of life and action--a Titan--a Frankenstein--a mental andmaterial giant, with its acoustic tubes, like veins and arteries,running all over the structure, just beneath the surface of the walls,and uniting in every apartment; with its electric wires, like bundles ofnerves, which, having webbed the whole body with network, converge intoa focus-tube, and thence pass down into the vaults, through the massivefoundations, and beneath, the pavements of the thronged streets of themetropolis, and thence, rising again to the surface, branching ondistinct, diverse and solitary routes without the suburbs all overEurope. You would see, too, the mighty heart of this Titan, whose heavyheavings you have felt, heard and wondered at--THE PRESS--in itssubterranean tenement, amid smoke and flame. THE PRESS; which, like theanimal heart, receives eventually all that the veins convey to it, andflings forth everything in modified form through lungs and arteries.Tireless and untired in its action, never ceasing, never resting, for aswell might a man think to live when his heart had ceased to beat, as aprinting office exist when the throbbings of its press were no longerfelt; and as well could a man be supposed to live without breath as aprinting-office of the nineteenth century without its lungs, the steamengine, or its breath of life, the subtle fluid by which it is moved.
But to drop metaphor. In the basement of the building you would find thepress-room, with its steam engine, its furnaces, its presses, its darkdemi-devils, and ghostly and ghastly gnomes and genii groping orflitting about amid the glare and gloom, begrimed and besmoked,seemingly at work at unhallowed yet supernatural toil, which toil, as ifa punishment for sin, like that of Sisyphus, or the daughters of Danaein the heathen Tartarus, was eternal. The press never stops.
On the first floor you would perceive the financial and publishingdepartment in all its endless ramifications, with the separate bureausfor folding, enveloping, mailing, etc.
On the second floor--but that you will shortly behold, and it willdescribe itself.
On the third floor you would discover immense magazines ofmaterial--paper, ink, of every hue and quality, and type of every knowndescription; and all in quantities seemingly as useless as incalculable.
On the fourth and fifth floors you would find the composition rooms,whence fly the winged words all over the world, peopled by its wholearmy of compositors; while from the long platoons of cases,"click--click--click" is heard, the sole and unceasing sound which alonein those apartments is ever suffered to fall on the ear. If we add thatthe entire structure is warmed in winter by heated air, conveyed intubes from the furnaces of the press, our description will be complete,and we may say such is the printing office of the nineteenth century inParis. How changed from that of German Guttenberg or English Caxton,three hundred years before! Such is it by daylight. Flood every objectand apartment with gaslight, and you have the scene at night--throughall the night, for couriers and dispatches never cease to arrive--andthe journal issues with the dawn--and the workmen are relieved byconstant and continuous relays. Such an office gives employment tohundreds and bread to thousands. It demands twenty editors, exclusiveof their chief, twenty reporters, exclusive of the same number in thecommercial and mercantile corps; twenty-five clerks and bureau agents,sixty carriers, twenty mechanicians and margers, sixty folders, twentypressmen, seventy correctors and compositors and five hundreddistributors, besides a numberless and nameless army of attachés andemployés too numerous to be specified. The aggregate compensation ofthis army is ten thousand francs per day, the annual income is ninemillions of francs, the circulation is ninety thousand copies daily, andeach number is read by half a million people, and through theirinfluence by half a million more.
The daily tax of the Government is nine thousand francs. The press hasbeen called the Third Estate of France. It is not! Nor is it thesecond--nor is it the first! It combines all three. Nay, the power ofall three united equals not its tithe; and its position--itsrank!--royalty itself bows to the press! Ask the history of the past tenyears. Point to the man of power or position in the court or State, whoowes it not to the press! Where is the statesman who is not, or has notbeen, a journalist, or the savant, the philosopher, the philanthropist,the poet, the orator, the advocate, the diplomat, even the successfulsoldier? The sword and the pen are emblems of the power of France--itsachievements and its continuance; Sir Bulwer Lytton says,

     "The pen is mightier than the sword!"

But I have left you, dear reader, perambulating the dim corridor--sodim that your eyes can hardly decipher, although it is now high noon,the various signs upon the series of doors in the wall on your left,designating the various rooms of the editorial corps, for to theeditorial department is devoted the second floor of this extensiveedifice. The last door in this prolonged series bears the name of thechief journalist. You ring a bell, are bid to enter, and the apartmentis before you. Immense windows, rising from the floor to the ceiling,and opening upon a balcony, which overhangs the Rue Lepelletier, affordabundance of light for your eye to detect everything in the room by day,and an immense chandelier with gas-burners and opaque shades, pouringforth its flood of mellow radiance, would facilitate the sameinvestigation yet more at night. Beneath the chandelier is spread theimmense oval slab of the table. At it sits a man writing. Well, let himwrite on, at least for the present. Beside him, pile upon pile, pileupon pile, rise papers, wave after wave, flood upon flood, nothing butpapers; on the floor beneath his feet, on the table and under the table,before him, behind him, and all around him, naught but papers, papers,rising, rising, as if in wrathful might and stormy indignation, whilethe very walls are lined with papers in all languages, from all climesand governments, and of every age and dimension, deposited in huge foliovolumes and arranged in huge closets, along one whole side of the room.From the four continents, yea, and from the islands of the sealikewise, has this vast army come. In those tall closets extending fromfloor to ceiling might be found the full files for years of everyleading paper in every part of Christendom, affording a treasury ofreference, universal, unfailing, exhaustless, of knowledge of everyconceivable description, rapidly found by means of exact and copioustables of contents.
Upon the other side of the apartment extend ranges of shelves, fromfloor to ceiling, filled with ponderous tomes in black substantialbinding, seeming to belong to that class of standard works chieflyvaluable for reference as authorities, and bearing ample testimony intheir wear and tear, and their soiled appearance, to having beenfaithfully fingered. No thin, delicate and perfumed duodecimo is there,resplendent in gold and Russia, with costly engravings on steel, andletter-press in gilt or hot-pressed post. No, the books, the table, thejournalist and the whole chamber bear the dark, stern, toil-soiledaspect of labor, the severe air of practical utility. The onlyornaments, if such they can be styled, are busts--the busts of thesilver-tongued Vergniaud and a few of his political brothers--the victimGirondins of '92 being conspicuous. Here, too, in a prominent niche isthe noble front of Armand Carrel, the brave, the knightly, thechivalric, the true Republican, the true statesman, the true journalist,the true man--Armand Carrel, who, with Adolphe Thiers, his associate,sat first in this apartment as its chief--Armand Carrel, who fell yearsago before the pistol of Émile de Girardin, a brother journalist, thefounder of the cheap press, the hero of scores of combats before andsince, yet almost unscathed by all.
Such are some of the ornaments of the chief editor's sanctum. At thefurther extremity of the apartment, the wall is covered with maps anddiagrams, as well as charts of the prominent cities and points inEurope; and a large table beneath is heaped with books of travel,geographical views, and historical scenes arranged with no regard toorder, and seeming to lie precisely as thrown down after having beenused.
In a word, the whole room bears unmistakable evidence of stern,practical thought. In it and about it display is everywhere scrupulouslyeschewed. Practical utility is the only question of interest as touchingthe instruments of an editor, as of those of a carpenter; and theworkshop of the journalist bears no inconsiderable similarity to that ofthe artisan in more respects than one. To each a tool is valuable, bethat tool a book or a chisel, only for its usefulness, and the facilityand rapidity with which it will aid the possessor to accomplish hisends, and not for its beauty of form, or costliness of material orconstruction.
In one respect only was there variance from this settled custom to beperceived, and that was in that delicate mechanism embodying thetriumphs of modern science, which facilitates transmission of thought,and which, by skillful adaptation, made this one chamber a focus towhich ideas and feeling in every other apartment of that vastestablishment converged, and which enabled one man, without rising fromhis chair, to issue his orders to every department, from press-room tocomposing-room, from foundation stone to the turrets of that tall pile,everything being governed by the will and impulse of a single mind.Indeed, to such an extent is labor-saving carried in the Parisianprinting office that the compositor may never have seen the journalistwhose leaders he has spent half his life in setting up, for copy, proofand revise glide up or down as if by the agency only of magic, and thereal actors rarely meet.



CHAPTER IX.
ARMAND MARRAST.

The journalist who now occupied the editorial chair was seemingly aboutthirty-five years of age, and one whom the ladies would call "afine-looking man." His stature was about the average, his shouldersbroad and his form thick-set. His face was long and thin, his foreheadfull and capacious, though not high, and was furrowed by thought. Hisbeard, which, like his hair, was black, encircled his chin, and amoustache was suffered to adorn his lip. His dress was black and a plainstock, without a collar, surrounded his throat. His eyes were large,black, and piercing, and the expression of his countenance wascontemplative and sad.
Such is a hasty limning of the personal outlines of the first journalistin Paris, the chief editor of the chief organ of the democracy inEurope, Armand Marrast, of "Le National."
An air of depression, exhaustion and regret was upon his face as he satbeside the table, with a pen in his hand and paper before him, in athoughtful mood, as if planning a leader for his journal, of which but asingle line was written. Whatever were his reflections, they wereevidently far from pleasant; but the single line traced at the head ofthe paper indicated the source of his uneasiness. It read:
"Again the House of Orléans triumphs!"
Throwing down his pen, he folded his arms, and began hastily pacing thechamber.
"Again the House of Orléans triumphs!" he bitterly exclaimed. "Aye,again and again! It is thus forever, and thus forever seems likely tocontinue. Every measure, however imperative, of the opposition,ignominiously fails--every measure of the Government, however infamous,succeeds. And so it has been for twelve years. Ah! what a barren sceptredid the Three Days of '30 place in the hands of the French people! Thedespotism of a Citizen King has been as deadly as that of theRestoration, and more insulting. For twelve years his acts have been buta continuous series of infringements upon the rights, and insults to theopinions, of the men of July. The Republican party is trampled on.Freedom of the press, electoral reform, rights of labor, restriction ofthe Royal prerogative, reduction of the civil list, all these measuresare effectually crushed. The press is fettered, and its conductors areincarcerated. Out of a population of thirty-three millions, but twohundred thousand are electors. Out of four hundred and sixty deputies,one-third hold places under the Government, the aggregate of whosesalaries would sustain thousands of starving families at their verydoors. Paris, despite every struggle of freedom, is, at this hour, aBastille. The line of fortification is complete. Wherever the eye turnsbattlements frown, ordnance protrudes, bayonets bristle. Corruptionstalks unblushingly abroad in the highest places, and the frauds ofGisquet all Paris knows are but those of an individual. The civil list,instead of being reduced, is every year enlarged. A Citizen Kingreceives forty times the appropriation received by the First Consul,while his whole family are quartered on the State. The dotation to theDuke of Orléans, on his marriage, would have saved from starvationhundreds of thousands whose claim for charity far exceeded his. ThankGod, his own personal unpopularity defeated the dotation designed forthe Duke of Nemours. But the appanages were granted because the King'slife was attempted by an assassin. A Citizen King, indeed! This mancares only for his own. He would be allied to every dynasty in Europe.His policy is unmixed selfishness. His love for the people who made himtheir monarch is swallowed up in love for himself. Millions have beenwrung from the sweat of toil to accomplish a worse than uselessconquest, thousands of Frenchmen have been sacrificed on the burningsands of Africa, and all for what?--that a throne might be won for aboy--a boy without ability, or experience, and now the Duke of Aumale isGovernor-General of Algeria, while hundreds of brave men are forgotten."
As these last words, which indicated the cause of the present agitation,were uttered by the excited journalist a door at the further end of theapartment softly opened, and a young man of very low stature and boyishin aspect entered. He seemed, at a first glance, hardly to have attainedhis majority, though actually he was ten years older. His face wasround, yet pale, his lips full, his brow commanding, his eye large, darkand thoughtful, and His characteristic expression mild and benevolent.He wore a dark frock coat, buttoned to the chin, and a plain blackcravat was tied around his neck.
The journalist was so deeply absorbed in his meditations that for somemoments he seemed unaware that he was no longer alone, and he might haveremained yet longer in that ignorance had not the guest approached andexclaimed:
"Algeria!"
The journalist raised his head and hastily turned.
"Ah! Louis, is it you?" he said, cordially extending his hand; "I'm gladyou've come. But why did I not hear you?"
"For two reasons, my dear Armand," said the visitor, seating himself inan editorial chair: "one, that I came in by the private entrance, andthe other, that you were too zealously engaged in cursing the recentappointment of the King to hear anything short of a salvo of artillery."
"Ah! that cursed appointment! What next I wonder? Thank God, the old manhas no more sons to make governors, although he'll never be satisfiedtill each one of them has a crown on his head, by his own right or theright of a wife."
"And what care we whom the boys marry, so long as marriage takes themout of France? Montpensier can find favor in the eyes of the SpanishInfanta, Christina's sister, and thus balk England; be it so, yes, be itso, especially since it can't be helped or prevented."
"But this affair of Algeria, Louis--"
"Is a very different affair you would say. No doubt, no doubt. As toAlgeria, I have always viewed it as a very costly bauble for France, 'anopera-box' as the Duke of Broglie once said, 'rather too expensive forFrance.'"
"But then it has been a splendid arena for French valor. It has giventhe rough old Bugeaud a Marshal's bâton, and has made the gallantLamoricière, his sworn foe, a general officer, thanks to his ownintrepid conduct and the court influence of his brother-in-law, Thiers."
"In the late dispatch appear the names of some new candidates foradvancement, I perceive."
"You allude to Morrel and Joliette among others, I suppose. Morrel hasreceived a regiment, and Joliette is Chef d'Escadron of Spahis. Luckilyfor aspirants, and thanks to disease and slaughter, there is no lack ofvacancies."
"The name of Morrel I have seen before in the 'Moniteur,' butJoliette--who is he?"
"A sort of protégé of Bugeaud, 'tis said. He is reported to haveenlisted at Marseilles, and in three years has risen to his presentposition from the ranks. He is of a good family, rumor says, but,suddenly reduced by some calamity, he became a soldier."
"He must be a brave fellow, Armand! As I said before, Algeria has been afine field for the development of military genius. My chief objectionsto French conquests are these--they have drained millions from Francewhich should have been devoted to the cause of labor, and have tended todazzle the masses with the glory of the achievements of French valorabroad; thus while thousands of the young and enterprising have beenlured away to fill up the ranks, and to seek fame and fortune, the mindsof those remaining have been withdrawn from their own wrongs, oppressionand suffering, and from efficiently concerting to sustain the measuresof their friends for their relief. There is not a race in Christendomso fond of military glory and achievement as the French. Dazzled bythis, the people, the masses--"
"The people, the masses!" impatiently interrupted the journalist. "Youknow me, Louis; for years you have known me well, for years have wedevoted every energy of heart and soul to the cause of the people, andfor years, ever since we came to man's estate, have we been equalsufferers in the same cause--"
"Sufferers in the cause of the people of France, in the cause of man, weboth, doubtless, have been, but not equal sufferers. What have been mysacrifices or sufferings, my dear Armand, compared to yours? In thatdark hour when Armand Carrel fell--fell by an ignoble bullet in anignoble cause--fell in bitterness and without a hope for liberty in hisbeloved France--I felt impelled to come forward and exert myself for thewelfare of my race, and endeavor to aid others in filling the gapcreated by his loss. To France, to my country, did I then, though but aboy, devote myself--France, my country!--for such I feel her to be,though I was born in Spain and my mother was a Corsican. Since that hourmy pen has been dedicated to the cause of the people, the dethronementof the Bourgeoisie and the organization of labor. As to sacrifice orsuffering, I have sacrificed only my time and toil at the worst. I havenot been deemed worthy of suffering even a fine for a newspaper libel,and my paper has never been thought worth suppression!"
"And what have I accomplished, Louis?" asked Marrast, gloomily. "My lifeseems almost a blank."
"With Armand Carrel, you have for fifteen years been the champion ofRepublicanism in France, and with you, as leaders, has all beenaccomplished that now exists. When Carrel died, on you fell his mantle.As editor of 'La Tribune,' your boldness and charging Casimir Perier andMarshal Soult with connivance in Gisquet's scandalous frauds broughtupon you fine and imprisonment. Your boldness and patriotism during theinsurrection of the 5th and 6th of June, 1832, once more caused yourpaper to be stopped and your presses to be sealed. In April, '34, yourpress was again stopped, and you, with Godefroi Cavaignac, were throwninto Sainté Pélagie, whence you so gallantly escaped, though to becomean exile in England. Again, in '35, you were sentenced totransportation. So much for sufferings; as to sacrifices--why, you havebeen utterly ruined by fines!"
"Well, Louis, well," was the sad answer, "granting all this, mysacrifices and sufferings are only the more bitter from the fact ofhaving been utterly in vain, entirely useless. You, Louis, have beenwiser than I. Your journal is well named 'Bon Sens.'"
"Possibly wiser," was the reply, "and possibly less bold. But does notdiscretion sometimes win what boldness would sacrifice? In rashlystruggling for all we sometimes lose all. Prudence and perseverance, mydear Armand, are invaluable."



CHAPTER X.
THE COMMUNISTS.

At this moment the private door opened, and three men entered theeditorial sanctum.
Marrast quickly turned, and his friend was silent.
"Ha! Albert, Flocon, Rollin!" he cried. "Welcome, welcome! Our friend,Louis Blanc, was just about wasting on me a sermon upon patience, butnow he'll have an audience worthy of the subject. Be seated and listen!"
"Patience!" exclaimed Flocon. "Well, I'm sure we need it."
"That we do, in our present low estate," echoed Rollin.
Albert said nothing, but smiled with sarcastic significance.
When the salutations were over and the party, all but Marrast, whorestlessly paced the room, were seated, Louis Blanc looked around on hisfriends with a sad smile, and continued:
"Marrast is right, Messieurs. I was, indeed, preaching patience. I wasendeavoring to soothe his irritation and chide his depression with asermon; since we are all old friends and fellow-sufferers in the goodcause and have a common interest in knowing the reasons of failure andthe means of triumph, I will by your leave proceed."
"Aye, dear Louis, go on!" cried Marrast, kindly. "But you are the mostyouthful sage I ever listened to."
"Yes, Louis, proceed; you look like a curé," said Rollin, laughing.
"I subscribe to Louis Blanc's creed, be it what it may," added Flocon,briskly.
"And so do I," said Albert, gravely, in a deep tone.
Of the new visitors, Ledru Rollin was a man of medium stature, aboutthirty-five years of age and dressed in the extreme of the mode. Hiscomplexion and hair were light, his eyes large, blue and protruding, hismouth prominent, and his full cheeks covered with whiskers, which likethose of Marrast, were closely trimmed and met beneath his chin. Hishead and shoulders were thrown back, and his air was bold andindependent. He was a lawyer of talent, who had gained celebrity asadvocate of the accused on many occasions of State prosecutions.
Flocon was an older man than Rollin, and his countenance bore the wary,vigilant and suspicious look which experience alone gives. He was low instature, thick-set and close-knit in figure; his eyes seemed always halfclosed; his brow was broad and massive; his face was long; a moustachewas on his lip, and his hair was closely cut. The outline of his headand the expression of his face seemed those rather of one born on thebanks of the Rhine than on the banks of the Seine, so calm andpassionless did they appear. His dress was plain but neat. Flocon wasthe chief editor of "La Réforme," the name of which indicates itscharacter. It was this man who, in February, 1833, repressed theviolence of his partisans and saved the office of the "Gazette deFrance," yet the very next day published his celebrated letter to theLegitimists, which, for audacity, force and pungency was only equaled bythe paralyzing effect it produced. The fines, imprisonments and civilincapacities to which this man had been subjected for assaults upon agovernment he deemed corrupt, for the ten years preceding, had beenliterally numberless.
Albert was a man of fifty or more, with a large head, square German faceand forehead, a large hazel eye, fixed and unexcitable, hair closelycut, and beard upon his chin and lip. His dress was a long iron-grayfrock coat, buttoned closely to his chin. His face was rather thin, andhis complexion bronzed. His name had for years been identified withreform; and though a manufacturer himself, of the class of workmen,being proprietor and chief engineer of a large machine factory at Lyons,he had established and sustained in that city a paper to advocate hisprinciples, named "La Glaneuse," the prosecution of which by theGovernment for libel and the fining and imprisonment of its editorformed an originating cause of the revolt in Lyons of April, 1834. Forthe part played by this man in the revolt thus arising, he was sentencedto transportation, a penalty afterwards commuted to fine andimprisonment. He was a man of few words, remarkably few, but of deepthought and prompt action, and, in moments of crisis and emergency, aman of unshaken and inflexible nerve. To the casual observer, he seemedonly a silent man, or a sullen one, astute or stolid; in times of perilhe was a man of iron, but a man of action and passion, too, moving withresistless might. To rouse his powers, mental or physical, demanded,indeed, circumstances of unusual import, but once roused they wereirresistible.
Such were the personages now assembled in the office of "Le National;"and, of those five men, all were connected with the press, directly, aseditor or proprietor, save only Ledru Rollin, and he was a writer for"La Réforme," as well as an advocate.
The name of Louis Blanc's paper was, as has been said, "Le Bon Sens."
But to return to the narrative.
"And you really wish a sermon from me, old comrades, with patience asthe text?"
"Aye--aye--aye!" exclaimed all.
"Suppose I add to it this line I find on the paper before me on thetable, that our good Marrast had just written as the text for aparagraph which would probably have cost him another fine andimprisonment, had the paragraph been completed and published?"
"Read! read!" cried Rollin.
"With your permission, Armand?"
"Certainly," replied the editor, still continuing his promenade.
"'Again the House of Orléans triumphs!'" read Louis Blanc, aloud.
"And is it not true--the accursed tyrants?" vociferated Rollin.
"Aye, true!" was the mild answer; "alas, too true! That perfidious Housedoes triumph, and for that very reason the fact should never beacknowledged by its opponents."
Rollin shook his head, and, throwing himself back in his capaciouschair, folded his arms, sunk his chin upon his breast and closed hiseyes.
Marrast continued his walk.
Flocon remained silent and thoughtful.
Albert gave a significant smile.
"Oppose ceaselessly, but quietly, every act of despotism this BourgeoisGovernment may attempt; but, be the result what it may, never admityourselves discouraged, depressed, dismayed, defeated. From every fallrise like Antaeus, with renewed vigor. Nor is it wise or prudent inthose engaged in a great and glorious cause to provoke danger, to bravepenalty, when nothing of good to that cause can reasonably be expected.Prudence, policy, patience and perseverance accomplish more thanrashness, yet are not inconsistent with intrepidity, boldness,patriotism and philanthropy the most exalted. Comrades, what says thepast, the past ten years, in whose events we have all so intimatelymingled? Shall I tell you?"
"Aye! 'L'Histoire de Dix Ans,'" said Flocon.
"We are all sure of being immortal there, in that same book of yours!Eh! Louis?" cried Rollin, opening his large blue eyes.
Louis Blanc smiled and continued:
"Shall I convince you, comrades, by the history of the past ten years,the scenes we have all witnessed, the events we have all deplored, thedefeats we have all sustained, the insulting ovations we have all beenforced to behold and the unceasing triumphs and tyranny of the House ofOrléans that, had patience and prudence been our motto, these defeatsand triumphs would never have been witnessed, because these prematurerevolts would never have been made?"
Albert bowed and gave his peculiar smile.
"Our friend Albert smiles, and well he may. He has had a sad experiencein this error of premature outbreaks. In April, 1834, he exerted everyenergy to restrain the revolt in Lyons, as chief of the Société desDroits de l'Homme, and as the undoubted friend of the operatives. Buthis efforts were futile. Exasperated, urged on by less experiencedleaders, they were in full tide of revolution, and could no more berestrained in their unwise rising than could the mountain cataract inmad career be dammed. The result was, of course, defeat--most disastrousdefeat. Hundreds of the people perished, and our friend was imprisonedand fined for taking part in a movement, which he had in vain attemptedto quell, and then, with the certainty of defeat, had joined, ratherthan desert the people who trusted and relied on him."
"A noble act!" cried Marrast, as he paced the room.
Albert quietly smiled, but otherwise his countenance remained unmoved.
"And was it not a most noble and a most wise act," continued the authorof "The Ten Years," "when our friend Flocon, by an energetic andeloquent harangue, restrained the indignant people from razing to theground the office of the 'Gazette de France,' the organ of the Duchessof Berri, and his bitter foe? Terribly would that rash act have recoiledon us, and yet, at the same time, with this most patriotic and prudentdeed before us, a wilder measure than even that was adopted, and it wasquelled only by force. You all remember the events. In February, '33,Eugène Brifault, in his 'Corsair,' alluded jestingly to the mysteriouspregnancy of the mother of Henry V., Duke of Bordeaux, as did every one,she then being imprisoned at Baye because of her prior conspiracy toplace her son on the throne, and her secret marriage in Italy beingunrevealed. The Legitimists of 'Le Revenant' challenged; the allusionwas repeated, and a second trial and a death ensued. 'Le National' and'La Tribune,' regarding these repeated challenges as a menace to theRepublicans, hurled defiance at the Legitimists, and demanded twelvedistinct rencontres in behalf of as many names of our friends posted attheir offices, among which those of Armand Carrel, Godefroi Cavaignacand Armand Marrast were conspicuous. The challenge is accepted--thenames of twelve Legitimists are furnished--Armand Carrel selects RouxLaborie--they fight, and Carrel is dangerously wounded--the police theninterfere--the affair ends with Flocon's terrific and audacious defianceflung down at the whole Legitimist and Orléans parties in the columns of'La Réforme.' Now, what to Republicans were the quarrels of Legitimistsand Orléanists? If we were to be ruled by a king, what cared we whetherthat king were Henry V. or Louis Philippe? How would the sacrifice ofCarrel, Marrast, Cavaignac, or of any of those twelve brave men havebeen repaid, or made up? And afterwards, alas! in July of '36, whenArmand Carrel, causelessly assuming a quarrel not his own, because of afancied attempt to degrade the press, by rendering its issuesaccessible, by cheapness, to the masses, was slain in the Bois deVincennes by the vulgar bullet of Émile de Girardin, of 'La Presse.'What reparation to our cause was it that our champion had died like ahero, and Châteaubriand, Arago, Cormenin and Béranger wept around hisgrave? Alas! that inestimable life belonged to his country and his race,and not to himself, to fling away in an obscure quarrel."
"But we are not all of us Armand Carrels," said Rollin.
"And yet, to the great cause of human liberty, and the amelioration ofman's condition, to which each of us stands sworn, are pledged ourlives. To hazard that cause, by the sacrifice of those lives, or byrashly and unwisely attempting its advancement, makes us violators ofour vows, quite as much in reality as if we had become traitors."
"But the instances you cite are those only of individual rashness,Louis, and not of the people, or of their leaders acting in concert,"remarked Marrast.
"True, concert of action has been chiefly needed, but I have only torecall the dates and places of our repeated attempts and defeats, forthe past ten years, to convince you all that those attempts werepremature, and had they not been so, they might have beensuccessful--that they have frittered away energies which, properlyconcentrated and directed, might have achieved a revolution; and thatwhile they have betrayed our designs and depressed our friends, haveenabled our foes insultingly to triumph and caused them to be on theconstant qui vive to anticipate our movements. What but premature andundigested uprisings were the conspiracy of the bell-tower of NôtreDame, in January of '32, when 'Le National' was seized--or thedisturbances in La Vendée--or those in Grenoble--or those inMarseilles--or those in the Rue des Prouvaires--or those in April,during the cholera, when Casimir Perier died--or those of the 5th and6th of June, on the occasion of General Lamarque's funeral, on pretenceof avenging upon the Government the affront offered during theobsequies of Casimir Perier, the victim-Premier of the cholera? For thepart taken by 'La Tribune,' then conducted by Marrast, in this revolt,its press was seized and sealed. The same was the fate of 'LaQuotidienne,' and the same would have been the fate of 'Le National,'but for its barricades. Well do I remember the meeting of our friends inthis very apartment on the night after General Lamarque's funeral. Thegreat shade of the venerable warrior seemed among us, repeating for ourcounsel and imitation his last impressive words, 'I die but the causelives!' But, alas! we observed it not. Doubt, dissension, dismay anddespair were in our midst. All was dark--all was defiance anddenunciation, crimination and recrimination--brother's hand raisedagainst brother. Armand Carrel that night sat in this chair, but he wasnot the man to command his own will or opinions; how could he then bringto obedience and concert the conflicting impulses of others? ArmandCarrel was a wonderful man. His motto, like that of Danton, was this:'Audacity, audacity, always audacity!' Yet with all the audacity ofDanton, he had little of his firmness. An officer under the Restoration,a conspirator at Bifort, in arms in Spain against the white flag, threetimes a prisoner before a council of war--in 1830 he was with Thiers,the founder of this journal; but everywhere he carried the exactitude ofthe camp; even in dress, manner and bearing he was a soldier--lofty,haughty, seemingly overbearing, yet, at heart, noble and generous, andto his friends accessible in the extreme. To his military notions,nothing could be accomplished without soldiers, and for the people tocarry a revolution against soldiers seemed to him absurd."
"Armand Carrel would have been, nevertheless, a good revolutionist,Louis," said Marrast; "but he was a bad conspirator. He had no faith inthe people, no confidence in the efforts of undisciplined and unarmedmasses."
"And therein," said Rollin, "he greatly erred."
"Although we can as yet boast of having accomplished but very little bythem, Ledru," added Flocon, with a meaning smile. "The masses are easilyroused, but they don't stay roused, and then they often getunmanageable, even by those by whose summons they were stirred up. Theyfight well, but, somehow or other, they always get beaten; they succumbat last, and bow their necks to the yoke lower than ever."
"It is not the people," said Louis Blanc, "it is we the leaders, who areto be blamed. We rouse them before we are ready for them--before we haveprepared them or anything else for a result; and then it is not strangethat they only rush bravely on to death and defeat. We seize on theoccasion of a funeral for an outbreak without organization, and thecuirassiers of the military escort trample our ranks beneath theirhorses' hoofs. But for unusual efforts, such would have been the case atthe funeral of Dulong, the Deputy who fell in a duel with GeneralBugeaud, in January of '34."
"What were the circumstances?" asked Rollin.
"Armand recollects them better than I," replied Louis Blanc.
"The circumstances were these, as I remember them," said Marrast."General Bugeaud remarked in the course of a speech in the Chamber that'obedience is always a soldier's duty.' 'What if the order be to becomea turnkey?' asked Dulong, in allusion to the General's position inrelation to the Duchess of Berri, during her pregnancy and confinementat Baye. Armand Carrel endeavored to pacificate, but the effort failed.They met in the Bois de Boulogne at ten o' clock in the morning; theweapons were pistols; the distance forty paces. Bugeaud fired almost assoon as he turned, advancing only a few steps; his ball entered aboveDulong's right eye, and at six o'clock that evening he was dead."
"There was a splendid ball at the Tuileries that night, was there not?"asked Flocon.
"There was, and this, with other things, excited in the masses the ideathat their champion was the victim of a Royalist conspiracy, which allthe influence of Armand Carrel and Dulong's uncle, Dupont de l'Eure washardly sufficient to suppress. But Dupont immediately resigned his seatin the Chamber. He would sit no longer in a body one man of which hedeemed the murderer of a beloved nephew. The obsequies were grand.Armand Carrel pronounced the eulogy, and two hundred and thirty-fourdeputies wet the grave with their tears. The people were greatlyexcited, and, as has been said, were with great difficulty restrainedby Carrel and Dupont. Had they been suffered to revolt, the only resultwhich could have followed would have been a terrific outpouring of theirblood, furnishing another instance, I suppose, of the evil ofimpatience; is it not so, Louis?"
"Undoubtedly," was the reply; "and only two months after that otherinstance actually occurred, for our warning, in the revolt at Lyons,with which we are all familiar, and in which we were all actors, most ofus to our sorrow. This was in April. Albert's journal, 'La Glaneuse,'had been seized for libel on the Government, and the editor fined andimprisoned. Next a reform banquet of the operatives was forbidden,although but a year before Garnier Pages had been suffered to banquetthe Lyonnese to the number of two thousand, and although at no periodhad so many gorgeous festivities and public balls been given by the richRoyalists, as if in premeditated scorn of the banquet prohibited to thepoor Republicans. The result was so prompt as to seem inevitable; therewas a strike of the operatives, an insurrection of the people. Albertwas sent to Paris as an envoy, to find a man to lead the revolt. MM.Cabet and Pages were deemed too moderate. Cavaignac would go only withCabet. Lafayette was too feeble, but gave his name and letters. Carreland Marrast were not members of the Société des Droits de l'Homme, andAlbert had been cautioned that Carrel was too moderate. Thiers haddenounced 'La Tribune,' and Marrast's friends were hiding him from thepolice. In despair concerning his mission, the envoy was about returninghome, when he was sent for to Armand Carrel's house, and Carrel offeredto go to Lyons and lead the revolt, provided Godefroi Cavaignac wouldaccompany him. Now these friends had long been at feud, but all privategrievances were forgotten in this crisis of the cause, and Albert isjust about preceding them in the post-chaise, to announce their coming,when, lo! the telegraph says, 'Order reigns in Lyons!' Here, then, aftera terrific slaughter, was recorded another fruitless revolt, because apremature one. Nay, it was infinitely worse than fruitless. Not only didthe Republicans utterly fail in their attempts, not only were theycruelly crushed by the Royal mercenaries, but they were openly deridedin their defeat, and the cause was gloomier than ever. The slaughter ofwomen and children in the streets of Lyons, and on their ownhearthstones, in the course of this insurrection, was hideous, and isgraphically portrayed in the memorial of our friend Ledru Rollin, asadvocate in the matter. But, as if all this were not enough for ourpersecuted cause, the decease of the great and good Lafayette, the idolof freemen all the world over, took place in the following May. Alas!his sun went down in clouds. His end was dark. Bitter maledictionsquivered on his dying lips. He had lived to mourn that July day, onlythree years before, when, on the steps of the Hôtel de Ville, he had,with his own hands, been called to invest a cold-blooded, perfidious,selfish, and most ungrateful tyrant with Royal robes. Alas! there wasorder in Lyons--Lafayette was in his grave--peace reigned in Paris--theHouse of Orléans triumphed!"
"Those were dark days," said Marrast, sadly.
"They were, dear Armand, dark, indeed, for you and your friends, foryour journal had been suppressed, and you were an inmate, withCavaignac, of Sainté-Pélagie."
"Whence you both, bravely and boldly effected your escape more than ayear afterwards and fled to England, to the most glorious discomfitureof the knaves who put you there!" cried Rollin. "Vive la République!yet, Messieurs! We've all seen dark days, and the present is none of thebrightest; and we've all come together at these old headquarters ofliberty just to be unhappy together, just to help each other bemiserable, which, in fact, is vastly happier unhappiness than beingmiserable alone. At all events, that's what I want. But it can't alwaysbe right. I predict a revolution before another ten years shall haverolled round, which shall make immortals of us all--that revolution forwhich we have been waiting, watching, toiling and writing, lo! now thesethirteen years and upward, for the which waiting, watching, toiling andwriting we have some of us been fined, who had money enough to pay afine, and others imprisoned and hunted about and persecuted. Why,there's Albert and Flocon haven't been able to get a franc cleverly warmin their pockets these ten years, before forth it was drawn in the formof a fine; while as for Marrast, he has the perfect air and bearing of abandit, so often has he seen the inside of a dungeon; and our friendAlbert isn't much better looking. As for Louis and myself, why, we neverknew what it was to have a franc get warm in our pockets, so we escapedhaving any drawn forth by Ministers, and they have never thought usworth prosecuting or imprisoning. But they may change their minds whenLouis' book, that is to make us all immortal, comes out. Eh, Louis?"
Louis Blanc smiled, but made no answer.
"Well, it is only meet, I suppose, that I should receive my share of theblows," said Marrast. "I'm sure I'm not very delicate or veryceremonious in bestowing them. Besides, every one of my predecessors hasendured the same--Carrel, Thomas, Bastide; while poor Rouen, theproprietor, would have been ruined, indeed, a dozen times with fines,but for his enormous profits. Why, this old office has been a perfectbutt for Ministers to fire at--it has received a dozen fusillades, atleast; but it stands yet, and, strange as may have been the scenes ithas witnessed, it will witness yet other and stranger ones, and we shallall be witnesses thereof, and actors in them, too, or greatly do I err."
"So be it, with all our hearts!" was the general shout.
"Apropos of State prosecutions against 'Le National,'" said Louis Blanc,"that was a most exciting time when Rouen was brought by Thiers beforethe Court of Peers, for a libel on that most august and erudite body."
"Aye! and a most, liberal, honest and honorable conclave--thethrice-sodden and most solemn knaves and mules!" cried Rollin.
"Rouen at the bar demanded Armand Carrel for his defence," continuedLouis Blanc. "To refuse was impossible, but a bitter pill must it havebeen to Thiers and Mignet to consent. They must have foreseen what came.Both, now in the Ministry, only four years before both had been in 'LeNational'--Thiers as the colleague of Carrel, and Mignet as acollaborateur. The files of the journal were produced, and, lo! therestood paragraphs proven to have emanated from the pens of theprosecutors far more libelous and venomous on the august peers thananything Rouen had published. You all remember the scene that ensued andwon't forget it soon."
"No; nor shall we soon forget that noble passage in Armand Carrel'sdefence," said Flocon, "in which he evoked the shade of Marshal Ney, andfrom the wild excitement that followed, one would suppose that it hadreally risen in the hall, bleeding and ghastly, and pointing to itswounds, like the ghost of Banquo, to blast his hoary, jeweled and nobleassassin, who, seated on those very seats, had sentenced him to aninfamous doom. Carrel was instantly stopped, but General Excelmens rosein his seat and pronounced the charge true. It was then reiterated withtremendous applause from the galleries. How Carrel escaped punishmentfor contempt is not known. Rouen was convicted of libel on the peers, ofcourse; his sentence was a fine of ten thousand francs and imprisonmentfor two years."
"But of what words did this famous libel actually consist?" asked LedruRollin.
"Louis can tell you better than I," said Flocon.
"Why, the words were severe enough, no doubt," replied Louis Blanc, "butThiers and Mignet had themselves expressed the same ideas a hundredtimes, though in less powerful and pointed language. The passage whichseems particularly to have given offence was this, that in the eyes ofeternal justice and those of posterity, as well as in the testimony oftheir own consciences, these renegades from the Revolution, thesereturned emigrants, these men of Ghent, these military and civilparvenus, these old Senators and spoiled Marshals of Bonaparte, theseProcureur Generals, these new-made nobles of the Restoration, thesethree or four generations of Ministers sunk in public hatred andcontempt, and stained with blood--all these, seasoned with a fewnotabilities, thrown in by the Royalty of the 7th of August, oncondition they should never open their lips save to approve theirmaster's commands--all this farrago of servilities was not competent topronounce on the culpability of men seeking to enforce the results ofthe Revolution of July!"
"It was not until the commencement of 1835, I think," said Marrast,"that Ministers opened a general onslaught upon the Parisian press. 'LeRépublicain' was interdicted that year. It was then, too, that the lawsagainst public criers and newspaper hawkers were instituted. As far backas '33, however, Rodde had braved all such prohibitions by selling andwith impunity, too, his own paper in the streets. In May of '35 came onthe general prosecution of the press. Rollin was advocate in thedefence. There were warm words between Armand Carrel and his friendDupont, the lawyer, and there was at one time apprehension of a duel."
"The position of Armand Carrel with Thiers, his former colleague, was,at that time, a singular one," remarked Rollin. "Each seemed to be onthe constant search for opportunities to exasperate the other. Theeditor assailed the Minister in his columns, and the Minister retaliatedby an arrest. Carrel censured and ridiculed Thiers, though he respectedhis abilities, and Thiers feared and hated Carrel, though he admired histalents."
"It was about this time that Fieschi exploded his infernal machine atthe King, was it not?" asked Flocon. "Thiers arrested Carrel then, Iknow."
"It was on the 28th of July of '35, at ten in the morning, on theBoulevard du Temple. This was the second attempt on the King's life, thefirst having been that of Bergeron, in November of '33. Carrel wasarrested as an accomplice, it was pretended, for every one of theseattempts has been attributed to the whole body of the Republicans,while they were utterly ignorant of them until they took place, and thenbitterly denounced them. But the Government has made capital out of allthese insane attempts, and against the opposition, too."
"I've heard it asserted," said Rollin, "that the Government got up someof those little exhibitions of fireworks for that very purpose. They arequite harmless, so far as the old man is concerned--wonderfully so--andFieschi was made a perfect fool of, so ridiculously lionized was he byKing, Court and Ministers. Our friend Marie was advocate for thatwretched old man, Pépin, Fieschi's accomplice, more a ghost than aliving creature."
"You are entirely right, friend Rollin," said Louis Blanc, "in the ideathat every one of these attempts strengthens the Government and recoilson the opposition. No one should so vigilantly and vigorously watch forand suppress such attempts as we. Heaven defend the old despot from theassassin's weapon, as it seems well inclined to do, or the deed willsurely be attributed to us. Every unsuccessful attempt at assassinationis viewed like an unsuccessful attempt at revolt on the part of theopposition, and injures our cause accordingly. Better never to attemptthan never to succeed."
"Do you think it true, Louis, as was reported," asked Marrast, "that assoon as the smoke of Fieschi's explosion swept off, and the old manfound himself standing unharmed amid a heap of slain and mangled,Marshal Mortier and Colonel Rieussec being among the killed, his firstexclamation was this, with, ill-concealed gratification, 'Now I shallget my appanages and the dotations for the boys.'"
"Nothing is more probable," said Louis Blanc. "That old man has but oneimpulse--selfishness, and but one attachment--to his family--his family,because it is his. His purse and family have for years been his soleobjects of love. To aggrandize his own has been for years his sole endand aim. He parcels out the thrones and kingdoms of Europe among hischildren as if it were but a family estate."
"What thoughtful selfishness!" exclaimed Flocon; "and at a moment, too,when he had but just escaped an awful death, and all around him flowedthe blood and lay scattered the lacerated limbs of his faithfulservants, either dead or dying with groans and shrieks of most agonizingtorture, and all because of himself; how disgraceful that, at such aterrible moment, his first thought should have been of the few morefrancs his trembling hand was striving to tear from a people by whom hehad already been made the richest man in Europe, and which theoccurrence of this dreadful event might serve to win for him."
"Well," said Rollin, "whether this event aided to win the appanages anddotations, and was so designed, or not, it is very sure the aforesaidappanages and dotations were secured. No wonder that such attemptssucceed each other so rapidly--one every year, at the least! When wasthe next, Louis--that of Alibaud, I think?"
"That took place about sunset on the 25th of June, '36," was the reply."Alibaud discharged a walking-stick-gun at the King, as he left theTuileries, on his way to Neuilly, at the corner of the Porte Royale.That Alibaud was a mere boy, and a very interesting and intelligent boy,too; but for some mysterious cause he did not find favor with the court,as did Fieschi. He evidently attempted the assassination fromconviction, from a feeling of manifest destiny. After his failure, heonly wished to die, and to die at once. All who have succeeded Alibaudhave been but vulgar cut-throats."
"In what year was the insurrection of Armand Barbes and Martin Bernard?"asked Flocon. "That proved most disastrous to our cause."
"That was in '39, May, I think," answered Rollin. "Barbes, Blanqui andBernard were arraigned as leaders. Marie and myself were advocates forBarbes. Blanqui was sentenced to death and Barbes to the galleys forlife. But we obtained commutation of penalty for both."
"And where is to be the end of all these things?" asked Marrast,gloomily, as he continued pacing the chamber with folded arms, his headresting on his bosom. "Are the ten years on which we have now entered tobe characterized by the fruitless efforts of the past? Are the people ofFrance again, and again, and again to strike for freedom, only to bestricken into the dust and trampled beneath the armed heel of a despot'smyrmidons? Are the streets of Lyons, Paris and Marseilles again to bedrenched with the life-blood of their dwellers, poured out as freely aswater and as fruitlessly? Are we all again, for full ten years, to toil,strive, struggle and suffer; to be hunted down like the vilestcriminals, and, like criminals, plunged into the most pestilentialdungeons; to be stripped like slaves of our hard-won earnings, and to bedeprived of the most humble franchises of men claiming at all to befree; to be treated with scorn and contumely, and to be debarred theexercise of those common rights, which, like air and water, belong toall; I say, brothers, are all these scenes to be repeated during the tenyears on which we have now entered, as they have been witnessed duringthe ten years now past?"
"You speak sadly, Armand," observed Rollin.
"Not so sadly as I feel. I have listened with attention to therecapitulation of the political events of the past ten years in France;and most plainly, and as sadly as plainly, does the result prove thatevery movement in our cause has been as premature as it has beenunsuccessful."
"May we not gather wisdom, which shall conduct us to success in thefuture, from the very errors and disasters of the past?" remarkedFlocon.
"Alas!" despondingly replied Marrast, "what is there in our present topromise a bright future more than was in our past to promise us a brightpresent? Our great leaders of another generation have all left us, oneafter another--all have dropped into their graves. The cold marble hasclosed over their venerable brows, and they rest well. Yet they diedand made no sign of hope. On us, young, inexperienced and rash, hasdevolved their task; but the mantle of their power and virtue has not,alas! descended with that task to aid in its momentous accomplishment.General Lamarque's sun went down in clouds. Midnight, deeper thanEgyptian darkness, brooded over the delirious deathbed of Lafayette.Armand Carrel fell without hope; and are we wiser than they? How often,oh! how often have I listened to the words of wisdom that fell fromthose eloquent lips, even as a boy reverently listens to a parent--forsuch was Armand Carrel to me. Upon this very spot have I stood, in thatvery chair has he sat, that chair, which, with mingled shame and pride,I reflect is now filled by me--shame, that it is filled in a manner sounworthy of him--pride, that I should have been deemed fit, after him tofill it at all--in that very chair, I say, has his noble form reclined,when he for hours, even from night till the next day's dawn, dwelt withsorrowful eloquence upon his country's present, and looked forward withgloomy foreboding and prediction for the future. It almost seems to methat this mighty shade is with us now!"
"And why was all this despondency, my dear Armand?" remarked LouisBlanc, mildly. "Was it not because our noble and gifted friend wasessentially a soldier, not a civilian, not a statesman, not arevolutionist? Had Armand Carrel gone to Algeria, he would have died--ifdied he had not in an unknown duel, with an unknown bravo--he wouldhave died a Marshal of France--a Bugeaud, a Chaugarnier, a Bedeau, aCavaignac, a Clausel, a Lamoricière. Carrel had no faith in the massesto achieve a revolution. He never believed that they could evenwithstand a single charge of regular troops, much less repel andovercome it."
"Not even with barricades?" asked Rollin.
"Not even in defence of barricades," continued Louis Blanc.
"Regular troops have much to learn," added Rollin, with a significantsmile. "They will see the day--aye! and we all shall see it and rejoiceat its coming, despite all melancholy prognostications, when the peopleof Paris will dictate abdication to the king of the barricades, from thetop of the barricades, the people's throne! Nor will that event tarrylong!"
"I doubt it not, I doubt it not, Ledru!" exclaimed Louis Blanc, rejoicedthat one of the youngest and least stable of their number appeared freefrom the apprehensions of one of the most influential and seemingly mostreliable. "I accept the omen indicated by your enthusiasm. But Iaccounted for the vacillation and distrust of our lamented friend,Armand Carrel, by reverting to the fact that he relied entirely onregular troops, military skill, scientific tactics and severesubordination. Now, all of these belonged to our oppressors and none ofthem to us; and, inasmuch as he could not perceive that enthusiasm,passion for freedom, love of country and family, and the very wrath andrage of desperation itself sometimes not only supply the place ofdiscipline, arms and the knowledge requisite to use them, but evenenable vast masses to break down and crush beneath their heel theserried ranks of veteran troops, he could only despair at the prospectsapparently before him. Besides, Armand Carrel, like all military men,was a man of action, not reflection--of execution, not contrivance--asoldier, not a conspirator. At the head of ten thousand veteran troops,he would have charged on thrice their number without discipline, withthe confident assurance of sweeping them from his path as the chaff ofthe threshing floor is swept before the blast; but, with anundisciplined mob, as he contemptuously called the masses, he would havemoved not a step. The larger the multitude, the less effective and themore impossible to manage he would have deemed it. A revolutionaccomplished by means of the three arms of the militaryservice--artillery, cavalry and infantry--horse, foot and dragoons, hecould readily conceive; but a revolution conducted to a successful issueonly by means of pikes, axes, muskets and barricades, never, to the hourof his death, despite the victory of the Three Days, could Carrelcomprehend."
"Besides," said Flocon, "it must not be forgotten that Armand Carrel,though a most devoted friend to Republicanism, was never a member of theSociété des Droits de l'Homme--was never, as we all now are--aCommunist, a Socialist, a Fourierist, a friend to the laborer. Nowonder he hoped so little for the people, and trusted to accomplish solittle through them."
"There can be no doubt that the social principle which Republicanism isnow unconsciously assuming all over France," mildly remarked LouisBlanc, "is lending to the cause incalculable strength. How terriblyimpressed with a conviction of the justice of the cause in which theyperished must have been the unhappy insurgents of Lyons, when, with thismotto on their banner: 'To live toiling or die fighting,' they marchedfirmly up to the cannon's mouth and fought, and, thus fighting, fell.Yet this conviction is not peculiar to the workmen of Lyons. It pervadesall Paris, all France, and needs only to be roused to act with an energywhich no human power can resist. Social Republican will be the type ofthe next revolution in France--it must be. The French people have beendazzled by the mirage of liberty ever since '89,--but it has been only amirage. On the last three days of July, '30, the people of Paris droveout one Bourbon to enthrone another. True, 'The State is myself,' wasnot the despotic motto he assumed, as did one of his successors, but itwas 'Me and my family,' which has proved equally selfish, if not soabsolute, and far more dangerous to freedom. With Lafayette and BenjaminConstant, the Citizen King they had made, quarreled as soon as on histhrone, and Lafitte and Dupont de l'Eure, his supporters, were banishedfrom the Court. Casimir Perier was called to crush the Liberals. ArmandCarrel assailed the act, and urged a republic. 'Le National' wasprosecuted, and insurrections followed. Thus was the Revolution of theThree Days won by the people to be seized and enjoyed by theBourgeoisie. The next revolution will be won by the people, too, but thepeople will enjoy it!"
"And how progresses our principles, Louis, among the people?" askedMarrast, who had listened attentively to every word that had beenuttered.
"Never so gloriously as now, Armand, never! Never has there been such adiffusion of information upon the subject of the rights of labor as now.Pagnerre tells me every day that volumes, tracts and pamphlets on thistopic disappear like magic from his shelves."
"Has not the Minister a hand in this mysterious disappearance ofCommunist literature?" asked Rollin. "We all know he is quite frantic onthe topic of popular education."
"Oh! yes, we all understand Guizot's love for the people! His system ofeducation promulgated in 1833 was so very beautiful that it was almost apity it was utterly impracticable. But Guizot has very little to do withPagnerre's book-shelves, or with Pagnerre in any way, except toprosecute him from time to time for publishing Cormenin's witheringtracts designed for the Minister himself, and yet it would almost seemthere was a design to exhaust the market of the publications of ourfriends; only the great mass of them go to the provinces and largequantities abroad. My own little brochure, 'The Organization of Work,'after having fallen stillborn from the press, died a natural death andbeen laid out in state for a year or two on Pagnerre's shelves, all atonce is resurrected, runs through half a dozen large editions, and istranslated into half a dozen languages. The same is true of Lamartine's'Vision of the Future,' and the same of Cormenin's tracts, and of theten thousand brochures on this same subject of Communism in all itsdifferent shades and phrases, and in every variety of size, form andstyle of writing and appearance. These publications are adapted to everytaste and comprehension. The workman is suited as well as the savant.All this savors of magic. Even my most sanguine anticipations aresurpassed by reality. There will never long lack a supply for a demand,be that demand what it may. A demand for Fourier literature has turnedall the pens in Paris hard at work upon it--novelists, essayists,pamphleteers--while the Porte St. Antoine, the Porte St. Martin and allthe minor theatres, where are found the masses, swarm with melodramas,farces and vaudevilles on the same subject, and none of you haveforgotten the powerful play, entitled 'The Laborer of Lyons,' attributedto M. Dantès, recently produced with such success on the boards of theFrançais itself."
"And who is this M. Dantès," asked Ledru Rollin, "if you will suffer meto interrupt?"
"Decidedly the most remarkable man in the French Chamber of Deputies,"replied Marrast. "In powers of natural eloquence I never saw his rival."
"Nor is that all," added Louis Blanc. "Unlike most men noted as mereorators, he is a sound logician, as well as a polished rhetorician. As apolitical economist he has few equals. To that subject he seems to havedevoted much study, while his familiarity with the political history ofFrance and of the times generally all over Christendom seems boundless.In debate, you observe he is never at a loss for fact or argument, letthe discussion take what direction it may."
"And he has celebrity also as a writer, has he not?" asked Ledru Rollin.
"The author of 'The Laborer of Lyons' must be a man of distinguishedliterary genius," was the reply.
"Better than all," said Flocon, "he is devoted heart and soul to thegood cause."
"Such devotedness to a cause I never witnessed," said Marrast. "He putsus all to the blush. With him it appears a matter of direct individualinterest. He is perfectly untiring. He is like one impelled by his fate.Love or vengeance could not force onward a man to the attainment of anobject more irresistibly than he seems forced, and that, too, withoutthe slightest apparent stain of personal interest or ambition. That manappears to me a miracle--a pure philanthropist. He strives, struggles,suffers, sacrifices, and all with the sole object of ameliorating thecondition of his race."
"It is, indeed, wonderful," said Rollin, thoughtfully. "Do you know,Marrast, anything of his past history?"
"Little, if anything. Of himself he never speaks, and I can gathernothing from others. Even his constituents had known nothing of him buta few months before he became their representative in the Chamber. Hispopularity with them he owes to his efforts to ameliorate theircondition. At his own expense he established among them a Phalanstrie,which is now in most successful operation."
"He is rich, then?" asked Flocon.
"Seemingly not, to judge from his habits of life," replied Marrast. "Nota man in the Chamber is more Republican in garb, manner, equipage orresidence than he, and yet he may be rich."
"Is he married?" asked Rollin.
"He has been, I am told," said Marrast. "But we interrupt you, Louis.You were alluding to the unusual influences now at work for our cause."
"I was about speaking of the newspaper press," said Louis Blanc. "Neverhas there been known such a revolution in favor of Reform and Communistjournals, and to none is this better known than to some of ourselves.There's Flocon's new journal, 'La Réforme,' that has leaped at once intoa circulation never before achieved but by long years of toil andenterprise. The old 'National,' we need but to look around us to besure, was never more prosperous than now, while I am free to confessthat my journal, 'Le Bon Sens,' which has been a sickly child ever sinceits birth, has, within three months, tripled its number of readers, or,at least, its payers. The same is in the main true of 'Le Monde,' by LaCroix, 'Le Journal du Peuple,' by Dubose, 'Le Courier Français,' byChatelain, 'La Commerce,' by Bert, 'La Minerve,' by Lemaine, 'LaPresse,' by Girardin, and all the journals in Paris which diffuse trueideas upon labor and the rights of the people, be they in other respectswhat they may. Even the 'Charivari,' which views the old King and hisMinisters as fair butts of ridicule, perceives a marked increase in itspatronage since it commenced that course, which sudden popularitynaturally excites it to increase of zeal in the same path. Besides allthis, an army of new papers, aiming to aid the great cause, have notonly sprung up of late, like mushrooms, in Paris, but all over France,and even all over Europe; and so far appear they from interfering witheach other's prospects that the more there are the better they seemsustained and the more ably conducted. A swarm of new and unknownwriters for the press on this great subject seems all at once to haveappeared from unseen hiding-places."
"This is very strange, Louis," said Marrast, "and yet it is, doubtless,very true. I had observed what you remark myself, although I have viewedthe movement less hopefully for the cause of the Republic than you."
"Depend upon it, Armand," said Louis Blanc, smiling, "thatRepublicanism and Socialism are identical terms, as much so as Communismand despotism are antagonistic terms."
"But how do you account for this wonderful change, this unprecedentedfever for Fourierism?" asked Flocon.
"I don't pretend to account for it at all. The merits of the cause have,perhaps, begun to be properly appreciated. Unusual efforts have beenmade by our friends of late. Whole nations and epochs are sometimesseized with a contagious mania for peculiar species of literature, asfor everything else. But I will hint to you a suspicion which I haverecently entertained, namely, that, after all, the rapid sale and readymarket for every species of Fourier literature is not an unerringindication of the amount of reading of such literature, or the demandthat actually exists of buyers as well as readers--individual ones atleast. As for the journalistic literature, that I have learned is,without doubt, gratuitously distributed, to a great extent, among themasses."
"But can the masses read the papers?" asked Marrast.
"Each family, house, neighborhood, café or cabaret, at any rate, has, atleast one reader," said Rollin; "and all the men, women and childrenhave ears to hear, if not power to comprehend. But some of these papers,which I have seen, come down in style to the very humblestcomprehension."
"Can it be," asked Flocon, "that there is such a club as a society forthe diffusion of social knowledge in Paris, after the form of that inLondon, instituted by Lord Henry Brougham and his Whig coadjutors, forthe diffusion of general information, and so opposed by the Tories."
"If there be such an association," said Louis Blanc, "it has managed toelude all my vigilance thus far, and that of the Government, too, forGuizot can perceive, if no one else can, the inevitable effect of allthis, and he has no idea that the dear people of France shall beeducated by any one save himself. But, actually, there seems to me toexist too much unity of purpose and action in this enterprise for it tobe the work of an association. I should rather suppose one powerful andphilanthropic mind at the head of the movement, were there not twothings so plainly opposed to it as to forbid the idea--the first beingthat there is no one man in Europe who is rich enough to expend suchimmense sums upon such an enterprise, if he would, and the second thatthere is no man who has the subject sufficiently at heart to do it, ifhe could."



CHAPTER XI.
"WAIT AND HOPE."

Just then a light rap was heard at the private door, which Marrastimmediately hastened to open, as if in anticipation of the arrival of afriend.
A brief and rapid colloquy ensued; then M. Dantès, the Deputy fromMarseilles, was introduced. He seemed acquainted with, and to be held inhigh regard by all present. His dress, as usual, was black, with a whitecravat, and his manner and bearing had all that magnetism and dignitywhich so deeply impressed those he met.
"I find you in private conference, do I not, Messieurs?" asked he,glancing around with a smile. "I pray you let me not interrupt. I havecalled but for a moment to speak with M. Marrast respecting a measure inthe Chamber, and have consented to enter only at his solicitation."
"You are right, M. Dantès," replied Marrast, "in supposing us engaged ina private conference, and upon matters of deep import, thoughconferences in this office can never be so private or so important asnot to derive benefit from the presence and counsel of the Deputy fromMarseilles."
"Most true," observed Louis Blanc; "and so far from intrusion do weview your arrival that we can but consider it most opportune that wehave the privilege of referring to you a question on which, between us,especially between our friend Marrast and myself, there seems somelittle diversity of sentiment."
"It would, I fear," said M. Dantès, "be unpardonable arrogance in one soyoung as I am in the great cause of human liberty to offer counsel toyou, who are all veterans, and most of you little less than martyrs toyour enthusiasm. But no good citizen will shrink from the responsibilityof declaring the results of his reflections on all topics which havereference to the general weal."
"We differ mainly in this," said Marrast: "Louis Blanc attributes theRepublican failures of the past ten years to prematurity and want ofpreparation in our attempts, and contends that all those reverses may beretrieved by patience and prudence in future, while, to my mind, thereis nothing to indicate for the future, from the same causes, differentresults than those experienced in the past."
"Concert of action," said M. Dantès, mildly, "is always an indispensablerequisite in the accomplishment of every enterprise which relies for itssuccess on association, or the combined efforts of individuals laboringfor a common end; yet, with all the concert of action which can possiblybe attained, the best arranged and best digested scheme in the world maybe ruined by premature movement. Of this we surely have sad proof in thehistory of the past ten years alluded to. There is something of truthin the declaration so frequently made that the French people are not yetprepared for freedom. If this be so, then it is the duty of theirfriends to prepare them. It is folly to suppose that the masses should,at first, intuitively know all their rights and the best mode ofvindicating them. This they must be taught; and, to this end, the pressshould be unceasingly at work, not only all over France, but all overEurope, in diffusing correct views upon life and labor, and politicalrights and powers. There should be, also, concert of action among thefriends of freedom, and clubs should at once be instituted in everycity, town and village in France, which should be in private andintimate correspondence with similar clubs at Paris and in all thecapitals of Christendom. There should, likewise, be unity of actionintroduced among the masses themselves. In a city like Paris, and amonga people like the French, secret signals can easily be arranged, bywhich, at any hour of the night, or of the day, fifty thousand laborersin their blouses might be concentrated at any point where their presenceis required, and that, too, with arms in their hands furnished fromsecret arsenals; and thus would those pitiable slaughters of helplessinsurgents, like those of sheep in the shambles, we have so oftenwitnessed, be avoided, if nothing besides were gained. The people areever but too ready to pour out their blood, and the most difficult anddelicate task in our enterprise is, after all, to restrain them--toimpress upon them the all important maxim, without which nothing great,good or enduring is achieved, those three words in which all humanwisdom is contained, 'Wait and hope.'"
"And for what are we to wait and hope, for which we have not already invain waited and hoped the past ten years?" asked Marrast.
"The true hour to strike!" was the firm answer.
"And that hour, when will it come?"
"It may come quickly, as it will come surely, soon or late! It cannot bethat the Revolution of July should continue much longer to result in thesolemn mockery it has. It cannot be that its friends should much longerbe withheld from those by whom it was achieved, only to aggrandize oneold man and his sons. It cannot be that the unmitigated and disgustingselfism of Louis Philippe, and his efforts to ally himself with everycrowned head in Europe--not for the glory of France, but for hisown--will much longer be overlooked or their perils masked. Theappanages grasped by himself--the dotation and bridal outfit of the Dukeof Orléans--the dotation sought for the Duke of Nemours, and hisappointment as Regent during the minority of the Count of Paris--theGovernorship of Algeria bestowed on the youthful and inexperiencedAumale, to the insult of so many brave and victorious generals--thenaval supremacy, to which has been exalted the ambitious Joinville, andhis union to the opulent Brazilian Princess--the effort to unite theyoung Montpensier with the Infanta of Spain--the environment of Pariswith Bastilles, with the avowed purpose of fortifying order by turningthe ordnance which should protect into enginery of destruction--animmense standing army--the notorious corruption of officials, and theaudacious dabbling of Ministers in the stocks, if not the King himself,by means of information obtained by the Government telegraph, andwithheld from the people, or of information manufactured by thetelegraph designed to affect the Bourse--the unprecedented number ofplacemen occupying seats in the Chamber of Deputies, yet receivingexorbitant salaries as incumbents of civil offices, one man being oftenin receipt of the salaries of several offices, though performing theduties of none--the fact that Ministers have maintained majorities byunblushing bribery in elections--that hardly one man in two hundred isan elector--the profligate arts of corruption by which every able man isbought by the Court--the disgraceful censorship of the press and thedrama--the enormous appropriations for the civil list, wrung out bygrinding taxes from the toil and sweat of millions--the absurdassumption, yet the monstrous power, over the press and its conductors,of that conclave of hoary dotards called the Chamber of Peers--the utterand most impious disregard of the deprivation and misery of theoperative and laborer, although arrayed side by side with the insolenceand wealth pampered by the taxes torn from themselves--the totalforgetfulness of the self-evident truth of the right of all men tolabor, unrestricted by the baleful influences of the competition ofcapitalists--these facts, properly urged and set forth by the press,from the tribune and in the clubs, in connection with due enlightenmentof the masses upon their rights as to labor and its reward and the dutyof government thereupon could not fail to prepare the popular mind, allover France, and all over Europe, for reform--for revolution."
"Unquestionably," cried Louis Blanc, "such would be the effect; and itwould not only prepare the people for reform, and stimulate them toobtain it, but it would make them Republicans--trueRepublicans--American Republicans! The Americans do not plume themselveson the title citizen, but they work; they dispute little about words,but clear their lands; they do not talk of exterminating anybody, butthey cover the sea with their ships, they construct immense canals,roads and steamers without jabbering at every stroke of the spade aboutthe rights of man. With them, labor, merit, talent and honest opulenceare honored and rewarded aristocracies. Such Republicans would furnishFrance more Washingtons, Jeffersons and Madisons, and fewerRobespierres, Dantons and Marats!"
"There can be no doubt," remarked Flocon, "that the paramount interestin a republic is that of those who work, that the labor question is ofsupreme importance, that the profound problem now submitted to theindustrial nations of Christendom demands satisfactory solution, andthat the long-enduring and most iniquitous miseries of those who toilmust cease. Reform, revolution and government which achieve not these,achieve nothing! They would be worse than useless. The measuressuggested by our distinguished friend seem to me eminently calculated toattain the consummation we desire."
"A good government must and always will systematically uphold the poor,and ever interpose to protect the weak against the strong," said LouisBlanc. "The state should be tutelary for the ignorant, the poor and thesuffering of every description. We must have a guardian government--agovernment that will accord the aid of that mighty engine, credit, notto the rich only, but also to the poor. It must interpose likewise inthe matter of industry, and exclude that antagonistical principle ofcompetition--the poisoned fount of so much virulence, violence and ruin.Our maxim is, brothers, and in this do we all concur, 'HumanSolidarity,' and our motto, 'Unity, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.'All men are of one family, and once thoroughly sensible of this kindred,discord, hate and selfism will no longer be possible."
"The views advanced," said Ledru Rollin, "so far as they tend to theelevation of the masses and to popular preparation for reform,Republicanism or revolution, have my most cordial approval; but I wouldbeg to ask how long are the people to 'wait and hope?' When is to comethe hour to strike?"
"Who can tell," said M. Dantès, in his low, clear and musical tones,"at what moment the breath will come which may hurl on its errand ofdevastation the avalanche which the snows and suns of centuries,perchance, have been preparing for its awful mission? In the stillnessof the night-time, beneath the clear blue sky of summer, or amid theravings of the midnight tempest, its dread march is ordered, and inresistless, crushing sublimity it begins to move on to accomplish itsterrible errand. Who may predict the precise moment when the earthquakeshall rock, the tornado sweep, the red lightning scathe, or the lavaflood desolate? And who shall tell the day or the hour when the people,in their majesty and might, shall rise to avenge their wrongs? Thesnow-flake falls fleecily on the mountain's top through many a long andsilent night; a land green as Eden smiles over the volcano; through manya calm and sunny day the electric flame gathers in the firmament! Atlength, when least expected, the avalanche sweeps, the volcano bursts,the red bolt strikes. France is the victim of many wrongs. Which one ofthem shall prove the last drop in her cup of bitterness we know not.France is divided into many political sects, and all but one aim atrevolution. Which one of all shall it be to set the ball of revolutionin motion? The Legitimists, who consider the Duke of Bordeaux therightful heir, and Louis Philippe a usurper; the Bonapartists, who thinkthey evoke the great shade of Napoleon in the person of his unworthydescendant; or the old Republicans? As for the Conservatives, let themwith Guizot at their head, uphold themselves if they can, and let thedynasties under Barrot and Thiers overthrow and succeed their factionalfoes. Their petty quarrels we care not for. Nor shall we, theCommunists, ever suffer ourselves to be deemed the revolutionary party;but the revolution once commenced, let us throw ourselves into itstorrent, and with our thorough, perfect and secret organization, wecannot fail to shape it most successfully to our own, our righteousends. The hour when revolution may commence we cannot predict, as it isnot our policy to start or precipitate it; but that hour may comequickly. It must come on the demise of Louis Philippe, which eventcannot be long delayed, and it may be precipitated before. Nor willFrance alone be convulsed. As the news of that old man's death, on thelightning's wing, spreads over Europe, the electric wire will prove buta train passing through repeated mines, which, one after the other, willexplode with awful devastation. Berlin, Vienna and St. Petersburg, thestrongholds of despotism in Europe, each will totter--all but the lastwill fall. The press is powerless on the Russian serf. Russia will bethe tyrant's last citadel. Italy will throw off the Austrian yoke and befree. Gregory XVIII. will shortly die. A wise, far-seeing and benevolentpriest, named Giovanni Maria Mastai Ferretti, born at Sinigaglia, andnow a cardinal, with the title of SS. Peter and Marcellinus, willsucceed to the Papal See, and Italy will be a republic; Genoa, Venice,Naples, Lombardy, Piedmont and Sardinia will be sister yet sovereignstates, forming one union--the constellation of freedom, the favoritescheme of Napoleon's better days at last achieving reality. Switzerland,with her green hills and her field Morgarten, her priestly despotsexpelled, shall also be free. But I weary you, Messieurs."
"By no means," cried Marrast, cordially clasping M. Dantès by the hand."I have listened in silence to your earnest exposition of the policy yousuggest, and so truly do I subscribe to it that, henceforth, I am yourdisciple and adopt your motto, 'Wait and hope' for my own. But it isnearly two o'clock. In an hour the Chamber sits."
"And, meanwhile, Messieurs," interrupted M. Dantès, "I know not that wecan better employ ourselves, after so protracted a séance, than torepair to Véfour's. This talking is hungry work, and listening andthinking, which are by far more tedious, are still more so. So toVéfour's."
"The séance 'National' is closed!" cried Ledru Rollin, laughing, as thewhole company descended the gloomy stairs.



CHAPTER XII.
THE MYSTERIOUS PRIMA DONNA.

All fashionable Paris was excited over the announcement of a new primadonna, whose wonderful achievements in Italian opera had set even theexacting critics of Italy wild with enthusiasm and delight.
This great artiste was no other than the renowned Louise d'Armilly. Shehad never before sung in the presence of a Parisian audience, but herfame had preceded her, and it was accepted as certain that her triumphat the Académie Royale would be both instantaneous and overwhelming.
She was to assume the rôle of Lucrezia Borgia, in Donizetti's brilliantopera of that name, a rôle in which the enterprising director of theAcadémie Royale assured the expectant public that she possessed noequal.
For weeks every Parisian journal had been sounding her praises withunremitting zeal, and now her name was as familiar as a household wordin all the high society salons, where the ladies and their gallantscould talk of nothing but the approaching operatic event, while in thecafés and on the boulevards an equal degree of interest was exhibited.
Even the masses, notwithstanding the political agitation in which theywere involved, had caught the prevailing excitement, and the leaders ofthe contending parties themselves paused amid their heated discussionsto talk of Louise d'Armilly.
The career of this young and beautiful artiste had been remarkable. Herdébut had been made at Brussels, about two years before, in company withher brother, M. Léon d'Armilly, and there, as well as at all thetheatres of Italy, La Scala, Argentina and Valle, they had roused aperfect storm of operatic enthusiasm.
The origin of this young artiste was veiled in the deepest mystery.Rumor ascribed to her descent from one of the oldest and mostrespectable families of France; and domestic trials, among which was amatrimonial misadventure, no less than the arrest of an Italian Princewhom she was about to wed, on the bridal night, as an escaped galleyslave, were assigned as the cause which had given her splendid powers tothe stage.
At an earlier hour than usual--for Parisian fashion never fills theopera-house until the curtain falls on the second act--the RueLepelletier was crowded with carriages, La Pinon with fiacres, and theGrande Batelière and the passages to the Boulevard des Italiens withpersons on foot, all hastening toward that magnificent edifice,constructed within the space of a single year by Debret, to replace thebuilding in the Rue de Richelieu ordered to be razed by the Governmentbecause of the assassination at its door of the Duke of Berri, in1820--that magnificent structure which accommodates two thousandspectators with seats.
Among the first in the orchestra stalls were Beauchamp and Debray, whoseattention was divided between the stage and the arrivals of splendidlyattired elégantes in the different loges, during the overture. All theélite of Paris seemed on the qui vive.
"It will be a splendid house," observed Debray.
"The débutante, be she whom she may, should feel flattered by such anunexampled assemblage of all the ton of Paris."
Orchestra, balcony, galleries, amphitheatres, lobbies and parterre werepacked; every portion of the vast edifice, in short, was thronged excepta few of the loges and baignoires, into which every moment brilliantcompanies were entering.
"Who is that tall, dark military man, with the heavy moustache, nowmaking his way into the Minister's box?" asked Beauchamp, after a pause.
"That man is no less a personage than the Governor of Algeria, EugèneCavaignac, Marshal of Camp," said Debray. "He reported himself at theWar Office this morning, and is the lion of the house."
"Ah!" cried the journalist; "and that is the hero of Constantine! What afrank, open countenance, and what a distingué bearing and manner!"
"You would not suppose all that man's life passed in a camp, would you?"
"His career has, I understand, been remarkable," said Beauchamp.
"Very. His father was a Conventionist of '92, a famous old fellow, who,among other terrible things laid at his door, is said to have pawned anold man's life, old Labodère, for his daughter's honor; somewhat, youremember, as Francis I. spared St. Valliar's life for the favor of thelovely Diana of Poitiers, his only child. His aged mother is yet living,a woman of strong mind, though seventy, and he does nothing without heradvice. His brother Godefroi's name was notorious as that of a powerfulRepublican leader for years before his decease. At eighteen Eugèneentered the Polytechnic School. At twenty-two he was a sub-lieutenant inthe engineer corps of the second regiment. In '28 he was firstlieutenant in France; in '29 he was captain; in '34 he was in Algeria;and, in '39, his cool, bold, decided but discreet conduct had made himchef de bataillon, despite the fact that he had incurred the Royaldispleasure some years before by a disloyal toast at a banquet. In '40he was lieutenant-colonel; in '41 marshal of camp, and first commanderof division of Tlemeen; in '43, he was conqueror of Constantine, at thefirst siege of which I so nearly lost my own valuable head, and he isnow Governor of Algeria, after service there of fourteen years."
"And the tall and sinewy man beside him, presenting such a contrast toCavaignac, with his light complexion, gray hair, and sullen and not veryintelligent expression?"
"Oh! that is General Bugeaud, by some deemed the real conqueror ofAlgeria. But he's not at all popular with the army. His manners aresimple and excessively blunt. He is a perfect despot with his staff,'tis said; yet he is quite a wag when in good-humor, and, at Ministerialdinners, can unbend and make himself as agreeable as need be wished. Hisvoice is as harsh as a Cossack's, and in perfect contrast to that ofCavaignac, which is the richest and most musical you ever heard, yetdistinct, emphatic and impressive."
"Bugeaud incurred intense odium with the opposition for his unwarrantedseverity as jailor of the Duchess of Berri, in '34, and his killingDulong in a duel, because of a deserved taunt on the subject."
"Bugeaud did his duty," said the Secretary, "though a man of his naturecould hardly perform such a duty with gentleness. Bugeaud is not agentleman; he knows it, and don't try to seem one. He is only a soldier.But there comes his very particular foe; General Lamoricière. Thatmagnificent woman on his arm is his wife and the sister of the lady whofollows, with her husband, the ex-Minister, Adolphe Thiers."
"What a contrast!" cried Beauchamp. "The tall and elegant figure ofLamoricière, in his brilliant uniform of the Spahis, half oriental, halfFrench, with his lovely wife, and the low, swarthy little ex-Minister incomplete black, with his huge round spectacles on his nose nearly twicethe size of his eyes, and a wife on his arm nearly double his stature.Why, Thiers reminds me of a Ghoul gallanting a Peri."
"And yet that same dark little ex-Minister has perhaps, in many respectsthe most powerful mind--at all events, the most available mind--impelledas it is by his restless ambition, in all France. Do you observe howincessantly his keen black eye flashes around the house, beneath hishuge glasses?"
"He seems perfectly aware that every eye in the house is directed towardhis loge. But is it true that his brother-in-law owes his rapid rise tohis influence at Court?"
"By no means," replied Debray. "If there is a man in the French army whohas achieved his own fortunes, that man is Lamoricière. He went toAlgeria a lieutenant, and bravely and gallantly has he attained hispresent brilliant position. It was he who proposed the creation of acorps of native Arab troops, like the Sepoys of British India; and hewas appointed colonel of the first regiment of Spahis. Our quondamfriend, Maximilian Morrel, has a command in this regiment, and is aprotégé of his illustrious exemplar."
"The hostility between Lamoricière and Bugeaud arises, I suppose, fromthe latter's detestable disposition, his overbearing and dictatorialtemper. Lamoricière is not a man, I take it, to be the slave of anyone."
"Rivalry in Africa is thought to have originated the feud," remarkedDebray, "and political differences in Paris to have inflamed it.Bugeaud is a Legitimist, and Lamoricière a Republican."
"Silence!" cried the musical connoisseurs in the orchestra. "The curtainrises."
As the curtain rose a hush of expectation reigned over the audience. Thehum and bustle ceased, and silence most profound succeeded. Theappearance of the fair cantatrice was the signal for such a reception asonly a Parisian audience can give, and the first strains that issuedfrom her lips assured them that their applause was not misplaced.
And surely never was the dark Duchess of Ferrara more faithfullypersonated than by the present artiste. This vraisemblance, which is soseldom witnessed in the opera, seemed to strike every eye. Her figurewas tall and majestic, and voluptuously developed. Her air and bearingwere haughty, dignified, and queen-like. Her complexion was very dark,but perfectly clear; her forehead broad and high; her brows heavy, butgracefully arched; her eyes large, black and flashing; her hair dark asnight, and arranged with great simplicity in glossy bands; and her mouthlarge, but filled with teeth of pearl-like whiteness, contrasted by lipsof coral wet with the spray. The entire outline of her face was Roman,and exhibited in its contour and lineaments even more than Romansternness and decision; and its effect was still more heightened by alarge mole at one corner of her mouth and the velvet robes in which shewas appropriately costumed.
The scene between the Duchess and the Spaniard, Gubetta, was receivedwith the utmost applause, and the pathos of that between the son and hisunknown mother, which succeeded, touched the audience to tears; but whenthe maskers rushed in and her vizard was torn off, and her true nameproclaimed, and, amid her heart-rending wailings, the curtain fell onthe first act, the shouts were perfectly thunderous with enthusiasm. Therôle of Gennaro was performed by the brother of the cantatrice, Léond'Armilly, a young man of twenty, of delicate and graceful figure, andas decidedly blonde as his sister was brunette. Nature seemed to havemade a great mistake in sex when this brother and sister were fashioned.Indeed, it seemed hardly possible that they could be brother and sister,a remark constantly made by the audience, and the kindred announced onthe bills was generally viewed as one of those convenient relationshipsoften assumed on the stage, but having no more reality than those of thedramatis personæ themselves.
"A second Pasta!" cried Château-Renaud, entering the stalls immediatelyon the descent of the curtain. "Heard you ever such a magnificentcontralto?"
"Saw you ever such a magnificent bust?" asked Beauchamp.
"Were it not for a few manifest impossibilities," thoughtfully remarkedDebray, "I should swear that this same angelic Louise d'Armilly was noother than a certain very beautiful, very eccentric and very talentedyoung lady whom we all once knew as a star of Parisian fashion, and who,the last time she was in this house, sat in the same loge where now sitthe African generals."
"Whom can you mean, Debray?" cried Beauchamp.
"A certain haughty young lady, who was to have married an ItalianPrince, but, on the night of the bridal, in the midst of thefestivities, the house being thronged with guests, and even while thecontract was receiving the signatures, the Prince was arrested as anescaped galley-slave, and at his trial proved to be the illegitimate sonof the bride's mother and a certain high legal functionary, theProcureur du Roi, now at Charenton, through whose burning zeal forjustice the horrible discovery transpired."
"Ha!" exclaimed Château-Renaud. "You cannot mean Eugénie Danglars,daughter of the bankrupt baron, whom our unhappy friend Morcerf was onceto have wed?"
"The very same," quietly rejoined the Secretary; "but this lady cannotbe Mlle. Danglars, I say absolutely, for many sufficient reasons," hequickly added; then, as if to turn the conversation, he hastilyremarked: "Ah! there are M. Dantès and M. Lamartine, as usual,together."
"M. Dantès!" exclaimed the Count, in surprise, looking around."Impossible!"
"And yet most true," observed Beauchamp; "in the third loge from theMinister's to the right. What a wonderful resemblance there is betweenthose men--the poet and the Deputy! One would suppose them brothers. Thesame tall and elegant figure, the same white and capacious brow, thesame dark, blazing eye, the same raven hair, and, above all, the samemost unearthly and spiritual pallor of complexion."
"No wonder M. Dantès is pale," said the Count. "Have you not heard ofthe occurrence of this evening in the Chamber? M. Dantès was in themidst of one of his powerful harangues against the Government, whensuddenly, in the middle of a sentence, he stopped--coughed violentlyseveral times, and pressed his handkerchief to his mouth; then taking asmall vial from his vest pocket, he placed it to his lips, andinstantaneously, as if new life had entered him, proceeded moreeloquently than ever to the conclusion of his speech."
"I heard something of this," said Beauchamp.
"As he descended from the tribune his friends thronged around him,anxious about his health. He quieted their apprehensions with hispeculiar smile of assurance, but I observed that his white handkerchiefwas spotted with blood, and he almost immediately left the Chamber."
"That man will kill himself in the cause he has espoused," remarkedDebray. "See how ghastly he now looks. But so much the better for theMinistry. He is a formidable foe. Indeed, that loge contains the twomost powerful opponents of the Government."
"And who are those men just entering the box?" asked Beauchamp.
"None other than the two rival astronomers of Europe," said Debray, "andyet most intimate friends. The taller and elder, the one with gray hair,a dark, sharp Bedouin countenance, and that large, wild, black eye, witha smile of mingled sarcasm and humor ever on his thin lip, is EmanuelArago. The other, the short, robust man, with fair complexion, sandyhair, bright blue eye and vivacious expression, is Le Verrier, the mosttireless star-gazer science has produced since Galileo. But hush! thecurtain is up."
"Oh! it matters not," said the Count; "only Gennaro and the Spaniardappear in the second act, and I have neither eyes nor ears save for theDuchess to-night. But who are those, Beauchamp?"
"Where?"
"In the loge on the first tier, next to the Minister's and directlyopposite to that of M. Dantès?"
"Ah! two officers of the Spahis and two most exquisite women!" exclaimedDebray. "They belong, doubtless, to the African party in the Minister'sloge. Your lorgnette, Count. What a splendid woman!"
Hardly had the Secretary raised the glass to his eyes before he droppedit with the exclamation:
"A miracle! a miracle!"
"What?" cried both of the other young men, turning to the box at whichDebray was gazing.
"Messieurs, do you remember the fair Valentine de Villefort, whoseuntimely and mysterious demise all the young people of Paris so muchbewailed, some two or three years ago, and whose lovely remains, we,with our own eyes, saw deposited in the Saint-Méran and de Villefortvault at Père Lachaise, one bitter cold autumn evening, and therelistened most patiently and piously to a whole breviary of mournfulspeeches, declarative of the said Valentine's most superlativeexcellence?"
"Undoubtedly, we remember it well," was the reply.
"Then behold, and never dare to doubt the reappearance of the dead againto the ocular organs of humanity."
"Valentine de Villefort!" exclaimed the Count, after a careful andscrutinizing survey, "by all that's supernatural; and more exquisitelylovely than ever!"
"Then it was true, after all, the strange story we heard," saidBeauchamp, "of the young lady's resurrection and marriage to MaximilianMorrel, somewhere far away in parts unknown?"
"No doubt," replied the Count, "for, if I mistake not--and I'm sure Idon't mistake, now that I look more closely--that stalwart, splendidfellow, with the broad forehead, black eyes and moustache, and the orderof the Legion of Honor on his breast, to set off his rich uniform of theSpahis, and on whose arm the fair apparition is leaning, is no otherthan Maximilian Morrel himself--the identical man who saved myworthless neck from a yataghan in Algeria."
"How dark he's grown!" said Debray.
"No more so than all these African heroes--for instance, Cavaignac andLamoricière."
"But what a splendid contrast there is between the young Colonel of theSpahis and his lovely bride, if such she be! He, dark as a Corsican;she, fair as an Englishwoman--he, upright as a poplar; she, droopinglike a willow--his hair and eyes black as midnight, while her soft,languishing orbs are as blue as the summer sky, and her glossy ringletsas brown as a chestnut!"
"On my word," said Beauchamp, "the Count grows poetical! Morrel hadbetter keep his beautiful wife out of the way! But have you discoveredwho are the other couple in the box?" he added to the Secretary, who hadhis lorgnette in most vigilant requisition. "Any more discoveries,Debray?"
A sigh might have been heard as the Secretary took his glass from hiseye, and replied simply:
"Yes."
"And who now?" asked Château-Renaud. "There seems no end to discoveriesto-night."
"The young man who, by his decorations, seems a chef de bataillon of theSpahis," replied Debray, "I cannot make out. But, be he whom he may, heis effectually disguised from his most intimate friends by his luxuriantbeard and moustache. As for the lady--there is but one woman in theworld I have ever had the good fortune to behold who could be mistakenfor her."
"And that is?" said Beauchamp.
"Herself."
"And who is herself, Lucien?" asked Château-Renaud.
"Have you forgotten the Countess de Morcerf?"
"The Countess de Morcerf?--the wife of the general who was convicted bythe peers of felony, treason and outrage in the matter of Ali Tebelen,Pacha of Yanina?" said Beauchamp.
"And who blew his brains out in despair?" added the Count.
"The same," said Debray. "She returned to Marseilles with her sonAlbert. You remember Albert and his strange conduct in the duel with theCount of Monte-Cristo?"
"One could hardly forget such chivalric generosity, such magnificentmagnanimity and such sublime self-control as were exhibited by the youngman on that occasion!" said Beauchamp. "It is to be hoped he was notequally forbearing toward the Arabs in his African campaigns, although,as his name has never been seen or heard since he entered the army, inall probability he was."
"Well, well," cried the Secretary, impatiently, "the Countess retired toMarseilles, and there she is said to have resided in utter seclusion, incompany only with Morrel's beautiful wife, devoting the vast wealth ofthe deceased Count to philanthropic objects, having received it, as hiswidow, only with the understanding it should be thus bestowed."
"But the rumor was," said Beauchamp, "and indeed I was so assured by M.de Boville himself, Receiver-General of the Hospitals, at the time, thatthe Countess gave all the Count's fortune to the hospitals, and that hehimself registered the deed of gift."
"Oh! that was only some twelve or thirteen hundred thousand francs,"said Debray. "Three months after her settlement at Marseilles, in asmall house in the Allées de Meillan, said to be her own by maternalinheritance, a letter came to her from Thomson and French, of Rome,stating that there was a deposit in their house, to the credit of theestate of the late Count, of the enormous sum of two millions of francs,subject to her sole control and order, as the Count's only heir, in theabsence of his son."
"Two millions of francs!" cried the two young men in a breath.
"Even so, Messieurs," said Debray. "The story does sound ratheroriental; but I have reason to know that it is entirely true, for I madediligent inquiry about it when last at Marseilles."
"And what took you to Marseilles, Lucien?" asked the Countsignificantly.
"The Ministry," replied Debray, with evident confusion, coloring deeply.
"But why does not the Countess marry again?" asked Château-Renaud,surveying her faultless form and face through his glass. "In the primeof life, rich, and, despite her past troubles, most exquisitelybeautiful, it is strange she don't make herself and some one elsehappy!"
"Especially as no one could ever accuse her of having very desperatelyloved her dear first husband," added the journalist. "Why don't shemarry, Lucien?"
"How the devil should I know!" replied the Secretary in great confusion."You don't suppose I ever asked her the question, do you?"
"Upon my word," exclaimed the Count, laughing, "I shall begin to thinkyou have, if you take it so warmly. But, hist! the bell! The curtainrises. We mustn't lose the third act of Donizetti's chef d'oeuvre,with such a Lucrezia, for any woman living."
But it was very evident that much of the magnificent performance of thedébutante and her companion, in the thrilling scene between the Duke andDuchess of Ferrara and the young Captain Gennaro, was lost to theSecretary.
"Do you observe, Beauchamp, how strangely fascinated with the newcantatrice seems the young officer of the Spahis who accompanies theCountess?" he whispered. "Do but look. He sits like one transfixed."
"And the Countess seems transfixed also, though not by the same object,"was the reply. "How excessively pale, yet how beautiful she is! Thatplain black dress, without ornament or jewel, and her raven hair, partedsimply on her forehead, enhance her voluptuous charms infinitely morethan could the most gorgeous costume. Heavens! what a happy man will hebe who can call her his!"
"Amen!" said Debray, and the word seemed to rise from the very depths ofhis heart. "But she will never marry. Some early disappointment, evenbefore her union with Morcerf, has withered her heart, and the terribledivorce which parted her from him, although she never loved him, willkeep her single forever. Her first and only love is either deador--worse--married to another."
"See, see, Lucien!" cried Beauchamp, hurriedly; "at whom does she gazeso intently, and yet so sadly? It cannot be Lamartine, for there sitshis lovely young English wife at his side; nor can it be old Arago, noryoung Le Verrier; and yet some one in that box it surely is."
"M. Dantès?" cried Debray.
"Impossible! That man seems hardly conscious that there are such beingsas women. His whole soul is in affairs of state."
"His whole soul seems somewhere else just at present," exclaimed theSecretary, bitterly. "Look!"
"How dreadfully pale he is!" said Beauchamp; "and yet his eyes fairlyblaze. Is it the Countess he gazes at?"
"Is it M. Dantès she gazes at?"
At that moment, amid the wild farewell of the mother to her son, uponthe stage, the curtain came down, and at the same instant, M. Dantèshastily pressed his white handkerchief to his lips, and, leaning on thearms of Lamartine and Arago, hastily left the box.
"Ha! the Countess faints!" cried Debray, as the door closed on M.Dantès. "Do they know each other, then?"



CHAPTER XIII.
THE ITALIAN LOVER.

It was early in the evening succeeding the day on which M. Dantès hadanswered Giovanni Massetti's letter. Zuleika was seated in the vast,sumptuously-furnished salon of the magnificent Morcerf mansion, now, asthe reader already knows, the residence of the famous and mysteriousDeputy from Marseilles. She sat upon a superb green velvet-covered sofa,half reclining in an indolent, picturesque attitude; behind the sofa andleaning over its back stood a young Italian, a perfect model of manlybeauty; his ardent black eyes were riveted on Zuleika's blushingcountenance with a look of the most profound and enthusiastic adoration,while his hand held the young girl's with a gentle, loving pressure,which was returned with unmistakable warmth. The apartment was dimlylighted and huge, sombre patches of shadow lay everywhere. Zuleika andher lover were alone together; for some time they seemed too full ofhappiness to speak, but finally Giovanni said, in a soft, flutelikewhisper, as if unwilling to break with loudly uttered words thedelicious spell of his love-dream:
"Zuleika, darling Zuleika, so you did not once forget me during ourlong, cruel separation?"
"Never for a single instant, Giovanni," answered the young girl, theflush upon her cheek deepening as she spoke, her hand tightening abouther lover's and her lovely eyes filling with a soft fire. "But Isometimes feared you had forgotten me!"
"You were always present in my mind and in my heart," replied theItalian in a tone that thrilled her through and through. Stooping, heplaced his lips to her forehead and imprinted upon it a long and silentkiss; then, flushing in his turn, he added, still holding his headagainst hers: "From the very moment of our first meeting you havereigned in my bosom, my own, my love, the queen of my destiny and mylife!"
"Oh! Giovanni, Giovanni," murmured the young girl, "I am happy, sohappy!"
He kissed her again, this time upon her upturned lips that with a slightmovement almost imperceptibly returned the kiss, sending his bloodtingling through his veins and causing him to tremble with delight fromhead to foot. No longer able to restrain himself, he hastily quitted theback of the sofa, threw himself down beside her and clasping her in hisarms drew her unresistingly upon his bosom. Once there she did not offerto stir, but even nestled closer to him and pillowed her head on hisbroad shoulder. The tumultuous beating of both their hearts was audibleamid the unbroken silence that ensued. With one hand the Viscounttenderly smoothed her silken tresses, and his arm tightened around herwaist as if he had determined never to release her again.
"Your father, in his letter of this morning," said Giovanni finally,"told me there was hope, that you did not look upon my addresses withaversion, and that I had his leave to pay court to you and ascertainyour wishes from your own dear lips. I hastened here this evening, andM. Dantès himself bade me seek you in this salon. I came on the wings oflove and found all my fondest hopes realized; that I possessed yourheart as you possessed mine. Oh! tell me, Zuleika, that this is not alla dream, for it seems too delicious to be true!"
"It is reality, Giovanni, blessed reality," answered the young girl in alow voice.
"And do you really love me with all your soul?"
"With all my soul, Giovanni!"
The ardent Italian showered a flood of burning kisses upon her forehead,cheeks and lips, and she quivered like a leaf in his embrace. Then hesaid, with a shade of anxiety in his tone:
"And your brother Espérance, is he disposed to look upon me withapproval? You know that in Rome he did not see fit to include me in thenumber of his friends. We had a little difference, you will remember,and ever afterwards he was cold toward me."
Zuleika shuddered as she recalled the fact that the little differencealluded to had been a violent quarrel that had nearly resulted in a duelbetween the two young men. She had never known the details, for both herbrother and Giovanni had studiously concealed them from her; indeed,Espérance had carefully avoided all mention of the Viscount's name eversince the day they had become embroiled. Was M. Dantès aware of thetrouble between his son and the youthful Italian? She did not know, but,at the same time, felt firmly persuaded that her father had fullyinvestigated the doings, character and family of her suitor, and wouldnot have sanctioned a renewal of his addresses to her had he not beenperfectly satisfied in every respect. She, therefore, answered:
"I am altogether ignorant as to what Espérance thinks of you, and cannotsay whether he still harbors resentment against you or not; but,whatever may be his opinion and feelings, rest assured that he willnever interfere to cause his sister an instant of unhappiness, moreespecially as he knows that my father looks upon you with a favoringeye."
"But how about the coldness existing between us?"
"Does it still exist on both sides?"
"Not on mine, Zuleika, not on mine. I forgave and forgot all long ago."
"Forgave and forgot! Then Espérance must have wronged you!"
"He did, Zuleika, and with the proverbial hot blood and headlongimpulses of the Roman youth I resented that wrong. But I could notremain at enmity with the brother of the girl I loved, so when I becamecooler I sought him out and endeavored to apologize."
"And he accepted your apology?"
"He did not accept it, but turned on his heel and left me without aword. He evidently thought me a coward and attributed my efforts towardeffecting a reconciliation to a desire to escape fighting him."
"But why did you quarrel in the first place? What was the cause of thedifference between you?"
The young Italian hung his head and did not answer. Zuleika saw that hehad grown deadly pale, and she felt his hand tremble nervously.
Freeing herself from his embrace, the young girl sprang to her feet andfaced him.
"Giovanni," said she, firmly, "tell me the whole story of this painfulaffair. It is imperative that I should know it!"
"Do you doubt me, Zuleika, do you doubt me?" he asked, bitterly, and heburied his face in his hands.
"Do I doubt you, Giovanni? No. But, if you love me, tell me all thedetails of the trouble between my brother and yourself!"
"I cannot, I cannot, Zuleika!" he cried. "Command me to shed the lastdrop of blood in my veins for you and I will do it without an instant'shesitation, but I cannot tell you that terrible tale of deceit,treachery and bloodshed!"
He had arisen and was walking excitedly about the salon; his pallor hadincreased and he trembled in every limb.
Zuleika stood with folded arms and gazed at him; she was calm and hereyes had a look of determination the young man had never before beheldin them; it filled him with dismay. A few moments ago she had been alllove and tenderness, a yielding, trusting maiden in her lover's arms;now, she resembled a beautiful Amazon bent on achieving a victory, whomnothing but unconditional surrender would satisfy.
"The story, the story," she repeated, "tell me the story!"
Her face was as white as marble and her faultless lips seemed chiseledfrom stone. She looked so beautiful and tempting as she stood there, hersurpassing loveliness enhanced by the picturesque half-oriental,half-Parisian dress she wore, that the Viscount felt his passion for herredoubled. He flung himself at her feet and seizing the hem of hersuperb robe kissed it rapturously.
"Oh! Zuleika, Zuleika," he cried, utterly unable to restrain himself, "Iam your slave! Place your tiny foot upon my neck and crush me where Ilie! I shall expire adoring you!"
"Giovanni," replied Zuleika, greatly moved by this display of devotion,"rise and be a man!"
The Italian sprang up as if he had been struck by a thunderbolt; then heendeavored to clasp her in his arms, but she quietly repulsed him.
"Zuleika," cried he, sadly, "you do not love me; you never loved me; Ihave been the victim of a cruel deception!"
"If you think so," answered the young girl, quietly, "there is but onecourse you can pursue as a man of honor--spurn the deceiver from you andnever look upon her face again!"
The young man gazed at her reproachfully.
"What have I done to turn you thus against me?" he asked, his tonesuddenly becoming humble.
"What have you done? You refuse to reveal this mystery to me, which, asyou yourself admit, involves deceit, treachery and bloodshed, and which,for aught I know, has set an indelible stain upon your life! I love youtruly, love you with all the passion of a woman's nature, but I mustknow this history that I may judge whether you are worthy of my love!"
"I assure you, Zuleika, that there is no stain upon my life, that thereis nothing in this history that tends in the least to dishonor me, butstill I cannot speak."
"Then we must separate."
"Oh! Zuleika, Zuleika, do not be pitiless! You will drive me mad!"
The young girl touched a bell and Ali, the Nubian, appeared.
"Monsieur is about taking his departure," said she to the faithfulservant. "I leave him in your hands."
And without a word of farewell to Giovanni, she swept from the salonlike a queen.
The Viscount gazed after her with indescribable sadness pictured uponhis handsome countenance. Then he followed Ali, put on his overcoat andhat and regretfully left the house.



CHAPTER XIV.
THE MINUTE VIALS.

Even to the Communists, with whom he had come into such close contact,M. Dantès, the Deputy from Marseilles, remained as much of a mystery asever. Marrast, though now devotedly attached to him, admitted that hewas totally unable to fathom either his designs, or his methods ofaccomplishing them, while Lamartine, who was in his company a largeportion of the time, when questioned concerning him, replied that all heknew of M. Dantès was that he was a firm friend of the cause and anuntiring worker in the interest of the weary and oppressed masses.
Debray, though he had no tangible foundation for it, could not get ridof the idea that the dangerous Deputy and the Count of Monte-Cristo wereone and the same individual, but Beauchamp, with the usual incredulityof journalists, scoffed at the notion, and Château-Renaud derided itwhenever it was mentioned in his presence.
That M. Dantès had great wealth was, however, generally admitted, thoughwhence it was derived or in what manner it was invested no one couldtell. It was now no longer a secret that he had purchased and resided inthe magnificent mansion formerly owned by the Count de Morcerf, in theRue du Helder, and this circumstance, while it vastly augmented theinterest attaching to him, did not in the least detract from theenthusiasm felt for him by the working classes.
It was night. In a large chamber, richly furnished, but dimly lighted,in the mansion in the Rue du Helder, the same apartment once inhabitedby the Countess de Morcerf, motionless, and seemingly lifeless, with acountenance as pale as alabaster, and as still, lay M. Dantès, theDeputy from Marseilles. Although, in the ashy pallor of the lips andbrow, and the fixed, serene, almost stern aspect of the immovable face,might be read unmistakable evidence of an exhausting and dangerousconstitutional shock to the system, yet none of that emaciation, overwhich broods the shadow of the angel of death, resulting from protractedillness, was there to be seen. The broad white forehead--the raven hair,sparsely sprinkled with silver--the round temples--the delicatelypenciled brow, encircling, like a sable arch, the large andalmond-formed eye--the full calm lip, and the chiseled chin andnostril--all these were as perfect now as when last before the reader.The cheek was, perhaps, slightly sunken, but it could not be more pallidthan when last beheld; and but for that nameless quietude--that "raptureof repose," as Lord Byron well expresses it--that placid languor whichsleeps on the features, which illness always creates and whichspiritualizes and intellectualizes the most common features, the invalidmight be supposed to be enjoying the most quiet slumber.
Excepting the invalid, there was no one in that chamber save thefaithful Ali, who moved noiselessly about, from time to time, or satimmovably upon the floor and gazed on his master's pallid face.
As the silvery tones of the chamber clock tinkled forth the thirdquarter after ten, the door opened, and a small, dark, thin man, withlarge whiskers, keen, penetrating eyes, broad, bald forehead, thinlycovered with gray hair, and apparently about fifty years of age, brisklyentered. It was Dr. Orfila, a name somewhat known in medical science.Approaching the bed, he placed his fingers upon the sick man's pulse,and gazed earnestly on his face for some time in silence.
"Strange!" he at length muttered; "the most powerful drugs in the mostunheard-of quantities are powerless! Who, then, is this man, whosenature so differs from that of every one else? Can he so haveaccustomed his system to poisons, that, as with the King of Pontus, theyare ineffectual to help or to harm him? His constitution must be iron!The vitality of a dozen men is in him, or he'd have been dead a monthago. Well, it's plain he's no worse, if he's no better. Drugs areuseless, and he must be left to nature and his amazing constitution.This stupor, this utter death of all the faculties and senses for solong a time, is wonderful. Fever, delirium, anything but this death-liketrance. It seems as if this man had been sleepless all his life before,and that now his overwrought brain and heart were compensatingthemselves for the toil and wakefulness of years. Could I but excite thenerves!"
For some time the physician gazed in deep thought at the pale face ofthe unconscious slumberer. Suddenly turning to the Nubian, he said tohim:
"Ali, where does your master keep the drugs he has been for yearsaccustomed to take?"
The Nubian stared in mute amazement, but moved not from his rug.
"Ali," said Dr. Orfila, sternly, "unless I see and know those drugs,this night your master dies."
The Nubian looked anxiously into the face of the physician, and then, asif satisfied with the scrutiny, rose, and, with noiseless steps, leftthe room. In a few moments he re-entered and placed in the physician'shands a small casket of ebony, exquisitely worked and studded with gems.Taking it hastily to the shaded lamp upon a table at the extremity ofthe chamber, he attempted to open it, but his attempts were vain.Indeed, to all appearances, it was a solid block of ebony, and itsextreme heaviness, compared with its dimensions, seemed to favor theidea.
"Well?" said the doctor, returning the casket, after a close scrutiny,to the Nubian, who had followed him.
Ali took the casket, and instantly a portion of the top flew up,disclosing within the centre of the cube of ebony a cavity lined withcrimson velvet, and a dazzling array of minute vials of crystal, eachfilled with a fluid--pink, blue, green and yellow in hue, while thecontents of several were colorless. The Nubian had touched a springconcealed in the carving, and known only to his master and himself.
The physician removed the minute vials one after another from theirreceptacles, and held them up to the light; on each was a cipher, and onno two was the same. Most of them were quite filled with the fluidcontained, but some were only half full, while one was nearly empty. Dr.Orfila looked closely at the cipher upon each vial as he removed it fromthe casket. He then held it to the light to determine its particular hueor shade, and sometimes withdrew the crystal stopper ground into thedeep mouth, touching it cautiously and quickly to his nostril or the tipof his tongue. "Morphia, cinchonia, quinia, lobelia, belladonna,narcotina, bromine, arsenicum, strychnos colubrina, brucoeaferruginea," muttered the savant, as he examined one vial after theother and replaced it. "Brucoea ferruginea--ha! brucine! I thought asmuch," exclaimed he, holding up the vial, which showed, by being nearlyempty, that its contents had been used more frequently than those of anyof the others.
"How many drops of this is the greatest number your master has evertaken?" asked Dr. Orfila.
The Nubian, who, it will be remembered, was a mute, held up both handswith the fingers outspread, and then two other fingers of one of hishands.
"Twelve drops!" cried the astonished physician. "Impossible!"
Ali insisted on the assertion.
"And yet it must be so," the doctor added. "That would explain all."
Taking the vial and a minute crystal vessel, which he found in thecasket, he hastily but carefully dropped into the latter thirteen drops.Then filling the vessel with water, he approached the patient, who stillslumbered heavily on, and placed it to his lips. For an instant heseemed conscious of the wish of the physician, and with an effort themixture was swallowed. Then he lay as still and motionless as before.
Returning the vials and the vessel to their places, Dr. Orfila closedthe casket and gave it to the Nubian. He then gazed long and anxiouslyat the torpid slumberer, standing at the bedside and watching thatmarble face.
At length the clock struck eleven. Dr. Orfila started and hastilyglanced at his repeater; then, turning to the Nubian, who had carriedaway the casket, and, having noiselessly returned, stood silently besidehim, he said:
"Ali, in one hour your master will be in high fever; in two hours hewill, probably, be delirious. He will then sleep soundly, and towardmorning will wake, I hope, in his right mind, but terribly exhausted andprofusely perspiring. At daylight I shall be here. You must not leavehim for a single instant as you value his life."
The Nubian clasped his hands above his head and bent his forehead almostto the floor.
"If you think necessary, however, Ali, send for me before morning."
The physician gave one more look at his patient, pressed his fingers onhis pulse, placed his palm on his forehead, and then, taking his hat andcane, left the chamber.



CHAPTER XV.
THE UNKNOWN NURSE.

When the rumor that M. Dantès had been taken seriously ill was firstcirculated throughout Paris, it caused excitement in every quarter ofthe city, filling the Communists and workmen with dismay and greatlyelating their opponents.
In the midst of the excitement a strange lady, very plainly attired,but whose language and bearing gave unmistakable evidence of refinementand aristocratic associations, made her appearance one morning at theoffice of Dr. Orfila and humbly asked permission to nurse hisdistinguished patient. The physician, somewhat surprised at such arequest from such a woman, immediately grew suspicious and demanded anexplanation, when the lady informed him that she had known the sick manin his youth and was still deeply interested in his welfare. She refusedto give her name, but solemnly assured the doctor that, should he granther petition, M. Dantès on his recovery would be ready to thank him onbended knees.
Convinced at length that no harm was intended, the physician gave hispermission and the unknown lady was duly installed as nurse. Shedischarged her duties with unflagging devotion and energy, satisfyingeven the exacting Nubian, with whom she divided the watch at the bedsideof the unconscious deputy. Dr. Orfila was delighted, while Espérance andZuleika were overjoyed.
On--on--the sleeper still slumbered on! One--two--three--four quartersafter eleven tinkled in silvery numbers upon the delicate bell of theclock, yet the closed eyelids and fixed lips moved not, gave no sign;but for the light, though regular undulation of the chest, life itselfmight seem to have fled forever. Yet life was still there!
How strange the bond which connects vitality with consciousness--thebody with the soul! And yet more strange is that phase of existence inwhich the one moves on without the other. The mind sometimes is all lifewhen the body is dead, and oftener still is the body all life when themind seems gone. Mind, too, may frequently act independently, not onlyof the body, as in dreams, but, also, of consciousness and of the heart;while the body, as in somnambulism, may act altogether alone.
On--on--the slumberer breathed on, but he thought not, felt not,perceived not. A revolution, an earthquake might heave around him, butthe convulsive throes of man or of nature would have been as nothing tohim. The brow would have remained as calm and as cold, and the cheek aspale and as still, while, in all human probability, the faithful Nubianwould have sat as immovable upon his rug at the bedside of his belovedmaster, and have gazed upon him as untiringly with his dark andsleepless eye.
As the last quarter after eleven sounded, followed immediately by thehour of midnight, a small door beside the bed noiselessly opened, and afemale figure in white silently entered the room; but not so noiselesslywas the entrance effected as to escape the ear of the vigilant Ali. Heglanced hurriedly around; then, as if familiar with the apparition, andanticipating its approach, he rose, and, taking his rug to the furtherextremity of the chamber, again laid himself down, like a faithful dog,though not now to watch.
Meanwhile the lady, quietly approaching the bed, gazed long andmournfully at the slumberer's pale yet noble visage; then, kneeling, sheburied her face in her hands amid the coverings.
She was, probably, forty; yet, in the full and faultless perfection ofher form--in her graceful and yielding motions--in her statuesque bust,rounded cheek and night-black hair, she would, to the casual observer,have indicated hardly the half of that age. Her figure was tall anddignified, yet mobile as a willow; her eyes were dark and luminous, and,in their profound depths, slept a world of melancholy meaning. Her hairwas simply parted on a broad forehead, and was gathered in heavy masseslow on the neck. Her lips were full and red, and, when parted, exhibitedteeth of dazzling whiteness, while her complexion, which was very dark,was yet clear and pure as the hue of the magnolia's petal. But that facewas pale, very pale, almost as colorless as that of the quiet sleeper atits side, and upon it rested an expression of love unutterable, mingledwith the sadness of death.
Such was the unknown nurse, the Countess de Morcerf, as she again was aninmate of that apartment of which she had once, under circumstances howdifferent, been mistress; such was Mercédès, the Catalane of Marseilles,again at the side of the man whom all her life she had loved, with noneto gainsay or forbid!
Upon that pale and motionless countenance she gazed long and deeply,and, oh! the world of memory that passed through her mind!--the worldof thought and feeling that centred in that fixed gaze! At length,clasping her hands upon her forehead, her eyes streaming with tears, shebowed her face upon the bed, from which she had just raised it, and longseemed absorbed in prayer.
Roused from this position by some movement of the slumberer, she startedup and watched him.
The shaded rays of the dim and distant lamp threw a faint glimmering oflight upon the pale countenance, but the quick eye of loveinstantaneously detected a change. A slight flush was mounting thecheek, and gentle perspiration was distilling upon the brow, while asmile played on the mouth. Suddenly, as she gazed, those pallid lipsmoved. Astonished, she listened.
"Marseilles! beautiful Marseilles!" said the sleeper. "Home of myboyhood, home of my heart. I come!" Then quickly and sternly came theorder, "Let go the anchor--furl the sails--mate, take charge of theship!" Then the tones changed, and a joyful light shot over the face asthe lips exclaimed, "Now for my father! now for my love! Mercédès!Mercédès!"
Amazed, the fair watcher retained her position, and gazed and listenedso silently and breathlessly that the quick and audible beatings of herheart might have been numbered.
"Mine--mine at last!" continued the dreamer. "The marriage-feast--themarriage-feast!" But instantly the expression of the voice and thecountenance altered. The light of joy was shrouded in clouds."Arrest--arrest me?" was the exclamation--"me! at my marriage-feast! Adungeon for me! Mercédès! Mercédès! My love--my wife! Oh! God! it is theChâteau d'If! Despair--despair!"
Shocked, terrified at the terrible energy of these words, and theexpression of unutterable woe that rested on the countenance of thesleeper, the affrighted woman, who comprehended but too well the fearfulsignificance of the abrupt and disjointed syllables, hastily arose as ifto rouse the slumberer from his dream or to call on the Nubian for aid.
But, before she could carry the purpose into execution, the aspect ofthe Deputy's visage again had changed. A dark frown settled on the brow,a spirit of fixed resolve contracted the firm lip and dilated thenostril, and the word, "Vengeance--vengeance!" in whispers scarcelyaudible, but repeatedly and rapidly pronounced, was heard.
A longer silence than before succeeded. At length another change sweptover the face, and the words, "Free--free--I am free!" burst from thelips; then they murmured, "Treasure untold! wondrouswealth!--diamonds--pearls--rubies--ingots of gold! The mad abbé's dreamwas reality!" Again the countenance darkened. "Fourteen years in adungeon for no crime!--a father dead of starvation!--a bride the brideof the fiend who has done all this--and he a peer of France--and hisfriends a millionaire of Paris and the Procureur du Roi!Vengeance--vengeance--vengeance!" There was a pause, and the dreamerexultingly continued, "It is done! The peer of France is a disgracedsuicide! The Procureur du Roi is a madman! The banker is a bankrupt!"The dreamer again paused, and his countenance once more changed. "Alas!alas! man is not God! 'Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord!'The innocent suffer with the guilty. To avenge a wrong has beensacrificed a life, and only misery has been the recompense! No more--nomore--no more of this! Man and man's happiness be henceforth the aim! Tothat be devoted wealth untold!"
The lips ceased to move. Gradually the high excitement of the featurespassed away and was succeeded by an expression of sadness and love."Haydée--gone--gone to a better world. Mercédès--Mercédès--oh! does shelove me yet? The long lost idol of my heart!--the adored angel of mylife!--come! come! come!"
As the dreamer spoke, he spread wide his arms; when his eyes opened, andhis long slumbering senses returned, Mercédès, his own Mercédès, was,indeed, clasped to his breast.
"Mercédès! Mercédès?" he faintly whispered. "Ah! it was no dream, foryou are, indeed, beside me and mine--mine forever!"
"Thine--thine--forever!" was the reply, and she clasped his feeble formto her heart as she would have clasped that of a child.



CHAPTER XVI.
A NOTABLE FÊTE.

On the night of Monday, February 21st, 1848, all Paris was at the houseof M. Gaultier de Rumilly, in the Avenue des Champs Elysées. M. Gaultierde Rumilly was well known as one of the leaders of the extreme left,though the confidential friend of M. Odillon Barrot, and the fête wasperfectly understood to be a political reunion, rather than a socialone. All the accompaniments of the most splendid society events of theseason were in requisition. Even the brilliant balls given by theopulent citizens of New York were eclipsed in luxury and splendor. Therewas the streaming of lamps and chandeliers, the swell of enchantingmusic, the whirl of the fascinating polka, redowa or mazurka, whilethrongs of richly attired and lovely women were constantly enhancing themagnificence of the scene by their arrival. The brilliancy of theoccasion was also richly diversified by the presence of an unusuallylarge number of officers of the Municipal and National Guards in fulluniform, as well as of several belonging to the Line or the regiments ofAlgeria.
It was about ten o'clock. Within, all was light, life and loveliness;without, the winter wind moaned drearily through the leafless trees ofthe Boulevard, and the drifting sleet swept along the deserted streets.It was a wild night. Throughout all Paris seemed going forth aportentous murmur, like that mysterious moaning of the ocean, which,with mariners, is the prelude of a storm. An ominous whispering, as ofmany voices, seemed to sink and swell on the sweeping night blast; thenall was still. Again, in the distance, would rise a sharp shout, or thestern, brief word of military command. At intervals, also, one mightimagine he heard a deep rumbling, as of heavy ordnance and its tumbrelsover the pavements, accompanied by the measured tread of armed men andthe clattering hoofs of cavalry horses. Then these sounds died away, andalong the narrow streets of Paris again the night wind only swept, thebitter blast howled and the ominous whispering, as of spirits, rose andfell.
It was a strange and stormy night--murky and chilly--while at intervalsthe cold rain dashed down in cutting blasts. But within the magnificentmansion of Gaultier de Rumilly all was light and loveliness, as has beensaid. The splendid salons were already thronged, yet crowds ofrichly-attired guests were constantly arriving.
"Ha! Beauchamp, just come?" cried Château-Renaud to his friend, as heentered.
"By the grace of God, yes!" said the journalist. "What a night!"
"What a throng of men and women say rather!" was the reply.
"Very true. Who's here?"
"Ask who's not here, and your question may be easily answered. All Parisis here! Women of every age and station, and men of all politicalcreeds--Conservatives, Dynastics, Legitimists, Republicans andCommunists. Indeed, this soirée seems to me, and I shouldn't wonder ifit were designed so to be, a general reunion of the leaders of all thegreat parties in France, to compare notes and learn the news."
"And there is news enough to learn, it would seem. Is M. Dantès here?"
"He is, or was, and his beautiful wife, too, the most magnificent womanin Paris. Morrel also is here with his fair bride."
"And who is that dark, dignified man in the Turkish costume, around whomthe ladies have clustered so inquisitively?" asked the Deputy.
"Why, that's the Emir of Algeria, the famous captive of the Duked'Aumale," was the reply.
"What! Abd-el-Kader! How comes he here?"
"Oh! as a special favor, I suppose; he has a respite from his sadprison."
"What a splendid beard, and what keen black eyes!"
"No, his eyes are decidedly gray, but so shaded by his extraordinarylashes that they seem black. They say that he was more distinguished asa scholar, in Algeria, than as a soldier, statesman or priest. In fact,he is as erudite as an Arab can be, and his library, which is containedin two leathern trunks, accompanied him in all his wanderings prior tohis submission."
"And what think you really induced him to surrender himself?"
"Policy of the deepest character, and worthy of Talleyrand, Metternichor Nesselrode, if we are to rely on the eloquent speech of Lamoricièrein the Chamber, the other day."
"I remember. Bugeaud spoke first, and Lamoricière followed. He thoughtthat the Arab Curtius leaped into the gulf because, by so doing, he wasconvinced he could injure French interests more than by his freedom.Well, perhaps he was right. He bids fair to be a hard bone of contentionbetween the opposition and the Ministry."
"If I mistake not, Lamoricière disclaimed all responsibility foraccepting the surrender, and placed it on the Governor-General, theyoung Duke, for whom the Ministry is liable?"
"Yes; and Guizot announced that he would send the Emir back toAlexandria, could security be given against his return to Algeria."
"As to the Emir's surrender, at which you wonder, the real cause is saidto have been not policy, but the universal passion--love."
"He is an Antony, then, instead of a Curtius."
"So it seems. At the moment when, with incredible efforts, he hadeffected the passage of the Moorish camp, and was off like an ostrichfor the desert, the firing of the French, who had reached his deira,struck his ear. Back he flew like the lamiel. Twice his horse fellunder him dead--twice he was surrounded and seized, and twice, by hiswonderful agility, he regained his freedom. At last, perceiving that allwas lost, he turned his face again toward the desert, and, for two daysand nights, continued his flight. But his heart was behind him. Certainof escape himself, he preferred hopeless captivity with her he loved,and he returned."
"Quite poetical, on my word! Worthy of Sadi, the Arab Petrarch,himself!" said Château-Renaud.
"He is decidedly a great man, that Abd-el-Kader. They say he bears hismisfortunes like a philosopher--or, better, a Turk--unalterably mild anddignified, while his wives and his mother wail at his feet. Everymorning he reads the Koran to them, and during the orisons all thewindows are open, and a large fire blazes in the centre of the room."
"He is a decided godsend to the quidnuncs of Paris."
"So would be a Hottentot, or a North American savage," repliedBeauchamp.
"Rather a different affair this from the Ministerial soirée a week ago,I fancy," remarked the editor.
"Rather. I will confess to you, Beauchamp, I attended that soirée fromcuriosity to see whether M. Guizot retained his habitual placidity ofmanner amid the clouds every day thickening around him."
"And what was the result?"
"Why, this. He was as polite and courteous as ever, and the same cold,imperturbable smile was on his thin lip; but he looked careworn, andupon his countenance was an expression of solicitude, when it wasclosely watched, which I never saw there before. Ah, Beauchamp, I envynot the Premier!"
"And the guests?" asked the journalist.
"Of guests there were but few; and the spacious salons of the Hôtel desAffaires Étrangères looked dismal and deserted."
"The lovely Countess Leven--"
"Even she was absent."
"And the Countess of Dino?"
"Absent, too."
"The soirée must have been, indeed, dull without those 'charming queensof intrigue,' as Louis Blanc courteously calls them. But tell me, Count,is the Minister really the husband of the beautiful Leven, or is sheonly his par amours?"
"No one knows. It is certain, however, that the great man devotes to theenchantress every moment he can steal from the State, though to look athim one would hardly suppose him a lover, in any meaning of the term.But who knows? To read his writings can one imagine a purer man? But,then, the affairs of Gisquet, Cubières, Teste, and, last and worst,Petit, whose case was before the Chamber, do they not betray deplorablelack of firmness or morality? But no more of this. Who is that dark,splendid woman to whom young Joliette seems so devoted? I have seenthem together before!"
"Why, you surely have not forgotten Louise d'Armilly, the charmingcantatrice! She has recently left the boards, to the irreparable loss ofthe opera, having come into possession of an immense inheritance--somemillions, it is said, left by her father, who was once a banker ofParis. She is asserted to be very accomplished and very ambitious, and,as the young African paladin is thoroughly bewitched by her, and she byhim, they will, doubtless, be matched as well as paired."
"Has Lucien been here?" asked the Deputy, after a pause, during whichthe young men surveyed the brilliant throngs that passed before them andreturned the salutations of their acquaintances.
"I think not. We have not met, at least," replied the journalist.
"He can hardly be spared to-night, I fancy. The Ministry have had astormy day, and are, doubtless, preparing for one still more stormyto-morrow."
"There was a perfect tempest in the Chamber this evening, I understand."
"Call it rather a hurricane, a tornado!"
"Ah! give me the particulars; here, come with me into this corner.Unfortunately, I was not present. I was busy on the General Committeefor the Banquet of the Twelfth Arrondissement, to-morrow, at Chaillot.To avoid all possibility of collision with the police, we resolved, youknow, not to have the banquet within the walls of Paris, and so there isto be a procession to the Barrière de l'Etoile. I have been there sincemorning, and reached the city only in time to come here. So, you see, Iam edifyingly ignorant of the latest news."
"Then I have to inform you that there is to be no banquet after all."
"No banquet! Why, I thought it was compromised between Guizot and Barrotthat the banquet should be allowed to proceed under protest, in orderthat the question might be brought before the Supreme Court."
"Such was the purpose, but a manifesto of the Banquet Committee, drawnup by Marrast, it is said, and, at all events, issued in 'Le National'this morning, declaring the design not only of a banquet, but of aprocession, changed everything. The address sets forth that all invitedto the banquet would assemble at the Place de la Madeleine to-morrow atabout noon, and thence, escorted by the National Guard, and accompaniedby the students of the universities, should proceed by the Place de laConcorde to the Arc de Triomphe, at the extremity of the Avenue desChamps Elysées, and thence to the immense pavilion on the grounds ofGeneral Shian. Only one toast, 'Reform, and the right to assemble,' wasannounced to be drunk, and then a commissary of police could enter aformal protest against the whole proceeding on the spot, on which tobase a legal prosecution, and the multitude would disperse."
"A very sensible mode of procedure," quietly remarked the journalist,"and one eminently calculated to relieve your friend Guizot and myfriend Barrot from the awkward dilemma of a direct issue."
"But so thought not my friend Guizot. Like his oracle, the sageMontesquieu, he thought, 'Who assembles the people causes them torevolt.' He took fright at the manifesto, as he was pleased to dignifythe simple programme in this morning's 'National,' and so, early in thesitting, it was announced that the reform banquet was utterly prohibitedby M. Delessert, Préfect of Police, on the express injunction andresponsibility of M. Duchatel, Minister of the Interior, by and with theadvice of M. Hebert, Minister of Justice."
"Ha! and what said Odillon Barrot?" cried the journalist.
"He--why he said nothing at all, but immediately retired at the head ofthe opposition from the Chamber."
"To consult?"
"Of course. An hour after, they returned in a body two hundred and fiftystrong, with Barrot at their head, who at once mounted the tribune anddenounced the despotism of the Ministry in forbidding the peacefulassembling of the citizens, without tumult or arms, to discuss theirpolitical rights. Duchatel replied, under great excitement.
"'Shall reform committees dare to call out the National Guard at theirpleasure?' he asked.
"'Will you dare to call out the National Guard?' retorted De Courtais,fiercely. 'Only try it!'
"'The Government of France will never yield!' rejoined the Minister,pale with fury.
"'Speak in your own name, Monsieur!' shouted Flocon.
"'I shall never speak in yours!' was the answer.
"'You play the game of menace!' cried Lesseps.
"'The Government will never yield!' again vociferated Duchatel.
"'Those were the very words of Charles X.!' observed M. Dantès, sternly.The entire left responded in a terrific roar.
"'There is blood in those words!' shouted Ledru Rollin.
"'The Government will never yield!' the Minister of the Interior for thethird time vehemently exclaimed, and the right gathered around him.'This is worse than Polignac or Peyronet!' vociferated Odillon Barrot,his trumpet tones rising above all others like a clarion in a tempest.Those hated names were greeted by a yell of abhorrence perfectly savagefrom the left; then all was uproar--a dozen voices simultaneouslyshouting at theirloudest--denunciation--menace--defiance--retort--clenchedhands--extended arms--furious gesticulations--every one ontip-toe--fiery eyes--stamping feet--shouts of 'Order! order!order!'--and, amid all, the incessant tinkling of old Sauzet's littlesilver bell, which was just about as effective in restoring peace as itwould be to quiet the tempest now howling through the streets of Paris.At length, in utter consternation and dismay the old President put onhis hat, and, pronouncing the séance ended, rushed from his chair amid ahurricane of uproarious shouts."
"And Odillon Barrot?"
"Odillon Barrot led the opposition members immediately from the Chamberto his own house, where they have been ever since in deliberation. Itwas six o'clock when the sitting closed, and they must be inconsultation now, or Barrot would surely be here, if but for a moment,out of respect to his bosom friend, our host. Ah! there he is, justentering, surrounded by a perfect army of Republicans--De Courtais,Marrast, Lesseps, Duvergier, Flocon, Lamartine, Dupont and a whole hostbesides."
"How excited they look!" exclaimed the journalist. "Ah! Thiersapproaches them from the other end of the salon!"
"M. Thiers, like the worldly-wise and selfish man he is, has heldhimself aloof from the banquet, and even declined the invitationaccepted by a hundred of his party; to-day he was absent from theChamber and to-night from the conclave, all with the aspiring, yet vainhope, that the King will send for him to form a Ministry."
"And yet, in the Chamber, a few days ago, he said that he was of theparty of the revolution in Europe."
"True, but he added that he wished the revolution carried on by itsmoderate supporters, and that he should do all he could to keep it inthe hands of the moderate party."
"'But if it should pass into the hands of a party not moderate,'continued the crafty ex-Minister, 'I shall not abandon the cause of therevolution. I shall be always of the party of the revolution.' But see,he singles out Marrast, of all others!"
"And his old colleague of 'Le National' seems to give him no verycordial reception," added the Deputy. "But let us move up and hear thedetermination of the opposition relative to the banquet."
"That's the very question the little historian has just propounded tothe great journalist. Now for the answer."
"The opposition decide, Monsieur, to abandon the banquet," was the angryreply of the editor to the ex-Minister.
"Indeed!" was the bland rejoinder; "and has a manifesto of this decisionbeen issued to the people?"
"It has; and it instantly called forth a counter manifesto from theelectoral committee of the Twelfth Arrondissement, expressing verynatural astonishment that, at the same time the opposition abandoned thebanquet, they had not abandoned their seats in the Chamber, and invitingthem so to do at once."
"And the Ministry?" anxiously asked M. Thiers.
"Will to-morrow be impeached, Monsieur!"
"Ah! indeed! indeed!" cried the smart little aspirant, gleefullyrubbing his hands.
At that moment General Lamoricière, the brother-in-law of Thiers, whoowed so much to the house of Orléans, hastily approached.
"I come straight from the Tuileries," he said, with considerableexcitement. "General Jacqueminot has just issued an order of the day, ascommander-in-chief of the National Guard, appealing to them as theconstitutional protectors of the Throne to take no part in the banquet.Orders have, also, been issued for the rappel to be beaten at dawn, inthe Quartier St. Honoré, the scene of the contemplated procession. Butit's all folly to rely on the National Guard. They are of the people.Only the Municipal Guard and the troops of the Line can be relied on inthe civil conflict, which is sure to come to-morrow."
"And the Ministers, what do they?" asked Thiers.
"Oh! they are not idle," replied the soldier. "The bastilles are armed,and those of Montrouge and Aubervilliers are provisioned. Thehorse-artillery at Vincennes are ready, on the instant, to gallop intothe capital. Seventy additional pieces of ordnance are now entering thebarrières. The Municipal Guard are supplied with ball-cartridges. Thetroops concentrated at sunrise to-morrow will not be less than onehundred thousand strong. With these men in the forts and faithful, thecity can be starved in three days, National Guard and all, ifrebellious. Now is the crisis in which to test the remarkable admissionof M. Duchatel, in May, '45, that the bastilles of Paris were designedto 'fortify order.' We shall see, we shall see!"
"And the Marshal Duke of Islay--where is he?" quietly asked Marrast,with a significant shrug and smile.
At this mention of his bitter foe, a frown lowered on the fine face ofLamoricière, as he briefly and sternly replied:
"With the King, Monsieur--General Bugeaud is with the King. But theymistake, Monsieur. Eugène Cavaignac is the man for this emergency.Bugeaud is a soldier--a mere soldier--Cavaignac is a statesman--aNapoleon! Paris will discriminate between the two one day, and thatshortly."
And with an abrupt military salute the conqueror of Algeria walked away,followed by his little brother-in-law, who seemed yet shorter and moreinsignificant at the side of his towering and graceful form. At the samemoment, Ledru Rollin entered in great agitation, and, having glancedhastily around, as if in search of some one in the assemblage, advancedstraight to the journalist and grasped his hand.
"By heavens, Armand, I think the hour has arrived!"
"Whence do you come?" was the quick question.
"From the Boulevards, where I left Flocon, Louis Blanc and M. Dantès,with the people. I tell you, Armand, the people are ripe--ripe! TheMinisterial ordinances prohibiting the banquet have kindled a flamewherever they have gone. The pitiful manifesto of the opposition and thecounter manifesto of the Twelfth Arrondissement have only served to fanthis flame into fury. It has been our care to restrain and direct, notto excite. It is dark and cold without, Armand; the winter wind howlsdismally along the streets, the sleet freezes as it falls and thefurious blast almost extinguishes the torches by which, at the cornersand at the cafés, the different manifestoes of the day are being read tothe eager throngs, on whose faces, in the flare of the blood-red light,can be perceived the fury of their hearts. The people, at length, areripe! To-morrow all Paris will be in arms!"
While Ledru Rollin was thus speaking, Louis Blanc entered and quietlyapproached, courteously saluting his acquaintances on his way, andstopping to exchange a few words with Madame Dantès, who inquired withconsiderable anxiety for her husband.
"I have this moment left him, Madame," said Louis Blanc. "Be assured, heis safe and well. Ah! how glorious to be an object of solicitude to onelike you!" he added, with a smile.
The lady smiled also, and offered an appropriate jest in reply to thegallantry of the distinguished author, as he moved on to join hisfriends.
"The Ministry provokes its fate!" he said, in a low tone, as heapproached. "'Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad.' Thesemen suffered seventy reform banquets all over France. The seventy-firstone they prohibit, and that, too, by the exhumation of an old despoticedict of 1790. This is exactly what we would have. It was the first, notthe last banquet they should have suppressed. Barrot was right to-day,in the Chamber, when he said that had this manifestation been sufferedthe people would have become tranquil."
"Tranquil, indeed!" cried Ledru Rollin. "That's exactly what we haveapprehended! No--no--it is too late! This Reform Banquet was, at first,but an insignificant thing. In it we now recognize the commencement of arevolution. The various announcements and postponements of this banquethave caused an agitation among the masses favorable to our wishes, andthe threats and obstinacy of the Ministry have completed the work. Thehopes, fears, doubts and disappointments attending this affair have putthe mind of all Paris in a ferment, and excited passions of which we maytake immediate advantage."
"Aye!" cried Louis Blanc, "we may now do what I have always wished andcounseled--we, the Communists, may now take advantage of a movement, inthe origin or inception of which we had no hand."
"True, most true!" observed Marrast; "this is the work of theDynastics--Thiers, Barrot and the rest--the commencement of a reformunder the law which we design to make a revolution paramount to alllaw."
"They begin to fear already that they have gone too far, those discreetmen!" said Louis Blanc, smiling bitterly. "Did you observe how theyshuffled to-night at M. Barrot's, and finally resolved to abandon thebanquet, but, as a sop to the people, pledged themselves to impeach theMinistry?"
"Ah! ha! ha!" laughed Ledru Rollin; "just as if their abandonment of thebanquet is to keep the people away from it to-morrow, any more than theMinisterial ordinances! Why, not one man in ten thousand knows of theexistence of these manifestoes! But the faubourgs have been promised aholiday for a fortnight past, and they don't intend to be put offagain."
"Whether the Dynastics designed or wished to be compromised in thisaffair," remarked Marrast, "they certainly are committed now, and it istoo late for them to get out of the movement. Indeed, I view it asnothing less than a union of all the oppositions against the Crown--aye,against the Crown, and for a republic! We comprehend this--they don't.They have not, like us, waited seventeen years for a signal forrevolution;--and now, before God, I believe the hour is at hand! This isno accidental insurrection of the 5th and 6th of June, '32--no outbreakat a funeral--no riot of operatives--no unmeaning revolt, as in '39. Itis a reform, with the first names in France as its advocates andsupporters, which we will make a revolution if we can secure theNational Guard."
"The National Guard is secured already," said Louis Blanc. "Are theynot of the people? At least twenty thousand of the National Guard areRepublicans. Of the remaining forty thousand, nearly all are welldisposed or neutral in feeling. Have I studied the National Guard fortwenty years in vain, and have all the measures of the Communists tosecure them, when the crisis came on, proved utterly ineffectual? On theNational Guard we may rely. The Municipal Guard are picked men, and wellpaid to support the Throne--they will fight even better than the Line.With the Line and the National Guard the people must seek to fraternizefrom the beginning--with the other troops they have solely tofight--but, after all, general facts and principles only can be laiddown. Circumstances utterly beyond human control must direct and govern,and vary and determine results when the period of action arrives; andarrive it may at any hour of the day or night. At this moment Parissleeps on a volcano, the fires of which have long been gathering throughmany a fair and sunny day! God only knows when the volcano will burst;but, when the hour comes, let the people be prepared!"
As these enthusiastic words were uttered, the dark eye of the speakerflashed and his lip quivered. The silver clock on the mantel, besidewhich the conspirators stood, struck the first quarter after two. Thenight was waning, but the festivity seemed rather to increase thandiminish within the salons of the magnificent mansion, while the stormhowled even more drearily without, and the rain, at intervals, in heavyblasts, beat even more fiercely against the northern casements.
As Louis Blanc ceased speaking, M. Flocon entered the salon, and, as ifby some preconcerted arrangement, at once sought his political friends.
"What of the night, watchman?" cried Ledru Rollin, as the editor of "LaRéforme" approached. "The latest news! for 'That of an hour's age dothhiss the speaker,' as the English Shakespeare says. The news! good orbad!"
"As I entered," said Flocon, "the house trembled with the jar of a trainof heavy ordnance, attended by tumbrels and artillery caissons, andescorted by a regiment of horse, which rolled along the pavement of theChamps Elysées."
"Good!" answered Marrast, with enthusiasm.
"All night," continued Flocon, eagerly, "through darkness and storm,whole regiments of infantry have thronged the line of boulevards whichstretch from the Tuileries to Vincennes, and each soldier bears upon hisknapsack, in addition to all his arms, an axe to demolish barricades.The garrisons of the arrondissements of Paris are already seventythousand strong; and the troops of the Line are concentrating around thePalais Bourbon and the Chamber of Deputies."
"Excellent--most excellent!" joyfully exclaimed Louis Blanc. "Theaffront will not be wanting! But where is M. Dantès?"
"He is still with the chiefs of the faubourgs and the committees of theFree-masons and workmen, in the Rue Lepelletier, issuing his lastinstructions for the morrow. Messieurs, that man is a magician! His zealin the good cause puts the boldest of us all to the blush. By mostindefatigable energy and indomitable perseverance, he has brought abouta systematic, almost scientific organization and fraternity, throughvarious modes of rapid intercommunication between the innumerableclasses of operatives of every description throughout the whole capitaland its faubourgs, so that, within six hours, he can have in militaryarray an armed mass of one hundred thousand blouses upon the boulevards.The workshops alone, he tells me, can furnish fifty thousand. Therapidity with which he conveys intelligence through this immense armyand their utter subservience to his will and subordination to his ordersare all so wonderful that it is impossible to determine which is mostso. To control a Parisian populace has hitherto been deemed a chimera.With M. Dantès it is an existing reality. Not an army in Europe is soobedient or so prompt as his army of workmen. The secret is this--theyknow him to be their friend. All over Paris are to be seen hisworkshops, savings banks, hospitals and houses of industry and reform,and, in the suburbs, his phalansteries and his model farms. That he hasthe command of boundless wealth is certain; but whose it is, or whenceit comes, no one can divine; and never did man make use of boundlesswealth to attain his ends more wisely than he does! Why, I am told thatthe pens of half the littérateurs and feuilletonists of Paris have foryears past been guided by his will and compensated from his purse toaccomplish his purposes. 'The Mysteries of Paris' and 'The WanderingJew' are but two of the triumphs of his policy. And his system ofphilanthropy seems not bounded by France, but to embrace all Europe. TheSwiss Protestant and the Italian patriot have each felt his effectivesympathy as well as the French workman; and in the same manner as withthe operatives so has he obtained influence and weight with the NationalGuard, and to such an extent that of the sixty thousand one-half wouldobey his orders with greater alacrity than those of Jacqueminot himself.I tell you, Messieurs, he is a magician!"
"Hush! hush!" cried Marrast; "he is entering now!"
"He pauses and looks around him!" said Louis Blanc.
"He looks for us; I will go to him!" remarked Flocon.
"He looks for his wife," replied Louis Blanc. "There, he catches hereye. See how eagerly she flies to him!"
"That is the finest pair in Paris," remarked the journalist.
"And the most devoted," added Ledru Rollin. "They have been man and wifefor some time, it is said, and any one would take them for lovers atthis moment."
"Have they children?" asked Flocon.
"No; but M. Dantès has by a former wife a son and daughter, who rivalin good looks the celebrated children of our friend Victor Hugo,"returned Louis Blanc.
"I met Arago, Lamartine, Sue, Châteaubriand and some other celebritiesat his mansion in the Rue du Helder one night, recently," continuedMarrast, "and I thought I never saw a house arranged with such perfecttaste. The salons, library, picture-gallery, cabinet of natural history,conservatory, and laboratory were superb--everything, in short, wasexquisite."
"And then one is always sure to meet at Madame Dantès' soirées," addedLouis Blanc, "exactly the persons who, of all others, he wishes to see,and whom he would meet nowhere else, poets, painters, authors, orators,statesmen and artists of every description--in fine, every man or woman,whether native or foreigner, distinguished for anything, is certain tobe met with at M. Dantès' house."
"I once met there," said Flocon, "Rachel, the actress, and Van Amburgh,the lion-king."
"M. Dantès is a perfect Mæcenas in encouraging merit, as every oneknows," remarked Marrast; "and he manifests especial solicitude to showthat he appreciates worth more highly than wealth--genius than station.Poverty and ability are sure recommendations to him."
"Madame Dantès is, I am told, as devoted to the good cause as herhusband," remarked Flocon.
"She is a second Madame Roland!" exclaimed Louis Blanc. "France willowe much to such women as she and her friend Madame Dudevant!"
"She differs greatly from Madame George Sand in some respects, I fancy,"said Marrast; "but, if she at all rivals that wonderful woman indevotedness to the cause of human rights, whether of her own sex orours, she deserves well of France. In her charities, it is notorious,she has no rival. Half the mendicants of the capital bless her name, andshe is at the head of a dozen associations and enterprises for theamelioration of the condition of the destitute, suffering and abandonedof her sex."
"Upon my word, Messieurs," cried Ledru Rollin, "your praises of M.Dantès and Madame, his beautiful wife, are perfectly enthusiastic--somuch so, that, in your zeal, you utterly forgot another matter quite asmomentous. I am so unfortunate as to know M. Dantès only as one of thegreat pillars of our noble cause, and a man who, for nearly six years,has proven himself an apostle of man's rights, and ready, if need be, tobecome a martyr! That's enough for me to know of him!"
"But who really are M. Dantès and his wife?" asked Flocon.
"Who really are any of us?" laughingly rejoined Louis Blanc.
"Who really is any one in Paris," continued Marrast, "the blood-royalalways and alone excepted?"
"Of M. Dantès this only is known," said Louis Blanc, "that for five orsix years past he has been a Deputy from Marseilles, Lyons and othersouthern cities, all of which have been eager to honor themselves byreturning him as their representative, as one of the boldest and mosteloquent Republicans in all France; as for Madame Dantès, we know her tohave once been the Countess de Morcerf, but now the wife of our friend,and one of the noblest and most lovely matrons in Paris. What need havewe to know more? But our friend comes."
While this conversation was proceeding, Dantès and Mercédès had joinedeach other, and their hands were quietly clasped.
"Is all well, Edmond?" was the anxious inquiry of the fond wife, in low,soft, musical tones, as she fixed upon his pale face her dark eyes,beaming with the tenderest solicitude.
"All is well, love," replied the husband. "You will pardon my protractedabsence, when I tell you it has been unavoidable--will you not,Mercédès?"
"Will I not? What a question! But I have been so anxious for yoursafety, knowing the perilous business in which you are engaged; and thenight is so tempestuous."
"You forget that I have a constitution of iron, dear," replied Dantès;"you forget that I was a sailor once, and the storms were myplaythings!"
"But you will go home with me now, Edmond, will you not?" she anxiouslyasked, placing her little white hand on his arm and gazing beseechinglyinto his eyes.
"Have I ever passed one night from your arms, my Mercédès, since wewere wed?" was the whispered response. "Ah! love, any pillow but thysoft bosom would be to me a thorny one! You have spoiled me forever!" headded, smiling.
"And shall we go now, Edmond?" eagerly asked the delighted woman. "Oh!I'm so weary of this fête!"
"I must exchange a few words with our friend Louis Blanc, whom I seeyonder, with others of our party, and then, dear, we will to our pillow.We are both weary. Au revoir!"
"Edmond--Edmond!" cried the lady, as her husband was going, "do you seeJoliette and Louise in the redowa yonder?"
Dantès looked and, with a well pleased smile, nodded assent; a morebrilliant and well-matched pair could hardly have been found, Joliettein the splendid uniform of an officer of the Spahis, and she in her ownmagnificent beauty, fitly garbed.
M. Dantès was received with marked respect by the knot of Republicans ashe approached.
"I am delighted to meet you all, and to meet you to-night, or, rather,this morning," said Dantès, warmly, "in order that I may render you anaccount of my stewardship for the past six hours. They have been hoursbig with fate; and the first day of Republican France has alreadycommenced. Messieurs, we can no longer remain blind to the fact that thelong looked for--hoped for--expected hour has come--the hour tostrike--strike home for liberty and for France! To-morrow the streets ofParis will swarm with blouses!--the Marseillaise will beheard!--barricades rise!--the Ministry be impeached! Next day theNational Guards will fraternize with the people!--blood will flow!--theMinistry resign! On the third, the King abdicates!--the Tuileries aresurrendered!--a Regency is refused!--a Republic is declared! And thisday, two weeks hence, liberty will be shouted in the streets of Viennaand Berlin, and every throne in Europe will tremble! The honors ofprophecy are easily won," continued the speaker, with a significantsmile that lighted up his features, pale with enthusiasm and exhaustion,"when the problem of seventeen years approaches solution withmathematical certainty!"
"Are our plans all complete?" asked Louis Blanc.
"So far as human forethought or power could render them so, our effortshave, I trust, been effectual," was the reply. "Yet the events of everyhour will induce changes, and render indispensable policy now undreamedof. Ah! Messieurs, we must none of us sleep now! Not a moment mustescape our vigilance! Not an advantage must be sacrificed! We can affordto lose nothing! Without leaders, the people are blind! Not, for aninstant, must they be abandoned! To-morrow, let the masses gather atdifferent points! Next day let barricades choke the Boulevards; and, ifthe conflict come not, be it precipitated--provoked! Thursday, anhundred thousand men must invest the Tuileries, and a ProvisionalGovernment be declared in the Chamber of Deputies! The Bourbons willthen be in full flight, and France will be free! And now, Messieurs,will you permit me to suggest the propriety of our separation? YonderMinisterial Secretary has had his eye upon us ever since he entered."
The expediency of the suggestion of M. Dantès was at once perceived; theconspirators parted and one after the other, by different routes,shortly disappeared. As for M. Dantès, he threw himself carelessly inthe way of the Ministerial Secretary to whom he had alluded, who was noother than our friend Lucien Debray, and saluted him with most markedand winning courtesy.
"Will the Ministerial Secretary suffer me to compliment him upon hisindefatigable industry and exertions to-night to fortify order in Parisand sustain the administration?"
Debray bowed somewhat confusedly at this remark, and having returned adiplomatic reply, from which neither himself nor any one else could haveelicited an idea, M. Dantès continued the conversation.
"Let me see, it is now nearly three o'clock," he said, consulting hisrepeater; "at half-past two you received an order, signed by the Duke ofMontpensier, and directed to the War Ministry, commanding thatseventy-two additional pieces of artillery be transported from Vincennesto Paris before dawn. That order was issued, and the ordnance is now onthe boulevard!"
"How!" exclaimed the astonished Secretary.
"At Vincennes, the horses of the flying artillery stand harnessed intheir stalls! All night infantry have been pouring into Paris, and,obedient to midnight orders, every railway will disgorge, at dawn,additional troops!"
"Are you a magician?" asked the astonished Secretary.
"Shall I reveal to you the Ministerial tactics for the morrow'sapprehended insurrection?" coolly asked Dantès, with a smile. "Thesalons of the Tuileries have not been deserted to-night. 'Can you quellan insurrection, General?' asked the King of the Marshal Duke of Islay.'I can kill thirty thousand men,' was the humane answer. 'And I, sire,can preserve order in Paris without killing a score,' said MarshalGérard, the hero of Antwerp, 'if I can rely on my men.' 'What is yourplan, Marshal?' asked the King. Shall I give you the Marshal's reply, myfriend?"
"You were present--you know all!" exclaimed Debray.
"Not quite all," thought Dantès, "but I shall before we part. Well,"continued he, aloud, "the Marshal's strategy was this--exceedinglysimple and exceedingly efficacious, too, provided, to use the Marshal'sown words, he can rely on his men. It is this: Occupy the Tuileries, theHôtel de Ville, the Halles, the Louvre and other prominent points with aheavy reserve of infantry and artillery, and sweep the boulevards, andthe Rues St. Honoré, de Rivoli, St. Martin, St. Denis, Montmartre andRichelieu with cavalry. A simple plan, is it not? Almost as simple asthat of the insurrectionists themselves--a barricade on every street andone hundred thousand men in the Place du Carrousel!"
"The Government will not yield, Monsieur!" said Debray, firmly. "TheMinister is unshaken. To crush an unarmed mob cannot severely tax themost skillful generals in Europe."
"True, they are unarmed," returned Dantès, with apparent seriousness."Their leaders should have thought of that--arms are so easilyprovided--but then they can rely on their men!"
"We have yet to see that!" replied Debray, with some asperity.
"True, we have yet to see it. It is only a matter of belief now; then itwill be a matter of knowledge. Seeing is knowing," added M. Dantès, withhis peculiar smile. "But, pray, assure me, M. Debray, are the Ministryand their advisers, indeed, sanguine of the issue to-morrow!"
"They are certain!" replied the Secretary, with energy. Then, feelingthat he had, perhaps, made a dangerous revelation, he quickly added: "Ihave the honor, Monsieur, to wish you a very good night! It is late!"
"Say, rather, it is early, Monsieur!" replied Dantès. "I have the honorto wish you a very good morning!"
The Secretary returned the courtesy, turned away, and, after exchanginga few words with M. Thiers, disappeared.
"They are certain, then!" soliloquized M. Dantès, as Debray quitted thesalon. "I was sure I should know all before he left."
Then, rejoining Mercédès, who was patiently awaiting him, they steppedinto their carriage, as the drowsy tones of the watchman rose on themisty air, "Past four o'clock, and all is well!"



CHAPTER XVII.
THE REVOLUTION BEGINS.

Tuesday, the 22nd of February, the birthday of the immortal Washingtonand the first of the Three Days of the French Revolution of 1848, brokedarkly and gloomily on Paris. The night had been tempestuous, and thewind still drove the sleet through the leafless trees of theChamps-Elysées and howled drearily along the cheerless boulevards.
The streets were dismal, desolate and deserted. Here and there, however,through the gray light of the winter dawn, could be caught the semblanceof a figure closely muffled, whether for concealment, disguise, orprotection from the biting blast was doubtful, stealing along; thesefigures often met and exchanged ominous signs of recognition.
"Is the procession still to take place?" asked one of another of thesepersons, pausing for an instant as they hurried along.
"Yes!" was the emphatic answer. "Dupont, Lamartine and the sixteenothers who are faithful are resolute."
"And the rendezvous?"
"Is the Place de La Concorde."
"And the hour?"
"Twelve."
Whereupon the conspirators parted.
Gradually the number of persons in the streets increased as the morningadvanced. Chiefly, these were artisans, lads, blouses and workmen.
"Whither so early this disagreeable morning?" cried a peaceable-lookingshopman of the Rue de Rivoli, who was taking down his shutters for theday, to a friend who was hurrying by.
"I don't exactly know where I am going," was the reply. "We were allroused at daybreak in the Quartier St. Honoré by the rappel, and so Ihappen to be awake."
"And are the National Guard turning out in good numbers?"
"No. They don't turn out at all. The drummers are followed by a crowd ofgamins in blouses, who shout Vive la Réforme and sing the Marseillaise."
"The National Guard don't turn out!" cried the alarmed shopman; "thenI'll not take down my shutters!"
And as his friend moved on to the Madeleine, he took the precautionarymeasure he had spoken of.
At nine o'clock troops were in motion all over Paris, and the roll ofthe drum was heard in every street.
At ten o'clock ten thousand men were assembled at the Madeleine.
"Is there to be a banquet?" asked one of another, as they met on the RueRoyale.
"No. It is a procession. The people are to march to the Chamber ofDeputies and sing the Marseillaise."
All the avenues to the Palais Bourbon and part of the Place around theMadeleine were now occupied by the 21st Regiment of the Line and mountedMunicipal Guards. Before the Chamber of Deputies was marshaled asquadron of dragoons, and a battalion of the 69th Regiment ofCuirassiers stood ready to charge on the throng.
At eleven o'clock two thousand students in blouses from the Parthenonwere joined by an immense column of workmen from the faubourgs, and,having fraternized in the Place de la Concorde, advanced in perfectorder in procession, led by National Guards, shouting the Marseillaiseand the Hymn of the Girondins. Slowly and solemnly moved the vast massup the Rue Royale to the Pont de la Concorde, leading to the Place ofthe Chamber of Deputies.
At twelve o'clock the vast arena between the Chamber of Deputies and theMadeleine contained thirty thousand people. Along the railing of thechurch was drawn up a regiment of horse. A man in a tri-colored sashthree times read the summons and ordered the crowd disperse.
The order is disregarded! The charge is sounded! The dragoons rush withsheathed sabres on the mass! Again and again they charge, but they cutdown none!
All at once a heavy cart with a powerful horse is discovered--the peopleseize it--the horse is lashed into fury--he rushes on the double line ofdragoons and chasseurs--a breach is made--the crowd dash through--somerush up the steps of the Chamber of Deputies--they force the gates--theyeven enter the hall--then, suddenly panic-stricken at their ownaudacity, they rush back! At this moment, along the Quai d'Orsay,gallops up a strong detachment of the mounted Municipal Guard, led byGeneral Peyronet Tiburce Sebastiani, brother of the Marshal and uncle ofthe unhappy Duchess of Praslin. A charge was ordered, the crowd wasdriven over the bridge, and the Municipal Guard, a company of dragoonsand a squadron of hussars took up a position at the foot of the Obeliskof Luxor. "Long live the dragoons!" shouted the people. "Down with theMunicipal Guard!" accompanied by hootings, groans, shouts and showers ofstones. The troops, with sheathed sabres, charged. One of the immensefountains afforded the gamins a place of shelter. Suddenly the flood ofwater was let on and they fled.
Thus began the revolution.
One o'clock tolled from the tower of the Madeleine. The area was clear.Cavalry patrolled the boulevards. Infantry, bearing, besides theirusual arms, implements for demolishing barricades--axes, adzes andhatchets--each soldier one upon his knapsack, followed.
At two o'clock, at the Hôtel des Affaires Étrangères, at the corner ofthe Rue des Capucines and the Boulevard, an immense mass of men ebbedand flowed like tides of the sea, and a tempest of shouts, groans andchoruses to national songs arose.
A commissary of police in colored clothes, and with the tri-coloredsash, led a body of Municipal Guards into the court. Deliberately theycharge their muskets with ball. "In the name of the Law!" shouted thecommissary. "Vive la Ligne!" responded the people, as they slowlyretired.
"Away," cried a trooper to a blouse, in the Place de la Concorde, at thecorner, near the Turkish Embassy; "Away, or I'll cut you down!"
"Will you, coward!" replied the artisan, calmly, with folded arms. Atthat moment a body of the people rushed on the Municipal Guards anddrove them for safety into their barracks; then they fled themselves toavoid the fusillade of the enraged troops.
On the Pont de la Concorde the people stopped the carriage of aMinisterial Deputy and saluted him with groans. The next moment ArmandMarrast, of "Le National," approached and was most rapturously cheered.
The money-changers, those seers of Napoleon, scented not yet therevolution. On Friday, the three per cents. were 75f. 85c. On Tuesdaythey opened at 73f. 90c. and closed at 74f.
The day advanced. The Republican and Communist power augments in itssystematized order. Paris swarms with insurgents. Bakers' and gunsmiths'shops are plundered. Barricades are thrown up. A column rushes down theChamps-Elysées, and, having been repulsed at an escalade of the railingsof the Chamber of Deputies, retires, shouting the Marseillaise and achorus from the new opera of the Girondins, "Mourir pour la Patrie." Atdusk a deputation of students, at the office of "Le National," presentsa petition for the impeachment of the Ministry.
That impeachment had already taken place!
"What news?" shouted a student to a workman, as he hurried along.
"There has been fighting in the Faubourg St. Marceau; half a dozenMunicipal Guards have been carried wounded to the hospital ofVal-de-Grace and a captain was killed."
"And is it true that the Guard has been disarmed on the Rues Geoffroiand Langevin, and a gunmaker's shop near the Porte St. Martin brokeninto and rifled?"
"I hadn't heard of that," was the hurried reply. "But I hear this, thatthe guard-houses in the Champs-Elysées have been taken, and the troopsdriven off, and that lamps and windows have been torn down."
At that moment another workman rushed along.
"The news!" shouted the student and the first workman.
"The railing of the Church of the Assumption has been torn away by thepeople to supply arms; two women of the people have been crushed by acharge of the Municipal Guard; the shop of Lepage, the armorer, in theRue Richelieu, has been entered by means of the pole of an omnibus usedas a battering ram; and barricades rise on the Rue St. Honoré."
At three o'clock a column of the people dashed down the boulevards,smashing lamps and breaking shop windows. In the Rue St. Honoré and theRue de Rivoli an omnibus and two carriages were seized to aid inerecting a barricade. A guard-house in the Champs-Elysées was burned.The troops at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were increased. No one wassuffered to pass. A Municipal Guard was dismounted and nearly killed bythe people. The crowd in the Rue Royale had become so dense that it wasimpossible to pass to the Place de la Concorde. The troops charged. Thepeople gave way. Some were wounded badly; but still rose the shouts,"Vive la Ligne! Down with the Municipal Guard!"
In the Place Vendôme stood a regiment of the Line. There was the hôtelof M. Hebert, the Minister of Justice, and M. Hebert was hated by thepeople. "Down with Hebert, the inventor of moral complicity!" yelled thepopulace, but they made no attack.
It was ten o'clock at night. Many of the shops were closed, but thecafés and restaurants were thronged. From time to time the shouts,"Down with Guizot!" and "Vive la Réforme!" were heard and, also, theroll of drums as a body of troops passed along; knots of individualsgathered around the doors of bakers' shops, and, while they eagerly atetheir bread and sausage, as eagerly denounced Guizot and the Ministry.
But all was comparative order in Paris.



CHAPTER XVIII.
THE MIDNIGHT CONCLAVE.

It was twelve o'clock at night, on the 22nd of February, 1848.
Lights still gleamed in the vast edifice of "Le National" printingoffice, and in the editorial chamber were assembled the chiefs of therevolution.
"All goes well," said Louis Blanc. "The blow is struck; let it only befollowed up, and the efforts of the past ten years will not prove vain!"
"How true was the opinion of M. Dantès respecting the National Guard!"said Marrast.
"How true also respecting the workmen!" said Albert.
"How true respecting the Ministry!" said Ledru Rollin. "But where is M.Dantès? Why is he not here?"
At that moment the private door opened, and M. Dantès, Flocon andLamartine entered.
"The news from the Chambers!" cried Marrast, as they approached.
"Three impeachments of the Ministry have been proposed," said Lamartine.
"By whom--by whom?" asked Louis Blanc. "By whom presented?"
"One by Odillon Barrot, one by Duvergier d'Hauranne and one by M. deGenoude, Deputy from Toulouse."
"And what said Guizot?" asked Marrast.
"Nothing. He only laughed when the papers were handed him by oldPresident Sauzet."
"Ah!" cried Ledru Rollin.
"Few deputies were there," continued Flocon. "The opposition bencheswere vacant. Guizot was there early, pale and troubled, but stern andunbending. All the Ministers followed him."
"What was discussed?" asked Marrast.
"The Bordeaux Bank Bill."
"Ah!" cried Ledru Rollin again.
"Yes," continued Flocon, "until five o'clock that bill was discussed.Barrot then ascended the tribune and deposited a general proposition toimpeach the Ministry."
"And what was done with it?" asked Louis Blanc.
"The President raised the sitting without reading it, but announced thatthe bureaux should have it for examination on Thursday."
"Infamous!" cried Ledru Rollin.
"It is all as it should be," said M. Dantès, calmly.
"And the peers--what of them?"
"The Marquis de Boissy made an effort to get a hearing on the state ofParis, but, of course, it was in vain."
"Is it true," asked Flocon, "that the rappel has been beaten to-day?"
"It was beaten in the Quartier St. Honoré, at dawn," said Louis Blanc,"and this evening, at about five o'clock, in several of thearrondissements. But no reliance need be placed on the National Guard.They are with us--they are of the people--they shout, 'Vive laRéforme!'"
"But the Municipal Guard and the Line? I am told that an immense body ofthem was this evening, at about eight o'clock, reviewed by the King andthe Dukes of Nemours and Montpensier, in the Place du Carrousel," saidFlocon.
"That's true," said Ledru Rollin; "I witnessed it myself in passing, andI could not help saying, 'It is the last.'"
"Six thousand troops of the Line are on the boulevards, from theMadeleine to the Porte St. Martin," said M. Dantès. "The Hôtel de Ville,the Places de la Bastille, de la Concorde and du Carrousel, and theQuays frown with artillery. To-morrow will be a warm day!"
"It has been rather warm to-day in some parts of Paris," said LouisBlanc, smiling. "Was there ever a grander spectacle than that in thePlace de la Concorde at noon? At least one hundred thousand men werethere assembled. Rushing across the bridge, they gathered around theChamber of Deputies--then from the southern gate of the Tuileries issuedtwo bodies of troops, one of mounted Municipal Guards, the otherinfantry of the Line, and, pressing on the dense mass, they drove themover the bridge. Only a few old fruitwomen were crushed beneath thehorses' hoofs, and a few of the troops were wounded by pebbles,however."
"At the same time," said Flocon, "all the chains in the Champs-Elyséeswere in requisition for a barricade, as well as all the publiccarriages, and the people sang the Marseillaise, the Parisienne and theHymn of the Girondins. A guard-house was also consumed."
"Have you heard Bugeaud's remark at noon, when looking upon the Place dela Concorde?" asked Marrast.
"We have been too busy to-day to hear anything," said Ledru Rollin.
"'Ah! we shall have a day of it,' said the bloodthirsty old hero. 'Icare not for the day,' said the pale Guizot, 'but the night!'"
"The people made quite a demonstration about Guizot, I hear," saidFlocon. "They assailed him with a shower of groans, it is said, and someof the gamins flung pebbles at his gates."
"The most significant shout before the office of Foreign Affairs wasthis," said Ledru Rollin--"'Countess of Leven, where is the Minister?'"
"And the very moment this was occurring," said Flocon, "I understandthat M. Thiers, on his return from the Chamber, in passing through theChamps-Elysées, narrowly escaped a most unwelcome ovation from thepeople. The two rivals were duly and simultaneously honored it seems."
"Thus much for to-day," said Marrast; "what of to-night?"
"Barricades rise all over Paris," said M. Dantès. "But we can do nomore. Let us each retire to his home. To-morrow the National Guard willfraternize with the people, and the Ministry will resign."
A few words of parting salutation passed, and all departed.
M. Dantès and Lamartine left the office in company.
"What say you, Edmond," asked Lamartine, "will your wife spare you longenough from her pillow to make with me a brief tour of the town?"
"Mercédès is rather exacting," said Dantès, with a laugh; "but if yourfair lady will suffer your absence, mine must do the same, I fear."
"Well, then, let us first to the Hôtel de Ville, that grand centre ofParis in all that is revolutionary."
As the two friends passed along, conversing on the events of the day andthe anticipations of the morrow, they were met, from time to time, byknots of men at the corners, eagerly recounting the incidents of thehour; the roll of drums was heard in the distance, and occasionallythere came the heavy and measured tread of infantry, the clatter ofcavalry and the lumbering of artillery, as they passed on their way. Allthe shops and cafés were closed. Many of the lamps were demolished, andothers were not lighted, the gas being shut off. A fearful gloom broodedover the city. The winter wind swept sharply and cuttingly along thedeserted streets, and rain, which froze as it fell, at intervals dasheddown.
The Hôtel de Ville was encompassed by troops as the friends approachedit.
"Is that a cannon?" asked Lamartine, pointing to a dark object thatprotruded from an embrasure of the edifice.
"It is!" replied Dantès.
"Then the revolution has, indeed, begun! Artillery in the streets ofParis!"
"Behind each column of the portico of the Chamber of Deputies this dayfrowned a concealed cannon!" was the significant response.
The friends turned off from the Hôtel de Ville, and, crossing the rightbranch of the Seine, were under the deep shadows of Nôtre Dame. But allwas tranquil and still. Only the howlings of the wintry blast were heardthrough the towers and architectural ornaments of the old pile. Up theRue St. Jacques, into the Quartier Latin, they then proceeded, but thestudents and the grisettes seemed to be fast asleep. Turning back, theypassed the Fish Market, and here a large body of cavalry had bivouacked.Patrols marched to and fro; officers in huge dark cloaks smoked,laughed and chatted, regardless of the morrow. The friends went on. Allwas dark in the faubourg which succeeded. Not a light gleamed, save, insome lofty casement, the fainting candle of the worn-out needlewoman orof the overtasked student.
"Ah!" exclaimed Lamartine, as they passed one of these flickeringlights, "who knows what plotting head and ready hand may be beside thatcandle? Who knows of the weapon burnished, the cartridge filled and thesabre sharpened by that light for the morrow?"
"The morrow!" exclaimed M. Dantès; "that morrow decides the fate ofFrance!"
And the friends parted.



CHAPTER XIX.
THE SECOND DAY.

The 23d of February dawned on Paris as a city under arms. Artilleryfrowned in all the public places; the barricades of the preceding nighthad been thrown down as fast as erected; National Guards thronged thethoroughfares; the people swarmed along the boulevards. In theneighborhood of the Porte St. Denis and the Porte St. Martin, barricadesrose as if by magic, but were as if by magic swept away. Cavalrybivouacked in the streets, and ordnance was leveled along their entireextent. The avenues were closely invested, and even old men and womenwere arrested on their way to their own thresholds. From time to timesingle shots or volleys of musketry were heard in the distance, andwounded men were carried past to the hospitals.
The Government had ordered all public carriages to be cleared from thestands, that material for new barricades might not exist when the oldones were demolished; but the people were busy, too, for the ironrailings at the hôtel of the Minister of Marine, in the Place de laConcorde, and at the churches of the Assumption and St. Roch had beentorn away to supply weapons of attack or defence, or implements withwhich to tear up the huge square paving stones of Paris for barricades.
At eleven o'clock the National Guard of the Second Arrondissementgathered at the opera house in the Rue Lepelletier, and near the officeof "Le National." "Vive la Réforme!" "Vive la Garde Nationale!" "Longlive the real defenders of the country!"--these were the shouts,intermingled with the choruses of national songs, that now rose from thepeople and the National Guard.
At twelve o'clock the 2d Legion of the National Guard was at theTuileries to make a demonstration for reform. Its colonel, M. Bagnières,declared to the Duke of Nemours that he could not answer for his men. Atone o'clock, accompanied by an immense multitude, with whom theyfraternized, they were again on the Rue Lepelletier. A squadron ofcuirassiers and one of chasseurs advanced to dislodge them.
"Who are these men?" cried the chef d'escadron.
"The people of Paris!" replied the officer of the National Guard.
"And who are you?"
"An officer of the 2d Legion of the National Guard."
"The people must disperse!"
"They will not!"
"I will compel them!"
"The National Guard will defend them!"
"Vive la Réforme!" shouted the people.
The National Guard and the cuirassiers united. The officer, chagrined,turned back to his men and vociferated in tones of thunder:
"Wheel! Forward!"
And the whole body resumed its march down the Boulevard.
An hour afterwards a still larger body of troops, Municipal Guardsmounted and on foot, cuirassiers and infantry of the Line, came down theBoulevard and made a half movement on the Rue Lepelletier, but, seeingthe hostile attitude of the National Guard, continued their march amidshouts of "Vive la Réforme!" "Vive la Garde Nationale!" "Vive la Ligne!"
Twice, within an hour afterwards, the same thing occurred.
It was plain that the National Guard fraternized with the people.
The 3d Legion deputed their colonel, M. Besson, to demand of the Kingreform and a change of Ministry. The colonel presented the memorial toGeneral Jaqueminot, who promised to place it in the Royal hands.
The 4th Legion marched to the Chamber of Deputies and presented apetition for reform.
Col. Lemercier, of the 10th, arrested a man for shouting "Vive laRéforme!" The man was liberated by his own troops, with shouts of "Vivela Réforme!" The colonel withdrew.
The cavalry legion, the 13th, in like manner repudiated Col. Montalivet.
The Municipal Guard was ordered to disarm the 3d Legion. Bothadvanced--bayonets were crossed--blood was about to flow. At that momentCol. Textorix, of the National Guard, rushed up and exclaimed:
"Brothers, will you slay brothers?"
The effect was electrical. The muskets were instantly shouldered and thecombatants separated.
All over Paris the same scenes took place, with a few exceptions.
"Vive la République!" cried Ledru Rollin to Albert, who was hurryingdown the Rue Lepelletier, at about noon.
"Vive la République!" was the hearty response. "What of the NationalGuard?"
"The Guard fraternizes with the people," replied Ledru Rollin. "What ofthe blouses and the barricades?"
"Last night, the barricades of yesterday were swept from the streets,and even the material of which to build them also, the pavements onlyexcepted; yet, at dawn this morning, the whole space between theQuartier Saint-Martin des Champs, the Mont de Piété and the Temple, andall the smaller streets were choked with barricades."
"And they were at once assailed?"
"By the troops of the Line, the Municipal Guard and the chasseurs ofVincennes."
"Who were repulsed?"
"With most obstinate bravery. At the Rue Rambuteau, the 69th Regimentwas three times driven back; also at the corner of the Rue St. Denis andthe Rue de Tracy. In the Rue Philippeaux a ball passed through the faceof a soldier of the 21st of the Line infantry, and then through the headof a voltigeur behind him. Sixteen soldiers fell in the attack on thebarricade of the Rue Rambuteau. A blouse pointed a pistol at an officerof the Municipal Guard; the pistol hung fire, and the officer passed hissword through his assailant's body. From this you can infer that we havehad close fighting."
"I have heard that an assault was made on the armory of our friends, theLeparge Brothers, for weapons; is it so?"
"There was an assault at about ten o'clock; but the windows were toostrong to be carried. There has been fighting in the Rue de PetitCarrel, and the neighborhood of the Place Royale, I learn. AchmetPacha, son of Mehemet Ali, is fighting for us with the most wonderfulintrepidity. A chef de bataillon of the 34th was slain by a shot from awindow, and some offices of the Octroi have been burned. Three men werekilled at the Batignolles, and their bodies were accompanied by animmense throng to the Morgue."
"Have you heard that the 5th Regiment, as in 1830, has joined thepeople, and that, on their way to the Préfecture of Police to liberatesome of the people who had been arrested, they stopped at the office of'La Réforme,' and were eloquently addressed by our friend, Louis Blanc?"
"What did he say to them?"
"He told them the fight was not yet over; that there must still be abanquet; and that this time there must be no mistake--the workmen musthave the freedom they won!"
"Vive Louis Blanc!" cried Albert, and, in a higher state of excitementthan he had ever before been known to exhibit, he hurried off.
"I am for the Tuileries," said Ledru Rollin, as they parted.
"And I for the Palais Royal," said Albert.
"We meet to-night at the office of 'Le National?'"
"Without fail, at midnight!"
It was on the square at the south end of the Palais Royal that mostblood was spilled between the people and the troops. The Château d'Eauwas furiously assailed and obstinately defended--assailed by the peopleand defended by six thousand picked troops. The people triumphed! Of thetroops, at least a thousand perished, and the remnant fled.
At three o'clock M. Rambuteau, Préfect of the Seine, waited on the Kingand informed him that the National Guard demanded reform, and theMunicipal Guard a change of Ministry.
The King in dismay convened the Ministry.
"Can the Ministry maintain itself?" asked Louis Philippe.
"That question brings its own answer to your Majesty," replied Guizot."If you doubt the stability of your Ministry, who can trust them?"
"I have thought of the Count Mole," observed the King.
"He is an able man, sire," replied Guizot; "and his politicalconnections with M. Barrot and M. Thiers may aid him to form a Ministry.But, sire, not an instant is to be lost. Your faithful Ministers will doall they can, but a Ministerial crisis cannot be delayed; and, if yourMajesty will permit the suggestion, the emergency demands that toMarshal Bugeaud be given the command of Paris."
"You will proceed to the Chamber to announce that M. Mole is entrustedwith the formation of a new cabinet," said the King.
And the council closed.
At four, an officer of the staff passed along the boulevards, announcingthe fall of the Ministry.
Instantly, with the speed of the telegraph, the intelligence flew tothe obscurest parts of Paris. Its effect was, at first, most cheering.Barricades were deserted and arms thrown down; faces brightened, hands,almost stained with each other's blood, were clasped; troops and people,unwillingly fighting, embraced; all was triumph, joy and congratulation.
"All now is over--all is right at last!" was the exclamation of one manof the people to another.
"Guizot has fallen, but the King has sent for Count Mole," replied athird, with a dissatisfied air.
"No matter," cried the first speaker, "the system is overturned! Whatcare we who is Minister?"
"It is too late," replied the other. "Guizot has been forced away by thepeople--Mole may be forced away, too--so may the King! No more tricks!The people now know their power. There shall be no mistake this time!"
And the insurrectionists parted.
As the day closed, barricades rose in the Quartier du Temple, and therewas fighting between the people and the Municipal Guard. But theNational Guard came to the rescue, and the latter surrendered.
At nine o'clock Paris was illuminated. White, red, blue--yellow, orange,green--these were the tri-colors of the lamps that poured their richeffulgence from every window on the gloomy scene without. The streetswere thronged and the cafés crowded; men of all nations and Parisiansof all classes were in the streets; the rattle of musketry had ceased;the troops were in their barracks and the people at their homes.
At the corner of the Boulevard and the Rue des Capucines, Flocon andLouis Blanc met.
"Guizot has fallen!" cried the first.
"And the most intimate friend of the King has succeeded him! What havewe to hope for from the change?"
"What are we to do?" asked Flocon.
"In one hour the people will sing the Marseillaise before the Hôtel desAffaires Étrangères!"
"The 14th Regiment of the Line is there," replied Flocon.
"So much the better! Blood will flow! The revolution will not stop!"
And the conspirators separated.
At ten o'clock, before the official residence of M. Guizot, himself thenabsent, and probably in full flight for the coast, an immense crowd ofthe people with torches was assembled. Their purpose was to sing theMarseillaise. The 14th Regiment barred the way--the street was dimlylighted--a single row of lamps along the courtyard wall was all theillumination--a double line of troops was the defence.
"Let me pass!" cried the officer of the National Guard who led thepeople to the officer who led the troops.
"Impossible!"
"In the name of the people, I demand to pass!"
"In the name of the Law, you shall not!"
"The people command! Forward!" cried the National Guard.
"Present! Fire!" shouted the officer.
There was a roll of musketry--a shrill shriek rang along theBoulevard--the vast mass recoiled--the smoke floated off--sixty-three ofthe people of Paris lay weltering in their gore!
"The blow is struck at last!" cried M. Dantès, rushing across theBoulevard, pale and excited. "To arms, people of Paris, to arms!"
"To arms, to arms! Vengeance for our brothers!" was now the terrible crythat burst from the infuriated populace. The congratulation--theillumination--all was lost in the wild wish for vengeance.
At eleven o'clock that night an immense multitude, composed chiefly ofworkmen from the faubourgs, was coming down the Boulevard des Capucines.It was the largest and most regular throng yet seen. In front marched aplatoon of men bearing torches and waving tri-color flags. Immediatelybehind walked an officer in the full uniform of the National Guard, witha drawn sword in his hand, whose slightest command was implicitlyobserved. Next came a tumbrel bearing the naked corpses of the slain,whose faces, mutilated by their wounds and disfigured by blood, glaredhorribly up, with open eyes, in the red torchlight that flared in thenight blast around! Behind this awful display marched a dense mass ofNational Guards, succeeded by a countless mass of the people armedwith, guns, swords, clubs and bars of iron, chanting forth in fullchorus, not the inspiring Marseillaise or the Parisienne, but in awfulconcert sending upon the night air the deep and dreadful notes of thedeath-hymn of the Girondins, "Mourir pour la Patrie," intermingled withyells for vengeance.
Down the boulevards approach the multitude--more distinct becomes thedirge--more redly glare the torches--and, amid all, more deeply rumblethe wheels of the death-cart on the pavement!
The funeral column reaches the corner of the Boulevard and the RueLepelletier--the death-hymn rises to a yell of fury--the officer of theNational Guard turns the head of the column to the right--before it isan edifice conspicuous by its illumination of huge and blood-redlamps--it is the office of "Le National"--the crowd halts--one long loudshriek of "Vengeance!" goes up--it is succeeded by the thrilling notesof the Marseillaise from ten thousands lips, and "Marrast! Marrast!" isthe shout that follows.
The windows of the front office were thrown up, and the editor,surrounded by friends, appeared. His speech was brief but fervid. Heexhorted the people to be firm--to secure their rights beyondrecall--and promised them ample retribution for past wrongs and securityfor future rights.
M. Garnier Pages, who stood at the side of Marrast, next addressed thepeople in the same strain, amid thunders of applause.
Making a detour to the office of "La Réforme," the multitude wereaddressed by M. Flocon, its editor; then, proceeding to the Place de laBastille, the corpses were deposited at the foot of the Column of July,and the crowd dispersed.
The night that succeeded was an awful one. The streets, which an hourbefore blazed with the illumination, were dark. Barricades rose in everydirection. At every corner shopmen, workmen, women, clerks and childrenwere at work. The crash of falling trees, the clank of the lever and thepickaxe, the rattle of paving stones--these were the significant soundsthat broke the stillness. Every tree on the whole line of the Boulevardwas felled and every lamp-post overthrown; a barricade of immensestrength rose at the end of the Rue Richelieu; the troops offered noresistance; they piled their arms, lighted their fires and bivouackedclose beside the barricades. At the Hôtel de Ville the troops of theLine and the Chasseurs d'Afrique quietly ate their suppers, smoked theirpipes and laid themselves down to sleep. On the Boulevard des Italiensappeared three regiments of the Line, a battalion of National Guards, aregiment of cuirassiers, and three field-pieces, with their caissons ofammunition. The horses were unharnessed by the people, the caissonsopened, the ammunition distributed and the guns dragged off. The troops,guards and cuirassiers fraternized.



CHAPTER XX.
ANOTHER MIDNIGHT CONCLAVE.

Again it was midnight. Again the chiefs of the revolution of '48assembled in conclave. The second of the Three Days had passed, but thestreets of Paris were all alive with excitement.
Every leader of the reform was there--Ledru Rollin and Flocon excitedand fiery, Louis Blanc exhausted and agitated, Albert stern andcollected, Lamartine pale and troubled, Marrast sanguine andconfident--all of them more or less disturbed but M. Dantès. As for him,the same calm smile was on his lip, the same mild light in his eye andthe same unchanging resolution upon his countenance.
"Who attended the Chamber of Deputies to-day?" asked Marrast. "Did you,Lamartine?"
"I did," was the reply, "and witnessed a somewhat stormy sitting. Atthree o'clock, as usual, old Sauzet took the chair. Our friends werethere in large numbers; the Ministerial benches were also filled.Immediately after, M. Guizot entered. He had been saluted with groans bythe 10th Legion, stationed on guard without, and with cries of 'Downwith Guizot!' Calm, undisturbed, stony in aspect, though strangelypallid, he entered and took his seat. M. Vavin, Deputy for the Seine,instantly mounted the tribune. As Deputy of Paris he had, he said, asolemn duty to fulfill. For twenty-four hours Paris had been ininsurrection. Why was this? He called on the Minister of the Interior toexplain."
"And what said Guizot?" asked Louis Blanc, eagerly.
"He said he thought the public interest did not demand, nor was itproper for the Chamber at that time, to enter into debate on thesubject. The King had called M. le Comte Mole to form a new cabinet."
"And then the left cheered?" exclaimed Flocon.
"Most emphatically," was the reply.
"And what said Guizot then?" asked Ledru Rollin.
"He calmly said that no such demonstrations could induce him to add toor withhold a single syllable of what he designed to say, or topretermit a single act he had designed to do. As long as his Ministryremained in office he should cause public order to be respected,according to his best judgment, and as he had always done. He shouldconsider himself answerable for all that might happen, and should in allthings act as conscience might dictate for the best interests of thecountry."
"A noble answer!" exclaimed M. Dantès, with enthusiasm.
Ledru Rollin and Louis Blanc assented.
"And what next?" pursued Flocon.
"After considerable confusion," continued Lamartine, "M. Odillon Barrotrose and demanded, in consequence of the situation of the cabinet, apostponement of the proposition for its impeachment, fixed forto-morrow."
"Ah! And what said the Chamber?" asked Flocon.
"The demand was so loudly reprobated that M. Barrot immediately said hemade the proposal in entire submission to the majority."
"And what said Dupin?" asked Ledru Rollin, eagerly.
"Dupin said the first thing necessary for the capital was order. Anarchymust cease. The Ministry could not at the same time occupy themselves inre-establishing order and in caring for their own safety. He demandedthe adjournment of the impeachment and of all business."
"And what did Barrot reply to that?" asked Louis Blanc.
"M. Barrot was silent; but the Minister of Foreign Affairs at once roseand said with much energy that as long as his cabinet remained entrustedwith the public interest, which would probably be for some hours, itwould cause the laws to be respected. The cabinet saw no reason for thesuspension of the labors of the Chamber. The Crown was at that momentexercising its prerogative, and it must be respected. So long as hiscabinet was on those benches, the Chamber need not suspend its labors."
"What was the vote on the question to postpone consideration of theimpeachment?" asked Flocon.
"Some of the opposition supported the motion, but the whole centreopposed it, and it was lost. The Chamber immediately rose in greatagitation, and M. Guizot disappeared."
"It seems to me that the position of M. Odillon Barrot is a somewhatpeculiar one at this moment," observed Louis Blanc. "He is neither withthe Crown nor with the people, and yet both seem to confide in him."
"As I passed his house this evening, at about eight o'clock," saidFlocon, "a large multitude were in his courtyard shouting, 'Long liveOdillon Barrot!' A deputation of the people penetrated, I understand,even to his private apartment, where he was in consultation with Thiersand Dupin. Barrot then urged them to be moderate in their triumph and toretire. M. Garnier Pages, who chanced to be there, urged them to do thesame, and they went off shouting louder than ever."
At that moment one of the reporters of "Le National" hastily entered andhanded Marrast a note.
"Whence do you come, Monsieur?" asked the editor.
"From the Tuileries, Monsieur," was the reply, and the reporter left.
The editor opened the note and read aloud:

     "One o'clock--Count Mole, unable to form a cabinet, has this moment     resigned, and the King has sent for M. Guizot, M. Thiers and     Marshal Bugeaud.
     "Half-past one o'clock--Marshal Bugeaud's commission as     Commander-in-chief of the National Guard and of the troops of the     Line, in place of Generals Jaqueminot and Peyronett Tyburce     Sebastiani, has just been signed by M. Guizot and his colleagues,     the Ministers of War and the Interior, and will appear in the     'Moniteur' of this morning. Bugeaud's plan is this: Instant attack     with an overwhelming force of artillery, cavalry and infantry of     the Line, (which, he asserts, he has now all ready in position in     anticipation of this event, and well disposed to act,) on all the     barricades. He promises to sweep away every obstruction from the     streets before dawn, though at the cost of fifty thousand lives."

"Ha!" exclaimed all the conspirators, instantly springing to their feet.
"This, indeed, is resistance!" said M. Dantès. "But Bugeaud canconcentrate no more troops upon us. Every avenue to Paris will beeffectually closed before morning and even the telegraph stopped!"
"If this be true, we have not an instant to lose!" said Louis Blanc.
"I had a hint of this," began M. Dantès.
"Stay--stay, Messieurs!" cried Marrast, as the whole company was rushingto the door. "Here is another and later dispatch."

     "Two o'clock--Marshal Bugeaud has gone to complete his arrangements     for instant attack. M. Thiers has arrived, and, with Odillon     Barrot, Duvergier de Hauranne and de Remusat, has formed a cabinet.     General Lamoricière supersedes Marshal Bugeaud--the latter is     recalled and forbidden to fire on the people. He protests with     violence, and sheathes his sword in despair."

"To be sure he does, the old cut-throat!" cried Ledru Rollin. "The ideaof being let loose with his mastiffs on the people of Paris, like sheeppent up in a fold, was to him a source of rapturous anticipation, andhis rage at the disappointment is proportional!"
"Messieurs!" cried M. Dantès, "this last step of the Government was allthat we required to insure our success. Thiers and Barrot mistake ifthey think there is sufficient magic in their names to quell arevolution. In fact, neither of them are trusted by the people. It istoo late! Yesterday this might have been done; but now the demand is notreform, but a republic--not 'down with the Ministry,' but 'down with thedynasty!'"
The conspirators looked at each other and then at M. Dantès in amazementand doubt. It was apparent they were as yet unprepared for language soplain.
"M. Dantès is right!" cried Flocon. "To-morrow night when we meet weshall all admit it!"
It was now nearly three o'clock, and the Republicans repaired to theirhomes for a few hours' sleep before the exciting scenes anticipated forthe morrow.
As Louis Blanc and M. Albert passed up the Rue Lepelletier, and cameopposite the Hôtel of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which, but a fewhours before, had been the scene of so much confusion and bloodshed,they paused and looked around. The pavement was still dark and wet withthe gore of the slaughtered citizens, but the whole street was desertedand silent. Here and there a solitary light might be detected in theattic windows of the immense hôtel; but no other sign of life or humanoccupation was to be perceived. True, there was an ominous sound ofrising barricades in the Boulevard beyond--the crash of trees, the clickof steel on stone, the lumbering of wheels--and, at intervals, a distantshout. But this excepted, all was as quiet in Paris as if the old cityhad never known of insurrection.
"This spot will be noted in the future history of France," said LouisBlanc. "Do you know the exact facts of the case, M. Albert? There are somany rumors that we can with difficulty get near the truth."
"I was not present when the 14th delivered their fire," was the reply,"but I learned from M. de Courtais, who hastened to the spot, that thecolonel of the regiment, now in prison, asserts that, at the moment ofthe arrival of the crowd, a ball from a musket which accidentally wentoff, broke the leg of his horse, and he, thinking this the signal for anattack, at once gave orders to fire. Another story is that one of ouryoung blouses blew out an officer's brains with a pistol."
"Many of the troops must have fired in the air," said Louis Blanc,looking around him, "for there were two hundred of them in line, Iunderstand, and their discharge was delivered across the whole breadthof the Boulevard swarming with people."
"It was unfortunate for M. Guizot," rejoined M. Albert, with a sardonicsmile, "that his hôtel should have witnessed such a scene."
"But fortunate for the cause, nevertheless," replied Louis Blanc. "Thislast movement is called the movement of the journalists, I understand."
"If suspicions are always as correct," said M. Albert, "there will befewer false ones, I fancy."
Louis Blanc made no reply, and the friends walked on up the Boulevard,reconnoitering every spot.
At the Rue du Faubourg Montmartre they were stopped by a barricade,which was rapidly rising under the united and vigorous exertions ofseveral hundred men. Steadily, sternly and silently, all that night theytoiled, and when the barricade was completed the tri-color flag wasplanted on its summit, and a citizen-soldier stood beside its staff todefend it. On the other side of the Boulevard, in the Rue Montmartre,rose another barricade entirely finished.
"These men are resolved," said Louis Blanc.
"Desperate, rather," replied Albert. "They have counted the cost andprepared to go on with the attempt they have begun at all hazards. It isbetter to fight than starve, they think."
"But do you observe how few of them are armed?" asked Louis Blanc.
"We have provided for that deficiency. You will see arms enough for allto-morrow," replied Albert. "Barricades first, arms afterwards!"
And, indeed, while he was yet speaking, a tumbrel loaded with arms ofevery description drove silently up, and each man supplied himself witha weapon that suited his fancy. In some instances the taste exhibitedwas ludicrous in the extreme; there were swords without scabbards andbayonets without guns--a towering helmet on the head of one man, andbroad white leather cross-belts on the shoulders of another--daggers andknives, sabres and pikes mingled in grotesque confusion. But eachindividual was armed with something, and, to crown all, a small piece ofordnance, borne on the shoulders of four stout men, who staggeredbeneath its weight, was now brought up and placed in battery.
"From such men what may we not hope!" exclaimed Louis Blanc. "But it isnear morning; let us proceed."
"I stop here," quietly said Albert.
"What! Pass the night here?" exclaimed his companion.
"The night is nearly passed now," replied Albert, with a smile. "I willsleep a few hours with my men of the barricades, and be ready to helpthem defend their work in the morning."
"You are devoted to the cause, Albert," said Louis Blanc, warmlygrasping his hand.
"Oh! no more than yourself," was the reply. "We are all devoted to it,but each in his own way. You are an author, I am a workman. It is alight thing for me to pass a night with only the sky for a canopy. Itis a light thing for you to pass a night in your study. A change ofpositions would possibly kill us both!"
The friends grasped each other warmly by the hand and parted, the authorgoing to his study and the workman to his barricade.



CHAPTER XXI.
THE THIRD DAY.

The next morning the following placard attracted general attention:

     "CITIZENS OF PARIS:
     Orders have been given to cease firing everywhere.
     We have just been charged by the King to form a new Ministry.
     The Chamber will be dissolved and an appeal made to the country.
     General Lamoricière has been appointed Commandant of the National     Guard.
     Liberty! Order! Union! Reform!                             ODILLON BARROT.                             THIERS."

Such was the placard which appeared at every corner in Paris on themorning of Thursday, February 24th. At three o'clock it had been hastilystruck at the offices of "La Presse" and "Le Constitutionnel," and giveninto the hands of the bill-posters. At daylight it was read by theearly passers, and, as soon as read, indignantly torn down with thesignificant murmur, "It is too late!"
At eight o'clock a proclamation to the National Guard, signed byLamoricière and countersigned by Odillon Barrot, was similarly received.
At nine o'clock the 45th Regiment of the Line fraternized with theNational Guard, the 30th resigned its arms to the people, and the fivecompanies of Compiers yielded their quarters with all their arms andammunition at the first summons.
At ten o'clock a proclamation was posted up at the Bourse, signed byOdillon Barrot and Thiers, ordering the troops not only to cease firing,but to retire to their quarters. Immediately the trumpets sounded aretreat, and the most important positions hitherto held by the Line wereyielded to the people. The men of the barricades could now concentrateand advance. Magic there was none in the names of Barrot and Thiers torestrain them. Both were viewed as deserters from their cause. Thelatter was openly insulted by the populace wherever he appeared, and theformer, though at first respectfully listened to, was, at length,assailed with murmurs of disapprobation on his way to the Tuileries.
In his editorial sanctum sat our friend Beauchamp, of whom for some timewe have lost sight, but who has, meanwhile, been most industriously atwork in his paper, "Le Charivari," in concert with "Le National" andother larger sheets, in forwarding the cause of reform and, finally, ofrevolution.
The door opened and Château-Renaud appeared.
"Farewell, Beauchamp!" he exclaimed, "I've not a moment to lose! Apost-chaise is at the door! Farewell!"
"Off!" cried the journalist, in astonishment. "And whither--and why?"
"Yes, off for England--Italy--America--anywhere but France!" exclaimedthe young noble.
"And why?"
"Why?" cried the indignant Deputy. "Look around you and then ask whatthere is left in France for me! Beauchamp," continued the young manhurriedly and in low tones, "France will have no King at this hourto-morrow! Mark the prophecy! The National Guard fraternizes with thepopulace; the Line fraternizes with the Guard. The Government is, ofcourse, paralyzed. All is over; six hours hence the Tuileries will beransacked by a drunken mob!--Farewell!"
"One moment! Why do you leave in this way? Why do you not go to Boulogneby the cars?"
"And do you not know--you, a journalist--that for three leagues around,in every direction, every railway radiating from Paris has been torn up?Do you not know that every public conveyance, even to the MailDiligences, has been stopped, and that all the telegraph stations havebeen dismantled--all to prevent the further concentration of troops inParis by the Government?"
"I did hear of this, indeed," said Beauchamp.
"At dawn I was at the railway dépôt, having late last night, withextreme difficulty, procured a passport. And whom think you, amongcrowds of others, I encountered there? You would never guess, and Ihaven't time for you to try. Lucien Debray, and with him--but that'simpossible for you to divine--she who was Madame Danglars, wife of therich banker years ago. Well, the banker is dead and she is immenselyrich, and I suppose Lucien's spouse into the bargain."
"And where go they?"
"Oh! to England of course--that grand reservoir of all emigrantroyalists, that asylum for all who love kings! But farewell, farewell!If I am not off soon I may have to go without my head! And if you arenot massacred by your detestable party, I hope to hear of you yet as aCabinet Minister. Despite your abominable principles, you have my bestwishes! Farewell!"
And with a hearty shake of Beauchamp's hand, the young noble was off foran atmosphere more congenial to monarchists than was that of Paris.
Nor was he alone. Thousands fled from Paris in like manner that sameday, and the only cry that followed them was this:
"Let them go! Let them go!"
The streets of Paris were now choked with barricades--not the meretemporary breastworks of the first and second days, which a singlecharge of heavy dragoons would sweep away, but regular systematic,scientific structures, erected apparently under the direction ofmilitary engineers, and calculated upon every principle of art to insureresistance. Some of them were of immense size--that, for example, at thecorner of the Rue Richelieu; some had port-holes from which protrudedthe mouths of ordnance in battery; all were surmounted by a flag,tri-color or red, and all were defended by desperate men. Some otherthoroughfares were crossed by many barricades--the Rue St. Martin, forinstance, by thirty or forty. The troops assailing these structures weremowed down, throughout the day, in a manner which even their opponentsdeemed most merciless. Instances of individual bravery on both sideswere frequent. In the Rue Mauconseil, a young man exposed himself on thetop of the barricade, time after time, firing with fatal aim, and everytime a shower of balls from the troops assailing whistled around him.But he stood untouched, and, at length, the officer ordering the troopsto fire at him no more, he retired at once behind the breastwork. A boyin the Rue St. Honoré mounted the barricade, enveloped in a tri-colorflag, and dared the troops to fire on their colors. He descendedunharmed. An officer of the Line was summoned to yield his sword. He didso, but first broke it in twain across his knee. The same demand wasmade to a lieutenant of the Municipal Guard, with a musket at hisbreast; he was bidden also to shout "Vive la République!" but he onlycried "Vive le Roi!" as the weapon was wrenched from his grasp! Yet hewas spared. Arms were demanded from every householder, and when given,the gift was endorsed on the door in these words: "Here we were givenarms." One man received a sword splendidly decorated with gems upon itsscabbard and hilt. "I want only the blade!" he said, tearing it awayfrom its ornaments and grasping the naked steel!
At ten o'clock M. Odillon Barrot, General Lamoricière and Horace Vernet,the great marine artist, proceeded on horseback to the barricades toinduce the people to disperse, but all their eloquent entreaties werereceived only with insults. "No truce--no tricks--no mistake this time!"were the decisive shouts with which they were greeted. A second time, inthe Rue Richelieu, General Lamoricière, accompanied by Moline Saint Grubearing a palm-branch, was equally unsuccessful. "It is too late!" wasthe terrible response from the heart of the barricades, followed by ashower of stones, one of which wounded General Lamoricière on the hand.A third time, in the Rue Rohan, General Gourgaud, who even promised theabdication of the King, met with the same utter defeat, and hastily fledfrom the fury of the monster now thoroughly roused.
At twelve o'clock the rumor sped with lightning rapidity through thestreets of Paris that the troops, who had ostensibly been ordered totheir quarters, were, in fact, concentrated around the palace. Instantlyrose the shout, "To the Tuileries! To the Tuileries!" and a hundredthousand men from all sections of the city marched toward the PalaisBourbon and the Tuileries!
The rumor of the concentration at the palace was true. The Place duCarrousel was crowded with troops of every arm, including severalsquadrons of cuirassiers, and six pieces of ordnance were in position,with their ammunition caissons and their provisions and baggage wagons,as if for a siege. The King, attended by his staff and accompanied bythe Dukes of Nemours and Montpensier, now descended into the court topass the troops in review. The Line shouted "Vive le Roi!" as the Kingrode along. The National Guards, with tones and looks of menace anddefiance, cried "Reform!" The King replied, "Yes, my friends, you shallhave reform," and sad and dispirited turned away to his apartments; ashe retired the bitter murmur was heard from his aged lips, "Like CharlesX."
A deputation of the people had been admitted within the limits of thePlace du Carrousel to announce the terms they would accept, but after abrief parley had retired dissatisfied. The men of the barricades nowinvested the Tuileries and the Palais Royal on every side.
Such was the scene without. Within, all was confusion and dismay. Thesalons were thronged by deputies, peers, generals and marshals; Bugeaud,Lamoricière, Dupin, Thiers, de Lasteyrie and many others were there,together with all of the Royal family then in the capital, whether maleor female.
Meanwhile, the rattle of musketry, broken by the occasional roar ofordnance, in the direction of the Palais Royal, indicated the severestruggle then going on between the people and the troops; from time totime, the furious shout of "To the guillotine with Louis Philippe!"reached the ear.
"Does your Majesty hear that?" asked the Duke of Nemours coldly of hisdismayed father. Alas! the old man was no longer the hero of July 3d!
"I do, my son," was the trembling reply. "Do you advise abdication?"
"Is there any other course left?" asked the Duke of Montpensier.
"Any other course!" cried the Queen, indignantly. "Oh! are you myson--are you a son of Orléans, and can you talk thus of degradation? Areyou a soldier and do you fear? Mount!--mount!--charge on therebels!--cut them to the earth!--drench the pavement with theirblood!--perish, but yield not ignominiously thus!"
"Madame," said M. Thiers, solemnly, "it is too late! There must be anabdication in favor of the Count of Paris, and the appointment of theDuchess of Orléans as Regent, or all is lost!"
"Then if this must be, let it be done with dignity becoming a monarch,"said the noble Queen. "Let us all retire to St. Cloud. There may bedictated terms of honorable capitulation. There--"
At that instant in rushed a man breathless, bearing a sheet of paper inhis hand, and exclaiming:
"Sire--Sire--your troops are delivering their arms to the people! In amoment they will stand where you now stand! Sign this paper, or yourlife and the lives of all your family will be sacrificed!"
That man was Émile de Girardin, the editor of "La Presse," and themurderer of Armand Carrel, and that paper was an act of abdication.
"Ah! this is a bitter cup," said the old King as he placed his signatureto the sheet, "and doubly bitter presented by such a hand! Like CharlesX.!"
At one o'clock, at the Bourse and at the corners of all the principalstreets, was posted this proclamation:

     "CITIZENS OF PARIS: The King has abdicated in favor of the Count of     Paris, with the Duchess of Orléans as Regent.
     A General Amnesty.
     Dissolution of the Chamber.
     Appeal to the Country."

But the people were now in the midst of the assault on the Palais Royal,and to check them was impossible.
The Palais Royal consisted of two portions--the Château d'Eau, orpalace, and the other part, which though the property of the Orléansfamily was yet rented by private persons, and was occupied for cafés,shops, dwellings and places of entertainment--adorned by colonnades andarcades, and by trees, statues and fountains in the magnificentquadrangle. The property of the citizens was respected--that of the Kingonly was assailed. For two hours did the 14th Regiment pour forth itsfire from the numerous windows of that edifice and from the courtbelow. At length, a band of bold Republicans, headed by the chivalricÉtienne Arago, musket in hand, charged from the side of the Café de laRégence, followed by a detachment of the National Guard, and, drivingthe troops into the building, surrounded it with straw which they set onfire. The vast edifice was instantly filled with smoke and flame. Thedefence ceased. The soldiers rushed out and were instantly slain. Thecommander of the detachment was pierced by a bayonet. The multituderushed in, and the building was sacked. The richest and most costlyfurniture and decorations were at once torn down, dashed to pieces andthrown from the windows by the infuriated populace.
Within the Palace of the Tuileries is a subterranean passage,constructed for the infant King of Rome and his nurses, which, plungingbeneath the pavements, and passing along the whole length of thegardens, under the terrace beside the river bank, suddenly emerges atthe gate of the Place du Carrousel, in front of the obelisk. Into thispassage, in wild panic, descended the King and Queen of France, with alltheir children and grandchildren, immediately upon the signing of theabdication, and just as the doors were about to be forced. Emerging fromthe passage, the King, leaning on the arm of his faithful wife, MarieAmélie, and followed by the Royal party, crossed the Place de laConcorde as far as the asphalt pavement. The Royal party now consistedof the King and Queen, the Duchess of Nemours and her children, thePrincess Clémentine and her husband, the Duke Augustus of Saxe-Coburg,and the Duke of Montpensier with his young and lovely Spanish bride, nowenceinte and far advanced. Ignorant of the language, only sixteen yearsof age, a stranger to the customs and people of the country, and in herdelicate situation, the position of this young creature was peculiarlytrying. At one moment she clung with terror to her young husband's arm,which she refused for an instant to resign, and the next laughed at herown terror, saying that one who in her infancy had twice, in Madrid,been saved by being carried off in a sack ought not now to fear when shehad feet to carry herself away and was suffered to use them! It is saidthat the fair Senora was forgotten in the hurry of the flight and almostleft behind!
As soon as the Royal party were perceived, they were surrounded by atroop of National Guards as an escort, and a large number of officers ofthe Line in various uniforms. The King leaned on the Queen, as if forsupport, while she boldly advanced with a firm step and stern look. Bothwere in deepest mourning for the recent death of the beloved sister ofthe King, the Princess Adelaide.
Upon this melancholy procession the people gazed with mingled curiosity,amusement, gratification and regret.
"They are going to the Chamber of Deputies to complete the abdication!"cries one.
"Vive la Réforme!" shouts another.
"Vive la France!" shouts a second.
"Vive le Roi!" in suppressed tones falters a third.
"See the poor young Duchess!" cried a woman, who was availing herself ofher peculiar rotundity as a battering-ram to force her way through thecrowd.
"She had better have remained at home!" sneered a Dynastic bitterly.
"The poor little children!" exclaimed a young woman more remarkable forprettiness than neatness, and more remarkable still for the scantinessof her attire, nearly all of which had been torn from her roundedshoulders in the throng.
The spirit which pervaded the mass was, evidently, by no meansunfriendly to the Royal family, and it was as evidently misunderstood bythem, for, suddenly, as if by fatality, on the very spot where LouisXVI. was beheaded, just beyond the Pont Tournant, on the pavement of theObelisk of Luxor, the whole party, with no apparent necessity, came to adead and complete halt. Instantly the multitude was crowded upon them,and this augmented their terror. The King dropped the Queen's arm andhastily raising his hat cried, "Vive la Réforme!" All was in a momentuproar and confusion. The Queen in terror at finding her husband's armwas gone turned hurriedly on every side.
"Fear not, Madame," said a mild voice beside her. "The people will doyou no harm."
This was M. Maurice, editor of "Le Courrier des Spectacles."
"Leave me, leave me, Monsieur!" she exclaimed, in great excitement,evidently mistaking the words. Then regaining her husband, she againgrasped his arm, and the mass at the same time opening its ranks, thetwo hastened on to a couple of those little black one-horse vehicles,chancing there to stand, which run to St. Cloud. In one of these alreadysat the Duchesses of Montpensier and Nemours with two of the children.In the other stood the two remaining children. Into the latter hurriedlystepped the Royal pair. The door was instantly closed and the vehicledrove off at a furious rate, surrounded by an escort of dragoons,cuirassiers and National Guards, two hundred in number, taking thewater-side toward St. Cloud. The other carriage, similarly escorted,followed at a like rapid pace, the children standing at the windows,their faces pressed to the glass, gazing eagerly, with the innocentcuriosity of infancy, on a scene from which their future fate would takeshape.
"He is gone!" shouted a stentorian voice, breaking the momentarystillness as the carriages, surrounded by their escort, swept from theview.
"Let him go! Let him go!" was the stern and significant response. "Weare not regicides!"
"To the Tuileries! To the Tuileries!" was now the tremendous shout whichrose from the multitude, as they rushed toward the deserted palace.
But the Tuileries had already fallen. It was no longer thedwelling-place of kings.
Even before the Royal abdication was declared, even before it wassigned, the troops of the Line in the courtyard of the palace--infantry,artillery, dragoons--to the number at least of twenty-five thousand,were summoned to surrender their posts, while the fraternal shout, "Vivela Ligne!" elicited from the lips of many of the soldiers the answeringcry of "Vive la Réforme!" In vain was it that Marshal Bugeaud, theveteran of a hundred battles, menaced and blasphemed. In vain did hisold protégé and subaltern, but now bitter foe, General Lamoricière,dashing from one end of the line to the other on his white horse,entreat and persuade with his eloquent tongue. The people insisted--theNational Guard fraternized--the Line wavered. And yet most imminent atthat moment was their own peril.
The 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 6th and 10th Legions of the National Guardinvested the Tuileries, and others were on the march, accompanied bycountless masses of the people. Within the courtyard were twenty-fivethousand of the best troops in the world of every arm, and a park ofordnance charged to the muzzle frowned upon the dense masses whichswarmed the Place du Carrousel. The watchful artilleryman stood at hiscannon's breech, with the lighted linstock in his hand, which he keptalive by constant motion. He awaited but a word from the pale, firm lipsof General Lamoricière, and that vast and magnificent space nowswarming with life would have been swept as if by destruction's besom.Death in all its most horrid forms would have been there. That pavementwould have run with gore! The façades of those splendid edifices wouldhave been polluted with shreds and fragments of human flesh, andspattered with human blood. Yet dreadful would have been the sureretribution! Indiscriminate massacre of all unfortunate souls withinthat Royal palace would have been inevitable and instantaneous. Yet,such a catastrophe might be precipitated by a single word!--theavalanche might be started by a single breath; and blood once shed,Paris would be deluged!
"In the name of the people I demand to speak with the commandant of theTuileries!" shouted a young man in the uniform of an officer of theNational Guard, advancing to the iron railing of the court near the Ruede Rivoli.
It was Lieutenant Aubert Roche. The commandant was sent for andimmediately arrived.
"Monsieur, you are lost!" cried the young man.
"You are surrounded by sixty thousand men of the National Guard, and onehundred thousand of the people of Paris!"
"What is demanded?" was the trembling response.
"That you evacuate the Tuileries!--resign it to the National Guard!"
"The troops shall be withdrawn, Monsieur. Orders for their retirementto the palace shall be issued instantly."
"That will not do! The palace must be evacuated," insisted theLieutenant, "or the people will raze it to the ground!"
"Come with me, Monsieur," said the commandant.
The gate was immediately opened, and Lieutenant Roche, accompanied by M.Leseur, chef de bataillon, bearing a flag of truce, followed thecommandant to the Pavillon de l'Horloge, where stood the Duke ofNemours, pale with excitement, surrounded by generals.
"Monseigneur," said the commandant, "suffer me to present a deputationfrom the people."
"Messieurs, what do the people demand?" asked the Duke in tremblingtones.
"The evacuation, this instant, of this palace, and its delivery to theNational Guard!"
"And if we do not comply?" asked Marshal Bugeaud, calmly.
"Then, Monsieur, you all are lost!" was the bold answer. "This palace issurrounded by one hundred and sixty thousand men. The combat once begunmust be exterminating--must be a massacre! The 5th Legion of theNational Guard, to which I belong, is, at this moment, sacking thePalais Royal. It may be here before we part!"
"The troops shall retire, Monsieur," said the Duke; and on the instantorders for the retreat were issued.
The artillery went by the railing of the palace, and the staff and theDuke of Nemours by the Pavillon de l'Horloge, their well-trained horsesdescending the flight of steps. The cavalry followed, succeeded by theinfantry.
The National Guards were then introduced by Lieutenant Roche, andentered the court of the Tuileries by the gate of the Rue de Rivoli,their muskets shouldered, with the stock in the air. At the same momentthe abdication of the King was declared. General Lamoricière hadresigned. The Ministry was dissolved. There was a tremendous shout, andthe conquerors of the Palais Royal rushed in to take possession of theTuileries!



CHAPTER XXII.
THE LAST SESSION OF THE CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES.

The usual hour for the opening of the Chamber of Deputies was threeo'clock; but the startling events of the last two days, and especiallyof the last two hours, demanded that it should be convened earlier.
At one o'clock the President of the Chamber, Sauzet, took the chair. Onthe left bank of the Seine all the approaches were open, save thebridges of the Place de la Concorde, where strong detachments of cavalrywere posted on guard.
Within the Chamber all was solemnity. About three hundred members werepresent. The opposition seemed joyous and confident, though anxious. Theconservative party was troubled. The Ministerial benches were deserted.
At half-past one the President turned round in his chair, and kept hiseye fixed upon a side door, as if expecting some one to enter. Suddenlya bustle was heard in that direction, and the Duchess of Orléans, indeep mourning, attended by her two sons and followed by the Dukes ofMontpensier and Nemours, entered. The latter was received with markedexpressions of dislike. The Count of Paris, garbed in complete black,was conducted through the crowd to the space in front of the President'schair; the Duchess followed and seated herself in a fauteuil upon thesame spot. On each side of her was one of her sons, and behind her stoodher brothers, the Dukes of Nemours and Montpensier. This position wassubsequently changed for one more distant, but otherwise remainedthroughout relatively the same.
Being seated, the Duchess rose and bowed repeatedly to the assembly. Atthe same moment an immense multitude of National Guards and the peoplerushed in through the passages, and despite the shouts of the officers,"You cannot enter!" the space beneath the tribune was instantly anddensely thronged. At the same time the public tribunes were invaded by asecond body of the people.
For some minutes the greatest uproar prevailed. At length itcomparatively ceased, and, in a moment of quiet, M. Dupin, who hadaccompanied the Duchess of Orléans to the Chamber, ascended the tribune.The stillness was instantly as great as had been the previous agitation.
"The King has abdicated," said M. Dupin. "The Count of Paris isnominated as his successor and the Duchess of Orléans as Regent."
"It is too late!" shouted a man from the gallery of the people.
"The Count of Paris is proclaimed King by the Chamber and the Duchess ofOrléans Regent!' exclaimed the President.
"No--no--no!" was the almost unanimous shout that now rose in theChamber.
"I demand," cried M. Lamartine, "that the Royal family withdraw!"
The question was put, and the Duchess and her sons, after greathesitation, were drawn away to a side door, at the further end of thehall. At the same moment a new crowd of the people rushed in and tookseats beside the opposition members, by whom they were welcomed.
"I demand to speak!" cried M. Marie. "By the law of 1842, the Duke ofNemours is Regent. How can the King abrogate that law? I demand aprovisional government!"
"A provisional government!" cried M. Crémieux. "We made a mistake in'30. Let there be no mistake in '48!"
"A provisional government," said the Abbé Genoude, a Legitimist; "butit must be the will of the people!"
M. Odillon Barrot, who had been long expected, now entered andimmediately mounted the tribune.
"The crown of July rests on the head of a woman and a child!" cried thegreat lawyer.
The Duchess of Orléans instantly rose, as if about to speak, but, at theurgent solicitation of those around her, resumed her seat.
"I call on the country to rally around this woman and this child," criedM. Barrot, "the two-fold representative of the principles of July, '30!"
The voice of the speaker was drowned in shouts of dissent and of "Vivela Réforme!"
"I dissent from the opinion of M. Odillon Barrot!" cried the Marquis dela Rochejacquelin. "If he is right, the people are nothing!"
"Order--order!" cried the President, putting on his hat, but he was atonce induced to remove it.
At this moment another vast crowd burst into the Chamber, garbed in astyle so heterogeneous as to be grotesque--some with blouses--some withdragoon helmets on their heads, some with weapons and many with flags.
"Down--down--down with the Throne!" was the terrible cry of thisinfuriated mass.
"I demand that the sitting be suspended!" cried M. de Mornay.
"There can be no session at such a moment," said the President, puttingon his hat.
"Off--off--off with your hat, President!" cried the populace; andseveral of their muskets were at once pointed at the President. The hatwas removed.
The scene was chaos!
"Beware!" shouted M. Chevalier, editor of the Historical Library."Beware how you make the Count of Paris King! A provisional governmentwe must first have!"
"What right have you to speak?" shouted a man. "You are not a deputy!"
"In the name of the people, silence!" roared a terrific voice thatdrowned every other.
It was the voice of Ledru Rollin.
Many of the deputies now withdrew, and their places were filled by thepeople. The Duchess of Orléans sat calmly amid the uproar, and the Dukeof Nemours with equal calmness stood behind her chair.
"The throne has been tumbled from the windows of the Tuileries and isnow burning in the Place de la Bastille!" cried M. Dumoulin, whocommanded the Hôtel de Ville in July of '30, displaying the tri-colorflag.
"No more Bourbons! Down with the Bourbons! Down with the traitors! Aprovisional government!" shouted the people.
"Aye, a Republic!" cried M. Chevalier.
Crémieux, Ledru Rollin and Lamartine were at the same time in thetribune.
"In the name of the people, silence!" again roared the awful voice ofLedru Rollin.
"A provisional government!" shouted one of the people.
"You shall have a provisional government!" exclaimed M. Maguin.
"In the name of the people--in the name of the people of Paris in arms,"again began Ledru Rollin, "I protest against this King and this Regency.The constitution of '9 demands the will of the people to fix a Regency.Yet the law of '42 makes the Duke of Nemours Regent, and now it is theDuchess of Orléans. I protest against it all! I demand a provisionalgovernment!"
"Question--question!" shouted M. Berryer. "A provisional government!"
"In 1815," continued Ledru Rollin, "Napoleon abdicated in favor of theKing of Rome. The King of Rome was refused. In 1830, Charles X.abdicated in favor of his grandson. The grandson was rejected. In 1848,Louis Philippe abdicates in favor of his grandson--the Count of Paris!"
"Question--question!" again vociferated M. Berryer. "We all know thosehistories!"
"In the name of the people," continued Ledru Rollin, "I demand aprovisional government, named by the people--not by the Chamber--but bythe people!"
Tremendous shouts followed, and M. Lamartine, who had stood besideRollin in the tribune, now took his place amid renewed shouts.
After an eloquent speech on the same side as his friend, he concluded bydemanding a provisional government, with an appeal to "the people--theentire people--all who by the title of man have rights as men."
While Lamartine was yet speaking, a violent knocking was heard at thedoor of the Chamber, which was forcibly burst open and a vast crowdrushed in.
"Down with the Chamber! Down with the Deputies!" shouted the populace,and muskets were instantly leveled at Lamartine, and, also, at the Royalparty.
"It is Lamartine! it is Lamartine!" was the cry of terror that rose fromhis friends.
The muskets were lowered.
The Duchess and her party were at once withdrawn from the Chamber by aside door, and having first retired to the Hôtel des Invalides, nextfled to the Rhine; the Duke of Nemours fled to Boulogne and thence toEngland.
"Silence--silence--silence!" shouted the President, violently ringinghis bell. But the uproar only increased. "I pronounce this sessionclosed!" cried the President, and putting on his hat he instantly leftthe chair.
Here ends the Chamber of Deputies.
A large number of the members withdrew with the President, but theopposition remained, and with them the people and the National Guards.
After the noise incident to this departure had subsided, the venerableM. Dupont de l'Eure, a gray-headed old man of eighty, was, by unanimousacclamation, placed in the President's chair. Lamartine still remainedin the tribune, and repeatedly strove to make his voice heard, but invain.
"In the name of the people, silence, and let Lamartine speak!" at lengthwas heard in the thunder tones of Ledru Rollin, rising above all othersounds.
Silence for a moment being obtained, Lamartine exclaimed:
"Citizens!--a provisional government is declared! The names of themembers will now be announced by the President!"
Lamartine then descended from the tribune; applause and uproarsucceeded.
"The names of the members nominated for a provisional government I willnow read to you," said the aged President, rising and displaying apaper.
The following names were then read, and were repeated as they came oneafter the other from the speaker's mouth by the reporters in loud tones:Lamartine, Ledru Rollin, Arago, Dupont de l'Eure, Marie, GeorgesLafayette; all were received with general approbation.
"The members of the Provisional Government must be conducted by thepeople to the Hôtel de Ville and installed!" cried a voice from thecrowd.
"Let us adjourn to the Hôtel de Ville, Lamartine at the head!" said M.Bocage.
Immediately Lamartine, accompanied by a large number of citizens,withdrew. But a great multitude still remained upon the benches and inthe semi-circle of the Chamber.
"Citizens!" cried Ledru Rollin, "in nominating a provisional governmentyou perform a solemn act--an act which cannot be performed in a furiousmanner. Let me once more repeat to you the names you have chosen, and asthey are repeated, you will say 'yes' or 'no,' precisely as they pleaseyou; I call on the reporters of the public press to note the names andthe manner in which they are now received, that France may know what ishere done."
The names of Dupont de l'Eure, Arago, Lamartine, Ledru Rollin, Crémieux,Garnier Pages and Marie were then read out, and all, except the lasttwo--which were received with a few negatives--were confirmed byunanimous acclamation. The names were then engrossed in capitals on asheet of paper and borne around the Chamber on the bayonet of a NationalGuard that all might read for themselves.
"I have one more word to say," cried Ledru Rollin. "The ProvisionalGovernment has immense duties to perform. We must now close thismeeting, that the Government may be able to restore order--stanch theflow of blood, and secure to the people their rights."
"To the Hôtel de Ville!--to the Hôtel de Ville!" responded the people ina tremendous shout. "Vive la République!--to the Hôtel de Ville!"
Headed by Ledru Rollin the excited multitude withdrew, and at fouro'clock all was as silent in the Chamber of Deputies as if not a voicehad resounded or a footstep had echoed within its walls for centuries.In the distance, however, could be heard the repeated shout:
"Vive la République!--to the Hôtel de Ville!"



CHAPTER XXIII.
THE SACK OF THE TUILERIES.

Scarcely had the carriages conveying the Royal family disappeared ontheir flight toward St. Cloud, when the whole mass of the populacepoured as with one simultaneous purpose into the deserted palace. ThePalais Bourbon had already been sacked; a like fate might be supposed toawait the Tuileries; but the Tuileries belonged to France, not to theHouse of Orléans, and a certain respect was observed for everything butthe insignia of Royalty. For these was shown no regard. The throneitself of the state reception-room--that throne on which sat LouisPhilippe for the first time, as King of the French, ere the Tuileriesbecame his throne--was torn from its base, and, having been hurled firstin derision from the windows into the court, was borne in mock triumphon the shoulders of men, who shouted that now the throne was indeedsupported by the people, to the Place de la Bastille, and thereconsumed to ashes. In the courtyard, in the Rue de Rivoli and on thequays, huge fires roared, fanned into fury by a hurricane of wind, andfed by richly carved furniture, gilded chairs, canopies, pianos, sofas,beds, costly paintings, splendid works of art and the Royal carriagesglittering with gold. The magnificent tapestries of the Gobelins wereborne as streamers, in frantic fury, along the boulevards; mischievousgamins were frolicking about in the long scarlet robes worn upon Courtoccasions, which they had filched from the Royal wardrobe; theescritoire of the King, the key having been found in a tea-cup, wasransacked, and private letters, books and the garments of ladies werestrewn about the court and gardens of the Tuileries. The cellars of thepalace were soon filled with the insurgents; but they declared the winebad, as it never remained long enough in the cellars of kings to getgood! Destruction, not pillage, seemed the order of the hour, and toguard against robbery the people took upon themselves the arrest andpunishment of offenders. The walls bore the menace, "Robbers shall die!"In several instances the threat was carried into immediate execution,and bodies, suffered to lie on the spot upon which they had been cutdown, bore on their breasts the label "Thief!" in terrible warning.Sentinels also stood at the gates, and no one was allowed to leave thepalace without rigorous search.
In the apartments of the Duchess of Orléans, the table was found spreadfor the dinner of herself and her children; upon the table were thelittle silver cups, forks and spoons of the young Princes, and on thefloor were scattered their costly toys. The latter were gatheredcarefully up by a workman in a blouse, and as carefully concealed in acorner. The former, together with all jewels and other valuables foundin the apartments of the Duchess, were deposited in a bathing-tub, onwhich a workman seated himself as guard and suffered no one to approachuntil the aforesaid valuables could be conveyed by a detachment of thePolytechnic School to the Government treasury. The story runs that, onthe night succeeding the sack of the Tuileries, the conquerors chose aking and queen, and that, in the palace hall, was spread a banquetcomposed of the viands found in the Royal kitchen and the wines found inthe Royal cellars. The queen, who was a soubrette more noticeable forbeauty than for cleanliness of person, garbed in Royal robes which shewell became, and with a coronet upon her stately brow, was seated in achair of state and received the most extravagant homage from her willingsubjects, while groups of gamins, in the long crimson liveries of theRoyal household, boisterously frolicked before the sans culotte courtamid roars of merriment.



CHAPTER XXIV.
A MEMORABLE NIGHT.

Generally, the rogues throughout Paris, intimidated by the awful,immediate and certain penalty for crime, forsook, for the time, theircalling. A man who attempted to fire the Palais Royal was shot at thePréfecture. Another, for a like attempt on buildings in the Rue Monceau,met a like fate. In the Rue Richelieu lay the bodies of two thieves,each with a ball through the breast, and over the aperture the word"Thief" on a label. In like manner were eight more robbers executed atonce on the Place de la Madeleine. A woman of the street wrested abracelet from a lady's wrist; she was instantly seized by the bystandersand shot. But for this summary punishment of malefactors by the people,dreadful that night would have been the state of Paris, without laws toenforce or a police to enforce them. It is true the Château of Neuillywas sacked and burned, as well as the splendid villa of the BaronRothschild at Parennes; but both were supposed to be the property of theKing. It is true, also, that some rails on the Northern Railway weretorn up, and a viaduct between Paris and Amiens, and another betweenAmiens and the frontier of Belgium were demolished; and that therailway stations at St. Denis, Enghien and Pontoise and the bridge atAsnières had been destroyed; but all this was done to prevent theconcentration upon the citizens of Paris of additional Royal troops.
A workman entered a house and demanded bread. Meat and wine were offeredhim. "No," was the reply, "bread and water are all I want."
Yet such was the scarcity of food that horses were killed and eaten atthe Hôtel de Ville, on the third day of the Revolution.
"Arms--arms!" shouted a band of workmen, entering a house on the RueRichelieu. The proprietor, alarmed, shouted for help. "Do you think usrobbers?" was the indignant reply. "Give us your weapons!"
The weapons were given and the band retired; on the door they wrote,"Here we received arms!"
At five o'clock, on the evening of the 24th of February, a proclamationto the citizens of Paris, issued by the Provisional Government then insession at the Hôtel de Ville, declared the Revolutionaccomplished--that eighty thousand of the National Guard and one hundredthousand of the people were in arms--that order as well as liberty mustnow be secured, and the people, with the National Guard, were appointedguardians of Paris.
The effect of this proclamation was magical. Never was Paris so wellprotected as on that night of the 24th of February, when, filled withbarricades, she had no police and was guarded by her citizens.
And how was constituted the Provisional Government whose power was thusimplicitly obeyed? It was founded by the people who obeyed it. This wasthe only secret.
From the Chamber of Deputies to the Hôtel de Ville proceeded the membersof the Provisional Government. They marched under a canopy of sabres,pikes and bayonets into halls stained with blood and encumbered with theslain, and there, at a small table, while the conflict between the twoRepublics had already commenced, within an hour had they organized theirbody by the nomination of Armand Marrast, of "Le National," FerdinandFlocon, of "La Réforme," Albert, a workman, and Louis Blanc, the editorand author, as Secretaries of the Government; their first official actwas to issue a proclamation to the people.
The scenes witnessed the night which succeeded in Paris will never beforgotten by those who witnessed them. Patrols promenaded the streets,the men of the barricades slept upon their weapons, beside their works,and through all that night ceaselessly toiled the press to spread overall the world the news of the great events of the three past days inParis.
Upon the door of an edifice situated in the Rue Jean Jacques Rousseau--astreet which was filled with barricades of immense size andstrength--was posted a printed placard, "The Provisional Government,"lighted by a single lamp. Entering the door with a vast multitude, andascending the dark and winding staircase, you found yourself in a largeroom, dimly lighted and crowded with armed men.
It was the editorial apartment of the office of "La Réforme."
At a large and massive table sat a dozen persons most industriouslyemployed in writing. Around them, looking on, rose the rough, sternfaces of the men of the barricades, seeming still more rough and sternby reason of the shadowy light; in the hands of all were weapons.
"A copy of the names of the members of the Provisional Government!" wasthe incessant demand of these armed men, a demand which the dozenwriters at the table were unable even by most indefatigable industry tosupply as fast as made. And as fast as the demand was satisfied, thearmed men would hurry away, only to leave room for the crowds constantlyentering.
"A copy for the Hôtel de Ville!" cried one.
"A copy for the Place Vendôme!" shouted another.
"A copy for the Palais Bourbon!" screamed a third.
"Are there no printed copies left?" asked many.
"They were gone long ago--twenty thousand copies," was the reply. "Youwill see one at every corner. The demand was not expected. The printershave just gone to sleep. They had not rested for fifty-two hours."
"Will 'La Réforme' appear in the morning?" asked another.
"Perhaps so," was the answer. "But all the people are worn out--writersand compositors. Here is your copy of the names."
"Many thanks. Vive la République!"
With this shout, in concert with the same which constantly issued from ahundred lips, the citizen folded up his precious document, and carefullydepositing it in his cap hurried off to communicate its contents to hiscomrades of the neighboring barricade.
In another apartment of that same edifice were a large number of theRepublican party connected with "La Réforme."
"The Provisional Government is now in session," said one. "They will,doubtless, make immediate provision for departments of State soimportant as the post-office and the préfecture of police. Earlyto-morrow a proclamation----"
"To-morrow may be too late," interrupted a large and muscular man. "Thepost-office is more active than ever to-night. Every moment couriers arearriving and departing. That powerful instrument remains in the hands ofthe foes of our cause! Who may estimate the injury, the irreparableinjury which they may this night accomplish by its means!"
This man was Étienne Arago, brother of the great astronomer, and, forsixteen years, celebrated as one of the boldest members of theRepublican party, as well as one of the bravest men in Paris.
"And the préfecture of police," observed another--"the present utterderangement of all its functions may lead to most serious results.Already those foes of freedom, Guizot and his colleagues, have beensuffered to secure their escape from the just indignation of an outragedpeople. Delessert, the Préfect, has also fled!"
The man who said this was Marc Caussidière, a well-known Republican.
"Citizens!" cried M. Gouache, "this state of things must continue nolonger. In the name of the people, I demand that Étienne Aragoimmediately assume the charge of the post-office, as its director, andthat Marc Caussidière fill the position of Préfect."
This demand was confirmed by acclamation, and committees for theinstallation of the nominees into office at once accompanied them totheir respective departments.
The immense edifice of the post-office was surrounded by people, and itsnumerous windows were flashing with lights. Within the utmost activityseemed to prevail, and without couriers were leaving and arriving everymoment, and mail coaches were dashing up to discharge their burdens, or,having received them, were dashing off.
"In the name of the people, entrance for Citizen Étienne Arago,Republican director of the post-office!" shouted one of the committee.
Instantly a passage through the immense crowd in the courtyard wascleared by the National Guard, and the director entered with his escort.
"In the name of the people, Citizen Dejean, you are dismissed," saidÉtienne Arago, entering the private cabinet of the Director General.
"And who is to be my successor?" asked the astonished Count, rising tohis feet.
"In the name of the people, I am sent to displace and to succeed you,"was the answer.
"But your commission, Monsieur?"
"Is here," pointing to the committee.
"Before I resign the direction of this department," said the Count aftersome hesitation, "I must ask of you for some record of this act, bearingyour signature, to be deposited in the archives of the office."
"Certainly, Monsieur, your request is but reasonable," answered Arago,seating himself in the official chair. And writing a few lines to whichhe affixed his signature, he coolly handed the document to hisastonished predecessor. It contained notice of his own appointment bythe people, in place of the Count Dejean, dismissed.
The Count read and folded the paper, and having made a copy of it, whichhe laid carefully in his porte-monnaie, he placed the original on fileamong the papers of the day belonging to the department. Then,courteously bowing, he took his hat and cane and marched out of thebuilding.



CHAPTER XXV.
THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT.

In the Hôtel de Ville, closely closeted, sat the Provisional Governmentof France. Over that stern old citadel, over the dismantled Palace ofthe Tuileries, from the tall summit of the Column of Vendôme, over theHôtel des Invalides and in the Place de la Bastille is seen a blood-redbanner, streaming out like a meteor on the keen north-western blast.Eighty thousand armed men invest the Hôtel de Ville, and wave on wave,wave on wave, the living and stormy tide eddies and welters and dashesaround that dark old pile. All its avenues are held; its courts arethronged; ordnance frowns from its black portals and against its gates;drums roll--banners stream--bayonets glitter; and from those tens ofthousands of hoarse and stormy voices goes up but one shout of menaceand command:
"Vive la République! Vive la République! No kings! No Bourbons!Down--down forever with the kings!"
And upward to that dark old pile of despotism, as to the temple ofLiberty herself, are turned those tens of thousands of swarthy faces,dark with the smoke of battle, yet livid with excitement andexhaustion--and as they realize that within those walls the question oftheir fate and that of their country is then being settled--that fromthat night's counsels in that vast and ancient edifice are to flow peaceand prosperity, and freedom and plenty, or else all the untold terrorsof anarchy, civil war, bloodshed, violence and strife--what wonder thatthe sitting of the council seemed endless and their own impatiencebecame intolerable--that all imaginable doubts and fears and absurdapprehensions took possession of their inflamed imaginations?--that atone time the rumor should fly, and win credence as it flew, that theProvisional Government were consulting with the friends of Henry V.--oragain, that they were considering the question of a Regency--and thatunder such influences they should roar and yell, and thunder foradmission at the gates, and burden the air with their shouts?
"No Bourbons! No kings! No Regency! Death--death to all kings! LaRépublique! La République! La République!"
At times, in terrific concert, would the thousands of uplifted throatsroar forth the chorus of that startling canticle of '92:

     "Vive la république! Vive la république!     Debout, peuple Français! debout, peuple héroïque!     Debout, peuple Français! Vive la république!"

Then the song would change and the mournful notes of the "Death Hymn ofthe Girondins,"--"Mourir Pour la Patrie"--would swell in wild yet solemncadence on the wintry blast:
                DEATH HYMN OF THE GIRONDINS.
          By the voice of the signal cannon,           France calls her sons their aid to lend;          "Let us go," the soldier cries, "to battle!           'Tis our mother we defend!"     To die on Freedom's Altar--to die on Freedom's Altar!     'Tis the noblest of fates; who to meet it would falter!
          We who fall afar from the battle,           Lone and unknown obscurely die,          But give at least our parting blessings           Unto France and Freedom high.     To die on Freedom's Altar--to die on Freedom's Altar!     'Tis the noblest of fates; who to meet it would falter!

And thus all that terrible night, even until the morning's dawn,thronged those men of the barricades around the Hôtel de Ville, and allthe night, even until the morning's dawn, calmly continued those men ofthe Provisional Government of the French Republic, amid menace andmandate, uproar and confusion, in their noble, yet arduous work. Atmidnight a proclamation of the Provisional Government was read bytorchlight to the excited masses by Louis Blanc, from the steps of theHôtel de Ville, declaring for a government of the people by itself, withliberty, equality and fraternity for its principles, while order wasdevised and maintained by the people--which served somewhat to allaytheir apprehensions and distrust. This proclamation appeared in all themorning journals, and was placarded all over the city the next day.
That day was Friday, the 25th of February. But still the ProvisionalGovernment remained in session, and still the armed masses of thebarricades, in congregated thousands, rolled in tumultuous billowsaround the Hôtel de Ville. At length the populace, exasperated byimpatience, hunger and sleeplessness, with brandished bayonets rushedinto the very chamber of council, with furious cries, and with threatswhich were well nigh accomplished. Again and again, at the entreaty ofhis colleagues, did the brave, the eloquent, the wise Lamartine presenthimself upon the steps of the Hôtel de Ville to assuage and quiet therising tempest. Again and again, throughout that fearful day, did hecome forth, single-handed, to wrestle with violence, turbulence, anarchyand strife; and again and again, beneath the magic of his eloquenttongue, the storm lulled, the tempest ceased. Again and again,throughout all that fearful day, were the acts of that noble Governmentmatured and sent forth. Proclamation followed proclamation, and nobranch of society seemed forgotten.
The names of the members of the Provisional Government were againpublished. Caussidière and Sobrier were confirmed in the policedepartment, and Étienne Arago in that of the post-office. Merchants ofprovisions were recommended to supply all who were in need; and thepeople were recommended to still retain their arms. The Chamber ofDeputies was dissolved, the Peers were forbidden to meet, and theconvocation of a National Assembly was promised. To all laborers laborwas guaranteed and compensation for labor. At noon the garrison of thefort of Vincennes was announced to have acknowledged the Republic, justas the people were about to march upon it. To insure order andtranquillity, the Municipal Guard was disbanded, and the National Guardentrusted with the protection of Paris under M. Courtais, thecommandant, who was ordered immediately to recruit twenty-fourbattalions for active service. All articles pledged at theMont-de-Piété, from February 4th, not exceeding in value ten francs,were ordered to be returned, and the Tuileries was decreed the futureasylum of invalid workmen. An attack on the machinery of some of theprinting offices was checked by a proclamation.
General Bedeau was appointed Minister of War, General Cavaignac Governorof Algeria, and Admiral Baudin to the command of the Toulon fleet. Onthe part of the army Marshal Bugeaud and on the part of the clergy thevenerable Archbishop of Paris gave in their adhesion to the Republic,while the entire press, Bourgeoisie and the Provinces hesitated not aninstant. Indeed, from all quarters came in adhesions to the Republic.The Bonapartes were among the first. Barrot and Thiers also came, buttoo late to save themselves from contempt. Mr. Rush, the AmericanMinister, the first of foreign ambassadors acknowledged the Republic.The son of Mehemet Ali was next. The Papal Nuncio succeeded, togetherwith the Ministers of the Argentine Republic and Uruguay. Next came theambassador of England; but those of Austria, Prussia, Russia and Hollandawaited instructions from home--little dreaming of the news they wereabout to receive! The city of Rouen sent three hundred of its citizensas a deputation, with abundant supplies of arms, by the morning cars ofthe railway.
At about noon, the Pont Louis Philippe was destroyed by fire. Henceforthit is to be "Le Pont de la Réforme." And so with all other names. Royalis to give place to République, and "Liberté, Egalité et Fraternité" isto be again inscribed on all public monuments.
The children of citizens killed in the Revolution were declared adoptedby the country. The civil, judicial and administrative functionaries ofthe Royal Government were announced released from their oaths of office,the colonels of the twelve legions of National Guards were dismissed,and all political prisoners set free. Every citizen was declared anelector, and absolute freedom of thought, the liberty of the press, andthe right of political and industrial associations secured to all wereproclaimed.
A warrant for the arrest of the late Ministers was issued by the newProcureur-General, M. Portalis, based on an act of accusation presentedto the Court of Appeals. But all of them had fled. Guizot is said tohave escaped from the Foreign Office in a servant's livery. When thepeople broke into his hôtel, they found only his daughter, and retired.The other members of the Ministry are said to have leaped from a lowwindow of the Tuileries, and to have escaped at the moment of the King'sabdication. M. de Cormenin was appointed Conseilleur d'État and M.Achille Marrast Procureur-General to the Court of Appeals in Paris, inplace of the refugees.
Such were some of the acts of the seven men constituting the ProvisionalGovernment of the French Republic, during their first extraordinarysession of sixty-four hours--from the hour of four o'clock in theafternoon of Thursday after the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputiesto the hour of four o'clock in the morning of Sunday, the 27th ofFebruary, when the people of Paris consented to retire to their homes.But during all of this period, night and day without intermission, everymoment was the Hôtel de Ville surrounded by tumultuous masses infuriatedby suspicion, apprehension and distrust. For two whole days and twowhole nights armed men incessantly inundated the square, the courts andhalls of the Hôtel de Ville. They insisted on giving to the Republic thecharacter, the attitude and the emblems of the first Revolution--theyinsisted on a Republic violent, sweeping, dictatorial and terrorist, inlanguage, in gesture and in color, in place of that determined on,moderate, pacific, legal, unanimous and constitutional. At the peril oftheir lives the Provisional Government resisted this demand. Twentytimes during those sixty-four hours was Lamartine taken up, dragged,carried to the doors and windows or to the head of the grand staircase,into the courts and the square, to hurl down with his eloquence thoseemblems of terrorism, with which it was attempted to dishonor theRepublic. But the vast and infuriated mass refused to listen, anddrowned his voice in clamor and vociferation. At length, when well-nighexhausted in defence of the emblem of a moderate Republic, he exclaimed:"The red flag has been nowhere except around the Champ-de-Mars, trailedin the blood of the people, while the tri-color has been around theworld with our navy, our glory and our liberties!"
The furious and hitherto obdurate and bloodthirsty populace becamesoftened--tears were shed, arms were lowered--flags were thrown away,and peaceably they departed to their homes. Never--never was there amore glorious triumph of eloquence--of patriotism!
It was on the morning of Sunday, the 27th day of February, that theProvisional Government deemed it prudent and proper for them to bring toa close their initiative labors, and once more, for the last time,Lamartine descended the steps of the great staircase of the Hôtel deVille, and, presenting himself in front of the edifice surrounded by hiscolleagues, announced to the vast assembly the result of theirprotracted toil:
Royalty abolished--
A Republic proclaimed--
The people restored to their political rights--
National workshops opened--
The army and National Guard reorganized--
The abolition of death for political offences.
With louder and more prolonged acclamations than any other decree wasthis last received. And, instantly, in accordance with thisproclamation, the director of criminal affairs, on the order of M.Crémieux, Minister of Justice, dispatched on the wings of the wind, allover France, the warrant to suspend all capital executions which were tohave taken place, in virtue of Royal decrees, until the will of theNational Assembly, at once to be convened, should be promulgated on thesubject of the penalty of death. The effects of this decree, as it spedon the lightning's wings, like a saving angel, all over France, may beimagined perhaps, but portrayal is impossible! Who can imagine even thejoy, the rapture it brought to many a dungeon-prisoner, who was countingthe hours that yet remained to him of life and preceded his awful doom,or to those who sorrowed over his untimely--perchance his unjust fate!
Leaning on the arm of Louis Blanc, the youngest member of theGovernment, the venerable Dupont de l'Eure, the eldest, accompanied bythe other members, now appeared on the balcony of the room formerlycalled the Chamber of the Throne, but now the Chamber of the Republic!Lamartine then advanced a step before his colleagues, and in a brief andeloquent address proclaimed to that immense throng the existence of theRepublic.
The announcement was received with, acclamations of joy, and shouts of"Vive le Gouvernement!"--"Vive Lamartine!"--"Vive Louis Blanc!" mingledwith those of "Vive la République!" loudly rose.
From the Hôtel de Ville, the Provisional Government proceeded in a body,despite the rain which fell in torrents, accompanied by the people, tothe Place de la Bastille, there officially to inaugurate the Republic,agreeably to announcement.
At the appointed hour, the Place de la Bastille was thronged. TheNational Guard, consisting of two battalions from each of the twelvelegions of Paris, together with the Thirteenth Legion of cavalry and twobattalions of the Banlieu, were drawn up from the Church of theMadeleine to the Column of July. And, there, at the base of that columnerected in commemoration of the Revolution which had made Louis PhilippeKing of the French, his downfall was commemorated, and on the ruins ofthe throne then established was now inaugurated a Republic!
During the ceremony of the inauguration, the "Marseillaise" was sung bythe National Guard and the people, and, at its conclusion, about thehour of three, the troops filed off before the Column of July to thethrilling strains of the "Marseillaise" and the "Mourir Pour la Patrie"of the Girondins. The members of the Provisional Government, preceded bya detachment of the National Guard and accompanied by the pupils of thePolytechnic School and the Military School of St. Cyr, then descendedthe boulevards, followed by the whole of the military and civic array,who chanted the national songs. The effect was stupendous. Hour afterhour the immense procession moved on like a huge serpent through thestreets of Paris; and, at length, when its head was at the Hôtel deVille, its extremity had hardly left the Column of July.
It was night, on Sunday, the 27th of February, when the members of theProvisional Government, for the first time during four days, returned totheir homes. But their work was accomplished. A Republic was gained,proclaimed and inaugurated!



CHAPTER XXVI.
DANTÈS AND MERCÉDÈS.

It was a tempestuous night. The wind howled dismally through the streetsof Paris, and the rain and sleet dashed fiercely against the casements.At intervals a wild shout might be caught as the blast paused in itsfurious career, and then a distant shot might be heard. But they passedaway, and nothing save the wail of the storm-wind or the rushing sleetof the winter tempest was distinguished.
But, while all was thus wild, dark and tempestuous without, light,warmth, comfort and elegance, rendered yet more delightful by theelemental war, reigned triumphant within a large and splendidlyfurnished apartment in the noble mansion of M. Dantès, the Deputy fromMarseilles, in the Rue du Helder. Every embellishment which art couldinvent, luxury court, wealth invoke, or even imagination conceive,seemed there lavished with a most prodigal hand. The soft atmosphere ofsummer, perfumed by the exotics of a neighboring conservatory, delightedthe senses, the mild effulgence of gaslight transmitted through opaqueglobes of glass melted upon the sight, while sofas, divans and ottomansin luxurious profusion invited repose. To describe the rare paintings,the rich gems of statuary and the other miracles of art which were thereto be seen would be as impossible as it would be to portray theexquisite taste which enhanced the value of each and constituted morethan half its charm.
Upon one of the elegant sofas reclined Edmond Dantès, his tall andgraceful figure draped in a dressing robe, while beside him on a lowottoman sat his beautiful wife, her arm resting on his knee, and herdark, glorious eyes gazing with confiding fondness into his face.
Mercédès was no longer the young, light-hearted and thoughtless beingwho graced the village of the Catalans. Many years had flown since thenand many sorrows passed over her. Each of these years and each of thesesorrows, like retiring waves of the sea, upon the smooth and sandybeach, had left behind its trace. No, Mercédès was not now the young,light-hearted and thoughtless girl she once was; but she was a being farmore perfect, far more winning, far more to be loved--she was a matured,impassioned, accomplished, and still, despite the flight of years, mostlovely woman. She was one who could feel passion as well as inspire it,and having once felt or inspired it, that passion, it was plain, couldnever pass lightly away. Her face could not now boast, perhaps, thatfull and perfect oval which it formerly had, but the lines of care andof reflection, which here and there almost imperceptibly appeared,rendered it all the more charming. In the bold yet beautiful contour ofthose features, in the full red lips, in the high pale forehead and,above all, in those dark and haunting eyes lay a depth of feeling andprofundity and nobleness of thought, which to a reflective mind have acharm infinitely more irresistible than that which belongs to mereyouthful perfection. There was a bland beauty in the smile which sleptupon her lips, a delicacy of sentiment in the faint flush that tingedher soft cheek, and a deep meaning in her dark and eloquent eye whichtold a whole history of experience even to a stranger; while the fulland rounded outline of the figure, garbed in a loose robe of crimson,which contrasted beautifully with her luxuriant dark tresses, had thatvoluptuous development and grace which only maturity and maternity canimpart to the female form. In short, never had Mercédès, in the days ofher primal bloom, presented a person so fascinating as now. She was awoman to sigh for, perchance to die for, and one whom a man wouldwillingly wish to live for, if he might but hope she would live for him,or, peradventure, he might even be willing not only to risk, butultimately to resign his life, would that fair being not only live forhim, but love him with that entire and passionate devotedness whichbeamed from her dark eyes up into his who now gazed upon her as she satat his feet. As for him, as for Edmond Dantès, his figure had now thesame elegance, his hand the same delicate whiteness, his features thesame spiritual beauty, his brow the same marble pallor, and his eyewhich beamed beneath its calm expanse the same deep brilliancy which,years before, had distinguished him from all other men and made theCount of Monte-Cristo the idol of every salon in Paris and the hero ofevery maiden's dream. Yet that face was not without its changes. Tears,care, thought and sorrow had done their work; in the deep lines upon hisbrow and cheek, in the silvery threads which thickly sprinkled hisnight-black hair, and, more than all, in the mild light of those eyeswhich once glowed only with vindictive hate or gratified revenge and inthe softened expression of those lips which once, in their stern beauty,had but curled with scorn or quivered with rage could be read that thelapse of time, though it might, indeed, have made him a sadder man, hadmade him also a better one.
The husband and wife were alone. They still loved as warmly as ever,and, if possible, more fondly than when first they were made one.
Dantès stretched himself out on the sofa, and Mercédès, dropping lowerupon the low ottoman at his side, passed her full and beautiful armaround his waist and pressed her lips to his forehead. He returned theembrace with warmth, and placing his own arm about her form, drew itclosely to his bosom. Thus they remained, clasped in each other's arms,and thus they fixed on each other eyes beaming with love, passion,bliss, happiness unutterable.
"My own Edmond!" murmured Mercédès. "At length you are again withme--all my own!"
"Am I not always your own, dearest?" was the fond reply.
"But during the week past, I might almost say during the month past, youhave been compelled to be so often absent from me."
"Ah! love, you know I was not willingly absent!" was the quick answer.
"No--no--no--but it was hardly the more endurable for that," said thelady, with a smile. "Oh! the anxiety of the last three days and nights!Dearest, I do believe I have not slept three hours during the whole ofthose three days and nights!"
"And I, dear, have slept not one!" was the laughing rejoinder.
"But all is over now, is it not?"
"In one sense all is over, and in another all now begins. The monarchyis ended in France, I believe, forever. The Republic has begun, and, Itrust, will prove lasting."
"And all the grand objects for which you have been striving with yournoble colleagues for years and years are at length accomplished, arethey not?"
"That is a question, love, not easily answered. That the cause of manand France has wonderfully triumphed during the past three days is, nodoubt, most true. But this victory, love, I foresaw. Indeed, it was butthe inevitable result of an irresistible cause. It was neither chance,love, nor a spontaneous burst of patriotism that, on the first day,filled the boulevards with fifty thousand blouses, which on the secondwon over to the people eighty thousand National Guards, and on the thirdchoked the streets of Paris with barricades constructed by engineers anddefended by men completely armed. The events of the last three days,Mercédès, have been maturing in the womb of Providence for the past tenyears. It is their birth only which has now taken place, and to some theparturition seems a little premature, I suppose. This banquet caused thefright that hastened the event," added Dantès, laughing.
"You are very scientific in your comparisons," replied Mercédès,slightly blushing, "and I suppose I must admit, very apt. But tell me,love, is all over? That is, must you be away from me any more at night,and wander about, Heaven only knows where, in this dark and dangerouscity, or Heaven only knows with whom or for what?"
Dantès kissed his fair wife, and, after a pause, during which he gazedfondly into her eyes, replied:
"I hope, I trust, I believe, dear, that all is over--at least all thatwill take me from you, as during the past week. France has or will havea Republic. That is as certain as fate can make it. But first she willhave to pass through strife and tribulation--perhaps bloodshed. The endsurely, love, is not yet. But France is now comparatively free. Thedreadful problem is now nearer solution than it ever was. Labor willhereafter be granted to all, together with the adequate reward of labor.Destitution will not be deemed guilt. The death-penalty is abolished.The rich will not with impunity grind the poor into powder beneath theirheels. Asylums for the suffering, the distressed, the abandoned of bothsexes will be sustained. The efforts which, as individuals, we have someof us made for years to ameliorate the condition of mankind, to assuagehuman woes and augment human joys, will henceforth be encouraged anddirectly aided by the State. This Revolution, love, is a socialRevolution, and during the sixty-four hours the Provisional Governmentwas in session, in the Hôtel de Ville, I became thoroughly convincedthat the thousands and tens of thousands who, with sleepless vigilance,watched their proceedings, had learned the deep lesson too well to befurther deceived, and that the fruits of the Revolution they had wonwould not again be snatched from their lips."
"And the result of this triumph of the people you believe has advancedthe cause of human happiness?" asked Mercédès.
"Most unquestionably, dear, and most incalculably, too, perhaps."
"All your friends are not as disinterested as you have been, Edmond,"said Mercédès.
"And why think you that, dear?"
"For six full years I know you have devoted all your powers of mind andbody and all your immense wealth to one single object."
"And that object?"
"Has been the happiness of your race."
"Well, dear?"
"And now, when a triumph has been achieved--now, when others, who havebeen but mere instruments--blind instruments, many of them, in yourhands to accomplish they knew not what--come forward and assume placeand power--you, Edmond, the noble author and first cause of all, remainquietly in seclusion, unknown, unnamed, unappreciated and uncommended,while the others reap the fruits of your toil!"
"Well, dear?" said Dantès, smiling at the warmth of his wife in hisbehalf.
"But it is not 'well,' Edmond. I say no one is as disinterested as you."
"Ah! love, what of ambition?"
Mercédès smiled.
"Let me tell you all, love, and then you will not, I fear, think medisinterested," said Dantès seriously. "I should blush, indeed, atpraise so little deserved. You know all my early history. I suffered--Iwas wronged--I was revenged. But was I happy? I sought happiness. Allmen do so, even the most miserable. Some seek happiness in gratifiedambition, some in gratified avarice, some in gratified vanity, and somein the gratification of a dominant lust for pleasure or for power. Isought happiness in gratified revenge!"
Mercédès shuddered, and, hiding her face on the bosom of her husband,clung to it more closely as if for protection. Dantès drew her form tohis as he would have drawn that of a child, and continued:
"I sought happiness in vengeance for terrible wrongs, and to win it Idevoted a life and countless wealth. What was the result?Misery!--misery!--misery!"
"Poor Edmond!" murmured Mercédès, clinging to him closer than ever.
"At length I awoke, as from a dream. I saw my error. My whole life hadbeen a lie. I saw that God by a miracle had bestowed on me untold richesfor a nobler purpose than to make his creatures wretched. I saw that ifI would be happy I must make others happy, and to this end--thehappiness, not the misery, of my race--must my wealth and power bedevoted. To this end, then, did I devote myself, and to this end, forsix years, have I been devoted--to make myself happy by making othershappy--you among the rest, dear, dear Mercédès," he added, pressing herto his bosom. "And am I then so disinterested?"
"But why should you achieve triumphs for others to enjoy, Edmond?" askedthe wife.
"You refer to the Provisional Government," said Dantès with a smile."Well, I see I must tell you all, even though by the revelation I provemyself utterly unworthy of the praise of disinterestedness. I may tellyou, love--you my second self--without danger of being charged withegotism, what I might not say to others. Our friend Lamartine is theactual head of this Government. I had but to assent to the urgententreaties to secure that position for myself. These appointments seemthe result of nomination by the people. Yet they are not!"
"And why did you refuse to head the Government, Edmond?"
"I am ashamed to confess to you that I feared to accept," said Dantèsafter a pause. "My own selfishness, not, alas! my disinterestedness, haskept me from the post of peril. Perhaps, indeed, I can do far more forthe cause of my race as I am than I could by sacrificing myself foroffice and position; at least, I hope so."
"Is the position of your friends then so perilous?" asked Mercédès.
"Dearest, they stand upon a volcano!" said Dantès, solemnly.
"Ha!" cried the lady in alarm.
"Mercédès--Mercédès!" continued Dantès with enthusiasm, "I sometimes amstartled with the idea that to me have been entrusted the awful powersof foreknowledge, of prophecy, so fearfully true have some of mypredictions proved! The events of the past week I foresaw and foretold,even to minute circumstances and the hours of their occurrence. Andnow--glorious as is the triumph that France and the cause of man haveachieved--I perceive in the dim future a sea of commotion! All is notyet settled. Within one month, revolution will succeed revolutionthroughout Europe! Berlin, Vienna, and Madrid, perhaps also St.Petersburg, London, and all the cities of Italy, will be in revolt. AllEurope must and will feel the events of the past week in Paris. Europemust be free!"
"And our friends--Lamartine--Louis Blanc?"
"Within six months Louis Blanc will be an exile, and Lamartine--he maybe in a dungeon or on a scaffold!"
"Ah!" exclaimed Mercédès, clinging yet more closely to her husband.
"But the cause of human happiness, human right and human freedom willlive forever! That must be, will be eternal--as eternal, my adoredMercédès, as is our own deathless love!"



CHAPTER XXVII.
ESPÉRANCE AND ZULEIKA.

During the whole period of the memorable Revolution Zuleika never oncesaw her brother, though she was burning with a desire to have aninterview with him on the subject that had caused the separation betweenher young Italian lover and herself. Espérance made his home behind thebarricades, from the time the struggle began until the people finallytriumphed; gun in hand, he fought as heroically as the most devotedworkman, fearlessly exposing himself whenever the troops pressed hiscomrades in arms and always in the thick of the fight. Begrimed withdust and powder, his garments torn by bullets and bayonet thrusts, hishat battered and rent, he encouraged the people by word and example,constantly shouting "Vive la République," and contending for libertywith the bravery of a lion and a persistency that never flagged. He,however, escaped without a single scratch, returning to the paternalmansion utterly worn out, but altogether unhurt, proud of having donehis duty as a man and a patriot, and of having sustained the gloriouscause for which his father was working heart and soul.
As he was slowly and wearily wending his way homeward, he suddenlyencountered M. Dantès and his friend Lamartine in the Rue Richelieu; hisgun was on his shoulder, and in his tattered attire, with the dust andpowder on his face and hands, he had the exact appearance of aninsurrectionist and a barricader. He touched his hat in military fashionto M. Dantès and his illustrious companion, and was about passing onwhen his father recognized him and, ragged and begrimed as he was, threwhis arms enthusiastically about his neck. M. Lamartine watched theDeputy from Marseilles and could not restrain an expression ofastonishment at his singular behavior. M. Dantès smiled and, takingEspérance by the hand, said:
"M. Lamartine, you will, I know, make every allowance for me when youlearn that this young man, who has been fighting behind the barricadeswith the people, is my son!"
The head of the Provisional Government instantly grew as enthusiastic asM. Dantès himself; he grasped Espérance's free hand and, shaking it withthe utmost cordiality, exclaimed:
"Your son, M. Dantès! Let me congratulate you! Why he is a perfecthero!"
"I have but followed my father's teachings and done what he would havedone had he been my age and unable to serve the great cause of humanfreedom in a more effective way!"
M. Dantès' eyes sparkled with joy and a faint shade of color appearedupon his pale cheeks.
"What is your name, young patriot?" asked M. Lamartine, his excitementand enthusiasm continuing to hold possession of him.
"Espérance," was the reply.
"Espérance--hope--the name is both appropriate and auspicious; with suchheroic young men as you fighting for our cause there is, indeed, hope,and of the brightest and best kind!" cried Lamartine.
"Nay, nay," said M. Dantès, "do not flatter the boy; he has but done hisduty."
"Believe me, I do not flatter him," returned Lamartine; "I have simplytold him the truth; in time he will rival the devotion and achievementsof his noble father!"
"Enough, enough," said the Deputy, modestly; "we deserve only the creditof executing God's will--we are merely instruments in His omnipotenthand!" he added, impressively.
"And such instruments are exactly what we need in the present crisis.God grant us plenty of them!"
The next morning Zuleika encountered Espérance on the stairway; she ledhim into the salon, and, when they were seated, said:
"My brother, I have a question to ask of you."
A shadow crossed the young man's brow, and he quickly asked:
"Is it about the Viscount Massetti?"
"Yes."
"Then I must refuse to answer!"
"But the matter concerns my happiness, nay, my very life itself; thinkof that before you finally refuse to answer my question!"
Espérance hastily and excitedly arose from his chair and stood in frontof his sister.
"Zuleika," said he, in an agitated tone, "beware of that man--beware ofGiovanni Massetti!"
"Beware of Giovanni, Espérance--and why?"
The young man began to pace the salon with short and nervous steps; hishands twitched convulsively, and his face had suddenly assumed thewhiteness of chalk.
"Zuleika, Zuleika," he murmured, "I cannot, I cannot tell you why! Itwould crash you to the very earth and make you blush with shame that youhad ever listened to the seductive tones of that doubly false Italian'svoice!"
"But, Espérance," said Zuleika, "papa certainly knows all aboutGiovanni; if he did not altogether approve of his character and conduct,he would never have consented to admit him as a suitor for my hand!"
"A suitor for your hand, Zuleika! My God! has he then dared----"
"He has done nothing that an upright and honorable man should not do!"interrupted Zuleika, warmly. "He did not even call here until he hadwritten to papa and obtained his full permission to do so."
"Zuleika," said Espérance, approaching his sister and taking her hand,"no doubt Giovanni Massetti has conducted himself in all respectstoward you like a perfect gentleman, but, nevertheless, he is not fit tobe my sister's husband."
"But papa----"
"Has been deceived, as have many others, in regard to the true characterand standing of this so-called Roman nobleman."
"And is he not a nobleman?"
"Once more I must refuse to answer any question in regard to him. I canonly tell you to beware and shun him as you would a venomous serpent."
"Espérance, I love him!"
"Love him!--you love him, Zuleika! Oh! this is, indeed, torture!"
The young man dropped his sister's hand and flung himself upon a divan.He was a prey to the most intense excitement.
Zuleika, deeply affected to see him thus, and remembering Giovanni'smysterious behavior, together with his strange and ominous words, whenshe had questioned him in regard to his quarrel with Espérance, felt fora moment shaken and uncertain. She also recollected that, at the time ofthe inexplicable difficulty between the two young men, she had heardrumors to the effect that a youthful member of the Roman aristocracy hadabducted a beautiful peasant girl, in which affair he had been assistedby the notorious brigand Luigi Vampa; the matter, however, had almostimmediately been hushed up and she had learned none of thecircumstances. Could it be possible that Giovanni Massetti was theyouthful aristocrat alluded to by the gossips and scandalmongers of theEternal City--that he was the abductor of the unfortunate peasant girl?She could not entertain such an idea, and yet that abduction, in spiteof all her efforts, would associate itself with her Italian lover in hermind.
She arose from her chair and, going to the divan, seated herself besideEspérance, determined to make a final attempt to draw his secret fromhim. Throwing her arms tenderly about his neck she said, in a coaxingtone:
"If any sound reason exists why I should not love Giovanni Massetti, andyou know it, your plain duty as my brother is to tell me. Will you nottell me, Espérance?"
Instead of replying, the young man buried his face in his hands andfairly sobbed in his anguish. Zuleika was filled with pity for him, and,as she gazed at him, tears came into her eyes; but still bent ondiscovering the nature of the obstacle that had so suddenly loomed upbetween Giovanni and herself, she continued after a pause, in the samecoaxing voice:
"Espérance, I am no longer a child and should not be treated as one.What I ask of you is only reasonable and just. If I stand on the brinkof a gulf I cannot see, it is your duty to inform me not only of mydanger but also of its nature. Am I not right?"
Heaving a deep sigh, Espérance replied:
"Yes, you are right, Zuleika; it is my duty to tell you all--and yet Icannot!"
"At least, tell me why you are compelled to maintain silence on amatter of so much importance."
"Did you question the Viscount?"
"I did."
"And what answer did he return?"
"Like you, he refused to answer."
"Ah! then he has some sense of shame left!"
"Shame?"
"Yes, shame! And what did you do when he refused to speak?"
"I left him."
"And you will not see him again?"
"Not until he has decided to tell me all."
"Then you will never put eyes upon him more; he dare not tell you!"
"Dare not! And why?"
"Because, did you know the depth of his infamy, you would spurn him fromyou!"
Suddenly a grave suspicion stole into Zuleika's mind and made hertremble from head to foot. Might it not be that Espérance had been asdeeply involved in the mysterious and infamous affair of which hedeclined to speak as Giovanni Massetti himself? The thought was torment,and totally unable to restrain her keen anxiety to be instantly informedupon this topic, Zuleika gasped out:
"Were you not, Espérance, as guilty as your former friend?"
The young man leaped to his feet as if a tarantula had bitten him.
"No, no!" cried he. "I was innocent of all blame in the matter! LuigiVampa----"
He abruptly checked himself and stood staring at his sister, as if indismay at having unguardedly uttered the brigand's name.
But Zuleika said nothing. Giovanni Massetti also had protested hisinnocence, and the young girl knew not what to believe. Luigi Vampa? Sothen he had been a party to this mysterious and terrible business,whatever it was! And again she thought of the abduction of the beautifulpeasant girl. Could that be the fearful secret? Yes, it must be. LuigiVampa had assisted in that abduction, if report could be relied on, andthe chief criminal had been a youthful member of the Roman aristocracy.Oh! it was all plain now. Zuleika shuddered and felt her heart growheavy as lead, while a sharp, killing pang ran through it. Had Espérancebeen misled by Vampa and the Viscount? Had he discovered too late theinfamy of the affair and challenged Massetti on that account? This was,doubtless, the solution of the whole enigma, and yet Zuleika hesitatedto accept it as such. No, no, she could not accept it without furtherand more convincing proof! But how was that proof to be obtained?Neither the Viscount nor her brother would speak; it was evident thattheir lips were sealed; possibly an oath to maintain silence had beenextorted from them under terrible circumstances--an oath they feared tobreak even to clear themselves from a foul suspicion. But Vampa? Hemight, perhaps, be induced to give the key to the mystery. Vampa,however, was far away in Rome and inaccessible. Zuleika made a wildresolve--she would write to the brigand and throw herself upon hisgenerosity; then she decided that the plan was impracticable; her letterwould never reach Vampa--it would be seized by the Roman authorities andmight cause additional trouble by reviving a smothered scandal--and evenshould it reach the brigand, would he answer it? The chances were ahundred to one that he would not. At this instant an inspiration came tothe tortured girl like a flash of lightning. Her father had known Vampain the past, and, perhaps, still possessed some influence over him. Shehad heard the story of Albert de Morcerf's adventure in the catacombs ofSaint Sebastian, and was aware that the brigand chief had released himfrom captivity without ransom at her father's simple solicitation. Wouldnot Vampa answer her questions if M. Dantès could be influenced to writehim and ask them? She had full faith in her father's power to get aletter to the bandit notwithstanding all the vigilance of the Romanauthorities. Yes, she would go to him, tell all her suspicions withoutreserve and beg him to write the letter; it was hardly likely he wouldrefuse; he could not, he must not. Thus resolved, Zuleika looked herbrother full in the face and said, calmly:
"I see I torture you with my questions, Espérance, that for some reasonbest known to yourself you cannot answer them, and that it is uselessto torment you further. But something must be done and that at once. Iam going to my father!"
Espérance caught her wildly by the arm.
"You are mad!" cried he.
"It is you who are mad--you and Giovanni! I tell you, I am going to myfather; if you are innocent, you have nothing to fear from anyrevelation I may make!"
With these words she freed herself from her brother's grasp and quittedthe salon, leaving Espérance standing in the centre of the apartment asif he were rooted to the spot.



CHAPTER XXVIII.
CAPTAIN JOLIETTE'S LOVE.

In a small but cosy and elegant suite of apartments in a mansion on theRue des Capucines resided Mlle. Louise d'Armilly and her brother Léon;as has already been stated, the celebrated cantatrice had retired fromthe boards in consequence of having inherited a fortune of severalmillions of francs from the estate of her deceased father, who, rumorasserted, had been a very wealthy Parisian banker; Léon had abandonedthe stage simultaneously with his sister, who had invited him to shareher suddenly acquired riches, for, strange to say, the banker had notbequeathed to him a single sou.
The immense inheritance had been a complete surprise to Mlle. d'Armilly,and for some time she had hesitated to accept it, as a condition imposedby the will was her immediate withdrawal from her operatic career, andthe prima donna was as ambitious as gifted; but, finally, she hadyielded to the persuasive eloquence of the notary and the earnestentreaties of her friends, canceling all her engagements, and with themabandoning her bright professional future.
The director of the Académie Royale demanded a large sum to release theartiste from her contract with him, and this was paid by the notary withan alacrity that seemed to suggest he was not acting solely according tothe directions of the will, but was influenced by some personage whochose to remain in the background; the notary also paid all otherdemands made by the various operatic managers who claimed they wouldlose by Mlle. d'Armilly's failure to appear; these amounts were notdeducted from the legacy, a circumstance that gave additional color tothe supposition that the will of the deceased banker was not the solefactor in the celebrated cantatrice's good luck.
One evening, shortly after Paris had again quieted down, Mlle. d'Armillywas seated in the little apartment that served her as a salon, and withher was her brother Léon. The contrast between the pair seemedintensified in private life. Louise had that dark, imperious, majesticbeauty usually possessed by brunettes; her figure was full and finelydeveloped, her black eyes had the deep, intense fire of passion, and herfaultless countenance, glowing with health and loveliness, indicated atonce firmness, decision and caprices without number. Léon, on thecontrary, was delicate and feminine in appearance; he had exceedinglysmall feet and hands, and a single glance at his strikingly handsomeface was sufficient to convince any experienced judge of human naturethat he possessed a mild and yielding disposition. The young man borenot the remotest family likeness to his sister, and it was difficult torealize that they could be in any way related.
Léon quitted his sister and, going to a piano that stood in one cornerof the apartment, softly opened it and commenced lightly running hisfingers over the keys; then he seated himself at the instrument andplayed an air from "Lucrezia Borgia" with brilliancy and effect thatonly a finished performer could attain. At the first notes Louise aroseand approaching the piano stood beside the player, her eyes sparklingwith appreciation and delight. So absorbed were the brother and sisterthat they did not hear a soft knock at the door, and only at theconclusion of the air did they realize that a visitor was in theapartment. Léon sprang from the instrument in confusion, behaving like astartled girl, but Mlle. d'Armilly, with perfect self-control, turned tothe new comer and said, in a tone of mingled coquetry and merriment:
"So, so, Captain Joliette, your military career has accustomed you tosurprising the enemy to such an extent that it has become second naturewith you, and you cannot avoid carrying your favorite tactics even intoprivate life!"
Captain Joliette, for it was, indeed, he, bowed and answered with asmile:
"You must allow me solemnly to protest against classing yourself andyour brother with the enemy! You are, both of you, very dear friends!"
"Especially Louise!" said Léon, with a sly look and a pretty littleringing laugh.
"Léon, Léon, when will you learn wisdom!" exclaimed Mlle. d'Armilly, ablush mantling her visage, and adding to its voluptuous beauty.
"Never, I suppose!" returned her brother, still laughing. "But I amalready well acquainted with the value of discretion and, therefore,will withdraw!"
As he uttered those words, Léon kissed the tips of his fingers to Louiseand Joliette, and lightly ran from the salon. When he had disappearedthe Captain folded Mlle. d'Armilly in his arms and kissed her tenderlyupon the forehead.
"Oh! Louise," said he, enthusiastically, "I love you more and more everyday!"
The former artiste gently disentangled herself from his embrace and,smiling archly, led him to a chair; then she sat down upon another at ashort distance from him.
"No, no," said Joliette, warmly; "come and sit beside me on the sofa.Even Léon sees that I adore you, and all my friends in Paris are awarethat I am seeking your hand in marriage. Why will you be so formal anddistant with me!"
She arose and did as he requested; Joliette, seated at her side, put hisarm about her waist. Louise did not resist, but still maintained an airof coquetry that was displeasing to the ardent young soldier.
"Albert," she said, in a low, musical voice, "do you, indeed, love me asyou say?"
"Love you, Louise!" cried Joliette. "I would lay down my life for you!"
"Are you quite sure you love me for myself and not because of theresemblance you say I bear to the woman you once so ardently admired?What was her name?--ah! Eugénie Danglars!" said she, looking at him witha piercing gaze.
"Quite sure, Louise, quite sure. Besides, Mlle. Danglars hasdisappeared, has not been seen or heard of for several years, and, nodoubt, is dead."
"And yet you do not mourn for her! How strange!"
"I never loved her as I love you, Louise. Eugénie Danglars was acapricious and eccentric girl, and had she lived would have been acapricious and eccentric woman. It was well for me she vanished when shedid! But, by the way, another singular and inexplicable coincidence isthat Louise d'Armilly, the name you bear, was also the name of Mlle.Danglars' music teacher. I cannot understand it at all!"
"There is no necessity for you to understand it. Anyhow, it is acoincidence, as you say--nothing more."
"Well, Louise, let us speak no further about either the resemblance orthe coincidence. Suffice it that I love you, and you alone--that I loveyou for yourself."
"Your words make me very happy, Albert," replied Mlle. d'Armilly, andher full red lips looked so luscious, ripe and alluring, that Joliettecould not resist the temptation to bestow a long, burning kiss uponthem.
"Be my wife, then, dearest Louise," cried the Captain, "and I willprolong your happiness until death shall strike me down!"
"Ah! Albert, men are so fickle; they become infatuated with women anddeclare and, no doubt think, they could pass their lives at theircharmers' feet; but possession dulls the lustre of the brightest jewel,and the devoted lover is speedily replaced by a careless, if notfaithless husband, who, instead of making his wife happy as he has swornto do, forsakes her side to bask in the smiles of sirens."
"It will never be so with me, my own, my love!" protested Joliette,kissing her again and again. "I swear it."
"I know the value of a lover's oath, Albert," murmured Louise, with ameaning look. "When I was the brightest operatic star of the day many ofthem were breathed in my ear, but they were 'trifles light as air,'forgotten as soon as uttered. Besides, should I consent to become yourwife, you would be forced to leave me in France and return to Africa inobedience to the call of duty; the lovely women of Algeria are prodigalof their beauties and endearments, and under the spell of some subtleArab enchantress you would either forget poor Louise d'Armillyaltogether, or remember her only as a clog upon your pleasures andamorous delights."
"Nay, nay, you wrong me; among all the dusky sirens of Algeria thereexists not one who could make me forget you for a single instant; theyare brazen, shameless women, who love with a recklessness and boldnessthat can only disgust a Frenchman."
"But they can dazzle even a Frenchman, render him delirious with passionand, ere he is aware, weave a web around him through which he cannotbreak. My heart tells me you are as susceptible to feminine wiles as therest of your countrymen, and that, perhaps, you have already hadhalf-a-dozen love-affairs in Algeria."
"Oh! Louise, Louise, it grieves me to the soul that you can thus doubtme. Give me a chance to prove my love and you shall be more thansatisfied that I can be loyal and true."
Mlle. d'Armilly gazed at him with a singular expression on her darkbeautiful countenance; it thrilled him to the very marrow of his bones,and caused his arm that was about her waist to tremble violently; atthat moment the former cantatrice resembled Eugénie Danglars more thanever; her breath, was hot and convulsive as it struck his cheek, and afaint suspicion that all was not right--that she was playing a rôle withhim, shot across his mind for the first time; with this suspicion camejealousy, and, releasing her waist, he said, in a gasping tone:
"You have another lover, Louise, a lover you prefer to me--am I notright?"
Mlle. d'Armilly laughed a short, nervous laugh, and answered in a voicethat seemed to mock him:
"I have had hosts of ardent admirers in my time. Do you referparticularly to any individual?"
"I know not; I am beside myself with passion for you, and the mere fancythat another man may have the first place in your heart is unbearable tome! But there is one conclusive way in which you can prove mysuspicion--my jealousy--groundless; marry me!"
"Albert," replied Louise, with a renewal of the singular expression ofcountenance that had so agitated him, "I shall never marry any one; Icannot--I dare not!"
The young man was startled as if by an electric shock; he drew back andgazed at her with wide-opened eyes, speechless from astonishment.
After a brief pause, Mlle. d'Armilly continued, in a dry, hard tone:
"You do not understand me and I cannot expect you to, for I can neithertell you my motives nor lay bare my sad history to you; you must becontent with my decision--I shall not marry!"
Captain Joliette, strong man as he was, could not control his emotion;he buried his face in his hands and groaned aloud. The young woman gazedat him half pityingly, half triumphantly; she felt compassion for herstricken lover, but, above all, gloried in the overwhelming power of hercharms that could so subdue a manly, victorious young soldier and makehim her helpless slave.
"Is there then no shadow of a hope?" at length asked Joliette, in ahoarse whisper.
"Not the shadow of a hope!" replied Mlle. d'Armilly, firmly. "You can bemy friend, my brother, if you will, but never my husband."
The young man recoiled in horror at the suggestion that seemed to beconveyed by this permission.
"What do you mean by friend?" he asked, a cold shiver passing throughhim.
Louise laughed a short, nervous laugh, and, looking him full in theeyes, replied:
"You know what I mean. I love you better than any man I ever met, saveone."
Captain Joliette slowly arose to his feet and stood staring at her, hispassion and his scruples waging a bitter battle within him for themastery. The temptress half reclined on the sofa, a miracle of seductivegrace and voluptuous beauty. He moved toward her as if to seize her inhis arms; then, suddenly checking himself, he asked, with a convulsivegasp:
"And that man--that one?"
"Was separated from me forever through the vile machinations of thatmysterious and cold-blooded fiend, the Count of Monte-Cristo!"
"The Count of Monte-Cristo?" exclaimed the young man, lost in amazement.
"Yes, the Count of Monte-Cristo, who afterwards disappeared from Parisand has not since been heard of."
"You mistake; the Count of Monte-Cristo is in Paris now; he callshimself Edmond Dantès and is the celebrated Deputy from Marseilles overwhom everybody has gone wild for some time past."
Mlle. d'Armilly's eyes flashed with fury.
"Then I will have my revenge upon him at last!" she cried. "I will amplyrepay him for introducing the so-called Prince Cavalcanti into myfather's house and thus breaking off the match between Albert andmyself."
"Albert?"
"Yes; Albert de Morcerf."
"Now, Eugénie Danglars, I know you and it is useless for you to attemptthe denial of your identity longer!"
The young woman leaped up from the sofa, with terror pictured upon hervisage, and, seizing Captain Joliette by the arm with a powerful grasp,cried out:
"And how, pray, do you know I am Eugénie Danglars?"
"You unwittingly betrayed yourself by revealing the names ofMonte-Cristo and Cavalcanti. Besides, Eugénie, look at me well--I amAlbert de Morcerf!"
With a wild cry the retired prima donna sank back upon the sofa.
"You Albert de Morcerf!" she exclaimed. "I cannot believe it!"
"But my mother, the former Countess de Morcerf, who is now the wife ofEdmond Dantès, will vouch for my identity."
The young woman passed her hand across her forehead as if dazed.
"If you are Albert de Morcerf, you must despise me after what has takenplace this evening," she said, bitterly.
"Despise you? No, I pity and forgive you."
"Albert," said she, softly, "come here and sit beside me on this sofa; Ihave something to say to you."
The soldier obeyed; when he was seated, he said:
"Eugénie, why did you tell me I could be your friend?"
"Simply because I have long suspected your secret and wished toascertain the real nature of your feelings toward me. You not onlyresisted a terrible temptation, the most terrible temptation to which ayoung, ardent and passion-smitten man can be exposed, but by your honorconclusively established the purity and sincerity of your love. Oh!Albert, Albert, are you satisfied with my explanation and do you stillthink me worthy of you?"
"My own Eugénie, my happiness is far too great for words!" murmured thedelighted young man, gathering his beautiful companion in a warm embraceand repeatedly kissing her ripe lips and blushing cheeks.
It was soon known throughout Paris that Captain Joliette and Albert deMorcerf were identical, and that Mlle. d'Armilly was in reality no otherthan Mlle. Eugénie Danglars, daughter of Baron Danglars, the once famousand opulent Parisian banker; the report also was current that Albert andEugénie were engaged and would shortly be united in the bonds ofmatrimony. Another bit of gossip was to the effect that the formercantatrice's brother Léon was not a man but a woman; in short, the realLouise d'Armilly, who had loaned her name to Eugénie Danglars andassumed male attire solely for professional purposes. This story wasspeedily confirmed, for Léon soon vanished and in his place appeared amost attractive and fascinating lady, who very quietly assumed, orrather resumed, the name of Louise d'Armilly. Still another rumor wasthat the wealth so strangely inherited by the former prima donna was nota legacy at all, but a gift from the mysterious Count of Monte-Cristo,who had thus striven to make amends to the daughter for the misfortuneshe had, while pursuing his scheme of wholesale vengeance, soremorselessly heaped upon the head of the father.



CHAPTER XXIX.
ZULEIKA GOES TO M. DANTÈS.

M. Dantès was sitting alone in his library, busily engaged in reading afavorite work on the subject of political economy, and from time to timemaking copious notes. It was after midnight, and the vast mansion on theRue du Helder was as silent as the tomb; the lamp on the Deputy's tableburned brightly, but a large metallic shade concentrated the light andreflected it upon the table, so that the other portions of the apartmentwere shrouded in almost complete darkness.
As M. Dantès read a shadow suddenly fell on the page of his book, andquickly looking up he saw his daughter Zuleika standing beside him;tears were in her eyes and a look of melancholy rested upon hercountenance.
"Why child," said her father, in a startled tone, "what is the matterwith you? You are weeping and seem very sad. Has anything happened toyoung Massetti?"
"Not that I am aware of, papa," answered Zuleika, in a low voice. "But,nevertheless, it is of him I wish to speak."
M. Dantès pushed his book from him, motioned his daughter to a seat andprepared to listen as she did not begin at once, but seemed tohesitate, he said, kindly:
"I am waiting, little one; proceed."
Thus encouraged, Zuleika summoned up all her strength and, with downcasteyes, commenced:
"Papa," said she, "in the first place let me assure you that this is nomere lovers' quarrel, but a matter of the utmost importance that demandsimmediate action."
M. Dantès knitted his brows.
"Has the Viscount been guilty of any impropriety toward you?" he asked,fiercely.
"No, papa, not toward me, but I fear he may have been guilty ofimpropriety, or, at least, of indiscretion, with regard to another inthe past."
"A woman, no doubt."
"Yes, papa, a woman--a Roman peasant."
"I heard of some such thing while you were at the convent school inRome, but dismissed it as a slander."
"There may, however, be some truth in it."
"But, now I recollect, Giovanni's name was not associated with thescandal; it was a mere inference on my part that connected him with theyouthful member of the Roman aristocracy mentioned by the gossips."
"Perhaps I am unjust, papa, in reviving your suspicions, but Giovanni'sstrange behavior when I asked him the cause of his quarrel withEspérance and of the continued coldness between them, forced me to thinkthere was something wrong."
"His quarrel with Espérance? Ah! now I remember, there was a quarrel,but I imagined it was settled, and that their relations were altogetherfriendly."
"They are enemies, papa, or seem to be, and that is not all--Espéranceaccuses Giovanni of having been guilty of some infamous deed."
"You have spoken to Espérance then on the subject?"
"Yes, papa."
"And what did he say?"
"He dealt in vague denunciations, and positively refused to give me anydefinite information."
"That is singular."
"But what is still more so is that both Giovanni and Espérance seembound by some fearful oath not to disclose the dread secret in theirpossession."
"Bound by an oath?"
"Yes, papa; but why both of them should have been so bound, unless theywere accomplices, I cannot see; I even went so far as to accuseEspérance of complicity, whereupon he grew as white as chalk andprotested his entire innocence, and in his confusion uttered the name ofLuigi Vampa."
"Zuleika, Zuleika, you certainly misunderstood your brother; he couldnot have mentioned the name of that man! Do you know who this LuigiVampa is?"
"Perfectly, papa; Luigi Vampa is a notorious Roman brigand."
"Exactly, my child, and therefore could not possibly have had anydealings either with the Viscount or Espérance."
"But I am sure of the name, nevertheless. Espérance said Luigi Vampa."
M. Dantès was evidently startled; he arose to his feet and paced thelibrary excitedly. Zuleika had expected this, and hence was notsurprised. At last her father resumed his seat, and when he again camewithin reach of the lamp's rays she saw that his visage was even morepallid than usual and that he was not a little agitated. She waited forhim to speak, and in a few seconds he did so.
"Zuleika," said he, in a tone of decision, "I will see both the Viscountand my son in regard to this matter, for now that Luigi Vampa seems tohave had a share in it, close investigation is imperatively demanded."
"You may interrogate them, papa, but I am convinced in advance that youwill derive no information from either of them. The strange power thatholds sway over them you cannot break, but there is one thing you cando."
"What is that, Zuleika?"
"Write to Luigi Vampa!"
"Write to Vampa? Why should I do that?"
"Because I feel assured that he is in possession of the full details ofthe terrible secret, whatever it may be, and will communicate them toyou if you ask him to do so."
M. Dantès gazed at his daughter curiously.
"What makes you think I have such influence over this Roman brigand?"he asked, sharply.
"Oh! papa, do not be angry with me!" cried Zuleika; "but I have heardhow Vampa released the Viscount de Morcerf at your simple solicitationwithout a single franc of ransom, though he had previously demanded avery large amount from the unfortunate man as the price of his liberty.I have heard this, and the natural inference I drew was that, if thebrigand chief went so far as to surrender his prey to you, he wouldcertainly answer your letter and tell you all he knew about the matterthat so closely concerns my happiness and Espérance's good name."
"I am not angry with you, my child," replied the Deputy, in a mildertone, "for I know how deeply you have this affair at heart. I will writeto Luigi Vampa as you desire, this very night, and in two weeks at thefurthest his answer may be expected, but to-morrow I will talk withEspérance and then will question the Viscount. Rest assured that thismatter shall be sifted to the bottom. I know the extent of your love forGiovanni Massetti; I also feel confident that I am not deceived in him,and that he will be amply able to prove himself entirely worthy of yourhand. I have seen too much of men, Zuleika, and studied them too deeply,to be deceived in reading character."
"Oh! thank you, thank you ever so much, papa, both for your promise, andyour kind, encouraging words. I, too, have full faith in Giovanni, butstill I cannot rest satisfied until his record is entirely andconclusively cleared. No one must have the power to breathe even asuspicion against the good name of your daughter's husband!"
"Spoken like a girl of spirit!" said M. Dantès, his eyes sparkling withenthusiasm and admiration. "Now leave me, and I will write to Vampa."
Zuleika kissed her father and quitted the library with a much lighterheart than she had entered it.
M. Dantès, by the exercise of his iron will, had managed to controlhimself in her presence, but now that she had gone he gave free courseto his emotions. For a full hour he sat leaning on his writing-table,his frame convulsed with anguish, and his mind filled with sadforebodings. He did not for an instant doubt that both Espérance and theViscount could clear themselves from any criminal or dishonorablecharge, if they would consent to open their lips, but their silence andZuleika's belief that they were bound by some fearful oath gave himgreat uneasiness. Besides, his son had mentioned Luigi Vampa's name, andthe thought that the young man was involved in some complication withthe Roman bandit sent a chill to his heart. He was convinced thatwhatever had occurred had been merely the result of the folly andheadlong disposition of youth, but this was scarcely a consolation, forhe well knew to what length young men sometimes allowed themselves to becarried, especially in what they considered a love-affair.
In addition, the more he thought of the half-forgotten Roman scandal,the more clearly its particulars returned to him. He remembered that ayoung and handsome peasant girl had been mysteriously abducted, and thateventually she had been brought back to her home by one of the shepherdsknown to be in league with Luigi Vampa and his band. She asserted thatshe had been carried off to the bandits' haunt by her youthful lover,who had passed for a peasant lad, but was in reality a nobleman. Thiswas all M. Dantès could distinctly recall, though he was certain he hadheard other details that had slipped his memory. At the period of theabduction, he now remembered, both Espérance and the Viscount weretemporarily absent from Rome; then followed their return and the quarrelthat had almost resulted in a duel, but had suddenly been patched upwithout apparent reason. Had Espérance and the Viscount been concernedin the abduction? That was a question that only they or Luigi Vampacould answer, and it was evident the young men would not speak. Vampathen must be made to speak for them; that was the sole course left topursue, for the peasant girl had disappeared immediately after herreturn, and her whereabouts were a mystery.
M. Dantès drew writing materials before him and wrote his letter to thebrigand chief; it was brief, but to the point. When it was finished, itbore the signature, "Edmond Dantès, Count of Monte-Cristo." The Deputyplaced it in the drawer of his table to go by mail the followingmorning, having first folded and sealed it. "Thomson and French, Rome,"was the direction it bore.



CHAPTER XXX.
TWO INTERVIEWS.

The morning following the events detailed in the last chapter, asEspérance was in his dressing-room preparing to take a short strollthrough Paris, Ali knocked at the door and signified that M. Dantèswished to see him at once in the library. As such a summons wassomething unusual, the young man immediately concluded that Zuleika hadbeen in consultation with her father and that he would now have tosubmit to a close and rigid examination; he had expected such anexamination, but, nevertheless, the summons filled him with dismay andhe grew pale as wax, his limbs trembling beneath him and his handsworking nervously; however, he braced up as well as he could, and withas firm a step as it was possible for him to assume walked toward thelibrary. On the threshold he paused, and his courage so utterly forsookhim that he was tempted to take refuge in flight, but the thoughtflashed through his mind that this would be cowardly, and, making asupreme effort to control himself, he entered his father's presence.
M. Dantès, who was seated at his writing-table examining a curiousmanuscript written in Arabic characters, looked up as he came in andfixed his eyes searchingly upon his son's countenance, noting itsextreme pallor and remarking with manifest uneasiness the difficultyEspérance experienced in maintaining a firm demeanor. Motioning theyoung man to a seat, he said:
"My son, I have sent for you on a matter of the utmost importance, and Isincerely hope you will see fit to tell me in all frankness whatever youmay know in regard to it."
Espérance partially closed his eyes as if suffering intensely, bringinghis teeth firmly together and compressing his lips. As he did not speak,M. Dantès continued:
"I have every reason to believe that the revelation I am about to ask ofyou will be exceedingly painful for you to make, but you must considerthat your sister's happiness is deeply concerned and that, for thatreason, no matter what may be your motives, you have not the right tomaintain silence."
"I know what you mean, father," replied Espérance in an unsteady voice,"but, notwithstanding the pain it gives me to do so, I must ask you,nay, entreat you not to question me, for I cannot answer you!"
M. Dantès cast upon his son a glance that seemed to pierce him throughand through; the young man quailed beneath it and again partially closedhis eyes, while a faint blue shade was mixed with the waxen pallor ofhis visage. The Deputy, though he had made a profound and exhaustivestudy of men and their varied motives, though he was a skilled anatomistof the human heart and a ready reader of the human countenance,acknowledged to himself that this time he was completely baffled. Was itfear or guilt that Espérance exhibited? He could not tell; but it wasabundantly evident that the young man was not acting a part, that hekeenly felt the suspicions to which he was exposing himself by hisinexplicable conduct. At length M. Dantès said, in a mild but determinedtone:
"Espérance, my son, you can, at least, enlighten me upon a few points,and I request, nay, I command you to do so. Are you bound by oath topreserve silence concerning this matter?"
"I am bound by a most solemn oath!" answered the young man with ashudder.
"And is Giovanni Massetti likewise so bound?"
"He is!"
"I will not ask you who administered that oath to you or under whatcircumstances it was taken, although as your father I have a right to doso and to compel you to answer; neither will I interrogate you furtherin regard to the main question at issue, the complication in which youand the Viscount seem to be so hopelessly involved; but I insist thatyou inform me whether any guilt or stain of dishonor rests upon you!"
"Father," said Espérance, rising and lifting his right hand towardheaven, "I solemnly swear to you that whatever wrong may have been done,whatever crime may have been committed, I am entirely guiltless and thatthere is not the slightest stain of dishonor upon me!"
"I believe you, my son," said M. Dantès, in a tone of conviction, "andthis unequivocal assurance from your own lips removes the weight of amountain from me. Now, tell me, is the Viscount Massetti as blameless inthis affair as you are?"
"The so-called Viscount Massetti is a black-hearted villain!" criedEspérance, excitedly. "He is guilty of a foul and revolting crime, acrime that should condemn him to a life of penal servitude!"
"But may you not be mistaken, may you not be the victim of somedelusion?" asked M. Dantès, anxiously.
"I am neither mistaken, father, nor the victim of a delusion," repliedEspérance, positively. "The charges that I make against that miserableapology for a man I can fully substantiate should the proper opportunityever be offered me!"
"Zuleika informed me that, while you were speaking with her upon thismysterious subject, the name of Luigi Vampa escaped your lips. Does thatnotorious brigand posses a knowledge of this unfortunate matter?"
Espérance became violently agitated and instantly answered:
"That is a question my oath forbids me to reply to!"
"So be it," said M. Dantès; "but I have written him and he will replyfor you!"
"You have written to Vampa!" exclaimed the young man, with aterror-stricken look. "Then all is lost!"
M. Dantès smiled, and, rising, placed his hand on his son's shoulder.
"Espérance," said he, calmly, "if neither crime nor dishonor attaches toyou in this affair, as you have sworn, you have nothing whatever tofear, and, besides, Vampa's disclosures may relieve you of some portionof your heavy burden."
"Oh! God!" groaned the young man, "if Vampa speaks how shall I be ableto prove my innocence!"
"My son," said M. Dantès, impressively, "God, whose name you haveinvoked, will not desert you in your hour of need!"
Bowing his head in his hands and trembling like an aspen leaf, Espérancequitted the library with a convulsive sob, as if the last ray of hopehad been withdrawn from his life and all was darkness and despair.
M. Dantès threw himself in his chair and for an instant was plunged inabsorbing thought; then he arose and putting on his hat and cloak leftthe library; a few moments later he had quitted the mansion by a privatedoor.
Closely muffling his face in the folds of his cloak, that he might notbe recognized, the Deputy from Marseilles passed hurriedly from streetto street until he stood before a massive building in the Rue Vivienne.He rang the bell, and, when the concierge appeared, said to her:
"Is the Viscount Massetti at home?"
The woman, a large, fat, lumbering creature, cast a sleepy glance, thatwas half-curious, half-suspicious, at him and answered:
"Yes, Monsieur; but he bade me deny him to everybody."
"He will see me, however, my good woman," said M. Dantès. "Take my cardto him."
The fat concierge took the card and glanced at it; when she read "EdmondDantès, Deputy from Marseilles," she stared at the famous Republicanleader like one possessed; then, filled with awe, she hastened away andclimbed the stairs as fast as her cumbersome legs would let her. Shereturned, panting and puffing, followed by the Viscount's valet, who,with much ceremony and obsequiousness, conducted the distinguishedvisitor to his master's apartments.
The salon into which M. Dantès was ushered was large and sumptuouslyfurnished; evidences of wealth and luxury were visible on every side,while everything displayed the utmost taste and elegance.
"To what am I indebted for the honor of this unexpected visit, my dearCount?" said Massetti, rising from a handsomely carved, red velvetupholstered arm-chair, in which he had been indolently reclining, andcoming forward to greet his guest.
"To a matter that concerns both of us deeply," replied the Deputy, in ameaning tone.
A shadow crossed the Viscount's handsome visage, but it was gone in aninstant, and he said, with the utmost politeness:
"Pray be seated, my dear Count, and before proceeding to businessrefresh yourself with a glass of rare old Burgundy. Here, Stephano, wineand glasses."
M. Dantès sat down in an arm-chair precisely resembling that from whichthe Viscount had arisen; Massetti resumed his seat and the valet broughtthe old Burgundy and glasses, placing the decanter and drinking vesselson a small table of glistening ebony between his master and the Deputy.After they had duly drunk each other's health, M. Dantès said:
"I regret, my dear Viscount, that I am compelled to disturb you, but mybusiness was too urgent for delay."
"You don't disturb me in the least. Pray proceed."
"You remember your conversation with my daughter just before you and sheparted, do you not?"
"I remember it," replied the Viscount, coloring slightly and evidentlygrowing ill at ease.
"In that case, neither preface nor explanation is necessary. I called toask you a few plain questions."
The Italian was now a prey to singular excitement; he grew pale andflushed by turns, finally rising and pacing the salon in greatagitation.
"Count," said he, abruptly, when he could command his voice, "you are aman of the world and a cosmopolitan, and, of course, you know that oneoften commits folly, especially when the ardent and uncontrollable bloodof youth is rushing through his veins. With this explanation, imperfectthough it be, I must ask you to rest satisfied, for it is utterly out ofmy power to give you any other, or to enter into the details of theunfortunate affair which has brought you here. I assure you, however,that I am altogether blameless in the matter; investigation willabundantly establish the truth of what I say."
"I will make that investigation."
"I regret that I can neither empower you to do so nor aid you in it!"
"What am I to understand by that?"
"Simply what I say."
"You are, doubtless, aware that my son makes grave accusations againstyou, that he accuses you, in fact, of a dastardly crime."
"Espérance is mistaken, my dear Count; I swear to you that he ismistaken and that I am as innocent as he is!"
"But Luigi Vampa may have a different tale to tell!"
"Luigi Vampa!" cried the Viscount, coming instantly to a dead halt, anda sudden pallor overspreading his entire visage.
"Yes, Luigi Vampa; I have written to him and in two weeks will have hisanswer!"
"For Espérance's sake, for my sake, for your daughter's sake, destroythat answer as soon as received and without reading it!" exclaimed theyoung Italian, wildly, his pallor increasing to such a degree that hisface resembled that of a corpse.
"Should I be mad enough to do so," said M. Dantès, calmly, "with it allhope of your marriage with Zuleika would perish!"
"Oh! do not say that, do not say that!" groaned Massetti. "What wouldlife be worth to me without Zuleika's love!"
"Then deserve that love by clearing yourself, by proving that yourrecord will bear the light of day!"
"I have sworn to you that I am innocent! Is not that enough?"
"No," replied M. Dantès, coldly. "I must have proof to support youroath."
"Then you believe me guilty in spite of all! This is the worst blowyet!"
"It is in your power to completely justify yourself; at least, so yougive me to understand, and yet your refusal will forever separate youfrom the woman you love!"
"You fill me with despair!" said Massetti, in a smothered voice, sinkingupon a sofa. "I fain would reveal everything to you, but an awful oathof silence stands between me and the revelation."
"Then I must wait for Vampa's answer, and shape my course by that!" saidM. Dantès, firmly.
"That answer will destroy both Espérance and myself!" replied theViscount, in a hoarse whisper.
"We shall see," returned the Deputy, rising and resuming his cloak; ashe stood at the door of the salon with his hat in his hand, he added: "Ithought you all a man should be, Viscount, and that you would makeZuleika happy, but my convictions have been sadly shaken. I came herethinking that love for woman was all powerful in the heart of man, thatit would induce you to speak, even in the face of an oath, perhapsviolently and iniquitously administered; I was wrong; farewell!"
M. Dantès turned slowly and took his departure, leaving GiovanniMassetti on the sofa plunged in grief and dismay.



CHAPTER XXXI.
VAMPA'S ANSWER.

As the time for the arrival of Luigi Vampa's answer to M. Dantès' letterapproached, Espérance grew more and more uneasy and serious; he spentthe greater portion of every day from home, apparently for the purposeof avoiding his father and sister; when he returned he was moody,depressed and silent, and far into the night he could be heard pacinghis chamber as if unable to sleep from excitement and anxiety.
Zuleika endeavored to comfort him, but all her efforts were fruitless.She, poor girl, was herself overwhelmed with her own distress, thoughshe strove to bear up against it. Massetti had neither written to norattempted to see her since their separation, a circumstance she couldnot reconcile with his protestations of ardent love for her, and thisserved vastly to augment her sadness and anguish, though she stillbelieved in her soul that the Viscount was entirely innocent of thecrime laid to his charge.
M. Dantès, who had plunged into politics deeper than ever since thesuccess of the Revolution, was frequently in consultation with theRepublican leaders, and many of them visited him at his residence andwere closeted with him for hours at a time; but, though seeminglyengrossed in State affairs, the Deputy did not lose sight of his son anddaughter, or of the mysterious complication that Vampa was expected tomake clear. Ali had strict orders to watch both Zuleika and Espérance,and to report to his master whatever they did when at home in hisabsence, but the faithful Nubian found nothing amiss, save that theyoung people seemed burdened with a sorrow he could not fathom.
At length, when the two weeks that it would take to hear from Rome hadexpired, M. Lamartine called one morning at the mansion in the Rue duHelder, and having finished his business with M. Dantès was invited byhis host to remain to lunch. The repast was served in thesalle-à-manger, Espérance and Zuleika partaking of it with their fatherand his illustrious guest. When the edibles had been removed and theparty were taking wine at the dining-table, M. Dantès, suddenlyremembering that he had an engagement, begged M. Lamartine to excuse himand remain with his son and daughter until his return, that would be inhalf an hour at the utmost. This arrangement effected, the Deputy arosefrom his chair, threw his cloak over his arm and was about to take hisdeparture, when Ali appeared on the threshold of the open doorway,bearing in his hand a letter. Instantly divining that this was Vampa'sanswer, upon which hung Massetti's fate and his own, Espérance leaped tohis feet and fixed his wild and staring eyes on the ominous missive asif he would read its contents through its folds. Zuleika retained herseat, but lifted her hands in terror and stared at the letter withpallid cheeks and blanched lips. Even Lamartine turned in his chair and,holding his glass in his hand, gazed wonderingly at the Nubian and theepistle. M. Dantès alone seemed unmoved, and his pale countenance gaveno sign of the emotion struggling in his breast; he stood like a man ofiron, and extending his hand took the letter without a tremor. It wasenclosed in a curiously-fashioned envelope, evidently made by the writerhimself, and bore the Roman postmark; the direction, written in bold,scrawling, but perfectly legible characters, read: "M. Edmond Dantès,Deputy from Marseilles, No. 27 Rue du Helder, Paris, France. Personaland private." This direction was in French.
Ali having retired, the Deputy calmly broke the seal and hurriedly ranhis eyes over the missive. Espérance and Zuleika eagerly andbreathlessly watched his countenance while he read, but it was asimpassable as a countenance chiseled from marble; when he had finishedhe turned to Espérance and without a word handed him the letter. For amoment the young man trembled so he could not read; cold perspirationstood in heavy beads upon his forehead, and vivid flashes of red passedbefore his eyes like sheets of lurid lightning. What thoughts, whatsuspicions, what dread shot through his tortured mind in that briefmoment, making it seem an eternity of suffering! At last, steadying andcontrolling himself by a supreme effort, he read the missive from whichhe had feared such terrible consequences. It was in Italian, and ran asfollows:

     HIS EXCELLENCY, THE COUNT OF MONTE-CRISTO: You ask me to answer     your questions, and I comply. Pasquale Solara's daughter,     Annunziata, was abducted, from her father's peasant-home by     Giovanni Massetti, known as the Viscount Massetti, who is, no     doubt, the person to whom you allude as now in Paris, for he has     disappeared from Rome. You are right in assuming that he had aid.     He was assisted by a young Frenchman, and that young Frenchman was     your son, Espérance. Annunziata suffered the usual fate of abducted     peasant girls, and was deserted by her dastardly abductor in a     fastness controlled by my band. When the abduction took place,     Annunziata's brother strove to rescue her, but was attacked and     killed by Massetti. Through my means the girl was returned to her     home, but she was miserable there and fled; she is now in an asylum     for unfortunate women founded at Civita Vecchia by the Order of     Sisters of Refuge, and superintended by a French lady, a Madame     Helena de Rancogne, who, as is said, was formerly called the     Countess of Monte-Cristo.[1] It is due to your son to say that he     was entirely misled in regard to the abduction of Annunziata     Solara, and is altogether innocent of crime or intention to commit     it. The whole burden of guilt rests upon the shoulders of the     Viscount Massetti, who, I believe, compelled your son at the     pistol's mouth to take a fearful oath of silence.                                                      LUIGI VAMPA.

When Espérance had read this letter that so effectually cleared him, andwas such a fearful arraignment of the Viscount Massetti, he restored itto his father and sank into his chair utterly overcome by the terribleexcitement and mental strain through which he had passed. M. Dantèsforced him to swallow a glass of wine that partially restored him; then,turning to M. Lamartine, who had been an astonished spectator of thisstrange and to him incomprehensible family scene, he said:
"My dear friend, you are amazed, and you have a right to be. This letterthat has caused my son and daughter so much emotion comes from a Romanbrigand chief, no other than Luigi Vampa, whose name is notoriousthroughout Europe. You will understand its importance when I inform youthat it conclusively clears my son of an exceedingly grave charge."
M. Lamartine arose and took Espérance by the hand.
"I heartily congratulate you," said he.
"And Giovanni Massetti?" asked Zuleika, in a tremulous voice.
"Giovanni Massetti is unworthy of my daughter's hand!" replied M.Dantès.
"Let me see that letter," said Zuleika, her cheek growing paler and herheart beating tumultuously.
Her father gave it to her. She took it and read each line with anintensity of interest that was painful to behold. When she had reachedthe end, her eyes suddenly lighted up and the color came rushing back toher pallid cheeks.
"Espérance," she said, facing her brother with an air of resolutionbeneath which he quailed, "Luigi Vampa has not told all! Something hehas kept back, and that something you know. What is it? Speak!"
"Luigi Vampa has told the truth!" replied the young man, doggedly.
"Yes, but not the whole truth. What has he kept back?"
Espérance shook his head.
"He has told the truth!" he repeated.
"Did the Viscount Massetti administer the oath of silence to you?"
"He did."
"Then who administered that oath to Giovanni?"
The young man did not answer.
"There is some mystery about this complicated affair yet unexplained,and until it is explained I cannot believe Giovanni Massetti guilty!"
"Come, come, my daughter," said M. Dantès, soothingly, "your heartspeaks and not your mind."
"My heart and mind both speak, papa," replied Zuleika, "and both saythat Giovanni Massetti is innocent."
"Let him prove it then."
"I feel certain that he can and will."
"Well, well, child, go to Madame Dantès and take counsel of her. Only awoman can heal a young girl's love wounds."
Zuleika quitted the salle-à-manger, her countenance yet bearing thestamp of an inflexible belief and a fixed determination.
"Espérance," said M. Dantès, "your honor is unstained and you arerestored to my heart. I thank God for the blessings of this day!"
"You are a true father, Edmond, as well as a true patriot," said M.Lamartine, "and I feel assured that your son will be worthy of you andof our beloved France."
       *       *       *       *       *
That very day Giovanni Massetti received an unsigned little note,written in a tiny feminine hand. It was phrased thus:

     "I believe you innocent in spite of all! Prove to me and to the     world that you are so."

Enclosed in this little note was Luigi Vampa's letter to M. Dantès.
The next morning it became known that the Viscount Massetti haddisappeared from Paris. Gossip assigned a thousand scandalous motivesfor his sudden flight, but gossip could form no idea as to whither hehad fled. Zuleika[2] however, knew that he had returned to Italy toclear his name and prove himself worthy of her love!
FOOTNOTES:
[1] The exceedingly romantic history of Madame de Rancogne will be foundin that fascinating and absorbing novel, "The Countess of Monte-Cristo,"published by Messrs. T. B. Peterson & Brothers, a wonderful book thateverybody should read.
[2] A full account, from this point, of the life and remarkable careerof "Zuleika, the Daughter of Monte-Cristo," will be found in thebrilliant, original, and absorbing novel just published by T. B.Peterson & Brothers, Philadelphia, in uniform style with "EdmondDantès," entitled "MONTE-CRISTO'S DAUGHTER," being the Sequel toAlexander Dumas' famous novel, "The Count of Monte-Cristo," andConclusion of "Edmond Dantès." "MONTE-CRISTO'S DAUGHTER" will be foundto be of unflagging interest, abounding in ardent love scenes andstirring adventures, while the Count of Monte-Cristo figures largely init, and many of the original Monte-Cristo characters are also introducedinto the volume, making it in point of brilliancy, power, and absorbinginterest fully equal to its famous predecessors.