PROLOGUE

Nearly all of the history of Doctor Dolittle's post office took placewhen he was returning from a voyage to West Africa. Therefore I willbegin (as soon as I have told you a little about how he came to takethe journey) from where he turned his ship towards home again and setsail for Puddleby-on-the-Marsh.
Some time before this the pushmi-pullyu, after a long stay inEngland, had grown a little homesick for Africa. And although hewas tremendously fond of the Doctor and never wanted to leavehim altogether, he asked him one winter day when the weather wasparticularly cold and disagreeable if he would mind running down toAfrica for a holiday--just for a week or two.
The Doctor readily agreed because he hadn't been on a voyage in a longwhile and he felt he too needed a change from the chilly December daysof England.
So he started off. Besides the pushmi-pullyu he took Dab-Dab the duck,Jip the dog, Gub-Gub the pig, Too-Too the owl, and the white mouse--thesame good company he had had with him on his adventurous return fromthe Land of the Monkeys. For this trip the Doctor bought a littlesailing boat--very old and battered and worn, but a good sound craftfor bad weather.
They sailed away down to the south coast of the Bight of Benin. Therethey visited many African kingdoms and strange tribes. And while theywere ashore the pushmi-pullyu had a chance to wander freely through hisold grazing grounds. And he enjoyed his holiday thoroughly.
One morning the Doctor was delighted to see his old friends theswallows gathering once more about his ship at anchor for their yearlyflight to England. They asked him whether he too was returning; becauseif so, they said, they would accompany him, the same as they had donewhen he was escaping from the Kingdom of Jolliginki.
As the pushmi-pullyu was now quite ready to leave, the Doctor thankedthe swallows and told them he would be delighted to have their company.Then for the remainder of that day all was hustle and hurry and bustle,getting the ship provisioned and making preparations for the long tripback to England.
By the following morning everything was in readiness to put to sea.The anchor was drawn up and with all sail set the Doctor's ship movednorthward before a favorable wind. And it is from this point that mystory begins.



PART I



_CHAPTER I_
ZUZANA

One morning in the first week of the return voyage when John Dolittleand his animals were all sitting at breakfast round the big table inthe cabin, one of the swallows came down and said that he wanted tospeak to the Doctor.
John Dolittle at once left the table and went out into the passagewhere he found the swallow-leader himself, a very neat, trim,little bird with long, long wings and sharp, snappy, black eyes.Speedy-the-Skimmer he was called--a name truly famous throughout thewhole of the feathered world. He was the champion flycatcher and aerialacrobat of Europe, Africa, Asia, and America. For years every summer hehad won all the flying races, having broken his own record only lastyear by crossing the Atlantic in eleven and a half hours--at a speed ofover two hundred miles an hour.
"Well, Speedy," said John Dolittle. "What is it?"
"Doctor," said the little bird in a mysterious whisper, "we havesighted a canoe about a mile ahead of the ship and a little to theeastward, with only a black woman in it. She is weeping bitterly andisn't paddling the canoe at all. She is several miles from land--ten,at least, I should say--because at the moment we are crossing the Bayof Fantippo and can only just see the shore of Africa. She is reallyin dangerous straits, with such a little bit of a boat that far out atsea. But she doesn't seem to care. She's just sitting in the bottom ofthe canoe, crying as if she didn't mind what happens to her. I wish youwould come and speak to her, for we fear she is in great trouble."
"All right," said the Doctor. "Fly slowly on to where the canoe is andI will steer the ship to follow you."
So John Dolittle went up on deck and by steering the boat after theguiding swallows he presently saw a small, dark canoe rising andfalling on the waves. It looked so tiny on the wide face of the watersthat it could be taken for a log or a stick--or, indeed, missedaltogether, unless you were close enough to see it. In the canoe sat awoman with her head bowed down upon her knees.
"What's the matter?" shouted the Doctor, as soon as he was near enoughto make the woman hear. "Why have you come so far from the land? Don'tyou know that you are in great danger if a storm should come up?"
Slowly the woman raised her head.
"Go away," said she, "and leave me to my sorrow. Haven't you white mendone me enough harm?"
John Dolittle steered the boat up closer still and continued to talk tothe woman in a kindly way. But she seemed for a long time to mistrusthim because he was a white man. Little by little, however, the Doctorwon her confidence and at last, still weeping bitterly, she told himher story.
These were the days, you must understand, when slavery was being doneaway with. To capture, to buy or to sell slaves had, in fact, beenstrictly forbidden by most governments. But certain bad men still camedown to the west coast of Africa and captured or bought slaves secretlyand took them away in ships to other lands to work on cotton andtobacco plantations. Some African kings sold prisoners they had takenin war to these men and made a great deal of money that way.
Well, this woman in the canoe belonged to a tribe which had been at warwith the king of Fantippo--an African kingdom situated on the coastnear which the swallows had seen the canoe.
And in this war the King of Fantippo had taken many prisoners, amongwhom was the woman's husband. Shortly after the war was over some whitemen in a ship had called at the Kingdom of Fantippo to see if theycould buy slaves for tobacco plantations. And when the king heard howmuch money they were willing to give for black slaves he thought hewould sell them the prisoners he had taken in the war.
This woman's name was Zuzana and her husband was a very strong andfine-looking man. The King of Fantippo would have kept Zuzana's husbandfor this reason, because he liked to have strong men at his court.But the slave traders also wanted strong men, for they could do a lotof work on the plantations. And they offered the King of Fantippo aspecially high price for Zuzana's husband. And the king had sold him.
Zuzana described to the Doctor how she had followed the white man'sship a long way out in a canoe, imploring them to give her back herhusband. But they had only laughed at her and gone on their way. Andtheir ship had soon passed out of sight.
That was why, she said, she hated all white men and had not wanted tospeak to the Doctor when he had hailed her canoe.
The Doctor was dreadfully angry when he had heard the story. And heasked Zuzana how long ago was it that the slaver's ship bearing herhusband had left.
She told him it was half an hour ago. Without her husband, she said,life meant nothing to her, and when the ship had passed from view,going northward along the coast, she had burst into tears and just letthe canoe drift, not even having the heart to paddle back to land.
The Doctor told the woman that no matter what it cost he was going tohelp her. And he was all for speeding up his ship and going in chaseof the slave boat right away. But Dab-Dab the duck warned him thathis boat was very slow and that its sails could be easily seen by theslavers, who would never allow it to come near them.
So the Doctor put down his anchor and, leaving the ship where it was,got into the woman's canoe. Then, calling to the swallows to help himas guides, he set off northward along the coast, looking into all thebays and behind all the islands for the slave ship which had takenZuzana's husband.
But after many hours of fruitless search night began to come on and theswallows who were acting as guides could no longer see big distances,for there was no moon.
Poor Zuzana began weeping some more when the Doctor said he would haveto give up for the night.
"By morning," said she, "the ship of the wicked slave dealers will bemany miles away and I shall never get my husband back. Alas! Alas!"
The Doctor comforted her as best he could, saying that if he failed hewould get her another husband, just as good. But she didn't seem tocare for that idea and went on wailing, "Alas! Alas!"
She made such a noise that the Doctor couldn't get to sleep on thebottom of the canoe--which wasn't very comfortable, anyway. So he hadto sit up and listen. Some of the swallows were still with him, sittingon the edge of the canoe. And the famous Skimmer, the leader, was alsothere. They and the Doctor were talking over what they could do, whensuddenly the Skimmer said, "Sh! Look!" and pointed out to the westwardover the dark, heaving sea.
Even Zuzana stopped her wailing and turned to look. And there, away outon the dim, black edge of the ocean, they could see a tiny light.
"A ship!" cried the Doctor.
"Yes," said Speedy, "that's a ship, sure enough. I wonder if it'sanother slave ship."
"Well, if it's a slave ship, it's not the one we're looking for," saidthe Doctor, "because it's in the wrong direction. The one we're afterwent northward."
"Listen, Doctor," said Speedy-the-Skimmer, "suppose I fly over to itand see what kind of a ship it is and come back and tell you. Whoknows? It might be able to help us."
"All right, Speedy. Thank you," said the Doctor.
So the Skimmer sped off into the darkness toward the tiny light farout to sea, while the Doctor fell to wondering how his own ship wasgetting on which he had left at anchor some miles down the coast to thesouthward.
After twenty minutes had gone by John Dolittle began to get worried,because the Skimmer, with his tremendous speed, should have had time toget there and back long ago.
But soon with a flirt of the wings the famous leader made a neat circlein the darkness overhead and dropped, light as a feather, on to theDoctor's knee.
"Well," said John Dolittle, "what kind of a ship was it?"
"It's a big ship," panted the Skimmer, "with tall, high masts and, Ishould judge, a fast one. But it is coming this way and it is sailingwith great care, afraid, I imagine, of shallows and sandbars. It is avery neat ship, smart and new-looking all over. And there are great bigguns--cannons--looking out of little doors in her sides. The men onher, too, are all well dressed in smart blue clothes--not like ordinaryseamen at all. And on the ship's hull was painted some lettering--hername, I suppose. Of course, I couldn't read it. But I remember what itlooked like. Give me your hand and I'll show you."
Then the Skimmer, with one of his claws, began tracing out some letterson the Doctor's palm. Before he had got very far John Dolittle sprangup, nearly overturning the canoe.
"H. M. S.!" he cried. "That means Her Majesty's Ship. It's aman-o'-war--a navy vessel. The very thing we want to deal with slavetraders!"



_CHAPTER II_
THE DOCTOR'S RECEPTION ON THE WARSHIP

Then the Doctor and Zuzana started to paddle their canoe for all theywere worth in the direction of the light. The night was calm, but thelong swell of the ocean swung the little canoe up and down like aseesaw and it needed all Zuzana's skill to keep it in a straight line.
After about an hour had gone by the Doctor noticed that the ship theywere trying to reach was no longer coming toward them, but seemed tohave stopped. And when he finally came up beneath its towering shapein the darkness he saw the reason why--the man-o'-war had run into hisown ship, which he had left at anchor with no lights. However, the navyvessel had fortunately been going so carefully that no serious damage,it seemed, had been done to either ship.
Finding a rope ladder hanging on the side of the man-o'-war, JohnDolittle climbed up it, with Zuzana, and went aboard to see the Captain.
He found the Captain strutting the quarterdeck, mumbling to himself.
"Good evening," said the Doctor politely. "Nice weather we're having."
The Captain came up to him and shook his fist in his face.
"Are you the owner of that Noah's Ark down there?" he stormed, pointingto the other ship alongside.
"Er--yes--temporarily," said the Doctor. "Why?"
"Well, will you be so good," snarled the Captain, his face all out ofshape with rage, "as to tell me what in thunder you mean by leavingyour old junk at anchor on a dark night without any lights? Whatkind of a sailor are you? Here I bring Her Majesty's latest cruiserafter Jimmie Bones, the slave trader--been hunting him for weeks, Ihave--and, as though the beastly coast wasn't difficult enough as itis, I bump into a craft riding at anchor with no lights. Luckily, Iwas going slow, taking soundings, or we might have gone down with allhands. I hallooed to your ship and got no answer. So I go aboard her,with pistols ready, thinking maybe she's a slaver, trying to playtricks on me. I creep all over the ship, but not a soul do I meet. Atlast in the cabin I find a pig--_asleep in an armchair_! Do you usuallyleave your craft in the charge of a pig, with orders to go to sleep? Ifyou own the ship, why aren't you on her? Where have you been?"
"I was out canoeing with a lady," said the Doctor, and he smiledcomfortingly at Zuzana, who was beginning to weep again.
"_Canoeing with a lady!_" spluttered the Captain. "Well, I'll be----"
"Yes," said the Doctor. "Let me introduce you. This is Zuzana,Captain--er----"
But the Captain interrupted him by calling for a sailor, who stood near.
"I'll teach you to leave Noah's arks at anchor on the high seas for thenavy to bump into, my fine deep-sea philanderer! Think the shippinglaws are made for a joke? Here," he turned to the sailor, who had comein answer to his call, "Master-at-arms, put this man under arrest."
"Aye, aye, sir," said the master-at-arms. And before the Doctor knew ithe had handcuffs fastened firmly on his wrists.
"But this lady was in distress," said the Doctor. "I was in such ahurry I forgot all about lighting the ship. In fact, it wasn't dark yetwhen I left."
"Take him below!" roared the Captain. "Take him below before I killhim."
And the poor Doctor was dragged away by the Master-at-arms toward astair leading to the lower decks. But at the head of the stairs hecaught hold of the handrail and hung on long enough to shout back tothe Captain:
"I could tell you where Jimmie Bones is, if I wanted to."
"What's that?" snorted the Captain. "Here, bring him back! What wasthat you said?"
"I said," murmured the Doctor, getting his handkerchief out and blowinghis nose with his handcuffed hands, "that I could tell you where JimmieBones is--if I wanted to."
"Jimmie Bones, the slaver?" cried the Captain. "That's the man thegovernment has sent me after. Where is he?"
"My memory doesn't work very well while my hands are tied," said theDoctor quietly, nodding toward the handcuffs. "Possibly if you tookthese things off I might remember."
"Oh, excuse me," said the Captain, his manner changing at once."Master-at-arms, release the prisoner."
"Aye, aye, sir," said the sailor, removing the handcuffs from theDoctor's wrists and turning to go.
"Oh, and by the way," the Captain called after him, "bring a chair upon deck. Perhaps our visitor is tired."
Then John Dolittle told the Captain the whole story of Zuzana and hertroubles. And all the other officers on the ship gathered around tolisten.
"And I have no doubt," the Doctor ended, "that this slaver who tookaway the woman's husband was no other than Jimmie Bones, the man youare after."
"Quite so," said the Captain. "I know he is somewhere around the coast.But where is he now? He's a difficult fish to catch."
"He has gone northward," said the Doctor. "But your ship is fast andshould be able to overtake him. If he hides in some of these bays andcreeks I have several birds here with me who can, as soon as it islight, seek him out for us and tell us where he is."
The Captain looked with astonishment into the faces of his listeningofficers, who all smiled unbelievingly.
"What do you mean--birds?" the Captain asked. "Pigeons--trainedcanaries, or something?"
"No," said the Doctor, "I mean the swallows who are going back toEngland for the summer. They very kindly offered to guide my ship home.They're friends of mine, you see."
This time the officers all burst out laughing and tapped theirforeheads knowingly, to show they thought the Doctor was crazy. And theCaptain, thinking he was being made a fool of, flew into a rage oncemore and was all for having the Doctor arrested again.
But the officer who was second in command whispered in the Captain'sear:
"Why not take the old fellow along and let him try, Sir? Our course wasnorthward, anyway. I seem to remember hearing something, when I wasattached to the Home Fleet, about an old chap in the west counties whohad some strange powers with beasts and birds. I have no doubt this ishe. Dolittle, he was called. He seems harmless enough. There's just achance he may be of some assistance to us. The natives evidently trusthim or the woman wouldn't have come with him--you know how scared theyare of putting to sea with a white man."
After a moment's thought the Captain turned to the Doctor again.
"You sound clean crazy to me, my good man. But if you can put me inthe way of capturing Jimmie Bones the slaver I don't care what meansyou use to do it. As soon as the day breaks we will get under way. Butif you are just amusing yourself at the expense of Her Majesty's NavyI warn you it will be the worst day's work for yourself you ever did.Now go and put riding lights on that ark of yours and tell the pig thatif he lets them go out he shall be made into rashers of bacon for theofficers' mess."
There was much laughter and joking as the Doctor climbed over the sideand went back to his own ship to get his lights lit. But the nextmorning when he came back to the man-o'-war--and about a thousandswallows came with him--the officers of Her Majesty's Navy were notnearly so inclined to make fun of him.
The sun was just rising over the distant coast of Africa and it was asbeautiful a morning as you could wish to see.
Speedy-the-Skimmer had arranged plans with the Doctor overnight. Andlong before the great warship pulled up her anchor and swung aroundupon her course the famous swallow leader was miles ahead, with a bandof picked hunters, exploring up creeks and examining all the hollows ofthe coast where the slave trader might be hiding.
Speedy had agreed with the Doctor upon a sort of overhead telegraphsystem to be carried on by the swallows. And as soon as the millions oflittle birds had spread themselves out in a line along the coast, sothat the sky was speckled with them as far as the eye could reach, theybegan passing messages, by whistling to one another, all the way fromthe scouts in front back to the Doctor on the warship, to give news ofhow the hunt was progressing.
And somewhere about noon word came through that Bones's slave shiphad been sighted behind a long, high cape. Great care must be taken,the message said, because the slave ship was in all readiness to sailat a moment's notice. The slavers had only stopped to get water andlook-outs were posted to warn them to return at once, if necessary.
When the Doctor told this to the Captain the man-o'-war changed hercourse still closer inshore, to keep behind the cover of the long cape.All the sailors were warned to keep very quiet, so the navy ship couldsneak up on the slaver unawares.
Now, the Captain, expecting the slavers to put up a fight, also gaveorders to get the guns ready. And just as they were about to round thelong cape one of the silly gunners let a gun off by accident.
"_Boom!_" ... The shot went rolling and echoing over the silent sealike angry thunder.
Instantly back came word over the swallows' telegraph line that theslavers were warned and were escaping. And, sure enough, when thewarship rounded the cape at last, there was the slave ship putting outto sea, with all sail set and a good ten-mile start on the man-o'-war.



_CHAPTER III_
A GREAT GUNNER

And then began a most exciting sea race. It was now two o'clock in theafternoon and there were not many hours of daylight left.
The Captain (after he had done swearing at the stupid gunner who hadlet off the gun by accident) realized that if he did not catch up tothe slaver before dark came on he would probably lose him altogether.For this Jim Bones was a very sly and clever rascal and he knew theWest Coast of Africa (it is sometimes called to this day _The SlaveCoast_) very well. After dark by running without lights he would easilyfind some nook or corner to hide in--or double back on his course andbe miles away before morning came.
So the Captain gave orders that all possible speed was to be made.These were the days when steam was first used on ships. But at thebeginning it was only used together with the sails, to help the powerof the wind. Of this vessel, H. M. S. _Violet_, the Captain was veryproud. And he was most anxious that the _Violet_ should have the honorof catching Bones the slaver, who for so long had been defying thenavy by carrying on slave trade after it had been forbidden. So the_Violet's_ steam engines were put to work their hardest. And thick,black smoke rolled out of her funnels and darkened the blue sea andsmudged up her lovely white sails humming tight in the breeze.
Then the engine boy, also anxious that his ship should have the honorof capturing Bones, tied down the safety valve on the steam engine,to make her go faster, and then went up on deck to see the show. Andsoon, of course, one of the _Violet's_ brand new boilers burst with aterrific bang and made an awful mess of the engine room.
But, being a full-rigged man-o'-war, the _Violet_ was still a prettyspeedy sailer. And on she went, furiously plowing the waves and slowlygaining on the slave ship.
However, the crafty Bones, with so big a start, was not easy toovertake. And soon the sun began to set and the Captain frowned andstamped his feet. For with darkness he knew his enemy would be safe.
Down below among the crew, the man who had fired the gun by accidentwas having a terrible time. All his companions were setting on him andmobbing him for being such a duffer as to warn Bones--who would nowalmost certainly escape. The distance from the slaver was still toogreat to use the kind of guns they had in those days. But when theCaptain saw darkness creeping over the sea and his enemy escaping, hegave orders to man the guns, anyway--although he hadn't the least hopethat his shots would hit the slaver at that distance.
Now, Speedy-the-Skimmer, as soon as the race had begun, had come on tothe warship to take a rest. And he happened to be talking to the Doctorwhen the order to man the guns came down from the Captain. So theDoctor and Speedy went below to watch the guns being fired.
They found an air of quiet but great excitement there. Each gunnerwas leaning on his gun, aiming it, watching the enemy's ship in thedistance and waiting for the order to fire. The poor man who had beenmobbed by his fellows was still almost in tears at his own stupidmistake.
Suddenly an officer shouted "_Fire!_" And with a crash that shook theship from stem to stern eight big cannon balls went whistling outacross the water.
But not one hit the slave ship. _Splash! Splash! Splash!_ They fellharmlessly into the water.
"The light's too bad," grumbled the gunners. "Who could hit anythingtwo miles away in this rotten light?"
Then Speedy whispered in the Doctor's ear:
"Ask them to let me fire a gun. My sight is better than theirs for badlight."
But just at that moment the order came from the Captain, "_Ceasefiring!_" And the men left their places.
As soon as their backs were turned Speedy jumped on top of one of theguns and, straddling his short, white legs apart, he cast his beadylittle black eyes along the aiming sights. Then with his wings hesignaled to the Doctor behind him to swing the gun this way and that,so as to aim it the way he wanted.
"_Fire!_" said Speedy. And the Doctor fired.
"What in thunder's this?" roared the Captain from the quarterdeck asthe shot rang out. "Didn't I give the order to cease firing?"
But the second in command plucked him by the sleeve and pointed acrossthe water. Speedy's cannon ball had cut the slaver's mainmast clean intwo and brought the sails down in a heap upon the deck!
"Holy smoke!" cried the Captain. "We've hit him! Look, Bones is flyingthe signal of surrender!"
Then the Captain, who a moment before was all for punishing the man whohad fired without orders, wanted to know who it was that aimed thatmarvelous shot which brought the slaver to a standstill. And the Doctorwas going to tell him it was Speedy. But the Skimmer whispered in hisear:
"Don't bother, Doctor. He would never believe you, anyway. It was thegun of the man that made the mistake before that we used. Let himtake the credit. They'll likely give him a medal, and then he'll feelbetter."
And now all was excitement aboard the _Violet_ as they approached theslave boat lying crippled in the sea. Bones, the captain, with hiscrew of eleven other ruffians, was taken prisoner and put down in thecells of the warship. Then the Doctor, with Zuzana, some sailors and anofficer, went on to the slave ship. Entering the hold, they found theplace packed with slaves with chains on them. And Zuzana immediatelyrecognized her husband and wept all over him with joy.
The black men were at once freed from their chains and brought on tothe man-o'-war. Then the slave ship was taken in tow by the _Violet_.And that was the end of Mr. Bones's slave trading.
Then there was much rejoicing and hand-shaking and congratulation onboard the warship. And a grand dinner was prepared for the slaves onthe main deck. But John Dolittle, Zuzana and her husband were invitedto the officers' mess, where their health was drunk in port wine andspeeches were made by the Captain and the Doctor.
The next day, as soon as it was light, the warship went cruisingdown the coast again, putting the black people ashore in their ownparticular countries.
This took considerable time, because Bones, it seemed, had collectedslaves from a great many different tribes. And it was after noonbefore the Doctor, with Zuzana and her husband, were returned to JohnDolittle's ship, who still had her lights faithfully burning in themiddle of the day.
Then the Captain shook hands with the Doctor and thanked him for thegreat assistance he had given Her Majesty's Navy. And he asked himfor his address in England, because he said he was going to tell thegovernment about him and the Queen would most likely want to make him aknight or give him a medal or something. But the Doctor said he wouldrather have a pound of tea instead. He hadn't tasted tea in severalmonths and the kind they had in the officers' mess was very good.
So the Captain gave him five pounds of the best China tea and thankedhim again in the name of the Queen and the government.
Then the _Violet_ swung her great bow around to the north once more andsailed away for England, while the bluejackets crowded the rail andsent three hearty cheers for the Doctor ringing across the sea.
And now Jip, Dab-Dab, Gub-Gub, Too-Too and the rest of them gatheredaround John Dolittle and wanted to hear all about his adventures. Andit was tea time before he had done telling them. So the Doctor askedZuzana and her husband to take tea with him before they went ashore.
This they were glad to do. And the Doctor made the tea himself and itwas very excellent. Over the tea Zuzana and her husband (whose name wasBegwe) were conversing about the Kingdom of Fantippo.
"I don't think we ought to go back there," said Begwe. "I don't mindbeing a soldier in the Fantippo army, but suppose some other slavercomes along. Maybe the king would sell me again. Did you send thatletter to our cousin?"
"Yes," said Zuzana. "But I don't think he ever got it. Because noanswer came."
The Doctor asked Zuzana how she had sent the letter. And then sheexplained to him that when Bones had offered a big price for Begweand the king had been tempted to sell him she had told the king shewould get twelve oxen and thirty goats from a rich cousin in theirown country if he would only wait till she had written to him. Now,the King of Fantippo was very fond of oxen and goats--cattle beingconsidered as good as money in his land. And he promised Zuzana that ifshe got the twelve oxen and thirty goats in two days' time her husbandshould be a free man, instead of being sold to the slavers.
So Zuzana had hurried to a professional letter writer (the commonpeople of those tribes couldn't write for themselves, you see) and hada letter written, begging their cousin to send the goats and oxen tothe king without delay. Then she had taken the letter to the Fantippopost office and sent it off.
But the two days went by and no answer came--and no cattle. Then poorBegwe had been sold to Bones's men.



_CHAPTER IV_
THE ROYAL MAILS OF FANTIPPO

Now, this Fantippo post office of which Zuzana had spoken to the Doctorwas rather peculiar. For one thing, it was, of course, quite unusualto find a post office or regular mails of any kind in a savage Africankingdom. And the way such a thing had come about was this:
A few years before this voyage of the Doctor's there had been a greatdeal of talk in most civilized parts of the world about mails and howmuch it should cost for a letter to go from one country to another.And in England a man called Rowland Hill had started what was called"The Penny Postage," and it had been agreed that a penny a lettershould be the regular rate charge for mails from one part of theBritish Isles to another. Of course, for specially heavy letters youhad to pay more. Then stamps were made, penny stamps, twopenny stamps,twopence-halfpenny stamps, sixpenny stamps and shilling stamps. Andeach was a different color and they were beautifully engraved and mostof them had a picture of the Queen on them--some with her crown on herhead and some without.
And France and the United States and all the other countries starteddoing the same thing--only their stamps were counted in their ownmoney, of course, and had different kings or queens or presidents onthem.
Very well, then. Now, it happened one day that a ship called at thecoast of West Africa, and delivered a letter for Koko, the King ofFantippo. King Koko had never seen a stamp before and, sending for awhite merchant who lived in his town, he asked him what queen's facewas this on the stamp which the letter bore.
Then the white merchant explained to him the whole idea of pennypostage and government mails. And he told him that in England all youhad to do when you wanted to send a letter to any part of the world wasto put a stamp on the envelope with the queen's head on it and place itin a letter-box on the street corner, and it would be carried to theplace to which you addressed it.
"Ah, hah!" said the King. "A new kind of magic. I understand. Verygood. The High Kingdom of Fantippo shall have a post office of its own.And _my_ serene and beautiful face shall be on all the stamps and _my_letters shall travel by faster magic than any of them."
Then King Koko of Fantippo, being a very vain man, had a fine lot ofstamps made with his pictures on them, some with his crown on and somewithout; some smiling, some frowning; some with himself on horseback,some with himself on a bicycle. But the stamp which he was most proudof was the tenpenny stamp which bore a picture of himself playinggolf--a game which he had just recently learned from some Scotchmen whowere mining for gold in his kingdom.
And he had letter-boxes made, just the way the white trader had toldhim they had in England, and he set them up at the corners of thestreets and told his people that all they had to do was to put one ofhis stamps on their letters, poke them into these boxes and they wouldtravel to any corner of the earth they wished.
But presently the people began complaining that they had been robbed.They had paid good money for the stamps, they said, trusting in theirmagic power, and they had put their letters in the boxes at the cornersof the streets as they had been told. But one day a cow had rubbed herneck against one of the letter boxes and burst it open, and insidethere were all the people's letters, which had not traveled one inchfrom where they put them!
Then the king was very angry and, calling for the white trader, he said:
"You have been fooling My Majesty. These stamps you speak of have nomagic power at all. Explain!"
Then the trader told him that it was not through magic in the stampsor boxes that letters traveled by mail. But proper post offices hadmail-men, or postmen, who collected the letters out of these boxes. Andhe went on to explain to the King all the other duties of a post officeand the things that made letters go.
So then the King, who was a persevering man, said that Fantippo shouldhave its post office, anyway. And he sent to England for hundreds ofpostmen's uniforms and caps. And when these arrived he dressed a lot ofblack men up in them and set them to work as postmen.
But the black men found the heavy uniforms dreadfully hot for Fantippoweather, where they wear only a string of beads. And they left off theuniforms and wore only the caps. That is how the Fantippo postman'suniform came to be a smart cap, a string of beads and a mail bag.
Then when King Koko had got his mail-men, the Royal Fantippo postoffice began really working. Letters were collected from the boxes atstreet corners and sent off when ships called; and incoming mail wasdelivered at the doors of the houses in Fantippo three times a day. Thepost office became the busiest place in town.
Now, the peoples of West Africa have curious tastes in dress. They lovebright things. And some Fantippo dandy started the idea of using up oldstamps off letters by making suits of clothes out of them. They lookedvery showy and smart and a suit of this kind made of stamps became avaluable possession among the natives.
About this time, too, in the civilized parts of the world one of thethings that arose out of all this penny-postage business was the crazeor hobby for collecting stamps. In England and America and othercountries people began buying stamp albums and pasting stamps in them.A rare stamp became quite valuable.
And it happened that one day two men, whose hobby was collectingstamps, came to Fantippo in a ship. The one stamp they were both mostanxious to get for their collections was the "twopenny-halfpennyFantippo red," a stamp which the King had given up printing--for thereason that the picture of himself on it wasn't handsome enough. Andbecause he had given up printing it, it became very rare.
As soon as these two men stepped ashore at Fantippo a porter came up tothem to carry their bags. And right in the middle of the porter's chestthe collectors spied the twopenny-halfpenny Fantippo red! Then both ofthe stamp collectors offered to buy the stamp. And as each was anxiousto have it for his collection, before long they were offering highprices for it, bidding against one another.
King Koko got to hear of this and he called up one of these stampcollectors and asked him why men should offer high prices for one oldused stamp. And the white man explained to him this new craze for stampcollecting that was sweeping over the civilized world.
So King Koko, although he thought that the civilized world mustbe crazy, decided it would be a good idea if _he_ sold stamps forcollections--much better business than selling them at his post officefor letters. And after that whenever a ship came into the harbor ofFantippo he sent his Postmaster-General--a very grand man, who wore_two_ strings of beads, a postman's cap and no mail bag--out to theship with stamps to sell for collections.
Such a roaring trade was done in this way that the King set the stampprinting presses to work more busily than ever, so that a whole new setof Fantippo stamps should be ready for sale by the time the same shipcalled again on her way home to England.
But with this new trade in selling stamps for stamp collections,and not for proper mailing purposes, the Fantippo mail service wasneglected and became very bad.
Now, Doctor Dolittle, while Zuzana was talking over the tea abouther letter which she had sent to her cousin--and to which no answerhad ever come--suddenly remembered something. On one of his earliervoyages the passenger ship by which he had been traveling had stoppedoutside this same harbor of Fantippo, although no passengers had goneashore. And a postman had come aboard to sell a most elegant lot of newgreen and violet stamps. The Doctor, being at the time a great stampcollector, had bought three whole sets.
And he realized now, as he listened to Zuzana, what was wrong with theFantippo post office and why she had never got an answer to the letterwhich would have saved her husband from slavery.
As Zuzana and Begwe rose to go, for it was beginning to get dark, theDoctor noticed a canoe setting out toward his ship from the shore. Andin it, when it got near, he saw King Koko himself, coming to the whiteman's boat with stamps to sell.
So the Doctor got talking to the King and he told him in plain languagethat he ought to be ashamed of his post office. Then, giving him a cupof China tea, he explained to him how Zuzana's letter had probablynever been delivered to her cousin.
The King listened attentively and understood how his post office hadbeen at fault. And he invited the Doctor to come ashore with Zuzana andBegwe and arrange the post office for him and put it in order so itwould work properly.



_CHAPTER V_
THE VOYAGE DELAYED

After some persuasion the Doctor consented to this proposal feelingthat perhaps he could do some good. Little did he realize what greatlabors and strange adventures he was taking upon himself as he got intothe canoe with the King, Begwe and Zuzana to be paddled to the town ofFantippo.
This place he found very different from any of the African villages orsettlements he had ever visited. It was quite large, almost a city. Itwas bright and cheerful to look at and the people, like their King, allseemed very kind and jolly.
The Doctor was introduced to all the chief men of the Fantippo nationand later he was taken to see the post office.
This he found in a terrible state. There were letters everywhere--onthe floors, in old drawers, knocking about on desks, even lying on thepavement outside the post office door. The Doctor explained to theKing that this would never do, that in properly-run post offices theletters that had stamps on were treated with respect and care. It wasno wonder, he said, that Zuzana's letter had never been delivered toher cousin if this was the way they took care of the mails.
Then King Koko again begged him to take charge of the post office andtry to get it running in proper order. And the Doctor said he would seewhat he could do. And, going into the post office, he took off his coatand set to work.
But after many hours of terrific labor, trying to get letters sortedand the place in order, John Dolittle saw that such a tremendous job assetting the Fantippo post office to rights would not be a matter of aday or two. It would take weeks at least. So he told this to the King.Then the Doctor's ship was brought into the harbor and put safely atanchor and the animals were all taken ashore. And a nice, new house onthe main street was given over to the Doctor for himself and his petsto live in while the work of straightening out the Fantippo mails wasgoing on.
Well, after ten days John Dolittle got what is called the _DomesticMails_ in pretty good shape. Domestic mails are those that carryletters from one part of a country to another part of the same country,or from one part of a city to another. The mails that carry lettersoutside the country to foreign lands are called _Foreign Mails_. Tohave a regular and good service of foreign mails in the Fantippo postoffice the Doctor found a hard problem, because the mail ships whichcould carry letters abroad did not come very often to this port.Fantippo, although King Koko was most proud of it, was not considered avery important country among the regular civilized nations and two orthree ships a year were all that ever called there.
Now, one day, very early in the morning, when the Doctor was lyingin bed, wondering what he could do about the Foreign Mail Service,Dab-Dab and Jip brought him in his breakfast on a tray and told himthere was a swallow outside who wanted to give him a message fromSpeedy-the-Skimmer. John Dolittle had the swallow brought in and thelittle bird sat on the foot of his bed while he ate his breakfast.
"Good morning," said the Doctor, cracking open the top of a hard-boiledegg. "What can I do for you?"
"Speedy would like to know," said the swallow, "how long you expect tostay in this country. He doesn't want to complain, you understand--nordo any of us--but this journey of yours is taking longer than wethought it would. You see, there was the delay while we hunted outBones the slaver, and now it seems likely you will be busy with thispost office for some weeks yet. Ordinarily we would have been inEngland long before this, getting the nests ready for the new season'sfamilies. We cannot put off the nesting season, you know. Of course,you understand we are not complaining, don't you? But this delay ismaking things rather awkward for us."
"Oh, quite, quite. I understand perfectly," said the Doctor, pokingsalt into his egg with a bone egg-spoon. "I am dreadfully sorry. Butwhy didn't Speedy bring the message himself?"
"I suppose he didn't like to," said the swallow. "Thought you'd beoffended, perhaps."
"Oh, not in the least," said the Doctor. "You birds have been mosthelpful to me. Tell Speedy I'll come to see him as soon as I've got mytrousers on and we'll talk it over. Something can be arranged, I haveno doubt."
"Very good, Doctor," said the swallow, turning to go. "I'll tell theSkimmer what you say."
"By the way," said John Dolittle, "I've been trying to think where I'veseen your face before. Did you ever build your nest in my stable inPuddleby?"
"No," said the bird. "But I am the swallow that brought you the messagefrom the monkeys that time they were sick."
"Oh, to be sure--of course," cried the Doctor. "I knew I had seen yousomewhere. I never forget faces. You had a pretty hard time coming toEngland in the winter, didn't you--snow on the ground and all that sortof thing. Very plucky of you to undertake it."
"Yes, it was a hard trip," said the swallow. "I came near freezing todeath more than once. Flying into the teeth of that frosty wind wasjust awful. But something had to be done. The monkeys would most likelyhave been wiped right out if we hadn't got you."
"How was it that you were the one chosen to bring the message?" askedthe Doctor.
"Well," said the swallow, "Speedy did want to do it himself. He'sfrightfully brave, you know--and fast as lightning. But the otherswallows wouldn't let him. They said he was too valuable as a leader.It was a risky job. And if he had lost his life from the frost we'dnever be able to get another leader like him. Because, besides beingbrave and fast, he's the cleverest leader we ever had. Whenever theswallows are in trouble he always thinks of a way out. He's a bornleader. He flies quick and he thinks quick."
"Humph!" murmured the Doctor, as he thoughtfully brushed the toastcrumbs off the bed clothes. "But why did they pick you to bring themessage?"
"They didn't," said the swallow. "We nearly all of us volunteeredfor the job, so as not to have Speedy risk his life. But the Skimmersaid the only fair way was to draw lots. So we got a number of smallleaves and we took the stalks off all of them except one. And we putthe leaves in an old cocoanut shell and shook them up. Then, with oureyes shut, we began picking them out. The swallow who picked the leafwith the stalk on it was to carry the message to England--and I pickedthe leaf with the stalk on. Before I started off on the trip I kissedmy wife good-bye, because I really never expected to get back alive.Still, I'm kind of glad the lot fell to me."
"Why?" asked the Doctor, pushing the breakfast tray off his knees andpunching the pillows into shape.
"Well, you see," said the swallow, lifting his right leg and showing atiny red ribbon made of corn silk tied about his ankle, "I got this forit."
"What's that?" asked the Doctor.
"That's to show I've done something brave--and special," said theswallow modestly.
"Oh, I see," said the Doctor. "Like a medal, eh?"
"Yes. My name is Quip. It used to be just plain Quip. Now I'm called_Quip the Carrier_," said the small bird proudly gazing down at hislittle, stubby white leg.
"Splendid, Quip," said the Doctor. "I congratulate you. Now I must begetting up. I've a frightful lot of work to do. Don't forget to tellSpeedy I'll meet him on the ship at ten. Good-bye! Oh, and would youmind asking Dab-Dab, as you go out, to clear away the breakfast things?I'm glad you came. You've given me an idea. Good-bye!"
And when Dab-Dab and Jip came to take away the tray they found theDoctor shaving. He was peering into a looking glass, holding the end ofhis nose and muttering to himself:
"_That's_ the idea for the Fantippo Foreign Mail service--I wonder whyI never thought of it before. I'll have the fastest overseas mail theworld ever saw. Why, of course! That's the idea--_The Swallow Mail_!"



_CHAPTER VI_
NO-MAN'S-LAND

As soon as he was dressed and shaved the Doctor went down to his shipand met the Skimmer.
"I am terribly sorry, Speedy," said he, "to hear what a lot of troubleI have been giving you birds by my delay here. But I really feel thatthe business of the post office ought to be attended to, you know. It'sin a shocking state--honestly, it is."
"I know," said Speedy. "And if we could we would have nested right herein this country to oblige you, and not bothered about going to Englandthis year. It wouldn't have mattered terribly much to miss one summerin the North. But, you see, we swallows can't nest very well in trees.We like houses and barns and buildings to nest in."
"Couldn't you use the houses of Fantippo?" asked the Doctor.
"Not very well," said Speedy. "They're so small and noisy--with thenative children playing around them all day. The eggs and young oneswouldn't be safe for a minute. And, then, they're not built right forus--mostly made of grass, the roofs sloping wrong, the eaves too nearthe ground, and all that. What we like are solid English buildings,where the people don't shriek and whoop and play drums all day--quietbuildings, like old barns and stables, where, if people come at all,they come in a proper, dignified manner, arriving and leaving atregular hours. We like people, you understand--in their right place.But nesting mother birds must have quiet."
"Humph! I see," said the Doctor. "Of course, myself, I rather enjoythe jolliness of these Fantippos. But I can quite see your point. Bythe way, how would my old ship do? This ought to be quiet enough foryou here. There's nobody living on it now. And, look, it has heaps ofcracks and holes and corners in it where you could build your nests.What do you think?"
"That would be splendid," said Speedy--"if you think you won't beneeding the boat for some weeks. Of course, it would never do if, afterwe had the nests built and the eggs laid, you were to pull up theanchor and sail away--the young ones would get seasick."
"No, of course not," said the Doctor. "But there will be no fear of myleaving for some time yet. You could have the whole ship to yourselvesand nobody will disturb you."
"All right," said Speedy. "Then I'll tell the swallows to get on withthe nest building right away. But, of course, we'll go on to Englandwith you when you are ready, to show you the way--and also to teach theyoung birds how to get there, too. You see, each year's new birds maketheir first trip back from England to Africa with us grown ones. Theyhave to make the first journey under our guidance."
"Very good," said the Doctor. "Then that settles that. Now I must getback to the post office. The ship is yours. But as soon as the nestingis over come and let me know, because I have a very special idea I wantto tell you about."
So the Doctor's boat was now turned into a nesting ship for theswallows. Calmly she stood at anchor in the quiet waters of Fantippoharbor, while thousands and thousands of swallows built their nests inher rigging, in her ventilators, in her portholes and in every crackand corner of her.
No one went near her and the swallows had her to themselves. And theyagreed afterward that they found her the best place for nesting theyhad ever used.
In a very short time the ship presented a curious and extraordinarysight, with the mud nests stuck all over her and birds flying inthousands round her masts, coming and going, building homes and feedingyoung ones.
And the farmers in England that year said the coming winter would be ahard one because the swallows had done their nesting abroad before theyarrived and only spent a few weeks of the autumn in the North.
And later, after the nesting was all over, there were more than twiceas many birds as there were before, of course. And you simply couldn'tget on to the ship for the tons and tons of mud on her.
But the parent birds, as soon as the young ones were able to fly, settheir children to work clearing up the mess. And all that mud was takenoff and dropped into the harbor, piece by piece. And the Doctor's shipwas left in a cleaner state than it had ever been before in its wholelife.
Now, it happened one day that the Doctor came to the post office, asusual, at nine o'clock in the morning. (He had to get there at thattime, because if he didn't the postmen didn't start working.) Andoutside the post office he found Jip, gnawing a bone on the pavement.Something curious about the bone struck the Doctor, who was, of course,being a naturalist, quite a specialist in bones. He asked Jip to lethim look at it.
"Why, this is extraordinary!" said the Doctor, examining the bone withgreat care. "I did not know that this class of animals were still to befound in Africa. Where did you get this bone, Jip?"
"Over in No-Man's-Land," said Jip. "There are lots of bones there."
"And where might No-Man's-Land be?" said John Dolittle.
"No-Man's-Land is that round island just outside the harbor," saidJip--"you know, the one that looks like a plum pudding."
"Oh, yes," said the Doctor. "I know the island you mean. It's only ashort distance from the mainland. But I hadn't heard that that was thename of it. Humph! If you'll lend me this bone a while, Jip, I thinkI'll go to see the King about it."
So, taking the bone, John Dolittle went off to call on King Koko, andJip asked if he might come along. They found the King sitting at thepalace door, sucking a lollipop--for he, like all the Fantippos, wasvery fond of sweetmeats.
"Good morning, Your Majesty," said the Doctor. "Do you happen to knowwhat kind of animal this bone belongs to?"
The King examined it, then shook his head. He didn't know much aboutbones.
"Maybe it's a cow's bone," said he.
"Oh, certainly not," said John Dolittle. "No cow ever had a bone likethat. That's a jaw--but not a cow's jaw. Listen, Your Majesty, wouldyou mind lending me a canoe and some paddlers? I want to go over tovisit No-Man's-Land."
To the Doctor's astonishment the King choked on his lollipop and nearlyfell over his chair backwards. Then he ran inside the palace and shutthe door.
"How extraordinary!" said John Dolittle, entirely bewildered. "Whatails the man?"
"Oh, it's some humbug or other," growled Jip. "They're a superstitiouslot, these natives. Let's go down to the harbor, Doctor, and try tohire a canoe to take us."
So they went down to the water's edge and asked several of thecanoesmen to take them over to No-Man's-Land. But every one they askedgot dreadfully frightened and refused to talk when the Doctor told themwhere he wanted to go. They wouldn't even let him borrow their canoesto go there by himself.
At last they found one very old boatman who loved chatting so muchthat, although he got terribly scared when John Dolittle mentionedNo-Man's-Land, he finally told the Doctor the reason for all thisextraordinary behavior.
"That island," said he--"we don't even mention its name unless we haveto--is the land of Evil Magic. It is called (the old man whispered itso low the Doctor could scarcely hear him) No-Man's-Land, because noman lives there. No man ever even goes there."
"But why?" asked the Doctor.
"_Dragons live there!_" said the old boatman, his eyes wide andstaring.--"Enormous horned dragons, that spit fire and eat men. If youvalue your life never go near that dreadful island."
"But how do you know all this," asked the Doctor, "if nobody has everbeen there to see if it's true or not?"
"A thousand years ago," said the old man, "when King Kakaboochi ruledover this land, he put his mother-in-law upon that island to live,because she talked too much and he couldn't bear her around the palace.It was arranged that food should be taken to her every week. But thefirst week that the men went there in canoes they could find no traceof her. While they were seeking her about the island a dragon suddenlyroared out from the bushes and attacked them. They only just escapedwith their lives and got back to Fantippo and told King Kakaboochi. Afamous wizard was consulted, and he said it must have been the King'smother-in-law herself who had been changed into a dragon by some magicspell. Since then she has had many children and the island is peopledwith dragons--_whose food is men_! For whenever a canoe approaches, thedragons come down to the shores, breathing flame and destruction. Butfor many hundreds of years now no man has set foot upon it. That is whyit is called--well, you know."
After he had told this story the old man turned away and busied himselfwith his canoe, as though he were afraid that the Doctor might againask him to paddle him to the island.
"Look here, Jip," said John Dolittle, "you said you got this bone fromNo-Man's-Land. Did you see any dragons there?"
"No," said Jip. "I swam out there--just to get cool. It was a hot dayyesterday. And then I didn't go far inland on the island. I found manybones on the beach. And as this one smelled good to me, I picked it upand swam back here with it. I was more interested in the bone and theswim than I was in the island, to tell you the truth."
"It's most extraordinary," murmured the Doctor--"this legend aboutthe island. It makes me more anxious than ever to go there. That boneinterests me, too, immensely. I've seen only one other like it--andthat was in a natural history museum. Do you mind if I keep it, Jip?I'd like to put it in my own museum when I get back to Puddleby."
"Not at all," said Jip. "Look here, Doctor, if we can't raise a canoe,let's you and I swim out to the island. It's not over a mile and a halfand we're both good swimmers."
"That's not a bad idea, Jip," said the Doctor. "We'll go down the shorea way till we're opposite the island, then we won't have so far toswim."
So off they went. And when they had come to the best place on theshore the Doctor took off his clothes and, tying them up in a bundle,he fastened them on his head, with the precious high hat on the topof all. Then he waded into the surf and, with Jip beside him, startedswimming for the island.
Now this particular stretch of water they were trying to cross happenedto be a bad place for swimming. And after about a quarter of an hourJip and the Doctor felt themselves being carried out to sea in the gripof a powerful current. They tried their hardest to get to the island.But without any success.
"Let yourself drift, Doctor," panted Jip. "Don't waste your strengthfighting the current. Let yourself drift. Even if we're carried pastthe island out to sea we can land on the mainland further down thecoast, where the current isn't so strong."
But the Doctor didn't answer. And Jip could see from his face that hisstrength and breath were nearly gone.
Then Jip barked his loudest, hoping that possibly Dab-Dab might hearhim on the mainland and fly out and bring help. But, of course, theywere much too far from the town for anyone to hear.
"Turn back, Jip," gasped the Doctor. "Don't bother about me. I'll beall right. Turn back and try and make the shore."
But Jip had no intention of turning back and leaving the Doctor todrown--though he saw no possible chance of rescue.
Presently John Dolittle's mouth filled with water and he began tosplutter and gurgle and Jip was really frightened. But just as theDoctor's eyes were closing and he seemed too weak to swim anotherstroke a curious thing happened. Jip felt something come up under thewater, right beneath his feet, and lift him and the Doctor slowly outof the sea, like the rising deck of a submarine. Up and up they werelifted, now entirely out of the water. And, gasping and sprawling sideby side, they gazed at one another in utter astonishment.
"What is it, Doctor?" said Jip, staring down at the strange thing,which had now stopped rising and was carrying them like a ship, rightacross the strong course of the current, in the direction of the island.
"I haven't the--hah--remotest--hah--idea," panted John Dolittle. "Canit be a whale? No, because the skin isn't a whale's. This is fur," hesaid, plucking at the stuff he was sitting on.
"Well, it's an animal of some kind, isn't it?" said Jip. "But where'sits head?" and he gazed down the long sloping back that stretched in aflat curve in front of them for a good thirty yards.
"Its head is under water," said the Doctor. "But there's its tail,look, behind us."
And turning around Jip saw the longest tail that mortal beast ever had,thrashing the water and driving them toward the island.
"I know!" cried Jip. "It's the dragon! This is King Kakaboochi'smother-in-law we're sitting on!"
"Well anyway thank goodness she rose in time!" said the Doctor, shakingthe water out of his ears. "I was never so near drowning in my life.I suppose I'd better make myself a little more presentable before shegets her head out of water."
And, taking down his clothes off his own head, the Doctor smartenedup his high hat and dressed himself, while the strange thing thathad saved their lives carried them steadily and firmly toward themysterious island.



_CHAPTER VII_
THE ANIMALS' PARADISE

At length the extraordinary creature that had come to their rescuereached the island; and with Jip and the Doctor still clinging to hiswide back, he crawled out of the water on to the beach.
And then John Dolittle, seeing its head for the first time, cried outin great excitement:
"Jip, it's a Quiffenodochus, as sure as I'm alive!"
"A Quiffeno-what-us?" asked Jip.
"A Quiffenodochus," said the Doctor--"a prehistoric beast. Naturaliststhought they were extinct--that there weren't any more live onesanywhere in the world. This is a great day, Jip. I'm awfully glad Icame here."
The tremendous animal which the Fantippans had called a dragon had nowclimbed right up the beach and was standing fully revealed in all hisstrangeness. At first he looked like some curious mixture between acrocodile and a giraffe. He had short, spreading legs, but enormouslylong tail and neck. On his head were two stubby little horns.
As soon as the Doctor and Jip had climbed down off his back he swunghis head around on the end of that enormous neck and said to the Doctor:
"Do you feel all right now?"
"Yes, thanks," said John Dolittle.
"I was afraid," said the creature, "that I wouldn't be in time to saveyour life. It was my brother who first saw you. We thought it was anative and we were getting ready to give him our usual terrifyingreception. But while we watched from behind the trees my brothersuddenly cried: 'Great heavens! That's Doctor Dolittle--and he'sdrowning. See, how he waves his arms! He must be saved at any cost.There isn't one man like that born in a thousand years! Let's go afterhim, quick!' Then word was passed around the island that John Dolittle,the great doctor, was drowning out in the straits. Of course, we hadall heard of you. And, rushing down to a secret cove which we have onthe far side of the island, we dashed into the sea and swam out to youunder water. I was the best swimmer and got to you first. I'm awfullyglad I was in time. You're sure you feel all right?"
"Oh, quite," said the Doctor, "thank you. But why did you swim underwater?"
"We didn't want the natives to see us," said the strange beast. "Theythink we are dragons--and we let them go on thinking it. Because thenthey don't come near the island and we have our country to ourselves."
The creature stretched his long neck still longer and whispered in theDoctor's ear:
"They think we live on men and breathe fire! But all we ever reallyeat is bananas. And when anyone tries to come here we go down to ahollow in the middle of the island and suck up the mist, the fog, thatalways hangs around there. Then we come back to the beach and roar andrampage. And we breathe the fog out through our nostrils and they thinkit's smoke. That's the way we've kept this island to ourselves for athousand years. And this is the only part of the world where we areleft--where we can live in peace."
"How very interesting!" said the Doctor. "Naturalists have thought yourkind of animals are no longer living, you know. You are Quiffenodochi,are you not?"
"Oh, no," said the beast. "The Quiffenodochus has gone long ago. Weare the Piffilosaurus. We have six toes on the back feet, while theQuiffenodochi, our cousins, have only five. They died out about twothousand years ago."
"But where are the rest of your people?" asked the Doctor. "I thoughtyou said that many of you had swum out to rescue us."
"They did," said the Piffilosaurus. "But they kept hidden under thewater, lest the natives on the shore should see and get to know thatthe old story about the dragon's mother-in-law wasn't true. While Iwas bringing you here they were swimming all around you under thewater, ready to help if I needed them. They have gone around to thesecret cove so they may come ashore unseen. We had better be going onourselves now. Whatever happens, we mustn't be seen from the shore andhave the natives coming here. It would be the end of us if that shouldever happen, because, between ourselves, although they think us soterrible, we are really more harmless than sheep."
"Do any other animals live here?" asked the Doctor.
"Oh, yes, indeed," said the Piffilosaurus. "This island is entirelypeopled by harmless, vegetable-feeding creatures. If we had the others,of course, we wouldn't last long. But come, I will show you around theisland. Let us go quietly up that valley there, so we shan't be seentill we reach the cover of the woods."
Then John Dolittle and Jip were taken by the Piffilosaurus all over theisland of No-Man's-Land.
The Doctor said afterward that he had never had a more enjoyable ormore instructive day. The shores of the island all around were highand steep, which gave it the appearance Jim had spoken of--like a plumpudding. But in the centre, on top, there was a deep and pleasanthollow, invisible from the sea and sheltered from the winds. In thisgreat bowl, a good thirty miles across, the piffilosauruses had livedat peace for a thousand years, eating ripe bananas and frolicking inthe sun.
Down by the banks of the streams the Doctor was shown great herds ofhippopotami, feeding on the luscious reeds that grew at the water'sedge. In the wide fields of high grass there were elephants andrhinoceri browsing. On the slopes where the forests were sparse hespied long-necked giraffes, nibbling from the trees. Monkeys anddeer of all kinds were plentiful. And birds swarmed everywhere. Infact, every kind of creature that does not eat meat was there, livingpeaceably and happily with the others in this land where vegetable foodabounded and the disturbing tread of Man was never heard.
Standing on the top of the hill with Jip and the piffilosaurus at hisside, the Doctor gazed down over the wide bowl full of contented animallife and heaved a sigh.
"This beautiful land could also have been called the 'Animals'Paradise,'" he murmured. "Long may they enjoy it to themselves! Maythis, indeed, be _No-Man's-Land_ forever!"
"You, Doctor," said the deep voice of the piffilosaurus at his elbow,"are the first human in a thousand years that has set foot here. Thelast one was King Kakaboochi's mother-in-law."
"By the way, what really became of her?" asked the Doctor. "The nativesbelieve she was turned into a dragon, you know."
"We married her off," said the great creature, nibbling idly at a lilystalk. "We couldn't stand her here, any more than the King could. Younever heard anybody talk so in all your life. Yes, we carried her onedark night by sea far down the coast of Africa and left her at thepalace door of a deaf king, who ruled over a small country south of theCongo River. He married her. Of course, being deaf, he didn't mind hereverlasting chatter in the least."
And now for several days the Doctor forgot all about his post officework and King Koko and his ship at anchor, and everything else. For hewas kept busy from morning to night with all the animals who wanted toconsult him about different things.
Many of the giraffes were suffering from sore hoofs and he showed themwhere to find a special root that could be put into a foot bath andwould bring immediate relief. The rhinoceroses' horns were growing toolong and John Dolittle explained to them how by grinding them againsta certain kind of stone and by eating less grass and more berriesthey could keep the growth down. A special sort of nut tree that thedeer were fond of had grown scarce and almost died out from constantnibbling. And the Doctor showed the chief stags how, by taking a fewnuts and poking them down into the soft earth with their hoofs beforethe rainy season set in, they could make new trees grow and so increasethe supply.
One day when he was pulling out a loose tooth for a baby hippopotamuswith his watch-chain, Speedy-the-Skimmer turned up, looking ratherannoyed.
"Well," said the neat little bird, settling down on the ground at hisfeet, "I've found you at last, Doctor. I've been hunting all overcreation for you."
"Oh, hulloa, Speedy," said the Doctor. "Glad to see you. Did you wantme for something?"
"Why, of course, I did," said Speedy. "We finished the nesting seasontwo days ago, and you had said you wanted to see me about some specialbusiness as soon as it was over. I went to your house, but Dab-Dab hadno idea where you could be. Then I hunted all over. At last I heardsome gossiping boatmen down at the harbor say that you came to thisisland five days ago and had never returned. All the Fantippans havegiven you up for lost. They say you have surely been eaten by thedragons that live here. I got an awful fright--though, of course, Ididn't quite believe the dragon story. Still, you had been gone so longI didn't know what to make of it. The post office, as you can imagine,is in a worse mess than ever."
"Humph!" said the Doctor, who had now got the loose tooth out and wasshowing the baby hippo how to rinse his mouth in the river. "I'm sorry.I suppose I should have sent you a message. But I've been so awfullybusy. Let's go up under the shade of those palms and sit down. It wasabout the post office that I wanted to talk to you."



_CHAPTER VIII_
THE SWIFTEST MAIL IN THE WORLD

So the Doctor and Jip and Speedy-the-Skimmer sat down in the shade ofthe palm trees and for the first time plans for that great servicewhich was to be known as the Swallow Mail were discussed.
"Now, my idea, Speedy, is this," said the Doctor. "Regular foreignmails are difficult for the Fantippo post office because so few boatsever call there to bring or take the mails. Now, how would it be if youswallows did the letter carrying?"
"Well," said Speedy, "that would be possible. But, of course, we couldonly do it during certain months of the year when we were in Africa.And then we could only take letters to the mild and warm countries. Weshould get frozen if we had to carry mail where severe winters weregoing on."
"Oh, of course," said the Doctor. "I wouldn't expect you to do that.But I had thought we might get the other birds to help--cold-climatebirds, hot-climate ones and temperate. And if some of the trips weretoo far or disagreeable for one kind of birds to make, we could deliverthe mail in relays. I mean, for instance, a letter going from here tothe North Pole could be carried by the swallows as far as the north endof Africa. From there it would be taken by thrushes up to the top ofScotland. There seagulls would take it from the thrushes and carry itas far as Greenland. And from there penguins would take it to the NorthPole. What do you think?"
"I think it might be all right," said Speedy, "if we can get the otherbirds to go in with us on the idea."
"Well, you see," said John Dolittle, "I think we might, because wecould use the mail service for the birds themselves, and the animals,too, to send their letters by, as well as the Fantippans."
"But, Doctor, birds and animals don't send letters," said Speedy.
"No," said the Doctor. "But there's no reason why they shouldn't begin.Neither did people write nor send letters once upon a time. But as soonas they began they found it very useful and convenient. So would thebirds and animals. We could have the head office here in this beautifulisland--in this Animals' Paradise. You see, my idea is, firstly, a postoffice system for the education and betterment of the Animal Kingdom,and, secondly, a good foreign mail for the Fantippans. Do you think wecould ever find some way by which birds could write letters?"
"Oh, yes, I think so," said Speedy. "We swallows, for instance, alwaysleave marks on houses where we have nested which are messages for thosewho may come after us. Look"--Speedy scratched some crosses and signsin the sand at the Doctor's feet--"that means '_Don't build your nestin this house. They have a cat here!_' And this"--the Skimmer made fourmore signs in the sand--"this means '_Good house. Flies plentiful.Folks quiet. Building mud can be found behind the stable._'"
"Splendid," cried the Doctor. "It's a kind of short-hand. You say awhole sentence in four signs."
"And, then," Speedy went on, "nearly all other kinds of birds have asign language of their own. For example, the kingfishers have a way ofmarking the trees along the river to show where good fishing is to befound. And thrushes have signs, too; one I've often seen on stones,which means '_Crack your snail shells here_.' That's so the thrusheswon't go throwing their snail shells all over the place and scare thelive snails into keeping out of sight."
"There you are," said the Doctor. "I always thought you birds had atleast the beginnings of a written language--otherwise you couldn'tbe so clever. Now all we have to do is to build up on these signs aregular and proper system of bird-writing. And I have no doubt whateverthat with the animals we can do the same thing. Then we'll get theSwallow Mail going and we'll have animals and birds writing letters toone another all over the world--and to people, too, if they want to."
"I suspect," said Speedy, "that you'll find most of the letters will bewritten to you, Doctor. I've met birds all over creation who wanted toknow what you looked like, what you ate for breakfast and all sorts ofsilly things about you."
"Well," said the Doctor. "I won't mind that. But my idea is firstly aneducational one. With a good post office system of their own, I feelthat the condition of the birds and animals will be greatly bettered.Only to-day, for example, some deer on this very island asked me whatthey should do about their nut trees which were nearly eaten up. Ishowed them at once how they could plant seeds and grow more trees.Heaven knows how long they had been going on short rations. But ifthey'd only been able to write to me, I could have told them longago--by Swallow Mail."
Then the Doctor and Jip went back to Fantippo, carried by thepiffilosaurus, who landed them on the shore under cover of night, so noone would see them. And in the morning John Dolittle called upon theKing again.
"Your Majesty," said the Doctor, "I have now a plan to provide yourcountry with an excellent service of foreign mails if you will agree towhat I suggest."
"Good," said the King. "My Majesty is listening. Proceed. Let me offeryou a lollipop."
The Doctor took one--a green one--from the box the King held out tohim. King Koko was very proud of the quality of his lollipops--made inthe Royal Candy Kitchen. He was never without one himself, and alwayswore it hung around his neck on a ribbon. And when he wasn't sucking ithe used to hold it up to his eye and peer through it at his courtiers.He had seen white men using quizzing glasses, and he had his lollipopsmade thin and transparent, so he could use them in this elegant manner.But constant lollipops had ruined his figure and made him dreadfullystout. However, as fatness was considered a sign of greatness inFantippo, he didn't mind that.
"My plan," said the Doctor, "is this: The domestic mails of Fantippo,after I have instructed the postmen a little more, can be carried byyour own people. But the handling of foreign mails as well as thedomestic ones is too much for them. And, besides, you have so few boatscalling at your port. So I propose to build a floating post officefor the foreign mails which shall be anchored close to the islandcalled"--(the Doctor only just stopped himself in time from speakingthe dreaded name)--"er--er--close to the island I spoke of to you theother day."
"I don't like that," said the King, frowning.
"Your Majesty need have no fear," the Doctor put in hurriedly. "It willnever be necessary for any of your people to land upon the island.The Foreign Mail post office will be a houseboat, anchored a littleway out from the shore. And I will not need any Fantippan postmen torun it at all. On the contrary, I make it a special condition on yourpart that--er--the island we are speaking of shall continue to be leftundisturbed for all time. I am going to run the Foreign Mails Office inmy own way--with special postmen of my own. When the Fantippans wishto send out letters to foreign lands they must come by canoe and bringthem to the houseboat post office. But incoming letters addressed tothe people in Fantippo shall be delivered at the doors of the houses inthe regular way. What do you say to that?"
"I agree," said the King. "But the stamps must all have my beautifulface upon them, and no other."
"Very good," said the Doctor. "That can be arranged. But it must beclearly understood that from now on the foreign mails shall be handledby my own postman--in _my_ way. And after I have got the Domesticpost office running properly in Fantippo you must see to it that itcontinues to work in order. If you will do that in a few weeks' timeI think I can promise that your kingdom shall have the finest mailservice in the world."
Then the Doctor asked Speedy to send off messages through thebirds to every corner of the earth. And to ask all the leaders ofseagulls, tomtits, magpies, thrushes, stormy petrels, finches,penguins, vultures, snow buntings, wild geese and the rest to come toNo-Man's-Land, because John Dolittle wanted to speak to them.
And in the meantime he went back and continued the work of gettingthe domestic mail service in good running order at the post office atFantippo.
So the good Speedy sent off messengers; and all around the world andback again word was passed from bird to bird that John Dolittle, thefamous animal doctor, wished to see all the leaders of all kinds ofbirds, great and small.
And presently in the big hollow in the centre of No-Man's-Land theybegan to arrive. After three days Speedy came to the Doctor and said:
"All right, Doctor, they are ready for you now."
A good strong canoe had by this time been put at the Doctor's serviceby the King, who was also having the post office houseboat built at theDoctor's orders.
So John Dolittle got into his canoe and came at length to the same hillwhere he had before gazed out over the pleasant hollow of the Animals'Paradise. And with the Skimmer on his shoulder he looked down into agreat sea of bird faces--leaders all--every kind, from a hummingbird toan albatross. And taking a palm leaf and twisting it into a trumpet,so that he could make himself heard, he began his great inaugurationspeech to the leaders which was to set working the famous Swallow MailService.
After the Doctor had finished his speech and told the leaders what itwas he meant to do, the birds of the world applauded by whistling andscreeching and flapping their wings, so that the noise was terrible.And in the streets of Fantippo the natives whispered it about that thedragons were fighting one another in No-Man's-Land.
Then the Doctor passed down among the birds and, taking a notebook,he spoke to each leader in turn, asking him questions about the signsand sign language that his particular kind of bird was in the habitof using. And the Doctor wrote it all down in the notebook and tookit home with him and worked over it all night--promising to meet theleaders again the following day.
And on the morrow, crossing once again to the island, he went on withthe discussion and planning and arrangement. It was agreed that theSwallow Mail Service should have its head office here in No-Man's-Land.And that there should be branch offices at Cape Horn, Greenland, inChristmas Island, Tahiti, Kashmir, Thibet and Puddleby-on-the-Marsh.Most of the mails were arranged so that those birds who migrated orwent to other lands in the winter and back again in summer should carrythe letters on their regular yearly journeys. And as there are somekinds of birds crossing from one land to another in almost every weekof the year, this took care of much of the mails without difficulty.
Then, of course, there were all those birds who don't leave their homelands in winter, but stay in one country all the time. The leaders ofthese had come under special guidance of other birds to oblige theDoctor by being present at the great meeting. They promised to havetheir people all the year round take care of letters that were broughtto their particular countries to be delivered. So between one thing andanother, much of the planning and arrangement of the service was gotthrough in these first two meetings.
Then the Doctor and the leaders agreed upon a regular kind of simple,easy writing for all birds to use, so that the addresses on theenvelopes could be understood and read by the post birds. And at lastJohn Dolittle sent them off home again, to instruct their relatives inthis new writing and reading and explain to all the birds of all theworld how the post office was going to work and how much good he hopedit would do for the education and betterment of the Animal Kingdom.Then he went home and had a good sleep.
The next morning he found that King Koko had got his post officehouseboat ready and finished--and very smart it looked. It was paddledout and anchored close to the shore of the island. Then Dab-Dab, Jip,Too-Too, Gub-Gub, the pushmi-pullyu and the white mouse were broughtover, and the Doctor gave up his house on the main street of Fantippoand settled down to live at the Foreign Mails post office for theremainder of his stay.
And now John Dolittle and his animals got tremendously busy arrangingthe post office, its furniture, the stamp drawers, the postcarddrawers, the weighing scales, the sorting bags and all the rest of theparaphernalia. Dab-Dab, of course, was housekeeper, as usual, and shesaw to it that the post office was swept properly every morning. Jipwas the watchman and had charge of locking up at night and opening inthe morning. Too-Too, with his head for mathematics, was given thebookkeeping, and he kept account of how many stamps were sold and howmuch money was taken in. The Doctor ran the information window andanswered the hundred and one questions that people are always askingat post offices. And the good and trusty Speedy was here, there andeverywhere.
And this was how the first letter was sent off by the Swallow Mail:King Koko himself came one morning and, putting his large face in atthe information window, asked:
"What is the fastest foreign mail delivery ever made by any post officeanywhere in the world?"
"The British post office is now boasting," said the Doctor, "that itcan get a letter from London to Canada in fourteen days."
"All right," said the King. "Here's a letter to a friend of mine whoruns a shoe-shine parlor in Alabama. Let me see how quickly you can getme an answer to it."
Now, the Doctor really had not got everything ready yet to work theforeign mails properly and he was about to explain to the King. ButSpeedy hopped up on the desk and whispered:
"Give me that letter, Doctor. We'll show him."
Then going outside, he called for Quip the Carrier.
"Quip," said Speedy, "take this letter to the Azores as fast as youcan. There you'll just catch the White Tailed Carolina Warblers aboutto make their summer crossing to the United States. Give it to them andtell them to get the answer back here, as quick as they know how."
In a flash Quip was gone, seaward.
It was four o'clock in the afternoon when the King brought that letterto the Doctor. And when His Majesty woke up in the morning and camedown to breakfast there was the answer to it lying beside his plate!



PART II



_CHAPTER I_
A MOST UNUSUAL POST OFFICE

Nobody thought, not even John Dolittle himself, when the Swallow Mailwas first started, what a tremendous system it would finally grow intoand what a lot of happenings and ideas would come about through it.
Of course such an entirely new thing as this required a great dealof learning and working out before it could be made to run smoothly.Something new, some fresh problem, cropped up every day. But althoughthe Doctor, at all times a busy man, was positively worked to death,he found it all so interesting that he didn't mind. But the motherlyDab-Dab was dreadfully worried about him; for indeed at the beginninghe seemed never to sleep at all.
Certainly in the whole history of the world there never was anotherpost office like the Doctor's. For one thing, it was a houseboat postoffice; for another, tea was served to everybody--the clerks and thecustomers as well--regularly at four o'clock every afternoon, withcucumber sandwiches on Sundays. Paddling over to the Foreign Mailspost office for afternoon tea became quite the fashionable thing to doamong the more up-to-date Fantippans. A large awning was put over theback entrance, forming a pleasant sort of veranda with a good view ofthe ocean and the bay. And if you dropped in for a stamp around fouro'clock, as likely as not you would meet the King there, and all theother high notables of Fantippo, sipping tea.
Another thing in which the Doctor's post office was peculiar was itspens. Most post offices, the Doctor had found, always had abominablybad pens that spluttered and scratched and wouldn't write. In factvery many post offices even nowadays seem to pride themselves on theirbad pens. But the Doctor saw to it that _his_ pens were of the verybest quality. Of course, in those times there were no steel pens.Only quills were used. And John Dolittle got the albatrosses and theseagulls to keep for him their tail feathers which fell out in themoulting season. And of course, with such a lot of quills to choosefrom, it was easy to have the best pens in the post office.
Still another thing in which the Doctor's post office was differentfrom all others was the gum used on the stamps. The supply of gum whichthe King had been using for his stamps ran short and the Doctor had toset about discovering and making a new kind. And after a good deal ofexperiment he invented a gum made of licorice, which dried quickly andworked very well. But, as I have said, the Fantippans were very fond ofsweetmeats. And soon after the new gum was put into use the post officewas crowded with people buying stamps by the hundred.
At first the Doctor could not understand this sudden new rush ofbusiness--which kept Too-Too, the cashier, working overtime everynight, adding up the day's takings. The post office safe could hardlyhold all the money taken in and the overflow had to be put in a vase onthe kitchen mantelpiece.
But presently the Doctor noticed that after they had licked the gum offthe stamps, the customers would bring them back and want to exchangethem for money again. Now, it is a rule that all post offices have toexchange their own stamps, when asked, for the price paid for them. Solong as they are not torn or marked it doesn't matter whether the gumhas been licked off or not. So the Doctor saw that he would have tochange his kind of gum if he wanted to keep stamps that would stick.
And one day the King's brother came to the post office with a terriblecough and asked him in the same breath (or gasp) to give him fivehalf-penny stamps and a cure for a cough. This gave the Doctor anidea. And the next gum which he invented for his stamps he called_whooping-cough gum_. He made it out of a special kind of sweet, stickycough-mixture. He also invented a _bronchitis gum_, a _mumps gum_ andseveral others. And whenever there was a catching disease in the townthe Doctor would see that the proper kind of gum to cure it was issuedon the stamps. It saved him a lot of trouble, because the people werealways bothering him to cure colds and sore throats and things. Andhe was the first Postmaster General to use this way of getting rid ofsickness--by serving round pleasant medicine on the backs of stamps. Hecalled it _stamping out_ an epidemic.
One evening at six o'clock Jip shut the doors of the post office asusual, and hung up the sign "_Closed_" as he always did at that hour.The Doctor heard the bolts being shot and he stopped counting postcardsand took out his pipe to have a smoke.
The first hard work of getting the post office in full swing was nowover. And that night John Dolittle felt when he heard the doors beingshut that at last he could afford to keep more regular hours and notbe working all the time. And when Jip came inside the Registered Mailbooth he found the Doctor leaning back in a chair with his feet on thedesk, gazing around him with great satisfaction.
"Well, Jip," said he with a sigh, "we now have a real working postoffice."
"Yes," said Jip, putting down his watchman's lantern, "and a mightygood one it is, too. There isn't another like it anywhere."
"You know," said John Dolittle, "although we opened more than a weekago I haven't myself written a single letter yet. Fancy living in apost office for a week and never writing a letter! Look at that drawerthere. Ordinarily the sight of so many stamps would make me writedozens of letters. All my life I never had a stamp when I really wantedto write a letter. And--funny thing!--now that I'm living and sleepingin a post office I can't think of a single person to write to."
"It's a shame," said Jip. "And you with such beautiful handwritingtoo--as well as a drawerful of stamps! Never mind; think of all theanimals that are waiting to hear from you."
"Of course, there's Sarah," the Doctor went on puffing at his pipedreamily. "Poor dear Sarah! I wonder whom she married. But there youare, I haven't her address. So I can't write to Sarah. And I don'tsuppose any of my old patients would want to hear from me."
"I know!" cried Jip, "write to the Cats'-Meat-Man."
"He can't read," said the Doctor gloomily.
"No, but his wife can," said Jip.
"That's true," murmured the Doctor. "But what shall I write to himabout?"
Just at that moment Speedy-the-Skimmer came in and said:
"Doctor, we've got to do something about the city deliveries inFantippo. My post-birds are not very good at finding the right housesto deliver the letters. You see we swallows, although we nest inhouses, are not regular city birds. We pick out lonely houses as arule--in the country. City streets are a bit difficult for swallows tofind their way round in. Some of the post-birds have brought back theletters they took out this morning to deliver, saying they can't findthe houses they are addressed to."
"Humph!" said the Doctor. "That's too bad. Let me think a minute. Oh, Iknow I'll send for Cheapside."
"Who is Cheapside?" asked Speedy.
"Cheapside is a London sparrow," said the Doctor, "who visits me everysummer in Puddleby. The rest of the year he lives around St. Paul'sCathedral. He builds his nest in St. Edmund's left ear."
"_Where?_" cried Jip.
"In the left ear of a statue of St. Edmund on the outside of thechancel--the cathedral, you know," the Doctor explained. "Cheapside'sthe very fellow we want for city deliveries. There's nothing abouthouses and towns he doesn't know. I'll send for him right away."
"I'm afraid," said Speedy, "that a post-bird--unless he was a city birdhimself--would have a hard job finding a sparrow in London. It's anawful big city, isn't it?"
"Yes, that's so," said John Dolittle.
"Listen, Doctor," said Jip. "You were wondering just now what to writethe Cats'-Meat-Man about. Let Speedy write the letter to Cheapside inbird scribble and you inclose it in a letter to the Cats'-Meat-Man.Then when the sparrow comes to Puddleby for his summer visit theCats'-Meat-Man can give it to him."
"Splendid!" cried the Doctor. And he snatched a piece of paper off thedesk and started to write.
"And you might ask him too," put in Dab-Dab who had been listening, "totake a look at the back windows of the house to see that none of themis broken. We don't want the rain coming in on the beds."
"All right," said the Doctor. "I'll mention that."
So the Doctor's letter was written and addressed to _Matthew Mugg,Esquire, Cats' Meat Merchant, Puddleby-on-the-Marsh, Slopshire,England_. And it was sent off by Quip-the-Carrier.
The Doctor did not expect an answer to it right away because theCats'-Meat-Man's wife was a very slow reader and a still slower writer.And anyhow, Cheapside could not be expected to visit Puddleby foranother week yet. He always stayed in London until after the EasterBank Holiday. His wife refused to let him leave for the country tillthe spring family had been taught by their father how to find thehouses where people threw out crumbs; how to pick up oats from underthe cab horses' nose bags without being stamped on by the horses'hoofs; how to get about in the trafficky streets of London and a wholelot of other things that young city birds have to know.
In the meantime, while Quip was gone, life went forward busily andhappily at the Doctor's post office. The animals, Too-Too, Dab-Dab,Gub-Gub, the pushmi-pullyu, the white mouse and Jip all agreed thatthey found living in a houseboat post office great fun. Whenever theygot tired of their floating home they would go off for picnic partiesto the Island of No-Man's-Land, which was now more often called by thename John Dolittle had given it, "the Animals' Paradise."
On these trips too, the Doctor sometimes accompanied them. He was gladto, because he so got an opportunity of talking with the many differentkinds of animals there about the signs they were in the habit of using.And on these signs, which he carefully put down in notebooks, he builtup a sort of written language for animals to use--or _animal scribble_,as he called it--the same as he had done with the birds.
Whenever he could spare the time he held afternoon scribbling classesfor the animals in the Great Hollow. And they were very well attended.He found the monkeys, of course, the easiest to teach and, becausethey were so clever, he made some of them into assistant teachers. Butthe zebras were quite bright too. The Doctor discovered that theseintelligent beasts had ways of marking and twisting the grasses to showwhere they had smelled lions about--though, happily, they did not haveto use this trick in the Animals' Paradise but had brought it with themwhen they had swum across from the mainland of Africa.
The Doctor's pets found it quite thrilling to go through the mailthat arrived each day to see if there were any letters for them.At the beginning of course there wasn't much. But one day Quip hadreturned from Puddleby with an answer to the Doctor's letter to theCats'-Meat-Man. Mr. Matthew Mugg had written (through his wife) that hehad hung the letter for Cheapside on an apple tree in the garden wherethe sparrow would surely see it when he arrived. The windows of thehouse were all right, he wrote; but the back door could do with a coatof paint.
And while Quip had been waiting for this letter to be written he hadfilled in the time at Puddleby by gossiping with all the starlings andblackbirds in the Doctor's garden about the wonderful new Animals' postoffice on the island of No-Man's-Land. And pretty soon every creaturein and around Puddleby had got to hear of it.
After that, of course, letters began to arrive at the houseboat for theDoctor's pets. And one morning, when the mail was sorted, there was aletter for Dab-Dab from her sister; one for the white mouse written bya cousin from the Doctor's bureau drawer; one for Jip from the colliewho lived next door in Puddleby and one for Too-Too, telling him he hada new family of six young ones in the rafters of the stable. But therewas nothing for Gub-Gub. The poor pig was nearly in tears at being leftout. And when the Doctor went into town that afternoon Gub-Gub askedcould he come along.
The next day the post-birds complained that the mail was an extra heavyone. And when it was sorted, there were ten thick letters for Gub-Guband none for anybody else. Jip got suspicious about this and lookedover Gub-Gub's shoulder while he opened them. In each one there was abanana skin.
"Who sent you those?" asked Jip.
"I sent them to myself," said Gub-Gub, "from Fantippo yesterday. Idon't see why you fellows should get all the mail. Nobody writes to me,so I write to myself."



_CHAPTER II_
CHEAPSIDE

It was a great day at the Doctor's post office when Cheapside, theLondon sparrow, arrived from Puddleby to look after the city deliveriesfor Fantippo.
The Doctor was eating his lunch of sandwiches at the information deskwhen the little bird popped his head through the window and said in hischeeky Cockney voice:
"'Ulloa, Doctor, 'ere we are again! What ho! The old firm! Who would'ave thought you'd come to this?"
Cheapside was a character. Anyone on seeing him for the first timewould probably guess that he spent his life in city streets. His wholeexpression was different from other birds. In Speedy's eyes, forinstance--though nobody would dream of thinking him stupid--there wasan almost noble look of country honesty. But in the eyes of Cheapside,the London Sparrow, there was a saucy, dare-devil expression thatseemed to say "Don't you think for one moment that you'll ever get thebetter of me. I'm a Cockney bird."
"Why, Cheapside!" cried John Dolittle. "At last you've come. My, butit's good to see you! Did you have a pleasant journey?"
"Not bad--not 'alf bad," said Cheapside, eyeing some crumbs from theDoctor's lunch which lay upon the desk. "No storms. Pretty decenttravellin'. 'Ot? Well, I should say it _was_ 'ot. 'Ot enough for an'Ottentot!... Quaint place you 'ave 'ere--sort of a barge?"
By this time all the animals had heard Cheapside arriving and they camerushing in to see the traveler and to hear the news of Puddleby andEngland.
"How is the old horse in the stable?" asked John Dolittle.
"Pretty spry," said Cheapside. "Course 'e ain't as young as 'e used tobe. But 'e's lively enough for an old 'un. 'E asked me to bring you abunch of crimson ramblers--just bloomin' over the stable door, theywas. But I says to 'im, I says, 'What d'yer take me for, an omnibus?'Fancy a feller at my time of life carrying a bunch of roses all the waydown the Atlantic! Folks would think I was goin' to a weddin' at theSouth Pole."
"Gracious, Cheapside!" said the Doctor, laughing. "It makes me quitehomesick for England to hear your Cockney chirp."
"And me, too," sighed Jip. "Were there many rats in the woodshed,Cheapside?"
"'Undreds of them," said the sparrow--"as big as rabbits. And thatuppish you'd think they owned the place!"
"I'll soon settle _them_, when I get back," said Jip. "I hope we gosoon."
"How does the garden look, Cheapside?" asked the Doctor.
"A1," said the sparrow. "Weeds in the paths, o' course. But the irisunder the kitchen window looked something lovely, they did."
"Anything new in London?" asked the white mouse who was also city bred.
"Yes," said Cheapside. "There's always something doing in goodold London. They've got a new kind of cab that goes on two wheelsinstead of four. A man called 'Ansom invented it. Much faster thanthe old 'ackneys they are. You see 'em everywhere. And there's a newgreengrocer's shop near the Royal Exchange."
"I'm going to have a greengrocer's shop of my own when I grow up,"murmured Gub-Gub, "--in England where they grow good vegetables--I'mawfully tired of Africa--and then I'll watch the new vegetables cominginto season all the year round."
"He's always talking about that," said Too-Too. "Such an ambition inlife to have--to run a greengrocer's shop!"
"Ah, England!" cried Gub-Gub sentimentally. "What is there morebeautiful in life than the heart of a young lettuce in the Spring?"
"'Ark at 'im," said Cheapside, raising his eyebrows. "Ain't 'e thepoetical porker? Why don't you write a bunch of sonnets to theSkunk-Kissed-Cabbages of Louisiana, Mr. Bacon?"
"Well, now, look here, Cheapside," said the Doctor. "We want you to getthese city deliveries straightened out for us in the town of Fantippo.Our post birds are having great difficulty finding the right houses totake letters to. You're a city-bird, born and bred. Do you think youcan help us?"
"I'll see what I can do for you, Doc," said the Sparrow, "after I'vetaken a look around this 'eathen town of yours. But first I want abath. I'm all heat up from flying under a broiling sun. Ain't you gotno puddles round here for a bird to take a bath in?"
"No, this isn't puddly climate," said the Doctor. "You're not inEngland, you know. But I'll bring you my shaving mug and you can take abath in that."
"Mind, you wash the soap out first, Doc," chirped the Sparrow, "it getsinto my eyes."
The next day after Cheapside had had a good sleep to rest up from hislong journey the Doctor took the London sparrow to show him around thetown of Fantippo.
"Well, Doc," said Cheapside after they had seen the sights, "as atown I don't think much of it--really, I don't. It's big. I'll saythat for it. I 'ad no idea they 'ad towns as big as this in Africa.But the streets is so narrow! I can see why they don't 'ave no cabs'ere--'ardly room for a goat to pass, let alone a four-wheeler. And asfor the 'ouses, they seem to be made of the insides of old mattresses.The first thing we'll 'ave to do is to make old King Cocoanut tell 'issubjects to put door knockers on their doors. What is 'ome without adoor knocker, I'd like to know? Of course, your postmen can't deliverthe letters, when they've no knockers to knock with."
"I'll attend to that," said the Doctor. "I'll see the King about itthis afternoon."
"And then, they've got no letter boxes in the doors," said Cheapside."There ought to be slots made to poke the letters in. The only placethese bloomin' 'eathens have for a postman to put a letter is down thechimney."
"Very well," said the Doctor. "I'll attend to that, too. Shall I havethe letter boxes in the middle of the door, or would you like them onone side?"
"Put 'em on each side of the doors--two to every 'ouse," said Cheapside.
"What's that for?" asked the Doctor.
"That's a little idea of my own," said the Sparrow. "We'll 'ave onebox for the bills and one for sure-enough letters. You see, peopleare so disappointed when they 'ear the postman's knock and come tothe door, expecting to find a nice letter from a friend or news thatmoney's been left them and all they get is a bill from the tailor.But if we have two boxes on each door, one marked '_Bills_,' and theother '_Letters_,' the postman can put all the bills in one box and thehonest letters in the other. As I said, it's a little idea of my own.We might as well be real up-to-date. What do you think of it?"
"I think it's a splendid notion," said the Doctor. "Then the peopleneed only have one disappointment--when they clear the bill box on theday set for paying their debts."
"That's the idea," said Cheapside. "And tell the post-birds--as soonas we've got the knockers on--to knock once for a bill and twice fora letter, so the folks in the 'ouse will know whether to come and getthe mail or not. Oh, I tell you, we'll show these poor pagans a thingor two before we're finished! We'll 'ave a post office in Fantipsythat really is a post office. And, now, 'ow about the Christmas boxes,Doctor? Postmen always expect a handsome present around Christmas time,you know."
"Well, I'm rather afraid," said the Doctor doubtfully, "that thesepeople don't celebrate Christmas as a holiday."
"_Don't celebrate Christmas!_" cried Cheapside in a shocked voice."What a disgraceful scandal! Well, look here, Doctor. You just tellKing Cocoa-butter that if 'e and 'is people don't celebrate the festiveseason by giving us post-birds Christmas-boxes there ain't going tobe no mail delivered in Fantipsy from New Year's to Easter. And youcan tell 'im I said so. It's 'igh time somebody hen-lightened 'ishignorance."
"All right," said the Doctor, "I'll attend to that, too."
"Tell 'im," said Cheapside, "we'll expect two lumps of sugar on everydoorstep Christmas morning for the post-birds. No sugar, no letters!"
That afternoon the Doctor called upon the King and explained to himthe various things that Cheapside wanted. And His Majesty gave into them, every one. Beautiful brass knockers were screwed on allthe doors--light ones, which the birds could easily lift. And veryelegant they looked--by far the most up-to-date part of the ramshackledwellings. The double boxes were also put up, with one place for billsand one for the letters.
John Dolittle instructed King Koko as well in the meaning of Christmastime, which should be a season for giving gifts. And among theFantippo people the custom of making presents at Christmas became verygeneral--not only to postmen, but to friends and relatives, too.
That is why when, several years after the Doctor had left this country,some missionaries visited that part of Africa, they found to theirastonishment that Christmas was celebrated there, although the peoplewere heathens. But they never learned that the custom had been broughtabout by Cheapside, the cheeky London sparrow.
And now very soon Cheapside took entire charge of the city delivery ofmails in Fantippo. Of course, as soon as the mail began to get heavy,when the people got the habit of writing more to their friends andrelatives, Cheapside could not deal with all the mail himself. So hesent a message by a swallow to get fifty sparrows from the streets ofLondon (who were, like himself, accustomed to city ways), to help himwith the delivery of letters. And around the native holiday seasons,the Harvest Moon and the Coming of the Rains, he had to send for fiftymore to deal with the extra mail.
And if you happened to pass down the main street of Fantippo at nine inthe morning or four in the afternoon you would hear the _Rat-tat-tat_of the post-sparrows, knocking on the doors--_Tat-tat_, if it was areal letter, and just _Rat!_ if it was a bill.
Of course, they could not carry more than one or two letters at atime--being such small birds. But it only took them a moment to flyback to the houseboat for another load, where Too-Too was waiting forthem at the "city" window with piles of mail, sorted out into boxesmarked "_Central_," "_West Central_," "_Southwest_," etc., for thedifferent parts of the town. This was another idea of Cheapside's, todivide up the city into districts, the same as they did in London,so the mail could be delivered quickly without too much hunting forstreets.
Cheapside's help was, indeed, most valuable to the Doctor. The Kinghimself said that the mails were wonderfully managed. The letters werebrought regularly and never left at the wrong house.
He had only one fault, had Cheapside. And that was being cheeky.Whenever he got into an argument his Cockney swearing was justdreadful. And in spite of the Doctor's having issued orders time andtime again that he expected his post office clerks and mail birds tobe strictly polite to the public, Cheapside was always getting intorows--which he usually started himself.
One day when King Koko's pet white peacock came to the Doctor andcomplained that the Cockney sparrow had made faces at him over thepalace wall the Doctor became quite angry and read the City Manager along lecture.
Then Cheapside got together a gang of his tough London sparrow friendsand one night they flew into the palace garden and mobbed the whitepeacock and pulled three feathers out of his beautiful tail.
This last piece of rowdyism was too much for John Dolittle and, callingup Cheapside, he discharged him on the spot--though he was very sorryto do it.
But when the sparrow went all his London friends went with him andthe post office was left with no city birds to attend to the citydeliveries. The swallows and other birds tried their hardest to getletters around to the houses properly. But they couldn't. And beforelong complaints began to come in from the townspeople.
Then the Doctor was sorry and wished he hadn't discharged Cheapside,who seemed to be the only one who could manage this part of the mailsproperly.
But one day, to the Doctor's great delight--though he tried hard tolook angry--Cheapside strolled into the post office with a straw in thecorner of his mouth, looking as though nothing had happened.
John Dolittle had thought that he and his friends had gone home toLondon. But they hadn't. They knew the Doctor would need them and theyhad just hung around outside the town. And then the Doctor, afterlecturing Cheapside again about politeness, gave him back his job.
But the next day the rowdy little sparrow threw a bottle of post officeink over the royal white peacock when he came to the houseboat with theKing to take tea. Then the Doctor discharged Cheapside again.
In fact, the Doctor used to discharge him for rudeness regularly aboutonce a month. And the city mails always got tied up soon after. But, tothe Doctor's great relief, the City Manager always came back just whenthe tie-up was at its worst and put things right again.
Cheapside was a wonderful bird. But it seemed as though he justcouldn't go a whole month without being rude to somebody. The Doctorsaid it was in his nature.



_CHAPTER III_
THE BIRDS THAT HELPED COLUMBUS

After the Doctor had written his first letter by Swallow Mail to theCats'-Meat-Man he began to think of all the other people to whom hehad neglected to write for years and years. And very soon every sparemoment he had was filled in writing to friends and acquaintanceseverywhere.
And then, of course, there were the letters he sent to and receivedfrom birds and animals all over the world. First he wrote to thevarious bird leaders who were in charge of the branch offices atCape Horn, Thibet, Tahiti, Kashmir, Christmas Island, Greenland andPuddleby-on-the-Marsh. To them he gave careful instructions howthe branch post offices were to be run--always insisting on strictpoliteness from the post office clerks; and he answered all thequestions that the branch postmasters wrote asking for guidance.
And he sent letters to various fellow naturalists whom he knew indifferent countries and gave them a whole lot of information about theyearly flights or migration of birds. Because, of course, in the birdmail business he learned a great deal on that subject that had neverbeen known to naturalists before.
Outside the post office he had a notice board set up on which wereposted the Outgoing and Incoming Mails. The notices would readsomething like this:
    _Next Wednesday, July 18, the Red-Winged Plovers will leave this    office for Denmark and points on the Skager Rack. Post your mail    early, please. All letters should bear a four-penny stamp. Small    packages will also be carried on this flight for Morocco, Portugal    and the Channel Islands._
Whenever a new flight of birds were expected at No-Man's-Land theDoctor always had a big supply of food of their particular kind gotready for their arrival before-hand. He had at the big meeting with theleaders put down in his notebook the dates of all the yearly flights ofthe different kinds of birds, where they started from and where theywent to. And this notebook was kept with great care.
One day Speedy was sitting on top of the weighing scales while theDoctor was sorting a large pile of outgoing letters. Suddenly theSkimmer cried out:
"Great heavens, Doctor, I've gained an ounce! I'll never be able to flyin the races again. Look, it says four and a half ounces!"
"No, Speedy," said the Doctor. "See, you have an ounce weight on thepan as well as yourself. That makes you only three and a half ounces."
"Oh," said the Skimmer, "is that the trouble? I was never good atarithmetic. What a relief! Thank goodness, I haven't gained!"
"Listen, Speedy," said the Doctor, "in this batch of mail we have a lotof letters for Panama. What mails have we got going out to-morrow?"
"I'm not sure," said Speedy. "I'll go and look at the notice board. Ithink it's the Golden Jays.... Yes," he said, coming back in a moment,"that's right, the Golden Jays to-morrow, Tuesday, the 15th, weatherpermitting."
"Where are they bound for, Speedy?" asked the Doctor. "My notebook's inthe safe."
"From Dahomey to Venezuela," said Speedy, raising his right foot tosmother a yawn.
"Good," said John Dolittle. "Then they can take these Panama lettersfor me. It won't be much out of their way. What do Golden Jays eat?"
"They are very fond of acorns," said Speedy.
"All right," said the Doctor. "Please tell Gub-Gub for me to go acrossto the island and get the wild boars to gather up a couple of sacks ofacorns. I want all the birds who work for us to have a good feed beforethey leave the Main Office for their flights."
The next morning when the Doctor woke up he heard a tremendouschattering all around the post office and he knew that the Golden Jayshad arrived overnight. And after he had dressed and come out on to theveranda, there, sure enough, they were--myriads of very handsome goldand black birds, swarming everywhere, gossiping away at a great rateand gobbling up the acorns laid out for them in bushels.
The leader, who already knew the Doctor, of course, came forward to getorders and to see how much mail there was to be carried.
After everything had been arranged and the leader had decided heneed expect no tornadoes or bad weather for the next twenty-fourhours, he gave a command. Then all the birds rose in the air to flyaway--whistling farewell to Postmaster General Dolittle and the HeadOffice.
"Oh, by the way, Doctor," said the leader, turning back a moment, "didyou ever hear of a man called Christopher Columbus?"
"Oh, surely," said the Doctor. "He discovered America in 1492."
"Well, I just wanted to tell you," said the Jay, "that if it hadn'tbeen for an ancestor of mine he wouldn't have discovered it in1492--later perhaps, but not in 1492."
"Oh, indeed!" said John Dolittle. "Tell me more about it." And hepulled a notebook out of his pocket and started to write.
"Well," said the Jay, "the story was handed down to me by my mother,who heard it from my grandmother, who got it from my great-grandmother,and so on, way back to an ancestor of ours who lived in America in thefifteenth century. Our kind of birds in those days did not come acrossto this side of the Atlantic, neither summer nor winter. We used tospend from March to September in the Bermudas and the rest of the yearin Venezuela. And when we made the autumn journey south we used to stopat the Bahama Islands to rest on the way.
"The fall of the year 1492 was a stormy season. Gales and squallswere blowing up all the time and we did not get started on our tripuntil the second week in October. My ancestor had been the leader ofthe flock for a long time. But he had grown sort of old and feebleand a younger bird was elected in his place to lead the Golden Jaysto Venezuela that year. The new leader was a conceited youngster,and because he had been chosen he thought he knew everything aboutnavigation and weather and sea crossings.
"Shortly after the birds started they sighted, to their greatastonishment, a number of boats sailing on a westward course. This wasabout half way between the Bermudas and the Bahamas. The ships weremuch larger than anything they had ever seen before. All they had beenaccustomed to up to that time were little canoes, with Indians in them.
"The new leader immediately got scared and gave the order for the Jaysto swing in further toward the land, so they wouldn't be seen by themen who crowded these large boats. He was a superstitious leader andanything he didn't understand he kept away from. But my ancestor didnot go with the flock, but made straight for the ships.
"He was gone about twenty minutes, and presently he flew after theother birds and said to the new leader: 'Over there in those ships abrave man is in great danger. They come from Europe, seeking land.The sailors, not knowing how near they are to sighting it, havemutinied against their admiral. I am an old bird and I know this bravesea-farer. Once when I was making a crossing--the first I ever made--agale came up and I was separated from my fellows. For three days Ihad to fly with the battering wind. And finally I was blown eastwardnear the Old World. Just when I was ready to drop into the sea fromexhaustion I spied a ship. I simply had to rest. I was weather-beatenand starving. So I made for the boat and fell half dead upon thedeck. The sailors were going to put me in a cage. But the captain ofthe ship--this same navigator whose life is now threatened by hisrebellious crew in those ships over there--fed me crumbs and nursedme back to life. Then he let me go free, to fly to Venezuela when theweather was fair. We are land birds. Let us now save this good man'slife by going to his ship and showing ourselves to his sailors. Theywill then know that land is near and be obedient to their captain."
"Yes, yes," said the Doctor. "Go on. I remember Columbus writing ofland birds in his diary. Go on."
"So," said the Jay, "the whole flock turned and made for Columbus'sfleet. They were only just in time. For the sailors were ready to killtheir admiral, who, they said, had brought them on a fool's errand tofind land where there was none. He must turn back and sail for Spain,they said, or be killed.
"But when the sailors saw a great flock of land birds passing over theship going southwest instead of west, they took new heart, for theywere sure land must lie not far to the southwestward.
"So we led them on to the Bahamas. And on the seventh day, very earlyin the morning, the crew, with a cry of 'Land! Land!' fell down upontheir knees and gave thanks to heaven. Watling's Island, one of thesmaller Bahamas, lay ahead of them, smiling in the sea.
"Then the sailors gathered about the admiral, Christopher Columbus,whom a little before they were going to kill, and cheered and calledhim the greatest navigator in the world--which, in truth, he was.
"But even Columbus himself never learned to his dying day that it wasthe weather-beaten bird who had fallen on his friendly deck some yearsbefore, who had led him by the shortest cut to the land of the NewWorld.
"So you see, Doctor," the Jay ended, picking up his letters and gettingready to fly, "if it hadn't been for my ancestor Christopher Columbuswould have had to turn back to please his sailors, or be killed. Ifit hadn't been for him America would not have been discovered in1492--later, perhaps, but not in 1492. Good-bye! I must be going.Thanks for the acorns."



_CHAPTER IV_
CAPE STEPHEN LIGHT

On the coast of West Africa, about twenty miles to the northwardof Fantippo, there was a cape running out into the sea which had alighthouse on it called the Cape Stephen Light. This light was keptcarefully burning by the government who controlled that part of Africa,in order that ships should see it from the sea and know where theywere. It was a dangerous part of the coast, this. There were many rocksand shallows near the end of Cape Stephen. And if the light were everallowed to go out at night, of course, ships traveling that part of thesea would be in great danger of running into the long cape and wreckingthemselves.
Now, one evening not long after the Golden Jays had gone west, theDoctor was writing letters in the post office by the light of a candle.It was late and all the animals were fast asleep long ago. Presentlywhile he wrote he heard a sound a long way off, coming through the openwindow at his elbow. He put down his pen and listened.
It was the sound of a seabird, calling away out at sea. Now, seabirdsdon't, as a rule, call very much unless they are in great numbers. Thiscall sounded like a single bird. The Doctor put his head through thewindow and looked out.
It was a dark night, as black as pitch, and he couldn't see athing--especially as his eyes were used to the light of the candle. Themysterious call was repeated again and again, like a cry of distressfrom the sea. The Doctor didn't know quite what to make of it. But soonhe thought it seemed to be coming nearer. And, grabbing his hat, he ranout on to the veranda.
"What is it? What's the matter?" he shouted into the darkness over thesea.
He got no answer. But soon, with a rush of wings that nearly blew hiscandle out, a great seagull swept down on to the houseboat rail besidehim.
"Doctor," panted the gull, "the Cape Stephen Light is out. I don'tknow what's the matter. It has never gone out before. We use it as aland-mark, you know, when we are flying after dark. The night's asblack as ink. I'm afraid some ship will surely run into the cape. Ithought I'd come and tell you."
"Good heavens!" cried the Doctor. "What can have happened? There's alighthouse keeper living there to attend to it. Was it lighted earlierin the evening?"
"I don't know," said the gull. "I was coming in from catchingherring--they're running just now, you know, a little to the North.And, expecting to see the light, I lost my way and flew miles too farsouth. When I found out my mistake I went back, flying close down bythe shore. And I came to Stephen Cape, but it had no light. It wasblack as anything. And I would have run right into the rocks myself ifI hadn't been going carefully."
"How far would it be from here?" asked John Dolittle.
"Well, by land it would be twenty-five miles to where the lighthousestands," said the gull. "But by water it would be only about twelve, Ishould say."
"All right," said the Doctor, hurrying into his coat. "Wait just amoment till I wake Dab-Dab."
The Doctor ran into the post office kitchen and woke the poorhousekeeper, who was slumbering soundly beside the kitchen stove.
"Listen, Dab-Dab!" said the Doctor, shaking her. "Wake up! The CapeStephen Light's gone out!"
"Whazhat?" said Dab-Dab, sleepily opening her eyes. "Stove's gone out?"
"No, the lighthouse on Cape Stephen," said the Doctor. "A gull justcame and told me. The shipping's in danger. Wrecks, you know, and allthat. Wake up and look sensible, for pity's sake!"
At last poor Dab-Dab, fully awakened, understood what was the matter.And in a moment she was up and doing.
"I know where it is, Doctor. I'll fly right over there.--No, I won'tneed the gull to guide me. You keep him to show you the way. Follow meimmediately in the canoe. If I can find out anything I'll come back andmeet you half way. If not, I'll wait for you by the lighthouse tower.Thank goodness, it's a calm night, anyway--even if it is dark!"
With a flap of her wings, Dab-Dab flew right through the open windowand was gone into the night, while the Doctor grabbed his little blackmedicine bag and, calling to the gull to follow him, ran down to theother end of the houseboat, untied the canoe and jumped in. Then hepushed off, headed around the island of No-Man's-Land and paddled forall he was worth for the seaward end of Cape Stephen.
About half way to the long neck of land that jutted out into the gloomyocean the Doctor's canoe was met by Dab-Dab--though how she found it inthe darkness, with only the sound of the paddle to guide her, goodnessonly knows.
"Doctor," said she, "if the lighthouse keeper is in there at all hemust be sick, or something. I hammered on the windows, but nobodyanswered."
"Dear me!" muttered the Doctor, paddling harder than ever, "I wonderwhat can have happened?"
"And that's not the worst," said Dab-Dab. "On the far side of thecape--you can't see it from here--there's the headlight of a bigsailing ship, bearing down southward, making straight for the rocks.They can't see the lighthouse and they don't know what danger they'rein."
"Good Lord!" groaned the Doctor, and he nearly broke the paddle as hechurned the water astern to make the canoe go faster yet.
"How far off the rocks is the ship now?" asked the gull.
"About a mile, I should say," said Dab-Dab. "But she's a bigone--judging by the height of her mast-light--and she won't be longbefore she's aground on the cape."
"Keep right on, Doctor," said the gull. "I'm going off to get somefriends of mine."
And the seagull spread his wings and flew away toward the land, callingthe same cry as the Doctor had heard through the post office window.
John Dolittle had no idea of what he meant to do. Nor was the gullhimself sure that he would be in time to succeed with the plan he hadin mind. But presently, to his delight, the seabird heard his callbeing answered from the rocky shores shrouded in darkness. And soon hehad hundreds of his brother gulls circling round him in the night.
Then he took them to the great ship, which was sailing calmly onwardtoward the rocks and destruction. And there, going forward to where thehelmsman held the spokes of the wheel and watched the compass swingingbefore him in the light of a little, dim lamp, the gulls starteddashing themselves into the wheelman's face and covering the glass ofthe compass, so he could not steer the ship.
The helmsman, battling with the birds, set up a yell for help, sayinghe couldn't see to steer the boat. Then the officers and sailors rushedup to his assistance and tried to beat the birds off.
In the meantime the Doctor, in his canoe, had reached the end of CapeStephen and, springing ashore, he scrambled up the rocks to where thegreat tower of the lighthouse rose skyward over the black, unlightedsea. Feeling and fumbling, he found the door and hammered on it,yelling to be let in. But no one answered him. And Dab-Dab whisperedin a hoarse voice that the light of the ship was nearer now--less thanhalf a mile from the rocks.
Then the Doctor drew back for a run and threw his whole weight againstthe door. But the hinges and lock had been made to stand the beating ofthe sea and they budged no more than if he had been a fly.
At last, with a roar of rage, the Doctor grabbed up a rock from theground as big as a chair and banged it with all his might against thelock of the lighthouse door. With a crash the door flew open and theDoctor sprang within.
On the ship the seamen were still fighting with the gulls. The captain,seeing that no helmsman could steer the boat right with thousands ofwings fluttering in his eyes, gave the orders to lay the ship to for alittle and to get out the hose pipes. And a strong stream of water wasturned on to the gulls around the helmsman, so they could no longer getnear him. Then the ship got under way again and came on toward the capeonce more.
Inside the lighthouse the Doctor found the darkness blacker still. Withhands outstretched before him, he hurried forward and the first thinghe did was to stumble over a man who was lying on the floor just withinthe door. Without waiting to see what was the matter with him, theDoctor jumped over his body and began to grope his way up the windingstairs of the tower that led to the big lamp at the top.
Meanwhile Dab-Dab stayed below at the door, looking out over the sea atthe mast light of the ship--which, after a short delay, was now comingon again toward the rocks. At any minute she expected the great beam ofthe lighthouse lamp to flare out over the sea, as soon as the Doctorshould get it lit, to warn the sailors of their danger. But, instead,she presently heard the Doctor's agonized voice calling from the headof the stairs:
"Dab-Dab! Dab-Dab! I can't light it. _We forgot to bring matches!_"
"Well, what have you _done_ with the matches, Doctor?" called Dab-Dab."They were always in your coat."
"I left them beside my pipe on the information desk," came the Doctor'svoice from the top of the dark stairs. "But there must be matches inthe lighthouse somewhere. We must find them."
"What chance have we of that?" shouted Dab-Dab. "It's as black as blackdown here. And the ship is coming nearer every minute."
"Feel in the man's pockets," called John Dolittle. "Hurry!"
In a minute Dab-Dab went through the pockets of the man who lay sostill upon the floor.
"He hasn't any matches on him," she shouted. "Not a single one."
"Confound the luck!" muttered John Dolittle.
And then there was a solemn silence in the lighthouse while the Doctorabove and Dab-Dab below thought gloomily of that big ship sailingonward to her wreck because they had no matches.
But suddenly out of the black stillness came a small, sweet voice,singing, somewhere near.
"Dab-Dab!" cried the Doctor in a whisper. "Do you hear that? Acanary! There's a canary singing somewhere--probably in a cage in thelighthouse kitchen!"
In a moment he was clattering down the stairs.
"Come on," he cried. "We must find the kitchen. That canary will knowwhere the matches are kept. Find the kitchen!"
Then the two of them went stumbling around in the darkness, feelingthe walls, and presently they came upon a low door, opened it andfell headlong down a short flight of steps that led to the lighthousekitchen. This was a little underground room, like a cellar, cut out ofthe rock on which the lighthouse stood. If there was any fire or stovein it it had long since gone out, for the darkness here was as black asanywhere else. But as soon as the door had opened, the trills of thesong bird grew louder.
"Tell me," called John Dolittle, in canary language, "where are thematches? Quick!"
"Oh, at last you've come," said a high, small, polite voice out ofthe darkness. "Would you mind putting a cover over my cage? There's adraught and I can't sleep. Nobody's been near me since midday. I don'tknow what can have happened to the keeper. He always covers up mycage at tea-time. But to-night I wasn't covered at all, so I went onsinging. You'll find my cover up on the----"
"_Matches! Matches!_ Where are the matches?" screamed Dab-Dab. "Thelight's out and there's a ship in danger! Where are the matches kept?"
"On the mantelpiece, next to the pepper box," said the canary. "Comeover here to my cage and feel along to your left--high up--and yourhand will fall right on them."
The Doctor sprang across the room, upsetting a chair on his way, andfelt along the wall. His hand touched the corner of a stone shelf andthe next moment Dab-Dab gave a deep sigh of relief, for she heard thecheerful rattle of a box of matches as the Doctor fumbled to strike alight.
"You'll find a candle on the table--there--look--behind you," said thecanary, when the match light dimly lit up the kitchen.
With trembling fingers the Doctor lit the candle. Then, shielding theflame with his hand, he bounded out of the room and up the stairs.
"At last!" he muttered. "Let's hope I'm not too late!"
At the head of the kitchen steps he met the seagull coming into thelighthouse with two companions.
"Doctor," cried the gull, "we held off the ship as long as we could.But the stupid sailors, not knowing we were trying to save them, turnedhoses on us and we had to give up. The ship is terribly near now."
Without a word the Doctor sped on up the winding steps of the tower.Round and round he went, upward, till he was ready to drop fromdizziness.
At length reaching the great glass lamp chamber at the top, he set downhis candle and, striking two matches at once he held one in each handand lit the big wick in two places.
By this time Dab-Dab had gone outside again and was watching over thesea for the oncoming ship. And when at last the great light from thebig lamp at the top of the tower suddenly flared out over the sea therewas the bow of the vessel, not more than a hundred yards from the rockyshore of the cape!
Then came a cry from the look-out, shouted orders from the captain,much blowing of whistles and ringing of bells. And just in time to saveherself from a watery grave, the big ship swung her nose out to sea andsailed safely past upon her way.



_CHAPTER V_
GULLS AND SHIPS

The morning sun peeping in at the window of the lighthouse found theDoctor still working over the keeper where he lay at the foot of thetower stairs.
"He's coming to," said Dab-Dab. "See, his eyes are beginning to blink."
"Get me some more clean water from the kitchen," said the Doctor, whowas bathing a large lump on the side of the man's head.
Presently the keeper opened his eyes wide and stared up into theDoctor's face.
"Who?----What?"----he murmured stupidly. "The light!--I must attendto the light!--I must attend to the light!" and he struggled weakly toget up.
"It's all right," said the Doctor. "The light has been lit. And it'snearly day now. Here, drink this. Then you'll feel better."
And the Doctor held some medicine to his lips which he had taken fromthe little black bag.
In a short while the man grew strong enough to stand on his feet. Then,with the Doctor's help, he walked as far as the kitchen, where JohnDolittle and Dab-Dab made him comfortable in an armchair, lit the stoveand cooked his breakfast for him.
"I'm mighty grateful to you, stranger, whoever you be," said the man."Usually there's two of us here, me and my partner, Fred. But yesterdaymorning I let Fred go off with the ketch to get oysters. That's why I'malone. I was coming down the stairs about noon, from putting new wicksin the lamp, when my foot slipped and I took a tumble to the bottom. Myhead fetched up against the wall and knocked the senses right out ofme. How long I lay there before you found me I don't know."
"Well, all's well that ends well," said the Doctor. "Take this; youmust be nearly starved."
And he handed the keeper a large cup of steaming coffee.
About ten o'clock in the morning Fred, the partner, returned in thelittle sail-boat from his oyster-gathering expedition. He was verymuch worried when he heard of the accident which had happened while hehad been off duty. Fred, like the other keeper, was a Londoner and aseaman. He was a pleasant fellow and both he and his partner (who wasnow almost entirely recovered from his injury) were very glad of theDoctor's company to break the tiresome dullness of their lonely life.
They took John Dolittle all over the lighthouse to see the workings ofit. And outside they showed him with great pride the tiny garden oftomatoes and nasturtiums which they had planted near the foot of thetower.
They only got a holiday once a year, they told John Dolittle, when agovernment ship stopped near Cape Stephen and took them back to Englandfor six weeks' vacation, leaving two other men in their place to takecare of the light while they were gone.
They asked the Doctor if he could give them any news of their belovedLondon. But he had to admit that he also had been away from that cityfor a long time. However, while they were talking Cheapside came intothe lighthouse kitchen, looking for the Doctor. The city sparrow wasdelighted to find that the keepers were also Cockneys. And he gavethem, through the Doctor, all the latest gossip of Wapping, Limehouse,the East India Docks and the wharves and the shipping of London River.
The two keepers thought that the Doctor was surely crazy when hestarted a conversation of chirps with Cheapside. But from the answersthey got to their questions they could see there was no fake about thenews of the city which the sparrow gave.
Cheapside said the faces of those two Cockney seamen were the bestscenery he had looked on since he had come to Africa. And after thatfirst visit he was always flying over to the lighthouse in his sparetime to see his new friends. Of course, he couldn't talk to them,because neither of them knew sparrow talk--not even Cockney sparrowtalk. But Cheapside loved being with them, anyway.
"They're such a nice, wholesome, Christian change," he said, "afterthese 'ere 'eathen hidolaters. And you should just hear Fred sing 'SeeThat My Grave's Kept Green.'"
The lighthouse keepers were sorry to have the Doctor go and theywouldn't let him leave till he promised to come and take dinner withthem next Sunday.
Then, after they had loaded his canoe with a bushel of rosy tomatoesand a bouquet of nasturtiums, the Doctor, with Dab-Dab and Cheapside,paddled away for Fantippo, while the keepers waved to them from thelighthouse door.
The Doctor had not paddled very far on his return journey to the postoffice when the seagull who had brought the news of the light overtookhim.
"Everything all right now, Doctor?" he asked as he swept in gracefulcircles around the canoe.
"Yes," said John Dolittle, munching a tomato. "The man got an awfulcrack on the head from that fall. But he will be all over it in alittle while. If it hadn't been for the canary, though, who told uswhere the matches were--and for you, too, holding back the sailors--wewould never have saved that ship."
The Doctor threw a tomato skin out of the canoe and the gull caught itneatly in the air before it touched the water.
"Well, I'm glad we were in time," said the bird.
"Tell me," asked the Doctor, watching him thoughtfully as he hoveredand swung and curved around the tiny boat, "what made you come andbring me the news about the light? Gulls don't, as a rule, bother muchabout people or what happens to ships, do they?"
"You're mistaken, Doctor," said the gull, catching another skin withdeadly accuracy. "Ships and the men in them are very important tous--not so much down here in the South. But up North, why, if it wasn'tfor the ships in the winter we gulls would often have a hard timefinding enough to eat. You see, after it gets cold fish and sea foodsbecome sort of scarce. Sometimes we make out by going up the riversto towns and hanging about the artificial lakes in parks where fancywaterfowl are kept. The people come to the parks and throw biscuitsinto the lakes for the waterfowl. But if we are around the biscuits getcaught before they hit the lake--like that," and the gull snatched athird tomato skin on the wing with a lightning lunge.
"But you were speaking of ships," said the Doctor.
"Yes," the gull went on--rather indistinctly, because his mouth wasfull of tomato skin--"we find ships much better for winter feeding. Yousee, it isn't really fair of us to go and bag all the food from thefancy waterfowl in parks. So we never do it unless we have to. Usuallyin winter we stick to the ships. Why, two years ago I and a cousin ofmine lived the whole year round following ships for the food scraps thestewards threw out into the sea. The rougher the weather, the more foodwe get, because then the passengers don't feel like eating and mostof the grub gets thrown out. Yes, I and my cousin attached ourselves,as it were, to the _Transatlantic Packet Line_, which runs shipsfrom Glasgow to Philadelphia, and traveled back and forth with themacross the ocean dozens of trips. But later on we changed over to the_Binnacle Line_--Tilbury to Boston."
"Why?" asked the Doctor.
"We found they ran a better table for their passengers. With the_Binnacle_, who threw us out morning biscuits, afternoon tea andsandwiches last thing at night--as well as three square meals a day--welived like fighting cocks. It nearly made sailors of us for good. It'sa great life--all you do is eat. I should say gulls are interested inmen and ships, Doctor--very much so. Why, I wouldn't have an accidenthappen to a ship for anything--especially a passenger ship."
"Humph! That's very interesting," murmured the Doctor. "And have youseen many accidents--ships in trouble?"
"Oh, heaps of times," said the gull--"storms, collisions at night,ships going aground in the fog, and the rest. Oh, yes, I've seen lotsof boats in trouble at sea."
"Ah!" said the Doctor, looking up from his paddling. "See, we arealready back at the post office. And there's the pushmi-pullyu ringingthe lunch bell. We're just in time. I smell liver and bacon--thesetomatoes will go with it splendidly. Won't you come in and join us?" heasked the gull. "I would like to hear more about your life with ships.You've given me an idea."
"Thank you," said the gull. "I am feeling kind of peckish myself. Youare very kind. This is the first time I've eaten ship's food _inside_ aship."
And when the canoe was tied up they went into the houseboat and satdown to lunch at the kitchen table.
"Well, now," said the Doctor to the gull as soon as they were seated,"you were speaking of fogs. What do you do yourself in that kind ofweather--I mean, you can't see any more in the fog than the sailorscan, can you?"
"No," said the gull, "we can't _see_ any more, it is true. But, mygoodness! If we were as helpless in a fog as the sailors are we'dalways be lost. What we do, if we are going anywhere special and we runinto a fog, is to fly up above it--way up where the air is clear. Thenwe can find our way as well as ever."
"I see," said the Doctor. "But the storms, what do you do in them tokeep yourselves safe?"
"Well, of course, in storms--bad storms--even seabirds can't always gowhere they want. We seagulls never try to battle our way against a realgale. The petrels sometimes do, but we don't. It is too tiring, andeven when you can come down and rest on the water, swimming, every oncein a while, it's a dangerous game. We fly with the storm--just let itcarry us where it will. Then when the wind dies down we come back andfinish our journey."
"But that takes a long time, doesn't it?" asked the Doctor.
"Oh, yes," said the gull, "it wastes a little time. But, you know, wevery seldom let ourselves get caught by a storm."
"How do you mean?" asked John Dolittle.
"We know, before we reach one, where it is. And we go around it. Noexperienced sea bird ever runs his head into a bad storm."
"But how do you know where the storms are?" asked the Doctor.
"Well," said the gull, "I suppose two great advantages we birds haveover the sailors in telling when and where to expect bad weather areour good eyesight and our experience. For one thing, we can always risehigh in the air and look over the sea for a distance of fifty or sixtymiles. Then if we see gales approaching we can turn and run for it.And we can put on more speed than the fastest gale that ever blew. Andthen, another thing, our experience is so much better than sailors'.Sailors, poor duffers, think they know the sea--that they spend theirlife on it. They don't--believe me, they don't. Half the time theyspend in the cabin, part of the time they spend on shore and a lot ofthe time they spend sleeping. And even when they are on deck they'renot always looking at the sea. They fiddle around with ropes and paintbrushes and mops and buckets. You very seldom see a sailor _looking_ atthe sea."
"I suppose they get rather tired of it, poor fellows!" murmured theDoctor.
"Maybe. But, after all, if you want to be a good seaman the sea isthe thing that counts, isn't it? That's the thing you've got to lookat--to study. Now, we sea birds spend nearly all our lives, night andday, Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter, _looking at the sea_. And whatis the result?" asked the gull, taking a fresh piece of toast from therack that Dab-Dab handed him. "The result is this: we _know_ the sea.Why, Doctor, if you were to shut me up in a little box with no windowsin it and take me out into the middle of any ocean you liked and thenopened the box and let me look at the sea--even if there wasn't a speckof land in sight--I could tell you what ocean it was, and, almost to amile, what part of it we were in. But, of course, I'd have to know whatdate it was."
"Marvelous!" cried the Doctor. "How do you do it?"
"From the color of it; from the little particles of things that floatin it; from the kind of fishes and sea creatures swimming in it; fromthe way the little ripples rippled and the big waves waved; from thesmell of it; from the taste, the saltness of it and a couple of hundredother things. But, you know, in most cases--not always, but in mostcases--I could tell you where we were with my eyes shut, as soon as Igot out of the box, just from the wind blowing on my feathers."
"Great heavens!" the Doctor exclaimed. "You don't say!"
"That's the main trouble with sailors, Doctor. They don't know windsthe way they ought. They can tell a northeast wind from a west wind.And a strong one from a weak one. And that's about all. But when you'vespent most of your life, the way we have, flying among the winds, usingthem to climb on, to swoop on and to hover on, you get to know thatthere's a lot more to a wind besides its direction and its strength.How often it puffs upward or downward, how often it grows weak or growsstrong, will tell you, if you know the science of winds, a whole lot."



_CHAPTER VI_
WEATHER BUREAUS

When the lunch was over the Doctor took an armchair beside the kitchenstove and lit his pipe. "I am thinking," he said to the gull, "ofstarting a new department in my post office. Many of the birds who havehelped me in this mail business seem to be remarkably good weatherprophets. And what you have just told me about your knowledge of thesea and storms has given me the idea of opening a weather bureau."
"What's that?" asked Jip, who was brushing up the table crumbs, to beput out later for the birds on the houseboat deck.
"A weather bureau," said the Doctor, "is a very importantthing--especially for shipping and farmers. It is an office for tellingyou what kind of weather you're going to have."
"How do they do it?" asked Gub-Gub.
"They don't," said the Doctor--"at least they do sometimes. But asoften as not they're wrong. They do it with instruments--thermometers,barometers, hygrometers and wind gauges and things. But most weatherbureaus so far have been pretty poor. I think I can do much better withmy birds. They very seldom go wrong in prophesying the weather."
"Well, for what parts of the world do you want to know the weather,Doctor?" asked the gull. "If it's just for Fantippo or West Africa itwill be easy as pie. All you ever get here is tornadoes. The rest ofthe year is just frying heat. But if you want to prophesy the weatherfor the Straits of Magellan or Nova Zembla or those countries wherethey have all sorts of fancy weathers, it will be a different matter.Even prophesying the weather for England would keep you busy. Myself, Inever thought that the weather itself knew what it was going to do nextin England."
"The English climate's all right," put in Cheapside, his feathersruffling up for a fight. "Don't you get turning up your long nauticalnose at England, my lad. What do you call this 'ere? A climate? Well,I should call it a Turkish bath. In England we like variety in ourclimate. And we get it. That's why Englishmen 'ave such 'earty redfaces. 'Ere the poor creatures turn black."
"I would like," said the Doctor, "to be able to prophesy weather forevery part of the world. I really don't see why I shouldn't; thisoffice, together with my branch offices, is in communication with birdsgoing to every corner of the earth. I could improve the farming and theagriculture of the whole human race. But also, and especially, I wantto have a bureau for ocean weather, to help the ships."
"Ah," said the gull, "for land weather I wouldn't be much help to you.But when it comes to the oceans, I know a bird who can tell you moreabout sea weather than any bureau ever knew."
"Oh," said the Doctor, "who is that?"
"We call him One Eye," said the gull. "He's an old, old albatross.Nobody knows how old. He lost an eye fighting with a fish eagle over aflounder. But he's the most marvelous weather prophet that ever lived.All sea birds have the greatest respect for his opinions. He has neverbeen known to make a mistake."
"Indeed?" said the Doctor. "I would like very much to meet him."
"I'll get him for you," said the gull. "His home is not very far fromhere--out on a rock off the Angola coast. He lives there because theshellfish are so plentiful on the rock and he's too feeble--with hisbad sight--to catch the other kinds of livelier fish. It's a sort ofdull life for his old age, after all the great traveling he has done.He'll be no end pleased to know you want his help. I'll go and tell himright away."
"That will be splendid," said the Doctor. "I think your friend shouldbe very helpful to us."
So the gull, after thanking the Doctor and Dab-Dab for a very excellentluncheon, took a couple of postcards which were going to Angola andflew off to get One Eye, the albatross.
Later in the afternoon the gull returned and with him came the greatOne Eye, oldest of bird weather prophets.
The Doctor said afterward that he had never seen a bird who remindedhim so much of a sailor. He had the rolling, straddling walk of aseafaring man; he smelt strongly of fish; and whenever he spoke of theweather he had an odd trick of squinting up at the sky with his oneeye, the way old sailors often do.
He agreed with the Doctor that the idea of a bird weather bureau wasquite a possible thing and would lead to much better weather reportsthan had so far been possible. Then for a whole hour and a half he gavethe Doctor a lecture on winds. Every word of this John Dolittle wrotedown in a notebook.
Now the wind is the chief thing that changes the weather. And if,for instance, you know that it is raining in the Channel Islands attea-time on a Thursday--and there's a northeast wind blowing--you canbe pretty sure that the rain will reach England some time Thursdaynight.
The next thing that the Doctor did was to write to all the branchpostmasters and have them arrange exactly with the different kindsof birds a time for them to start their yearly migrations--not justthe second week in November, or anything like that--but an exact dayand hour. Then by knowing how fast each kind of bird flies, he couldcalculate almost to a minute what time they should arrive at theirdestination. And if they were late in arriving, then he would know thatbad weather had delayed them on the way or that they had put off theirstarting till storms died down.
The Doctor, the gull, One Eye, Dab-Dab, Cheapside, Speedy-the-Skimmerand Too-Too the mathematician put their heads together and discussedfar into the night, working out a whole lot more arrangements andparticulars for running a good weather bureau. And a few weeks latera second brand new notice board appeared on the walls of the Doctor'spost office, beside the one for Outgoing and Incoming Mails.
The new notice board was marked at the top _Weather Reports_, and wouldread something like this:
    _The Green Herons were one day, three hours and nine minutes late    in their arrival at Cape Horn from the Sandwich Islands. Wind    coming south-southeast. Blustery weather can be expected along the    west coast of Chili and light gales in the Antarctic Sea._
And then the land birds, particularly those that live on berries, werevery helpful to the Doctor in telling him by letter if the Winter wasgoing to be a hard one or not in their particular country. And he usedto write to farmers all over the world, advising them whether theycould expect a sharp frost, a wet Spring or a dry Summer--which, ofcourse, helped them in their farming tremendously.
And then the Fantippans, who so far had been very timid about goingfar out to sea on account of storms, now that they had a good weatherbureau and knew what weather to expect, began building largersailboats, instead of their little frail canoes. And they became whatis called a mercantile nation, traded up and down the shores of WestAfrica, and even went as far south as the Cape of Good Hope and enteredthe Indian Ocean to traffic in goods with people of foreign lands.
This made the kingdom of Fantippo much richer and more important thanit had been before, of course. And a large grant of money was given bythe King to the Foreign Mails post office, which was used by the Doctorin making the houseboat better and bigger.
And soon the No-Man's-Land Weather Bureau began to get known abroad.The farmers in England, who had received such good weather reports byletter from the Doctor, went up to London and told the government thattheir own reports were no good, that a certain John Dolittle, M.D., waswriting them much better reports from some place in Africa.
And the government got quite worked up about it. And they sent theRoyal Meteorologist, an old gray-haired weather man, down to Fantippoto see how the Doctor was doing it.
John Dolittle saw him one day, snooping around the post office, lookingat the notice boards and trying to find out things. But he found outnothing. And when he got back to England he said to the government:
"He hasn't any new instruments at all. The man's a fake. All he hasdown there is an old barge and a whole lot of messy birds flyingaround."



_CHAPTER VII_
TEACHING BY MAIL

The educational side of the Doctor's post office was a very importantone and it grew all the time. As he had said to the Skimmer at thebeginning, as soon as the birds and animals realized the helpfulness ofhaving a post office of their own they used it more and more.
And, of course, as Speedy had foretold, they wrote most of theirletters to the Doctor. Soon the poor man was swamped with mail, askingfor medical advice. The Esquimaux sleigh dogs wrote all the way fromthe Arctic Continent to know what they should do about their hairfalling out. Hair--which was all the poor creatures had to keep themwarm against the Polar winds--was, of course, very important to them.And John Dolittle spent a whole Saturday and Sunday experimenting withhair tonics on Jip to find a way to cure their trouble. Jip was verypatient about it, knowing that the Doctor was doing it for the goodof his fellow dogs. And he did not grumble--although he did mentionto Dab-Dab that he felt like a chemist's shop from all the differenthair oils the Doctor had used on him. He said they ruined his keen noseentirely for two weeks, so he couldn't smell straight.
And besides the letters asking for medical advice, the Doctor got allsorts of requests from animals all over the world for informationabout food for their babies, nesting materials and a thousand otherthings. In their new thirst for education the animals asked all mannerof questions, some of which neither the Doctor nor anybody elsecould answer: What were the stars made of? Why did the tide rise andfall--and could it be stopped?
Then, in order to deal with this wide demand for information which hadbeen brought about by his post office, John Dolittle started, for thefirst time in history, courses by correspondence for animals.
And he had printed forms made, called "Things a Young Rabbit ShouldKnow," "The Care of Feet in Frosty Weather," etc., etc. These he sentout by mail in thousands.
And then because so many letters were written him about good mannersand proper behavior, he wrote a "Book of Etiquette for Animals." It isstill a very famous work, though copies of it are rare now. But when hewrote it the Doctor printed a first edition of fifty thousand copiesand sent them all out by mail in one week. It was at this time, too,that he wrote and circulated another very well-known book of his called"One-Act Plays for Penguins."
But, alas! instead of making the number of letters he had to answerless, the Doctor found that by sending out books of information heincreased a hundredfold the already enormous mail he had to attend to.
This is a letter he received from a pig in Patagonia:
    "Dear Doctor--I have read your 'Book of Etiquette for Animals' and    liked it very much. I am shortly to be married. Would it be proper    for me to ask the guests to bring turnips to my wedding, instead    of flowers?
    "In introducing one well-bred pig to another should you say 'Miss    Virginia Ham, "_meet_" Mr. Frank Footer,' or 'Get acquainted?'
    "Yours truly,
    "BERTHA BACON.
    "P. S.--I have always worn my engagement ring in my nose. Is this    the right place?"
And the Doctor wrote back:
    "Dear Bertha--In introducing one pig to another I would avoid using    the word '_meet_.' 'Get acquainted' is quite all right. Remember    that the object of all etiquette and manners should be to make    people comfortable--not uncomfortable.
    "I think turnips at a wedding quite proper. You might ask the    guests to leave the tops on. They will then look more like a    bouquet.
    "Sincerely yours,
    "JOHN DOLITTLE."



PART III



_CHAPTER I_
THE ANIMALS' MAGAZINE

The next thing I must tell you about is the Prize Story Competition:The fame of the Puddleby fireside-circle, where the Doctor had amusedhis pets with so many interesting tales, had become quite a famousinstitution. Too-Too had gossiped about it; Gub-Gub, Jip and the whitemouse had boasted of it. (You see, they were always proud that theycould say they were part of the great man's regular household.) Andbefore long, through this new post office of their own, creatures allover the world were speaking of it and discussing it by letter. Nextthing, the Doctor began to receive requests for stories by mail. He hadbecome equally famous as an animal doctor, an animal educator and ananimal author.
From the Far North letters came in by the dozen from polar bears andwalruses and foxes asking that he send them some light entertainingreading as well as his medical pamphlets and books of etiquette.The winter nights (weeks and weeks long up there) grew frightfullymonotonous, they said, after their own supply of stories had runout--because you couldn't possibly sleep all the time and somethinghad to be done for amusement on the lonely ice-floes and in the densand lairs beneath the blizzard-swept snow. For some time the Doctorwas kept so busy with more serious things that he was unable to attendto it. But he kept it in mind until he should be able to think out thebest way of dealing with the problem.
Now his pets, after the post office work got sort of settled andregular, often found it somewhat hard to amuse themselves in theevenings. One night they were all sitting around on the veranda of thehouseboat wondering what game they could play when Jip suddenly said:
"I know what we can do--let's get the Doctor to tell us a story."
"Oh, you've heard all my stories," said the Doctor. "Why don't you play_Hunt-the-Slipper_?"
"The houseboat isn't big enough," said Dab-Dab. "Last time we played itGub-Gub got stuck by the pushmi-pullyu's horns. You've got plenty ofstories. Tell us one, Doctor--just a short one."
"Well, but what shall I tell you a story about?" asked John Dolittle.
"About a turnip field," said Gub-Gub.
"No, that won't do," said Jip. "Doctor, why don't you do what you didsometimes by the fire in Puddleby--turn your pockets out upon the tabletill you come to something that reminds you of a story--you remember?"
"All right," said the Doctor. "But----"
And then an idea came to him.
"Look here," he said: "You know I've been asked for stories by mail.The creatures around the North Pole wanted some light reading for thelong winter nights. I'm going to start an animals' magazine for them.I'm calling it _The Arctic Monthly_. It will be sent by mail and bedistributed by the Nova Zembla branch office. So far, so good. Butthe great problem is how to get sufficient stories and pictures andarticles and things to fill a monthly magazine--no easy matter. Nowlisten, if I tell you animals a story to-night, you'll have to dosomething to help me with my new magazine. Every night when you wantto amuse yourselves we'll take it in turns to tell a story. That willgive us seven stories right away. There will be only one story printedeach month--the rest of the magazine will be news of the day, a medicaladvice column, a babies' and mothers' page and odds and ends. Thenwe'll have a Prize Story Competition. The readers shall judge which isthe best; and when they write to us here and tell us, we'll give theprize to the winner. What do you say?"
"What a splendid idea!" cried Gub-Gub. "I'll tell my story to-morrownight. I know a good one. Now go ahead, Doctor."
Then John Dolittle started turning his trousers pockets out onto thetable to try and find something that reminded him of a story. It wascertainly a wonderful collection of objects that he brought forth.There were pieces of string and pieces of wire, stub ends of pencils,pocket-knives with the blades broken, coat buttons, boot buttons, amagnifying glass, a compass and a corkscrew.
"There doesn't seem to be anything very hopeful there," said the Doctor.
"Try in your waistcoat pockets," said Too-Too. "They were always themost interesting. You haven't turned them out since you left Puddleby.There must be lots in them."
So the Doctor turned out his waistcoat pockets. These brought forthtwo watches (one that went and one that didn't), a measuring tape, apiece of cobbler's wax, a penny with a hole through it and a clinicalthermometer.
"What's that?" asked Gub-Gub, pointing to the thermometer.
"That's for taking people's temperature with," said the Doctor. "Oh,that reminds me----"
"Of a story?" cried Too-Too.
"I knew it would," said Jip. "A thing like that must have a story toit. What's the name of the story, Doctor?"
"Well," said the Doctor, settling himself back in his chair, "I thinkI'll call this story 'The Invalids' Strike.'"
"What's a strike?" asked Gub-Gub.
"And what on earth is an invalid?" cried the pushmi-pullyu.
"A strike," said the Doctor, "is when people stop doing their ownparticular work in order to get somebody else to give them what theywant. And an invalid--well, an invalid is a person who is always--er,more or less--ill."
"But what kind of work is invalids' work?" asked the white mouse.
"Their work is--er, staying--ill," said the Doctor. "Stop askingquestions or I'll never get this story started."
"Wait a minute," said Gub-Gub. "My foot's gone to sleep."
"Oh, bother your feet!" cried Dab-Dab. "Let the Doctor get on with hisstory."
"Is it a good story?" asked Gub-Gub.
"Well," said the Doctor, "I'll tell it, and then you can decide foryourself. Stop fidgeting, now, and let me begin. It's getting late."



_CHAPTER II_
THE DOCTOR'S STORY

As soon as the Doctor had lit his pipe and got it well going he began:
"Many years ago, at the time I bought this thermometer, I was a veryyoung doctor, full of hope, just starting out in business. I fanciedmyself a very good doctor, but I found that the rest of the world didnot seem to think so. And for many months after I began I did not geta single patient. I had no one to try my new thermometer on. I triedit on myself quite often. But I was always so frightfully healthy Inever had any temperature anyway. I tried to catch a cold. I didn'treally want a cold, you understand, but I did want to make sure that mynew thermometer worked. But I couldn't even catch a cold. I was verysad--healthy but sad.
"Well, about this time I met another young doctor who was in the samefix as myself--having no patients. Said he to me: 'I'll tell you whatwe'll do, let's start a sanitarium.'"
"What's a sanitarium?" asked Gub-Gub.
"A sanitarium," said the Doctor, "is a sort of mixture between ahospital and a hotel--where people stay who are invalids.... Well, Iagreed to this idea. Then I and my young friend--his name was Phipps,Dr. Cornelius Q. Phipps--took a beautiful place way off in the country,and we furnished it with wheel chairs and hot-water bottles and eartrumpets and the things that invalids like. And very soon patientscame to us in hundreds and our sanitarium was quite full up and my newthermometer was kept very busy. Of course, we made a lot of money,because all these people paid us well. And Phipps was very happy.
"But I was not so happy. I had noticed a peculiar thing: none of theinvalids ever seemed to get well and go away. And finally I spoke ofthis to Phipps.
"'My dear Dolittle,' he answered, '_go away_?--of course not! We don'twant them to go away. We want them to stay here, so they'll keep onpaying us.'
"'Phipps,' I said, 'I don't think that's honest. I became a doctor tocure people--not to pamper them.'
"Well, on this point we fell out and quarreled. I got very angry andtold him I would not be his partner any longer--that I would packup and go the following day. As I left his room, still very angry,I passed one of the invalids in his wheel chair. It was Sir TimothyQuisby, our most important and expensive patient. He asked me, as Ipassed, to take his temperature, as he thought he had a new fever. Now,I had never been able to find anything wrong with Sir Timothy and haddecided that being an invalid was a sort of hobby with him. So, still,very angry, instead of taking his temperature, I said quite rudely:'Oh, go to the Dickens!'
"Sir Timothy was furious. And, calling for Dr. Phipps, he demanded thatI apologize. I said I wouldn't. Then Sir Timothy told Phipps that if Ididn't he would start an invalids' strike. Phipps got terribly worriedand implored me to apologize to this very special patient. I stillrefused.
"Then a peculiar thing happened. Sir Timothy, who had always so farseemed too weak to walk, got right out of his wheel chair and, wavinghis ear trumpet wildly, ran around all over the sanitarium, makingspeeches to the other invalids, saying how shamefully he had beentreated and calling on them to strike for their rights.
"And they did strike--and no mistake. That night at dinner they refusedto take their medicine--either before or after meals. Dr. Phipps arguedwith them, prayed them, implored them to behave like proper invalidsand carry out their doctors' orders. But they wouldn't listen to him.They ate all the things they had been forbidden to eat, and afterdinner those who had been ordered to go for a walk stayed at home, andthose who had been ordered to stay quiet went outside and ran up anddown the street. They finished the evening by having a pillow fightwith their hot-water bottles, when they should have been in bed. Thenext morning they all packed their own trunks and left. And that wasthe end of _our_ sanitarium.
"But the most peculiar thing of all was this: I found out afterwardthat every single one of those patients had got well! Getting out oftheir wheel chairs and going on strike had done them so much good theystopped being invalids altogether. As a sanitarium doctor, I suppose Iwas not a success--still, I don't know. Certainly I cured a great manymore patients by going _out_ of the sanitarium business than Phippsever did by going into it."



_CHAPTER III_
GUB-GUB'S STORY

The next night, when they were again seated around the veranda aftersupper, the Doctor asked: "Now, who's going to tell us a storyto-night? Didn't Gub-Gub say he had one for us?"
"Oh, don't let him tell one, Doctor," said Jip. "It's sure to bestupid."
"He isn't old enough to tell a good story," said Dab-Dab. "He hasn'thad any experience."
"His only interest in life is food, anyway," said Too-Too. "Let someoneelse tell a story."
"No, now wait a minute," cried the Doctor. "Don't all be jumping on himthis way. We were all young once. Let him tell his story. He may winthe prize. Who knows? Come along, Gub-Gub. Tell us your story. What'sthe name of it?"
Gub-Gub fidgeted his feet, blushed up to the ears, and finally said:
"This is a kind of a crazy story. But it's a good one. It's--er--er--aPiggish Fairy Tale. It's called 'The Magic Cucumber.'"
"Gosh!" growled Jip.
"More food!" murmured Too-Too. "What did I tell you?"
"Tee-hee-hee!" tittered the white mouse.
"Go on, Gub-Gub," said the Doctor. "Don't take any notice of them. I'mlistening."
"Once upon a time," Gub-Gub began, "a small pig went out into theforest with his father to dig for truffles. The father pig was a veryclever truffle digger, and just by smelling the ground he could tellwith great sureness the places where truffles were to be found. Well,this day they came upon a place beneath some big oak trees and theystarted digging. Presently, after the father pig had dug up an enormoustruffle and they were both eating it, they heard, to their greatastonishment, the sound of voices coming from the hole out of whichthey had dug the truffle.
"The father pig hurried away with his child because he did not likemagic. But that night the baby pig, when his mother and father werefast asleep, crept out of his sty and went off into the woods. Hewanted to find out the mystery of those voices coming from under theground.
"So, reaching the hole where his father had dug up the truffle, he setto work digging for himself. He had not dug very long when the earthcaved right in underneath him and he felt himself falling and fallingand falling. At last he came to a stop, upside down in the middle of adining table. The table was all set for dinner--and he had fallen intothe soup. He looked about him and saw seated around the table many tinylittle men, none of them more than half as big as himself and all adark green in color.
"'Where am I?' asked the baby pig.
"'You're in the soup,' said the little men.
"The baby pig was at first terribly frightened. But when he saw howsmall were the men around him his fear left him. And before he got outof the soup tureen on the table he drank up all the soup. He then askedthe little men who they might be. And they said:
"'We are _The Cook Goblins_. We live under the ground and we spend halfour time inventing new things to eat and the other half in eating them.The noise you heard coming out of the hole was us singing our foodhymns. We always sing food hymns whenever we are preparing particularlyfine dishes.'
"'Good!' said the pig. 'I've come to the right place. Let us go on withthe dinner.'
"But just as they were about to begin on the fish (the soup was alreadygone, you see), there was a great noise outside the dining hall andin rushed another lot of little men, a bright red in color. Thesewere _The Toadstool Sprites_, ancient enemies of the Cook Goblins.A tremendous fight began, one side using toothpicks for spears andthe other using nut crackers for clubs. The pig took the side of hisfriends the Cook Goblins, and, being as big as any two of the enemy puttogether, he soon had the Toadstool Sprites running for their lives.
"When the fight was over and the dining hall cleared the Cook Goblinswere very grateful to the baby pig for his valuable assistance. Theycalled him a conquering hero and, crowning him with a wreath ofparsley, they invited him to the seat of honor at the dining table andwent on with the meal.
"Never had the baby pig enjoyed a meal so much in all his life as hedid that one. He found that the Cook Goblins, as well as inventingnew and marvelously tasty dishes, had also thought out a lot of newthings in the way of table furnishings. For instance, they served pincushions with the fish. These were to stick your fishbones in, insteadof leaving them to clutter up your plate. Pudding-fans were anotherof their novelties--fans for cooling off your pudding with, insteadof blowing on it. Then they had cocoa-skin clothes lines--little toyclothes lines to hang the skin off your cocoa on, neatly. (You knowwhat a nasty mess it makes draped over the rim of your cup.) And whenthe fruit came on, tennis racquets were handed around also. And ifanyone at the other end of the table asked you for an apple, instead ofgoing to all the work of handing down a heavy bowl of fruit, you justtook an apple and served it at him like a tennis ball, and he wouldcatch it at the other end of the table on the point of a fork.
"These things added a good deal of jolliness to the meal and some ofthem were very clever inventions. Why, they even had a speaking tubefor things you are not allowed to mention at table."
"A speaking tube!" the white mouse interrupted. "How was it used? Idon't understand."
"Well," said Gub-Gub, "you know how people are always telling you 'Youmustn't speak about those things at table!' Well, the Cook Goblins hada speaking tube in the wall which led, at the other end, to the openair outside. And whenever you wanted to talk about any of the thingsforbidden at table you left the table and went and said it into thespeaking tube; then you came back to your seat. It was a very greatinvention.... Well, as I was saying, the baby pig enjoyed himselftremendously. And when the meal was over he said he must be going backbecause he wanted to get into the sty before his mother and fathershould be awake.
"The Cook Goblins were sorry to see him go. And as a farewell presentin return for the help he had given them against their enemies, theygave him the Magic Cucumber. Now, this cucumber, if you cut off eventhe smallest part of it and planted it, would grow immediately into awhole field of any fruit or vegetable you wished. All you had to do wasto say the name of the vegetable you wanted. The baby pig thanked theCook Goblins, kissed them all goodby and went home.
"He found his mother and father still asleep when he got back. So aftercarefully hiding his Magic Cucumber under the floor of the cow barn, hecrept into the sty and went fast asleep.
"Now, it happened that a few days later a neighboring king made warupon the king that owned the country where the pig family lived. Thingswent very badly for the pigs' king, and, seeing that the enemy wereclose at hand, he gave orders that all cattle and farm animals andpeople should be brought inside the castle walls. The pig family wasalso driven into the castle grounds. But before he left, the baby pigwent and bit off a piece of his Magic Cucumber and took it along withhim.
"Soon after, the enemy's army closed about the castle and tried tostorm it. Then for many weeks they remained there, knowing that sooneror later the king and the people in the castle would run short of foodand have to give in.
"Now, it happened that the queen had noticed the baby pig within thecastle grounds and, being a princess of Irish blood, she took a greatfancy to him and had a piece of green ribbon tied about his neck andmade a regular pet of him, much to the disgust of her husband, the king.
"Well, the fourth week after the enemy came the food in the castle wasall gone and the king gave orders that the pigs must be eaten. Thequeen raised a great outcry and begged that her pet should be spared.But the king was very firm.
"'My soldiers are starving,' said he. 'Your pet, Madam, must be turnedinto sausages.'
"Then the baby pig saw that the time to use the goblins' magic gifthad come. And, rushing out into the castle garden, he dug a hole andplanted his piece of cucumber right in the middle of the king's bestrosebed.
"'Parsnips!' he grunted, as he filled in the hole. 'May they blossomacres wide!'
"And, sure enough, he had hardly said the words before all over theking's garden parsnips began springing up thick and fast. Even thegravel walks were covered with them.
"Then the king and his army had plenty of food and, growing strong onthe nutritious parsnips, they sallied forth from the castle, smote theenemy, hip and thigh, and put them to flight.
"And the queen was allowed to keep her pet pig, which rejoiced her kindheart greatly--she being of Irish blood royal. And he became a greathero at the court and was given a sty studded with jewels in the centreof the castle garden--on the very spot where he had planted the MagicCucumber. And they all lived happily ever after. And that is the end ofthe Piggish Fairy Tale."



_CHAPTER IV_
DAB-DAB'S STORY

The animals now began to look forward to the evening story-telling--theway people do to regular habits that are pleasant. And for the nextnight they arranged among themselves before-hand that it should beDab-Dab's turn to tell a tale.
After they were all seated on the veranda the housekeeper preened herfeathers and in a very dignified voice began:
"On the outskirts of Puddleby-on-the-Marsh there lives a farmer whoswears to this day that his cat can understand every word he says. Itisn't true, but both the farmer and his wife think it is. And I am nowgoing to tell you how they came to get that idea.
"Once when the Doctor was away in Scotland, looking for fossils, heleft me behind to take charge of the house. The old horse in the stablecomplained to me one night that the rats were eating up all his corn.While I was walking around the stable, trying to think out what Ishould do about it I spied an enormous white Persian cat stalking aboutthe premises. Now, I myself have no love for cats. For one thing, theyeat ducklings, and for another, they always seem to me sort of sneakythings. So I ordered this one to get off the Doctor's property. Tomy surprise, she behaved very politely--said she didn't know she wastrespassing and turned to leave. Then I felt sort of guilty, knowingthe Doctor liked to be hospitable to every kind of animal, and, afterall, the cat wasn't doing any harm there. So I overtook her and toldher that if she didn't kill anything on the place she could come and goas she pleased.
"Well, we got chatting, the way people do, and I found out that the catlived at a farmer's house about a quarter of a mile down the OxenthorpeRoad. Then I walked part of the way home with her, still chatting, andI found that she was a very agreeable individual. I told her about therats in the stable and the difficulty I had in making them behave,because the Doctor wouldn't allow any one to kill them. And she said,if I wished, she'd sleep in the stable a few nights and the rats wouldprobably leave as soon as they smelled her around.
"This she did, and the results were excellent. The rats departed ina body and the old horse's corn-bin was left undisturbed. Then shedisappeared and for several nights I saw nothing of her. So one eveningI thought it would be only decent of me to call at her farm down theOxenthorpe Road, to thank her.
"I went to her farm and found her in the farm-yard. I thanked her forwhat she had done and asked her why she hadn't been around to my placeof late.
"'I've just had kittens,' she said. 'Six--and I haven't been able toleave them a moment. They are in the farmer's parlor now. Come in andI'll show them to you.'
"So in we went. And on the parlor floor, in a round basket, there weresix of the prettiest kittens you ever saw. While we were looking atthem we heard the farmer and his wife coming downstairs. So, thinkingthey might not like to have a duck in the parlor (some folks are sosnobbish and pernickety, you know--not like the Doctor), I hid myselfbehind a closet door just as the farmer and his wife came into the room.
"They leaned over the basket of kittens, stroked the white cat andstarted talking. Now, the cat didn't understand what they said, ofcourse. But I, being round the Doctor so much and discussing with himthe differences between duck grammar and people's grammar, understoodevery word they uttered.
"And this is what I heard the farmer say to his wife: 'We'll keep theblack and white kitten, Liza. I'll drown the other five to-morrowmorning. Won't never do to have all them cats running around theplace.' His grammar was atrocious.
"As soon as they had gone I came out of the closet and I said to thewhite cat: 'I shall expect you to bring up these kittens to leaveducklings alone. Now listen: To-night, after the farmer and his wifeare in bed, take all your kittens _except the black and white one_, andhide them in the attic. The farmer means to drown them and is going tokeep only one.'
"The cat did as I bade her. And next morning, when the farmer cameto take the kittens away, he found only the black and white one--theone he meant to keep. He could not understand it. Some weeks later,however, when the farmer's wife was Spring cleaning, she came upon theothers in the attic, where the mother cat had hidden them and nursedthem secretly. But they were now grown big enough to escape through thewindow and they went off to find new homes for themselves.
"And that is why to this day that farmer and his wife swear their catcan understand English, because, they say, she must have heard themwhen they were talking over the basket. And whenever she's in theroom and they are gossiping about the neighbors, they always speak inwhispers, lest she overhear. But between you and me, she doesn't reallyunderstand a single word they say."



_CHAPTER V_
THE WHITE MOUSE'S STORY

"Who's turn is it to give us a story now?" asked the Doctor, when thesupper things were cleared away the following evening.
"I think the white mouse ought to tell us one," said Jip.
"Very well," said the white mouse. "I will tell you one of the days ofmy youth. The Doctor knows this story, but the rest of you have neverheard it."
And smoothing back his white whiskers and curling his pink tail snuglyabout his small, sleek body, he blinked his eyes twice and began:
"When I was born I was one of seven twins. But all my brothers andsisters were ordinary mouse color and I alone out of the whole familywas white. My color worried my mother and father a great deal. Theysaid I was so conspicuous and would certainly, as soon as I left thenest, get caught by the first owl or cat that came along.
"We were city folk, my family were--and proud of it. We lived underthe floor of a miller's shop. Across the street from our place was abutcher's shop, and next door to us was a dyer's--where they dyed clothdifferent colors before it went to the tailor's to be made into suits.
"Now, when we children grew up big enough to go off for ourselves ourparents gave us all sorts of careful instructions about escaping catsand ferrets and weasels and dogs. But over poor me they shook theirheads. They really felt that there was not much hope of my leading apeaceful life with white fur that could be seen a mile off.
"Well, they were quite right. My color got me into trouble the firstweek that I set out to seek my fortune--but not in the way they thoughtit would. The son of the miller who owned the shop where we lived foundme one morning in a bin of oats.
"'Ah, hah!' he cried. 'A white mouse! The very thing I've been wanting!'
"And he caught me in a fishing net and put me in a cage, to keep as apet.
"I was very sad at first. But after a while I got sort of used to thelife. The boy--he was only eight years old--treated me kindly and fedme regularly each day. I grew almost fond of the funny, snub-nosed ladand became so tame that he would let me out of my cage sometimes and Iwould run up and down his sleeve. But I never got a chance to escape.
"After some months I began to grow weary of the silly life I wasleading. And then, too, the wild mice were so mean to me. They usedto come around at night and point at me through the wire of my cage,saying:
"'Look at the tame white mouse! Tee-hee-hee! A plaything for children!Good little mousey! Come and have 'ims facey washed!' The stupid littleidiots!
"Well, finally I set to work and thought out a clever plan of escape. Ignawed a hole through the wooden floor of my cage and kept it coveredwith straw, so the boy couldn't see it. And one night when I heardhim safely snoring--he always kept my cage at the head of his bed--Islipped out of the hole and got away.
"I had many adventures with cats. It was winter time and the snow laythick upon the ground. I started off to explore the world, rejoicing inmy liberty. Going around to the back of the house, I passed from themiller's yard into the dyer's yard, next door. In the yard was a dyeingshed and I noticed two owls sitting on the top of it in the moonlight.
"Entering the shed, I met a rat, very old and very thin. Said he to me:
"'I am the oldest rat in the town and I know a great deal. But, tellme, why do you come here into the dyeing shed?'
"'I was looking for food,' I said.
"The old rat laughed a cracked and quavering laugh, with no joy in itat all.
"'There's no food here,' he said, 'only dyes of different colors.' Andhe pointed to the big dye vats, all in a row, that towered in the halfdarkness above our heads.
"'Any food there was here I've eaten,' he went on sadly, 'and I darenot go out for more because the owls are waiting on the roof. They'dsee my dark body against the snow and I'd stand no chance of escape.I am nearly starved.' And he swayed weakly on his old feet. 'But nowyou've come, it's different. Some good fairy must have sent you to me.I've been sitting here for days and nights on end, hoping a white mousemight come along. With your white fur, you understand, the owls can'tsee you so well against the snow. That's what's called _protectivecoloration_. I know all about natural history--I'm very old, you see.That is why you managed to get in here without being caught. Go outnow, for pity's sake, and bring me the first food of any kind that youcan find. The owls by night and the cats by day have kept me shut inhere since the snow came without a bite to eat. You are only just intime to save my life.'
"So off I went across the moonlit snow and the blinking owls on theroof of the dyeing shed never spotted me. Against the whiteness I wasnearly invisible. I felt quite proud. At last my white fur was comingin handy.
"I found a garbage can and, picking out some bacon rinds, I carriedthem back to the starving rat. The old fellow was ever so grateful. Heate and ate--my whiskers, how he ate! Finally he said:
"'Ah! Now I feel better.'
"'You know,' said I, 'I have only just escaped from captivity. I waskept as a pet by a boy. So far being white has only been a greatinconvenience to me. The cats could see me so well life wasn't worthliving.'
"'Well, now, I'll tell you what we'll do,' said he, 'you come and livein this dyeing shed with me. It isn't a bad place--quite warm and snugunder the floors, and the foundations are simply riddled with holesand corridors and hiding places. And while the snow is here you can goout and get the food for both of us--because you can't be seen so wellagainst the snow. And when the Winter is over and the earth is blackagain _I_ will do the food hunting outside and _you_ can do the stayingat home. You see, this is a good place to live in in another way--thereis nothing for rats and mice to destroy here, so people don't botherabout you. Other places--like houses and food shops and mills--folksare always setting traps and sending ferrets after you. But no oneminds rats living in a dyeing shed, see? Foolish young rats and mice goand live where there's lots of food. But not for me! I'm a wise one, Iam.'
"Well, we agreed upon this arrangement and for a whole year I lived atthe dyer's with the old wise rat. And we lived high--no mistake! Not asoul ever bothered us. In the winter days I did the foraging and whenSummer came my old partner, who knew where to get the choicest foods intown, kept our larder stocked with the daintiest delicacies. Ah, many'sthe jolly meal I've had under the floor of the dye shed with that oldveteran, chuckling in whispers as we heard the dyers overhead mixingthe dyes in the great big vats and talking over the news of the town!
"But none of us are ever content for long, you know--foolish creaturesthat we are. And by the time the second Summer was coming I was longingto be a free mouse, to roam the world and all that sort of thing. Andthen, too, I wanted to get married. Maybe the Spring was getting intomy blood. So one night I said to the old rat:
"'Rat,' I said, 'I'm in love. All Winter, every night I went out togather fodder, I've been keeping company with a lady mouse--well-bredshe is, with elegant manners. I've a mind to settle down and have afamily of my own. Now, here comes the Summer again and I've got to stayshut up in this miserable shed on account of my beastly color.'
"The old rat gazed at me thoughtfully a moment and I knew that he wasgoing to say something particularly wise.
"'Young man,' says he at last, 'if you've a mind to go I reckon I can'tstop you--foolish young mad-cap though I think you. And how I'll evershift for myself after you've gone goodness only knows. But, seeing youhave been so useful to me this past year and more, I'll help you.'
"So saying, he takes me upstairs to where the dye vats stood. It wastwilight and the men were gone. But we could see the dim shapes of thebig vats towering above our heads. Then he takes a string that layupon the floor and, scaling up the middle vat, he lets the string downinside.
"'What's that for?' I asked.
"'That's for you to climb out by, after you've taken a bath. For you togo abroad in Summer with a coat like yours would mean certain death. SoI'm going to dye you black.'
"'Jumping Cheese!' I cried. '_Dye me black!_'
"'Just that,' says he. 'It's quite simple. Scale up that middle vatnow--on to the edge--and dive right in. Don't be afraid. There's astring there for you to climb out by.'
"Well, I was always adventurous by nature. And, plucking up my courage,I scrambled up the vat, on to the edge of it. It was awful dark and Icould just see the dye, glimmering murky and dim, far down inside.
"'Go ahead,' said the old rat. 'Don't be afraid--and be sure you dipyour head and all under.'
"Well, it took an awful lot of nerve to take that plunge. And if Ihadn't been in love I don't suppose I'd ever have done it. But I did--Idove right down into the dye.
"I thought I'd never come up again, and even when I did I nearlydrowned before I found the string in the dark and scrambled, gaspingfor breath, out of the vat.
"'Fine!' says the old rat. 'Now run around the shed a few times, so youwon't take a chill. And then go to bed and cover up. In the morningwhen it's light you'll find yourself very different.'
"Well--tears come to my eyes when I think of it--the next day, whenI woke up, expecting to find myself a smart, decent black, I foundinstead that I had dyed myself a bright and gaudy _blue_! That stupidold rat had made a mistake in the vats!"
The white mouse paused a moment in his story, as though overcome withemotion. Presently he went on:
"Never have I been so furious with anyone in my life as I was with thatold rat.
"'Look! _Look_ what you've done to me now!' I cried. 'It isn't even anavy blue. You've made me just hideous!'
"'I can't understand it,' he murmured. 'The middle vat _used_ to be theblack one, I know. They must have changed them. The blue one was alwaysthe one on the left.'
"'You're a stupid old duffer!' I said. And I left the dye shed in greatanger and never went back to it again.
"Well, if I had been conspicuous before, now I was a hundred timesmore so. Against the black earth, or the green grass, or the whitesnow, or brown floors my loud, sky-blue coat could be seen as plain asa pikestaff. The minute I got outside the shed a cat jumped for me.I gave her the slip and got out into the street. There some wretchedchildren spotted me and, calling to their friends that they had seena blue mouse, they hunted me along the gutter. At the corner of thestreet two dogs were fighting. They stopped their fight and joined thechase after me. And very soon I had the whole blessed town at my heels.It was awful. I didn't get any peace till after night had fallen, andby that time I was so exhausted with running I was ready to drop.
"About midnight I met the lady mouse with whom I was in love, beneath alamp-post. And, would you believe it? She wouldn't speak to me! Cut medead, she did.
"'It was for your sake I got myself into this beastly mess,' I said,as she stalked by me with her nose in the air. 'You're an ungratefulwoman, that's what you are.'
"'Oh, la, la, la!' said she, smirking. 'You wouldn't expect anyself-respecting person to keep company with a _blue_ mouse, would you?'
"Later, when I was trying to find a place to sleep, all the mice I met,wherever there was any light at all, made fun of me and pointed atme and jeered. I was nearly in tears. Then I went down to the river,hoping I might wash the dye off and so get white again. That, at least,would be better than the way I was now. But I washed and I swam and Irinsed, all to no purpose. Water made no impression on me.
"So there I sat, shivering on the river bank, in the depths of despair.And presently I saw the sky in the east growing pale and I knew thatmorning was coming. Daylight! That for me meant more hunting andrunning and jeering, as soon as the sun should show my ridiculous color.
"And then I came to a very sad decision--probably the saddest decisionthat a free mouse ever made. Rather than be hunted and jeered at anymore I decided that I would sooner be back in a cage, a pet mouse! Yes,there at least I was well treated and well fed by the snub-nosed millerlad. I would go back and be a captive mouse. Was I not spurned by mylady love and jeered at by my friends? Very well then, I would turn myback upon the world and go into captivity. And then my lady love wouldbe sorry--too late!
"So, picking myself up wearily, I started off for the miller's shop.On the threshold I paused a moment. It was a terrible step I was aboutto take. I gazed miserably down the street, thinking upon the hardnessof life and the sadness of love, and there, coming toward me, with abandage around his tail, was my own brother!
"As he took a seat beside me on the doorstep I burst into tears andtold him all that had happened to me since we left our parents' home.
"'I am terribly sorry for your bad luck,' said he when I had ended.'But I'm glad I caught you before you went back into captivity. BecauseI think I can guide you to a way out of your troubles.'
"'What way is there?' I said. 'For me life is over!'
"'Go and see the Doctor,' said my brother.
"'What doctor?'" I asked.
"'There _is_ only one Doctor,' he answered. 'You don't mean to sayyou've never _heard_ of him!'
"And then he told me all about Doctor Dolittle. This was around thetime when the Doctor first began to be famous among the animals. ButI, living alone with the old rat at the dyer's shed, had not heard thenews.
"'I've just come from the Doctor's office,' said my brother. 'I got mytail caught in a trap and he bandaged it up for me. He's a marvelousman--kind and honest. And he talks animals' language. Go to him andI'm sure he'll know some way to clean blue dye off a mouse. He knowseverything.'
"So that is how I first came to John Dolittle's house in Puddleby.The Doctor, when I told my troubles to him, took a very small pair ofscissors and cut off all my fur, so I was as bald and as pink as a pig.Then he rubbed me with some special hair restorer for mice--a patentinvention of his own. And very soon I grew a brand new coat of fur, aswhite as snow!
"And then, hearing what difficulty I had had keeping away from cats,the Doctor gave me a home in his own house--in his own piano, in fact.And no mouse could wish for more than that. He even offered to send forthe lady I was in love with, who would, no doubt, think differentlyabout me, now that I was white again. But I said:
"'No, Doctor. Let her be. I'm through with women for good.'"



_CHAPTER VI_
JIP'S STORY

The next night Jip was called upon for a story. And after thinking amoment he said: "All right, I'll tell you the story of 'The Beggar'sDog.'" And the animals all settled down to listen attentively, becauseJip had often told them stories before and they liked his way oftelling them.
"Some time ago," Jip began, "I knew a dog who was a beggar's dog. Wemet by chance one day, when a butcher's cart had an accident and gotupset. The butcher's boy who was driving the cart was a stupid boy whomall the dogs of that town heartily disliked. So when his cart hit alamp-post and over-turned, spilling mutton chops and joints all overthe street, we dogs were quickly on the scene and ran off with all hismeat before he had time to pick himself up out of the gutter.
"It was on this occasion, as I said, that I fell in with the beggar'sdog. I found him bolting down the street beside me, with a choicesteak flapping merrily around his ears. Myself, I had pinched a stringof sausages and the beastly things kept getting tangled up in mylegs,--till he came to my rescue and showed me how to coil them upneatly so I could run with them without getting tripped.
"After that the beggar's dog and I became great friends. I found thathis master had only one leg and was very, very old.
"'He's most frightfully poor,' said my friend. 'And he's too old towork, you see--even if he had two legs to get around on. And now hehas taken to pavement art. You know what that is--you draw pictures onthe pavement in colored chalks and you write under them: "_All my ownwork._" And then you sit by the side of them, with your cap in yourhand, waiting for people to give you pennies.'
"'Oh, yes,' I said, 'I know. I've seen pavement artists before.'
"'Well,' said my friend, 'my beggar doesn't get any pennies. And Iknow the reason why: his pictures aren't good enough--not even forpavement art. Myself, I don't pretend to know much about drawing. Buthis pictures are just awful--_awful_. One kind old lady the other daystopped before our stand--wanting to encourage him, you know--and,pointing to one picture, she said, "_Oh, what a lovely tree!_" Thepicture was meant to be a lighthouse in the middle of the ocean, with astorm raging around it. That's the kind of an artist my man is. I don'tknow what to do about him.'
"'Well, look here,' I said, 'I have an idea. Since your man can't workfor himself, suppose you and I go into the bone-hiring business.'
"'What on earth is that?' he asked.
"'Well,' I said, 'people hire out bicycles and pianos for rent, don'tthey? So, why can't you and I rent out bones for dogs to chew? Theywon't be able to pay us in money of course, so we'll get them to bringus things, instead. Then the beggar can sell the things and get money.'
"'That's a good notion,' said he. 'Let's start to-morrow.'"
"So the following day we found an empty lot, where people used to dumprubbish, and dug an enormous hole, which was to be our bone shop. Thenwe went around the back doors of all the richest people's houses earlyin the morning and picked out the best bones from the garbage cans.We even snatched a few from other dogs who were tied to kennels andcouldn't run after us--rather a dirty trick, but we were working in agood cause and were not particular. Then we took all these bones andput them in the hole we had dug. By night we kept them covered up withearth, because we didn't want them stolen--and, besides, some dogsprefer their bones buried a few days before they chew them. It getsthem seasoned-like. And then by day we stood over our wares, callingout to all the dogs that passed by:
"'Bones for hire! Beef bones, ham bones, mutton bones, chicken bones!All juicy! Step up, gentlemen, and take your choice! BONES for hire!'
"Well, right from the start we did a roaring trade. All the dogs formiles around heard of us and came to hire bones. And we would chargethem according to the length of time they wanted to hire them. Forinstance, you could rent a good ham bone for one day for a candlestickor a hair brush; for three days for a violin or an umbrella. And if youwanted your bone for a whole week you had to bring us a suit of clothesin payment.
"Well, for a while our plan worked splendidly. The beggar sold thethings that we got in payment from the dogs and he had money to live on.
"But we never thought where the dogs might be getting all these thingsthey brought us. The truth is, we didn't bother very much, I'm afraid.Anyway at the end of our first week of brisk trade we noticed a greatmany people going through the streets as though they were looking forsomething. And presently these people, seeing our shop in the emptylot, gathered around us, talking to one another. And while they weretalking a retriever came up to me with a gold watch and chain in hismouth, which he wanted to exchange for a ham bone.
"Well, you should have seen the excitement among the people then! Theowner of the watch and chain was there and he raised a terrible row.And then it came out that these dogs had been taking things from theirmasters' homes to hire bones with. The people were dreadfully annoyed.They closed up our bone shop and put us out of business. But they neverdiscovered that the money we had made had gone to the beggar.
"Of course, we hadn't made enough to keep him in comfort for long andvery soon he had to become a pavement artist again and was as badly offas he had ever been--and the pictures he drew were worse, if anything,than before.
"Now it happened one day, when I was wandering around in the countryoutside the town, that I met a most conceited spaniel. He passed mewith his nose turned up in the air in such a cheeky manner that I saidto him, I said: 'What makes you so stuck up?'
"'My master has been ordered to paint the portrait of a prince,' hesaid, putting on no end of elegance.
"'Who is your master?' I said. 'Anybody would think you were going topaint the portrait yourself.'
"'My master is a very famous artist,' said he.
"'What's his name?' I asked.
"'George Morland,' said the spaniel.
"'George Morland!' I cried. 'Is he in these parts now?'
"'Yes,' said the spaniel. 'We are staying at _The Royal George_. Mymaster is painting some pictures of the country and next week he isgoing back to London to commence on the portrait of the prince.'
"Now, it happened that I had met this George Morland, who was, and isstill, perhaps the most famous painter of farm-life pictures the worldhas ever known. I am proud to be able to say that I knew him. He wasespecially good at painting horses in stables, pigs in stys, roostersand dogs hanging around kitchen doors, and things like that.
"So, without letting the spaniel see that I was following him, I wentafter him, to see where he was going.
"He led me to a lonely old farm out on the hills. And there, concealingmyself in some bushes, I watched the great Morland painting one of hisfamous farm scenes.
"Presently he laid down his paint brush and muttered to himself: 'Ineed a dog--by the watering trough there--to fill out the picture.I wonder if I could get that fool spaniel to lie still for fiveminutes.... Here, Spot, Spot! Come here!'
"His spaniel, Spot, came up to him. And George, leaving his paintingfor a moment, placed the spaniel beside the watering trough andflattened him out and told him to keep still. I could see that George'sidea was to have him look as though he were asleep in the sun. Georgesimply loved to paint animals asleep in the sun.
"Well, that blockhead of a spaniel never kept still one minute. First,he was snapping at the flies that bit his tail; then he was scratchinghis ear, then barking at the cat--never still. And, of course, Georgecouldn't paint him at all, and at last he got so angry he threw thepaint brush at him.
"Then an idea came to me--one of the best ideas I ever had. I leftthe bushes and came trotting up to George, wagging my tail. And how Ithrilled with pride as the great Morland recognized me! For, mind you,he had met me only once before--back in the autumn of 1802.
"'Why, it's Jip!' he cried. 'Good dog. Come here. You're the veryfellow I want.'
"Then while he gathered up the things he had thrown at the spanielhe went on talking to me--the way people do talk to dogs, you know.Of course, he didn't expect me to understand what he said, but Idid--every word.
"'I want you to come over here by the trough, Jip,' said he. 'Allyou've got to do is to keep still. You can go to sleep if you like. Butdon't move or fidget for ten minutes. Think you can do that?'
"And he led me over to the trough, where I lay down and kept perfectlystill while he painted me into the picture. That picture now hangsin the National Gallery. It's called _Evening on the Farm_. Hundredsof people go to see it every year. But none of them know that thesmart-looking dog sleeping beneath the watering trough is none otherthan myself--except the Doctor, whom I took in to see it one day whenwe were up in London, shopping.
"Well, now, as I told you, I had an idea in all this. I hoped thatif I did something for George Morland perhaps I could get him to dosomething for me. But, of course, with him not knowing dog talk it wasa bit difficult to make him understand. However, while he was packingup his painting things I disappeared for a while, just as though Iwas going away. Then I came rushing back to him in a great state ofexcitement, barking, trying to show him something was wrong and that Iwanted him to follow me.
"'What's the matter, Jip?' said he. 'House on fire or something?'
"Then I barked some more and ran a little way in the direction of thetown, looking back at him to show him I wanted him to come with me.
"'What ails the dog?' he murmured to himself. 'Can't be anybodydrowning, because there's no river near.... Oh, all right, Jip, I'llcome. Wait a second till I get these brushes cleaned.'
"Then I led him into the town. On the way there every once in a whilehe would say to himself: 'I wonder what can be the matter. Something'swrong, that's sure, or the dog wouldn't carry on so.'
"I took him down the main street of the town till we came to the placewhere the beggar had his pictures. And as soon as George saw thepictures he _knew_ what was wrong.
"'Heaven preserve us!' he cried. 'What a dreadful exhibition! No wonderthe dog was excited.'
"Well, it happened that as we came up the one-legged beggar, with hisown dog beside him, was at work on a new drawing. He was sitting on thepavement, making a picture on canvas with a piece of chalk of a catdrinking milk. Now, my idea was that the great Morland--who, no matterwhat people say about him, was always a most kind-hearted man--shouldmake some good pictures for the beggar to show, instead of the dreadfulmesses that he made himself. And my plan worked.
"'Man alive!' said George, pointing to the picture the beggar wasdoing, 'a cat's spine doesn't curve that way--here, give me the chalkand let me do it.'
"Then, rubbing out the whole picture, George Morland re-drew it in hisway. And it was so lifelike you could nearly hear the cat lapping upthe milk.
"'My! I wish I could draw that way,' said the beggar. 'And so quick andeasy you do it--like it was nothing at all.'
"'Well, it comes easy,' said George. 'Maybe there's not so much creditin it for that. But, tell me, do you make much money at this game?'
"'Awful little,' said the beggar. 'I've taken only twopence the wholeday. I suppose the truth is I don't draw good enough.'
"I watched Morland's face as the beggar said this. And the expressionthat came into it told me I had not brought the great man here in vain.
"'Look here,' he said to the beggar. 'Would you like me to re-drawall your pictures for you? Of course, those done on the pavementyou couldn't sell, but we can rub them out. And I've got some sparecanvases in my satchel here. Maybe you could sell a few. I can sellpictures in London any day in the week. But I've never been a pavementartist before. It would be rather a lark to see what happens.'
"Then Morland, all busy and excited, like a schoolboy, took thebeggar's chalk pictures from against the wall and, rubbing them out,did them over the way they should be done. He got so occupied withthis that he didn't notice that a whole crowd of people was gatheringaround, watching. His work was so fine that the people were spellboundwith the beauty of the cats and dogs and cows and horses that he drew.And they began asking one another in whispers who the stranger could bewho was doing the pavement artist's pictures for him.
"The crowd grew bigger and bigger. And presently some one among thepeople who had seen Morland's pictures before recognized the work ofthe great artist. And then whispers went through the crowd--'It'sMorland--the great Morland, himself.' And somebody went off and tolda picture dealer--that is, a man who buys and sells pictures--who hada shop in the High Street, that George Morland was drawing in themarket-place for a lame beggar.
"And the dealer came down. And the Mayor came down--and all the richfolk and poor folk. So, when the whole town was gathered around, thepeople began offering to buy these pictures, asking the beggar how muchhe wanted for them. The old duffer was going to sell them at sixpenceapiece, but Morland whispered to him:
"'Twenty guineas--don't sell a blessed one under twenty guineas. You'llget it.'
"And sure enough, the dealer and a few of the richer townsfolk boughtthe whole lot at twenty guineas apiece.
"And when I went home that night I felt I had done a good day's work.For my friend's master, the one-legged beggar, was now rich enough tolive in comfort for the rest of his life."



_CHAPTER VII_
TOO-TOO'S STORY

All the animals had now told a story except Too-Too, the owl, and thepushmi-pullyu. And the following night, a Friday, it was agreed thatthey should toss a coin (the Doctor's penny that had a hole through it)to see which of these two should tell a tale. If the penny came downheads it was to be the pushmi-pullyu, and if it came down tails it wasto be Too-Too's turn.
The Doctor span the penny and it came down tails.
"All right," said Too-Too. "Then that makes it my turn, I suppose. Iwill tell you a story of the time--the only time in my life--that Iwas taken for a fairy. Fancy me as a fairy!" chuckled the little roundowl. "Well, this is how it happened: One October day, toward evening,I was wandering through the woods. There was a wintry tang in the airand the small, furred animals were busy among the dry, rustly leaves,gathering nuts and seeds for food against the coming of snow. I was outafter shrew mice, myself--a delicacy I was extremely fond of at thattime--and while they were busy foraging they made easy hunting.
"In my travels through the woods I heard children's voices and thebarking of a dog. Usually I would have gone further into the forest,away from such sounds. But in my young days I was a curious bird and mycuriosity often led me into many adventures. So instead of flying away,I went toward the noises I heard, moving cautiously from tree to tree,so that I could see without being seen.
"Presently I came upon a children's picnic--several boys and girlshaving supper in a grove of oak trees. One boy, much larger than therest, was teasing a dog. And two other children, a small girl and asmall boy, were objecting to his cruelty and begging him to stop. Thebully wouldn't stop. And soon the small boy and girl set upon him withtheir fists and feet and gave him quite a fine drubbing--which greatlysurprised him. The dog then ran off home and presently the small boyand girl--I found out afterwards they were brother and sister--wanderedoff from the rest of the picnicking party to look for mushrooms.
"I had admired their spirit greatly in punishing a boy so much biggerthan they were. And when they wandered off by themselves, again out ofcuriosity, I followed them. Well, they traveled quite a distance forsuch small folk. And presently the sun set and darkness began to creepover the woods.
"Then the children thought to join their friends again and startedback. But, being poor woodsmen, they took the wrong direction. It grewdarker still, of course, as time went on, and soon the youngsters weretumbling and stumbling over roots they could not see and getting prettythoroughly lost and tired.
"All this time I was following them secretly and noiselessly overhead.At last the children sat down and the little girl said:
"'Willie, we're lost! Whatever shall we do? Night is coming on and I'm_so_ afraid of the dark.'
"'So am I,' said the boy. 'Ever since Aunt Emily told us that spookystory of the "Bogey in the Cup-board" I've been scared to death of thedark.'
"Well, you could have knocked me down with a feather. Of course, youmust realize that was the first time I had ever heard of any one'sbeing afraid of the dark. It sounds ridiculous enough to all of you, Isuppose, but to me, who had always preferred the cool, calm darknessto the glaring, vulgar daylight, it seemed then an almost unbelievablething that anyone could be afraid merely because the sun had gone tobed.
"Now, some people have an idea that bats and owls can see in the darkbecause we have some peculiar kind of eyes. It's not so. Peculiar earswe have--but not eyes. We can see in the dark because we practise it.It's all a matter of practice--the same as the piano or anything else.We get up when other people go to bed, and go to bed when other peopleget up, because we prefer the dark; and you'd be surprised how muchnicer it is when you get used to it. Of course, we owls are speciallytrained by our mothers and fathers to see on very dark nights when weare quite young. So it comes easier to us. But anybody can do it--to acertain extent--if they only practise.
"Well, to return to the children: There they were, all fussed andworried and scared, sitting on the ground, weeping and wondering whatthey could do. Then, remembering the dog and knowing they were kind toanimals, I thought I would try to help them. So I popped across intothe tree over their heads and said in the kindliest, gentlest sort ofa voice '_Too-wit, Too-hoo!_'--which means in owl language--as youknow--'It's a fine night! How are you?'
"Then you should have seen those poor children jump!
"'Ugh!' says the little girl, clutching her brother around the neck.'What was that, a spook?'
"'I don't know,' says the little boy. 'Gosh, but I'm scared! Isn't thedark awful?'
"Then I made two or three more attempts to comfort them, talking kindlyto them in owl language. But they only grew scareder and scareder.First, they thought I was a bogey; then an ogre; then a giant of theforest--me, whom they could put in their pockets! Golly, but thesehuman creatures do bring up their children in awful ignorance! Ifthere ever was a bogey or a giant or an ogre--in the forest or out ofit--I've yet to see one.
"Then I thought maybe if I went off through the woods too-witting andtoo-hooing all the way, they would follow me and I could then lead themout of the forest and show them the way home. So I tried it. But theydidn't follow me, the stupid little beggars--thinking I was a witch orsome evil nonsense of that kind. And all I got for my too-witting andtoo-hooing all over the place was to wake up another owl some distanceoff, who thought I was calling to him.
"So, since I wasn't doing the children any good, I went off to lookup this other owl and see if he had any ideas to suggest. I found himsitting on the stump of a hollow birch, rubbing his eyes, having justgot out of bed.
"'Good evening,' says I. 'It's a fine night!'
"'It is,' says he, 'only it's not dark enough. What were you making allthat racket over there for just now? Waking a fellow out of his sleepbefore it's got properly dark!'
"'I'm sorry,' I said, 'but there's a couple of children over in thehollow there who've got lost. The little silly duffers are sitting onthe ground, bawling because the daylight's gone and they don't knowwhat to do.'
"'My gracious!' says he. 'What a quaint notion. Why don't you lead themout of the woods? They probably live over in one of those farms nearthe crossroads.'
"'I've tried,' I said. 'But they're so scared they won't follow me.They don't like my voice or something. They take me for a wicked ogre,and all that sort of rot.'
"'Well,' says he, 'then you'll have to give an imitation of some otherkind of creature--one they're not scared of. Are you any good atimitations? Can you bark like a dog?'
"'No,' I said. 'But I can make a noise like a cat. I learned that froman American catbird that lived in a cage in the stable where I spentlast summer.'
"'Fine,' says he. 'Try that and see what happens!'
"So I went back to the children and found them weeping harder thanever. Then, keeping myself well hidden down near the ground among thebushes, I went '_Meow! Me-o-w!_' real catlike.
"'Oh, Willie,' says the little girl to her brother, 'we're saved!'('Saved,' mark you, when neither of the boobies was in the slightestdanger!) 'We're saved!' says she. 'There's Tuffie, our cat, come forus. She'll show us the way home. Cats can always find their way home,can't they, Willie? Let's follow her!'"
For a moment Too-Too's plump sides shook with silent laughter as herecalled the scene he was describing.
"Then," said he, "I went a little further off, still taking great carethat I shouldn't be seen, and I meowed again.
"'There she is!' said the little girl. 'She's calling to us. Comealong, Willie.'
"Well, in that way, keeping ahead of them and calling like a cat, Ifinally led the children right out of the woods. They did a good dealof stumbling and the girl's long hair often got caught in the bushes.But I always waited for them if they were lagging behind. At last, whenwe gained the open fields, we saw three houses on the sky line, and themiddle one was all lighted up and people with lanterns were runningaround it, hunting in all directions.
"When I had brought the children right up to this house their motherand father made a tremendous fuss, weeping over them, as though theyhad been saved from some terrible danger. In my opinion grown-up humansare even more stupid than the young ones. You'd think, from the waythat mother and father carried on, that those children had been wreckedon a desert island or something, instead of spending a couple of hoursin the pleasant woods.
"'How ever did you find your way, Willie?' asked the mother, wipingaway her tears and smiling all over.
"'Tuffie brought us home,' says the little girl. 'She came out after usand led us here by going ahead of us and meowing.'
"'_Tuffie!_' says the mother, puzzled. 'Why, the cat's asleep in theparlor in front of the fire--been there all evening.'
"'Well, it was some cat,' says the boy. 'He must be right around heresomewhere, because he led us almost up to the door.'
"Then the father swings his lantern around, looking for a cat; andbefore I had time to hop away he throws the light full on me, sittingon a sage bush.
"'Why, it's an _owl_!' cries the little girl.
"'_Meow!_' says I--just to show off. '_Too-wit, Too-hoo! Meow! Meow!_'And with a farewell flip of the wing I disappeared into the nightover the barn roof. But as I left I heard the little girl saying intremendous excitement:
"'Oh, mother, a fairy! It was a fairy that brought us home. It musthave been--disguised as an owl! At last! At last I've seen a fairy!'
"Well, that's the first and last time I ever expect to be taken for afairy. But I got to know those children quite well. They were a realnice couple of kiddies--even if the little girl did keep on insistingthat I was a fairy in disguise. I used to hang around their barn,nights, looking for mice and rats. But if those youngsters ever caughtsight of me they'd follow me everywhere. After bringing them safelyhome that evening I could have led them across the Sahara Desert andthey'd follow--certain in their minds that I was the best of all goodfairies and would keep them out of harm. They used to bring me muttonchops and shrimps and all the best tit-bits from their parents' table.And I lived like a fighting cock--got so fat and lazy I couldn't havecaught a mouse on crutches.
"They were never afraid of the dark again. Because, you see--as I saidto the Doctor one day, when we were talking over the multiplicationtables and other philosophy--fear is usually ignorance. Once you know athing, you're no longer afraid of it. And those youngsters got to knowthe dark--and then they saw, of course, that it was just as harmless asthe day.
"I used to take them out into the woods at night and across the hillsand they got to love it--liked the adventure, you know. And thinkingit would be a good thing if some humans, anyway, had sense enough totravel without sunlight, I taught them how to see in the dark. Theysoon got on to it, when they saw how I always shaded my eyes in thelight of a lantern, so as not to get the habit of strong light. Well,those young ones became real expert--not so good as an owl or a bat,of course, but quite good at seeing in the dark for anyone who had notbeen brought up that way.
"It came in handy for them, too. That part of the country got floodedone springtime in the middle of the night and there wasn't a dry matchor a light to be had anywhere. Then those children, who had traveledall that country scores of times in the dark with me, saved a greatmany lives. They acted as guides, you understand, and took the peopleto safety, because they knew how to use their eyes, and the othersdidn't."
Too-Too yawned and blinked up sleepily at the lantern hanging above hishead.
"Seeing in the dark," he ended, "is all a matter of practice--same asthe piano or anything else."



_CHAPTER VIII_
THE PUSHMI-PULLYU'S STORY

And now it came, at last, to the pushmi-pullyu's turn for a story. Hewas very shy and modest and when the animals asked him the followingnight he said in his very well-bred manner:
"I'm terribly sorry to disappoint you, but I'm afraid I don't know anystories--at least none good enough to entertain you with."
"Oh, come on, Push," said Jip. "Don't be so bashful. We've all toldone. You don't mean to say you've lived all your life in the Africanjungle without seeing any adventures? There must be lots of yarns youcould tell us."
"But I've mostly led such a quiet life, you see," said thepushmi-pullyu. "Our people have always kept very much to themselves. Wemind our own business and don't like getting mixed up in scandals androws and adventures."
"Oh, but just think a minute," said Dab-Dab. "Something will come toyou.... Don't pester him," she whispered to the others. "Just leave himalone and let him think--he's got two heads to think with, you know.Something will come to him. But don't get him embarrassed, whatever youdo."
For a moment or two the pushmi-pullyu pawed the deck of the verandawith his dainty hoofs, as if wrapped in deep thought. Then, looking upwith one of his heads, he began speaking in a quiet voice, while theother coughed apologetically below the level of the tea-table.
"Er--this isn't much of a story--not really. But perhaps it will serveto pass the time. I will tell you about the Badamoshi ostrich hunters.You must know, then, that the black peoples have various methods ofhunting wild animals. And the way they go about it depends on the kindof animal they mean to hunt. For example, if they want giraffes theydig deep holes and cover them up with light boughs and grass. Next,they wait until the giraffe comes along and walks over the hole andfalls in. Then they run up and catch him. For certain kinds of ratherstupid deer they make a little screen of branches and leaves about thesize of a man. And the hunter, holding the screen in front of him likea shield, creeps slowly forward until he is close to the deer and thenfires his spear or arrow. Of course, the stupid deer thinks the movingleaves are just trees being swayed by the wind and takes very littlenotice, if the hunter is careful to approach quietly enough.
"They have various other dodges, more or less underhanded anddeceitful, for getting game. But the one invented by the Badamoshiostrich hunters was perhaps the meanest of them all. Briefly, thiswas it: Ostriches, you know, usually go about in small herds, likecattle. And they're rather stupid. You've heard the story about theirsticking their heads in the sand when a man comes along, thinking thatbecause they can't see the man, the man can't see them. That doesn'tspeak very well for their intelligence, does it? No. Very well then.Now, in the Badamoshi country there wasn't much sand for the ostrichesto stick their heads in--which in a way was a good thing for them.Because there, when a man came along, they ran away instead--I supposeto look for sand. Anyhow, the running away saved their lives. So thehunters of Badamoshi had to think out some dodge of coming near enoughto the ostriches to get among the herd and kill them. And the waythey thought out was quite clever. As a matter of fact, I by chancecame upon a group of these hunters in the woods one day, practisingtheir new trick. They had the skin of an ostrich and were taking it inturns, putting it over their heads and trying to walk and look like areal ostrich, holding up the long neck with a stick. Keeping myselfconcealed, I watched them and saw at once what their game was. Theymeant to disguise themselves as ostriches and walk among the herd andkill them with axes which they kept hidden inside the skin.
"Now, the ostriches of those parts were great friends of mine--had beenever since they put the Badamoshis' tennis court out of business. Thechief of the tribe some years before, finding a beautiful meadow ofelephant grass--which happened to be my favorite grazing ground--hadthe fine hay all burnt off and made the place into a tennis court. Hehad seen white men playing that game and thought he'd like to playit, too. But the ostriches took the tennis balls for apples and atethem--you know, they're dreadfully unparticular about their food. Yes,they used to sneak around in the jungles on the edge of the tenniscourt and whenever a ball was knocked out of the court they'd run offwith it and swallow it. By eating up all the chief's tennis balls inthis way they put the tennis court out of business, and my beautifulgrazing ground soon grew its long grass again and I came back to it.That is how the ostriches happened to be friends of mine.
"So, seeing they were threatened by a secret danger, I went off andtold the leader of the herd about it. He was frightfully stupid and Ihad the hardest work getting it into his head.
"'Now, remember,' I said as I was leaving, 'you can easily tell thehunter when he comes among your herd from the color and shape of hislegs. Ostriches' legs are a sort of gray--as you see from your own--andthe hunters' legs are black and thicker.' You see, the skin which theBadamoshis were going to use did not cover the hunters' legs. 'Now,'I said, 'you must tell all your birds when they see a black-leggedostrich trying to make friends with them to set on him and give him agood hiding. That will teach the Badamoshi hunters a lesson.'
"Well, you'd think after that everything should have gone smoothly.But I had not counted on the extraordinary stupidity of ostriches.The leader, going home that night, stepped into some marshy, boggyplaces and got his stupid long legs all over black mud--caked with it,thick. Then before he went to bed he gave all the ostriches the carefulinstructions which I had given to him.
"The next morning he was late in getting up and the herd was outahead of him, feeding in a pleasant place on the hillside. Then thatnumbskull of a leader--the stupidest cock ostrich of them all--withoutbothering to brush the black mud off his legs which he had stepped intothe night before, comes stalking out into the open space like a king,expecting a grand reception. And he got a grand reception, too--theignoramus! As soon as the others saw his black legs they passed theword around quickly and at a given signal they set on the poor leaderand nearly beat the life out of him. The Badamoshis, who had not yetappeared at all, arrived upon the scene at this moment. And the sillyostriches were so busy beating their leader, whom they took for ahunter in disguise, that the black men came right up to them and wouldhave caught the whole lot if I hadn't shouted in time to warn them oftheir danger.
"So, after that, of course, I saw that if I wanted to save my good butfoolish friends from destruction, I had better do something on my ownaccount.
"And this was what I thought I'd do: When the Badamoshi hunters wereasleep I would go and take that ostrich skin--the only one theyhad--away from them and that would be the end of their grand newhunting trick.
"So in the dead of night I crept out of the jungle and came to theplace where the hunters' huts were. I had to come up from the leewardside, because I didn't want to have the dogs get my scent on the wind.I was more afraid of the hunters' dogs, you see, than I was of thehunters themselves. From the men I could escape quite easily, beingmuch swifter than they were; but dogs, with their sense of smell, aremuch harder to get away from, even when you can reach the cover of thejungle.
"Well, then, coming up from the leeward side, I started searchingaround the huts for the ostrich skin. At first I couldn't find itanywhere. And I began to think they must have hidden it some place.Now, the Badamoshis, like a good many black races, when they go to bedfor the night, always leave one of their number outside the huts towatch and keep guard. I could see this night-watchman at the end ofthe row of huts, and of course I was careful not to let him see me.But after spending some time hunting for this ostrich skin I noticedthat the watchman had not moved at all, but stayed in the same place,squatting on a stool. Then I guessed he had probably fallen asleep.So I moved closer and I found, to my horror, that he was wearing theostrich skin as a blanket--for the night was cool.
"How to get it without waking him was now the problem. Ontiptoe--hardly breathing--I went up and began to draw it gently off hisshoulders. But the wretched man had tucked part of it in under him andI couldn't get it free while he was sitting down.
"Then I was in despair and I almost gave up. But, thinking of the fatethat surely awaited my poor, foolish friends if I didn't get that skin,I decided on desperate measures. Suddenly and swiftly I jabbed thewatchman in a tender spot with one of my horns. With an '_Ouch!_' youcould hear a mile off, he sprang in the air. Then, snatching the birdskin from under him, I sped off into the jungle, while the Badamoshis,their wives, the dogs and the whole village woke up in an uproar andcame after me like a pack of wolves.
"Well," the pushmi-pullyu sighed as he balanced his graceful body tothe slight rolling of the houseboat, "I hope never again to have sucha race for my life as I had that night. Cold shivers run down my spinestill whenever I think of it--the barking of the dogs and the shoutingof the men and the shrieking of the women and the crashing of theunderbrush as my pursuers came tearing through the jungle, hot upon mytrail.
"It was a river that saved me. The rainy season was on and the streamswere in flood. Panting with terror and fatigue, I reached the bank ofa swirling torrent. It was fully twenty-five feet wide. The water wassimply raging down it. To try and swim it would be madness. Lookingbackward, I could see and hear my pursuers close upon my heels. AgainI had to take desperate measures. Drawing back a little to get spacefor a run and still clutching that wretched ostrich skin firmly in mymouth, I rushed at the river at full speed and leaped--as I have neverleaped in my life--clear across to the further bank. As I came downin a heap I realized I had only just been in time, for my enemies hadalready come up to the river on the side that I had left. Shaking theirfists at me in the moonlight, they were trying to find a way to getacross to me. The dogs, eagerest of all, tried, some of them, to swim;but the swift and raging waters swept them down the stream like corksand the hunters were afraid to follow their example.
"With a thrill of triumph, I dropped the precious ostrich skin beforetheir very eyes into the swirling river, where it quickly disappearedfrom view. A howl of rage went up from the Badamoshis.
"Then I did something I've been sorry for all my life. You know how mypeople have always insisted on good manners and politeness. Well--Iblush to recall it--in the excitement of the moment I stuck out both mytongues at the baffled foe across the river. There was no excuse forit--there never is for deliberate rudeness. But it was only moonlightand I trust the Badamoshis didn't see it.
"Well, though I was safe for the present, my troubles were not over byany means. For some time the Badamoshis now left the ostriches aloneand turned their whole attention to hunting me. They badgered my lifeout. As soon as I had moved from one part of the country to get awayfrom their pestering they'd find out where I was and pursue me there.They laid traps for me; they set pitfalls; they sent the dogs after me.And although I managed for a whole year to keep away from them, theconstant strain was very wearing.
"Now, the Badamoshis, like most savage peoples, are very superstitious.And they are terribly afraid--in the way that Too-Too was speaking oflast night--of anything they can't understand. Nearly everything theycan't understand they think is a devil.
"Well, after I had been hunted and worried for a long time, I thoughtI would take a leaf out of their own book, so to speak, and playsomething like the same trick on them as they had tried to play onthe ostriches. With this idea in mind, I set about finding some meansto disguise myself. One day, passing by a tree, I found a skin of awild ox spread out by some huntsman to dry. This I decided was justthe thing I wanted. I pulled it down and, lowering one of my heads, Ilaid one pair of my horns flat along my back--like this--and drew thecowhide over myself, so that only one of my heads could be seen.
"It changed my appearance completely. Moving through the long grass, Ilooked like some ordinary kind of deer. So, disguised in this manner,I sauntered out into an open meadow and grazed around till my preciousBadamoshis should appear. Which they very shortly did.
"I saw them--though they didn't know it--creeping about among the treeson the edge of the meadow, trying to get near without scaring me. Now,their method of hunting small deer is this: they get up into a tree andlie along a lower branch, keeping very still. And when the deer passesunder the tree they drop down upon his hindquarters and fell him to theground.
"So presently, picking out the tree where I had seen the chief himselfgo and hide, I browsed along underneath it, pretending I suspectednothing at all. Then when the chief dropped on what he thought was myhindquarters, I struck upward with my other horns, hidden under thecowhide, and gave him a jab he will remember the rest of his days.
"With a howl of superstitious fright, he called out to his men that hehad been stuck by the devil. And they all ran across the country likewildfire and I was never hunted or bothered by them again."
       *       *       *       *       *
Everybody had now told a tale and the _Arctic Monthly's Prize StoryCompetition_ was declared closed. The first number of the firstanimals' magazine ever printed was, shortly after that, issued andcirculated by Swallow Mail to the inhabitants of the frozen North. Itwas a great success. Letters of thanks and votes on the competitionbegan pouring in from seals and sea-lions and caribou and all manner ofpolar creatures. Too-Too, the mathematician, became editor; Dab-Dab ranthe Mothers' and Babies' Page, while Gub-Gub wrote the Gardening Notesand the Pure Foods Column. And the _Arctic Monthly_ continued to bringhappiness to homes and dens and icebergs as long as the Doctor's Postoffice existed.



PART IV



_CHAPTER I_
PARCEL POST

One day Gub-Gub came to the Doctor and said:
"Doctor, why don't you start a parcel post?"
"Great heavens, Gub-Gub!" the Doctor exclaimed. "Don't you think I'mbusy enough already? What do you want a parcel post for?"
"I'll bet it's something to do with food," said Too-Too, who wassitting on the stool next to the Doctor's, adding up figures.
"Well," said Gub-Gub, "I was thinking of sending to England for somefresh vegetables."
"There you are!" said Too-Too. "He has a vegetable mind."
"But parcels would be too heavy for the birds to carry, Gub-Gub," saidthe Doctor--"except perhaps the small parcels by the bigger birds."
"Yes, I know. I had thought of that," said the pig. "But this monththe Brussels sprouts will be coming into season in England. They're myfavorite vegetable, you know--after parsnips. And I hear that a specialkind of thrushes will be leaving England next week to come to Africa.It wouldn't be too much to ask them to bring a single Brussels sproutapiece, would it? There will be hundreds of birds in the flight and ifthey each brought a sprout we'd have enough to last us for months. Ihaven't tasted any fresh English vegetables since last Autumn, Doctor.And I'm so sick of these yams and okras and African rubbish."
"All right, Gub-Gub," said the Doctor, "I'll see what I can do. Wewill send a letter to England by the next mail going out and ask thethrushes to bring you your Brussels sprouts."
Well, that was how still another department, the Parcel Post, was addedto the Foreign Mails Office of Fantippo. Gub-Gub's sprouts arrived(tons of them, because this was a very big flight of birds), and afterthat many kinds of animals came to the Doctor and asked him to sendfor foreign foods for them when their own ran short. In this way,too, bringing seeds and plants from other lands by birds, the Doctortried quite a number of experiments in planting, and what is calledacclimatizing, fruits and vegetables and even flowers.
And very soon he had an old-fashioned window-box garden on thehouseboat post office blooming with geraniums and marigolds and zinniasraised from the seeds and cuttings his birds brought him from England.And that is why many of the same vegetables that grow in England canstill be found in a wild state in Africa. They came there throughGub-Gub's passion for the foods he had been brought up on.
A little while after that, by using the larger birds to carry packages,a regular parcel post every two months was put at the service of theFantippans; and alarm clocks and all sorts of things from England weresent for.
King Koko even sent for a new bicycle. It was brought over in pieces,two storks carrying a wheel each, an eagle the frame and crows thesmaller parts, like the pedals, the spanners and the oil can.
When they started to put it together again in the post office apart--one of the nuts--was found to be missing. But that was not thefault of the Parcel Post. It had been left out by the makers, whoshipped it from Birmingham. But the Doctor wrote a letter of complaintby the next mail and a new nut was sent right away. Then the King rodetriumphantly through the streets of Fantippo on his new bicycle and apublic holiday was held in honor of the occasion. And he gave his oldbicycle to his brother, Prince Wolla-Bolla. And the Parcel Post, whichhad really been started by Gub-Gub, was declared a great success.
Some weeks later the Doctor received this letter from a farmer inLincolnshire:
    "Dear Sir: Thank you for your excellent weather reports. By their    help I managed to raise the finest crop of Brussels sprouts this    year ever seen in Lincolnshire. But the night before I was going    to pick them for market they disappeared from my fields--every    blessed one of them. How, I don't know. Maybe you could give me    some advice about this.
    "Your obedient servant,
    "NICHOLAS SCROGGINS."
"Great heavens!" said the Doctor: "I wonder what happened to them."
"Gub-Gub ate them," said Too-Too. "Those are the sprouts, no doubt,that the thrushes brought here."
"Dear me!" said the Doctor. "That's too bad. Well, I dare say I'll findsome way to pay the farmer back."
For a long time Dab-Dab, the motherly housekeeper, had been trying toget the Doctor to take a holiday from his post office business.
"You know, Doctor," said she, "you're going to get sick--that's what'sgoing to happen to you, as sure as you're alive. No man can work theway you've been doing for the last few months and not pay for it. Nowyou've got the post office going properly, why don't you hand it overto the King's postmen to run and give yourself a rest? And, anyway,aren't you ever going back to Puddleby?"
"Oh, yes," said John Dolittle. "All in good time, Dab-Dab."
"But you _must_ take a holiday," the duck insisted. "Get away from thepost office for a while. Go up the coast in a canoe for a change ofair--if you won't go home."
Well, the Doctor kept saying that he would go. But he never did--untilsomething happened in the natural history line of great enoughimportance to take him from his post office work. This is how it cameabout:
One day the Doctor was opening the mail addressed to him, when he cameupon a package about the size and shape of a large egg. He undid theouter wrapper, which was made of seaweed. Inside he found a letter anda pair of oyster shells tied together like a box.
Somewhat puzzled, the Doctor first read the letter, while Dab-Dab,who was still badgering him about taking a holiday, looked over hisshoulder. The letter said:
    "Dear Doctor: I am sending you, inclosed, some pretty pebbles which    I found the other day while cracking open oysters. I never saw    pebbles of this color before, though I live by the seashore and    have been opening shellfish all my life. My husband says they're    oyster's eggs. But I don't believe it. Would you please tell me    what they are? And be careful to send them back, because my    children use them as playthings and I have promised them they    shall have them to keep."
Then the Doctor put down the letter and, taking his penknife, he cutthe seaweed strings that neatly held the oyster shells together. Andwhen he opened the shells he gave a gasp of astonishment.
"Oh, Dab-Dab," he cried, "how beautiful! Look, look!"
"Pearls!" whispered Dab-Dab in an awed voice, gazing down into theDoctor's palm. "Pink pearls!"
"My! Aren't they handsome?" murmured the Doctor. "And did you ever seesuch large ones? Each one of those pearls, Dab-Dab, is worth a fortune.Who the dickens is this that sent them to me, anyhow?"
And he turned to the letter again.
"It's from a spoonbill," said Dab-Dab. "I know their writing. Theyare a sort of a cross between a curlew and a snipe. They like messingaround lonely seacoast places, hunting for shellfish and sea worms andstuff like that."
"Well, where is it written from?" asked the Doctor. "What do you makethat address out to be--at the top of the page there?"
Dab-Dab screwed up her eyes and peered at it closely.
"It looks to me," she said, "like the Harmattan Rocks."
"Where is that?" asked the Doctor.
"I have no idea," said Dab-Dab. "But Speedy will know."
And she went off to fetch the Skimmer.
Speedy said, yes, he knew--the Harmattan Rocks were a group of smallislands off the coast of West Africa, about sixty miles further to thenorthward.
"That's curious," said the Doctor. "I wouldn't have been so surprisedif they had come from the South Sea Islands. But it is rather unusualto find pearls of any size or beauty in these waters. Well, these mustbe sent back to the spoonbill's children--by registered parcel post, ofcourse. Though, to tell you the truth, I hate to part with them--theyare so lovely. They can't go before to-morrow, anyway. I wonder where Ican keep them in the meantime. One has to be frightfully careful withgems as valuable as these. You had better not tell anyone about them,Dab-Dab--except Jip the watchman and the pushmi-pullyu. They must takeit in turns to mount guard at the door all night. Men will do all sortsof things for pearls. We'll keep it a secret and send them right backfirst thing to-morrow morning."
Even while the Doctor was speaking he noticed a shadow fall acrossthe desk at which he was standing. He looked up. And there at theinformation window was the ugliest man's face he had ever seen, staringin at the beautiful pearls that still lay on the palm of his hand.
The Doctor, annoyed and embarrassed, forgot for the first time in hispost office career to be polite.
"What do _you_ want?" he asked, thrusting the pearls into his pocket.
"I want a postal order for ten shillings," said the man. "I am going tosend some money to my sick wife."
The Doctor made out the postal order and took the money, which the manhanded through the window.
"Here you are," he said.
Then the man left the post office and the Doctor watched him go.
"That was a queer-looking customer, wasn't he?" he said to Dab-Dab.
"He was, indeed," said the duck. "I'm not surprised his wife is sick,if she has a husband with a face like that."
"I wonder who he is," said John Dolittle. "It isn't often we have whitemen coming in here. I don't much like the looks of him."
The following day the pearls were wrapped up again the way they hadarrived, and after a letter had been written by the Doctor explainingto the spoonbill what the "pebbles" really were, they were sent off byregistered parcel post to the Harmattan Rocks.
The bird chosen to take the package happened to be one of the thrushesthat had brought the Brussels sprouts from England. These birds werestill staying in the neighborhood. And though a thrush was a somewhatsmall bird to carry parcel post, the package was a very little one andthe Doctor had nobody else to send. So after explaining to the thrushthat registered mail should be guarded very carefully by postmen, theDoctor sent the pearls off.
Then he went to call on the King, as he did every so often. And in thecourse of conversation John Dolittle asked His Majesty if he knew whothe white stranger might be that had called at the houseboat for apostal order.
After he had listened to the description of the man's cross-eyed,ugly face, the King said, yes, he knew him very well. He was a pearlfisherman, who spent most of his time in the Pacific Ocean, wherefishing for pearls was more common. But, the King said, he often camehanging around these parts, where he was known to be a great villainwho would do anything to get pearls or money. Jack Wilkins was his name.
The Doctor, on hearing this, felt glad that he had already got the pinkpearls safely off to their owner by registered mail. Then he told theKing that he hoped shortly to take a holiday because he was overworkedand needed a rest. The King asked where he was going, and the Doctorsaid he thought of taking a week's canoe trip up the coast toward theHarmattan Rocks.
"Well," said His Majesty, "if you are going in that direction you mightcall on an old friend of mine, Chief Nyam-Nyam. He owns the country inthose parts and the Harmattan Rocks themselves. He and his people arefrightfully poor, though. But he is honest--and I think you will likehim."
"All right," said the Doctor, "I'll call on him with your compliments."
The next day, leaving Speedy, Cheapside and Jip in charge of the postoffice, the Doctor got into his canoe with Dab-Dab and paddled offto take his holiday. On the way out he noticed a schooner, the shipof Jack Wilkins, the pearl fisherman, at anchor near the entrance toFantippo Harbor.
Toward evening the Doctor arrived at a small settlement of strawhuts, the village of Chief Nyam-Nyam. Calling on the Chief with anintroduction from King Koko, the Doctor was well received. He found,however, that the country over which this chief ruled was indeed in avery poor state. For years powerful neighbors on either side had madewar on the old Chief and robbed him of his best farming lands, till nowhis people were crowded onto a narrow strip of rocky shore where verylittle food could be grown. The Doctor was particularly distressed bythe thinness of the few chickens pecking about in the streets. Theyreminded him of old broken-down cab-horses, he said.
While he was talking to the Chief (who seemed to be a kindly old man)Speedy swept into the Chief's hut in a great state of excitement.
"Doctor," he cried, "the mail has been robbed! The thrush has come backto the post office and says his package was taken from him on the way._The pearls are gone!_"



_CHAPTER II_
THE GREAT MAIL ROBBERY

"Great heavens!" cried the Doctor, springing up. "The pearls gone? Andthey were registered, too!"
"Yes," said Speedy, "here's the thrush himself. He'll tell you allabout it."
And going to the door, he called in the bird who had carried theregistered package.
"Doctor," said the thrush, who was also very upset and breathless,"it wasn't my fault. I never let those pearls out of my sight. I flewstraight off for the Harmattan Rocks. But part of the trip I had to goover land, if I took the shortest cut. And on the way I saw a sister ofmine whom I hadn't met in a long time, sitting in a tree in the junglebelow me. And I thought it would be no harm if I went and talked to hera while. So I flew down and she was very glad to see me. I couldn'ttalk properly with the string of the package in my mouth, so I put theparcel down on the bough of the tree behind me--right near me, youunderstand--and went on talking to my sister. And when I turned aroundto pick it up again it was gone."
"Perhaps it slipped off the tree," said the Doctor, "and fell down intothe underbrush."
"It couldn't have," said the thrush. "I put it into a little hollowin the bark of the bough. It just couldn't have slipped or rolled.Somebody must have taken it."
"Dear me," said John Dolittle. "Robbing the mails; that's a seriousthing. I wonder who could have done it?"
"I'll bet it's Jack Wilkins, the cross-eyed pearl fisherman," whisperedDab-Dab. "A man with a face like that would steal anything. And he wasthe only one, besides us and Speedy, who knew the pearls were goingthrough the mails. It's Wilkins, sure as you're alive."
"I wonder," said the Doctor. "They do say he is a most unscrupulouscustomer. Well, there's nothing for it, I suppose, but that I shouldpaddle back to Fantippo right away and try to find him. The post officeis responsible for the loss of registered mail, and if Mr. Wilkins tookthose pearls I'm going to get them back again. But after this we willmake it a post office rule that carriers of registered mail may nottalk to their sisters or anyone else while on duty."
And in spite of the lateness of the hour, John Dolittle said a hastyfarewell to Chief Nyam-Nyam and started off by moonlight for FantippoHarbor.
In the meantime, Speedy and the thrush flew over the land by the shortcut to the post office.
"What are you going to say to Wilkins, Doctor?" asked Dab-Dab as thecanoe glided along over the moonlit sea. "It's a pity you haven't gota pistol or something like that. He looks a desperate character and heisn't likely to give up the pearls without a fight."
"I don't know what I'll say to him. I'll see when I get there," saidJohn Dolittle. "But we must be very careful how we approach, so that hedoesn't see us coming. If he should pull up his anchor and sail away wewould never be able to overtake him by canoe."
"I tell you what, Doctor," said Dab-Dab, "let me fly ahead and do alittle spying on the enemy. Then I'll come back and tell you anything Ican find out. Maybe he isn't on his schooner at all at present. And weought to be hunting him somewhere else."
"All right," said the Doctor. "Do that. It will take me another fourhours at least to reach Fantippo at this pace."
So Dab-Dab flew away over the sea and John Dolittle continued to paddlehis canoe bravely forward.
After about an hour had passed he heard a gentle sort of whisperedquacking high overhead and he knew that his faithful housekeeper wasreturning. Presently, with a swish of feathers, Dab-Dab settled down athis feet. And on her face was an expression which meant great news.
"He's there, Doctor--and he's got the pearls, all right!" said she."I peeked through the window and I saw him counting them out from onelittle box into another by the light of a candle."
"The villain!" grunted the Doctor, putting on all the speed he could."Let's hope he doesn't get away before we reach Fantippo."
Dawn was beginning to show before they came in sight of the ship theysought. This made approaching the schooner without being seen extremelydifficult. And the Doctor went all the way around the Island ofNo-Man's-Land, so as to come upon the ship from the other side, wherehe would not have to cross so large an open stretch of sea.
Paddling very, very softly, he managed to get the canoe right under thebow of the ship. Then, tying his own craft so it couldn't float away,he swarmed up the schooner's anchor chain and crept on to the boat onhands and knees.
Full daylight had not yet come and the light from a lamp could be seenpalely shining up the stairs which led to the cabin. The Doctor slidforward like a shadow, tiptoed his way down the stairs and peeredthrough the partly opened door.
The cross-eyed Wilkins was still seated at the table, as Dab-Dab haddescribed, counting pearls. Two other men were asleep in bunks aroundthe room. The Doctor swung open the door and jumped in. InstantlyWilkins sprang up from the table, snatched a pistol from his belt andleveled it at the Doctor's head.
"Move an inch and you're a dead man!" he snarled.
The Doctor, taken aback for a moment, gazed at the pistol muzzle,wondering what to do next. Wilkins, without moving his eyes from theDoctor for a second, closed the pearl box with his left hand and put itinto his pocket.
While he was doing this, however, Dab-Dab sneaked in under the table,unseen by anyone. And suddenly she bit the pearl fisherman in the legwith her powerful beak.
With a howl Wilkins bent down to knock her off.
"Now's your chance, Doctor!" yelled the duck.
And in the second while the pistol was lowered the Doctor sprang ontothe man's back, gripped him around the neck, and with a crash the twoof them went rolling on the floor of the cabin.
Then a tremendous fight began. Over and over and over they rolledaround the floor, upsetting things in all directions, Wilkins fightingto get his pistol hand free, the Doctor struggling to keep it bound tohis body, Dab-Dab hopping and flying and jumping and flapping to get abite in on the enemy's nose whenever she saw a chance.
At last John Dolittle, who for his size, was a very powerful wrestler,got the pearl fisherman in a grip of iron where he couldn't move atall. But just as the Doctor was forcing the pistol out of his enemy'shand, one of the other men, who had been aroused by the noise of thefight, woke up. And, leaning out of his bunk from behind the Doctor'sback, he hit him a tremendous blow on the head with a bottle. Stunnedand senseless, John Dolittle fell over in a heap and lay still upon thefloor.
Then all three men sprang on him with ropes and in a minute his armsand legs were tied and the fight was over.
       *       *       *       *       *
When he woke up the Doctor found himself lying at the bottom of his owncanoe, with Dab-Dab tugging at the ropes which bound his wrists to gethim free.
"Where is Wilkins?" he asked in a dazed, sleepy kind of way.
"Gone," said Dab-Dab; "and the pearls with him--the scoundrel! As soonas they had dumped you in the canoe they pulled up the anchor, hoistedsail and got away. They were in an awful hurry and kept looking out tosea with telescopes and talking about the revenue cutter. I guess theyare wanted by the government for a good many bad deeds. I never saw atougher-looking crowd of men in all my life. See, I've got the ropearound your hands free now; you can do the rest better yourself. Doesyour head hurt much?"
"It's a bit dizzy still," said the Doctor, working at the rope abouthis ankles. "But I'll be all right in a little."
Presently when he had undone the cord that tied his feet, John Dolittlestood up and gazed over the ocean. And there, on the sky line, he couldjust see the sails of Wilkins' schooner disappearing eastward.
"Villain!" was all he said between his clenched teeth.



_CHAPTER III_
PEARLS AND BRUSSELS SPROUTS

Disappointed and sad, Dab-Dab and the Doctor started to paddle theirway back.
"I think I'll stop in at the post office before I return to ChiefNyam-Nyam's country," said the Doctor. "There's nothing more I can doabout the pearls, I suppose. But I'd like to see if everything else isgoing all right."
"Wilkins may get caught yet--by the government," said Dab-Dab. "And ifhe does we might get the pearls back, after all."
"Not much chance of that, I'm afraid," said John Dolittle. "He willprobably sell them the first chance he gets. That's all he wants themfor--for the money they'll bring in. Whereas the young spoonbillsappreciated their beauty. It's a shame they should lose them--and whenthey were in my care, too. Well--it's no use crying over spilt milk.They're gone. That's all."
As they were approaching the houseboat they noticed a large numberof canoes collected about it. To-day was not one of the outgoing orincoming mail days and the Doctor wondered what the excitement could be.
Fastening up his own canoe, he went into the post office. And insidethere was quite a crowd. He made his way through it with Dab-Dab andin the registered mail booth he found all the animals gathered arounda small black squirrel. The little creature's legs were tied with postoffice red tape and he seemed very frightened and miserable. Speedy andCheapside were mounting guard over him, one on each side.
"What's all this about?" asked the Doctor.
"We've caught the fellow who stole the pearls, Doctor," said Speedy.
"And we've got the pearls, too," cried Too-Too. "They're in the stampdrawer and Jip is guarding them."
"But I don't understand," said John Dolittle. "I thought Wilkins hadmade off with them."
"Those must have been some other stolen pearls, Doctor," said Dab-Dab."Let's take a look at the ones Jip has."
The Doctor went and opened the stamp drawer. And there, inside, sureenough, were the three pink beauties he had sent by registered mail.
"How did you find them?" he asked, turning to Speedy.
"Well, after you had set off in the canoe," said the Skimmer, "I andthe thrush stopped on our way back here at the tree where he had lostthe package. It was too dark then to hunt for it, so we roosted inthe tree all night, intending to look in the morning. Just as dawnwas breaking we saw this wretched squirrel here flirting about in thebranches with an enormous pink pearl in his mouth. I at once pouncedon him and held him down, while the thrush took the pearl away fromhim. Then we made him tell us where he had hidden the other two. Andafter we had got all three of them we put the squirrel under arrest andbrought him here."
"Dear me!" said the Doctor, looking at the miserable culprit, who wasall tied up with red tape. "What made you steal the pearls?"
At first the squirrel seemed almost too frightened to speak. So theDoctor took a pair of scissors and cut the bonds that held him.
"Why did you do it?" he repeated.
"I thought they were Brussels sprouts," said the squirrel timidly. "Afew weeks ago when I and my wife were sitting in a tree we suddenlysmelled the smell of Brussels sprouts, awful strong, all about us.I and my wife are very fond of this vegetable and we wondered wherethe smell was coming from. And then, looking up, we saw thousands ofthrushes passing overhead, carrying Brussels sprouts in their mouths.We hoped they would stop so we could get a few. But they didn't. So weagreed that perhaps more would be coming over in a few days. And wearranged to stay around that same tree and wait. And, sure enough, thismorning I saw one of these same thrushes alight in the tree, carryinga package. '_Pst!_' I whispered to the wife. 'More Brussels sprouts.Let's bag his parcel while he's not looking!' And bag it I did. Butwhen we opened it we found nothing but these wretched gew-gaws. Ithought they might be some new kind of rock candy and I was on my wayto find a stone to crack them with when this bird grabbed me by thescruff of the neck and arrested me. I didn't want the beastly pearls."
"Well," said the Doctor, "I'm sorry you've been put to suchinconvenience. I'll have Dab-Dab carry you back to your family. But,you know, robbing the registered mail is a serious thing. If you wantedsome Brussels sprouts you should have written to me. After all, youcan't blame the birds for putting you under arrest."
"Stolen fruit's the sweetest, Doctor," said Cheapside. "If you 'adgiven 'im a ton of 'ot-'ouse grapes 'e wouldn't 'ave enjoyed 'em 'alfas much as something 'e pinched. I'd give 'im a couple of years 'ardlabor, if I was you--just to learn 'im to leave the mails alone."
"Well, never mind, we'll forget it," said the Doctor. "It's only aboyish escapade."
"Boyish fiddlesticks!" growled Cheapside. "'E's the father of a largefamily--and a natural-born pickpocket. All squirrels are like that.Don't I know 'em in the city parks--with their mincin' ways that thefolks call 'cute'? Cheekiest beggars that ever was--pinch a crumb fromunder your nose and pop into an 'ole with it before you could get yourbreath. Boyish hescapade!"
"Come along," said Dab-Dab, picking the wretched culprit up in her bigwebbed feet. "I'll take you back to the mainland. And you can thankyour lucky stars that it's the Doctor who is in charge of this postoffice. It's to jail you really ought to go."
"Oh, and hurry back, Dab-Dab," the Doctor called after her as sheflapped her way through the open window and set off across the seawith her burden. "I'm going to start right away for Chief Nyam-Nyam'scountry as soon as you are ready.
"I'll take the pearls myself this time," he said to Speedy, "and handthem over to the spoonbill in person. We don't want any more accidentshappening to them."
About noon the Doctor started out a second time upon his holiday tripand as Gub-Gub, Jip and the white mouse begged to be taken along, thecanoe was well loaded.
They reached Nyam-Nyam's village about six o'clock in the evening andthe old chief prepared a supper for his guests. There was very littleto eat at it, however. And the Doctor was again reminded how poor thesepeople were.
While talking with the old chief the Doctor found out that the worstenemy his country had was the Kingdom of Dahomey. This big and powerfulneighbor was, it seemed, always making war upon Chief Nyam-Nyam andcutting off parts of his land and making the people poorer still.Now, the soldiers of Dahomey were Amazons--that is, they were womensoldiers. And although they were women, they were very big and strongand there were a terrible lot of them. So whenever they attacked thesmall country next to them they easily won and took what they wanted.
As it happened, they made an attack that night while the Doctor wasstaying with the Chief. And about ten o'clock everybody was awakenedout of his sleep with cries of "War! War! The Amazons are here!"
There was terrible confusion. And until the moon had risen people werehitting and falling over one another everywhere in the darkness, notknowing friend from enemy.
When it was possible to see, however, the Doctor found that most ofChief Nyam-Nyam's people had fled off into the jungle; and the Amazons,in thousands, were just going through the village, taking anything theyfancied. The Doctor tried to argue with them, but they merely laughedat him.
Then the white mouse, who was watching the show from the Doctor'sshoulder, whispered in his ear:
"If this is an army of women, Doctor, I think I know of a way to dealwith them. Women are terribly afraid of mice, you know. I'll just gooff and collect a few in the village and see what we can do."
So the white mouse went off and gathered an army of his own, about twohundred mice, which lived in the grass walls and floors of the huts.And then suddenly they attacked the Amazons and began nipping them inthe legs.
With shrieks and howls the fat women soldiers dropped the things theyhad been stealing and ran helter-skelter for home. And that was onetime the famous Amazons of Dahomey _didn't_ have it all their own way.
The Doctor told his pet he could be very proud of himself. For he wassurely the only mouse in the world that ever won a war.



_CHAPTER IV_
PEARL DIVERS

The next morning the Doctor was up early. After a light breakfast (itwas impossible to get any other kind in that poverty-stricken country)he asked Nyam-Nyam the way to the Harmattan Rocks and the Chief toldhim they were just beyond sight from here, about an hour and a half'spaddle straight out into the ocean.
So the Doctor decided that he had better have a sea bird to guide him.And Dab-Dab went and got a curlew who was strolling about on the beach,doing nothing in particular. This bird said he knew the place quitewell and would consider it an honor to act as guide to John Dolittle.Then, with Jip, Dab-Dab, Gub-Gub and the white mouse, the Doctor gotinto his canoe and started off for the Harmattan Rocks.
It was a beautiful morning and they enjoyed the paddle--though Gub-Gubcame very near to upsetting the canoe more than once, leaning out tograb for passing sea weed, which he had noticed the curlew eating.Finally, for safety's sake, they made him lie down at the bottom of thecanoe, where he couldn't see anything.
About eleven o'clock a group of little rocky islands were sighted,which their guide said were the Harmattan Rocks. At this point in theirjourney the mainland of Africa was just disappearing from view on thesky-line behind them. The rocks they were coming to seemed to be thehome of thousands of different kinds of sea birds. As the canoe drewnear, gulls, terns, gannets, albatrosses, cormorants, auklets, petrels,wild ducks, even wild geese, came out, full of curiosity to examine thestranger. When they learned from the curlew that this quiet little fatman was none other than the great Doctor Dolittle himself they passedword back to the rocks; and soon the air about the canoe was simplythick with wings flashing in the sunlight. And the welcome to theirhome that the sea birds screeched to the Doctor was so hearty and noisyyou couldn't hear yourself speak.
It was easy to see why this place had been chosen for a home by thesea birds. The shores all around were guarded by half-sunken rocks, onwhich the waves roared and broke dangerously. No ship was ever likelyto come here to disturb the quiet life of the birds. Indeed, even witha light canoe that could go in shallow water, the Doctor would have hadhard work to make a landing. But the welcoming birds guided him veryskillfully around to the back of the biggest island, where a bay withdeep water formed a pretty sort of toy harbor. The Doctor understoodnow why these islands had been left in the possession of the poorChief: no neighbors would consider them worth taking. Hard to approach,with very little soil in which crops could be grown, flat and open toall the winds and gales of heaven, barren and lonesome, they temptednone of the Chief's enemies. And so for many, many years they remainedthe property of Nyam-Nyam and his people--though indeed even theyhardly ever visited them. But in the end the Harmattan Rocks proved tobe of greater value than all the rest of the lands this tribe had lost.
"Oh, I think this is an awful place," said Gub-Gub as they got out ofthe canoe. "Nothing but waves and rocks. What have you come here for,Doctor?"
"I hope to do a little pearl fishing," said John Dolittle. "But first Imust see the spoonbill and give her this registered package. Dab-Dab,would you please try to find her for me? With so many millions of seabirds around, myself, I wouldn't know how to begin to look for her."
"All right," said Dab-Dab. "But it may take me a little time. There areseveral islands and quite a number of spoonbills. I shall have to makeinquiries and find out which one sent you the pearls."
So Dab-Dab went off upon her errand. And in the meantime the Doctortalked and chatted with various sea bird leaders who had alreadymade his acquaintance at the Great Conference in the hollow ofNo-Man's-Land. These kept coming up to him, anxious to show off beforetheir fellows the fact that they knew the great man personally. Andonce more the Doctor's notebook was kept busy with new discoveries tobe jotted down about the carriage of mail by birds that live upon thesea.
The birds, who at first followed the Doctor in droves around the mainisland wherever he went, presently returned to their ordinary doingswhen the newness of his arrival had worn off. And after Dab-Dab hadcome back from her hunt and told him the spoonbill lived on one of thesmaller islands, he got back into his canoe and paddled over to therock she pointed out.
Here the spoonbill was waiting for him at the water's edge. Sheapologized for not coming in person to welcome him, but said she wasafraid to leave her babies when there were sea eagles around. Thelittle ones were with her, two scrubby, greasy youngsters, who couldwalk but not fly. The Doctor opened the package and gave them backtheir precious toys; and with squawks of delight they began playingmarbles on the flat rocks with the enormous pink pearls.
"What charming children you have," said the Doctor to the motherspoonbill, who was watching them proudly. "I'm glad they've gottheir playthings safely back. I wouldn't have had them lose them foranything."
"Yes, they are devoted to those pebbles," said the spoonbill. "By theway, were you able to tell me what they are? I found them, as I wroteyou, inside an oyster."
"They are pearls," said the Doctor, "and worth a tremendous lot. Ladiesin cities wear them around their necks."
"Oh, indeed," said the bird. "And why don't the ladies in the countrywear them, too?"
"I don't just know," said the Doctor. "I suppose because they're toocostly. With any one of those pearls you could buy a house and garden."
"Well, wouldn't you like to keep them, then?" asked the spoonbill. "Icould get the children something else to play with, no doubt."
"Oh, no," said the Doctor, "thank you. I have a house and garden."
"Yes, Doctor," Dab-Dab put in, "but you wouldn't be bound to buy asecond one with the money you would get for the pearls. It would comein real handy for something else, you know."
"The baby spoonbills want them," said John Dolittle. "Why should I takethem away from them?"
"Balls of pink putty would suit them just as well," snorted Dab-Dab.
"Putty is poisonous," said the Doctor. "They appreciate the beauty ofthe pearls. Let them have them. But," he added to the mother spoonbill,"if you know where any more are to be found I should be glad to know."
"I don't," said she. "I don't even know how these came to be in thepossession of the oyster I ate."
"Pearls always grow in oysters--when they grow at all," said theDoctor. "But they are rare. This is the point that most interestsme--the natural history of pearls. They are said to form around a grainof sand that gets into the oyster's shell by accident. I had hopedthat if you were in the habit of eating oysters you could give me someinformation."
"I'm afraid I can't," said the spoonbill. "To tell you the truth, Igot those oysters from a pile which some other bird had left on therock here. He had eaten his fill, I suppose, and gone away. There are agood many left still. Let's go over to the pile and crack a few. Maybethey've all got pearls in them."
So they went across to the other side of the little island and startedopening oysters. But not another pearl did they find.
"Where are the oyster beds around here?" asked the Doctor.
"Between this island and the next," said the spoonbill. "I don't fishfor them myself because I'm not a deep diver. But I've seen other kindsof sea birds fishing in that place--just about half way between thisisland and that little one over there."
"I'll go out with her, Doctor," said Dab-Dab, "and do a little fishingon my own account. I can dive pretty deep, though I'm not a regulardiving duck. Maybe I can get some pearls for you."
So Dab-Dab went out with the spoonbill and started pearl fishing.
Then for a good hour and a half the faithful housekeeper fished upoyster after oyster and brought them to the Doctor on the island. Heand the animals found opening them quite exciting work, because younever knew what you might discover. But nothing was found in the shellsbut fat oysters and thin oysters.
"I think I'd like to try a hand at diving myself," said the Doctor,"if the water is not too deep. I used to be quite good at fishing upsixpences from the bottom of the swimming pool when I was a boy."
And he took off his clothes, got into the canoe and paddled out withthe animals till he was over the oyster beds. Then he dove right downinto the clear green water, while Jip and Gub-Gub watched him withintense interest.
But when he came up, blowing like a seal, he hadn't even got an oyster.All he had was a mouthful of seaweed.
"Let's see what I can do," said Jip. And out of the canoe jumpedanother pearl fisherman.
Then Gub-Gub got all worked up and before anybody could stop him _he_had taken a plunge. The pig went down so quick and so straight he gothis snout stuck in the mud at the bottom, and the Doctor, still out ofbreath, had to go down after him and get him free. The animals by thistime were at such a pitch of excitement that even the white mouse wouldhave jumped in if Gub-Gub's accident hadn't changed his mind.
Jip managed to bring up a few small oysters, but there were no pearlsin them.
"I'm afraid we're pretty poor fishers," said John Dolittle. "Of course,it's possible that there may not be any more pearls there."
"No, I'm not satisfied yet," said Dab-Dab. "I'm pretty sure that thereare plenty of pearls there--the beds are enormous. I think I'll goaround among the sea birds and try to find out who it was got thoseoysters our spoonbill found the pearls in. The bird that fished up thatpile was an expert oyster diver."
So while the Doctor put his clothes on and Gub-Gub washed the mud outof his ears, Dab-Dab went off on a tour of inquiry around the islands.
After about twenty minutes she brought back a black duck-like bird witha tuft on his head.
"This cormorant, Doctor," said she, "fished up that pile of oysters."
"Ah," said John Dolittle, "perhaps we shall find out something now. Canyou tell me," he asked the cormorant, "how to get pearls?"
"Pearls? What do you mean?" said the bird.
Then Dab-Dab went and borrowed the playthings from the spoonbill'schildren to show him.
"Oh, those things," said the cormorant. "Those come in bad oysters.When I go oyster fishing I never pick up that kind except once in awhile by accident--and then I never bother to open them."
"But how do you tell oysters of that kind from the others?" asked theDoctor.
"By sniffing them," said the cormorant. "The ones that have thosethings in them don't smell fresh. I'm frightfully particular about myoysters."
"Do you mean to say that even when you are right down under thewater you could tell an oyster that had pearls in it from one thathadn't--just by sniffing it?"
"Certainly. So could any cormorant."
"There you are, Doctor," said Dab-Dab. "The trick's done. Now you canget all the pearls you want."
"But these oyster beds don't belong to me," said John Dolittle.
"Oh, dear!" sighed the duck. "Did anyone ever see a man who could findso many objections to getting rich? Who do they belong to, then?"
"To Chief Nyam-Nyam and his people, of course. He owns the HarmattanRocks. Would you mind," the Doctor asked, turning to the cormorant,"getting me a few oysters of this kind to look at?"
"With the greatest of pleasure," said the cormorant.
And he flew out over the oyster beds and shot down into the sea likea stone. In a minute he was back again with three oysters--two in hisfeet and one in his mouth. The animals gathered around with batedbreath while the Doctor opened them. In the first was a small graypearl; in the second a middle-sized pink pearl, and in the third twoenormous black ones.
"Gosh, how lovely!" murmured Gub-Gub.
"Pearls before swine," giggled the white mouse. "Tee, hee!"
"How uneducated you are!" snorted the pig, turning up his snout."Ladies before gentlemen; _swine_ before _pearls_!"



_CHAPTER V_
OBOMBO'S REBELLION

Late that same afternoon the Doctor returned to Chief Nyam-Nyam'svillage. And with him he took the cormorant as well as Dab-Dab and hisanimals.
As he arrived at the little group of straw houses he saw that therewas some kind of a commotion going on. All the villagers were gatheredabout the Chief's hut; speeches were being made and everyone seemed ina great state of excitement. The old Chief himself was standing at thedoor, and when he saw his friend, the Doctor, approaching on the edgeof the crowd, he signaled him to come into the hut. This the Doctordid. And as soon as he was inside the Chief closed the door and beganto tell him what the trouble was.
"Great trials have overtaken me in my old age, oh white man," said he."For fifty years I have been head of this tribe, respected, honored andobeyed. Now my young son-in-law, Obombo, clamors to be made Chief andmany of the people support him. Bread we have none; food of any kind isscanty. And Obombo tells the tribesmen that the fault is mine--that he,if he is made chief, will bring them luxury and prosperity. It is notthat I am unwilling to give up the chieftaincy, but I know this youngupstart who would take my place means to lead the people into war. Whatcan he do by going to war? Can he fill the people's stomachs? In warswe have always lost. Our neighbors are large peoples, while we are thesmallest tribe in all West Africa. So we have been robbed and robbed,till now the mothers and children clamor at my door for bread. Alas,alas, that I should ever see this day!"
The old Chief sank into his chair as he ended and burst out weeping.The Doctor went up and patted him on the shoulder.
"Chief Nyam-Nyam," said he, "I think I have discovered somethingto-day which should make you and your people rich for the remainder ofyour lives. Go out now and address the tribesmen. Promise them in myname--and remind them that I come recommended by King Koko--promisethem from me that if they will abide peacefully under your rule foranother week the country of Chief Nyam-Nyam will be made famous for itsriches and prosperity."
Then the old Chief opened the door and made a speech to the clamoringcrowd outside. And when he had ended Obombo, the son-in-law, got up andbegan another speech, calling on the people to drive the old man outinto the jungle. But before he had got halfway through the crowd beganto murmur to one another:
"Let us not listen to this forward young man. It is far better thatwe abide the white man's promise and see what comes. He is a man ofdeeds, not words. Did he not put the Amazons to flight with a magicmouse that lives in his pocket? Let us side with the white man and thevenerable Nyam-Nyam, who has ruled us with kindness for so long. Obombowould but lead us into war, and bring us to greater poverty still."
Soon hisses and groans broke out among the crowd and, picking uppebbles and mud, they began pelting Obombo so he could not go on withhis speech. Finally he had to run for the jungle himself to escape thefury of the people.
Then when the excitement had died down and the villagers had gonepeacefully to their homes, the Doctor told the old Chief of the wealththat lay waiting for him in the oysters of the Harmattan Rocks. And thecormorant agreed to oblige John Dolittle by getting a number of hisrelatives to do pearl fishing for these people, who were so badly inneed of money and food.
And during the next week the Doctor paddled the old Chief to the rockstwice a day. A great number of oysters were fished up by the cormorantsand the pearls were sorted by the Doctor, put in little boxes and sentout to be sold. John Dolittle told the old Chief to keep the matter asecret and only to intrust the carrying to reliable men.
And soon money began to pour into the country from the pearl fishingbusiness which the Doctor had established and the people wereprosperous and had all the food they wanted.
By the end of that week the Doctor had, indeed, made good his promise.The country of Chief Nyam-Nyam became famous all along the coast ofWest Africa as a wealthy state.
But wherever money is made in large quantities and business is good,there strangers will always come, seeking their fortune. And beforelong the little village that used to be so poor and insignificant wasfull of traders from the neighboring kingdoms, buying and selling inthe crowded, busy markets. And, of course, questions were soon asked asto how this country had suddenly got so rich. And, although the Chiefhad carried out the Doctor's orders and had only intrusted the secretof the fisheries to a few picked men, folks began to notice that canoesfrequently came and went between the Harmattan Rocks and the village ofChief Nyam-Nyam.
Then spies from those neighboring countries who had always been robbingand warring upon this land began to sneak around the rocks in canoes.And, of course, very soon the secret was out.
And the Emir of Ellebubu, who was one of the big, powerful neighbors,called up his army and sent them off in war canoes to take possessionof the Harmattan Rocks. At the same time he made an attack upon thevillage, drove everybody out, and carrying off the Doctor and theChief, he threw them into prison in his own country. Then at lastNyam-Nyam's people had no land left at all.
And in the jungle, where the frightened villagers had fled to hide,Obombo made whispered speeches to little scattered groups of hisfather-in-law's people, telling them what fools they had been to trustthe crazy white man, instead of listening to him, who would have ledthem to greatness.
Now, when the Emir of Ellebubu had thrown the Doctor into prison he hadrefused to allow Dab-Dab, Jip or Gub-Gub to go with him. Jip put up afight and bit the Emir in the leg. But all he got for that was to betied up on a short chain.
The prison into which the Doctor was thrown had no windows. And JohnDolittle, although he had been in African prisons before, was veryunhappy because he was extremely particular about having fresh air. Andbesides, his hands were firmly tied behind his back with strong rope.
"Dear me," said he while he was sitting miserably on the floor in thedarkness, wondering what on earth he was going to do without any of hisanimals to help him, "what a poor holiday I am spending, to be sure!"
But presently he heard something stirring in his pocket. And to hisgreat delight, the white mouse, who had been sleeping soundly, entirelyforgotten by the Doctor, ran out on his lap.
"Good luck!" cried John Dolittle. "You're the very fellow I want. Wouldyou be so good as to run around behind my back and gnaw this beastlyrope? It's hurting my wrists."
"Certainly," said the white mouse, setting to work at once. "Why is itso dark? I haven't slept into the night, have I?"
"No," said the Doctor. "It's only about noon, I should say. But we'relocked up. That stupid old Emir of Ellebubu made war on Nyam-Nyam andthrew me into jail. Bother it, I always seem to be getting into prison!The worst of it was, he wouldn't let Jip or Dab-Dab come with me. I'mparticularly annoyed that I haven't got Dab-Dab. I wish I knew some wayI could get a message to her."
"Well, just wait until I have your hands free," said the white mouse."Then I'll see what can be done. There! I've bitten through one strand.Now wiggle your hands a bit and you can undo the whole rope."
The Doctor squirmed his arms and wrists and presently his hands werefree.
"Thank goodness, I had you in my pocket!" he said. "That was a mostuncomfortable position. I wonder what kind of a prison old Nyam-Nyamgot. This is the worst one I was ever in."
In the meantime the Emir, celebrating victory in his palace, gaveorders that the Harmattan Rocks, which were now to be called the RoyalEllebubu Pearl Fisheries, would henceforth be his exclusive, privateproperty, and no trespassing would be allowed. And he sent out sixspecial men with orders to take over the islands and to bring all thepearls to him.
Now the cormorants did not know that war had broken out, nor anythingabout the Doctor's misfortune. And when the Emir's men came andtook the pearl oysters they had fished up the birds supposed theywere Nyam-Nyam's men and let them have them. However, it happened,luckily, that this first load of oysters had only very small and almostworthless pearls in them.
Jip and Dab-Dab were still plotting to find some way to reach theDoctor. But there seemed to be nothing they could think of.
Inside the prison the Doctor was swinging his arms to get the stiffnessout of them.
"You said something about a message you had for Dab-Dab, I think,"peeped the white mouse's voice from the darkness of the corner.
"Yes," said the Doctor--"and a very urgent one. But I don't see how onearth I'm going to get it to her. This place is made of stone and thedoor's frightfully thick. I noticed it as I came in."
"Don't worry, Doctor, I'll get it to her," said the mouse. "I've justfound an old rat hole over here in the corner. I popped down it and itgoes under the wall and comes out by the root of the tree on the otherside of the road from the prison."
"Oh, how splendid!" cried the Doctor.
"Give me the message," said the white mouse, "and I'll hand it toDab-Dab before you can say Jack Robinson. She's sitting in the tree,where the hole comes out."
"Tell her," said the Doctor, "to fly over to the Harmattan Rocks rightaway and give the cormorants strict orders to stop all pearl fishing atonce."
"All right," said the mouse. And he slipped down the rat hole.
Dab-Dab, as soon as she got the message, went straight off to the pearlfisheries and gave the Doctor's instructions to the cormorants.
She was only just in time. For the Emir's six special men were aboutto land on the islands to get a second load of pearls. Dab-Dab and thecormorants swiftly threw back into the sea the oysters that had beenfished up and when the Emir's men arrived they found nothing.
After hanging around a while they paddled back and told the Emir thatthey could find no more pearl oysters on the rocks. He sent them out tolook again; but they returned with the same report.
Then the Emir was puzzled and angry. If Nyam-Nyam could get pearls onthe Harmattan Rocks, why couldn't he? And one of his generals said thatprobably the white man had something to do with it, since it was he whohad discovered and started the fisheries.
So the Emir ordered his hammock men and had himself carried to theDoctor's prison. The door was unlocked and the Emir, going inside, saidto the Doctor:
"What monkey business have you done to my pearl fisheries, youwhite-faced villain?"
"They're not your pearl fisheries, you black-faced ruffian," said theDoctor. "You stole them from poor old Nyam-Nyam. The pearls were fishedfor by diving birds. But the birds are honest and will work only forhonest people. Why don't you have windows in your prisons? You ought tobe ashamed of yourself."
Then the Emir flew into a terrible passion.
"How dare you speak to me like that? I am the Emir of Ellebubu," hethundered.
"You're an unscrupulous scoundrel," said the Doctor. "I don't want totalk to you."
"If you don't make the birds work for me I'll give orders that you getno food," said the Emir. "You shall be starved to death."
"I have told you," said the Doctor, "that I don't desire any furtherconversation with you. Not a single pearl shall you ever get from theHarmattan Fisheries."
"And not a bite to eat shall you ever have till I do," the Emir yelled.
Then he turned to the prison guards, gave instructions that the Doctorwas not to be fed till further orders and stalked out. The door slammedshut with a doleful clang and after one decent breath of fresh air theDoctor was left in the darkness of his stuffy dungeon.



_CHAPTER VI_
THE DOCTOR'S RELEASE

The Emir of Ellebubu went back to his palace feeling perfectly certainthat after he had starved John Dolittle for a few days he would be ableto make him do anything he wanted. He gave orders that no water shouldbe served to the prisoner either, so as to make doubly sure that hewould be reduced to obedience.
But immediately the Emir had left, the white mouse started out throughthe rat hole in the corner. And all day and all night he kept busy,coming and going bringing in crumbs of food which he gathered from thehouses of the town: bread crumbs, cheese crumbs, yam crumbs, potatocrumbs and crumbs of meat which he pulled off bones. All these hestored carefully in the Doctor's hat in the corner of the prison. Andby the end of each day he had collected enough crumbs for one goodsquare meal.
The Doctor said he never had the slightest idea of what he was eating,but as the mealy mixture was highly digestible and nutritious he didnot see why he should mind. To supply his master with water the mousegot nuts, and after gnawing a tiny hole in one end he would chop thenut inside into pieces and shake it out through the hole. Then he wouldfill the empty shell with water and seal up the hole with gum arabicwhich he got from trees. The water-filled nuts were a little heavy forhim to carry, so Dab-Dab would bring them from the river as far as theoutside end of the rat hole, and the white mouse would roll them downthe hole into the prison.
By getting his friends, the village mice, to help him in thepreparation of these nuts, he was able to supply them in hundreds. Thenall the Doctor had to do when he wanted a drink was to put one in hismouth, crack it with his teeth, and after the cool water had run downhis throat, spit the broken shells out.
The white mouse also provided crumbs of soap, so that his master couldshave--for the Doctor, even in prison, was always very particular aboutthis part of his appearance.
Well, when four days had passed the Emir of Ellebubu sent a messengerto the prison to inquire if the Doctor was now willing to do as he wastold. The guards after talking to John Dolittle brought word to theEmir that the white man was as obstinate as ever and had no intentionof giving in.
"Very well," said the Emir, stamping his foot, "then let him starve.In ten days more the fool will be dead. Then I will come and laughover him. So perish all wretches who oppose the wishes of the Emir ofEllebubu!"
And in ten days' time he went to the prison, as he had said, to gloatover the terrible fate of the white man. Many of his ministers andgenerals came with him to help him gloat. But when the prison doorwas opened, instead of seeing the white man's body stretched upon thefloor, the Emir found the Doctor smiling on the threshold, shaved andhearty and all spruced up. The only difference in his appearance wasthat with no exercise in prison he had grown slightly stouter androunder.
The Emir stared at the prisoner open-mouthed, speechless withastonishment. Now, the day before this he had heard for the first timethe story of the rout of the Amazons. The Emir had refused to believeit. But now he began to feel that anything might be true about this man.
"See," one of the ministers whispered in his ear, "the sorcerer haseven shaved his beard without water or soap. Your Majesty, there issurely evil magic here. Set the man free before harm befall. Let us berid of him."
And the frightened minister moved back among the crowd so the Doctor'sevil gaze could not fall upon his face.
Then the Emir himself began to get panicky. And he gave orders that theDoctor should be released right away.
"I will not leave here," said John Dolittle, standing squarely in thedoor, "till you have windows put in this prison. It's a disgrace tolock up anyone in a place without windows."
"Build windows in the prison at once," the Emir said to the guards.
"And after that I won't go," said the Doctor--"not till you have setChief Nyam-Nyam free; not till you have ordered all your people toleave his country and the Harmattan Rocks; not till you have returnedto him the farming lands you robbed him of."
"It shall be done," muttered the Emir, grinding his teeth--"Only go!"
"I go," said the Doctor. "But if you ever molest your neighbors again Iwill return. Beware!"
Then he strode through the prison door out into the sunlit street,while the frightened people fell back on either side and covered theirfaces, whispering:
"Magic! Do not let his eye fall on you!"
And in the Doctor's pocket the white mouse had to put his paws over hisface to keep from laughing.
And now the Doctor set out with his animals and the old Chief to returnto Nyam-Nyam's country from the land where he had been imprisoned. Onthe way they kept meeting with groups of the Chief's people who werestill hiding in the jungle. These were told the glad tidings of theEmir's promise. When they learned that their land was now free and safeagain the people joined the Doctor's party for the return journey. Andlong before he came in sight of the village John Dolittle looked likea conquering general coming back at the head of an army, so many hadgathered to him on the way.
That night grand celebrations were made in the Chief's village andthe Doctor was hailed by the people as the greatest man who had evervisited their land. Two of their worst enemies need now no longer befeared--the Emir had been bound over by a promise and Dahomey was notlikely to bother them again after the fright the Amazons got on theirlast attack. The pearl fisheries were restored to their possession. Andthe country should now proceed prosperously and happily.
The next day the Doctor went out to the Harmattan Rocks to visit thecormorants and to thank them for the help they had given. The old Chiefcame along on this trip, and with him four trustworthy men of his.In order that there should be no mistake in future, these men wereshown to the cormorants and the birds were told to supply them--and noothers--with pearl oysters.
While the Doctor and his party were out at the Rocks an oyster wasfished up that contained an enormous and very beautiful pearl--by farthe biggest and handsomest yet found. It was perfect in shape, flawlessand a most unusual shade in color. After making a little speech, theChief presented this pearl to the Doctor as a small return for theservices he had done him and his people.
"Thank goodness for that!" Dab-Dab whispered to Jip. "Do yourealize what that pearl means to us? The Doctor was down to hislast shilling--as poor as a church mouse. We would have had to gocircus-traveling with the pushmi-pullyu again, if it hadn't been forthis. I'm so glad. For, for my part, I shall be glad enough to stay athome and settle down a while--once we get there."
"Oh, I don't know," said Gub-Gub. "I love circuses. I wouldn't mindtraveling, so long as it's in England--and with a circus."
"Well," said Jip, "whatever happens, it's nice the Doctor's got thepearl. He always seems to be in need of money. And, as you say,Dab-Dab, that should make anybody rich for life."
But while the Doctor was still thanking the Chief for the beautifulpresent, Quip-the-Carrier flew up with a letter for him.
"It was marked 'Urgent,' in red ink, Doctor," said the swallow, "soSpeedy thought he had better send it to you by special delivery."
John Dolittle tore open the envelope.
"Who's it from, Doctor?" asked Dab-Dab.
"Dear me," muttered the Doctor, reading. "It's from that farmer inLincolnshire whose Brussels sprouts we imported for Gub-Gub. I forgotto answer his letter--you remember, he wrote asking me if I could tellhim what the trouble was. And I was so busy it went clean out of mymind. Dear me! I must pay the poor fellow back somehow. I wonder--oh,but there's this. I can send him the pearl. That will pay for hissprouts and something to spare. What a good idea!"
And to Dab-Dab's horror, the Doctor tore a clean piece off the farmer'sletter, scribbled a reply, wrapped the pearl up in it and handed it tothe swallow.
"Tell Speedy," said he, "to send that off right away--registered. I amreturning to Fantippo to-morrow. Good-bye and thank you for the specialdelivery."
As Quip-the-Carrier disappeared into the distance with the Doctor'spriceless pearl Dab-Dab turned to Jip and murmured:
"There goes the Dolittle fortune. My, but it is marvelous how money_doesn't_ stick to that man's fingers!"
"Heigh ho!" sighed Jip, "it's a circus for us, all right."
"Easy comes, easy goes," murmured Gub-Gub. "Never mind. I don't supposeit's really such fun being rich. Wealthy people have to behave sounnaturally."



_CHAPTER VII_
A MYSTERIOUS LETTER

We are now come to an unusual event in the history of the Doctor's postoffice, to the one which was, perhaps, the greatest of all the curiousthings that came about through the institution of the Swallow Mail.
On arriving back at the houseboat from his short and very busy holidaythe Doctor was greeted joyfully by the pushmi-pullyu, Too-Too,Cheapside and Speedy the Skimmer. King Koko also came out to greet hisfriend when he saw the arrival of the Doctor's canoe through a pair ofopera glasses (price ten shillings and sixpence) which he had recentlygot from London by parcel post. And the prominent Fantippans, whohad missed their afternoon tea and social gossip terribly during thePostmaster's absence, got into their canoes and followed the King outto the Foreign Mails Office.
So for three hours after his arrival--in fact, until it was dark--theDoctor did not get a chance to do a thing besides shake hands andanswer questions about how he had enjoyed his holiday, where he hadbeen and what he had done. The welcome he received on his return andthe sight of the comfortable houseboat, gay with flowering windowboxes, made the Doctor, as he afterward said to Dab-Dab, feel as thoughhe were really coming home.
"Yes," said the housekeeper, "but don't forget that you have anotherhome, a real one, in Puddleby."
"That's true," said the Doctor. "I suppose I must be getting on toEngland soon. But the Fantippans were honestly pleased to see us,weren't they? And, after all, Africa is a nice country, now, isn't it?"
"Yes," said Dab-Dab, "a nice enough country for short holidays--andlong drinks."
After supper had been served and eaten and the Doctor had been made totell the story of the pearl fisheries all over again for the benefitof his own family circle, he at last turned to the enormous pile ofletters which were waiting for him. They came, as usual, from all partsof the world, from every conceivable kind of animal and bird. For hourshe waded patiently through them, answering them as they came. Speedyacted as his secretary and took down in bird and animal scribble theanswers that the Doctor reeled off by the dozen. Often John Dolittledictated so fast that the poor Skimmer had to get Too-Too (who had awonderful memory) to come and help listen, so nothing should be missedthrough not writing it down quick enough.
Toward the end of the pile the Doctor came across a very peculiar thickenvelope, all over mud. For a long time none of them could make out asingle word of the letter inside, nor even who it was from. The Doctorgot all his notebooks out of the safe, compared and peered and poredover the writing for hours. Mud had been used for ink. The signs weremade so clumsily they might almost be anything.
But at last, after a tremendous lot of work, copying out afresh,guessing and discussing, the meaning of the extraordinary letter waspieced together, and this is what it said:
    "Dear Doctor Dolittle: I have heard of your post office and am    writing this as best I can--the first letter I ever wrote. I hear    you have a weather bureau in connection with your post office and    that a one-eyed albatross is your chief weather prophet. I am    writing to tell you that I am the oldest weather prophet in the    world. I prophesied the Flood, and it came true to the day and the    hour I said it would. I am a very slow walker or I would come and    see you and perhaps you could do something for my gout, which in    the last few hundred years has bothered me a good deal. But if you    will come to see me I will teach you a lot about weather. And I    will tell you the story of the Flood, which I saw with my own eyes    from the deck of Noah's Ark.
    "Yours very truly,
    "MUDFACE."
    "P. S.--I am a turtle."
At last, on reading the muddy message through, the Doctor's excitementand enthusiasm knew no bounds. He began at once to make arrangements toleave the following day for a visit to the turtle.
But, alas! when he turned again to the letter to see where the turtlelived, he could find nothing to give a clue to his whereabouts!The mysterious writer who had seen the Flood, Noah and the Ark hadforgotten to give his address!
"Look here, Speedy," said John Dolittle, "we must try and trace this.Let us leave no stone unturned to find where this valuable documentcame from. First, we will question everyone in the post office to findout who it was delivered it."
Well, everyone in turn, the pushmi-pullyu, Cheapside, Too-Too,Quip-the-Carrier, all the swallows, any stray birds who were living inthe neighborhood, even a pair of rats who had taken up their residencein the houseboat, were cross-examined by the Doctor or Speedy.
But no one had seen the letter arrive; no one could tell what day orhour it had come; no one could guess how it got into the pile of theDoctor's mails; no one knew anything about it. It was one of thoselittle post office mysteries that are always cropping up even in thebest-run mail systems.
The Doctor was positively heartbroken. Often in his natural historymeditations he had wondered about all sorts of different mattersconnected with the Ark; and he had decided that Noah, after hismemorable voyage was over, must have been a great naturalist. Nowhad come most unexpectedly a chance to hear the great story from aneye-witness--from someone who had actually known and sailed withNoah--and just because of a silly little slip like leaving out anaddress the great chance was to be lost!
All attempts to trace the writer having failed, the Doctor, after twodays, gave it up and went back to his regular work. This kept him sobusy for the next week that he finally forgot all about the turtle andhis mysterious letter.
But one night, when he was working late to catch up with the businesswhich had multiplied during his absence, he heard a gentle tappingon the houseboat window. He left his desk and went and opened it.Instantly in popped the head of an enormous snake, with a letter in itsmouth--a thick, muddy letter.
"Great heavens!" cried the Doctor. "What a start you gave me! Come in,come in, and make yourself at home."
Slowly and smoothly the snake slid in over the window sill and down onto the floor of the houseboat. Yards and yards and more yards long hecame, coiling himself up neatly at John Dolittle's feet like a mooringrope on a ship's deck.
"Pardon me, but is there much more of you outside still?" asked theDoctor.
"Yes," said the snake, "only half of me is in yet."
"Then I'll open the door," said the Doctor, "so you can coil part ofyourself in the passage. This room is a bit small."
When at last the great serpent was all in, his thick coils entirelycovered the floor of the Doctor's office and a good part of himoverflowed into the passage outside.
"Now," said the Doctor, closing the window, "what can I do for you?"
"I've brought you this letter," said the snake. "It's from the turtle.He is wondering why he got no answer to his first."
"But he gave me no address," said John Dolittle, taking the muddyenvelope from the serpent. "I've been trying my hardest ever since tofind out where he lived."
"Oh, was that it?" said the snake. "Well, old Mudface isn't much of aletter-writer. I suppose he didn't know he had to give his address."
"I'm awfully glad to hear from him again," said the Doctor. "I hadgiven up all hope of ever seeing him. You can show me how to get tohim?"
"Why, certainly," said the big serpent. "I live in the same lake as hedoes, Lake Junganyika."
"You're a water snake, then, I take it," said the Doctor.
"Yes."
"You look rather worn out from your journey. Is there anything I canget you?"
"I'd like a saucer of milk," said the snake.
"I only have wild goats' milk," said John Dolittle. "But it's quitefresh."
And he went out into the kitchen and woke up the housekeeper.
"What do you think, Dab-Dab," he said breathless with excitement, "I'vegot a second letter from the turtle and the messenger is going to takeus to see him!"
When Dab-Dab entered the postmaster's office with the milk she foundJohn Dolittle reading the letter. Looking at the floor, she gave asquawk of disgust.
"It's a good thing for you Sarah isn't here," she cried. "Just look atthe state of your office--it's _full of snake_!"



_CHAPTER VIII_
THE LAND OF THE MANGROVE SWAMPS

It was a long but a most interesting journey that the Doctor took fromFantippo to Lake Junganyika. It turned out that the turtle's home laymany miles inland in the heart of one of the wildest, most jungly partsof Africa.
The Doctor decided to leave Gub-Gub home this time and he took with himonly Jip, Dab-Dab, Too-Too and Cheapside--who said he wanted a holidayand that his sparrow friends could now quite well carry on the citydeliveries in his absence.
The great water snake began by taking the Doctor's party down the coastsouth for some forty or fifty miles. There they left the sea, enteredthe mouth of a river and started to journey inland. The canoe (with thesnake swimming alongside it) was quite the best thing for this kind oftravel so long as the river had water in it. But presently, as theywent up it, the stream grew narrower and narrower. Till at last, likemany rivers in tropical countries, it was nothing more than the dry bedof a brook, or a chain of small pools with long sand bars between.
Overhead the thick jungle arched and hung like a tunnel of green. Thiswas a good thing by day-time, as it kept the sun off better than aparasol. And in the dry stretches of river bed, where the Doctor hadto carry or drag the canoe on home-made runners, the work was hard andshade something to be grateful for.
At the end of the first day John Dolittle wanted to leave the canoe ina safe place and finish the trip on foot. But the snake said they wouldneed it further on, where there was more water and many swamps to cross.
As they went forward the jungle around them seemed to grow thicker andthicker all the time. But there was always this clear alley-way alongthe river bed. And though the stream's course did much winding andtwisting, the going was good.
The Doctor saw a great deal of new country, trees he had never metbefore, gay-colored orchids, butterflies, ferns, birds and raremonkeys. So his notebook was kept busy all the time with sketching andjotting and adding to his already great knowledge of natural history.
On the third day of travel this river bed led them into an entirely newand different kind of country. If you have never been in a mangroveswamp, it is difficult to imagine what it looks like. It was mournfulscenery. Flat bog land, full of pools and streamlets, dotted with tuftsof grass and weed, tangled with gnarled roots and brambling bushes,spread out for miles and miles in every direction. It reminded theDoctor of some huge shrubbery that had been flooded by heavy rains. Nolarge trees were here, such as they had seen in the jungle lower down.Seven or eight feet above their heads was as high as the mangrovesgrew and from their thin boughs long streamers of moss hung like gray,fluttering rags.
The life, too, about them was quite different. The gayly coloredbirds of the true forest did not care for this damp country of halfwater and half land. Instead, all manner of swamp birds--big-billedand long-necked, for the most part--peered at them from the sprawlingsaplings. Many kinds of herons, egrets, ibises, grebes, bitterns--evenstately anhingas, who can fly beneath the water--were wading in theswamps or nesting on the little tufty islands. In and out of the holesabout the gnarled roots strange and wondrous water creatures--thingshalf fish and half lizard--scuttled and quarreled with brightly coloredcrabs.
For many folks it would have seemed a creepy, nightmary sort ofcountry, this land of the mangrove swamps. But to the Doctor, for whomany kind of animal life was always companionable and good intentioned,it was a most delightful new field of exploration.
They were glad now that the snake had not allowed them to leave thecanoe behind. For here, where every step you took you were liableto sink down in the mud up to your waist, Jip and the Doctor wouldhave had hard work to get along at all without it. And, even with it,the going was slow and hard enough. The mangroves spread out long,twisting, crossing arms in every direction to bar your passage--asthough they were determined to guard the secrets of this silent, gloomyland where men could not make a home and seldom ever came.
Indeed, if it had not been for the giant water snake, to whom mangroveswamps were the easiest kind of traveling, they would never have beenable to make their way forward. But their guide went on ahead of themfor hundreds of yards to lead the way through the best openings and tofind the passages where the water was deep enough to float a canoe.And, although his head was out of sight most of the time in the tangleddistance, he kept, in the worst stretches, a firm hold on the canoe bytaking a turn about the bowpost with his tail. And whenever they werestuck in the mud he would contract that long, muscular body of his witha jerk and yank the canoe forward as though it had been no more than acan tied on the end of a string.
Dab-Dab, Too-Too and Cheapside did not, of course, bother to sit in thecanoe. They found flying from tree to tree a much easier way to travel.But in one of these jerky pulls which the snake gave on his livingtowline, the Doctor and Jip were left sitting in the mud as the canoewas actually yanked from under them. This so much amused the vulgarCheapside, who was perched in a mangrove tree above their heads, thathe suddenly broke the solemn silence of the swamp by bursting intonoisy laughter.
"Lor' bless us, Doctor, but you do get yourself into some comicalsituations! Who would think to see John Dolittle, M.D., heminentphysician of Puddleby-on-the-Marsh, bein' pulled through a mud swamp indarkest Africa by a couple of 'undred yards of fat worm! You've no ideahow funny you look!"
"Oh, close your silly face!" growled Jip, black mud from head to foot,scrambling back into the canoe. "It's easy for you--you can fly throughthe mess."
"It 'ud make a nice football ground, this," murmured Cheapside. "I'msurprised the Hafricans 'aven't took to it. I didn't know there wasthis much mud anywhere--outside of 'Amstead 'Eath after a wet Bank'Oliday. I wonder when we're going to get there. Seems to me we'recomin' to the end of the world--or the middle of it. 'Aven't seen a'uman face since we left the shore. 'E's an exclusive kind of gent, ourMr. Turtle, ain't 'e? Meself, I wouldn't be surprised if we ran intoold Noah, sitting on the wreck of the Hark, any minute.... 'Elp theDoctor up, Jip. Look, 'e's got his chin caught under a root."
The snake, hearing Cheapside's chatter, thought something must bewrong. He turned his head-end around and came back to see what thematter was. Then a short halt was made in the journey while the Doctorand Jip cleaned themselves up, and the precious notebooks, which hadalso been jerked out into the mud, were rescued and stowed in a safeplace.
"Do no people at all live in these parts?" the Doctor asked the snake.
"None whatever," said the guide. "We left the lands where men dwellbehind us long ago. Nobody can live in these bogs but swamp birds,marsh creatures and water snakes."
"How much further have we got to go?" asked the Doctor, rinsing the mudoff his hat in a pool.
"About one more day's journey," said the snake. "A wide belt of theseswamps surrounds the Secret Lake of Junganyika on all sides. The goingwill become freer as we approach the open water of the lake."
"We are really on the shores of it already, then?"
"Yes," said the serpent. "But, properly speaking, the Secret Lakecannot be said to have shores at all--or, certainly, as you see, noshore where a man can stand."
"Why do you call it the Secret Lake?" asked the Doctor.
"Because it has never been visited by man since the Flood," said thegiant reptile. "You will be the first to see it. We who live in itboast that we bathe daily in the original water of the Flood. Forbefore the Forty Days' Rain came it was not there, they say. But whenthe Flood passed away this part of the world never dried up. And so ithas remained, guarded by these wide mangrove swamps, ever since."
"What was here before the Flood then?" asked the Doctor.
"They say rolling, fertile country, waving corn and sunny hilltops,"the snake replied. "That is what I have heard. I was not there to see.Mudface, the turtle, will tell you all about it."
"How wonderful!" exclaimed the Doctor. "Let us push on. I am mostanxious to see him--and the Secret Lake."



_CHAPTER IX_
THE SECRET LAKE

During the course of the next day's travel the country became, as thesnake had foretold, freer and more open. Little by little the islandsgrew fewer and the mangroves not so tangly. In the dreary views therewas less land and more water. The going was much easier now. For milesat a stretch the Doctor could paddle, without the help of his guide,in water that seemed to be quite deep. It was indeed a change to beable to look up and see a clear sky overhead once in a while, insteadof that everlasting network of swamp trees. Across the heavens thetravelers now occasionally saw flights of wild ducks and geese, wingingtheir way eastward.
"That's a sign we're near open water," said Dab-Dab.
"Yes," the snake agreed. "They're going to Junganyika. It is thefeeding ground of great flocks of wild geese."
It was about five o'clock in the evening when they came to the end ofthe little islands and mud banks. And as the canoe's nose glided easilyforward into entirely open water they suddenly found themselves lookingacross a great inland sea.
The Doctor was tremendously impressed by his first sight of the SecretLake. If the landscape of the swamp country had been mournful thiswas even more so. No eye could see across it. The edge of it was likethe ocean's--just a line where the heavens and the water meet. Aheadto the eastward--the darkest part of the evening sky--even this linebarely showed, for now the murky waters and the frowning night blurredtogether in an inky mass. To the right and left the Doctor could seethe fringe of the swamp trees running around the lake, disappearing inthe distance North and South.
Out in the open great banks of gray mist rolled and joined andseparated as the wailing wind pushed them fretfully hither and thitherover the face of the waters.
"My word!" the Doctor murmured in a quiet voice. "Here one could almostbelieve that the Flood was not over yet!"
"Jolly place, ain't it?" came Cheapside's cheeky voice from the sternof the canoe. "Give me London any day--in the worst fog ever. This isa bloomin' eels' country. Look at them mist shadows skatin' round thelake. Might be old Noah and 'is family, playin' 'Ring-a-ring-a-rosy' intheir night-shirts, they're that lifelike."
"The mists are always there," said the snake--"always have been. Inthem the first rainbow shone."
"Well," said the sparrow, "I'd sell the whole place cheap if it wasmine--mists and all. 'Ow many 'undred miles of this bonny blue ocean'ave we got to cross before we reach our Mr. Mudface?"
"Not very many," said the snake. "He lives on the edge of the lake afew miles to the North. Let us hurry and try to reach his home beforedarkness falls."
Once more, with the guide in front, but this time at a much betterpace, the party set off.
As the light grew dimmer the calls of several night birds sounded fromthe mangroves on the left. Too-Too told the Doctor that many of thesewere owls, but of kinds that he had never seen or met with before.
"Yes," said the Doctor. "I imagine there are lots of different kinds ofbirds and beasts in these parts that can be found nowhere else in theworld."
At last, while it was still just light enough to see, the snake swunginto the left and once more entered the outskirts of the mangroveswamps. Following him with difficulty in the fading light, the Doctorwas led into a deep glady cove. At the end of this the nose of thecanoe suddenly bumped into something hard. The Doctor was about to leanout to see what it was when a deep, deep bass voice spoke out of thegloom quite close to him.
"Welcome, John Dolittle. Welcome to Lake Junganyika."
Then looking up, the Doctor saw on a mound-like island the shape of anenormous turtle--fully twelve feet across the shell--standing outlinedagainst the blue-black sky.
The long journey was over at last.
Doctor Dolittle did not at any time believe in traveling with verymuch baggage. And all that he had brought with him on this journey wasa few things rolled up in a blanket--and, of course, the little blackmedicine-bag. Among those things, luckily, however, were a couple ofcandles. And if it had not been for them he would have had hard work toland safely from the canoe.
Getting them lighted in the wind that swept across the lake was no easymatter. But to protect their flame Too-Too wove a couple of littlelanterns out of thin leaves, through which the light shone dimly greenbut bright enough to see your way by.
To his surprise, the Doctor found that the mound, or island, on whichthe turtle lived was not made of mud, though muddy footprints could beseen all over it. It was made of stone--of stones cut square with achisel.
While the Doctor was examining them with great curiosity the turtlesaid:
"They are the ruins of a city. I used to be content to live and sleepin the mud. But since my gout has been so bad I thought I ought to makemyself something solid and dry to rest on. Those stones are pieces of aking's house."
"Pieces of a house--of a city!" the Doctor exclaimed, peering into thewet and desolate darkness that surrounded the little island. "But wheredid they come from?"
"From the bottom of the lake," said the turtle. "Out there," Mudfacenodded toward the gloomy wide-stretching waters, "there stood,thousands of years ago, the beautiful city of Shalba. Don't I know,when for long enough I lived in it? Once it was the greatest andfairest city ever raised by men and King Mashtu of Shalba the proudestmonarch in the world. Now I, Mudface the turtle, make a nest in theswamp out of the ruins of his palace. Ha! Ha!"
"You sound bitter," said the Doctor. "Did King Mashtu do you any harm?"
"I should say he did," growled Mudface. "But that belongs to the storyof the Flood. You have come far. You must be weary and in need of food."
"Well," said the Doctor, "I am most anxious to hear the story. Does ittake long to tell?"
"About three weeks would be my guess," whispered Cheapside. "Turtles doeverything slow. Something tells me that story is the longest story inthe world, Doctor. Let's get a nap and a bite to eat first. We can hearit just as well to-morrow."
So, in spite of John Dolittle's impatience, the story was put off tillthe following day. For the evening meal Dab-Dab managed to scout aroundand gather together quite a nice mess of fresh-water shellfish andToo-Too collected some marsh berries that did very well for dessert.
Then came the problem of how to sleep. This was not so easy, because,although the foundations of the turtle's mound were of stone, therewas hardly a dry spot on the island left where you could lie down. TheDoctor tried the canoe. But it was sort of cramped and uncomfortablefor sleeping, and now even there, too, the mud had been carried byDab-Dab's feet and his own. In this country the great problem wasgetting away from the mud.
"When Noah's family first came out of the Ark," said the turtle, "theyslept in little beds which they strung up between the stumps of thedrowned trees."
"Ah, hammocks!" cried the Doctor. "Of course--the very thing!"
Then, with Jip's and Dab-Dab's help, he constructed a very comfortablebasket-work hammock out of willow wands and fastened it between twolarger mangroves. Into this he climbed and drew the blanket over him.Although the trees leaned down toward the water with his weight, theywere quite strong and their bendiness acted like good bed springs.
The moon had now risen and the weird scenery of Junganyika was allgreen lights and blue shadows. As the Doctor snuffed out his candlesand Jip curled himself up at his feet the turtle suddenly startedhumming a tune in his deep bass voice, waving his long neck from sideto side in the moonlight.
"What is that tune you are humming?" asked the Doctor.
"That's the 'Elephants' March,'" said the turtle. "They always playedit at the Royal Circus of Shalba for the elephants' procession."
"Let's 'ope it 'asn't many verses," grumbled Cheapside, sleepilyputting his head under his wing.
The sun had not yet risen on the gloomy waters of Lake Junganyikabefore Jip felt the Doctor stirring in his hammock, preparing to get up.
Presently Dab-Dab could be heard messing about in the mud below,bravely trying to get breakfast ready under difficult conditions.
Next Cheapside, grumbling in a sleepy chirp, brought his head out fromunder his wing, gave the muddy scenery one look and popped it backagain.
But it was of little use to try to get more sleep now. The camp wasastir. John Dolittle, bent on the one idea of hearing that story, hadalready swung himself out of his hammock and was now washing his facenoisily in the lake. Cheapside shook his feathers, swore a few words inCockney and flew off his tree down to the Doctor's side.
"Look 'ere, Doctor," he whispered, "this ain't an 'olesome place tostay at all. I'm all full of cramp from the damp night air. You'd getwebfooted if you loitered in this country long. Listen, you want to becareful about gettin' old Mudface started on his yarn spinning. D'yerknow what 'e reminds me of? Them old Crimea War veterans. Once theybegin telling their reminiscences there's no stoppin' 'em. 'E lookslike one, too, with that long, scrawny neck of 'is. Tell 'im to makeit short and sweet--just to give us the outline of his troubles, like,see? The sooner we can shake the mud of this place off our feet andmake tracks for Fantippo the better it'll be for all of us."
Well, when breakfast had been disposed of the Doctor sharpened hispencil, got out a notebook and, telling Too-Too to listen carefully, incase he should miss anything, he asked the turtle to begin the story ofthe Flood.
Cheapside had been right. Although it did not take a fortnight to tellit did take a very full day. Slowly and evenly the sun rose out of theEast, passed across the heavens and sank down into the West. And stillMudface went murmuring on, telling of all the wonders he had seen indays long ago, while the Doctor's pencil wiggled untiringly over thepages of his notebook. The only interruptions were when the turtlepaused to lean down and moisten his long throat with the muddy waterof the lake, or when the Doctor stopped him to ask a question on thenatural history of antediluvian times.
Dab-Dab prepared lunch and supper and served them as silently as shecould, so as not to interrupt; but for the Doctor they were veryscrappy meals. On into the night the story went. And now John Dolittlewrote by candle-light, while all his pets, with the exception ofToo-Too, were already nodding or dozing.
At last, about half past ten--to Cheapside's great relief--the turtlepronounced the final words.
"And that, John Dolittle, is the end of the story of the Flood by onewho saw it with his own eyes."
For some time after the turtle finished no one spoke. Even theirreverent Cheapside was silent. Little bits of stars, dimmed by thelight of a half-full moon, twinkled like tiny eyes in the dim bluedome that arched across the lake. Away off somewhere among the tangledmangroves an owl hooted from the swamp and Too-Too turned his headquickly to listen. Dab-Dab, the economical housekeeper, seeing theDoctor close his notebook and put away his pencil, blew out the candle.
At last the Doctor spoke:
"Mudface, I don't know when, in all my life I have listened to a storythat interested me so much. I--I'm glad I came."
"I too am glad, John Dolittle. You are the only one in the world nowwho understands the speech of animals. And if you had not come my storyof the Flood could not have been told. I'm getting very old and do notever move far away from Junganyika."
"Would it be too much to ask you?" said the Doctor, "to get me somesouvenir from the city below the lake?"
"Not at all," said the turtle. "I'll go down and try to get yousomething right away."
Slowly and smoothly, like some unbelievable monster of former days, theturtle moved his great bulk across his little island and slid himselfinto the lake without splashing or disturbance of any kind. Only agentle swirling in the water showed where he had disappeared.
In silence they all waited--the animals now, for the moment, reawakenedand full of interest. The Doctor had visions of his enormous friendmoving through the slime of centuries at the bottom of the lake,hunting for some souvenir of the great civilization that passed awaywith the Flood. He hoped that he would bring a book or something withwriting on it.
Instead, when at last he reappeared wet and shining in the moonlight,he had a carved stone window-sill on his back which must have weighedover a ton.
"Lor' bless us!" muttered Cheapside. "What a wonderful piano-mover'e would make to be sure! Great Carter Patterson! Does 'e think theDoctor's goin' to 'ang that on 'is watch-chain?"
"It was the lightest thing I could find," said the turtle, rolling itoff his back with a thud that shook the island. "I had hoped I couldget a vase or a plate or something you could carry. But all the smallerobjects are now covered in fathoms of mud. This I broke off from thesecond story of the palace--from the queen's bedroom window. I thoughtperhaps you'd like to see it anyway, even if it was too much for you tocarry home. It's beautifully carved. Wait till I wash some of the mudoff it."
The candles were lighted again and after the carvings had been cleanedthe Doctor examined them with great care and even made sketches of someof them in his notebook.
By the time the Doctor had done, all his party, excepting Too-Too, hadfallen asleep. It was only when he heard Jip suddenly snore from thehammock that he realized how late it was. As he blew out the candlesagain he found that it was very dark, for now the moon had set. Heclimbed into bed and drew the blankets over him.



_CHAPTER X_
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL'S LAST ORDER

When Dab-Dab roused the party next morning the sun was shining throughthe mist upon the lake doing its best to brighten up the desolatescenery around them.
Poor Mudface awoke with an acute attack of gout. He had not beenbothered by this ailment since the Doctor's arrival. But now he couldscarcely move at all without great pain. And Dab-Dab brought hisbreakfast to him where he lay.
John Dolittle was inclined to blame himself for having asked him to gohunting in the lake for souvenirs the night before.
"I'm afraid that was what brought on the attack," said the Doctor,getting out his little black bag from the canoe and mixing somemedicines. "But you know you really ought to move out of this dampcountry to some drier climate. I am aware that turtles can stand anawful lot of wet. But at your age one must be careful, you know."
"There isn't any other place I like as well," said Mudface. "It's sohard to find a country where you're not disturbed these days."
"Here, drink this," the Doctor ordered, handing him a tea-cup full ofsome brown mixture. "I think you will find that that will soon relievethe stiffness in your front legs."
The turtle drank it down. And in a minute or two he said he felt muchbetter and could now move his legs freely without pain.
"It's a wonderful medicine, that," said he. "You are surely a greatDoctor. Have you got any more of it?"
"I will make up several bottles of the mixture and leave them with youbefore I go," said John Dolittle. "But you really ought to get on highground somewhere. This muddy little hummock is no place for you tolive. Isn't there a regular island in the lake, where you could makeyour home--if you're determined not to leave the Junganyika country?"
"Not one," said the turtle. "It's all like this, just miles and milesof mud and water. I used to like it--in fact I do still. I wouldn'twish for anything better if it weren't for this wretched gout of mine."
"Well," said the Doctor, "if you haven't got an island we must make onefor you."
"Make one!" cried the turtle. "How would you go about it?"
"I'll show you very shortly," said John Dolittle. And he calledCheapside to him.
"Will you please fly down to Fantippo," he said to the City Manager,"and give this message to Speedy-the-Skimmer. And ask him to sendit out to all the postmasters of the branch offices: The SwallowMail is very shortly to be closed--at all events for a considerabletime. I must now be returning to Puddleby and it will be impossiblefor me to continue the service in its present form after I haveleft No-Man's-Land. I wish to convey my thanks to all the birds,postmasters, clerks and letter-carriers who have so generously helpedme in this work. The last favor which I am going to ask of them is alarge one; and I hope they will give me their united support in it. Iwant them to build me an island in the middle of Lake Junganyika. Itis for Mudface the turtle, the oldest animal living, who in days goneby did a very great deal for man and beast--for the whole world infact--when the earth was passing through the darkest chapters in allits history. Tell Speedy to send word to all bird leaders throughoutthe world. Tell him I want as many birds as possible right away tobuild a healthy home where this brave turtle may end his long life inpeace. It is the last thing I ask of the post office staff and I hopethey will do their best for me."
Cheapside said that the message was so long he was afraid he wouldnever be able to remember it by heart. So John Dolittle told him totake it down in bird scribble and he dictated it to him all over again.
That letter, the last circular order issued by the great PostmasterGeneral to the staff of the Swallow Mail, was treasured by Cheapsidefor many years. He hid it under his untidy nest in St. Edmund's leftear on the south side of the chancel of St. Paul's Cathedral. He alwayshoped that the pigeons who lived in the front porch of the BritishMuseum would some day get it into the Museum for him. But one gustymorning, when men were cleaning the outside of the cathedral, it gotblown out of St. Edmund's ear and, before Cheapside could overtake it,it sailed over the housetops into the river and sank.
The sparrow got back to Junganyika late that afternoon. He reportedthat Speedy had immediately, on receiving the Doctor's message,forwarded it to the postmasters of the branch offices with orders topass it on to all the bird-leaders everywhere. It was expected that thefirst birds would begin to arrive here early the following morning.
It was Speedy himself who woke the Doctor at dawn the next day. Andwhile breakfast was being eaten he explained to John Dolittle thearrangements that had been made.
The work, the Skimmer calculated, would take three days. All birds hadbeen ordered to pick up a stone or a pebble or a pinch of sand from theseashore on their way and bring it with them. The larger birds (whowould carry stones) were to come first, then the middle-sized birds andthen the little ones with sand.
Soon, when the sky over the lake was beginning to fill up with circlingospreys, herons and albatrosses, Speedy left the Doctor and flew off tojoin them. There, taking up a position in the sky right over the centreof the lake, he hovered motionless, as a marker for the stone-droppers.Then the work began.
All day long a never-ending stream of big birds, a dozen abreast, flewup from the sea and headed across Lake Junganyika. The line was like asolid black ribbon, the birds, dense, packed and close, beak to tail.And as each dozen reached the spot where Speedy hovered, twelve stonesdropped into the water. The procession was so continuous and unbrokenthat it looked as though the sky were raining stones. And the constantroar of them splashing into the water out of the heavens could be hearda mile off.
The lake in the centre was quite deep. And of course tons and tonsof stone would have to be dropped before the new island would beginto show above the water's surface. This gathering of birds wasgreater even than the one the Doctor had addressed in the hollow ofNo-Man's-Land. It was the biggest gathering of birds that had ever beenseen. For now not only the leaders came but thousands and millions ofevery species. John Dolittle got tremendously excited and jumping intohis canoe he started to paddle out nearer to the work. But Speedy grewimpatient that the top of the stone-pile was not yet showing above thewater; and he gave the order to double up the line--and then doubleagain, as still more birds came to help from different parts of theworld. And soon, with a thousand stones falling every fraction of asecond, the lake got so rough that the Doctor had to put back for theturtle's hummock lest his canoe capsize.
All that day, all that night and half the next day, this continued. Atlast about noon on the morrow the sound of the falling stones began tochange. The great mound of seething white water, like a fountain in themiddle of the lake, disappeared; and in its place a black spot showed.The noise of splashing changed to the noise of stone rattling on stone.The top of the island had begun to show.
"It's like the mountains peeping out after the Flood," Mudface mutteredto the Doctor.
Then Speedy gave the order for the middle-sized birds to join in; andsoon the note of the noise changed again--shriller--as tons and tons ofpebbles and gravel began to join the downpour.
Another night and another day went by, and at dawn the gallant Skimmercame down to rest his weary wings; for the workers did not need amarker any longer--now that a good-sized island stood out on the bosomof the lake for the birds to drop their burdens on.
Bigger and bigger grew the home-made land and soon Mudface's new estatewas acres wide. Still another order from Speedy; and presently therattling noise changed to a gentle hiss. The sky now was simply blackwith birds; the pebble-shower had ceased; it was raining sand. Last ofall, the birds brought seeds: grass seeds, the seeds of flowers, acornsand the kernels of palms. The turtle's new home was to be provided withturf, with wild gardens, with shady avenues to keep off the African sun.
When Speedy came to the hummock and said, "Doctor, it is finished,"Mudface gazed thoughtfully out into the lake and murmured:
"Now proud Shalba is buried indeed: she has an island for a tombstone!It's a grand home you have given me, John Dolittle.--Alas, poorShalba!--Mashtu the king passes. But Mudface the turtle--lives on!"



_CHAPTER XI_
GOOD-BYE TO FANTIPPO

Mudface's landing on his new home was quite an occasion. The Doctorpaddled out alongside of him till they reached the island. Until he setfoot on it, John Dolittle himself had not realized what a large pieceof ground it was. It was more than a quarter of a mile across. Round inshape, it rose gently from the shores to the flat centre, which was agood hundred feet above the level of the lake.
Mudface was tremendously pleased with it; climbing laboriously to thecentral plateau--from where you could see great distances over the flatcountry around--he said he was sure his health would quickly improve inthis drier air.
Dab-Dab prepared a meal--the best she could in the circumstances--tocelebrate what she called the turtle's house-warming. And everyone satdown to it; and there was much gayety and the Doctor was asked to makea speech in honor of the occasion.
Cheapside was dreadfully afraid that Mudface would get up to make aspeech in reply and that it would last into the following day. But tothe sparrow's relief the Doctor, immediately he had finished, set aboutpreparations for his departure.
He made up the six bottles of gout mixture and presented them toMudface with instructions in how it should be taken. He told him thatalthough he was closing up the post office for regular service it wouldalways be possible to get word to Puddleby. He would ask several birdsof passage to stop here occasionally; and if the gout got any worse hewanted Mudface to let him know by letter.
The old turtle thanked him over and over again and the parting was avery affecting one. When at last the goodbyes were all said, they gotinto the canoe and set out on the return journey.
Reaching the mouth of the river at the southern end of the lake theypaused a moment before entering the mangrove swamps and looked back.And there in the distance they could just see the shape of the oldturtle standing on his new island, watching them. They waved to him andpushed on.
"He looks just the same as we saw him the night we arrived," saidDab-Dab--"you remember? Like a statue on a pedestal against the sky."
"Poor old fellow!" murmured the Doctor. "I do hope he will be all rightnow.... What a Wonderful life!--What a wonderful history!"
"Didn't I tell you, Doctor," said Cheapside, "that it was going to bethe longest story in the world?--Took a day and half a night to tell."
"Ah, but it's a story that nobody else could tell," said John Dolittle.
"Good thing too," muttered the Sparrow. "It would never do if there wasmany of 'is kind spread around this busy world.--Of course, meself, Idon't believe a word of the yarn. I think he made it all up. 'E 'adnothin' else to do--sittin' there in the mud, century after century,cogitatin'."
The journey down through the jungle was completed without anythingspecial happening. But when they reached the sea and turned the bow ofthe canoe westward they came upon a very remarkable thing. It was anenormous hole in the beach--or rather a place where the beach had beentaken away bodily. Speedy told the Doctor that it was here that thebirds had picked up the stones and sand on their way to Junganyika.They had literally carried acres of the seashore nearly a thousandmiles inland. Of course in a few months the action of the surf filledin the hole, so that the place looked like the rest of the beach.
But that is why, when many years later some learned geologists visitedLake Junganyika, they said that the seashore gravel on an islandthere was a clear proof that the sea had once flowed through thatneighborhood. Which was true--in the days of the Flood. But the Doctorwas the only scientist who knew that Mudface's island, and the stonesthat made it, had quite a different history.
On his arrival at the post office the Doctor was given his usual warmreception by the king and dignitaries of Fantippo who paddled out fromthe town to welcome him back.
Tea was served at once; and His Majesty seemed so delighted at renewingthis pleasant custom that John Dolittle was loath to break the news tohim that he must shortly resign from the Foreign Mail Service and sailfor England. However, while they were chatting on the veranda of thehouseboat a fleet of quite large sailing vessels entered the harbor.These were some of the new merchant craft of Fantippo which pliedregularly up and down the coast, trading with other African countries.The Doctor pointed out to the king that mails intended for foreignlands could now be quite easily taken by these boats to the biggerports on the coast where vessels from Europe called every week.
From that the Doctor went on to explain to the King, that much as heloved Fantippo and its people, he had many things to attend to inEngland and must now be thinking of going home. And of course as noneof the natives could talk bird-language, the Swallow Mail would have tobe replaced by the ordinary kind of post office.
The Doctor found that His Majesty was much more distressed at theprospect of losing his good white friend and his afternoon tea on thehouseboat than at anything else which the change would bring. But hesaw that the Doctor really felt he had to go; and at length, with tearsfalling into his tea-cup, he gave permission for the Postmaster Generalof Fantippo to resign.
Great was the rejoicing among the Doctor's pets and the patientswallows when the news got about that John Dolittle was really goinghome at last. Gub-Gub and Jip could hardly wait while the last dutiesand ceremonies of closing the houseboat to the public and transferringthe Foreign Mails Service to the office in the town were performed.Dab-Dab bustled cheerfully from morning to night while Cheapside neverceased to chatter of the glories of London, the comforts of a city lifeand all the things he was going to do as soon as he got back to hisbeloved native haunts.
There was no end to the complimentary ceremonies which the good KingKoko and his courtiers performed to honor the departing Doctor. Fordays and days previous to his sailing, canoes came and went between thetown and the houseboat bearing presents to show the good will of theFantippans. During all this, having to keep smiling the whole time, theDoctor got sadder and sadder at leaving his good friends. And he washeartily glad when the hour came to pull up the anchor and put to sea.
People who have written the history of the Kingdom of Fantippoall devote several chapters to a mysterious white man who in avery short space of time made enormous improvements in the mail,the communications, the shipping, the commerce, the education andthe general prosperity of the country. Indeed it was through JohnDolittle's quiet influence that King Koko's reign came to be lookedupon as the Golden Age in Fantippan history. A wooden statue stillstands in the market-place to his memory.
The excellent postal service continued after he left. The stamps withKoko's face on them were as various and as beautiful as ever. On theoccasion of the first annual review of the Fantippo Merchant Fleet avery fine two-shilling stamp was struck in commemoration, showing HisMajesty inspecting his new ships through a lollipop quizzing-glass.The King himself became a stamp-collector and his album was as goodas a family photo-album, containing as it did so many pictures ofhimself. The only awkward incident that happened in the record of thepost office which the Doctor had done so much to improve was whensome ardent stamp-collectors, wishing to make the modern stamps rare,plotted to have the King assassinated in order that the current issuesshould go out of date. But the plot was happily discovered before anyharm was done.
Years afterwards, the birds visiting Puddleby told the Doctor that theKing still had the flowers in the window-boxes of his old houseboatcarefully tended and watered in his memory. His Majesty, they said,never gave up the fond hope that some day his good white friendwould come back to Fantippo with his kindly smile, his instructiveconversation and his jolly tea-parties on the post office veranda.