INTRODUCTION

_Æsop embodies an epigram not uncommon in human history; his fameis all the more deserved because he never deserved it. The firmfoundations of common sense, the shrewd shots at uncommon sense, thatcharacterise all the Fables, belong not him but to humanity. Inthe earliest human history whatever is authentic is universal: andwhatever is universal is anonymous. In such cases there is alwayssome central man who had first the trouble of collecting them, andafterwards the fame of creating them. He had the fame; and, on thewhole, he earned the fame. There must have been something great andhuman, something of the human future and the human past, in such aman: even if he only used it to rob the past or deceive the future.The story of Arthur may have been really connected with the mostfighting Christianity of falling Rome or with the most heathentraditions hidden in the hills of Wales. But the word "Mappe" or"Malory" will always mean King Arthur; even though we find older andbetter origins than the Mabinogian; or write later and worse versionsthan the "Idylls of the King." The nursery fairy tales may have comeout of Asia with the Indo-European race, now fortunately extinct; theymay have been invented by some fine French lady or gentleman likePerrault: they may possibly even be what they profess to be. But weshall always call the best selection of such tales "Grimm's Tales":simply because it is the best collection.
The historical Æsop, in so far as he was historical, would seem tohave been a Phrygian slave, or at least one not to be specially andsymbolically adorned with the Phrygian cap of liberty. He lived, if hedid live, about the sixth century before Christ, in the time of thatCroesus whose story we love and suspect like everything else inHerodotus. There are also stories of deformity of feature and a readyribaldry of tongue: stories which (as the celebrated Cardinal said)explain, though they do not excuse, his having been hurled over a highprecipice at Delphi. It is for those who read the Fables to judgewhether he was really thrown over the cliff for being ugly andoffensive, or rather for being highly moral and correct. But there isno kind of doubt that the general legend of him may justly rank himwith a race too easily forgotten in our modern comparisons: the raceof the great philosophic slaves. Æsop may have been a fiction likeUncle Remus: he was also, like Uncle Remus, a fact. It is a fact thatslaves in the old world could be worshipped like Æsop, or loved likeUncle Remus. It is odd to note that both the great slaves told theirbest stories about beasts and birds.
But whatever be fairly due to Æsop, the human tradition called Fablesis not due to him. This had gone on long before any sarcastic freedmanfrom Phrygia had or had not been flung off a precipice; this hasremained long after. It is to our advantage, indeed, to realise thedistinction; because it makes Æsop more obviously effective than anyother fabulist. Grimm's Tales, glorious as they are, were collected bytwo German students. And if we find it hard to be certain of a Germanstudent, at least we know more about him than We know about a Phrygianslave. The truth is, of course, that Æsop's Fables are not Æsop'sfables, any more than Grimm's Fairy Tales were ever Grimm's fairytales. But the fable and the fairy tale are things utterly distinct.There are many elements of difference; but the plainest is plainenough. There can be no good fable with human beings in it. There canbe no good fairy tale without them.
Æsop, or Babrius (or whatever his name was), understood that, fora fable, all the persons must be impersonal. They must be likeabstractions in algebra, or like pieces in chess. The lion must alwaysbe stronger than the wolf, just as four is always double of two. Thefox in a fable must move crooked, as the knight in chess must movecrooked. The sheep in a fable must march on, as the pawn in chess mustmarch on. The fable must not allow for the crooked captures of thepawn; it must not allow for what Balzac called "the revolt of a sheep"The fairy tale, on the other hand, absolutely revolves on the pivotof human personality. If no hero were there to fight the dragons, weshould not even know that they were dragons. If no adventurer werecast on the undiscovered island--it would remain undiscovered. If themiller's third son does not find the enchanted garden where the sevenprincesses stand white and frozen--why, then, they will remain whiteand frozen and enchanted. If there is no personal prince to find theSleeping Beauty she will simply sleep. Fables repose upon quite theopposite idea; that everything is itself, and will in any case speakfor itself. The wolf will be always wolfish; the fox will be alwaysfoxy. Something of the same sort may have been meant by the animalworship, in which Egyptian and Indian and many other great peopleshave combined. Men do not, I think, love beetles or cats or crocodileswith a wholly personal love; they salute them as expressions of thatabstract and anonymous energy in nature which to any one is awful, andto an atheist must be frightful. So in all the fables that are or arenot Æsop's all the animal forces drive like inanimate forces, likegreat rivers or growing trees. It is the limit and the loss of allsuch things that they cannot be anything but themselves: it is theirtragedy that they could not lose their souls.
This is the immortal justification of the Fable: that we could notteach the plainest truths so simply without turning men into chessmen.We cannot talk of such simple things without using animals that donot talk at all. Suppose, for a moment, that you turn the wolf into awolfish baron, or the fox into a foxy diplomatist. You will at onceremember that even barons are human, you will be unable to forgetthat even diplomatists are men. You will always be looking for thataccidental good-humour that should go with the brutality of any brutalman; for that allowance for all delicate things, including virtue,that should exist in any good diplomatist. Once put a thing on twolegs instead of four and pluck it of feathers and you cannot helpasking for a human being, either heroic, as in the fairy tales, orun-heroic, as in the modern novels.
But by using animals in this austere and arbitrary style as they areused on the shields of heraldry or the hieroglyphics of the ancients,men have really succeeded in handing down those tremendous truths thatare called truisms. If the chivalric lion be red and rampant, it isrigidly red and rampant; if the sacred ibis stands anywhere on oneleg, it stands on one leg for ever. In this language, like a largeanimal alphabet, are written some of the first philosophic certaintiesof men. As the child learns A for Ass or B for Bull or C for Cow, soman has learnt here to connect the simpler and stronger creatures withthe simpler and stronger truths. That a flowing stream cannot befoulits own fountain, and that any one who says it does is a tyrant and aliar; that a mouse is too weak to fight a lion, but too strong for thecords that can hold a lion; that a fox who gets most out of a flatdish may easily get least out of a deep dish; that the crow whom thegods forbid to sing, the gods nevertheless provide with cheese; thatwhen the goat insults from a mountain-top it is not the goat thatinsults, but the mountain: all these are deep truths deeply graven onthe rocks wherever men have passed. It matters nothing how old theyare, or how new; they are the alphabet of humanity, which like somany forms of primitive picture-writing employs any living symbolin preference to man. These ancient and universal tales are all ofanimals; as the latest discoveries in the oldest pre-historic cavernsare all of animals. Man, in his simpler states, always felt that hehimself was something too mysterious to be drawn. But the legend hecarved under these cruder symbols was everywhere the same; and whetherfables began with Æsop or began with Adam, whether they were Germanand mediæval as Reynard the Fox, or as French and Renaissance asLa Fontaine, the upshot is everywhere essentially the same: thatsuperiority is always insolent, because it is always accidental; thatpride goes before a fall; and that there is such a thing as being tooclever by half. You will not find any other legend but this writtenupon the rocks by any hand of man. There is every type and time offable: but there is only one moral to the fable; because there is onlyone moral to everything_.
G. K. CHESTERTON



THE FOX AND THE GRAPES

A hungry Fox saw some fine bunches of Grapes hanging from a vine thatwas trained along a high trellis, and did his best to reach them byjumping as high as he could into the air. But it was all in vain, forthey were just out of reach: so he gave up trying, and walked awaywith an air of dignity and unconcern, remarking, "I thought thoseGrapes were ripe, but I see now they are quite sour."



THE GOOSE THAT LAID THE GOLDEN EGGS

A Man and his Wife had the good fortune to possess a Goose which laida Golden Egg every day. Lucky though they were, they soon began tothink they were not getting rich fast enough, and, imagining the birdmust be made of gold inside, they decided to kill it in order tosecure the whole store of precious metal at once. But when they cut itopen they found it was just like any other goose. Thus, they neithergot rich all at once, as they had hoped, nor enjoyed any longer thedaily addition to their wealth.
    Much wants more and loses all.



THE CAT AND THE MICE

There was once a house that was overrun with Mice. A Cat heard ofthis, and said to herself, "That's the place for me," and off she wentand took up her quarters in the house, and caught the Mice one by oneand ate them. At last the Mice could stand it no longer, and theydetermined to take to their holes and stay there. "That's awkward,"said the Cat to herself: "the only thing to do is to coax them out bya trick." So she considered a while, and then climbed up the wall andlet herself hang down by her hind legs from a peg, and pretended tobe dead. By and by a Mouse peeped out and saw the Cat hanging there."Aha!" it cried, "you're very clever, madam, no doubt: but you mayturn yourself into a bag of meal hanging there, if you like, yet youwon't catch us coming anywhere near you."
    If you are wise you won't be deceived by the innocent airs of    those whom you have once found to be dangerous.



THE MISCHIEVOUS DOG

There was once a Dog who used to snap at people and bite them withoutany provocation, and who was a great nuisance to every one who came tohis master's house. So his master fastened a bell round his neck towarn people of his presence. The Dog was very proud of the bell, andstrutted about tinkling it with immense satisfaction. But an old dogcame up to him and said, "The fewer airs you give yourself the better,my friend. You don't think, do you, that your bell was given you as areward of merit? On the contrary, it is a badge of disgrace."
    Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.



THE CHARCOAL-BURNER AND THE FULLER

There was once a Charcoal-burner who lived and worked by himself.A Fuller, however, happened to come and settle in the sameneighbourhood; and the Charcoal-burner, having made his acquaintanceand finding he was an agreeable sort of fellow, asked him if he wouldcome and share his house: "We shall get to know one another betterthat way," he said, "and, beside, our household expenses will bediminished." The Fuller thanked him, but replied, "I couldn't thinkof it, sir: why, everything I take such pains to whiten would beblackened in no time by your charcoal."



THE MICE IN COUNCIL

Once upon a time all the Mice met together in Council, and discussedthe best means of securing themselves against the attacks of the cat.After several suggestions had been debated, a Mouse of some standingand experience got up and said, "I think I have hit upon a plan whichwill ensure our safety in the future, provided you approve and carryit out. It is that we should fasten a bell round the neck of our enemythe cat, which will by its tinkling warn us of her approach." Thisproposal was warmly applauded, and it had been already decided toadopt it, when an old Mouse got upon his feet and said, "I agree withyou all that the plan before us is an admirable one: but may I ask whois going to bell the cat?"



THE BAT AND THE WEASELS

A Bat fell to the ground and was caught by a Weasel, and was justgoing to be killed and eaten when it begged to be let go. The Weaselsaid he couldn't do that because he was an enemy of all birds onprinciple. "Oh, but," said the Bat, "I'm not a bird at all: I'm amouse." "So you are," said the Weasel, "now I come to look at you";and he let it go. Some time after this the Bat was caught in just thesame way by another Weasel, and, as before, begged for its life. "No,"said the Weasel, "I never let a mouse go by any chance." "But I'm nota mouse," said the Bat; "I'm a bird." "Why, so you are," said theWeasel; and he too let the Bat go.
    Look and see which way the wind blows before you commit yourself.



THE DOG AND THE SOW

A Dog and a Sow were arguing and each claimed that its own young oneswere finer than those of any other animal. "Well," said the Sow atlast, "mine can see, at any rate, when they come into the world: butyours are born blind."



THE FOX AND THE CROW

A Crow was sitting on a branch of a tree with a piece of cheese in herbeak when a Fox observed her and set his wits to work to discoversome way of getting the cheese. Coming and standing under the tree helooked up and said, "What a noble bird I see above me! Her beauty iswithout equal, the hue of her plumage exquisite. If only her voice isas sweet as her looks are fair, she ought without doubt to be Queen ofthe Birds." The Crow was hugely flattered by this, and just to showthe Fox that she could sing she gave a loud caw. Down came the cheese,of course, and the Fox, snatching it up, said, "You have a voice,madam, I see: what you want is wits."



THE HORSE AND THE GROOM

There was once a Groom who used to spend long hours clipping andcombing the Horse of which he had charge, but who daily stole aportion of his allowance of oats, and sold it for his own profit. TheHorse gradually got into worse and worse condition, and at last criedto the Groom, "If you really want me to look sleek and well, you mustcomb me less and feed me more."



THE WOLF AND THE LAMB

A Wolf came upon a Lamb straying from the flock, and felt somecompunction about taking the life of so helpless a creature withoutsome plausible excuse; so he cast about for a grievance and saidat last, "Last year, sirrah, you grossly insulted me." "That isimpossible, sir," bleated the Lamb, "for I wasn't born then." "Well,"retorted the Wolf, "you feed in my pastures." "That cannot be,"replied the Lamb, "for I have never yet tasted grass." "You drink frommy spring, then," continued the Wolf. "Indeed, sir," said the poorLamb, "I have never yet drunk anything but my mother's milk." "Well,anyhow," said the Wolf, "I'm not going without my dinner": and hesprang upon the Lamb and devoured it without more ado.



THE PEACOCK AND THE CRANE

A Peacock taunted a Crane with the dullness of her plumage. "Look atmy brilliant colours," said she, "and see how much finer they are thanyour poor feathers." "I am not denying," replied the Crane, "thatyours are far gayer than mine; but when it comes to flying I cansoar into the clouds, whereas you are confined to the earth like anydunghill cock."



THE CAT AND THE BIRDS

A Cat heard that the Birds in an aviary were ailing. So he got himselfup as a doctor, and, taking with him a set of the instruments properto his profession, presented himself at the door, and inquired afterthe health of the Birds. "We shall do very well," they replied,without letting him in, "when we've seen the last of you."
    A villain may disguise himself, but he will not deceive the wise.



THE SPENDTHRIFT AND THE SWALLOW

A Spendthrift, who had wasted his fortune, and had nothing left butthe clothes in which he stood, saw a Swallow one fine day in earlyspring. Thinking that summer had come, and that he could now dowithout his coat, he went and sold it for what it would fetch. Achange, however, took place in the weather, and there came a sharpfrost which killed the unfortunate Swallow. When the Spendthrift sawits dead body he cried, "Miserable bird! Thanks to you I am perishingof cold myself."
    One swallow does not make summer.



THE OLD WOMAN AND THE DOCTOR

An Old Woman became almost totally blind from a disease of the eyes,and, after consulting a Doctor, made an agreement with him in thepresence of witnesses that she should pay him a high fee if hecured her, while if he failed he was to receive nothing. The Doctoraccordingly prescribed a course of treatment, and every time he paidher a visit he took away with him some article out of the house, untilat last, when he visited her for the last time, and the cure wascomplete, there was nothing left. When the Old Woman saw that thehouse was empty she refused to pay him his fee; and, after repeatedrefusals on her part, he sued her before the magistrates for paymentof her debt. On being brought into court she was ready with herdefence. "The claimant," said she, "has stated the facts about ouragreement correctly. I undertook to pay him a fee if he cured me, andhe, on his part, promised to charge nothing if he failed. Now, he saysI am cured; but I say that I am blinder than ever, and I can provewhat I say. When my eyes were bad I could at any rate see well enoughto be aware that my house contained a certain amount of furniture andother things; but now, when according to him I am cured, I am entirelyunable to see anything there at all."



THE MOON AND HER MOTHER

The Moon once begged her Mother to make her a gown. "How can I?"replied she; "there's no fitting your figure. At one time you're a NewMoon, and at another you're a Full Moon; and between whiles you'reneither one nor the other."



MERCURY AND THE WOODMAN

A Woodman was felling a tree on the bank of a river, when his axe,glancing off the trunk, flew out of his hands and fell into the water.As he stood by the water's edge lamenting his loss, Mercury appearedand asked him the reason for his grief; and on learning what hadhappened, out of pity for his distress he dived into the river and,bringing up a golden axe, asked him if that was the one he had lost.The Woodman replied that it was not, and Mercury then dived a secondtime, and, bringing up a silver axe, asked if that was his. "No, thatis not mine either," said the Woodman. Once more Mercury dived intothe river, and brought up the missing axe. The Woodman was overjoyedat recovering his property, and thanked his benefactor warmly; and thelatter was so pleased with his honesty that he made him a present ofthe other two axes. When the Woodman told the story to his companions,one of these was filled with envy of his good fortune and determinedto try his luck for himself. So he went and began to fell a tree atthe edge of the river, and presently contrived to let his axe dropinto the water. Mercury appeared as before, and, on learning that hisaxe had fallen in, he dived and brought up a golden axe, as he haddone on the previous occasion. Without waiting to be asked whetherit was his or not the fellow cried, "That's mine, that's mine," andstretched out his hand eagerly for the prize: but Mercury was sodisgusted at his dishonesty that he not only declined to give him thegolden axe, but also refused to recover for him the one he had letfall into the stream.
    Honesty is the best policy.



THE ASS, THE FOX, AND THE LION

An Ass and a Fox went into partnership and sallied out to forage forfood together. They hadn't gone far before they saw a Lion comingtheir way, at which they were both dreadfully frightened. But the Foxthought he saw a way of saving his own skin, and went boldly up to theLion and whispered in his ear, "I'll manage that you shall get hold ofthe Ass without the trouble of stalking him, if you'll promise to letme go free." The Lion agreed to this, and the Fox then rejoined hiscompanion and contrived before long to lead him by a hidden pit, whichsome hunter had dug as a trap for wild animals, and into which hefell. When the Lion saw that the Ass was safely caught and couldn'tget away, it was to the Fox that he first turned his attention, and hesoon finished him off, and then at his leisure proceeded to feast uponthe Ass.
    Betray a friend, and you'll often find you have ruined yourself.



THE LION AND THE MOUSE

A Lion asleep in his lair was waked up by a Mouse running over hisface. Losing his temper he seized it with his paw and was about tokill it. The Mouse, terrified, piteously entreated him to spare itslife. "Please let me go," it cried, "and one day I will repay you foryour kindness." The idea of so insignificant a creature ever beingable to do anything for him amused the Lion so much that he laughedaloud, and good-humouredly let it go. But the Mouse's chance came,after all. One day the Lion got entangled in a net which had beenspread for game by some hunters, and the Mouse heard and recognisedhis roars of anger and ran to the spot. Without more ado it set towork to gnaw the ropes with its teeth, and succeeded before long insetting the Lion free. "There!" said the Mouse, "you laughed at mewhen I promised I would repay you: but now you see, even a Mouse canhelp a Lion."



THE CROW AND THE PITCHER

A thirsty Crow found a Pitcher with some water in it, but so littlewas there that, try as she might, she could not reach it with herbeak, and it seemed as though she would die of thirst within sight ofthe remedy. At last she hit upon a clever plan. She began droppingpebbles into the Pitcher, and with each pebble the water rose a littlehigher until at last it reached the brim, and the knowing bird wasenabled to quench her thirst.
    Necessity is the mother of invention.



THE BOYS AND THE FROGS

Some mischievous Boys were playing on the edge of a pond, and,catching sight of some Frogs swimming about in the shallow water, theybegan to amuse themselves by pelting them with stones, and they killedseveral of them. At last one of the Frogs put his head out of thewater and said, "Oh, stop! stop! I beg of you: what is sport to you isdeath to us."



THE NORTH WIND AND THE SUN

A dispute arose between the North Wind and the Sun, each claimingthat he was stronger than the other. At last they agreed to try theirpowers upon a traveller, to see which could soonest strip him of hiscloak. The North Wind had the first try; and, gathering up all hisforce for the attack, he came whirling furiously down upon the man,and caught up his cloak as though he would wrest it from him by onesingle effort: but the harder he blew, the more closely the manwrapped it round himself. Then came the turn of the Sun. At first hebeamed gently upon the traveller, who soon unclasped his cloak andwalked on with it hanging loosely about his shoulders: then he shoneforth in his full strength, and the man, before he had gone manysteps, was glad to throw his cloak right off and complete his journeymore lightly clad.
    Persuasion is better than force



THE MISTRESS AND HER SERVANTS

A Widow, thrifty and industrious, had two servants, whom she keptpretty hard at work. They were not allowed to lie long abed in themornings, but the old lady had them up and doing as soon as the cockcrew. They disliked intensely having to get up at such an hour,especially in winter-time: and they thought that if it were not forthe cock waking up their Mistress so horribly early, they couldsleep longer. So they caught it and wrung its neck. But they weren'tprepared for the consequences. For what happened was that theirMistress, not hearing the cock crow as usual, waked them up earlierthan ever, and set them to work in the middle of the night.



THE GOODS AND THE ILLS

There was a time in the youth of the world when Goods and Ills enteredequally into the concerns of men, so that the Goods did not prevailto make them altogether blessed, nor the Ills to make them whollymiserable. But owing to the foolishness of mankind the Ills multipliedgreatly in number and increased in strength, until it seemed as thoughthey would deprive the Goods of all share in human affairs, and banishthem from the earth. The latter, therefore, betook themselves toheaven and complained to Jupiter of the treatment they had received,at the same time praying him to grant them protection from the Ills,and to advise them concerning the manner of their intercourse withmen. Jupiter granted their request for protection, and decreed thatfor the future they should not go among men openly in a body, and sobe liable to attack from the hostile Ills, but singly and unobserved,and at infrequent and unexpected intervals. Hence it is that the earthis full of Ills, for they come and go as they please and are never faraway; while Goods, alas! come one by one only, and have to travel allthe way from heaven, so that they are very seldom seen.



THE HARES AND THE FROGS

The Hares once gathered together and lamented the unhappiness of theirlot, exposed as they were to dangers on all sides and lacking thestrength and the courage to hold their own. Men, dogs, birds andbeasts of prey were all their enemies, and killed and devoured themdaily: and sooner than endure such persecution any longer, they oneand all determined to end their miserable lives. Thus resolvedand desperate, they rushed in a body towards a neighbouring pool,intending to drown themselves. On the bank were sitting a number ofFrogs, who, when they heard the noise of the Hares as they ran, withone accord leaped into the water and hid themselves in the depths.Then one of the older Hares who was wiser than the rest cried out tohis companions, "Stop, my friends, take heart; don't let us destroyourselves after all: see, here are creatures who are afraid of us, andwho must, therefore, be still more timid than ourselves."



THE FOX AND THE STORK

A Fox invited a Stork to dinner, at which the only fare provided was alarge flat dish of soup. The Fox lapped it up with great relish, butthe Stork with her long bill tried in vain to partake of the savourybroth. Her evident distress caused the sly Fox much amusement. But notlong after the Stork invited him in turn, and set before him a pitcherwith a long and narrow neck, into which she could get her bill withease. Thus, while she enjoyed her dinner, the Fox sat by hungry andhelpless, for it was impossible for him to reach the tempting contentsof the vessel.



THE WOLF IN SHEEP'S CLOTHING

A Wolf resolved to disguise himself in order that he might prey upon aflock of sheep without fear of detection. So he clothed himself in asheepskin, and slipped among the sheep when they were out at pasture.He completely deceived the shepherd, and when the flock was pennedfor the night he was shut in with the rest. But that very night as ithappened, the shepherd, requiring a supply of mutton for the table,laid hands on the Wolf in mistake for a Sheep, and killed him with hisknife on the spot.



THE STAG IN THE OX-STALL

A Stag, chased from his lair by the hounds, took refuge in a farmyard,and, entering a stable where a number of oxen were stalled, thrusthimself under a pile of hay in a vacant stall, where he lay concealed,all but the tips of his horns. Presently one of the Oxen said to him,"What has induced you to come in here? Aren't you aware of the riskyou are running of being captured by the herdsmen?" To which hereplied, "Pray let me stay for the present. When night comes I shalleasily escape under cover of the dark." In the course of the afternoonmore than one of the farm-hands came in, to attend to the wants ofthe cattle, but not one of them noticed the presence of the Stag, whoaccordingly began to congratulate himself on his escape and to expresshis gratitude to the Oxen. "We wish you well," said the one who hadspoken before, "but you are not out of danger yet. If the mastercomes, you will certainly be found out, for nothing ever escapes hiskeen eyes." Presently, sure enough, in he came, and made a great to-doabout the way the Oxen were kept. "The beasts are starving," he cried;"here, give them more hay, and put plenty of litter under them." As hespoke, he seized an armful himself from the pile where the Stag layconcealed, and at once detected him. Calling his men, he had himseized at once and killed for the table.



THE MILKMAID AND HER PAIL

A farmer's daughter had been out to milk the cows, and was returningto the dairy carrying her pail of milk upon her head. As she walkedalong, she fell a-musing after this fashion: "The milk in this pailwill provide me with cream, which I will make into butter and take tomarket to sell. With the money I will buy a number of eggs, and these,when hatched, will produce chickens, and by and by I shall have quitea large poultry-yard. Then I shall sell some of my fowls, and with themoney which they will bring in I will buy myself a new gown, whichI shall wear when I go to the fair; and all the young fellows willadmire it, and come and make love to me, but I shall toss my headand have nothing to say to them." Forgetting all about the pail, andsuiting the action to the word, she tossed her head. Down went thepail, all the milk was spilled, and all her fine castles in the airvanished in a moment!
    Do not count your chickens before they are hatched.



THE DOLPHINS, THE WHALES, AND THE SPRAT

The Dolphins quarrelled with the Whales, and before very long theybegan fighting with one another. The battle was very fierce, and hadlasted some time without any sign of coming to an end, when a Spratthought that perhaps he could stop it; so he stepped in and tried topersuade them to give up fighting and make friends. But one of theDolphins said to him contemptuously, "We would rather go on fightingtill we're all killed than be reconciled by a Sprat like you!"



THE FOX AND THE MONKEY

A Fox and a Monkey were on the road together, and fell into a disputeas to which of the two was the better born. They kept it up for sometime, till they came to a place where the road passed through acemetery full of monuments, when the Monkey stopped and looked abouthim and gave a great sigh. "Why do you sigh?" said the Fox. The Monkeypointed to the tombs and replied, "All the monuments that you see herewere put up in honour of my forefathers, who in their day were eminentmen." The Fox was speechless for a moment, but quickly recovering hesaid, "Oh! don't stop at any lie, sir; you're quite safe: I'm surenone of your ancestors will rise up and expose you."
    Boasters brag most when they cannot be detected.



THE ASS AND THE LAP-DOG

There was once a man who had an Ass and a Lap-dog. The Ass was housedin the stable with plenty of oats and hay to eat and was as well offas an ass could be. The little Dog was made a great pet of by hismaster, who fondled him and often let him lie in his lap; and if hewent out to dinner, he would bring back a tit-bit or two to give himwhen he ran to meet him on his return. The Ass had, it is true, a gooddeal of work to do, carting or grinding the corn, or carrying theburdens of the farm: and ere long he became very jealous, contrastinghis own life of labour with the ease and idleness of the Lap-dog. Atlast one day he broke his halter, and frisking into the house just ashis master sat down to dinner, he pranced and capered about, mimickingthe frolics of the little favourite, upsetting the table and smashingthe crockery with his clumsy efforts. Not content with that, he eventried to jump on his master's lap, as he had so often seen the dogallowed to do. At that the servants, seeing the danger their masterwas in, belaboured the silly Ass with sticks and cudgels, and drovehim back to his stable half dead with his beating. "Alas!" he cried,"all this I have brought on myself. Why could I not be satisfied withmy natural and honourable position, without wishing to imitate theridiculous antics of that useless little Lap-dog?"



THE FIR-TREE AND THE BRAMBLE

A Fir-tree was boasting to a Bramble, and said, somewhatcontemptuously, "You poor creature, you are of no use whatever. Now,look at me: I am useful for all sorts of things, particularly when menbuild houses; they can't do without me then." But the Bramble replied,"Ah, that's all very well: but you wait till they come with axes andsaws to cut you down, and then you'll wish you were a Bramble and nota Fir."
    Better poverty without a care than wealth with its many    obligations.



THE FROGS' COMPLAINT AGAINST THE SUN

Once upon a time the Sun was about to take to himself a wife. TheFrogs in terror all raised their voices to the skies, and Jupiter,disturbed by the noise, asked them what they were croaking about. Theyreplied, "The Sun is bad enough even while he is single, drying up ourmarshes with his heat as he does. But what will become of us if hemarries and begets other Suns?"



THE DOG, THE COCK, AND THE FOX

A Dog and a Cock became great friends, and agreed to travel together.At nightfall the Cock flew up into the branches of a tree to roost,while the Dog curled himself up inside the trunk, which was hollow. Atbreak of day the Cock woke up and crew, as usual. A Fox heard, and,wishing to make a breakfast of him, came and stood under the tree andbegged him to come down. "I should so like," said he, "to make theacquaintance of one who has such a beautiful voice." The Cock replied,"Would you just wake my porter who sleeps at the foot of the tree?He'll open the door and let you in." The Fox accordingly rapped on thetrunk, when out rushed the Dog and tore him in pieces.



THE GNAT AND THE BULL

A Gnat alighted on one of the horns of a Bull, and remained sittingthere for a considerable time. When it had rested sufficiently and wasabout to fly away, it said to the Bull, "Do you mind if I go now?" TheBull merely raised his eyes and remarked, without interest, "It's allone to me; I didn't notice when you came, and I shan't know when yougo away."
    We may often be of more consequence in our own eyes than in the    eyes of our neighbours.



THE BEAR AND THE TRAVELLERS

Two Travellers were on the road together, when a Bear suddenlyappeared on the scene. Before he observed them, one made for a tree atthe side of the road, and climbed up into the branches and hid there.The other was not so nimble as his companion; and, as he could notescape, he threw himself on the ground and pretended to be dead. TheBear came up and sniffed all round him, but he kept perfectly stilland held his breath: for they say that a bear will not touch a deadbody. The Bear took him for a corpse, and went away. When the coastwas clear, the Traveller in the tree came down, and asked the otherwhat it was the Bear had whispered to him when he put his mouth tohis ear. The other replied, "He told me never again to travel with afriend who deserts you at the first sign of danger."
    Misfortune tests the sincerity of friendship.



THE SLAVE AND THE LION

A Slave ran away from his master, by whom he had been most cruellytreated, and, in order to avoid capture, betook himself into thedesert. As he wandered about in search of food and shelter, he came toa cave, which he entered and found to be unoccupied. Really, however,it was a Lion's den, and almost immediately, to the horror of thewretched fugitive, the Lion himself appeared. The man gave himselfup for lost: but, to his utter astonishment, the Lion, instead ofspringing upon him and devouring him, came and fawned upon him, atthe same time whining and lifting up his paw. Observing it to be muchswollen and inflamed, he examined it and found a large thorn embeddedin the ball of the foot. He accordingly removed it and dressedthe wound as well as he could: and in course of time it healed upcompletely. The Lion's gratitude was unbounded; he looked upon the manas his friend, and they shared the cave for some time together. A daycame, however, when the Slave began to long for the society of hisfellow-men, and he bade farewell to the Lion and returned to the town.Here he was presently recognised and carried off in chains to hisformer master, who resolved to make an example of him, and orderedthat he should be thrown to the beasts at the next public spectacle inthe theatre. On the fatal day the beasts were loosed into the arena,and among the rest a Lion of huge bulk and ferocious aspect; and thenthe wretched Slave was cast in among them. What was the amazement ofthe spectators, when the Lion after one glance bounded up to him andlay down at his feet with every expression of affection and delight!It was his old friend of the cave! The audience clamoured thatthe Slave's life should be spared: and the governor of the town,marvelling at such gratitude and fidelity in a beast, decreed thatboth should receive their liberty.



THE FLEA AND THE MAN

A Flea bit a Man, and bit him again, and again, till he could stand itno longer, but made a thorough search for it, and at last succeededin catching it. Holding it between his finger and thumb, he said--orrather shouted, so angry was he--"Who are you, pray, you wretchedlittle creature, that you make so free with my person?" The Flea,terrified, whimpered in a weak little voice, "Oh, sir! pray let mego; don't kill me! I am such a little thing that I can't do you muchharm." But the Man laughed and said, "I am going to kill you now, atonce: whatever is bad has got to be destroyed, no matter how slightthe harm it does."
    Do not waste your pity on a scamp.



THE BEE AND JUPITER

A Queen Bee from Hymettus flew up to Olympus with some fresh honeyfrom the hive as a present to Jupiter, who was so pleased with thegift that he promised to give her anything she liked to ask for. Shesaid she would be very grateful if he would give stings to the bees,to kill people who robbed them of their honey. Jupiter was greatlydispleased with this request, for he loved mankind: but he had givenhis word, so he said that stings they should have. The stings he gavethem, however, were of such a kind that whenever a bee stings a manthe sting is left in the wound and the bee dies.
    Evil wishes, like fowls, come home to roost.



THE OAK AND THE REEDS

An Oak that grew on the bank of a river was uprooted by a severegale of wind, and thrown across the stream. It fell among some Reedsgrowing by the water, and said to them, "How is it that you, who areso frail and slender, have managed to weather the storm, whereas I,with all my strength, have been torn up by the roots and hurled intothe river?" "You were stubborn," came the reply, "and fought againstthe storm, which proved stronger than you: but we bow and yield toevery breeze, and thus the gale passed harmlessly over our heads."



THE BLIND MAN AND THE CUB

There was once a Blind Man who had so fine a sense of touch that, whenany animal was put into his hands, he could tell what it was merely bythe feel of it. One day the Cub of a Wolf was put into his hands, andhe was asked what it was. He felt it for some time, and then said,"Indeed, I am not sure whether it is a Wolf's Cub or a Fox's: but thisI know--it would never do to trust it in a sheepfold."
    Evil tendencies are early shown.



THE BOY AND THE SNAILS

A Farmer's Boy went looking for Snails, and, when he had picked upboth his hands full, he set about making a fire at which to roastthem; for he meant to eat them. When it got well alight and the Snailsbegan to feel the heat, they gradually withdrew more and more intotheir shells with the hissing noise they always make when they do so.When the Boy heard it, he said, "You abandoned creatures, how can youfind heart to whistle when your houses are burning?"



THE APES AND THE TWO TRAVELLERS

Two men were travelling together, one of whom never spoke the truth,whereas the other never told a lie: and they came in the course oftheir travels to the land of Apes. The King of the Apes, hearing oftheir arrival, ordered them to be brought before him; and by way ofimpressing them with his magnificence, he received them sitting ona throne, while the Apes, his subjects, were ranged in long rows oneither side of him. When the Travellers came into his presence heasked them what they thought of him as a King. The lying Travellersaid, "Sire, every one must see that you are a most noble and mightymonarch." "And what do you think of my subjects?" continued the King."They," said the Traveller, "are in every way worthy of their royalmaster." The Ape was so delighted with his answer that he gave hima very handsome present. The other Traveller thought that if hiscompanion was rewarded so splendidly for telling a lie, he himselfwould certainly receive a still greater reward for telling the truth;so, when the Ape turned to him and said, "And what, sir, is youropinion?" he replied, "I think you are a very fine Ape, and all yoursubjects are fine Apes too." The King of the Apes was so enraged athis reply that he ordered him to be taken away and clawed to death.



THE ASS AND HIS BURDENS

A Pedlar who owned an Ass one day bought a quantity of salt, andloaded up his beast with as much as he could bear. On the way home theAss stumbled as he was crossing a stream and fell into the water. Thesalt got thoroughly wetted and much of it melted and drained away, sothat, when he got on his legs again, the Ass found his load had becomemuch less heavy. His master, however, drove him back to town andbought more salt, which he added to what remained in the panniers, andstarted out again. No sooner had they reached a stream than the Asslay down in it, and rose, as before, with a much lighter load. But hismaster detected the trick, and turning back once more, bought a largenumber of sponges, and piled them on the back of the Ass. When theycame to the stream the Ass again lay down: but this time, as thesponges soaked up large quantities of water, he found, when he got upon his legs, that he had a bigger burden to carry than ever.
    You may play a good card once too often.



THE SHEPHERD'S BOY AND THE WOLF

A Shepherd's Boy was tending his flock near a village, and thought itwould be great fun to hoax the villagers by pretending that a Wolf wasattacking the sheep: so he shouted out, "Wolf! wolf!" and when thepeople came running up he laughed at them for their pains. He didthis more than once, and every time the villagers found they had beenhoaxed, for there was no Wolf at all. At last a Wolf really did come,and the Boy cried, "Wolf! wolf!" as loud as he could: but the peoplewere so used to hearing him call that they took no notice of his criesfor help. And so the Wolf had it all his own way, and killed off sheepafter sheep at his leisure.
    You cannot believe a liar even when he tells the truth.



THE FOX AND THE GOAT

A Fox fell into a well and was unable to get out again. By and by athirsty Goat came by, and seeing the Fox in the well asked him if thewater was good. "Good?" said the Fox, "it's the best water I evertasted in all my life. Come down and try it yourself." The Goatthought of nothing but the prospect of quenching his thirst, andjumped in at once. When he had had enough to drink, he looked about,like the Fox, for some way of getting out, but could find none.Presently the Fox said, "I have an idea. You stand on your hind legs,and plant your forelegs firmly against the side of the well, and thenI'll climb on to your back, and, from there, by stepping on yourhorns, I can get out. And when I'm out, I'll help you out too." TheGoat did as he was requested, and the Fox climbed on to his back andso out of the well; and then he coolly walked away. The Goat calledloudly after him and reminded him of his promise to help him out: butthe Fox merely turned and said, "If you had as much sense in your headas you have hair in your beard you wouldn't have got into the wellwithout making certain that you could get out again."
    Look before your leap.



THE FISHERMAN AND THE SPRAT

A Fisherman cast his net into the sea, and when he drew it up again itcontained nothing but a single Sprat that begged to be put back intothe water. "I'm only a little fish now," it said, "but I shall growbig one day, and then if you come and catch me again I shall be ofsome use to you." But the Fisherman replied, "Oh, no, I shall keep younow I've got you: if I put you back, should I ever see you again? Notlikely!"



THE BOASTING TRAVELLER

A Man once went abroad on his travels, and when he came home hehad wonderful tales to tell of the things he had done in foreigncountries. Among other things, he said he had taken part in ajumping-match at Rhodes, and had done a wonderful jump which no onecould beat. "Just go to Rhodes and ask them," he said; "every one willtell you it's true." But one of those who were listening said, "If youcan jump as well as all that, we needn't go to Rhodes to prove it.Let's just imagine this is Rhodes for a minute: and now--jump!"
    Deeds, not words.



THE CRAB AND HIS MOTHER

An Old Crab said to her son, "Why do you walk sideways like that, myson? You ought to walk straight." The Young Crab replied, "Show mehow, dear mother, and I'll follow your example." The Old Crab tried,but tried in vain, and then saw how foolish she had been to find faultwith her child.
    Example is better than precept.



THE ASS AND HIS SHADOW

A certain man hired an Ass for a journey in summertime, and startedout with the owner following behind to drive the beast. By and by, inthe heat of the day, they stopped to rest, and the traveller wanted tolie down in the Ass's Shadow; but the owner, who himself wished to beout of the sun, wouldn't let him do that; for he said he had hired theAss only, and not his Shadow: the other maintained that his bargainsecured him complete control of the Ass for the time being. From wordsthey came to blows; and while they were belabouring each other the Asstook to his heels and was soon out of sight.



THE FARMER AND HIS SONS

A Farmer, being at death's door, and desiring to impart to his Sons asecret of much moment, called them round him and said, "My sons, I amshortly about to die; I would have you know, therefore, that in myvineyard there lies a hidden treasure. Dig, and you will find it." Assoon as their father was dead, the Sons took spade and fork and turnedup the soil of the vineyard over and over again, in their search forthe treasure which they supposed to lie buried there. They found none,however: but the vines, after so thorough a digging, produced a cropsuch as had never before been seen.



THE DOG AND THE COOK

A rich man once invited a number of his friends and acquaintances toa banquet. His dog thought it would be a good opportunity to inviteanother Dog, a friend of his; so he went to him and said, "My masteris giving a feast: there'll be a fine spread, so come and dine with meto-night." The Dog thus invited came, and when he saw the preparationsbeing made in the kitchen he said to himself, "My word, I'm in luck:I'll take care to eat enough to-night to last me two or three days."At the same time he wagged his tail briskly, by way of showing hisfriend how delighted he was to have been asked. But just then the Cookcaught sight of him, and, in his annoyance at seeing a strange Dog inthe kitchen, caught him up by the hind legs and threw him out of thewindow. He had a nasty fall, and limped away as quickly as he could,howling dismally. Presently some other dogs met him, and said, "Well,what sort of a dinner did you get?" To which he replied, "I had asplendid time: the wine was so good, and I drank so much of it, that Ireally don't remember how I got out of the house!"
    Be shy of favours bestowed at the expense of others.



THE MONKEY AS KING

At a gathering of all the animals the Monkey danced and delighted themso much that they made him their King. The Fox, however, was very muchdisgusted at the promotion of the Monkey: so having one day found atrap with a piece of meat in it, he took the Monkey there and said tohim, "Here is a dainty morsel I have found, sire; I did not take itmyself, because I thought it ought to be reserved for you, our King.Will you be pleased to accept it?" The Monkey made at once for themeat and got caught in the trap. Then he bitterly reproached the Foxfor leading him into danger; but the Fox only laughed and said, "OMonkey, you call yourself King of the Beasts and haven't more sensethan to be taken in like that!"



THE THIEVES AND THE COCK

Some Thieves broke into a house, and found nothing worth taking excepta Cock, which they seized and carried off with them. When they werepreparing their supper, one of them caught up the Cock, and was aboutto wring his neck, when he cried out for mercy and said, "Pray do notkill me: you will find me a most useful bird, for I rouse honest mento their work in the morning by my crowing." But the Thief repliedwith some heat, "Yes, I know you do, making it still harder for us toget a livelihood. Into the pot you go!"



THE FARMER AND FORTUNE

A Farmer was ploughing one day on his farm when he turned up a pot ofgolden coins with his plough. He was overjoyed at his discovery, andfrom that time forth made an offering daily at the shrine of theGoddess of the Earth. Fortune was displeased at this, and came to himand said, "My man, why do you give Earth the credit for the gift whichI bestowed upon you? You never thought of thanking me for your goodluck; but should you be unlucky enough to lose what you have gainedI know very well that I, Fortune, should then come in for all theblame."
    Show gratitude where gratitude is due.



JUPITER AND THE MONKEY

Jupiter issued a proclamation to all the beasts, and offered aprize to the one who, in his judgment, produced the most beautifuloffspring. Among the rest came the Monkey, carrying a baby monkey inher arms, a hairless, flat-nosed little fright. When they saw it, thegods all burst into peal on peal of laughter; but the Monkey huggedher little one to her, and said, "Jupiter may give the prize towhomsoever he likes: but I shall always think my baby the mostbeautiful of them all."



FATHER AND SONS

A certain man had several Sons who were always quarrelling with oneanother, and, try as he might, he could not get them to live togetherin harmony. So he determined to convince them of their folly by thefollowing means. Bidding them fetch a bundle of sticks, he invitedeach in turn to break it across his knee. All tried and all failed:and then he undid the bundle, and handed them the sticks one by one,when they had no difficulty at all in breaking them. "There, my boys,"said he, "united you will be more than a match for your enemies: butif you quarrel and separate, your weakness will put you at the mercyof those who attack you."
    Union is strength.



THE LAMP

A Lamp, well filled with oil, burned with a clear and steady light,and began to swell with pride and boast that it shone more brightlythan the sun himself. Just then a puff of wind came and blew it out.Some one struck a match and lit it again, and said, "You just keepalight, and never mind the sun. Why, even the stars never need to berelit as you had to be just now."



THE OWL AND THE BIRDS

The Owl is a very wise bird; and once, long ago, when the first oaksprouted in the forest, she called all the other Birds together andsaid to them, "You see this tiny tree? If you take my advice, you willdestroy it now when it is small: for when it grows big, the mistletoewill appear upon it, from which birdlime will be prepared for yourdestruction." Again, when the first flax was sown, she said to them,"Go and eat up that seed, for it is the seed of the flax, out of whichmen will one day make nets to catch you." Once more, when she saw thefirst archer, she warned the Birds that he was their deadly enemy, whowould wing his arrows with their own feathers and shoot them. But theytook no notice of what she said: in fact, they thought she was rathermad, and laughed at her. When, however, everything turned out as shehad foretold, they changed their minds and conceived a great respectfor her wisdom. Hence, whenever she appears, the Birds attend uponher in the hope of hearing something that may be for their good. She,however, gives them advice no longer, but sits moping and pondering onthe folly of her kind.



THE ASS IN THE LION'S SKIN

An Ass found a Lion's Skin, and dressed himself up in it. Then he wentabout frightening every one he met, for they all took him to be alion, men and beasts alike, and took to their heels when they sawhim coming. Elated by the success of his trick, he loudly brayed intriumph. The Fox heard him, and recognised him at once for the Ass hewas, and said to him, "Oho, my friend, it's you, is it? I, too, shouldhave been afraid if I hadn't heard your voice."



THE SHE-GOATS AND THEIR BEARDS

Jupiter granted beards to the She-Goats at their own request, muchto the disgust of the he-Goats, who considered this to be anunwarrantable invasion of their rights and dignities. So they sent adeputation to him to protest against his action. He, however, advisedthem not to raise any objections. "What's in a tuft of hair?" said he."Let them have it if they want it. They can never be a match for youin strength."



THE OLD LION

A Lion, enfeebled by age and no longer able to procure food forhimself by force, determined to do so by cunning. Betaking himself toa cave, he lay down inside and feigned to be sick: and whenever any ofthe other animals entered to inquire after his health, he sprang uponthem and devoured them. Many lost their lives in this way, till oneday a Fox called at the cave, and, having a suspicion of the truth,addressed the Lion from outside instead of going in, and asked him howhe did. He replied that he was in a very bad way: "But," said he, "whydo you stand outside? Pray come in." "I should have done so," answeredthe Fox, "if I hadn't noticed that all the footprints point towardsthe cave and none the other way."



THE BOY BATHING

A Boy was bathing in a river and got out of his depth, and was ingreat danger of being drowned. A man who was passing along a roadheard his cries for help, and went to the riverside and began to scoldhim for being so careless as to get into deep water, but made noattempt to help him. "Oh, sir," cried the Boy, "please help me firstand scold me afterwards."
    Give assistance, not advice, in a crisis.



THE QUACK FROG

Once upon a time a Frog came forth from his home in the marshes andproclaimed to all the world that he was a learned physician, skilledin drugs and able to cure all diseases. Among the crowd was a Fox, whocalled out, "You a doctor! Why, how can you set up to heal others whenyou cannot even cure your own lame legs and blotched and wrinkledskin?"
    Physician, heal thyself.



THE SWOLLEN FOX

A hungry Fox found in a hollow tree a quantity of bread and meat,which some shepherds had placed there against their return. Delightedwith his find he slipped in through the narrow aperture and greedilydevoured it all. But when he tried to get out again he found himselfso swollen after his big meal that he could not squeeze through thehole, and fell to whining and groaning over his misfortune. AnotherFox, happening to pass that way, came and asked him what the matterwas; and, on learning the state of the case, said, "Well, my friend, Isee nothing for it but for you to stay where you are till you shrinkto your former size; you'll get out then easily enough."



THE MOUSE, THE FROG, AND THE HAWK

A Mouse and a Frog struck up a friendship; they were not well mated,for the Mouse lived entirely on land, while the Frog was equallyat home on land or in the water. In order that they might never beseparated, the Frog tied himself and the Mouse together by the legwith a piece of thread. As long as they kept on dry land all wentfairly well; but, coming to the edge of a pool, the Frog jumped in,taking the Mouse with him, and began swimming about and croaking withpleasure. The unhappy Mouse, however, was soon drowned, and floatedabout on the surface in the wake of the Frog. There he was spied by aHawk, who pounced down on him and seized him in his talons. The Frogwas unable to loose the knot which bound him to the Mouse, and thuswas carried off along with him and eaten by the Hawk.



THE BOY AND THE NETTLES

A Boy was gathering berries from a hedge when his hand was stung by aNettle. Smarting with the pain, he ran to tell his mother, and saidto her between his sobs, "I only touched it ever so lightly, mother.""That's just why you got stung, my son," she said; "if you had graspedit firmly, it wouldn't have hurt you in the least."



THE PEASANT AND THE APPLE-TREE

A Peasant had an Apple-tree growing in his garden, which bore nofruit, but merely served to provide a shelter from the heat for thesparrows and grasshoppers which sat and chirped in its branches.Disappointed at its barrenness he determined to cut it down, and wentand fetched his axe for the purpose. But when the sparrows and thegrasshoppers saw what he was about to do, they begged him to spareit, and said to him, "If you destroy the tree we shall have to seekshelter elsewhere, and you will no longer have our merry chirping toenliven your work in the garden." He, however, refused to listen tothem, and set to work with a will to cut through the trunk. A fewstrokes showed that it was hollow inside and contained a swarm of beesand a large store of honey. Delighted with his find he threw down hisaxe, saying, "The old tree is worth keeping after all."
    Utility is most men's test of worth.



THE JACKDAW AND THE PIGEONS

A Jackdaw, watching some Pigeons in a farmyard, was filled with envywhen he saw how well they were fed, and determined to disguise himselfas one of them, in order to secure a share of the good things theyenjoyed. So he painted himself white from head to foot and joined theflock; and, so long as he was silent, they never suspected that hewas not a pigeon like themselves. But one day he was unwise enoughto start chattering, when they at once saw through his disguise andpecked him so unmercifully that he was glad to escape and join his ownkind again. But the other jackdaws did not recognise him in his whitedress, and would not let him feed with them, but drove him away: andso he became a homeless wanderer for his pains.



JUPITER AND THE TORTOISE

Jupiter was about to marry a wife, and determined to celebrate theevent by inviting all the animals to a banquet. They all came exceptthe Tortoise, who did not put in an appearance, much to Jupiter'ssurprise. So when he next saw the Tortoise he asked him why he had notbeen at the banquet. "I don't care for going out," said the Tortoise;"there's no place like home." Jupiter was so much annoyed by thisreply that he decreed that from that time forth the Tortoise shouldcarry his house upon his back, and never be able to get away from homeeven if he wished to.



THE DOG IN THE MANGER

A Dog was lying in a Manger on the hay which had been put there forthe cattle, and when they came and tried to eat, he growled andsnapped at them and wouldn't let them get at their food. "What aselfish beast," said one of them to his companions; "he can't eathimself and yet he won't let those eat who can."



THE TWO BAGS

Every man carries Two Bags about with him, one in front and onebehind, and both are packed full of faults. The Bag in front containshis neighbours' faults, the one behind his own. Hence it is that mendo not see their own faults, but never fail to see those of others.



THE OXEN AND THE AXLETREES

A pair of Oxen were drawing a heavily loaded waggon along the highway,and, as they tugged and strained at the yoke, the Axletrees creakedand groaned terribly. This was too much for the Oxen, who turned roundindignantly and said, "Hullo, you there! Why do you make such a noisewhen we do all the work?"
    They complain most who suffer least.



THE BOY AND THE FILBERTS

A Boy put his hand into a jar of Filberts, and grasped as many as hisfist could possibly hold. But when he tried to pull it out again, hefound he couldn't do so, for the neck of the jar was too small toallow of the passage of so large a handful. Unwilling to lose his nutsbut unable to withdraw his hand, he burst into tears. A bystander, whosaw where the trouble lay, said to him, "Come, my boy, don't be sogreedy: be content with half the amount, and you'll be able to getyour hand out without difficulty."
    Do not attempt too much at once.



THE FROGS ASKING FOR A KING

Time was when the Frogs were discontented because they had no one torule over them: so they sent a deputation to Jupiter to ask him togive them a King. Jupiter, despising the folly of their request, casta log into the pool where they lived, and said that that should betheir King. The Frogs were terrified at first by the splash, andscuttled away into the deepest parts of the pool; but by and by, whenthey saw that the log remained motionless, one by one they ventured tothe surface again, and before long, growing bolder, they began to feelsuch contempt for it that they even took to sitting upon it. Thinkingthat a King of that sort was an insult to their dignity, they sent toJupiter a second time, and begged him to take away the sluggish Kinghe had given them, and to give them another and a better one. Jupiter,annoyed at being pestered in this way, sent a Stork to rule over them,who no sooner arrived among them than he began to catch and eat theFrogs as fast as he could.



THE OLIVE-TREE AND THE FIG-TREE

An Olive-tree taunted a Fig-tree with the loss of her leaves at acertain season of the year. "You," she said, "lose your leaves everyautumn, and are bare till the spring: whereas I, as you see, remaingreen and flourishing all the year round." Soon afterwards there camea heavy fall of snow, which settled on the leaves of the Olive so thatshe bent and broke under the weight; but the flakes fell harmlesslythrough the bare branches of the Fig, which survived to bear manyanother crop.



THE LION AND THE BOAR

One hot and thirsty day in the height of summer a Lion and a Boar camedown to a little spring at the same moment to drink. In a trice theywere quarrelling as to who should drink first. The quarrel soon becamea fight and they attacked one another with the utmost fury. Presently,stopping for a moment to take breath, they saw some vultures seated ona rock above evidently waiting for one of them to be killed, when theywould fly down and feed upon the carcase. The sight sobered them atonce, and they made up their quarrel, saying, "We had much better befriends than fight and be eaten by vultures."



THE WALNUT-TREE

A Walnut-tree, which grew by the roadside, bore every year a plentifulcrop of nuts. Every one who passed by pelted its branches with sticksand stones, in order to bring down the fruit, and the tree sufferedseverely. "It is hard," it cried, "that the very persons who enjoy myfruit should thus reward me with insults and blows."



THE MAN AND THE LION

A Man and a Lion were companions on a journey, and in the course ofconversation they began to boast about their prowess, and each claimedto be superior to the other in strength and courage. They were stillarguing with some heat when they came to a cross-road where therewas a statue of a Man strangling a Lion. "There!" said the Mantriumphantly, "look at that! Doesn't that prove to you that we arestronger than you?" "Not so fast, my friend," said the Lion: "that isonly your view of the case. If we Lions could make statues, you may besure that in most of them you would see the Man underneath."
    There are two sides to every question.



THE TORTOISE AND THE EAGLE

A Tortoise, discontented with his lowly life, and envious of the birdshe saw disporting themselves in the air, begged an Eagle to teach himto fly. The Eagle protested that it was idle for him to try, as naturehad not provided him with wings; but the Tortoise pressed him withentreaties and promises of treasure, insisting that it could only bea question of learning the craft of the air. So at length the Eagleconsented to do the best he could for him, and picked him up in histalons. Soaring with him to a great height in the sky he then let himgo, and the wretched Tortoise fell headlong and was dashed to pieceson a rock.



THE KID ON THE HOUSETOP

A Kid climbed up on to the roof of an outhouse, attracted by thegrass and other things that grew in the thatch; and as he stood therebrowsing away, he caught sight of a Wolf passing below, and jeered athim because he couldn't reach him. The Wolf only looked up and said,"I hear you, my young friend; but it is not you who mock me, but theroof on which you are standing."



THE FOX WITHOUT A TAIL

A fox once fell into a trap, and after a struggle managed to get free,but with the loss of his brush. He was then so much ashamed of hisappearance that he thought life was not worth living unless he couldpersuade the other Foxes to part with their tails also, and thusdivert attention from his own loss. So he called a meeting of all theFoxes, and advised them to cut off their tails: "They're ugly thingsanyhow," he said, "and besides they're heavy, and it's tiresome to bealways carrying them about with you." But one of the other Foxes said,"My friend, if you hadn't lost your own tail, you wouldn't be so keenon getting us to cut off ours."



THE VAIN JACKDAW

Jupiter announced that he intended to appoint a king over the birds,and named a day on which they were to appear before his throne, whenhe would select the most beautiful of them all to be their ruler.Wishing to look their best on the occasion they repaired to the banksof a stream, where they busied themselves in washing and preeningtheir feathers. The Jackdaw was there along with the rest, andrealised that, with his ugly plumage, he would have no chance of beingchosen as he was: so he waited till they were all gone, and thenpicked up the most gaudy of the feathers they had dropped, andfastened them about his own body, with the result that he looked gayerthan any of them. When the appointed day came, the birds assembledbefore Jupiter's throne; and, after passing them in review, he wasabout to make the Jackdaw king, when all the rest set upon theking-elect, stripped him of his borrowed plumes, and exposed him forthe Jackdaw that he was.



THE TRAVELLER AND HIS DOG

A Traveller was about to start on a journey, and said to his Dog, whowas stretching himself by the door, "Come, what are you yawning for?Hurry up and get ready: I mean you to go with me." But the Dog merelywagged his tail and said quietly, "I'm ready, master: it's you I'mwaiting for."



THE SHIPWRECKED MAN AND THE SEA

A Shipwrecked Man cast up on the beach fell asleep after his strugglewith the waves. When he woke up, he bitterly reproached the Sea forits treachery in enticing men with its smooth and smiling surface,and then, when they were well embarked, turning in fury upon them andsending both ship and sailors to destruction. The Sea arose in theform of a woman, and replied, "Lay not the blame on me, O sailor, buton the Winds. By nature I am as calm and safe as the land itself: butthe Winds fall upon me with their gusts and gales, and lash me into afury that is not natural to me."



THE WILD BOAR AND THE FOX

A Wild Boar was engaged in whetting his tusks upon the trunk of a treein the forest when a Fox came by and, seeing what he was at, said tohim, "Why are you doing that, pray? The huntsmen are not out to-day,and there are no other dangers at hand that I can see." "True, myfriend," replied the Boar, "but the instant my life is in danger Ishall need to use my tusks. There'll be no time to sharpen them then."



MERCURY AND THE SCULPTOR

Mercury was very anxious to know in what estimation he was held bymankind; so he disguised himself as a man and walked into a Sculptor'sstudio, where there were a number of statues finished and ready forsale. Seeing a statue of Jupiter among the rest, he inquired the priceof it. "A crown," said the Sculptor. "Is that all?" said he, laughing;"and" (pointing to one of Juno) "how much is that one?" "That," wasthe reply, "is half a crown." "And how much might you be wanting forthat one over there, now?" he continued, pointing to a statue ofhimself. "That one?" said the Sculptor; "Oh, I'll throw him in fornothing if you'll buy the other two."



THE FAWN AND HIS MOTHER

A Hind said to her Fawn, who was now well grown and strong, "My son,Nature has given you a powerful body and a stout pair of horns, and Ican't think why you are such a coward as to run away from the hounds."Just then they both heard the sound of a pack in full cry, but at aconsiderable distance. "You stay where you are," said the Hind; "nevermind me": and with that she ran off as fast as her legs could carryher.



THE FOX AND THE LION

A Fox who had never seen a Lion one day met one, and was so terrifiedat the sight of him that he was ready to die with fear. After a timehe met him again, and was still rather frightened, but not nearly somuch as he had been when he met him first. But when he saw him for thethird time he was so far from being afraid that he went up to him andbegan to talk to him as if he had known him all his life.



THE EAGLE AND HIS CAPTOR

A Man once caught an Eagle, and after clipping his wings turned himloose among the fowls in his hen-house, where he moped in a corner,looking very dejected and forlorn. After a while his Captor was gladenough to sell him to a neighbour, who took him home and let his wingsgrow again. As soon as he had recovered the use of them, the Eagleflew out and caught a hare, which he brought home and presented to hisbenefactor. A fox observed this, and said to the Eagle, "Don't wasteyour gifts on him! Go and give them to the man who first caught you;make _him_ your friend, and then perhaps he won't catch you and clipyour wings a second time."



THE BLACKSMITH AND HIS DOG

A Blacksmith had a little Dog, which used to sleep when his master wasat work, but was very wide awake indeed when it was time for meals.One day his master pretended to be disgusted at this, and when he hadthrown him a bone as usual, he said, "What on earth is the good of alazy cur like you? When I am hammering away at my anvil, you just curlup and go to sleep: but no sooner do I stop for a mouthful of foodthan you wake up and wag your tail to be fed."
    Those who will not work deserve to starve.



THE STAG AT THE POOL

A thirsty Stag went down to a pool to drink. As he bent over thesurface he saw his own reflection in the water, and was struck withadmiration for his fine spreading antlers, but at the same time hefelt nothing but disgust for the weakness and slenderness of his legs.While he stood there looking at himself, he was seen and attacked bya Lion; but in the chase which ensued, he soon drew away from hispursuer, and kept his lead as long as the ground over which he ran wasopen and free of trees. But coming presently to a wood, he was caughtby his antlers in the branches, and fell a victim to the teeth andclaws of his enemy. "Woe is me!" he cried with his last breath; "Idespised my legs, which might have saved my life: but I gloried in myhorns, and they have proved my ruin."
    What is worth most is often valued least.



THE DOG AND THE SHADOW

A Dog was crossing a plank bridge over a stream with a piece of meatin his mouth, when he happened to see his own reflection in the water.He thought it was another dog with a piece of meat twice as big; sohe let go his own, and flew at the other dog to get the larger piece.But, of course, all that happened was that he got neither; for one wasonly a shadow, and the other was carried away by the current.



MERCURY AND THE TRADESMEN

When Jupiter was creating man, he told Mercury to make an infusion oflies, and to add a little of it to the other ingredients which went tothe making of the Tradesmen. Mercury did so, and introduced an equalamount into each in turn--the tallow-chandler, and the greengrocer,and the haberdasher, and all, till he came to the horse-dealer, whowas last on the list, when, finding that he had a quantity of theinfusion still left, he put it all into him. This is why all Tradesmenlie more or less, but they none of them lie like a horse-dealer.



THE MICE AND THE WEASELS

There was war between the Mice and the Weasels, in which the Micealways got the worst of it, numbers of them being killed and eaten bythe Weasels. So they called a council of war, in which an old Mousegot up and said, "It's no wonder we are always beaten, for we have nogenerals to plan our battles and direct our movements in the field."Acting on his advice, they chose the biggest Mice to be their leaders,and these, in order to be distinguished from the rank and file,provided themselves with helmets bearing large plumes of straw. Theythen led out the Mice to battle, confident of victory: but they weredefeated as usual, and were soon scampering as fast as they could totheir holes. All made their way to safety without difficulty exceptthe leaders, who were so hampered by the badges of their rank thatthey could not get into their holes, and fell easy victims to theirpursuers.
    Greatness carries its own penalties.



THE PEACOCK AND JUNO

The Peacock was greatly discontented because he had not a beautifulvoice like the nightingale, and he went and complained to Juno aboutit. "The nightingale's song," said he, "is the envy of all the birds;but whenever I utter a sound I become a laughing-stock." The goddesstried to console him by saying, "You have not, it is true, the powerof song, but then you far excel all the rest in beauty: your neckflashes like the emerald and your splendid tail is a marvel ofgorgeous colour." But the Peacock was not appeased. "What is the use,"said he, "of being beautiful, with a voice like mine?" Then Junoreplied, with a shade of sternness in her tones, "Fate has allotted toall their destined gifts: to yourself beauty, to the eagle strength,to the nightingale song, and so on to all the rest in their degree;but you alone are dissatisfied with your portion. Make, then, no morecomplaints. For, if your present wish were granted, you would quicklyfind cause for fresh discontent."



THE BEAR AND THE FOX

A Bear was once bragging about his generous feelings, and saying howrefined he was compared with other animals. (There is, in fact, atradition that a Bear will never touch a dead body.) A Fox, who heardhim talking in this strain, smiled and said, "My friend, when you arehungry, I only wish you _would_ confine your attention to the dead andleave the living alone."
    A hypocrite deceives no one but himself.



THE ASS AND THE OLD PEASANT

An old Peasant was sitting in a meadow watching his Ass, which wasgrazing close by, when all of a sudden he caught sight of armed menstealthily approaching. He jumped up in a moment, and begged the Assto fly with him as fast as he could, "Or else," said he, "we shallboth be captured by the enemy." But the Ass just looked round lazilyand said, "And if so, do you think they'll make me carry heavier loadsthan I have to now?" "No," said his master. "Oh, well, then," said theAss, "I don't mind if they do take me, for I shan't be any worse off."



THE OX AND THE FROG

Two little Frogs were playing about at the edge of a pool when an Oxcame down to the water to drink, and by accident trod on one of themand crushed the life out of him. When the old Frog missed him, sheasked his brother where he was. "He is dead, mother," said the littleFrog; "an enormous big creature with four legs came to our pool thismorning and trampled him down in the mud." "Enormous, was he? Was heas big as this?" said the Frog, puffing herself out to look as bigas possible. "Oh! yes, _much_ bigger," was the answer. The Frog puffedherself out still more. "Was he as big as this?" said she. "Oh! yes,yes, mother, _MUCH_ bigger," said the little Frog. And yet again shepuffed and puffed herself out till she was almost as round as a ball."As big as...?" she began--but then she burst.



THE MAN AND THE IMAGE

A poor Man had a wooden Image of a god, to which he used to pray dailyfor riches. He did this for a long time, but remained as poor as ever,till one day he caught up the Image in disgust and hurled it with allhis strength against the wall. The force of the blow split open thehead and a quantity of gold coins fell out upon the floor. The Mangathered them up greedily, and said, "O you old fraud, you! When Ihonoured you, you did me no good whatever: but no sooner do I treatyou to insults and violence than you make a rich man of me!"



HERCULES AND THE WAGGONER

A Waggoner was driving his team along a muddy lane with a full loadbehind them, when the wheels of his waggon sank so deep in the mirethat no efforts of his horses could move them. As he stood there,looking helplessly on, and calling loudly at intervals upon Herculesfor assistance, the god himself appeared, and said to him, "Put yourshoulder to the wheel, man, and goad on your horses, and then you maycall on Hercules to assist you. If you won't lift a finger to helpyourself, you can't expect Hercules or any one else to come to youraid."
    Heaven helps those who help themselves.



THE POMEGRANATE, THE APPLE-TREE, AND THE BRAMBLE

A Pomegranate and an Apple-tree were disputing about the quality oftheir fruits, and each claimed that its own was the better of the two.High words passed between them, and a violent quarrel was imminent,when a Bramble impudently poked its head out of a neighbouring hedgeand said, "There, that's enough, my friends; don't let us quarrel."



THE LION, THE BEAR, AND THE FOX

A Lion and a Bear were fighting for possession of a kid, which theyhad both seized at the same moment. The battle was long and fierce,and at length both of them were exhausted, and lay upon the groundseverely wounded and gasping for breath. A Fox had all the time beenprowling round and watching the fight: and when he saw the combatantslying there too weak to move, he slipped in and seized the kid, andran off with it. They looked on helplessly, and one said to the other,"Here we've been mauling each other all this while, and no one thebetter for it except the Fox!"



THE BLACKAMOOR

A Man once bought an Ethiopian slave, who had a black skin like allEthiopians; but his new master thought his colour was due to hislate owner's having neglected him, and that all he wanted was a goodscrubbing. So he set to work with plenty of soap and hot water, andrubbed away at him with a will, but all to no purpose: his skinremained as black as ever, while the poor wretch all but died from thecold he caught.



THE TWO SOLDIERS AND THE ROBBER

Two Soldiers travelling together were set upon by a Robber. One ofthem ran away, but the other stood his ground, and laid about him solustily with his sword that the Robber was fain to fly and leavehim in peace. When the coast was clear the timid one ran back, and,flourishing his weapon, cried in a threatening voice, "Where is he?Let me get at him, and I'll soon let him know whom he's got to dealwith." But the other replied, "You are a little late, my friend: Ionly wish you had backed me up just now, even if you had done no morethan speak, for I should have been encouraged, believing your words tobe true. As it is, calm yourself, and put up your sword: there is nofurther use for it. You may delude others into thinking you're asbrave as a lion: but I know that, at the first sign of danger, you runaway like a hare."



THE LION AND THE WILD ASS

A Lion and a Wild Ass went out hunting together: the latter was to rundown the prey by his superior speed, and the former would then comeup and despatch it. They met with great success; and when it came tosharing the spoil the Lion divided it all into three equal portions."I will take the first," said he, "because I am King of the beasts; Iwill also take the second, because, as your partner, I am entitled tohalf of what remains; and as for the third--well, unless you give itup to me and take yourself off pretty quick, the third, believe me,will make you feel very sorry for yourself!"
    Might makes right.



THE MAN AND THE SATYR

A Man and a Satyr became friends, and determined to live together. Allwent well for a while, until one day in winter-time the Satyr saw theMan blowing on his hands. "Why do you do that?" he asked. "To warmmy hands," said the Man. That same day, when they sat down to suppertogether, they each had a steaming hot bowl of porridge, and the Manraised his bowl to his mouth and blew on it. "Why do you do that?"asked the Satyr. "To cool my porridge," said the Man. The Satyr got upfrom the table. "Good-bye," said he, "I'm going: I can't be friendswith a man who blows hot and cold with the same breath."



THE IMAGE-SELLER

A certain man made a wooden Image of Mercury, and exposed it for salein the market. As no one offered to buy it, however, he thought hewould try to attract a purchaser by proclaiming the virtues of theImage. So he cried up and down the market, "A god for sale! a god forsale! One who'll bring you luck and keep you lucky!" Presently one ofthe bystanders stopped him and said, "If your god is all you makehim out to be, how is it you don't keep him and make the most of himyourself?" "I'll tell you why," replied he; "he brings gain, it istrue, but he takes his time about it; whereas I want money at once."



THE EAGLE AND THE ARROW

An Eagle sat perched on a lofty rock, keeping a sharp look-out forprey. A huntsman, concealed in a cleft of the mountain and on thewatch for game, spied him there and shot an Arrow at him. The shaftstruck him full in the breast and pierced him through and through. Ashe lay in the agonies of death, he turned his eyes upon the Arrow."Ah! cruel fate!" he cried, "that I should perish thus: but oh! fatemore cruel still, that the Arrow which kills me should be winged withan Eagle's feathers!"



THE RICH MAN AND THE TANNER

A Rich Man took up his residence next door to a Tanner, and found thesmell of the tan-yard so extremely unpleasant that he told him he mustgo. The Tanner delayed his departure, and the Rich Man had to speakto him several times about it; and every time the Tanner said he wasmaking arrangements to move very shortly. This went on for some time,till at last the Rich Man got so used to the smell that he ceased tomind it, and troubled the Tanner with his objections no more.



THE WOLF, THE MOTHER, AND HER CHILD

A hungry Wolf was prowling about in search of food. By and by,attracted by the cries of a Child, he came to a cottage. As hecrouched beneath the window, he heard the Mother say to the Child,"Stop crying, do! or I'll throw you to the Wolf." Thinking she reallymeant what she said, he waited there a long time in the expectation ofsatisfying his hunger. In the evening he heard the Mother fondling herChild and saying, "If the naughty Wolf comes, he shan't get my littleone: Daddy will kill him." The Wolf got up in much disgust and walkedaway: "As for the people in that house," said he to himself, "youcan't believe a word they say."



THE OLD WOMAN AND THE WINE-JAR

An old Woman picked up an empty Wine-jar which had once contained arare and costly wine, and which still retained some traces of itsexquisite bouquet. She raised it to her nose and sniffed at it againand again. "Ah," she cried, "how delicious must have been the liquidwhich has left behind so ravishing a smell."



THE LIONESS AND THE VIXEN

A Lioness and a Vixen were talking together about their young, asmothers will, and saying how healthy and well-grown they were, andwhat beautiful coats they had, and how they were the image of theirparents. "My litter of cubs is a joy to see," said the Fox; and thenshe added, rather maliciously, "But I notice you never have more thanone." "No," said the Lioness grimly, "but that one's a lion."
    Quality, not quantity.



THE VIPER AND THE FILE

A Viper entered a carpenter's shop, and went from one to another ofthe tools, begging for something to eat. Among the rest, he addressedhimself to the File, and asked for the favour of a meal. The Filereplied in a tone of pitying contempt, "What a simpleton you must beif you imagine you will get anything from me, who invariably take fromevery one and never give anything in return."
    The covetous are poor givers.



THE CAT AND THE COCK

A Cat pounced on a Cock, and cast about for some good excuse formaking a meal off him, for Cats don't as a rule eat Cocks, and sheknew she ought not to. At last she said, "You make a great nuisance ofyourself at night by crowing and keeping people awake: so I am goingto make an end of you." But the Cock defended himself by saying thathe crowed in order that men might wake up and set about the day's workin good time, and that they really couldn't very well do without him."That may be," said the Cat, "but whether they can or not, I'm notgoing without my dinner"; and she killed and ate him.
    The want of a good excuse never kept a villain from crime.



THE HARE AND THE TORTOISE

A Hare was one day making fun of a Tortoise for being so slow upon hisfeet. "Wait a bit," said the Tortoise; "I'll run a race with you, andI'll wager that I win." "Oh, well," replied the Hare, who was muchamused at the idea, "let's try and see"; and it was soon agreed thatthe fox should set a course for them, and be the judge. When the timecame both started off together, but the Hare was soon so far aheadthat he thought he might as well have a rest: so down he lay and fellfast asleep. Meanwhile the Tortoise kept plodding on, and in timereached the goal. At last the Hare woke up with a start, and dashed onat his fastest, but only to find that the Tortoise had already won therace.
    Slow and steady wins the race.



THE SOLDIER AND HIS HORSE

A Soldier gave his Horse a plentiful supply of oats in time of war,and tended him with the utmost care, for he wished him to be strong toendure the hardships of the field, and swift to bear his master, whenneed arose, out of the reach of danger. But when the war was over heemployed him on all sorts of drudgery, bestowing but little attentionupon him, and giving him, moreover, nothing but chaff to eat. The timecame when war broke out again, and the Soldier saddled and bridled hisHorse, and, having put on his heavy coat of mail, mounted him to rideoff and take the field. But the poor half-starved beast sank downunder his weight, and said to his rider, "You will have to go intobattle on foot this time. Thanks to hard work and bad food, you haveturned me from a Horse into an ass; and you cannot in a moment turn meback again into a Horse."



THE OXEN AND THE BUTCHERS

Once upon a time the Oxen determined to be revenged upon the Butchersfor the havoc they wrought in their ranks, and plotted to put them todeath on a given day. They were all gathered together discussing howbest to carry out the plan, and the more violent of them were engagedin sharpening their horns for the fray, when an old Ox got up upon hisfeet and said, "My brothers, you have good reason, I know, to hatethese Butchers, but, at any rate, they understand their trade and dowhat they have to do without causing unnecessary pain. But if we killthem, others, who have no experience, will be set to slaughter us, andwill by their bungling inflict great sufferings upon us. For you maybe sure that, even though all the Butchers perish, mankind will nevergo without their beef."



THE WOLF AND THE LION

A wolf stole a lamb from the flock, and was carrying it off to devourit at his leisure when he met a Lion, who took his prey away from himand walked off with it. He dared not resist, but when the Lion hadgone some distance he said, "It is most unjust of you to take what'smine away from me like that." The Lion laughed and called out inreply, "It was justly yours, no doubt! The gift of a friend, perhaps,eh?"



THE SHEEP, THE WOLF, AND THE STAG

A Stag once asked a Sheep to lend him a measure of wheat, saying thathis friend the Wolf would be his surety. The Sheep, however, wasafraid that they meant to cheat her; so she excused herself, saying,"The Wolf is in the habit of seizing what he wants and running offwith it without paying, and you, too, can run much faster than I. Sohow shall I be able to come up with either of you when the debt fallsdue?"
    Two blacks do not make a white.



THE LION AND THE THREE BULLS

Three Bulls were grazing in a meadow, and were watched by a Lion, wholonged to capture and devour them, but who felt that he was no matchfor the three so long as they kept together. So he began by falsewhispers and malicious hints to foment jealousies and distrust amongthem. This stratagem succeeded so well that ere long the Bulls grewcold and unfriendly, and finally avoided each other and fed each oneby himself apart. No sooner did the Lion see this than he fell uponthem one by one and killed them in turn.
    The quarrels of friends are the opportunities of foes.



THE HORSE AND HIS RIDER

A Young Man, who fancied himself something of a horseman, mounteda Horse which had not been properly broken in, and was exceedinglydifficult to control. No sooner did the Horse feel his weight in thesaddle than he bolted, and nothing would stop him. A friend of theRider's met him in the road in his headlong career, and called out,"Where are you off to in such a hurry?" To which he, pointing to theHorse, replied, "I've no idea: ask him."



THE GOAT AND THE VINE

A Goat was straying in a vineyard, and began to browse on the tendershoots of a Vine which bore several fine bunches of grapes. "What haveI done to you," said the Vine, "that you should harm me thus? Isn'tthere grass enough for you to feed on? All the same, even if you eatup every leaf I have, and leave me quite bare, I shall producewine enough to pour over you when you are led to the altar to besacrificed."



THE TWO POTS

Two Pots, one of earthenware and the other of brass, were carried awaydown a river in flood. The Brazen Pot urged his companion to keepclose by his side, and he would protect him. The other thanked him,but begged him not to come near him on any account: "For that," hesaid, "is just what I am most afraid of. One touch from you and Ishould be broken in pieces."
    Equals make the best friends.



THE OLD HOUND

A Hound who had served his master well for years, and had run downmany a quarry in his time, began to lose his strength and speed owingto age. One day, when out hunting, his master started a powerful wildboar and set the Hound at him. The latter seized the beast by the ear,but his teeth were gone and he could not retain his hold; so theboar escaped. His master began to scold him severely, but the Houndinterrupted him with these words: "My will is as strong as ever,master, but my body is old and feeble. You ought to honour me for whatI have been instead of abusing me for what I am."



THE CLOWN AND THE COUNTRYMAN

A Nobleman announced his intention of giving a public entertainment inthe theatre, and offered splendid prizes to all who had any noveltyto exhibit at the performance. The announcement attracted a crowd ofconjurers, jugglers, and acrobats, and among the rest a Clown, verypopular with the crowd, who let it be known that he was going togive an entirely new turn. When the day of the performance came,the theatre was filled from top to bottom some time before theentertainment began. Several performers exhibited their tricks, andthen the popular favourite came on empty-handed and alone. At oncethere was a hush of expectation: and he, letting his head fall uponhis breast, imitated the squeak of a pig to such perfection that theaudience insisted on his producing the animal, which, they said, hemust have somewhere concealed about his person. He, however, convincedthem that there was no pig there, and then the applause was deafening.Among the spectators was a Countryman, who disparaged the Clown'sperformance and announced that he would give a much superiorexhibition of the same trick on the following day. Again the theatrewas filled to overflowing, and again the Clown gave his imitationamidst the cheers of the crowd. The Countryman, meanwhile, beforegoing on the stage, had secreted a young porker under his smock; andwhen the spectators derisively bade him do better if he could, he gaveit a pinch in the ear and made it squeal loudly. But they all with onevoice shouted out that the Clown's imitation was much more true tolife. Thereupon he produced the pig from under his smock and saidsarcastically, "There, that shows what sort of judges you are!"



THE LARK AND THE FARMER

A Lark nested in a field of corn, and was rearing her brood undercover of the ripening grain. One day, before the young were fullyfledged, the Farmer came to look at the crop, and, finding ityellowing fast, he said, "I must send round word to my neighbours tocome and help me reap this field." One of the young Larks overheardhim, and was very much frightened, and asked her mother whether theyhadn't better move house at once. "There's no hurry," replied she;"a man who looks to his friends for help will take his time about athing." In a few days the Farmer came by again, and saw that the grainwas overripe and falling out of the ears upon the ground. "I must putit off no longer," he said; "This very day I'll hire the men and setthem to work at once." The Lark heard him and said to her young,"Come, my children, we must be off: he talks no more of his friendsnow, but is going to take things in hand himself."
    Self-help is the best help.



THE LION AND THE ASS

A Lion and an Ass set up as partners and went a-hunting together. Incourse of time they came to a cave in which there were a number ofwild goats. The Lion took up his stand at the mouth of the cave, andwaited for them to come out; while the Ass went inside and brayed forall he was worth in order to frighten them out into the open. The Lionstruck them down one by one as they appeared; and when the cave wasempty the Ass came out and said, "Well, I scared them pretty well,didn't I?" "I should think you did," said the Lion: "why, if I hadn'tknown you were an Ass, I should have turned and run myself."



THE PROPHET

A Prophet sat in the market-place and told the fortunes of all whocared to engage his services. Suddenly there came running up one whotold him that his house had been broken into by thieves, and that theyhad made off with everything they could lay hands on. He was up in amoment, and rushed off, tearing his hair and calling down curses onthe miscreants. The bystanders were much amused, and one of them said,"Our friend professes to know what is going to happen to others,but it seems he's not clever enough to perceive what's in store forhimself."



THE HOUND AND THE HARE

A young Hound started a Hare, and, when he caught her up, would at onemoment snap at her with his teeth as though he were about to kill her,while at another he would let go his hold and frisk about her, as ifhe were playing with another dog. At last the Hare said, "I wish youwould show yourself in your true colours! If you are my friend, why doyou bite me? If you are my enemy, why do you play with me?"
    He is no friend who plays double.



THE LION, THE MOUSE, AND THE FOX

A Lion was lying asleep at the mouth of his den when a Mouse ran overhis back and tickled him so that he woke up with a start and beganlooking about everywhere to see what it was that had disturbed him. AFox, who was looking on, thought he would have a joke at the expenseof the Lion; so he said, "Well, this is the first time I've seen aLion afraid of a Mouse." "Afraid of a Mouse?" said the Lion testily:"not I! It's his bad manners I can't stand."



THE TRUMPETER TAKEN PRISONER

A Trumpeter marched into battle in the van of the army and put courageinto his comrades by his warlike tunes. Being captured by the enemy,he begged for his life, and said, "Do not put me to death; I havekilled no one: indeed, I have no weapons, but carry with me only mytrumpet here." But his captors replied, "That is only the more reasonwhy we should take your life; for, though you do not fight yourself,you stir up others to do so."



THE WOLF AND THE CRANE

A Wolf once got a bone stuck in his throat. So he went to a Crane andbegged her to put her long bill down his throat and pull it out. "I'llmake it worth your while," he added. The Crane did as she was asked,and got the bone out quite easily. The Wolf thanked her warmly, andwas just turning away, when she cried, "What about that fee of mine?""Well, what about it?" snapped the Wolf, baring his teeth as he spoke;"you can go about boasting that you once put your head into a Wolf'smouth and didn't get it bitten off. What more do you want?"



THE EAGLE, THE CAT, AND THE WILD SOW

An Eagle built her nest at the top of a high tree; a Cat with herfamily occupied a hollow in the trunk half-way down; and a Wild Sowand her young took up their quarters at the foot. They might have goton very well as neighbours had it not been for the evil cunning of theCat. Climbing up to the Eagle's nest she said to the Eagle, "You and Iare in the greatest possible danger. That dreadful creature, the Sow,who is always to be seen grubbing away at the foot of the tree, meansto uproot it, that she may devour your family and mine at her ease."Having thus driven the Eagle almost out of her senses with terror, theCat climbed down the tree, and said to the Sow, "I must warn youagainst that dreadful bird, the Eagle. She is only waiting her chanceto fly down and carry off one of your little pigs when you take themout, to feed her brood with." She succeeded in frightening the Sow asmuch as the Eagle. Then she returned to her hole in the trunk, fromwhich, feigning to be afraid, she never came forth by day. Only bynight did she creep out unseen to procure food for her kittens. TheEagle, meanwhile was afraid to stir from her nest, and the Sow darednot leave her home among the roots: so that in time both they andtheir families perished of hunger, and their dead bodies supplied theCat with ample food for her growing family.



THE WOLF AND THE SHEEP

A Wolf was worried and badly bitten by dogs, and lay a long time fordead. By and by he began to revive, and, feeling very hungry, calledout to a passing Sheep and said, "Would you kindly bring me some waterfrom the stream close by? I can manage about meat, if only I couldget something to drink." But this Sheep was no fool. "I can quiteunderstand", said he, "that if I brought you the water, you would haveno difficulty about the meat. Good-morning."



THE TUNNY-FISH AND THE DOLPHIN

A Tunny-fish was chased by a Dolphin and splashed through the water ata great rate, but the Dolphin gradually gained upon him, and was justabout to seize him when the force of his flight carried the Tunny onto a sandbank. In the heat of the chase the Dolphin followed him, andthere they both lay out of the water, gasping for dear life. When theTunny saw that his enemy was doomed like himself, he said, "I don'tmind having to die now: for I see that he who is the cause of my deathis about to share the same fate."



THE THREE TRADESMEN

The citizens of a certain city were debating about the best materialto use in the fortifications which were about to be erected for thegreater security of the town. A Carpenter got up and advised the useof wood, which he said was readily procurable and easily worked. AStone-mason objected to wood on the ground that it was so inflammable,and recommended stones instead. Then a Tanner got on his legs andsaid, "In my opinion there's nothing like leather."
    Every man for himself.



THE MOUSE AND THE BULL

A Bull gave chase to a Mouse which had bitten him in the nose: but theMouse was too quick for him and slipped into a hole in a wall. TheBull charged furiously into the wall again and again until he wastired out, and sank down on the ground exhausted with his efforts.When all was quiet, the Mouse darted out and bit him again. Besidehimself with rage he started to his feet, but by that time the Mousewas back in his hole again, and he could do nothing but bellow andfume in helpless anger. Presently he heard a shrill little voice sayfrom inside the wall, "You big fellows don't always have it your ownway, you see: sometimes we little ones come off best."
    The battle is not always to the strong.



THE HARE AND THE HOUND

A Hound started a Hare from her form, and pursued her for somedistance; but as she gradually gained upon him, he gave up the chase.A rustic who had seen the race met the Hound as he was returning, andtaunted him with his defeat. "The little one was too much for you,"said he. "Ah, well," said the Hound, "don't forget it's one thing tobe running for your dinner, but quite another to be running for yourlife."



THE TOWN MOUSE AND THE COUNTRY MOUSE

A Town Mouse and a Country Mouse were acquaintances, and the CountryMouse one day invited his friend to come and see him at his home inthe fields. The Town Mouse came, and they sat down to a dinner ofbarleycorns and roots, the latter of which had a distinctly earthyflavour. The fare was not much to the taste of the guest, andpresently he broke out with "My poor dear friend, you live here nobetter than the ants. Now, you should just see how I fare! My larderis a regular horn of plenty. You must come and stay with me, andI promise you you shall live on the fat of the land." So when hereturned to town he took the Country Mouse with him, and showed himinto a larder containing flour and oatmeal and figs and honey anddates. The Country Mouse had never seen anything like it, and sat downto enjoy the luxuries his friend provided: but before they had wellbegun, the door of the larder opened and some one came in. The twoMice scampered off and hid themselves in a narrow and exceedinglyuncomfortable hole. Presently, when all was quiet, they ventured outagain; but some one else came in, and off they scuttled again. Thiswas too much for the visitor. "Good-bye," said he, "I'm off. You livein the lap of luxury, I can see, but you are surrounded by dangers;whereas at home I can enjoy my simple dinner of roots and corn inpeace."



THE LION AND THE BULL

A Lion saw a fine fat Bull pasturing among a herd of cattle and castabout for some means of getting him into his clutches; so he sent himword that he was sacrificing a sheep, and asked if he would do him thehonour of dining with him. The Bull accepted the invitation, but, onarriving at the Lion's den, he saw a great array of saucepans andspits, but no sign of a sheep; so he turned on his heel and walkedquietly away. The Lion called after him in an injured tone to ask thereason, and the Bull turned round and said, "I have reason enough.When I saw all your preparations it struck me at once that the victimwas to be a Bull and not a sheep."
    The net is spread in vain in sight of the bird.



THE WOLF, THE FOX, AND THE APE

A Wolf charged a Fox with theft, which he denied, and the case wasbrought before an Ape to be tried. When he had heard the evidence onboth sides, the Ape gave judgment as follows: "I do not think," hesaid, "that you, O Wolf, ever lost what you claim; but all the same Ibelieve that you, Fox, are guilty of the theft, in spite of all yourdenials."
    The dishonest get no credit, even if they act honestly.



THE EAGLE AND THE COCKS

There were two Cocks in the same farmyard, and they fought to decidewho should be master. When the fight was over, the beaten one went andhid himself in a dark corner; while the victor flew up on to the roofof the stables and crowed lustily. But an Eagle espied him from highup in the sky, and swooped down and carried him off. Forthwith theother Cock came out of his corner and ruled the roost without a rival.
    Pride comes before a fall.



THE ESCAPED JACKDAW

A Man caught a Jackdaw and tied a piece of string to one of its legs,and then gave it to his children for a pet. But the Jackdaw didn't atall like having to live with people; so, after a while, when he seemedto have become fairly tame and they didn't watch him so closely, heslipped away and flew back to his old haunts. Unfortunately, thestring was still on his leg, and before long it got entangled in thebranches of a tree and the Jackdaw couldn't get free, try as he would.He saw it was all up with him, and cried in despair, "Alas, in gainingmy freedom I have lost my life."



THE FARMER AND THE FOX

A Farmer was greatly annoyed by a Fox, which came prowling about hisyard at night and carried off his fowls. So he set a trap for him andcaught him; and in order to be revenged upon him, he tied a bunch oftow to his tail and set fire to it and let him go. As ill-luck wouldhave it, however, the Fox made straight for the fields where the cornwas standing ripe and ready for cutting. It quickly caught fire andwas all burnt up, and the Farmer lost all his harvest.
    Revenge is a two-edged sword.



VENUS AND THE CAT

A Cat fell in love with a handsome young man, and begged the goddessVenus to change her into a woman. Venus was very gracious about it,and changed her at once into a beautiful maiden, whom the young manfell in love with at first sight and shortly afterwards married. Oneday Venus thought she would like to see whether the Cat had changedher habits as well as her form; so she let a mouse run loose in theroom where they were. Forgetting everything, the young woman had nosooner seen the mouse than up she jumped and was after it like a shot:at which the goddess was so disgusted that she changed her back againinto a Cat.



THE CROW AND THE SWAN

A Crow was filled with envy on seeing the beautiful white plumage of aSwan, and thought it was due to the water in which the Swan constantlybathed and swam. So he left the neighbourhood of the altars, where hegot his living by picking up bits of the meat offered in sacrifice,and went and lived among the pools and streams. But though he bathedand washed his feathers many times a day, he didn't make them anywhiter, and at last died of hunger into the bargain.
    You may change your habits, but not your nature.



THE STAG WITH ONE EYE

A Stag, blind of one eye, was grazing close to the sea-shore and kepthis sound eye turned towards the land, so as to be able to perceivethe approach of the hounds, while the blind eye he turned towards thesea, never suspecting that any danger would threaten him from thatquarter. As it fell out, however, some sailors, coasting along theshore, spied him and shot an arrow at him, by which he was mortallywounded. As he lay dying, he said to himself, "Wretch that I am! Ibethought me of the dangers of the land, whence none assailed me: butI feared no peril from the sea, yet thence has come my ruin."
    Misfortune often assails us from an unexpected quarter.



THE FLY AND THE DRAUGHT-MULE

A Fly sat on one of the shafts of a cart and said to the Mule who waspulling it, "How slow you are! Do mend your pace, or I shall have touse my sting as a goad." The Mule was not in the least disturbed."Behind me, in the cart," said he, "sits my master. He holds thereins, and flicks me with his whip, and him I obey, but I don't wantany of your impertinence. _I_ know when I may dawdle and when I maynot."



THE COCK AND THE JEWEL

A Cock, scratching the ground for something to eat, turned up a Jewelthat had by chance been dropped there. "Ho!" said he, "a fine thingyou are, no doubt, and, had your owner found you, great would his joyhave been. But for me! give me a single grain of corn before all thejewels in the world."



THE WOLF AND THE SHEPHERD

A Wolf hung about near a flock of sheep for a long time, but made noattempt to molest them. The Shepherd at first kept a sharp eye on him,for he naturally thought he meant mischief: but as time went by andthe Wolf showed no inclination to meddle with the flock, he began tolook upon him more as a protector than as an enemy: and when one daysome errand took him to the city, he felt no uneasiness at leavingthe Wolf with the sheep. But as soon as his back was turned theWolf attacked them and killed the greater number. When the Shepherdreturned and saw the havoc he had wrought, he cried, "It serves meright for trusting my flock to a Wolf."



THE FARMER AND THE STORK

A Farmer set some traps in a field which he had lately sown with corn,in order to catch the cranes which came to pick up the seed. When hereturned to look at his traps he found several cranes caught, andamong them a Stork, which begged to be let go, and said, "You oughtnot to kill me: I am not a crane, but a Stork, as you can easily seeby my feathers, and I am the most honest and harmless of birds." Butthe Farmer replied, "It's nothing to me what you are: I find you amongthese cranes, who ruin my crops, and, like them, you shall suffer."
    If you choose bad companions no one will believe that you are    anything but bad yourself.



THE CHARGER AND THE MILLER

A Horse, who had been used to carry his rider into battle, felthimself growing old and chose to work in a mill instead. He now nolonger found himself stepping out proudly to the beating of the drums,but was compelled to slave away all day grinding the corn. Bewailinghis hard lot, he said one day to the Miller, "Ah me! I was once asplendid war-horse, gaily caparisoned, and attended by a groomwhose sole duty was to see to my wants. How different is my presentcondition! I wish I had never given up the battlefield for the mill."The Miller replied with asperity, "It's no use your regretting thepast. Fortune has many ups and downs: you must just take them as theycome."



THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE OWL

An Owl, who lived in a hollow tree, was in the habit of feeding bynight and sleeping by day; but her slumbers were greatly disturbedby the chirping of a Grasshopper, who had taken up his abode in thebranches. She begged him repeatedly to have some consideration for hercomfort, but the Grasshopper, if anything, only chirped the louder. Atlast the Owl could stand it no longer, but determined to ridherself of the pest by means of a trick. Addressing herself to theGrasshopper, she said in her pleasantest manner, "As I cannot sleepfor your song, which, believe me, is as sweet as the notes of Apollo'slyre, I have a mind to taste some nectar, which Minerva gave methe other day. Won't you come in and join me?" The Grasshopper wasflattered by the praise of his song, and his mouth, too, watered atthe mention of the delicious drink, so he said he would be delighted.No sooner had he got inside the hollow where the Owl was sitting thanshe pounced upon him and ate him up.



THE GRASSHOPPER AND THE ANTS

One fine day in winter some Ants were busy drying their store of corn,which had got rather damp during a long spell of rain. Presently upcame a Grasshopper and begged them to spare her a few grains, "For,"she said, "I'm simply starving." The Ants stopped work for a moment,though this was against their principles. "May we ask," said they,"what you were doing with yourself all last summer? Why didn't youcollect a store of food for the winter?" "The fact is," replied theGrasshopper, "I was so busy singing that I hadn't the time." "If youspent the summer singing," replied the Ants, "you can't do better thanspend the winter dancing." And they chuckled and went on with theirwork.



THE FARMER AND THE VIPER

One winter a Farmer found a Viper frozen and numb with cold, and outof pity picked it up and placed it in his bosom. The Viper was nosooner revived by the warmth than it turned upon its benefactor andinflicted a fatal bite upon him; and as the poor man lay dying, hecried, "I have only got what I deserved, for taking compassion on sovillainous a creature."
    Kindness is thrown away upon the evil.



THE TWO FROGS

Two Frogs were neighbours. One lived in a marsh, where there wasplenty of water, which frogs love: the other in a lane some distanceaway, where all the water to be had was that which lay in the rutsafter rain. The Marsh Frog warned his friend and pressed him to comeand live with him in the marsh, for he would find his quarters therefar more comfortable and--what was still more important--more safe.But the other refused, saying that he could not bring himself to movefrom a place to which he had become accustomed. A few days afterwardsa heavy waggon came down the lane, and he was crushed to death underthe wheels.



THE COBBLER TURNED DOCTOR

A very unskilful Cobbler, finding himself unable to make a living athis trade, gave up mending boots and took to doctoring instead. Hegave out that he had the secret of a universal antidote against allpoisons, and acquired no small reputation, thanks to his talent forpuffing himself. One day, however, he fell very ill; and the King ofthe country bethought him that he would test the value of his remedy.Calling, therefore, for a cup, he poured out a dose of the antidote,and, under pretence of mixing poison with it, added a little water,and commanded him to drink it. Terrified by the fear of beingpoisoned, the Cobbler confessed that he knew nothing about medicine,and that his antidote was worthless. Then the King summoned hissubjects and addressed them as follows: "What folly could be greaterthan yours? Here is this Cobbler to whom no one will send his bootsto be mended, and yet you have not hesitated to entrust him with yourlives!"



THE ASS, THE COCK, AND THE LION

An Ass and a Cock were in a cattle-pen together. Presently a Lion, whohad been starving for days, came along and was just about to fallupon the Ass and make a meal of him when the Cock, rising to his fullheight and flapping his wings vigorously, uttered a tremendous crow.Now, if there is one thing that frightens a Lion, it is the crowing ofa Cock: and this one had no sooner heard the noise than he fled.The Ass was mightily elated at this, and thought that, if the Lioncouldn't face a Cock, he would be still less likely to stand up to anAss: so he ran out and pursued him. But when the two had got well outof sight and hearing of the Cock, the Lion suddenly turned upon theAss and ate him up.
    False confidence often leads to disaster.



THE BELLY AND THE MEMBERS

The Members of the Body once rebelled against the Belly. "You," theysaid to the Belly, "live in luxury and sloth, and never do a stroke ofwork; while we not only have to do all the hard work there is to bedone, but are actually your slaves and have to minister to all yourwants. Now, we will do so no longer, and you can shift for yourselffor the future." They were as good as their word, and left the Bellyto starve. The result was just what might have been expected: thewhole Body soon began to fail, and the Members and all shared in thegeneral collapse. And then they saw too late how foolish they hadbeen.



THE BALD MAN AND THE FLY

A Fly settled on the head of a Bald Man and bit him. In his eagernessto kill it, he hit himself a smart slap. But the Fly escaped, and saidto him in derision, "You tried to kill me for just one little bite;what will you do to yourself now, for the heavy smack you have justgiven yourself?" "Oh, for that blow I bear no grudge," he replied,"for I never intended myself any harm; but as for you, youcontemptible insect, who live by sucking human blood, I'd have borne agood deal more than that for the satisfaction of dashing the life outof you!"



THE ASS AND THE WOLF

An Ass was feeding in a meadow, and, catching sight of his enemy theWolf in the distance, pretended to be very lame and hobbled painfullyalong. When the Wolf came up, he asked the Ass how he came to be solame, and the Ass replied that in going through a hedge he had troddenon a thorn, and he begged the Wolf to pull it out with his teeth, "Incase," he said, "when you eat me, it should stick in your throat andhurt you very much." The Wolf said he would, and told the Ass to liftup his foot, and gave his whole mind to getting out the thorn. But theAss suddenly let out with his heels and fetched the Wolf a fearfulkick in the mouth, breaking his teeth; and then he galloped off atfull speed. As soon as he could speak the Wolf growled to himself,"It serves me right: my father taught me to kill, and I ought to havestuck to that trade instead of attempting to cure."



THE MONKEY AND THE CAMEL

At a gathering of all the beasts the Monkey gave an exhibition ofdancing and entertained the company vastly. There was great applauseat the finish, which excited the envy of the Camel and made him desireto win the favour of the assembly by the same means. So he got up fromhis place and began dancing, but he cut such a ridiculous figure as heplunged about, and made such a grotesque exhibition of his ungainlyperson, that the beasts all fell upon him with ridicule and drove himaway.



THE SICK MAN AND THE DOCTOR

A Sick Man received a visit from his Doctor, who asked him how he was."Fairly well, Doctor," said he, "but I find I sweat a great deal.""Ah," said the Doctor, "that's a good sign." On his next visit heasked the same question, and his patient replied, "I'm much as usual,but I've taken to having shivering fits, which leave me cold allover." "Ah," said the Doctor, "that's a good sign too." When he camethe third time and inquired as before about his patient's health, theSick Man said that he felt very feverish. "A very good sign," said theDoctor; "you are doing very nicely indeed." Afterwards a friend cameto see the invalid, and on asking him how he did, received this reply:"My dear friend, I'm dying of good signs."



THE TRAVELLERS AND THE PLANE-TREE

Two Travellers were walking along a bare and dusty road in the heat ofa summer's day. Coming presently to a Plane-tree, they joyfully turnedaside to shelter from the burning rays of the sun in the deep shade ofits spreading branches. As they rested, looking up into the tree, oneof them remarked to his companion, "What a useless tree the Plane is!It bears no fruit and is of no service to man at all." The Plane-treeinterrupted him with indignation. "You ungrateful creature!" it cried:"you come and take shelter under me from the scorching sun, and then,in the very act of enjoying the cool shade of my foliage, you abuse meand call me good for nothing!"
    Many a service is met with ingratitude.



THE FLEA AND THE OX

A Flea once said to an Ox, "How comes it that a big strong fellow likeyou is content to serve mankind, and do all their hard work for them,while I, who am no bigger than you see, live on their bodies and drinkmy fill of their blood, and never do a stroke for it all?" To whichthe Ox replied, "Men are very kind to me, and so I am grateful tothem: they feed and house me well, and every now and then they showtheir fondness for me by patting me on the head and neck." "They'd patme, too," said the Flea, "if I let them: but I take good care theydon't, or there would be nothing left of me."



THE BIRDS, THE BEASTS, AND THE BAT

The Birds were at war with the Beasts, and many battles were foughtwith varying success on either side. The Bat did not throw in his lotdefinitely with either party, but when things went well for the Birdshe was found fighting in their ranks; when, on the other hand, theBeasts got the upper hand, he was to be found among the Beasts. No onepaid any attention to him while the war lasted: but when it was over,and peace was restored, neither the Birds nor the Beasts would haveanything to do with so double-faced a traitor, and so he remains tothis day a solitary outcast from both.



THE MAN AND HIS TWO SWEETHEARTS

A Man of middle age, whose hair was turning grey, had two Sweethearts,an old woman and a young one. The elder of the two didn't like havinga lover who looked so much younger than herself; so, whenever he cameto see her, she used to pull the dark hairs out of his head to makehim look old. The younger, on the other hand, didn't like him to lookso much older than herself, and took every opportunity of pulling outthe grey hairs, to make him look young. Between them, they left not ahair in his head, and he became perfectly bald.



THE EAGLE, THE JACKDAW, AND THE SHEPHERD

One day a Jackdaw saw an Eagle swoop down on a lamb and carry it offin its talons. "My word," said the Jackdaw, "I'll do that myself." Soit flew high up into the air, and then came shooting down with agreat whirring of wings on to the back of a big ram. It had no sooneralighted than its claws got caught fast in the wool, and nothing itcould do was of any use: there it stuck, flapping away, and onlymaking things worse instead of better. By and by up came the Shepherd."Oho," he said, "so that's what you'd be doing, is it?" And hetook the Jackdaw, and clipped its wings and carried it home to hischildren. It looked so odd that they didn't know what to make of it."What sort of bird is it, father?" they asked. "It's a Jackdaw," hereplied, "and nothing but a Jackdaw: but it wants to be taken for anEagle."
    If you attempt what is beyond your power, your trouble will be    wasted and you court not only misfortune but ridicule.



THE WOLF AND THE BOY

A Wolf, who had just enjoyed a good meal and was in a playful mood,caught sight of a Boy lying flat upon the ground, and, realising thathe was trying to hide, and that it was fear of himself that made himdo this, he went up to him and said, "Aha, I've found you, you see;but if you can say three things to me, the truth of which cannot bedisputed, I will spare your life." The Boy plucked up courage andthought for a moment, and then he said, "First, it is a pity you sawme; secondly, I was a fool to let myself be seen; and thirdly, we allhate wolves because they are always making unprovoked attacks upon ourflocks." The Wolf replied, "Well, what you say is true enough fromyour point of view; so you may go."



THE MILLER, HIS SON, AND THEIR ASS

A Miller, accompanied by his young Son, was driving his Ass to marketin hopes of finding a purchaser for him. On the road they met a troopof girls, laughing and talking, who exclaimed, "Did you ever see sucha pair of fools? To be trudging along the dusty road when they mightbe riding!" The Miller thought there was sense in what they said;so he made his Son mount the Ass, and himself walked at the side.Presently they met some of his old cronies, who greeted them and said,"You'll spoil that Son of yours, letting him ride while you toil alongon foot! Make him walk, young lazybones! It'll do him all the good inthe world." The Miller followed their advice, and took his Son's placeon the back of the Ass while the boy trudged along behind. They hadnot gone far when they overtook a party of women and children, and theMiller heard them say, "What a selfish old man! He himself rides incomfort, but lets his poor little boy follow as best he can on his ownlegs!" So he made his Son get up behind him. Further along the roadthey met some travellers, who asked the Miller whether the Ass he wasriding was his own property, or a beast hired for the occasion. Hereplied that it was his own, and that he was taking it to market tosell. "Good heavens!" said they, "with a load like that the poor beastwill be so exhausted by the time he gets there that no one will lookat him. Why, you'd do better to carry him!" "Anything to please you,"said the old man, "we can but try." So they got off, tied the Ass'slegs together with a rope and slung him on a pole, and at last reachedthe town, carrying him between them. This was so absurd a sight thatthe people ran out in crowds to laugh at it, and chaffed the Fatherand Son unmercifully, some even calling them lunatics. They had thengot to a bridge over the river, where the Ass, frightened by the noiseand his unusual situation, kicked and struggled till he broke theropes that bound him, and fell into the water and was drowned.Whereupon the unfortunate Miller, vexed and ashamed, made the bestof his way home again, convinced that in trying to please all he hadpleased none, and had lost his Ass into the bargain.



THE STAG AND THE VINE

A Stag, pursued by the huntsmen, concealed himself under cover of athick Vine. They lost track of him and passed by his hiding-placewithout being aware that he was anywhere near. Supposing all danger tobe over, he presently began to browse on the leaves of the Vine. Themovement drew the attention of the returning huntsmen, and one ofthem, supposing some animal to be hidden there, shot an arrow at aventure into the foliage. The unlucky Stag was pierced to the heart,and, as he expired, he said, "I deserve my fate for my treachery infeeding upon the leaves of my protector."
    Ingratitude sometimes brings its own punishment.



THE LAMB CHASED BY A WOLF

A Wolf was chasing a Lamb, which took refuge in a temple. The Wolfurged it to come out of the precincts, and said, "If you don't, thepriest is sure to catch you and offer you up in sacrifice on thealtar." To which the Lamb replied, "Thanks, I think I'll stay where Iam: I'd rather be sacrificed any day than be eaten up by a Wolf."



THE ARCHER AND THE LION

An Archer went up into the hills to get some sport with his bow, andall the animals fled at the sight of him with the exception of theLion, who stayed behind and challenged him to fight. But he shot anarrow at the Lion and hit him, and said, "There, you see what mymessenger can do: just you wait a moment and I'll tackle you myself."The Lion, however, when he felt the sting of the arrow, ran away asfast as his legs could carry him. A fox, who had seen it all happen,said to the Lion, "Come, don't be a coward: why don't you stay andshow fight?" But the Lion replied, "You won't get me to stay, not you:why, when he sends a messenger like that before him, he must himselfbe a terrible fellow to deal with."
    Give a wide berth to those who can do damage at a distance.



THE WOLF AND THE GOAT

A Wolf caught sight of a Goat browsing above him on the scanty herbagethat grew on the top of a steep rock; and being unable to get at her,tried to induce her to come lower down. "You are risking your life upthere, madam, indeed you are," he called out: "pray take my advice andcome down here, where you will find plenty of better food." The Goatturned a knowing eye upon him. "It's little you care whether I getgood grass or bad," said she: "what you want is to eat me."



THE SICK STAG

A Stag fell sick and lay in a clearing in the forest, too weak to movefrom the spot. When the news of his illness spread, a number of theother beasts came to inquire after his health, and they one and allnibbled a little of the grass that grew round the invalid till at lastthere was not a blade within his reach. In a few days he began tomend, but was still too feeble to get up and go in search of fodder;and thus he perished miserably of hunger owing to the thoughtlessnessof his friends.



THE ASS AND THE MULE

A certain man who had an Ass and a Mule loaded them both up one dayand set out upon a journey. So long as the road was fairly level, theAss got on very well: but by and by they came to a place among thehills where the road was very rough and steep, and the Ass was at hislast gasp. So he begged the Mule to relieve him of a part of his load:but the Mule refused. At last, from sheer weariness, the Ass stumbledand fell down a steep place and was killed. The driver was in despair,but he did the best he could: he added the Ass's load to the Mule's,and he also flayed the Ass and put his skin on the top of the doubleload. The Mule could only just manage the extra weight, and, as hestaggered painfully along, he said to himself, "I have only got what Ideserved: if I had been willing to help the Ass at first, I should notnow be carrying his load and his skin into the bargain."



BROTHER AND SISTER

A certain man had two children, a boy and a girl: and the boy was asgood-looking as the girl was plain. One day, as they were playingtogether in their mother's chamber, they chanced upon a mirror and sawtheir own features for the first time. The boy saw what a handsomefellow he was, and began to boast to his Sister about his good looks:she, on her part, was ready to cry with vexation when she was aware ofher plainness, and took his remarks as an insult to herself. Runningto her father, she told him of her Brother's conceit, and accused himof meddling with his mother's things. He laughed and kissed them both,and said, "My children, learn from now onwards to make a good use ofthe glass. You, my boy, strive to be as good as it shows you to behandsome; and you, my girl, resolve to make up for the plainness ofyour features by the sweetness of your disposition."



THE HEIFER AND THE OX

A Heifer went up to an Ox, who was straining hard at the plough,and sympathised with him in a rather patronising sort of way on thenecessity of his having to work so hard. Not long afterwards there wasa festival in the village and every one kept holiday: but, whereas theOx was turned loose into the pasture, the Heifer was seized and ledoff to sacrifice. "Ah," said the Ox, with a grim smile, "I see now whyyou were allowed to have such an idle time: it was because you werealways intended for the altar."



THE KINGDOM OF THE LION

When the Lion reigned over the beasts of the earth he was never cruelor tyrannical, but as gentle and just as a King ought to be. Duringhis reign he called a general assembly of the beasts, and drew up acode of laws under which all were to live in perfect equality andharmony: the wolf and the lamb, the tiger and the stag, the leopardand the kid, the dog and the hare, all should dwell side by side inunbroken peace and friendship. The hare said, "Oh! how I have longedfor this day when the weak take their place without fear by the sideof the strong!"



THE ASS AND HIS DRIVER

An Ass was being driven down a mountain road, and after jogging alongfor a while sensibly enough he suddenly quitted the track and rushedto the edge of a precipice. He was just about to leap over the edgewhen his Driver caught hold of his tail and did his best to pull himback: but pull as he might he couldn't get the Ass to budge from thebrink. At last he gave up, crying, "All right, then, get to the bottomyour own way; but it's the way to sudden death, as you'll find outquick enough."



THE LION AND THE HARE

A Lion found a Hare sleeping in her form, and was just going to devourher when he caught sight of a passing stag. Dropping the Hare, he atonce made for the bigger game; but finding, after a long chase, thathe could not overtake the stag, he abandoned the attempt and came backfor the Hare. When he reached the spot, however, he found she wasnowhere to be seen, and he had to go without his dinner. "It servesme right," he said; "I should have been content with what I had got,instead of hankering after a better prize."



THE WOLVES AND THE DOGS

Once upon a time the Wolves said to the Dogs, "Why should we continueto be enemies any longer? You are very like us in most ways: the maindifference between us is one of training only. We live a life offreedom; but you are enslaved to mankind, who beat you, and put heavycollars round your necks, and compel you to keep watch over theirflocks and herds for them, and, to crown all, they give you nothingbut bones to eat. Don't put up with it any longer, but hand over theflocks to us, and we will all live on the fat of the land and feasttogether." The Dogs allowed themselves to be persuaded by these words,and accompanied the Wolves into their den. But no sooner were theywell inside than the Wolves set upon them and tore them to pieces.
    Traitors richly deserve their fate.



THE BULL AND THE CALF

A full-grown Bull was struggling to force his huge bulk through thenarrow entrance to a cow-house where his stall was, when a young Calfcame up and said to him, "If you'll step aside a moment, I'll show youthe way to get through." The Bull turned upon him an amused look. "Iknew that way," said he, "before you were born."



THE TREES AND THE AXE

A Woodman went into the forest and begged of the Trees the favour of ahandle for his Axe. The principal Trees at once agreed to so modest arequest, and unhesitatingly gave him a young ash sapling, out of whichhe fashioned the handle he desired. No sooner had he done so than heset to work to fell the noblest Trees in the wood. When they saw theuse to which he was putting their gift, they cried, "Alas! alas! Weare undone, but we are ourselves to blame. The little we gave hascost us all: had we not sacrificed the rights of the ash, we mightourselves have stood for ages."



THE ASTRONOMER

There was once an Astronomer whose habit it was to go out at night andobserve the stars. One night, as he was walking about outside the towngates, gazing up absorbed into the sky and not looking where he wasgoing, he fell into a dry well. As he lay there groaning, some onepassing by heard him, and, coming to the edge of the well, looked downand, on learning what had happened, said, "If you really mean to saythat you were looking so hard at the sky that you didn't even seewhere your feet were carrying you along the ground, it appears to methat you deserve all you've got."



THE LABOURER AND THE SNAKE

A Labourer's little son was bitten by a Snake and died of the wound.The father was beside himself with grief, and in his anger againstthe Snake he caught up an axe and went and stood close to the Snake'shole, and watched for a chance of killing it. Presently the Snake cameout, and the man aimed a blow at it, but only succeeded in cutting offthe tip of its tail before it wriggled in again. He then tried to getit to come out a second time, pretending that he wished to make up thequarrel. But the Snake said, "I can never be your friend because of mylost tail, nor you mine because of your lost child."
    Injuries are never forgotten in the presence of those who caused    them.



THE CAGE-BIRD AND THE BAT

A Singing-bird was confined in a cage which hung outside a window, andhad a way of singing at night when all other birds were asleep. Onenight a Bat came and clung to the bars of the cage, and asked the Birdwhy she was silent by day and sang only at night. "I have a very goodreason for doing so," said the Bird: "it was once when I was singingin the daytime that a fowler was attracted by my voice, and set hisnets for me and caught me. Since then I have never sung except bynight." But the Bat replied, "It is no use your doing that now whenyou are a prisoner: if only you had done so before you were caught,you might still have been free."
    Precautions are useless after the event.



THE ASS AND HIS PURCHASER

A Man who wanted to buy an Ass went to market, and, coming acrossa likely-looking beast, arranged with the owner that he should beallowed to take him home on trial to see what he was like. When hereached home, he put him into his stable along with the other asses.The newcomer took a look round, and immediately went and chose a placenext to the laziest and greediest beast in the stable. When the mastersaw this he put a halter on him at once, and led him off and handedhim over to his owner again. The latter was a good deal surprised tosee him back so soon, and said, "Why, do you mean to say you havetested him already?" "I don't want to put him through any more tests,"replied the other: "I could see what sort of beast he is from thecompanion he chose for himself."
    A man is known by the company he keeps.



THE KID AND THE WOLF

A Kid strayed from the flock and was chased by a Wolf. When he saw hemust be caught he turned round and said to the Wolf, "I know, sir,that I can't escape being eaten by you: and so, as my life is bound tobe short, I pray you let it be as merry as may be. Will you not playme a tune to dance to before I die?" The Wolf saw no objection tohaving some music before his dinner: so he took out his pipe and beganto play, while the Kid danced before him. Before many minutes werepassed the gods who guarded the flock heard the sound and came up tosee what was going on. They no sooner clapped eyes on the Wolf thanthey gave chase and drove him away. As he ran off, he turned andsaid to the Kid, "It's what I thoroughly deserve: my trade is thebutcher's, and I had no business to turn piper to please you."



THE DEBTOR AND HIS SOW

A Man of Athens fell into debt and was pressed for the money by hiscreditor; but he had no means of paying at the time, so he begged fordelay. But the creditor refused and said he must pay at once. Then theDebtor fetched a Sow--the only one he had--and took her to marketto offer her for sale. It happened that his creditor was there too.Presently a buyer came along and asked if the Sow produced goodlitters. "Yes," said the Debtor, "very fine ones; and the remarkablething is that she produces females at the Mysteries and males at thePanathenea." (Festivals these were: and the Athenians always sacrificea sow at one, and a boar at the other; while at the Dionysia theysacrifice a kid.) At that the creditor, who was standing by, put in,"Don't be surprised, sir; why, still better, at the Dionysia this Sowhas kids!"



THE BALD HUNTSMAN

A Man who had lost all his hair took to wearing a wig, and one dayhe went out hunting. It was blowing rather hard at the time, and hehadn't gone far before a gust of wind caught his hat and carried itoff, and his wig too, much to the amusement of the hunt. But he quiteentered into the joke, and said, "Ah, well! the hair that wig is madeof didn't stick to the head on which it grew; so it's no wonder itwon't stick to mine."



THE HERDSMAN AND THE LOST BULL

A Herdsman was tending his cattle when he missed a young Bull, one ofthe finest of the herd. He went at once to look for him, but, meetingwith no success in his search, he made a vow that, if he shoulddiscover the thief, he would sacrifice a calf to Jupiter. Continuinghis search, he entered a thicket, where he presently espied a liondevouring the lost Bull. Terrified with fear, he raised his hands toheaven and cried, "Great Jupiter, I vowed I would sacrifice a calfto thee if I should discover the thief: but now a full-grown BullI promise thee if only I myself escape unhurt from his clutches."



THE MULE

One morning a Mule, who had too much to eat and too little to do,began to think himself a very fine fellow indeed, and frisked aboutsaying, "My father was undoubtedly a high-spirited horse and I takeafter him entirely." But very soon afterwards he was put into theharness and compelled to go a very long way with a heavy load behindhim. At the end of the day, exhausted by his unusual exertions, hesaid dejectedly to himself, "I must have been mistaken about myfather; he can only have been an ass after all."



THE HOUND AND THE FOX

A Hound, roaming in the forest, spied a lion, and being well usedto lesser game, gave chase, thinking he would make a fine quarry.Presently the lion perceived that he was being pursued; so, stoppingshort, he rounded on his pursuer and gave a loud roar. The Houndimmediately turned tail and fled. A Fox, seeing him running away,jeered at him and said, "Ho! ho! There goes the coward who chased alion and ran away the moment he roared!"



THE FATHER AND HIS DAUGHTERS

A Man had two Daughters, one of whom he gave in marriage to agardener, and the other to a potter. After a time he thought hewould go and see how they were getting on; and first he went to thegardener's wife. He asked her how she was, and how things were goingwith herself and her husband. She replied that on the whole they weredoing very well: "But," she continued, "I do wish we could have somegood heavy rain: the garden wants it badly." Then he went on to thepotter's wife and made the same inquiries of her. She replied that sheand her husband had nothing to complain of: "But," she went on, "I dowish we could have some nice dry weather, to dry the pottery." HerFather looked at her with a humorous expression on his face. "You wantdry weather," he said, "and your sister wants rain. I was going to askin my prayers that your wishes should be granted; but now it strikesme I had better not refer to the subject."



THE THIEF AND THE INNKEEPER

A Thief hired a room at an inn, and stayed there some days on thelook-out for something to steal. No opportunity, however, presenteditself, till one day, when there was a festival to be celebrated, theInnkeeper appeared in a fine new coat and sat down before the door ofthe inn for an airing. The Thief no sooner set eyes upon the coat thanhe longed to get possession of it. There was no business doing, so hewent and took a seat by the side of the Innkeeper, and began talkingto him. They conversed together for some time, and then the Thiefsuddenly yawned and howled like a wolf. The Innkeeper asked him insome concern what ailed him. The Thief replied, "I will tell you aboutmyself, sir, but first I must beg you to take charge of my clothesfor me, for I intend to leave them with you. Why I have these fitsof yawning I cannot tell: maybe they are sent as a punishment for mymisdeeds; but, whatever the reason, the facts are that when I haveyawned three times I become a ravening wolf and fly at men's throats."As he finished speaking he yawned a second time and howled again asbefore. The Innkeeper, believing every word he said, and terrifiedat the prospect of being confronted with a wolf, got up hastily andstarted to run indoors; but the Thief caught him by the coat and triedto stop him, crying, "Stay, sir, stay, and take charge of my clothes,or else I shall never see them again." As he spoke he opened his mouthand began to yawn for the third time. The Innkeeper, mad with the fearof being eaten by a wolf, slipped out of his coat, which remained inthe other's hands, and bolted into the inn and locked the door behindhim; and the Thief then quietly stole off with his spoil.



THE PACK-ASS AND THE WILD ASS

A Wild Ass, who was wandering idly about, one day came upon a Pack-Asslying at full length in a sunny spot and thoroughly enjoying himself.Going up to him, he said, "What a lucky beast you are! Your sleek coatshows how well you live: how I envy you!" Not long after the Wild Asssaw his acquaintance again, but this time he was carrying a heavyload, and his driver was following behind and beating him with a thickstick. "Ah, my friend," said the Wild Ass, "I don't envy you any more:for I see you pay dear for your comforts."
    Advantages that are dearly bought are doubtful blessings.



THE ASS AND HIS MASTERS

A Gardener had an Ass which had a very hard time of it, what withscanty food, heavy loads, and constant beating. The Ass thereforebegged Jupiter to take him away from the Gardener and hand him overto another master. So Jupiter sent Mercury to the Gardener to bidhim sell the Ass to a Potter, which he did. But the Ass was asdiscontented as ever, for he had to work harder than before: so hebegged Jupiter for relief a second time, and Jupiter very obliginglyarranged that he should be sold to a Tanner. But when the Ass saw whathis new master's trade was, he cried in despair, "Why wasn't I contentto serve either of my former masters, hard as I had to work and badlyas I was treated? for they would have buried me decently, but now Ishall come in the end to the tanning-vat."
    Servants don't know a good master till they have served a worse.



THE PACK-ASS, THE WILD ASS, AND THE LION

A Wild Ass saw a Pack-Ass jogging along under a heavy load, andtaunted him with the condition of slavery in which he lived, in thesewords: "What a vile lot is yours compared with mine! I am free as theair, and never do a stroke of work; and, as for fodder, I have only togo to the hills and there I find far more than enough for my needs.But you! you depend on your master for food, and he makes you carryheavy loads every day and beats you unmercifully." At that moment aLion appeared on the scene, and made no attempt to molest the Pack-Assowing to the presence of the driver; but he fell upon the Wild Ass,who had no one to protect him, and without more ado made a meal ofhim.
    It is no use being your own master unless you can stand up for    yourself.



THE ANT

Ants were once men and made their living by tilling the soil. But, notcontent with the results of their own work, they were always castinglonging eyes upon the crops and fruits of their neighbours, which theystole, whenever they got the chance, and added to their own store. Atlast their covetousness made Jupiter so angry that he changed theminto Ants. But, though their forms were changed, their nature remainedthe same: and so, to this day, they go about among the cornfields andgather the fruits of others' labour, and store them up for their ownuse.
    You may punish a thief, but his bent remains.



THE FROGS AND THE WELL

Two Frogs lived together in a marsh. But one hot summer the marshdried up, and they left it to look for another place to live in: forfrogs like damp places if they can get them. By and by they came to adeep well, and one of them looked down into it, and said to the other,"This looks a nice cool place: let us jump in and settle here." Butthe other, who had a wiser head on his shoulders, replied, "Not sofast, my friend: supposing this well dried up like the marsh, howshould we get out again?"
    Think twice before you act.



THE CRAB AND THE FOX

A Crab once left the sea-shore and went and settled in a meadow someway inland, which looked very nice and green and seemed likely to be agood place to feed in. But a hungry Fox came along and spied the Craband caught him. Just as he was going to be eaten up, the Crab said,"This is just what I deserve; for I had no business to leave mynatural home by the sea and settle here as though I belonged to theland."
    Be content with your lot.



THE FOX AND THE GRASSHOPPER

A Grasshopper sat chirping in the branches of a tree. A Fox heard her,and, thinking what a dainty morsel she would make, he tried to get herdown by a trick. Standing below in full view of her, he praised hersong in the most flattering terms, and begged her to descend, sayinghe would like to make the acquaintance of the owner of so beautiful avoice. But she was not to be taken in, and replied, "You are very muchmistaken, my dear sir, if you imagine I am going to come down: I keepwell out of the way of you and your kind ever since the day when I sawnumbers of grasshoppers' wings strewn about the entrance to a fox'searth."



THE FARMER, HIS BOY, AND THE ROOKS

A Farmer had just sown a field of wheat, and was keeping a carefulwatch over it, for numbers of Rooks and starlings kept continuallysettling on it and eating up the grain. Along with him went his Boy,carrying a sling: and whenever the Farmer asked for the sling thestarlings understood what he said and warned the Rooks and they wereoff in a moment. So the Farmer hit on a trick. "My lad," said he, "wemust get the better of these birds somehow. After this, when I wantthe sling, I won't say 'sling,' but just 'humph!' and you must thenhand me the sling quickly." Presently back came the whole flock."Humph!" said the Farmer; but the starlings took no notice, and hehad time to sling several stones among them, hitting one on the head,another in the legs, and another in the wing, before they got out ofrange. As they made all haste away they met some cranes, who askedthem what the matter was. "Matter?" said one of the Rooks; "it's thoserascals, men, that are the matter. Don't you go near them. They havea way of saying one thing and meaning another which has just been thedeath of several of our poor friends."



THE ASS AND THE DOG

An Ass and a Dog were on their travels together, and, as they wentalong, they found a sealed packet lying on the ground. The Ass pickedit up, broke the seal, and found it contained some writing, which heproceeded to read out aloud to the Dog. As he read on it turned outto be all about grass and barley and hay--in short, all the kinds offodder that Asses are fond of. The Dog was a good deal bored withlistening to all this, till at last his impatience got the better ofhim, and he cried, "Just skip a few pages, friend, and see if thereisn't something about meat and bones." The Ass glanced all through thepacket, but found nothing of the sort, and said so. Then the Dog saidin disgust, "Oh, throw it away, do: what's the good of a thing likethat?"



THE ASS CARRYING THE IMAGE

A certain man put an Image on the back of his Ass to take it to one ofthe temples of the town. As they went along the road all the peoplethey met uncovered and bowed their heads out of reverence for theImage; but the Ass thought they were doing it out of respect forhimself, and began to give himself airs accordingly. At last he becameso conceited that he imagined he could do as he liked, and, by way ofprotest against the load he was carrying, he came to a full stop andflatly declined to proceed any further. His driver, finding him soobstinate, hit him hard and long with his stick, saying the while,"Oh, you dunder-headed idiot, do you suppose it's come to this, thatmen pay worship to an Ass?"
    Rude shocks await those who take to themselves the credit that is    due to others.



THE ATHENIAN AND THE THEBAN

An Athenian and a Theban were on the road together, and passed thetime in conversation, as is the way of travellers. After discussinga variety of subjects they began to talk about heroes, a topic thattends to be more fertile than edifying. Each of them was lavish in hispraises of the heroes of his own city, until eventually the Thebanasserted that Hercules was the greatest hero who had ever lived onearth, and now occupied a foremost place among the gods; while theAthenian insisted that Theseus was far superior, for his fortune hadbeen in every way supremely blessed, whereas Hercules had at one timebeen forced to act as a servant. And he gained his point, for he was avery glib fellow, like all Athenians; so that the Theban, who was nomatch for him in talking, cried at last in some disgust, "All right,have your way; I only hope that, when our heroes are angry with us,Athens may suffer from the anger of Hercules, and Thebes only fromthat of Theseus."



THE GOATHERD AND THE GOAT

A Goatherd was one day gathering his flock to return to the fold, whenone of his goats strayed and refused to join the rest. He tried for along time to get her to return by calling and whistling to her, butthe Goat took no notice of him at all; so at last he threw a stone ather and broke one of her horns. In dismay, he begged her not to tellhis master: but she replied, "You silly fellow, my horn would cryaloud even if I held my tongue."
    It's no use trying to hide what can't be hidden.



THE SHEEP AND THE DOG

Once upon a time the Sheep complained to the shepherd about thedifference in his treatment of themselves and his Dog. "Your conduct,"said they, "is very strange and, we think, very unfair. We provide youwith wool and lambs and milk and you give us nothing but grass, andeven that we have to find for ourselves: but you get nothing at allfrom the Dog, and yet you feed him with tit-bits from your own table."Their remarks were overheard by the Dog, who spoke up at once andsaid, "Yes, and quite right, too: where would you be if it wasn't forme? Thieves would steal you! Wolves would eat you! Indeed, if I didn'tkeep constant watch over you, you would be too terrified even tograze!" The Sheep were obliged to acknowledge that he spoke the truth,and never again made a grievance of the regard in which he was held byhis master.



THE SHEPHERD AND THE WOLF

A Shepherd found a Wolf's Cub straying in the pastures, and took himhome and reared him along with his dogs. When the Cub grew to his fullsize, if ever a wolf stole a sheep from the flock, he used to join thedogs in hunting him down. It sometimes happened that the dogs failedto come up with the thief, and, abandoning the pursuit, returned home.The Wolf would on such occasions continue the chase by himself, andwhen he overtook the culprit, would stop and share the feast with him,and then return to the Shepherd. But if some time passed without asheep being carried off by the wolves, he would steal one himselfand share his plunder with the dogs. The Shepherd's suspicions werearoused, and one day he caught him in the act; and, fastening a roperound his neck, hung him on the nearest tree.
    What's bred in the bone is sure to come out in the flesh.



THE LION, JUPITER, AND THE ELEPHANT

The Lion, for all his size and strength, and his sharp teeth andclaws, is a coward in one thing: he can't bear the sound of a cockcrowing, and runs away whenever he hears it. He complained bitterlyto Jupiter for making him like that; but Jupiter said it wasn't hisfault: he had done the best he could for him, and, considering thiswas his only failing, he ought to be well content. The Lion, however,wouldn't be comforted, and was so ashamed of his timidity that hewished he might die. In this state of mind, he met the Elephant andhad a talk with him. He noticed that the great beast cocked up hisears all the time, as if he were listening for something, and he askedhim why he did so. Just then a gnat came humming by, and the Elephantsaid, "Do you see that wretched little buzzing insect? I'm terriblyafraid of its getting into my ear: if it once gets in, I'm dead anddone for." The Lion's spirits rose at once when he heard this: "For,"he said to himself, "if the Elephant, huge as he is, is afraid of agnat, I needn't be so much ashamed of being afraid of a cock, who isten thousand times bigger than a gnat."



THE PIG AND THE SHEEP

A Pig found his way into a meadow where a flock of Sheep were grazing.The shepherd caught him, and was proceeding to carry him off to thebutcher's when he set up a loud squealing and struggled to get free.The Sheep rebuked him for making such a to-do, and said to him, "Theshepherd catches us regularly and drags us off just like that, and wedon't make any fuss." "No, I dare say not," replied the Pig, "but mycase and yours are altogether different: he only wants you for wool,but he wants me for bacon."



THE GARDENER AND HIS DOG

A Gardner's Dog fell into a deep well, from which his master used todraw water for the plants in his garden with a rope and a bucket.Failing to get the Dog out by means of these, the Gardener went downinto the well himself in order to fetch him up. But the Dog thought hehad come to make sure of drowning him; so he bit his master as soon ashe came within reach, and hurt him a good deal, with the result thathe left the Dog to his fate and climbed out of the well, remarking,"It serves me quite right for trying to save so determined a suicide."



THE RIVERS AND THE SEA

Once upon a time all the Rivers combined to protest against the actionof the Sea in making their waters salt. "When we come to you," saidthey to the Sea, "we are sweet and drinkable: but when once we havemingled with you, our waters become as briny and unpalatable as yourown." The Sea replied shortly, "Keep away from me and you'll remainsweet."



THE LION IN LOVE

A Lion fell deeply in love with the daughter of a cottager and wantedto marry her; but her father was unwilling to give her to so fearsomea husband, and yet didn't want to offend the Lion; so he hit upon thefollowing expedient. He went to the Lion and said, "I think you willmake a very good husband for my daughter: but I cannot consent to yourunion unless you let me draw your teeth and pare your nails, for mydaughter is terribly afraid of them." The Lion was so much in lovethat he readily agreed that this should be done. When once, however,he was thus disarmed, the Cottager was afraid of him no longer, butdrove him away with his club.



THE BEE-KEEPER

A Thief found his way into an apiary when the Bee-keeper was away,and stole all the honey. When the Keeper returned and found the hivesempty, he was very much upset and stood staring at them for some time.Before long the bees came back from gathering honey, and, findingtheir hives overturned and the Keeper standing by, they made for himwith their stings. At this he fell into a passion and cried, "Youungrateful scoundrels, you let the thief who stole my honey get offscot-free, and then you go and sting me who have always taken suchcare of you!"
    When you hit back make sure you have got the right man.



THE WOLF AND THE HORSE

A Wolf on his rambles came to a field of oats, but, not being able toeat them, he was passing on his way when a Horse came along. "Look,"said the Wolf, "here's a fine field of oats. For your sake I haveleft it untouched, and I shall greatly enjoy the sound of your teethmunching the ripe grain." But the Horse replied, "If wolves could eatoats, my fine friend, you would hardly have indulged your ears at thecost of your belly."
    There is no virtue in giving to others what is useless to oneself.



THE BAT, THE BRAMBLE, AND THE SEAGULL

A Bat, a Bramble, and a Seagull went into partnership and determinedto go on a trading voyage together. The Bat borrowed a sum of moneyfor his venture; the Bramble laid in a stock of clothes of variouskinds; and the Seagull took a quantity of lead: and so they set out.By and by a great storm came on, and their boat with all the cargowent to the bottom, but the three travellers managed to reach land.Ever since then the Seagull flies to and fro over the sea, and everynow and then dives below the surface, looking for the lead he's lost;while the Bat is so afraid of meeting his creditors that he hides awayby day and only comes out at night to feed; and the Bramble catcheshold of the clothes of every one who passes by, hoping some day torecognise and recover the lost garments.
    All men are more concerned to recover what they lose than to    acquire what they lack.



THE DOG AND THE WOLF

A Dog was lying in the sun before a farmyard gate when a Wolf pouncedupon him and was just going to eat him up; but he begged for his lifeand said, "You see how thin I am and what a wretched meal I shouldmake you now: but if you will only wait a few days my master is goingto give a feast. All the rich scraps and pickings will fall to me andI shall get nice and fat: then will be the time for you to eat me."The Wolf thought this was a very good plan and went away. Some timeafterwards he came to the farmyard again, and found the Dog lying outof reach on the stable roof. "Come down," he called, "and be eaten:you remember our agreement?" But the Dog said coolly, "My friend, ifever you catch me lying down by the gate there again, don't you waitfor any feast."
    Once bitten, twice shy.



THE WASP AND THE SNAKE

A Wasp settled on the head of a Snake, and not only stung him severaltimes, but clung obstinately to the head of his victim. Maddened withpain the Snake tried every means he could think of to get rid ofthe creature, but without success. At last he became desperate, andcrying, "Kill you I will, even at the cost of my own life," he laidhis head with the Wasp on it under the wheel of a passing waggon, andthey both perished together.



THE EAGLE AND THE BEETLE

An Eagle was chasing a hare, which was running for dear life and wasat her wits' end to know where to turn for help. Presently she espieda Beetle, and begged it to aid her. So when the Eagle came upthe Beetle warned her not to touch the hare, which was under itsprotection. But the Eagle never noticed the Beetle because it was sosmall, seized the hare and ate her up. The Beetle never forgot this,and used to keep an eye on the Eagle's nest, and whenever the Eaglelaid an egg it climbed up and rolled it out of the nest and broke it.At last the Eagle got so worried over the loss of her eggs that shewent up to Jupiter, who is the special protector of Eagles, and beggedhim to give her a safe place to nest in: so he let her lay her eggs inhis lap. But the Beetle noticed this and made a ball of dirt the sizeof an Eagle's egg, and flew up and deposited it in Jupiter's lap. WhenJupiter saw the dirt, he stood up to shake it out of his robe, and,forgetting about the eggs, he shook them out too, and they were brokenjust as before. Ever since then, they say, Eagles never lay their eggsat the season when Beetles are about.
    The weak will sometimes find ways to avenge an insult, even upon    the strong.



THE FOWLER AND THE LARK

A Fowler was setting his nets for little birds when a Lark came upto him and asked him what he was doing. "I am engaged in founding acity," said he, and with that he withdrew to a short distance andconcealed himself. The Lark examined the nets with great curiosity,and presently, catching sight of the bait, hopped on to them in orderto secure it, and became entangled in the meshes. The Fowler then ranup quickly and captured her. "What a fool I was!" said she: "but atany rate, if that's the kind of city you are founding, it'll be a longtime before you find fools enough to fill it."



THE FISHERMAN PIPING

A Fisherman who could play the flute went down one day to thesea-shore with his nets and his flute; and, taking his stand on aprojecting rock, began to play a tune, thinking that the music wouldbring the fish jumping out of the sea. He went on playing for sometime, but not a fish appeared: so at last he threw down his flute andcast his net into the sea, and made a great haul of fish. When theywere landed and he saw them leaping about on the shore, he cried, "Yourascals! you wouldn't dance when I piped: but now I've stopped, youcan do nothing else!"



THE WEASEL AND THE MAN

A Man once caught a Weasel, which was always sneaking about the house,and was just going to drown it in a tub of water, when it begged hardfor its life, and said to him, "Surely you haven't the heart to put meto death? Think how useful I have been in clearing your house of themice and lizards which used to infest it, and show your gratitude bysparing my life." "You have not been altogether useless, I grant you,"said the Man: "but who killed the fowls? Who stole the meat? No, no!You do much more harm than good, and die you shall."



THE PLOUGHMAN, THE ASS, AND THE OX

A Ploughman yoked his Ox and his Ass together, and set to work toplough his field. It was a poor makeshift of a team, but it was thebest he could do, as he had but a single Ox. At the end of the day,when the beasts were loosed from the yoke, the Ass said to the Ox,"Well, we've had a hard day: which of us is to carry the master home?"The Ox looked surprised at the question. "Why," said he, "you, to besure, as usual."



DEMADES AND HIS FABLE

Demades the orator was once speaking in the Assembly at Athens; butthe people were very inattentive to what he was saying, so he stoppedand said, "Gentlemen, I should like to tell you one of Æsop's fables."This made every one listen intently. Then Demades began: "Demeter, aSwallow, and an Eel were once travelling together, and came to a riverwithout a bridge: the Swallow flew over it, and the Eel swam across";and then he stopped. "What happened to Demeter?" cried several peoplein the audience. "Demeter," he replied, "is very angry with you forlistening to fables when you ought to be minding public business."



THE MONKEY AND THE DOLPHIN

When people go on a voyage they often take with them lap-dogs ormonkeys as pets to wile away the time. Thus it fell out that a manreturning to Athens from the East had a pet Monkey on board with him.As they neared the coast of Attica a great storm burst upon them, andthe ship capsized. All on board were thrown into the water, and triedto save themselves by swimming, the Monkey among the rest. A Dolphinsaw him, and, supposing him to be a man, took him on his back andbegan swimming towards the shore. When they got near the Piræus, whichis the port of Athens, the Dolphin asked the Monkey if he was anAthenian. The Monkey replied that he was, and added that he came ofa very distinguished family. "Then, of course, you know the Piræus,"continued the Dolphin. The Monkey thought he was referring to somehigh official or other, and replied, "Oh, yes, he's a very old friendof mine." At that, detecting his hypocrisy, the Dolphin was sodisgusted that he dived below the surface, and the unfortunate Monkeywas quickly drowned.



THE CROW AND THE SNAKE

A hungry Crow spied a Snake lying asleep in a sunny spot, and, pickingit up in his claws, he was carrying it off to a place where he couldmake a meal of it without being disturbed, when the Snake reared itshead and bit him. It was a poisonous Snake, and the bite was fatal,and the dying Crow said, "What a cruel fate is mine! I thought I hadmade a lucky find, and it has cost me my life!"



THE DOGS AND THE FOX

Some Dogs once found a lion's skin, and were worrying it with theirteeth. Just then a Fox came by, and said, "You think yourselves verybrave, no doubt; but if that were a live lion you'd find his claws agood deal sharper than your teeth."



THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE HAWK

A Nightingale was sitting on a bough of an oak and singing, as hercustom was. A hungry Hawk presently spied her, and darting to the spotseized her in his talons. He was just about to tear her in pieces whenshe begged him to spare her life: "I'm not big enough," she pleaded,"to make you a good meal: you ought to seek your prey among the biggerbirds." The Hawk eyed her with some contempt. "You must think me verysimple," said he, "if you suppose I am going to give up a certainprize on the chance of a better of which I see at present no signs."



THE ROSE AND THE AMARANTH

A Rose and an Amaranth blossomed side by side in a garden, and theAmaranth said to her neighbour, "How I envy you your beauty and yoursweet scent! No wonder you are such a universal favourite." But theRose replied with a shade of sadness in her voice, "Ah, my dearfriend, I bloom but for a time: my petals soon wither and fall, andthen I die. But your flowers never fade, even if they are cut; forthey are everlasting."



THE MAN, THE HORSE, THE OX, AND THE DOG

One winter's day, during a severe storm, a Horse, an Ox, and a Dogcame and begged for shelter in the house of a Man. He readily admittedthem, and, as they were cold and wet, he lit a fire for their comfort:and he put oats before the Horse, and hay before the Ox, while he fedthe Dog with the remains of his own dinner. When the storm abated, andthey were about to depart, they determined to show their gratitude inthe following way. They divided the life of Man among them, and eachendowed one part of it with the qualities which were peculiarly hisown. The Horse took youth, and hence young men are high-mettled andimpatient of restraint; the Ox took middle age, and accordingly men inmiddle life are steady and hard-working; while the Dog took old age,which is the reason why old men are so often peevish and ill-tempered,and, like dogs, attached chiefly to those who look to their comfort,while they are disposed to snap at those who are unfamiliar ordistasteful to them.



THE WOLVES, THE SHEEP, AND THE RAM

The Wolves sent a deputation to the Sheep with proposals for a lastingpeace between them, on condition of their giving up the sheep-dogs toinstant death. The foolish Sheep agreed to the terms; but an old Ram,whose years had brought him wisdom, interfered and said, "How can weexpect to live at peace with you? Why, even with the dogs at hand toprotect us, we are never secure from your murderous attacks!"



THE SWAN

The Swan is said to sing but once in its life--when it knows that itis about to die. A certain man, who had heard of the song of the Swan,one day saw one of these birds for sale in the market, and bought itand took it home with him. A few days later he had some friendsto dinner, and produced the Swan, and bade it sing for theirentertainment: but the Swan remained silent. In course of time, whenit was growing old, it became aware of its approaching end and brokeinto a sweet, sad song. When its owner heard it, he said angrily, "Ifthe creature only sings when it is about to die, what a fool I wasthat day I wanted to hear its song! I ought to have wrung its neckinstead of merely inviting it to sing."



THE SNAKE AND JUPITER

A Snake suffered a good deal from being constantly trodden upon by manand beast, owing partly to the length of his body and partly to hisbeing unable to raise himself above the surface of the ground: sohe went and complained to Jupiter about the risks to which he wasexposed. But Jupiter had little sympathy for him. "I dare say," saidhe, "that if you had bitten the first that trod on you, the otherswould have taken more trouble to look where they put their feet."



THE WOLF AND HIS SHADOW

A Wolf, who was roaming about on the plain when the sun was gettinglow in the sky, was much impressed by the size of his shadow, and saidto himself, "I had no idea I was so big. Fancy my being afraid of alion! Why, I, not he, ought to be King of the beasts"; and, heedlessof danger, he strutted about as if there could be no doubt at allabout it. Just then a lion sprang upon him and began to devour him."Alas," he cried, "had I not lost sight of the facts, I shouldn't havebeen ruined by my fancies."



THE PLOUGHMAN AND THE WOLF

A Ploughman loosed his oxen from the plough, and led them away to thewater to drink. While he was absent a half-starved Wolf appeared onthe scene, and went up to the plough and began chewing the leatherstraps attached to the yoke. As he gnawed away desperately in the hopeof satisfying his craving for food, he somehow got entangled in theharness, and, taking fright, struggled to get free, tugging at thetraces as if he would drag the plough along with him. Just then thePloughman came back, and seeing what was happening, he cried, "Ah, youold rascal, I wish you would give up thieving for good and take tohonest work instead."



MERCURY AND THE MAN BITTEN BY AN ANT

A Man once saw a ship go down with all its crew, and commentedseverely on the injustice of the gods. "They care nothing for a man'scharacter," said he, "but let the good and the bad go to their deathstogether." There was an ant-heap close by where he was standing, and,just as he spoke, he was bitten in the foot by an Ant. Turning in atemper to the ant-heap he stamped upon it and crushed hundreds ofunoffending ants. Suddenly Mercury appeared, and belaboured him withhis staff, saying as he did so, "You villain, where's your nice senseof justice now?"



THE WILY LION

A Lion watched a fat Bull feeding in a meadow, and his mouth wateredwhen he thought of the royal feast he would make, but he did not dareto attack him, for he was afraid of his sharp horns. Hunger, however,presently compelled him to do something: and as the use of force didnot promise success, he determined to resort to artifice. Going up tothe Bull in friendly fashion, he said to him, "I cannot help sayinghow much I admire your magnificent figure. What a fine head! Whatpowerful shoulders and thighs! But, my dear friend, what in the worldmakes you wear those ugly horns? You must find them as awkward as theyare unsightly. Believe me, you would do much better without them." TheBull was foolish enough to be persuaded by this flattery to have hishorns cut off; and, having now lost his only means of defence, fell aneasy prey to the Lion.



THE PARROT AND THE CAT

A Man once bought a Parrot and gave it the run of his house. Itrevelled in its liberty, and presently flew up on to the mantelpieceand screamed away to its heart's content. The noise disturbed the Cat,who was asleep on the hearthrug. Looking up at the intruder, she said,"Who may you be, and where have you come from?" The Parrot replied,"Your master has just bought me and brought me home with him." "Youimpudent bird," said the Cat, "how dare you, a newcomer, make a noiselike that? Why, I was born here, and have lived here all my life, andyet, if I venture to mew, they throw things at me and chase me allover the place." "Look here, mistress," said the Parrot, "you justhold your tongue. My voice they delight in; but yours--yours is aperfect nuisance."



THE STAG AND THE LION

A Stag was chased by the hounds, and took refuge in a cave, where hehoped to be safe from his pursuers. Unfortunately the cave contained aLion, to whom he fell an easy prey. "Unhappy that I am," he cried, "Iam saved from the power of the dogs only to fall into the clutches ofa Lion."
    Out of the frying-pan into the fire.



THE IMPOSTOR

A certain man fell ill, and, being in a very bad way, he made a vowthat he would sacrifice a hundred oxen to the gods if they would granthim a return to health. Wishing to see how he would keep his vow, theycaused him to recover in a short time. Now, he hadn't an ox in theworld, so he made a hundred little oxen out of tallow and offeredthem up on an altar, at the same time saying, "Ye gods, I call you towitness that I have discharged my vow." The gods determined to be evenwith him, so they sent him a dream, in which he was bidden to go tothe sea-shore and fetch a hundred crowns which he was to find there.Hastening in great excitement to the shore, he fell in with a band ofrobbers, who seized him and carried him off to sell as a slave: andwhen they sold him a hundred crowns was the sum he fetched.
    Do not promise more than you can perform.



THE DOGS AND THE HIDES

Once upon a time a number of Dogs, who were famished with hunger, sawsome Hides steeping in a river, but couldn't get at them because thewater was too deep. So they put their heads together, and decided todrink away at the river till it was shallow enough for them to reachthe Hides. But long before that happened they burst themselves withdrinking.



THE LION, THE FOX, AND THE ASS

A Lion, a Fox, and an Ass went out hunting together. They had soontaken a large booty, which the Lion requested the Ass to dividebetween them. The Ass divided it all into three equal parts, andmodestly begged the others to take their choice; at which the Lion,bursting with fury, sprang upon the Ass and tore him to pieces.Then, glaring at the Fox, he bade him make a fresh division. The Foxgathered almost the whole in one great heap for the Lion's share,leaving only the smallest possible morsel for himself. "My dearfriend," said the Lion, "how did you get the knack of it so well?" TheFox replied, "Me? Oh, I took a lesson from the Ass."
    Happy is he who learns from the misfortunes of others.



THE FOWLER, THE PARTRIDGE, AND THE COCK

One day, as a Fowler was sitting down to a scanty supper of herbs andbread, a friend dropped in unexpectedly. The larder was empty; so hewent out and caught a tame Partridge, which he kept as a decoy, andwas about to wring her neck when she cried, "Surely you won't kill me?Why, what will you do without me next time you go fowling? How willyou get the birds to come to your nets?" He let her go at this, andwent to his hen-house, where he had a plump young Cock. When the Cocksaw what he was after, he too pleaded for his life, and said, "If youkill me, how will you know the time of night? and who will wake you upin the morning when it is time to get to work?" The Fowler, however,replied, "You are useful for telling the time, I know; but, for allthat, I can't send my friend supperless to bed." And therewith hecaught him and wrung his neck.



THE GNAT AND THE LION

A Gnat once went up to a Lion and said, "I am not in the least afraidof you: I don't even allow that you are a match for me in strength.What does your strength amount to after all? That you can scratchwith your claws and bite with your teeth--just like a woman in atemper--and nothing more. But I'm stronger than you: if you don'tbelieve it, let us fight and see." So saying, the Gnat sounded hishorn, and darted in and bit the Lion on the nose. When the Lion feltthe sting, in his haste to crush him he scratched his nose badly, andmade it bleed, but failed altogether to hurt the Gnat, which buzzedoff in triumph, elated by its victory. Presently, however, it gotentangled in a spider's web, and was caught and eaten by the spider,thus falling a prey to an insignificant insect after having triumphedover the King of the Beasts.



THE FARMER AND HIS DOGS

A Farmer was snowed up in his farmstead by a severe storm, and wasunable to go out and procure provisions for himself and his family. Sohe first killed his sheep and used them for food; then, as the stormstill continued, he killed his goats; and, last of all, as the weathershowed no signs of improving, he was compelled to kill his oxen andeat them. When his Dogs saw the various animals being killed and eatenin turn, they said to one another, "We had better get out of this orwe shall be the next to go!"



THE EAGLE AND THE FOX

An Eagle and a Fox became great friends and determined to live nearone another: they thought that the more they saw of each other thebetter friends they would be. So the Eagle built a nest at the top ofa high tree, while the Fox settled in a thicket at the foot of it andproduced a litter of cubs. One day the Fox went out foraging for food,and the Eagle, who also wanted food for her young, flew down into thethicket, caught up the Fox's cubs, and carried them up into the treefor a meal for herself and her family. When the Fox came back, andfound out what had happened, she was not so much sorry for the loss ofher cubs as furious because she couldn't get at the Eagle and pay herout for her treachery. So she sat down not far off and cursed her. Butit wasn't long before she had her revenge. Some villagers happened tobe sacrificing a goat on a neighbouring altar, and the Eagle flew downand carried off a piece of burning flesh to her nest. There was astrong wind blowing, and the nest caught fire, with the result thather fledglings fell half-roasted to the ground. Then the Fox ran tothe spot and devoured them in full sight of the Eagle.
    False faith may escape human punishment, but cannot escape the    divine.



THE BUTCHER AND HIS CUSTOMERS

Two Men were buying meat at a Butcher's stall in the market-place,and, while the Butcher's back was turned for a moment, one of themsnatched up a joint and hastily thrust it under the other's cloak,where it could not be seen. When the Butcher turned round, he missedthe meat at once, and charged them with having stolen it: but the onewho had taken it said he hadn't got it, and the one who had got itsaid he hadn't taken it. The Butcher felt sure they were deceivinghim, but he only said, "You may cheat me with your lying, but youcan't cheat the gods, and they won't let you off so lightly."
    Prevarication often amounts to perjury.



HERCULES AND MINERVA

Hercules was once travelling along a narrow road when he saw lying onthe ground in front of him what appeared to be an apple, and as hepassed he stamped upon it with his heel. To his astonishment, insteadof being crushed it doubled in size; and, on his attacking it againand smiting it with his club, it swelled up to an enormous size andblocked up the whole road. Upon this he dropped his club, and stoodlooking at it in amazement. Just then Minerva appeared, and said tohim, "Leave it alone, my friend; that which you see before you is theapple of discord: if you do not meddle with it, it remains small as itwas at first, but if you resort to violence it swells into the thingyou see."



THE FOX WHO SERVED A LION

A Lion had a Fox to attend on him, and whenever they went hunting theFox found the prey and the Lion fell upon it and killed it, and thenthey divided it between them in certain proportions. But the Lionalways got a very large share, and the Fox a very small one, whichdidn't please the latter at all; so he determined to set up on his ownaccount. He began by trying to steal a lamb from a flock of sheep: butthe shepherd saw him and set his dogs on him. The hunter was now thehunted, and was very soon caught and despatched by the dogs.
    Better servitude with safety than freedom with danger.



THE QUACK DOCTOR

A certain man fell sick and took to his bed. He consulted a number ofdoctors from time to time, and they all, with one exception, told himthat his life was in no immediate danger, but that his illness wouldprobably last a considerable time. The one who took a different viewof his case, who was also the last to be consulted, bade him preparefor the worst: "You have not twenty-four hours to live," said he, "andI fear I can do nothing." As it turned out, however, he was quitewrong; for at the end of a few days the sick man quitted his bed andtook a walk abroad, looking, it is true, as pale as a ghost. In thecourse of his walk he met the Doctor who had prophesied his death."Dear me," said the latter, "how do you do? You are fresh from theother world, no doubt. Pray, how are our departed friends getting onthere?" "Most comfortably," replied the other, "for they have drunkthe water of oblivion, and have forgotten all the troubles of life. Bythe way, just before I left, the authorities were making arrangementsto prosecute all the doctors, because they won't let sick men die inthe course of nature, but use their arts to keep them alive. They weregoing to charge you along with the rest, till I assured them that youwere no doctor, but a mere impostor."



THE LION, THE WOLF, AND THE FOX

A Lion, infirm with age, lay sick in his den, and all the beasts ofthe forest came to inquire after his health with the exception of theFox. The Wolf thought this was a good opportunity for paying off oldscores against the Fox, so he called the attention of the Lion to hisabsence, and said, "You see, sire, that we have all come to see howyou are except the Fox, who hasn't come near you, and doesn't carewhether you are well or ill." Just then the Fox came in and heard thelast words of the Wolf. The Lion roared at him in deep displeasure,but he begged to be allowed to explain his absence, and said, "Not oneof them cares for you so much as I, sire, for all the time I havebeen going round to the doctors and trying to find a cure for yourillness." "And may I ask if you have found one?" said the Lion. "Ihave, sire," said the Fox, "and it is this: you must flay a Wolfand wrap yourself in his skin while it is still warm." The Lionaccordingly turned to the Wolf and struck him dead with one blow ofhis paw, in order to try the Fox's prescription; but the Fox laughedand said to himself, "That's what comes of stirring up ill-will."



HERCULES AND PLUTUS

When Hercules was received among the gods and was entertained at abanquet by Jupiter, he responded courteously to the greetings ofall with the exception of Plutus, the god of wealth. When Plutusapproached him, he cast his eyes upon the ground, and turned away andpretended not to see him. Jupiter was surprised at this conduct on hispart, and asked why, after having been so cordial with all the othergods, he had behaved like that to Plutus. "Sire," said Hercules, "Ido not like Plutus, and I will tell you why. When we were on earthtogether I always noticed that he was to be found in the company ofscoundrels."



THE FOX AND THE LEOPARD

A Fox and a Leopard were disputing about their looks, and each claimedto be the more handsome of the two. The Leopard said, "Look at mysmart coat; you have nothing to match that." But the Fox replied,"Your coat may be smart, but my wits are smarter still."



THE FOX AND THE HEDGEHOG

A Fox, in swimming across a rapid river, was swept away by the currentand carried a long way downstream in spite of his struggles, until atlast, bruised and exhausted, he managed to scramble on to dryground from a backwater. As he lay there unable to move, a swarm ofhorseflies settled on him and sucked his blood undisturbed, for he wastoo weak even to shake them off. A Hedgehog saw him, and asked if heshould brush away the flies that were tormenting him; but the Foxreplied, "Oh, please, no, not on any account, for these flies havesucked their fill and are taking very little from me now; but, if youdrive them off, another swarm of hungry ones will come and suck allthe blood I have left, and leave me without a drop in my veins."



THE CROW AND THE RAVEN

A Crow became very jealous of a Raven, because the latter wasregarded by men as a bird of omen which foretold the future, and wasaccordingly held in great respect by them. She was very anxious toget the same sort of reputation herself; and, one day, seeing sometravellers approaching, she flew on to a branch of a tree at theroadside and cawed as loud as she could. The travellers were in somedismay at the sound, for they feared it might be a bad omen; till oneof them, spying the Crow, said to his companions, "It's all right,my friends, we can go on without fear, for it's only a crow and thatmeans nothing."
    Those who pretend to be something they are not only make    themselves ridiculous.



THE WITCH

A Witch professed to be able to avert the anger of the gods by meansof charms, of which she alone possessed the secret; and she drove abrisk trade, and made a fat livelihood out of it. But certain personsaccused her of black magic and carried her before the judges, anddemanded that she should be put to death for dealings with the Devil.She was found guilty and condemned to death: and one of the judgessaid to her as she was leaving the dock, "You say you can avert theanger of the gods. How comes it, then, that you have failed to disarmthe enmity of men?"



THE OLD MAN AND DEATH

An Old Man cut himself a bundle of faggots in a wood and started tocarry them home. He had a long way to go, and was tired out before hehad got much more than half-way. Casting his burden on the ground, hecalled upon Death to come and release him from his life of toil. Thewords were scarcely out of his mouth when, much to his dismay, Deathstood before him and professed his readiness to serve him. He wasalmost frightened out of his wits, but he had enough presence of mindto stammer out, "Good sir, if you'd be so kind, pray help me up withmy burden again."



THE MISER

A Miser sold everything he had, and melted down his hoard of gold intoa single lump, which he buried secretly in a field. Every day he wentto look at it, and would sometimes spend long hours gloating over histreasure. One of his men noticed his frequent visits to the spot,and one day watched him and discovered his secret. Waiting hisopportunity, he went one night and dug up the gold and stole it. Nextday the Miser visited the place as usual, and, finding his treasuregone, fell to tearing his hair and groaning over his loss. In thiscondition he was seen by one of his neighbours, who asked him whathis trouble was. The Miser told him of his misfortune; but the otherreplied, "Don't take it so much to heart, my friend; put a brick intothe hole, and take a look at it every day: you won't be any worse offthan before, for even when you had your gold it was of no earthly useto you."



THE FOXES AND THE RIVER

A number of Foxes assembled on the bank of a river and wanted todrink; but the current was so strong and the water looked so deep anddangerous that they didn't dare to do so, but stood near the edgeencouraging one another not to be afraid. At last one of them, toshame the rest, and show how brave he was, said, "I am not a bitfrightened! See, I'll step right into the water!" He had no soonerdone so than the current swept him off his feet. When the others sawhim being carried down-stream they cried, "Don't go and leave us! Comeback and show us where we too can drink with safety." But he replied,"I'm afraid I can't yet: I want to go to the seaside, and this currentwill take me there nicely. When I come back I'll show you withpleasure."



THE HORSE AND THE STAG

There was once a Horse who used to graze in a meadow which he had allto himself. But one day a Stag came into the meadow, and said he hadas good a right to feed there as the Horse, and moreover chose all thebest places for himself. The Horse, wishing to be revenged upon hisunwelcome visitor, went to a man and asked if he would help him toturn out the Stag. "Yes," said the man, "I will by all means; but Ican only do so if you let me put a bridle in your mouth and mount onyour back." The Horse agreed to this, and the two together very soonturned the Stag out of the pasture: but when that was done, the Horsefound to his dismay that in the man he had got a master for good.



THE FOX AND THE BRAMBLE

In making his way through a hedge a Fox missed his footing and caughtat a Bramble to save himself from falling. Naturally, he got badlyscratched, and in disgust he cried to the Bramble, "It was your helpI wanted, and see how you have treated me! I'd sooner have fallenoutright." The Bramble, interrupting him, replied, "You must have lostyour wits, my friend, to catch at me, who am myself always catching atothers."



THE FOX AND THE SNAKE

A Snake, in crossing a river, was carried away by the current, butmanaged to wriggle on to a bundle of thorns which was floating by, andwas thus carried at a great rate down-stream. A Fox caught sight ofit from the bank as it went whirling along, and called out, "Gad! thepassenger fits the ship!"



THE LION, THE FOX, AND THE STAG

A Lion lay sick in his den, unable to provide himself with food. Sohe said to his friend the Fox, who came to ask how he did, "My goodfriend, I wish you would go to yonder wood and beguile the big Stag,who lives there, to come to my den: I have a fancy to make my dinneroff a stag's heart and brains." The Fox went to the wood and found theStag and said to him, "My dear sir, you're in luck. You know the Lion,our King: well, he's at the point of death, and has appointed you hissuccessor to rule over the beasts. I hope you won't forget that I wasthe first to bring you the good news. And now I must be going back tohim; and, if you take my advice, you'll come too and be with him atthe last." The Stag was highly flattered, and followed the Fox to theLion's den, suspecting nothing. No sooner had he got inside than theLion sprang upon him, but he misjudged his spring, and the Stag gotaway with only his ears torn, and returned as fast as he could to theshelter of the wood. The Fox was much mortified, and the Lion, too,was dreadfully disappointed, for he was getting very hungry in spiteof his illness. So he begged the Fox to have another try at coaxingthe Stag to his den. "It'll be almost impossible this time," said theFox, "but I'll try"; and off he went to the wood a second time, andfound the Stag resting and trying to recover from his fright. As soonas he saw the Fox he cried, "You scoundrel, what do you mean by tryingto lure me to my death like that? Take yourself off, or I'll do youto death with my horns." But the Fox was entirely shameless. "What acoward you were," said he; "surely you didn't think the Lion meant anyharm? Why, he was only going to whisper some royal secrets into yourear when you went off like a scared rabbit. You have rather disgustedhim, and I'm not sure he won't make the wolf King instead, unless youcome back at once and show you've got some spirit. I promise you hewon't hurt you, and I will be your faithful servant." The Stag wasfoolish enough to be persuaded to return, and this time the Lion madeno mistake, but overpowered him, and feasted right royally upon hiscarcase. The Fox, meanwhile, watched his chance and, when the Lionwasn't looking, filched away the brains to reward him for his trouble.Presently the Lion began searching for them, of course withoutsuccess: and the Fox, who was watching him, said, "I don't think it'smuch use your looking for the brains: a creature who twice walked intoa Lion's den can't have got any."



THE MAN WHO LOST HIS SPADE

A Man was engaged in digging over his vineyard, and one day on comingto work he missed his Spade. Thinking it may have been stolen by oneof his labourers, he questioned them closely, but they one and alldenied any knowledge of it. He was not convinced by their denials, andinsisted that they should all go to the town and take oath in a templethat they were not guilty of the theft. This was because he had nogreat opinion of the simple country deities, but thought that thethief would not pass undetected by the shrewder gods of the town. Whenthey got inside the gates the first thing they heard was the towncrier proclaiming a reward for information about a thief who hadstolen something from the city temple. "Well," said the Man tohimself, "it strikes me I had better go back home again. If these towngods can't detect the thieves who steal from their own temples, it'sscarcely likely they can tell me who stole my Spade."



THE PARTRIDGE AND THE FOWLER

A Fowler caught a Partridge in his nets, and was just about to wringits neck when it made a piteous appeal to him to spare its life andsaid, "Do not kill me, but let me live and I will repay you for yourkindness by decoying other partridges into your nets." "No," said theFowler, "I will not spare you. I was going to kill you anyhow, andafter that treacherous speech you thoroughly deserve your fate."



THE RUNAWAY SLAVE

A Slave, being discontented with his lot, ran away from his master. Hewas soon missed by the latter, who lost no time in mounting his horseand setting out in pursuit of the fugitive. He presently came up withhim, and the Slave, in the hope of avoiding capture, slipped into atreadmill and hid himself there. "Aha," said his master, "that's thevery place for you, my man!"



THE HUNTER AND THE WOODMAN

A Hunter was searching in the forest for the tracks of a lion, and,catching sight presently of a Woodman engaged in felling a tree, hewent up to him and asked him if he had noticed a lion's footprintsanywhere about, or if he knew where his den was. The Woodman answered,"If you will come with me, I will show you the lion himself." TheHunter turned pale with fear, and his teeth chattered as he replied,"Oh, I'm not looking for the lion, thanks, but only for his tracks."



THE SERPENT AND THE EAGLE

An Eagle swooped down upon a Serpent and seized it in his talons withthe intention of carrying it off and devouring it. But the Serpent wastoo quick for him and had its coils round him in a moment; and thenthere ensued a life-and-death struggle between the two. A countryman,who was a witness of the encounter, came to the assistance of theEagle, and succeeded in freeing him from the Serpent and enabling himto escape. In revenge the Serpent spat some of his poison into theman's drinking-horn. Heated with his exertions, the man was about toslake his thirst with a draught from the horn, when the Eagle knockedit out of his hand, and spilled its contents upon the ground.
    One good turn deserves another.



THE ROGUE AND THE ORACLE

A Rogue laid a wager that he would prove the Oracle at Delphi to beuntrustworthy by procuring from it a false reply to an inquiry byhimself. So he went to the temple on the appointed day with a smallbird in his hand, which he concealed under the folds of his cloak,and asked whether what he held in his hand were alive or dead. If theOracle said "dead," he meant to produce the bird alive: if the replywas "alive," he intended to wring its neck and show it to be dead. Butthe Oracle was one too many for him, for the answer he got was this:"Stranger, whether the thing that you hold in your hand be aliveor dead is a matter that depends entirely on your own will."



THE HORSE AND THE ASS

A Horse, proud of his fine harness, met an Ass on the high-road. Asthe Ass with his heavy burden moved slowly out of the way to let himpass, the Horse cried out impatiently that he could hardly resistkicking him to make him move faster. The Ass held his peace, but didnot forget the other's insolence. Not long afterwards the Horse becamebroken-winded, and was sold by his owner to a farmer. One day, as hewas drawing a dung-cart, he met the Ass again, who in turn derided himand said, "Aha! you never thought to come to this, did you, you whowere so proud! Where are all your gay trappings now?"



THE DOG CHASING A WOLF

A Dog was chasing a Wolf, and as he ran he thought what a fine fellowhe was, and what strong legs he had, and how quickly they covered theground. "Now, there's this Wolf," he said to himself, "what a poorcreature he is: he's no match for me, and he knows it and so he runsaway." But the Wolf looked round just then and said, "Don't youimagine I'm running away from you, my friend: it's your master I'mafraid of."



GRIEF AND HIS DUE

When Jupiter was assigning the various gods their privileges, it sohappened that Grief was not present with the rest: but when all hadreceived their share, he too entered and claimed his due. Jupiter wasat a loss to know what to do, for there was nothing left for him.However, at last he decided that to him should belong the tears thatare shed for the dead. Thus it is the same with Grief as it is withthe other gods. The more devoutly men render to him his due, themore lavish is he of that which he has to bestow. It is not well,therefore, to mourn long for the departed; else Grief, whose solepleasure is in such mourning, will be quick to send fresh cause fortears.



THE HAWK, THE KITE, AND THE PIGEONS

The Pigeons in a certain dovecote were persecuted by a Kite, who everynow and then swooped down and carried off one of their number. So theyinvited a Hawk into the dovecote to defend them against their enemy.But they soon repented of their folly: for the Hawk killed more ofthem in a day than the Kite had done in a year.



THE WOMAN AND THE FARMER

A Woman, who had lately lost her husband, used to go every day to hisgrave and lament her loss. A Farmer, who was engaged in ploughing notfar from the spot, set eyes upon the Woman and desired to have herfor his wife: so he left his plough and came and sat by her side,and began to shed tears himself. She asked him why he wept; and hereplied, "I have lately lost my wife, who was very dear to me, andtears ease my grief." "And I," said she, "have lost my husband." Andso for a while they mourned in silence. Then he said, "Since you and Iare in like case, shall we not do well to marry and live together? Ishall take the place of your dead husband, and you, that of my deadwife." The Woman consented to the plan, which indeed seemed reasonableenough: and they dried their tears. Meanwhile, a thief had comeand stolen the oxen which the Farmer had left with his plough. Ondiscovering the theft, he beat his breast and loudly bewailed hisloss. When the Woman heard his cries, she came and said, "Why, are youweeping still?" To which he replied, "Yes, and I mean it this time."



PROMETHEUS AND THE MAKING OF MAN

At the bidding of Jupiter, Prometheus set about the creation of Manand the other animals. Jupiter, seeing that Mankind, the only rationalcreatures, were far outnumbered by the irrational beasts, bade himredress the balance by turning some of the latter into men. Prometheusdid as he was bidden, and this is the reason why some people have theforms of men but the souls of beasts.



THE SWALLOW AND THE CROW

A Swallow was once boasting to a Crow about her birth. "I was once aprincess," said she, "the daughter of a King of Athens, but my husbandused me cruelly, and cut out my tongue for a slight fault. Then, toprotect me from further injury, I was turned by Juno into a bird.""You chatter quite enough as it is," said the Crow. "What you wouldhave been like if you hadn't lost your tongue, I can't think."



THE HUNTER AND THE HORSEMAN

A Hunter went out after game, and succeeded in catching a hare, whichhe was carrying home with him when he met a man on horseback, who saidto him, "You have had some sport I see, sir," and offered to buy it.The Hunter readily agreed; but the Horseman had no sooner got thehare in his hands than he set spurs to his horse and went off at fullgallop. The Hunter ran after him for some little distance; but it soondawned upon him that he had been tricked, and he gave up trying toovertake the Horseman, and, to save his face, called after him as loudas he could, "All right, sir, all right, take your hare: it was meantall along as a present."



THE GOATHERD AND THE WILD GOATS

A Goatherd was tending his goats out at pasture when he saw a numberof Wild Goats approach and mingle with his flock. At the end of theday he drove them home and put them all into the pen together. Nextday the weather was so bad that he could not take them out as usual:so he kept them at home in the pen, and fed them there. He only gavehis own goats enough food to keep them from starving, but he gave theWild Goats as much as they could eat and more; for he was very anxiousfor them to stay, and he thought that if he fed them well theywouldn't want to leave him. When the weather improved, he took themall out to pasture again; but no sooner had they got near the hillsthan the Wild Goats broke away from the flock and scampered off. TheGoatherd was very much disgusted at this, and roundly abused them fortheir ingratitude. "Rascals!" he cried, "to run away like that afterthe way I've treated you!" Hearing this, one of them turned round andsaid, "Oh, yes, you treated us all right--too well, in fact; it wasjust that that put us on our guard. If you treat newcomers likeourselves so much better than your own flock, it's more than likelythat, if another lot of strange goats joined yours, _we_ should thenbe neglected in favour of the last comers."



THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE SWALLOW

A Swallow, conversing with a Nightingale, advised her to quit theleafy coverts where she made her home, and to come and live with men,like herself, and nest under the shelter of their roofs. But theNightingale replied, "Time was when I too, like yourself, lived amongmen: but the memory of the cruel wrongs I then suffered makes themhateful to me, and never again will I approach their dwellings."
    The scene of past sufferings revives painful memories.



THE TRAVELLER AND FORTUNE

A Traveller, exhausted with fatigue after a long journey, sank down atthe very brink of a deep well and presently fell asleep. He was withinan ace of falling in, when Dame Fortune appeared to him and touchedhim on the shoulder, cautioning him to move further away. "Wake up,good sir, I pray you," she said; "had you fallen into the well, theblame would have been thrown not on your own folly but on me, Fortune."