CHAPTER I. SOPHIA DOROTHEA OF ZELL, WIFE OF GEORGE I.
(A.D. 1666-1726.)
|When the Edict of Nantes was revoked by Louis XIV., of which mentionhas been made in a previous reign, persecutions that equalled thenever-to-be-forgotten St. Bartholomew, followed, and being spread overa longer period, affected a larger number of victims. This Edict hadpermitted to Protestants the free observance of their religion so longthat when it was repealed it was a cruel blow, though perhaps a triumphto Roman Catholics. Those faithful adherents to Protestantism whorefused to become converts were executed or imprisoned; but thousandsescaped and fled, leaving their property to be confiscated to the crown,while they sought refuge, strangers in a strange land, with povertystaring them in the face. Those were times when horrors unspeakable wereof daily occurrence. Armed bodies of dragoons went from town to townin France, barbarously butchering the terror-stricken men, women, andchildren, who had failed to confess and receive the sacrament accordingto the mode prescribed by the king; while thousands hastened at thepoint of the sword to do so, pretending, in order to escape massacre,that they had suddenly awakened to the error of their former ways.
When the report of these conversions--if we may so call the cowardicethat compelled myriads to take false oaths out of sheer desperation--wascarried to the willingly-duped King of France, he raised his eyes toHeaven, amazed at the miracle, which he pronounced, in the presence ofhis fawning courtiers, more wonderful than many of those recounted inScripture. But he knew as well as his bishops did, that "a man convincedagainst his will is of the same opinion still."
We have said that some of the Protestants escaped their persecutors;among the number of these lucky beings was Alexander D'Esmiers, MarquisD'Olbreuse, a gallant gentleman of Poictiers, who, with his daughter,Eleanora, sought refuge in Brussels. It was not long before thisbeautiful, accomplished French girl was introduced into the gay societyof that gay city, where she was courted and admired by many of thebeaux, and no doubt envied and criticized by the belles.
[[A.D. 1665.]] It was at a grand court ball that this young girl firstbecame acquainted with Duke George William, second son of George, Dukeof Brunswick-Lunebourg, and heir to the dukedom of Zell. The duke fellviolently in love, for the first time in his life, though he had beena traveller for some years, and was noted for his gallantry among theladies with whom he had flirted in various parts of the world. Withthe awakening of this sentiment, George William, who had been rather ataciturn man, became eloquent in his love-pleadings; he had never caredto study, but a sudden desire to perfect himself in the French languagetook hold of him, and he begged the beautiful Eleanora to assist himwith the intricacies of her native tongue. She consented, and throughoutthe bright, warm summer days, this youthful teacher and pupil were seenstrolling together in the park, or seated, books in hand, beneath theshade of some wide-spreading tree, industriously pursuing their studies.
But of all the verbs in the language, the one which most interested thispair was _aimer_, "to love," and they learned to conjugate its variousmoods and tenses, which led, in their regular course, at last, tomarriage. This took place in the autumn of 1665, when Eleanora wastwenty-six years of age. Her title then became Lady Von Harburg, from anestate so called, belonging to the duke.
This union proved a most happy one; for, with mutual affection,confidence, and respect, the duke and his wife held their littlecourt free from the intrigues and anxieties that ruffled the peace andhappiness of most of the more important ones of their day. The onlyfault that her subjects ever found with the high-minded, estimable LadyVon Harburg was, that she surrounded herself with French attendants;but it is no wonder she preferred to do so, if we consider that she wasalways regarded by the jealous Germans as an intruder, even though shehad united her interest with theirs by marrying one of their countrymen.So long as her husband approved of her choice of attendants, Eleanoraheeded not the railings of the envious; but occupied her mind and timewith wholesome, sensible pursuits.
[[A.D. 1666.]] Her first child, the subject of this history, was born onthe fifteenth of September, 1666. She was named Sophia Dorothea, whichmeans, Wisdom, the gift of God, and she needed an unusual amount of thisendowment, when she became a woman, to support her under the miserabletrials a cruel husband laid upon her. But we must not tell about thatyet. As a child, Sophia Dorothea was a source of delight to her fondparents, and filled their home with sunshine and happiness. Alas!if they could have looked into the future, sooner would they have laidtheir little darling in the grave than see her live to drag out a wearyexistence to its bitter end. Perhaps it is well that they could not, forthey had three other children that died in infancy; and consolation fortheir loss was always to be found in the possession of their charming,interesting, constantly improving little Sophia Dorothea.
Under all her trials, the mother proved herself a true woman, andso increased her husband's respect and esteem for her that he becameanxious to have her title equal to his own; for, at the time of theirmarriage, there had been some complications that prevented. So he setto work to accomplish this, and after a vast amount of trouble,petitioning, delay and expense, at last succeeded. Then the Lady vonHarburg became Countess von Wilhelmsburg and Duchess of Zell. Thisgratified the duke, though it did not enhance his wife's happiness, forshe had been perfectly contented before, and craved no title more loftythan the one she had.
Nothing ever interfered with the care for her little daughter, who wastenderly and religiously trained; and unspoiled by the flattery thatwould have been showered upon her, had anybody suspected that she wasone day to become Queen of England. When Sophia Dorothea was about sevenyears of age, she had for a playfellow, Philip von Kônigsmark, whosefather was a warm personal friend to the duke. Philip was at Zell, atthe time of which we speak, for purposes of education, and spent mostof his leisure hours with the little girl in the garden of the palace.These two children became very fond of each other, and the gossipsabout the court shook their heads knowingly as they prophesied a futuremarriage, in an undertone. But they were false prophets, for a verydifferent fate awaited the two guileless, happy children.
[[A.D. 1673.]] Before Sophia Dorothea had reached the age of ten,Philip was called back to his old home, and for awhile he passes outof our story, although we shall hear more of him some years later.The little girl missed him sadly at first, but other companions wereprovided for her, and she soon became reconciled to the absence ofPhilip. She continued her studies, and gave early promise of becoming ahandsome, virtuous, accomplished woman. She was an heiress too, and thatby no means diminished her attractions. To be sure, her fortune was notlarge; but fifteen thousand pounds was better than nothing,--at leastso thought her cousin, Augustus Frederick, Crown-Prince ofBrunswick-Wôlfenbuttel, who sought her hand a few months after thedeparture of Philip von Konigsmark. Sophia Dorothea was fond of thisyoung kinsman after her child fashion, and so a formal betrothal tookplace. But Augustus Frederick was a soldier, and according to his ideasof chivalry, he could not claim his lady love until he had distinguishedhimself on the battle-field; so, filled with courage and hope, he badefarewell to the little girl, and marched to the siege of Philipsburg. Hefought valiantly, and, like a true knight, proved himself worthy of thelittle lady of his choice; but alas! towards the close of the battle,a fatal bullet put an end to his existence. Thus was Sophia Dorotheadeprived of a husband whose death affected her only slightly at thetime, but whom she learned to regret many years later, and no doubtthought with the poet:--
                   "Of all sad words of tongue or pen,
                   The saddest are these: 'It might have been.'"
[[A.D. 1676.]] Now we must leave Sophia Dorothea, and while sheis developing into womanhood, tell about people who became closelyconnected with the vicissitudes of her life after she was deprived of amother's care.
[[A.D. 1678.]] The Duke of Zell had a brother, older than himself,who was married to Sophia, daughter of Frederick and Elizabeth, theshort-lived King and Queen of Bohemia. This Sophia is the electress ofHanover, mentioned in Queen Anne's reign as Protestant heiress to thethrone of England through her descent from James I. Ernest Augustus,first Duke of Hanover, husband to this lady, was a pompous, ostentatiousman, who took Louis XIV. for his model in life, but in so doing imitatedhis vices rather than his virtues, and became an unfaithful, neglectfulhusband to a good woman. But Sophia was a person of rare intellectand common sense, and though not unmindful of the duke's neglect, shemanaged to forget her wrongs by occupying herself with literary andother pursuits.
Ernest Augustus was almost as much under the influence of a woman as wehave seen that Queen Anne was during the early part of her reign;but this one managed more adroitly than did the imperious, hot-headedDuchess of Marlborough, and so retained her position.
[[A.D. 1680.]] Catherine and Elizabeth von Meissengen were two bright,lively, ambitious sisters, who made their appearance at the Court ofHanover, where they excited a great deal of curiosity and interest. Bothwere handsome, and dressed so well that the German ladies accepted theirpretty, tasteful costumes as models for their own, while the gentlemenflocked to the drawing-room of these sisters, who gave entertainmentsso delightful in their character as to attract young and old, menand women. Even the members of the royal family honored these witty,fascinating ladies with their visits, and so for a time they became thelionesses of Hanover.
We have said that the Von Meissengen ladies were ambitious, and so theywere; they had come to court to seek their fortunes, and aimed sohigh as the heir to the throne himself. But that young man, whose namewas George Louis, was not to be won by their wiles, and so in course oftime they began to look lower, and succeeded in captivating the privatetutors of the Hanover princes. Everybody was astonished when, at theclose of a short summer vacation, Catherine von Meissengen reappeared insociety as Madame Busche, and her sister Elizabeth as Madame von Platen.
[[A.D. 1681.]] Having secured these learned men for husbands was allvery well so far as it went, but Elizabeth immediately began to planand intrigue until she succeeded in getting her husband appointed primeminister to Ernest Augustus. That made her mistress of the situation,for though Von Platen was not weak-minded, his wife was strong, and notonly ruled him but the sovereign besides. We have related so much aboutthis woman, an _intriguante_ of the deepest dye, because it was she whochiefly controlled the destiny of poor Sophia Dorothea.
The routine of the court of Zell continued with little variation fromyear to year, the monotony being broken only now and then by thearrival of some guest. One of these was Prince Augustus William vonWôlfenbuttel, brother of the soldier who had early courted little SophiaDorothea, and who lost his life on the battle-field of Philipsburg.
This young man was not rich, but he was handsome, and his position andcharacter were excellent. He owned a small estate, sufficient to insurethe comfort of himself and wife as soon as he could find one whom hecould fancy, and who would accept him. His choice fell on his cousin,Sophia Dorothea, and he had an eye, too, to her dower, which, though notlarge, would help to maintain his princely state. So he wooed her, andsoon won her heart. But the course of true-love did not run smooth,for the Duke of Zell objected to the match, which of course only servedto increase the passion of the lovers. To be sure Sophia Dorothea was adutiful daughter, and would have yielded to her father's objections hadthey been reasonable; but he was forced to admit that the lovers werewell-suited to each other, and only opposed their marriage because, likemany Germans of his day, he was absurdly superstitious. It seemed to hima sacrilege for his daughter to wed the brother of her dead lover, andhe did not see how anything but bad luck could result from such a step.So the young girl begged her mother to intercede for her, and the worthylady proved such a powerful mediator that her husband's consent wasfinally won.
[[A.D. 1682.]] Even then matters were by no means settled to thesatisfaction of the lovers, for Madame von Platen had something to sayon the subject. Several times had this female prime minister consultedwith Ernest Augustus as to the most advisable manner of disposing of thehand of his son, George Louis, in marriage, providing the proper personcould be found. In an evil hour for Sophia Dorothea, the worthy pairdecided that greater importance would accrue to the electorate ofHanover by the acquisition of the broad acres of Zell. That was enough;for with Madame von Platen to desire was to have, and no obstacle couldstand in the way of anything she had set her heart on. Sophia Dorotheawas engaged certainly, but that made no difference; everything, hearts,hopes, happiness, must give way to political ambition. So a regular plotwas laid to destroy the bond that existed between Augustus William andhis lady-love.
Let us take a look at the young man who was to be substituted forthe handsome, noble, brilliant, and fondly loved Augustus William ofWolfenbuttel. At the time of which we speak, George Louis was twenty-two years of age, undersized,coarse-minded, ungentlemanly, and mean-spirited. He was good-natured,to be sure; and, like all the princes of the House of Brunswick, he wasbrave on the battle-field, but he had no sympathy with suffering andsorrow, and none of the qualities that are apt to attract a young girl.
He was in England when the powers at Hanover decided to marry him topoor, innocent little Sophia Dorothea, and as ignorant of the plot asshe was. On his way thither he had visited William of Orange, to whom heconfided the object of his journey. This was to offer his hand and heartto Princess Anne, and it is easy to believe what is generally suspected:that William himself encouraged Madame Von Platen in the intrigues thatrecalled George Louis and brought about the marriage that caused somuch misery. The reason why it is probable that William of Orange wouldendeavor to prevent a union between George Louis and Princess Anne is,that although his wife was heiress presumptive to the throne, in theevent of her death, which, as we know, occurred before his, he would nothave been permitted to govern alone had the House of Brunswick beenso powerfully represented in England, and to avoid complications, hepreferred to have George Louis safely married and settled out of theway.
Meanwhile, with the firm conviction that in William of Orange he had afriend ready to further his cause, George of Hanover arrived in England,and was received as befitted his rank by Charles II., and entertainedat Whitehall Palace, where apartments had been prepared for him. Then hewas introduced to the Princess Anne; but it is not probable that he madea very favorable impression on her, for she afterwards married PrinceGeorge of Denmark, with whom she lived happily until the day of hisdeath. It is certain, however, that George Louis had some hopesof success with Anne, for when he was suddenly and most unexpectedlyrecalled home, he was dreadfully perplexed. Nevertheless, he obeyed thesummons of his royal father without suspecting the cause of it. He musthave been somewhat astonished when it was announced to him that he wasto transfer his ideas of matrimony from one object to another.
Having made up his mind that an alliance with the House of Zell would beadvantageous to that of Hanover, Ernest Augustus found no difficulty inpersuading his brother to postpone the marriage of his daughter, SophiaDorothea, with Augustus of Wôlfenbuttel on the score of her youth, asshe was only fifteen years of age, he argued, and too young to becomea wife. Anxious as he was to retain possession of his child for anotheryear, the Duke of Zell was only too willing to listen to any argumentthat would accomplish that object, so he consented to a betrothal only,and postponed the marriage for a year. What reasoning he employed tomake the young lovers agree to this arrangement, is not known; butAugustus went off evidently satisfied that the prize he was to get wasworth waiting for, and with no suspicion that treachery would deprivehim of his lady love.
No sooner was he well out of the way, than Ernest Augustus, Madame VonPlaten, and others busied themselves in endeavoring to bring their plotto a climax. Months rolled by, Sophia Dorothea celebrated her sixteenthbirthday; George Louis visited her from time to time, but he had madeno impression whatever on the young girl, and the series of intriguesconcocted by the old heads for the ruin of young hearts would have beenutterly worthless had it not been for the active and efficient zeal ofone person, who, just when failure seemed imminent, stepped in toprove the worth of her energy and power. That person was Sophia, motherto George Louis, a crafty, designing woman, ambitious as any of herfamily, who, having seen the advantage to be derived from the marriageof her son with her niece Sophia Dorothea, was determined that it shouldtake place.
She had heard rumors of an engagement with Augustus of Wôlfenbuttel; butthat was a matter of small consideration in her eyes, and so long as nomarriage had taken place, it was not too late for her son to supplantthe favored lover. The great, heavy family coach was therefore orderedto be put in readiness for a journey of about thirty miles, whichan ordinary railway train of to-day would make in an hour. But twocenturies ago travelling was a more serious matter, and it took theduchess all night to reach the ducal palace of Zell.
The sleepy sentinel was astonished when the lady pushed past him, and,totally regardless of anything like ceremony, breathlessly requested theservants she met in the hall to conduct her at once to the duke. She wastold that he was dressing, but would soon come down stairs to see her ifshe would have the goodness to wait in a' reception-room.
But the lady was too impatient to lose a moment, so mounted the stairs,and bade the groom of the bed-chamber to point out the door of theduke's dressing-room. Without going through the formality of anannouncement, or making known her presence by a knock, the duchessunceremoniously pushed open the door, while the scarcely half-dressedduke gazed at the intruder in amazement.
Without deigning to apologize for her abrupt entrance, the sister-in-lawbounced herself into a chair, and having remarked that she had come onimportant business, asked suddenly: "Where is your wife?" The Duke ofZell had not recovered his composure sufficiently to reply, butpointed to the adjoining chamber, through the open door of which a largebed was visible, where, beneath the covers, Duchess Eleanora lay safelyensconced, wondering what could have prompted so early a visit. Butalthough she strained her ears to listen, she was not soon to begratified; for "Old Sophia," who had begun her interview in French, atonce changed to German, when she remembered how imperfectly the Duchessof Zell understood that language.
The less she comprehended of the argument that the wife of ErnestAugustus was so impressively setting forth, the more did she endeavor tocatch a word here and there; and when she heard the name of herdaughter coupled with that of George Louis again and again, she beganto understand as well as though the whole case had been put in her ownnative tongue.
The Duke of Zell was easily convinced, particularly as he had neverfavored his daughter's marriage with the brother of her dead lover; andthe mother of George Louis eloquently set forth the advantages to bederived from a union between the heir of Hanover and the heiress ofZell, adding the possibility of Sophia Dorothea some day becoming Queenof England. The clever sister-in-law completely dazzled her listenerwith all the bright hopes she held out, and returned to Hanover afterhaving obtained the Duke of Zell's solemn promise that he would breakoff his daughter's match with her lover, and bestow her hand upon GeorgeLouis.
That morning's work rendered three people miserable,--the lovingmother, the young girl, and the lover, whose happiness was sacrificed toincrease the territory of one heartless man and to gratify the ambitionof another. The duke loved his daughter; but all her prayers, sobs, andentreaties failed to weigh against his sinful ambition. He turneda deaf ear to his wife, too, who assured him that their child detestedGeorge Louis, and that he had neither respect nor affection for _her_.It was a pitiable case, for had the people who planned this hatefulmatch set out with no other motive than the breaking of a young girl'sheart, and the utter destruction of all her bright hopes, they could notmore thoroughly have succeeded.
It would be needless to follow all the arrangements and make-believecourtship that followed the visit of Duchess Sophia, and it would betoo painful to recount the sufferings of the poor child of sixteen,who, with her heart filled with the image of the man she had promisedto marry, was forced to give her hand to one of the least attractivecreatures she had ever beheld.
Suffice it to say that the marriage between George Louis of Hanover andSophia Dorothea of Zell was celebrated with unusual splendor, on thetwenty-first of November; and the Electress Sophia congratulated herselfon the success of her undertaking. She had brought about the marriagethat was deemed advisable. The bride's toilet was superb, and everydetail of the nuptial festivities was carried out with more thanordinary pains; what cared she then, though the tear-stained face of thebride told of her sufferings? She had achieved a triumph, and that wassufficient; for the Electress Sophia was not honorable enough to feelthat any wrong had been done to the deserted lover of her niece, and shewas never known to hesitate to employ any means, just or otherwise, forthe attainment of her ends. Yet she was a woman much admired in society,witty, brilliant in conversation, and handsome. Men of ability werepleased to talk with her, and she was remarkable for her logical styleof argument, often coming off victorious in the war of words.Even Leibnitz, the great German philosopher, was proud of herfriendship, and often laughingly said of her "that she not onlyinvariably asked _why_, but the _why_ of whys." He meant that she wouldaccept no reason that she did not clearly comprehend. In this respectshe is certainly worthy of imitation.
But to return to the little bride. The parting from her mother was asore trial to both, and one from which the latter never recovered, forshe always appeared like a person bowed down beneath the weight of agreat sorrow. As for the daughter, she went to Hanover, where for a timeshe was at least less unhappy than at any future period of her life. Herhusband treated her shamefully from the first, but she did not love himenough to be wounded by his neglect, and she found solace in the regardshown her by her father-in-law, Ernest Augustus, who esteemed her veryhighly.
[[A.D. 1683.]] Another comfort that Sophia Dorothea had in course oftime was a little boy, who was born on the thirtieth of October, 1683.He was named George Augustus, and many years later ascended the throneof England as George II. In 1684 a little daughter was added to thefamily. She was named for her mother, and like her brother ascended athrone, but it was as the wife of a King of Prussia.
[[A.D. 1684.]] She had contrived to win the good opinion of ErnestAugustus as well as his wife, both of whom regarded her as an ornamentto their court. They treated her with a great deal of consideration, andno doubt sympathized with her because of the selfish, brutal behaviorof their son towards her. But Ernest Augustus was so indiscreet asto praise her on several occasions, and that was more than Madame vonPlaten could stand. He even went so far as to consult her, and such aproceeding filled the soul of Madame, the prime minister, with hatred.


Not only did she hate Sophia Dorothea, because she was in favorwith Ernest Augustus, but for another and a very unjust reason, asit was connected with the Duchess of Zell, and her daughter could notpossibly have had any hand in the affair.
One day Ernest Augustus went to make a call at the house of Madame vonPlaten, as he frequently did; the lady was not at home, but her pretty,bright, rather forward maid was, and in the absence of her mistress setherself out to entertain the old elector. "Use"--that was the name ofthe girl, and quite an appropriate one--had a remarkable talent forstory-telling, and had just completed one of the most brilliant sheknew, for the entertainment of her royal listener, who was laughingheartily when Madame von Platen suddenly stood before them. The lady wasnot more shocked at the elector's lack of dignity than at the servant'saudacity. The one she dared not attack, the other she could, and mostcertainly would, punish forthwith.
However, for the moment she only "looked daggers," and the royal visitorsoon took his departure. The next day he went to one of his palaces inthe country to spend a few weeks. What Madame von Platen said toher pert handmaid is not recorded; but so great was her influence inHanover, that during the elector's absence, she had the girl locked upin jail on a charge of scandalous conduct. Poor Use was treated veryunkindly while a captive, and at last in obedience to her mistress'sorder, actually drummed out of the town.
Now one would suppose that the wife of the elector might have interferedto prevent such harsh treatment; but she was too much occupied with herstudies to take interest in such matters, and even if she had, she wouldhave found how much greater was Madame von Platen's power than herown. So poor Use found herself outside the city walls, penniless,disgraced, friendless. She wandered through the country until, footsoreand hungry, she arrived at the palace of Zell, where, upon beingadmitted, she frankly related her troubles to the duchess. That lady'ssympathy was at once aroused, and although she told the giddy girl thatshe had done wrong, she could not but own to herself that the punishmentfor so slight an offence had been very heavy. Therefore, after dueconsideration and a short consultation with her husband, she gave thegirl an asylum and employment in her household.
This was the head and front of the Duchess of Zell's offending, so faras Madame von Platen was concerned, and this was the insult that sheresolved to revenge on the head of poor Sophia Dorothea.
[[A.D. 1686.]] George Louis had for a long time been encouraged in hisill-treatment of his wife, not only by the vile Madame von Platen,but by her equally vile sister, Madame von Busche, of whom we have notspoken since her marriage. Her husband had died meanwhile, and it wason the occasion of her second marriage with General Wreyke that the twosisters had arranged to complete the unhappiness of Sophia Dorothea.Previously they had invited a certain young lady to their fêtes, andpresented her to George Louis, with the understanding that she wasto captivate him, and as she had not much wit but a great deal ofshrewdness and some skill as a flatterer, there was little doubtthat she would succeed. This girl was so tall that she was called the"Maypole," and she had a very long name--it was Ermengarda Melusina vonSchulem-berg. She courted and cajoled George Louis until he really beganto believe that he could not exist without her.
It was a curious state of morals when a prince could unite himself bywhat was called a left-hand marriage to two or three women afterhe had one wife, as if it could possibly make any actual differenceon which hand the wedding-ring was placed. Yet, so it was with GeorgeLouis, who was just on the eve of contracting a left-hand marriage withErmengarda, when Madame von Busche celebrated her second nuptials.This ceremony took place at the house of her sister, Madame von Platen;Sophia Dorothea was invited, and it was all arranged that as soon asshe entered the drawing-room, George Louis was to open the ball withErmengarda, whose intimacy was to be made so clear to the injured wifethat she could not misunderstand.
But there were too many in the secret, Sophia Dorothea got wind of itand remained at home, though she sent her lady of honor, the Countessvon Knesebeck, to make her apologies on the score of illness. It needscarcely be said that this lady reported all that happened at the ball,and that the neglected wife was not less miserable because she had notbeen an eye-witness to it.
Before we can tell more about her it is necessary to speak of otherswhose lives were connected with hers, and we will begin with herplaymate of early days, Philip von Kônigsmark.
After his departure from Zell he lived with various members of hisfamily, travelled about with them, and returned at intervals to residewith his mother, who lived to witness the many misfortunes that overtookher children. Charles John was Philip's older brother, and often visitedat the Court of England, where his brilliant qualities rendered him awelcome guest. In course of time Philip joined him in that country,and was placed at college to complete his education. Leaving him there,Charles John visited at the various courts of Europe, where he excitedthe admiration of the women and the envy of the men. At the age oftwenty-two he joined an expedition against Tangier, distinguishedhimself on the battle-field, and return to to England a hero.
This young man was, like his brother, a beauty, but he was also aworthless, wicked scoundrel. He did not excel Philip in crime, however,for he was one of the greatest scamps of the seventeenth century, andthe two brothers assassinated Tom Thynne of Longleat, one Sunday eveningwhen he was riding along in his carriage, though the poor man had giventhem no provocation. This was in 1682, and the dreadful deed createdgreat excitement for a time. Philip von Kônigsmark managed to make hisescape, but the bolder Charles John pleaded his own cause before a juryand was acquitted, only because he was in favor at court, while hisassistants were executed. He knew that a stigma rested on his name, buthe was too barefaced to care for that. "Tut," he said, "it will all bewiped out by some dazzling action in war," and so he went to France andjoined a regiment, and during the next few years he was frequently heardof on the various battle-fields. The blot on the name of Kônigsmarkremained, but Charles John was sent out of the world by a bullet thatput an end to his existence in 1686 when he was in the service of theVenetians.
Now let us see what became of Philip. Shortly after the murder ofThynne he arrived in Hanover, where he was soon appointed to the postof Colonel of the Guards. He was considered the handsomest and richestcolonel in the army, and displayed exquisite taste in his dress and hisequipages. With wonderfully fascinating manners, a good education, readywit, and considerable experience, he made himself agreeable to a greatvariety of people. Among those was his old friend and playfellow, SophiaDorothea, and it is not at all unnatural that she should have beenpleased to see him. But Madame von Platen was in love with him,
[[A.D. 1690.]] One day the princess had been walking in the garden whenshe met her little boy, George Augustus, herself, and jealouslywatched every interview he had with the wife of George Louis, with theintention of making mischief. and taking him from his attendant, began to mount the stairs whichled to her own apartments, with the child in her arms. When half-way upshe met Philip Konigsmark, who seeing that the lady's burden was heavierthan she could bear, gallantly took the future King of England fromhis mother's arms and bore him to the door of her apartments. Afterexchanging a few commonplace remarks he returned the child and departed,but not before Madame von Platen had seen enough to form a groundworkfor her plot. She ran, without a moment's delay, to Ernest Augustus,and made out a long story, the result of which was a scolding for SophiaDorothea, though she could not see that it was deserved, for she haddone no harm.
At another time Madame von Platen managed to make George Louis find aglove that had his wife's initials embroidered on it, in a bower fromwhich he had seen Philip hastily take his departure; but the wickedwoman did not tell him that it was she who had been there with the youngman, or that she had previously procured the glove on purpose to excitehis suspicion against his wife. Everything that Sophia Dorothea did wasdistorted to such a degree that little by little the hatred of the oncefriendly Ernest Augustus and his wife was aroused against her. No doubtshe often acted imprudently, but certainly her husband was to blame forneglecting her as he did. At last driven to desperation by the angryglances and unkind remarks of those who had been friendly, she begansecretly to make plans with Philip von Konigsmark for her escape toParis. This led to a correspondence, and Philip, who was vain as hewas bad, boasted among his friends of the confidence reposed in him bySophia Dorothea.
[[A.D. 1693.]] The Duke of Zell had been duly informed that his daughterwas obstinate, disrespectful to the elector, undutiful as a wife andmother. Inquiry among her enemies only served to confirm thereport, and, to his eternal shame be it said, the father turned againsthis child. Not so the mother: she knew the disposition of SophiaDorothea too well to credit the dreadful charges brought against her,and longed to take her back home and shield her from all harm. The youngwoman was permitted at last to make a visit to Zell, where she wouldgladly have remained, but although George Louis had almost strangled herto death in a fit of temper, just before she left Hanover, her fatherinsisted that she should return, and in order to insure obedience,attacked her in her most tender point. He told her that unless she wentback at once to her husband, she should be deprived of her children;then she no longer asked to remain.
[[A.D. 1694.]] Philip von Konigsmark had been on a visit to Dresden, butreturned to Hanover shortly after Sophia Dorothea got back there. He wassurprised one day at receiving a note signed by her, requesting him tocome to her room. He obeyed without suspecting that the note had beenforged by Madame von Platen. The lady-of-honor admitted him, as muchsurprised as was her mistress, the visit being made at rather anunseemly hour. Sophia Dorothea remarked upon it, whereupon Philipproduced the note which the lady at once declared she had not written.Of course he should immediately have taken his departure, but SophiaDorothea began to talk about her domestic troubles and the unkindtreatment to which she had been subjected even at Zell, whereupon Philipadvised her to run away, and so these two talked on, in the presence ofthe lady-of-honor, for a couple of hours.
Meanwhile, Madame von Platen was by no means idle. She had her ownreasons for hating Philip von Konigsmark, which need not be recounted,but that she really did hate him intensely, her conduct proves only tooclearly. She had watched him until she was sure of his whereabouts,then rushed to the old elector with a tale that she embellished andadorned, until she got permission to have Philip arrested and lockedup. To nothing else would the old man consent, for he really believedno harm of his daughter-in-law, but thinking that he would not lose thisopportunity of teaching the young gallant a lesson that he would notsoon forget, he gave Madame von Platen a written warrant for his arrest,playfully adding as he did so: "I know that although you seem to be soangry with Kônigsmark, he is too handsome a man to receive ill-treatmentat your hands."
Truly has a well-known English writer said: "Heaven has no rage likelove to hatred turned." Madame von Platen verified this in the desperatemeans she employed to bring down her victim. Armed with the warrantbearing the elector's signature, she proceeded to the soldiers' quartersand demanded a guard of four or five men to do something that she wouldexplain to them. She led them to the Hall of Knights, through whichKônigsmark was obliged to pass, when he left the princess's apartment,and there, after bribing each man with a handful of gold pieces, gaveher instructions.
They were to arrest a criminal whose person was minutely described, andhe was on no account to be permitted to escape. If he used violence hewas to be slain on the spot, and the men were not only provided withweapons for that purpose, but several bottles of wine to enable them to"screw their courage to the sticking-place." They promised to obey, andMadame von Platen left them.
In the Hall of Knights was one of those enormous white porcelain stoves,reaching from the floor to the ceiling, that every one who has visitedGermany must have seen. Behind this the soldiers ensconced themselves.Just as the tower clock struck twelve, Kônigsmark approached,unsuspicious of danger, and had just passed the stove when he was seizedfrom behind. He drew his sword and tried to defend himself, butwhat chance had one man against four well-armed ones? After a littleskirmishing, a powerful stroke from an old-fashioned battle-axe, inthe hands of one of the guards, felled him to the floor. With his lastbreath the wounded man faintly said, "Spare the innocent princess," andexpired.
The matter was hushed up, and no one, excepting those engaged in thecrime, knew what had become of the handsome, accomplished Philip vonKônigsmark. Some years later his body was found under the floor of oneof the rooms just off the hall in which the murder took place.
Of course Sophia Dorothea was kept in ignorance of the assassination.She was depending upon Kônigsmark to complete the arrangements for herescape to Paris, and wondered what could have become of him. She askedno questions, and would have received no satisfaction if she had doneso; for those who knew would have given her no information, and thosewho were not in the secret wondered almost as much as she did. Suddenlysuspense gave place to alarm when she heard that all the papersbelonging to the murdered man had been seized and carried to the electorfor examination. Her notes regarding her intended escape were, ofcourse, among them. No wonder she was alarmed!
Madame von Platen read these notes with the elector, and so interpretedthe most trifling sentences as to give them a false meaning,--itrequired no uncommon ingenuity to do that,--and von Platen it was whoinformed Sophia Dorothea of the death of her friend Philip, though notthe manner of it. She was shocked and grieved, and naturally turnedto Mademoiselle von Knesebeck, the only friend left to her, forconsolation. This lady-in-waiting was so much disposed to defendher mistress, whom she loved, that it was deemed desirable that sheshould be put out of the way; so she was arrested and locked up in theCastle of Schwartzfeld, in the Hartz Mountains, where she remained forseveral years. At last she escaped through the roof in a manner thatappeared so miraculous to the governor of the jail that he declared someof the demons of the adjacent mountains had spirited her off.
Sophia Dorothea's one desire was to get away from Hanover, where sheknew that she was surrounded by enemies and spies ready to misconstrueevery action. At last, after a great deal of persuasion on her part, shewas permitted to withdraw to Lauenau, but not to take her children withher. This was a sad deprivation to the poor young mother, and it almostbroke her heart to part with the little ones, whom she feared she shouldnever more behold; but go she would, for she had too much spirit toremain in a place where she was daily subjected to the most shamefulinsults.
After her departure a kind of a court, composed of church and stateofficers, was formed to patch up a reconciliation between George Louisand his wife. They did not accuse the princess of any dreadful crimes,but of incompatibility of temper and little failings of character.One would think that the husband and wife might have settled suchdifferences without the interference of a council of wise-acres. So theymight if they loved and respected each other, but, unfortunately, suchhad never been the case.
Well, the lawyers waited on Sophia Dorothea by twos and threes, andtried all the arguments they could devise to make her own that she waswrong, and to show her how a dutiful, obedient wife ought to behave.But unlike Topsy in Uncle Tom's Cabin, she would not confess faultsthat she had not committed. All the learned men of the court could makeno impression on the young woman, who felt that she had been shamefully,wickedly wronged and neglected. Her husband was a bad man, and nobodyknew it better than she did; and all the lecturing, coaxing, andmanoeuvring of those who visited Sophia Dorothea at Lauenau could bringfrom her no reply but this: "If I am guilty I am unworthy of the prince.If I am innocent he is unworthy of me." She was right, and they couldonly admire the dignity and purity of character that prompted such ananswer.
Nevertheless, before the end of the year sentence of divorce waspronounced, on the plea of incompatibility of temper, and George Louiswas considered quite an injured individual. By way of consolationall the property of his wife was transferred to him in trust for hischildren; and with an annual pension of about ten thousand thalers, theprincess was condemned to close captivity in the castle of Ahlden,near Zell, with a retinue of domestics who were to act as spies on heractions, and a body of armed jailers to see that she did not escape.
Henry VIII. would have made shorter work of this matter, and simply havechopped off his wife's head when he was tired of her; but George Louispreferred to keep his shut up in a lonely castle for thirty-two years.It is a question which was the more merciful, but certain it is, thatall Germany was scandalized at the decree of the court.
To such persecutions had Sophia Dorothea been subjected in Hanover thatshe probably felt the truth of the verse which begins thus:--
                   "Stone walls do not a prison make,
                   Nor iron bars a cage--"
for she entered upon her imprisonment with a certain sense ofcalmness and repose in contrast to the weeks and months of misery,excitement, and despair that she had endured.
[[A.D. 1699]]. Thenceforth she was known as the Princess of Ahlden,though she was the only person deprived of liberty in the place. She hada little court, and held her levees, which were attended by the officersof the town, the clergy, the nobility, and gentry. All treated herwith great respect. For the first few years her captivity was not veryirksome, but after the escape of Mademoiselle Knesebeck she was neverallowed to walk in the gardens of the castle without a guard, or todrive through the neighboring woods without an armed mounted escort.Certain parts of the castle were even forbidden to her; and so muchimportance was attached to this point that, on one occasion when afire broke out in the portion of the building where her apartments weresituated, she ran to the entrance of a certain gallery, where she stoodin fear and trembling, with her jewel-box in her hand, until permissionfrom the proper authorities was obtained for her to advance.
Time did not hang so heavily on the hands of the Princess of Ahlden asone might suppose, for every hour had its occupation. She superintendedher estate, overlooked, the work of each of her servants, and gavepersonal instructions to them, kept a diary of her thoughts and actions,wrote a number of letters, and devoted much time to charity. She was theLady Bountiful of the district, and spent half her income in supplyingthe wants of the poor.
There was a church in the village in a very dilapidated condition whenSophia Dorothea went to Ahlden. She put it in thorough repair, had ithandsomely decorated, and supplied it with an organ; but no sooner wasit all in order than a chaplain was provided for her household, and shewas forbidden to attend the place of worship that she had felt suchpleasure in fitting up. This was a serious disappointment, but by nomeans the greatest of her trials; for she was not permitted to see anyof her relations,--only an occasional open letter was allowed to passbetween her and her mother, and she heard no more of her children thanif they had been dead and buried. The prince and princess were forbiddento mention their mother or to think of her, and were threatened withsevere punishment if ever they did so.
In course of time the heart of the old elector warmed towards the lonelyprisoner of Ahlden, and he wrote her several letters; her father didlikewise, but he was a weak-hearted, weak-minded man who was easilyfrightened into silence by certain ominous threats. He consoled himselfby making a will in which he bequeathed money, jewels, and lands to hisonly daughter, and then left her to her fate.
[[A.D. 1700.]] There was great rejoicing at Hanover when the EnglishParliament fixed upon the Electress Sophia as successor to Queen Anne.The deputation that went from England to announce the welcome newswas received by the highest officials, lodged in the finest palace inHanover, and entertained in the most sumptuous manner, entirely at theexpense of George Louis. Grand balls and feasts were given in theirhonor, and they went back home loaded with rare and costly presents.
[[A.D. 1705.]] A few years later Parliament passed an act naturalizingthe Princess Sophia and her family, and this made George Louis anEnglishman. Shortly after Hanover was in danger on account of theapproach of the French army, and then for a brief period the captive ofAhlden was permitted to visit her parents at Zell. They wanted to keepher with them always, and she begged to be allowed to stay, but wasrefused. Her father had treated her so affectionately during thisvisit at his castle that his death, which occurred a few months afterher return to Ahlden, was a severe grief to her. An occasional interviewwith her mother was always a solace to the prisoner, but any appeal fora sight of her children was sternly refused. That was a bitter sorrow.
Prince George Augustus had been commanded to forget his mother, but hedid not obey; and one day, when he was hunting in the neighborhood ofher prison, he resolved to visit her, and brave the anger of his fatherand the government. So he put spurs to his horse and galloped full speedtoward Ahlden. His attendants were astonished, but soon suspected hisintention and followed him. He went flying over the fields; but two ofhis followers, who were better mounted than he was, overtook him at theoutskirts of the wood not far from the castle of Ahlden, and aftera great deal of coaxing and argument persuaded him to go back home.Probably he was closely watched after that, for he does not seem to havemade another attempt to see his mother. It is to be hoped she never knewhow near he was to her that day, when a swifter steed might have beenthe means of adding a ray of bright sunshine to her sad and lonelyexistence. What would she not have given to gaze upon her boy and presshim to her heart? We wonder how even her enemies could have denied herthat comfort.
George Augustus was not shut up in a prison for disobedience; but,with the hope of turning his thoughts away from his mother, a wife wasprovided for him. Although his father had been so unfortunate as tomarry a woman he never loved, he did not take the precaution to insurea better fate for his son. But we will consider his case hereafter.For the present, it is only necessary to say that he was married toCaroline, daughter of John Frederick, Margrave of Anspach,--abright, lively, clever girl, the same age as himself.
The little court of Hanover was very gay that year, particularly whenthe marriage of George Augustus was followed by that of his sister, whobecame the wife of Frederick William, Crown Prince of Prussia. But theyoung Sophia Dorothea had little happiness afterwards; for her husbandwas a cruel brute, who governed his wife and children with a word and ablow,--the-blow generally coming first. This couple made a bridal tourto Brussels, where they remained for several days awaiting an invitationfrom Queen Anne to visit her in England; but they waited in vain, forher majesty took no notice of them whatever.
There existed at that time a strong party in England desirous that theElectress of Hanover should visit them; but she preferred to stay whereshe was and enjoy her books, cards, and philosophical studies with thelearned Leibnitz, until she should be summoned as queen. This suitedQueen Anne precisely, for she wanted no representative of the House ofHanover in her dominion. She feared the effect of their presence uponher subjects, and so used every effort in her power to keep them away.Although Sophia did not desire to go to England herself just then shewas very much distressed because her son, who had been created Duke ofCambridge, was prevented from taking his seat in the House of Peers.The old lady often said that she cared not when she died, if on her tombcould be recorded that "she was Queen of Great Britain and Ireland."Queen Anne was very much offended when she heard these words, and it wasto appease her anger that Tom D'Urfey wrote the verse, given in the lastreign, for which he was rewarded with fifty pounds.
[[A.D 1714.]] The tomb of Electress Sophia never bore the recordshe sighed for, because on the 10th of June, 1714, she died, quitesuddenly. The old lady had been walking in her garden for an hour, whena shower of rain came up, and she quickened her speed to get to a placeof shelter. One of her attendants, observing that she was out of breath,warned her that she was exerting herself too much. "I believe I am," shereplied, with a gasp, as she dropped to the earth. Those were thelast words she ever uttered, for all efforts failed to restore her toconsciousness.
Meanwhile Sophia Dorothea remained at her castle of Ahlden, forgottenexcepting by her son-in-law, who wrote her numerous and most dutifulletters, until he succeeded in securing the inheritance of all herproperty for his wife beyond the shadow of a doubt. No sooner was thataccomplished than he not only ceased to write, but put a stop to allcommunications of any sort between the mother and daughter. Thus wasthe prisoner, who had not seen her child for many years, deprived of thepoor satisfaction of even an occasional letter from her. The daughterhad managed once, with the assistance of a confederate, to convey aportrait of herself to the Princess of Ahlden, at another time a watch,then some little trinket, accompanied by a letter containing words ofaffection and hope; but the tyrant of a husband, Frederick William,found it out, and of course put a stop to it.
Queen Anne's death occurred shortly after that of the Electress Sophia,and the different political parties waited for her last breath, eachready to proclaim a different successor; but while the Jacobiteshesitated, the Whigs were prompt to act, and the proclamation of GeorgeI. took place in the presence of a vast concourse of people.
The news was carried to the imprisoned wife by one who, while professingto be her friend, was acting as a spy. Again, it is said, was anattempt made at reconciliation on the part of George Louis; but hisinjured wife repeated as before: "If I am guilty I am not worthy ofhim; if I am innocent he is not worthy of me." Even with the prospectof going to England as queen Sophia Dorothea could not descend to herhusband's level, and she never landed on the shores of that country ofwhich she was sovereign only in name.
As soon as George I. was proclaimed, a fleet was sent to convey himto England, and he leisurely began his preparations for the voyage.Meanwhile the Pretender implored Louis XIV. to publicly acknowledge_him_ King of England, but that sovereign was under certain engagementswith the House of Hanover which prevented; and so the son of James II.was deprived of his last chance, small as it was, in the accession.
There was great excitement in London when, on the 5th of September, itwas announced that George I. had arrived at the Hague. He had wept whentaking leave of his Hanoverian subjects, who were really fond of him,and showed no anxiety to get to his new realm. However, he arrived atGreenwich on the 18th of September, and various officials waited on himat once. Some of them were very much disgusted at the new sovereign'sdiscourtesy, and left him with a secret wish that the Pretender were inhis place. However, it was too late to lament, so those who had receivedthe worst treatment revenged themselves by making fun of the ugly Germanwomen who accompanied George. Among these were Ermengarda, the left-handwife, called the Maypole, because she was so tall and lank; MadameKielmansegge, daughter of Madame von Platen, called the elephant,because she was so fat and coarse, and their retinues.
The Londoners had been so heavily taxed on account of thedishonesty of certain public officers that so large a train of followersas George took over with him created some dissatisfaction; and once,when Madame Kielmansegge was driving out in grand style, a crowd hootedat her, whereupon she leaned out of the carriage window and said inbroken English, "Vordy folks! Vy you abuse us? Ve come here for all yourgoots."
"Oh, yes," roared a man in the crowd, "and for our chattels, too." Therewas truth in the remark, for the populace groaned beneath the weight oftaxation necessary to support King George's household.
Well, George I. made his public entry into London with as much splendoras ever attended such an event, and the next day he held a grandreception. His coronation took place on the twentieth of October,and all the lords attended the ceremony. Soon after Ermengarda vonSchulemberg was created Duchess of Kendal, and Madame Kielmansegge wasraised to the rank of Countess of Darlington.
[[A.D. 1715.]] There were riots at Bristol and elsewhere on the night ofthe king's coronation, and political excitement ran high the followingspring, when three of Queen Anne's late ministers were accused of hightreason. The Duke of Marlborough made a grand triumphal entry intoLondon, attended by thousands of gentlemen on horseback, three daysafter the queen's death. But his sun had set. Thackeray says of him:"Marlborough, the greatest warrior that ever lived, betrayed WilliamIII., James II., Queen Anne, England to France, the Elector to thePretender, the Pretender to the Elector." He was to be trusted no more,though he was elected to some of his former offices.
Let us see how George got along with his new subjects. He began byliking neither them nor their manners.


"This is a strange country," he said. "The first morning after myarrival at St. James's, I looked out of the window and saw a park withwalks, a canal, and so forth, which they told me were mine. The next dayLord Chetwynd, the ranger of _my_ park, sent me a fine brace of carpout of _my_ canal, and I was told that I must give five guineas to LordChetwynd's servant for bringing me my own carp, out of my own canal, inmy own park."
George I. showed uncommon prudence in his management of public affairs.He always seemed to regard himself merely as a lodger at St. James's,who might be turned out at any time, and who was therefore determined tomake the best of his brief stay there. He chose to be away from Englandas much as possible, but when obliged to be there passed all his timewith his German followers, and never even took the trouble to learn thelanguage of the country he ruled. His aim was to lead a quiet, peaceablesort of life, and leave England to itself. He made no parade of royalty,was not hypocritical nor lofty, cared nothing for art, and studiedeconomy. He was good-natured, too, as this story, related by HoraceWalpole, goes to prove:--On one of King George's journeys to Hanover hiscoach broke down, and he was obliged to send for assistance to a castlenear by, owned by a German nobleman of some note. The possessor beggedhis majesty to do him the honor of accepting a dinner at his house whilethe necessary repairs were being made to the coach. While waiting forthe dinner to be served the host led the royal guest to his picturegallery, where he had a fine collection of paintings formed in severaltours through Italy. Suddenly the king stepped before the full lengthportrait of a young man in the robes and regalia of a sovereign of GreatBritain; he asked whom it represented. The nobleman colored, and repliedwith an air of embarrassment that it was the Chevalier de St.George, or the Pretender, as he was usually called, whose acquaintancehe had made when in Italy, and who had done him the honor of sending himthat picture. "Upon my word, it is very like the family!" exclaimed theking and moved on, thus relieving the host from his awkward position.
This anecdote shows that he bore no ill-will to the unfortunate Stuarts,and he was generous in excusing those who evinced attachment for them.
At the first masquerade he attended as king, a lady in domino approachedand asked him to drink a glass of wine with her at a side table; heassented, and, filling two glasses, the lady handed him one, saying,"Here's to the Pretender's health."
"I drink with all my heart to the health of every unfortunate prince,"replied King George, with a smile.
He was not so merciful after the failure of the Scotch rebellion, forexecutions were of daily occurrence, and those who were spared perishedmiserably in prison. The wearing of oak-branches,--a Stuart emblem,--wasconsidered an insult to the government, and two soldiers were whippedalmost to death in Hyde Park for appearing with them on the twenty-ninthof May, in memory of the Restoration; while others were actually shotdown for wearing white-rose badges, which they refused to surrender.
[[A.D. 1717.]] The Princess of Wales had gone to London with herdaughters shortly after the accession of George I., and lived at St.James's Palace. Three years later she had a son, who was christenedGeorge William. The king and the Duke of Newcastle were godfathers, andthe Duchess of St. Albans was godmother. But we must relate an incidentthat occurred at the time this ceremony was performed. The Prince ofWales wanted his uncle, the Duke of York, to be sponsor for his boy withthe king. George I. said that the Duke of Newcastle should sharethe office with him, and peremptorily insisted that it should be so. Theprince was forced to yield, though he hated the duke, who always treatedhim with studied neglect. Just after the christening had been performed,the prince crossed the room, and, shaking his finger in the face of theDuke of Newcastle, said, "You are a rascal, and I shall find a time tobe revenged." The king understood this to mean a challenge to fight, soplaced his son under arrest, but soon released him, and turned him andthe princess out of the palace, though their three daughters lived withhim until he died.
Not only did George I. banish his son from his palace, but forbade allthose who visited at the court of the Prince and Princess of Wales everto come into his presence. The fact is that he had never loved his sonsince he had made the attempt to visit his mother when he was hunting inthe neighborhood of Ahlden; and it has been asserted that he at one timethought of having the prince captured and sent off to America, withoutletting it be known what had become of him.
[[A.D. 1720.]] One of the most remarkable circumstances of the reign ofGeorge I. was the formation and bursting of a gigantic speculation knownas the South-Sea Company, that being the name of the organization bywhich the scheme was manipulated. As in all such cases, a few peoplerealized immense fortunes by the sudden rise of the stock,--that is,those who were in the secret of the plot and knew when to sell. In a fewmonths thousands of victims were reduced to a deplorable state of miseryand ruin by the decline of the stock, which, was much more rapid thanthe rise had been.
The king was in Germany when this catastrophe happened; but he wassummoned to England to discuss with his ministers some means forquelling the disturbance it had caused. A committee from the House ofCommons was appointed to investigate the affair. They pronounced itthe most villanous fraud that had ever been contrived for the ruin ofa nation. Many members of parliament were implicated in the disastrousaffair, and the profits of the South-Sea Company were found to amountto thirteen millions of pounds. It was many years before the countryrecovered from the dreadful effects of this unparalleled swindle.
It was not only the officials who cheated; this propensity extended tothe menials also. Once a Hanoverian cook complained in person to theking that all his assistants helped themselves so freely they left himno chance whatever. He was honest, he declared, but such was not thecase with any other servant in the royal household. "Embezzlement isrife in the kitchen in despite all I can do," he said. "When the dishesare brought from your majesty's table, one steals a fowl, another a pig,a third a joint of meat, another a pie, and so on till there is nothingleft." George, who saw that the trouble lay in the fact of there beingnothing left to steal, answered, "I can put up with these things; and myadvice to you is, to go and steal like the rest, and to remember to takeenough." This was very bad advice, for the fellow became an accomplishedthief, though probably if he had not inclined in that direction he wouldnot have taken his master at his word.
[[A.D. 1726.]] And now we have only to record the death of the poorprisoner of Ahlden, after a captivity of more than thirty years. Shehad been ill for a long time, and became worse as the hopes she hadentertained of escape gradually grew fainter. Through the long wearyyears she had been a model of patience, mildness, and dignity, and shedied asserting her innocence, commending herself to God, mentioningher children with tenderness, and pardoning her oppressors.
[[A.D. 1727.]] Six months later King George I. set out for Hanover, andby the end of a week he was dead. He had landed in Holland and travelledquickly through the country, eating heartily wherever he stopped, andtaking no heed of the violent pains that frequently attacked him afterdoing so. As he approached Osnaburg he became worse, and fell forward inhis carriage, saying to his attendant, "I am a dead man!" He was carriedto Osnaburg in an unconscious state, and died there on the eleventhof June, 1727, in the sixty-eighth year of his age. He was buried atHanover.
He had once promised the Duchess of Kendal that if it were possiblefor the departed to return to this world, he would visit her after hisdeath. So when a large black raven flew in at that lady's window atIsleworth, she was so convinced that it was the soul of the departedmonarch that she treated the bird with great tenderness and respect.




CHAPTER II. CAROLINE WILHELMINA DOROTHEA, WIFE OF GEORGE II.
(A.D. 1683-1737.)
|Caroline of Anspach, whose name appears in full in the heading of thisreign, was a highly accomplished young lady. This was due partly to herexcellent training and careful education, and partly to her naturallyquick, inquiring mind; for she learned easily, seldom forgot anythingworth remembering, and was a good judge of books and people. She lovedphilosophical studies, yet she was not at all pedantic. She was lively,witty, an excellent conversationist, and spoke several languagesfluently.
Her father died when she was still a child, and her mother marryingagain not long afterwards, the young girl went to live with herguardians, the King and Queen of Prussia. This queen was the sister ofGeorge I., and daughter of Sophia Charlotte, Electress of Bradenburg,mentioned in the last reign. Caroline was fortunate in falling into thehands of so good and sensible a lady, to whom she was indebted for theformation of certain traits that made her remarkable when she grew towomanhood.
Caroline was born in the year 1683, and spent her childhood at the courtof Berlin, where she pursued her studies with little interruption. Whenshe was about twenty-one years of age an embassy was sent from Lisbon todemand her hand in marriage for King Charles of Spain, who had seen hera short time before. Religion prevented this union; for Charles was a Catholic, and the Princess of Anspachrefused him on that account. Even the prospect of filling so lofty aposition as that of Queen of Spain was not so dazzling as to tempt herto renounce her Protestant faith.
[[A.D. 1705.]] Shortly after she became the wife of the Electoral Princeof Hanover, and then it was said that heaven had especially reserved herto make Great Britain happy. But that was looking ahead, for she did notbecome queen until many years had elapsed.
[[A.D. 1715.]] Caroline went to England, as Princess of Wales, a littlewhile after her father-in-law, George I., ascended the throne. Her twodaughters, Anne and Caroline Elizabeth, accompanied her; but the onlyson she had at that time, whose name was Frederick Louis, remained inGermany. We shall have more to say about these children as well as thosethat were born in England, hereafter.
George I. never loved his son, the Prince of Wales, and alwaysdesignated the princess as "that she-devil." This was because she washigh-spirited and had a will of her own; not that she was disrespectful,but George was unamiable, and had little respect for women, particularlyfor those who possessed brains.
[[A.D. 1717.]] When the Prince and Princess of Wales were ordered towithdraw from St. James's Palace, they established a home of their ownat Leicester House, where their court was noted for its brilliancy. Itwas made up of the most promising men and the prettiest and liveliestwomen of the day. The apartments of the bed-chamber ladies became theresort of the noted wits and beaux, who would congregate of an eveningfor conversation and all sorts of gay amusements.
Among these were Lord Chesterfield, Lord Scarborough, Lord Hervey,Charles Churchill, and many others. The principal ladies were LadyHervey, Lady Walpole, Mrs. Selwyn, Mrs. Howard, Mrs. Clayton, and MissBellenden. Three of these must each have a separate paragraph in orderto introduce them properly; and, as they will appeal (at least two ofthem) frequently throughout this reign, they ought to be known.
To begin then with the liveliest, most beautiful, most charming,--MissBellenden. She was one of the maids-of-honor, and such a fascinatingcreature that the Prince of Wales was early attracted towards her, andvery much inclined to flirt. Perhaps he dreamed of a left-hand marriage,but the lady did not, and saw nothing to admire in the fair-hairedlittle prince. It was Colonel John Campbell who won her heart andmarried her, without ever consulting the Prince of Wales, who was soindignant that he never forgave Miss Bellenden. It is probable she neverasked to be forgiven, seeing that she had done no wrong.
Mrs. Howard was a daughter of Sir Henry Hobart, a Knight of the Bath.Early in life she married Mr. Howard, who became, by the death of hisolder brothers, Earl of Suffolk. When this marriage took place the youngcouple had very little money; and, seeing no chance of improving theirfortunes at the court of Queen Anne, they went over to Hanover, wherethey were kindly welcomed by the Electress Sophia.
Once this pair of adventurers were very anxious to entertain theHanoverian minister; but how could they do so when they had no money?Mrs. Howard's mother-wit helped them out of the dilemma in this way. Itwas an era when full-bottomed wigs were worn, each of which cost fromtwenty to thirty guineas, and often perplexed barbers to know whereto turn for all the material they needed. So Mrs. Howard, who had asplendid head of light-brown hair, decided to sell it. The sacrificeenabled her to win the good graces of the minister and hishalf-dozen secretaries, through the instrumentality of a good dinner,and gratified her ambition by securing for her a position in thePrincess of Wales's household. Mrs. Howard was a woman of medium height,well-formed, and extremely fair; her features were regular, and shewas generally considered very pretty, though not beautiful. She alwaysdressed with the simplicity that good taste prompts; but the mostremarkable feature about her was, that at the age of seventy-nine shewas still good-looking, and her eyes still preserved the mild, graveexpression that characterized them in her youth. Her husband, who was agambler and a drunkard, left her as soon as she was fairly establishedin the royal household.
Mrs. Clayton, another lady of the bed-chamber, was a _protégé_ ofthe Duchess of Marlborough, through whose influence she obtained herposition. She was of humble birth, but married Sir Robert Clayton, oneof the managers of the Marlborough estate, in the duke's absence. Shewas a woman of some accomplishments, ordinary intelligence, and very badtemper, which often led her to make remarks which had better have beenleft unsaid. Mrs. Howard and she were bitter enemies always, and hatedeach other intensely. This may have been, in part, owing to the factthat Mrs. Clayton had considerable influence with Caroline, and therebyexcited the envy of the other lady. It was her duty to introduce worksof merit or petitions for relief. She acted as mediator between Carolineand those who desired favors of any description; consequently, she wasflattered on all sides by various classes of people, who were very aptto exaggerate her power when seeking her good offices.
The Princess of Wales desired popularity above all things, and for thatreason presided over the round of pleasures, and set the fashionsat her court. Every morning she held a reception or drawing-room, as itwas called; and on two evenings in the week there was a reunion in herapartments, which gradually increased in dimensions until they becamecrowded balls, or masquerades. On other evenings the fashionable worldattended plays and operas. This gayety was carried on at LeicesterHouse, but for an occasional repose Caroline would retire to RichmondLodge, her country retreat.
There was one person at court with whom Caroline was frequently at odds.That was Lord Chesterfield, gentleman of the bed-chamber to the prince.Dr. Johnson said of him, "that he was a wit among lords, but a lordamong wits." He possessed an uncontrollable desire to turn the princessinto ridicule, and some amiable friend early informed her of it. Shedid not desire to quarrel, because at that period it was her policy toretain as many friends for her husband as possible; but she told LordChesterfield, half in jest and half in earnest, that he had better notprovoke her, for although he had a witty tongue she had a bitter one,and would pay him back with interest whatever debt he put upon her.The noble lord was not above "fibbing," and declared that he would notpresume to ridicule the princess; but no sooner was her back turned thanhe would mimic her, and make everybody laugh at her expense.
Caroline had, as she said, a bitter tongue, and could say sharp thingswhen she chose, but she knew how to control herself. This is shown bythe way she managed her husband, for she ruled in seeming to obey, andhe never suspected it. She could even laugh heartily at him withouthurting his feelings, for her tact always led her to say something thatwould excite his laughter at the same time.
When the Prince and Princess of Wales were driven from St. James'sPalace by the king; they were not permitted to take their daughters withthem, and the son, who was the innocent cause of the quarrel, died threemonths later. Frederick, their eldest son, was an object of disliketo both parents, and was therefore left in Hanover when they went toEngland. Frederick was noted as a child for his cunning and his spitefuldisposition. He disliked all kinds of study, and made very littleprogress in consequence. At an early age he drank, gambled, andgave every evidence of having a vicious character. When his governorcomplained, Caroline, who cared too little for him to correct himproperly, said that his were only boy's tricks. "Would to heaven theywere no more!" exclaimed the worthy governor, "but in truth they are thetricks of scoundrels."
Though this prince was not allowed to appear in England before hisfather ascended the throne, a title or two was sent over to himmerely to prove that he was not forgotten. Thus he was created Dukeof Gloucester, Knight of the Garter, and in 1726 he became Duke ofEdinburgh.
[[A.D. 1721]]. In 1721 the Princess of Wales had a son who waschristened William Augustus. Later he was created Duke of Cumberland,and was so much more beloved by his parents than Frederick was that theywere desirous of securing the throne of England to him, and making overthe electorate of Hanover to Frederick, but the law would not permitthat exchange.
We must not omit to mention a circumstance of the utmost importance thattook place at this period. Lady Mary Wortley Montague had just returnedfrom Constantinople, where she had witnessed inoculation for small-pox,and reported the successful results. Dr. Mead was ordered by the princeto try the experiment on six criminals who had been condemned to death,but whose lives were spared for this purpose. The success was so satis-factory that Caroline ordered her two daughters to be inoculatedduring the following year. If we recall how this dreadful diseaseattacked numerous members of the royal family during the previouscentury, we will understand the blessing of this discovery. But itwas reserved for Dr. Jenner to discover vaccination, which he did by amerely accidental observation some years later. This circumstance is sowell known that it is unnecessary to relate it.
[[A. D. 1727.]] Now we come to a most important period of this history,when the Princess of Wales becomes Queen of England. It was on theafternoon of June 14, 1727, that Sir Robert Walpole, the prime minister,received intelligence of the death of George I., and hastened to dohomage to the new sovereigns, George and Caroline. On that occasion heasked who would be selected to draw up the usual address to the privycouncil, no doubt thinking it would be himself. George II. named SirSpenser Compton, speaker of the House of Commons.
That was a polite way of informing Sir Robert that he was dismissed. Hewas, of course, by no means pleased, but showed no resentment toward hissuccessor, because he was not narrow-minded enough for that; besides, heknew that Sir Spenser was incompetent, and said to a friend who was alsoturned out of office: "I shall go out; but let me advise you not to gointo violent opposition, as we must soon come in again."
The fact is that Sir Robert had very unwisely offended the queen whenshe was Princess of Wales by speaking of her as "that fat beast, theprince's wife." Nevertheless, he was determined, if possible, to retainhis position, and knowing the queen's influence over her husband, itwas through her that he decided to manage it. So he ascertained that SirSpenser Compton intended to propose to parliament an allowance of sixty thousand pounds per annum for thequeen, and then informed her, through a friend, that if he were retainedin office he should make it one hundred thousand pounds.
Caroline was delighted, and intimated that Sir Robert might be sure "thefat beast" had kindly feeling enough towards him to induce her to securefor herself the extra forty thousand pounds; so she hastened to theking, and pointed out to him the advantages of retaining in office soable a man as Sir Robert, and the utter incompetency of Compton.
The king was soon convinced, Sir Robert was reappointed prime minister,and Sir Spenser was made president of the council. Not only didSir Robert secure the promised sum for the queen, but he persuadedparliament to add a hundred and thirty thousand pounds a year to theking's revenue besides. This made him a most popular officer with theroyal couple, of course.
At the queen's first drawing-room, before the office of prime ministerhad been decided upon, Lady Walpole was among the guests; but as herhusband was not supposed to be a candidate for royal favor, nobody madeway for her, as they had done on previous occasions, when he occupiedhis lofty position, and she could not approach her majesty nearer thanthe third or fourth row. With her usual amiability, Queen Caroline nosooner espied Lady Walpole, than she said, aloud: "Ah, there I am sureI see a friend!" Thereupon the crowd made way for the lady, who declaredthat, "as she came away, she might have walked over their heads had shepleased."
When George I. died he left a will which he certainly supposed hissuccessor would respect; but he made a mistake; for when Dr. Wake,Archbishop of Canterbury, appeared before the king with the preciousdocument that had been intrusted to him, and prepared himself tohear the instructions contained therein, George II. astonished him byquietly putting the paper in his pocket without looking at it, and thenwalking out of the room. Afterwards he dropped it into the fire. Thiswas only following the example of his sire, who had treated in likemanner the wills of the Duke of Zell and Sophia Dorothea. George I. musthave suspected that his son would imitate him in this matter, for heleft two copies of his will in Germany, but both were in course of timesecured by the son and consigned to the flames, as the original hadbeen.
When George II. ascended the throne he was very popular, being generallyregarded as a man of honor and integrity. There is little doubt that hadhis poor injured mother lived until that time he would have called herto England, for when Lady Suffolk entered the new queen's room, onthe day after the king died, she was surprised to see the full-lengthportrait of a beautiful lady in royal robes, and over the bed in theadjoining apartment a smaller picture of the same person. These QueenCaroline told her were portraits of her husband's mother, that had beenkept concealed so long as George I. lived. Who can help regretting thatthe poor lonely prisoner of Ahlden did not stay on earth long enough toenjoy her son's society and affection? It is certain that he loved her agreat deal better than he ever did his father, and very little doubt canbe entertained that it was the knowledge of that fact which increasedthe enmity the old king felt towards his son.
The new sovereigns were duly crowned, and every part of the ceremonywas performed on a scale of magnificence that had not been seen for manyyears.
Although George II. was a small man, with light hair, he presented avery dignified appearance in his royal robes, and thoroughly enjoyed thewhole coronation ceremony from beginning to end. At the time of hisfather's accession he had said to an English nobleman: "I have not onedrop of blood in my veins which is not English, and at the service of myfather's subjects." He was now to have an opportunity of proving whetherhe was sincere when he made that popular remark.
Parliament was surprised when, after assuring them that he wasdetermined to secure the civil and religious rights of the people,George II. announced the reappointment of the old ministers, for theopposition party had flattered themselves that they were to have achance under the new sovereign. Even the Duke of Newcastle, in whoseface George had shaken his fist, and whom he had called an "impertinentfool," when William, Duke of Cumberland, was christened, was retained inoffice.
Of course, Sir Robert Walpole had great influence after he had managedto retain the former officials at their post. He was called the queen'sminister; and it was generally understood that she distinguished thosewhom he favored. He knew the importance of Queen Caroline's confidence,because she was really the ruler of the kingdom. She ruled, but did sowith such exquisite tact that her feebleminded lord never suspected it.She never spoke to him about public affairs when any one was present,but if she by chance ventured to do so, when off her guard, a rebuke wassure to follow. She even went so far as to rise and offer to leave theroom whenever an interview took place between the king and one of hisministers, and George prided himself upon "being under the control of nowoman." He had lost sight of the fact that it was entirely owing to hiswife's interference that Walpole had been reinstated. After praising theability of the minister, the principal argument she had brought forwardwas that he was rich enough to be honest, and having no private businessof his own, he would have more time to devote to that of thegovernment. So George had followed her counsel, as he always didunconsciously, and when speaking to his courtiers with scorn ofsovereigns who had been controlled by women he would look about, and,with a pompous air, ask, "Who governs now?" Nobody ventured to enlightenhim as to who did not, but one of the wits answered rather roughly onpaper,--
               "You may strut, dapper George, but 'twill all be in vain;
               We know't is Queen Caroline, not you that reign--
               You govern no more than Don Philip of Spain.
               Then, if you would have us fall down and adore you,
               Lock up your fat spouse, as your dad did before you."
Queen Caroline never claimed credit for showing her husband the rightcourse, and she had the rare good sense to see and acknowledge her ownerrors. Once she formed a design to shut up St. James's Park for somereason, and asked Sir Robert Walpole what it would cost to do it.
"Only a crown, madam," was the reply; whereupon she laughedgood-naturedly, and at once abandoned her idea.
George II. had so much respect for his wife's ability, that when hemade a visit to Hanover he appointed her regent during his absence.Frederick, Prince of Wales, was in the kingdom at the time; but, as hemade no secret of hating both his parents, and favored the partyopposed to them in politics, he was not to be trusted. Besides, he had adisgraceful way of finding fault with his father's management of publicaffairs, and talked loudly of what _he_ would have done in similarcircumstances. But he would certainly have governed less well than hismother did, for she gave universal satisfaction. She had the benefit ofSir Robert Walpole's counsel, and understood, as he did, not only howto let well enough alone, but the wisdom of not interfering withparliamentary government, and of keeping the nation at peace with itsneighbors. Queen Caroline's mind was not entirely occupied with theaffairs of the nation, for she kept up the brilliancy of her court, andwas greatly interested in everybody connected with it. She took wickeddelight in teasing Mrs. Howard, who was always precise, ladylike, andself-possessed to a degree that must have been provoking at times.
At an early period of the reign she was required to present the basinfor the queen to wash her hands, and to do so kneeling. A page broughtthe pitcher and basin, and placed both upon a table; then it became theduty of the bed-chamber woman to pour water into the basin, place itbefore the queen, and remain on her knees, close by the stand, whileher majesty performed her ablution. Mrs. Howard objected to so humblean office; but we will let Queen Caroline tell of it in her own words:"When I requested Mrs. Howard to bring me the basin, she proceeded totell me, with her little fierce eyes, and cheeks as red as a beet, thatpositively she would not do it; to which I made no answer for a moment,then spoke calmly, as I would to a naughty child: 'Yes, my dear Howard,I am sure you will. I know you will. Go,--go; fie! for shame! Go, mygood Howard; we will talk of this another time!' Mrs. Howard did comeround, and I told her I knew we should be good friends again; but thatof all my servants I had least expected such treatment of her."
[[A.D. 1728.]] Queen Caroline also describes a personal interview withMr. Howard, who wanted to claim his wife, after having left her forseveral years. He said that he should not hesitate to drag his wife outof her majesty's coach if ever he met her in it. Caroline replied, "Doit if you dare;" though she added, when relating it afterwards, "Iwas horribly afraid of him all the time I was playing the bully,particularly as I knew him to be brutal, a little mad, and seldom quitesober; so I got as near to the door as possible, fearing that hemight take it into his head to pitch me out of the window, which waswide open. Then I resumed my lofty air, and said: 'I would be glad tosee any one who would dare to open my coach door and take out one of myservants,' though I knew perfectly well that he might do so if he chose,and nobody could prevent him. Then I told him positively, 'that I wouldneither force his wife to go to him if she did not wish, nor keep herif she did.' He said he would complain to the king. I told him 'the kinghad no control over my servants, and he might save himself the trouble,as I was sure the king would give him no answer, but that it was none ofhis business to concern himself with my family'; and after a good dealmore conversation of this sort,--I standing close to the door all thewhile, to give me courage,--Mr. Howard and I bade each other _goodmorning_, and he withdrew."
[[A.D. 1731.]] Frederick, Prince of Wales, had joined his parents inEngland without their desire, and he gave them no pleasure. His vicesincreased with age to such a degree that his friends could only excusehim by declaring that his intellect was weak. Nevertheless, he won.popularity, and placed himself in course of time at the head of theopposition party. George II. had no more violent or powerful an enemythan this son. It was hoped that, if he could get a good wife, he wouldimprove in his morals, so Sir Charles Hotham was sent to Berlin tonegotiate two marriages. One was between the Prince of Wales and theeldest daughter of the King of Prussia; the other between the crownPrince of Prussia and Queen Caroline's second daughter.
Both matches fell through, and so much angry feeling arose that the twomonarchs came near fighting a duel to settle the dispute. George was inHanover at the time, and his royal brother-in-law, the King of Prussia,was at Saltzdahl, near Brunswick. General Sutton was selected toact as second for George, and Colonel Derscheim for Frederick. MeanwhileBorck, who had been ambassador from Prussia to the court of St.James, hastened to Saltzdahl, hoping to be able to put a stop to thedisgraceful affair; but the king was in such a fury that he could notbe open with him. He therefore pretended to approve of the duel, andoffered to be the bearer of the challenge. After that important documenthad been duly prepared, the king became somewhat calmer, and then Borckventured to reason with him.
"Sire," he said, "I allow that your majesty's quarrel is not to beterminated any other way than by a duel; but your majesty being justrecovered from a most serious illness, and your health not being yetby any means reestablished, a relapse may occur on the day before orperhaps at the very hour of the important meeting; and in that case,what would the world say? How the King of England would boast? Whatscandalous constructions might be put on the circumstance! What anodious suspicion of your majesty's courage might ensue! Therefore I askif you do not think it would be better to take no steps in the affairfor a fortnight?"
Thus was the king talked into delay; the challenge was not sent, andso the ministers on both sides gained sufficient time to effect areconciliation.
[[A.D. 1733.]] The English court was soon busy with anothermarriage,--that of Queen Caroline's eldest daughter, the Princess Anne.This young lady had reached the age of twenty-four, and it was thoughthigh time for her to be married. When she was not more than sixteenLouis XV. proposed for her hand; but, being the representative of aProtestant family, she could not marry him, though she was so proud andambitious that she was heard to say, "I would die to-morrow to bequeen to-day." She never loved her brothers, because she felt thattheir birth had deprived her of ever ascending the throne, and she oftendeclared that she wished they had never appeared in the world. As shecould not become a queen, she decided to descend a step, and acceptthe hand of the Prince of Orange. She had never seen him, but she wassatisfied to know that his was an exalted station. The king and queenopposed the royal suitor because he was lame, his neck was crooked, hewas otherwise dreadfully deformed, and he was one of the ugliest men inEurope. George told his daughter this, and added that she must not bedeceived by the pictures the ambassadors had brought of him, because,although he was repulsive looking enough in them, they were neverthelessflattering. "I do not care how ugly he may be," she declared. "If hewere a Dutch baboon I would marry him." This obstinacy made the kingvery angry, and he replied with his strong German accent, "Nay, then,have your way, have your way; you will find baboon enough, I promiseyou."
So the Prince of Orange was accepted, and it is to be hoped he neverheard the unkind remarks that the bride's family made behind hisback, for the queen always spoke of him as "the animal," and everybodyridiculed him. The arrangements for the marriage could not be completedwithout application to parliament for a dower. A committee was appointedto provide one, and they resolved to sell lands in the island of St.Christopher to the amount of eighty thousand pounds, and to make overthat sum to the king for his eldest daughter. As soon as the bridegroomwas informed that this important matter had been settled, he repaired toEngland, and went direct to Somerset House, which had been prepared forhim and his attendants. Princess Anne was not flurried in the least,when she was informed of his arrival. She was playing on theharpsichord at the time, and went on as though nothing unusual hadhappened. If she felt any curiosity to behold the man she was to marry,she certainly did not betray it, but appeared remarkably indifferent,and proved herself an uncommonly strong-minded young woman.
A few days after his arrival in England the Prince of Orange wasattacked with a severe illness, which confined him to his bed for manyweeks. During the whole of that time not a single member of the royalfamily went near him, and it seemed to concern Princess Anne very littleto know whether he were well or ill. The prince made no complaint aboutthis shabby treatment, but his attendants did, and all they made by itwas being called "Dutch boobies." The marriage was to have takenplace before the end of the year, but it had to be postponed until thefollowing March, and during the interval some of the arrangements thathad been begun had to be left as they stood, half completed. No one wasmore annoyed by this postponement than the Duchess of Marlborough, foran enclosed passage way through which the wedding procession was topass had been built up close to the windows of Marlborough House, andcompletely darkened the rooms. There it had to stay for four months, andthe duchess frequently looked up at the boards, and said: "I do wish theprincess would oblige me by taking away her _orange_ chest!"
[[A.D. 1734.]] It was January before the bridegroom was well enough tobe removed to Bath, and a couple of months later before his health wasentirely restored. At last, on the fourteenth of March, the marriage wassolemnized at St. James's Chapel by the Bishop of London.
Everything was conducted with great splendor, and the groom was attiredin a complete suit of cloth of gold, in which the royal parentsthought he looked more like a baboon than ever. The bride wore a robe ofsilver tissue, with a train six yards long, which was supported by tenyoung ladies of noble birth, all dressed in the same gorgeous material.The ceremony took place in the evening, and was succeeded by a grandpublic banquet, the festivities being kept up until long after midnight.Queen Caroline wept as she walked in the procession through thebrilliantly lighted gallery, and observed the deformed bit of humanitythat her daughter had accepted for a husband. To be sure Anne was byno means a beauty; but she was a well-developed, fair complexioned,bright-eyed young woman, though perhaps too stout. But the bridegroom'sugliness was extraordinary. If you looked at him from behind he appearedto have no head, and from before, he seemed possessed of neither necknor legs; besides, there was something disgusting about him which gavethe idea of uncleanliness,--a very offensive breath. Strange tosay, Anne adored her "monster" after a time, though he never caredparticularly about her. She treated him with the utmost considerationand respect, addressed all her remarks to him, and applauded whatever hesaid. Perhaps she did this to pretend that she was perfectly happy;but certain it is, that the homage she showed her little husband wasperfectly absurd.
During the week following the marriage Frederick, Prince of Wales, tookit upon himself to show the bridegroom the sights of London; and thenit suddenly struck the government that, as he was now son-in-law to theking, he ought to be naturalized. Accordingly, the necessary billwas made out and passed unanimously; but the prince received theannouncement that he had become an Englishman with an indifference thatproved how little he appreciated the honor. It was much more gratifyingto him when he heard that the king had sent a message to the Houseof Commons that he had settled five thousand pounds a year on PrincessAnne for life.
The bride and groom set out for Holland on the tenth of April, andbefore three months had elapsed Anne was back in England, whereshe seemed determined to remain. Neither of her parents desired herpresence; but they could not prevail upon her to return to her new homeuntil towards the close of the year. Just at that time Queen Carolinedismissed Lady Suffolk from her office of mistress of the robes, andappointed the Countess of Tankerville in her stead.
Prince Frederick was very much displeased with his sister for marryingbefore he did, but still more so with his father for settling a sum ofmoney on her when he had not been so favored. The great trouble with himwas that he was heavily in debt; and, out of the hundred thousand poundsgranted to him by parliament, the king allowed him only thirty-sixthousand, appropriating the rest himself. No doubt he allowed the princelittle or much money, according as he behaved well or ill; and this wascertainly humiliating to one of his station.
Her son's conduct was the more painful to Queen Caroline because she wasso kind and considerate of others herself. Here is a little anecdote inproof of this. One of the princesses had suffered a lady-in-waiting tostand behind her chair one morning for nearly an hour without theleast occasion; the queen observed this lack of consideration, but saidnothing at the moment. The same evening the princess was made to standwhile reading to her mother until she was well-nigh exhausted; then,after explaining why she had permitted her to remain in that positionso long, Queen Caroline added: "You are now, my dear, capable of feelinghow improper it is, unnecessarily, to make those who are aboutyou the victims of etiquette." A lesson so taught was not likely to bedisregarded.
About this time Queen Caroline's mind was occupied with a matter thatcaused intense excitement in England. This was Sir Robert Walpole'sexcise scheme, which can be explained in a few words. After the civilwar certain articles, such as beer, ale, cider, tea, coffee, wine,vinegar, tobacco, and sugar, had been subject to duty for the purposeof supplying the government with money. This was not in favor with thepopulace, because it increased the price of such articles as were taxed,and made the cost of living higher than it had been before. Then certaintradesmen, rather than pay the duty, organized a system of smuggling,which was done with the aid of gangs of armed men, who beat, abused,and even murdered those custom-house officers who insisted on performingtheir duty. Walpole organized a plan to prevent the smuggling and therecurrence of these outrages. It is not necessary to enter into thedetails of his scheme, but no sooner was it made public than theagitation became intense. Taxation in any form was regarded in the lightof tyranny, and the mob that gathered around the doors of the Houseof Commons during the fierce debates, which lasted for three weeks,declared that they would not submit to slavery,--for so it appeared tothem. Walpole's proposition was not really unreasonable at all, but thepopulace were driven to madness by pamphlets and ballads distributedamong them by those who desired to further their own personal interestsin one way or another. Riots threatened on all sides, and even thesoldiers, who had got the idea that the minister's excise scheme wouldraise the price of tobacco, cursed parliament and the administration,and murmurs of treason reached to the very palace walls. Bonfires andillumina-tions lighted up the towns, and cockades were worn on which wasinscribed, "Liberty, Property, and no Excise." In the city of London themob hung Sir Robert Walpole and a _fat woman_, meant to represent thequeen, in effigy.
Feeling that the government was in danger on his account, the primeminister sought the queen, and offered to surrender his office, but shewould not permit him to do so. Both she and the king declared that theywould not be so cowardly nor so ungrateful as to part with him at such acrisis. George had often called Walpole hard names, but under his wife'sinfluence he had learned to love the man whom he had several timespronounced "a noble fellow" on being told what a firm stand he had madeagainst the enemies of the government.
Walpole had to withdraw his scheme at last, although he felt sure thatit would have been most beneficial to the interest of the nation; and atthe next meeting of the parliament, when the question of the tax on teacame up, he declared that he would never again engage in anything thatbore the least resemblance to excise. King George revenged himself byhaving the names of the peers who had opposed his minister read to him,and calling each in turn by some angry epithet. The love that George II.bore towards Walpole, whom he had begun his reign by thoroughly hating,is one of the best proofs of Queen Caroline's power over him; but thereare many others besides.
We have seen how much enmity existed between Prince Frederick and theking. On New Year's Day there was a grand levee held at the palace,which the prince attended; not because he desired to show proper respectto his royal parents, but for the purpose of appearing in the light ofan ill-used son, if, as was usually the case, the king refused to speakto him. He was not to be gratified in this particular however, for QueenCaroline had persuaded her husband to address Frederick kindly inpublic, and he complied! The ill-feeling remained, however, and thequeen always opposed the settlement of an income on her son, whom shedid not hesitate to call an extravagant, unprincipled fool. She thoughthim good-hearted, but weak, easily led, and obstinate. It was said ofhim that he was more German than English, but so was his mother, forthat matter; and she was ever ready to sacrifice the interests ofEngland to those of her native land. But Walpole was determined topreserve peace, though the king told him daily, "that it was with thesword alone he desired to keep the balance of Europe." This was whileFrance, Spain, and Germany were at war, and George could not bear tobe left out of the contest; but towards the end of the year he said: "Ihave followed your advice, Walpole, in keeping quiet,--contrary oftento my own opinion, and sometimes, I have thought, contrary even to myhonor; but I am convinced you advised me well." It must not be supposedthat George II. spoke English as well as this speech makes him appearto have done, for he never lost his strong German accent as long as helived.
When the Prince of Orange joined his army Princess Anne went toEngland on a visit. She was as arrogant as ever, and, like her brotherFrederick, despised her father, of whom she too frequently spoke withthe utmost disrespect. One evening Lord Hervey was escorting her fromthe drawing-room to her own apartments;--news of the surrender ofPhillipsburg had just been received. The princess was speaking on thissubject, and then said: Was there ever anything so unaccountable as thetemper of papa? He has been snapping and snubbing every mortal for aweek, because he began to think Phillipsburg would be taken; and thisvery day, that he actually hears it is taken, he is in as good humor asI ever saw him in my life. "To tell you the truth," she added,in French, though it was quite as disrespectful as though utteredin German, "I find that so whimsical, and (_entre nous_) so utterlyfoolish, that I am more enraged by his good than I was before by his badhumor."
"Perhaps," answered Lord Hervey, "he may be about Phillipsburg as Davidwas about the child, who, whilst it was sick, fasted, lay upon theearth, and covered himself with ashes, but the moment it was dead, gotup, shaved his beard, and drank wine."
"Well, it may be like David," said the princess, "but I am sure it isnot like Solomon."
Having mentioned Lord Hervey, we must tell how he stood at court. He wasa great favorite with Queen Caroline, and, being many years younger thanshe, he was called "her child, her pupil, her charge." He generally rodeby her carriage when she went hunting, on a horse that she had givenhim, and on such occasions they discussed politics and other matters.Hervey was treated like a pet child, and allowed to say what wouldhave been regarded as impertinence coming from any one else; but QueenCaroline encouraged him by laughing at him, and kept him with heras much as possible. He always sat and talked to her while she atebreakfast, and presumed to give her advice on every conceivable subject,often flatly contradicting her, whereupon she would good naturedlydeclare that he took such liberties because he knew she could notpossibly live without him. It is to the memoirs left by this lord thatwe are indebted for our knowledge of much of the private life of QueenCaroline. A letter which he addressed to her one summer when he wasvisiting at some distance in the country will give the best idea of thenature of his position in the royal household. He begins by imaginingthat he died on the day he left the queen, and proceeds to recount howhe serves her in spirit:--"On Monday, whilst you walked, my _shade_turned on the side of the sun to guard you from its beams.
"On Tuesday morning, at breakfast, I brushed away a fly that was justgoing to taste your chocolate.
"On Wednesday, in the afternoon, I took off the chilliness of somestrawberry-water your majesty was going to drink, as you came in hotfrom, walking; and at night I hunted a bat out of your bed-chamber, andshut a sash just as you fell asleep, which your majesty had indiscreetlyordered Mrs. Purcel to leave open.
"On Thursday, in the drawing-room, I took the forms and voices ofseveral of my acquaintances, made strange faces, put myself into awkwardpostures, and talked a good deal of nonsense, whilst your majestyentertained me very gravely, _recommended_ me very graciously, andlaughed at me internally very heartily.
"On Friday, being-post day, I proposed to get the best pen in the otherworld for your majesty's use, and slip it invisibly into your portfoliojust as Mr. Shaw was bringing it into your gallery for you to write; andaccordingly I went to _Voiture_, and desired him to hand me his pen; butwhen I told him for whom it was designed, he only laughed at me fora blockhead, and asked me if I had been at court for four years to solittle purpose as not to know that your majesty had a much better ofyour own.
"On Saturday, I went on the shaft of your majesty's chaise to Richmond;as you walked there I went before you, and with an invisible wand Ibrushed the dew and the worms out of your path all the way, and severaltimes uncrumpled your majesty's stocking.
"Sunday--This very day, at chapel, I did your majesty some service,by tearing six leaves out of the parson's sermon, and shortening hisdiscourse six minutes."
If Queen Caroline's young friend really performed such varied andsuch important services for her, she must have missed him, indeed, whenhe was absent from home. He gives an instance, in his memoirs, of howmuch Queen Caroline endured for the sake of her husband, in these words:"She works harder than any of the court drudges in one respect, forshe passes seven or eight hours _tête-à-tête_ with the king every day,generally saying what she does not think, and forced, like a spider, tospin out of her own bowels all the conversation with which the fly istaken."
The queen's health was undoubtedly poor at this time; but in spite ofthat, after an acute attack of cold and fever, for which she had twicebeen bled, George insisted on her going from Kensington to London tocelebrate his birthday, and made her accompany him to the opera thesame night. To be sure, this was not so inconsiderate as it appears; forGeorge II. thought so little of illness himself that he would rise froma sick-bed to hold a levee when he could scarcely keep up his head, andgo back as soon as it was over. He did not see why his wife should notsacrifice herself as he did. She came very near swooning on the morningof the birthday drawing-room, and sent one of her attendants to beg theking to retire, saying: "That she was unable to stand any longer;" but,for all that, he obliged her to attend a crowded ball in the evening,and kept her there until after eleven o'clock.
Sir Robert Walpole urged Queen Caroline to take care of herself,assuring her that England would fall into great danger if deprivedof her presence, and addressing her as though she was the governingsovereign,--which she was in fact, though not in name.
[[A.D. 1734.]] When the Bishop of Winchester was stricken with apoplexy,Lord Hervey announced it to Hoadly, Bishop of Salisbury, and urged himin the strongest terms to apply for the See, which would surelybe vacant within a few days, because the bishop's attack would withoutdoubt prove fatal. Now this promotion had been promised to Hoadly by theking, the queen, and Walpole at various times, and he felt no doubt thathe would get it, but Hervey knew better; so he wrote the bishop to applyto the king at once through his "two ears"--the queen and Walpole--andmake his request as though it were according to an agreement. Carolinedisliked Hoadly, and pronounced his letter indelicate and ill-timed;but he had followed Hervey's instructions so accurately that he got theappointment. When he went to make an acknowledgment of his advancement,the king, who hated him too, treated him with incivility that was atleast honest; but Caroline showered congratulations and compliments onhim, not one of which was sincere. Walpole did worse, for he hated theman more than either of the sovereigns did; but, leading the new Bishopof Winchester aside, he deceitfully pressed his hand, and with warmcongratulations assured him that his elevation was entirely due to theefforts of himself, Sir Robert. The minister was not aware of the partLord Hervey had played, or he would not have said that, and the bishopdid not tell him.
[[A.D. 1735.]] Shortly after this the king set out for Hanover, andCaroline rejoiced at the extra power his absence would give her,but still more at the idea of being relieved from the dreary taskof entertaining him for hours at a time. But a few months later hereturned, quite suddenly and unexpectedly. The queen and her court hadjust left the chapel at Kensington on Sunday, October 26, when itwas announced that the king was driving up the road. Her majesty wentquickly to the gate, with her ladies and gentlemen, to receive herhusband, who, after condescendingly permitting her to kiss him, ledher up stairs with stately formality. George had returned in a badhumor, which he took no pains to conceal. Besides, he was ill, and verymuch fatigued from travelling, so he conversed with everybody but thequeen, just as though she were to blame for it all. She understood himperfectly, and knew what a trial it always was to him to leave hisdear Hanover, where he thought everything and everybody perfection ascompared with England. She therefore bore his ill-nature with wonderfulpatience, which only seemed to increase the king's crossness andbrutality.
He found fault with everything Queen Caroline had done in his absence;and, when Lord Hervey ventured to defend her for removing some inferiorpictures and statues and replacing them by works of art, he said:"I suppose you assisted the queen with your fine advice when she waspulling my house to pieces and spoiling my furniture. Thank God! atleast she has left the walls standing!" He then ordered that severalold daubs of paintings should be restored to their places before hisdeparture for London the next day, adding that "otherwise he knew itwould not be done at all."
A night's repose did not restore King George's temper. When he made hisappearance in the queen's morning-room, she was drinking chocolate withher two daughters, the Princess Amelia and Princess Caroline, whilethe Duke of Cumberland, her son, stood at her side. Princess Anne hadreturned to Holland some weeks previously, much to the satisfaction ofher parents. The father of the family only stopped in their midst longenough to tell the queen that she was always stuffing; to scold PrincessAmelia, who was slightly deaf, for not hearing him; to ridicule PrincessCaroline for growing fat, and, finally, to abuse the Duke of Cumberlandfor standing awkwardly. Then having made himself thoroughly hateful, herequested his wife to go for a walk in the garden. In the eveninghe was sauntering backwards and forwards in the queen's apartment, whileshe was engaged with some fancy work. Presently Lord Hervey entered, andthe queen laughingly began to tease him about an answer that had justappeared to a book written by his friend, Bishop Hoadly, in which thebishop was rather roughly handled. Before she had half finished whatshe wanted to say, her ill-natured husband interrupted her, and toldher "she was always talking such nonsense about things she did notunderstand;" and added, "that if it were not for such foolish peopleloving to talk of these things when they were written, the fools whowrote such nonsense would never think of publishing it." The queenbowed, and said, "Sir, I only wanted to let Lord Hervey know thathis friend's book had not met with the general approbation he hadpretended."
"A pretty fellow for a friend," said the king, turning to Lord Hervey."Pray, what is it that charms you in him? His pretty limping gait?" andthen he mimicked the bishop's lameness, besides other defects, and woundup by saying: "If the Bishop of Winchester is your friend, all I haveto say is, that you have a great puppy, a very dull fellow, and a verygreat rascal for your friend. He is just the same thing in the churchthat he is in the government, and as ready to receive the best pay forpreaching the Bible, though he does not believe a word of it, as he isto take favor from the crown, though he would be glad to abolish itspower." It was dreadful for the king to say such things; for if he didnot think Hoadly a proper person to be at the head of the church, he hadno business to appoint him. The queen kept smiling and nodding herhead all the time he was delivering this most disgraceful, undignifiedspeech, and wishing with all her heart that he would stop. Lord Herveytried to introduce another topic, but that was unfortunate, andonly set his majesty off in a different direction, though he continuedto be equally violent and insulting. At last the queen began to talk ofthe custom of feeing servants in private houses where one happened tobe visiting, and said that it had been a great expense to her when shevisited in town during the previous summer. "That is your own fault,"growled George, "for my father when he went to people's houses in town,never was fool enough to give away his money."
"But I only gave what my chamberlain, Lord Grantham, informed me wascustomary," meekly replied Caroline. "Oh yes," returned George, "alwaysasking some fool or another what to do; only a fool would ask anotherfool's advice. Stay at home, as I do; you do not see me running intoevery puppy's house to see his new chairs and tables, and you need notbe poking your nose everywhere, and trotting about wherever you can getbread and butter." Finding that he could not be sufficiently abusivewith his broken English,--though we think he was,--George had recourseto German, and poured a torrent of unpronounceable words on the headof the unoffending queen, who kept on with her work, then snuffed thecandles, and was taken to task for putting one of them out. Such scenesas this were of frequent occurrence; and the king seemed never so happyas when he was raving like a madman, and making every one near himuncomfortable.
Strange as it may seem, English literature began to rise in this reignfrom the low state into which it had fallen under George I. QueenCaroline laughed heartily over the "Travels of Gulliver," in which Swiftridiculed statesmen, scholars, and men of every class of society. Popewrote a satire upon the literature of his time, which he called the"Dunciad." It created a tremendous uproar among men of letters, and hewas assailed in all the news- papers for having produced such awork. His personal appearance was ridiculed, too, for he was anythingbut prepossessing; and he was represented with a perfect likeness of hishead and face on the body of a repulsive-looking monkey, with its long,bony arms embracing a huge pile of ponderous volumes. A weekly journalpublished this:--
          A RECEIPT AGAINST POPE-ISH POETRY.
               "Select a wreath of withered bays,
                   And place it on the brow of Pope;
               Then, as reward for stolen lays,
                   His neck encircle with a rope.
               When this is done, his look will show it,
               Which he's most like,--a thief or poet."
Besides card-playing and court receptions, there were operas and dramas,and of these the king and his whole court were very fond. We must givean account of a funny scene that took place one night at a theatre. JohnJames Heidegger, was a Swiss, who lived in England and superintendedoperas and masquerades. He soon amassed a fortune, and made himselfvery popular by devoting part of it to charity. He lived extravagantly,dressed well, and visited in the best society; but he was so eccentricthat he was occasionally made the victim of practical jokes. Once he wasinvited to an entertainment given by the Duke of Montague, and the wine,of which he drank freely, was drugged so that he soon fell sound asleep.He was then placed upon a bed, and a cast was taken of his face and madeinto a mask. This was done without Heidegger's being aware of it.
The duke then hired a man just the size of the manager, dressed him thesame, put the mask on him, and took him to the next masquerade, when theking, who had been previously apprised of the plot, was to be present.As his majesty entered, Heidegger ordered the orchestra to play"God save the King." No sooner was his back turned than the impostor,imitating his voice and manner, ordered "Charlie over the Water,"--asong that referred to Charles Edward, the Pretender, and ought certainlynot to have been played in presence of George. Heidegger was horrified;he raved and swore at the musicians, and made them recommence the loyaltune. A few bars of "God save the King" were no sooner performed thanthe impostor found an opportunity to again order "Charlie over theWater." The orchestra thought their master must be drunk, but obeyed.By this time the house was in a perfect uproar, and cries of "Shame!shame!" arose from every part of it. The king's officers wanted to kickthe musicians out; but the Duke of Cumberland, who was in the secret,restrained them.
Heidegger was beside himself with rage and fright, but he came boldlyforward and offered to discharge the band, then and there. The impostorappeared at his side and said, in a plaintive voice, looking toward theking: "Sire, the whole fault lies with that devil in my likeness."
That was too much. Poor Heidegger fairly gasped for breath when he gazedupon his double. He turned pale and stared; astonishment had struck himdumb. At last, thinking that his joke had been carried far enough,the Duke of Montague ordered his man to unmask, and the mystery wasexplained. Heidegger was in a perfect frenzy; he stamped his feet,retired from the stage, and fell, in a state of exhaustion, into anarm-chair, then commanded his servants to extinguish the lights at once,swearing that he would never again superintend a masquerade until thatmask lay crushed to atoms at his feet.
[[A.D. 1735.]] Queen Caroline had made up her mind that the Princeof Wales should marry; so, after gaining the king's consent, sheemployed Lord Hervey to tell the prince of his intended fate. There wasno princess in view; but the queen spoke about the coming marriage justas though there was, purchased clothing for the wedding, and orderedseveral costly presents for the bride, from various, jewellers. The kingwas then in Hanover, and so it was arranged that he was to see Augustaof Saxe-Gotha, and if he liked her then negotiations for a marriage withthe heir-apparent would be begun. He sent a favorable report a few weekslater, and Frederick was told to prepare for the reception of his bride.He received the order with an indifferent sort of resignation, butobeyed. This gratified the queen, because her son had such contradictoryqualities that he was never to be counted on. There was nothing eitherto admire or to hate in him. He was neither great nor vicious, and hisbehavior was such that although he gained good wishes, no one esteemedhim, for he was false and deceitful; and it was suspected thathis supremely condescending manners were prompted by a desire forpopularity. His heart was bad; his head was weak; and he was unfortunatein having a father who abhorred him, a mother who despised him, sisterswho betrayed him, a brother set up against him in public life, andservants who neglected him, and were incapable of being useful to him.
[[A.D. 1736.]] Lord Delawar was sent to demand the hand of PrincessAugusta from her brother, the Duke of Saxe-Gotha. As the young lady, whowas very bright and pretty, could speak neither English nor French, itwas suggested to her mother that it would be well for her to take a fewlessons in both languages. But as the Hanoverian family had been onthe throne of England for a score of years or more, the Duchess ofSaxe-Gotha concluded that all the people there spoke or understoodGerman, and would not bother her child to study two languages thatseemed to her not worth the pains spent upon the work.
Prince Frederick showed no desire to seek the lady he was to marry, butdutifully remarked that "whoever his majesty thought a proper match forhis son would be agreeable to him"; and the princess submitted joyfullyto the custom among the royalty of marrying people they had never seen.She was willing to go to the prince, since he was not gallant enough totravel to Germany to win her, and probably rejoiced at the idea of oneday becoming Queen of England. She sailed in the month of April in theroyal yacht "William and Mary," and landed at Greenwich on St. George'sday, twenty-fifth. The bride was just seventeen years of age, andexcited much admiration on account of her graceful, girlish air, hergood humor, and tasteful attire.
She was conducted to the Queen's House in the park, where one wouldnaturally suppose that all the royal family would assemble to welcomeher; but such was not the case, for there were only the solemn officersof state and ladies-in-waiting to meet her. The people had gathered incrowds to have a look at the princess, and as she sat on the balconyoverlooking the park they shouted themselves hoarse in her praise.At last Prince Frederick made his appearance alone, and brought the"compliments of the king, queen, duke, and princesses, who hoped thebride was well." They could scarcely have done less, but certainlymight, and ought, to have done more to welcome a young girl who had cometo their shores under such circumstances. But she does not seem to havecomplained, and no doubt contented herself with the belief that she wasonly submitting to the custom of a strange country.
Greenwich looked very bright and gay on the following day; for theprince and princess dined in public, and a crowd gathered to witnessthat important ceremony. Then the royal pair drove down to the river,and entered a beautifully decorated barge that awaited them, and wererowed up and down, while horns were blown, guns fired, and bands ofmusic performed on the boats and at different points along the banksof the river. On the next day, which was Tuesday, Frederick awaited hisbride, with whom he had fallen in love at first sight, in London. Sheleft Greenwich in one of the royal carriages, alighted at Lambeth,and then crossed over to Whitehall in a boat. Entering one of QueenCaroline's state-chairs, the princess was carried by two stout yeomento St. James's Palace, where everything was arranged in a tasteful,magnificent manner for her reception. Prince Frederick received hisbride as she stepped from the chair, and drawing her to him, pressed herin his arms and gave her two affectionate kisses; then, taking her bythe hand, he led her up the grand staircase, and into the presence of asplendid and numerous assemblage of court ladies and gentlemen. She wasfirst presented to the king, who would not permit her to kneel, but,putting his arm around her, kissed her cheek and said a few kind words.Queen Caroline greeted her warmly, and her example was followed by herdaughters and the Duke of Cumberland.
The king had grown so impatient at being detained in England for thewedding, when he wanted to get back to his beloved Hanover, that he haddeclared if they did not make haste with it they would have to dispensewith his presence altogether at the ceremony. But he was so well pleasedat the appearance and behavior of the young bride that he was completelymollified. She was modest, but at the same time self-possessed to adegree that proved her to be thoroughly well-bred and sensible. In thisrespect she formed quite a contrast to the young people whosefamily she was entering, for they squabbled about the most triflingpoints of etiquette, which proved the littleness of their minds as wellas their faulty training. For example, the prince thought that on suchan important occasion as that of his marriage, he and his bride shouldtake precedence of others of equal rank, and that his brother andsisters should be satisfied with stools at the dinner-table, while heand Princess Augusta occupied chairs, also that they should be servedwith somewhat less ceremony and respect. But they absolutely refused toenter the dining-room until the stools had been replaced by chairsas large and luxurious as those intended for the bride and groom, andinsisted upon being waited on by their respective servants, who hadorders to imitate those of the Prince of Wales in every ceremony usedat table. Later in the evening, when coffee was brought around in thedrawing-room by Frederick's servants, the Duke of Cumberland and theprincesses all declined it, because, as they said, "they were afraidinstructions had been given to inflict some disgrace in the manner ofhanding the beverage had they accepted of any." They certainly did notdeserve to partake of the coffee, or anything else that was good, aslong as they were so petty and narrow-minded.
On the day after the arrival of the bride at St. James's, there wasa grand state-dinner, after which costumes were rearranged, and themarriage ceremony was performed, while several salutes were fired by theartillery at various stages of the proceedings. The bride wore nowig, but had her own hair tastefully dressed and surmounted by a crownstudded with diamonds, of which gems she wore a profusion, besides ondifferent parts of her person and dress. Brides and babies ought alwaysto wear white; but a different rule guided the Princess of Wales, whoserobe at her wedding ceremony was of crimson velvet, bordered withermine. A long, full train, that hung from the shoulders, where it wasattached by diamond clasps, was supported by four young ladies, whowore silver gauge dresses and diamonds valued at from twenty to thirtythousand pounds each.
The Duke of Cumberland gave the bride away, and the Duke of Grafton andLord Hervey, lord and vice-chamberlains of the royal household, acted asushers. All the noble ladies and gentlemen of the court accompanied thebride and groom in procession to the Chapel Royal, where the ceremonywas performed by the Lord Bishop of London. At its completion there wasa grand flourish of trumpets, and a deafening beating of drums, followedby the music of a brass band, and the thundering of cannon in the park,that announced to Londoners the conclusion of the compact. Then thebridal party proceeded to the king's drawing-room, where his majesty andQueen Caroline were seated on a dais under a richly-draped canopy. Thenewly-wedded couple walked hand in hand the entire length of the room,and knelt before the royal parents, who solemnly blessed their children.
A grand banquet was served at ten o'clock, and was attended by muchgaiety and joviality. Speeches were made, healths were drunk, andeverybody seemed happy.






CHAPTER III.
|In spite of Sir Robert Walpole's persuasions to the contrary, the kingwent back to Hanover a week after his son's marriage. Previous to hisdeparture from England he appointed Queen Caroline regent, much to thedissatisfaction of the Prince of Wales; but he went further, for he sentword to the prince that wherever the queen resided _there_ would alwaysbe apartments for himself and the princess. In other words, Frederickwas to be treated as a sort of a prisoner without the privilege of aseparate court of his own. This was most humiliating, and a conditionof affairs that naturally led to disobedience and deceit; for when QueenCaroline removed from one residence to another her son would pretend tobe making preparations to follow, and then contrive some excuse fornot doing so. Once he pleaded illness of the princess, although she wasperfectly well, then the queen feigned anxiety and went to visit themake-believe invalid, who received her in a darkened room, and said shewas suffering from measles, although the doctors could not be inducedto back her up in her lie. The queen went to live at Kensington, asshe always did during her husband's absence, and every time she held acouncil meeting there Frederick contrived to arrive just as the businesswas concluded. This he did on purpose to annoy his mother, and to showhis displeasure at her being regent, when he thought that positionought to have been assigned to him.
It would have been a great deal better for all the members of the royalfamily if the king had been more contented to remain in England; but hespent months at a time in Hanover, and was only prevented at last fromindulging in this amusement by the breaking out of the seven years'war. Everybody expressed his opinion very freely on the subject ofKing George's love for Germany, and made that the ostensible reason forcomplaint, no matter what it was really. One day a poor, lean, lame,blind, old horse was turned loose into the streets with a shabby, brokensaddle on his back, and a paper fastened to his head, on which was thisinscription: "Let nobody stop me: I am the King's Hanover Equipage goingto fetch his Majesty to England."
At the Royal Exchange a placard was posted up with this notice: "It isreported that his Hanover Majesty designs to visit his British dominionsfor three months in the Spring." On the gate of St. James's Palaceappeared this advertisement: "Lost or strayed out of this house, a manwho has left a wife and six children on the parish; whoever will giveany tidings of him to the church wardens of St. James's Parish, so as hemaybe got again, shall receive four shillings and sixpence reward.
"N.B. This reward will not be increased, nobody judging him to deserve acrown." There were many more such notices; but we have quoted enoughto give an idea of what complaining there was because King George lovedGermany, and did not take the pains to conceal it.
During the king's absence Queen Caroline governed, with Walpole foradviser and assistant; but every measure they decided upon was submittedto the Cabinet Council, who were required to sanction and sign eachdocument before it was carried into effect. This was wise management,because the responsibility was thus shared by a number of people,though Walpole acted quite independently. In 1736 the queen had agreat deal of trouble as regent, for there were corn-riots in the West,labor-riots in London, because there were so many Irishmen there whowere willing to work at cheaper rates than the English, and smugglers onthe coasts who were in league with the peasantry. This class of peoplegave special uneasiness, because whenever they were opposed they cursedthe queen, as well as "the foreign prince," as they called the king, andcheered for James III. The disturbance became so great that the guardaround Kensington Palace had to be doubled, the person of the queennot being considered safe. A large part of the trouble was due tointoxication, which increased depravity among the lower orders to analarming degree.
So a bill was introduced before parliament to prohibit the sale of gin.It did little good, however; for the horrid stuff was sold under suchnames as Sangree, Tom Row, Cuckold's Comfort, Parliament Gin, MakeShift, The Last Shift, Ladies' Delight, King Theodore, Cholic and GripeWaters. Gin-shops disappeared and gave place to chemists, who had wholerows of bottles labelled, "Take two or three spoonfuls of this four orfive times a day, or as often as the fit takes you." When thesepeople were arrested and brought before the courts, they said thatapothecary-shops were more in demand than ever before, because the "lateact of parliament had caused people to suffer so much from cholic thatthey had constantly to buy medicine." There were those who informedagainst others for selling gin, either privately or under a false name,merely for the gratification of some spite, or from a feeling of envy;but when they fell into the hands of the mob they paid dearly for it,for they were beaten, rolled in the dirt, held under a pump, or duckedin the horse-pond or in the Thames. There were disturbances inScotland, too, the most formidable of which was known as the Porteousriot, because a captain of that name was one of the principal victims ofit. Sir Walter Scott has given an excellent and most interesting accountof this riot in one of the most popular of his novels. He says thatCaptain John Porteous was the son of a citizen of Edinburgh, who did allin his power to bring him up to an honest trade; but the boy was so wildand dissipated that at last he was sent to join the army in Holland,with the hope that the discipline would improve his morals. Some yearslater he returned to his native city, where he was employed by themagistrates to drill the City Guard, because he was supposed to possessmilitary skill. It was not long before he was made captain, and his veryname became a terror to all disturbers of the public peace, because hewas so harsh and severe. He commanded a corps of a hundred and twentysoldiers, whose duty it was to preserve order, and prevent streetrobberies and mobs; yet whenever there was a public holiday therewas sure to be a skirmish between the City Guard and the rabble ofEdinburgh, who really hated them.
Among the smugglers that abounded all along the coast of Scotland wasone Andrew Wilson, a man possessed of so much strength, courage,and cunning, that he did not hesitate to conduct the most desperateenterprises. He frequently managed to escape the king's officers; butthey watched him so closely that they were able to seize all the wareshe smuggled into the country and completely ruined him. He, like manyothers, could not see the justice of taxation, and looked upon himselfas a man deprived of his honest dues, and resolved to get back what hecould, in one way or another, from the government. So, hearing that atax collector had come to the town, with a considerable sum of publicmoney, Wilson decided to seize him and take from himjust the amount of which he had been deprived. He associated himself forthis purpose with a young man named Robertson and two others, who, aftercarefully watching the movements of the collector, broke into the housewhere he lodged, and entered his apartment. As soon as the collectorbeheld three armed men,--for Robertson, the fourth, kept watch at thehouse-door,--he suspected that his life was in danger, and jumped out ofthe window in his night-shirt. The plunderers then helped themselves totwo hundred pounds; but no sooner had they made their escape than one ofthe accomplices gave the alarm; the military were called in, Wilson andRobertson were caught with the money concealed about their persons; bothwere tried and condemned to death. As public sympathy was always withsmugglers, and they were generally regarded by the country people alongthe coast as brave, worthy traders, this sentence was considered toosevere. On the other hand, the act had been so audacious that it wasthought proper to make an example of the culprits. When it seemedcertain that sentence of death was really to be executed, files andother implements were conveyed secretly to the prisoners to enable themto escape. Thus provided, they cut through a bar of one of the prisonwindows, and might have got off, had it not been for Wilson's obstinacy.Robertson was a young, slender man, and knew that he could pass throughthe opening, when he proposed to enlarge it from the outside, to enableWilson, who was very fat, to pass also. Wilson insisted on going first;but all the pushing and squeezing in the world availed nothing, and thepoor man stuck fast half way, without being able to advance or recede.In this plight he was discovered by the jailer, who took the necessaryprecautions to prevent the recurrence of such an attempt. Robertson didnot once reproach his companion; but Wilson was greatly distressed,because he knew that but for him Robertson would not have got intotrouble at all, and that he had injured him a second time by notpermitting him to pass through the window first, when he might haveescaped. So his whole thought was turned towards devising some means forthe rescue of the young man, for he cared nothing about his own fate.
Next to the Edinburgh city jail was a church, to which criminals undersentence of death were led by a strong guard on the Sunday previous totheir execution. Wilson and Robertson, each between two soldiers of theCity Guard, sat in the pew set apart for persons in their unfortunatesituation on a certain Sunday, while the officiating clergyman preachedan affecting sermon, part of which was ad#-dressed to the prisoners.Robertson wept, but Wilson's countenance bore a look of fixeddetermination, and his thoughts seemed far away. The congregationglanced towards the two men, but their suspicion was not excited byanything they saw; on the contrary, compassion was aroused, and afterthe benediction had been pronounced, many lingered to take a last look,as they supposed, at the unfortunate criminals. Suddenly Wilson seizedtwo of the soldiers, one with each hand, called to his companion, "Run,Geordie, run!" threw himself on the third, and fastened his teeth in thecollar of his coat. For an instant Robertson was so taken aback that hedid not stir, but the cry of "Run, run!" that arose from every part ofthe church recalled him to himself; so he shook off the grasp of thefourth soldier, jumped over the pew-railing, and disappeared throughthe church door, the crowd making way for him, and covering his retreat.From that time the practice of taking culprits to church has beendiscontinued.
Now Wilson was looked upon as a hero, and it was whispered that the mobof Edinburgh, who always favored such offenders, would help him toescape also. Murmurs to this effect reached the ears of the magistrates,who ordered John Porteous to be at the place of execution with theCity Guard at the time appointed for Wilson to expiate his crime. Thisdefence not being deemed sufficient, a regular infantry regiment besideswas drawn up on the principal streets of the city, to intimidate thepeople in case they purposed any interference with the officers ofjustice.
John Porteous became most indignant at this arrangement, for he wasjealous of the sound of any drums besides his own within the citylimits. He could not vent his ill-humor on the magistrates, but resolvedto do so on poor Wilson, whom he ordered to be manacled as soon as hewas delivered over to his charge by the prison keeper. This was done toprevent any possibility of escape, but the handcuffs were too small forthe wrists of so powerful a man as Wilson, so the captain forced themon with his own hands until they clasped, and tortured the criminaldreadfully. Wilson remonstrated against such barbarity, and declaredthat the pain distracted his thoughts from their proper course at such asolemn moment.
"It signifies little," replied Captain Porteous; "your pain will soon beat an end."
"Your cruelty is great," answered the sufferer. "You know not how soonyou yourself may have occasion to ask the mercy which you are nowrefusing to a fellow-creature. May God forgive you."
As these words were repeated among the crowd, compassion for Wilson wasincreased with a proportionate degree of indignation against Porteous,who was much disliked by the common people. When the criminal arrivedat the Grass-market, the place of execution, the multitude attempted noviolence, and the sentence of the law was fulfilled in due form. Nosooner was life extinct than by a sudden impulse, angry murmurs filledthe air, which increased to whoops, howls, and yells, while the mobpressed forward and threw stones at Porteous and his men. One young manwith a cap slouched over his face jumped upon the scaffold and cut downthe body dangling there, while others approached to carry it off. Thisexcited the fury of Captain Porteous, who snatched a musket from one ofhis soldiers, gave the order to fire, and set the example by shooting aman dead on the spot. Six or seven others were slain, and a great manywere wounded. This was an unjustifiable act of violence on the part of aman whose duty it was to preserve peace and order, and he recognized itas such when his rage had subsided.
On his return to the guard-house Porteous dismissed his men, and wentto make his report of the day's proceedings to the magistrates, glossingover his own part in them as much as possible. The public indignationwas great, and before it had time to cool Captain Porteous was broughtup for trial before the High Court of Justiciary. There was so muchconflicting evidence that the jury had a long and tedious task; butat the end their verdict was such that the captain was condemned to behanged on September 8, and all his movable property confiscated to thecrown, according to the Scottish law in cases of wilful murder.
On the day appointed for the execution, Grass-market was crowded almostto suffocation, and every window of the surrounding tenement-houseswas filled with spectators. Few words were spoken, but there was anexpression in men's faces that showed determination as they watched forthe approach of the criminal with a feeling of triumphant revenge. Hadthe captain appeared upon the scaffold some sympathy might have beenawakened in his behalf, but the longer the delay the greater became theanimosity against him. Among the magistrates and the better classof the Scotch people Porteous had been a favorite officer, for he hadproved himself a reliable man in cases of emergency, and it was arguedthat on the occasion of the Wilson execution his conduct might have beencaused by an imprudent excess of zeal. So a petition, signed by a vastnumber of the nobility and gentry, was sent to Queen Caroline, askingher to exercise the mercy of the crown in the captain's behalf.
Just at the last moment, when all preparations for the execution hadbeen completed, a reprieve, granting a respite of six weeks, arrivedwith the queen regent's signature. The news, which the magistratesalmost feared to communicate, was at length announced, and spread likelightning among the crowd.
There were groans of indignation and disappointed revenge as thecitizens began to disperse and return to their respective homes; butsome of them gathered in knots, and several individuals were seento pass from group to group talking excitedly about the injustice ofWilson's death, and how much more he was entitled to mercy than thisman, who had just been granted a reprieve. An Edinburgh mob, whenthoroughly excited, had always been considered one' of the fiercest thatcould be found in Europe, and it was not easy to suppress them. Theytook their departure from Grass-market, but they were to be heard fromsoon again; for that very night they assembled to the number of four orfive thousand, seized and closed the city gates, took possession of allthe arms belonging to the City Guard, set fire to the prison gate, andreleased every prisoner confined within, excepting Captain Porteous. Himthey dragged to the place of execution, and with all the solemnity of alegal proceeding hanged him, saying that they wanted to show the worldthat no authority should have power to dispense with the laws ofScotland, while many talked in the coarsest and most opprobrious termsof the queen and her reprieve. As soon as this horrible murder wascommitted the mob was appeased and dispersed without further violence toany one.
Queen Caroline was excessively indignant, particularly with CaptainMoyle, commander of the troops, who had refused to use his authority insuppressing the riot. She declared that he deserved to be shot by orderof court-martial quite as much as the rioters deserved to be hanged.Even Sir Robert Walpole, who tried to soften her majesty's temper,acknowledged that Moyle had acted like a fool, knave, and coward.
When the Edinburgh jail was thrown open by the mob on the night of thePorteous murder, there was among the prisoners a lovely, fair-hairedyoung woman, named Effie Deans, who had been arrested on a charge ofhaving killed her infant. This circumstance would not be in place here,excepting as it led to an act of sympathy and generosity on the part ofQueen Caroline which shows a pleasing trait in her character.
Effie Deans had a sister, ten years older than herself, named Jeanie,who was so much distressed at the punishment of one in whose innocenceshe had the utmost confidence, that she was determined to get a pardonfor her if possible. For that purpose she applied to Mr. Butler, a youngminister, to whom she was engaged to be married. He, too, believedin Effie's innocence, and resolved to aid his lady-love in her worthyendeavor to save her sister. After a few moments of reflection heremembered that his father and grandfather had rendered importantservice to the ancestors of the Duke of Argyle, whose influence withQueen Caroline was very great; he, therefore, gave Jeanie a paper,which had descended as an heirloom in his family, stating thatin consideration of the aid rendered to the Argyle family, all thedescendants thereof were earnestly enjoined to grant any reasonabledemand that might ever be made by the Butlers.
Armed with this document, Jeanie sought the presence of the duke, who,after inquiring into her sister's trouble and carefully examining thepaper she gave him, told her to come to him two days later, and he woulddo his best to serve her, adding: "But God has the hearts of kings inhis own hand."
Instead of waiting for Jeanie Deans the Duke of Argyle sent one of hisservants the next day in a coach to fetch her, and after a long driveshe found herself on a turnpike road leading to London. The duke'sservant got down from the carriage, and opened the door just as hismaster appeared. "You have been punctual, I see, Jeanie," said the dukeas he placed her in a large chariot drawn by four horses, and seatedhimself by her side, giving his footman an order to drive forwardrapidly. It is not our province to give all the details of thisinteresting adventure, which anybody may read in Sir Walter Scott's"Heart of Midlothian" for himself; we will mention only that part of itwhich refers to the queen.
When Jeanie walked into the gardens of Kensington Palace with the Dukeof Argyle, she saw two ladies strolling about. They were her majesty andan attendant; but the young girl did not suspect the rank of the personwhom the duke approached and conversed with for several minutes, whileshe stood at some distance away. Neither could she hear what was said,but presently she was told by a signal from the duke to advance.
Queen Caroline smiled at the shy, awkward manner of the quiet, demurelittle Scotchwoman as she came towards her, and in a low, sweet voice,with a broad northern ac- cent, asked "her leddyship to have pityon a poor misguided young creature."
"Stand up, young woman," said the queen, in a kind tone, "and tell mewhat sort of barbarous folk your country people are, where child-murderis become so common as to require the restraint of laws like yours?"
"If your leddyship pleases," answered Jeanie, "there are _mony_ placesbesides Scotland where mothers are unkind to their ain flesh and blood."
And so the conversation went on until Queen Caroline was in possessionof the whole of Effie's sad story, and then she said: "I fear you havehad a long journey to little purpose; since, if the king were to pardonyour sister, in all probability it would do her little good, for Isuppose your people of Edinburgh would hang her out of spite." The queenspoke thus because she was still very angry at the contempt with whichher reprieve had been treated in the case of John Porteous. But Jeaniereplied: "I am confident that baith town and country wad rejoice to seehis majesty taking compassion on a poor unfriended creature."
"His majesty has not found it so of late," said the queen; "but, harkyou, young woman, had you any friends engaged in the Porteous mob?"
"No, madam," replied Jeanie, pleased that she could say so with truth;"I would hae gaen to the end of the earth to save the life of JohnPorteous, or any other unhappy man in his condition; but he is dead andgane to his place, and they that have slain him must answer, for theirain act. But my sister--my puir sister Effie, still lives, though herdays and hours are numbered! She still lives, and a word of the king'smouth might restore her to a broken-hearted auld man, that never, in hisdaily and nightly exercise, forgot to pray that his majesty might be blessed with a long and a prosperous reign. Oh, madam, if everye kend what it was to sorrow for and with a suffering creature, whosemind is sae tossed that she can be neither ca'd fit to live or die, havesome compassion on our misery! Save an honest house from dishonor, andan unhappy girl, not eighteen years of age, from an early and dreadfuldeath! Alas! it is not when we sleep soft and wake merrily ourselvesthat we think on other people's sufferings. Our hearts are waxed lightwithin us then, and we are for righting our ain wrangs and fighting ourain battles. But when the hour of trouble comes to the mind or to thebody--and seldom may it visit your leddyship--and when the hour of deathcomes, that comes to high and low--lang and late may it be yours--oh, myleddy, then it isna what we hae dune for oursells, but what we hae dunefor others, that we think on maist pleasantly. And the thoughts that yehae intervened to spare the puir thing's life, will be sweeter in thathour, come when it may, than if a word of your mouth could hang thethe Porteous mob at the tail of ae tow." The tears flowed downJeanie's cheeks as she pleaded for her sister's life, and all presentwere touched at her simple, solemn manner. "This is eloquence," said hermajesty to the Duke of Argyle.. "Young woman," she continued, addressingherself to Jeanie, "I cannot grant a pardon to your sister; butyou shall not want my warm intercession with his majesty. Take thishousewife case," she continued, putting a small embroidered needle-caseinto Jeanie's hands; "do not open it now, but at your leisure youwill find something in it which will remind you that you have had aninterview with Queen Caroline." Jeanie had begun to suspect to whom shewas speaking; but as soon as her suspicion was confirmed she droppedupon her knees speechless with gratitude. After a few courteousremarks addressed to the duke, Queen Caroline withdrew.
It is only necessary for us to add that upon opening the needle-case atthe duke's request, as they were driving back home, Jeanie Deans found,besides the usual assortment of silks, needles, scissors, etc., abank-bill for fifty pounds; and her sister's pardon was sent to herbefore many days had elapsed. The story, so beautifully related byScott, is founded on fact; but the name of the young girl who soughtthe interview with the Duke of Argyle in behalf of her sister is afictitious one.
In October King George wrote the queen to remove from Kensington to St.James's, saying that the season being far advanced, and the house inwhich she was living reputed to be damp, he thought it would be betterfor her health, besides she would be nearer the ministers. She did notobey, because she knew that her husband did not mean what he wrote, butpreferred to have her live in retirement, as she was doing, until hisreturn.
Frederick, however, removed to London, but left his suite in thecountry, so that he could not be accused of setting up a rival court,and of thus acting in direct disobedience to his father's commands. Hecharmed the public by sending five hundred pounds to the Lord Mayor forthe purpose of releasing poor freemen of the city. To be sure he wasdeeply involved in debt as usual, and his creditors would have preferredto get the money themselves; nevertheless, his act was a liberal one,and formed a strong contrast to his father, who spent large sums inGermany, much to the disgust of his English subjects.
On the eighth of December the king left Hanover to return to England,and arrived at Helvoetsluys, the seaport, on the eleventh of the samemonth. His daughter, Anne, was dangerously ill at the Hague; but he didnot take time even to inquire how she was, so impatient did he feelto get back to his Caroline. Everybody in London was on the lookout fortheir sovereign, for it was known that he had reached the-Holland coast,and as the weather was fine it was expected that he would be among themin a few days. But the wind changed, a violent storm ensued, and sucha terrific hurricane blew from the west that fears were entertained forthe king's safety. People began to bet on the time of his sailing, andthe probabilities of his having gone to the bottom of the ocean. Daysucceeded day; still no news; the excitement increased. Walpole began todiscuss the situation of the royal family, and to consider what sort ofa ruler the Prince of Wales would make,--how he would treat his mother,sisters, and brother, who would rule him, and whom he would bully. LordHervey had a private conversation with the queen on the subject, andassured her that she would be able to govern her son as easily as shehad her husband; but she could not be induced to believe that, calledFrederick a fool, and wondered at his popularity, which seemed perfectlyincomprehensible to her. Hour after hour reports came of losses at sea;the Harwich guns had been heard at a distance, and they were regardedas signals of distress from the royal fleet. The queen would not believethat the king was drowned, though Frederick had informed her that littledoubt remained, and began to assume lordly airs as he grew more and moreconvinced of his own advancement. But all his high hopes were dashed tothe ground when a courier arrived, having risked his life to bring thenews to England that King George had not sailed when he expected, andwas still at Helvoetsluys awaiting favorable winds and weather.
At last favorable weather did come, and the royal fleet set sail, but itwas overtaken by a storm far more severe than the one that had detainedit before. This time Queen Caroline was excessively anxious, forshe saw there was real cause for alarm. The ships that had comprised theroyal fleet were dashed ashore at various points along the coast, someof them totally wrecked, and it was reported that the last seen of thevessel which bore the king was when she was tacking, and it was hopedthat his majesty might have got safely back to Helvoetsluys, thoughthere were strong doubts.
Christmas-day came around, and still no king. St. James's palacepresented a most gloomy appearance. The queen and her attendantsplayed cards in the evening, and every one tried to appear cheerful andhopeful, but their thoughts were far away, and all were prepared for theworst. The next day, being Sunday, Caroline attended chapel, resolvedto keep up her courage until she was positive that her husband hadperished. In the midst of the service a letter was handed to her fromthe king, which she opened at once. Considering the anxiety she hadendured she is to be excused for that, for she afterwards declared thather heart had been heavier that day than ever before. His majesty wrotethat he had set sail, but the fleet had been scattered, and his shipdriven back to Holland after knocking about for nearly twenty hours. Headded that the commander, Sir Charles Wager, was entirely to blame, forhe had hurried him aboard with the assurance that wind and tide wereboth favorable.
This statement was entirely false, for it was George himself who hadinsisted on setting sail, and he had even declared that if Sir Charlesrefused he would go over in a packet-boat, adding, "Be the weather whatit may, I am not afraid."
"I _am_," was the seaman's reply. "But I want to see a storm," saidthe king, "and would sooner be twelve hours in one than be shut up fortwenty-four hours more at this place."
"Twelve hours in a storm!" cried


Sir Charles, "four hours would do your business for you." Thecommander would not sail until the wind was fair, and when he did so,he said, "Although your majesty can compel me to go, I can make youcome back again." And he was right, for the storm that overtook them wasawful, and their return to the Dutch coast was attended by a great dealof danger. On landing Sir Charles said, "Sir, you wished to see a storm;how does your majesty like it?" "So well," replied the king, "that Inever wish to see another."
[[A.D. 1737.]] Queen Caroline wrote a letter to her husbandcongratulating him on his safety, and he sent one in return filled withterms of affection and praise. He passed five long, tedious weeks atHelvoetsluys, and did not arrive in England until the fifteenth ofJanuary. Contrary to his usual habit, he came from Germany in a splendidhumor, smiled on every one, complimented his wife, and declared her tobe the most superior woman in the world. One thing made him very angry,and that was when any of the ministers inquired after his health. Hereally was not well, for his experience at sea had upset him dreadfully;but any man who presumed to refer to his illness was pronounced a"puppy," and treated with supreme contempt.
Soon after his return to England the king was much annoyed about theincome of the Prince of Wales, but the manner in which it was settledby parliament gave both his majesty and Queen Caroline perfectsatisfaction. This means, of course, that the prince did not get what heasked for, because, if he had, their majesties would have been very muchdispleased. Queen Caroline was so anxious for her son William to succeedto the throne that she would have given anything if Frederick could havebeen put out of the way; but she was not to be gratified, and evenif she had been, the little daughter born to the Princess of Wales onthe thirty-first of July, would have stood in William's path.
The child was named Augusta, and the Prince of Wales had behaved sobadly towards his parents about the time when she appeared in the worldthat he was requested to leave St. James's Palace. He removed with hiswife and baby to Kew, and from that time he and his mother never spoketo each other.
In September the Prince and Princess of Wales held a levee at CarltonHouse, when the lord mayor and other officials of the city offeredcongratulations on the birth of the Princess Augusta, and many friendsgathered about the prince, anxious to show him that they considered himoppressed, and wished to prove themselves his partisans. He invariablydiscussed his father's treatment of him, but always blamed the queenfor it. Probably this was because she was unwomanly, and unlike a motherenough to call him by the harshest and most disgraceful names whenevershe had occasion to speak of him at all, and these were no doubtrepeated to him.
If the prince's levees were crowded so were the king's, for his birthdaydrawing-room, on the thirtieth of October, was the most splendidlyattended of any that had been celebrated since his accession. This wasvery gratifying to King George, and put him in a most amiable mood, butit was not long to continue; for the queen, whose health had been poorfor many months, though she had endeavored to conceal it, now grewvisibly worse. Yet such was her love for the king, and so anxious wasshe to gratify every desire of his, that even when suffering from anattack of gout she would often plunge her whole leg in cold water, inorder that she might be able to attend him in a walk of three or fourmiles. But such treatment only aggravated the disease, and in themonth of August Queen Caroline was so ill that a report was circulatedof her death, and all the London shop windows displayed mourningmaterials in place of the gay ones that had decorated them before. Themourning was premature, however, for the royal patient rallied, andwas able to walk with the king in the gardens of Hampton Court severaltimes.

However, in November of the same year she had a more serious attack,which finally proved fatal. Queen Caroline was a woman of such energyand will that she would not succumb until the end. On the morning of theninth she got up as usual, but was obliged to return to bed for severalhours. There was to be a drawing-room that day, and as the kingalways said that there was neither grace, gayety, nor dignity on suchoccasions when the queen was absent, she exerted herself to attend, andhe was inconsiderate enough to permit her to do so. Before long LordHervey noticed how much she was suffering, and urged her to retire; sherefused at first, but finding herself growing weaker she sent for theking, who was in another part of the room discussing the merits of thelast burlesque performance. At length he answered the summons, and,without any pretense of sympathy, led the queen from the room, nodoubt with a feeling of great annoyance at having his entertainmentinterrupted. This was her last appearance in public.
She was put to bed, and Princess Caroline, who was herself in badhealth, watched beside her mother until long past midnight. Then theking relieved her; that is, robed in a comfortable morning gown, he layon the outside of her majesty's bed, and scarcely left her room enoughto turn over. Besides, he was not quite comfortable, and so grumbled atbeing kept awake, and did more harm than good to the sufferer.
On the' following day the queen was bled, but continued to grow worse.That did not prevent his majesty from giving directions about thelace ruffles that were to be sewed in his coat-sleeves in time for thereception of the foreign ministers, before whom he was always desirousof making a display.
The Princesses Caroline and Amelia watched by their dying mother withall the devotion of dutiful, affectionate daughters, but they werenot to be rewarded by seeing her recover; for on the thirteenth thephysicians announced that their royal patient was beyond hope ofrecovery. She took a solemn, tender farewell of all her children, excepting the Prince of Wales, and Anne, who was in Holland, and whosepresence in London was not desired by any one.

Queen Caroline loved her other children as much as she disliked the twoolder ones; and her last words to the Duke of Cumberland were touchingand sensible. After giving him a great deal of counsel, she concluded bytelling him, "That should his brother. Frederick ever be king, he shouldnever seek to mortify him, but simply try to manifest a superiorityover him only by good actions and merit." She placed her two youngestdaughters, Louisa and Mary, under the care of the gentle Caroline, andthen took leave of the king, who was overcome with grief.
The queen expressed no desire to see Walpole, but he sought aninterview, and then she requested him to take care of the king. All thistime no member of the royal family had suggested that a priest shouldbe sent for; but for the gratification of public-opinion Walpolerecommended it, though he was little better than a heathen, joked aboutbishops, and laughed at High Church and Low. He addressed himself to thePrincess Amelia on the subject thus: "It will be quite as well that thefarce should be played. The Archbishop of Canterbury will perform itdecently; and the princess might bid him be as short as she liked. Itwould do the queen neither harm nor good; and it would satisfy all thefools who called them atheists if they affected to be as great fools asthey who called them so."
So Archbishop Potter was summoned, and attended the dying queen, morningand evening, but the sacrament was not administered. It was supposedthat this ceremony could not be performed because of her majesty'sirreconcilable hatred of her eldest son, but this could not be knownpositively, because all her interviews with the archbishop were private.However, everybody felt great curiosity to know whether the solemn ritehad been administered, but when at his last visit the courtiers met thepriest and asked eagerly, "My lord, has the queen received?" The onlyreply they got was, "Gentlemen, her majesty is in a most heavenly frameof mind." What that signified they were left to guess, and we may do thesame.
Meanwhile the king passed his time praising the virtues of his wife,which he recounted over and over again, yet whenever he entered her roomhe was sure to say something rough or unkind. Once when her eyes had avacant look peculiar to invalids, he requested her to "stop staring inthat disagreeable way, which made her look just like a calf with itsthroat cut."
On the morning of the twentieth the queen turned to her physician, andasked, "How long can this last?"
"It will not be long," was the reply, "before your majesty will berelieved from this suffering."
"The sooner the better," said the queen. Then she began a solemn,earnest, eloquent prayer, that excited the admiration of every onepresent, for it was so beautiful and so touching. She requested to beraised up in bed, and asked all present to offer up a prayer for her. Asshe grew weaker she ordered water to be sprinkled over her, so thatshe might revive and be able to listen to the appeal to Heaven in herbehalf. "Louder!" she murmured, while one or the other of her familyprayed, "louder, that I may hear." One of the princesses read the Lord'sPrayer, in which the dying queen took part; at its conclusion she lookedfixedly at those who stood weeping around her, then with a long-drawn,feeble "so--!" expired, as the clock on the chimney-piece struck eleven.
The king kissed the face and hands of his dead wife, and then went tohis own apartment; but he was so superstitious and so afraid of ghoststhat he would not allow himself to be left alone for a moment. He keptconstantly talking about his "Caroline," and related over and over againthe different circumstances of her life. Then he would weep; but in themidst of his tears he burst into a roar of laughter at Horace Walpole,the brother of Sir Robert, because he presented such a grotesqueappearance when he cried.
George II. was not a man to grieve very long nor very deeply, but henever ceased to respect the memory of his wife, and declared that he hadnever seen a woman whom he thought "good enough to buckle her shoes."Queen Caroline was mourned by a great number of people, as she welldeserved to be, but by none more than the king, to whom she had been oneof the truest, fondest wives a prince was ever blessed with. She lovedhim and was faithful to him to the last. Queen Caroline was a clever,learned, good-tempered woman. Her predominant passion was pride,the dearest pleasure of her soul was power; but to her credit it must berecorded that she never abused the power she had over the king's mind byemploying it for the promotion of her own friends or favorites. Carlylesays of her: "There is something stoically tragic in the history ofCaroline with her flighty vaporing, little king; seldom had foolishhusband so wise a wife."
Queen Caroline was buried at Westminster Abbey, and the Princess Ameliaacted as chief mourner. The anthem sung on that occasion was "The Waysof Zion do Mourn," set to music by Handel.
Of course the ill-feeling between the king and the Prince of Walescontinued, and whatever courtiers visited at Carlton House dared notshow their faces at St. James's, and the king's jealousy of his son wasprobably further increased when George Augustus, who afterwards reignedas George III., was born. This event occurred on the 4th of June, 1738;and after that the party opposed to the king gathered more and morearound the prince, while the rival courts kept the town amused.
[A.D. 1743.] For twelve years Sir Robert Walpole had kept England atpeace, but the era of war began soon after Queen Caroline's death.George II. espoused the cause of Marie Theresa when the French tried todeprive her of her inheritance. During that campaign the Earl of Stair,who commanded the British troops, allowed himself to be surrounded bythe enemy near the village of Dettingen, and but for the bravery ofGeorge II., who was present, would have lost the battle. His majestyrode a vicious horse, which during the conflict carried him out of theway. At length with the assistance of a soldier the animal was stopped,and the king dismounted, saying in his broken English, "Aha! now dat Iam upon my own legs, I am sure dat I sal not run away!" The Dukeof Cumberland had accompanied his father to Flanders, and when they gotback to England they met with a most enthusiastic reception. The Princeof Wales stood at the head of the stairs of St. James's Palace with histwo sisters to receive the king, who passed him by as he would adog. The next year the Duke of Cumberland met with a signal defeatat Fontenoy, and in 1748 peace was restored to England once more. ThePrince of Wales continued to oppose his father all the time, but thatdid not prevent his son, Prince George, from having the Order of theGarter conferred on him. On that occasion the little knight was carriedto the king's door in his father's arms. The Duke of Dorset receivedhim, and he made a speech that had been taught him by his tutor.
[[A.D. 1749.]] The dissension between George II. and his eldest son wasput an end to at last by the death of the latter, which occurred as aresult of great imprudence in 1751. The king was at Kensington when thenews reached him looking at a game of cards. "Dead, is he? Why, theytold me he was better," and that is all the regret, if it may be socalled, that the royal father felt at the loss of his first-born. But hesent kind messages to the widow, who behaved with a great deal of senseand courage.
She was then the mother of eight children, and her husband's death wasa severe blow. She sat beside his body for four hours before she wouldbelieve that he was dead; then, after taking a brief repose, she went tohis writing-desk and burned all his private papers.
[[A.D. 1751.]] Frederick had had his friends, and his death was lamentedby many, though his own family were not of the number. A preacher saidof him, "He had no great parts, but he had great virtues,--indeed, theydegenerated into vices. He was very generous; but I hear his generosityruined a great many people; and, then, his condescension was suchthat he kept very bad company." It is rather hard to decide whether thiswas intended for praise or censure; but a Jacobite epitaph that appearedat the time is decidedly more conclusive. It was to this effect:--
                   "Here lies Fred,
                   Who was alive and is dead
                   Had it been his father,
                   I had much rather.
                   Had it been his brother,
                   Still better than another.
                   Had it been his sister,
                   No one could have missed her.
                   Had it been the whole generation,
                   Still better for the nation:
                   But since't is only Fred,
                   Who was alive and is dead,
                   There is no more to be said."
One of George II.'s earliest acts after the death of the Prince of Waleswas to appoint his wife regent, in case of his own death before thenext heir should be of age. This gave great offence to William, Duke ofCumberland; but the king did not trouble himself about such a trifle,and devoted the rest of his life to gayety and politics.
The young Pretender is said to have visited England more than once forthe purpose of finding out what the populace thought of him. One day theking asked a certain lord where Charles Edward was. "Upon my word, sire,I don't exactly know," was the reply. "I suppose he is in Italy; butI'll consult my last despatches."
"Poh, poh! man," said the king, "don't trouble your head aboutdespatches; I'll tell you where he is: he is now at No.--, in theStrand, and last night he was at Lady--------'s party.What shall we do with him?" The lord proposed calling a council todecide, but the king said, "No, no; we can manage the business without acouncil. Let him stay where he is at present; and when the poor man hasamused himself with looking about London, he will go home again."
George II. had no taste for art, science, nor literature, and neverpretended to have. "I hate bainting and boetry too," he used to say,"neider de one nor de oder ever did any good!" But he loved the theatre,opera, and masquerades. Once when he was in Hanover he was visited bythe Princess of Orange and Maria of Hesse-Cassel with their husbands. Atthat time his court was very brilliant, and he gave a magnificent maskball in honor of his guests in the theatre of Herrenhausen. The stagewas splendidly decorated, and the garden surrounding the theatre wasilluminated with colored lanterns. All the ladies and gentlemen appearedin white satin dominos, and every detail of the ball was conducted withunusual magnificence. A grand supper was served on three long tables,and the dancing was kept up until broad daylight.
A few days later there was an assembly at the opera-house, when the kingappeared in a richly embroidered Turkish costume, with a striped silkturban, in which was an agraffe of rare and costly diamonds, Dapperlittle George danced and capered about with his red face, whiteeyebrows, and goggle eyes, in a manner that would have been morebecoming to a man of twenty than one of sixty.
[[A.D. 1760.]] The latter years of King George's life were passed asregularly as clockwork. At night he played cards in the apartments ofhis daughters, Amelia and Caroline, with some favored officers ofhis own household, and two or three of the late queen's ladies. EverySaturday he made a pleasure trip to Richmond, where, with a party ofcourtiers, he dined. They went in coaches, drawn by six horses, in themiddle of the day, with the horse-guards kicking up the dust beforethem, dined, walked an hour in the garden, and returned in the samedusty procession. This was considered enjoyment.
When the young and beautiful Duchess of Hamilton was presented to KingGeorge, just after her marriage, he conversed with her for a long time,and was much pleased with her naturalness and vivacity. He askedher what striking public sights she had witnessed, whereupon shethoughtlessly replied: "Oh! I have seen so much, there is only one sightin the world which I wish to behold, and that is a coronation." Theold king gently took her hand in his, and with a sigh, exclaimed, "Iapprehend you have not long to wait; you will soon have your desire."
On the twenty-fifth of October, he arose about his usual hour, andseemed well; he called for his chocolate, and inquired the direction ofthe wind, as if anxious for the arrival of his foreign mails. He thenopened the window, and said he would walk into the garden; but hestopped, and with a deep sigh, fell to the ground, saying, faintly,"Call Amelia," and then expired. He was raised and laid upon the bed. Itwas found, on examination, that he had died of rupture of the heart.
The funeral took place the following month, at night. The king's chamberwas hung with purple velvet, and lit up with silver lamps; the coffinwas placed on a dais under a canopy of purple velvet, surrounded bysilver candelabra, on high stands.
The procession passed through a double line of foot-guards, everyseventh man bearing a torch. The horse-guards formed an outside line,and all their officers Wore crape sashes and carried drawn sabres. Asthe coffin was borne along, minute-guns were fired, bells tolled, and afuneral march was played on fifes, with muffled drums for accompaniment.The procession was met at the entrance to the Abbey by the dean andchapter in rich robes, all the choir and almsmen bearing torches.Arriving at the chapel of Henry VIL, the bishop read the prayers forthe dead, which were succeeded by an anthem. The Duke of Cumberland, aschief mourner, stood at the entrance of the vault, in which his father'sremains were placed beside those of his mother.
He looked very tall in his black cloak, with a train live yards long,which must have felt very heavy during the two hours he was keptstanding. But he bore the ordeal firmly, in spite of his lame leg, andthe thought that he must soon follow his father. He had had a paralyticstroke, from which he had not entirely recovered. He lived five yearslonger. 



CHAPTER IV. CHARLOTTE SOPHIA, WIFE OF GEORGE III.
(A.D. 1744-1818.)
|Long before his death, George II. began to look about for a wife forhis grandson, George William Frederick, whose father, Frederick, Princeof Wales, died when the young prince was only thirteen years ofage. This event made young George heir to the throne of England;consequently, it was by no means an unimportant matter to decide upona lady worthy of the honor of marrying him. Before telling how it wassettled, let us take a look at the early life and education of theprince.
He was such a feeble infant at the time of his birth that he wasbaptized privately on the following day; but a month later he hadimproved so much that this ceremony was repeated in public, when theKing-of Prussia and the Duke of Saxe-Gotha were god-fathers by proxy,and the Queen of Prussia god-mother, also by proxy. No doubt the oldking would have stood sponsor for his first grandson if he had beenfriendly with the Prince of Wales; but we know of the enmity thatexisted between that father and son. It fortunately did not extend tothe grandson, who became good friends with George II,. and was admittedon familiar terms to his presence.
[[A.D. 1748.]] George was not a bright boy at his studies; for when hewas eleven years old he could not read English, though he knew somethingof Latin. Baron Stein-berg was directed by the king to find out what progress the royalchildren were making in their studies. He examined them, and said toPrince George, "I will report your proficiency in Latin; but I wish youwere a little more perfect in your German grammar."
"German grammar!" exclaimed the boy, "oh, any stupid child can learnthat."
[[A.D. 1749.]] He had for drawing-master Goupy, the artist, who was veryfond of him. One day the pupil was standing behind his father's chair,where he had been placed for punishment, when the master entered. "Sitdown, Goupy, and go on with your sketch," said the Prince of Wales. Butas the artist declared that it was impossible for him to use his pencilwith any spirit while his little friend was in disgrace, the prince wasreleased. George never forgot this act of consideration; and many yearslater, when he was king, he met poor Goupy, then eighty-four years ofage, in great distress, tottering along the road from Kensington toLondon, with bailiffs at his heels. The king stopped his carriage,and called out, "How now, Goupy! how now! What's the matter?" The agedartist replied that he had been arrested for debt, but added: "As I oncetook your majesty out of confinement, I trust you will not suffer me tobe imprisoned."
"O Goupy!" returned the king. "Bailiffs, eh? I can't stop the law, youknow; let it take its course. But--d'ye hear, Goupy?--Ramus shall settlethis business, and I'll take care to secure you from such dangers infuture."
[[A.D. 1750.]] It was the fashion among the Georges for each one to hatehis heir, and Frederick, Prince of Wales, did not depart from it. Helavished all his affection on Edward, his second son; but a short timebefore his death, which occurred in 1751, he sent for the prince, and,embracing him tenderly, said: "Come, George, let us be good friendswhile we are suffered to be so." It was not to be for a very long time,as he knew; but the interview made a favorable impression on the boy,who was very much grieved when his father died. Soon after an act ofparliament made the Princess-Dowager of Wales guardian and regent ofthe heir-apparent during his minority; and then the boy, who had alreadybeen made a Knight of the Garter, was created Prince of Wales and Earlof Chester.
[[A.D. 1752.]] When, at the age of twenty-three, George III. ascendedthe throne, his knowledge of books and men was very limited, though thelatter he learned to know by experience. He was about fourteen years ofage when Lord Bute began to take a share in his education, and laid thefoundation of his future influence over the mind of the prince.
[[A.D. 1756.]] George William Frederick was not more than seventeenyears old when, as we have said, his grandfather began to think of awife for him.
While the king was thus interesting himself for his grandson, that youngprince fell in love with Lady Sarah Lennox, a virtuous, beautiful youngEnglish girl, whom Walpole thus describes: "There was a play at HollandHouse, acted by Children: not all children, for Lady Sarah Lennox andLady Susan Strangways played the women. They were delightful, and actedwith so much nature that they appeared the very people they represented.Lady Sarah was more beautiful than you can conceive; and her veryawkwardness gave an air of' truth to the sham of the part. When LadySarah was in white, with her hair about her ears and on the ground, noMagdalen of Correggio was half so lovely and expressive."
[[A.D. 1760.]] Although George admired Lady Sarah, he could not marryher, because she was English, therefore his subject; but he was wiseenough to choose a bride for himself at last. A princess ofSaxe-Gotha had been selected by the royal mother and Lord Bute; butthe king said he had already had enough of that family. Then a ColonelGraeme was sent to visit all the German courts in search of a princess,good, beautiful, and accomplished. At Pyrmont he happened to fall inwith the Princess-Dowager of Strelitz, with her two daughters. Therewas very little etiquette observed at this watering-place. The youngprincesses went about with a good deal of freedom, which was the moreagreeable to them, because it formed such a contrast to the stiffnessand formality of the life at their little court. Colonel Graeme was thusafforded an opportunity of approaching them; and it was not long beforehe decided that the Princess Charlotte was in every way a desirableperson to become the wife of the future King of England.
This princess was born at the palace of Mirow, May 16, 1744; and herearly education was conducted by her mother, with the assistance of anaccomplished, noble lady. She was not more than seven years of age whenMadame de Grabow began to instruct her. This lady was possessed of suchpoetical talent as to be called "the German Sappho," and proved of greatservice to her pupil, who became, under her tuition, a good German,French, and Italian scholar. The princess was well instructed besidesin history, geography, and mineralogy; danced with grace, sketched well,and showed a great deal of talent for music. Above all, she was good andreligious.
So Colonel Graeme's report was favorable; but George would not haveconsented to wed the princess if he had not known something more abouther, and this was through a letter, said to have been written by her tothe King of Prussia, which by some means fell into George's hands. Itwas during the Continental war, when the towns and villages of theduchy of Mecklenburgh were occupied by the Prussian troops, that thisletter was written. Her native land was subjected to such misery thatmany families were obliged to seek homes elsewhere; and it was underthe impulse of strong excitement that the princess addressed the King ofPrussia, thus:--
"May it please your Majesty,--
"I am at loss whether I should congratulate or condole with you on yourlate victory over Marshal Daun, since the same success which hascovered you with laurels has overspread the country of Mecklenburgh withdesolation. I know, sire, that it seems unbecoming my sex in this age ofvicious refinement to feel for one's country, to lament the horrors ofwar, or to wish for the return of peace. I know you may think it moreproperly my province to study the arts of pleasing, or to inspectsubjects of a more domestic nature; but, however unbecoming it may be inme, I cannot resist the desire of interceding for this unhappy people.
"It was but a very few years ago that this territory wore a mostpleasing appearance; the country was cultivated, the peasants lookedcheerful, and the towns abounded with riches and festivity. What analteration at present from such a charming scene! I am not expert atdescription, nor can my fancy add any horrors to the picture; but surelyeven conquerors themselves would weep at the hideous prospects nowbefore me. The whole country--my dear country!--lies one frightfulwaste; presenting only objects to excite terror, pity, and despair. Theemployments of the husbandman and the shepherd are quite suspended; forthe husbandman and the shepherd are become soldiers themselves, andhelp to ravage the soil which they formerly cultivated. The townsare inhabited only by old men, women, and children; while, perhaps,here and there a warrior, by wounds or loss of limbs rendered unfitfor service, is left at his door, where his little children hang roundhim, ask the history of every wound, and grow themselves soldiers beforethey find strength for the field. But this were nothing, did we notfeel the alternate insolence of either army as it happens to advance orretreat in pursuing the operations of the campaign. It is impossible,indeed, to express the confusion which they who call themselves ourfriends create; for even those from whom we might expect relief onlyoppress us with new calamities. From your justice, therefore, it is,sire, that we hope redress; to you even children and women may complain,whose humanity stoops to the meanest petitions, and whose power iscapable of repressing the greatest wrong!"
We have given the whole of this letter, because it is a remarkableproduction from the pen of so young a girl. So thought the king to whomit was addressed, for he instructed his soldiers to be more humane;and so thought George III., who was charmed with the eloquence and kindheart of the writer. We say George III., because by this time the youngprince had ascended the throne.
On the morning after the death of his grandfather, who had said ofhim, "The boy is good for nothing but to read the Bible to his mother,"George proceeded from Kew to St. James's Palace, accompanied by LordBute. On his arrival there, he was presented by Mr. Pitt, the secretaryof state, with a paper, on which were written a few sentences that theminister had prepared as a basis of the new king's speech to the privycouncil. George thanked Mr. Pitt, but said that he had already preparedhimself; and he soon proved that he had done so, for the councillorswere astonished at the grace and dignity of his address.
Although in ordinary conversation George III. spoke so rapidly thatit was almost impossible to comprehend him, in public he was perfectlyintelligible, and moderated his voice as well as any man in hisdominions. He was exceedingly popular on his accession. In his openingspeech before parliament, he--who, it must be remembered, was the firstEnglish George,--said: "Born and educated in this country, I glory inthe name of Briton; and the peculiar happiness of my life will everconsist in promoting the welfare of a people whose loyalty and warmaffection for me I consider as the greatest and most permanent securityof my throne; and I doubt not but their steadiness in those principleswill equal the firmness of my invariable resolution to adhere to andstrengthen this excellent constitution in church and state, and tomaintain toleration inviolable." Mr. Pitt could have prepared no speechfor the king that would have been more satisfactory than this, and hemade several others that were equally so.
On July 8, 1761, the king announced to his council that he had, aftermature reflection, come to the resolution to demand in marriage PrincessCharlotte of Mecklenburgh-Strelitz, a lady distinguished by every virtueand amiable quality. On the fifteenth of the next month the treaty wasconcluded, and preparations were immediately made to conduct the brideto England. The Earl of Harcourt and the Duchesses of Ancaster andHamilton, the two finest women of the British court, were selectedto escort her; and the royal yacht in which she and her suite were toembark was ordered to be convoyed by a fleet under the command of LordAnson.
[[A.D. 1761.]] Lord Harcourt wrote to a friend that the bride was "themost amiable young princess he ever saw;" and was very enthusiastic overthe reception he had met with at the little German court, saying, "Thegreat honor the king has done this family is seen in its proper light."


His task was an easy and pleasant one, and histestimony regarding the bride runs thus: "Our queen that is to behas seen very little of the world; but her good sense, vivacity, andcheerfulness, I dare say, will recommend her to the king, and make herthe darling of the British nation. She is no regular beauty; but she isof a very pretty size, has a charming complexion, very pretty eyes,and is, in short, a very fine girl." The two duchesses who were sent toconduct the bride to England were such splendid-looking women that theyexcited the greatest amount of admiration in Germany, and Charlottebegan to have some misgivings as to her own personal appearance whencompared with them. "Are all the women in England as beautiful as youare?" she asked when first she saw them.
The treaty of marriage was concluded on the 15th of August, the Earl ofHardwicke acting as the king's ambassador; and then there were two daysof state-banquets, balls, fireworks, and illuminations in the city ofStrelitz, and everybody seemed wild with joy. On the seventeenth, theprincess took leave of her family and began her journey towards thesea-coast, being received with demonstrations of delight from thepopulace wherever she stopped. When she embarked at Cuxhaven all theships fired a salute of twenty-one guns each, and the young bride wasso overcome that she exclaimed, "Is it possible that I can be worthy ofthese honors?" The weather was so unfavorable that the squadron did notproceed to sea until the twenty-eighth. At length, on Sunday, September6, the royal yacht entered Harwich Roads; but, as it was not possible toguess at the length of the voyage, no preparations had been made for thereception of the princess, and she could not land until the next day.
Even then the king was not present, and she was received by no higherdignitary than the mayor. In the afternoon she proceeded toColchester, where she was entertained at the house of a privategentleman.
On the eighth the princess arrived at Romford, where she alighted at thehouse of Mr. Dalton, a wine-merchant, and waited an hour for the royalcarriages and servants, sent from London to meet her. She then took herseat in one of the carriages with the two Duchesses of Ancaster andHamilton. "She wore a fly-cap," say the chroniclers, "with rich lacelappets, a stomacher ornamented with diamonds, and a gold brocadesuit, with a white ground." Three carriages containing ladies fromMecklenburgh and lords from St. James's preceded that of the princess,and they all passed in procession through lines of people, militia, andhorse and foot-guards to London.
The young bride had been very gay and self-possessed throughout thejourney, but as soon as she came in sight of St. James's Palace hercourage failed; she trembled and turned pale. The Duchess of Hamiltonsmiled; whereupon the princess said: "My dear duchess, you maylaugh,--you have been married twice,--but it's no joke to me."
When the royal carriage stopped at the palace gate the bride steppedout, assisted by the lord-chamberlain, Duke of Devonshire, and advancedinto the garden as the king came forward to meet her. She sank down uponher knees; but he quickly raised her, kissed her on the cheek, and ledher into the palace. At first sight of the German princess, GeorgeIII. was certainly disappointed; but it was only a momentary cloud thatpassed over his countenance, for he treated his bride with a great dealof tenderness and consideration always. Soon after her arrival a dinnerwas served, and then the bridesmaids and the court were all presented tothe princess, who said: "_Mon Dieu, il y en a tant, il y en a tant!_" Nowonder she was appalled at the sight of so many strange facesand the sound of so many strange names. She kissed the princesses withevident pleasure; but, when it came to offering her hand to be kissed bythose of lower rank, she had to be instructed by the king's sister, thePrincess Augusta, how to do it.
At seven o'clock in the evening the nobility congregated in the royalchapel to witness the marriage ceremony, which was performed by the LordArchbishop of Canterbury. All the royal family were present, andthe king's brother, Edward, Duke of York, gave away the bride. Fourdaughters of earls acted as train-bearers, or bridesmaids. Among thesewas the beautiful Lady Sarah Lennox, with whom the king had once beenin love. The queen was dressed in silver brocade, with a long train ofviolet-colored velvet, lined with crimson, and fastened at the shoulderswith a bunch of large pearls.
After the ceremony the king and queen occupied two state-chairs under acanopy on one side of the altar, and the mother of the monarch sat ina similar chair of state on the opposite side. The other members of theroyal family were seated on stools, while benches were provided for theforeign ministers and others. At half-past ten the marriage processionreturned from the chapel, when a salute was fired from the artillery ofthe park and the Tower.
While the company waited for supper the bride sang and played, andconversed in French and German with the king, the Duke of Cumberland,and the Duke of York. Indeed, she behaved so prettily that all werecharmed with her graceful, easy, sensible manners. At the weddingreception everybody was presented to the young queen; but, as she wasacquainted with neither the history nor the names of the guests, shespoke to no one. The king looked very handsome, in a rich brocaded satinand velvet costume, and spoke good-naturedly to his bride and many ofthe court ladies and gentlemen. On the Sunday after their marriagethe royal couple attended divine service at the chapel, and both seemedvery happy. The next evening they went in chairs to Drury-lane Theatre,attended by the horse-guards. The king was preceded by the Duke ofDevonshire, his lord-chamberlain, and the Honorable Mr. Finch,his vice-chamberlain; the queen by the Duke of Manchester, herlord-chamberlain, Lord Cantalupe, her vice-chamberlain, the Earl ofHarcourt, her master of horse, and the Duchess of Ancaster and theCountess of Effingham. These went in carriages, and took their places inthe box of the theatre, before the royal couple appeared. Never hadsuch a crowd of people been seen in the streets as gathered between St.James's Palace and the theatre, to get a glimpse of the new queen, andnever had the play-house presented so brilliant a spectacle; for allthe ladies and gentlemen wore the same rich jewelry and dresses that hadbeen made for the wedding drawing-room, and the house was packed frompit to dome. The queen had never seen a dramatic entertainment-before inher life, nor had she ever beheld such a brilliant concourse of people,and her childish wonder and delight lit up her pleasant countenance, andadded much to her attractive appearance. There probably never wasgreat enjoyment without something to mar it, and this case formed noexception; but it did not affect the royal couple personally. It was thecrowd in the streets that had their small share in the fun spoiled byattempting to enter the theatre. Many women had their clothing torn off;one poor girl was killed outright; a man was so trampled upon that hisrecovery seemed doubtful, and many were scratched and bruised quiteseriously.
This did not deter the populace from gathering again in much largernumbers to witness the coronation. Grand preparations had been made forthis imposing ceremony, which was to be as fine as any that hadever taken place in England. Thousands sat in the streets all night inorder to secure good places, and long before daylight the scaffoldingswhich had been erected on all the street-corners were crowded. A row offoot-soldiers was placed on either side of the street, and parties ofhorse-guards at proper intervals. The coaches and chairs of the nobilitybegan to hurry about to their various destinations soon after daylight;but even then the roads were so blocked up that ladies in full-dresswere in some instances forced to walk, escorted by soldiers to theirplaces. When it is considered that the Countess of Northampton worethree hundred thousand pounds' worth of diamonds, and all the nobleladies wore rich gems of great value, the military protection will notseem superfluous, particularly in such a crowd.
Their majesties were carried in chairs from St. James's to WestminsterHall at nine o'clock in the morning; but they had to wait until chairsof state with the canopy were put in place, for they had been forgottenamidst all the preparations. The whole scene was so splendid that it isimpossible to do it justice in words, and Queen Charlotte looked backbefore entering the Abbey at the sea of heads and faces with perfectamazement.
A very imposing and pretty part of the show was the procession of thePrincess-Dowager of Wales from the House of Lords to the Abbey. Theroyal mother was led by the hand of her young son, William Henry, andfollowed by the other members of her household, all attired in whiteand silver. The princess wore a silk train short enough to require nobearers; her long hair fell over her shoulders in ringlets, and her headwas encircled by a band of diamonds.
The Westminster boys sang _Vivat Regina_ as the queen entered theAbbey, and _Vivat Rex_ when the king appeared, then followed the usualceremonies, and a sermon by the Bishop of Salisbury. The Archbishop ofCanterbury placed the crowns on the heads of the sovereigns, and thenproceeded to administer the sacrament. Contrary to any precedent, theking desired his crown to be removed, that he might appear humbly atthis ceremony; but, as the queen's crown had been fastened on withpins to keep it secure, it was not an easy matter for her to follow theking's example, therefore he consented that she might retain hers;but it was to be considered simply as part of her dress, and not asindicating any power or greatness in a person kneeling before God.
The banquet which followed cost ten thousand pounds. Earl Talbot carriedthe second course to the king's table. He had taken great pains to trainhis horse to back the whole length of the hall, so that on retiring theanimal would not turn his rump towards the king. So much training musthave bewildered the horse, for he backed _into_ the hall, much to thedisgust of the earl, and was heartily applauded by the spectators at hisretreat. The champion appeared on the identical charger that George II.had ridden at the battle of Dettingen, and acted his part admirably.Many persons of quality in the galleries let down handkerchiefs tiedtogether, and strings with baskets attached, for some of the good thingsfrom the tables; for they had eaten nothing since morning, and werealmost famished.
It was the universal opinion that no public festival had ever passedoff with more _eclat_ than the coronation of George III. and QueenCharlotte. They were both young and popular, and the nation was enjoyinga season of prosperity with political leaders who were in favor. Theremoval of Pitt, the prime minister, who had been replaced by LordBute, was not considered a wise move on the part of George; but he hadstood in awe of that powerful statesman, and had declared, "that hewould not be the only slave in a country where it was his wish to seeall the people free."

London became very gay under the new reign. The queen announced herintention to attend the opera once a week, and that seemed a great dealof dissipation to a woman who had been strictly educated in the smallestand quietest of German courts. She was soon coaxed into attending thetheatre oftener, particularly as the great actor, David Garrick, wasthen at his best. He had excited universal praise as Richard III., inwhich he made his first appearance twenty years before. But this wasall new to the young queen, who, after witnessing one play, thirsted foranother. One night she went with the king to see "King John"; but thatplay was not repeated, because George III. grievously offendedGarrick by preferring another actor who took the part of Falconbridge.As soon as the great tragedian heard of this proof of what he consideredbad taste on the part of his majesty, he would not allow "King John" tohave its run, and substituted something in which he was certain he couldhave no rival.
The last splendid scene of this year was when the queen was introducedto the citizens of London, on Lord Mayor's Day. All the royal familyleft St. James's Palace at noon in great state, escorted by guards,and cheered by crowds of people. They proceeded to the house of DavidBarclay, a silk mercer, and a member of the Society of Friends. Barclaywas eighty-one years of age, and boasted of having entertained thetwo other Georges on occasions similar to the one on which he welcomedGeorge III. and his Queen Charlotte. About a hundred Quakers hadassembled at the old man's house, which was decorated with brilliantcrimson damask, to do honor to their majesties, and each was presentedin turn. The king kissed all the women, young and old, ugly and pretty,without distinction, and after he passed into the next room, his youngbrother followed his example. A little grand-daughter of Mr. Barclaykissed the queen's hand with so much grace that the Princess-Dowagertook her up in her arms and embraced her a dozen times. The Duke of Yorkwas so charmed with the child that he wanted to present her to theking; but she refused until assured that he was a prince, whereupon sheconfidently put her hand in his, and permitted herself to be led. Hismajesty was greatly amused when the little five-year old Quakeress toldhim, "that she loved the king, though she must not love fine things, andthat her grandpapa would not allow her to kneel."
Mr. Barclay's daughters served the queen with tea; but they merelyhanded it to the ladies-in-waiting, who presented it on theirknees. After witnessing the procession, the royal family attendeda banquet at Guildhall, which cost eight thousand pounds. It was somagnificent that, on retiring, the king said to the Lord Mayor, "To beelegantly entertained I must come to this end of the city." One of theforeign ministers described it as a feast fit only for one king to giveto another.
The year closed with an act of parliament settling forty thousand poundsper annum on Queen Charlotte, with a dowry of a hundred thousand poundsand two palaces, in case she should outlive the king. His majesty wentin state to the House to give the royal assent to the bill; and thequeen, who accompanied him, rose from her seat and made him a profoundcurtsey in acknowledgment of the favor.
Somerset House was not considered fine enough for her majesty's townresidence, so George bought another for twenty-one thousand pounds,and settled it on his consort. It was known as Buckingham House, andafterwards as Queen's House, and was intended as a sort of retreat whenits owner felt disposed to retire from the ceremony and state ofSt. James's Palace. It was in this house that George III. began theformation of a library, that in the following reign was presented to thenation, and is now in the British Museum.
The king continued for a time to be popular. In a letter writtenby Horace Walpole, about this period, he says: "I saw his majestyyesterday, and was surprised to find the levee-room had lost so entirelythe air of a lion's den. The sovereign does not stand in one spot, withhis eyes royally fixed on the ground, and dropping bits of German news;he walks about and speaks to everybody." It was this affable manner ofGeorge III. that pleased people, yet he could make himself disagreeablewhen he chose; for one historian tells us that "when anythingdispleased his majesty he became sullen, silent, and cross, and would gooff to enjoy the melancholy of his own ill-humor."
[[A.D. 1762.]] Well, the royal couple established their household ina style that would have done credit to a private family, but was notbecoming in them, because every detail was planned with an eye toeconomy. Considering that the nation had made such a liberal allowanceto both the sovereigns, it was expected that they would support theroyal dignity in a manner more in accordance with the generally acceptedideas. But they were absurdly economical, and their life was excessivelyprosaic and dreary, though they were a model couple. The firstentertainment at their new house was given to about half a dozenstrangers, the whole company consisting of not more than thirty peoplein all. Everybody danced excepting the king's mother, the Duchess ofBedford, and Lady Bute. Even the king and queen, the Princess Augusta,and her four younger brothers all danced from half after six until oneo'clock in the morning, scarcely stopping for a moment to rest, and thenthe guests went home without refreshment of any kind. It was certainlycarrying economy to excess when people left a ball after several hoursof dancing, and had no supper. The famished guests must have retired inill-humor, and with little desire to pay so dearly in future for theiramusement. It need scarcely be said that the courtiers made fun of sucha tame entertainment, or that they were greatly disappointed becausethe young couple did not establish their household on a more luxuriousscale. They had expected pleasure to reign supreme; but, instead ofthat, they found an abode of gloom and meanness.
The queen's drawing-room was usually crowded; but as there wereseventeen English and Scotch unmarried dukes always present, it is no wonder that ladies attendedregularly. A visit from Queen Charlotte's brother, Prince Charles ofStrelitz, was an event that disturbed the court monotony somewhat, andso royally was that handsome young man entertained that his youngerbrother afterwards spent a month in England. On that occasion, severalsplendid fêtes were given in his honor by various members of thenobility.
The most important event to the royal family of the year was the birthof the heir-apparent, on the twelfth of August. He was christened GeorgeAugustus Frederick the following month,--the Princess Dowager of Wales,the Duke of Cumberland, and the Duke of Mecklenburgh acting as sponsors.This prince reigned as George IV., and we shall tell more about himhereafter.
[[A.D. 1763.]] Queen Charlotte was so happy in the possession of achild of her own that she decided to do something for those who wereso unfortunate as to have lost their parents early in life; so sheestablished a home in Bedforshire for orphan children. A lady was placedat the head of this establishment who received a salary of five hundredpounds per annum, in consideration of which she was expected toinstruct the orphan girls of the Home in embroidery. Even in this actof benevolence Queen Charlotte was somewhat calculating, for the firstpiece of work produced by each girl went to her, and it alwaysconsisted of something that could be used for window curtains, chairor sofa-covers, or bed-quilts for one of the palaces. To be sure,her majesty paid well for this handiwork, and performed many reallycharitable acts which made her exceedingly popular.
[[A.D. 1765.]] She interfered very little with politics, but devotedmuch of her time to the care of her sons, of whom she had at this time,besides the Prince of Wales, Frederick, afterwards Duke of York,and William Henry, afterwards Duke of Clarence.
In a letter to his son, written at this period, Lord Chesterfield saysof the queen: "She is a good woman, a good wife, a tender mother, and anunmeddling queen. The king loves her, but I verily believe has never yetspoken to her one word about business." This is probably true, yet itis strange; for there was much anxiety and distress in England, andpolitics were in a most troubled condition.
[[A.D. 1766.]] There had been many important changes in the ministry,and war with the colonies had increased the national debt heavily. LordBute, the king's favorite, had been turned out of office, and succeededby George Grenville, at whose suggestion exorbitant taxes were imposedon the American colonies. In spite of violent opposition, the stamp actwas passed by parliament, and caused great indignation among those whomit affected. Everybody knows the important consequences of this act,and the excitement it occasioned in the house of representativesin Virginia, when that eloquent and popular orator, Patrick Henry,exclaimed, "Cæsar had his Brutus, Charles the First his Cromwell, andGeorge the Third----------".
Cries of "Treason!" here interrupted the speaker; but, after a moment'spause, he continued, "And George the Third may profit by their example.If this be treason, make the most of it." We are not writing an Americanhistory, and need not again refer to the Revolution that led to ourIndependence; it has merely been referred to because of the excitementit caused in England.




CHAPTER V.
|After an illness that lasted six weeks, King George, who knew theseriousness of its nature, made a speech before the House of Peers,during which he asked that an act might be passed enabling him from timeto time to appoint the queen or some other member of the royal familyas guardian to the heir-apparent, and regent of the kingdom. Parliamentgranted this right.
The Duke of Cumberland died at this time. It will be remembered that hewas the favorite son of Queen Caroline, and uncle of George III. Neverwas there so popular a prince, or one so winning in his ways when he wasyoung; but his health began to fail by the time he was twenty years ofage, and he was only forty-four at the time of his death. A paralyticstroke had almost deprived him of the sight of one eye in his youth, anda wound received on his leg at the battle of Dettingen, when hefought so bravely at his father's side, had left him lame. He was sounfortunate on the battle-field afterwards that he retired to privatelife, and devoted himself to gaming and horse-racing. Then he ceasedto be a favorite; for right-minded people could not approve of such asenseless waste of time. There is one anecdote that shows a good traitin his character, even while he was leading a useless life.
The duke's death was followed by that of his majesty's youngest brother,Prince Frederick, and these two events cast a gloom over the royalfamily for some time. The king and queen were then living at Richmond,and amused themselves by visiting places in the neighborhood. Theirhousehold was maintained on a very modest scale, and with a smallretinue of servants. The birth of their first daughter occurred thisyear, and she was christened Charlotte Augusta. This event was succeededby the marriage of the king's niece, Caroline Matilda, with ChristianVII., King of Denmark. A most unfortunate union this one proved, for thegroom was in every respect a man of detestable character, and treatedhis poor wife with extreme cruelty. Before ten years of married life hadpassed away, this queen had been carried to Zell for safety by a Britishfleet, and there she lived and died, neglected and forgotten.
[[A.D. 1768.]] We have spoken of the economy of George III. and hiswife; but they sometimes gave entertainments that were occasions ofgreat display when they were in town, and formed a striking contrast totheir simple, private life in the country.
Meanwhile, the royal couple were happy and contented in their domesticlife. When they were at Kew they rose at six-o'clock, and spent acouple of hours doing exactly as they pleased, undisturbed by businessof any sort, and untrammelled by ceremony. At eight o'clock there wasa lively family breakfast, at which the sovereigns were surrounded bytheir children, who at this meal were permitted to chatter freely. Thiswas a privilege, for in public they were taught to be silent, and it wasat this time in the day that parents and children became best acquaintedwith each other. The king was so fond of riding that he passed much timebetween breakfast and dinner on horseback, and even went in the rainsometimes in this manner to attend a council meeting at St. James's.


Queen Charlotte, and often the king too,presided at the children's early dinner; and every week there was afamily excursion to Richmond Gardens, where, while the young peopleplayed, the queen would do some needle-work, and his majesty would readaloud to her, generally from Shakespeare. In this pleasant manner thechildren of George III. and Charlotte passed their early lives; and, asthe Prince of Wales and his brother of York grew older, they had a pieceof ground in the garden at Kew, which they cultivated with their ownhands. There they sowed wheat, attended the growth of their little crop,weeded and gathered it all by themselves. They even went further: forthey threshed the grain, ground it, and attended the whole process ofmaking it into bread, which was eaten by the royal family with greatrelish.
The Duke of York was a very little boy when he was found one day in thecottage of one of the villagers, who lived near Kew, seated on a lowstool shelling peas, his occupation being shared by a pretty littlefair-haired girl, with whom he fancied he was very much in love. Hewas closely watched after that, and not permitted to run after rusticbeauties any more.
Queen Charlotte and George III. both patronized art, though they wererather deficient in taste. A charter was granted to the society ofartists, and Joshua Reynolds, its first president, was knighted, thoughthe king preferred the paintings of some less gifted artists. BenjaminWest, who succeeded Sir Joshua as president of the society, was sucha favorite that in the course of thirty years he painted sixty-fourpictures for George III., and received a very liberal sum of money forthem. Once, when a picture by Wilson, which had been ordered for theroyal collection, was shown to the king, he exclaimed: "Hey! What!Do you call _this painting?_ Take it away; I call it daubing!Hey--what!--'T is a mere daub!" He then inquired what Wilsonexpected for his work; and, on being told a hundred guineas, he declaredit was the dearest picture he ever saw: "Too much,--too much," added hismajesty; "tell him I say so."
[[A.D. 1772.]] The death of his mother was a great sorrow to George, forhe was tenderly attached to her. He had shown his devotion by visitingher regularly every evening at eight o'clock, in company with QueenCharlotte, and she had been his guardian and adviser ever sincethe death of his father. Princess Augusta's character has been sodifferently estimated that it is impossible to form a correct judgmentof it; but it is allowed by all that she was benevolent, and possessedmany good qualities. She certainly was honest in paying off, out of herown income, the heavy debts that her husband left. Let us accept whatBishop Newton, her chaplain, said of her: "The calmness and composureof her death were further proofs and attestations of the goodness of herlife; and she died, as she had lived, beloved and lamented most by thosewho knew her best.".
Meanwhile, children were being added to the royal family, and QueenCharlotte devoted herself to their care and education. One day a visitorwas surprised at seeing one of the princesses, then six years of age,run to her mother with a book in her hand, and tearfully exclaim,"Madam, I cannot comprehend it! I cannot comprehend it!"
"Well, my child," said the queen, "do not be alarmed; what you cannotcomprehend to-day you may comprehend to-morrow; and what you cannotattain to this year, you may arrive at the next. Do not, therefore, befrightened with little difficulties; but attend to what you do know, andthe rest will come in time."
"This," said the visitor afterwards, "was good common sense, and agolden rule well worthy our observation."
[A.D. 1773.] Let us see what progress literature made in thisreign. Though George II. never looked at a book if he could possiblyavoid it,--and he generally managed' to do so,--literature began toimprove in his day, and many periodicals were established. These gaverise to a new class of writers, who called themselves critics. Theybegan by merely giving a list of the new books that appeared. Aftera time short notices accompanied the titles, and the contents of theworks, with opinions as to the merit or demerit were given. This was theorigin of the reviews, which at the present time form such an importantpart of the magazine articles of the present day. This class ofperiodicals became numerous after the accession of George III.; but thecritics did not confine themselves to notices of books, for they tookdelight in abusing people, and brought to light a large amount ofprivate scandal, by resorting to the use of fictitious names. The charmof the writings of such men as Fielding and Smollett, as well as thememoirs and novels of other authors, consisted in the facility ofrecognizing the portraits of well-known individuals of the day, whoseweaknesses were often presented in false and glaring colors. Thesecritics spent their whole time in coffee-houses and at the theatres,where they were ever on the alert for any bit of gossip, that, whethertrue or false, they managed to work up into an interesting and spicyarticle for their papers. Of course there was no end of quarrelsresulting from such proceedings; but these men would have starved if theperiodicals had not existed, for the House of Hanover did not patronizeliterary men. To be sure, Queen Charlotte did procure a pension of twohundred pounds a year for Beattie; but neither she nor Lord Bute,when he was in power, used much judgment in the granting of pensions,excepting with regard to Hogarth, Johnson, and Smollett. The last hadno regular sum settled on him; but he was engaged to edit "TheBriton," a weekly paper, devoted to abusing Pitt and all the popularparty.
As for music, both George and his queen were devoted to this branch ofart, and encouraged George Frederick Handel to establish an academy forits advancement; but it soon broke up on account of rivalry. Then Handelreturned to the continent, and in his native land devoted himself to theproduction of those noble oratorios that gave him celebrity and wealth.
Many years later, when King George, who delighted in Handel's oratorios,was listening to one of them, a thunderstorm came up. "How sublime!"exclaimed his majesty. "What an accompaniment! How this would havedelighted Handel!"
Queen Charlotte excited the ire of some of the court ladies when sheissued a decree against the enormous head-dresses that were then infashion. She was prompted to this not without some provocation; fora dowager-duchess had appeared at a drawing-room with a structureof jewels and feathers a yard and a quarter in height,--almost tooridiculous to be believed. It had become the fashion to pile up the hairto at least half a yard above the head; and this was done by spreadingit thinly over pads of wool, tow, or hemp, and sticking it in placewith pomatum and other compounds. After this structure had attained thedesired proportions, it was finished off with great bunches of flowersand feathers, interspersed with sparkling jewels. But as this was thework of two or three hours, it must not be supposed that it was repeatedevery day. No, indeed! Once in two or three weeks was considered oftenenough for brushing and combing; and we shudder to think of what musthave been the contents of the puffs that these great ladies carriedabout so proudly. No history tells how they managed to sleep,or the suffering that such a weight on top of the head must haveoccasioned, but everybody must agree in considering Queen Charlotte awise woman for altering such a filthy, silly fashion. To the front wirewas attached a string, by which the wearer could draw up her hood orlet it fall back at will. It must not be imagined that ladies' headsexceeded their bodies in size; for, to insure symmetry, enormoushoop-skirts, oval in shape, and spreading out suddenly over the hips,were worn, making a slender waist look very wasplike. A long, loosecloak, fastened at the throat, was the outer garment, which, with thehood described above, must have given a woman the appearance ofan animated woolsack. These ladies had so much trouble to squeezethemselves in and out of carriages, large and cumbersome though theywere, that it was suggested to manufacture them with movable tops, andthen, by means of pulleys and ropes, gently raise the wearers of hoopsand gigantic head-gear, and lower them into the vehicle, thus avoidingdamage to their toilets.
The fashions for the lords of creation were not less ridiculous thanthose of the women, though different. Many of the rich young men ofEngland had visited Italy, and from that sunny land of the South, theybrought back not what was virtuous and sensible, but all the folliesand vices that it was possible to imitate. These travellers formedthemselves into a club, which, in honor of Italy, they called the"Macaroni Club." They were distinguished by an immense bunch of falsehair hanging down the back, the head being surmounted by a tiny cockedhat. A closely-fitting short jacket, waistcoat, and knee-breechescompleted the attire, and each Macaroni carried an enormouswalking-stick, ornamented with silk cords and tassels. A man thusattired must have presented an exceedingly droll appearance; yetthe style became popular, and was even adopted by members of the clergy,whose hats were made, clothing cut, and wigs combed _à la macaroni_.There were dances, songs, and music, called Macaroni, and nothing waspopular that was not sufficiently trifling, showy, and affected tobelong to the macaronic class. This manner of dress excited so muchridicule that it was altered before very long, and gave place to ahigher style of dressing the hair. Then the beaux wore nosegays on theirbreasts, large enough to fill a good-sized mantel-vase. Walpole says ofthe members of the fashionable club, after complaining of a dull winterin politics: "Even our macaronies entertain the town with nothing butnew dresses and the size of their nosegays. They have lost all theirmoney, and exhausted all their credit, and can no longer game for twentythousand pounds a night."
Queen Charlotte's maids-of-honor grumbled a good deal at the changestheir mistress instituted in the fashions; but they were ready tomutiny when she made it a rule of her household that they should notbe provided with supper. However, a compromise was affected,--theirsalaries were raised, and each maid-of-honor received a thousand poundson her marriage as a gift from the queen. This was very benevolent onthe part of her majesty, and there are many equally kind, considerateacts told of her. Here is one that she managed very gracefully.
[[A.D. 1779.]] In one of the battles off the French coast, near Brest, amate named William Moore was so desperately wounded in the shoulder andleg by the blowing up of a vessel that it was not supposed he would everbe fit for service again. While he was lying in bed, a kinsman namedAshburner, who often sold dry goods at court, was one day exhibiting hiswares to Queen Charlotte, when he adroitly managed to mention the nameof Moore, and then related all the circumstances of his hard fate.Her majesty was touched by the story, and told Ashburner to send themate to Windsor, where she was then living, as soon as he was wellenough to travel. Such a command was balm to the wounded man, who,before the lapse of three days, was not only comfortably lodged at thepalace, but watched and tended by the queen's own surgeon, and providedwith a competent nurse.
It was many weeks before the invalid was cured; but at last he askedpermission to thank his royal benefactress, and was admitted to herpresence. He faltered out a few awkward sentences, turning red and paleby turns; but ended by assuring her majesty that he was equal to theperformance of duty again. "So I hear from the doctor," replied thequeen, "and I have spoken about you to the king, and, there, Mr. Moore,is his majesty's acknowledgment for your gallantry and sufferings whenafloat." The man took the paper, but wondered why so much was saidabout the performance of a mere act of duty. "Will you not see what hismajesty says, Mr. Moore?" asked the queen, as the man sidled towards thedoor. He silently obeyed, and, on opening the document, found that hehad been promoted to a lieutenancy on board the "Mercury." Some yearslater Moore became a captain, which proves that Queen Charlotte'scharity was judiciously bestowed. The commander of the vessel on whichMoore was injured lost his life when it blew up; and for his widow andchildren her majesty obtained such a liberal pension that they couldenjoy not only the comforts, but many of the luxuries of life. These areonly a couple of a large number of Queen Charlotte's benevolent deeds.
Few persons interested themselves more to rescue Dr. Dodd from the handsof the executioner than the queen. William Dodd was a popular divineof the Church of England, as well as a voluminous writer. But hecommitted several errors in the course of his life, which was violentlyended because of a check which he forged for a large sum of money onLord Chesterfield. Queen Charlotte argued that a man occupying the holyoffice of minister of the Gospel ought not to be punished like a commoncriminal; but the king replied, that the crime was the more heinousbecause committed by a clergyman, and declared that the law must takeits course.
[[A.D. 1780.]] There came a year of riots in London, occasioned by therepeal of certain laws against the Catholics. Queen Charlotte was calledupon for the exercise of considerable courage at this period, for shewas left almost alone at Buckingham House, with her children, while themob set the city on fire in several places, and behaved so disgracefullythat there was no telling where they would stop. The king, who was hatedby a large portion of his subjects, spent two nights at the queen'sriding-house with his council, where he was constantly receiving reportsof the doings of the rioters. At length it was decided to fire on them,yet the king mercifully hesitated to give the necessary directions tohis troops; and even when St. James's Palace was assailed, he orderedthe soldiers not to fire if they could possibly help it; but to keep thecrowd off with their bayonets. Thus, those of his enemies who pronouncedGeorge a stubborn man were bound to acknowledge that he was also amerciful one.
[[A.D. 1783.]] Having reached the age of twenty-one, the-Prince of Waleswas allotted an establishment of his own at Carlton House, which hadbeen the residence of his grandfather, whom he is said to have resembledin many respects. Then parliament settled upon him a hundred thousandpounds, besides an annual income of fifty thousand. Thus liberallyprovided for, he devoted himself to a life of indulgence andidleness, and incurred the displeasure of the king, both on accountof his vices and his politics. He entered the House of Peers, and infollowing the lead of the opposition party, imitated the example of theGeorges who had preceded him. In spite of his liberal allowance, he gotinto debt, which his so-called friends solicited the king to pay.

The conduct of their eldest son was a source of much unhappiness to theroyal couple. The queen did not lose confidence in him, though she wasdeeply distressed.
[A. D. 1784.] A year after he went to live at Carlton House his royalsire offered to pay his debts, if the accounts were sent to him. Theywere sent, but, after being kept for months, they were returned, becausethey were found to be incorrect,--twenty-five thousand pounds beingentered without any explanation as to whom that sum was due. The princedeclared it to be a secret of honor, which he would not reveal, andthe king, in his turn, declared that he would pay no debt the nature ofwhich his son was ashamed to acknowledge; and there the matter rested.
[[A.D. 1785.]] But the following year the prince's debts had increasedto such an outrageous amount that he could see no way out of his dilemmaexcepting in flight. He wanted, as Earl of Chester, to remove to someGerman court, and there live in retirement, declaring that the kinghated him, and would not allow parliament to assist him. The greattrouble was, that no confidence existed between George III. and hiseldest son, and neither treated the other with fairness. The ministryoffered the prince a hundred thousand pounds, provided half the summight be retained for the payment of his debts; but he pronounced theoffer useless, saying that he knew the king would not listen to it, andif Pitt, the minister, were to propose such a measure he would be turnedout of office. It was proposed to him to try to conciliate his royalfather by ceasing to adhere to a political party in opposition to thegovernment; but he refused to abandon Fox or any of his friends. Then itwas proposed that he should marry; and, as he was very much in love withMrs. Fitzherbert, a lady who had been divorced from a bad husband, heresolved to do so. But this marriage could not be legal for two reasons:first, because Mrs. Fitzherbert was a Catholic; and second, because noprince of the blood was permitted to marry without the king's consentbefore he had attained the age of twenty-five. So George, Prince ofWales, kept his marriage secret, and even had it denied in parliament,much to his wife's indignation. When the queen heard of it she commanded the presence of her son, and, on being assuredthat he was really married, and to a woman worthy of respect, sheconsented to receive her. Not only did Queen Charlotte show markedcourtesy to Mrs. Fitzherbert, but she did a service for her son in usingher influence to have all his debts paid off. Then Carlton House,which had been dull and silent, became once more the scene of gay andbrilliant entertainments.
We must now return to the royal couple, and see them pleasantlyestablished at Windsor, though with the king's health far fromsatisfactory. It was at this period that a remarkable lady entered thequeen's service; and, as she was well-known in the literary world, shemust be properly introduced. This was Frances Burney, the daughter ofa musician of much talent. She was only a little child when her motherdied; and, as her father seemed to think that his whole duty consistedin fondling his children and treating them with the kindness andaffection his sweet temper prompted, Frances educated herself. Dr.Burney (he had the degree of Doctor of Music from the University ofOxford) really had little time for anything but the lessons he gave, forthey sometimes kept him busy from seven in the morning until eleven atnight, and he often carried a tin-box of sandwiches, with a bottle ofwine and water, for his luncheon, which he would eat in a hack whilehurrying from one pupil to another. Two of his daughters were sent to aschool in Paris, and one of them taught her little sister, Frances,to write; and before she was fourteen she began to find pleasure inreading. Dr. Burney had a large library, but it contained no novels, andso his daughter's taste was not spoiled by light reading.
The social position of the Burney family was peculiar; for, while thechildren played with those of the tradespeople in the neighborhood, theyhad opportunities of seeing some very distinguished people, whowere proud to know the doctor. Samuel Johnson was his most intimatefriend, and they spent many a long winter evening together. DavidGarrick often amused the Burney girls with his powers of mimicry, andthere were so many other artists and men of letters whom Frances hadan opportunity of seeing that it would be tedious to mention all theirnames.
The very finest musicians of the day visited Dr. Burney, and esteemedhim so highly that occasionally he would gather them at his modestlittle house, and give such a splendid concert that many members of thenobility considered it a privilege to get an invitation. At this timeFrances was a shy, awkward girl, who trembled if any of the guests spoketo her. Therefore she was permitted to remain in the background, and,while thus unobserved, she watched people, observed their peculiarities,and analyzed their characters. She had a vivid imagination too, and laidup a store of material for fiction that was of great use to her later.
Frances soon began to write little stories that amused her sistersvery much, but were not shown to her father, who knew nothing of theirexistence. Dr. Burney had an intimate friend named Samuel Crisp, awell-educated, literary man, whose advice was of the utmost benefit toFrances, whom he always called his Fannikin, while she in return calledhim her dear Daddy. Crisp enjoyed Dr. Burney's concerts; but, when hegrew old and gouty, and could no longer attend them, Frances would writehim a long account of each one, and of the gay people who attended.These letters were answered, and contained so much instructionabout what to read and how to write, that they went far towards thedevelopment of "Fannikin's" intellect. The result was that FrancesBurney wrote a novel which took the literary world by surprise. Herfather wept over it for joy. "Daddy" Crisp shook his fist at Fannikin inaffectionate anger for not having confided in him, and everybody beganto guess what author could have written "Evelina." When they found outthat a reserved, inexperienced young woman had produced the best work offiction that had appeared in many a day, praises were increased. FrancesBurney suddenly found herself famous. Then she wrote another novel,which she called "Cecilia." The publishers paid her two thousand poundsfor it, and there never was a book more eagerly snatched from thecounters of the booksellers. Frances Burney was now thirty years old;she had literary fame, position and money. What, then, could haveinduced her to take the steps to which we have alluded,--that ofentering the queen's service? It is certainly inexplicable; but this ishow it happened:--
Mrs. Delany, a lady of noble birth, having been left a widow, was kindlycared for by King George and Queen Charlotte, who fitted up a housefor her in Windsor Park, and settled on her an annuity of three hundredpounds a year. Their majesties frequently visited the old lady, and theyoung princes and princesses often honored her by their company to tea.
Miss Burney was visiting at Mrs. Delany's house, when, one day afterdinner, as the old lady was taking her nap, a stout gentleman entered,unannounced. "What? what? what?" he asked, looking about, as thevisitors who had been playing a game scampered out of the room, and acry of "The King!" was set up. Mrs. Delany came forward to receive herroyal guest, and introduced Miss Burney, who was questioned as towhat she had written and what she was going to write. The queen soonappeared, and his majesty repeated to her all that the youngauthoress had said. Miss Burney was charmed with the royal pair, andfelt quite at her ease when their visit was repeated a few days later.On that occasion the king expressed his opinion about many English andforeign writers. Voltaire he pronounced a monster, Rousseau he likedbetter. "But was there ever such stuff as a great part of Shakespeare?"he cried, "only one must not say so. But what think you? What? Is therenot sad stuff? What? what?"
Well, one of the keepers of the queen's robes retired about this time,and the position was offered to Miss Burney. She consented, with theadvice of her father, to give up writing, to leave a happy home andpleasant associates, to become the companion of an old German woman whowas the chief-keeper of the robes and waiting-maid to her majesty. Wewonder how Dr. Burney could have consented to allow his daughter toenter upon the five years of drudgery to which she bound herself; buthe, poor deluded man, seemed to think that going to court was like goingto heaven, and so he actually persuaded her to it; and, after escortingher to her dreary prison, for so it was, went home rejoicing at hermarvellous prosperity. It is to the diary that Miss Burney kept whileshe was waiting-maid to her majesty that we are indebted for an accountof the domestic life at court.
She felt very timid the first day she entered upon her office, but QueenCharlotte was exceedingly gracious, and soon placed the new maid at herease by treating her less like a servant than a friend. Nevertheless,she was glad to escape from the royal presence to dine with the ladiesand gentlemen-in-waiting. The meals served for these court attendantswere much more enjoyable than those at which their majesties presided,because there was less formality and ceremony. The queen was no longerserved by gentlemen who kneeled while offering a dish, but theywere never permitted to sit in her presence; no matter how high theirrank, and it is easy to understand how uncomfortable they must have feltwhen forced to eat standing. No wonder the lords, bishops, and officerspreferred to dine with the maids-of-honor and ladies-in-waiting, withwhom they could enjoy themselves, and at whose sides they might sitwhile partaking of their meal.
Miss Burney found the dressing of the queen a very formidable matter atfirst, because the ringing of the bell that summoned her always put herin a flurry at the start. No maid was permitted to remain in the roomwhile the queen was dressing, but they assembled in the ante-chamber,where one handed to the other the various articles as they wererequired. "'T is fortunate for me," says Miss Burney, "that I havenot the handing of them. I should never know which to take first,embarrassed as I am, and should run a prodigious risk of giving the gownbefore the hoop, and the fan before the neckerchief."
The actual toilet for the day was performed at one o'clock, andconcluded with the powdering of the hair, a very important matter,always performed by a regular hairdresser. On his arrival her majestywas covered by a large _peignoir_, and then left alone with the_artist_, who flung the powder at the royal head causing a light sprayto fall gently on every part of the hair,--standing off to viewthe effect, applying the puff here and there, and so continuing theoperation until the desired effect was produced.
One of Miss Burney's duties consisted in preparing her majesty'ssnuff-boxes, and dampening the contents to suit the royal nose; forQueen Charlotte was a connoisseur of the article, and took it asregularly as did all the gentlemen and most of the ladies of thatperiod. "On court days," says Miss Burney in her diary, "the queendresses her head at Kew, and puts on her drawing-room apparel atSt. James's. I dress all at Kew except my tippet and long ruffles, whichI carry in paper to save from dusty roads." The most rigid etiquette wasobserved when the royal family were at Windsor. Nobody ever knocked at adoor for fear of shocking the royal nerves; a shake of the knob wasthe only signal allowed to a person desiring to enter. When a birthdayoccurred, the family walked on the terrace, crowded with people ofdistinction, who gathered to show respect. One of these scenes is thusdescribed:--
"It was really a mighty pretty procession. The little Princess Amelia,just three years old, in a colored robe, covered with fine muslin, adressed close cap, white gloves and a fan, walked on alone, turning fromside to side to see everybody as she passed, for all the people on theterrace stand up against the walls, to make a clear passage for theroyal family, as soon as they come in sight. Then followed the kingand queen, no less delighted themselves with the joy of their littledarling." Little Amelia was a great pet with her parents, and when sheobserved Miss Burney among the guests, and actually stopped to kiss her,the breach of etiquette was merely smiled at, though the queen wasnot pleased; for she only addressed a word to those whom she desiredespecially to distinguish. So rigid was the court etiquette that noperson ever passed a room occupied by the royal family if the doorchanced to be open, and the children never spoke in the presence oftheir parents unless called upon to answer an observation directed tothem.
[[A.D. 1786.]] But everything was different at Kew, where the absence ofrestraint formed a striking contrast to the life at Windsor. There theking was called "Farmer George," and there were some odd sketches madeby the caricaturists of the day, representing his majesty with his wife on his arm, trudging along in true rusticfashion. Some very amusing anecdotes are given of "Farmer George's"visits to the cottages of his neighbors, which were made with the leastpossible ceremony, and often at most inconvenient periods.
He rode for hours every day, and would poke his nose wherever the fancyhappened to take him. Once he was caught in a shower and took shelter ina cottage, where he found a girl roasting a goose. He requested her togo and put his horse under an adjacent shed, which she agreed to do ifhe would keep the goose from burning during her absence. Presently thegirl's father entered, and, though surprised at seeing the occupation ofhis sovereign, had the good sense not to recognize him. George began totalk to the man about the disadvantage of roasting with a string, andexplained how much easier and safer it was to cook with a spit, whichrequired less watching and only occasional basting. At the conclusion ofhis lecture, he secretly wrote upon a piece of paper "to buy a jack,"and enclosed five guineas, which he placed upon the table before hisdeparture.
One day his majesty met a young rustic on the road not far from WindsorCastle. "Who are you, boy?" he asked, attracted by something in hisappearance. "Who are you, eh, eh?"
"I be a pig-boy."
"Where did you come from? Who do you work for here, eh?"
"I be from the low country; out of work at present."
"Don't they want lads here; not want lads, eh?"
"I doan't know; all about here belongs to Georgy."
"Georgy! Who's Georgy?"
"He lives at the castle, yonder: but he does no good for I." The kingimmediately gave the lad employment on his farm, and told him if he werea steady lad, "Georgy" might be a friend to him.
He thus addressed a stable-boy one morning: "Well, boy! What do youdo? What do they pay you?"
"I help in the stable, but they only give me victuals and clothes," saidthe lad. "Be content; I have no more," was the king's reply.
He could be generous, though, on occasion; for two boys who did not knowhim fell on their knees one day, and asked relief, saying that theirmother had been dead three days, and their father was too ill to risefrom his bed of straw. The king went with them to their miserable hovel,and, finding that they had not exaggerated their distress, gave thema liberal sum of money, and then went to the castle, whence he sent aplentiful supply of food and clothing. He did more. When the sick fatherrecovered, the boys were educated and provided for at his majesty'sexpense.
Visiting the stable one morning, King George found the grooms disputingso loudly that his arrival was not noticed.
"I don't care what you say, Robert," said one, in a very loud tone, "buteverybody else agrees that the man at the Three Tuns makes the best purlin Windsor."
"Purl! purl!" exclaimed the king. "What's purl, Robert?" The manner ofmaking the beverage was explained to him, and he said, "Very good drink,no doubt; but too strong for breakfast." Five years later, George, whohad such a good memory that he knew the names, numbers, and uniformof every regiment in the service, entered the stables, shortly afterdaylight, one morning, and asked a boy to whom he was unknown, where allthe men were. "I don't know, sir, replied the lad; "but they will soonbe here, for they expect the king."
"Ah! oh! Then run, boy, to the Three Tuns and say that the king expects_them_;--to the Three Tuns, boy, d' ye hear? They are sure to be there,for the landlord makes the best purl in Windsor."




CHAPTER VI.
|There was great excitement in the palace when the king entered QueenCharlotte's apartments one day, and exclaimed quite joyously, "Well,here I am, safe and well, though I have had a very narrow escape frombeing stabbed." He then proceeded to tell how a woman had presented himwith a paper, just as he was about to enter his carriage at the gateof St. James's Palace, and as he proceeded to open it she struck at himwith a knife, which pierced his clothing, but fortunately did him noinjury. She was about to repeat the thrust, when a yeoman of the guardcaught her arm and wrenched the knife from her grasp. She was proved tobe insane in the examination which followed, and sent to an asylum; butQueen Charlotte was so alarmed for the safety of her husband that shecould not bear to see him go about unattended, as he often did, andevery time he went to London she watched for his return with the utmostanxiety.
[[A.D. 1787.]] It was a great comfort to the queen when a reconciliationtook place with the Prince of Wales, after a coldness that had preventedhis attending several of the drawing-rooms. Miss Burney gives aninstance of his playfulness when he was visiting at Windsor to celebratethe return of his brother, the Duke of York, to England, after anabsence of seven years. "At near one o'clock in the morning, while thewardrobe-woman was pinning up the queen's hair, there was a suddenrap-tap at the drawing-room door. Extremely surprised, I looked at thequeen to see what should be done; she did not speak. I had never heardsuch a sound before, for at the royal doors there is always a peculiarkind of scratching or rattling of the knob instead of tapping. I heardit, however, again, and the queen called out: 'What is that?' I wasreally startled, not conceiving who could take such a liberty as to cometo the queen's apartment without being announced by a page; and nopage, I was very sure, would make such a noise. Again the rapping wasrepeated, but more smartly. I grew quite alarmed, imagining some seriousevil at hand, either regarding the king or some of the princesses.The queen, however, bade me open the door. I did so; and what was mysurprise to see there a large man, in an immense wrapping great-coatbuttoned up around his chin, so that his face was almost hidden. I stoodquite motionless for a moment;--but he, as if also surprised, drew back;I felt quite sick with sudden terror. I really thought some ruffian hadbroken into the house,--or a madman. 'Who is it?' cried the queen. 'I donot know, ma'am,' I answered. 'Who is it?' she called aloud, just asthe man took off his hat, and I beheld the Prince of Wales. Thequeen laughed heartily, and so did I, too, happy at this unexpectedexplanation. He told her eagerly that he only came to inform her therewere the most beautiful northern lights to be seen that could possiblybe imagined, and begged her to come to the gallery windows to see them."
This is a long story about a trifling matter; but it proves that theprince was at that period on friendly terms with his mother, and that hefelt privileged to lay aside court etiquette when such was the case.
[[A.D. 1788.]] Everything was forgotten by Queen Charlotte, except thealarming illness that now threatened the king. He tried to concealit as long as possible, and by so doing became much worse, until at lastthe disease affected his brain, and he was seized with delirium.This lasted so long that it was thought death would result; and thepoliticians, belonging both to the government and the opposition party,began to speculate as to how far they, individually, would be affected.The Prince of Wales and his brother of York did not behave with commondecency at this time, but gayly flew about from club to club, party toparty, without even pretending to care that their father was ill andsuffering. Their shameful conduct was universally discussed, for theyacted like men with little feeling and less brains. The poor queen hada succession of fainting spells that prostrated her almost as low asher royal husband. Between these attacks she would pace her room, toonervous to rest, and if by way of solace she attempted to read aloud toher children, she would stop in the midst of it and burst into an agonyof tears.
The royal patient constantly bewailed the fact that he could not sleep,and would pray aloud for that blessing; then he would declare that heneeded no physician but the queen, adding: "She is my best friend; wherecould I find a better?"
One night he got out of bed, and with a candle in his hand, walked tothe queen's couch to make sure that she had not left him; then he satand conversed with her, at times rather incoherently and hoarsely, fornearly an hour. The sufferer was occasionally better, but relapses wereso frequent that at last the queen was advised to remove to a room inanother part of the palace,--the one she had occupied adjoining theking's being required for the medical men and others, who, with thePrince of Wales and the Duke of York, kept watch.
One night the king suddenly appeared among them, and roughly askedwhat they were there for. They endeavored to pacify him, but in vain;he treated them all as enemies. His second son had slipped out asthe father entered, and that made a favorable impression on the poorinvalid, who said, touchingly, "Freddy is my friend,--yes, _he_ is myfriend!" At last, after a good deal of maneuvering and whispering onthe part of the gentlemen present, one of' them with gentle firmness ledhim back to bed.
Everything was badly managed at Windsor just at this time; for thesimple reason that the queen, rather from necessity than choice,submitted to the Prince of Wales and depended on him, and he lost notime in making her feel that he was supreme master. Nothing was donebut by his orders; and the queen spent her time in patient sorrow andretirement with her daughters, whose conduct formed a pleasing contrastto that of the sons.
The Prince of Wales was desirous that his father should be removed fromWindsor to Kew; but the question arose as to how he could be induced tomake the change. On being assured that the quiet and fresh air of thecountry were necessary for the patient, the queen decided to go at once.She proceeded, without state, accompanied by her daughters, to Kew. Onarriving there she found half the apartments locked up by the prince'sorders, while on the doors of the few allotted to the queen and hermodest retinue the names of those who were to occupy them were scratchedin chalk. It was night before the king arrived. He had not beenpermitted to see his wife and daughters for some weeks, and he waswheedled away from Windsor by being told that they were at Kew, and bya promise that they should be admitted to his presence. He made thejourney, therefore, in silent content, but the promise was broken. Thequeen was assured it was for the best, and the royal patient spent thenight in violence and raving because of the cruel disappointment towhich he had been subjected.
Meanwhile preparations were going on to name the prince-regent, theking's friends taking great pains that, in case of his recovery, hisrights should not be infringed upon. And he did recover this time; forDr. Willis, of Lincoln, a man who had devoted himself to the study ofnervous diseases, was summoned. He arrived with his two sons, and tookthe royal patient in charge, with such good result that on the tenth ofDecember he walked in the garden alone.
[[A.D. 1789.]] On the first day of the new year the queen was gratifiedwith a most favorable report; for Miss Burney, whose duty it was to makeinquiries about the royal patient the first thing every morning, wasinformed that during the night he had prayed aloud for his own recovery.On the eighteenth he remembered that it was the queen's birthday, andexpressed a desire to see her; but that pleasure was still denied him. Afew days later, Miss Burney was walking in the garden, when she suddenlyand most unexpectedly encountered the king, who, she supposed, hadbeen taken to Richmond Gardens. As her majesty, acting by the doctor'sadvice, had ordered everybody to keep out of the patient's way, and notto address him on any account, Miss Burney no sooner recognized him thanshe fairly took to her heels. The king called her by name, and was sodelighted at the sight of an old familiar face that he ran after her.The Willises, father and sons, followed close behind, somewhat in alarm.Miss Burney kept on in breathless affright, until the older doctorperemptorily ordered her to stop, with the assurance that furtheragitation would be injurious to the patient. She then turned andadvanced to meet the king, as though she had not before been aware ofhis presence. He put his arms around her and kissed her on thecheek, then held her lest she should run away from him while he spoke,rapidly, hoarsely, and at times incoherently, about family matters,politics, foreign affairs, art, and music,--singing something from hisfavorite Handel, but so falsely that his hearers were alarmed. He showedplainly that he was aware of his condition, and named those whom hemeant to promote and to discharge as soon as he was well.
At last, after various vain attempts, Dr. Willis induced him to returnto the house; and Miss Burney ran to relate to the queen all that hadhappened. Her majesty listened with breathless interest, and made theyoung lady repeat every word of her recital again and again. All thatthe poor queen heard filled her with encouragement, and she was not tobe disappointed; for the following month the king was well enough towrite a letter to Mr. Pitt, informing him that he was prepared to resumethe government of his realm, and appointing a day for an interview withhis council.
A message to parliament, informing them of the king's recovery, wasfollowed by bonfires, illuminations, and other demonstrations of publicrejoicing. On the seventeenth of March the queen caused Kew Palace tobe decorated with thousands of colored lanterns, and a transparency,beneath which were these lines that she herself had composed:--
               "Our prayers are heard, and Providence restores
               A patriot-king to bless Britannia's shores.
               But not to Britain is the bliss confin'd:
               All Europe hails the friend of human kind.
               If such the general joy, what words can show
               The change to transport from the depths of woe,
               In those permitted to embrace again,
               The best of fathers, husbands, and of men!"
[[A.D. 1790.]] Then the queen held a drawing-room, and afterwardsattended the theatre, so anxious was she to prove to the nationthat the king had really recovered. As she entered the play-house shoutsof welcome from an immense audience greeted her, the orchestra struckup "God save the King," and so great was the enthusiasm that it wasrepeated five times, and succeeded by an anthem, in which the spectatorstook part. A visit to St. Paul's was made by the royal family in April,when an immense concourse of people assembled to take part in theceremonies, and the king seemed fully absorbed in his devotions duringthe service. He was heard afterwards to say that his illness had beena perfect bliss to him, because it had proved how confidently he mightrely on the support of his people. Strange to say, the king's sonswere the last to acknowledge his sanity, and the least rejoiced at hisrestoration to health. They did their utmost to keep as many people aspossible away from congratulatory balls; and at one given by the Frenchambassador they would neither dance nor remain to supper, because theydesired to appear inattentive to their mother, who was present. Thereason for this conduct was that her majesty had opposed an unqualifiedregency for the prince, and neither he nor his brothers could forgiveher for standing between them and the power they coveted.
No sooner did the king resume the reins of government than, contraryto the Prince of Wales's expectations, he conveyed to parliament hisapproval of all the actions of his ministers during his long illness,and removed from office all those who had opposed his cause with a viewto gaining favor with the heir-apparent.
Queen Charlotte had a mania for the collection of precious stones,as some people have for porcelain, coins, or stamps; and at the firstdrawing-room which she held, just after the king's recovery, she fairlyglittered in a blaze of diamonds. Around her neck was a double rowof these gems, to which was suspended a medallion. Across hershoulders were festooned three rows of costly pearls, and a portrait ofthe king was hung on the back of her skirt from five rows of brilliants,producing a gorgeous effect. The tippet was of fine lace, fastened withthe letter G in diamonds of immense value, and in her majesty's hairwas "God save the King," in letters formed of the same costly gems.The princesses were beautifully attired, and all the noble ladies woreemblematical designs, painted, as fancy or loyalty dictated, on thesatin part of their headdresses.
Towards the close of the year Frederick, Duke of York, marriedFrederica, eldest daughter of the King of Prussia. The bride was inher twenty-fourth year, the groom in his twenty-eighth. She was good,handsome, accomplished, and kind-hearted; far too superior a person forso vicious a spendthrift as the prince. They were married in Berlin, butthe ceremony was repeated in London by the Archbishop of Canterburyin presence of the whole royal family. Notwithstanding that the duke'sincome was increased to thirty-five thousand pounds a year on hismarriage, he ran into debt so deeply that he could never extricatehimself, and the poor duchess became so disgusted with his shamelessdissipation and cruel neglect of herself, that at the end of six yearsof misery she left him and went to live in retirement. She was so goodand charitable that she was warmly beloved by a large number of people,and she was universally styled "The poor soldiers' Friend," because shehelped so many sick and wounded representatives of the army.
[[A.D. 1794.]] Napoleon's brilliant successes at this time cast a gloomover England, until Lord Howe won his splendid naval victory. Theroyal family visited the triumphant fleet on its return, when the kingpresented a diamond-hilted sword to the admiral, and splendid gold chains tovarious officers under his command.
Sovereigns may be popular one year and the reverse the next. So itwas with George III., though both the idolatry and the hatred ofhis subjects were undeserved. The attack against his life by themad lieutenant was followed by others which threatened to be moresuccessful. A crowd of people assembled in the park one day when theking set out in state from St. James's to attend a parliament meeting.At first a sullen silence was observed, and few hats were removed;but presently shouts of "Give us bread!" "No war!" "No king!" and manyothers arose. His majesty entered his coach and was driven off. Nosooner, however, had he reached a certain narrow street than a ball,either of lead or marble, was hurled through the window, but fortunatelypassed out at the other side without damage, excepting to the glass.George evinced the utmost calmness, and read his speech with even lesshesitation than usual. When he was disrobing afterwards the gentlemenin attendance talked about the ball that had been thrown at the royalcarriage, whereupon the king, who joined in the conversation, said:"Well, my lords, one person is proposing this, and another is supposingthat, forgetting that there is One above us all who disposes ofeverything, and on whom alone we depend." On his return the mob threwstones at the coach, which was nearly demolished, and several of themhit the king, though without doing him serious injury.
[[A.D. 1796.]] Two other attempts were made on the king's life,--onewhen he was reviewing his troops, and the other just as he enteredhis box at the theatre. On the latter occasion he behaved with so muchcourage and presence of mind, that the audience were aroused tothe highest pitch of excitement, and shouted "God save the King!"several times, and then the following stanza by Sheridan, thedistinguished orator and dramatist, was sung:--
                   "From every latent foe,
                   From the assassin's blow,
                        God save the king!
                   O'er him Thine arm extend,
                   For Britain's sake defend,
                   Our father, prince, and friend,
                        God save the king!"
We have scarcely mentioned Prince William, Duke of Clarence, third sonof George III. and Queen Charlotte. At the age of thirteen he was sentas midshipman on board a man-of-war, and told to fight his way. Heobeyed by having a wrestle with another "middy" soon after he wasafloat, and in this way secured the respect of his fellow-officers. Hewas present in several important actions, under different admirals,and when a certain Spanish commander was brought prisoner on board the"Prince George," this smart, active, young midshipman, whom he observedon duty at the gangway, was pointed out to him as a prince of the blood,he exclaimed, "Well may England be queen of the seas, when the son ofher sovereign is engaged in such duty!" Prince William was the leastcourteous of the queen's Sons,--owing, perhaps, to the fact of hishaving spent so many years among sailors, enjoying the freedom of a lifeon the ocean wave; but he was certainly coarse in manners and speech.Once he disappointed his sister, Princess Mary, very much by drinkingchampagne until he was too intoxicated to dance a minuet with her at thedrawing-room, as he had promised. We shall tell more about this princehereafter, when he becomes King of England.
Of the marriage of the Prince of Wales with Princess Caroline ofBrunswick, which took place about this time, we need only say that itbegan, continued, and ended miserably; but the particulars of itand of the remainder of their lives will be considered in the ensuingreign.
[[A.D. 1801.]] We pass over five years, and find the prince in fullopposition against the crown and Pitt, which, with other matters,weighed so heavily on the mind of the king that a return of his maladywas the consequence. He improved, after a few weeks, enough to be ableto open parliament in person; but he required constant watching, andcould not attend any of the entertainments he was in the habit ofhonoring with his patronage. He lived with the utmost regularity, butwas excessively careless about taking cold, though it was always aprelude to the attacks of brain fever that had perceptibly impaired hismind.
[[A.D. 1804.]] He was living at Windsor with his family when he againbecame suddenly and alarmingly ill. His attack was called rheumatic,but his mind was more affected than his body, and no wonder; for he wasconstantly on the rack between public affairs, changes, and quarrelsin the ministry and the conduct of his sons. He recovered after severalweeks, only to continue the contest which had begun between himselfand the Prince of Wales, relative to the residence and education of thePrincess Charlotte, daughter, of the Prince and Princess of Wales. Themonarch wished her to be placed under the supervision of the queen atWindsor, in order that she might be brought up properly; but the princeobjected merely for the sake of opposition. After years of estrangementthe father and son had an interview on the subject; but the latter wasso insulting in his tone and manner that the poor king was more annoyedthan ever.
[[A.D. 1805.]] The remaining years of his life were spent in retirement,except on rare occasions; and the queen, who watched over him with atrue wife's devotion, beheld the gradual but certain decay of his mentalfaculties, the details of which are too painful to be interesting.
The Queens of England. A gorgeous entertainment, the expense ofwhich exceeded fifty thousand pounds, was given by the king at Windsoron the installation of the Knights of the Order of the Garter; but hisconduct was so undignified, and so different from what that of a monarchshould have been on such an occasion, that the queen looked at him inamazement, and perhaps wondered whether it was all due to his disorderedmind.
[[A.D. 1809.]] The venerable monarch was not able to attend the grandfête given by Queen Charlotte, at Frogmore, in celebration of hishaving reached the fiftieth year of his reign. His sight had grownso dim that, although he rode out every day, his horse was led by aservant, and when he walked he felt his way along the terrace by meansof a stick. London and all the principal cities of the kingdom wereilluminated at the time of the jubilee, and large sums of money wereraised by subscription for the benefit of the poor. In this way manywere made happy, but the king was sad and dejected. He would often shedtears during the performance of Handel's "Total Eclipse,"--a compositionof which he was very fond, even though it reminded him of his increasingblindness. One morning the Prince of Wales entered his father'sapartment unannounced, and heard him reciting the following well-knownlines of Milton:--
               "Oh dark! dark! dark! amid the blaze of noon!
                   Irrevocably dark! Total eclipse
                   Without all hope of day!
               Oh first created beam, and Thou great word,
               Let there be light, and light was over all;
               Why am I thus deprived, thy prime decree?"
[[A.D. 1810.]] The royal household was indeed a sorrowful one when thedeath of the Princess Amelia occurred, for she was the youngest ofthe children and had always been a pet. Nothing could have been moretouching than the appearance of the afflicted father, aged andalmost blind, as he leaned over the couch of his dying child, whisperingto her words of consolation and hope of future glory. When the princessbade the king farewell, just before she died, she placed a ring on hisfinger, on which were inscribed these words, "Remember me."
From that period the king's mental state became gradually worse, andthe following year the Prince of Wales was appointed regent, though thequeen still retained the care of her husband, with the assistance ofthe council, who were constantly at Windsor. At times his majesty wouldappear better, then he would relapse into a state that offered littlehope. The queen's position was by no means a pleasant one. She wasconstantly brought in contact with the Princess of Wales, whom shethoroughly disliked; and her heart was torn by the sad scenes in whichher poor, afflicted consort played the leading part. Thus one day sheentered his room and found him singing a hymn to the accompaniment of aharpsichord, on which he was performing himself. On concluding the hymn,he knelt down, prayed for his family and the nation, and finally thatGod would restore to him the reason which he felt he had lost. At othertimes he was heard begging that he might die; then he would imagine thathe really had departed this life, and ask for a suit of black, thathe might wear mourning for the old king. Such pathetic scenes QueenCharlotte witnessed constantly. And she had other matters to worryher; for the public distress was so great that she became excessivelyunpopular, not because she had been guilty of any wrong, but simplybecause indignation had to be vented on somebody.
[[A.D. 1815.]] One day, when she was going to attend her lastdrawing-room, she was hissed and insulted by a mob that actually hadthe audacity to stop her chair. She was equal to the occasion, andshowed a great deal of pluck. Quietly letting down the window of thechair, she spoke without agitation to those nearest to her: "I am aboutseventy years of age," she said, sorrowfully; "I have been more thanhalf a century Queen of England, and I never was hissed by a mobbefore." The vulgar are easily silenced by true dignity and courage, andso the venerable lady was allowed to pass on unmolested. The Princeof Wales sent several aides-de-camp to escort his mother back home insafety; but she said to them: "You have left Carlton House by his royalhighness's orders; return there by mine, or I will leave my chair and gohome on foot."
[[A.D. 1818.]] Queen Charlotte appeared in public no more, for herhealth was declining, and she went to Bath to try and restore it,without avail. Towards the close of the year she was again at Kew, whereshe was confined to her bed with dropsy. She could not see the king, forhe was at Windsor, and it was deemed unsafe for her to move. At lasther case was pronounced hopeless, and she expired on the sixteenth ofNovember. Her last breath was drawn in the arms of her eldest son, who,during her final illness, had been unremitting in his attentions.
The queen's funeral took place on the 2d of December, the processionconsisting of horse and foot soldiers, as if they had been escorting awarrior to the tomb instead of a woman. The arrangements throughout werevery inappropriate, and few members of the peerage felt called upon todo honor to their late sovereign. Her will, which had been made only onthe day preceding her death, was a very sensible one, but she leftdebts to the amount of nine thousand pounds. These were contracted forpurposes of charity, and were of course paid, for Queen Charlottewas exceedingly benevolent without the least ostentation. Her superbdiamonds, valued at a million of pounds, were divided by her requestamong her four daughters. George III. survived his wife two years,but was never informed of her death, because he was not in a conditionto bear the sad news when he could have understood it, which was onlyat rare intervals. He now occupied a long suite of rooms, in which werepianos and harpsichords; on these he would occasionally play a few notesfrom some composition of Handel's, and then stroll on. His bodily healthwas good and his appetite was excellent, and this made the loss of hisreason only the more pitiable. He generally wore a blue robe-de-chambrefastened with a belt in the morning, and changed it for a costume ofbrocaded silk in the afternoon. As he wandered through his apartments,which he could do even though he had become totally blind, the old kingwould speak to the dear ones, whom he fancied were near him, but alwaysmade the replies himself, or he would address an imaginary parliament,and, when exhausted, fall back in a kind of delirium.
[[A.D. 1820.]] As the new year opened the health of George III. began tofail, and he was soon reduced almost to a skeleton. For a month hewas confined to his bed, and on the 29th of January breathed his last,without the slightest pain. He was nearly eighty-two years of age at thetime of his death.




CHAPTER VII. CAROLINE OF BRUNSWICK, WIFE OF GEORGE IV.
(A.D. 1768-1821.)
|Those who have read the preceding pages will remember the birth of the"Lady Augusta," because of the quarrel that event occasioned between herfather, Frederick, Prince of Wales, and her grandfather, George II. Shegrew up a beautiful, accomplished woman,--the favorite sister of GeorgeIII., whose protection she was forced to seek after she had reachedmiddle age. We have nothing to do with that part of her life, however,nor with her childhood, which was passed quietly with scarcely anyremarkable incidents. When she was twenty-seven years of age shemarried Charles William Frederick, Hereditary Prince of Brunswick, a mandistinguished for his fine appearance, courtly manners, and heroism onthe field of battle.
He soon won the heart of "Lady Augusta," and she promised to marry him,though the king and queen were by no means pleased with the match. Whenthe prince arrived on English soil the people of Harwich pressed forwardin crowds to have a look at him, and a simple-hearted Quaker forcedhis way into the bridegroom's apartments, and taking off his hat, said:"Noble friend, give me thy hand!" It was given to him, and after kissingit, he added, "Although I do not fight myself, I love a brave man that will fight; thou art a valiant prince and art to bemarried to a lovely princess; love her, make her a good husband, and theLord will bless thee both!"
This was the warmest greeting the bridegroom received in England, forthe royal couple treated him with marked coldness, and Queen Charlottedid all she could to prevent too great an outlay of money. To besure, she gave the bride a gold watch set with jewels of exquisiteworkmanship, and George III. presented her a diamond necklace worththirty thousand pounds; but everything pertaining to the wedding wasconducted on a very simple scale, considering the rank of the principalparties concerned, and not a gun was fired by way of congratulatorysalute. The servants of the royal household were not even permittedto put on their new attire, either for the wedding ceremony or thedrawing-room, which was held next day; but were ordered to reserve themfor the queen's birthday.
As soon as the marriage ceremony was performed the bridal pair droveto the Leicester House, where a splendid supper awaited them. It was aseason when political party spirit ran high, and George III. took greatpains to conceal the unpromising condition of affairs from the prince.But it would have been a very unobservant person who had failed tonotice the difference between the enthusiasm accorded to the youngcouple on their arrival at the theatre a few nights later, and the lackof it that signalized the entrance of their majesties. Queen Charlottewas young then, and it is certain that she did not love the bride andgroom any better because of their seeming popularity.
Horace Walpole describes their visit on the next night at the OperaHouse thus: "The crowd is not to be described. Many noble ladies sat onchairs between the scenes; the doors of the boxes were thrown open, andthe boxes were all filled to the back of the stoves; nay, women offashion stood on the very stairs till eight at night. In the middle ofthe second act the Hereditary Prince of Brunswick turned his back to theking and queen, pretending to offer his place to Lady Tankerville. Youknow enough of Germans and their stiffness to etiquette to be sure thatthis could not be done inadvertently, especially as he repeated thisonly without standing up with one of his own gentlemen in the thirdact."
Now it is very probable that the prince was far from pleased at thetreatment he had received at the hands of his bride's brother andsister-in-law; but it is scarcely likely that he would be guilty ofa desire to insult the king, whose guest he was. Several grand ballssucceeded the wedding, and then the bride and groom went in separatecarriages, each with three uninteresting attendants, on their way toHarwich. Arriving at the sea-coast, they embarked on separate yachtsfor Holland, and had such a tempestuous voyage that they were ingreat danger most of the way. This seems a rather unsociable way oftravelling; but perhaps court etiquette required the prince and princesseach to have a different ship.
A grand ovation awaited them all along the route to their home-inBrunswick, where they were greeted with a hearty welcome by all theducal family. This union proved a happy one; but we shall have nothingmore to say about it, merely having introduced the Prince and Princessof Brunswick, because they became the parents of Caroline AmeliaElizabeth, the subject of this sketch.
[[A.D. 1768.]] Caroline, their second daughter, was born in 1768. Herhome education was very imperfect, for there was a lack of disciplinein it that colored her after-life. It was her misfortune that she earlydiscovered how to be mistress of her weak-minded mother, for whom shehad, in consequence, little respect. She was good-hearted, bututterly wanting in tact and common sense.
As a punishment for certain indiscretions, she was not allowed to appearat court for a few months; and when she returned an aged lady kindlysaid that she hoped it would not be necessary for her to be dismissedagain, whereupon she pertly replied: "Gone is gone, and will neverreturn, and what is to come will come of itself." Caroline delightedin making dashing, fearless remarks that too often excited a smileand encouraged a repetition. After a lesson in natural history, hergoverness once asked, "In what country is the lion to be found?" "Well,"answered the princess deliberately, "I should say, you may find him inthe heart of a Brunswicker." When taking part in any boisterous game,of which she was very fond, if her attendant warned her of danger, shewould reply: "A Brunswicker dares do anything!" or, "A Brunswicker doesnot know that thing,--fear."
[[A.D. 1780.]] "How would you define time and space?" asked her father,when she was not more than twelve years of age. "Space is in the mouthof Madame von L----------," she answered, "and time is in her face."When told that it was not becoming for so young a lady to have opinionsof her own, she rather cleverly returned, "People without opinions oftheir own are like those barren tracts which will not bear grass."
This young princess's religious education was as sadly neglected as herhome-training. Like many other royal German ladies, she could not decidewhat church she was to join, until she knew what prince she wasto marry; and then, having been taught morality, but no creed, theprincesses were ready to adapt their consciences to the Greek, RomanCatholic, or Protestant faith, just as it happened. Two offers ofmarriage had been refused by Princess Caroline, when the Duke ofYork, commander of the English force in Holland, made a visit to hisaunt at the court of Brunswick, and was so favorably impressed with hisyoung cousin that he went back home with quite a flattering report abouther. George III. had never seen his niece; but, when he heard so muchabout her, he began to consider what sort of a match he could managebetween her and his eldest son, the Prince of Wales.
[[A.D. 1794.]] Of this prince so much has been said in the previousreign that it will be necessary for us to take up his life only at thetime of his marriage. As his union with Mrs. Fitzherbert was illegal,the prince provided for her a sumptuous house at Brighton, and findinghimself over head and ears in debt, agreed to take a wife who couldhelp him out of his dilemma. It must not be supposed that the Prince ofBrunswick would or could pay the seventy thousand pounds that the Princeof Wales owed, but parliament had agreed to do so if he would consent tomarry. So for the sake of his creditors, and his own peace of mind withregard to them, he wrote to Caroline of Brunswick, and offered her hishand in marriage. She replied coolly but favorably; and, as the prince'sfinancial affairs were getting more and more desperate, what, withhorse-racing and all sorts of dissipation, he lost no time in setting onfoot the arrangements for his marriage.
Lord Malmesbury was selected for the prince's proxy, and he wasinstructed to bring Princess Caroline to England without usingany discretion in the matter whatever. He reached Brunswick on thetwenty-eighth of November, and was received with a most enthusiasticwelcome. Then he saw the future Queen of England for the first time.She was an accomplished, high-spirited girl of twenty-seven, who spokeEnglish fluently, and dressed tastefully. She had fair hair, expressive,almond-shaped eyes, good teeth, and a delicately formed mouth. Herface was pretty, but her figure was rather undersized and not graceful.This was a slight defect compared with one of which Lord Malmesburyspeaks in his diary. We refer to uncleanliness, which seems to have beensadly apparent in this pretty creature, and was in great part due to herbad training.
The duchess was indiscreet enough to talk disparagingly of QueenCharlotte to the English ambassador; but she was so fond of gossipthat she could not lose this opportunity of telling how she had been anobject of envy and dislike to her sister-in-law, who had been ready toquarrel with King George because he had given her a handsome diamondring on her marriage. "George is more kind-hearted than wise-headed,"she added, "and loves me as well as he could love anybody."
Lord Malmesbury had not been in Brunswick more than a week when MajorHyslop arrived with a portrait of the Prince of Wales, and a privateletter to his envoy, urging him to set out with the Princess Carolineimmediately. Whether it was impatience to possess his bride, curiosityto behold her, or the increasing demands of creditors that promptedthe message, we can only guess; but the marriage was celebrated on theeighth of December, just five days after Major Hyslop's arrival.
Lord Malmesbury was the person to name the day of departure for England,and after a consultation with the Duke of Brunswick, he wrote thebridegroom that providing he received intelligence of the sailing ofthe fleet from England, which was to serve for a wedding escort, by theeleventh, he should set out on that day with the princess.
The Duke of Brunswick spent his mornings in consultations with LordMalmesbury, and these were succeeded by public dinners and operas, thePrincess Caroline appearing on each occasion as the heroine. Thefather begged of the ambassador always to recommend to the princessdiscretion, adding: "She is not a fool, but she has no judgment; sheis too curious, and too free in expressing her opinions aloud aboutpeople." Thus Lord Malmesbury became a sort of mentor to the youngbride, and constantly gave her instructions how to act, well knowingthat she would have to be very discreet if she was to succeed in her newposition.
Lord Malmesbury escorted the princess to a masquerade ball at the courtopera house, and acted as a check on her whenever she seemed disposed toenter into the spirit of the fun, as she had done before her marriage.A strange conversation took place between these two during one of thesedances. They had retired to one of the private boxes, and the briderepeated the questions regarding her future state that naturallyoccupied her mind all the time. Among other things, Lord Malmesbury toldher that she should never miss going to church on Sundays, as the kingand queen were always punctual in their attendance. This did not pleasethe princess, and she inquired if the prince was like his parents inthat respect. Lord Malmesbury replied, that if he were not, she wouldbring him to it; and if he would not go with her she would do wellto set a good example and go with him. "You must tell him that thefulfilling regularly and exactly this duty can alone enable you toperform exactly and regularly those you owe him. This cannot but pleasehim, and will in the end induce him to go to church."
The envoy well knew that no amount of advice or training could fit ayoung, innocent woman to conform to the habits of the prince whom herepresented. The princess thought his conversation very serious for amasquerade, and told him so, whereupon he gayly defended himself; buthe took another opportunity to say that, "in the order of societythose of a very high rank have a price to pay for it. The life ofa Princess of Wales is not to be one of pleasure, dissipation,and enjoyment. The advantages belonging to it must be purchased bysacrifices, which must be constantly repeated."
Princess Caroline took all that Lord Malmesbury told her in good part,and even expressed a desire that he should be her lord-chamberlain whenshe established her household, but though he felt flattered at this markof her esteem, he said that he desired no favors. So the guardian goton very well with his ward, though she said, wearily one day that she"never should be able to learn all those things."
At length the time approached for the departure of the bride. It was herdesire to take one Mademoiselle Rosenzweit with her to England as "asort of reader," but as soon as the prince heard of it he peremptorilyobjected, and said that he would not have her in that or any othercapacity. The Duke and Duchess of Brunswick were very angry at thisexercise of authority on the part of the bridegroom, but they wereforced to submit. However, the duke took occasion to say to the envoythat the reason why he was anxious to have Mademoiselle Rosenzweitwith his daughter was that she could write and spell, in whichaccomplishments the princess failed, therefore her services would beneeded.
At last, on the twenty-ninth of December, the bride left Brunswick, butit was three months before she reached England. This delay was causedby the war which was raging between the French on one side and the Dutchand English on the other. Major Hyslop went forward to give noticein case of danger, and to see that all necessary arrangements werecompleted for the comfort of the party. The citizens of Brunswickgathered in crowds to bid farewell to their princess, and a volley wasfired from the ramparts as she passed out of her native town.
For three days the travellers continued on their way, but made very slowprogress, for they were often detained by the movements of the troops,and suffered considerably from cold. The princess found her ladycompanions so dull and stupid that she invited Lord Malmesbury to ridein her coach with her, but he declared that it would be a breach ofetiquette, at which the princess laughed very heartily; but he was fartoo proper a person to consent to anything of which all the world wouldnot approve, so the bride was forced to submit.
[[A.D. 1795.]] There was a delay of several days at Osnaburg, and LordMalmesbury relates an anecdote as an illustration of the princess'slack of judgment. There were a great many poor French emigrants at thisplace, some of them actually dying of hunger and exposure. When Carolinesaw them she was filled with compassion, but did not know how to setabout assisting them. "I tell her liberality and generosity are anenjoyment, not a severe virtue," says the lord mentor in his notes. "Shegives a louis for some lottery tickets; I give ten, and say the princessordered me to do it. She looked surprised, and I told her that I wassure she did not mean to give only the value of the ticket, and thatI merely forestalled her intention. Next day an emigrant with a prettychild draws near the table; the Princess Caroline immediately, of herown accord, puts ten louis in a paper and gives it to the child. Theduchess, who goes with us as far as the sea, observes it, and inquiresof me what it was. I tell her a demand on her purse; she looksembarrassed, and says, in French, 'I have only my pretty doubleBrunswick louis, which would look prettier in the hands of that childthan in your pocket,' I answered. She felt ashamed, and gave threeof them. In the evening, Princess Caroline, to whom this sort of virtuewas never preached, on my praising the coin of the Brunswick money,offers me very seriously eight or ten double louis, saying (in French,which we translate): 'Oh, I beg of you to take them; they are a meretrifle--of no consequence whatever.' This shows how little she coulddistinguish between benevolence and the mere act of throwing away moneylike a child. I took an opportunity at supper of defining to her whatreal charity was, and I recommended it to her as a quality thatwould, if rightly employed, make her more admirers and give her moresatisfaction, than any that human nature could possess. The idea wasperfectly new to her, but she felt the truth of it; and she certainly isnot fond of money, as both her parents are."
On the 18th of January the escort wrote: "Princess Caroline was verymiss-ish at supper. I much fear these habits are irrevocably rooted inher. She is naturally curious and a gossip; she is quick and observing,and she has a silly pride of finding out everything.. She thinks herselfparticularly acute in discovering likings, and this leads her at timesto the most improper remarks and conversation. I am determined to takean opportunity of correcting her, cost what it may."
Princess Caroline flattered herself that she would reform her husband;for although Lord Malmesbury had dropped numerous hints as to his vices,he had so whitewashed the general character of the prince as to makehim appear far less of a scapegrace than he really was. She knew of hisdisagreement with his parents, but thought she would be able to act thepart of the good angel, and reconcile them; that she would domesticatehim and give him a taste for virtue, and thus gain for herself andhim the blessings of a grateful nation. Thus, filled with goodintentions, did this young bride declare herself ready, and withconfidence in her own capacity, to undertake the reformation of a manshe had never seen. She was not long, poor girl! in finding out howutterly useless such a task would be, and how impossible even to makethe attempt.
The travellers did not reach Hanover until the twenty-fourth of January,and they had suffered so intensely from the severe weather that theduchess was as cross and ill-natured as possible, while her daughterpreserved her patience and good humor throughout the journey. There wasone matter that gave Lord Malmesbury great concern, and that was thetoilette of his charge. During their sojourn of three weeks at Hanoverhe had several discussions with her upon this subject, and this is whathe wrote on the eighteenth of February, in his diary: "Argument with theprincess about her toilette. She piques herself on dressing quickly;I disapprove this. She maintains her point; I, however, desire MadameBusche to explain to her that the prince is very delicate, and that heexpects a long and very careful toilette, of which she has no idea. Onthe contrary, she neglects it sadly, and is offensive from this neglect.Madame Busche executes her commission well, and the princess comes outthe next day well washed all over."
The Madame Busche, to whom the lord refers, was a court lady, whoattended the princess from Brunswick. It would quite be edifying couldwe be informed what argument she brought to bear in order to induce thebride to take a bath; but it is to be hoped that once having discoveredthe necessity of daily ablutions, there was no need of further reminderson that subject. But washing alone was not enough; the princess was sountidy about her clothing that her escort was forced to make anotherappeal to the court ladies, since he scarcely dared to broach sodelicate a point to the princess herself.

He says: "I had conversations with the Princess Caroline on thetoilette, on cleanliness and on delicacy of speaking. On these pointsI endeavored, as far as it was possible for a man, to inculcate thenecessity of great and nice attention to every part of dress,--as wellto what was hid as what was seen. I knew she wore coarse petticoats,coarse chemises, and thread stockings, and these never well washed orchanged often enough. I observed that a long toilet was necessary, andgave her no credit for boasting that hers was a short one. What I couldnot say myself on this point I got said through women: through MadameBusche, and afterwards through Mrs. Harcourt. It is remarkable howamazingly on this point her education has been neglected, and how muchher mother, although an Englishwoman, was inattentive to it. I hadanother conversation with her on speaking slightingly to the duchess;being peevish to her, and often laughing at her or about her. On thatpoint I talked very seriously indeed--said that nothing was so extremelyimproper, so radically wrong; that it was impossible, if shereflected for a moment, that she should not be sorry for everydisrespectful word she uttered to her mother, who always showed themost tender affection for her. The princess felt this, and it made atemporary impression. But on this, as on all other subjects, I have hadtoo many opportunities to observe that her heart is very, very light,incapable of strong or lasting feelings. In some respects this may makeher happier, but certainly not better."
At last news came that the fleet had arrived off Stade, and that was asignal for the mother and daughter to part. The duchess was affected totears; but Caroline behaved with sense and propriety, and kept up herspirits all the way. Three days later the bridal party reached thecoast, and embarked on board the "Jupiter," a fifty-gun ship, while therest of the fleet poured forth a thundering salute.
One of the ladies selected to attend the bride was Mrs. Harcourt, whohad met her at Hanover; the other was Lady Jersey, who awaited her inEngland. The squadron arrived off Yarmouth in due season; but a thickfog set in, and it was not until noon on Saturday, a week from the dayof sailing, that they dropped anchor off Gravesend. The princess won thehearts of the officers and seamen by her cheerfulness and affability,which called forth the praise even of Lord Malmesbury.
On Sunday morning the bridal party was transferred to one of the royalyachts, and, after a pleasant sail, reached Greenwich at noon. Vastcrowds had assembled to greet the princess, but not the bridegroom orany of his family. There was a delay of more than an hour, because thelady-in-waiting was behindhand, and had kept the carriages until she wasready. When she did at last arrive she turned up her nose at the costumeof the princess, and behaved so rudely that Lord Malmesbury had to takeher to task for it. This costume consisted of a muslin gown overa blue satin petticoat, with a black beaver hat, in which were blue andblack plumes. Lady Jersey had brought a rich white satin frock and anelegant turban, which the bride was required to put on at the governor'shouse before proceeding to London.
The procession, consisting of two coaches, each drawn by six whitehorses, and escorted by a detachment of the prince's own regiment, thenstarted, and the bride must have been somewhat surprised at the smallgreeting and applause she met by the way.
About half-past two she alighted at St. James's Palace, and wasconducted to the rooms of the Duke of Cumberland, which had beenprepared for her use. Then the windows were opened, and the princessstepped out upon the balcony to show herself to the crowd. LordMalmesbury at once went for the prince, who, it must be admitted, hadnot shown much eagerness to behold the bride. How the poor stranger'sheart must have fluttered at this moment, with none of her owncountryfolk near to advise and guide her! She had not long to wait; forthe prince soon appeared, and this is the report of the interview asgiven by the lord, whose duties were not yet over: "I, according to theestablished etiquette, introduced (no one else being in the room) thePrincess Caroline to him. She, very properly, in consequence of mysaying it was the right mode of proceeding, attempted to kneel to him.He raised her gracefully enough, and embraced her, said barely one word,turned round, retired to a distant part of the apartment, and calling meto him, said: 'Harris, I am not well; pray get me a glass of brandy.' Isaid, 'Sir, had you not better have a glass of water?'--upon which he,much out of humor, said, _with an oath_, 'No! I will go directly tothe queen. And away he went. The princess, left during this shortmoment alone, was in a state of astonishment, and on my joining her,said: 'Mon Dieu, is he always like that? I find him very fat, and notat all like the picture he sent me.'" No wonder she was shocked at suchtreatment; it was a wretched beginning to her new life, and showed, evenmore plainly than she suspected, what her future treatment was to be.
Lord Malmesbury tried to mend matters as best he could, and stammeredout a lame apology: "His royal highness was a good deal affected andflurried at this first meeting; but would be better by dinner-time."Of course the princess was not to be deceived by such an excuse, andembarrassed her companion by indulging in no end of uncomplimentaryremarks. Relief came to him in the shape of a summons to wait upon theking at once.
Strange as it may appear, his majesty immediately began to discuss thewar and foreign politics; and then, having satisfied himself on thesepoints, suddenly seemed to remember the purpose of Lord Malmesbury'smission to the continent. He had only one question to ask about hisson's wife: "Is she good-humored?"
"I have never seen her otherwise, even when severely tried," was thereply. "I glad of it," said the king, significantly; for he well knewwhat need she would have of that quality.
Lady Jersey acted as a spy while waiting on the princess, and hadmanaged to worm a secret out of her during the short time they wereat Greenwich together, which she lost no time in communicating to theprince. This was a love affair with a young German, and the knowledgeof it made the prince exceedingly angry. That evening at dinner, theprincess behaved absurdly. She was "flippant, rattling, affectingraillery and wit," that proved her a very coarse, vulgar person. Thebridegroom was thoroughly disgusted and everybody else astonished; forthere was none of the shyness or reserve that would seem naturaland becoming to a young woman in such a position.
When opportunity offered, the prince asked Harris what he thought of theprincess's manners, and took him to task for bringing her to England atall. Lord Malmesbury then informed the prince of the injunctions he hadreceived from the Duke of Brunswick, at the same time assuring him thathe had observed only slight defects of character, that he hoped mightbe amended, and adding, that no discretion had been left to him inthe matter, as he had merely been ordered to ask for the hand of thePrincess Caroline in marriage, and nothing more, and that he wouldnot have presumed to give any opinion of his own upon the lady, unlessrequested to do so; and even in that case it would only have been instrict confidence to the king himself. The prince sighed, but he was notconsoled, and his disgust for his bride was fast turning to hatred.
After the dinner was over the king and queen, with other members of thefamily, arrived, and the princess was presented in due form. The kingwas kind and affectionate towards his niece, but the queen was so coldand unfriendly that everybody present noticed it. On the eighth of Aprilall the royal family dined together at the Queen's Palace, BuckinghamHouse, and after the meal they retired to their separate apartmentsto dress for the wedding ceremony, which took place at night. It wasperformed in the Chapel Royal at St. James's by the Archbishop ofCanterbury. The prince handed his hat with its rich diamond buckle toLord Harcourt to hold, and then made him a present of it. During theprocession it was noticed that the Prince and Princess of Wales scarcelyaddressed a single remark to each other, although they walked side byside. Some chroniclers say that the prince had partaken so freely ofwine during the dinner which
The Queens of England. preceded the ceremony that he had to be heldup in the chapel between two dukes, and scarcely seemed aware of whathe was about. This may not be a fact, but he certainly behaved verystrangely during the ceremony; for he got up from his knees at the wrongtime and interrupted the archbishop, who stood silently wondering whathe intended to do. It was the king who stepped forward and whispered tohis son, who then resumed his position, and allowed the service to beconcluded. With the bridegroom behaving as he did, and taking no painsto conceal his displeasure, the wedding must have been a melancholyaffair indeed. After all the legal formalities had been disposed of,there was a grand supper at Buckingham House, and at midnight thenewly-wedded pair went to their own home at Carlton House. It is saidthey had their first quarrel on the way, which is not surprising if itbe really true that the prince had been drinking too freely, and he wasprobably not more abstemious at supper than he had been at dinner. Thecity was illuminated, and there was great rejoicing in honor of theroyal marriage, though perhaps a peep into the hearts of the principalparties concerned would have shown more cause to weep than to rejoice.
Two days after the marriage the royal couple returned to Windsor, wherethey spent a few days, then went to a country-seat belonging to theprince at Kempshott. The bride had only one lady-in-waiting with her atthat time, and she was her sole female, companion; but the prince wassurrounded by a lot of his low friends, who constantly were to be found,in one part of the house or another, in such a state of intoxication asto be sleeping and snoring on the sofas. After two or three weeks the"happy pair" established themselves at Carlton House, and then theprincess was for the first time presented to the public at the theatre.The princess had evidently formed good resolutions, which appearedin her amiable and prudent behavior. The change that came over her latermust, therefore, be attributed, in great part, to the ill-treatment shereceived at the hands of the ruffian she was so unfortunate as to havemarried.

The lady-in-waiting that was forced upon her was an objectionableperson, and most disagreeable to the princess, who saw her treated withcordiality in the queen's house and even invited to play cards withthe princesses. This was not customary, and King George expressed hisdisapproval of such proceedings, but he was overruled.
The first serious matter to which the prince turned his attentionafter his marriage was the payment of his debts, which were perfectlyenormous. But he had accepted a wife solely on condition that hiscreditors should be satisfied; and when it was proposed by one of themembers of parliament that a yearly deduction should be made out ofhis revenue for that purpose he was highly indignant. If he had been anhonest man he would never have contracted debts that were far in excessof his income; but, having done so, he ought to have been eager toretrench. He preferred to throw himself on the mercy of his country,like a spendthrift and a pauper, and afterwards continue in his recklesscourse.
Princess Caroline was soon made aware that her marriage was part of abargain, the price being the payment of her husband's debts; also thathe had been formerly married to Mrs. Fitzherbert, on whom he had settleda superb mansion in Park Lane. No one can deny that the young wife hadmuch to complain of, though it may not justify her future conduct.
While parliament remained in a state of indecision regarding theprince's debts, his brother, the Duke of Clarence, afterwards WilliamIV., made an extraordinary harangue, which created no little surprise.He represented that it was taking advantage of the _poor innocent_prince to make any opposition to the full payment of all hisobligations, when it was well known that his consent to his marriagehad been obtained with that understanding. This was certainly an honestspeech, and perhaps a proof of brotherly interest and partisanship; butit can scarcely be pronounced discreet or delicate.
At last, after no end of propositions, debates, and disputes, Mr.Pitt's suggestion was agreed upon. This was an income of one hundred andtwenty-five thousand pounds a year for the prince, besides his revenuefrom the duchy of Cornwall, of thirteen thousand pounds more. Inaddition, the princess was to have fifty thousand pounds, besides twentythousand pounds for jewels, and twenty-six thousand pounds for therefurnishing of Carlton House. The old standing debts of the Princeof Wales were all settled, and this was no trifling affair; for to hisferrier alone he was indebted forty thousand pounds, and to his jewellereighty-five thousand pounds. This included the four thousand pounds thatthe jewelled frame had cost in which the prince's miniature had beenplaced before it was sent to Brunswick. It is not surprising that thebride was disappointed when she beheld the original, after having viewedhis flattered counterpart with such a surrounding.




CHAPTER VIII.
[[A.D. 1796.]] |Long before the first year of their marriage wascompleted the princess was living almost in solitary confinement atBrighton, while her good-for-nothing husband was leading the gayestsort of an existence in London, courted and honored at all the brilliantparties he attended, and almost ignoring the fact that he had a wife. Hehad abandoned his extravagant court at Carlton House for a time, becausehe was not entirely satisfied with the revenue that had been settled onhim; so he showed his discontent by assuming a theatrical air of injuredinnocence, poked his wife off in the country, and continued his shamefulcourse.
Then, feeling justly indignant at her husband's neglect, and at thecoldness of all of the royal family, excepting the old king, who wasalways her firm friend, the princess was guilty of an indiscretion, theeffect of which went far towards completing her ruin. This consistedin writing letters to her relations in Brunswick, in which she not onlycomplained piteously of her own position, but imprudently made use ofvery harsh terms towards the queen and the princesses, who shedeclared disliked her exceedingly, and seemed to take special painsto misrepresent her every action. Her situation was without doubtdistressing, and it seems not unnatural for the young wife to yearn forsome sympathizing friend in whose ear she could pour forth her taleof wrong and regret; but we know that lack of judgment was PrincessCaroline's greatest fault, and it appears plainly in this, instance. Shedid not write a dignified, sorrowful appeal to her parents, telling themof her blasted hopes, and asking advice, for which there might have beensome excuse; but she sent pages of gossip and sarcastic abuse ofher relations in England to various parties in her native land,tittle-tattle, unwise as it was unrefined, and unladylike.
These letters she confided to the care of Doctor Randolph, a clergyman,who was going to Germany, and promised to deliver them. All hisarrangements were made for the journey when Mrs. Randolph fell ill,and it was abandoned. The packet of letters written by the princess wasforthwith returned under cover, addressed to Lady Jersey. That maliciousspy carried them to the queen, by whom they were read, and displayedamong the different members of the royal family, the Prince of Walesincluded. Of course this dishonorable action was not reported to thewriter of the letters, who remained in ignorance of their fate formany years; therefore she continued to suffer from the ever-increasingcoldness and disdain of her husband and his family, excepting the king,without being able to account for it. She had committed a fault, butcompared with those of the prince it sinks into insignificance; for hewas a heartless, treacherous reprobate from his cradle to his grave.
Princess Caroline had a little daughter born in the early part of thenew year at Carlton House. The father pronounced her a "finelittle girl," and she was christened Charlotte Augusta. The usualcongratulatory addresses were prepared; yet, when the corporation ofLondon desired to present theirs, they were informed that, as the princehad reduced his establishment, he was unable to receive them "ina manner suitable to the situation," yet they might send it to him. Tothis they very properly refused to listen, whereupon his royal highnesssent for the Lord Mayor, and gracefully proclaimed his sentiments ofveneration and esteem for the corporation of the city of London withmany lame excuses for not receiving the address. He did not, however,add that he was at that very moment contemplating a final separationfrom the princess, which was his real reason for declining publicrejoicings.
Soon after he went to Windsor to live, and the princess was so lonelywith the few old people selected by the queen to be her companions thatshe complained both to the king and the prince. The consequence was amessage sent to her through Lady Cholmondeley, saying that "they oughtto separate." This was no shock to the young mother, who had beenprepared by the prince's neglect to expect nothing better; but, whenthis message had been repeated several times, she merely replied, "Thatshe would be quite happy to live with her husband provided a change wasmade in his behavior."
The prince's message was followed by a letter, in which, after writing"our inclinations are not in our power, nor should either of us be heldanswerable to the other because nature has not made us suitable to eachother," he proposed that they should live apart, and meet in societymerely as ordinary acquaintances. The injured wife agreed to this, onlystipulating that the separation should be forever, and concluded herreply thus: "You will find enclosed a copy of my letter to the king.As I have at this moment no protector but his majesty, I refer myselfsolely to him on this subject; and, if my conduct meets his approbation,I shall be in some degree at least consoled.
"I retain every sentiment of gratitude for the situation in which I findmyself as Princess of Wales; enabled by your means to indulge in the free use of a virtue dear to my heart--Imean charity. It will be my duty likewise to act upon another motive,that of giving an example of patience and resignation under everytrial."
In this dignified, sensible answer, the prince could see only that hewas to be rid of the creature whom he had used as a tool to relieve himof his embarrassments, and agreed without a moment's hesitation to herwish that their separation should be final.
The king attempted to patch up a reconciliation, but did not succeed. Hethen suggested an allowance of twenty thousand pounds for the princess,but she declined any stipulated sum, and declared that her bills shouldbe sent to the prince for settlement. Public opinion was in favor ofthe princess; and the first time she appeared at the opera, after theseparation, she was greeted with a tremendous outburst of applause,that must have been galling to the prince. It certainly alarmed the poorlady, who said, "she supposed she should be guillotined on accountof it." She had contrived before this to dismiss Lady Jersey, who wasexcessively obnoxious to her, and Lady Carnarvon and Mrs. Fitzroy wereladies-in-waiting in her stead.
The princess now gathered about her friends well known for their rankand respectability, all of whom were impressed by her good senseand discretion. This makes it very clear that she was driven, by apersistent course of ill-treatment, to the follies of her later life. Itwas so painful for her to appear at court, where she met with coldnessand disdain, that she made a humble appeal, both to the king and theprince, to be relieved from doing so; and the public felt so muchsympathy with her that her request could not be refused. The worthy oldking had a warm feeling for his favorite sister's child, and was grievedat the indignity she had suffered; so he wrote her a kind, fatherlyletter, urging her to make another attempt at reconciliation withthe prince. His tone throughout was affectionate and sensible, and headvised her to intimate to her husband that she desired his return, andto promise that no reproaches should disturb his equanimity if he wouldconsent. With the belief that the king would not so have written unlesshe had reason to suppose that his son was willing to become reconciledto her, the princess eagerly undertook the task of writing to him, andfor the moment felt buoyed up with the hope of winning him. This is acopy of her letter:--
"I avail myself with the greatest ardor of the king's desire, whoseletter shows me that you are willing to yield to his wishes, which fillsme with the greatest delight. I look forward with infinite pleasure tothe moment that will bring you to Carlton House, and that will foreverterminate a misunderstanding which, on my side, I assure you, will neverbe thought of again. If you do me the honor of seeking my society infuture, I will do everything to make it agreeable to you. If I shoulddisplease you, you must be generous enough to forgive me, and count uponmy gratitude, which I shall feel to the end of my life. I may look forthis as mother of your daughter, and as one who is ever yours."
This humble appeal had no effect on the prince, and, finding ittreated with silent contempt, the princess gave up all hopes of areconciliation, and went to live with a few ladies at Montague House,near Blackheath. Her little daughter was not allowed to accompany her,but was kept at Carlton House, under the direction of Lady Elgin andMiss Hayman, the sub-governess.
The prince continued to live at Carlton House, but saw very little ofhis daughter, because he had not much time for anything but his ownpleasures, and she constituted no part of them. However, ratherthan leave her to the care of her mother, he assumed some concernfor her welfare, and by his gracious and charming manners made a mostfavorable impression on Miss Hayman.
[[A.D. 1797.]] The princess visited her daughter about once a week, andloved the little thing so dearly that she made several applications tothe prince to be allowed to have her at Montague House; but he nevernoticed them. Miss Hayman thus describes one of the royal mother'svisits to the nursery:--
"The princess came in to see me and spoke very affably. She asked meif I did not find the infant wonderfully like the Prince of Wales, andwhether I was fond of children, and added that her little Charlotte hadbeen naughty, but was now, by Lady Elgin's care, quite good. She stayedabout half an hour, and selected some lace for the baby's frocks.When Lady Elgin came in she said, 'Miss Hayman must now kiss her royalhighness's hand;' but the princess got up and said, 'Oh, no! We willshake hands instead,' and turned the whole formality into a jest. Shethen began a gossiping conversation on novels, and showed throughout thewarm-heartedness and kindliness, the indiscretion and want of dignitywhich, Lord Malmesbury had noticed in her."
Miss Hayman was removed from the royal nursery at the end of threemonths, because the princess seemed to favor her: but she was then takeninto service at Montague House, where pleasant parties were oftengiven, and the friends of the princess contrived to pass the time quitemerrily. Sir Gilbert Elliot, Lord and Lady Wood, the Duke and Duchessof Hamilton, the Edens, and Lord Thurlow were among the guests, and,strange to say, the last was friend and adviser to both the Prince andPrincess of Wales. Sir Gilbert Elliot constantly praises the conduct ofthe injured wife, and declares that she was utterly undeservingof "such strange neglect." He said of her besides: "Her countenance isremarkably lively and pleasing; I think her positively a handsome woman,but she is a little indiscreet; for she is apt to select any new guest,to whom she will pour out the whole story of her wrongs, while the reststand about and look on."
The Princess Charlotte was sometimes taken to visit her mother. On oneof these occasions she was permitted to remain in the drawing-roomuntil dinner was announced, and all the guests pronounced her one of thefinest and pleasantest of children. The mother got down on her knees andromped and played with her child for a long time. When the little girlbecame unruly one day, Miss Garth, a lady-in-waiting, said to her, "Youhave been so naughty, I don't know what we must do with you."
"You must soot me," she replied,--meaning shoot her.
Although the life of Princess Caroline was in some respects a sad one,she passed many pleasant hours in company with her friends, dancing,playing cards, blind man's buff, and other games, interspersed withmusical parties.
[[A.D. 1798.]] After many months the idea of a reconciliation wasbroached by the prince and his advisers; but fancying that she saw someobject for which she was again to be made a tool, the shrewd princesswas determined that unless the matter was laid before her in due formshe would treat it according to the example the prince had shown her.She was right; for Mrs. Fitzherbert, who always considered herselfthe only real wife of the Prince of Wales, was again honored by hisattentions. She had been the person selected by himself for a wife, theDuke of York was her firm friend, the queen was kind and attentive, andGeorge III. treated her with the tenderness of a father from the timeof her landing in England until he ceased to reign. She was a goodwoman, and never in any way gave cause for scandal. On the contrary,when the prince, her husband, returned to live with her, she gave apublic breakfast in honor of the event, and the following eight yearswere very happy ones to this couple.
At this period a taste for the best music and the stage was cultivatedto a remarkable degree by the nobility. Both the king and the Prince ofWales extended their patronage to the opera, which was a pastime thatonly the aristocracy could indulge in, because it was too expensive forthe general public. The royal family attended regularly, and the corpsof actors included a great deal of talent. One of these was Elliston,who had a curious ad-venture with George III., by whom he had beencommanded to appear in a certain part on his benefit-night.
The monarch had been taking a very long walk, entirely alone, when asudden rain storm came up just as he was passing the theatre door. Inhe went, and meeting no one passed at once to the royal box, and seatedhimself in his own chair. The light in the theatre was dim, the airsomewhat close, and the king, soon succumbing to the influence of bothafter his brisk walk, fell asleep. Towards night Elliston entered thetheatre to make sure that everything was in readiness for the play; butfirst went to the king's box to inspect that. What was his surpriseto find a man comfortably ensconced in his majesty's own arm-chair? Heraised his hand and was just about to let it descend with a smart blowon the intruder's shoulder when he recognized the king. What was tobe done? He dared not arouse the royal sleeper, and the time forthe performance was approaching. Suddenly an idea struck him; softlystepping out of the royal box, he took a violin from the orchestra, andstationing himself in the pit just under the sleeper's nose, struck up"God save the King!" Up started his majesty, rubbing his eyes, andstaring at the comedian, who went down on his knees, while continuinghis tune. "Hey! hey! hey! What! what! Oh, yes! I see, Elliston--ha! ha!ha! Rain came on--took a seat--took a nap. What's o'clock?"
"Approaching six, your majesty."
"Six!--six o'clock!" exclaimed the king. "Send to her majesty--sayI'm here. Stay--stay--this wig won't do--eh, eh? Don't keep the peoplewaiting--light up--light up--let'em in--let'em in--ha! ha! ha! fastasleep! Play well to-night, Elliston. Great favorite with the queen. Let'em in--let 'em in."
The house was illuminated at once; messengers were sent off to the royalfamily, and in a few minutes they reached the theatre. At the closeof the performance, the comedian attended the king and queen totheir carriage, and as he held open the door, his majesty laughinglyexclaimed, "Fast asleep, eh, Elliston!--fast asleep! ha! ha! ha!"
[[A.D. 1801.]] By this time the king's health was seriously impaired;but of his condition and the causes, the chapter devoted to his reigncontains an account. He was always friendly to his daughter-in-law, andsaid, again and again: "The princess shall have her child, and I willspeak to Mr. Wyatt about building a wing to her present house." Hemeant well, but his mind was so feeble that he was to be depended on fornothing. The Prince of Wales bothered him, as he was constantly doingin one way or another, and sent a request through Mr. Addington, whohad succeeded Mr. Pitt as prime minister, to be placed in command of thearmy. After a month's delay, the king, who had but a poor opinion of hiseldest son's ability or courage, declared that there was no situation inthe army suited to his rank; and not long after peace was concluded.


[[A.D. 1802.]] This joyful event was celebrated by festivities ofall kinds. The Lord Mayor gave a magnificent entertainment, which thePrince of Wales attended; and so great was the popular enthusiasm thatthe horses were taken from his carriage, and the mob drew it to theMansion House. At the close of this feast there was a ball given bythe Gaming Club, in a hall decorated on the most magnificent scale. Thewindows were, by some mechanical contrivance, converted into entrances,hung with festoons of flowers and gilt lanterns containing brilliantlights. The hall was splendidly illuminated, and the walls were coveredwith a rich green and buff paper. Each recess formed a conservatory forchoice plants and trees of rare beauty. There was a grand orchestra,composed of first-class musicians, and a large band of Indians performedtheir war-dances. The Prince of Wales wore a rich Highland costume, andwas comfortably placed in a room appropriated to him and his party.An adjoining one represented a cave, in which a company of bandits,consisting of musically-inclined lords, sang comic songs for theamusement of his royal highness. Many of the foreign ministers werepresent, and the ball was pronounced one of the most splendid ever givenin England.
[[A.D. 1804.]] We now turn with pleasure to the young PrincessCharlotte, who had become a most engaging child of eight years. MissBerry pictures her with "her face damaged by small-pox to an extentrarely seen at the time among the higher classes;" and says "that itfrightened her to hear dismal stories, yet able to tell a very good oneherself." She was a bright child, could speak French, knew music, andwas remarkably amiable and good-natured. She had a peculiar littlestammer in her speech, "which she never lost, even after she became awoman. Miss Gale had succeeded Miss Hayman as sub-governess, and livedwith her charge at a country place known as Shrewsbury House, nearShooter's Hill.
There are many stories told of her amusing insubordination. She used toleave the doors wide open, and rush with a shout into Miss Gale's room."My dear princess," the lady would exclaim, "you should always shut thedoor after you."
"Not! indeed!" returned the little lady; "if you want the door shut,ring the bell." Then with a laugh she would run off. Sometimes she wouldcommit a forbidden act, and then say, defiantly, "I have done it,--nowpunish me."
Her mother remained at Montague House, always favored and protectedby the king, who was very fond of his grandchild. The princess devotedherself to music, painting, and modelling, and spent her evenings withthe friends who gathered around her and sympathized with her wrongs.Although she would at times abuse the prince loudly at her own table,she always gave her daughter good advice with regard to him. Suchspeeches as this were not uncommon: "It must have been an honor andpleasure to you that your father wished to see you on his birthday, andI trust you will never in any day of your life deviate from the respectand attachment which is due to the prince, your father."
The young princess had violent likes and dislikes. Two people for whomshe felt a special aversion were Dr. Fisher, Bishop of Salisbury, andMrs. Udney. She shows this in a will which she made before she was nineyears old, from which she excludes both. It ran thus: "I make my will.First, I leave all my best books and all my books to the Rev. Mr.Nott. Secondly, to Mrs. Campbell, my three watches and half my jewels.Thirdly, I beg Mr. Nott, whatever money he finds me in possession of, todistribute to the poor, and I leave to Mr. Nott all my papers whichhe knows of. I beg the Prayer-book which Lady Elgin gave me may be givento the Bishop of Exeter, and that the Bible Lady Elgin gave me may begiven to him also. Also my playthings the Misses Fisher are to have.And, lastly, concerning Mrs. Gargarin and Mrs. Lewis, I beg that theymay be very handsomely paid, and that they may have a house. Ladyde Clifford, the rest of my jewels, except those that are the mostvaluable; and these my father and mother, the Prince and Princess ofWales, are to take. Nothing to Mrs. Udney,--for reasons. I have done mywill, and trust that after I am dead a great deal may be done for Mr.Nott. I hope the king will make him a bishop.--Charlotte." This childishwill, instead of merely exciting a smile on the part of the prince,caused his serious displeasure. He pronounced it "high treason," andsent for Mr. Adam, chancellor of the duchy of Cornwall, to get hisopinion on this highly important matter. Meanwhile, the privy councildid not consider it beneath their dignity to put their wise headstogether for consultation about Princess Charlotte's will. The desireto have Mr. Nott created a bishop never could have originated in thatyoung brain, they decided. "Your royal highness has a just conceptionof the matter," declared Mr. Adam. In short, after the document hadoccupied a great deal more time and thought than it was worth, itwas settled that as Mrs. Campbell had been so highly favored, she hadexerted an undue influence over the mind of the little princess, and theworthy woman was forthwith dismissed from the household.
The king now decided to undertake the education of Princess Charlottehimself, acting as trustee for the nation. His reason for this step wasthat he did not consider his son a proper person even to live in thesame house with her, and it was not expedient that the mother shouldtake her in charge. The Prince of Wales had not been on friendlyterms with his parents for many months; but Mr. Pitt, who was again inpower, attempted to bring about a reconciliation between him and thequeen. This was not a difficult matter; for the mother's heart naturallyyearned towards her son, and a dutiful note from him was answeredaffectionately by her.
In accordance with a desire expressed by the prince that he might bepermitted to throw himself at the king's feet, an appointment was madefor him at Kew; but, although the king went there specially for thatpurpose, the prince pleaded illness, and failed to appear. He was notill, but very indignant because his father made frequent visits to thePrincess of Wales, to whom he knew that, if he gave up his daughter tothe king, some benefit would accrue. In order to avoid the necessity ofgiving his consent to this step he decided to forego the privilege hehad asked. Three months later the interview really did take place,and the very first person to whom the king made a report of it was thePrincess of Wales. He wrote her a most affectionate note, in whichhe assured her that nothing should be decided upon with regard tothe future of her daughter without her concurrence, adding: "For yourauthority as a mother it is my object to support."
[[A.D. 1805.]] The king was so fond of his daughter-inlaw that hepresented her with two beautiful Arabian horses and a very costlyservice of gold, and frequently expressed a desire to pass as muchtime in her society as possible, and to take her under his specialprotection.
Having presented the bad sides of the prince's character, it is onlyfair to tell something good of him; for we know that "there is good inall, though none all good," as the proverb says. Here is an anecdotethat indicates kindness of heart. It is thus related by a person whowitnessed the scene:--"Being at Brighton, and going rather earlierthan usual to visit his stables, the prince inquired of a groom, 'Whereis Tom Cross? Is he unwell? I have missed him for some days.''Please your royal highness,' answered the groom, hesitatingly, 'Ibelieve--for--Mr.--can inform your royal highness.' 'I desire toknow, sir, of you. What has he done?' 'I believe--your royalhighness--something--not--quite correct. Something about the oats.''Where is Mr.---------? Send him to me immediately.' The prince seemedmuch disturbed at what he had heard, as the youth for whom he inquiredwas the son of an old, faithful groom, who had died in his service. Whenthe officer of the stable appeared, his royal highness inquired, 'Whereis Tom Cross? What has become of him?' 'I do not know, your royalhighness.' 'What has he been doing?' 'Purloining the oats, your royalhighness, and I discharged him.' 'What, sir? Send him away withoutacquainting me!--not know whither he has gone!--a fatherless boy, driveninto the world from my service, with a blighted character! Why, the poorfellow will be destroyed. Mr.--------, I did not expect this from you!Seek him out, sir, and let me not see you until you have discoveredhim.' Before many days Tom was found and brought before his royalmaster. He hung his head, and the tears rolled down his cheeks. Theprince looked at him for a moment or two, and then said: 'Tom, Tom, whathave you been doing? Happy it is for your poor father that he is gone;it would have broken his heart to see you in such a situation. I hopethis is your first offence!' The youth was so overcome with shame andremorse that he wept bitterly. 'Ah, Tom, I am glad to see that you arepenitent,' continued the prince; 'your father was an honest man; I had agreat regard for him; so I should have for you, if you were a good lad,for his sake. Now, if I desire Mr.--------to take you into thestable again, do you think I may trust you?' Tom fell on his knees,implored forgiveness, and promised to reform. 'Well, then, you shallbe restored,' said the prince. 'Avoid evil company; go and recover yourcharacter; be diligent; be honest, and make me your friend; and--harkye, Tom--I will take care that no one shall ever taunt you with what ispast!'"
It was by such gracious acts that the Prince of Wales won the gratitudeand admiration of his inferiors. "Do as I say, but not as I do," oughtto have been his motto, for he could advise others so much better thanhe could act for himself.
It is always interesting to know what people look like; so here is apicture of the Prince of Wales as he appeared at the age of forty-two:"A merry, good-humored man, tall, though somewhat portly in stature, inthe prime of life, with laughing eyes, pouting lips, and nose which veryslightly turned up and gave a peculiar poignancy to the expressionof his face. He wore a well-powdered wig, adorned with a profusion ofcurls, and a very large pigtail appended thereto. His clothes fitted himlike a glove; his coat wras single-breasted and buttoned up to the chin.His nether garments were leather pantaloons and Hessian boots. Aroundhis throat was a huge, white neck-cloth of many folds, out of which hischin seemed to be always struggling to emerge."
[A.D. 1806.] Here was an exterior that may have been very attractiveto those who did not know the Prince of Wales for the lazy, vain,frivolous, weak, dissipated creature that he was; always plunginghimself into some awkward embarrassment by thoughtlessly taking actionwhere his feelings were aroused. And thus, with a decided hatred for hisinjured wife, he chose to pervert every indiscreet or thoughtless speechor action of hers into the appearance of crime; for he never could prove anything against her. He bribedher servants and his own to appear against the princess, when the kingthought fit to institute a court of inquiry; but never were proceedingsmore improper or unjust. But the truth prevailed, as it always must,and the princess came out victorious at last, though not without severetests of patience and resignation, that nothing but great, piety andfortitude could have carried her through. She had warm friends always,and they gathered about her at this crisis. The most valuable of herallies was Mr. Perceval, who enthusiastically espoused her cause,and drew up a statement of her case. This document has always beenconsidered one of the most powerful and complete defences ever written,and the author of it had the satisfaction of a splendid triumph. To besure, there was considerable delay; for so determined was the princeupon the ruin of his wife that even when the king was convinced of herinnocence, and willing for her to reappear at court, he adopted everymeans to procure further inquiries, and if possible more charges.
[[A.D. 1807.]] An ignominious defeat was his reward; for the councildeclared the princess innocent of every charge brought against her, andshe was invited to appear at the queen's drawing-room. The royal familywere all present when she entered, elegantly attired. The king receivedher affectionately, the ladies and gentlemen with cordial respect, thequeen with cold, formal courtesy, and the princesses with indifference.Presently she stood face to face with the prince, her husband, in thevery centre of the apartment, with all eyes fixed on them. They bowed,exchanged a few common-places, and then passed on,--he as cold as anicicle, she dignified and triumphant. They never met again; and, strangeto say, instead of profiting by the lesson she had had, and seeking toretain the favor of the populace, which she certainly had secured,the princess became so reckless as to alienate even her best friends.
She lived at Kensington Palace, though she still retained her villa atBlackheath, and held a sort of court, attended by the Tory, nobility,who knew that the king and Mr. Perceval, then minister, were on herside. She kept up considerable style, gave and attended balls andparties, and gathered around her as many lively, witty people aspossible, for she had a special aversion to dull ones. In course of timean eccentric and somewhat frivolous set of friends replaced the betterclass, and had a baneful influence on the princess.
Miss Berry wrote of her at this period: "Her conversation is certainlyuncommonly lively, odd, and clever. What a pity that she has not a grainof common sense, not an ounce of ballast to prevent high spirits and acoarse mind running away with her, and allowing her to act indecorouslywhenever an occasion offers." This is probably a true picture of her;for she was always seeking amusement, and would sacrifice proprietyfor the sake of getting it. Perhaps she tried in this way to forget hersorrow; but that does not justify her conduct.
Among the most respectable and powerful of the princess's allies wereMr. Canning and Mr. Brougham, both prominent statesmen, who were ofgreat advantage to her for many years.
[[A.D. 1811.]] The king's mental condition became so dreadful thatat last, after repeated relapses, little hope was entertained of hisultimate recovery, and the Prince of Wales was appointed regent. Incelebration of this event, he gave one of the grandest fêtes at CarltonHouse that had ever been witnessed in England. It was consideredill-timed, because his father's life hung upon a thread, but theexcuse he gave was a popular one; for he said that he desired tobenefit those branches of trade which had suffered so long from thediscontinuance of court splendor. The queen and her daughters weredispleased at the prince's apparent heartlessness, and refused to attendhis fête; but his brothers were present, also the princess's suite,though she herself was excluded. Princess Charlotte, who had reachedher fifteenth year, was also tabooed, and the letter she wrote on thesubject to Miss Hayman shows how she felt about it.
"My dear Hamy,--But a few lines, as I will write you a longer one soonagain, only to tell you that the prince-regent gives a magnificent ballon the fifth of June. I have not been invited, nor do I know if I shallbe or not. If I should not it will make a great noise in the world, asthe friends I have seen have repeated over and over again it is my dutyto go there; it is proper that I should. Really I do think it will bevery hard if I am not asked."
It does seem hard, but it is nevertheless a fact, that this littlemaiden was not permitted even to be a spectator of all the magnificencedisplayed at her father's entertainment. The costumes worn by the ladieswere all new and splendid, and the supper surpassed any that had everbeen given at the other courts. Louis XVIII. and several other membersof the French royal family, then in London, attended the ball by specialinvitation from the prince. The host wore a rich scarlet uniform, with amagnificent badge, diamond aigrette, and jewelled sabre. He received hisroyal guests in an apartment fitted up for the occasion with rich bluesilk, brocaded with _fleurs-de-lis_ in gold. The Grecian Hall wasadorned with shrubs and innumerable large lanterns and patent lamps. Thefloor was carpeted; and two lines composed of Yeomen of the Guard, andthe servants of the king, the regent, the queen, and the royaldukes, in their finest liveries, formed an avenue to the octagonal hallwhere yeomen were also stationed. That hall was decorated with antiquedrapery of scarlet trimmed with gold, and festooned with gold cords andtassels. A dozen officers and lords received the company. The princeentered the state-rooms with the royal family of France at a quarterpast nine. During the evening the prince-regent passed from room toroom, and conversed with the utmost cheerfulness and lack of ceremonywith his guests. For some time the company amused themselves walkingabout the halls and apartments, and every one particularly admired thegrand circular dining-room, supported by columns of porphyry, and theelegance of the whole of its arrangements. The room in which the thronestood was hung with crimson velvet, with gold lace, and fringes. Thecanopy of the throne was surmounted by golden helmets, with lofty plumesof ostrich feathers, and underneath stood the state-chair. The ball-roomfloors were chalked in beautiful arabesque devices and divided for twosets of dancers by crimson silk cord; but the weather was so warm thatlittle dancing took place in any of the rooms. At two o'clock the supperwas announced, and the company, preceded by the prince and the Frenchroyal family, descended the grand staircase to the temporary buildingsthat had been erected on the lawn. Passing through a grotto lined withshrubs and flowers, they came to a grand table, extending the wholelength of the conservatory, which was two hundred feet. Along the centreof the table, about six inches above the surface, a canal of pure waterflowed from a silver fountain, beautifully constructed at the head ofthe table. Its banks were covered with green moss and aquatic flowers,while gold and silver fish swam up and down in the current. At the headof the table, above the fountain sat the prince-regent, with his mostparticular friends on either side of him. They were attended by sixtywaiters; seven served the prince, besides six of the queen's, and six ofthe king's footmen in state liveries, and one man in a complete suit ofancient armor. At the back of the prince's seat were elevated stands,so arranged as to exhibit to the greatest advantage exquisitely wroughtsilver-plate, and near the ceiling was a royal crown, and his majesty'scipher, G. R., splendidly illuminated. There was also an immenseside-board covered with gold urns, vases, and salvers, and on the topwas a Spanish urn of great value, taken from the 'Invincible Armada.'There were other tables running in various directions, and places forthe accommodation of two thousand persons. When the whole company wasseated, there was a line of female beauty more richly adorned, anda blaze of jewelry more brilliant than was ever displayed before inEngland. Bands of music were stationed at various points, and performedchoice selections. The upper servants wore a costume of dark blue withgold lace trimmings, and the assistants were dressed in black suits withwhite vests. All the tureens, dishes, and plates were of silver. Therewere hot soups, roasts, _entrées_, and all sorts of fine, well-cookedviands, a profusion of peaches, grapes, pine-apples, and all otherfruits in and out of season. There was iced champagne at every three orfour seats, and other wines in great plenty. The ropes that supportedthe tent were gilded and ornamented with no end of wreaths and festoonsof flowers.
The next day the public were admitted to view the decorations, which wasconsidered a mark of great good nature on the part of the prince. Thecrush was so tremendous on that occasion, and the excitement so great,that when the gates were thrown open many women were knocked downand trodden upon. Many fainted, shrieks and cries filled the air, limbswere broken, and clothing torn from the backs of people. At last,after a great deal of mischief had been done, the Duke of Clarence cameforward and made a speech, which had the effect of tranquillizing themob.




CHAPTER IX.
[[A.D. 1812.]]
|The health of the king did not improve; and, as the prince-regent nowheld the reins of government, a separate maintenance was provided forthe queen and princesses. This was quite necessary, because the princewas on bad terms with all his family; besides, he was thinking seriouslyof a divorce from Princess Caroline, which he felt more sure of gettingbecause of his father's inability to protect her. But that matter hadto rest for a while, because his mind was so filled with politicaldisturbances, the Catholic question, changes in the ministry, and atlast the assassination of Mr. Perceval in the House of Commons. Theprince was entirely under the control of men of small ability, whoadvised him so badly that he became exceedingly unpopular, and attacksof the most stinging and bitter character were made against him in thepapers. Such men as Moore, Charles Lamb, Cruikshank, and Home held himup to ridicule in the most merciless manner, and, as he was vain andsensitive, it must have been very galling. Here is one of the verseswritten by Charles Lamb, which leaves no doubt to whom it refers:--
               THE TRIUMPH OF THE WHALE.
                   "Io! Paean! Io! sing,
                   To the finny people's king,
                   Not a mightier whale than this,
                   In the vast Atlantic is; 
                   Not a fatter fish than he
                   Flounders round the Polar sea:
                   See his blubber at his gills,--
                   What a world of drink he swills!--
                   Such a person,--next declare,
                   Muse, who his companions are:
                   Every fish of generous kind
                   Stands aside or drinks behind.
                   Name or title, what was he?
                   Is he Regent of the sea?
                   By his bulk and by his size,
                   By his oily qualities,
                   This (or else my eyesight fails),
                   This should be the Prince of Whales."
[[A.D. 1813.]] Meanwhile, Princess Charlotte had become a handsome younglady, with _piquant_ manners, that made her very attractive. She lovedher mother and espoused her cause, which excited the jealousy andindignation of her father to a degree bordering on insanity. She hadnot seen her mother for several weeks for some reason, when PrincessCaroline drove to Windsor and demanded to see her child. She was denied,but had an interview with the queen; during which the latter pointed outto her that it was the regent who regulated this matter, and no one elsehad any authority. The princess was very angry, and a message from theregent sent by Lord Liverpool, requesting her not to go there again,did not tend to pacify her. Her reply was, that if she saw the PrincessCharlotte once a week she would obey, otherwise she would certainlygo to Windsor whenever she chose. She knew that she should meet with arefusal to see her daughter; but she wanted it in black and white.
After consulting several times with Mr. Brougham, the princess atlast resolved to send the queen a letter claiming free access to herdaughter, and complaining that her education was being neglected, andthat she was being kept in too close confinement. The prince wasin such a rage when he read the letter, which was of course sent to himbefore it could be answered, that he determined to take his daughterunder his immediate control, and to get rid of the governess to whom shewas attached, because she was supposed to favor her pupil's mother toomuch. The prince was shocked when he one day heard his daughter callthe queen "the Merry Wife of Windsor," and reprimanded her for herdisrespect. "Don't you know my mother is Queen of England?" he asked,sternly. "And you seem to forget that _my_ mother is Princess of Wales!"retorted the pert young lady.
On the eve of her seventeenth birthday Princess Charlotte wrote a letterto Lord Liverpool, in which she declared that as her late governess hadbeen removed, she was now old enough to do without another, and requiredan establishment with her own ladies-in-waiting. As she wrote all thedetails of the different scenes she had with her aunts and the queen toher mother, it is probable that she received some secret hints from thatquarter.
One morning the young princess was summoned to appear before her father,the queen, the lord chancellor, and her aunts. The regent asked herangrily, "What she meant by refusing to have a governess," adding, "aslong as I live you shall have no establishment unless you marry." Shereferred him to her letter for his reply, whereupon both he and thequeen abused her and called her a "perverse, wilful creature."
The chancellor then explained to her, rather roughly, what was her duty,and she asked him as a father what he would do. He replied, that if theprincess were his daughter he would lock her up. She said not a word,but on going to the room of one of her aunts burst into tears, andexclaimed, "What would the king say if he could know that hisgrand-daughter had been compared to the granddaughter of a collier?" Asa compromise, the Duchess of Leeds was appointed as governess, merelyin name, and the princess was to have two ladies-in-waiting besides. Shewas now a young lady "out" in society, and a ball was given at CarltonHouse in honor of her birthday.
Meanwhile, the Princess of Wales sent a letter to the regent, which wasreturned unopened. This was repeated several times, when it was decidedby Mr. Brougham and others to publish it. The mother began by saying howshe had waited day by day to see her daughter, but it had been made moreand more impossible. "Our intercourse has been gradually diminished,"she wrote; "a single interview weekly seemed hardly sufficient for amother's affections; that, however, was reduced to our meeting once afortnight, and I now learn that this most rigorous interdiction is tobe still more rigidly enforced." Then, after a most touching appeal,she closes by reminding the regent that their daughter had never beenconfirmed.
The effect of this document was marvellous. The whole country wasaroused, and every heart throbbed with indignation at the idea of aloving mother being so cruelly separated from her child. But the princehad made up his mind to get rid of his wife, and so employed an eminentlaw firm to manage it for him,--by what intrigues and falsehoods hecared not, so long as it was accomplished.
Parliament declared the princess innocent of any of the charges broughtagainst her, still intercourse with her daughter was restricted.
That daughter had shown such a spirit of independence that ahousehold of her own had been established at Warwick House. This was adilapidated, gloomy building; but the young princess preferred it to thefine apartments she occupied at Windsor, because it freed her from thesuper-vision of the queen. The Duchess of Leeds was at the head of thehousehold, and Miss Knight was lady-companion. She went from time totime to Carlton House, which was just across the road from hers, but theprince-regent desired to keep her back as much as possible, and informedher that all intercourse with her mother must cease for a time. Such acommand had the effect of keeping her at home; for she was so grievedthat for several weeks she refused to attend any public amusements, eventhe queen's drawing-rooms.
The Duke of Brunswick was killed on the battle-field of Jena, and hiswife had been forced to seek the protection of her brother, GeorgeIII., very soon after. By the time she arrived in England, however, thatbrother, who, she always said, "loved her as well as he could anybody,"was not permitted to see her, and not in a condition to recognize her,even if he had been. So the poor duchess set up an establishment of herown not far from her daughter, whose cause she espoused, and to whom hersympathy was a source of real comfort. Her death, which occurred at thisperiod, left Princess Caroline an orphan, and deprived her of anothervaluable friend.
The princess continued to be popular with the people, though somegentlemen of high standing had deserted her when the prince becameregent. She dared not visit her daughter, but managed to meet herclandestinely when she drove out; and when such meetings occurred onthe public highway, crowds would gather around the carriage with louddemonstrations of approbation; and threatening cries of "toCarlton House," more than once arose from the mob. Not only was theprince-regent anxious to get his wife out of the way, but he had asimilar desire regarding his daughter. Her case seemed easy to manage,if he could only find a husband for her, so he pitched on the Princeof Orange, a young man who had been educated in England, and wasserving on the Duke of Wellington's staff.
[[A.D. 1814.]] The first time the young princess met him was at a partyat Carlton House, given for that purpose. She looked very pretty ina dress of violet-satin, trimmed with blonde, and made a favorableimpression on the prince. She did not dislike her suitor; but herfather's eagerness to conclude the match rendered her suspicious,and set her to making inquiries as to her future position in case sheconsented to the marriage. She consulted her mother, who told her thatthe match was unpopular with the nation, because they did not wish theheir to the throne of England to pass most of her time in Holland,as she would be obliged to do if she married the Prince of Orange.Furthermore, the Princess of Wales assured her child that all the worldwas astonished at her eighteenth birthday having been passed over withno public testimony of joy. "Oh, but the war, and the great expensesof the nation, occasion my coming of age to be passed over at present,"argued Charlotte. "A very good excuse, truly," replied the mother, "andyou are child enough to believe it!"
Thus when the high-spirited girl found that her father's aim was to gether out of the way, and for that reason was so anxious for her to marrythe Prince of Orange, she began to raise objections, and made such astruggle that the affair came to a dead stop, and another husband had tobe sought.
All England rejoiced this year because of the defeat of Napoleon andhis exile to Elba. This was a signal for the return of the Bourbons toFrance. Louis XVIII. made a public entry into London, escorted by theregent, on whom he bestowed the order of St. Esprit, in the enthusiasmof his gratitude for the hospitality he had received. There were onlytwo people not permitted to take part in the festivities,--thePrincess of Wales and her daughter. The regent escorted the French royalfamily to Dover, and the Duke of Clarence attended them to their nativeland.
But there were grand doings at hand; for early in June the Emperorof Russia, the King of Prussia, the czar's sister, the Grand DuchessCatherine, Blucher, the great general, and many other distinguishedforeigners visited London, and the whole city went wild over thesevisitors. The queen gave two drawing-rooms, and, on hearing that it wasthe intention of the Princess of Wales to be present, her majesty wroteher that as the regent had declared it to be his fixed and unalterableintention never to meet her in public or private, she would not bereceived. It was only after a great deal of persuasion on the part ofher friends that the princess consented to stay away; but she wrote tothe regent and told him she would not stand such treatment. Her letterwas not noticed, and, rather than submit to further indignities, shebegan to think about leaving the country, where she had known nothingbut insults and neglect.
A series of fêtes and banquets were given to the illustrious visitors;one of them by the merchants, and another by the Lord Mayor, which hadseldom been surpassed in magnificence. During his progress through thestreets with his guests the regent was incessantly hissed, and the mobcalled out, "Where's your wife?" much to the chagrin of the host, whowas anxious to appear at his best. The princess was excluded from thebanquets, but she went to the opera on the night when all the potentateswere to be present. Her lady-in-waiting thus describes the scene:--
"When we arrived at the opera the regent was placed between the emperorand the King of Prussia, and all the minor princes were in a boxto the right of them. 'God save the King' was being played when theprincess entered, consequently she did not sit down. As soon as the airwas over the whole pit turned to the princess's box and applauded her.We entreated her to rise and make a courtesy; but she sat immovable, andat last she said to one of her ladies, 'My dear, Punch's wife is nobodywhen Punch is present!' 'We shall be hissed,' suggested one of thegentlemen. 'No, no,' replied the princess, with a good-humored laugh,'I know my business better than to take the morsel out of my husband'smouth, I am not to seem to know that the applause is meant for me untilthey call my name.' When his royal highness left the theatre, at theclose of the performance, the audience called for the princess, and gaveher a warm applause. She then went forward and made three courtesies,and hastily withdrew. When the coachman attempted to drive home, thecrowd of carriages was so great that he was obliged to turn out of hisroad and pass Carlton House. As soon as the mob discovered the princess,they surrounded her carriage, and huzzaed her loudly. Some of themopened the doors and insisted on shaking hands with her, and asked ifthey should burn Carlton House. 'No, my good people,' she said; 'bequite quiet: let me pass, and go home to your beds.'"
The Princess of Wales was very anxious to have a visit from the Emperorof Russia, and he set out one day with the intention of calling on her,when one of the ministers pursued him in hot haste and implored him, inthe name of the regent, to turn back.
In the crowd of kings and princes who visited England at this period wasPrince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg, a young man of two and twenty, who struckthe fancy of Princess Charlotte the very first time she saw him. Hehad brought a letter to her from the Duke of Brunswick, and shewas so pleased with him that she complained to her aunt, the Duchessof York, saying that she would like to know him better, but had noopportunity, because she was not permitted to attend any of the balls.So the duchess gave one specially for her, and the more she saw ofPrince Leopold the better she liked him. In the park he would ride nearthe carriage, and showed plainly that he reciprocated her admiration. Hecourted and flattered the regent, offended no one, and made himself sopopular that after he went away the regent declared him to be a mosthonorable, worthy young man.
The Princess of Wales had made up her mind to leave England. It was anunwise step, and Mr. Brougham advised her to abandon it; but, with theobstinacy of a weak person who will not be convinced, she refused tolisten to his advice. She made a formal application to Lord Liverpoolfor permission to reside abroad; this was granted, and parliament madeher a liberal allowance. On the 2d of August she embarked on board thefrigate "Jason," under the name of the Countess of Wolfenbuttel, andstarted on her pilgrimage. It is said that on her arrival in Germany shecontrived to see Prince Leopold and hand him a letter from her daughter.This is probable, because she favored the match, and was capable of anundignified act, such being the case.
The Prince of Coburg made no sign, having very wisely decided to awaitan invitation from the regent before again appearing in England.
[[A.D. 1816.]] But the young princess was fretting her heart out,because she fancied that he had forgotten her. She had no soonercompleted her twentieth year, however, than she quite unexpectedlyreceived a message that she was to go with the queen to Brighton,where a surprise awaited her. She obeyed, wondering what it couldpossibly be, and was received on her arrival there by her favoredsuitor. The young lady was happier than she had been in many a day; and,as all the royal family were pleased at her choice, arrangements for herwedding were soon made, and the ceremony took place in May. ClaremontHouse was purchased and handsomely fitted up for the young couple, andshortly after their marriage they went there to live. Every time theyappeared in public they met with a most enthusiastic reception; and thisdispleased the regent very much, for he was greeted with nothing butcomplaints on every side. The married life of the Princess Charlottewas extraordinarily happy. She was known by the country people for milesaround, and dispensed so many benefits among them that every visit ofhers was like a ray of sunshine. In her own household she was a queen,beloved and respected by her husband, and by all who approached her. Sohappy were this couple in their domestic life that they cared little forthe gayeties of London, and seldom went to town.
[[A.D. 1817.]] Now we must turn to the "Countess of Wolfenbüttel," andfollow her in her travels. She was accompanied by Mr. St. Leger, SirWilliam Gell, Mr. Craven, Dr. Holland as physician, and Captain Hesseas equerry. She went first to Brunswick, where she was received by herbrother and all the inhabitants with the heartiest of welcomes; but aspirit of restlessness had taken possession of her, and she could stopnowhere very long. The governors of the German cities all treated herwith respect and courtesy as she passed along, but before she reachedSwitzerland Mr. St. Leger had withdrawn from her train, for some reasonnot reported. A greater portion of the month of September was passed atGeneva, where the "Countess" met Marie Louise, the ex-Empress of France,and the two ladies were for a time on very intimate terms. But thecountess dressed so absurdly, and made such a spectacle of herself, thatthe gentlemen who had accompanied her from England were shocked.
In October the Princess of Wales, as we shall continue to call her,because we know her best by that title, arrived at Milan. There she tookone Bartholomew Bergami, a handsome Italian, into her service, and madehim her chamberlain. Wherever she went she behaved so unlike a ladythat she was thought by many people to be insane; and, as she passedon through Italy, her English attendants fell off one by one. Shecomplained that they were tyrants, but it is probable that they onlygave her good advice, which she was silly enough to ignore. Spies werewatching her wherever she went; she was well aware of it, and acted allthe more recklessly in defiance of her enemies. She purchased a villa atthe Lake of Como, and made a companion of Bergami, whom she allowed tosit at table with her, thus bestowing honors with little judgment. Atone of her festivals at Como her conversation was so thoughtless andsilly that a friend asked her if she did not know that every word andaction of hers was reported at Carlton House within a fortnight. "I knowit," she replied, "and therefore do I speak and act as you hear and see.The regent will hear it? I hope he will, for I love to mortify him."Thus did this foolish woman effect her own ruin with deplorableobstinacy. From Como she went to Palermo, and thence to Genoa,everywhere dancing, sightseeing, and feasting, as though life were worthnothing unless passed in gayety.
At Genoa the princess had a superb palace, where she surrounded herselfwith Italians, and held her court, which was attended by the nobility.Reports derogatory to the princess's character were constantly reachingthe regent, who, anxious to catch at any straw that might enable himto obtain the divorce he longed for, sent a commission to Italy toinvestigate her actions.
The following seven months were spent in continual travelling and changeof scene, during which the princess visited Sicily, Tunis, Carthage, andmany other places of note. In the spring she went to Athens, and thenceto Constantinople, and by the middle of July she was in the holy city ofJerusalem. There she was received cordially by the Capuchin friars, andestablished the "Order of St. Caroline." After making a flying visit toJericho, and suffering from the fierce heat of the sun, the princess andher attendants were glad to take to the sea again, and in course oftime reached Rome. A brief sojourn in that city satisfied the royaltraveller, who then returned to the Villa d'Este, on the Lake of Como,and began to sign herself Caroline d'Este.
A few months later she repaired to Carlsruhe on a visit to the GrandDuke of Baden; but her reception was not such as to induce her toprolong her stay; and when she appeared at Vienna contemptuous neglectawaited her. English families had long since ceased to show her respect;and from the time of her leaving her home to become a wanderer nobody isto blame but herself for whatever ill-treatment she experienced. Up tothat period all the world sympathized with her, but they could do so nolonger.
Towards the close of the year the sad news of the sudden death ofher daughter, the Princess Charlotte, reached her. She bore it withwonderful calmness, and wrote to a friend in England: "I have not onlyto lament ah ever-beloved child, but a most warmly attached friend, andthe only one I have in the kingdom. But she is only gone before. I havenot lost her, and I now trust we shall soon meet in a much better worldthan the present one."


[[A.D. 1818.]] Three of the royal dukes married this year, andtowards its close, Queen Charlotte, who had been declining for manymonths, died suddenly while sitting in a chair.
[[A.D. 1819.]] The Duke of Kent, George III.'s fourth son, had marriedPrincess Victoria of Leiningen. The event had no connection with thisreign; but we mention it merely to announce the birth of their daughter,which occurred on the twenty-fourth of May. It was not supposed that shewould ever mount the throne, therefore her appearance in the world wasnot considered of great importance. She was christened in June, andreceived the name of Alexandra Victoria. The baptismal ceremony tookplace in the grand saloon of Kensington Palace, in presence of theregent and other members of the royal family. The Emperor of Russia wasgod-father. As this princess is the present Queen of England, we shallhave more to say about her by-and-by.
[[A.D. 1820.]] The great bell of St. Paul's announced the death ofGeorge III. at midnight, on January 29, and the accession of George IV.Before ten days had elapsed the new king was again embroiled with hisministers on the subject of a divorce from his wife, who, having metwith a series of insults and petty slights at the various courts ofEurope, had made her way to St. Omer, where she awaited her legaladvisers before deciding on her future course.
It was Mr. Brougham and Lord Hutchinson who met her there, the latterwith a proposition, that as the death of George III. left her withoutincome, the king would grant her fifty thousand pounds per annum on thecondition that she would remain on the continent, surrender the title ofqueen, and never, under any pretext whatever, set foot in England.She refused the proposal with infinite scorn, and declared herintention to proceed to England. This was the result of Mr. Brougham'sadvice, for he was always friendly to Caroline, and knew that heracceptance of Hutchinson's proposal would be most injurious to hercharacter.
No sooner had her interview closed with the envoys from the king, thanQueen Caroline, without a moment's delay, proceeded to Calais, dismissedher Italian followers, and, attended only by Alderman Wood and LadyAnne Hamilton, embarked on board the packet "Leopold," then lying in theharbor. She did not sail until the next morning, and reached Dover aboutnoon. Much to her surprise a royal salute greeted her, and the wholetown lined the shores to welcome their queen. Her progress to London wasa perfect ovation, and by the time she reached the metropolis so manymounted persons had joined her that she found herself escorted by a vastcavalcade. It was seven o'clock in the evening when she passed throughthe city; and such crowds gathered to see her that the streets werealmost impassable, and the windows were filled with eager faces andwaving handkerchiefs. So great was the excitement that Carlton House hadto be guarded, for threatening yells and cries arose from all sides.
The queen found refuge at the house of Alderman Wood, and no sooner wasshe domiciled there than the ministers met to decide what course was tobe pursued with regard to her for the peace and well-being of the UnitedKingdom. Each one carried a "green bag," which was supposed to containa copy of the report made by the Milan spies, or commissioners, as theywere called, on the conduct of the Princess of Wales, now queen, whileshe was travelling abroad. Meanwhile the king had the humiliation ofhearing the hussars of his own regiment shout, "Long live the queen!"and it was reported to him how at the Toy Tavern, Hampton Court,where they were quartered, a dozen or more of them had stood up anddrank her health with a pot of porter.
Mr. Brougham threw himself heart and soul into the queen's cause, andconducted it in a masterly manner, showing himself a man of courage andability. He was ably assisted by Canning, who warned and threatened theHouse of Lords, and boldly declared, "that his affection and respect forthe queen were undiminished, and that he considered her the grace andornament of every society."
While the trial was pending, the queen took possession of BrandenburghHouse, where she daily received large mobs, who came with addresses ofsympathy. The numerous amusing scenes created by these deputationswere not lost sight of by the queen's opponents, who made such bitterattacks that the more respectable class, who were inclined to supporther, were thereby driven away.
Having established herself comfortably, the queen sent for all herItalian attendants, who arrived in London in August,--several boatloadsof them,--for the queen's house was on the river, and the government hadso barricaded Westminster Bridge that it could be approached in no otherway. So many Italians congregated together under one roof excited nolittle curiosity among the London rabble, who hovered around them andwatched them as a cat does a mouse. On the seventeenth of August, theday fixed for the trial to begin, the city was in a perfect ferment.Bands of soldiers and police were stationed at every corner, and thespace between St. James's and the houses of parliament was crammed withpeople soon after daylight.
As the peers began to arrive they were greeted with hisses, and groans,or loud cheers,--according as they opposed or defended the queen. TheDuke of Wellington, who was prominent in the opposition, frequently hadhis horse stopped by people who would shout in his face, "Nofoul play, my lord!--the queen forever." He would answer in hischaracteristic style, "Yes, yes, yes;" and once, it is said, he addedgood humoredly: "And may all your wives be like her!" A perfect roarof voices and deafening shouts of applause greeted the arrival of hermajesty's carriage each day; and as she passed Carlton House the crowdjealously watched to see whether the guard on duty presented arms.Fortunately they did, for they would otherwise have been torn to pieces."God bless your majesty! We'll give our blood for you! The queen ordeath! May you overcome your enemies!" were the exclamations that aroseon all sides as Queen Caroline passed along.
A confused sound of drums and trumpets announced her arrival at thehouse. The peers rose as she entered, and remained standing until shetook her seat in a crimson and gilt chair, placed immediately in frontof her counsel. Her appearance was not prepossessing; for she wore ablack satin dress with a high ruff, and an unbecoming broad hat with ahuge bow, and a bunch of ostrich plumes. On her head was a curled blackwig, and her eyebrows were painted. Considering that nature had givenher blue eyes and light hair, these artificial additions were not inkeeping with her other characteristics, and gave her a bold, defiant,unattractive air.
It was embarrassing to the lords to have the queen present every day;but, as she could get no information as to the charges brought againsther, she was resolved to be there.
Lord Liverpool's bill, which favored the king in every particular,concluded by proposing that "Caroline Amelia Elizabeth should bedeprived of her rights, rank, and privileges as queen, and that hermarriage with the king be dissolved and disannulled to all intents andpurposes." We do not propose to give the details of the "queen'strial" as it dragged its slow length along. The bill passed by amajority of nine only, and they consisted of the members of the cabinet,who dare not vote as they chose. No action could be taken upon sosmall a majority, yet the queen can scarcely be said to have achieveda victory. The case had been unfairly tried, and the popular voicedeclared it so. She had made several attempts to have her name restoredto the liturgy, and refused to accept an income offered by the kingunless that was done. At last she was forced to abandon that request,much to the disappointment of her friends, and to accept the fiftythousand pounds a year.
[[A.D. 1821.]] The king's attention was now turned towards hiscoronation, which was to be managed on a most magnificent scale; fornever was there a man more fond of display and theatrical effect thanGeorge IV. Queen Caroline immediately addressed Lord Liverpool onthe subject, claiming her right to take part in the ceremony. Muchcorrespondence, arguments, and discussions with legal advisers on bothsides ensued, and the result was the entire exclusion of her majesty.She then addressed a note to the Archbishop of Canterbury, informing himof her desire to be crowned some day, within a week after that ceremonywas performed for the king. The archbishop's answer was, "that he wasthe king's servant, and was ready to obey any command that he mightreceive from his royal master."
All this anxiety and disappointment began to tell on the poor queen'shealth, and she was ill and suffering, when, with her usual spirit andenergy, she presented herself at the grand door of Westminster-Hall onthe morning of the coronation, and demanded admittance as a spectator.She had started from Brandenburgh House at six o'clock, with Lordand Lady Hood and Lady Anne Hamilton in attendance,-in a carriage drawnby six white horses. No person could enter the hall without a ticket,and, as the queen had none, an officer on guard respectfully declinedallowing her to pass. She felt the insult keenly, but laughed andchatted in a flippant manner as she turned away. It was a pitiablesight,--that of the queen going to every door in turn, and being turnedaway because she could not show the indispensable ticket. Lord Hoodsuggested that on account of her rank the queen should not be bound bythe rules which governed others; but the doorkeepers were inexorable,and there was nothing left but for her to enter her carriage and go backhome, humiliated, almost crushed.
George IV. had spent days and nights with his tailor and friends,discussing and selecting the various articles in which he was to appearon the grand occasion. His robes are said to have cost twenty-fivethousand pounds, and his jewels were gorgeous. Never was a moremagnificent scene witnessed than that which marked the coronationceremony of George IV., and never did monarch labor harder to make itso.
Poor Queen Caroline's nervous system had sustained a shock from which itcould not rally, and three months after the king's coronation she died.On the second of August she was attacked with her last illness, andafter five days of intense suffering sank into a stupor, from which shenever awoke. She was conscious of her condition, made her will, and gaveall the necessary directions for the disposal of her body. She died onthe seventh of August, 1821, at the age of fifty-three.
Her will contained a clause to this effect: "I desire and direct that mybody be not opened, and that three days after my death it be carried toBrunswick for interment, and that the inscription on my coffin be, 'Here lies Caroline ofBrunswick, the murdered Queen of England.'"
The king was in Ireland while his wife was dying. There he wasmagnificently feted and escorted wherever he stopped. He made speechesto flatter his Irish subjects, promises that he never intended tofulfil, and received attentions that were remarkable for nothing morethan their insincerity.
Lord Byron gave vent to his contempt of the whole proceeding in thefollowing lines:--
                        THE IRISH AVATAR.
               "Ere the daughter of Brunswick is cold in her grave,
                   And her ashes still float to her home o'er the tide,
               Lo! George the triumphant speeds over the wave,
                   To the long-cherished isle which he loved like his bride.

               But he comes! the Messiah of royalty comes!
                   Like the goodly Leviathan roll'd from the waves!
               Then receive him as best such an advent becomes,
                   With a legion of cooks and an army of slaves.

               Is it madness or meanness that clings to thee now?
                   Were he God--as he is but the commonest clay,
                   With scarce fewer wrinkles than sins on his brow--
               Such servile devotion might shame him away.

               Spread, spread for Vitellius the royal repast,
                   Till the gluttonous despot be stuffed to the gorge;
               And the roar of his drunkards proclaim him at last,
                   The fourth of the fools and oppressors called 'George.'"
Grief was great throughout the kingdom at the death of Queen Caroline.Fearing that the funeral might prove the occasion of a populardemonstration, it was resolved that the body should not pass through thecity, but be taken through roundabout and private roads. In a pouringrain the procession started. It consisted of a hearse emblazonedwith escutcheons and drawn by eight horses, heralds, twelvemourning-coaches, and six squadrons of soldiers. At every turnbarricades had been placed by an angry and excited crowd, who, amidyells of triumph, saw the authorities yield to the course _they_ haddetermined on, and, contrary to imperative instructions, pass withthe _cortège_ through some of the most public thoroughfares. But theexcitement was intense; the soldiers were attacked with brickbats andstones, and several people were killed.
It took two days to get to Harwich; and, just before the coffin wasplaced on the man-of-war that awaited it, the discovery was made thatthe plate which Queen Caroline had ordered had been replaced by anotherbearing a simple inscription. The interment took place at Brunswick,after night, on the twenty-fourth of August.
The king survived until June 26, 1830. When he was dying, a letter wasbrought to him from Mrs. Fitzherbert, in which that worthy ladyoffered to watch over and soothe his last moments. After his death herminiature, attached to a red cord, was found hanging from his neck,where, it is supposed, he always wore it.
One historian justly says of George IV., that he was jovial, epicurean,good-natured; offering a disastrous spectacle of a life wrecked byself-indulgence and an unbounded love of pleasure.






CHAPTER X. ADELAIDE LOUISA, WIFE OF WILLIAM IV.
(A.D. 1818-1849.)
|There is so little to relate about this queen, that were it not for thefact that her reign develops many matters of importance and interest tothe whole civilized world, we should feel tempted to pass her by with abrief notice. But this would be unsatisfactory in an historical pointof view. Queen Adelaide will, therefore, receive her share of mentionwhenever she takes prominence as we proceed.
It was on April 13, 1818, that the regent, afterwards George IV.,announced to parliament through Lord Liverpool that he had given hisconsent to the marriage of his brother, the Duke of Clarence, withAdelaide Louisa Theresa Caroline Amelia, Princess of Saxe-CoburgMeiningen. Two other brothers of the regent were married the same year;but of these, more hereafter.
When quite a youth Prince William Henry had entered the navy asmidshipman under Captain Digby, and for many years his life was one ofneglect, poverty, and obscurity. Nobody ever thought it necessary tohonor him until he reached his fortieth year, when Mr. Canning, thepremier, brought him into notice by giving him the appointment of lordhigh-admiral. He reigned when the Duke of Wellington succeeded Mr.Canning, and sank into obscurity again until, by the deaths ofthe Princess Charlotte and his elder brother, the Duke of York, he wasmade prominent by becoming heir to the throne.
[[A.D. 1830.]] The princess he had married was remarkable for nothingso much as her amiability. For many years she lived with her husbandat Bushey Park, a pleasant domestic life, free from the intrigues andexcitements of court or political affairs. She was by no means delightedwhen the death of George IV. elevated her to the throne; for she lovedher retired home in the country, and it was a long time before she tookupon herself the dignity of her new position.
It was the same with her husband, "the bluff sailor-king" William IV.,who declared "that he had slept in a cot, and did not desire luxury andmagnificence." By his simplicity and good nature he had made himselfexceedingly popular with the lower and middle classes, and there neverwas anything like the enthusiasm with which he was greeted by allparties. He could not readily throw off the habits and manners of acountry gentleman, even when a crowd gathered to stare at him at everyturn he made, for he had been too long accustomed to trot about withoutexciting the least observation.
He began his reign by providing for old friends,--pensioning some andplacing others in lucrative offices. He threw himself into the armsof the Duke of Wellington, whom he placed at the head of theadministration, because he was to be depended upon for advice andsupport. William, as well as other members of the royal family, hadalways been friendly to Mrs. Fitzherbert, and he showed the kindness ofhis heart by responding to an application made in her behalf soon afterhis brother's death. He invited her to Windsor, desired her to put herservants into mourning,--though he did not show that respect to thedead king in his own household,--and settled an income of sixthousand pounds a year on her.
King William was glad of every opportunity to show himself to hissubjects, particularly in such public spectacles as he knew would givethem pleasure. Indeed, he went about this task in such a business-likemanner as to astonish everybody. A month after his accession heinspected the Coldstream Guards in St. James's Park, which wassurrounded by a large assemblage of spectators. He was dressed (for thefirst time in his life) in a military uniform, with a large pair ofgold spurs, half-way up his legs, like a game-cock. These were entirelyuseless, because a stiffness in the joints of his hands prevented hisholding the reins, therefore he could not ride.
The queen appeared at this review, and afterwards held a drawing-room,when the ministers wives were presented to her, also various officers ofstate; but she did not enjoy that sort of thing at all, and is said tohave behaved like a well-bred actress rehearsing a part, while anxiouslyawaiting the dropping of the curtain. Luncheon was served at oneo'clock, and then the king and queen, seated together on one throne,received the addresses of the Oxford and Cambridge representatives. Thenthe queen retired, and a council was held, and the king had a civil wordto say to everybody, inviting some to dine with him, promising to visitothers, and reminding several of former intercourse in a most affablebut rather undignified manner. When all this was over, his majesty puton his plain clothes, and took a stroll about the streets arm-in-armwith a gentleman, and followed by a mob that so shoved him about that onhis return to the palace he was glad to take a quiet walk in the garden,saying, good-humoredly, to his companion: "Oh, never mind all this; whenI have walked about a few times they will get used to it, and will takeno notice." For the next three days regiments were inspected inthe various parks, the king's affability being the theme on everybody'slips, and then he held a grand levee, which was crowded to excess. Hehad gained favor with the army, the navy claimed him as their chief,so it would be difficult to tell with which of the services he was mostpopular.
William IV. could not comprehend etiquette, and appeared at the House ofLords without his crown, because he found it less irksome when carriedin the hands of Lord Hastings than on his own head. He wanted to takethe King of Wurtemberg, who was visiting England, in his coach with him,but that was beyond all precedent, and could not be allowed; however,nobody could prevent his sitting backwards in his private carriage, ormaking any man who accompanied him sit by his side instead of opposite.
After the session at the House of Lords, William drove all over townin an open barouche with the queen, Princess Augusta, and the King ofWurtemberg; but that was not the worst of it: he actually stopped ata hotel to set down his guest, and that was a sample of simplicity andgood-nature never before witnessed in a sovereign of England. He hadimmense dinners every day at the palace, often inviting the same peoplethree or four times hand-running. At eleven o'clock he dismissed hisguests thus: "Now, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good-night. I willnot detain you any longer from your amusements, and shall go myself tobed; so come along, my queen."
One of the reviews made by his majesty was succeeded by a breakfast atApsley House, the home of the Duke of Wellington, about fifty members ofthe council and foreign ministers being present, and that same eveninghe sat at a state dinner between the King of Wurtemberg and the duke. When his health was drunk, he returned thanks briefly,saying that he should give a toast by-and-by. So after a while he senta message to his band to play the merriest waltz they could, and as soonas he was obeyed, he gave "The Queen of Wurtemberg," and praised hertremendously. He next ordered them to play "See the Conquering HeroComes;" then he rose and said he had been so short a time on the thronethat he did not know whether etiquette required him to speak sitting orstanding; but he wished to propose the health of the Duke of Wellington,whom he compared with the Duke of Marlborough, and, after making a longspeech, concluded by declaring that he gave him his fullest confidence,and should continue to do so as long as he remained upon the throne.
While King William was keeping himself busy with dinners, drives,reviews, breakfasts, etc., Paris was in a state of siege, and no end ofreports--some true, some false--were constantly arriving in England,where the result was watched with the greatest anxiety. Three daysbrought the French Revolution to a climax, and established the Dukeof Orleans--Louis Philippe--on the throne. But it did not tranquillizeEurope; for there was every prospect of a general war, and much alarmwas felt in England in consequence. The First Napoleon said that arevolution in France was a revolution of Europe; and so it proved, forthere was fighting in all the principal towns before peace was reallyestablished.
Before William had been on the throne a year there was trouble inIreland, and in some counties it became necessary for the military forceto put down the outrages committed by mobs. The Irish people believedthat their rights had been assailed by the government, and DanielO'Connell made speeches to the ignorant portion of the inhabitants,which served, as he intended they should, to increase theirdiscontent. Then there was an outbreak among the English peasantryagainst the use of agricultural machinery. They met in crowds and wentabout destroying all the barns, corn, and hay-ricks, and setting fireright and left to the threshing-machines, like a set of maniacs. Ofcourse such lawless behavior filled the country with consternation,because it was impossible to tell where it would end.
When parliament met, the king made a speech which proved to be one ofthe most offensive that ever proceeded from an English sovereign. Itwas known to be the work of his ministry, but did not increase hispopularity on that account. The Duke of Wellington followed it up bya declaration against reform in parliament, which certainly sealed hisfate, for it was condemned by friend and foe. It proved that, though agreat general, the duke was by no means capable of filling the positionof prime minister.
Excitement ran so high in London that the Lord Mayor's dinner, which hadbeen fixed for the ninth of November, had to be postponed, for therewas great fear of a repetition of Guy Fawkes's day. Troops paraded thestreets, prudent citizens renewed their bolts and bars, lined theirshutters with iron plates, and laid in a supply of arms, while littleknots of people gathered at the street-corners, waiting for something,though they did not know exactly what. Before the end of the weekeverybody was laughing at the panic they had experienced; but the effectof it was seriously felt, for certain disorderly citizens organizedmeaningless riots, merely because they could think of no other way ofamusing themselves just then. Besides, the impression got abroad thatthe King of England dared not pass through the streets of his owncapital to dine with the Lord Mayor, and that the banquet had,therefore, to be postponed. The reform bill was a most importantmatter; and, when we consider the nature of it, we shall see why itcreated so much excitement among the common people of Great Britain.This measure was introduced into parliament with the intention ofregulating the number of representatives from the various counties,according to their size and standing. It had another aim. Hithertothe affairs of government had been exclusively in the hands of thearistocracy; but the reform bill was introduced for the purpose ofadmitting the middle classes to a voice in public concerns. It iseasy to see, therefore, why the workingmen were aroused; but those whowitnessed the tame, wordy meetings of the workingmen not long sinceon the San Francisco sand-lots can form no idea of the riots whichsucceeded such demonstrations in England fifty years ago.
The panic had another effect, which was the removal of the Duke ofWellington from office, at the same time that Sir Robert Peel offeredhis resignation in the House of Commons. This meant a complete change inthe ministry. Throughout the troubled and unsettled state of affairs theking behaved admirably, and proved that, although he had ignored courtetiquette at the opening of his reign, he had much more real dignitythan his predecessor, whose mind was ever bent on theatrical effect,and who never yielded one jot where a display of ceremony could be made.William treated his ministers with great kindness and consideration,supporting them while it was possible, and parting with them in sorrowwhen it became a necessity.
Lord Grey was requested not only to form a new ministry, but even tomake the necessary changes in the royal household. No wiser selectioncould have been made; for Lord Grey was popular, and people saw in theparliamentary reform a noble beginning of a great work. Brougham, nowLord Brougham, who so warmly defended Queen Caroline of Brunswick,was appointed Lord High Chancellor, and this also gave generalsatisfaction. Lord John Russell, whose name appears often in the cabinetduring the present century, was appointed paymaster-general.
The year closed with a report that Asiatic cholera was spreading overEurope, and making rapid strides towards England. Great anxiety wasfelt; but honest-hearted, unselfish King William took prompt measurestowards the establishment of a proper quarantine, and so held the plagueat bay.
[[A.D. 1831.]] All through the January nights of the new year theheavens were lit up by burning barns and ricks; and in the manufacturingdistricts men formed into organizations called trades-unions, becauserepresentatives of certain trades bound themselves to stand by oneanother in the maintenance of what they believed to be their rights. Butthey were merciless to those who dared to act independently, and murderwas committed at Manchester out of revenge in consequence of a quarrelabout the trades-union.
While discussions on the reform bill were engaging the attention ofparliament, trades-unions were growing, and the arrest of O'Connell wasagitating the Irish, the queen lived quietly, and took no part in publicaffairs. She was called a prude because she would not allow her ladiesto wear low-neck dresses, while during the previous reign no others hadbeen permitted.
One night in February the king and queen went to the theatre. They werewell received on entering; but on returning home they were hooted at,and their carriage was pelted with stones, one of which broke the windowand fell in the lap of Prince George of Cumberland. The king told oneof his officers "that the queen was terrified, and it was verydisagreeable, because they should always be going about somewhere."The queen had no influence whatever with her husband in publicaffairs; but she was interested in the elections, knew the king's weakpoints, and felt unhappy at his being so completely under the influenceof his ministry. At her balls and drawing-rooms, scarcely anything wastalked of but the doings of parliament, and the elections continuedto cause great excitement. When the Lord Mayor unwisely had the cityilluminated after certain of them had been decided, there was a greatuproar and a general breaking of windows. A few nights later the queenattended a concert, and as she was returning the mob surrounded hercarriage, and her footmen were obliged to beat the people off with theircanes to keep them from poking their heads into the coach. Her majestywas dreadfully alarmed, and the king, who was not well enough toaccompany her to the concert, had heard something of the tumult, and wasanxiously pacing backwards and forwards in his room when Lord Howe,the chamberlain, who always preceded the queen, entered. "How is hermajesty?" eagerly demanded William as he went down to meet her. "Verymuch frightened, sir," was the reply of the chamberlain; who, beingan anti-Reformer, at once proceeded to give a most graphic and ratherexaggerated account of the attack. The king was so angry that hedeclared neither he nor the queen should again enter the city, and thelatter felt as distressed and disgusted as possible.
In June the royal family attended the Ascot races. They arrived at thecourse with a _cortège_ of eight coaches, each drawn by four horses,phaetons, pony chaises, and led horses. Their reception was strikinglycold and indifferent, and the king looked bored to death. After theraces there was a dinner at the castle each day, when the king inviteda crowd of people. The queen was led to the dining-room by the Duke ofRichmond, and the king followed with the Duchess of Saxe-Weimar,the queen's sister. He drank wine with everybody, and after dinnerdropped asleep from the effect of it. That did not interfere with theconcert by a very good band, that was going on all through dinner, andcontinued for a couple of hours afterwards.
At this period a deputation waited upon Prince Leopold, the widower ofPrincess Charlotte, mentioned in the last reign, to invite him to becometheir king. As he had been expecting this for a long time, he did nothesitate to accept.
The next event of interest was the coronation. A council was held at St.James's to consider it, when the king made a request that the ceremoniesmight be short, and that all those not connected with the church mightbe dispensed with. His object was to make it less tedious and lessexpensive than the last, which had occupied the whole day, and cost twohundred and forty thousand pounds.
Greville, who occupied a position in the council, gives an accountof the queen's decision with regard to her crown. He says: "I rode toWindsor to settle with the queen what sort of a crown she would have. Iwas ushered into the king's presence; he was sitting at a red table inthe sitting-room of George IV. looking over the flower-garden. He sentfor the queen, who came with two ladies. She tried to be civil to mein her ungracious way, and said she would have none of our crowns, andasked me if I thought it was right that she should. I said, 'Madam, Ican only say that the late king wore one at his coronation.' However,she said, 'I do not like it, and I have got jewels enough, so I willhave them made up myself.' The king said to me, 'Very well; then _you_will have to pay for the setting?' 'Oh, no,' replied the queen, 'I shallpay for it all myself.'" When the estimates for the coronation werepresented, they amounted to less than thirty-one thousand pounds, whichwas a moderate sum compared with similar preceding ceremonies. Theking objected very seriously to being kissed on the cheek, as an actof homage, by the bishops, and ordered that part of the ceremony to bestruck out; but it had been the custom for ages, and he had to give in,whether he liked it or no.
The coronation was announced for September 8, and very extensivealterations were made in Westminster Abbey for the occasion. About fortyprivate gentlemen acted as pages of the Earl-Marshal, attired in bluefrock-coats, white breeches and stockings, crimson silk sashes, andsmall oddly-shaped hats, with black ostrich feathers. Each carried agilt staff, bearing the arms of the Earl-Marshal, and it was his duty toconduct people provided with tickets to their proper seats.
Shortly after five o'clock in the morning a royal salute was fired bythe artillery stationed in the Green Park, and that was a signal forevery one interested in the proceedings of the day to be on the move.At six the troops distributed themselves along the line of procession inSt. James's Park. The members of the House of Commons, some in military,others in Highland costumes, had a covered platform all to themselves inWestminster Hall.
The queen's ivory rod, surmounted by a dove, was borne by Earl Camden,the sceptre and cross by the Earl of Jersey, and the crown by the Dukeof Beaufort. Her majesty followed between the Bishops of Winchester andChichester, and attended by five gentlemen pensioners on each side. Hertrain was borne by the Duchess of Gordon and six daughters of earls. Theladies and women of the bed-chamber and the maids-of-honor followed.
Of the king's regalia, St. Edward's staff was borne by the Duke ofGrafton, the golden spurs by the Marquis of Hastings, the sceptrewith the cross by the Duke of St. Albans, the sword by the Marquis ofSalisbury, the second sword by the Marquis of Downshire, the thirdby the Marquis of Cleveland, their coronets carried by a page. Thenfollowed the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, and Garter King-at-Arms,and the Deputy Lord Great Chamberlain of England; the Royal Dukes withtheir train and coronet bearers; the High Constables of Ireland andScotland, the Duke of Norfolk, the Duke of Wellington, with his staffand baton of field-marshal; Earl Grey with the sword-of-state, the Dukeof Richmond with the sceptre and dove, the Duke of Hamilton with St.Edward's crown, the Duke of Somerset with the orb.
After them the Bishops of Rochester and Exeter with the Bible, theBishop of Oxford with the chalice, followed by the king, supported bythe Bishop of Bath and Wells and the Archbishop of York, his train borneby the Marquises of Worcester, Lichfield and Douro, and the Earls ofKerry and Euston, assisted by the Master of the Robes and his grooms. Oneach side of his majesty walked ten gentlemen pensioners in theuniform of officers of the Guard, headed by their lieutenant andstandard-bearer; then came the Groom of the Stole, the Gold Stick, andthe Master of the Horse, the Captains of the Yeomen of the Guard, and afew other subordinates of the royal household.
His majesty took his seat, the Bible and chalice were placed on thealtar, where two officers of the wardrobe spread a rich cloth of gold,and laid two handsome cushions on the steps, while the Archbishop ofCanterbury put on his cope, and the bishops, who had read the Litany,their vestments. The king and queen then, with their supporters and thebearers of the regalia, advanced to the altar, where the king offereda pall and an ingot of gold, and the queen a pall of gold. Theirmajesties knelt while the prayer was said by the archbishop, and thenwere conducted to their chairs-of-state, when the Litany and communionservice were read, and a sermon preached by the Bishop of London.
After the sermon, the archbishop administered the coronation oath, whichwas followed by the ceremony of anointing, and this concluded with abenediction. The spurs and sword were then laid upon the altar, and thelatter returned to the king by the prelates, when his majesty offeredit at the altar, whence it was redeemed by Earl Grey, who carried itwithout a scabbard until the end of the ceremony.
Then the mantle was placed around his majesty; he received the orb,the ring, and the sceptre, the crown was placed upon his head, and thespectators shouted, "God save the king!" while the trumpets sounded,drums were beaten, and the park guns sent forth a loud peal.
The prayers and anthems having been completed, the peers put on theircoronets, and the Bible was presented to the king, who took his placeupon the throne. Then followed the usual acts of homage, and thetreasurer of the household scattered coronation medals. The anointing,crowning, and enthroning of the queen then took place.
After partaking of the sacrament, their majesties were disrobed, andproceeded, as they had entered, to the west door of the abbey. Theregalia was received by the officers of the Jewel Office, and theirmajesties returned to St. James's Palace in the same state as they hadapproached the abbey. It was three o'clock in the afternoon before theceremony ended.
There was no grand state banquet, but the king entertained a largeparty of the royal family and nobility, with the chief officers of thehousehold instead. In consequence of the ill-health of PrincessVictoria, heiress-presumptive, neither she nor her mother, the Duchessof Kent, took part in the ceremonies.
Coronation day was distinguished as a general holiday, and in theevening the city was illuminated. It was selected for the laying of thecorner-stones of two churches,--one at Hastings by the Princess SophiaMatilda of Gloucester, and one at East Cowes by the Princess Victoria.Everybody felt satisfied, the coronation had been a success, and anumber of peers had been created.
The reform bill was not yet settled in parliament, and the debates uponit brought into prominence many men whose names are familiar to us atthe present day. Macaulay was one of these, and his speeches were verybrilliant. Robert Peel, whom we have already mentioned, was another. Atlast the real fight took place in the House of Lords, where there was amagnificent display of talent on both sides, which resulted at the firstreading in the defeat of the reform bill. We need not give the detailsof this matter. While it was pending little else was thought of, and nosooner was it decided than the appearance of cholera, that dreaddisease that had been slowly but surely approaching, filled the publicattention.
It broke out with violence at Sunderland among the filthy and degraded;but it did not become so dreadful a plague as many that had visitedEngland in previous times. It proved a benefit in this, that it awakenedpeople to the necessity for cleanliness in the thoroughfares, andprompted the benevolent to help those who were attacked with the diseaseon account of their privations and unhealthy habitations in wretched,damp country villages. A board of health was established, and Englandwas from that period awakened to the duty of care for the public health,which, we have seen, was a matter of slight consideration in earlierdays.
[[A.D. 1832.]] Riots continued while the reform bill remainedunsettled; for this was the only argument that those ignorant, lawlesspeople who took part in them could bring to bear against those whoopposed them. The consequences of these proceedings were dreadful. InDerby the town jail and many houses of the respectable inhabitants weredestroyed, and in Nottingham the ancient castle belonging to the Duke ofNewcastle was completely demolished.
The rioters even marched upon St. James's Palace under pretence ofpresenting addresses, and several mansions in the neighborhood werestoned. Fortunately they first attacked the Duke of Wellington's house,which gave the troops ample time to assemble for the protection of thepalace.
A riot in Bristol lasted three days, during which all the publicbuildings were set on fire, and the toll-gate was pulled down. Theprison-doors were burst open, and all the prisoners liberated; dwellingsand warehouses were completely demolished, and the property destroyed inthat one town alone was valued at half a million of pounds. At last themilitary attacked the rioters, and, after several were shot down, orderwas restored; but many had perished in the flames they themselves hadkindled, after having drunk to excess of the liquor they had stolen.Public meetings were held in every part of the kingdom to expressdissatisfaction,--particularly in the large manufacturing towns, some ofwhich were frequently set on fire.
In November a meeting of the political union of the working-classeswas announced, their object being to demand universal suffrage, vote byballot, and yearly parliaments; but government took the matter inhand, and the leaders of such illegal proceedings were frightenedinto abandoning them for the time being. These scenes of excitementproduced their effect, even across the channel in France, wheredemonstrations were made by men who attacked some of the principalplaces, and were only dispersed at last by the appearance of theNational Guard in their midst. Lord Eldon wrote at the time on thissubject: "The French are more volatile than we are; they have travelledsomewhat quicker on the road to ruin than we sluggish Englishmen travel;but we are, I fear, on the same road."
We have said very little about the Princess Victoria, because she livedin retirement, pursuing her studies under the excellent supervision ofher mother, the Duchess of Kent; but in the autumn of this year the tworoyal ladies made an interesting tour through the principal counties ofEng land and Wales, and were everywhere received with demonstrationsof welcome and respect. They returned to Kensington Palace in November,highly gratified with their tour.
During this year occurred some events to which we must allude, becausethey are too important to be passed over in silence. One is the marriageof Leopold, King of the Belgians, with the Princess Louise, daughter ofKing Louis Philippe of France. This event was preceded by the death ofthe only son of Napoleon I., known as the Duke of Reichstadt.
He died of consumption at the palace of Schoenbrunn, near Vienna, at theearly age of twenty-one. A funeral service at the church of St. Mary wasthe only mark of respect shown to the memory of this young man in Paris,because the Bonaparte family were not then in power.
Sir Walter Scott died on the twenty-first of September, at Abbotsford,at the age of sixty-one. Few men of genius ever had so brilliant acareer, or acquired during their lifetime so widespread a reputation.He was a lawyer, an historian, a novelist, a poet, than whom none havemaintained a longer or firmer hold on the popular favor; but, what isbetter, he died a great and good man. Carlyle says of him: "Nosounder piece of British manhood was put together in the eighteenthcentury of time. Alas! his fine Scotch face, with its shaggy honesty,sagacity, and goodness, when we saw it latterly on the Edinburgh streetswas all worn with care, the joy all fled from it,--ploughed deep withlabor and sorrow. We shall never forget it; we shall never see itagain. Adieu, Sir Walter, pride of all Scotland; take our proud and lastfarewell!"
[[A.D. 1833.]] At the beginning of the new year Queen Adelaide wasanxious that Lord Howe, who had resigned the chamberlainship, shouldresume it. She was very fond of him, and received his respect andattentions in return for the favor she showed him. He had been opposedto the government, and, as his return to office was to be made onlyon condition that he would change his principles, he refused. He wasreplaced by William Basil Percy, Earl of Denbigh, who remained in hermajesty's service to the close of her life.
There was a change in the government this year: Lord Brougham had becomechancellor, and the reformed parliament, as it was called, emancipatedthe slaves in the British colonies. This was a most important event, andinterested the whole civilized world.
Among the distinguished Frenchmen who visited England at this periodwas Monsieur Thiers, who was entertained by Talleyrand, the Frenchambassador to London, at a grand dinner.
At important assemblages the young Princess Victoria now began to bebrought forward. She attended the ceremonial of the opening of a newpier at Southampton, which was managed with great pomp, all the cityofficials being present. About twenty-five thousand spectators werepresent, and the Duchess of Kent announced that she desired herdaughter to become impressed with the value of everything that couldbe of practical benefit to all classes of the community. Their royalhighnesses were escorted by a military staff, and were treated to asplendid collation, served for them in a beautifully decorated tent thathad been erected for the occasion.
An address was then presented by the corporation to the royal visitors,acknowledging the distinction they had conferred on the town, andrequesting the duchess to name the pier. Her royal highness namedit "The Royal Pier," and added her wishes that it might promote theprosperity of the town. This ceremony was followed by a regatta on thewater and a public dinner, after which there was a display of fireworks.The young princess excited a great deal of interest, and the Southamptonpeople felt quite as proud of her as they did of their new pier.Wherever she travelled with her mother, a salute was sure to greet them.
William IV. did not like this ever-increasing popularity of hissuccessor at all, and remonstrated, saying that such an honor wasonly due to himself and the queen; but the Duchess of Kent insisted onreceiving all the honors that she considered her due, and would notgive orders that the salutes should be discontinued, as the king hadrequested.
[[A D. 1834.]] The death of Lord Grenville, which occurred this year,left the chancellorship of Oxford vacant, and the Duke of Wellingtonwas appointed to the office. He was installed with grand ceremonies, andnothing could surpass the enthusiasm of the crowd that collected to dohim honor.
Several distinguished people died just at this period. One was LordChancellor Bathurst, who had occupied public positions for many years,and boasted of being the only civilian invited to the annual banquetgiven by the Duke of Wellington on the anniversary of the battle of


Waterloo. Another was Coleridge, the poet, whose beautifulcompositions are so familiar to us all.
In France, General de Lafayette closed his earthly career. We must honorhis memory for the part he took in our war of Independence, and theassistance he rendered the American colonies in throwing off the Englishyoke. After his return to his native land Lafayette lived quietly, untilthe revolution of 1830 brought him into prominence again, and he becamechief of the Republican party. He was honored with a grand publicfuneral.
[[A.D. 1835.]] Of the various changes that took place in the governmentfrom year to year we have scarcely made mention, because they would notbe interesting to our readers. It is enough to know that they occurred,and, as some of them were extremely distasteful to the king, he becameso ill-humored and low-spirited that it seemed almost impossible for himto rally. Lord John Russell, secretary of the home department at thistime, was an object of special odium; but his majesty so thoroughlyhated all of his ministers this year that when he was told he ought togive a dinner for the Ascot races, he said, "I cannot give any dinnerswithout inviting the ministers, and I would rather see the devil thanany one of them in my house."
The king's ill-feeling towards his ministers would have rendered theirposition excessively disagreeable if they had considered themselvesreally _his_ ministers; but they were working, they thought, for thegood of the country, and had so little regard for the intellect orjudgment of William that they treated him as a cipher. Indeed, hisoutbursts of temper often led to the belief that he was losing whatlittle mind he had.
At one of his levees he made a disgraceful scene with Lord Torrington,a gentleman of the bed-chamber. A card was handed to Torringtonof somebody to be presented. He read the name, and added,"Deputy-governor." "Deputy-governor?" asked the king, angrily,"Deputy-governor of what?"
"I cannot tell, your majesty," replied the gentleman, "as it is not uponthe card."
"Hold your tongue, sir," roughly retorted the king; "you had better gohome and learn to read." This was so public an insult that Torringtonought to have resented by instantly resigning, but he probably was adaily witness to just such scenes; for the king could not bridle histemper, and lost no opportunity of showing dislike of everybody whosurrounded him. He was so absurd as to admit only Tories to his privatesociety, and no member of the Whig cabinet was ever entertained atWindsor.
[[A.D. 1836.]] The Duchess of Kent came in for her share of hisill-humor at a birthday-dinner. She and Princess Victoria were invitedto go to Windsor on the twelfth of August, to celebrate the queen'sbirthday, and to stay there until after that of the king, on thetwenty-first. She sent word that she wanted to keep her own birthday onthe fifteenth, at Claremont; took no notice of the queen whatever, inher reply, but said she would go to Windsor on the twentieth. This putthe king in a perfect fury, but he made no reply. He was in town on theday the duchess had named for her arrival, for the purpose of assemblingparliament, and having desired them not to wait dinner for him atWindsor, marched off to Kensington Palace to spy into the state ofaffairs there.
He flew into a rage on discovering that the duchess had appropriatedto her own use a suite of apartments, seventeen in number, which he hadrefused during the previous year to let her have. This was a piece ofintrusion that his angry majesty would not bear meekly, so he hastenedto Windsor to give vent to his feelings. It was ten o'clock atnight when he arrived, and, walking straight into the drawing-room,where the whole court were assembled, he approached the PrincessVictoria, took hold of both her hands, and in a loud tone of voiceexpressed his pleasure at seeing her there, and his regret at not beingoftener gratified in that respect. Then, turning towards the duchess,and making a stately bow, he continued, in a still louder tone: "A mostunwarrantable liberty has been taken in one of my palaces; I have justcome from Kensington, where I found apartments taken possession of,not only without my consent, but contrary to my commands; this I cannotunderstand, nor will I endure conduct so disrespectful."
An embarrassed silence followed this coarse attack, which provedonly the prelude to a storm that was to break next day. It was thetwenty-first of August, the king's birthday, and a hundred people ofthe court and neighborhood were assembled at dinner in the palace. TheDuchess of Kent sat on one side of the king, one of his sisters on theother, and the Princess Victoria opposite. Near the conclusion of themeal, at the queen's desire, the health of his majesty was proposed. Allthe guests drank it standing, according to custom, and then followeda long speech by the king, during which he poured forth the followingterrible tirade: "I trust in God my life may be spared for nine monthslonger, after which period, in the event of my death, no regency wouldtake place. I should then have the satisfaction of leaving the royalauthority to the personal exercise of that young lady (pointing to theprincess), the heiress-presumptive to the crown, and not in the handsof a person now near me, who is surrounded by evil advisers, and who isherself incompetent to act with propriety in the station in which shewould be placed. I have no hesitation in saying that I have beeninsulted, grossly and continually insulted, by that person, but I amdetermined to endure no longer a course of behavior so disrespectful tome. Amongst many other things, I have particularly to complain of themanner in which that young lady (again pointing to the princess) hasbeen kept away from my court; she has been repeatedly kept from mydrawing-rooms, at which she ought always to have been present, but I amfully resolved that this shall not happen again. I would have her knowthat I am king, and I am determined to have my authority respected, andfor the future I shall insist and command that the princess do upon alloccasions appear at my court, as it is her duty to do."
This speech was made in a most excited manner, and took everybodycompletely by surprise. The queen looked distressed, the princess burstinto tears, and the whole company were shocked. The Duchess of Kentremained perfectly silent, but immediately rose and retired. She thenannounced her intention to depart at once, and ordered her carriage; buta sort of reconciliation was patched up, and she was persuaded to stayuntil the next day.
The king asked one of his gentlemen what people said about his speech,and was told that the general opinion was that the Duchess of Kentmerited the rebuke, though it ought not to have been given there beforea hundred people. His majesty replied: "I do not care where I said itor before whom; I had been insulted in a measure by her that was pastendurance, and I will not stand it any longer."
[[A.D. 1837.]] The middle of this year was marked by the illness of theking, which did not cause alarm at first; but it was greatly increasedby another quarrel with the Duchess of Kent. This was the cause of it:The king wrote a letter to Princess Victoria, offering her ten thousandpounds a year for her own use, quite independently of her mother,which he sent by Lord Conyngham, with orders to deliver into theprincess's own hands. On arriving at Kensington, Conyngham asked to beadmitted to the presence of the princess. He was requested to state bywhat authority he made such a demand. He said by his majesty's orders.Shortly after he was ushered into a room where sat the Duchess of Kentwith her daughter. He made a speech, saying, "that he had waited on herroyal highness by the king's commands, to present to her a letter withwhich he had been charged by his majesty." Thereupon the duchess put outher hand to take it; but the lord begged her royal highness's pardon,saying, "That he had been expressly commanded by the king to deliver theletter into the princess's own hands." Then the duchess drew back, andVictoria took the letter. After reading it, she wrote to thank the kingand accept the offer. That was the signal for a grand dispute, for theking desired his niece to name a person who was to receive the money forher, and suggested Stephenson. The Duchess of Kent positively objected,and put in her claim for part of the money. She was exceedingly angrywith the king, and he with her, and a great deal of harsh, bittercorrespondence resulted; but the matter was never settled, for hismajesty's illness prevented.
He was ill for several days before he would permit anybody to say in hispresence that such was the case, and continued to do business as long aspossible, even dictating the reports about his condition himself. Onthe seventeenth of June prayers were offered for his majesty in thechurches, and the following day the sacrament was administered by theArchbishop of Canterbury. He said, just after the ceremony: "This isthe eighteenth of June; I should like to live to see the sun of Waterlooset." For three weeks the faithful wife sat at his bedside,performing for him every office he required, totally depriving herselfof rest or recreation. This was a labor of love, for Queen Adelaide hadalways been devoted to her husband. With his head upon her shoulder, andher hand upon his breast, his majesty gently dropped into the sleep thatknows no waking.
His remains lay in state at Windsor Castle until July 8, when he wasburied at St. George's Chapel. For the last time the royal crown ofHanover was placed beside the imperial crown on the coffin of a Kingof England. Queen Adelaide, now Queen-dowager, was present in the royalcloset. When the coffin had been lowered, dust thrown upon it, theblessing pronounced, and a rocket sent up from the door of the chapel,the flag at the Round Tower was lowered, and the royal widow left,followed by the mourners.
[[A.D. 1849.]] Queen Adelaide lived until the close of the year 1849.Parliament had made her rich by giving her a hundred thousand pounds,which she devoted to charity. Neither rank nor wealth ever spoiled thesimplicity of her heart or her manners. She always respected the memoryof her husband, over whose reign she had shed a respectability thatdid her credit. She was not what might be termed a woman of brains, andnever influenced the king for good or for evil; but she was wise enoughnot to interfere in state affairs, and for her virtues she meritsrespect.
In her will, Queen Adelaide requested that her coffin should be carriedto the grave by sailors,--a touching tribute to her husband's memory,and to the Navy, to which she had shown her attachment.






CHAPTER XI. QUEEN VICTORIA.
(A.D. 1819-1862.)
|William IV. expressed a wish that he might live until his niece wasold enough to assume the reins of government herself, so that noregent might be necessary. He was gratified, for Princess Victoria hadcelebrated her eighteenth birthday just four weeks before messengersarrived at Kensington Palace to summon her to the throne. It was on themorning of June 20, 1837, long before daylight, that the king's illnessterminated fatally.
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Howley, the Lord Chamberlain, andthe Marquis of Conyngham immediately started to carry the news toKensington. They arrived there at five o'clock, and this is Miss Wynn'saccount of how the new sovereign received them: "They knocked, theyrang, they thumped for a considerable time before they could rouse theporter at the gate; they were again kept waiting in the court-yard,then turned into one of the lower rooms, where they seemed forgottenby everybody. They rang the bell, and desired that the attendant of thePrincess Victoria might be sent to inform her royal highness that theyrequested an audience on business of importance. After another delay,and another ringing to inquire the cause, the attendant was summoned,who stated that the princess was in such a sweet sleep that she couldnot venture to disturb her. Then they said, 'We are come onbusiness of state to the queen, and even her sleep must give way tothat.' It did; and, to prove that she did not keep them waiting longerthan she could help, she came into the room in a few minutes in a loosewhite night-gown and shawl, her night-cap thrown off, and her hairfalling upon her shoulders, her feet in slippers, tears in her eyes, butperfectly collected and dignified. The prime minister was presently sentfor, and a meeting of the privy council called for eleven o'clock."
Greville says: "Never was anything like the first impression the youngqueen produced, or the chorus of praise and admiration which is raisedabout her manner and behavior, and certainly not without justice. It wasvery extraordinary, and something far beyond what was looked for.Her extreme youth and inexperience, and the ignorance of the worldconcerning her, naturally excited intense curiosity to see how she wouldact on this trying occasion, and there was a considerable assemblage atthe palace notwithstanding the short notice which was given. The firstthing to be done was to teach her her lesson. This task was performed byLord Melbourne. He asked her if she would enter the room accompanied bythe great officers of state, but she said she would come in alone. Assoon as the lords were assembled, the proclamation was read and theusual order passed, when the doors were thrown open and the queenentered, accompanied by her two uncles, the Dukes of Cumberland andSussex.
"She bowed to the lords, took her seat, and then read her speech in aclear, distinct, and audible voice, and without any appearance of fearor embarrassment. She was quite plainly dressed in mourning. After shehad read her speech and signed the oath for the security of the churchof Scotland, the privy councillors were sworn; and, as the two oldroyal dukes, her uncles, knelt before her, swearing allegiance andkissing her hand, I saw her blush up to the eyes, as if she felt thecontrast between their civil and their natural relations, and this wasthe only sign of emotion which she evinced. Her manner to them was verygraceful and engaging; she kissed them both, and rose from her chairand moved towards the Duke of Sussex, who was farthest from her, and tooinfirm to reach her. She seemed bewildered at the multitude of men whowere sworn, and who came one after another to kiss her hand; but she didnot speak to anybody, nor did she make the slightest difference in hermanner or show any in her countenance to any individual of whateverrank, station, or party. She went through the whole ceremony,occasionally looking at Melbourne for instruction when she had any doubtwhat to do, which hardly ever occurred, and with perfect calmnessand self-possession, but at the same time with a graceful modesty andpropriety particularly interesting and ingratiating. When the businesswas done, she retired as she had entered.
"The Duke of Wellington said that if she had been his own daughter hecould not have desired to see her perform her part better. At twelve sheheld a council at St. James's, at which she presided with as much easeas if she had been doing nothing else all her life; she looked verywell, and though so small of stature, and without much pretension tobeauty, the gracefulness of her manner, and the good expression of hercountenance, give her on the whole a very agreeable appearance, and,with her youth, inspire an excessive interest in all who approach her.After the council she received the archbishops and bishops, and afterthem the judges. They all kissed her hand, but she said nothing to anyof them. In short, she appears to act with every sort of good tasteand good feeling, as well as good sense, and nothing can be morefavorable than the impression she has made."
When Conyngham carried the announcement of the king's death to theyoung queen, he was at the same time the bearer of a request from theQueen-dowager Adelaide that she might be permitted to remain at Windsoruntil after the funeral. Without a moment's hesitation the new sovereignwrote a most kind, tender, and sympathetic letter to her aunt, beggingher to remain just as long as she pleased, and to consult nothing buther own feelings and convenience in the matter.
Up to this period but little was known of the young queen, because herlife had been one of seclusion. Her mother was a wise, judicious parent,who knew that court life, such as it was during the reigns of George IV.and William IV., could not have a beneficial effect on the character ofa young girl; and she therefore kept her daughter at a safe distance.This lady was Victoria Maria Louisa, the youngest daughter of the Dukeof Saxe-Coburg, and widow of the Prince of Leiningen.
[[A.D. 1818.]] Edward, Duke of Kent, was decidedly the most honest andhigh-minded of all the sons of George III., and for this reason probablywas by no means popular in his own family. His income was so small thathe could not afford to maintain his rank in England, therefore much ofhis time was passed in Germany. It was while sojourning in that countrythat he fell in love with the Princess of Leiningen, and they weremarried in 1818. It did not seem then as if the duke would ascend thethrone, because there were so many who preceded him in the line ofsuccession; but we have seen how one by one they were removed by death,until it became evident that his brother, George IV., must soon make wayfor him.
[[A.D. 1819.]] That being the case, the Duke and Duchess of Kentwent to England to live while patiently awaiting the course of events,and on the 24th of May, 1819, their only child was born. She waschristened Alexandrina Victoria, the first name being in honor of thethen reigning Czar of Russia; but as she always signed only the lastone, the Alexandrina has fallen out of sight.
The duke only lived eight months after the birth of his child, and thisevent left her heiress-presumptive to the throne. The duchess was leftwith scarcely sufficient means for the proper education of her daughter;but there never was a woman better fitted for the duty of rearingthe future Queen of England. She had strength of character, nobleprinciples, gentle disposition, and marked amiability and agreeablenessof manner, besides being a devoted mother and an educated, accomplishedlady.
Her first care was for the health of her little Victoria, who was bornwith a delicate constitution. She was, therefore, encouraged to rompand play in the open air of some wholesome country resort as muchas possible, even while her intellectual and moral training wereprogressing. Her mother was her constant companion, superintendedher studies, and assisted her in them, at the same time sharing heramusements, and watching with pleasure her gradual development.
[[A.D. 1825.]] When she was six years of age the Rev. George Davys wasappointed her preceptor, and the Baroness Lehzen became her governess.The young princess had reached her eleventh year before she was madeaware of her claim to the succession. Then William IV. ascended thethrone, and his two children were already dead. Princess Victoria'seducation from that period was conducted in a manner that would bestprepare her for the lofty position she was to occupy, and she had amind capable of profiting by it. She gained a good knowledge of historyand geography, as well as of the lives of all the scholars,statesmen, inventors, discoverers, poets, and divines who had everbenefited the human race. Long before she became queen she spokeEnglish, German, and French with equal fluency, read Italian, couldtranslate some of the Latin poets, and showed decided talent formathematics.
Besides, she sang well, danced prettily, and sketched from nature.

Her religious training was such as to fit her for the Christian nationover whom she was to rule, and she has proved in her domestic life theexcellence of her early impressions.
The Duke of Kent died in debt, which his wife and daughter were soanxious to liquidate that they practiced great economy in order thatthey might be able to do so. Still this worthy task was not completeduntil the princess ascended the throne, when she drew on her own privypurse for that purpose.
[[A.D. 1837.]] On the seventeenth of July her majesty proceeded in stateto the House of Lords, where she made her first speech. It hadbeen carefully prepared, and gave a great deal of satisfaction. Aproclamation appeared in the "Gazette" the same evening dissolvingparliament. Three months later the youthful sovereign paid a state visitto the city of London, where a grand banquet had been prepared forher by the Lord Mayor. She was accompanied by her mother, her two aunts,the Duchesses of Gloucester and Cambridge, the royal Dukes of Cambridgeand Sussex, her uncles, and Prince George of Cambridge. She was attendedin her state carriage by the Duchess of Sutherland, Mistress of theRobes, and the Earl of Albermarle. The ambassadors, cabinet ministers,and other noble ladies and gentlemen followed in a train of two hundredcarriages, that extended for a mile and a half. They left BuckinghamPalace at two in the afternoon, and passed through Temple Bar,--whichwas at that time considered the entrance +.o the city proper,--with theusual ceremonies.
At St. Paul's addresses detained the queen so long that it was half-pastthree before the procession reached Guildhall, where the Lady Mayoresswaited to receive her majesty. After the banquet, which was a splendidaffair in every respect, the title of baronet was conferred on the LordMayor, and two sheriffs were knighted. One of these was Mr. Montefiore;and it is worthy of note that "Sir Moses" was the first Jew who had everbeen so honored in England. This event was a proof of the young queen'sliberality in religious views, of which she has since given many others.
[[A.D. 1838.]] The public mind soon began to be occupied with thecoronation, and there was much speculation throughout the country withregard to it, because nearly two centuries had elapsed since the lastqueen-regnant had been crowned alone. The excitement became very greatas the twenty-eighth of June, the day appointed for the importantceremony, approached; and so eager were people to witness the processionthat windows along the route were let for as much as two hundred poundseach, and the cost of single seats ranged from ten shillings to fiveguineas. Crowds of spectators filled every street through which hermajesty was to pass, and never had so much enthusiasm been shown on asimilar occasion. "The procession formed near Buckingham Palace at teno'clock in the morning. It was headed by trumpeters, a squadron of theHousehold Brigade, the foreign ministers, then the foreign ambassadors,these being followed by a mounted regimental band and a detachment ofthe Household Brigade. Next came the carriages of the Duchesses ofKent and Gloucester, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, and the Duke ofSussex.
"Another mounted band, and the queen's barge-master, with forty-eightwatermen, preceded twelve of the queen's carriages conveying the ladies,noblemen, and gentlemen belonging to the royal household, followed by asquadron of the Household Brigade, and another mounted band. After themcame the military staff, aides-de-camp, and other distinguished officerson horseback, the royal huntsmen, yeomen, and foresters, six of hermajesty's led horses, with the Yeomen of the Guard and their officers.
"Then came the Queen in her state-carriage, drawn by eight cream-coloredhorses, followed by the Duke of Buccleuch, on horseback asCaptain-General of the Royal Archer Guard of Scotland, with a few otherofficials. A squadron of the Household Brigade closed the procession,which proceeded slowly to Westminster Abbey.
"That ancient edifice was fitted up splendidly. A gallery had beenraised capable of holding four hundred spectators, besides an organ andan orchestra. This was at the west end of the abbey. There was anothergallery at the east end, capable of holding six hundred persons,reserved for the House of Commons, and above this, two others, thetopmost one being reserved for the trumpeters.
"On the south side were boxes for the Sovereign, the Earl-Marshal,the Ambassadors, and the Lord Chamberlain. The peeresses were placed inthe north transept, the peers in the south, the Judges, Knights of theBath, and Aldermen in the choir, the Bishops on the floor to the north,with the royal family, and the clergy of Westminster opposite. Thelatter waited in the nave to join the procession on entering the abbey;and Augusta of Cambridge, Prince George of Cambridge, the Duke ofNemours, the Prince of Holstein, the Duke of Saxe-Coburg, the Duke ofNassau, Prince Ernest of Hesse, and the Prince of Leiningen had seatsin the royal box.
"The clergymen headed the procession in the abbey, followed by theheralds, the officers of the household, the chief prelates, and officersof state. Then came the Duchess of Cambridge, with a circlet of goldon her head, wearing a robe of purple velvet, her train borne by LadyCaroline Campbell, her coronet by Viscount Villiers; the Duchess of Kentwith a similar circlet and robe, her train borne by Lady Flora Hastings,her coronet by Viscount Morpeth; and the Duchess of Gloucester, hertrain borne by Lady Caroline Legge, her coronet by Viscount Evelyn.
"The regalia was carried thus: St. Edward's staff by the Duke ofRoxburgh; the golden spurs by Lord Byron; the sceptre, with the cross,by the Duke of Cleveland; the third sword by the Marquis of Westminster;the second by the Duke of Sutherland; and the curtara or dull sword,emblematic of mercy, by the Duke of Devonshire. The coronets of thesenoblemen were carried by pages.
"After the Black Rod, the Deputy Garter, and the Lord Great Chamberlainof England, came the Duke of Cambridge, in his robes of state, with hisbaton of field-marshal, his coronet borne by the Marquis of Granby, histrain by Major-General Sir William Maynard Gomm; and the Duke of Sussex,in his robes of state, his coronet borne by Viscount Anson, histrain by the Honorable Edward Gore and Viscount Coke.
"Then came the Duke of Leinster as High Constable of Ireland, and theEarl of Erroll as High Constable of Scotland, the Duke of Norfolk asEarl-Marshal, with his baton, and the Duke of Wellington as Lord HighConstable of England, with his staff and field-marshal's baton. Thesword-of-state was borne by Viscount Melbourne, the sceptre, withthe dove, by the Duke of Richmond, St. Edward's crown by the Duke ofHamilton, the orb by the Duke of Somerset, the patina by the Bishop ofBangor, the Bible by the Bishop of Winchester, and the chalice by theBishop of Lincoln.
"They preceded the queen, who wore a royal robe of crimson velvet,bordered with ermine and edged with gold lace, the collars of the ordersof the Garter, Thistle, Bath, and St. Patrick, and a circlet of gold.Her majesty was supported on either side by the Bishops of Bath, Wells,and Durham; her train was borne by Ladies Adelaide Paget, FrancesElizabeth Cowper, Anne Wentworth Fitzwilliam, Mary Augusta FredericaGrimstone, Caroline Amelia Gordon Lennox, Mary Alethea Beatrix Talbot,Catherine Lucy Wilhelmina Stanhope, and Louisa Harriet Jenkinson,assisted by the Lord Chamberlain of the Household, the Marquis ofConyngham, followed by the Groom of the Robes, Captain Francis Seymour,with ten gentlemen-at-arms on either side, with their lieutenantstandard-bearer, Clerk of the Cheque, and Harbinger.
"Afterwards came the Duchess of Sutherland as Mistress of the Robes, theMarchioness of Lansdowne as First Lady of the Bed-chamber; otherladies of the bedchamber, two marchionesses, four countesses, eightmaids-of-honor, and eight women of the bed-chamber.
"They were followed by the Gold Stick of the Life Guards, ViscountCombermere; the Master of the Horse, the Earl of Albermarle; theCaptain-General of the Royal Archer Guard of Scotland, the Duke ofBuccleuch; and the Captains of the Yeomen of the Guard, the Earl ofIlchester, the Band of Gentlemen-at-Arms, Lord Foley, the Lords inWaiting, the Keeper of Her Majesty's Privy Purse, and the Yeomen of theGuard brought up the rear.
"After the regular coronation ceremony the lords pronounced the wordsof homage, and kissed her majesty's hand. The princes of the bloodroyal ascended the steps of the throne, took off their coronets, knelt,pronounced the words of homage, touched the crown upon her majesty'shead, and kissed her left cheek.
"The Duke of Norfolk and sixteen other dukes did the same, with theexception of kissing her hand instead of the cheek. Their examplewas followed by twenty-one marquises, ninety-three earls, nineteenviscounts, and ninety-one barons.
"Lord Rolle, who was very infirm, slipped on ascending the throne, whenthe queen rose and extended her hand, expressing a hope that he wasnot hurt. The Duke of Wellington was much cheered when performing hishomage; and, when this part of the ceremony was concluded, the membersof the House of Commons gave nine hearty cheers, accompanied withfrequent cries of "God save Queen Victoria!" which were repeatedthroughout the building.
"The crown made for George IV. weighed more than seven pounds, and,being considered too heavy, a new one had been prepared for the queen,formed of hoops of silver, covered with precious stones, over a cap,of rich blue velvet, surmounted by a ball studded with smalldiamonds, having on the top a Maltese cross of brilliants, asplendid sapphire in the centre, a cluster of brilliants, with_fleurs-de-lis_ and Maltese crosses round the centre of the crown, andthe large heart-shaped ruby worn by the Black Prince in front, a largeoblong sapphire below it, and clusters of pearls, with emeralds, rubies,sapphires, and other gems." This is the description given by the Duke ofBuckingham in his "Memoirs of Victoria's Court."
The usual grand public banquet was omitted, but her majesty entertaineda party of a hundred people at dinner at the palace after the ceremony,and on the following night the Duke of Wellington gave a splendid ballat Apsley House, for which two thousand invitations were issued. Anumber of state dinners were given by the cabinet ministers, and therewere illuminations and fireworks, a fair, and free admission to all thetheatres granted to her majesty's subjects, who enjoyed the amusementsprovided for them with great spirit.
One of the most conspicuous persons in the coronation procession wasMarshal Soult, one of the ablest of Napoleon's generals, who had beensent to England as ambassador to represent the French government. Thewhite-haired soldier was cheered whenever the crowd caught sight ofhim, and throughout his sojourn in England reviews were got up for hisentertainment, and everything was done to make his visit agreeable.
Another person who attracted attention was Prince Esterhazy, theAustrian ambassador, who appeared in a superb costume, and sparkled withgorgeous diamonds from head to foot.
Several new peers were created after the coronation, besides twenty-ninebaronets, among whom were George Earle Lytton Bulwer, the novelist,and John Frederick William Herschel, the scientist, and a great manyknights. With the opening of the new reign we see a change in the government, which had begun while William IV. was ruler. He hadexercised the right to dismiss his ministers if he pleased, and all thesovereigns who preceded him had done the same, and kept their favorites,whether it suited the House of Commons or no. This was to be the case nolonger, and the constitutional government which exists today in Englandbegan now gradually to develop itself; but, until this excellentsystem of government was firmly established, there was a good deal ofdiscontent among all classes.
One important event that took place after the death of William IV. wasthe accession of his brother Ernest, Duke of Cumberland, to the throneof Hanover. This gave general satisfaction in England, for the duke wasthoroughly detested, and his absence from the country most welcome.He was suspected of having taken part in the Orange plot, in 1835, theobject of which was to set aside the claims of the Princess Victoriaand place himself on the throne, and this circumstance certainly didnot increase his popularity. Of all the sons of George III. he was theroughest, the most overbearing, unprincipled, and brutal, and Englandwas blessed in being rid of him.
Lord Melbourne was the queen's prime minister, and she had a sincereregard and affection for him always. He was kindly, good-natured, andhonest, and sought in every possible way to make her reign agreeableto her. He advised her to the best of his ability, but she had too muchsense to depend entirely on his counsel. He was not a man of very strongintellect, nor was he a statesman, so there was little danger of theyoung queen becoming a mere puppet in his hands, as some prominentTories feared she might.
The Duke of Wellington was one of these. He said on the queen'saccession: "The Tories will never have a chance with a young womanfor sovereign; I have no small talk and Peel has no manners." But he wasto find his mistake, for the queen had the interest of her kingdom toomuch at heart to be governed entirely by personal feelings.

There were two powerful leaders in the House of Lords who were opposedto Lord Melbourne, though one was a Whig and the other a Tory. They wereLord Brougham and Lord Lyndhurst,--the former a man whose capacity forwork seemed almost superhuman, and whose power as a speaker was immense.There never was a man whose knowledge was so universal or who did somuch at one time as Lord Brougham, and his extraordinary ability wasfelt in England for many years. Lord Lyndhurst was one of themost remarkable parliamentary debaters of his day, and resembled LordBrougham in his ability to labor, though he was not master of somany branches of learning. The two combined were the most formidableopponents the ministry could have had, and they were merciless in theircriticisms of Lord Melbourne.
When the new parliament assembled an unusually large number of men, whoafterwards became prominent, were gathered together. Among these wereMr. Grote, the historian of Greece, Mr. Edward Lytton Bulwer, Mr.Disraeli, Mr. Gladstone, Lord Carlisle, Lord John Russell, LordPalmerston, Sir Robert Peel, and Lord Derby. Lord John Russell wasleader of the Whig party in the House of Commons, and Sir Robert Peel ofthe Tory or Conservative party, as they were now called. O'Connell, thegreat Irish agitator, was very prominent in the House of Commons, andRichard Lalor Sheil was an eloquent orator of the Irish National party.This is a long list of names, some of which may not be mentioned again;but others are so closely connected with the queen's career, because ofthe positions they fill in the government, that short biographies willbe supplied where they seem to be appropriate.
[[A.D. 1839.]] The first serious source of trouble in the new reignwas Canada. That country had been colonized by both French and Englishemigrants, and for some time the line of their respective possessionswas clearly drawn. But British ways of thinking and acting and Britishlaws began to predominate, which led to jealousy on the part of theFrench, who feared that their neighbors would get the upper-hand ineverything. Members of parliament in England frequently discussedCanadian affairs, and from time to time made laws that were expectedto tend towards her welfare, but the colonists were not satisfied.They felt that the home government had little sympathy withtheir situation, and that they were being left out in the cold, whileattention was directed towards affairs that they fancied must beof greater interest to parliament, simply because of being betterunderstood or more nearly affecting individuals.
At last a rebellion broke out, but it was quickly put down by the endof three weeks. Unlike most outbreaks of that sort, its effect was good;for it aroused England to the necessity of at once doing something toameliorate the condition of her colonists. No time was to be lost, andthe friends of good government were alive to the necessity of sending toCanada a man of ability and unexceptionable character. It was Lord JohnRussell who undertook to select a governor-general, and the person henamed was Lord Durham.
Lord Durham accepted the mission with reluctance, because his health wasnot good, and he knew that energy and labor were required in orderto accomplish what was expected of him. It was only after repeatedassurances of the support he would receive in England that he consentedat last to go.
It is not necessary to enter into the difficulties that beset his path,or to trace out the details of his policy. He was too despotic to pleasethe colonists, but he acted conscientiously, and was warmly upheldby the home government at first. He issued a proclamation that causeddissatisfaction, and seems to have been misunderstood, and he wasunmindful of some of the technicalities of English law. Then some ofhis friends turned against him, and his foes were merciless in theirdenunciation. Among the latter was the all-powerful Lord Brougham,against whose thundering eloquence no man could hold up his head.Suffice it to say that Lord Durham returned to England a disgracedman. He had saved Canada, but ruined himself. The policy which herecommended on his return was the one upon which the foundation of theprosperity of all the British colonies was established. In so far LordDurham's mission to Canada was a splendid success; but the anxiety andthe hard work it had entailed upon him ruined his already enfeebledhealth, and he died a short time after his return, at the age offorty-eight.
At the beginning of Queen Victoria's reign there was trouble nearer hometo be contended with; and this was "Chartism," which a few words willserve to explain. The reform bill was passed before King William died,as we have seen, but those among the lower classes who had worked for itwere not satisfied; they had not yet obtained all they desired, for theyhad looked for relief from poverty and misery, and no relief had come.They fancied that the new government was unmindful of their wants. Theyhated the rich, who enjoyed the comforts of which they were deprived,and the rich feared the consequences of their hatred. This separated thetwo classes as decidedly as though an ocean had rolled between them, inso far as sympathy or assistance was concerned.
The result was grand mass-meetings in every part of the country, whichwere organized, in many instances, by men of eloquence and ability. Oneof the leaders was Feargus O'Conner, who headed the processions, andfancied himself the saviour of the workingmen. His rude eloquence hadgreat weight with the masses, who felt that they were thrust out of thepolitical workings of the government, but needed to be told what changesthey required. Then Daniel O'Connell stepped forward as leader of theworkingmen's party, and wrote an appeal to the government, setting forththe grievances of the people and demanding reform. To this document hegave the popular title of "the People's Charter," and said, ashe handed it to the secretary of the association: "Agitate for it, andnever be content with anything else." This was the introduction of themovement known as Chartism that agitated England during the followingten years; for charters representing all sorts of grievances, politicaland social, were made out, and Chartist newspapers were founded. Themost influential of these was the "Northern Star," conducted by FeargusO'Conner. Some of the Chartist meetings were preceded by torchlightprocessions, and many of them terminated in serious riots.
It must not be supposed that complaints were made without cause, or thatthe grievances were imaginary; for the poor of England really suffered,and there was urgent need of reform. Some of the points in "the People'sCharter" were adopted as part of the English Constitution, and as timerolled on Chartism gradually faded out of existence.
There was a great and most beneficial change made in the post-officesystem at this period; and this is how it came about: Miss Martineausays, that Coleridge, when a young man, was walking through the LakeDistrict one day, when he saw a postman deliver a letter to a youngwoman at a cottage door. The woman turned it over and examined it, andthen returned it, saying that she could not pay the postage, which wasa shilling. Hearing that the letter was from her brother, the poet'sinterest was aroused, and he paid the postage in spite of the woman'sprotestations. No sooner was the postman out of sight than the womantore open the sheet, and showed Coleridge that it was blank. She thenexplained that she and her brother had agreed that as long as everythingwent well with him he was to send her a blank sheet once every threemonths, and upon the receipt of it she would know that such was thecase without the expense of postage. This incident made such animpression on Coleridge that he repeated it to Mr. Rowland Hill, who wasstruck with the belief that there must be something wrong in a systemwhich prompted brother and sister to cheat in order to gratify theirdesire to hear from each other. So he set to work to make inquiries asto the cost of carrying letters, and never rested until he succeeded inestablishing the penny-post, which has proved a great blessing to thewhole civilized world. Of course, it was not accomplished without agreat deal of trouble and opposition; but no sooner were the advantagesof cheap postage recognized in England than the system was imitated bynearly all nations.
Now we come to an event that will no doubt prove more interesting to ourreaders than politics or inventions,--the queen's marriage; but first wemust introduce the person selected for her consort, and take a glance athis early life.
Francis Charles Augustus Albert Emanuel was the second son of Ernest andLouise, Duke and Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha. He was born at Rosenau, asummer residence, about four miles from Coburg, August 26, 1819, and wasconsequently three months younger than Victoria. The Duchess of Kent wasa sister of the Duke of Saxe-Coburg; therefore Prince Albert, as he wasalways called, and Princess Victoria were first cousins.
The prince was a remarkably intellectual and thoughtful child, withso great a fondness for study that, instead of being a task, it was asource of pleasure to him. He loved occupation, and could never bearto be idle. His tutor said that "to do _something_ was with him anecessity," and he comprehended so easily and clearly that it was apleasure to teach him.
He was fond of active sport, as all healthy boys are sure to be,and engaged in them with the same zeal that marked his devotion tostudy. He had a sunny nature and an excellent heart, which promptedhim to do good to others, and never to forget a favor, no matter howtrifling, done to himself.
King Leopold of Belgium was uncle to Prince Albert and Queen Victoria,and very fond of both, and anxious that they should marry, because hesaw qualities in each that led him to believe they were eminently suitedto make each other happy. But he was not willing to depend entirelyon his own judgment, so he took into his confidence Baron ChristianFriedrich von Stockmar, his old friend and adviser, who had been withhim in England.
Stockmar was capable of forming an opinion on this important subject,because he had seen much of the princess in her youth, and knew hercharacter and disposition as well as he did those of the prince. Hefavored the match; but advised that the young people should be broughttogether without allowing them to suspect the reason.
An opportunity presented itself soon; for the Duchess of Kent invitedthe Duke of Coburg and his sons to visit her at Kensington Palace. Thiswas in 1836, and as the visitors remained four weeks the young peoplehad ample time to become good friends. As soon as Prince Albert leftEngland King Leopold informed his niece of his wish, and desired ananswer. She wrote in the most flattering terms of her cousin, andconcluded her letter thus: "I have only now to beg you, my dearestuncle, to take care of the health of one now so dear to me, and to takehim under your special protection. I hope and trust that all will go onprosperously and well on this subject now of so much importance to me."
The prince was kept in the dark about the matter; but care was taken that his education should be such as to fit him forthe position of consort to the Queen of England; and the next two yearsof his life were devoted to hard study under the guidance of some of thebest professors in Germany.
[[A.D. 1839.]] When his cousin mounted the throne he was one of thefirst to congratulate her. He wrote: "Now you are queen of the mightiestland in Europe; in your hand lies the happiness of millions. Mayheaven assist you and strengthen you with its strength in that high butdifficult task! I hope that your reign may be long, happy, and glorious,and that your efforts may be rewarded by the thankfulness and love ofyour subjects."
At last King Leopold took occasion, when Prince Albert was visiting him,to find out whether he loved the young queen, and was so well pleasedwith the result of the interview that he wrote Baron Stockmar, who wasthen in England: "If I am not very much mistaken, Albert possesses allthe qualities required to fit him for the position which he will occupyin England. His understanding is sound, his apprehension clear andrapid, and his heart in the right place."
The prince was too young to marry yet, so it was decided that he shouldmake a tour of Italy after he left the university where he had beenpursuing his education. The queen had taken Baron Stockmar into herconfidence, and told him how much she thought of her cousin. She nowrequested him to accompany the prince to Italy, and he consented. Theyspent part of the winter in Florence, where the prince took long walksabout the country and continued his studies. He rose at six andworked until noon, dined at two o'clock, and went to bed at nine. Musicoccupied much of his time, for he played well on the piano and theorgan; and he often went into society, though he was not fond of partiesand balls, After visiting Rome and most of the other cities ofItaly, the prince returned to Coburg; and the baron, who had been hiscompanion, and who had watched him closely for many weeks, was more thanever convinced of his noble qualities and strength of character.
In October, 1839, the prince went to England again, in company with hisbrother. During the three years that had passed since his former visitPrince Albert had grown tall, and had developed into a handsome man.He had a sweet expression, a bright, intelligent countenance, broadforehead, and clear blue eyes. The young queen was perfectly delightedwith the change that had taken place in him, and on the very day ofhis arrival at Windsor Castle wrote her uncle: "Albert's beauty ismost striking, and he is most amiable and unaffected,--in short, very_fascinating_. The young men are amiable, delightful companions, andI am very happy to have them here." Four days later she informedLord Melbourne that she was going to marry her cousin Albert, and heexpressed his entire satisfaction at a step which he felt sure would beacceptable to all her subjects. Then she wrote Baron Stockmar: "I _do_feel so guilty, I know not how to begin my letter; but I think the newsit will contain will be sufficient to insure your forgiveness. Alberthas completely won my heart, and all was settled between us thismorning. I feel certain he will make me very happy. I wish I could say Ifelt as certain of _my_ making him happy; but I shall do my best. UncleLeopold must tell you all about the details, which I have not time todo. Albert is very much attached to you."
Prince Albert also wrote to the baron, and said: "Victoria is so goodand kind to me that I am often puzzled to believe that I should bethe object of so much affection. I know the interest you take in myhappiness, and therefore pour out my heart to you." The princessreturned to Germany in November, and stopped at Wiesbaden, where theymet King Leopold and Baron Stockmar, who desired to make arrangementsfor Albert's establishment in England. Shortly after his arrival inCoburg his engagement was made public, and though the rejoicing wasgreat, everybody felt sorry that the young prince, who was a generalfavorite, was so soon to leave them; and it was not without a great dealof regret that he himself thought of his departure from his native land,that he was so soon to leave forever.
[[A.D. 1839.]] General Grey, who went over with Lord Torrington inDecember to invest the prince with the Order of the Garter, and toaccompany him to England, thus describes the final departure from Gotha:"It was an affecting scene, and everything shows the genuine love ofall" classes for their young prince. The streets were densely crowded;every window was crammed with heads; every housetop covered with people,waving handkerchiefs and vying with each other in demonstrations ofaffection that could not be mistaken. The carriages stopped in passingthe dowager-duchess's, and Prince Albert got out with his father andbrother to bid her a last adieu. It was a terrible trial to the poorduchess, who was inconsolable for the loss of her beloved grandson. Shecame to the window as the carriages drove off, and threw her arms out,calling,
'Albert, Albert!' in tones that went to every one's heart, when she wascarried away almost in a fainting state by her attendants."
[[A.D. 1840.]] Meanwhile the queen summoned her privy council andannounced to them her marriage engagement, and, at the opening ofparliament in January, she repeated the announcement from the throne.She had the satisfaction of finding that her choice of a husband wasuniversally approved of, and time proved that she could scarcely havemade a wiser one; for there is probably no queen who ever had ashappy a married life as Victoria.
Baron Stockmar was sent to England, as the prince's representative, tosettle the terms of the treaty of marriage, and to arrange the prince'sfuture establishment there. A letter to the queen concerning hishousehold shows how sensible the prince was, especially in hisdetermination to side with no party? He says: "I should wishparticularly that the selection be made without regard to politics; for,if I am really to keep myself free from all parties, my people must notbelong exclusively to one side. Let the men be of very high rank or veryaccomplished or very clever, or persons who have performed importantservices for England. It is necessary that they should be chosen fromboth sides,--the same number of Whigs as of Tories; and, above all, itis my wish that they should be men of high character and well educated.I am satisfied you will look upon this matter as I do; and I shall bemuch pleased if you will communicate what I have said to Lord Melbourne,so that he may be fully aware of my views."
Now arose three points of discussion in England before the marriagetreaty could be signed. They were, first, religion,--a report havingbeen circulated that the prince was inclined to Catholicism. It was soonshown that he and all his family were Protestants, and that there wasno essential difference between the communion services of the German andEnglish churches.
Second, the annuity,--which, after considerable debate between thetwo political parties, was fixed at thirty thousand pounds, thoughthe queens of the three preceding sovereigns, as well as the PrincessCharlotte when she married Prince Leopold, had been granted fiftythousand. The prince felt disturbed when he heard of this diminutionin his allowance, not so much because of his desire for money asbecause it struck him as a sign that the English people were notpleased with the marriage. However, Baron Stockmar, with his usualthoughtfulness, wrote a letter to the prince, explaining that it wasonly on account of the commercial distress throughout the country, andnot from any personal motives, that parliament had decided as it did.
The third point of discussion was more a matter of feeling, particularlywith regard to the bride, because it was a question of precedence andrank. The English Constitution made clear the position of the wife of aking, who had the highest rank next to her husband, but said nothingon this point about the husband of the queen-regnant. It was easilysettled, however, and gave the prince the first place after the queen,although it was not until many years after the marriage that the titleof prince-consort was formally granted to him.
An enthusiastic welcome awaited Prince Albert on his arrival in England,and the people streamed out of every town and village on the road tocheer him. The impression he made was most favorable, and all those whowere not prejudiced by party feeling soon liked him thoroughly.
The marriage took place on the tenth of February, and thousands of thequeen's subjects lined the roads between Buckingham Palace and WindsorCastle, to view the bridal procession on its way to and from the chapel.The young couple spent three days quietly at Windsor, and then returnedto London.
Although the prince occupied the first position of any gentleman inthe kingdom, a few members of the royal family disputed his right ofprecedency and that was a source of disquietude, which was felt alsowhenever he travelled on the continent with the queen. Then in hisown household his position was not at first clearly defined, andthat was excessively disagreeable to a man of the prince's character. InMay he wrote to his friend, the Prince von Lowenstein: "In my home lifeI am very happy and contented; but the difficulty in filling my placewith the proper dignity is that I am only the husband, and not themaster, in the house." It was his aim to become the queen's privatesecretary and chief adviser, and to assume control of the royalhousehold. He desired no power for himself, but studied English lawand politics, that he might be able to assist and advise his wife withregard to any difficult question that might be brought before her; inshort, to be the head of his family and household. And he succeeded, notin a day, but in course of time, and by the exercise of great tact andself-control. He had decided opinions, and was never indifferent tothe foreign or domestic relations of his adopted country; but he neverdirectly interfered with the machinery of the government or the dutiesof the sovereign. He devoted himself nobly and unselfishly to the taskof doing all the good in his power towards making his wife's reign aprosperous and happy one to the nation.
His path was made smoother by the queen's excellent judgment and warmaffection; for she lost no opportunity of making it felt that she andher husband were one in purpose, as in heart and authority. The princehad an invaluable adviser in Baron Stockmar, whose knowledge of men andof politics made him thoroughly reliable. Lord Palmerston spoke of him"as one of the best political heads he had ever met with, and one of thefirst statesmen of Europe."
The royal marriage was succeeded by all sorts of public entertainments,which served to introduce the prince to court life; but they were agreat strain upon him, for he had lived so quietly and regularlyall his life that the late hours he had to keep were hard to bear.Besides, the pressure of public duties obliged him to neglect his musicand drawing for awhile, and this was a serious deprivation. The princewas an excellent musician, and played both the piano and the organ, butparticularly the latter, with rare skill. When work became so plannedout as to afford some leisure hours, the royal couple devoted themto etching and to music. To sing and play together was their chiefamusement. So highly was Prince Albert's musical knowledge thought ofthat he was appointed one of the directors of a series of classicalconcerts, that soon became popular, and went far towards cultivating ataste for the best music. He was interested in all branches of art, andnever failed to encourage painters and sculptors as well as musicians.
Several attempts have been made on the life of the queen during herreign. The first one occurred about four months after her marriage. Shewas driving in an open carriage, with the prince, up Constitution Hill,when a youth, seventeen years of age, named Oxford, fired two shotsat her. Fortunately neither took effect, and the wretched creature wasfound to be insane, and confined in a lunatic asylum.
The prince could have no better proof of the high estimation in whichhe was held by both parties in parliament than when a bill was passedappointing him regent, in case the queen should die and leave minorchildren. There was only one dissenting voice, and that was the queen'suncle, the Duke of Sussex, who wanted the position himself, and thoughthe was entitled to it. Baron Stockmar then felt that his presence wasno longer needed in England, and returned to his quiet home in Coburg,whence he kept up a regular correspondence with the prince, and alwayspointed out his line of conduct, and watched him at a distance withkeen interest.
The queen had a daughter born on the thirteenth of November, atBuckingham Palace. She was baptized by the names Victoria Adelaide MaryLouisa. The sponsors were the Duke of Saxe-Coburg, represented by theDuke of Wellington, King Leopold, the Queen-dowager, the Duchesses ofKent and Gloucester, and the Duke of Sussex. Lord Melbourne declarednext day to the queen that the infant "looked about her quite consciousthat the stir was all about herself;" but as she was only three monthsold when the ceremony took place, it is not probable that she recognizedherself as the heroine of it. The prince wrote his father: "Thechristening went off very well. Your little grandchild behaved withgreat propriety."
The Christmas holidays were kept that year at Windsor Castle. Thishad always been a favorite festival with the prince, and the custom ofinterchanging gifts, which marks the day in Germany, was introduced intohis home. Christmas trees were set up, and every member of the householdwas remembered in the pretty articles that surrounded them.
This year the queen received some beautiful presents from the Emperorof China,--consisting of a golden bedstead, ear-rings worth a thousandpounds each, an exquisitely wrought shawl, and some rare silks andembroidery. This was at the close of the Chinese war with England, ofwhich it is not necessary to give here all the particulars. The Englishgained victories that opened several ports in China for them to carry ontrade; but they acted with unpardonable injustice towards the Chinese,and their victory ought rather to have made them blush than rejoice.
[[A.D. 1841.]] The Melbourne administration had by this time become unpopular, because the country had fallen heavily intodebt, trade was in a depressed state, and pauperism and distress hadincreased. A fierce political struggle was pending; and it was verygratifying to the queen to find, when she made short excursions in thecountry, that, in spite of the discontent which prevailed, she was metwith every mark of loyalty and affection by her subjects.
In August parliament met, and, after a fortnight's debate, decided torepresent to her majesty the necessity of a change in the ministry. SoLord Melbourne had to resign, though he took leave of the queen withsincere regret. She was grieved with parting with her minister, whomshe had seen every day for four years, and in whom she had found awarmly-attached friend; but Prince Albert was such a clever, ablesupport that the trial was by no means so great as it would have beenbefore her marriage.
The task of forming a new ministry was intrusted to Sir Robert Peel,who worked so quickly that all the appointments were made in less thana week. No sooner was the new cabinet fairly established than the Princeof Wales was born at Buckingham Palace. This event took place on theninth of November, and during the following month the court removed toWindsor Castle. Here is a copy of the letter which the queen wrote KingLeopold soon after:--
"We arrived here with our awfully large nursery establishment yesterdaymorning. To-day is very bright, clear, and dry, and we walked out early,and felt like prisoners freed from some dungeon.
"I wonder very much who our little boy will be like. You will understandhow fervent are my prayers, and I am sure everybody's must be, to seehim resemble his father in _every, every_ respect,--both in bodyand mind! Oh, my dearest uncle, I am sure if you knew how happy, howblessed I feel, and how proud in possessing such a perfect being as myhusband, and if you think you have been instrumental in bringing aboutthis union it must gladden your heart!"
[[A.D. 1842.]] King Frederick William of Prussia was invited to Englandto stand sponsor for the Prince of Wales. He arrived at Greenwich on thetwenty-second of January, and was met by Prince Albert, who escortedhim to Windsor Castle. There he was received by the queen with all theformalities of state. Three days later the baby-prince was christened atSt. George's Chapel, Windsor. Besides the King of Prussia, the sponsorswere the Duchess of Saxe-Coburg, represented by the Duchess of Kent, theDuke of Cambridge, the Duchess of Saxe-Gotha, represented by the Duchessof Cambridge, Princess Augusta of Cambridge, and Prince Ferdinand ofSaxe-Coburg.
The ceremony was performed with unusual splendor; the chapel was hungwith banners, lights shone upon the altar, and the music was very fine.An anthem had been composed for the occasion; but the prince objected toanything new, saying: "We will have something we all know--somethingin which we can all join--something devotional," and so the HallelujahChorus was substituted.
Shortly after the King of Prussia returned home Prince Albert receivednews of the approaching marriage of his brother Ernest with the PrincessAlexandrine of Baden. He was urged to be present at the ceremony; butpublic affairs were in such a dreadful condition in England thathe could not leave, though he was strongly inclined to do so.Insurrections were from time to time breaking out in the iron andcoal districts, where there was a great deal of suffering and want.Ireland was still excited by the Chartist agitators, and the horriblewar with Afghanistan, where the British troops suffered so dreadfully,was still going on. These are some of the circumstances--but there wereothers besides--which called for an increase of soldiers and large sumsof money; and the Melbourne administration, as we have seen, had leftthe country in debt two million five hundred thousand pounds.
In the face of such troubles Prince Albert could not desert his wifeto attend his brother's wedding. He worked hand-in-hand with Sir RobertPeel, and together they established an income tax, which worked withsplendid results, and furnished two million pounds more than had beenexpected. Even the queen shared the burden of the taxation, which provedsuch an excellent remedy that confidence in the government was restored.The harvest was good this year, trade began to revive, and it seemedat last that a tide of prosperity had set in. The poorer classes hadsuffered so much that it was long before they could recover from thedepression into which they had sunken; but reforms were going on inevery branch of industry that effected their interest, and a brighterday had dawned for England.
In March an account of the massacre of the British troops at Cabul wascommunicated to the queen, but it was not until the following monththat the shocking details of it reached England. But such scenes werefortunately not repeated, and when the war was over England retained afirmer hold on India than she had done before.
For the advancement of trade the court gave a series of dinners,concerts, and balls, which kept all sorts of shopkeepers busy. In May agrand ball was given for the benefit of the Spitalfields weavers,which the queen and prince attended, and for the same purpose afancy-dress party was given at Buckingham Palace. This was a magnificententertainment, and the costumes were splendid. The prince was dressed asEdward III., the queen as Queen Philippa, and their ladies and gentlemenappeared in the court-dress of that period. The Duchess of Cambridgeheaded a procession of a hundred and twenty persons who representedFrance, Italy, and Spain.
Another attempt was made on her majesty's life this year. Here is anaccount of it as given by the prince in a letter to his father: "OnSunday, as we were returning from the Chapel Royal, St. James's Palace,at two o'clock, there was, as usual, a crowd of spectators under thetrees, who bowed and cheered. Suddenly I saw a man step out from thecrowd, and present a pistol full at me. I heard the trigger snap, but itmust have missed fire. I turned to Victoria, who was seated on my right,and asked her, 'Did you hear that?' She had been bowing to the people onthe other side, and observed nothing. I said, 'I may be mistaken, butI am sure I saw somebody take aim at us.' When we reached the palace Iasked the footmen who had been at the back of the carriage if theyhad not noticed a man step forward and stretch his hand towards thecarriage, as if he wanted to throw a petition into it. They had noticednothing. I did not breathe a syllable about it to any one, exceptColonel Arbuthnot, to whom I told what had happened, and directed him tomake it known to the inspector of police, Sir Robert Peel, and Sir JamesGraham.
"I then ran out upon the balcony to see whether the man had not beenseized, but all was quiet, and the people had dispersed, satisfied withhaving seen the queen. In the afternoon Sir Robert Peel came with thehead of police, and took down my statement, in writing, togetherwith a description of the man's appearance.
"Yesterday morning a boy of fourteen, named Pearse, came to Mr. Murray,and said that he had seen a man present a pistol at us as we werereturning from church, but he did not fire, and afterwards exclaimed,'Fool that I was not to fire!' We sent the boy to the home office, wherehis evidence was taken down. The police showed the greatest activity.We are naturally much agitated, Victoria very nervous and unwell. Asthe doctor wished that she should go out, we determined to do so; forwe should have to shut ourselves up for months, had we settled not to goout, so long as the miscreant was at large. Besides, as he could have nosuspicion he was watched, we felt sure that he would come again skulkingaround the palace, and that the numerous policemen in plain clothes, whowere on the lookout for him, would seize him on the least imprudenceor carelessness on his part. We drove out at four, gave orders to drivefaster than usual, and for the two equerries, Colonel Wylde and ColonelArbuthnot, to ride close to the carriage. You may imagine that our mindswere not very easy. We looked behind every tree, and I cast my eyesaround in search of the rascal's face. We, however, got safely throughthe parks, and drove towards Hampstead. The weather was superb, andhosts of people on foot. On our way home, as we were approaching thepalace, between the Green Park and the garden wall, a shot was firedat us about five paces off. It was the fellow with the same pistol--alittle swarthy, ill-looking rascal. The shot must have passed under thecarriage, for he lowered his hand. We felt as if a load had been takenoff our hearts, and, we thanked the Almighty for having preserved usa second time from so great a danger. John Francis (that is theman's name) was standing near a policeman, who immediately seized him,but could not prevent the shot. The culprit was instantly taken off tothe police office. He is not out of his mind, but a thorough scamp.His answers were coarse and witty. He tries to make fun of his judges.Little Pearse identified him this morning as the same person he had seenon Sunday. He is twenty-two years old, the son of a machinist at one ofthe theatres;--a wretched creature."
Francis was tried and found guilty of high treason. There werecircumstances which led to the belief that the pistol he had used wasnot loaded at all, and that he only wanted to make himself notorious.The queen interfered in his behalf, and had the death-sentence changedto transportation for life. Francis was greatly relieved when he foundthat he was not to be hung; but the leniency shown to him had a badeffect, for the very day after it was made public another attempt wasmade-on the queen's life by a hunchbacked boy named Bean.
Her majesty was driving to the chapel of St. James's Palace when Beanpointed his pistol, but it missed fire, and a youth named Dassett toreit out of his hand, and collared him, calling at the same time to thecrowd to secure the assassin. He was promptly arrested, and the pistolwas found to be loaded with powder, paper closely rammed down, and somescraps of a clay pipe.
Bean had left his father's house a week before, and had written that hewould never see him again, because he intended committing a desperate,though not a dishonest deed, and signed himself, "your unhappy, butdisobedient son." Now, the fact of the fellow's having deliberately setabout a crime for which Francis was then lying under sentence ofdeath in prison, proved that something was wanting in the laws for thepunishment of such miscreants. Sir Robert Peel lost no time inintroducing a bill in parliament, which, it was thought, would put astop to such attempts. It made the offender subject to transportationfor seven years, or imprisonment, with or without hard labor, for aterm not exceeding three years--"the culprit to be publicly or privatelywhipped as often and in such manner and form as the court shall direct,not exceeding thrice." This bill became a law, and under it Bean wassentenced to eighteen months' imprisonment.
One point that gave the prince serious concern was the internal workingof the royal household, which did not run smoothly by any means. It mayseem easy to control such a matter, particularly when one observes theregularity and precision of the present day; but there was no systemwhen Prince Albert undertook the reform. The whole management of thepalace was in confusion; there were too many masters, and nobody'sduties were clearly defined. With every change in the ministry the threeprincipal officers of the household were changed, and their appointmentswere not due to special qualifications. They were regulated by politics,and, such being the case, no uniformity of system could prevail; therecould be no order, comfort, or economy, for no one felt particularlyresponsible or knew how soon he might be called upon to make way for asuccessor. Certain officials were responsible for the interior of thepalace, certain others for the grounds, woods, and forests, but theynever worked in harmony. The consequence was, that as the insidecleaning of the windows belonged to the lord chamberlain's department,the outside was regulated by the officer who ruled over the grounds;and, unless a good understanding happened to exist between him and thelord chamberlain, it is easy to see what trouble might arise from thatone matter alone. As Baron Stockmar says in his memoranda: "Thelord steward finds the fuel and lays the fire, and the lord chamberlainlights it. The lord chamberlain provides all the lamps, and the lordsteward must clean, trim, and light them." Before even the most triflingrepairs could be made so many people had to be consulted that monthselapsed, while the pane of glass, lock, bolt, or hinge was underconsideration. Neither the lord chamberlain nor the master of the horsehad his deputy residing in the palace; consequently, the servantswent and came as they chose, did their work or left it undone as fancydictated, and often absented themselves for several days without anynotice being taken of it.
[[A.D. 1843.]] All this the prince was determined to change; but itwould take time, and had to be done with extreme caution to avoid givingoffence to the large number of people who would be affected by thereform. Sir Robert Peel was consulted, but he thought that ancientinstitutions ought not to be interfered with, and feared that any changein the household, that would seem to impair the authority of the greatofficers of state would make the distinguished members of the House ofPeers less anxious to fill such positions.
The prince concurred with Sir Robert, but was, nevertheless, bent onimprovement. "All I beg of you now, my dear Sir Robert," he said, "isyour cordial assistance in combating the existing and crying nuisances.Much as I am inclined to treat the household machine with a sort ofreverence from its antiquity, I still remain convinced that it is clumsyin its construction, and works so ill that as long as its wheels are notmended there can neither be order, regularity, comfort, security, noroutward dignity in the queen's palace."
The prince's persevering qualities were in course of time crownedwith success, and it was through the officers of state themselves, whoagreed to confer on the master of the household absolute authority overall the internal affairs of the palace. This arrangement proved evenmore satisfactory than was at first expected, and relieved the prince ofa multitude of petty cares.




CHAPTER XII.
[[A.D. 1843.]]
|Parliament opened this year with very exciting debates on the cornlaws, which, of course, referred to all sorts of grain. Sir Robert Peelentered upon his office bound to maintain these laws, but five yearslater he repealed them. Such a change of policy brought down upon hishead the most outrageous abuse, but he was probably convinced that thechange was beneficial.
These laws made the price of all grain that was imported so high thatfew could afford to purchase any but English grain. This protectedthe English farmer, and gave him a chance to charge a good sum for hiscrops; which was all very well for the farmer, but the manufacturerrebelled. Foreign countries said: "If you refuse to buy our grain,we will manage to do without your woollen and cotton goods." This wasruinous to trade, and in consequence there was less manufacturing done.Many were thrown out of employment, and all wages were reduced. That thepoor were forced to earn less and pay more for their daily bread strucksome members of parliament as a most unjust state of affairs. They didnot wonder at the riots that were becoming matters of daily occurrence,and sought for a remedy.
This was only to be found in free-trade,--which means relief from duty;but it would take time, thought, and debate before this remedy couldbe established. The nominal leader of the Free-trade party inparliament was Mr. Charles Villiers, a man of aristocratic family andrare ability, who had brought forward his views for several sessionsin the House of Commons, and had worked hard to secure converts to theprinciple he advocated.

The real leader of the movement was Mr. Richard Cobden, a manufacturerof cotton goods in Manchester.
He was a man who saw and thought for himself, while he was willing tolearn from everybody. He travelled a great deal, and thus gained a stockof information that proved of much value. He was not an orator, but hissimple, honest, straightforward style of speaking was most convincing.He ruled men by appealing to their common sense, and showing themwherein lay their own interest; therefore was he most fitted bynature to succeed in his arguments against the corn laws.
His strongest ally was Mr. Bright, an orator of the most brilliant type.Mr. Bright had a commanding presence, a fine, broad head, a handsome,expressive face. He had not read many books; but those he had read heknew thoroughly, and the principal ones were the Bible and Milton. Mr.Bright was a Quaker and a manufacturer of carpets. His business was aprosperous one, and he had amassed a large sum of money; therefore, whenhe made his appearance in parliament, his eloquence had a disinterestedring; no one could accuse him of pleading his own cause alone.
Mr. Cobden and Mr. Bright met for the first time when both wereinterested in the question of education, and each was struck with thepeculiar ability of the other. They became friends, and when Mr. Brightwas in deep grief after the death of his young and lovely wife, Mr.Cobden made him a visit of condolence. After expressing what his heartdictated, it suddenly occurred to him that work would offer the greatestrelief to his stricken friend,--work for the alleviation of other'smisery. "Come with me!" he said, after a pause. "There are thousands andthousands of homes in England at this moment, where wives and mothersand children are dying of hunger. Come with me, and we will work forthem, and never rest until the corn laws are repealed."
The invitation was cordially accepted; and these two men formed a bondof friendship so strong, so close that until the death of Mr. Cobden thename of one was scarcely ever mentioned without that of the other. Theirgifts were exactly suited to each other; for each possessed somethingthat the other needed, and together they became a power that stopped atnothing short of complete success. But before free-trade was fairlyestablished many converts had to be made, and much opposition had tobe put down. A favorable effect was produced by a letter from Lord JohnRussell, at the time of the potato-rot in Ireland, which threatened toproduce a famine. This letter had a great influence on Sir RobertPeel, as it convinced him of the necessity of doing something for theadvancement of trade, and prompted him to favor the repeal of the cornlaws, for which he was, as we have said, so severely condemned. Beforeintroducing another statesman, who became prominent at this time, a fewpages must be devoted to the queen and her family.
On the twenty-fifth of April another daughter was added to the royalfamily. She was christened Alice Maud Mary, and her sponsors were theKing of Hanover, Ernest, now Duke of Coburg, Princess Sophia Matilda,and Feodore. The queen wrote her uncle that the ceremony went offbrilliantly, and that little Alice behaved extremely well.
The royal couple took a lively interest in the exhibition of cartoons,on subjects taken from English history and poetry, that was opened atWestminster Hall that summer. All classes of people, from the highestto the lowest, visited this exhibition, and this showed that a taste forart was developing itself.
The prince was a great admirer of fresco painting, and gave valuableinstructions with regard to the decoration of both houses of parliament.After they were completed, he ordered eight pictures, for a pavilion inthe garden of Buckingham Palace, illustrating Milton's "Cornus,"--onefrom each of the following artists: Landseer, Maclise, Uwins, Eastlake,Leslie, Ross, Dyce, and Stanfield.
The queen, with her husband, watched the progress of this work with realinterest, and one of the artists thus wrote about them in a letterto a friend: "I have never met with any royal personages who haveimpressed me so favorably as our reigning sovereign and her youngand interesting husband. They come to us twice a day unannounced, andwithout attendants, entirely stripped of all state and ceremony, andcourting conversation in a way that has gained our admiration and love."
The Queen and Prince Albert had long been contemplating a visit to thecourt of Louis Philippe, so the day after the opening of parliament inAugust they embarked at Southampton on the "Victoria and Albert," a newyacht that had just been built for them. The French royal family wereat Château d'Eu, near Tréport. After cruising about off the coast of theIsle of Wight for four or five days, the queen and prince crossed overto Tréport, and the French king came out in his barge to welcome them.
Her majesty describes it thus in her journal: "The landing was a finesight, which the beauty of the evening, with the setting sun, enhanced.Crowds of people (all so different from ours), numbers of troops (alsodifferent from our troops), the whole court, and all the authoritieswere assembled on the' shore. The king led me up a somewhat steepishstaircase, where the queen received me with the kindest welcome,accompanied by dearest Louise, Queen of the Belgians; Hélène, Duchessof Orleans, in deep mourning; Françoise, Prince de Joinville, and MadameAdélaïde. All this--the cheering of the people, and of the troopscrying "_Vive la Reine! Vive le Roi!_"--well nigh overcame me. The kingrepeated again and again to me how happy he was at the visit, and howattached he was to my father and to England."
The visitors remained five days, and were received with so muchaffection by every member of the royal family and so splendidlyentertained that it was with sincere regret that they parted from themat last. After stopping two or three days at Brighton, the queenand prince made a tour in Belgium, and visited their beloved uncle, KingLeopold. The month succeeding this journey was marked by the prince'sfirst visit to Cambridge, where he and the queen were received by thestudents with tremendous enthusiasm.
[[A.D. 1844.]] The first grief that darkened the home of the royalcouple was caused by the death of Prince Albert's father, which occurredquite suddenly in January, 1844. This event was not entirely unexpected;nevertheless the prince was deeply shocked, for he had alwaysentertained a warm affection for his father. The following month hedecided to visit Coburg, and see those of his relations who remained.
Shortly after his return the King of Saxony arrived at Buckingham Palaceon a visit, and two days later the Emperor of Russia appeared, havinggiven only forty-eight hours' notice that he would do so. Meanwhile,the court removed to Windsor Castle, where the emperor was conducted byPrince Albert and received by the queen. The royal visitor was struck bythe magnificence of the castle, and repeatedly declared that the Englishcourt was conducted on a grander scale than any he had ever seen.
A brilliant review was given in Windsor Park on the fourth of June inhonor of the two royal guests, and they were delighted with the rapidityof the artillery movements. The whole royal party attended the Ascotraces on the sixth, and returned to town on the seventh. Next day theemperor went with Prince Albert on an excursion in the country, andattended the opera with the queen in the evening. On the ninth he tookhis departure, having made a most favorable impression in England.
On the sixth of August the queen's second son was born, at WindsorCastle. He was christened at the end of four weeks in the privatechapel, and received the names Alfred Ernest Albert. The sponsors werePrince George of Cambridge, the Prince of Leiningen, represented by theDuke of Wellington, the Duchess of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, represented bythe Duchess of Kent. The scene was very solemn. The Princess Royal andthe Prince of Wales were present; and it was on that occasion that theformer first beheld the father of the man she was to marry fourteenyears later,--the Crown Prince of Prussia,--who was then on a visit toEngland.
In October grand preparations were made for the reception of King LouisPhilippe. The Duke of Wellington went with Prince Albert to Portsmouthto receive him and accompany him to Windsor, and everything was doneto make a favorable impression on both sides, because his visit was thefirst one ever made by a French to an English sovereign. The king wasno stranger in England, for he had lived there for five years duringhis exile from France; and it gave him much pleasure to visit the oldfamiliar scenes, and to reflect upon his improved condition. He couldnot forget how, under a feigned name, he had been glad to earn twentypence a day while in exile,--and now he was King of France! His visithad a good effect, for it removed much of the angry feeling that hadexisted between his country and England, and established a bond offriendliness.
[[A.D. 1845.]] When the Queen and Prince Albert accompanied LouisPhilippe to Portsmouth they saw Osborne, in the Isle of Wight, for thefirst time, and were so pleased with the prospect it offered for a quietretreat that they purchased it. There were eight hundred acres at first,but more were added, until the estate comprised twenty-three hundredacres. The prince cultivated the whole place, and improved it year byyear, until he made it one of the most delightful country-seats in theworld. On the ninth of August the queen prorogued parliament; andthe same evening she and the prince, attended by Lord Aberdeen, LordLiverpool, Lady Gainsborough, Lady Canning, Mr. Anson, and Sir JamesClark sailed from Woolwich for Antwerp in the royal yacht, theirdestination being Saxony. This is what her majesty wrote in her journalon the morning of her departure:--
"A very fine morning when we got up. Both Vicky and darling Alice werewith me while I dressed. Poor, dear puss (the Princess Royal) would muchhave wished to go with us, and often proposed that she might go, andsaid,--'Why am I not going to Germany?' Most willingly would I havetaken her, and I wished much to have taken one of dear Albert'schildren with us to Coburg; but the journey is a serious undertaking,particularly the first time, and she is very young still. But whatchiefly decided us is the visit to the King of Prussia, where I couldnot have looked after her. All four children were with us at breakfast,after which I gave Lady Lyttelton my last instructions, and then witha heavy heart we bade them adieu in the hall. Poor little Vicky seemedvery sorry, but did not cry. It was a very painful moment to drive awaywith the three poor little things standing at the door. God bless themand protect them; which He will! And they are in excellent hands. Ourdear Osborne is so lovely and so enjoyable that we left it with thegreatest regret."
Sir Robert Peel met her majesty at Buckingham Palace, and gave such asatisfactory report of public affairs that the royal travellers set outon their German tour with nothing to mar their pleasure.
They arrived at Antwerp on the tenth of August, and found the cityilluminated in their honor. They were received by a guard of soldiers,and proceeded to Malines, where they were welcomed by King Leopold andhis queen. They then proceeded to the Prussian frontier, where theywere met by the English ambassador, the King of Prussia with severalmembers of his family, many gentlemen in uniform, and a numerous escort.They were magnificently entertained, and shown all the sights of Cologneand other cities.
At Bonn a Beethoven festival was given, and afterwards all theprofessors of the university where Prince Albert had been educated werepresented to her majesty. We need not follow the royal couple throughall their travels, but will quote the queen's account of their arrivalat Coburg, Prince Albert's birthplace.
"I began," says the queen, "to feel greatly moved,--agitated, indeed, incoming near the Coburg frontier. At length we saw flags and people drawnup in lines, and in a few moments more we were welcomed by Ernestin full uniform. We got into an open carriage of Ernest's, with sixhorses,--Ernest sitting opposite to us. The good people were all dressedin their best,--the women in pointed caps, with many petticoats, and themen in leather breeches. Many girls were there with wreaths offlowers. We came to a triumphal arch, where we were received bythe land-director, who said a few kind words of welcome, to which Ireplied,--all those who accompanied him standing on either side, andthe good people receiving us in such a warm, hearty, and really friendlyway. We then drove to Ketschendorff, the pretty little house of our dearlate grandmother, where we found uncle Leopold and Louise, who gotinto the carriage with us. Ernest mounted a horse and rode next to thecarriage on my side, Alvensleben on the other. Then the procession wasformed, which looked extremely pretty. At the entrance to the town wecame to another triumphal arch, where the burgomaster addressed us. Onthe other side stood a number of girls, dressed in white, with green wreaths and scarfs, who presented us withbouquets and verses. I cannot say how much I felt moved on enteringthe dear old place, and with difficulty I restrained my emotion. Thebeautifully ornamented town, all bright with wreaths and flowers, thenumbers of good affectionate people, the many recollections connectedwith the place,--all was so affecting.
"The palace was soon reached, and as the royal cortège approached itnumbers of young girls, dressed like the others, threw wreaths into thecarriage. The staircase was full of relations. It was an affecting, butexquisite moment, which I shall never forget."
Before they rose, the first morning after their arrival at the Roseman,the singers of the Coburg Theatre serenaded them. "Before breakfast,"the queen writes, "we went upstairs to where my dearest Albert and Ernestused to live. It is quite in the roof, with a tiny little bedroom oneach side, in one of which they both used to sleep, with their tutor.The view is beautiful, and the paper is still full of holes with theirfencing; and the very same table is there on which they were dressedwhen they were little." After visiting the fortress that overlooksCoburg, and driving in the suburbs, the first day closed with aperformance of the "Huguenots" at the theatre, where the royal couplewere greeted as they entered with "God save the Queen," sung in German.
The twenty-sixth of August was the prince's birthday, and a number ofgifts were spread out on a table for him, which the queen, with theassistance of the Duke and Duchess of Coburg, had arranged amidstbeautiful flowers. Some of the peasants remembered the day, and cameall decorated in ribbons and flowers and preceded by a band of music, tooffer their congratulations.
The next day the royal couple left Coburg and travelled on,stopping frequently to visit various relations; each of whom vied withthe other in the feasts that were prepared for the entertainment oftheir guests. After seeing and enjoying the numerous points of interestin the Thurin-gian forest, the travellers began to turn their attentionhomeward; but a flying visit had to be made at the Château D'Eu, so thatLouis Philippe might not feel himself neglected.
On the evening of September 7 the royal couple left the Scheldt in theiryacht, and at nine the next morning were off Tréport. The king was onthe lookout for them, and soon appeared on board in full uniform. Theywere received with the same affectionate welcome that greeted them twoyears before from the whole French royal family, and conducted to thechâteau. There a room was shown to her majesty, which had been fitted upin honor of her former visit, with pictures of the various incidentsof it, as well as of the king's visit to Windsor, and among themfull-length portraits of the queen and Prince Albert. The whole companyof the Opéra Comique had been brought down from Paris that day, and inthe evening they gave a performance in a tent erected for the purpose.
Next day the travellers returned home, and the prettiest sight thatawaited them, as they approached Osborne, was the bright, chubby facesof their four little children, who were on the watch for them.
[[A.D. 1846.]] We must now take a look at the political struggle thatwas so bitter and so fierce this year. Sir Robert Peel had becomea free-trader, and announced himself as such in parliament; but hisdownfall was at hand, even when victory seemed so near. This was broughtabout by a bill introduced for the purpose of checking assassination inIreland, called the coercion bill.
It was at this exciting session that Mr. Disraeli rose into sudden prominence. He had been for many years in the House ofCommons, and had made many speeches, but hitherto his political careerhad been a failure. His first speech was, perhaps, as clever as manylater ones that won outbursts of applause, but he was ridiculed by thenoisy members of the house to such an extent that most men with lesscourage would have been silenced forever. Not so Disraeli; he lookedstraight at the party that opposed him, and, raising his hands withtheatrical effect, he exclaimed, in a tone of voice so powerful as topenetrate to every part of the house: "I have begun several times manythings, and I have often succeeded at last; ay, sir, and though I sitdown now the time will come when you will hear me." His prediction cametrue, and from the time--nine years after--when he rose to denounceSir Robert Peel, until the day of his death, his career was one longbrilliant success.
That night he made for himself a name, and for the Tory party, of whichhe became the leader, a new career. The man whom the House ofCommons had ridiculed nine years before, now proved himself a greatparliamentary orator, and, as time went on, a politician perfectlycapable of assuming the control of his party. Sir Robert Peel had goneover to the free-traders, and now the "Protectionists," headed by LordGeorge Bentinck and the opponents of the coercion bill, would combineto turn him out of office. This was accomplished after a great dealof passionate, bitter debate, and three days later the great ministerannounced his resignation.
It was with a feeling of profound regret that the queen parted with herministers, and the formal leave-taking was a severe trial on both sides.Her majesty wrote King Leopold: "Yesterday was a very hard day for me.I had to part with Sir Robert Peel and Lord Aberdeen, who areirreparable losses to us and to the country. They were bothso overcome that it quite upset me, and we have in them two devotedfriends. Never, during the five years that they were with me, did theyever recommend a person or a thing that was not for my or the country'sbest, and never for the party's advantage only."
Sir Robert Peel had done his duty to his country and his conscience, andthe very measure which deprived him of power has proved a blessing, forwhich the British nation can never cease to be grateful.
Lord John Russell succeeded Sir Robert Peel as First Lord of theTreasury; Lord Palmerston became Foreign Secretary; Lord Grey, ColonialSecretary; and Sir George Grey, Home Secretary. Mr. Macaulay becamePaymaster-General, with a seat in the cabinet, and the Earl ofBess-borough went to Ireland as Lord-Lieutenant.
Immediately after the formation of the ministry, and while the electionswere going on, the court removed for a short time to Osborne, where,on the twenty-fifth of May, a princess was born. She was christeneda couple of months later at Buckingham Palace, by the names of HelenaAugusta Victoria, and the sponsors were the Duchess of Kent, the Duchessof Cambridge, and the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz.
The new Whig party were not in an enviable position; for they had,immediately on assuming power, to consider the disastrous condition ofIreland, caused by the failure of the potato crop. It is difficult tounderstand why people could not eat something else when potatoes werenot to be had; but it becomes clear when we remember that the Irishpeasant, with his wife and children, depended entirely on that root forsubsistence. They had absolutely no other food, and, when deprived ofthat, they starved,--yes, literally laid down in their huts, or by theroad-side, and starved to death. Not a county in Ireland wholly escaped the potato-rot,and with it came what was called the potato disease--a peculiar form offever that was the result of sheer starvation, and caused the death ofhundreds of people.
Of course such terrible suffering led to scenes of crime and violence,and the Irish hated the government that they firmly believed _would_ nothelp them. Such was not the case; for the government were doing the bestthey could, and were at their wits' end to find a remedy for the evil.Subscription lists were opened in the large cities, and many of themerchants put down their names for a thousand pounds. The sympathy ofthe whole civilized world was aroused, and relief began to pour in fromdifferent countries. The United States sent over their war-ships ladenwith grain and other food, and, as they arrived, one after another atone of the Irish seaports, the bells of the town rang out merrily toconvey the joyful tidings to the famine-stricken inhabitants.
Starvation and disease had killed off two millions of people by the timethe famine was over. Young Ireland became dissatisfied with a countrywhere such misery could exist, and might be repeated, and theirattention was turned westward. The United States had opened her arms forthe oppressed, and offered them a welcome, a home, citizenship. To ourhospitable shores, therefore, streamed a tide of Irish emigration untilthey formed a large part of the population of every city in the Union.
[[A.D. 1847.]] This year an evidence of Prince Albert's having gainedin public esteem was shown by his being offered the chancellorshipof Cambridge University. He accepted, and at his request WilliamWordsworth, then in his seventy-seventh year, wrote the ode for theoccasion, which was set to music by Mr. Thomas Attwood Walmisley,and proved most effective. The ceremony of installation was veryimpressive, and after it was over there was a fine banquet at TrinityHall, followed by a reception.

[[A.D. 1848.]] Early in the following year the Orleans dynasty in Francewas overthrown, and a republic was proclaimed. By the end of FebruaryKing Louis Philippe, his queen, and the various members of his familywere hurrying secretly and in disguise by different routes to England,their fortunes ruined, and they themselves anxious to escape from thefury of the revolution and the horrible scenes that were being enactedin their native land. This flight of King Louis Philippe with his queen,in the depth of a very severe winter, is a painful story. They were old,wretched, and deserted; and, although the king was responsible for themistakes that brought about the revolution after a peaceful reign ofeighteen years, who can fail to pity him?
It was but a sorry asylum he found in England, for he had lost the goodopinion of the queen and the nation, and he was tolerated merely asan object of compassion. In course of time his position and that of hissons was much improved, because they bore their adversity with so muchdignity, manliness, and amiability. Great sympathy was excited in theirbehalf when Louis Napoleon, the man whose life the king had spared,hastened to France, seized the throne by conspiracy, and confiscated allthe property of his benefactor and the entire Orleans family.
The French revolution had begun so suddenly that all the world lookedon in astonishment. No sooner were the particulars of it known than itfound an echo in Italy, Germany, and Austria; and all three of thosecountries rose in revolt, eager for improvements in their respectivegovernments.
Prince Metternich, the Austrian minister, was another person of note whosought refuge in England at this period. This great diplomatist fell,after long years of service to his emperor, who abdicated his thronerather than fight for his rights; and with his wife, made his waythrough Germany under a feigned name, and with a price set upon hishead. Then Louis Kossuth came forward with the determination to freeHungary from Austrian rule.
Tumults broke out in every state and principality of Germany, anda demand was made for freedom of the press, trial by jury, andrepresentation of the people in government affairs. In small towns thepeasants attacked the castles of their feudal lords, set fire -to them,and put their owners to flight. The work of destruction was going oneverywhere.
Meanwhile in Paris business was at a standstill, the people were withoutemployment or food, a reign of terror set in, and an armed mob held theprovisional government at bay.
On the thirteenth of March a grand reform meeting was held atBerlin, which ended in a conflict between the military and the populace.The promises held out by the king would no longer be listened to, anddisorder reigned in the streets for many days. He issued a proclamationfavoring the union of the German Confederation into one Federal State,with one flag, one army, one fleet, one ruler. Overjoyed at thisproclamation, the crowd gathered to the square in front of the palace tocheer the king, when, by some terrible misunderstanding or preconcertedplan on the part of some violent politicians, shots were fired at thecavalry drawn up beneath the windows of the palace. They moved forwardto clear the square. At that instant two muskets of the infantry werefired; a cry of "Treachery! to arms!" arose on all sides; and, as if bymagic, barricades were erected in the principal streets, and then begana struggle that was carried on throughout the night. The heavens wereilluminated by the burning houses set on fire by the mob, and thestreets ran with blood. Two hundred and sixteen people and sixteensoldiers were killed in the fight. The king ordered the militaryto cease firing in the morning, and thus his leniency gave therevolutionary party the upper hand. But it was his aim to become Emperorof Germany, so he took the position of popular leader, and paradedthe streets on horseback, wearing the German colors,--black, red, andyellow,--streaming from his left arm, followed by carriages containingthe Polish prisoners that had just been released.
The Prince of Prussia, the king's brother and the present emperor, whodid not appear to favor the progress of the nation, had to leave thecity, and his palace was only saved from the fury of the mob by having"National Property" placarded on it. He too sought refuge in England.
In Belgium peace remained unshaken, and the nation felt what a blessing they had in the wise administration of KingLeopold. "Belgium," wrote the queen to her uncle, "is a bright star inthe midst of dark clouds. It makes us all very happy."
In April there was a monster meeting of the Chartists summoned toKensington Common. They had been preparing for several weeks, andannounced their intention to assemble to the number of one hundred andfifty thousand, and march with a petition to the houses of parliament.The law-abiding citizens determined to crush such a movement, andone hundred and seventy thousand enrolled themselves as constables tosupport the regular police force, and act in concert with the military,if it became necessary. Prince Louis Napoleon was of their number, as hehad not yet gone to France.
Mr. Feargus O'Conner was somewhat disgusted when, after all hisboasting, not more than twenty-three thousand of his followersassembled. Instead of storming the houses of parliament with theirpetition, they were glad enough to be permitted to send a deputationwith it in a couple of common street-cabs, and make the best of theirway back home, conscious of the ridicule they had brought about them.And this was the end of Chartism.
On the eighteenth of March, while the court were sojourning at Osborne,Princess Louise was born, and a couple of months later they returnedto town. The christening took place in the private chapel of BuckinghamPalace, and the princess received the names of Louise Caroline Alberta.Some years before Prince Albert had written a chorale, which was sungat this ceremony. A splendid state banquet followed, and throughoutthe month there was more than the ordinary number of court balls andreceptions in honor of the queen's birthday.
Immediately after proroguing parliament the queen and PrinceAlbert, with their children, went to Balmoral, a new country-seat inScotland, which they had just purchased from the Earl of Aberdeen. Thisbecame a favorite retreat with her majesty. Her first impression ofit is thus given in her journal: "Looking down from the hill whichoverhangs the house the view is charming. To the left you look tothe beautiful hills surrounding Loch-na-Gar, and to the right towardsBallater, to the valley, along which the Dee winds, with beautifulwooded hills, which reminded us very much of the Thuringian forest. Itwas so calm and so solitary it did one good as one gazed around, and thepure mountain air was most refreshing. All seemed to breathe freedomand peace, and to make one forget the world and its sad turmoils. Thescenery is wild and yet not desolate; and everything looks much moreprosperous and cultivated than at Laggan. Then the soil is delightfullydry. We walked beside the Dee a beautiful, rapid stream, which is closebehind the house. The view of the hills is exceedingly fine."
In this picturesque, wild highland home the queen and Prince Albertfound great relief from the cares and anxieties of London life, thoughthey were not without intelligence from the political world thatsometimes marred their perfect happiness. While there they heard ofthe terrible doings in Frankfort, where a mob attacked the nationalassembly, and hacked to pieces two of its members in a most brutalmanner; of the sudden death of Lord George Bentinck, of the electionof Louis Napoleon in France, and of a rising of natives against Britishauthority in India.
At the end of September the court left Balmoral for London, and, afterresting there one night, proceeded to Osborne, returning in a fortnightto Windsor.
The year 1848 was one of bloodshed and misery, that will ever beremembered in Europe, and few were sorry to see it come to an end. Thedeath of Lord Melbourne, which took place in November, was an eventthat caused the queen sincere sorrow; for she often said that during thefirst two years and a half of her reign he was almost the only friendshe had, and we know how faithfully he served her and the country.
[[A.D. 1849.]] Another attempt on the queen's life was made in May,as she was driving down Constitution Hill in an open carriage with herchildren. The prince was riding in advance, and knew nothing of whathad occurred until he heard it from the lips of her majesty. She didnot lose her self-possession for a moment; but motioned her coachman toproceed, and engaged the children's attention to keep them from beingalarmed. The man who fired proved to be an Irishman, named WilliamHamilton, who seemed to have no motive whatever for the deed. Had itnot been for the intervention of the police he would have been tornto pieces. On examination the pistol was found to be charged only withpowder. Hamilton was sentenced to seven years' transportation.
The time had arrived when it was thought proper to place the Princeof Wales under the care of a tutor, and Mr. Birch, a young man who hadtaken the highest honors at Cambridge, was selected for the office.The queen and prince had early settled on a plan of education; for theynever forgot Baron Stockmar's saying, that "a man's education begins thefirst day of his life."
"To neglect beginnings," says Locke, "is the fundamental error intowhich most parents fall."
The royal couple had, therefore, given this important matter muchthought; and as early as 1842 Lady Lyttelton had been installed asgoverness to the children. She filled her post with a devotion that wonthe respect and love of her charges, and the entire approval oftheir parents. When she resigned it was because she thought herself oldenough to rest, and this is what she wrote about it: "The queen has toldme I may be free about the middle of January, and she said it with allthe feeling and kindness of which I have received such incessant andunvarying proofs through the whole long twelve years during which I haveserved her. Never by a word or look has it been interrupted." On herlast day in the palace, she writes: "In the evening I was sent for to mylast audience in the queen's own room; and I quite broke down, and couldhardly see or hear. I remember the prince's face, pale as ashes, and afew words of thanks from them both; but it is all misty, and I had tostop on the private staircase and have my cry out before I could go upagain." This departure of Lady Lyttelton's did not take place untilthe princess royal was ten years old, and all the children were able toappreciate their loss.
In August the queen and prince, with their four older children,embarked for their first visit to Ireland. Nothing could have been moregratifying than the enthusiastic welcome that greeted them on theirarrival at Cork and at _every_ stopping-place along their route. Thespot where her majesty first set foot on Irish soil has ever since bornethe name of Queenstown. As the royal party proceeded up the river Leeto the town of Cork crowds assembled along the shores, and the air wasfilled with wild shouts and cheers, ringing of bells, and firing ofcannon. Even in the towns that had been foremost in rebellion theenthusiasm was great. The queen wrote thus of one feature of the Irish:"The beauty of the women is very remarkable, and struck us much; suchbeautiful dark eyes and hair, and such fine teeth; almost every thirdwoman was pretty, and some remarkably so."

When the royal squadron steamed into the harbor of Kingstown, thewharves were crowded and the scene was magnificent. A salute was firedfrom all the men-of-war in the harbor. "It was a sight never to beforgotten,--a sound to be recollected forever. Ladies threw asidethe old formula of waving a white handkerchief, and enthusiasticallycheered; while the men, pressing in so closely as to throng the veryedges of the pavilion, waved whatever came first to hand,--hat, stick,or coat (for the day was very hot),--and rent the air with shouts ofjoy, which never decreased in energy till their sovereign was out ofsight. The royal children were objects of universal attention andadmiration. 'Oh! queen, dear!' screamed a stout old lady, 'make one ofthem Prince Patrick, and all Ireland will die for you!'"
The same scenes of wild delight were repeated on the road to Dublin,and the four days spent in that city were a perfect jubilee. The mostimportant public institutions were visited; a levee, attended by fourthousand people, was held; there was a review of six thousand troops;addresses presented, and an exhibition of cattle and agriculturalimplements, in which the prince was particularly interested. All theother cities vied with Dublin in welcoming the royal party, and theeffect of their visit on the country was most beneficial. The Irishwere charmed with their sovereign's gracious manners, and felt their ownimportance greatly increased by the consideration she had shown them.
[[A.D. 1850.]] The new year found the health of Prince Albert by nomeans good. His physician advised change of air, but there were reasonswhy he could not leave England just then. Parliament assembled on thethirty-first of January, and the prince had, besides, the affairs of thegrand exhibition on his hands. A preliminary meeting had been heldat Buckingham Palace many months before; but now committees had to beorganized and communications opened with all parts of the civilizedworld to get contributions. There was a building to be erected, and forthat and other purposes money had to be raised, and distinguished menpressed into the service to insure confidence, and to do their share ofthe work. The prince felt that he had undertaken a formidable task whenat every point his guidance was sought.
On the twenty-first of February the first of the great public meetingswas held on account of the exhibition, all the representatives fromthe countries that were to send contributions being present. Thefollowing month a grand banquet was given at the Mansion House, towhich the chief officers of state, the foreign ambassadors, the royalcommissioners for the exhibition, and the chief magistrates of more thantwo hundred towns were invited. This gave Prince Albert an opportunityto make known the entire plan and purpose of the exhibition; and no mancould have more thoroughly explained all the details.
The speech was received with such enthusiasm that Prince Albert feltconfident of the success of his undertaking. Congratulations poured inupon him from all sides, and the newspapers were filled with words ofencouragement and praise. Her majesty wrote King Leopold at this time:"Albert is, indeed, looked up to and beloved as I could wish he shouldbe; and the more his rare qualities of mind and heart are known, themore will he be understood and appreciated. People are much struck byhis power and energy; by the great self-denial and constant wish towork for others which are so striking in his character. But this is thehappiest life. Pining for what one cannot have, and trying to run afterwhat is pleasantest, invariably ends in disappointment."
As soon as parliament closed in the spring the court removed to WindsorCastle, where Prince Albert's health improved very much. On the firstof May a prince was born, and, as he came into the world on theeighty-first birthday of the Duke of Wellington, it was decided to namehim after that great general. Arthur William Patrick Albert were thenames bestowed on the royal infant at his christening, the old duke andthe present Emperor of Germany being sponsors. No doubt the Patrick wasadded in remembrance of the old woman's request to the queen when shevisited Cork the previous year.
During the summer of this year there was a prospect of war withFrance on account of certain claims which England had against Greecethat had been acknowledged, but never settled. Matters were brought to acrisis by an English admiral, who stationed himself off the Piræus, andprevented a Greek vessel from leaving. France and Russia took offence atthis; but the first notice England had of such being the case was when,at the levee given on the queen's birthday, the ambassadors of the twocountries failed to appear.
This event led to one of the most remarkable debates that ever tookplace in the English parliament. A question arose as to whether the Whigministry, then in power, were free from censure in their dealings withthe Greek government. Lord Palmerston, as Minister of Foreign Affairs,was put upon trial, as it were, with some of the most powerful of therepresentatives opposed to him. But he was undaunted. His speech on theoccasion was considered a masterpiece. He explained the whole courseof his policy, and ably defended it. The stand he took was one thatappealed to the citizenship of the nation; for he contended that he hadbeen prompted in his actions by a determination to protect the rightsof even the poorest claimant to the name of Englishman against foreignoppression.
He spoke for five hours without a note, a pause, or a sign of fatigue,and held even his adversaries spell-bound with wonder and admiration.His success was complete. "No man," said Mr. Gladstone next day, "hadlistened with greater admiration than himself, while from the dusk ofone day to the dawn of the next he defended his policy, before a crowdedHouse of Commons, in that gigantic, intellectual, and physical effort."This, it must be remembered, was the generous remark of an opponent.Such another was made by Sir Robert Peel, who described LordPalmerston's defence as "that most able and most temperate speech,which made us proud of the man who delivered it, and in which hevindicated with becoming spirit, and with an ability worthy of his nameand place, that course of conduct which he had pursued."
Lord John Russell and Mr. Disraeli followed Sir Robert Peel in thedebate, which terminated, after four nights, in the complete triumph ofthe ministry.
This does not prove, however, that the laws Palmerston had enforced werejust, or even that the members of the cabinet who defended his actionthought so. In private they condemned it; but for reasons which it wouldbe difficult to explain to those not versed in diplomacy they felt boundto stand by the ministry. However, Lord John Russell, who defended thepolicy of Palmerston, declared that it would be impossible to remain inoffice with him.
It was during this memorable debate that Mr. Cockburn came intoprominence. He defended the policy of Lord Palmerston, and his speechwas remarkable for a grace and finish that was seldom heard. It wassaid by one of his hearers, "that when Mr. Cockburn concluded hisspeech one-half of the treasury benches were left empty, while honorablemembers ran after one another, tumbling over each other in their hasteto shake hands with the honorable and learned member." Mr. Cockburn'sreputation was made, and he sustained it for many years.
The speech made by Sir Robert Peel in this debate proved his last. Itwas daylight on Saturday morning, June 29, when he left the house ofparliament, much fatigued. He could take only a short repose, for bytwelve he had to attend a meeting of the Royal Commissioners of theGreat Industrial Exhibition, and it was important that he should bepresent, because a dispute had arisen with regard to the site of thebuilding. Hyde Park had been selected; but serious objections had beenraised, and Peel's influence was so great that Prince Albert dependedupon him to remove them. Therefore, though worn out with fatigue, he hadto attend the meeting; and afterwards he set out for a short ride in thepark, thinking the fresh air and exhilarating exercise would invigoratehim. He called at Buckingham Palace, and wrote his name in the queen'svisiting-book. As he was riding up Constitution Hill his horse suddenlyshied and threw him. Peel clung to the bridle, and the animal fellwith its knees on his shoulders. His injuries were so great that afterlingering between delirium and consciousness for three days he died.
Never was a statesman more sincerely mourned. When announcing his deathto the Duchess-dowager of Saxe-Coburg, the prince wrote: "We have lostour truest friend and trustiest counsellor, the throne its most valiantdefender, the country its most open-minded and greatest statesman."
The queen wrote: "Peel is to be buried to-day. The sorrow and grief athis death are most touching, and the country mourns over him as over afather."
A warm tribute was paid to his memory by the Duke of Wellington in onehouse of parliament, and by Mr. Gladstone, in the other. "In all thecourse of my acquaintance with Sir Robert Peel," said the aged duke,"I never knew a man in whose truth and justice I had a more livelyconfidence, or in whom I saw a more invariable desire to promote thepublic service. In the whole course of my communications with himI never a knew an instance in which he did not show the strongestattachment to truth; and I never saw, in the whole course of my life,the slightest reason for suspecting that he stated anything which hedid not believe to be the fact." Parliament desired to show theirrespect for the memory of Peel by burying his remains with publichonors. This was proposed by Lord John Russell, but it was found thatthe great statesman had particularly requested in his will that hisremains should be placed beside those of his parents at Drayton Bassett.A monument in Westminster Abbey was therefore substituted at the publicexpense. The offer of a peerage was made to Lady Peel, but she declined,saying, "that she desired to bear no other name than that by which SirRobert Peel was known." At the same time she stated that her husband'swish, recorded in his will, had been that none of his family should everaccept any title, distinction, or reward on account of any service hemight be supposed to have rendered his country. Peel earnestly desiredthat if his sons were to bear titles and distinctions given them by thestate, they should win them by their own services and worth, and notsimply put them on as an inheritance from their father.
On the twenty-sixth Prince Albert celebrated his birthday quietly atOsborne, surrounded by his family. It was, however, a day of mourning;for just before dinner news was brought of the death of King LouisPhilippe. Two days later the queen and prince paid a visit to theafflicted family, and then proceeded by rail to Edinburgh. They weremet at the station by the Duke of Buccleuch, at the head of the RoyalArchers, who formed a body-guard, and accompanied the carriage toHolyrood Palace. This was the first time a queen had entered the oldbuilding since poor Mary Stuart had left it.
"We wandered out to look at the old ruined abbey, which adjoins thepalace," says the queen's diary, "and which you see from our windows.It is beautiful inside. One of the aisles is still roofed in, but theothers are not. It was originally an abbey, and the very old tombstonesare those of the friars. It was afterwards the Chapel Royal, andQueen Mary, my unfortunate ancestress, was married to Lord Darnley atthis very altar, of which we see the remains. We saw the rooms whereQueen Mary lived, her bed, the dressing-room into which the murderersentered who killed Rizzio, and the spot where he fell."
The next day the prince laid the corner-stone of the National Gallery,which is now one of the finest buildings in the city of Edinburgh.Thousands of people attended the ceremony, and the prince's speech wasmost satisfactory.
Scarcely had the court returned to Osborne from Scotland when news wasbrought of the death of the Queen of the Belgians. Although thissad event was not unexpected, it was a source of deep grief to QueenVictoria, who had loved her aunt devotedly. The two ladies were nearlyallied in age, rank, sympathy, and culture, and they had been friendsand confidants for many years.
Great excitement was occasioned in the autumn by the pope's issue ofa bull, directing the establishment in England of bishops to bearthe title of their sees. This was offensive, because the crown hadmaintained the right to bestow such titles. It was an assumption ofpower on the part of the pope that produced an outburst of passion suchas has seldom been witnessed in England. The queen was indignant, theprime minister lost his temper, and wrote a letter that gave greatoffense to the Roman Catholics. Long, fierce debates followed theopening of parliament, and the "Ecclesiastical-Titles Bill" occupied theattention of its members for many months. Lord John Russell resigned,and was invited back to his post; the bill was wrangled over, andcaused much bitterness of feeling, and then died a natural death. BothCatholics and Protestants found that they had made a mountainout of a mole-hill, and that time and temper had been wasted, and bothblushed for their lack of dignity and tolerance.
[[A.D. 1851.]] The attention of the nation was next turned towards thegreat International Exhibition, which opened on the first of May, inHyde Park. Similar exhibitions have taken place since, and superiorones, but the one projected by Prince Albert was the first,--thereforethe most remarkable. Two days before the opening of the exhibition thequeen made a private visit to the building. We quote from her diary: "Weremained two hours and a half, and I came back quite beaten, and my headbewildered, from the myriads of beautiful and wonderful things whichnow quite dazzle one's eyes! such efforts have been made, and our peoplehave shown such taste in their manufactures! All owing to this greatexhibition and to Albert,--_all to him!_ We went up into the galleryand the sight from there, with the numerous courts full of all sortsof objects of art and manufacture, is quite marvellous. The noise wasoverpowering, for so much was going on everywhere, and from twelve totwenty thousand people engaged in arranging all sorts of things.
"May 1.--The great event has taken place,--a complete and beautifultriumph; a glorious and touching sight,--one that I shall ever be proudof for my beloved Albert and my country. Yes; it is a day which makes myheart swell with pride and glory and thankfulness!
"The park presented a wonderful spectacle, crowds streaming through it,carriages and troops passing, quite like the coronation day, and forme the same anxiety--no, much greater anxiety, on account of mybeloved Albert. The day was bright, and all bustle and excitement. Athalf-past eleven the whole procession in state carriages was inmotion. The Green Park and Hyde Park were one densely crowded mass ofhuman beings, in the highest good humor, and most enthusiastic. I neversaw Hyde Park look as it did,--as far as the eye could reach. A littlerain fell just as we started; but before we came near the Crystal Palacethe sun shone and gleamed upon the gigantic edifice, upon which theflags of all the nations were floating. We drove up Rotten Row, and gotout at the entrance on that side.
"The glimpse of the transept through the iron gates, the waving palms,flowers, statues, myriads of people filling the galleries and seatsaround, with the flourish of trumpets as we entered, gave us a sensationwhich I can never forget, and I felt much moved. We went for a moment toa little side-room, where we left our shawls, and where we found mammaand Mary (Princess of Teck), and outside which were standing the otherprinces. In a few seconds we proceeded, Albert leading me, havingVicky at his hand, and Bertie holding mine. The sight as we came to themiddle, where the steps and chair (which I did not sit on) wereplaced, with the beautiful crystal fountain just in front of it, wasmagical,--so vast, so glorious, so touching. One felt--as so many didto whom I have since spoken--filled with devotion,--more so than by anyservice I have ever heard. The tremendous cheers, the joy expressedin every face, the immensity of the building, the mixture of palms,flowers, trees, statues, fountains, the organ (with two hundredinstruments and six hundred voices, which sounded like nothing), and mybeloved husband, the author of this 'Peace Festival,' which united theindustry of all nations of the earth,--all this was moving indeed, andit was and is a day to live forever. God bless my dearest Albert, Godbless my dearest country, which has shown itself so great to-day! The only event it in the slightest degreereminded me of was the coronation; but this day's festival was athousand times superior. In fact, it is unique, and can bear nocomparison, from its peculiarity, beauty, and combination of suchdifferent and striking objects. .
"Albert left my side after 'God save the Queen' had been sung, and,at the head of the commissioners,--a curious set of political anddistinguished men,--read me the report, which is a long one, and towhich I read a short answer. After which the Archbishop of Canterburyoffered up a short and appropriate prayer, followed by the 'HallelujahChorus,' during which a Chinese mandarin slowly and gravely made hisway around the fountain, and made me a profound obeisance. Then theprocession began. It was beautifully arranged and of great length,--theprescribed order being exactly adhered to. The nave was full, which hadnot been intended; but still there was no difficulty, and the whole longwalk from one end to the other was made in the midst of continued anddeafening cheers and waving of handkerchiefs. Every one's face wasbright and smiling, many with tears in their eyes. Many Frenchmen calledout, '_Vive la Reine!_' One could, of course, see nothing but what wasnear in the nave, and nothing in the courts. The organs were but littleheard, but the military band at one end had a very fine effect as wepassed along. They played the march from Athalie. The beautiful Amazonin bronze, by Kiss, looked very magnificent.
"We returned to our place, and Albert told Lord Breadalbane to declarethat the exhibition was opened, which he did in a loud voice: 'Hermajesty commands me to declare this exhibition open,' which was followedby a flourish of trumpets, and immense cheering. All the commissioners,the executive committee, etc., who worked so hard, and to whom suchimmense praise is due, seemed truly happy, and no one more so thanMr. Joseph Paxton, who planned the building, and who rose from being acommon gardener's boy."
The exhibition was a perfect success, and all those that have followedhave certainly been a compliment to Prince Albert's enterprise. Thebuilding itself called forth much wonder and admiration, the beautifulstructure being entirely of glass and iron. It was afterwards removed toSydenham, where it now stands, and where few travellers fail to make avisit on purpose to behold this wonderful inspiration of Mr., now SirJoseph, Paxton.
"I must not omit to mention an interesting episode of this day," writesthe queen; viz. "the visit of the good old Duke of Wellington, onthis his eighty-second birthday, to his little godson, our dear littleArthur. He came to us at five, and I gave him a golden cup and sometoys, which he himself had chosen, and Arthur gave him a nosegay.
"We dined _en famille_, and then went to Covent Garden Opera. I wasrather tired; but we were both so happy, so full of thankfulness! God isindeed our kind and merciful Father!"
Lord John Russell and Lord Palmerston were among the first to offercongratulations to the queen on the success of the undertaking; andSir George Grey was able to report next day that, although twenty-fivethousand people had been within the building, and seven hundred thousandalong the route between Buckingham Palace and Hyde Park, not a singleaccident had happened, and not a case of bad behavior had been reportedby the police.
While in Scotland the prince won the admiration of the Highlanders byhis skill in deer-stalking, and by the energy and endurance with whichhe made his tramps over hill and heather. He and the queen returnedto London in time to make one more visit to the exhibition, which closedin October.
This year was memorable for a visit from Kossuth, who sought to securethe intervention of England in the cause of Hungarian independence.He received a warm welcome, and his irresistible, passionate eloquencecharmed thousands of people, even though they did not sympathize withhim or his object. He spoke the purest English, and his powers of speechexcited the wonder and admiration of his hearers everywhere; but hesoon found that the peace with Austria was not to be broken. So theillustrious patriot came to America, where again he was doomed todisappointment.
Before the close of the year all England, and, indeed, the whole world,was taken by surprise by the _coup d'état_ made by Louis Napoleon, whichplaced him on the throne as Emperor of the French. This remarkablepiece of intelligence reached the queen just before her departure fromOsborne, and she immediately wrote Lord John Russell to request LordNormandy, her ambassador at Paris, "to remain entirely passive, and totake no part whatever in what was passing, and to say no word that mightbe misconstrued into approval of the action of Louis Napoleon."
Lord Normanby's reply created quite a sensation. He wrote that when hecalled on M. Targot, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, to tell himthat no change was to be made in England's relations with France, hewas astonished to hear from that gentleman that Lord Palmerston had,two days before, called upon Count Walewski, the French ambassador inLondon, and not only expressed his approval of what the new emperor haddone, but had declared that he could not have acted otherwise. Whenthis was repeated to the queen she was unwilling to believe it,considering how explicit she had been in desiring strict neutralityon the part of her ministers. She wrote Lord John Russell desiring anexplanation, and he at once opened a correspondence with Lord Palmerstonon the subject. Many letters passed between the two statesmen beforecomplete satisfaction could be obtained. Lord Palmerston had profoundconfidence in himself, and every man who differed from him was, inhis estimation, a blockhead. He jumped at conclusions, acted upon themquickly, cared little for the opinion of the world, and regarded thosemore deliberate than himself as dullards. Thus had he often acted uponhis own judgment and authority in deciding matters of state, and pledgedthe queen to a course of conduct of which she did not wholly approve.This was exceedingly aggravating, and her majesty chafed under it. Withregard to the _coup d'etat_, he wrote just as one of Louis Napoleon'sministers might have done in addressing a foreign court. He did notdisguise the contempt he felt for Lord John Russell because he thoughtdifferently from himself in the matter, and obstinately refused tounderstand that it was not his favoring the action of Louis Napoleonthat gave offense, but his openly expressing his approval of it indefiance of the queen's judgment and decision.
Lord John Russell was highly indignant, and declared that, while headmired the energy and ability of his colleague, he could not submit tobeing associated with one who was constantly creating misunderstandingsand committing acts of imprudence. The consequence was that LordPalmerston withdrew from office, and Lord Granville took his place.
Lord Palmerston's removal caused a sensation all over Europe, forhe had shown himself to be a man of great ability and strong commonsense; and it was generally believed that he had been sacrificed togovernment intrigue, though such was not the case. The cabinet met onthe twenty-second of December, and condemned Lord Palmerston's conduct,and approved of the steps taken by Lord John Russell.




CHAPTER XIII.
[[A.D. 1852.]]
|The year opened with considerable uneasiness regarding the probabilityof a French invasion; and the queen drew the attention of parliament tothe necessity of increasing the number of soldiers. Without explainingthe plan of the "militia bill," which was brought up for consideration,it is only necessary to say that the alterations made in it by themembers of the house excited the indignation of Lord John Russell tosuch a degree that he sent his resignation to her majesty. Lord Derbytook his place as minister, and Mr. Disraeli became Chancellor of theExchequer and leader of the House of Commons. The scheme for providingforces to defend the country was soon completed; and Mr. Disraelioccasioned no little surprise by the talent he showed for figures, inaddition to his other gifts.
The new administration was called the "Who? Who? Ministry," and this ishow it came by such a queer name. The Duke of Wellington was somewhatdeaf, and, like many people so afflicted, spoke in a very loud tone.He was so anxious to hear the names of those who were to form the newcabinet that he stopped Lord Derby in the House of Lords, and askedto what person each office was to be assigned. As the prime ministermentioned the names, the aged duke eagerly asked, "Who? Who?" and themore unfamiliar the names the louder they had to be repeated,and the oftener and more audible became the "Who? Who?" until theconversation was heard by all the members. The story got abroad, and thefamiliar name of the "Who? Who?" government was given to Lord Derby'sadministration.
The well-known gray head disappeared soon after; for the old duke diedon the fourteenth of September, at Walmer Castle, in his eighty-fourthyear. Never did any other man occupy such a position in England asthe Duke of Wellington. The whole nation loved him and had the utmostconfidence in him; and to the queen he was a loyal subject and anaffectionate friend. Strong men shed tears when they announced hisdeath, for he had held a warm place in the hearts of his countrymen. "Hewas the pride and good genius, as it were, of this country,"--wrotethe queen,--"the most loyal and devoted subject, and the staunchestsupporter the crown ever had. He was to us a true friend and mostvaluable adviser."
This is the order which Lord Derby issued to the army, by her majesty'scommand:--
"The discipline which he exacted from others, as the main foundation ofthe military character, he sternly imposed upon himself; and the queendesires to impress upon the army that the greatest commander whomEngland ever saw has left an example for the imitation of every soldier,in taking as his guiding principle, in every relation of life, anenergetic and unhesitating obedience to the call of duty."
In Southey's "Peninsular War," this sentence referring to the great dukeoccurs: "His campaigns were sanctified by the cause; they were sulliedby no cruelties, no crimes; the chariot wheels of his triumphs have beenfollowed by no curses; his laurels are entwined with the amaranths ofrighteousness, and upon his deathbed he might remember his victoriesamong his great works." The funeral was grand and imposing, andbeneath the dome of the Metropolitan Cathedral the remains of England'sgreatest military hero were laid beside those of Nelson, her greatestnaval hero. "We have buried in our greatest general," said Lord Derby,in the House of Lords next day, "the man among us who had the greatesthorror of war."
After a short sojourn at Balmoral the court returned to Windsor, and assoon as parliament was opened repaired to Osborne, when her majesty wassoon called upon to make another change in her ministry.
Mr. Disraeli occupied the attention of the house for more than fivehours with a speech regarding the reduction of certain taxes and theincrease of others. He spoke ably, and made a strong impression; but astill stronger one was made by Mr. Gladstone in opposition. It wasfour long nights before the debate concluded, and it resulted in theresignation of the ministry, which was formally tendered to the queenthe next morning. From that period Disraeli and Gladstone were rivals inpower and opponents in parliament for more than twenty years.
The queen now felt the necessity for the formation of a powerfuladministration, and for that purpose she called on Lord Aberdeen, whobecame prime minister. Lord John Russell took the foreign office, LordPalmerston became home secretary, and Mr. Gladstone chancellor of theexchequer. This was a powerful organization; but the man who attractedthe most attention was Mr. Gladstone, then forty-three years of age. Hehad entered public life at a very early age, and had often distinguishedhimself as a debater. He was born in Liverpool, and his father was aScotchman. He was a free-trader, and as such early attached himselfto Peel. The speech which he made just after the formation of the newministry lasted several hours; but it was so fine that his hearers were charmed, andnobody wished it to come to an end. His voice was remarkably clear andresonant, and he had the rare gift of being able to argue, with all thefluency for which he was noted, without the slightest preparation. Hewould start to his feet at a moment's notice, and pour forth a volume ofwords effective as they were eloquent. Mr. Gladstone, besides being anorator, was a statesman, a critic, an essayist, a Greek scholar, and afinancier.
[[A.D. 1853.]] The queen was quite satisfied with her new cabinet, andwrote King Leopold: "The success of our excellent Aberdeen's arduoustask, and the formation of so brilliant and strong a cabinet, would, Iwas sure, please you. It is the realization of the country's and our ownmost ardent wishes, and it deserves success, and will, I think, commandgreat support."
The court prolonged their stay at Osborne until late in the spring ofthis year, and during that time the Eastern question began to attractattention. On that subject we shall presently have more to say. Anotherroyal visit to Dublin must first be mentioned. It was made on theoccasion of the opening of a great Art and Industrial Exhibition,similar to the one of 1851 in London. The exhibition opened in July; butmeasles, which attacked the Queen, Prince Albert, and all but the twoyounger royal children, delayed them for a month.
It was on the twenty-ninth of August before the royal party reachedDublin, where they were welcomed with the same enthusiasm that hadmarked their visit four years before. The morning of each day wasdevoted to the exhibition, and the Irish poplins, laces, and potterywere special objects of admiration.
After passing a pleasant week at Dublin the royal guests drove toKingstown, on the evening of September 3, where an immense crowdassembled to bid them adieu. "The evening was very beautiful," says hermajesty's diary, "and the sight a fine one,--all the ships and yachtsdecked out and firing salutes, and thousands on the quay cheering." Asnight closed in, a magnificent aurora borealis lighted up the northernsky, and fire-works were let off until late into the night.

On the sixth of September, the court reached Balmoral; but they couldnot enjoy this retreat so much as usual, because the prospect of warwith Russia was daily becoming more imminent. England had been at peacewith all the world for forty years, and she was very reluctant to bedrawn into any complication now; but a few words of explanationwill show how she was forced to fight.
A treaty had been made between Francis I. and the Sultan, by which theholy places in Palestine and the monks of the Latin church were placedunder the protection of France. In course of time the Greeks began todispute the claim of the Latin monks to guard the shrines, and seriousdisputes arose. Then Russia, claiming to possess the greatest number ofGreek Catholics among her subjects, thought fit to interfere. The matterwas left to the decision of the Turkish Porte, which granted keys tocertain of the shrines to the Latins, and of others to the Greeks. TheFrench were not pleased, but agreed to accept the decision. Not so theRussians; they felt that the French had the key to the most importantshrines, and had therefore obtained supremacy over them in the East.Besides, the Russian Government was determined to have the protectorateof the Christians in Turkey, even though they gained it at the pointof the sword. So Prince Menschikoff was sent with a suite of naval andmilitary officers to Constantinople to propose a sort of convention toenable his government to assert this protectorate over the Greek churchwithin the Turkish Empire. He demanded an immediate reply. The newforeign minister, who had just entered upon his office, asked forfive or six days in which to consider so important a matter. This wasrefused, whereupon the Ottoman council became indignant and declined tohave any convention at all.
Prince Menschikoff at once left Constantinople, and Russia began herpreparations for war. Before many days her troops were gathering ingreat force along the frontier. This aroused the patriotism of all theTurks, Moslem as well as Christian, and Russia appeared like a big giantready to goble them up.
The czar had long before called Turkey, "the sick man," and hadinvited the English ministry to form an agreement with him, as tothe distribution of the effects in case "the sick man" should die. Hedesired no strife,--oh no! He was perfectly satisfied that arrangementsshould be made that would be agreeable to all parties, provided he gotpossession of Constantinople.
England very properly refused to acknowledge that Turkey was "a sickman" at all, and would not agree that any European power should be wipedout. But she desired no war, and so a conference was called at Viennabetween England, France, Austria, and Prussia, for the purpose ofpatching up, if possible, a reconciliation between Turkey and Russia.The eagerness with which Russia consented to accept the Vienna notemade the Turkish Government suspicious that she saw something of specialadvantage in it to herself. Therefore, through the advice of the Englishambassador at Constantinople, Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, the Turksdeclined to accept the Vienna note, unless certain changes were made.The prince consort had said that the Vienna note was a trap laid byRussia, and he was right; it was a trap in which the Western powerswould have been caught, had it not been for the shrewdness of deRedcliffe.
The czar would listen to no modification of the Vienna note; so Turkeydeclared war, and the French and English fleet combined were sent to theBosporus with orders to pass into the Black Sea, if the Russian fleetcame out of Sebastopol. Turkish independence must be maintained, andthat could not be unless the Western powers granted their assistance.Thus was war inevitably thrust upon them.
[[A.D. 1854.]] The Russian ambassador left London on the seventh ofFebruary, and on the same day the English ambassador was recalled.Towards the close of the month a formal declaration of war was issued.Meanwhile, regiments were constantly passing through London, andembarking for action in the East. The queen thus describes one in aletter to King Leopold:--
"The last battalion of the Scotch Fusileers embarked to-day. They passedthrough the court-yard here at seven o'clock in the morning. We stoodon the balcony to see them. The morning fine, the sun shining over thetowers of Westminster Abbey, and an immense crowd collected to see thefine men, and cheering them immensely, as with difficulty they marchedalong. They formed line, presented arms, and then cheered us veryheartily and went off cheering. It was a touching and beautiful sight.Many sorrowing friends were there, and we saw the shake of many a hand.My best wishes and prayers will be with them all."
A few days later the queen and prince visited the magnificent fleet atSpithead under the command of Sir Charles Napier. "We are just startingto see the fleet," wrote her majesty to Lord Aberdeen, "which is to sailat once for its important destination. It will be a solemn moment! Manya heart will be very heavy, and many a prayer, including our own, willbe offered up for its safety and glory."
Lord Raglan, an old pupil of the Duke of Wellington, who had lost hisright arm at Waterloo, was appointed to command the English forces,and Marshal St. Arnaud those of the French. Their instructions were tocommunicate with Omar Pasha, the Turkish commander, and then to decidewhether an immediate attack upon Sebastopol, the Crimean stronghold,was advisable. The three commanders did consult, and did not altogetherrelish the idea of such an attack; but it had been strongly urged by theEnglish and French governments, and, therefore, was it undertaken.
On the fourteenth of September, twenty-seven thousand English, thirtythousand French, and seven thousand Turks landed without opposition onthe shores of the Crimea. On the nineteenth they marched towards theriver Alma, and reached its banks at noon of the twentieth. PrinceMenschikoff thought his position invulnerable with his Russianbatteries, his artillery, and his dense masses of infantry coveringthe hills; and when he saw the enemy approach, he began to congratulatehimself upon the glorious victory that he already considered assured. Hedid not open fire on them as they crossed to his side of the river; thatwas not in accordance with his plan. He had told the czar that he couldeasily hold his position for three weeks; and so he would merely playwith the allied troops until his immense reinforcements arrived, andthen it would be so easy to pounce down upon them and crush them.So certain did he feel of the result of a fight that some of theprecautions that a less arrogant general would have taken were entirelyunheeded. The consequence was, that after a desperate combat the alliedforces drove the Russians from the field and gained a complete victory.
If an immediate attack had been made upon Sebastopol in the face ofthis victory, it might have been taken; but there was no Marlborough,no Wellington, in the English army at that time, and the flying Russiantroops were not even pursued. Thus they gained time, not only toconsider the cause of their defeat, but to increase their defences.
On the third day after the battle, the allied troops gazed in wonderat certain movements of the Russians in the Black Sea. "What were theyabout?" was the question that was asked on all sides. "Were they goingto attack the


English and French ships?" It seemed so, for seven of their warvessels were drawn up right to the very entrance of the harbor, andunder the very noses of the enemy. The operation was soon explained; forslowly but surely did the seven vessels go down, down into the water,until nothing was to be seen of them but the tops of their masts. Thenvanished all hope of a speedy capture of Sebastopol. Her harbor was asimpassable as though huge rocks guarded it.
Then the allied forces began a long, fatiguing march to Balaklava, whichlies south of Sebastopol, and has a port that would enable them to keepcommunication between the army and the navy intact. They reached theirdestination safely, stationed themselves on the heights above thecity, and with the fleet in the harbor prepared to attack Sebastopolsimultaneously by sea and land. On the seventeenth of October the attackbegan; but the ships could not get near enough, on account of the sunkenwar vessels to do very effective work, and so it proved a failure.
On the twenty-fifth, the Russians made an attack with the hope ofgetting possession of Balaklava. The assault was bold and splendid, andwith boldness and splendor was it repulsed. It was during this battlethat the charge of the Light Brigade was made, of which Tennyson haswritten in so spirited a manner:--
                   "'Forward, the Light Brigade!'
                   Was there a man dismayed?
                   Not though the soldier knew
                   Some one had blundered:
                   Theirs not to make reply,
                   Theirs not the reason why,
               Theirs but to do and die,--
                   Into the valley of Death
                   Rode the six hundred."
Some one _had_ blundered, but exactly who has never been entirelysettled. The officer who received the order was one of the first whofell; and, of the six hundred and seven men who composed the LightBrigade, only one hundred and ninety-eight returned. All the worldwondered at the magnificent charge.
"When can their glory fade?--" asks the Poet Laureate. Never whilecourage and heroism are honored.
On the fifth of November the battle of Inkermann was fought during adark, heavy fog. This was the fiercest fight of the campaign, and tookplace almost entirely in the dark. It was a hand-to-hand combat, andthe loss was very heavy on all sides. It was, however, a victory tothe allies; and the queen was so well pleased that she expressed heradmiration of Lord Raglan's generalship by conferring upon him the batonof field-marshal.
Sir George Cathcart was one of the officers who lost his life in thiscampaign, and the queen wrote a most touching letter of sympathy tohis widow. As a mark of regard to his memory, her majesty appointed hisdaughter Emily one of her maids-of-honor.
The Russians behaved, as they always do, with the greatest barbarity."When poor Sir George Cathcart fell," writes the queen, "his faithfuland devoted military secretary sprang from his horse, and with onearm--he was wounded in the other--supported his dying chief, when threewretches came and bayoneted him." Such scenes were not at all uncommon;and when the English or French soldiers were assisting the wounded enemythat were left on the battlefield they always took the precaution todeprive them of their arms; for it was not unusual for a Russian soldierto receive a cup of water with one hand, and stab his benefactor in theback with the other.
During the winter the suffering among the troops was very great. Cholerahad attacked them and thinned their ranks to a great extent.Men were dying by hundreds, because the hospitals were in such a badcondition, and even the stores of food and medicines that were sent outcould not be got at. There was a lack of system and organization in thearmy, which prevented supplies from reaching the proper places, and theywere often left to decay in the holds of vessels, or worse still, fellinto the hands of the Russians.
At last Sir Sidney Herbert remembered Miss Florence Nightingale, andapplied to her for relief. Miss Nightingale was the daughter of awealthy English country gentleman, who had made nursing a study. Atthe time of the breaking out of the Crimean war she was engaged inestablishing an institution for training nurses after the plan of someshe had visited on the continent. To this lady, then, Sir Sidney turned,and she consented at once to take charge of the Scutari hospital. Shewent out to the Crimea with a corps of thirty-seven ladies, and fromthe moment of her arrival no further complaints were made about hospitalregulations. She restored order as by a stroke of magic, and thousandsof sick and wounded soldiers were comforted by the tender nursing ofthat corps of brave, self-sacrificing women.
The queen, the elder princess, and all the ladies of the court madewoolen comforters, mittens, and other warm clothing to be distributed inthe army, and their example was imitated by women in every part of thekingdom.
The ministry at home were very much blamed for the lack of organizationin the army, and changes were made. Lord John Russell resigned, andwrote to Lord Aberdeen, urging that Lord Palmerston should take chargeof the war department. Then the queen wrote to Lord Palmerston, askinghim "whether he could undertake to form an administration that wouldcommand the confidence of parliament, and properly conduct publicaffairs." He accepted, and much to his surprise found himself primeminister. Lord Panmure became minister of war.
Meanwhile negotiations for peace were begun at Vienna, and Lord JohnRussell was sent there to represent England; On the second of Marchthe czar died very suddenly--it was said of pneumonia; but defeat andblasted hopes had much to do with his fatal illness. People outside ofRussia did not seem very sorry; and it was ardently hoped that thenew czar would be more inclined for peace than his father, but theconference at Vienna failed.
Then Louis Napoleon resolved to go to the Crimea himself, but Englandinterposed to prevent, and he met with discouragement at home also. Hisnext resolution was to make a visit to the queen, and having ascertainedthat it would be welcome, he named April 16 for the day of his arrival.The empress was to accompany him. The notice was short, but a splendidsuite of apartments was quickly prepared at Windsor Castle for the royalguests.
The prince went down to Dover to meet them, but in consequence ofa dense fog it was noon before they landed. An enthusiastic welcomegreeted England's ally at every point; flags waved from the houses, andtriumphal arches had been erected, all festooned with bright bannersand flowers. Extracts from her majesty's diary will best describe thearrival at Windsor.
[[A.D. 1855.]] "I advanced and embraced the emperor, who received twosalutes on either cheek from me, having first kissed my hand. I nextembraced the very gentle, graceful, and evidently very nervous empress.We presented the children; the emperor embraced Bertie, and then we wentup stairs, Albert leading the empress, who, in the most engaging manner,refused to go first, but at length, with graceful reluctance, did so, the emperorleading me, expressing his great gratification at being here and seeingme.
"Nothing can be more civil or amiable or more well-bred than theemperor's manner--so full of tact. A long walk after breakfast gave himand Albert an opportunity, to discuss the war. The empress was as eageras her husband that he should go to the Crimea. She sees no greaterdanger for him there than elsewhere--in fact, than in Paris. She isfull of courage and spirit, and yet so gentle, with such innocent andcharming manners."
During the visit the emperor was invested with the Order of the Garter,and on the nineteenth he and the empress were entertained at Guildhall,by the city of London, at a grand banquet. They returned to the palacein the evening, charmed with the way they had been received everywhere,and later they attended the opera.
In the evening a council was held to decide upon future operations inthe Crimea, and the next day the royal guests took their departure.
While the emperor was in England, St. Arnaud had died at the seat ofwar, and soon after news was brought of the death of Lord Raglan. Theformer was succeeded by Canrobert, who soon resigned in favor of GeneralPélissier, and the latter by General Simpson. Sardinia had come forwardas an ally, and her troops had distinguished themselves for bravery andskill.
The visit of the emperor and empress had to be returned, so the queen,Prince Albert, the Prince of Wales, and the princess royal embarked,on the eighteenth of August, on board the "Victoria and Albert" forBoulogne. The emperor stood on the quay with a brilliant retinue toreceive them, and conducted them to the railway station.
Arriving at St. Cloud, the royal guests were received by theempress "amidst a blaze of light from lamps and torches, the roar ofcannon, music, drums, and cheers."
"The saloons are splendid," writes the queen, "the ceilings arebeautifully painted, and the walls hung with gobelins. The saloon inwhich we dined was terribly hot, for the table was covered with waxlights, which quite dazzled me. Everything was magnificent, and all veryquiet and royal." This beautiful palace, which the queen describesin her diary, is in ruins now,--not from age, but from the storm ofrevolution that has destroyed so many fine buildings in and near Paris.
It might be tiresome to those of my readers who are not fond ofdescriptions to follow the queen in her visits to all the interestingplaces in Paris and its suburbs; so we will merely say that, after aweek of feasting and sight-seeing, she returned to Osborne with herfamily, having cemented a warm friendship with the emperor and empressof the French.
In September the glorious tidings of the fall of Sebastopol reachedEngland. A simultaneous attack of the French and English forces on thetwo fortresses--Redan and Malakoff--had resulted in victory; and thenthe Russians, finding that it would be useless to remain longer atSebastopol, left it a burning mass, with powder magazines exploding, andflames bursting from every private and public building in the place. Andso the war came to a close, and a treaty of peace was signed in Paris onthe thirtieth of March. Turkey preserved her independence, and all theRussian places that had been taken by the allies were restored.
[[A.D. 1856.]] Just before peace was declared, a domestic event claimedthe attention of the English royal family. This was a proposal fromFrederick William, Prince of Prussia, for the hand of the princessroyal. All parties inter-ested were very much pleased, and Prince Albert wrote to BaronStockmar: "The young man laid his proposal before us this morning,with the permission of his parents and of the king; we accepted it forourselves, but requested him to hold it in suspense as regards the otherparty until after her confirmation. In the spring the young man wishesto make his offer to herself, and possibly to come to us along withhis parents and his engaged sister. The seventeenth birthday is tohave elapsed before the actual marriage is thought of, and this will,therefore, not come off till the following spring.... The young man isto leave us again in a fortnight.... I have been much pleased withhim. His chiefly prominent qualities are great straightforwardness,frankness, and honesty.... He speaks of himself as personally greatlyattracted to Vicky. That she will have no objection to make, I regard asprobable."
The next day the queen wrote in her diary: "Our dear Victoria was thisday engaged to Prince Frederick William of Prussia. He had alreadyspoken to us of his wishes; but we were uncertain, on account of herextreme youth, whether he should speak to her himself or wait till hecame back again. However, we felt it was better he should do so, andduring our ride this afternoon up Craig-na-Ban, he picked a piece ofwhite heather (the emblem of "good luck"), which he gave to her; andthis enabled him to make an allusion to his hopes and wishes as theyrode down Glen Girnoch, which led to this happy conclusion."
The confirmation of the princess royal took place the following Marchin the private chapel of Windsor Castle. The princess was led in by herfather, and followed by the queen, with the King of the Belgians. Allthe royal children, the various members of the family, the ministers,the great officers of state, the members of the household, and manyof the nobility were present. The Bishop of Oxford and the Archbishopof Canterbury performed the ceremony, and everything went off extremelywell.
The next domestic matter that occupied the attention of the royalparents was a plan for the education of Prince Alfred, who had selectedthe navy for his profession. In order that he might pursue hisstudies without interruption, it was decided that he should have anestablishment of his own. The Royal Lodge at Windsor Park was thereforefitted up for him, and Lieutenant John Cowell, a young officer ofEngineers, who had received a fine scientific education, was selected astutor.
The queen had always shown regard for the care of her wounded soldiers,and took personal interest in the hospital arrangements at home. InApril she visited St. Mary's Hospital at Chatham, where four hundredinvalids were drawn up in the barrack square to receive her. Afterpassing through the suffering numbers, cheering them with kind smilesand comforting words, the queen and prince entered the hospital, wherethose who were not well enough to be in the open air were assembled.Some of the poor fellows were frightfully crippled and disfigured;but all felt flattered by their sovereign's interest in them, and manydisplayed, with honest pride, the medals and other marks of honor thatthey had won on the battlefield. Two days later her majesty visitedAldershot, where a camp had been established. On a richly caparisonedchestnut horse she rode forward to inspect the troops. They were drawnup in two lines, fourteen thousand in number, and reached out a mile anda half in length. Bayonets flashed in the sunlight as the men presentedarms, and the bands of the different regiments burst forth in strains ofwelcome as their sovereign advanced. Having reached an elevated piece ofground, her majesty, surrounded by a brilliant suite, witnessed themovements of the soldiers as they marched past her in a line. A grandfield-day followed, when the queen appeared again on horseback, wearingthe uniform of a field-marshal with the star and ribbon of the Garter,and a dark blue riding-skin. The sight was more splendid than before;the troops had mustered eighteen thousand strong this time, andtheir manoeuvres under the command of General Knollys excited greatadmiration.
During the same month there was a review of the fleet at Spithead. Theroyal yacht steamed out of the harbor followed by private vessels,all decked with flags and crowded with spectators, and, as they passedthrough the double line of men-of-war, a royal salute was fired; andthis, added to the cheering of the men, produced a most exciting scene.The fleet performed various evolutions afterwards, and then had a mimicbattle, which concluded the proceedings. Several more reviews, bothof the navy and army, took place this year, and her majesty laid thecorner-stone of a large military hospital which she had ordered to bebuilt near Nettey. "It is to bear my name," she wrote, "and is to be oneof the finest in Europe. Loving the brave army as I do, and having seenso many of my poor sick and wounded soldiers, I shall watch over thework with maternal anxiety."
An accident to the princess royal, in June, was the cause of a greatdeal of anxiety to the queen. The young lady was melting sealing-wax bya candle, to seal a letter, when her sleeve caught fire and her rightarm was severely burned from the elbow to the shoulder. Had assistancenot been near, the princess might have been burned to death; but twoladies who were in the room acted with praiseworthy presence of mind,and extinguished the flame with a hearth-rug. In a few weeks the woundswere entirely healed. In the autumn the court retired to Balmoral,and one of the most distinguished visitors presented to the queen andprince was Miss Florence Nightingale. The prince wrote of her: "She putbefore us all the defects of our present military hospital system,and the reforms that are needed. We are much pleased with her; she isextremely modest." A fortnight later she became the queen's guest, andLord Panmure, the minister of war, was invited to meet her in order thatshe might lay before him an account of all she had seen at theCrimea, and her opinions as to the reforms that ought to be made. MissNightingale was treated with all the honors due so perfect a woman andso great a philanthropist.
[[A.D. 1857.]] When parliament opened in February, the queen gave anaccount in her speech of how an insult had been offered to the Britishflag by the Chinese, at Canton, which had rendered it necessary forredress to be demanded by force of arms. The facts were these: AChinese-built vessel, called "The Arrow," sailing under a British flag,had been boarded by a Chinese war-junk, and the crew carried off aspirates. Sir John Bowring, the English governor at Hong-Kong, haddemanded satisfaction, which Yeh, the Chinese commissioner, had refused.Thereupon the English fleet, under Admiral Michael Seymour, was sent toenforce reparation as well as free admission of foreigners to the cityof Canton. Had Sir John Bowring not been so determined that the port ofCanton should, according to a former treaty, remain open to trade, thematter might have been settled without a fight; but, as it was, theChinese were forced into a war which cost them dear.
In a few words the cause of the Chinese war is told; but it wouldrequire thousands to recount the debate which arose in parliament as tothe action of the government, which Lord Derby had challenged inone house, and Mr. Cobden in the other. The question was, whether orno the war was to be continued, whether or no Lord Palmerston was toresign? "Let the noble lord, who complains that he is the victim of aconspiracy, not only complain to the country,--let him appeal to it!"said Mr. Disraeli at the close of a two nights' debate. The noble lorddid appeal to the country. He announced his policy to be, "to maintainthe rights, to defend the lives and properties of British subjects, toimprove our relations with China, and in the selection and arrangementof the means for the accomplishment of those objects, to perform theduty which they owed to the country." The elections which took placesoon after showed a clear gain to the ministry, and a glorious victoryfor Lord Palmerston.
Two visitors must be mentioned, the one an American, the other aFrenchman, who went to England about this time on important missions.The American was Mr. Cyrus W. Field, who astonished the leadingmerchants and scientific men, by announcing a plan which he had forlaying a telegraph line beneath the Atlantic to connect Europe andthe United States. The Frenchman was M. de Lesseps, who explained hisproject for cutting a canal across the Isthmus of Suez. Both met withopposition, and both plans were deemed impossible; but, as we know, bothhave succeeded.
The Archduke Maximilian, brother to the Emperor of Austria, visited thecourt in June. He was at that time engaged to the Princess Charlotteof Belgium,--the woman afterwards known to all the world as "PoorCarlotta." It was six years after this visit to London that theArchduke Maximilian became Emperor of Mexico, where, by a turn of therevolutionary wheel, he was ordered to be shot by President Juarez,in 1867. Just before his sentence was carried into execution,Maximilian took out his watch, and, pressing a spring which concealeda portrait of his wife, he kissed it, and gave it to a priest, saying:"Carry this souvenir to Europe,--to my dear wife; and, if she be everable to understand you, say that my eyes closed with the impression ofher image, which I shall carry with me above. Poor Carlotta!" He hadreason to believe that his message never would be comprehended by hiswife, because, as all her bright hopes were blasted in Mexico, her mindsuccumbed. When her husband was taken prisoner, she had gone to France,and then to Rome to plead for help. She was refused, and insanity wasthe result.
One of the most important movements this year was towards theestablishment of schools for the poorer classes. Prince Albert took alively interest in this matter; for it had astonished and pained him tofind that more than half of the children between the ages of three andfifteen, in England and Wales, could neither read nor write, and theremainder had only two years of school life. He made a speech urgingthe necessity of compulsory education, and declared that parents mustbe made to see that to secure education for their children was "not onlytheir most sacred duty, but also their highest privilege."
The title of Prince Consort was conferred by the queen on her husbandthis year; she also distributed "the Victoria Cross," for the firsttime. This ceremony took place at Hyde Park, and was intended as areward for bravery in the army and navy. These decorations had beenmanufactured by the queen's order, and had inscribed on one side, "ForValor." They were given only to men who had served in the presence ofthe enemy, and had performed some signal act of bravery or devotion totheir country. The list of such names had been made out with great care,and her majesty resolved to establish the order by decorating theheroes with her own hand. More than a hundred thousand people assembledto witness the ceremony, and a vast semi-circle of seats had beenerected to hold about twelve thousand. Four thousand soldiers weredrawn up in a line, and between these and the royal pavilion were thesixty-two brave fellows who were to be decorated.
At ten o'clock her majesty rode into the park mounted on a gray horse,and dressed in a scarlet jacket, with a black skirt. She was accompaniedby the prince, Prince Frederick William of Prussia, and a brilliantsuite. The heroes were brought forward one by one, and her majestypinned the cross to the breast of each without leaving her seat inthe saddle. The prince saluted each man with profound respect ashe withdrew. It was a splendid spectacle, and the enthusiasm of themultitude was very great.
Towards the end of June, news of the most alarming nature came fromIndia. It was that the native regiments had mutinied, and massacred incold blood the English officers, their wives, and children. An orderwas immediately issued for twelve regiments of a thousand each, andfour thousand five hundred recruits, to be added to the army already inIndia.
Although these reinforcements were to be sent, some doubt existed as towhether the trouble was really so serious as was at first represented.Before many days the government learned by telegraph that the mutiny wasalmost universal in Bengal, and that thirty thousand men had desertedfrom the army. Delhi was in possession of the mutineers, who had beendriven into the city with considerable loss. They still continuedto make a desperate resistance, and the city was to be assaultedimmediately.
There was no longer room for doubt; the English government and the wholenation shuddered at the thought of what horrible deeds might becommitted, should the mutiny become general throughout the country.
The death by cholera of the commander-in-chief for India had beenannounced by telegraph, and Lord Palmerston wrote to the queen proposingthat Sir Colin Campbell should be sent out to take his place. This wasagreed upon, and Sir Colin started the next day. Bad news continuedto arrive from India, and Lord Canning wrote from Calcutta, urging theincrease of English troops, as the only means of crushing anarchy andrebellion. But he knew the necessity for immediate action, and he couldnot wait for troops to come all the way from England; he thereforestopped those that were on their way to China, and pressed them into theservice.
We need not detail the horrors of the Sepoy war nor the treachery of thenever-to-be-forgotten fiend in human shape, Nana Sahib. It is enoughfor us to know that one post after another succumbed to English arms andEnglish generalship, and the rebellion was finally stamped out.
This was a disastrous year in the commercial world; failure followedfailure, not only of private firms, but of banks, and the difficultywas even greater in the United States than in Europe. Long years ofprosperity had led to reckless speculation, which was supposed to be thechief cause of the trouble; but there were others besides.
[[A.D. 1858.]] The new year opened with preparations for the marriage ofthe princess royal. The court removed from Windsor to Buckingham Palaceon the fifteenth of January, and by that time the guests who had beeninvited to attend the wedding had begun to arrive. By the nineteenththe palace was entirely filled. It contained besides the English royalfamily, the King of the Belgians with his sons, the Prince and Princessof Prussia, with their suites, and several princes and princesses.


"Such a houseful!" says her majesty's diary, "such bustle andexcitement! Between eighty and ninety sit down to dinner at the royaltable daily." On the eighteenth many guests were invited for theevening, and the diary says: "After dinner a party, and very gay, andpretty dance. It was very animated, all the princes dancing.
Albert did not waltz. Ernest (the prince consort's brother) said itseemed like a dream to him to see Vicky dance as a bride just as I dideighteen years ago, and I still--so he said--looking very young. In 1840poor dear papa (the late Duke of Coburg) danced with me as Ernest dancedwith Vicky." The first of the festivities in which the public tookpart was at her Majesty's Theatre, on the nineteenth, when Macbeth wasperformed with Miss Helen Faucit and Mr. Phelps in the leading parts.The theatre was beautifully decorated with flowers, and the house wasfilled to overflowing with a brilliant audience. After the play, "Godsave the Queen," was sung, everybody rising, while those who could notfind room in the body of the house crowded upon the stage, and joined inthe patriotic song.
The next evening a grand ball, attended by a thousand guests, was givenat the palace, and on the following day a dinner. We now return to hermajesty's diary.
"Saturday, January 23.--Fine frost. Much excitement, but I feelcalm,--such bustle, such questions, and Albert torn to pieces. Latishwalks in the garden with Albert and our dear child. Albert went beforeone to fetch Fritz, who had landed at half-past ten, and at half-pastone he arrived with an escort (as have all the visitors), and all thecourt waiting for him below. I received him at the bottom of the stairsvery warmly; he was pale and nervous. At the top of the staircase Vickyreceived him with Alice, and we went into the audience-room.
"January 24.--Poor, dear Vicky's last unmarried day,--an eventful one,reminding me so much of mine.... After breakfast, we arranged in thelarge drawing-room the gifts (splendid ones) for Vicky on two tables:mamma's and ours on one, Fritz's, his parents', king's and queen's (ofPrussia), uncle's, Ernest's, and Alexandrine's (Duchess of Coburg) onthe other.... Fritz's pearls are the largest I ever saw,--one row. Ona third table were three fine candelabra, our gift to Fritz. The Princeand Princess of Prussia, the children, mamma, William, all the princes,and ourselves brought in Vicky and Fritz. She was in ecstasies,--quitestartled, and Fritz delighted. Service at half-past eleven. TheBishop of Oxford preached a fine sermon.
"Coming from a walk in the gardens of the palace after luncheon, we wentagain to the present-room, where we found more gifts had been placed,many from ladies, including a quantity of fancy work. From the Duchessof Buccleuch, a splendid case with table ornaments set with coral. Froma gentleman of the household, a beautiful diamond and emerald bracelet.Very busy,--interrupted and disturbed every instant. Dear Vicky gave mea very pretty brooch before church with her hair, and clasping me in herarms, said, 'I hope to be worthy to be your child!' When the duties ofhospitality for the day were over, we accompanied Vicky to her room,kissed her, and gave her our blessing, and she was much overcome. Ipressed her in my arms, and she clung to her truly adored papa with muchtenderness.
"Monday, January 25.--The second most eventful day in my life as regardsfeelings. I felt as if I were being married over again myself, only muchmore nervous; for I had not that blessed feeling which I had then, whichraises and supports one, of giving myself up for life to him whom Iloved and worshipped, then and ever.... Got up, and while dressing,Vicky came to see me, looking well and composed, and in a fine, quietframe of mind.... Gave her a pretty book, called 'The Bridal Offering.'"
Just before proceeding to the chapel royal at St. James's Palace, thequeen, the princess royal, and the prince were daguerreotyped together.The queen says in her diary: "I trembled so that my likeness has comeout indistinct. Then came the time to go. The sun was shining brightly;thousands had been out since very early, shouting, bells ringing, etc.Albert and uncle in field-marshal's uniform, with batons. The two eldestboys went first, then the three girls in pink satin trimmed withNewport lace, Alice with a wreath, and the two others with only bouquetsin their hair of corn-flowers and marguerites; next the four boysin Highland dress. The hall was full. The flourish of trumpets, andcheering of thousands, made my heart sink within me. Vicky was in acarriage with me, sitting opposite.... At St. James's I took her into adressing-room prettily arranged, where were uncle, Albert, and theeight bridesmaids, who looked charming in white tulle, with wreaths andbouquets of pink roses, and white heather. We went into 'the closet'(this is a room which on court days only the royal family are allowed toenter), where mamma, in violet velvet trimmed with ermine and whiteand violet silk, and the Cambridges were. All the foreign princes andprincesses except uncle, the Prince of Prussia, and Prince Albert ofPrussia, were already in the chapel.
"Then the procession was formed, mamma last before me. Then LordPalmerston with the sword-of-state; then Bertie and Alfred. I, with thetwo little boys on either side, and the three girls behind. The effectwas very solemn and impressive as we passed through the rooms, down thestaircase, and across a covered court.
"The chapel, though too small, looked extremely imposing and well, fullas it was of so many elegantly-dressed ladies, uniforms, etc. Thedrums and trumpets played marches, and the organ played others as theprocession approached and entered. There was a pause between each, butnot a very long one, and the effect was thrilling and striking, as youheard the music gradually coming nearer and nearer. Fritz looked paleand much agitated, but behaved with great self-possession, bowing tous and then kneeling down in a most devotional manner. Then came thebride's procession, and our darling flower looked very touching andlovely, with such an innocent, confident, and serious expression, herveil hanging back over her shoulders, walking between her beloved fatherand dearest Uncle Leopold, who had been at her christening and herconfirmation.
"My last fear of being overcome vanished on seeing Vicky's quiet, calm,and composed manner. It was beautiful to see her kneeling with Fritz,their hands joined, and the train borne by the eight young ladies, wholooked like a cloud of maidens hovering around her as they knelt near.Dearest Albert took her by the hand and gave her away. The music wasvery fine; the archbishop very nervous; Fritz spoke very plainly; Vicky,too.
"When the ceremony was over we both embraced Vicky tenderly, but sheshed not one tear, and then she kissed her grandmamma, and I, Fritz.She then went up to her new parents, the dear prince and princess ofPrussia, who were both much moved, Albert shaking hands with them, andI kissing both, and pressing their hands with a most happy feeling. Thenthe bride and bridegroom left, hand-in-hand, followed by the supportersof the train, the "Wedding March," Mendelssohn being played, and weall went up to the Throne Room to sign the register. Here generalcongratulations, shaking hands with all the relations,--I with all thePrussian princes. The young couple signed first, then the parents ofboth, and all the princes and princesses present. I felt so moved andoverjoyed that I could have embraced everybody. I shook hands with LordClarendon and Lord Palmerston. Vicky gave very pretty lockets to herbridesmaids.
"The young couple returned to Buckingham Palace together, and we withthe prince and princess of Prussia. Tremendous crowd and cheering aswe passed. The young couple stepped out on the balcony and showedthemselves, we and the prince and princess of Prussia standing withthem."
After the wedding-breakfast the bride and bridegroom drove away toWindsor Castle; and in the evening a messenger brought a letter from theprincess to her mother telling her that the Eton boys had dragged thecarriage from the railway station to the castle, and that they had beenwelcomed by immense crowds with the greatest enthusiasm.
Two days later (twenty-seventh), the court removed to Windsor, where thebridegroom was invested with the Order of the Garter.
On the thirtieth addresses were presented to the young couple from allthe large towns and cities, many of them accompanied by rare and costlypresents. Then there was a drawing-room, which was unusually brilliant,and lasted four hours."
On Monday, February 1, the queen wrote in her diary:--
"The last day of our dear child's being with us, which is incredible,and makes me at times quite sick at heart.
"I clasped her in my arms and blessed her, and knew not what to say. Ikissed good Fritz, and pressed his hand again and again. He was unableto speak, and the tears were in his eyes. I embraced them both againat the carriage door, and Albert got into the carriage with them, andBertie. Alfred and George (Duke of Cambridge) in the next; the bandstruck up. I pressed the hand of General Schreckenstein and the goodDean of Windsor, and then went quickly up stairs.
"A dreadful moment and a dreadful day. Such sickness came over me, realheartache, when I thought of our dearest child being gone, and forso long--all, all being over! It began to snow before Vicky went, andcontinued to do so without intermission all day. At times I couldbe quite cheerful, but my tears began to flow afresh frequently, andI could not go near Vicky's corridor. Everything recalled the time nowpassed.
"At four my beloved Albert returned with the two boys, _very_ sad, andmy grief again burst forth. The separation had been dreadful. Albertseemed much impressed by it. Nothing could exceed the loyalty,enthusiasm, and feeling shown by the countless thousands in the city,and again at Gravesend, where the decorations were beautiful. Younggirls with wreaths, in spite of the snow, walked on the pier strewingflowers.
"Albert had waited to see the ships leave,--what a moment it must havebeen!--but Vicky did not come on deck. The sight of the darling baby(Princess Beatrice) even made me sad, as dear Vicky loved her so much,and only yesterday played with her!"
The young princess made a most favorable impression among the Berliners;for her manners were charming, and she had the rare gift of being ableto say the right thing at the right time and in the right place. Fromthe moment when her engagement to the Prince of Prussia was thought of,her father had given her daily instruction in the studies that wouldbe of the greatest service in the position she was to fill. A prominentstatesman of Germany wrote of her a few weeks after her arrival in hernew home: "She sees more clearly and more correctly than many a man ofcommanding intellect, because, while possessing an acute mind and thepurest heart, she does not know the word 'prejudice.'"




CHAPTER XIV
|In August the queen and prince consort went to Germany on a visit. Theyarrived at Antwerp on the eleventh, and drove at once to the railwaystation. At Malines they were met by King Leopold and his secondson, and at Aix-la-Chapelle by the Prince of Prussia, who had come toaccompany them for the rest of their journey. The weather was intenselyhot, and marred much of their pleasure; but they were everywhere metwith a hearty welcome. On the twelfth news reached them of the suddendeath of Cart, who had been Prince Albert's valet for twenty-nine years."He was invaluable," writes the queen in her diary: "Well educated,thoroughly trustworthy, devoted to the prince, the best of nurses,superior in every sense of the word, a proud, independent Swiss, whomight be trusted with anything. He was the only link my loved one hadabout him which connected him with his childhood,--the only one withwhom he could talk over old times. I cannot think of my dear husbandwithout Cart! Albert felt the loss so much that we had to choke ourgrief down all day."
After breakfast the royal couple travelled to Hanover, and were met bythe king and queen, with princes and princesses, and a guard of honor,and conducted to the Herrenhausen,--the country palace where George I.was living when called to the English throne. After luncheon many people were presented, and at four in the afternoon the queenand prince proceeded on their journey. It was evening when they reachedWildpark Station, and "there on the platform," says the queen's diary,"stood our darling child with a nosegay in her hand. She got into thecarriage, and long and warm was the embrace as she clasped me in herarms. So much to say, and to tell, and to ask, yet so unaltered, lookingwell--quite the old Vicky still! It was a happy moment, for which Ithanked God!
"Another five or six minutes brought us to the Potsdam station, wherewere a band and a guard of honor of gigantic guardsmen with pointedcaps, and all the princes and princesses. After a few minutes wegot into open carriages and drove up to Babelsburg. The castle wasbeautifully lit up. The Princess of Prussia and Vicky took us to ourrooms, which are very comfortable. It was eleven. Many well-known facesappeared among the servants, and I felt quite at home. We supped withour children, and the prince and princess, and then went up to bed,wishing our dear child, as of old, good-night." The next morning waspassed quietly at the castle, and in the evening the royal party drovethrough Potsdam to the beautiful gardens of Sans-Souci, and visited thepalace built by Frederick the Great, in which he lived and died. Thequeen was charmed with the splendid orange trees at Sans-Souci, some ofthem two hundred years old, all festooned with vines, reaching from oneto another.
Several succeeding days were spent in making excursions to the variousplaces of interest, both in Berlin and the surrounding country. Statedinners were given, reviews attended, as well as churches and theatres,and many men of learning were presented. The queen mentions Von Humboldtparticularly, with whose conversation she was delighted. Thetwenty-sixth was the prince consort's birthday, described thus in theroyal diary: "Blessed day! May God ever bless my beloved Albert! Theband kindly-ordered by our children, and the Prince and Princess ofPrussia, played two hymns. I gave Albert all the children's letters.They had all written. Went down to the drawingroom to arrange thepresent-table, and found Fritz and Louise (Princess of Baden) there.Vicky soon followed, and then we went up to Albert, where we found hisbrother Ernest, who arrived this morning as a surprise. We took Albertdown. My gifts were a picture of Beatrice, life-size, in oil, byHorsley; a complete collection of photographic views of Gotha andthe country round it, which I had had taken by Bedford, and whichparticularly delighted Albert, and a paper-weight of Balmoral graniteand deer's teeth, designed by Vicky. Vicky gave her portrait, a smalloil one, by Hartman, very like, though not flattered; an iron chairfor the garden at Balmoral, and a drawing by herself. The prince andprincess gave two bronze statues. Albert was pleased with all. Therewere two birthday cakes. Vicky had ordered one with as many lights asAlbert numbered years, which is the Prussian custom.
"Friday, August 27.--The last day. It made one very sad to feel this....Visit from Stockmar. Satisfactory conversation with this kind friend.After luncheon Ernest came and took leave, going back to Gotha. Athalf-past five took a short drive alone with dear Vicky, alas! for thelast time. Saw Stockmar once more in the evening; broke up at half-pastten, and went up to our room with dear Vicky. Fritz joined us soonafter. We stayed talking together till eleven, happy, but dreading thenext day."
The leave-taking need not be described. The journey back to Englandwas accomplished with few delays, and the royal party reached Dover atmid-day on the 31st. Prince Alfred met his parents as they landedat the private pier at Osborne, in his sailor's suit, having just passedhis examination, and received his appointment as midshipman.
Shortly after their return, the queen and prince went to Balmoral,where, surrounded by their children, they were delighted to availthemselves of the repose offered by this invigorating mountain retreat.The prince resumed his favorite sport of deer-stalking without lossof time, and records having shot his first stag of the season on thefourteenth of September. The queen had to part with another of herchildren this year, for Prince Alfred went for a two years' cruise onthe Mediterranean.
[[A.D. 1859.]] Queen Victoria became a grandmother at the beginning ofthe new year,--the princess royal had a son born in Berlin.
Shortly after, the prince consort founded a library at Aldershot at hisown expense, and filled it with every work of value on military historyor science. This is called "The Prince Consort's Library," and has beenkept supplied by the queen from her own privy purse ever since. Thus allmilitary officers, who desire to study their profession, are suppliedwith rare and costly works, which would otherwise be beyond theirreach. During the Crimean war, the queen and prince had not forgottento provide books for the soldiers, which were afterwards dividedbetween Aldershot and Dublin. These were called the "Victoria Soldiers'Libraries."
In May the court removed to Osborne; but on their way thither, stoppedat Portsmouth to receive the Princess Frederick William of Prussia,who had gone to England to join in the family reunion on her majesty'sbirthday.
The queen soon had to turn her attention to state affairs, and on theseventh of June parliament was opened by her in person. An excitingdebate, extending over three nights, ensued, and resulted in theresignation of Lord Derby. Then the queen did not know whether to callupon Lord Palmerston or Lord John Russell to form a new ministry,as both had claims to the appointment. She therefore summoned LordGranville, thinking that he would be acceptable to their respectivefollowers, as well as to themselves. But Lord Granville wascomparatively a young man, and in no hurry to become prime minister; andLord John Russell declined to serve under him, while he expressed hiswillingness to serve under Lord Palmerston. The matter was soon settledafter that, and Lord Palmerston became prime minister for life. Hisministry was a strong one. Mr. Gladstone became Chancellor of theExchequer; Lord John Russell, Foreign Secretary; Sir G. C. Lewis, HomeSecretary; Mr. Sidney Herbert, Minister of War; the Duke of Newcastletook charge of the Colonies; Mr. Cardwell became Irish Secretary, andSir Charles Wood Secretary for India.
There were troublous times in Europe when this ministry came into power;for the emperor of the French had issued a proclamation declaring hisintention to rescue Italy from oppression and misrule, and help her todeclare her independence. The combat was to be with Austria; but, notknowing how far it might extend, all the other states excepting Belgiumgathered together their forces and placed them under arms, to be readyfor any emergency. England was pretty certain to remain neutral; but thestates of the German Confederation demanded to be led to the support ofAustria. A general feeling of distrust towards Louis Napoleon had spreadall over Europe, and he was closely watched. Prussia had not declaredher intentions; she was non-committal. The emperor of the Frenchparticularly desired to fight Austria alone with his ally, Sardinia;because, should he be victorious, he could then make an attempt onthe Rhine, with only the states of the Confederation to oppose him.
Austria, once defeated, would feel so indignant at having received noaid from Germany, that she would retaliate by refusing to assist indefending the Rhine. If Germany became involved in the war, Russiawould have to declare either for her or for France, and she was not thenprepared for war.
With such an unsettled state of affairs, a strong ministry in Englandbecame of the utmost importance, and no better or abler leader than LordPalmerston could have been chosen. There were those in the cabinetwho were enthusiastic for the freedom of Italy. Mr. Gladstone wasparticularly so, and Lord Palmerston had not lost his confidence inLouis Napoleon; Lord John Russell, on the other hand, was distrustful,and the Duke of Newcastle, Sir George Lewis, and Lord Elgin werewith him, while the other members were indifferent. This diversity ofopinion, in a cabinet composed of so many able men, was good; forit enabled them to look at the question of "a strict and impartialneutrality," to which the queen's addresses in both houses had pledgedthe nation, from all points.
Meanwhile the war was going on, and the French were victorious at everypoint. But their victories were dearly bought; more than a hundredthousand men had been sacrificed, and Louis Napoleon longed for peace.His ministers at home were, therefore, instructed to arrange throughEngland terms for an armistice; but, as those proposed by Count Persignywere not approved of in England, Lord Palmerston wrote Lord JohnRussell: "If the French emperor is tired of his war, and finds the jobtougher than he expected, let him make what proposals he pleases; butlet them be made as from himself, formally and officially, and let himnot ask us to further his suggestions, and make ourselves answerable forthem" The emperors of France and Austria then arranged a meeting,which took place at Villafranca, and patched up a peace to suitthemselves, though it surprised all other nations, and satisfied none.England knew that the terms of the treaty were impracticable, butresolved to quietly await further developments.
As soon as parliament was prorogued the court went to Osborne, and somedays later to the Highlands, where a few weeks were spent with the usualcountry sports and freedom from care. In October the queen and prince,accompanied by the Princesses Alice and Helena, went to Glasgow toattend the ceremony of the opening of the great water-works there, whichwere constructed on a grander scale than any in the kingdom.
An early and severe winter set in, and the prince consort took such asevere cold that he was confined to his bed for several days. Nothinghastened his cure so much as a visit from his eldest daughter. Shearrived quite unexpectedly at Windsor Castle with her husband on theninth of November, just in time to celebrate the birthday of the Princeof Wales.
This visit, which lasted until the third of December, gave the queenand prince consort the greatest pleasure; for the young couple were sohappy, and the princess was so much improved, that their presence left amost favorable impression.
Before the close of the year, Macaulay, the poet, historian, esssayist,and parliamentary orator, died in his sixtieth year. He was one of themost prominent literary men of his day. "There are no limits to hisknowledge," was said of him by a contemporary; "he is like a book inbreeches." In 1857 Macaulay had been raised to the peerage, but manyyears before he had made his reputation in the House of Commons, whereeach of his speeches was applauded more than the one that hadpreceded it. His life was a singularly happy one,--though, of course, itwas not all sunshine,--and his career was one of remarkable success.It has been truly said of him: "You might lay ribbons, stars, garters,wealth, title, before him in vain. He had an honest, genuine love of hiscountry, and the world could not bribe him to neglect her interests."
[[A.D. 1860.]] "We began the year very peaceably and happily," wrote thequeen to King Leopold, "and I never remember spending a pleasanter NewYear's day, surrounded by our children and dear mamma. It is reallyextraordinary how much our good children did for the day in writing,reciting, and music." It was by proofs of their improvement in studythat the royal children always planned little surprises to celebrate theChristmas holidays, and to evince their gratitude and affection towardstheir parents. On the twentieth anniversary of the queen's marriage,which occurred this year, they had a series of _tableaux-vivants_ inSt. George's Hall, which were witnessed by the royal family with a greatdeal of pleasure.
During the Crimean war, for which Canada had equipped an infantryregiment, her majesty had promised that the Prince of Wales shouldvisit her possessions in that country. This year the promise was tobe fulfilled, and the great railway bridge across the St. Lawrenceat Montreal was to be opened in honor of the occasion. The Duke ofNewcastle, as Secretary of State for the Colonies, was to accompany theprince, who would probably reach Canada by July.
No sooner did this piece of intelligence reach the United States thanPresident Buchanan addressed a letter to the queen, offering a cordialwelcome at Washington to the prince, and an assurance that he would beeverywhere greeted by Americans in a manner that could not fail to begratifying. Mr. Dallas, our minister to England, was instructed toinform Lord John Russell that the corporation of New York also invitedthe prince to visit that city.
Accordingly, on the tenth of July, the prince and his suite sailed fromPlymouth, and, after a very stormy voyage, landed on the twenty-fifth atSt. John, Newfoundland.
Meanwhile England was shocked at the news from Syria. Horrible massacreshad taken place between the Druses and the Maronites, which at lastextended as far as Damascus, where the Christian quarter had beenattacked, and nearly two thousand human beings had been butchered. Inthe mountains not less than three thousand five hundred men had been cutdown. The consulates of France, Austria, Russia, Holland, Belgium,and Greece were destroyed, and the fury of the mob knew no bounds. Thefamous Algerian chief, Abd-el-Kader, was then living in Damascus, andexerted himself nobly for the defense of the Christians,--for whichnoble deed he afterwards received the thanks of the British Government.
England and France at once took steps to restore order, and were ablyassisted by the other great powers of Europe. Lord Dufferin was sent outas commissioner from England, and performed his task with judgment andspirit. Turkey acted promptly too, and the governor of Damascus, aswell as the commander of the Turkish troops, with about sixty others inauthority, were executed, and peace was restored.
On the twenty-second of September the queen, the prince, and thePrincess Alice left Buckingham Palace for Gravesend, attended by LadyChurchill, Miss Bulteel, General Grey, Sir Charles Phipps, and ColonelPonsonby. They were joined at the station by Lord John Russell and Dr.Baly, who were to accompany them to the continent. They embarked onboard the "Victoria and Albert" at half-past five, and at seven dropped anchor at the Nore for the night.The next morning at five they sailed, and arrived in the eveningat Antwerp, where they were informed of the sad death of theDowager-duchess of Coburg. It was too late then to turn back, so theroyal party proceeded on their journey. We quote from the queen'sdiary:--
"At about seven we reached Frankfort, where, to our regret, we werereceived by a guard of honor and a band. The Princess of Prussia, Fritz,and Louise of Baden were there, having come on purpose to meet us.Arrived at the Hôtel d'Angleterre,--the same where we were fifteen yearsago,--we found sentries placed on the staircase, with whom we dispensed.After dinner came Prince George of Saxony, who brought me a kind letterfrom the King of Saxony, inviting us to come to Dresden, an invitationwhich naturally we cannot accept. We remained some little time together,and then went to our rooms.... This sad, sad news (the death of theDowager-duchess) lay like a load upon our otherwise bright and happyhearts.
"The next morning at nine we resumed our journey. I felt so agitated aswe approached nearer and nearer to Coburg. At last we caught the firstglimpse of the Festung, then of the town, with the cheerful and lovelycountry round, the fine evening lighting it all up so beautifully.At five we were at the station. Of course all was private andquiet,--Ernest and Fritz standing therein deep mourning. Manypeople were out; but they showed such proper feeling--all quiet, nodemonstrations of joy, though many kind faces. Felt so moved as we droveup to the door of the palace. Here stood Alexandrine (Duchess of Coburg)and Vicky in the deepest German mourning--long black veils with apoint--surrounded by the ladies and gentlemen: a tender embrace, andthen we walked up the staircase.... "We remained together for somelittle time, and then our darling grandchild was brought. Such a littlelove! He came walking at Mrs. Hobbs's (his nurse's) hand, in a littlewhite dress, with black bows, and was so good. He is a fine fat child,with a beautiful soft skin; very fine shoulders and limbs, and a verydear face, like Vicky and Fritz. He has Fritz's eyes and Vicky's mouth,and very fair, curly hair. We felt so happy to see him at last!"
The next day the funeral of the Dowager-duchess of Coburg took place;and, after that sad ceremony was over, a fortnight was passed invisiting the old familiar scenes in and around Coburg, with nothingof importance to narrate until the first of October, when the princeconsort met with an accident, of which the queen writes thus: "Ourdrawings being finished, we ladies walk down to the park gate, goingalong merrily, and much amused by a pretty peasant woman, who told Vickyhow dirty her dress was getting by trailing on the ground, and advisingher to take it up, and expecting our carriage to overtake us, when wemet a two-seated carriage, with Colonel Ponsonby in it, who said Alberthad sent him to say there had been an accident to the carriage, butthat Albert was not hurt, having only scratched his nose; that Dr. Balyhappened to meet him, and said it was of no consequence. This preventedmy being startled or much frightened. That came later," when ColonelPonsonby explained that the horses had run away, and that Albert hadjumped out!
"Drove back in this carriage with Alice, Colonel Ponsonby sitting on thebox beside the coachman. I went at once to my dearest Albert's rooms,and found him lying on his valet's bed, with a lint compress on hisnose, mouth, and chin, and poor, good, old Stockmar standing by him, andalso Dr. Baly. He was quite cheerful, and talking, and giving anaccount of his fearful accident, and, as it proved, merciful andprovidential escape. Dr. Baly said Albert had not been the least stunned;that there was no injury, and the features would not suffer. I sent offmany telegrams to England, fearing wrong messages."
Many despatches and letters were received next day containing inquiriesabout the prince, who was so much better by the third as to be able totake a walk.
On the evening of the fifteenth of October the queen returned toWindsor Castle, and by that time all traces of the prince's accident hadvanished. As a memorial in gratitude for the prince's escape, the queeninvested a little over a thousand pounds in the names of the burgomasterand chief clergyman of Coburg, the interest to be divided on the firstof October of each year among a certain number of young men and womenbelonging to the humbler ranks of life. These payments were to beapplied in enabling the young men to pursue any occupation they chose,and for the young women, it was to be a dowry on their marriage, or anassistance towards earning a support.
On the fifteenth of November the Prince of Wales arrived at WindsorCastle, and his account of the honor that had been shown him in theUnited States and Canada rejoiced the hearts of his parents. Enormouscrowds had assembled at every city, from Chicago to Washington, togreet "Baron Renfrew," as the prince was styled while travelling, andeverywhere he was so much admired, and made himself so popular, thatsomebody said of him: "He may consider himself a lucky lad if he escapesa nomination for president before he reaches his homeward-bound fleet."The most interesting incident of the prince's visit at Washington wasan excursion to Mount Vernon, the home and burial-place of our firstpresident. There the prince, Mr. Buchanan, and the entire party stoodbefore the humble tomb of George Washington, uncovered, and thenthe prince planted a chestnut beside the grave.
An ovation, such as has seldom been accorded to any monarch, awaitedthe prince both in New York and Boston; and, after his departure, thePresident wrote to Queen Victoria, expressing the gratification that heand the whole nation had derived from her son's visit. The letter wascordially answered by the queen herself, who expressed the warmestfriendship for the United States.
The Duke of Newcastle, to whose care the prince had been confided, hadperformed his delicate task so well and with so much discretion andtact, that he was publicly invested with the Order of the Garter, as amark of gratitude from her majesty.
In November Prince Louis of Hesse was betrothed to the Princess Alice,and this event gave much pleasure to the royal parents. The queenwrites in her diary, November 30: "After dinner, while talking to thegentlemen, I perceived Alice and Louis talking before the fireplace moreearnestly than usual, and when I passed to go to the other room, bothcame up to me, and Alice, in much agitation, said he had proposed toher, and he begged for my blessing. I could only squeeze his hand, andsay 'certainly,' and that we would see him later in our room. Alice cameto our room; Albert sent for Louis to his room,--went first to him, andthen called Alice and me in. Louis has a warm, noble heart. We embracedour dear Alice, and praised her much to him. After talking a little, weparted; a most touching, and to me, most sacred moment."
[[A.D. 1861.]] Before leaving Windsor on the second of January for avisit to Osborne, news reached the queen of the death of the King ofPrussia. His brother had long been regent, in consequence of the king'simpaired mental powers, and he is the present Emperor of Germany. Thequeen's daughter "Vicky" then became, and still remains, crownprincess.
Shortly after, Dr. Baly, the queen's physician, was killed by a railwayaccident, and Dr. Jenner succeeded him. This caused considerable sorrow,but it was followed by an event that plunged the queen and her familyinto deep grief. The Duchess of Kent had undergone a surgical operationin the beginning of March, from which she did not reap any benefit; butno alarm was felt as to her condition. On the morning of the fifteenththe queen and prince went to inspect the new gardens of the RoyalHorticultural Society at South Kensington, from which the queen returnedalone, leaving the prince to transact some business with the committee.While there, he was suddenly summoned to Buckingham Palace by Sir JamesClarke, who had come up from Frogmore to announce some alarming symptomsthat had attacked the Duchess of Kent. The prince at once informed thequeen, who, without a moment's delay, set out with him and the PrincessAlice for Windsor. Her majesty's diary tells the rest: "By eight o'clockwe were at Frogmore. Here, Lord James Murray and the ladies received us,and, alas! said it was just the same; but, still, I did not then realizewhat it was. Albert went up, and when he returned with tears in hiseyes, I saw what it was that awaited me.... With a trembling heart Iwent up the staircase and entered the bedroom, and there on a sofa,supported by cushions, the room much darkened, sat, leaning back, mybeloved mamma, breathing rather heavily, in her silk dressing-gown, withher cap on, looking quite herself.
"Seeing that my presence did not disturb her, I knelt before her, kissedher dear hand, and pressed it to my cheek; but, though she opened hereyes, she did not, I think, know me. She brushed my hand off, and thedreadful reality was before me that for the first time she did notknow the child she had ever received with such tender smiles. I wentout to sob.... I asked the doctors if there was no hope. They said theyfeared none whatever, for consciousness had left her....
"I entered her room about eight o'clock, the window was wide open andboth doors. I sat on a footstool, holding her dear hand. Meantime herface grew paler (though, in truth, her cheeks had that pretty, freshcolor they always had, up to within half an hour of the last), thefeatures longer and sharper. The breathing became easier. I fell on myknees holding the beloved hand, which was still warm, though heavier, inboth of mine. I felt the end was fast approaching, as Clarke went outto call Albert and Alice, I only left gazing on that beloved face,and feeling as if my heart would break.... It was a solemn, sacred,never-to-be-forgotten scene.
"Fainter and fainter grew the breathing. At last it ceased. The clockstruck half-past nine at the very moment. Convulsed with sobs, I fellupon the hand, and covered it with kisses. Albert lifted me up and tookme into the next room, himself entirely melted into tears, which isunusual for him, deep as his feelings are, and clasped me in his arms. Iasked if all was over; he said, 'Yes!'
"I went into the room again and gave one look. My darling mother wassitting as she had done before; but was already white! O God! How awful!How mysterious! But what a blessed end! Her gentle spirit at rest,--hersufferings over! But I--I, wretched child,--who had lost the mother Iso tenderly loved, from whom for these forty-one years I had neverbeen parted except for a few weeks,--what was my case? My childhood,everything, seemed to crowd upon me at once. I seemed to have livedthrough a life, to have become old! The blessed future meeting and her peace and rest must henceforward bemy comfort.
"My beloved Albert felt it, and feels it so intensely. He has shed somany tears; he was so tender, and kind, and full of loving affection, oftender consideration to spare my feelings. Albert took me upstairs, andsaid it was better to go at once into her dear sitting-room, where weso constantly saw her. We did so; but oh, the agony of it! All, allunchanged,--chairs, cushions, everything,--all on the tables, her verywork-basket with her work, the little canary bird, of which she was sofond, singing! In these two dear rooms, where we had so constantly seenher, where everything spoke of life, we remained a little while to weepand pray, I kneeling down at her chair."
The Prince of Wales and Princess Helena arrived from London, and weretaken by the queen to gaze upon the grandmother to whom they were sofondly attached. Then the relations at a distance had to be remembered,and the queen wrote a most touching letter to King Leopold, "the last ofhis generation."
The Duchess of Kent was mourned by every member of her household, fromthe highest to the lowest. Some of them had been in her employ for morethan thirty years, and all felt that they had lost a friend.
On hearing of her grandmother's death, the princess royal set out forEngland, and reached Windsor Castle on the eighteenth. Letters filledwith expressions of the warmest affection and sympathy were constantlydelivered to the queen, and addresses of condolence from both houses ofparliament were voted at once, in which a warm tribute was offered tothe memory of the deceased duchess.
The funeral took place on the twenty-fifth, in St. George's Chapel,Windsor, the prince consort acting as chief-mourner, supported by thePrince of Wales and Prince Leiningen. The pall-bearers were thesix ladies-in-waiting who had been with the duchess for a long time. Thescene was very affecting, and everybody wept. The Dean of Windsor was soaffected that he almost broke down in reading the service.
The death of the duchess greatly increased the labors of the princeconsort; for not only was he left her sole executor, and had thereforeall her affairs to settle up, but he endeavored in every possible wayto save the queen any care, and therefore took many of her duties uponhimself.
On the thirtieth of April, at a meeting of the privy council, the queenannounced the contemplated marriage of Princess Alice with the Prince ofHesse-Darmstadt. On the fourth of May it was communicated to parliament,and a dowry of thirty thousand pounds, with an annuity of six thousandpounds, was voted to the princess.
The Confederate war began about this time, and England was immediatelyaffected by the failure in the supply of cotton from the Southern Statesfor her manufacturing districts. No account of this war will be given,and no further reference made to it, excepting where England wasconcerned.
In June King Leopold and his second son visited England, and aftertheir departure the crown Prince and Princess of Prussia with theirtwo children arrived at Buckingham Palace. "This happy familymeeting," wrote the queen next day to her uncle, "with our children andgrandchildren, while our dear Alice's bridegroom is still here, makes melong and pine for _her_ who would have been so happy and so proud. DearFritz is excellent, and the _menage_ a truly happy one.
"My second drawing-room is just over, and I have nothing more to dountil to-morrow, when I go to White Lodge. On the fourth we go toOsborne." The court remained at Osborne throughout the month ofJuly, and received the visits of many distinguished people while there.In August the crown prince and princess returned to Berlin with theirchildren.

Meanwhile the remains of the Duchess of Kent had been removed to themausoleum at Frogmore, just completed, and the queen and prince made avisit there after parting with their children.
The prince's birthday was celebrated while he and the queen were makinga journey through Ireland. "This," wrote the queen to King Leopold,"is the dearest of days, and one which fills my heart with love andgratitude. God bless and protect my beloved Albert, the purest and bestof human beings." The customary gifts were ready, although the princewas far from home, and all were spread out on a table when he came downstairs in the morning. We quote from her majesty's diary: "Alas!there was wanting the usual gift from that beloved mother, which hasnever been wanting before. When all was ready I fetched Albert, andthe four children received us, and gave him bouquets. But I missed thelittle ones,--above all baby,--and sadly I thought of poor dear Vicky.Albert was much pleased with the presents, and with the girls' (theCrown Princess and Princess Alice) pretty drawings."
On the last day of August the royal family were again at Balmoral, wherePrince Louis of Hesse soon joined them. The circle was increased bythe arrival of her majesty's half-sister from Germany, and Lady AugustaBruce, who had been the Duchess of Kent's favorite lady-in-waiting formany years. The autumn of this year was all that could be desired, andthe sojourn at Balmoral delightful in every respect. It was at thisperiod that the Prince of Wales first met the lady whom he marriedlater. The Princess Alexandra, of Denmark, was on a visit to Germany,and it had been arranged that the prince was to meet her there with aview to marriage, in case they liked each other. Every precaution wastaken to keep this delicate matter secret; but it was soon discoveredin Germany, and then published in the English papers. It met with heartyapproval everywhere. "We hear nothing but excellent accounts of thePrincess Alexandra," wrote the prince consort in his diary, "and thereseems no doubt that the young people have taken a warm liking for eachother."
Shortly after the court returned to Windsor Castle, the death of theyoung King of Portugal was announced. This was a sad blow to the princeconsort, who loved the king very much. The queen wrote in her diary ofthis melancholy event: "Such a fearful loss! Such an irreparable lossfor the country which adored him,--for his and our family, of whichhe was the brightest ornament,--for Europe,--in short, for every one.Highly gifted, and most pure, able, excellent, and hard-working to adegree--he was one in a thousand. My Albert was very fond of him, loved himlike a son (as I did too), while he had unbounded confidence in Albert,and was worthy of him. It was like another awful dream! Dear Pedro!only twenty-five! gone from this world, in which he was certainly neverhappy! It is too, too dreadful!"
This loss had a serious effect on the prince consort, who had not feltwell for several months, often complained of fatigue, and sufferedmuch from sleeplessness. He continued to travel about and attend to hisvaried duties, but always complaining of pain and depression of spirits.
The last matter of public importance in which he took an interest wasthe "Trent" affair, connected with our Confederate war. On the eighthof November the English steamer "Trent" sailed from Havana for England,having on board Messrs. Mason and Slidell with their secretaries,Messrs. McFarland and Eustis. These men had run the blockade fromCharleston, in the Confederate steamer "Nashville," and were going asrepresentatives of the Southern Confederacy to the courts of England andFrance. The day after sailing from Havana, the "Trent" was fired into bythe "San Jacinto," and ordered to stop. She obeyed, when Captain Wilkes,commander of the American vessel, boarded the English one, and capturedMessrs. Mason and Slidell with their secretaries. This was a violationof international law, and England considered herself insulted. Francesided with England, and for some time there was a prospect of our havinganother war on our hands, besides the dreadful civil war. The princeconsort drew up the draft of a letter to our government, in the queen'sname, demanding, in mild though firm terms, an assurance that CaptainWilkes had not acted under official instructions, and that the prisonersshould be released. The demand was complied with, and the war-cloud blewaway very soon. The speedy settlement of the "Trent" affair was duein great part to the careful, courteous though determined wording of theprince consort's letter. But he was ill,--confined to his room part ofevery day, and felt the extra anxiety very severely; for he was far fromdesiring any dispute with the United States.
On the night of the twenty-eighth of November the prince had sleptrather better than usual, but complained of chilliness when he made hisappearance in the morning. He stood by the queen for twenty minutes onthe south terrace of the castle, to see the Eton College volunteersgo through their manoeuvres, and pass in review before the queen. Thevolunteers then marched into the conservatory near by, where a luncheonwas spread for them. "As soon as they were seated," writes the queen inher diary, "we went in and walked round the tables; it was a very prettysight. Albert was well wrapped up but looked very unwell, and could onlywalk very slowly. The day was close and warm; but although the princewas wrapped in a coat lined with fur, he said on the ground that he feltas if cold water was being poured down his back. His absence would havegiven rise to apprehension and remark, therefore he went out, thoughconscious that he ought not to have gone."
This feeling of chilliness continued, and other symptoms of disorderfollowed. The prince exerted himself to talk and to be cheerful, buthe ate little and slept less. On Monday morning, December 2, at seveno'clock, Dr. Jenner was summoned, as a low fever had set in. "I wasso anxious," says her majesty's diary, "so distressed; Albert did notdress, but lay upon the sofa and I read to him.... Sir James Clarkearrived, and found him in much the same state,--very restless anduncomfortable, sometimes lying on the sofa in his dressing-room,and then sitting up in an arm-chair in his sitting-room." Thephysicians assured the queen that there was no cause for alarm, andno necessity for further medical advice, as had been suggested. On thefourth there was no improvement. Her majesty found him "looking verywretched and woe-begone. He could take only half a cup of tea. Heafterwards came to his sitting-room, where I left him so wretched that Iwas dreadfully overcome and alarmed. Alice was reading to him."
Sir James Clarke still felt hopeful, and the queen went for a shortwalk. On her return, she found, the invalid "very restless and haggardand suffering, though at times he seemed better. While Alice was readingthe 'Talisman,' in the bedroom, where he was lying on the bed, he seemedin a very uncomfortable, panting state, which frightened us. We sent forDr. Jenner, and then Mr. Brown, of Windsor, came up, and was most kindand reassuring, and not at all alarmed. But Dr. Jenner said thatthe prince _must_ eat; that the illness would be tedious, and thatcompletely starving himself, as he had done, would not do."
Two days passed with little change, and the doctors pronounced thedisease gastric fever. The queen was informed of it, but not thepatient, who had a perfect horror of fevers. "What an awful trial thisis," writes her majesty, "to be deprived for so long of my guide,my support, my all! My heart was ready to burst; but I cheeredup, remembering how many people have fever.... Good Alice was verycourageous, and tried to comfort me."
On the eighth the prince had requested to be removed to the "blue-room,"because it was so large, bright, and cheerful, and then he asked forsome music, saying: "I should like to hear a fine chorale, played ata distance." A piano was drawn to the next room and the Princess Aliceplayed "_Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott_" and another hymn, whilethe prince listened with tears in his eyes. Later in the day the queenread "Peveril of the Peak" to him, and he followed the story with muchinterest. When her majesty returned to him after dinner, she writes: "Hewas so pleased to see me,--stroked my face, and smiled, and called me'_liebeschauchen_,'--precious love!"
Dr. Watson and Sir Henry Holland were now associated with the other twophysicians, and for a few days the invalid seemed to improve, though hismind wandered at times in a most distressing manner. On the eleventh abulletin was issued, informing the public that the prince was seriouslyill, though his case was not yet considered dangerous. He could not bearto have the queen absent from his bedside for an instant, and constantlyspoke kind and tender words to her. In the evening the symptoms were notso favorable, and great anxiety was felt.
Lord Palmerston was laid up with an attack of gout; but he was keptinformed of the prince's condition, as were the rest of the ministers,inquiries being made regularly by them all.
Between frequent changes from better to worse and worse to better, twomore days passed, and on the fourteenth, Dr. Brown, who had been inattendance on the royal family for more than twenty years, informed hermajesty that the crisis was over, and there was ground for hope. Thiswas good news indeed!
"I went over at seven, as I usually did," writes her majesty. "It was abright morning, the sun just rising, and shining brightly. The roomhad the sad look of nightwatching, and the candles burnt down to theirsockets, the doctors looking anxious. I went in, and never can I forgethow beautiful my darling looked, lying there with his face lit up bythe rising sun, his eyes unusually bright, gazing, as it were, on unseenobjects, and not taking notice of me." It was true that the princeconsort had rallied; but he was not really better, and the Prince ofWales, who, in answer to a telegram, had arrived during the night, hadbeen informed by Sir Henry Holland of his father's state. During theday there was little change; the prince spoke from time to time to thequeen, called her "_Gutes Frauchen_" and recognized each of the childrenas they came in and kissed his hand.
The next evening the queen was summoned from the adjoining room, whereshe had gone only a few moments before to give vent to her grief. Sheknew only too well what it meant. She entered, took the prince's hand,and knelt down. On the other side of the bed was the Princess Alice, andat the foot knelt the Prince of Wales and Princess Helena. Physiciansand others stood near in different parts of the room. Not a sound wasto be heard within that mournful chamber; the gentle spirit was passingcalmly, peacefully away. The castle clock chimed the third quarterafter ten. Two or three long but gentle breaths were drawn, the belovedfeatures settled into a sweet repose, and all was over.
After what has appeared in these pages concerning the prince'scharacter, and his qualities as a husband, a father, a friend, it isunnecessary to comment upon the loss those nearest and dearest to himhad sustained. But his death took the nation by surprise; for they hadnot realized the seriousness of his illness, and there was not a homein the kingdom that was not saddened by it. The queen was and is dearlybeloved, and her sorrow was shared by her people.
On the morning of Monday, December 23, the remains of the princeconsort were removed in grand state from Windsor Castle, and temporarilydeposited in the entrance to the royal vault in St. George's Chapel,where they were to remain until the completion of a mausoleum to beerected afterwards. On the eighteenth of December, her majesty,accompanied by the Princess Alice, drove to the gardens of Frogmore,where the Prince of Wales, Prince Louis of Hesse, Sir Charles Phipps,and Sir James Clarke awaited her. A spot was selected for the mausoleum,which was to contain the remains of the prince consort; and thefollowing year, the work having been completed, they were removed totheir final resting-place.
[[A.D. 1862.]] At the time of his death the prince consort was makingarrangements for another International Exhibition, which opened May 1of the ensuing year. But the public did not enter into the spirit of theenterprise, as they had done eleven years before; the novelty and charmhad worn off, and neither the building nor the site on which it waserected were to be compared with the former one for taste or beauty.Besides, the United States were still in the midst of civil war, and thecontinent of Europe had not yet recovered from the effects of severalconflicts.
The queen retired as much as possible from public life; for she wasplunged in the deepest grief, from which she could not rouse herself.She did not open parliament again until 1866; then Lord John Russell wasprime minister, having replaced Lord Palmerston, who had died during theprevious year. It is unnecessary to record the events" of the politicalworld, because they would fail to interest young readers, for whom thiswork is intended. Besides, it has been our object to avoid detailsas much as possible, and some events that have been of the utmostimportance in their bearing have had only slight mention. Everybody,young and old, is interested in literature and science, however. Wewill, therefore, devote a little space to the consideration of theirprogress during this reign.
In the early part of the century, travel by land and water was greatly facilitated by the utilization of steam; andvoyages across the Atlantic, which had hitherto taken months, now beganto be accomplished in a fortnight, and have since been reduced to tendays or a week. Great railroads have been built, embracing thousands andthousands of miles, and intersecting every acre of the civilized world.Telegraph wires have been stretched from end to end of the earth, andeven beneath the ocean, facilitating the interchange of messages, andmany minor improvements akin to these have been made. The nineteenthcentury is remarkable for other inventions besides, of which we dailyfeel the benefit. Of the rapid strides that science has made, we cannotbe more entirely conscious than by contemplating the labors of such menas Faraday, Sir Charles Lyell, Sir John Herschel, Richard Owen, HughMiller, Darwin, Huxley, Tyndall, and others. To this list the name ofMary Somerville must be added, for she is the one woman who takes herplace in the foremost rank of scientific scholars.
This is an age of great reforms, too. In Queen Victoria's reignconstitutional and parliamentary government has been firmly established,and the system of social science inaugurated, and the penal laws havebeen modified in England.
In literature, a bright galaxy of names comes to our mind. Among thephilosophers are John Stuart Mill, Herbert Spencer, George Henry Lewis,Buckle, and Lecky; while Carlyle, Macaulay, Grote, Froude, Ruskin, andMiss Martineau represent some of the historians and essayists.
Scott, Byron, Coleridge, and Keats were dead when Queen Victoriaascended the throne; but there still lived such poets as Wordsworth,Southey, Moore, and Landor, and later there came into prominence RobertBrowning and his wife, Tennyson, the Poet Laureate, Philip James Bailey,Alexander Smith, Swinburne, Morris, Jean Inge-low, Dante Rossetti, andChristina Rossetti. Punch, the world-renowned paper, was founded inthis reign, and drew together some clever young writers, while among itsillustrators were such famous artists as Doyle, Leech, and Tenniel.
Then we come to the novelists. Who has not heard of Dickens andThackeray, and enjoyed their works time and time again? Perhaps thesetwo are the most familiar, to young people, of the English novelists ofthe present century; but we must mention besides Charles Reade, AnthonyTrollope, Charlotte Bronte, Bulwer, Charles Kingsley, Black, CharlesLever, Miss Mulock, and Hardy.
This very incomplete list of names, that suggest the various branches ofliterature, will serve to show that no century has produced so manymen and women whose names deserve to be handed down to posterity as thepresent one.
Thus far, and no further, are we permitted to inquire into her majesty'sprivate life. Whatever we have written has been furnished from the royaldiary, extracts of which have been made from Mr. Theodore Martin's "Lifeof the Prince Consort." Whatever else we might add would not be basedupon authentic documents, and would degenerate into gossip. It is leftfor others, who, after her majesty's death, may have access to herprivate papers, to chronicle such events of importance and interest asmay have centred around her. Let us only express a sincere hope that itmay be many years before opportunity offers.