Blue Wednesday
The first Wednesday in every month was a Perfectly Awful Day--a day tobe awaited with dread, endured with courage and forgotten with haste.Every floor must be spotless, every chair dustless, and every bedwithout a wrinkle.  Ninety-seven squirming little orphans must bescrubbed and combed and buttoned into freshly starched ginghams; andall ninety-seven reminded of their manners, and told to say, 'Yes,sir,' 'No, sir,' whenever a Trustee spoke.
It was a distressing time; and poor Jerusha Abbott, being the oldestorphan, had to bear the brunt of it.  But this particular firstWednesday, like its predecessors, finally dragged itself to a close.Jerusha escaped from the pantry where she had been making sandwichesfor the asylum's guests, and turned upstairs to accomplish her regularwork.  Her special care was room F, where eleven little tots, from fourto seven, occupied eleven little cots set in a row.  Jerusha assembledher charges, straightened their rumpled frocks, wiped their noses, andstarted them in an orderly and willing line towards the dining-room toengage themselves for a blessed half hour with bread and milk and prunepudding.
Then she dropped down on the window seat and leaned throbbing templesagainst the cool glass.  She had been on her feet since five thatmorning, doing everybody's bidding, scolded and hurried by a nervousmatron.  Mrs. Lippett, behind the scenes, did not always maintain thatcalm and pompous dignity with which she faced an audience of Trusteesand lady visitors.  Jerusha gazed out across a broad stretch of frozenlawn, beyond the tall iron paling that marked the confines of theasylum, down undulating ridges sprinkled with country estates, to thespires of the village rising from the midst of bare trees.
The day was ended--quite successfully, so far as she knew.  TheTrustees and the visiting committee had made their rounds, and readtheir reports, and drunk their tea, and now were hurrying home to theirown cheerful firesides, to forget their bothersome little charges foranother month.  Jerusha leaned forward watching with curiosity--and atouch of wistfulness--the stream of carriages and automobiles thatrolled out of the asylum gates.  In imagination she followed first oneequipage, then another, to the big houses dotted along the hillside.She pictured herself in a fur coat and a velvet hat trimmed withfeathers leaning back in the seat and nonchalantly murmuring 'Home' tothe driver.  But on the door-sill of her home the picture grew blurred.
Jerusha had an imagination--an imagination, Mrs. Lippett told her, thatwould get her into trouble if she didn't take care--but keen as it was,it could not carry her beyond the front porch of the houses she wouldenter.  Poor, eager, adventurous little Jerusha, in all her seventeenyears, had never stepped inside an ordinary house; she could notpicture the daily routine of those other human beings who carried ontheir lives undiscommoded by orphans.
                   Je-ru-sha Ab-bott                   You are wan-ted                   In the of-fice,                   And I think you'd                   Better hurry up!

Tommy Dillon, who had joined the choir, came singing up the stairs anddown the corridor, his chant growing louder as he approached room F.Jerusha wrenched herself from the window and refaced the troubles oflife.
'Who wants me?' she cut into Tommy's chant with a note of sharp anxiety.
               Mrs. Lippett in the office,               And I think she's mad.                      Ah-a-men!

Tommy piously intoned, but his accent was not entirely malicious.  Eventhe most hardened little orphan felt sympathy for an erring sister whowas summoned to the office to face an annoyed matron; and Tommy likedJerusha even if she did sometimes jerk him by the arm and nearly scrubhis nose off.
Jerusha went without comment, but with two parallel lines on her brow.What could have gone wrong, she wondered.  Were the sandwiches not thinenough?  Were there shells in the nut cakes?  Had a lady visitor seenthe hole in Susie Hawthorn's stocking?  Had--O horrors!--one of thecherubic little babes in her own room F 'sauced' a Trustee?
The long lower hall had not been lighted, and as she came downstairs, alast Trustee stood, on the point of departure, in the open door thatled to the porte-cochere. Jerusha caught only a fleeting impression ofthe man--and the impression consisted entirely of tallness.  He waswaving his arm towards an automobile waiting in the curved drive.  Asit sprang into motion and approached, head on for an instant, theglaring headlights threw his shadow sharply against the wall inside.The shadow pictured grotesquely elongated legs and arms that ran alongthe floor and up the wall of the corridor.  It looked, for all theworld, like a huge, wavering daddy-long-legs.
Jerusha's anxious frown gave place to quick laughter.  She was bynature a sunny soul, and had always snatched the tiniest excuse to beamused.  If one could derive any sort of entertainment out of theoppressive fact of a Trustee, it was something unexpected to the good.She advanced to the office quite cheered by the tiny episode, andpresented a smiling face to Mrs. Lippett.  To her surprise the matronwas also, if not exactly smiling, at least appreciably affable; shewore an expression almost as pleasant as the one she donned forvisitors.
'Sit down, Jerusha, I have something to say to you.'  Jerusha droppedinto the nearest chair and waited with a touch of breathlessness.  Anautomobile flashed past the window; Mrs. Lippett glanced after it.
'Did you notice the gentleman who has just gone?'
'I saw his back.'
'He is one of our most affluential Trustees, and has given large sumsof money towards the asylum's support.  I am not at liberty to mentionhis name; he expressly stipulated that he was to remain unknown.'
Jerusha's eyes widened slightly; she was not accustomed to beingsummoned to the office to discuss the eccentricities of Trustees withthe matron.
'This gentleman has taken an interest in several of our boys.  Youremember Charles Benton and Henry Freize?  They were both sent throughcollege by Mr.--er--this Trustee, and both have repaid with hard workand success the money that was so generously expended.  Other paymentthe gentleman does not wish.  Heretofore his philanthropies have beendirected solely towards the boys; I have never been able to interesthim in the slightest degree in any of the girls in the institution, nomatter how deserving.  He does not, I may tell you, care for girls.'
'No, ma'am,' Jerusha murmured, since some reply seemed to be expectedat this point.
'To-day at the regular meeting, the question of your future was broughtup.'
Mrs. Lippett allowed a moment of silence to fall, then resumed in aslow, placid manner extremely trying to her hearer's suddenly tightenednerves.
'Usually, as you know, the children are not kept after they aresixteen, but an exception was made in your case.  You had finished ourschool at fourteen, and having done so well in your studies--notalways, I must say, in your conduct--it was determined to let you go onin the village high school.  Now you are finishing that, and of coursethe asylum cannot be responsible any longer for your support.  As itis, you have had two years more than most.'
Mrs. Lippett overlooked the fact that Jerusha had worked hard for herboard during those two years, that the convenience of the asylum hadcome first and her education second; that on days like the present shewas kept at home to scrub.
'As I say, the question of your future was brought up and your recordwas discussed--thoroughly discussed.'
Mrs. Lippett brought accusing eyes to bear upon the prisoner in thedock, and the prisoner looked guilty because it seemed to beexpected--not because she could remember any strikingly black pages inher record.
'Of course the usual disposition of one in your place would be to putyou in a position where you could begin to work, but you have done wellin school in certain branches; it seems that your work in English haseven been brilliant.  Miss Pritchard, who is on our visiting committee,is also on the school board; she has been talking with your rhetoricteacher, and made a speech in your favour.  She also read aloud anessay that you had written entitled, "Blue Wednesday".'
Jerusha's guilty expression this time was not assumed.
'It seemed to me that you showed little gratitude in holding up toridicule the institution that has done so much for you.  Had you notmanaged to be funny I doubt if you would have been forgiven.  Butfortunately for you, Mr.--, that is, the gentleman who has justgone--appears to have an immoderate sense of humour.  On the strengthof that impertinent paper, he has offered to send you to college.'
'To college?'  Jerusha's eyes grew big.  Mrs. Lippett nodded.
'He waited to discuss the terms with me.  They are unusual.  Thegentleman, I may say, is erratic.  He believes that you haveoriginality, and he is planning to educate you to become a writer.'
'A writer?'  Jerusha's mind was numbed.  She could only repeat Mrs.Lippett's words.
'That is his wish.  Whether anything will come of it, the future willshow.  He is giving you a very liberal allowance, almost, for a girlwho has never had any experience in taking care of money, too liberal.But he planned the matter in detail, and I did not feel free to makeany suggestions.  You are to remain here through the summer, and MissPritchard has kindly offered to superintend your outfit.  Your boardand tuition will be paid directly to the college, and you will receivein addition during the four years you are there, an allowance ofthirty-five dollars a month.  This will enable you to enter on the samestanding as the other students.  The money will be sent to you by thegentleman's private secretary once a month, and in return, you willwrite a letter of acknowledgment once a month.  That is--you are not tothank him for the money; he doesn't care to have that mentioned, butyou are to write a letter telling of the progress in your studies andthe details of your daily life.  Just such a letter as you would writeto your parents if they were living.
'These letters will be addressed to Mr. John Smith and will be sent incare of the secretary.  The gentleman's name is not John Smith, but heprefers to remain unknown.  To you he will never be anything but JohnSmith.  His reason in requiring the letters is that he thinks nothingso fosters facility in literary expression as letter-writing. Since youhave no family with whom to correspond, he desires you to write in thisway; also, he wishes to keep track of your progress.  He will neveranswer your letters, nor in the slightest particular take any notice ofthem.  He detests letter-writing and does not wish you to become aburden.  If any point should ever arise where an answer would seem tobe imperative--such as in the event of your being expelled, which Itrust will not occur--you may correspond with Mr. Griggs, hissecretary.  These monthly letters are absolutely obligatory on yourpart; they are the only payment that Mr. Smith requires, so you must beas punctilious in sending them as though it were a bill that you werepaying.  I hope that they will always be respectful in tone and willreflect credit on your training.  You must remember that you arewriting to a Trustee of the John Grier Home.'
Jerusha's eyes longingly sought the door.  Her head was in a whirl ofexcitement, and she wished only to escape from Mrs. Lippett'splatitudes and think.  She rose and took a tentative step backwards.Mrs. Lippett detained her with a gesture; it was an oratoricalopportunity not to be slighted.
'I trust that you are properly grateful for this very rare good fortunethat has befallen you?  Not many girls in your position ever have suchan opportunity to rise in the world.  You must always remember--'
'I--yes, ma'am, thank you.  I think, if that's all, I must go and sew apatch on Freddie Perkins's trousers.'
The door closed behind her, and Mrs. Lippett watched it with droppedjaw, her peroration in mid-air.



The Letters of
Miss Jerusha Abbott
to
Mr. Daddy-Long-Legs Smith

                                   215 FERGUSSEN HALL                                           24th September
Dear Kind-Trustee-Who-Sends-Orphans-to-College,
Here I am!  I travelled yesterday for four hours in a train.  It's afunny sensation, isn't it?  I never rode in one before.
College is the biggest, most bewildering place--I get lost whenever Ileave my room.  I will write you a description later when I'm feelingless muddled; also I will tell you about my lessons.  Classes don'tbegin until Monday morning, and this is Saturday night.  But I wantedto write a letter first just to get acquainted.
It seems queer to be writing letters to somebody you don't know.  Itseems queer for me to be writing letters at all--I've never writtenmore than three or four in my life, so please overlook it if these arenot a model kind.
Before leaving yesterday morning, Mrs. Lippett and I had a very serioustalk.  She told me how to behave all the rest of my life, andespecially how to behave towards the kind gentleman who is doing somuch for me.  I must take care to be Very Respectful.
But how can one be very respectful to a person who wishes to be calledJohn Smith?  Why couldn't you have picked out a name with a littlepersonality?  I might as well write letters to Dear Hitching-Post orDear Clothes-Prop.
I have been thinking about you a great deal this summer; havingsomebody take an interest in me after all these years makes me feel asthough I had found a sort of family.  It seems as though I belonged tosomebody now, and it's a very comfortable sensation.  I must say,however, that when I think about you, my imagination has very little towork upon.  There are just three things that I know:
I. You are tall.
II.  You are rich.
III.  You hate girls.
I suppose I might call you Dear Mr. Girl-Hater. Only that's ratherinsulting to me.  Or Dear Mr. Rich-Man, but that's insulting to you, asthough money were the only important thing about you.  Besides, beingrich is such a very external quality.  Maybe you won't stay rich allyour life; lots of very clever men get smashed up in Wall Street.  Butat least you will stay tall all your life!  So I've decided to call youDear Daddy-Long-Legs. I hope you won't mind.  It's just a private petname we won't tell Mrs. Lippett.
The ten o'clock bell is going to ring in two minutes.  Our day isdivided into sections by bells.  We eat and sleep and study by bells.It's very enlivening; I feel like a fire horse all of the time.  Thereit goes!  Lights out.  Good night.
Observe with what precision I obey rules--due to my training in theJohn Grier Home.
           Yours most respectfully,                                       Jerusha Abbott



To Mr. Daddy-Long-Legs Smith
                                           1st October
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I love college and I love you for sending me--I'm very, very happy, andso excited every moment of the time that I can scarcely sleep.  Youcan't imagine how different it is from the John Grier Home.  I neverdreamed there was such a place in the world.  I'm feeling sorry foreverybody who isn't a girl and who can't come here; I am sure thecollege you attended when you were a boy couldn't have been so nice.
My room is up in a tower that used to be the contagious ward beforethey built the new infirmary.  There are three other girls on the samefloor of the tower--a Senior who wears spectacles and is always askingus please to be a little more quiet, and two Freshmen named SallieMcBride and Julia Rutledge Pendleton.  Sallie has red hair and aturn-up nose and is quite friendly; Julia comes from one of the firstfamilies in New York and hasn't noticed me yet.  They room together andthe Senior and I have singles.  Usually Freshmen can't get singles;they are very scarce, but I got one without even asking.  I suppose theregistrar didn't think it would be right to ask a properly brought-upgirl to room with a foundling.  You see there are advantages!
My room is on the north-west corner with two windows and a view.  Afteryou've lived in a ward for eighteen years with twenty room-mates, it isrestful to be alone.  This is the first chance I've ever had to getacquainted with Jerusha Abbott.  I think I'm going to like her.
Do you think you are?

                                           Tuesday
They are organizing the Freshman basket-ball team and there's just achance that I shall get in it.  I'm little of course, but terriblyquick and wiry and tough.  While the others are hopping about in theair, I can dodge under their feet and grab the ball.  It's loads of funpractising--out in the athletic field in the afternoon with the treesall red and yellow and the air full of the smell of burning leaves, andeverybody laughing and shouting.  These are the happiest girls I eversaw--and I am the happiest of all!
I meant to write a long letter and tell you all the things I'm learning(Mrs. Lippett said you wanted to know), but 7th hour has just rung, andin ten minutes I'm due at the athletic field in gymnasium clothes.Don't you hope I'll get in the team?
                               Yours always,                                           Jerusha Abbott
PS. (9 o'clock.)
Sallie McBride just poked her head in at my door.  This is what shesaid:
'I'm so homesick that I simply can't stand it.  Do you feel that way?'
I smiled a little and said no; I thought I could pull through.  Atleast homesickness is one disease that I've escaped!  I never heard ofanybody being asylum-sick, did you?



                                               10th October
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Did you ever hear of Michael Angelo?
He was a famous artist who lived in Italy in the Middle Ages.Everybody in English Literature seemed to know about him, and the wholeclass laughed because I thought he was an archangel.  He sounds like anarchangel, doesn't he?  The trouble with college is that you areexpected to know such a lot of things you've never learned.  It's veryembarrassing at times.  But now, when the girls talk about things thatI never heard of, I just keep still and look them up in theencyclopedia.
I made an awful mistake the first day.  Somebody mentioned MauriceMaeterlinck, and I asked if she was a Freshman.  That joke has gone allover college.  But anyway, I'm just as bright in class as any of theothers--and brighter than some of them!
Do you care to know how I've furnished my room?  It's a symphony inbrown and yellow.  The wall was tinted buff, and I've bought yellowdenim curtains and cushions and a mahogany desk (second hand for threedollars) and a rattan chair and a brown rug with an ink spot in themiddle.  I stand the chair over the spot.
The windows are up high; you can't look out from an ordinary seat.  ButI unscrewed the looking-glass from the back of the bureau, upholsteredthe top and moved it up against the window.  It's just the right heightfor a window seat.  You pull out the drawers like steps and walk up.Very comfortable!
Sallie McBride helped me choose the things at the Senior auction.  Shehas lived in a house all her life and knows about furnishing.  Youcan't imagine what fun it is to shop and pay with a real five-dollarbill and get some change--when you've never had more than a few centsin your life.  I assure you, Daddy dear, I do appreciate that allowance.
Sallie is the most entertaining person in the world--and Julia RutledgePendleton the least so.  It's queer what a mixture the registrar canmake in the matter of room-mates. Sallie thinks everything isfunny--even flunking--and Julia is bored at everything.  She nevermakes the slightest effort to be amiable.  She believes that if you area Pendleton, that fact alone admits you to heaven without any furtherexamination.  Julia and I were born to be enemies.
And now I suppose you've been waiting very impatiently to hear what Iam learning?
I. Latin:  Second Punic war.  Hannibal and his forces pitched camp atLake Trasimenus last night.  They prepared an ambuscade for the Romans,and a battle took place at the fourth watch this morning.  Romans inretreat.
II.  French:  24 pages of the Three Musketeers and third conjugation,irregular verbs.
III.  Geometry:  Finished cylinders; now doing cones.
IV.  English:  Studying exposition.  My style improves daily inclearness and brevity.
V. Physiology:  Reached the digestive system.  Bile and the pancreasnext time.  Yours, on the way to being educated,
                                       Jerusha Abbott
PS.  I hope you never touch alcohol, Daddy?  It does dreadful things toyour liver.



                                               Wednesday
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I've changed my name.
I'm still 'Jerusha' in the catalogue, but I'm 'Judy' everywhere else.It's really too bad, isn't it, to have to give yourself the only petname you ever had?  I didn't quite make up the Judy though.  That'swhat Freddy Perkins used to call me before he could talk plainly.
I wish Mrs. Lippett would use a little more ingenuity about choosingbabies' names.  She gets the last names out of the telephonebook--you'll find Abbott on the first page--and she picks the Christiannames up anywhere; she got Jerusha from a tombstone.  I've always hatedit; but I rather like Judy.  It's such a silly name.  It belongs to thekind of girl I'm not--a sweet little blue-eyed thing, petted andspoiled by all the family, who romps her way through life without anycares.  Wouldn't it be nice to be like that?  Whatever faults I mayhave, no one can ever accuse me of having been spoiled by my family!But it's great fun to pretend I've been.  In the future please alwaysaddress me as Judy.
Do you want to know something?  I have three pairs of kid gloves.  I'vehad kid mittens before from the Christmas tree, but never real kidgloves with five fingers.  I take them out and try them on every littlewhile.  It's all I can do not to wear them to classes.
(Dinner bell.  Goodbye.)



                                               Friday
What do you think, Daddy?  The English instructor said that my lastpaper shows an unusual amount of originality.  She did, truly.  Thosewere her words.  It doesn't seem possible, does it, considering theeighteen years of training that I've had?  The aim of the John GrierHome (as you doubtless know and heartily approve of) is to turn theninety-seven orphans into ninety-seven twins.
The unusual artistic ability which I exhibit was developed at an earlyage through drawing chalk pictures of Mrs. Lippett on the woodshed door.
I hope that I don't hurt your feelings when I criticize the home of myyouth?  But you have the upper hand, you know, for if I become tooimpertinent, you can always stop payment of your cheques.  That isn't avery polite thing to say--but you can't expect me to have any manners;a foundling asylum isn't a young ladies' finishing school.
You know, Daddy, it isn't the work that is going to be hard in college.It's the play.  Half the time I don't know what the girls are talkingabout; their jokes seem to relate to a past that every one but me hasshared.  I'm a foreigner in the world and I don't understand thelanguage.  It's a miserable feeling.  I've had it all my life.  At thehigh school the girls would stand in groups and just look at me.  I wasqueer and different and everybody knew it.  I could FEEL 'John GrierHome' written on my face.  And then a few charitable ones would make apoint of coming up and saying something polite.  I HATED EVERY ONE OFTHEM--the charitable ones most of all.
Nobody here knows that I was brought up in an asylum.  I told SallieMcBride that my mother and father were dead, and that a kind oldgentleman was sending me to college which is entirely true so far as itgoes.  I don't want you to think I am a coward, but I do want to belike the other girls, and that Dreadful Home looming over my childhoodis the one great big difference.  If I can turn my back on that andshut out the remembrance, I think, I might be just as desirable as anyother girl.  I don't believe there's any real, underneath difference,do you?
Anyway, Sallie McBride likes me!
                           Yours ever,                                       Judy Abbott                                           (Nee Jerusha.)



                                           Saturday morning
I've just been reading this letter over and it sounds prettyun-cheerful. But can't you guess that I have a special topic due Mondaymorning and a review in geometry and a very sneezy cold?



                                           Sunday
I forgot to post this yesterday, so I will add an indignant postscript.We had a bishop this morning, and WHAT DO YOU THINK HE SAID?
'The most beneficent promise made us in the Bible is this, "The poor yehave always with you."  They were put here in order to keep uscharitable.'
The poor, please observe, being a sort of useful domestic animal.  If Ihadn't grown into such a perfect lady, I should have gone up afterservice and told him what I thought.



                                           25th October
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I'm in the basket-ball team and you ought to see the bruise on my leftshoulder.  It's blue and mahogany with little streaks of orange.  JuliaPendleton tried for the team, but she didn't get in.  Hooray!
You see what a mean disposition I have.
College gets nicer and nicer.  I like the girls and the teachers andthe classes and the campus and the things to eat.  We have ice-creamtwice a week and we never have corn-meal mush.
You only wanted to hear from me once a month, didn't you?  And I'vebeen peppering you with letters every few days!  But I've been soexcited about all these new adventures that I MUST talk to somebody;and you're the only one I know.  Please excuse my exuberance; I'llsettle pretty soon.  If my letters bore you, you can always toss theminto the wastebasket.  I promise not to write another till the middleof November.
                   Yours most loquaciously,                                           Judy Abbott




                                       15th November
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Listen to what I've learned to-day.
The area of the convex surface of the frustum of a regular pyramid ishalf the product of the sum of the perimeters of its bases by thealtitude of either of its trapezoids.
It doesn't sound true, but it is--I can prove it!
You've never heard about my clothes, have you, Daddy?  Six dresses, allnew and beautiful and bought for me--not handed down from somebodybigger.  Perhaps you don't realize what a climax that marks in thecareer of an orphan?  You gave them to me, and I am very, very, VERYmuch obliged.  It's a fine thing to be educated--but nothing comparedto the dizzying experience of owning six new dresses.  Miss Pritchard,who is on the visiting committee, picked them out--not Mrs. Lippett,thank goodness.  I have an evening dress, pink mull over silk (I'mperfectly beautiful in that), and a blue church dress, and a dinnerdress of red veiling with Oriental trimming (makes me look like aGipsy), and another of rose-coloured challis, and a grey street suit,and an every-day dress for classes.  That wouldn't be an awfully bigwardrobe for Julia Rutledge Pendleton, perhaps, but for JerushaAbbott--Oh, my!
I suppose you're thinking now what a frivolous, shallow little beastshe is, and what a waste of money to educate a girl?
But, Daddy, if you'd been dressed in checked ginghams all your life,you'd appreciate how I feel.  And when I started to the high school, Ientered upon another period even worse than the checked ginghams.
The poor box.
You can't know how I dreaded appearing in school in those miserablepoor-box dresses.  I was perfectly sure to be put down in class next tothe girl who first owned my dress, and she would whisper and giggle andpoint it out to the others.  The bitterness of wearing your enemies'cast-off clothes eats into your soul.  If I wore silk stockings for therest of my life, I don't believe I could obliterate the scar.
                           LATEST WAR BULLETIN!
                      News from the Scene of Action.
At the fourth watch on Thursday the 13th of November, Hannibal routedthe advance guard of the Romans and led the Carthaginian forces overthe mountains into the plains of Casilinum.  A cohort of light armedNumidians engaged the infantry of Quintus Fabius Maximus.  Two battlesand light skirmishing.  Romans repulsed with heavy losses.
                           I have the honour of being,                           Your special correspondent from the front,                                               J. Abbott

PS. I know I'm not to expect any letters in return, and I've beenwarned not to bother you with questions, but tell me, Daddy, just thisonce--are you awfully old or just a little old?  And are you perfectlybald or just a little bald?  It is very difficult thinking about you inthe abstract like a theorem in geometry.
Given a tall rich man who hates girls, but is very generous to onequite impertinent girl, what does he look like?
R.S.V.P.



                                           19th December
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
You never answered my question and it was very important.
                               ARE YOU BALD?

I have it planned exactly what you look like--verysatisfactorily--until I reach the top of your head, and then I AMstuck.  I can't decide whether you have white hair or black hair orsort of sprinkly grey hair or maybe none at all.
Here is your portrait:
But the problem is, shall I add some hair?
Would you like to know what colour your eyes are?  They're grey, andyour eyebrows stick out like a porch roof (beetling, they're called innovels), and your mouth is a straight line with a tendency to turn downat the corners.  Oh, you see, I know!  You're a snappy old thing with atemper.
       (Chapel bell.)

                                               9.45 p.m.
I have a new unbreakable rule:  never, never to study at night nomatter how many written reviews are coming in the morning.  Instead, Iread just plain books--I have to, you know, because there are eighteenblank years behind me.  You wouldn't believe, Daddy, what an abyss ofignorance my mind is; I am just realizing the depths myself.  Thethings that most girls with a properly assorted family and a home andfriends and a library know by absorption, I have never heard of.  Forexample:
I never read Mother Goose or David Copperfield or Ivanhoe or Cinderellaor Blue Beard or Robinson Crusoe or Jane Eyre or Alice in Wonderland ora word of Rudyard Kipling.  I didn't know that Henry the Eighth wasmarried more than once or that Shelley was a poet.  I didn't know thatpeople used to be monkeys and that the Garden of Eden was a beautifulmyth.  I didn't know that R. L. S. stood for Robert Louis Stevenson orthat George Eliot was a lady.  I had never seen a picture of the 'MonaLisa' and (it's true but you won't believe it) I had never heard ofSherlock Holmes.
Now, I know all of these things and a lot of others besides, but youcan see how much I need to catch up.  And oh, but it's fun!  I lookforward all day to evening, and then I put an 'engaged' on the door andget into my nice red bath robe and furry slippers and pile all thecushions behind me on the couch, and light the brass student lamp at myelbow, and read and read and read one book isn't enough.  I have fourgoing at once.  Just now, they're Tennyson's poems and Vanity Fair andKipling's Plain Tales and--don't laugh--Little Women.  I find that I amthe only girl in college who wasn't brought up on Little Women.  Ihaven't told anybody though (that WOULD stamp me as queer). I justquietly went and bought it with $1.12 of my last month's allowance; andthe next time somebody mentions pickled limes, I'll know what she istalking about!
(Ten o'clock bell.  This is a very interrupted letter.)

                                               Saturday
Sir,
I have the honour to report fresh explorations in the field ofgeometry.  On Friday last we abandoned our former works inparallelopipeds and proceeded to truncated prisms.  We are finding theroad rough and very uphill.

                                               Sunday
The Christmas holidays begin next week and the trunks are up.  Thecorridors are so filled up that you can hardly get through, andeverybody is so bubbling over with excitement that studying is gettingleft out.  I'm going to have a beautiful time in vacation; there'sanother Freshman who lives in Texas staying behind, and we are planningto take long walks and if there's any ice--learn to skate.  Then thereis still the whole library to be read--and three empty weeks to do itin!
Goodbye, Daddy, I hope that you are feeling as happy as I am.
                               Yours ever,                                           Judy
PS.  Don't forget to answer my question.  If you don't want the troubleof writing, have your secretary telegraph.  He can just say:
                          Mr. Smith is quite bald,
                                    or
                           Mr. Smith is not bald,
                                    or
                         Mr. Smith has white hair.

And you can deduct the twenty-five cents out of my allowance.
Goodbye till January--and a merry Christmas!



                                       Towards the end of                                       the Christmas vacation.                                       Exact date unknown
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Is it snowing where you are?  All the world that I see from my tower isdraped in white and the flakes are coming down as big as pop-corns.It's late afternoon--the sun is just setting (a cold yellow colour)behind some colder violet hills, and I am up in my window seat usingthe last light to write to you.
Your five gold pieces were a surprise!  I'm not used to receivingChristmas presents.  You have already given me such lots ofthings--everything I have, you know--that I don't quite feel that Ideserve extras.  But I like them just the same.  Do you want to knowwhat I bought with my money?
I. A silver watch in a leather case to wear on my wrist and get me torecitations in time.
II.  Matthew Arnold's poems.
III.  A hot water bottle.
IV.  A steamer rug.  (My tower is cold.)
V. Five hundred sheets of yellow manuscript paper.  (I'm going tocommence being an author pretty soon.)
VI.  A dictionary of synonyms.  (To enlarge the author's vocabulary.)
VII.  (I don't much like to confess this last item, but I will.) A pairof silk stockings.
And now, Daddy, never say I don't tell all!
It was a very low motive, if you must know it, that prompted the silkstockings.  Julia Pendleton comes into my room to do geometry, and shesits cross-legged on the couch and wears silk stockings every night.But just wait--as soon as she gets back from vacation I shall go in andsit on her couch in my silk stockings.  You see, Daddy, the miserablecreature that I am but at least I'm honest; and you knew already, frommy asylum record, that I wasn't perfect, didn't you?
To recapitulate (that's the way the English instructor begins everyother sentence), I am very much obliged for my seven presents.  I'mpretending to myself that they came in a box from my family inCalifornia.  The watch is from father, the rug from mother, the hotwater bottle from grandmother who is always worrying for fear I shallcatch cold in this climate--and the yellow paper from my little brotherHarry.  My sister Isabel gave me the silk stockings, and Aunt Susan theMatthew Arnold poems; Uncle Harry (little Harry is named after him)gave me the dictionary.  He wanted to send chocolates, but I insistedon synonyms.
You don't object, do you, to playing the part of a composite family?
And now, shall I tell you about my vacation, or are you only interestedin my education as such?  I hope you appreciate the delicate shade ofmeaning in 'as such'. It is the latest addition to my vocabulary.
The girl from Texas is named Leonora Fenton.  (Almost as funny asJerusha, isn't it?) I like her, but not so much as Sallie McBride; Ishall never like any one so much as Sallie--except you.  I must alwayslike you the best of all, because you're my whole family rolled intoone.  Leonora and I and two Sophomores have walked 'cross country everypleasant day and explored the whole neighbourhood, dressed in shortskirts and knit jackets and caps, and carrying shiny sticks to whackthings with.  Once we walked into town--four miles--and stopped at arestaurant where the college girls go for dinner.  Broiled lobster (35cents), and for dessert, buckwheat cakes and maple syrup (15 cents).Nourishing and cheap.
It was such a lark!  Especially for me, because it was so awfullydifferent from the asylum--I feel like an escaped convict every time Ileave the campus.  Before I thought, I started to tell the others whatan experience I was having.  The cat was almost out of the bag when Igrabbed it by its tail and pulled it back.  It's awfully hard for menot to tell everything I know.  I'm a very confiding soul by nature; ifI didn't have you to tell things to, I'd burst.
We had a molasses candy pull last Friday evening, given by the housematron of Fergussen to the left-behinds in the other halls.  There weretwenty-two of us altogether, Freshmen and Sophomores and juniors andSeniors all united in amicable accord.  The kitchen is huge, withcopper pots and kettles hanging in rows on the stone wall--the littlestcasserole among them about the size of a wash boiler.  Four hundredgirls live in Fergussen.  The chef, in a white cap and apron, fetchedout twenty-two other white caps and aprons--I can't imagine where hegot so many--and we all turned ourselves into cooks.
It was great fun, though I have seen better candy.  When it was finallyfinished, and ourselves and the kitchen and the door-knobs allthoroughly sticky, we organized a procession and still in our caps andaprons, each carrying a big fork or spoon or frying pan, we marchedthrough the empty corridors to the officers' parlour, wherehalf-a-dozen professors and instructors were passing a tranquilevening.  We serenaded them with college songs and offeredrefreshments.  They accepted politely but dubiously.  We left themsucking chunks of molasses candy, sticky and speechless.
So you see, Daddy, my education progresses!
Don't you really think that I ought to be an artist instead of anauthor?
Vacation will be over in two days and I shall be glad to see the girlsagain.  My tower is just a trifle lonely; when nine people occupy ahouse that was built for four hundred, they do rattle around a bit.
Eleven pages--poor Daddy, you must be tired!  I meant this to be just ashort little thank-you note--but when I get started I seem to have aready pen.
Goodbye, and thank you for thinking of me--I should be perfectly happyexcept for one little threatening cloud on the horizon.  Examinationscome in February.
                                   Yours with love,                                                   Judy
PS.  Maybe it isn't proper to send love?  If it isn't, please excuse.But I must love somebody and there's only you and Mrs. Lippett tochoose between, so you see--you'll HAVE to put up with it, Daddy dear,because I can't love her.



                                               On the Eve
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
You should see the way this college is studying!  We've forgotten weever had a vacation.  Fifty-seven irregular verbs have I introduced tomy brain in the past four days--I'm only hoping they'll stay till afterexaminations.
Some of the girls sell their text-books when they're through with them,but I intend to keep mine.  Then after I've graduated I shall have mywhole education in a row in the bookcase, and when I need to use anydetail, I can turn to it without the slightest hesitation.  So mucheasier and more accurate than trying to keep it in your head.
Julia Pendleton dropped in this evening to pay a social call, andstayed a solid hour.  She got started on the subject of family, and ICOULDN'T switch her off.  She wanted to know what my mother's maidenname was--did you ever hear such an impertinent question to ask of aperson from a foundling asylum?  I didn't have the courage to say Ididn't know, so I just miserably plumped on the first name I couldthink of, and that was Montgomery.  Then she wanted to know whether Ibelonged to the Massachusetts Montgomerys or the Virginia Montgomerys.
Her mother was a Rutherford.  The family came over in the ark, and wereconnected by marriage with Henry the VIII.  On her father's side theydate back further than Adam.  On the topmost branches of her familytree there's a superior breed of monkeys with very fine silky hair andextra long tails.
I meant to write you a nice, cheerful, entertaining letter tonight, butI'm too sleepy--and scared.  The Freshman's lot is not a happy one.
           Yours, about to be examined,                                            Judy Abbott



                                               Sunday
Dearest Daddy-Long-Legs,
I have some awful, awful, awful news to tell you, but I won't beginwith it; I'll try to get you in a good humour first.
Jerusha Abbott has commenced to be an author.  A poem entitled, 'Frommy Tower', appears in the February Monthly--on the first page, which isa very great honour for a Freshman.  My English instructor stopped meon the way out from chapel last night, and said it was a charming pieceof work except for the sixth line, which had too many feet.  I willsend you a copy in case you care to read it.
Let me see if I can't think of something else pleasant--  Oh, yes!  I'mlearning to skate, and can glide about quite respectably all by myself.Also I've learned how to slide down a rope from the roof of thegymnasium, and I can vault a bar three feet and six inches high--I hopeshortly to pull up to four feet.
We had a very inspiring sermon this morning preached by the Bishop ofAlabama.  His text was:  'Judge not that ye be not judged.' It wasabout the necessity of overlooking mistakes in others, and notdiscouraging people by harsh judgments.  I wish you might have heard it.
This is the sunniest, most blinding winter afternoon, with iciclesdripping from the fir trees and all the world bending under a weight ofsnow--except me, and I'm bending under a weight of sorrow.
Now for the news--courage, Judy!--you must tell.
Are you SURELY in a good humour?  I failed in mathematics and Latinprose.  I am tutoring in them, and will take another examination nextmonth.  I'm sorry if you're disappointed, but otherwise I don't care abit because I've learned such a lot of things not mentioned in thecatalogue.  I've read seventeen novels and bushels of poetry--reallynecessary novels like Vanity Fair and Richard Feverel and Alice inWonderland.  Also Emerson's Essays and Lockhart's Life of Scott and thefirst volume of Gibbon's Roman Empire and half of Benvenuto Cellini'sLife--wasn't he entertaining?  He used to saunter out and casually killa man before breakfast.
So you see, Daddy, I'm much more intelligent than if I'd just stuck toLatin.  Will you forgive me this once if I promise never to fail again?
                           Yours in sackcloth,                                                   Judy



Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
This is an extra letter in the middle of the month because I'm ratherlonely tonight.  It's awfully stormy.  All the lights are out on thecampus, but I drank black coffee and I can't go to sleep.
I had a supper party this evening consisting of Sallie and Julia andLeonora Fenton--and sardines and toasted muffins and salad and fudgeand coffee.  Julia said she'd had a good time, but Sallie stayed tohelp wash the dishes.

I might, very usefully, put some time on Latin tonight but, there's nodoubt about it, I'm a very languid Latin scholar.  We've finished Livyand De Senectute and are now engaged with De Amicitia (pronounced DamnIcitia).
Should you mind, just for a little while, pretending you are mygrandmother?  Sallie has one and Julia and Leonora each two, and theywere all comparing them tonight.  I can't think of anything I'd ratherhave; it's such a respectable relationship.  So, if you really don'tobject--When I went into town yesterday, I saw the sweetest cap ofCluny lace trimmed with lavender ribbon.  I am going to make you apresent of it on your eighty-third birthday.
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
That's the clock in the chapel tower striking twelve.  I believe I amsleepy after all.
                           Good night, Granny.                             I love you dearly.                                               Judy




                                   The Ides of March
Dear D.-L.-L.,
I am studying Latin prose composition.  I have been studying it.  Ishall be studying it.  I shall be about to have been studying it.  Myre-examination comes the 7th hour next Tuesday, and I am going to passor BUST.  So you may expect to hear from me next, whole and happy andfree from conditions, or in fragments.
I will write a respectable letter when it's over.  Tonight I have apressing engagement with the Ablative Absolute.
                   Yours--in evident haste                                           J. A.



                                       26th  March
Mr. D.-L.-L. Smith,
SIR:  You never answer any questions; you never show the slightestinterest in anything I do.  You are probably the horridest one of allthose horrid Trustees, and the reason you are educating me is, notbecause you care a bit about me, but from a sense of Duty.
I don't know a single thing about you.  I don't even know your name.It is very uninspiring writing to a Thing.  I haven't a doubt but thatyou throw my letters into the waste-basket without reading them.Hereafter I shall write only about work.
My re-examinations in Latin and geometry came last week.  I passed themboth and am now free from conditions.
                       Yours truly,                                   Jerusha Abbott



                                               2nd April
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I am a BEAST.
Please forget about that dreadful letter I sent you last week--I wasfeeling terribly lonely and miserable and sore-throaty the night Iwrote.  I didn't know it, but I was just sickening for tonsillitis andgrippe and lots of things mixed.  I'm in the infirmary now, and havebeen here for six days; this is the first time they would let me sit upand have a pen and paper.  The head nurse is very bossy.  But I've beenthinking about it all the time and I shan't get well until you forgiveme.
Here is a picture of the way I look, with a bandage tied around my headin rabbit's ears.
Doesn't that arouse your sympathy?  I am having sublingual glandswelling.  And I've been studying physiology all the year without everhearing of sublingual glands.  How futile a thing is education!
I can't write any more; I get rather shaky when I sit up too long.Please forgive me for being impertinent and ungrateful.  I was badlybrought up.
                       Yours with love,                                         Judy Abbott



                                       THE INFIRMARY                                                   4th April
Dearest Daddy-Long-Legs,
Yesterday evening just towards dark, when I was sitting up in bedlooking out at the rain and feeling awfully bored with life in a greatinstitution, the nurse appeared with a long white box addressed to me,and filled with the LOVELIEST pink rosebuds.  And much nicer still, itcontained a card with a very polite message written in a funny littleuphill back hand (but one which shows a great deal of character). Thankyou, Daddy, a thousand times.  Your flowers make the first real, truepresent I ever received in my life.  If you want to know what a baby Iam I lay down and cried because I was so happy.
Now that I am sure you read my letters, I'll make them much moreinteresting, so they'll be worth keeping in a safe with red tape aroundthem--only please take out that dreadful one and burn it up.  I'd hateto think that you ever read it over.
Thank you for making a very sick, cross, miserable Freshman cheerful.Probably you have lots of loving family and friends, and you don't knowwhat it feels like to be alone.  But I do.
Goodbye--I'll promise never to be horrid again, because now I knowyou're a real person; also I'll promise never to bother you with anymore questions.
Do you still hate girls?
                               Yours for ever,                                               Judy



                                       8th hour, Monday
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I hope you aren't the Trustee who sat on the toad?  It went off--I wastold--with quite a pop, so probably he was a fatter Trustee.
Do you remember the little dugout places with gratings over them by thelaundry windows in the John Grier Home?  Every spring when the hoptoadseason opened we used to form a collection of toads and keep them inthose window holes; and occasionally they would spill over into thelaundry, causing a very pleasurable commotion on wash days.  We wereseverely punished for our activities in this direction, but in spite ofall discouragement the toads would collect.
And one day--well, I won't bore you with particulars--but somehow, oneof the fattest, biggest, JUCIEST toads got into one of those bigleather arm chairs in the Trustees' room, and that afternoon at theTrustees' meeting--But I dare say you were there and recall the rest?
Looking back dispassionately after a period of time, I will say thatpunishment was merited, and--if I remember rightly--adequate.
I don't know why I am in such a reminiscent mood except that spring andthe reappearance of toads always awakens the old acquisitive instinct.The only thing that keeps me from starting a collection is the factthat no rule exists against it.

                                       After chapel, Thursday
What do you think is my favourite book?  Just now, I mean; I changeevery three days.  Wuthering Heights.  Emily Bronte was quite youngwhen she wrote it, and had never been outside of Haworth churchyard.She had never known any men in her life; how COULD she imagine a manlike Heathcliffe?
I couldn't do it, and I'm quite young and never outside the John GrierAsylum--I've had every chance in the world.  Sometimes a dreadful fearcomes over me that I'm not a genius.  Will you be awfully disappointed,Daddy, if I don't turn out to be a great author?  In the spring wheneverything is so beautiful and green and budding, I feel like turningmy back on lessons, and running away to play with the weather.  Thereare such lots of adventures out in the fields!  It's much moreentertaining to live books than to write them.
Ow ! ! ! ! ! !
That was a shriek which brought Sallie and Julia and (for a disgustedmoment) the Senior from across the hall.  It was caused by a centipedelike this:  only worse.  Just as I had finished the last sentence andwas thinking what to say next--plump!--it fell off the ceiling andlanded at my side.  I tipped two cups off the tea table in trying toget away.  Sallie whacked it with the back of my hair brush--which Ishall never be able to use again--and killed the front end, but therear fifty feet ran under the bureau and escaped.
This dormitory, owing to its age and ivy-covered walls, is full ofcentipedes.  They are dreadful creatures.  I'd rather find a tigerunder the bed.

                                           Friday, 9.30 p.m.
Such a lot of troubles!  I didn't hear the rising bell this morning,then I broke my shoestring while I was hurrying to dress and dropped mycollar button down my neck.  I was late for breakfast and also forfirst-hour recitation.  I forgot to take any blotting paper and myfountain pen leaked.  In trigonometry the Professor and I had adisagreement touching a little matter of logarithms.  On looking it up,I find that she was right.  We had mutton stew and pie-plant forlunch--hate 'em both; they taste like the asylum.  The post brought menothing but bills (though I must say that I never do get anything else;my family are not the kind that write).  In English class thisafternoon we had an unexpected written lesson.  This was it:
               I asked no other thing,               No other was denied.               I offered Being for it;               The mighty merchant smiled.
               Brazil?  He twirled a button               Without a glance my way:               But, madam, is there nothing else               That we can show today?

That is a poem.  I don't know who wrote it or what it means.  It wassimply printed out on the blackboard when we arrived and we wereordered to comment upon it.  When I read the first verse I thought Ihad an idea--The Mighty Merchant was a divinity who distributesblessings in return for virtuous deeds--but when I got to the secondverse and found him twirling a button, it seemed a blasphemoussupposition, and I hastily changed my mind.  The rest of the class wasin the same predicament; and there we sat for three-quarters of an hourwith blank paper and equally blank minds.  Getting an education is anawfully wearing process!
But this didn't end the day.  There's worse to come.
It rained so we couldn't play golf, but had to go to gymnasium instead.The girl next to me banged my elbow with an Indian club.  I got home tofind that the box with my new blue spring dress had come, and the skirtwas so tight that I couldn't sit down.  Friday is sweeping day, and themaid had mixed all the papers on my desk.  We had tombstone for dessert(milk and gelatin flavoured with vanilla).  We were kept in chapeltwenty minutes later than usual to listen to a speech about womanlywomen.  And then--just as I was settling down with a sigh ofwell-earned relief to The Portrait of a Lady, a girl named Ackerly, adough-faced, deadly, unintermittently stupid girl, who sits next to mein Latin because her name begins with A (I wish Mrs. Lippett had namedme Zabriski), came to ask if Monday's lesson commenced at paragraph 69or 70, and stayed ONE HOUR.  She has just gone.
Did you ever hear of such a discouraging series of events?  It isn'tthe big troubles in life that require character.  Anybody can rise to acrisis and face a crushing tragedy with courage, but to meet the pettyhazards of the day with a laugh--I really think that requires SPIRIT.
It's the kind of character that I am going to develop.  I am going topretend that all life is just a game which I must play as skilfully andfairly as I can.  If I lose, I am going to shrug my shoulders andlaugh--also if I win.
Anyway, I am going to be a sport.  You will never hear me complainagain, Daddy dear, because Julia wears silk stockings and centipedesdrop off the wall.
                               Yours ever,                                           Judy
Answer soon.



                                                   27th May
Daddy-Long-Legs, Esq.
DEAR SIR:  I am in receipt of a letter from Mrs. Lippett.  She hopesthat I am doing well in deportment and studies.  Since I probably haveno place to go this summer, she will let me come back to the asylum andwork for my board until college opens.
I HATE THE JOHN GRIER HOME.
I'd rather die than go back.
                   Yours most truthfully,                                           Jerusha Abbott


Cher Daddy-Jambes-Longes,
Vous etes un brick!
Je suis tres heureuse about the farm, parceque je n'ai jamais been on afarm dans ma vie and I'd hate to retourner chez John Grier, et washdishes tout l'ete. There would be danger of quelque chose affreusehappening, parceque j'ai perdue ma humilite d'autre fois et j'ai peurthat I would just break out quelque jour et smash every cup and saucerdans la maison.
Pardon brievete et paper.  Je ne peux pas send des mes nouvellesparceque je suis dans French class et j'ai peur que Monsieur leProfesseur is going to call on me tout de suite.
He did!
                       Au revoir,                          je vous aime beaucoup.                                                   Judy



                                                   30th May
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Did you ever see this campus?  (That is merely a rhetorical question.Don't let it annoy you.) It is a heavenly spot in May.  All the shrubsare in blossom and the trees are the loveliest young green--even theold pines look fresh and new.  The grass is dotted with yellowdandelions and hundreds of girls in blue and white and pink dresses.Everybody is joyous and carefree, for vacation's coming, and with thatto look forward to, examinations don't count.
Isn't that a happy frame of mind to be in?  And oh, Daddy!  I'm thehappiest of all!  Because I'm not in the asylum any more; and I'm notanybody's nursemaid or typewriter or bookkeeper (I should have been,you know, except for you).
I'm sorry now for all my past badnesses.
I'm sorry I was ever impertinent to Mrs. Lippett.
I'm sorry I ever slapped Freddie Perkins.
I'm sorry I ever filled the sugar bowl with salt.
I'm sorry I ever made faces behind the Trustees' backs.
I'm going to be good and sweet and kind to everybody because I'm sohappy.  And this summer I'm going to write and write and write andbegin to be a great author.  Isn't that an exalted stand to take?  Oh,I'm developing a beautiful character!  It droops a bit under cold andfrost, but it does grow fast when the sun shines.
That's the way with everybody.  I don't agree with the theory thatadversity and sorrow and disappointment develop moral strength.  Thehappy people are the ones who are bubbling over with kindliness.  Ihave no faith in misanthropes.  (Fine word!  Just learned it.) You arenot a misanthrope are you, Daddy?
I started to tell you about the campus.  I wish you'd come for a littlevisit and let me walk you about and say:
'That is the library.  This is the gas plant, Daddy dear.  The Gothicbuilding on your left is the gymnasium, and the Tudor Romanesque besideit is the new infirmary.'
Oh, I'm fine at showing people about.  I've done it all my life at theasylum, and I've been doing it all day here.  I have honestly.
And a Man, too!
That's a great experience.  I never talked to a man before (exceptoccasional Trustees, and they don't count). Pardon, Daddy, I don't meanto hurt your feelings when I abuse Trustees.  I don't consider that youreally belong among them.  You just tumbled on to the Board by chance.The Trustee, as such, is fat and pompous and benevolent.  He pats oneon the head and wears a gold watch chain.
That looks like a June bug, but is meant to be a portrait of anyTrustee except you.
However--to resume:
I have been walking and talking and having tea with a man.  And with avery superior man--with Mr. Jervis Pendleton of the House of Julia; heruncle, in short (in long, perhaps I ought to say; he's as tall as you.)Being in town on business, he decided to run out to the college andcall on his niece.  He's her father's youngest brother, but she doesn'tknow him very intimately.  It seems he glanced at her when she was ababy, decided he didn't like her, and has never noticed her since.
Anyway, there he was, sitting in the reception room very proper withhis hat and stick and gloves beside him; and Julia and Sallie withseventh-hour recitations that they couldn't cut.  So Julia dashed intomy room and begged me to walk him about the campus and then deliver himto her when the seventh hour was over.  I said I would, obligingly butunenthusiastically, because I don't care much for Pendletons.
But he turned out to be a sweet lamb.  He's a real human being--not aPendleton at all.  We had a beautiful time; I've longed for an uncleever since.  Do you mind pretending you're my uncle?  I believe they'resuperior to grandmothers.
Mr. Pendleton reminded me a little of you, Daddy, as you were twentyyears ago.  You see I know you intimately, even if we haven't ever met!
He's tall and thinnish with a dark face all over lines, and thefunniest underneath smile that never quite comes through but justwrinkles up the corners of his mouth.  And he has a way of making youfeel right off as though you'd known him a long time.  He's verycompanionable.
We walked all over the campus from the quadrangle to the athleticgrounds; then he said he felt weak and must have some tea.  He proposedthat we go to College Inn--it's just off the campus by the pine walk.I said we ought to go back for Julia and Sallie, but he said he didn'tlike to have his nieces drink too much tea; it made them nervous.  Sowe just ran away and had tea and muffins and marmalade and ice-creamand cake at a nice little table out on the balcony.  The inn was quiteconveniently empty, this being the end of the month and allowances low.
We had the jolliest time!  But he had to run for his train the minutehe got back and he barely saw Julia at all.  She was furious with mefor taking him off; it seems he's an unusually rich and desirableuncle.  It relieved my mind to find he was rich, for the tea and thingscost sixty cents apiece.
This morning (it's Monday now) three boxes of chocolates came byexpress for Julia and Sallie and me.  What do you think of that?  To begetting candy from a man!
I begin to feel like a girl instead of a foundling.
I wish you'd come and have tea some day and let me see if I like you.But wouldn't it be dreadful if I didn't? However, I know I should.
Bien!  I make you my compliments.
                           'Jamais je ne t'oublierai.'                                                       Judy

PS.  I looked in the glass this morning and found a perfectly newdimple that I'd never seen before.  It's very curious.  Where do yousuppose it came from?



                                               9th June
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Happy day!  I've just finished my last examination Physiology.  And now:
Three months on a farm!
I don't know what kind of a thing a farm is.  I've never been on one inmy life.  I've never even looked at one (except from the car window),but I know I'm going to love it, and I'm going to love being FREE.
I am not used even yet to being outside the John Grier Home.  WheneverI think of it excited little thrills chase up and down my back.  I feelas though I must run faster and faster and keep looking over myshoulder to make sure that Mrs. Lippett isn't after me with her armstretched out to grab me back.
I don't have to mind any one this summer, do I?
Your nominal authority doesn't annoy me in the least; you are too faraway to do any harm.  Mrs. Lippett is dead for ever, so far as I amconcerned, and the Semples aren't expected to overlook my moralwelfare, are they?  No, I am sure not.  I am entirely grown up.  Hooray!
I leave you now to pack a trunk, and three boxes of teakettles anddishes and sofa cushions and books.
                                   Yours ever,                                               Judy

PS.  Here is my physiology exam.  Do you think you could have passed?



                           LOCK WILLOW FARM,                                               Saturday night
Dearest Daddy-Long-Legs,
I've only just come and I'm not unpacked, but I can't wait to tell youhow much I like farms.  This is a heavenly, heavenly, HEAVENLY spot!The house is square like this:  And OLD.  A hundred years or so.  Ithas a veranda on the side which I can't draw and a sweet porch infront.  The picture really doesn't do it justice--those things thatlook like feather dusters are maple trees, and the prickly ones thatborder the drive are murmuring pines and hemlocks.  It stands on thetop of a hill and looks way off over miles of green meadows to anotherline of hills.
That is the way Connecticut goes, in a series of Marcelle waves; andLock Willow Farm is just on the crest of one wave.  The barns used tobe across the road where they obstructed the view, but a kind flash oflightning came from heaven and burnt them down.
The people are Mr. and Mrs. Semple and a hired girl and two hired men.The hired people eat in the kitchen, and the Semples and Judy in thedining-room. We had ham and eggs and biscuits and honey and jelly-cakeand pie and pickles and cheese and tea for supper--and a great deal ofconversation.  I have never been so entertaining in my life; everythingI say appears to be funny.  I suppose it is, because I've never been inthe country before, and my questions are backed by an all-inclusiveignorance.
The room marked with a cross is not where the murder was committed, butthe one that I occupy.  It's big and square and empty, with adorableold-fashioned furniture and windows that have to be propped up onsticks and green shades trimmed with gold that fall down if you touchthem.  And a big square mahogany table--I'm going to spend the summerwith my elbows spread out on it, writing a novel.
Oh, Daddy, I'm so excited!  I can't wait till daylight to explore.It's 8.30 now, and I am about to blow out my candle and try to go tosleep.  We rise at five.  Did you ever know such fun?  I can't believethis is really Judy.  You and the Good Lord give me more than Ideserve.  I must be a very, very, VERY good person to pay.  I'm goingto be.  You'll see.
                               Good night,                                               Judy

PS.  You should hear the frogs sing and the little pigs squeal and youshould see the new moon!  I saw it over my right shoulder.




                                           LOCK WILLOW,                                                       12th July
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
How did your secretary come to know about Lock Willow?  (That isn't arhetorical question.  I am awfully curious to know.) For listen tothis:  Mr. Jervis Pendleton used to own this farm, but now he has givenit to Mrs. Semple who was his old nurse.  Did you ever hear of such afunny coincidence?  She still calls him 'Master Jervie' and talks aboutwhat a sweet little boy he used to be.  She has one of his baby curlsput away in a box, and it is red--or at least reddish!
Since she discovered that I know him, I have risen very much in heropinion.  Knowing a member of the Pendleton family is the bestintroduction one can have at Lock Willow.  And the cream of the wholefamily is Master Jervis--I am pleased to say that Julia belongs to aninferior branch.
The farm gets more and more entertaining.  I rode on a hay wagonyesterday.  We have three big pigs and nine little piglets, and youshould see them eat.  They are pigs!  We've oceans of little babychickens and ducks and turkeys and guinea fowls.  You must be mad tolive in a city when you might live on a farm.
It is my daily business to hunt the eggs.  I fell off a beam in thebarn loft yesterday, while I was trying to crawl over to a nest thatthe black hen has stolen.  And when I came in with a scratched knee,Mrs. Semple bound it up with witch-hazel, murmuring all the time,'Dear! Dear!  It seems only yesterday that Master Jervie fell off thatvery same beam and scratched this very same knee.'
The scenery around here is perfectly beautiful.  There's a valley and ariver and a lot of wooded hills, and way in the distance a tall bluemountain that simply melts in your mouth.
We churn twice a week; and we keep the cream in the spring house whichis made of stone with the brook running underneath.  Some of thefarmers around here have a separator, but we don't care for thesenew-fashioned ideas.  It may be a little harder to separate the creamin pans, but it's sufficiently better to pay.  We have six calves; andI've chosen the names for all of them.
1.  Sylvia, because she was born in the woods.
2.  Lesbia, after the Lesbia in Catullus.
3.  Sallie.
4.  Julia--a spotted, nondescript animal.
5.  Judy, after me.
6.  Daddy-Long-Legs. You don't mind, do you, Daddy?  He's pure Jerseyand has a sweet disposition.  He looks like this--you can see howappropriate the name is.
I haven't had time yet to begin my immortal novel; the farm keeps metoo busy.
                               Yours always,                                               Judy

PS.  I've learned to make doughnuts.
PS.  (2) If you are thinking of raising chickens, let me recommend BuffOrpingtons.  They haven't any pin feathers.
PS.  (3) I wish I could send you a pat of the nice, fresh butter Ichurned yesterday.  I'm a fine dairy-maid!
PS.  (4) This is a picture of Miss Jerusha Abbott, the future greatauthor, driving home the cows.


                                           Sunday
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Isn't it funny?  I started to write to you yesterday afternoon, but asfar as I got was the heading, 'Dear Daddy-Long-Legs', and then Iremembered I'd promised to pick some blackberries for supper, so I wentoff and left the sheet lying on the table, and when I came back today,what do you think I found sitting in the middle of the page?  A realtrue Daddy-Long-Legs!
I picked him up very gently by one leg, and dropped him out of thewindow.  I wouldn't hurt one of them for the world.  They always remindme of you.
We hitched up the spring wagon this morning and drove to the Centre tochurch.  It's a sweet little white frame church with a spire and threeDoric columns in front (or maybe Ionic--I always get them mixed).
A nice sleepy sermon with everybody drowsily waving palm-leaf fans, andthe only sound, aside from the minister, the buzzing of locusts in thetrees outside.  I didn't wake up till I found myself on my feet singingthe hymn, and then I was awfully sorry I hadn't listened to the sermon;I should like to know more of the psychology of a man who would pickout such a hymn.  This was it:
           Come, leave your sports and earthly toys           And join me in celestial joys.           Or else, dear friend, a long farewell.           I leave you now to sink to hell.

I find that it isn't safe to discuss religion with the Semples.  TheirGod (whom they have inherited intact from their remote Puritanancestors) is a narrow, irrational, unjust, mean, revengeful, bigotedPerson.  Thank heaven I don't inherit God from anybody!  I am free tomake mine up as I wish Him.  He's kind and sympathetic and imaginativeand forgiving and understanding--and He has a sense of humour.
I like the Semples immensely; their practice is so superior to theirtheory.  They are better than their own God.  I told them so--and theyare horribly troubled.  They think I am blasphemous--and I think theyare!  We've dropped theology from our conversation.
This is Sunday afternoon.
Amasai (hired man) in a purple tie and some bright yellow buckskingloves, very red and shaved, has just driven off with Carrie (hiredgirl) in a big hat trimmed with red roses and a blue muslin dress andher hair curled as tight as it will curl.  Amasai spent all the morningwashing the buggy; and Carrie stayed home from church ostensibly tocook the dinner, but really to iron the muslin dress.
In two minutes more when this letter is finished I am going to settledown to a book which I found in the attic.  It's entitled, On theTrail, and sprawled across the front page in a funny little-boy hand:
               Jervis Pendleton               if this book should ever roam,               Box its ears and send it home.

He spent the summer here once after he had been ill, when he was abouteleven years old; and he left On the Trail behind.  It looks wellread--the marks of his grimy little hands are frequent!  Also in acorner of the attic there is a water wheel and a windmill and some bowsand arrows.  Mrs. Semple talks so constantly about him that I begin tobelieve he really lives--not a grown man with a silk hat and walkingstick, but a nice, dirty, tousle-headed boy who clatters up the stairswith an awful racket, and leaves the screen doors open, and is alwaysasking for cookies.  (And getting them, too, if I know Mrs. Semple!) Heseems to have been an adventurous little soul--and brave and truthful.I'm sorry to think he is a Pendleton; he was meant for something better.
We're going to begin threshing oats tomorrow; a steam engine is comingand three extra men.
It grieves me to tell you that Buttercup (the spotted cow with onehorn, Mother of Lesbia) has done a disgraceful thing.  She got into theorchard Friday evening and ate apples under the trees, and ate and ateuntil they went to her head.  For two days she has been perfectly deaddrunk!  That is the truth I am telling.  Did you ever hear anything soscandalous?
           Sir,               I remain,                     Your affectionate orphan,                                               Judy Abbott

PS.  Indians in the first chapter and highwaymen in the second.  I holdmy breath.  What can the third contain?  'Red Hawk leapt twenty feet inthe air and bit the dust.'  That is the subject of the frontispiece.Aren't Judy and Jervie having fun?



                                               15th September
Dear Daddy,
I was weighed yesterday on the flour scales in the general store at theComers.  I've gained nine pounds!  Let me recommend Lock Willow as ahealth resort.
                               Yours ever,                                               Judy



Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Behold me--a Sophomore!  I came up last Friday, sorry to leave LockWillow, but glad to see the campus again.  It is a pleasant sensationto come back to something familiar.  I am beginning to feel at home incollege, and in command of the situation; I am beginning, in fact, tofeel at home in the world--as though I really belonged to it and hadnot just crept in on sufferance.
I don't suppose you understand in the least what I am trying to say.  Aperson important enough to be a Trustee can't appreciate the feelingsof a person unimportant enough to be a foundling.
And now, Daddy, listen to this.  Whom do you think I am rooming with?Sallie McBride and Julia Rutledge Pendleton.  It's the truth.  We havea study and three little bedrooms--VOILA!
Sallie and I decided last spring that we should like to room together,and Julia made up her mind to stay with Sallie--why, I can't imagine,for they are not a bit alike; but the Pendletons are naturallyconservative and inimical (fine word!) to change.  Anyway, here we are.Think of Jerusha Abbott, late of the John Grier Home for Orphans,rooming with a Pendleton.  This is a democratic country.
Sallie is running for class president, and unless all signs fail, sheis going to be elected.  Such an atmosphere of intrigue you should seewhat politicians we are!  Oh, I tell you, Daddy, when we women get ourrights, you men will have to look alive in order to keep yours.Election comes next Saturday, and we're going to have a torchlightprocession in the evening, no matter who wins.
I am beginning chemistry, a most unusual study.  I've never seenanything like it before.  Molecules and Atoms are the materialemployed, but I'll be in a position to discuss them more definitelynext month.
I am also taking argumentation and logic.
Also history of the whole world.
Also plays of William Shakespeare.
Also French.
If this keeps up many years longer, I shall become quite intelligent.
I should rather have elected economics than French, but I didn't dare,because I was afraid that unless I re-elected French, the Professorwould not let me pass--as it was, I just managed to squeeze through theJune examination.  But I will say that my high-school preparation wasnot very adequate.
There's one girl in the class who chatters away in French as fast asshe does in English.  She went abroad with her parents when she was achild, and spent three years in a convent school.  You can imagine howbright she is compared with the rest of us--irregular verbs are mereplaythings.  I wish my parents had chucked me into a French conventwhen I was little instead of a foundling asylum.  Oh no, I don'teither!  Because then maybe I should never have known you.  I'd ratherknow you than French.
Goodbye, Daddy.  I must call on Harriet Martin now, and, havingdiscussed the chemical situation, casually drop a few thoughts on thesubject of our next president.
                       Yours in politics,                                           J. Abbott



                                               17th October
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Supposing the swimming tank in the gymnasium were filled full of lemonjelly, could a person trying to swim manage to keep on top or would hesink?
We were having lemon jelly for dessert when the question came up.  Wediscussed it heatedly for half an hour and it's still unsettled.Sallie thinks that she could swim in it, but I am perfectly sure thatthe best swimmer in the world would sink.  Wouldn't it be funny to bedrowned in lemon jelly?
Two other problems are engaging the attention of our table.
1st.  What shape are the rooms in an octagon house?  Some of the girlsinsist that they're square; but I think they'd have to be shaped like apiece of pie.  Don't you?
2nd.  Suppose there were a great big hollow sphere made oflooking-glass and you were sitting inside.  Where would it stopreflecting your face and begin reflecting your back?  The more onethinks about this problem, the more puzzling it becomes.  You can seewith what deep philosophical reflection we engage our leisure!
Did I ever tell you about the election?  It happened three weeks ago,but so fast do we live, that three weeks is ancient history.  Salliewas elected, and we had a torchlight parade with transparencies saying,'McBride for Ever,' and a band consisting of fourteen pieces (threemouth organs and eleven combs).
We're very important persons now in '258.' Julia and I come in for agreat deal of reflected glory.  It's quite a social strain to be livingin the same house with a president.
Bonne nuit, cher Daddy.
                       Acceptez mez compliments,                           Tres respectueux,                               je suis,                                   Votre Judy



                                               12th November
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
We beat the Freshmen at basket ball yesterday.  Of course we'repleased--but oh, if we could only beat the juniors!  I'd be willing tobe black and blue all over and stay in bed a week in a witch-hazelcompress.
Sallie has invited me to spend the Christmas vacation with her.  Shelives in Worcester, Massachusetts.  Wasn't it nice of her?  I shalllove to go.  I've never been in a private family in my life, except atLock Willow, and the Semples were grown-up and old and don't count.But the McBrides have a houseful of children (anyway two or three) anda mother and father and grandmother, and an Angora cat.  It's aperfectly complete family!  Packing your trunk and going away is morefun than staying behind.  I am terribly excited at the prospect.
Seventh hour--I must run to rehearsal.  I'm to be in the Thanksgivingtheatricals.  A prince in a tower with a velvet tunic and yellow curls.Isn't that a lark?
                                       Yours,                                                   J. A.



                                                   Saturday
Do you want to know what I look like?  Here's a photograph of all threethat Leonora Fenton took.
The light one who is laughing is Sallie, and the tall one with her nosein the air is Julia, and the little one with the hair blowing acrossher face is Judy--she is really more beautiful than that, but the sunwas in her eyes.



                               'STONE GATE',                                   WORCESTER, MASS.,                                         31st December
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I meant to write to you before and thank you for your Christmas cheque,but life in the McBride household is very absorbing, and I don't seemable to find two consecutive minutes to spend at a desk.
I bought a new gown--one that I didn't need, but just wanted.  MyChristmas present this year is from Daddy-Long-Legs; my family justsent love.
I've been having the most beautiful vacation visiting Sallie.  Shelives in a big old-fashioned brick house with white trimmings set backfrom the street--exactly the kind of house that I used to look at socuriously when I was in the John Grier Home, and wonder what it couldbe like inside.  I never expected to see with my own eyes--but here Iam!  Everything is so comfortable and restful and homelike; I walk fromroom to room and drink in the furnishings.
It is the most perfect house for children to be brought up in; withshadowy nooks for hide and seek, and open fire places for pop-corn, andan attic to romp in on rainy days and slippery banisters with acomfortable flat knob at the bottom, and a great big sunny kitchen, anda nice, fat, sunny cook who has lived in the family thirteen years andalways saves out a piece of dough for the children to bake.  Just thesight of such a house makes you want to be a child all over again.
And as for families!  I never dreamed they could be so nice.  Salliehas a father and mother and grandmother, and the sweetestthree-year-old baby sister all over curls, and a medium-sized brotherwho always forgets to wipe his feet, and a big, good-looking brothernamed Jimmie, who is a junior at Princeton.
We have the jolliest times at the table--everybody laughs and jokes andtalks at once, and we don't have to say grace beforehand.  It's arelief not having to thank Somebody for every mouthful you eat.  (Idare say I'm blasphemous; but you'd be, too, if you'd offered as muchobligatory thanks as I have.)
Such a lot of things we've done--I can't begin to tell you about them.Mr. McBride owns a factory and Christmas eve he had a tree for theemployees' children.  It was in the long packing-room which wasdecorated with evergreens and holly.  Jimmie McBride was dressed asSanta Claus and Sallie and I helped him distribute the presents.
Dear me, Daddy, but it was a funny sensation!  I felt as benevolent asa Trustee of the John Grier home.  I kissed one sweet, sticky littleboy--but I don't think I patted any of them on the head!
And two days after Christmas, they gave a dance at their own house forME.
It was the first really true ball I ever attended--college doesn'tcount where we dance with girls.  I had a new white evening gown (yourChristmas present--many thanks) and long white gloves and white satinslippers.  The only drawback to my perfect, utter, absolute happinesswas the fact that Mrs. Lippett couldn't see me leading the cotillionwith Jimmie McBride.  Tell her about it, please, the next time youvisit the J. G. H.
                       Yours ever,                                    Judy Abbott

PS.  Would you be terribly displeased, Daddy, if I didn't turn out tobe a Great Author after all, but just a Plain Girl?



                                       6.30, Saturday
Dear Daddy,
We started to walk to town today, but mercy! how it poured.  I likewinter to be winter with snow instead of rain.
Julia's desirable uncle called again this afternoon--and brought afive-pound box of chocolates.  There are advantages, you see, aboutrooming with Julia.
Our innocent prattle appeared to amuse him and he waited for a latertrain in order to take tea in the study.  We had an awful lot oftrouble getting permission.  It's hard enough entertaining fathers andgrandfathers, but uncles are a step worse; and as for brothers andcousins, they are next to impossible.  Julia had to swear that he washer uncle before a notary public and then have the county clerk'scertificate attached.  (Don't I know a lot of law?) And even then Idoubt if we could have had our tea if the Dean had chanced to see howyoungish and good-looking Uncle Jervis is.
Anyway, we had it, with brown bread Swiss cheese sandwiches.  He helpedmake them and then ate four.  I told him that I had spent last summerat Lock Willow, and we had a beautiful gossipy time about the Semples,and the horses and cows and chickens.  All the horses that he used toknow are dead, except Grover, who was a baby colt at the time of hislast visit--and poor Grove now is so old he can just limp about thepasture.
He asked if they still kept doughnuts in a yellow crock with a blueplate over it on the bottom shelf of the pantry--and they do!  Hewanted to know if there was still a woodchuck's hole under the pile ofrocks in the night pasture--and there is!  Amasai caught a big, fat,grey one there this summer, the twenty-fifth great-grandson of the oneMaster Jervis caught when he was a little boy.
I called him 'Master Jervie' to his face, but he didn't appear to beinsulted.  Julia says she has never seen him so amiable; he's usuallypretty unapproachable.  But Julia hasn't a bit of tact; and men, Ifind, require a great deal.  They purr if you rub them the right wayand spit if you don't. (That isn't a very elegant metaphor.  I mean itfiguratively.)
We're reading Marie Bashkirtseff's journal.  Isn't it amazing?  Listento this:  'Last night I was seized by a fit of despair that foundutterance in moans, and that finally drove me to throw the dining-roomclock into the sea.'
It makes me almost hope I'm not a genius; they must be very wearing tohave about--and awfully destructive to the furniture.
Mercy! how it keeps Pouring.  We shall have to swim to chapel tonight.
                               Yours ever,                                               Judy



                                               20th Jan.
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Did you ever have a sweet baby girl who was stolen from the cradle ininfancy?
Maybe I am she!  If we were in a novel, that would be the denouement,wouldn't it?
It's really awfully queer not to know what one is--sort of exciting andromantic.  There are such a lot of possibilities.  Maybe I'm notAmerican; lots of people aren't. I may be straight descended from theancient Romans, or I may be a Viking's daughter, or I may be the childof a Russian exile and belong by rights in a Siberian prison, or maybeI'm a Gipsy--I think perhaps I am.  I have a very WANDERING spirit,though I haven't as yet had much chance to develop it.
Do you know about that one scandalous blot in my career the time I ranaway from the asylum because they punished me for stealing cookies?It's down in the books free for any Trustee to read.  But really,Daddy, what could you expect?  When you put a hungry little nine-yeargirl in the pantry scouring knives, with the cookie jar at her elbow,and go off and leave her alone; and then suddenly pop in again,wouldn't you expect to find her a bit crumby?  And then when you jerkher by the elbow and box her ears, and make her leave the table whenthe pudding comes, and tell all the other children that it's becauseshe's a thief, wouldn't you expect her to run away?
I only ran four miles.  They caught me and brought me back; and everyday for a week I was tied, like a naughty puppy, to a stake in the backyard while the other children were out at recess.
Oh, dear!  There's the chapel bell, and after chapel I have a committeemeeting.  I'm sorry because I meant to write you a very entertainingletter this time.
                               Auf wiedersehen                                   Cher Daddy,                                       Pax tibi!                                                   Judy

PS.  There's one thing I'm perfectly sure of I'm not a Chinaman.



                                               4th February
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Jimmie McBride has sent me a Princeton banner as big as one end of theroom; I am very grateful to him for remembering me, but I don't knowwhat on earth to do with it.  Sallie and Julia won't let me hang it up;our room this year is furnished in red, and you can imagine what aneffect we'd have if I added orange and black.  But it's such nice,warm, thick felt, I hate to waste it.  Would it be very improper tohave it made into a bath robe?  My old one shrank when it was washed.
I've entirely omitted of late telling you what I am learning, butthough you might not imagine it from my letters, my time is exclusivelyoccupied with study.  It's a very bewildering matter to get educated infive branches at once.
'The test of true scholarship,' says Chemistry Professor, 'is apainstaking passion for detail.'
'Be careful not to keep your eyes glued to detail,' says HistoryProfessor.  'Stand far enough away to get a perspective of the whole.'
You can see with what nicety we have to trim our sails betweenchemistry and history.  I like the historical method best.  If I saythat William the Conqueror came over in 1492, and Columbus discoveredAmerica in 1100 or 1066 or whenever it was, that's a mere detail thatthe Professor overlooks.  It gives a feeling of security andrestfulness to the history recitation, that is entirely lacking inchemistry.
Sixth-hour bell--I must go to the laboratory and look into a littlematter of acids and salts and alkalis.  I've burned a hole as big as aplate in the front of my chemistry apron, with hydrochloric acid.  Ifthe theory worked, I ought to be able to neutralize that hole with goodstrong ammonia, oughtn't I?
Examinations next week, but who's afraid?
                               Yours ever,                                           Judy



                                               5th March
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
There is a March wind blowing, and the sky is filled with heavy, blackmoving clouds.  The crows in the pine trees are making such a clamour!It's an intoxicating, exhilarating, CALLING noise.  You want to closeyour books and be off over the hills to race with the wind.
We had a paper chase last Saturday over five miles of squashy 'crosscountry.  The fox (composed of three girls and a bushel or so ofconfetti) started half an hour before the twenty-seven hunters.  I wasone of the twenty-seven; eight dropped by the wayside; we endednineteen.  The trail led over a hill, through a cornfield, and into aswamp where we had to leap lightly from hummock to hummock.  of coursehalf of us went in ankle deep.  We kept losing the trail, and we wastedtwenty-five minutes over that swamp.  Then up a hill through some woodsand in at a barn window!  The barn doors were all locked and the windowwas up high and pretty small.  I don't call that fair, do you?
But we didn't go through; we circumnavigated the barn and picked up thetrail where it issued by way of a low shed roof on to the top of afence.  The fox thought he had us there, but we fooled him.  Thenstraight away over two miles of rolling meadow, and awfully hard tofollow, for the confetti was getting sparse.  The rule is that it mustbe at the most six feet apart, but they were the longest six feet Iever saw.  Finally, after two hours of steady trotting, we trackedMonsieur Fox into the kitchen of Crystal Spring (that's a farm wherethe girls go in bob sleighs and hay wagons for chicken and wafflesuppers) and we found the three foxes placidly eating milk and honeyand biscuits.  They hadn't thought we would get that far; they wereexpecting us to stick in the barn window.
Both sides insist that they won.  I think we did, don't you?  Becausewe caught them before they got back to the campus.  Anyway, allnineteen of us settled like locusts over the furniture and clamouredfor honey.  There wasn't enough to go round, but Mrs. Crystal Spring(that's our pet name for her; she's by rights a Johnson) brought up ajar of strawberry jam and a can of maple syrup--just made lastweek--and three loaves of brown bread.
We didn't get back to college till half-past six--half an hour late fordinner--and we went straight in without dressing, and with perfectlyunimpaired appetites!  Then we all cut evening chapel, the state of ourboots being enough of an excuse.
I never told you about examinations.  I passed everything with theutmost ease--I know the secret now, and am never going to fail again.I shan't be able to graduate with honours though, because of thatbeastly Latin prose and geometry Freshman year.  But I don't care.Wot's the hodds so long as you're 'appy?  (That's a quotation.  I'vebeen reading the English classics.)
Speaking of classics, have you ever read Hamlet?  If you haven't, do itright off.  It's PERFECTLY CORKING.  I've been hearing aboutShakespeare all my life, but I had no idea he really wrote so well; Ialways suspected him of going largely on his reputation.
I have a beautiful play that I invented a long time ago when I firstlearned to read.  I put myself to sleep every night by pretending I'mthe person (the most important person) in the book I'm reading at themoment.
At present I'm Ophelia--and such a sensible Ophelia!  I keep Hamletamused all the time, and pet him and scold him and make him wrap up histhroat when he has a cold.  I've entirely cured him of beingmelancholy.  The King and Queen are both dead--an accident at sea; nofuneral necessary--so Hamlet and I are ruling in Denmark without anybother.  We have the kingdom working beautifully.  He takes care of thegoverning, and I look after the charities.  I have just founded somefirst-class orphan asylums.  If you or any of the other Trustees wouldlike to visit them, I shall be pleased to show you through.  I thinkyou might find a great many helpful suggestions.
                       I remain, sir,                           Yours most graciously,                               OPHELIA,                                   Queen of Denmark.



                                           24th March,                                           maybe the 25th
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I don't believe I can be going to Heaven--I am getting such a lot ofgood things here; it wouldn't be fair to get them hereafter too.Listen to what has happened.
Jerusha Abbott has won the short-story contest (a twenty-five dollarprize) that the Monthly holds every year.  And she's a Sophomore!  Thecontestants are mostly Seniors.  When I saw my name posted, I couldn'tquite believe it was true.  Maybe I am going to be an author after all.I wish Mrs. Lippett hadn't given me such a silly name--it sounds likean author-ess, doesn't it?
Also I have been chosen for the spring dramatics--As You Like It out ofdoors.  I am going to be Celia, own cousin to Rosalind.
And lastly:  Julia and Sallie and I are going to New York next Fridayto do some spring shopping and stay all night and go to the theatre thenext day with 'Master Jervie.'  He invited us.  Julia is going to stayat home with her family, but Sallie and I are going to stop at theMartha Washington Hotel.  Did you ever hear of anything so exciting?I've never been in a hotel in my life, nor in a theatre; except oncewhen the Catholic Church had a festival and invited the orphans, butthat wasn't a real play and it doesn't count.
And what do you think we're going to see?  Hamlet.  Think of that!  Westudied it for four weeks in Shakespeare class and I know it by heart.
I am so excited over all these prospects that I can scarcely sleep.
Goodbye, Daddy.
This is a very entertaining world.
                                       Yours ever,                                                       Judy

PS.  I've just looked at the calendar.  It's the 28th.
Another postscript.
I saw a street car conductor today with one brown eye and one blue.Wouldn't he make a nice villain for a detective story?



                                                   7th April
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Mercy!  Isn't New York big?  Worcester is nothing to it.  Do you meanto tell me that you actually live in all that confusion?  I don'tbelieve that I shall recover for months from the bewildering effect oftwo days of it.  I can't begin to tell you all the amazing things I'veseen; I suppose you know, though, since you live there yourself.
But aren't the streets entertaining?  And the people?  And the shops?I never saw such lovely things as there are in the windows.  It makesyou want to devote your life to wearing clothes.
Sallie and Julia and I went shopping together Saturday morning.  Juliawent into the very most gorgeous place I ever saw, white and gold wallsand blue carpets and blue silk curtains and gilt chairs.  A perfectlybeautiful lady with yellow hair and a long black silk trailing gowncame to meet us with a welcoming smile.  I thought we were paying asocial call, and started to shake hands, but it seems we were onlybuying hats--at least Julia was.  She sat down in front of a mirror andtried on a dozen, each lovelier than the last, and bought the twoloveliest of all.
I can't imagine any joy in life greater than sitting down in front of amirror and buying any hat you choose without having first to considerthe price!  There's no doubt about it, Daddy; New York would rapidlyundermine this fine stoical character which the John Grier Home sopatiently built up.
And after we'd finished our shopping, we met Master Jervie at Sherry's.I suppose you've been in Sherry's? Picture that, then picture thedining-room of the John Grier Home with its oilcloth-covered tables,and white crockery that you CAN'T break, and wooden-handled knives andforks; and fancy the way I felt!
I ate my fish with the wrong fork, but the waiter very kindly gave meanother so that nobody noticed.
And after luncheon we went to the theatre--it was dazzling, marvellous,unbelievable--I dream about it every night.
Isn't Shakespeare wonderful?
Hamlet is so much better on the stage than when we analyze it in class;I appreciated it before, but now, dear me!
I think, if you don't mind, that I'd rather be an actress than awriter.  Wouldn't you like me to leave college and go into a dramaticschool?  And then I'll send you a box for all my performances, andsmile at you across the footlights.  Only wear a red rose in yourbuttonhole, please, so I'll surely smile at the right man.  It would bean awfully embarrassing mistake if I picked out the wrong one.
We came back Saturday night and had our dinner in the train, at littletables with pink lamps and negro waiters.  I never heard of meals beingserved in trains before, and I inadvertently said so.
'Where on earth were you brought up?' said Julia to me.
'In a village,' said I meekly, to Julia.
'But didn't you ever travel?' said she to me.
'Not till I came to college, and then it was only a hundred and sixtymiles and we didn't eat,' said I to her.
She's getting quite interested in me, because I say such funny things.I try hard not to, but they do pop out when I'm surprised--and I'msurprised most of the time.  It's a dizzying experience, Daddy, to passeighteen years in the John Grier Home, and then suddenly to be plungedinto the WORLD.
But I'm getting acclimated.  I don't make such awful mistakes as I did;and I don't feel uncomfortable any more with the other girls.  I usedto squirm whenever people looked at me.  I felt as though they sawright through my sham new clothes to the checked ginghams underneath.But I'm not letting the ginghams bother me any more.  Sufficient untoyesterday is the evil thereof.
I forgot to tell you about our flowers.  Master Jervie gave us each abig bunch of violets and lilies-of-the-valley. Wasn't that sweet ofhim?  I never used to care much for men--judging by Trustees--but I'mchanging my mind.
Eleven pages--this is a letter!  Have courage.  I'm going to stop.
                           Yours always,                                           Judy



                                                   10th April
Dear Mr. Rich-Man,
Here's your cheque for fifty dollars.  Thank you very much, but I donot feel that I can keep it.  My allowance is sufficient to afford allof the hats that I need.  I am sorry that I wrote all that silly stuffabout the millinery shop; it's just that I had never seen anything likeit before.
However, I wasn't begging!  And I would rather not accept any morecharity than I have to.
                   Sincerely yours,                                     Jerusha Abbott



                                           11th April
Dearest Daddy,
Will you please forgive me for the letter I wrote you yesterday?  AfterI posted it I was sorry, and tried to get it back, but that beastlymail clerk wouldn't give it back to me.
It's the middle of the night now; I've been awake for hours thinkingwhat a Worm I am--what a Thousand-legged Worm--and that's the worst Ican say!  I've closed the door very softly into the study so as not towake Julia and Sallie, and am sitting up in bed writing to you on papertorn out of my history note-book.
I just wanted to tell you that I am sorry I was so impolite about yourcheque.  I know you meant it kindly, and I think you're an old dear totake so much trouble for such a silly thing as a hat.  I ought to havereturned it very much more graciously.
But in any case, I had to return it.  It's different with me than withother girls.  They can take things naturally from people.  They havefathers and brothers and aunts and uncles; but I can't be on any suchrelations with any one.  I like to pretend that you belong to me, justto play with the idea, but of course I know you don't. I'm alone,really--with my back to the wall fighting the world--and I get sort ofgaspy when I think about it.  I put it out of my mind, and keep onpretending; but don't you see, Daddy?  I can't accept any more moneythan I have to, because some day I shall be wanting to pay it back, andeven as great an author as I intend to be won't be able to face aPERFECTLY TREMENDOUS debt.
I'd love pretty hats and things, but I mustn't mortgage the future topay for them.
You'll forgive me, won't you, for being so rude?  I have an awful habitof writing impulsively when I first think things, and then posting theletter beyond recall.  But if I sometimes seem thoughtless andungrateful, I never mean it.  In my heart I thank you always for thelife and freedom and independence that you have given me.  My childhoodwas just a long, sullen stretch of revolt, and now I am so happy everymoment of the day that I can't believe it's true.  I feel like amade-up heroine in a story-book.
It's a quarter past two.  I'm going to tiptoe out to post this off now.You'll receive it in the next mail after the other; so you won't have avery long time to think bad of me.
                       Good night, Daddy,                           I love you always,                                               Judy



                                                   4th May
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Field Day last Saturday.  It was a very spectacular occasion.  First wehad a parade of all the classes, with everybody dressed in white linen,the Seniors carrying blue and gold Japanese umbrellas, and the juniorswhite and yellow banners.  Our class had crimson balloons--veryfetching, especially as they were always getting loose and floatingoff--and the Freshmen wore green tissue-paper hats with long streamers.Also we had a band in blue uniforms hired from town.  Also about adozen funny people, like clowns in a circus, to keep the spectatorsentertained between events.
Julia was dressed as a fat country man with a linen duster and whiskersand baggy umbrella.  Patsy Moriarty (Patrici really.  Did you ever hearsuch a name?  Mrs. Lippett couldn't have done better) who is tall andthin was Julia's wife in a absurd green bonnet over one ear.  Waves oflaughter followed them the whole length of the course.  Julia playedthe part extremely well.  I never dreamed that a Pendleton coulddisplay so much comedy spirit--begging Master Jervie's pardon; I don'tconsider him a true Pendleton though, any more than I consider you atrue Trustee.
Sallie and I weren't in the parade because we were entered for theevents.  And what do you think?  We both won!  At least in something.We tried for the running broad jump and lost; but Sallie won thepole-vaulting (seven feet three inches) and I won the fifty-yard sprint(eight seconds).
I was pretty panting at the end, but it was great fun, with the wholeclass waving balloons and cheering and yelling:
               What's the matter with Judy Abbott?               She's all right.               Who's all right?               Judy Ab-bott!

That, Daddy, is true fame.  Then trotting back to the dressing tent andbeing rubbed down with alcohol and having a lemon to suck.  You seewe're very professional.  It's a fine thing to win an event for yourclass, because the class that wins the most gets the athletic cup forthe year.  The Seniors won it this year, with seven events to theircredit.  The athletic association gave a dinner in the gymnasium to allof the winners.  We had fried soft-shell crabs, and chocolate ice-creammoulded in the shape of basket balls.
I sat up half of last night reading Jane Eyre.  Are you old enough,Daddy, to remember sixty years ago?  And, if so, did people talk thatway?
The haughty Lady Blanche says to the footman, 'Stop your chattering,knave, and do my bidding.'  Mr. Rochester talks about the metal welkinwhen he means the sky; and as for the mad woman who laughs like a hyenaand sets fire to bed curtains and tears up wedding veils andBITES--it's melodrama of the purest, but just the same, you read andread and read.  I can't see how any girl could have written such abook, especially any girl who was brought up in a churchyard.  There'ssomething about those Brontes that fascinates me.  Their books, theirlives, their spirit.  Where did they get it?  When I was reading aboutlittle Jane's troubles in the charity school, I got so angry that I hadto go out and take a walk.  I understood exactly how she felt.  Havingknown Mrs. Lippett, I could see Mr. Brocklehurst.
Don't be outraged, Daddy.  I am not intimating that the John Grier Homewas like the Lowood Institute.  We had plenty to eat and plenty towear, sufficient water to wash in, and a furnace in the cellar.  Butthere was one deadly likeness.  Our lives were absolutely monotonousand uneventful.  Nothing nice ever happened, except ice-cream onSundays, and even that was regular.  In all the eighteen years I wasthere I only had one adventure--when the woodshed burned.  We had toget up in the night and dress so as to be ready in case the houseshould catch.  But it didn't catch and we went back to bed.
Everybody likes a few surprises; it's a perfectly natural humancraving.  But I never had one until Mrs. Lippett called me to theoffice to tell me that Mr. John Smith was going to send me to college.And then she broke the news so gradually that it just barely shocked me.
You know, Daddy, I think that the most necessary quality for any personto have is imagination.  It makes people able to put themselves inother people's places.  It makes them kind and sympathetic andunderstanding.  It ought to be cultivated in children.  But the JohnGrier Home instantly stamped out the slightest flicker that appeared.Duty was the one quality that was encouraged.  I don't think childrenought to know the meaning of the word; it's odious, detestable.  Theyought to do everything from love.
Wait until you see the orphan asylum that I am going to be the head of!It's my favourite play at night before I go to sleep.  I plan it out tothe littlest detail--the meals and clothes and study and amusements andpunishments; for even my superior orphans are sometimes bad.
But anyway, they are going to be happy.  I think that every one, nomatter how many troubles he may have when he grows up, ought to have ahappy childhood to look back upon.  And if I ever have any children ofmy own, no matter how unhappy I may be, I am not going to let them haveany cares until they grow up.
(There goes the chapel bell--I'll finish this letter sometime).

                                               Thursday
When I came in from laboratory this afternoon, I found a squirrelsitting on the tea table helping himself to almonds.  These are thekind of callers we entertain now that warm weather has come and thewindows stay open--

                                             Saturday morning
Perhaps you think, last night being Friday, with no classes today, thatI passed a nice quiet, readable evening with the set of Stevenson thatI bought with my prize money?  But if so, you've never attended agirls' college, Daddy dear.  Six friends dropped in to make fudge, andone of them dropped the fudge--while it was still liquid--right in themiddle of our best rug.  We shall never be able to clean up the mess.
I haven't mentioned any lessons of late; but we are still having themevery day.  It's sort of a relief though, to get away from them anddiscuss life in the large--rather one-sided discussions that you and Ihold, but that's your own fault.  You are welcome to answer back anytime you choose.
I've been writing this letter off and on for three days, and I fear bynow vous etes bien bored!
                   Goodbye, nice Mr. Man,                                               Judy



Mr. Daddy-Long-Legs Smith,
SIR:  Having completed the study of argumentation and the science ofdividing a thesis into heads, I have decided to adopt the followingform for letter-writing. It contains all necessary facts, but nounnecessary verbiage.
I. We had written examinations this week in:       A. Chemistry.       B. History.
II.  A new dormitory is being built.       A. Its material is:           (a) red brick.           (b) grey stone.       B. Its capacity will be:           (a) one dean, five instructors.           (b) two hundred girls.           (c) one housekeeper, three cooks, twenty waitresses,               twenty chambermaids.
III.  We had junket for dessert tonight.
IV.  I am writing a special topic upon the Sources of Shakespeare'sPlays.
V. Lou McMahon slipped and fell this afternoon at basket ball, and she:       A. Dislocated her shoulder.       B. Bruised her knee.
VI.  I have a new hat trimmed with:       A. Blue velvet ribbon.       B. Two blue quills.       C. Three red pompoms.
VII.  It is half past nine.
VIII.  Good night.
                                           Judy



                                               2nd June
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
You will never guess the nice thing that has happened.
The McBrides have asked me to spend the summer at their camp in theAdirondacks!  They belong to a sort of club on a lovely little lake inthe middle of the woods.  The different members have houses made oflogs dotted about among the trees, and they go canoeing on the lake,and take long walks through trails to other camps, and have dances oncea week in the club house--Jimmie McBride is going to have a collegefriend visiting him part of the summer, so you see we shall have plentyof men to dance with.
Wasn't it sweet of Mrs. McBride to ask me?  It appears that she likedme when I was there for Christmas.
Please excuse this being short.  It isn't a real letter; it's just tolet you know that I'm disposed of for the summer.
                   Yours,                       In a VERY contented frame of mind,                                                   Judy



                                                   5th June
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Your secretary man has just written to me saying that Mr. Smith prefersthat I should not accept Mrs. McBride's invitation, but should returnto Lock Willow the same as last summer.
Why, why, WHY, Daddy?
You don't understand about it.  Mrs. McBride does want me, really andtruly.  I'm not the least bit of trouble in the house.  I'm a help.They don't take up many servants, and Sallie an I can do lots of usefulthings.  It's a fine chance for me to learn housekeeping.  Every womanought to understand it, and I only know asylum-keeping.
There aren't any girls our age at the camp, and Mrs. McBride wants mefor a companion for Sallie.  We are planning to do a lot of readingtogether.  We are going to read all of the books for next year'sEnglish and sociology.  The Professor said it would be a great help ifwe would get our reading finished in the summer; and it's so mucheasier to remember it if we read together and talk it over.
Just to live in the same house with Sallie's mother is an education.She's the most interesting, entertaining, companionable, charming womanin the world; she knows everything.  Think how many summers I've spentwith Mrs. Lippett and how I'll appreciate the contrast.  You needn't beafraid that I'll be crowding them, for their house is made of rubber.When they have a lot of company, they just sprinkle tents about in thewoods and turn the boys outside.  It's going to be such a nice, healthysummer exercising out of doors every minute.  Jimmie McBride is goingto teach me how to ride horseback and paddle a canoe, and how to shootand--oh, lots of things I ought to know.  It's the kind of nice, jolly,care-free time that I've never had; and I think every girl deserves itonce in her life.  Of course I'll do exactly as you say, but please,PLEASE let me go, Daddy.  I've never wanted anything so much.
This isn't Jerusha Abbott, the future great author, writing to you.It's just Judy--a girl.


                                               9th June
Mr. John Smith,
SIR:  Yours of the 7th inst. at hand.  In compliance with theinstructions received through your secretary, I leave on Friday next tospend the summer at Lock Willow Farm.
I hope always to remain,                               (Miss) Jerusha Abbott



                                            LOCK WILLOW FARM,                                               3rd August
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
It has been nearly two months since I wrote, which wasn't nice of me, Iknow, but I haven't loved you much this summer--you see I'm being frank!
You can't imagine how disappointed I was at having to give up theMcBrides' camp.  Of course I know that you're my guardian, and that Ihave to regard your wishes in all matters, but I couldn't see anyREASON.  It was so distinctly the best thing that could have happenedto me.  If I had been Daddy, and you had been Judy, I should have said,'Bless you my child, run along and have a good time; see lots of newpeople and learn lots of new things; live out of doors, and get strongand well and rested for a year of hard work.'
But not at all!  Just a curt line from your secretary ordering me toLock Willow.
It's the impersonality of your commands that hurts my feelings.  Itseems as though, if you felt the tiniest little bit for me the way Ifeel for you, you'd sometimes send me a message that you'd written withyour own hand, instead of those beastly typewritten secretary's notes.If there were the slightest hint that you cared, I'd do anything onearth to please you.
I know that I was to write nice, long, detailed letters without everexpecting any answer.  You're living up to your side of thebargain--I'm being educated--and I suppose you're thinking I'm notliving up to mine!
But, Daddy, it is a hard bargain.  It is, really.  I'm so awfullylonely.  You are the only person I have to care for, and you are soshadowy.  You're just an imaginary man that I've made up--and probablythe real YOU isn't a bit like my imaginary YOU.  But you did once, whenI was ill in the infirmary, send me a message, and now, when I amfeeling awfully forgotten, I get out your card and read it over.
I don't think I am telling you at all what I started to say, which wasthis:
Although my feelings are still hurt, for it is very humiliating to bepicked up and moved about by an arbitrary, peremptory, unreasonable,omnipotent, invisible Providence, still, when a man has been as kindand generous and thoughtful as you have heretofore been towards me, Isuppose he has a right to be an arbitrary, peremptory, unreasonable,invisible Providence if he chooses, and so--I'll forgive you and becheerful again.  But I still don't enjoy getting Sallie's letters aboutthe good times they are having in camp!
However--we will draw a veil over that and begin again.
I've been writing and writing this summer; four short stories finishedand sent to four different magazines.  So you see I'm trying to be anauthor.  I have a workroom fixed in a corner of the attic where MasterJervie used to have his rainy-day playroom.  It's in a cool, breezycorner with two dormer windows, and shaded by a maple tree with afamily of red squirrels living in a hole.
I'll write a nicer letter in a few days and tell you all the farm news.
We need rain.
                               Yours as ever,                                                   Judy



                                               10th August
Mr. Daddy-Long-Legs,
SIR:  I address you from the second crotch in the willow tree by thepool in the pasture.  There's a frog croaking underneath, a locustsinging overhead and two little 'devil downheads' darting up and downthe trunk.  I've been here for an hour; it's a very comfortable crotch,especially after being upholstered with two sofa cushions.  I came upwith a pen and tablet hoping to write an immortal short story, but I'vebeen having a dreadful time with my heroine--I CAN'T make her behave asI want her to behave; so I've abandoned her for the moment, and amwriting to you.  (Not much relief though, for I can't make you behaveas I want you to, either.)
If you are in that dreadful New York, I wish I could send you some ofthis lovely, breezy, sunshiny outlook.  The country is Heaven after aweek of rain.
Speaking of Heaven--do you remember Mr. Kellogg that I told you aboutlast summer?--the minister of the little white church at the Corners.Well, the poor old soul is dead--last winter of pneumonia.  I went halfa dozen times to hear him preach and got very well acquainted with histheology.  He believed to the end exactly the same things he startedwith.  It seems to me that a man who can think straight along forforty-seven years without changing a single idea ought to be kept in acabinet as a curiosity.  I hope he is enjoying his harp and goldencrown; he was so perfectly sure of finding them!  There's a new youngman, very consequential, in his place.  The congregation is prettydubious, especially the faction led by Deacon Cummings.  It looks asthough there was going to be an awful split in the church.  We don'tcare for innovations in religion in this neighbourhood.
During our week of rain I sat up in the attic and had an orgy ofreading--Stevenson, mostly.  He himself is more entertaining than anyof the characters in his books; I dare say he made himself into thekind of hero that would look well in print.  Don't you think it wasperfect of him to spend all the ten thousand dollars his father left,for a yacht, and go sailing off to the South Seas?  He lived up to hisadventurous creed.  If my father had left me ten thousand dollars, I'ddo it, too.  The thought of Vailima makes me wild.  I want to see thetropics.  I want to see the whole world.  I am going to be a greatauthor, or artist, or actress, or playwright--or whatever sort of agreat person I turn out to be.  I have a terrible wanderthirst; thevery sight of a map makes me want to put on my hat and take an umbrellaand start.  'I shall see before I die the palms and temples of theSouth.'


                               Thursday evening at twilight,                               sitting on the doorstep.
Very hard to get any news into this letter!  Judy is becoming sophilosophical of late, that she wishes to discourse largely of theworld in general, instead of descending to the trivial details of dailylife.  But if you MUST have news, here it is:
Our nine young pigs waded across the brook and ran away last Tuesday,and only eight came back.  We don't want to accuse anyone unjustly, butwe suspect that Widow Dowd has one more than she ought to have.
Mr. Weaver has painted his barn and his two silos a bright pumpkinyellow--a very ugly colour, but he says it will wear.
The Brewers have company this week; Mrs. Brewer's sister and two niecesfrom Ohio.
One of our Rhode Island Reds only brought off three chicks out offifteen eggs.  We can't imagine what was the trouble.  Rhode islandReds, in my opinion, are a very inferior breed.  I prefer BuffOrpingtons.
The new clerk in the post office at Bonnyrigg Four Corners drank everydrop of Jamaica ginger they had in stock--seven dollars' worth--beforehe was discovered.
Old Ira Hatch has rheumatism and can't work any more; he never savedhis money when he was earning good wages, so now he has to live on thetown.
There's to be an ice-cream social at the schoolhouse next Saturdayevening.  Come and bring your families.
I have a new hat that I bought for twenty-five cents at the postoffice.  This is my latest portrait, on my way to rake the hay.
It's getting too dark to see; anyway, the news is all used up.
                               Good night,                                               Judy



                                                   Friday
Good morning!  Here is some news!  What do you think?  You'd never,never, never guess who's coming to Lock Willow.  A letter to Mrs.Semple from Mr. Pendleton.  He's motoring through the Berkshires, andis tired and wants to rest on a nice quiet farm--if he climbs out ather doorstep some night will she have a room ready for him?  Maybehe'll stay one week, or maybe two, or maybe three; he'll see howrestful it is when he gets here.
Such a flutter as we are in!  The whole house is being cleaned and allthe curtains washed.  I am driving to the Corners this morning to getsome new oilcloth for the entry, and two cans of brown floor paint forthe hall and back stairs.  Mrs. Dowd is engaged to come tomorrow towash the windows (in the exigency of the moment, we waive oursuspicions in regard to the piglet). You might think, from this accountof our activities, that the house was not already immaculate; but Iassure you it was!  Whatever Mrs. Semple's limitations, she is aHOUSEKEEPER.
But isn't it just like a man, Daddy?  He doesn't give the remotest hintas to whether he will land on the doorstep today, or two weeks fromtoday.  We shall live in a perpetual breathlessness until he comes--andif he doesn't hurry, the cleaning may all have to be done over again.
There's Amasai waiting below with the buckboard and Grover.  I drivealone--but if you could see old Grove, you wouldn't be worried as to mysafety.
With my hand on my heart--farewell.
                                                   Judy

PS.  Isn't that a nice ending?  I got it out of Stevenson's letters.



                                                  Saturday
Good morning again!  I didn't get this ENVELOPED yesterday before thepostman came, so I'll add some more.  We have one mail a day at twelveo'clock. Rural delivery is a blessing to the farmers!  Our postman notonly delivers letters, but he runs errands for us in town, at fivecents an errand.  Yesterday he brought me some shoe-strings and a jarof cold cream (I sunburned all the skin off my nose before I got my newhat) and a blue Windsor tie and a bottle of blacking all for ten cents.That was an unusual bargain, owing to the largeness of my order.
Also he tells us what is happening in the Great World.  Several peopleon the route take daily papers, and he reads them as he jogs along, andrepeats the news to the ones who don't subscribe.  So in case a warbreaks out between the United States and Japan, or the president isassassinated, or Mr. Rockefeller leaves a million dollars to the JohnGrier Home, you needn't bother to write; I'll hear it anyway.
No sign yet of Master Jervie.  But you should see how clean our houseis--and with what anxiety we wipe our feet before we step in!
I hope he'll come soon; I am longing for someone to talk to.  Mrs.Semple, to tell you the truth, gets rather monotonous.  She never letsideas interrupt the easy flow of her conversation.  It's a funny thingabout the people here.  Their world is just this single hilltop.  Theyare not a bit universal, if you know what I mean.  It's exactly thesame as at the John Grier Home.  Our ideas there were bounded by thefour sides of the iron fence, only I didn't mind it so much because Iwas younger, and was so awfully busy.  By the time I'd got all my bedsmade and my babies' faces washed and had gone to school and come homeand had washed their faces again and darned their stockings and mendedFreddie Perkins's trousers (he tore them every day of his life) andlearned my lessons in between--I was ready to go to bed, and I didn'tnotice any lack of social intercourse.  But after two years in aconversational college, I do miss it; and I shall be glad to seesomebody who speaks my language.
I really believe I've finished, Daddy.  Nothing else occurs to me atthe moment--I'll try to write a longer letter next time.
                           Yours always,                                           Judy

PS.  The lettuce hasn't done at all well this year.  It was so dryearly in the season.



                                                   25th August
Well, Daddy, Master Jervie's here.  And such a nice time as we'rehaving!  At least I am, and I think he is, too--he has been here tendays and he doesn't show any signs of going.  The way Mrs. Semplepampers that man is scandalous.  If she indulged him as much when hewas a baby, I don't know how he ever turned out so well.
He and I eat at a little table set on the side porch, or sometimesunder the trees, or--when it rains or is cold--in the best parlour.  Hejust picks out the spot he wants to eat in and Carrie trots after himwith the table.  Then if it has been an awful nuisance, and she has hadto carry the dishes very far, she finds a dollar under the sugar bowl.
He is an awfully companionable sort of man, though you would neverbelieve it to see him casually; he looks at first glance like a truePendleton, but he isn't in the least.  He is just as simple andunaffected and sweet as he can be--that seems a funny way to describe aman, but it's true.  He's extremely nice with the farmers around here;he meets them in a sort of man-to-man fashion that disarms themimmediately.  They were very suspicious at first.  They didn't care forhis clothes!  And I will say that his clothes are rather amazing.  Hewears knickerbockers and pleated jackets and white flannels and ridingclothes with puffed trousers.  Whenever he comes down in anything new,Mrs. Semple, beaming with pride, walks around and views him from everyangle, and urges him to be careful where he sits down; she is so afraidhe will pick up some dust.  It bores him dreadfully.  He's alwayssaying to her:
'Run along, Lizzie, and tend to your work.  You can't boss me anylonger.  I've grown up.'
It's awfully funny to think of that great big, long-legged man (he'snearly as long-legged as you, Daddy) ever sitting in Mrs. Semple's lapand having his face washed.  Particularly funny when you see her lap!She has two laps now, and three chins.  But he says that once she wasthin and wiry and spry and could run faster than he.
Such a lot of adventures we're having!  We've explored the country formiles, and I've learned to fish with funny little flies made offeathers.  Also to shoot with a rifle and a revolver.  Also to ridehorseback--there's an astonishing amount of life in old Grove.  We fedhim on oats for three days, and he shied at a calf and almost ran awaywith me.
                                                   Wednesday
We climbed Sky Hill Monday afternoon.  That's a mountain near here; notan awfully high mountain, perhaps--no snow on the summit--but at leastyou are pretty breathless when you reach the top.  The lower slopes arecovered with woods, but the top is just piled rocks and open moor.  Westayed up for the sunset and built a fire and cooked our supper.Master Jervie did the cooking; he said he knew how better than me andhe did, too, because he's used to camping.  Then we came down bymoonlight, and, when we reached the wood trail where it was dark, bythe light of an electric bulb that he had in his pocket.  It was suchfun!  He laughed and joked all the way and talked about interestingthings.  He's read all the books I've ever read, and a lot of othersbesides.  It's astonishing how many different things he knows.
We went for a long tramp this morning and got caught in a storm.  Ourclothes were drenched before we reached home but our spirits not evendamp.  You should have seen Mrs. Semple's face when we dripped into herkitchen.
'Oh, Master Jervie--Miss Judy!  You are soaked through.  Dear!  Dear!What shall I do?  That nice new coat is perfectly ruined.'
She was awfully funny; you would have thought that we were ten yearsold, and she a distracted mother.  I was afraid for a while that weweren't going to get any jam for tea.


                                                   Saturday
I started this letter ages ago, but I haven't had a second to finish it.
Isn't this a nice thought from Stevenson?

           The world is so full of a number of things,           I am sure we should all be as happy as kings.

It's true, you know.  The world is full of happiness, and plenty to goround, if you are only willing to take the kind that comes your way.The whole secret is in being PLIABLE.  In the country, especially,there are such a lot of entertaining things.  I can walk overeverybody's land, and look at everybody's view, and dabble ineverybody's brook; and enjoy it just as much as though I owned theland--and with no taxes to pay!
It's Sunday night now, about eleven o'clock, and I am supposed to begetting some beauty sleep, but I had black coffee for dinner, so--nobeauty sleep for me!
This morning, said Mrs. Semple to Mr. Pendleton, with a very determinedaccent:
'We have to leave here at a quarter past ten in order to get to churchby eleven.'
'Very well, Lizzie,' said Master Jervie, 'you have the buggy ready, andif I'm not dressed, just go on without waiting.'  'We'll wait,' saidshe.
'As you please,' said he, 'only don't keep the horses standing toolong.'
Then while she was dressing, he told Carrie to pack up a lunch, and hetold me to scramble into my walking clothes; and we slipped out theback way and went fishing.
It discommoded the household dreadfully, because Lock Willow of aSunday dines at two.  But he ordered dinner at seven--he orders mealswhenever he chooses; you would think the place were a restaurant--andthat kept Carrie and Amasai from going driving.  But he said it was allthe better because it wasn't proper for them to go driving without achaperon; and anyway, he wanted the horses himself to take me driving.Did you ever hear anything so funny?
And poor Mrs. Semple believes that people who go fishing on Sundays goafterwards to a sizzling hot hell!  She is awfully troubled to thinkthat she didn't train him better when he was small and helpless and shehad the chance.  Besides--she wished to show him off in church.
Anyway, we had our fishing (he caught four little ones) and we cookedthem on a camp-fire for lunch.  They kept falling off our spiked sticksinto the fire, so they tasted a little ashy, but we ate them.  We gothome at four and went driving at five and had dinner at seven, and atten I was sent to bed and here I am, writing to you.
I am getting a little sleepy, though.
                                       Good night.

Here is a picture of the one fish I caught.



Ship Ahoy, Cap'n Long-Legs!
Avast!  Belay!  Yo, ho, ho, and a bottle of rum.  Guess what I'mreading?  Our conversation these past two days has been nautical andpiratical.  Isn't Treasure Island fun?  Did you ever read it, or wasn'tit written when you were a boy?  Stevenson only got thirty pounds forthe serial rights--I don't believe it pays to be a great author.  MaybeI'll be a school-teacher.
Excuse me for filling my letters so full of Stevenson; my mind is verymuch engaged with him at present.  He comprises Lock Willow's library.
I've been writing this letter for two weeks, and I think it's aboutlong enough.  Never say, Daddy, that I don't give details.  I wish youwere here, too; we'd all have such a jolly time together.  I like mydifferent friends to know each other.  I wanted to ask Mr. Pendleton ifhe knew you in New York--I should think he might; you must move inabout the same exalted social circles, and you are both interested inreforms and things--but I couldn't, for I don't know your real name.
It's the silliest thing I ever heard of, not to know your name.  Mrs.Lippett warned me that you were eccentric.  I should think so!
                           Affectionately,                                               Judy

PS.  On reading this over, I find that it isn't all Stevenson.  Thereare one or two glancing references to Master Jervie.



                                               10th September
Dear Daddy,
He has gone, and we are missing him!  When you get accustomed to peopleor places or ways of living, and then have them snatched away, it doesleave an awfully empty, gnawing sort of sensation.  I'm finding Mrs.Semple's conversation pretty unseasoned food.
College opens in two weeks and I shall be glad to begin work again.  Ihave worked quite a lot this summer though--six short stories and sevenpoems.  Those I sent to the magazines all came back with the mostcourteous promptitude.  But I don't mind.  It's good practice.  MasterJervie read them--he brought in the post, so I couldn't help hisknowing--and he said they were DREADFUL.  They showed that I didn'thave the slightest idea of what I was talking about.  (Master Jerviedoesn't let politeness interfere with truth.) But the last one Idid--just a little sketch laid in college--he said wasn't bad; and hehad it typewritten, and I sent it to a magazine.  They've had it twoweeks; maybe they're thinking it over.
You should see the sky!  There's the queerest orange-coloured lightover everything.  We're going to have a storm.

It commenced just that moment with tremendously big drops and all theshutters banging.  I had to run to close the windows, while Carrie flewto the attic with an armful of milk pans to put under the places wherethe roof leaks and then, just as I was resuming my pen, I rememberedthat I'd left a cushion and rug and hat and Matthew Arnold's poemsunder a tree in the orchard, so I dashed out to get them, all quitesoaked.  The red cover of the poems had run into the inside; DoverBeach in the future will be washed by pink waves.
A storm is awfully disturbing in the country.  You are always having tothink of so many things that are out of doors and getting spoiled.
                                                   Thursday
Daddy!  Daddy!  What do you think?  The postman has just come with twoletters.
1st.  My story is accepted.  $50.
ALORS!  I'm an AUTHOR.
2nd.  A letter from the college secretary.  I'm to have a scholarshipfor two years that will cover board and tuition.  It was founded for'marked proficiency in English with general excellency in other lines.'And I've won it!  I applied for it before I left, but I didn't have anidea I'd get it, on account of my Freshman bad work in maths and Latin.But it seems I've made it up.  I am awfully glad, Daddy, because now Iwon't be such a burden to you.  The monthly allowance will be all I'llneed, and maybe I can earn that with writing or tutoring or something.
I'm LONGING to go back and begin work.
                   Yours ever,                                           Jerusha Abbott,
                               Author of When the Sophomores Won                               the Game.  For sale at all news                               stands, price ten cents.



                                               26th September
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Back at college again and an upper classman.  Our study is better thanever this year--faces the South with two huge windows and oh!  sofurnished.  Julia, with an unlimited allowance, arrived two days earlyand was attacked with a fever for settling.
We have new wall paper and oriental rugs and mahogany chairs--notpainted mahogany which made us sufficiently happy last year, but real.It's very gorgeous, but I don't feel as though I belonged in it; I'mnervous all the time for fear I'll get an ink spot in the wrong place.
And, Daddy, I found your letter waiting for me--pardon--I mean yoursecretary's.
Will you kindly convey to me a comprehensible reason why I should notaccept that scholarship?  I don't understand your objection in theleast.  But anyway, it won't do the slightest good for you to object,for I've already accepted it and I am not going to change!  That soundsa little impertinent, but I don't mean it so.
I suppose you feel that when you set out to educate me, you'd like tofinish the work, and put a neat period, in the shape of a diploma, atthe end.
But look at it just a second from my point of view.  I shall owe myeducation to you just as much as though I let you pay for the whole ofit, but I won't be quite so much indebted.  I know that you don't wantme to return the money, but nevertheless, I am going to want to do it,if I possibly can; and winning this scholarship makes it so mucheasier.  I was expecting to spend the rest of my life in paying mydebts, but now I shall only have to spend one-half of the rest of it.
I hope you understand my position and won't be cross.  The allowance Ishall still most gratefully accept.  It requires an allowance to liveup to Julia and her furniture!  I wish that she had been reared tosimpler tastes, or else that she were not my room-mate.
This isn't much of a letter; I meant to have written a lot--but I'vebeen hemming four window curtains and three portieres (I'm glad youcan't see the length of the stitches), and polishing a brass desk setwith tooth powder (very uphill work), and sawing off picture wire withmanicure scissors, and unpacking four boxes of books, and putting awaytwo trunkfuls of clothes (it doesn't seem believable that JerushaAbbott owns two trunks full of clothes, but she does!) and welcomingback fifty dear friends in between.
Opening day is a joyous occasion!
Good night, Daddy dear, and don't be annoyed because your chick iswanting to scratch for herself.  She's growing up into an awfullyenergetic little hen--with a very determined cluck and lots ofbeautiful feathers (all due to you).
                           Affectionately,                                               Judy



                                               30th September
Dear Daddy,
Are you still harping on that scholarship?  I never knew a man soobstinate, and stubborn and unreasonable, and tenacious, andbull-doggish, and unable-to-see-other-people's-point-of-view, as you.
You prefer that I should not be accepting favours from strangers.
Strangers!--And what are you, pray?
Is there anyone in the world that I know less?  I shouldn't recognizeyou if I met you in the street.  Now, you see, if you had been a sane,sensible person and had written nice, cheering fatherly letters to yourlittle Judy, and had come occasionally and patted her on the head, andhad said you were glad she was such a good girl--Then, perhaps, shewouldn't have flouted you in your old age, but would have obeyed yourslightest wish like the dutiful daughter she was meant to be.
Strangers indeed!  You live in a glass house, Mr. Smith.
And besides, this isn't a favour; it's like a prize--I earned it byhard work.  If nobody had been good enough in English, the committeewouldn't have awarded the scholarship; some years they don't. Also--But what's the use of arguing with a man?  You belong, Mr. Smith, to asex devoid of a sense of logic.  To bring a man into line, there arejust two methods:  one must either coax or be disagreeable.  I scorn tocoax men for what I wish.  Therefore, I must be disagreeable.
I refuse, sir, to give up the scholarship; and if you make any morefuss, I won't accept the monthly allowance either, but will wear myselfinto a nervous wreck tutoring stupid Freshmen.
That is my ultimatum!
And listen--I have a further thought.  Since you are so afraid that bytaking this scholarship I am depriving someone else of an education, Iknow a way out.  You can apply the money that you would have spent forme towards educating some other little girl from the John Grier Home.Don't you think that's a nice idea?  Only, Daddy, EDUCATE the new girlas much as you choose, but please don't LIKE her any better than me.
I trust that your secretary won't be hurt because I pay so littleattention to the suggestions offered in his letter, but I can't help itif he is.  He's a spoiled child, Daddy.  I've meekly given in to hiswhims heretofore, but this time I intend to be FIRM.
Yours,       With a mind,           Completely and Irrevocably and               World-without-End Made-up,
                                        Jerusha Abbott



                                                   9th November
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I started down town today to buy a bottle of shoe blacking and somecollars and the material for a new blouse and a jar of violet cream anda cake of Castile soap--all very necessary; I couldn't be happy anotherday without them--and when I tried to pay the car fare, I found that Ihad left my purse in the pocket of my other coat.  So I had to get outand take the next car, and was late for gymnasium.
It's a dreadful thing to have no memory and two coats!
Julia Pendleton has invited me to visit her for the Christmas holidays.How does that strike you, Mr. Smith?  Fancy Jerusha Abbott, of the JohnGrier Home, sitting at the tables of the rich.  I don't know why Juliawants me--she seems to be getting quite attached to me of late.  Ishould, to tell the truth, very much prefer going to Sallie's, butJulia asked me first, so if I go anywhere it must be to New Yorkinstead of to Worcester.  I'm rather awed at the prospect of meetingPendletons EN MASSE, and also I'd have to get a lot of new clothes--so,Daddy dear, if you write that you would prefer having me remain quietlyat college, I will bow to your wishes with my usual sweet docility.
I'm engaged at odd moments with the Life and Letters of ThomasHuxley--it makes nice, light reading to pick up between times.  Do youknow what an archaeopteryx is?  It's a bird.  And a stereognathus?  I'mnot sure myself, but I think it's a missing link, like a bird withteeth or a lizard with wings.  No, it isn't either; I've just looked inthe book.  It's a mesozoic mammal.
I've elected economics this year--very illuminating subject.  When Ifinish that I'm going to take Charity and Reform; then, Mr. Trustee,I'll know just how an orphan asylum ought to be run.  Don't you thinkI'd make an admirable voter if I had my rights?  I was twenty-one lastweek.  This is an awfully wasteful country to throw away such anhonest, educated, conscientious, intelligent citizen as I would be.
                           Yours always,                                               Judy



                                               7th December
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Thank you for permission to visit Julia--I take it that silence meansconsent.
Such a social whirl as we've been having!  The Founder's dance camelast week--this was the first year that any of us could attend; onlyupper classmen being allowed.
I invited Jimmie McBride, and Sallie invited his room-mate atPrinceton, who visited them last summer at their camp--an awfully niceman with red hair--and Julia invited a man from New York, not veryexciting, but socially irreproachable.  He is connected with the De laMater Chichesters.  Perhaps that means something to you?  It doesn'tilluminate me to any extent.
However--our guests came Friday afternoon in time for tea in the seniorcorridor, and then dashed down to the hotel for dinner.  The hotel wasso full that they slept in rows on the billiard tables, they say.Jimmie McBride says that the next time he is bidden to a social eventin this college, he is going to bring one of their Adirondack tents andpitch it on the campus.
At seven-thirty they came back for the President's reception and dance.Our functions commence early!  We had the men's cards all made outahead of time, and after every dance, we'd leave them in groups, underthe letter that stood for their names, so that they could be readilyfound by their next partners.  Jimmie McBride, for example, would standpatiently under 'M' until he was claimed.  (At least, he ought to havestood patiently, but he kept wandering off and getting mixed with 'R's'and 'S's' and all sorts of letters.) I found him a very difficultguest; he was sulky because he had only three dances with me.  He saidhe was bashful about dancing with girls he didn't know!
The next morning we had a glee club concert--and who do you think wrotethe funny new song composed for the occasion?  It's the truth.  Shedid.  Oh, I tell you, Daddy, your little foundling is getting to bequite a prominent person!
Anyway, our gay two days were great fun, and I think the men enjoyedit.  Some of them were awfully perturbed at first at the prospect offacing one thousand girls; but they got acclimated very quickly.  Ourtwo Princeton men had a beautiful time--at least they politely saidthey had, and they've invited us to their dance next spring.  We'veaccepted, so please don't object, Daddy dear.
Julia and Sallie and I all had new dresses.  Do you want to hear aboutthem?  Julia's was cream satin and gold embroidery and she wore purpleorchids.  It was a DREAM and came from Paris, and cost a milliondollars.
Sallie's was pale blue trimmed with Persian embroidery, and wentbeautifully with red hair.  It didn't cost quite a million, but wasjust as effective as Julia's.
Mine was pale pink crepe de chine trimmed with ecru lace and rosesatin.  And I carried crimson roses which J. McB.  sent (Sallie havingtold him what colour to get). And we all had satin slippers and silkstockings and chiffon scarfs to match.
You must be deeply impressed by these millinery details.
One can't help thinking, Daddy, what a colourless life a man is forcedto lead, when one reflects that chiffon and Venetian point and handembroidery and Irish crochet are to him mere empty words.  Whereas awoman--whether she is interested in babies or microbes or husbands orpoetry or servants or parallelograms or gardens or Plato or bridge--isfundamentally and always interested in clothes.
It's the one touch of nature that makes the whole world kin.  (Thatisn't original.  I got it out of one of Shakespeare's plays).
However, to resume.  Do you want me to tell you a secret that I'velately discovered?  And will you promise not to think me vain?  Thenlisten:
I'm pretty.
I am, really.  I'd be an awful idiot not to know it with threelooking-glasses in the room.
                                           A Friend

PS.  This is one of those wicked anonymous letters you read about innovels.


                                               20th December
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I've just a moment, because I must attend two classes, pack a trunk anda suit-case, and catch the four-o'clock train--but I couldn't gowithout sending a word to let you know how much I appreciate myChristmas box.
I love the furs and the necklace and the Liberty scarf and the glovesand handkerchiefs and books and purse--and most of all I love you!  ButDaddy, you have no business to spoil me this way.  I'm only human--anda girl at that.  How can I keep my mind sternly fixed on a studiouscareer, when you deflect me with such worldly frivolities?
I have strong suspicions now as to which one of the John Grier Trusteesused to give the Christmas tree and the Sunday ice-cream.  He wasnameless, but by his works I know him!  You deserve to be happy for allthe good things you do.
Goodbye, and a very merry Christmas.
                               Yours always,                                               Judy

PS.  I am sending a slight token, too.  Do you think you would like herif you knew her?



                                               11th January
I meant to write to you from the city, Daddy, but New York is anengrossing place.
I had an interesting--and illuminating--time, but I'm glad I don'tbelong to such a family!  I should truly rather have the John GrierHome for a background.  Whatever the drawbacks of my bringing up, therewas at least no pretence about it.  I know now what people mean whenthey say they are weighed down by Things.  The material atmosphere ofthat house was crushing; I didn't draw a deep breath until I was on anexpress train coming back.  All the furniture was carved andupholstered and gorgeous; the people I met were beautifully dressed andlow-voiced and well-bred, but it's the truth, Daddy, I never heard oneword of real talk from the time we arrived until we left.  I don'tthink an idea ever entered the front door.
Mrs. Pendleton never thinks of anything but jewels and dressmakers andsocial engagements.  She did seem a different kind of mother from Mrs.McBride!  If I ever marry and have a family, I'm going to make them asexactly like the McBrides as I can.  Not for all the money in the worldwould I ever let any children of mine develop into Pendletons.  Maybeit isn't polite to criticize people you've been visiting?  If it isn't,please excuse.  This is very confidential, between you and me.
I only saw Master Jervie once when he called at tea time, and then Ididn't have a chance to speak to him alone.  It was reallydisappointing after our nice time last summer.  I don't think he caresmuch for his relatives--and I am sure they don't care much for him!Julia's mother says he's unbalanced.  He's a Socialist--except, thankHeaven, he doesn't let his hair grow and wear red ties.  She can'timagine where he picked up his queer ideas; the family have been Churchof England for generations.  He throws away his money on every sort ofcrazy reform, instead of spending it on such sensible things as yachtsand automobiles and polo ponies.  He does buy candy with it though!  Hesent Julia and me each a box for Christmas.
You know, I think I'll be a Socialist, too.  You wouldn't mind, wouldyou, Daddy?  They're quite different from Anarchists; they don'tbelieve in blowing people up.  Probably I am one by rights; I belong tothe proletariat.  I haven't determined yet just which kind I am goingto be.  I will look into the subject over Sunday, and declare myprinciples in my next.
I've seen loads of theatres and hotels and beautiful houses.  My mindis a confused jumble of onyx and gilding and mosaic floors and palms.I'm still pretty breathless but I am glad to get back to college and mybooks--I believe that I really am a student; this atmosphere ofacademic calm I find more bracing than New York.  College is a verysatisfying sort of life; the books and study and regular classes keepyou alive mentally, and then when your mind gets tired, you have thegymnasium and outdoor athletics, and always plenty of congenial friendswho are thinking about the same things you are.  We spend a wholeevening in nothing but talk--talk--talk--and go to bed with a veryuplifted feeling, as though we had settled permanently some pressingworld problems.  And filling in every crevice, there is always such alot of nonsense--just silly jokes about the little things that come upbut very satisfying.  We do appreciate our own witticisms!
It isn't the great big pleasures that count the most; it's making agreat deal out of the little ones--I've discovered the true secret ofhappiness, Daddy, and that is to live in the now.  Not to be for everregretting the past, or anticipating the future; but to get the mostthat you can out of this very instant.  It's like farming.  You canhave extensive farming and intensive farming; well, I am going to haveintensive living after this.  I'm going to enjoy every second, and I'mgoing to KNOW I'm enjoying it while I'm enjoying it.  Most people don'tlive; they just race.  They are trying to reach some goal far away onthe horizon, and in the heat of the going they get so breathless andpanting that they lose all sight of the beautiful, tranquil countrythey are passing through; and then the first thing they know, they areold and worn out, and it doesn't make any difference whether they'vereached the goal or not.  I've decided to sit down by the way and pileup a lot of little happinesses, even if I never become a Great Author.Did you ever know such a philosopheress as I am developing into?
                                   Yours ever,                                                   Judy
PS.  It's raining cats and dogs tonight.  Two puppies and a kitten havejust landed on the window-sill.



Dear Comrade,
Hooray!  I'm a Fabian.
That's a Socialist who's willing to wait.  We don't want the socialrevolution to come tomorrow morning; it would be too upsetting.  Wewant it to come very gradually in the distant future, when we shall allbe prepared and able to sustain the shock.
In the meantime, we must be getting ready, by instituting industrial,educational and orphan asylum reforms.
               Yours, with fraternal love,                                               Judy
Monday, 3rd hour



                                                   11th FebruaryDear D.-L.-L.,
Don't be insulted because this is so short.  It isn't a letter; it'sjust a LINE to say that I'm going to write a letter pretty soon whenexaminations are over.  It is not only necessary that I pass, but passWELL.  I have a scholarship to live up to.
                       Yours, studying hard,                                               J. A.



                                                   5th March
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
President Cuyler made a speech this evening about the modern generationbeing flippant and superficial.  He says that we are losing the oldideals of earnest endeavour and true scholarship; and particularly isthis falling-off noticeable in our disrespectful attitude towardsorganized authority.  We no longer pay a seemly deference to oursuperiors.
I came away from chapel very sober.
Am I too familiar, Daddy?  Ought I to treat you with more dignity andaloofness?--Yes, I'm sure I ought.  I'll begin again.
My Dear Mr. Smith,
You will be pleased to hear that I passed successfully my mid-yearexaminations, and am now commencing work in the new semester.  I amleaving chemistry--having completed the course in qualitativeanalysis--and am entering upon the study of biology.  I approach thissubject with some hesitation, as I understand that we dissectangleworms and frogs.
An extremely interesting and valuable lecture was given in the chapellast week upon Roman Remains in Southern France.  I have never listenedto a more illuminating exposition of the subject.
We are reading Wordsworth's Tintern Abbey in connection with our coursein English Literature.  What an exquisite work it is, and howadequately it embodies his conceptions of Pantheism!  The Romanticmovement of the early part of the last century, exemplified in theworks of such poets as Shelley, Byron, Keats, and Wordsworth, appealsto me very much more than the Classical period that preceded it.Speaking of poetry, have you ever read that charming little thing ofTennyson's called Locksley Hall?
I am attending gymnasium very regularly of late.  A proctor system hasbeen devised, and failure to comply with the rules causes a great dealof inconvenience.  The gymnasium is equipped with a very beautifulswimming tank of cement and marble, the gift of a former graduate.  Myroom-mate, Miss McBride, has given me her bathing-suit (it shrank sothat she can no longer wear it) and I am about to begin swimminglessons.
We had delicious pink ice-cream for dessert last night.  Only vegetabledyes are used in colouring the food.  The college is very much opposed,both from aesthetic and hygienic motives, to the use of aniline dyes.
The weather of late has been ideal--bright sunshine and cloudsinterspersed with a few welcome snow-storms. I and my companions haveenjoyed our walks to and from classes--particularly from.
Trusting, my dear Mr. Smith, that this will find you in your usual goodhealth,
           I remain,               Most cordially yours,                                      Jerusha Abbott



                                               24th April
Dear Daddy,
Spring has come again!  You should see how lovely the campus is.  Ithink you might come and look at it for yourself.  Master Jerviedropped in again last Friday--but he chose a most unpropitious time,for Sallie and Julia and I were just running to catch a train.  Andwhere do you think we were going?  To Princeton, to attend a dance anda ball game, if you please!  I didn't ask you if I might go, because Ihad a feeling that your secretary would say no.  But it was entirelyregular; we had leave-of-absence from college, and Mrs. McBridechaperoned us.  We had a charming time--but I shall have to omitdetails; they are too many and complicated.

                                                       Saturday
Up before dawn!  The night watchman called us--six of us--and we madecoffee in a chafing dish (you never saw so many grounds!) and walkedtwo miles to the top of One Tree Hill to see the sun rise.  We had toscramble up the last slope!  The sun almost beat us!  And perhaps youthink we didn't bring back appetites to breakfast!
Dear me, Daddy, I seem to have a very ejaculatory style today; thispage is peppered with exclamations.
I meant to have written a lot about the budding trees and the newcinder path in the athletic field, and the awful lesson we have inbiology for tomorrow, and the new canoes on the lake, and CatherinePrentiss who has pneumonia, and Prexy's Angora kitten that strayed fromhome and has been boarding in Fergussen Hall for two weeks until achambermaid reported it, and about my three new dresses--white and pinkand blue polka dots with a hat to match--but I am too sleepy.  I amalways making this an excuse, am I not?  But a girls' college is a busyplace and we do get tired by the end of the day!  Particularly when theday begins at dawn.
                           Affectionately,                                               Judy



                                                   15th May
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Is it good manners when you get into a car just to stare straight aheadand not see anybody else?
A very beautiful lady in a very beautiful velvet dress got into the cartoday, and without the slightest expression sat for fifteen minutes andlooked at a sign advertising suspenders.  It doesn't seem polite toignore everybody else as though you were the only important personpresent.  Anyway, you miss a lot.  While she was absorbing that sillysign, I was studying a whole car full of interesting human beings.
The accompanying illustration is hereby reproduced for the first time.It looks like a spider on the end of a string, but it isn't at all;it's a picture of me learning to swim in the tank in the gymnasium.
The instructor hooks a rope into a ring in the back of my belt, andruns it through a pulley in the ceiling.  It would be a beautifulsystem if one had perfect confidence in the probity of one'sinstructor.  I'm always afraid, though, that she will let the rope getslack, so I keep one anxious eye on her and swim with the other, andwith this divided interest I do not make the progress that I otherwisemight.
Very miscellaneous weather we're having of late.  It was raining when Icommenced and now the sun is shining.  Sallie and I are going out toplay tennis--thereby gaining exemption from Gym.

                                           A week later
I should have finished this letter long ago, but I didn't. You don'tmind, do you, Daddy, if I'm not very regular?  I really do love towrite to you; it gives me such a respectable feeling of having somefamily.  Would you like me to tell you something?  You are not the onlyman to whom I write letters.  There are two others!  I have beenreceiving beautiful long letters this winter from Master Jervie (withtypewritten envelopes so Julia won't recognize the writing). Did youever hear anything so shocking?  And every week or so a very scrawlyepistle, usually on yellow tablet paper, arrives from Princeton.  Allof which I answer with business-like promptness.  So you see--I am notso different from other girls--I get letters, too.
Did I tell you that I have been elected a member of the Senior DramaticClub?  Very recherche organization.  Only seventy-five members out ofone thousand.  Do you think as a consistent Socialist that I ought tobelong?
What do you suppose is at present engaging my attention in sociology?I am writing (figurez vous!) a paper on the Care of Dependent Children.The Professor shuffled up his subjects and dealt them outpromiscuously, and that fell to me.  C'est drole ca n'est pas?
There goes the gong for dinner.  I'll post this as I pass the box.
                                   Affectionately,                                                       J.



                                                   4th June
Dear Daddy,
Very busy time--commencement in ten days, examinations tomorrow; lotsof studying, lots of packing, and the outdoor world so lovely that ithurts you to stay inside.
But never mind, vacation's coming.  Julia is going abroad thissummer--it makes the fourth time.  No doubt about it, Daddy, goods arenot distributed evenly.  Sallie, as usual, goes to the Adirondacks.And what do you think I am going to do?  You may have three guesses.Lock Willow?  Wrong.  The Adirondacks with Sallie?  Wrong.  (I'll neverattempt that again; I was discouraged last year.) Can't you guessanything else?  You're not very inventive.  I'll tell you, Daddy, ifyou'll promise not to make a lot of objections.  I warn your secretaryin advance that my mind is made up.
I am going to spend the summer at the seaside with a Mrs. CharlesPaterson and tutor her daughter who is to enter college in the autumn.I met her through the McBrides, and she is a very charming woman.  I amto give lessons in English and Latin to the younger daughter, too, butI shall have a little time to myself, and I shall be earning fiftydollars a month!  Doesn't that impress you as a perfectly exorbitantamount?  She offered it; I should have blushed to ask for more thantwenty-five.
I finish at Magnolia (that's where she lives) the first of September,and shall probably spend the remaining three weeks at Lock Willow--Ishould like to see the Semples again and all the friendly animals.
How does my programme strike you, Daddy?  I am getting quiteindependent, you see.  You have put me on my feet and I think I canalmost walk alone by now.
Princeton commencement and our examinations exactly coincide--which isan awful blow.  Sallie and I did so want to get away in time for it,but of course that is utterly impossible.
Goodbye, Daddy.  Have a nice summer and come back in the autumn restedand ready for another year of work.  (That's what you ought to bewriting to me!) I haven't any idea what you do in the summer, or howyou amuse yourself.  I can't visualize your surroundings.  Do you playgolf or hunt or ride horseback or just sit in the sun and meditate?
Anyway, whatever it is, have a good time and don't forget Judy.



                                                       10th June
Dear Daddy,
This is the hardest letter I ever wrote, but I have decided what I mustdo, and there isn't going to be any turning back.  It is very sweet andgenerous and dear of you to wish to send me to Europe this summer--forthe moment I was intoxicated by the idea; but sober second thoughtssaid no.  It would be rather illogical of me to refuse to take yourmoney for college, and then use it instead just for amusement!  Youmustn't get me used to too many luxuries.  One doesn't miss what onehas never had; but it's awfully hard going without things after one hascommenced thinking they are his--hers (English language needs anotherpronoun) by natural right.  Living with Sallie and Julia is an awfulstrain on my stoical philosophy.  They have both had things from thetime they were babies; they accept happiness as a matter of course.The World, they think, owes them everything they want.  Maybe the Worlddoes--in any case, it seems to acknowledge the debt and pay up.  But asfor me, it owes me nothing, and distinctly told me so in the beginning.I have no right to borrow on credit, for there will come a time whenthe World will repudiate my claim.
I seem to be floundering in a sea of metaphor--but I hope you grasp mymeaning?  Anyway, I have a very strong feeling that the only honestthing for me to do is to teach this summer and begin to support myself.


                                       MAGNOLIA,                                               Four days later
I'd got just that much written, when--what do you think happened?  Themaid arrived with Master Jervie's card.  He is going abroad too thissummer; not with Julia and her family, but entirely by himself I toldhim that you had invited me to go with a lady who is chaperoning aparty of girls.  He knows about you, Daddy.  That is, he knows that myfather and mother are dead, and that a kind gentleman is sending me tocollege; I simply didn't have the courage to tell him about the JohnGrier Home and all the rest.  He thinks that you are my guardian and aperfectly legitimate old family friend.  I have never told him that Ididn't know you--that would seem too queer!
Anyway, he insisted on my going to Europe.  He said that it was anecessary part of my education and that I mustn't think of refusing.Also, that he would be in Paris at the same time, and that we would runaway from the chaperon occasionally and have dinner together at nice,funny, foreign restaurants.
Well, Daddy, it did appeal to me!  I almost weakened; if he hadn't beenso dictatorial, maybe I should have entirely weakened.  I can beenticed step by step, but I WON'T be forced.  He said I was a silly,foolish, irrational, quixotic, idiotic, stubborn child (those are a fewof his abusive adjectives; the rest escape me), and that I didn't knowwhat was good for me; I ought to let older people judge.  We almostquarrelled--I am not sure but that we entirely did!
In any case, I packed my trunk fast and came up here.  I thought I'dbetter see my bridges in flames behind me before I finished writing toyou.  They are entirely reduced to ashes now.  Here I am at Cliff Top(the name of Mrs. Paterson's cottage) with my trunk unpacked andFlorence (the little one) already struggling with first declensionnouns.  And it bids fair to be a struggle!  She is a most uncommonlyspoiled child; I shall have to teach her first how to study--she hasnever in her life concentrated on anything more difficult thanice-cream soda water.
We use a quiet corner of the cliffs for a schoolroom--Mrs. Patersonwishes me to keep them out of doors--and I will say that I find itdifficult to concentrate with the blue sea before me and shipsa-sailing by!  And when I think I might be on one, sailing off toforeign lands--but I WON'T let myself think of anything but LatinGrammar.

The prepositions a or ab, absque, coram, cum, de e or ex, prae, pro,sine, tenus, in, subter, sub and super govern the ablative.

So you see, Daddy, I am already plunged into work with my eyespersistently set against temptation.  Don't be cross with me, please,and don't think that I do not appreciate your kindness, for Ido--always--always.  The only way I can ever repay you is by turningout a Very Useful Citizen (Are women citizens?  I don't suppose theyare.) Anyway, a Very Useful Person.  And when you look at me you cansay, 'I gave that Very Useful Person to the world.'
That sounds well, doesn't it, Daddy?  But I don't wish to mislead you.The feeling often comes over me that I am not at all remarkable; it isfun to plan a career, but in all probability I shan't turn out a bitdifferent from any other ordinary person.  I may end by marrying anundertaker and being an inspiration to him in his work.
                           Yours ever,                                           Judy



                                                   19th August
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
My window looks out on the loveliest landscape--ocean-scape,rather--nothing but water and rocks.
The summer goes.  I spend the morning with Latin and English andalgebra and my two stupid girls.  I don't know how Marion is ever goingto get into college, or stay in after she gets there.  And as forFlorence, she is hopeless--but oh! such a little beauty.  I don'tsuppose it matters in the least whether they are stupid or not so longas they are pretty?  One can't help thinking, though, how theirconversation will bore their husbands, unless they are fortunate enoughto obtain stupid husbands.  I suppose that's quite possible; the worldseems to be filled with stupid men; I've met a number this summer.
In the afternoon we take a walk on the cliffs, or swim, if the tide isright.  I can swim in salt water with the utmost ease you see myeducation is already being put to use!
A letter comes from Mr. Jervis Pendleton in Paris, rather a shortconcise letter; I'm not quite forgiven yet for refusing to follow hisadvice.  However, if he gets back in time, he will see me for a fewdays at Lock Willow before college opens, and if I am very nice andsweet and docile, I shall (I am led to infer) be received into favouragain.
Also a letter from Sallie.  She wants me to come to their camp for twoweeks in September.  Must I ask your permission, or haven't I yetarrived at the place where I can do as I please?  Yes, I am sure Ihave--I'm a Senior, you know.  Having worked all summer, I feel liketaking a little healthful recreation; I want to see the Adirondacks; Iwant to see Sallie; I want to see Sallie's brother--he's going to teachme to canoe--and (we come to my chief motive, which is mean) I wantMaster Jervie to arrive at Lock Willow and find me not there.
I MUST show him that he can't dictate to me.  No one can dictate to mebut you, Daddy--and you can't always!  I'm off for the woods.
                                       Judy



                                       CAMP MCBRIDE,                                                   6th September
Dear Daddy,
Your letter didn't come in time (I am pleased to say). If you wish yourinstructions to be obeyed, you must have your secretary transmit themin less than two weeks.  As you observe, I am here, and have been forfive days.
The woods are fine, and so is the camp, and so is the weather, and soare the McBrides, and so is the whole world.  I'm very happy!
There's Jimmie calling for me to come canoeing.  Goodbye--sorry to havedisobeyed, but why are you so persistent about not wanting me to play alittle?  When I've worked all the summer I deserve two weeks.  You areawfully dog-in-the-mangerish.
However--I love you still, Daddy, in spite of all your faults.
                                           Judy



                                                   3rd OctoberDear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Back at college and a Senior--also editor of the Monthly.  It doesn'tseem possible, does it, that so sophisticated a person, just four yearsago, was an inmate of the John Grier Home?  We do arrive fast inAmerica!
What do you think of this?  A note from Master Jervie directed to LockWillow and forwarded here.  He's sorry, but he finds that he can't getup there this autumn; he has accepted an invitation to go yachting withsome friends.  Hopes I've had a nice summer and am enjoying the country.
And he knew all the time that I was with the McBrides, for Julia toldhim so!  You men ought to leave intrigue to women; you haven't a lightenough touch.
Julia has a trunkful of the most ravishing new clothes--an evening gownof rainbow Liberty crepe that would be fitting raiment for the angelsin Paradise.  And I thought that my own clothes this year wereunprecedentedly (is there such a word?) beautiful.  I copied Mrs.Paterson's wardrobe with the aid of a cheap dressmaker, and though thegowns didn't turn out quite twins of the originals, I was entirelyhappy until Julia unpacked.  But now--I live to see Paris!
Dear Daddy, aren't you glad you're not a girl?  I suppose you thinkthat the fuss we make over clothes is too absolutely silly?  It is.  Nodoubt about it.  But it's entirely your fault.
Did you ever hear about the learned Herr Professor who regardedunnecessary adornment with contempt and favoured sensible, utilitarianclothes for women?  His wife, who was an obliging creature, adopted'dress reform.'  And what do you think he did?  He eloped with a chorusgirl.
                           Yours ever,                                                   Judy

PS.  The chamber-maid in our corridor wears blue checked ginghamaprons.  I am going to get her some brown ones instead, and sink theblue ones in the bottom of the lake.  I have a reminiscent chill everytime I look at them.




                                               17th November
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Such a blight has fallen over my literary career.  I don't know whetherto tell you or not, but I would like some sympathy--silent sympathy,please; don't re-open the wound by referring to it in your next letter.
I've been writing a book, all last winter in the evenings, and all thesummer when I wasn't teaching Latin to my two stupid children.  I justfinished it before college opened and sent it to a publisher.  He keptit two months, and I was certain he was going to take it; but yesterdaymorning an express parcel came (thirty cents due) and there it was backagain with a letter from the publisher, a very nice, fatherlyletter--but frank!  He said he saw from the address that I was still atcollege, and if I would accept some advice, he would suggest that I putall of my energy into my lessons and wait until I graduated beforebeginning to write.  He enclosed his reader's opinion.  Here it is:
'Plot highly improbable.  Characterization exaggerated.  Conversationunnatural.  A good deal of humour but not always in the best of taste.Tell her to keep on trying, and in time she may produce a real book.'
Not on the whole flattering, is it, Daddy?  And I thought I was makinga notable addition to American literature.  I did truly.  I wasplanning to surprise you by writing a great novel before I graduated.I collected the material for it while I was at Julia's last Christmas.But I dare say the editor is right.  Probably two weeks was not enoughin which to observe the manners and customs of a great city.
I took it walking with me yesterday afternoon, and when I came to thegas house, I went in and asked the engineer if I might borrow hisfurnace.  He politely opened the door, and with my own hands I chuckedit in.  I felt as though I had cremated my only child!
I went to bed last night utterly dejected; I thought I was never goingto amount to anything, and that you had thrown away your money fornothing.  But what do you think?  I woke up this morning with abeautiful new plot in my head, and I've been going about all dayplanning my characters, just as happy as I could be.  No one can everaccuse me of being a pessimist!  If I had a husband and twelve childrenswallowed by an earthquake one day, I'd bob up smilingly the nextmorning and commence to look for another set.
                           Affectionately,                                               Judy



                                               14th December
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I dreamed the funniest dream last night.  I thought I went into a bookstore and the clerk brought me a new book named The Life and Letters ofJudy Abbott.  I could see it perfectly plainly--red cloth binding witha picture of the John Grier Home on the cover, and my portrait for afrontispiece with, 'Very truly yours, Judy Abbott,' written below.  Butjust as I was turning to the end to read the inscription on mytombstone, I woke up.  It was very annoying!  I almost found out whomI'm going to marry and when I'm going to die.
Don't you think it would be interesting if you really could read thestory of your life--written perfectly truthfully by an omniscientauthor?  And suppose you could only read it on this condition:  thatyou would never forget it, but would have to go through life knowingahead of time exactly how everything you did would turn out, andforeseeing to the exact hour the time when you would die.  How manypeople do you suppose would have the courage to read it then? or howmany could suppress their curiosity sufficiently to escape from readingit, even at the price of having to live without hope and withoutsurprises?
Life is monotonous enough at best; you have to eat and sleep about sooften.  But imagine how DEADLY monotonous it would be if nothingunexpected could happen between meals.  Mercy!  Daddy, there's a blot,but I'm on the third page and I can't begin a new sheet.
I'm going on with biology again this year--very interesting subject;we're studying the alimentary system at present.  You should see howsweet a cross-section of the duodenum of a cat is under the microscope.
Also we've arrived at philosophy--interesting but evanescent.  I preferbiology where you can pin the subject under discussion to a board.There's another!  And another!  This pen is weeping copiously.  Pleaseexcuse its tears.
Do you believe in free will?  I do--unreservedly.  I don't agree at allwith the philosophers who think that every action is the absolutelyinevitable and automatic resultant of an aggregation of remote causes.That's the most immoral doctrine I ever heard--nobody would be to blamefor anything.  If a man believed in fatalism, he would naturally justsit down and say, 'The Lord's will be done,' and continue to sit untilhe fell over dead.
I believe absolutely in my own free will and my own power toaccomplish--and that is the belief that moves mountains.  You watch mebecome a great author!  I have four chapters of my new book finishedand five more drafted.
This is a very abstruse letter--does your head ache, Daddy?  I thinkwe'll stop now and make some fudge.  I'm sorry I can't send you apiece; it will be unusually good, for we're going to make it with realcream and three butter balls.
                       Yours affectionately,                                               Judy

PS.  We're having fancy dancing in gymnasium class.  You can see by theaccompanying picture how much we look like a real ballet.  The one atthe end accomplishing a graceful pirouette is me--I mean I.



                                               26th December
My Dear, Dear, Daddy,
Haven't you any sense?  Don't you KNOW that you mustn't give one girlseventeen Christmas presents?  I'm a Socialist, please remember; do youwish to turn me into a Plutocrat?
Think how embarrassing it would be if we should ever quarrel!  I shouldhave to engage a moving-van to return your gifts.
I am sorry that the necktie I sent was so wobbly; I knit it with my ownhands (as you doubtless discovered from internal evidence).  You willhave to wear it on cold days and keep your coat buttoned up tight.
Thank you, Daddy, a thousand times.  I think you're the sweetest manthat ever lived--and the foolishest!
                                                   Judy

Here's a four-leaf clover from Camp McBride to bring you good luck forthe New Year.



                                                   9th January
Do you wish to do something, Daddy, that will ensure your eternalsalvation?  There is a family here who are in awfully desperatestraits.  A mother and father and four visible children--the two olderboys have disappeared into the world to make their fortune and have notsent any of it back.  The father worked in a glass factory and gotconsumption--it's awfully unhealthy work--and now has been sent away toa hospital.  That took all their savings, and the support of the familyfalls upon the oldest daughter, who is twenty-four. She dressmakes for$1.50 a day (when she can get it) and embroiders centrepieces in theevening.  The mother isn't very strong and is extremely ineffectual andpious.  She sits with her hands folded, a picture of patientresignation, while the daughter kills herself with overwork andresponsibility and worry; she doesn't see how they are going to getthrough the rest of the winter--and I don't either.  One hundreddollars would buy some coal and some shoes for three children so thatthey could go to school, and give a little margin so that she needn'tworry herself to death when a few days pass and she doesn't get work.
You are the richest man I know.  Don't you suppose you could spare onehundred dollars?  That girl deserves help a lot more than I ever did.I wouldn't ask it except for the girl; I don't care much what happensto the mother--she is such a jelly-fish.
The way people are for ever rolling their eyes to heaven and saying,'Perhaps it's all for the best,' when they are perfectly dead sure it'snot, makes me enraged.  Humility or resignation or whatever you chooseto call it, is simply impotent inertia.  I'm for a more militantreligion!
We are getting the most dreadful lessons in philosophy--all ofSchopenhauer for tomorrow.  The professor doesn't seem to realize thatwe are taking any other subject.  He's a queer old duck; he goes aboutwith his head in the clouds and blinks dazedly when occasionally hestrikes solid earth.  He tries to lighten his lectures with anoccasional witticism--and we do our best to smile, but I assure you hisjokes are no laughing matter.  He spends his entire time betweenclasses in trying to figure out whether matter really exists or whetherhe only thinks it exists.
I'm sure my sewing girl hasn't any doubt but that it exists!
Where do you think my new novel is?  In the waste-basket. I can seemyself that it's no good on earth, and when a loving author realizesthat, what WOULD be the judgment of a critical public?

                                                       Later
I address you, Daddy, from a bed of pain.  For two days I've been laidup with swollen tonsils; I can just swallow hot milk, and that is all.'What were your parents thinking of not to have those tonsils out whenyou were a baby?' the doctor wished to know.  I'm sure I haven't anidea, but I doubt if they were thinking much about me.
                                   Yours,                                               J. A.



                                                   Next morning
I just read this over before sealing it.  I don't know WHY I cast sucha misty atmosphere over life.  I hasten to assure you that I am youngand happy and exuberant; and I trust you are the same.  Youth hasnothing to do with birthdays, only with ALIVEDNESS of spirit, so evenif your hair is grey, Daddy, you can still be a boy.
                           Affectionately,                                                   Judy



                                                   12th Jan.
Dear Mr. Philanthropist,
Your cheque for my family came yesterday.  Thank you so much!  I cutgymnasium and took it down to them right after luncheon, and you shouldhave seen the girl's face!  She was so surprised and happy and relievedthat she looked almost young; and she's only twenty-four. Isn't itpitiful?
Anyway, she feels now as though all the good things were comingtogether.  She has steady work ahead for two months--someone's gettingmarried, and there's a trousseau to make.
'Thank the good Lord!' cried the mother, when she grasped the fact thatthat small piece of paper was one hundred dollars.
'It wasn't the good Lord at all,' said I, 'it was Daddy-Long-Legs.'(Mr. Smith, I called you.)
'But it was the good Lord who put it in his mind,' said she.
'Not at all!  I put it in his mind myself,' said I.
But anyway, Daddy, I trust the good Lord will reward you suitably.  Youdeserve ten thousand years out of purgatory.
                   Yours most gratefully,                                           Judy Abbott



                                                   15th Feb.
May it please Your Most Excellent Majesty:
This morning I did eat my breakfast upon a cold turkey pie and a goose,and I did send for a cup of tee (a china drink) of which I had neverdrank before.
Don't be nervous, Daddy--I haven't lost my mind; I'm merely quotingSam'l Pepys.  We're reading him in connection with English History,original sources.  Sallie and Julia and I converse now in the languageof 1660.  Listen to this:
'I went to Charing Cross to see Major Harrison hanged, drawn andquartered:  he looking as cheerful as any man could do in thatcondition.'  And this:  'Dined with my lady who is in handsome mourningfor her brother who died yesterday of spotted fever.'
Seems a little early to commence entertaining, doesn't it?  A friend ofPepys devised a very cunning manner whereby the king might pay hisdebts out of the sale to poor people of old decayed provisions.  Whatdo you, a reformer, think of that?  I don't believe we're so bad todayas the newspapers make out.
Samuel was as excited about his clothes as any girl; he spent fivetimes as much on dress as his wife--that appears to have been theGolden Age of husbands.  Isn't this a touching entry?  You see hereally was honest.  'Today came home my fine Camlett cloak with goldbuttons, which cost me much money, and I pray God to make me able topay for it.'
Excuse me for being so full of Pepys; I'm writing a special topic onhim.
What do you think, Daddy?  The Self-Government Association hasabolished the ten o'clock rule.  We can keep our lights all night if wechoose, the only requirement being that we do not disturb others--weare not supposed to entertain on a large scale.  The result is abeautiful commentary on human nature.  Now that we may stay up as longas we choose, we no longer choose.  Our heads begin to nod at nineo'clock, and by nine-thirty the pen drops from our nerveless grasp.It's nine-thirty now.  Good night.

                                                   Sunday
Just back from church--preacher from Georgia.  We must take care, hesays, not to develop our intellects at the expense of our emotionalnatures--but methought it was a poor, dry sermon (Pepys again). Itdoesn't matter what part of the United States or Canada they come from,or what denomination they are, we always get the same sermon.  Why onearth don't they go to men's colleges and urge the students not toallow their manly natures to be crushed out by too much mentalapplication?
It's a beautiful day--frozen and icy and clear.  As soon as dinner isover, Sallie and Julia and Marty Keene and Eleanor Pratt (friends ofmine, but you don't know them) and I are going to put on short skirtsand walk 'cross country to Crystal Spring Farm and have a fried chickenand waffle supper, and then have Mr. Crystal Spring drive us home inhis buckboard.  We are supposed to be inside the campus at seven, butwe are going to stretch a point tonight and make it eight.
Farewell, kind Sir.
       I have the honour of subscribing myself,           Your most loyall, dutifull, faithfull and obedient servant,                                           J. Abbott



                                                   March Fifth
Dear Mr. Trustee,
Tomorrow is the first Wednesday in the month--a weary day for the JohnGrier Home.  How relieved they'll be when five o'clock comes and youpat them on the head and take yourselves off!  Did you (individually)ever pat me on the head, Daddy?  I don't believe so--my memory seems tobe concerned only with fat Trustees.
Give the Home my love, please--my TRULY love.  I have quite a feelingof tenderness for it as I look back through a haze of four years.  WhenI first came to college I felt quite resentful because I'd been robbedof the normal kind of childhood that the other girls had had; but now,I don't feel that way in the least.  I regard it as a very unusualadventure.  It gives me a sort of vantage point from which to standaside and look at life.  Emerging full grown, I get a perspective onthe world, that other people who have been brought up in the thick ofthings entirely lack.
I know lots of girls (Julia, for instance) who never know that they arehappy.  They are so accustomed to the feeling that their senses aredeadened to it; but as for me--I am perfectly sure every moment of mylife that I am happy.  And I'm going to keep on being, no matter whatunpleasant things turn up.  I'm going to regard them (even toothaches)as interesting experiences, and be glad to know what they feel like.'Whatever sky's above me, I've a heart for any fate.'
However, Daddy, don't take this new affection for the J.G.H.  tooliterally.  If I have five children, like Rousseau, I shan't leave themon the steps of a foundling asylum in order to insure their beingbrought up simply.
Give my kindest regards to Mrs. Lippett (that, I think, is truthful;love would be a little strong) and don't forget to tell her what abeautiful nature I've developed.
                               Affectionately,                                                   Judy


                                              LOCK WILLOW,                                                  4th April
Dear Daddy,
Do you observe the postmark?  Sallie and I are embellishing Lock Willowwith our presence during the Easter Vacation.  We decided that the bestthing we could do with our ten days was to come where it is quiet.  Ournerves had got to the point where they wouldn't stand another meal inFergussen.  Dining in a room with four hundred girls is an ordeal whenyou are tired.  There is so much noise that you can't hear the girlsacross the table speak unless they make their hands into a megaphoneand shout.  That is the truth.
We are tramping over the hills and reading and writing, and having anice, restful time.  We climbed to the top of 'Sky Hill' this morningwhere Master Jervie and I once cooked supper--it doesn't seem possiblethat it was nearly two years ago.  I could still see the place wherethe smoke of our fire blackened the rock.  It is funny how certainplaces get connected with certain people, and you never go back withoutthinking of them.  I was quite lonely without him--for two minutes.
What do you think is my latest activity, Daddy?  You will begin tobelieve that I am incorrigible--I am writing a book.  I started itthree weeks ago and am eating it up in chunks.  I've caught the secret.Master Jervie and that editor man were right; you are most convincingwhen you write about the things you know.  And this time it is aboutsomething that I do know--exhaustively.  Guess where it's laid?  In theJohn Grier Home!  And it's good, Daddy, I actually believe it is--justabout the tiny little things that happened every day.  I'm a realistnow.  I've abandoned romanticism; I shall go back to it later though,when my own adventurous future begins.
This new book is going to get itself finished--and published!  You seeif it doesn't. If you just want a thing hard enough and keep on trying,you do get it in the end.  I've been trying for four years to get aletter from you--and I haven't given up hope yet.
Goodbye, Daddy dear,
(I like to call you Daddy dear; it's so alliterative.)
                                   Affectionately,                                                   Judy

PS.  I forgot to tell you the farm news, but it's very distressing.Skip this postscript if you don't want your sensibilities all wroughtup.
Poor old Grove is dead.  He got so that he couldn't chew and they hadto shoot him.
Nine chickens were killed by a weasel or a skunk or a rat last week.
One of the cows is sick, and we had to have the veterinary surgeon outfrom Bonnyrigg Four Corners.  Amasai stayed up all night to give herlinseed oil and whisky.  But we have an awful suspicion that the poorsick cow got nothing but linseed oil.
Sentimental Tommy (the tortoise-shell cat) has disappeared; we areafraid he has been caught in a trap.
There are lots of troubles in the world!



                                                   17th May
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
This is going to be extremely short because my shoulder aches at thesight of a pen.  Lecture notes all day, immortal novel all evening,make too much writing.
Commencement three weeks from next Wednesday.  I think you might comeand make my acquaintance--I shall hate you if you don't! Julia'sinviting Master Jervie, he being her family, and Sallie's invitingJimmie McB., he being her family, but who is there for me to invite?Just you and Lippett, and I don't want her.  Please come.
Yours, with love and writer's cramp.                                               Judy



                                                  LOCK WILLOW,                                                     19th June
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
I'm educated!  My diploma is in the bottom bureau drawer with my twobest dresses.  Commencement was as usual, with a few showers at vitalmoments.  Thank you for your rosebuds.  They were lovely.  MasterJervie and Master Jimmie both gave me roses, too, but I left theirs inthe bath tub and carried yours in the class procession.
Here I am at Lock Willow for the summer--for ever maybe.  The board ischeap; the surroundings quiet and conducive to a literary life.  Whatmore does a struggling author wish?  I am mad about my book.  I thinkof it every waking moment, and dream of it at night.  All I want ispeace and quiet and lots of time to work (interspersed with nourishingmeals).
Master Jervie is coming up for a week or so in August, and JimmieMcBride is going to drop in sometime through the summer.  He'sconnected with a bond house now, and goes about the country sellingbonds to banks.  He's going to combine the 'Farmers' National' at theCorners and me on the same trip.
You see that Lock Willow isn't entirely lacking in society.  I'd beexpecting to have you come motoring through--only I know now that thatis hopeless.  When you wouldn't come to my commencement, I tore youfrom my heart and buried you for ever.
                           Judy Abbott, A.B.



                                                   24th July
Dearest Daddy-Long-Legs,
Isn't it fun to work--or don't you ever do it?  It's especially funwhen your kind of work is the thing you'd rather do more than anythingelse in the world.  I've been writing as fast as my pen would go everyday this summer, and my only quarrel with life is that the days aren'tlong enough to write all the beautiful and valuable and entertainingthoughts I'm thinking.
I've finished the second draft of my book and am going to begin thethird tomorrow morning at half-past seven.  It's the sweetest book youever saw--it is, truly.  I think of nothing else.  I can barely wait inthe morning to dress and eat before beginning; then I write and writeand write till suddenly I'm so tired that I'm limp all over.  Then I goout with Colin (the new sheep dog) and romp through the fields and geta fresh supply of ideas for the next day.  It's the most beautiful bookyou ever saw--Oh, pardon--I said that before.
You don't think me conceited, do you, Daddy dear?
I'm not, really, only just now I'm in the enthusiastic stage.  Maybelater on I'll get cold and critical and sniffy.  No, I'm sure I won't!This time I've written a real book.  Just wait till you see it.
I'll try for a minute to talk about something else.  I never told you,did I, that Amasai and Carrie got married last May?  They are stillworking here, but so far as I can see it has spoiled them both.  Sheused to laugh when he tramped in mud or dropped ashes on the floor, butnow--you should hear her scold!  And she doesn't curl her hair anylonger.  Amasai, who used to be so obliging about beating rugs andcarrying wood, grumbles if you suggest such a thing.  Also his necktiesare quite dingy--black and brown, where they used to be scarlet andpurple.  I've determined never to marry.  It's a deteriorating process,evidently.
There isn't much of any farm news.  The animals are all in the best ofhealth.  The pigs are unusually fat, the cows seem contented and thehens are laying well.  Are you interested in poultry?  If so, let merecommend that invaluable little work, 200 Eggs per Hen per Year.  I amthinking of starting an incubator next spring and raising broilers.You see I'm settled at Lock Willow permanently.  I have decided to stayuntil I've written 114 novels like Anthony Trollope's mother.  Then Ishall have completed my life work and can retire and travel.
Mr. James McBride spent last Sunday with us.  Fried chicken andice-cream for dinner, both of which he appeared to appreciate.  I wasawfully glad to see him; he brought a momentary reminder that the worldat large exists.  Poor Jimmie is having a hard time peddling his bonds.The 'Farmers' National' at the Corners wouldn't have anything to dowith them in spite of the fact that they pay six per cent.  interestand sometimes seven.  I think he'll end up by going home to Worcesterand taking a job in his father's factory.  He's too open and confidingand kind-hearted ever to make a successful financier.  But to be themanager of a flourishing overall factory is a very desirable position,don't you think?  Just now he turns up his nose at overalls, but he'llcome to them.
I hope you appreciate the fact that this is a long letter from a personwith writer's cramp.  But I still love you, Daddy dear, and I'm veryhappy.  With beautiful scenery all about, and lots to eat and acomfortable four-post bed and a ream of blank paper and a pint ofink--what more does one want in the world?
                           Yours as always,                                               Judy
PS.  The postman arrives with some more news.  We are to expect MasterJervie on Friday next to spend a week.  That's a very pleasantprospect--only I am afraid my poor book will suffer.  Master Jervie isvery demanding.



                                               27th August
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Where are you, I wonder?
I never know what part of the world you are in, but I hope you're notin New York during this awful weather.  I hope you're on a mountainpeak (but not in Switzerland; somewhere nearer) looking at the snow andthinking about me.  Please be thinking about me.  I'm quite lonely andI want to be thought about.  Oh, Daddy, I wish I knew you!  Then whenwe were unhappy we could cheer each other up.
I don't think I can stand much more of Lock Willow.  I'm thinking ofmoving.  Sallie is going to do settlement work in Boston next winter.Don't you think it would be nice for me to go with her, then we couldhave a studio together?  I would write while she SETTLED and we couldbe together in the evenings.  Evenings are very long when there's noone but the Semples and Carrie and Amasai to talk to.  I know inadvance that you won't like my studio idea.  I can read yoursecretary's letter now:

'Miss Jerusha Abbott.       'DEAR MADAM,
'Mr. Smith prefers that you remain at Lock Willow.               'Yours truly,                           'ELMER H. GRIGGS.'

I hate your secretary.  I am certain that a man named Elmer H. Griggsmust be horrid.  But truly, Daddy, I think I shall have to go toBoston.  I can't stay here.  If something doesn't happen soon, I shallthrow myself into the silo pit out of sheer desperation.
Mercy! but it's hot.  All the grass is burnt up and the brooks are dryand the roads are dusty.  It hasn't rained for weeks and weeks.
This letter sounds as though I had hydrophobia, but I haven't. I justwant some family.
Goodbye, my dearest Daddy.
                           I wish I knew you.                                               Judy



                                         LOCK WILLOW,                                           19th September
Dear Daddy,
Something has happened and I need advice.  I need it from you, and fromnobody else in the world.  Wouldn't it be possible for me to see you?It's so much easier to talk than to write; and I'm afraid yoursecretary might open the letter.                                           Judy
PS.  I'm very unhappy.



                                   LOCK WILLOW,                                               3rd October
Dear Daddy-Long-Legs,
Your note written in your own hand--and a pretty wobbly hand!--camethis morning.  I am so sorry that you have been ill; I wouldn't havebothered you with my affairs if I had known.  Yes, I will tell you thetrouble, but it's sort of complicated to write, and VERY PRIVATE.Please don't keep this letter, but burn it.
Before I begin--here's a cheque for one thousand dollars.  It seemsfunny, doesn't it, for me to be sending a cheque to you?  Where do youthink I got it?
I've sold my story, Daddy.  It's going to be published serially inseven parts, and then in a book!  You might think I'd be wild with joy,but I'm not.  I'm entirely apathetic.  Of course I'm glad to beginpaying you--I owe you over two thousand more.  It's coming ininstalments.  Now don't be horrid, please, about taking it, because itmakes me happy to return it.  I owe you a great deal more than the meremoney, and the rest I will continue to pay all my life in gratitude andaffection.
And now, Daddy, about the other thing; please give me your most worldlyadvice, whether you think I'll like it or not.
You know that I've always had a very special feeling towards you; yousort of represented my whole family; but you won't mind, will you, if Itell you that I have a very much more special feeling for another man?You can probably guess without much trouble who he is.  I suspect thatmy letters have been very full of Master Jervie for a very long time.
I wish I could make you understand what he is like and how entirelycompanionable we are.  We think the same about everything--I am afraidI have a tendency to make over my ideas to match his!  But he is almostalways right; he ought to be, you know, for he has fourteen years'start of me.  In other ways, though, he's just an overgrown boy, and hedoes need looking after--he hasn't any sense about wearing rubbers whenit rains.  He and I always think the same things are funny, and that issuch a lot; it's dreadful when two people's senses of humour areantagonistic.  I don't believe there's any bridging that gulf!
And he is--Oh, well!  He is just himself, and I miss him, and miss him,and miss him.  The whole world seems empty and aching.  I hate themoonlight because it's beautiful and he isn't here to see it with me.But maybe you've loved somebody, too, and you know?  If you have, Idon't need to explain; if you haven't, I can't explain.
Anyway, that's the way I feel--and I've refused to marry him.
I didn't tell him why; I was just dumb and miserable.  I couldn't thinkof anything to say.  And now he has gone away imagining that I want tomarry Jimmie McBride--I don't in the least, I wouldn't think ofmarrying Jimmie; he isn't grown up enough.  But Master Jervie and I gotinto a dreadful muddle of misunderstanding and we both hurt eachother's feelings.  The reason I sent him away was not because I didn'tcare for him, but because I cared for him so much.  I was afraid hewould regret it in the future--and I couldn't stand that!  It didn'tseem right for a person of my lack of antecedents to marry into anysuch family as his.  I never told him about the orphan asylum, and Ihated to explain that I didn't know who I was.  I may be DREADFUL, youknow.  And his family are proud--and I'm proud, too!
Also, I felt sort of bound to you.  After having been educated to be awriter, I must at least try to be one; it would scarcely be fair toaccept your education and then go off and not use it.  But now that Iam going to be able to pay back the money, I feel that I have partiallydischarged that debt--besides, I suppose I could keep on being a writereven if I did marry.  The two professions are not necessarily exclusive.
I've been thinking very hard about it.  Of course he is a Socialist,and he has unconventional ideas; maybe he wouldn't mind marrying intothe proletariat so much as some men might.  Perhaps when two people areexactly in accord, and always happy when together and lonely whenapart, they ought not to let anything in the world stand between them.Of course I WANT to believe that!  But I'd like to get your unemotionalopinion.  You probably belong to a Family also, and will look at itfrom a worldly point of view and not just a sympathetic, human point ofview--so you see how brave I am to lay it before you.
Suppose I go to him and explain that the trouble isn't Jimmie, but isthe John Grier Home--would that be a dreadful thing for me to do?  Itwould take a great deal of courage.  I'd almost rather be miserable forthe rest of my life.
This happened nearly two months ago; I haven't heard a word from himsince he was here.  I was just getting sort of acclimated to thefeeling of a broken heart, when a letter came from Julia that stirredme all up again.  She said--very casually--that 'Uncle Jervis' had beencaught out all night in a storm when he was hunting in Canada, and hadbeen ill ever since with pneumonia.  And I never knew it.  I wasfeeling hurt because he had just disappeared into blankness without aword.  I think he's pretty unhappy, and I know I am!
What seems to you the right thing for me to do?
                                               Judy



                                               6th October
Dearest Daddy-Long-Legs,
Yes, certainly I'll come--at half-past four next Wednesday afternoon.Of COURSE I can find the way.  I've been in New York three times and amnot quite a baby.  I can't believe that I am really going to seeyou--I've been just THINKING you so long that it hardly seems as thoughyou are a tangible flesh-and-blood person.
You are awfully good, Daddy, to bother yourself with me, when you'renot strong.  Take care and don't catch cold.  These fall rains are verydamp.
                               Affectionately,                                                   Judy

PS.  I've just had an awful thought.  Have you a butler?  I'm afraid ofbutlers, and if one opens the door I shall faint upon the step.  Whatcan I say to him?  You didn't tell me your name.  Shall I ask for Mr.Smith?



                                       Thursday Morning
My Very Dearest Master-Jervie-Daddy-Long-Legs Pendleton-Smith,
Did you sleep last night?  I didn't. Not a single wink.  I was tooamazed and excited and bewildered and happy.  I don't believe I evershall sleep again--or eat either.  But I hope you slept; you must, youknow, because then you will get well faster and can come to me.
Dear Man, I can't bear to think how ill you've been--and all the time Inever knew it.  When the doctor came down yesterday to put me in thecab, he told me that for three days they gave you up.  Oh, dearest, ifthat had happened, the light would have gone out of the world for me.I suppose that some day in the far future--one of us must leave theother; but at least we shall have had our happiness and there will bememories to live with.
I meant to cheer you up--and instead I have to cheer myself.  For inspite of being happier than I ever dreamed I could be, I'm alsosoberer.  The fear that something may happen rests like a shadow on myheart.  Always before I could be frivolous and care-free andunconcerned, because I had nothing precious to lose.  But now--I shallhave a Great Big Worry all the rest of my life.  Whenever you are awayfrom me I shall be thinking of all the automobiles that can run overyou, or the sign-boards that can fall on your head, or the dreadful,squirmy germs that you may be swallowing.  My peace of mind is gone forever--but anyway, I never cared much for just plain peace.
Please get well--fast--fast--fast.  I want to have you close by where Ican touch you and make sure you are tangible.  Such a little half hourwe had together!  I'm afraid maybe I dreamed it.  If I were only amember of your family (a very distant fourth cousin) then I could comeand visit you every day, and read aloud and plump up your pillow andsmooth out those two little wrinkles in your forehead and make thecorners of your mouth turn up in a nice cheerful smile.  But you arecheerful again, aren't you?  You were yesterday before I left.  Thedoctor said I must be a good nurse, that you looked ten years younger.I hope that being in love doesn't make every one ten years younger.Will you still care for me, darling, if I turn out to be only eleven?
Yesterday was the most wonderful day that could ever happen.  If I liveto be ninety-nine I shall never forget the tiniest detail.  The girlthat left Lock Willow at dawn was a very different person from the onewho came back at night.  Mrs. Semple called me at half-past four.  Istarted wide awake in the darkness and the first thought that poppedinto my head was, 'I am going to see Daddy-Long-Legs!' I ate breakfastin the kitchen by candle-light, and then drove the five miles to thestation through the most glorious October colouring.  The sun came upon the way, and the swamp maples and dogwood glowed crimson and orangeand the stone walls and cornfields sparkled with hoar frost; the airwas keen and clear and full of promise.  I knew something was going tohappen.  All the way in the train the rails kept singing, 'You're goingto see Daddy-Long-Legs.' It made me feel secure.  I had such faith inDaddy's ability to set things right.  And I knew that somewhere anotherman--dearer than Daddy--was wanting to see me, and somehow I had afeeling that before the journey ended I should meet him, too.  And yousee!
When I came to the house on Madison Avenue it looked so big and brownand forbidding that I didn't dare go in, so I walked around the blockto get up my courage.  But I needn't have been a bit afraid; yourbutler is such a nice, fatherly old man that he made me feel at home atonce.  'Is this Miss Abbott?' he said to me, and I said, 'Yes,' so Ididn't have to ask for Mr. Smith after all.  He told me to wait in thedrawing-room. It was a very sombre, magnificent, man's sort of room.  Isat down on the edge of a big upholstered chair and kept saying tomyself:
'I'm going to see Daddy-Long-Legs! I'm going to see Daddy-Long-Legs!'

Then presently the man came back and asked me please to step up to thelibrary.  I was so excited that really and truly my feet would hardlytake me up.  Outside the door he turned and whispered, 'He's been veryill, Miss. This is the first day he's been allowed to sit up.  You'llnot stay long enough to excite him?' I knew from the way he said itthat he loved you--and I think he's an old dear!
Then he knocked and said, 'Miss Abbott,' and I went in and the doorclosed behind me.
It was so dim coming in from the brightly lighted hall that for amoment I could scarcely make out anything; then I saw a big easy chairbefore the fire and a shining tea table with a smaller chair beside it.And I realized that a man was sitting in the big chair propped up bypillows with a rug over his knees.  Before I could stop him herose--rather shakily--and steadied himself by the back of the chair andjust looked at me without a word.  And then--and then--I saw it wasyou!  But even with that I didn't understand.  I thought Daddy had hadyou come there to meet me or a surprise.
Then you laughed and held out your hand and said, 'Dear little Judy,couldn't you guess that I was Daddy-Long-Legs?'
In an instant it flashed over me.  Oh, but I have been stupid!  Ahundred little things might have told me, if I had had any wits.  Iwouldn't make a very good detective, would I, Daddy?  Jervie?  Whatmust I call you?  Just plain Jervie sounds disrespectful, and I can'tbe disrespectful to you!
It was a very sweet half hour before your doctor came and sent me away.I was so dazed when I got to the station that I almost took a train forSt Louis.  And you were pretty dazed, too.  You forgot to give me anytea.  But we're both very, very happy, aren't we?  I drove back to LockWillow in the dark but oh, how the stars were shining!  And thismorning I've been out with Colin visiting all the places that you and Iwent to together, and remembering what you said and how you looked.The woods today are burnished bronze and the air is full of frost.It's CLIMBING weather.  I wish you were here to climb the hills withme.  I am missing you dreadfully, Jervie dear, but it's a happy kind ofmissing; we'll be together soon.  We belong to each other now reallyand truly, no make-believe. Doesn't it seem queer for me to belong tosomeone at last?  It seems very, very sweet.
And I shall never let you be sorry for a single instant.
                       Yours, for ever and ever,                                                   Judy

PS.  This is the first love-letter I ever wrote.  Isn't it funny that Iknow how?