The Wandering Jew.

Who, that has looked on Gustave Doré's marvellous illustrations tothis wild legend, can forget the impression they made upon hisimagination?
I do not refer to the first illustration as striking, where the Jewishshoemaker is refusing to suffer the cross-laden Savior to rest amoment on his door-step, and is receiving with scornful lip thejudgment to wander restless till the Second Coming of that sameRedeemer. But I refer rather to the second, which represents the Jew,after the lapse of ages, bowed beneath the burden of the curse, wornwith unrelieved toil, wearied with ceaseless travelling, trudgingonward at the last lights of evening, when a rayless night ofunabating rain is creeping on, along a sloppy path between drippingbushes; and suddenly he comes over against a wayside crucifix, onwhich the white glare of departing daylight falls, to throw it intoghastly relief against the pitch-black rain-clouds. For a moment wesee the working of the miserable shoemaker's mind. We feel that he isrecalling the tragedy of the first Good Friday, and his head hangsheavier on his breast, as he recalls the part he had taken in thatawful catastrophe.
Or, is that other illustration more remarkable, where the wanderer isamongst the Alps, at the brink of a hideous chasm; and seeing in thecontorted pine-branches the ever-haunting scene of the Via Dolorosa,he is lured to cast himself into that black gulf in quest ofrest,--when an angel flashes out of the gloom with the sword of flameturning every way, keeping him back from what would be to him aParadise indeed, the repose of Death?
Or, that last scene, when the trumpet sounds and earth is shivering toits foundations, the fire is bubbling forth through the rents in itssurface, and the dead are coming together flesh to flesh, and bone tobone, and muscle to muscle--then the weary man sits down and casts offhis shoes! Strange sights are around him, he sees them not; strangesounds assail his ears, he hears but one--the trumpet-note which givesthe signal for him to stay his wanderings and rest his weary feet.
I can linger over those noble woodcuts, and learn from them somethingnew each time that I study them; they are picture-poems full of latentdepths of thought. And now let us to the history of this mostthrilling of all mediæval myths, if a myth.
If a myth, I say, for who can say for certain that it is not true?"Verily I say unto you, There be some standing here, which shall nottaste of death till they see the Son of Man coming in His kingdom,"[1]are our Lord's words, which I can hardly think apply to thedestruction of Jerusalem, as commentators explain it to escape thedifficulty. That some should live to see Jerusalem destroyed was notvery surprising, and hardly needed the emphatic Verily which Christonly used when speaking something of peculiarly solemn or mysteriousimport.
Besides, St. Luke's account manifestly refers the coming in thekingdom to the Judgment, for the saying stands as follows: "Whosoevershall be ashamed of Me, and of My words, of him shall the Son of Manbe ashamed, when He shall come in His own glory, and in His Father's,and of the holy angels. But I tell you of a truth, there be somestanding here, which shall not taste of death till they see thekingdom of God."[2]
There can, I think, be no doubt in the mind of an unprejudiced personthat the words of our Lord do imply that some one or more of thosethen living should not die till He came again. I do not mean to insiston the literal signification, but I plead that there is noimprobability in our Lord's words being fulfilled to the letter. Thatthe circumstance is unrecorded in the Gospels is no evidence that itdid not take place, for we are expressly told, "Many other signs trulydid Jesus in the presence of His disciples, which are not written inthis book;"[3] and again, "There are also many other things whichJesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I supposethat even the world itself could not contain the books that should bewritten."[4]
We may remember also the mysterious witnesses who are to appear in thelast eventful days of the world's history and bear testimony to theGospel truth before the antichristian world. One of these has beenoften conjectured to be St. John the Evangelist, of whom Christ saidto Peter, "If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?"
The historical evidence on which the tale rests is, however, tooslender for us to admit for it more than the barest claim to be morethan myth. The names and the circumstances connected with the Jew andhis doom vary in every account, and the only point upon which allcoincide is, that such an individual exists in an undying condition,wandering over the face of the earth, seeking rest and finding none.
The earliest extant mention of the Wandering Jew is to be found in thebook of the chronicles of the Abbey of St. Albans, which was copiedand continued by Matthew Paris. He records that in the year 1228, "acertain Archbishop of Armenia the Greater came on a pilgrimage toEngland to see the relics of the saints, and visit the sacred placesin the kingdom, as he had done in others; he also produced letters ofrecommendation from his Holiness the Pope, to the religious and theprelates of the churches, in which they were enjoined to receive andentertain him with due reverence and honor. On his arrival, he came toSt. Albans, where he was received with all respect by the abbot andthe monks; and at this place, being fatigued with his journey, heremained some days to rest himself and his followers, and aconversation took place between him and the inhabitants of theconvent, by means of their interpreters, during which he made manyinquiries relating to the religion and religious observances of thiscountry, and told many strange things concerning the countries of theEast. In the course of conversation he was asked whether he had everseen or heard any thing of Joseph, a man of whom there was much talkin the world, who, when our Lord suffered, was present and spoke toHim, and who is still alive, in evidence of the Christian faith; inreply to which, a knight in his retinue, who was his interpreter,replied, speaking in French, 'My lord well knows that man, and alittle before he took his way to the western countries, the saidJoseph ate at the table of my lord the Archbishop of Armenia, and hehas often seen and conversed with him.'
"He was then asked about what had passed between Christ and the saidJoseph; to which he replied, 'At the time of the passion of JesusChrist, He was seized by the Jews, and led into the hall of judgmentbefore Pilate, the governor, that He might be judged by him on theaccusation of the Jews; and Pilate, finding no fault for which hemight sentence Him to death, said unto them, "Take Him and judge Himaccording to your law;" the shouts of the Jews, however, increasing,he, at their request, released unto them Barabbas, and delivered Jesusto them to be crucified. When, therefore, the Jews were dragging Jesusforth, and had reached the door, Cartaphilus, a porter of the hall inPilate's service, as Jesus was going out of the door, impiously struckHim on the back with his hand, and said in mockery, "Go quicker,Jesus, go quicker; why do you loiter?" and Jesus, looking back on himwith a severe countenance, said to him, "I am going, and you shallwait till I return." And according as our Lord said, this Cartaphilusis still awaiting His return. At the time of our Lord's suffering hewas thirty years old, and when he attains the age of a hundred years,he always returns to the same age as he was when our Lord suffered.After Christ's death, when the Catholic faith gained ground, thisCartaphilus was baptized by Ananias (who also baptized the ApostlePaul), and was called Joseph. He dwells in one or other divisions ofArmenia, and in divers Eastern countries, passing his time amongst thebishops and other prelates of the Church; he is a man of holyconversation, and religious; a man of few words, and very circumspectin his behavior; for he does not speak at all unless when questionedby the bishops and religious; and then he relates the events of oldentimes, and speaks of things which occurred at the suffering andresurrection of our Lord, and of the witnesses of the resurrection,namely, of those who rose with Christ, and went into the holy city,and appeared unto men. He also tells of the creed of the Apostles,and of their separation and preaching. And all this he relates withoutsmiling, or levity of conversation, as one who is well practised insorrow and the fear of God, always looking forward with dread to thecoming of Jesus Christ, lest at the Last Judgment he should find himin anger whom, when on his way to death, he had provoked to justvengeance. Numbers came to him from different parts of the world,enjoying his society and conversation; and to them, if they are men ofauthority, he explains all doubts on the matters on which he isquestioned. He refuses all gifts that are offered him, being contentwith slight food and clothing.'"
Much about the same date, Philip Mouskes, afterwards Bishop ofTournay, wrote his rhymed chronicle (1242), which contains a similaraccount of the Jew, derived from the same Armenian prelate:--
    "Adonques vint un arceveskes    De çà mer, plains de bonnes tèques    Par samblant, et fut d'Armenie,"
and this man, having visited the shrine of "St. Tumas de Kantorbire,"and then having paid his devotions at "Monsigour St. Jake," he went onto Cologne to see the heads of the three kings. The version told inthe Netherlands much resembled that related at St. Albans, only thatthe Jew, seeing the people dragging Christ to his death, exclaims,--
    "Atendés moi! g'i vois,    S'iert mis le faus profète en crois."
Then
    "Le vrais Dieux se regarda,    Et li a dit qu'e n'i tarda,    Icist ne t'atenderont pas,    Mais saces, tu m'atenderas."
We hear no more of the wandering Jew till the sixteenth century, whenwe hear first of him in a casual manner, as assisting a weaver, Kokot,at the royal palace in Bohemia (1505), to find a treasure which hadbeen secreted by the great-grandfather of Kokot, sixty years before,at which time the Jew was present. He then had the appearance of beinga man of seventy years.[5]
Curiously enough, we next hear of him in the East, where he isconfounded with the prophet Elijah. Early in the century he appearedto Fadhilah, under peculiar circumstances.
After the Arabs had captured the city of Elvan, Fadhilah, at the headof three hundred horsemen, pitched his tents, late in the evening,between two mountains. Fadhilah, having begun his evening prayer witha loud voice, heard the words "Allah akbar" (God is great) repeateddistinctly, and each word of his prayer was followed in a similarmanner. Fadhilah, not believing this to be the result of an echo, wasmuch astonished, and cried out, "O thou! whether thou art of the angelranks, or whether thou art of some other order of spirits, it is well;the power of God be with thee; but if thou art a man, then let mineeyes light upon thee, that I may rejoice in thy presence and society."Scarcely had he spoken these words, before an aged man, with baldhead, stood before him, holding a staff in his hand, and muchresembling a dervish in appearance. After having courteously salutedhim, Fadhilah asked the old man who he was. Thereupon the strangeranswered, "Bassi Hadhret Issa, I am here by command of the Lord Jesus,who has left me in this world, that I may live therein until he comesa second time to earth. I wait for this Lord, who is the Fountain ofHappiness, and in obedience to his command I dwell behind yonmountain." When Fadhilah heard these words, he asked when the LordJesus would appear; and the old man replied that his appearing wouldbe at the end of the world, at the Last Judgment. But this onlyincreased Fadhilah's curiosity, so that he inquired the signs of theapproach of the end of all things, whereupon Zerib Bar Elia gave himan account of general, social, and moral dissolution, which would bethe climax of this world's history.[6]
In 1547 he was seen in Europe, if we are to believe the followingnarration:--
"Paul von Eitzen, doctor of the Holy Scriptures, and Bishop ofSchleswig,[7] related as true for some years past, that when he wasyoung, having studied at Wittemberg, he returned home to his parentsin Hamburg in the winter of the year 1547, and that on the followingSunday, in church, he observed a tall man, with his hair hanging overhis shoulders, standing barefoot, during the sermon, over against thepulpit, listening with deepest attention to the discourse, and,whenever the name of Jesus was mentioned, bowing himself profoundlyand humbly, with sighs and beating of the breast. He had no otherclothing, in the bitter cold of the winter, except a pair of hosewhich were in tatters about his feet, and a coat with a girdle whichreached to his feet; and his general appearance was that of a man offifty years. And many people, some of high degree and title, have seenthis same man in England, France, Italy, Hungary, Persia, Spain,Poland, Moscow, Lapland, Sweden, Denmark, Scotland, and other places.
"Every one wondered over the man. Now, after the sermon, the saidDoctor inquired diligently where the stranger was to be found; and whenhe had sought him out, he inquired of him privately whence he came, andhow long that winter he had been in the place. Thereupon he replied,modestly, that he was a Jew by birth, a native of Jerusalem, by nameAhasverus, by trade a shoemaker; he had been present at the crucifixionof Christ, and had lived ever since, travelling through various landsand cities, the which he substantiated by accounts he gave; he relatedalso the circumstances of Christ's transference from Pilate to Herod,and the final crucifixion, together with other details not recorded inthe Evangelists and historians; he gave accounts of the changes ofgovernment in many countries, especially of the East, through severalcenturies; and moreover he detailed the labors and deaths of the holyApostles of Christ most circumstantially.
"Now when Doctor Paul v. Eitzen heard this with profound astonishment,on account of its incredible novelty, he inquired further, in orderthat he might obtain more accurate information. Then the man answered,that he had lived in Jerusalem at the time of the crucifixion ofChrist, whom he had regarded as a deceiver of the people, and aheretic; he had seen Him with his own eyes, and had done his best,along with others, to bring this deceiver, as he regarded Him, tojustice, and to have Him put out of the way. When the sentence hadbeen pronounced by Pilate, Christ was about to be dragged past hishouse; then he ran home, and called together his household to have alook at Christ, and see what sort of a person He was.
"This having been done, he had his little child on his arm, and wasstanding in his doorway, to have a sight of the Lord Jesus Christ.
"As, then, Christ was led by, bowed under the weight of the heavycross, He tried to rest a little, and stood still a moment; but theshoemaker, in zeal and rage, and for the sake of obtaining creditamong the other Jews, drove the Lord Christ forward, and told Him tohasten on His way. Jesus, obeying, looked at him, and said, 'I shallstand and rest, but thou shalt go till the last day.' At these wordsthe man set down the child; and, unable to remain where he was, hefollowed Christ, and saw how cruelly He was crucified, how Hesuffered, how He died. As soon as this had taken place, it came uponhim suddenly that he could no more return to Jerusalem, nor see againhis wife and child, but must go forth into foreign lands, one afteranother, like a mournful pilgrim. Now, when, years after, he returnedto Jerusalem, he found it ruined and utterly razed, so that not onestone was left standing on another; and he could not recognize formerlocalities.
"He believes that it is God's purpose, in thus driving him about inmiserable life, and preserving him undying, to present him before theJews at the end, as a living token, so that the godless andunbelieving may remember the death of Christ, and be turned torepentance. For his part he would well rejoice were God in heaven torelease him from this vale of tears. After this conversation, DoctorPaul v. Eitzen, along with the rector of the school of Hamburg, whowas well read in history, and a traveller, questioned him about eventswhich had taken place in the East since the death of Christ, and hewas able to give them much information on many ancient matters; sothat it was impossible not to be convinced of the truth of his story,and to see that what seems impossible with men is, after all, possiblewith God.
"Since the Jew has had his life extended, he has become silent andreserved, and only answers direct questions. When invited to becomeany one's guest, he eats little, and drinks in great moderation; thenhurries on, never remaining long in one place. When at Hamburg,Dantzig, and elsewhere, money has been offered him, he never took morethan two skillings (fourpence, one farthing), and at once distributedit to the poor, as token that he needed no money, for God wouldprovide for him, as he rued the sins he had committed in ignorance.
"During the period of his stay in Hamburg and Dantzig he was neverseen to laugh. In whatever land he travelled he spoke its language,and when he spoke Saxon, it was like a native Saxon. Many people camefrom different places to Hamburg and Dantzig in order to see and hearthis man, and were convinced that the providence of God was exercisedin this individual in a very remarkable manner. He gladly listened toGod's word, or heard it spoken of always with great gravity andcompunction, and he ever reverenced with sighs the pronunciation ofthe name of God, or of Jesus Christ, and could not endure to hearcurses; but whenever he heard any one swear by God's death or pains,he waxed indignant, and exclaimed, with vehemence and with sighs,'Wretched man and miserable creature, thus to misuse the name of thyLord and God, and His bitter sufferings and passion. Hadst thou seen,as I have, how heavy and bitter were the pangs and wounds of thy Lord,endured for thee and for me, thou wouldst rather undergo great painthyself than thus take His sacred name in vain!'
"Such is the account given to me by Doctor Paul von Eitzen, with manycircumstantial proofs, and corroborated by certain of my own oldacquaintances who saw this same individual with their own eyes inHamburg.
"In the year 1575 the Secretary Christopher Krause, and Master Jacobvon Holstein, legates to the Court of Spain, and afterwards sent intothe Netherlands to pay the soldiers serving his Majesty in thatcountry, related on their return home to Schleswig, and confirmed withsolemn oaths, that they had come across the same mysterious individualat Madrid in Spain, in appearance, manner of life, habits, clothing,just the same as he had appeared in Hamburg. They said that they hadspoken with him, and that many people of all classes had conversedwith him, and found him to speak good Spanish. In the year 1599, inDecember, a reliable person wrote from Brunswick to Strasburg that thesame mentioned strange person had been seen alive at Vienna inAustria, and that he had started for Poland and Dantzig; and that hepurposed going on to Moscow. This Ahasverus was at Lubeck in 1601,also about the same date in Revel in Livonia, and in Cracow in Poland.In Moscow he was seen of many and spoken to by many.
"What thoughtful, God-fearing persons are to think of the saidperson, is at their option. God's works are wondrous and past findingout, and are manifested day by day, only to be revealed in full at thelast great day of account.
                              "Dated, Revel, August 1st, 1613.                                  "D. W.                                  "D.                                  "Chrysostomus Dudulœus,                                        "Westphalus."
The statement that the Wandering Jew appeared in Lubeck in 1601, doesnot tally with the more precise chronicle of Henricus Bangert, whichgives: "Die 14 Januarii Anno MDCIII., adnotatum reliquit Lubecæ fuisseJudæum illum immortalem, qui se Christi crucifixioni interfuisseaffirmavit."[8]
In 1604 he seems to have appeared in Paris. Rudolph Botoreus says,under this date, "I fear lest I be accused of giving ear to old wives'fables, if I insert in these pages what is reported all over Europe ofthe Jew, coeval with the Savior Christ; however, nothing is morecommon, and our popular histories have not scrupled to assert it.Following the lead of those who wrote our annals, I may say that hewho appeared not in one century only, in Spain, Italy, and Germany,was also in this year seen and recognized as the same individual whohad appeared in Hamburg, anno MDLXVI. The common people, bold inspreading reports, relate many things of him; and this I allude to,lest anything should be left unsaid."[9]
J. C. Bulenger puts the date of the Hamburg visit earlier. "It wasreported at this time that a Jew of the time of Christ was wanderingwithout food and drink, having for a thousand and odd years been avagabond and outcast, condemned by God to rove, because he, of thatgeneration of vipers, was the first to cry out for the crucifixion ofChrist and the release of Barabbas; and also because soon after, whenChrist, panting under the burden of the rood, sought to rest beforehis workshop (he was a cobbler), the fellow ordered Him off withacerbity. Thereupon Christ replied, 'Because thou grudgest Me such amoment of rest, I shall enter into My rest, but thou shalt wanderrestless.' At once, frantic and agitated, he fled through the wholeearth, and on the same account to this day he journeys through theworld. It was this person who was seen in Hamburg in MDLXIV. CredatJudæus Apella! _I_ did not see him, or hear anything authenticconcerning him, at that time when I was in Paris."[10]
A curious little book,[11] written against the quackery of Paracelsus,by Leonard Doldius, a Nürnberg physician, and translated into Latinand augmented, by Andreas Libavius, doctor and physician of Rotenburg,alludes to the same story, and gives the Jew a new name nowhere elsemet with. After having referred to a report that Paracelsus was notdead, but was seated alive, asleep or napping, in his sepulchre atStrasburg, preserved from death by some of his specifics, Libaviusdeclares that he would sooner believe in the old man, the Jew,Ahasverus, wandering over the world, called by some Buttadæus, andotherwise, again, by others.
He is said to have appeared in Naumburg, but the date is not given; hewas noticed in church, listening to the sermon. After the service hewas questioned, and he related his story. On this occasion hereceived presents from the burgers.[12] In 1633 he was again inHamburg.[13] In the year 1640, two citizens, living in theGerberstrasse, in Brussels, were walking in the Sonian wood, when theyencountered an aged man, whose clothes were in tatters and of anantiquated appearance. They invited him to go with them to a house ofrefreshment, and he went with them, but would not seat himself,remaining on foot to drink. When he came before the doors with the twoburgers, he told them a great deal; but they were mostly stories ofevents which had happened many hundred years before. Hence the burgersgathered that their companion was Isaac Laquedem, the Jew who hadrefused to permit our Blessed Lord to rest for a moment at hisdoor-step, and they left him full of terror. In 1642 he is reported tohave visited Leipzig. On the 22d July, 1721, he appeared at the gatesof the city of Munich.[14] About the end of the seventeenth century orthe beginning of the eighteenth, an impostor, calling himself theWandering Jew, attracted attention in England, and was listened to bythe ignorant, and despised by the educated. He, however, managed tothrust himself into the notice of the nobility, who, half in jest,half in curiosity, questioned him, and paid him as they might ajuggler. He declared that he had been an officer of the Sanhedrim, andthat he had struck Christ as he left the judgment hall of Pilate. Heremembered all the Apostles, and described their personal appearance,their clothes, and their peculiarities. He spoke many languages,claimed the power of healing the sick, and asserted that he hadtravelled nearly all over the world. Those who heard him wereperplexed by his familiarity with foreign tongues and places. Oxfordand Cambridge sent professors to question him, and to discover theimposition, if any. An English nobleman conversed with him in Arabic.The mysterious stranger told his questioner in that language thathistorical works were not to be relied upon. And on being asked hisopinion of Mahomet, he replied that he had been acquainted with thefather of the prophet, and that he dwelt at Ormuz. As for Mahomet, hebelieved him to have been a man of intelligence; once when he heardthe prophet deny that Christ was crucified, he answered abruptly bytelling him he was a witness to the truth of that event. He relatedalso that he was in Rome when Nero set it on fire; he had knownSaladin, Tamerlane, Bajazeth, Eterlane, and could give minute detailsof the history of the Crusades.[15]
Whether this wandering Jew was found out in London or not, we cannottell, but he shortly after appeared in Denmark, thence travelled intoSweden, and vanished.
Such are the principal notices of the Wandering Jew which haveappeared. It will be seen at once how wanting they are in allsubstantial evidence which could make us regard the story in any otherlight than myth.
But no myth is wholly without foundation, and there must be somesubstantial verity upon which this vast superstructure of legend hasbeen raised. What that is I am unable to discover.
It has been suggested by some that the Jew Ahasverus is animpersonation of that race which wanders, Cain-like, over the earthwith the brand of a brother's blood upon it, and one which is not topass away till all be fulfilled, not to be reconciled to its angeredGod till the times of the Gentiles are accomplished. And yet, probableas this supposition may seem at first sight, it is not to beharmonized with some of the leading features of the story. Theshoemaker becomes a penitent, and earnest Christian, whilst the Jewishnation has still the veil upon its heart; the wretched wanderereschews money, and the avarice of the Israelite is proverbial.
According to local legend, he is identified with the Gypsies, orrather that strange people are supposed to be living under a cursesomewhat similar to that inflicted on Ahasverus, because they refusedshelter to the Virgin and Child on their flight into Egypt.[16]Another tradition connects the Jew with the wild huntsman, and thereis a forest at Bretten, in Swabia, which he is said to haunt. Popularsuperstition attributes to him there a purse containing a groschen,which, as often as it is expended, returns to the spender.[17]
In the Harz one form of the Wild Huntsman myth is to this effect:that he was a Jew who had refused to suffer our Blessed Lord to drinkout of a river, or out of a horse-trough, but had contemptuouslypointed out to Him the hoof-print of a horse, in which a little waterhad collected, and had bid Him quench His thirst thence.[18]
As the Wild Huntsman is the personification of the storm, it iscurious to find in parts of France that the sudden roar of a gale atnight is attributed by the vulgar to the passing of the EverlastingJew.
A Swiss story is, that he was seen one day standing upon theMatterberg, which is below the Matterhorn, contemplating the scenewith mingled sorrow and wonder. Once before he stood on that spot, andthen it was the site of a flourishing city; now it is covered withgentian and wild pinks. Once again will he revisit the hill, and thatwill be on the eve of Judgment.
Perhaps, of all the myths which originated in the middle ages, none ismore striking than that we have been considering; indeed, there issomething so calculated to arrest the attention and to excite theimagination in the outline of the story, that it is remarkable thatwe should find an interval of three centuries elapse between its firstintroduction into Europe by Matthew Paris and Philip Mouskes, and itsgeneral acceptance in the sixteenth century. As a myth, its roots liein that great mystery of human life which is an enigma never solved,and ever originating speculation.
What was life? Was it of necessity limited to fourscore years, orcould it be extended indefinitely? were questions curious minds neverwearied of asking. And so the mythology of the past teemed withlegends of favored or accursed mortals, who had reached beyond theterm of days set to most men. Some had discovered the water of life,the fountain of perpetual youth, and were ever renewing theirstrength. Others had dared the power of God, and were thereforesentenced to feel the weight of His displeasure, without tasting therepose of death.
John the Divine slept at Ephesus, untouched by corruption, with theground heaving over his breast as he breathed, waiting the summons tocome forth and witness against Antichrist. The seven sleepers reposedin a cave, and centuries glided by like a watch in the night. Themonk of Hildesheim, doubting how with God a thousand years could be asyesterday, listened to the melody of a bird in the green wood duringthree minutes, and found that in three minutes three hundred years hadflown. Joseph of Arimathæa, in the blessed city of Sarras, drawsperpetual life from the Saint Graal; Merlin sleeps and sighs in an oldtree, spell-bound of Vivien. Charlemagne and Barbarossa wait, crownedand armed, in the heart of the mountain, till the time comes for therelease of Fatherland from despotism. And, on the other hand, thecurse of a deathless life has passed on the Wild Huntsman, because hedesired to chase the red-deer for evermore; on the Captain of thePhantom Ship, because he vowed he would double the Cape whether Godwilled it or not; on the Man in the Moon, because he gathered sticksduring the Sabbath rest; on the dancers of Kolbeck, because theydesired to spend eternity in their mad gambols.
I began this article intending to conclude it with a bibliographicalaccount of the tracts, letters, essays, and books, written upon theWandering Jew; but I relinquish my intention at the sight of themultitude of works which have issued from the press upon the subject;and this I do with less compunction as the bibliographer may at littletrouble and expense satisfy himself, by perusing the lists given byGrässe in his essay on the myth, and those to be found in "Noticehistorique et bibliographique sur les Juifs-errants: par O. B."(Gustave Brunet), Paris, Téchener, 1845; also in the article by M.Mangin, in "Causeries et Méditations historiques et littéraires,"Paris, Duprat, 1843; and, lastly, in the essay by Jacob le Bibliophile(M. Lacroix) in his "Curiosités de l'Histoire des Croyancespopulaires," Paris, Delahays, 1859.
Of the romances of Eugène Sue and Dr. Croly, founded upon the legend,the less said the better. The original legend is so noble in itssevere simplicity, that none but a master mind could develop it withany chance of success. Nor have the poetical attempts upon the storyfared better. It was reserved for the pencil of Gustave Doré to treatit with the originality it merited, and in a series of woodcuts toproduce at once a poem, a romance, and a chef-d'œuvre of art.
FOOTNOTES:
[1] Matt. xvi. 28. Mark ix. 1.
[2] Luke ix.
[3] John xx. 30.
[4] John xxi. 25.
[5] Gubitz, Gesellsch. 1845, No. 18.
[6] Herbelot, Bibl. Orient, iii. p. 607.
[7] Paul v. Eitzen was born January 25, 1522, at Hamburg; in 1562 hewas appointed chief preacher for Schleswig, and died February 25,1598. (Greve, Memor. P. ab. Eitzen. Hamb. 1844.)
[8] Henr. Bangert, Comment. de Ortu, Vita, et Excessu Coleri, I. Cti.Lubec.
[9] R. Botoreus, Comm. Histor. lii. p. 305.
[10] J. C. Bulenger, Historia sui Temporis, p. 357.
[11] Praxis Alchymiæ. Francfurti, MDCIV. 8vo.
[12] Mitternacht, Diss. in Johann. xxi. 19.
[13] Mitternacht, ut supra.
[14] Hormayr, Taschenbuch, 1834, p. 216.
[15] Calmet, Dictionn. de la Bible, t. ii. p. 472.
[16] Aventinus, Bayr. Chronik, viii.
[17] Meier, Schwäbischen Sagen, i. 116.
[18] Kuhn u. Schwarz Nordd. Sagen, p. 499.



Prester John.

About the middle of the twelfth century, a rumor circulated throughEurope that there reigned in Asia a powerful Christian Emperor,Presbyter Johannes. In a bloody fight he had broken the power of theMussulmans, and was ready to come to the assistance of the Crusaders.Great was the exultation in Europe, for of late the news from the Easthad been gloomy and depressing, the power of the infidel hadincreased, overwhelming masses of men had been brought into the fieldagainst the chivalry of Christendom, and it was felt that the crossmust yield before the odious crescent.
The news of the success of the Priest-King opened a door of hope tothe desponding Christian world. Pope Alexander III. determined atonce to effect a union with this mysterious personage, and on the 27thof September, 1177, wrote him a letter, which he intrusted to hisphysician, Philip, to deliver in person.
Philip started on his embassy, but never returned. The conquests ofTschengis-Khan again attracted the eyes of Christian Europe to theEast. The Mongol hordes were rushing in upon the west with devastatingferocity; Russia, Poland, Hungary, and the eastern provinces ofGermany, had succumbed, or suffered grievously; and the fears of othernations were roused lest they too should taste the misery of aMongolian invasion. It was Gog and Magog come to slaughter, and thetimes of Antichrist were dawning. But the battle of Liegnitz stayedthem in their onward career, and Europe was saved.
Pope Innocent IV. determined to convert these wild hordes ofbarbarians, and subject them to the cross of Christ; he therefore sentamong them a number of Dominican and Franciscan missioners, andembassies of peace passed between the Pope, the King of France, andthe Mogul Khan.
The result of these communications with the East was, that thetravellers learned how false were the prevalent notions of a mightyChristian empire existing in Central Asia. Vulgar superstition orconviction is not, however, to be upset by evidence, and the localityof the monarchy was merely transferred by the people to Africa, andthey fixed upon Abyssinia, with a show of truth, as the seat of thefamous Priest-King. However, still some doubted. John de Plano Carpiniand Marco Polo, though they acknowledged the existence of a Christianmonarch in Abyssinia, yet stoutly maintained as well that the PresterJohn of popular belief reigned in splendor somewhere in the dimOrient.
But before proceeding with the history of this strange fable, it willbe well to extract the different accounts given of the Priest-King andhis realm by early writers; and we shall then be better able to judgeof the influence the myth obtained in Europe.
Otto of Freisingen is the first author to mention the monarchy ofPrester John with whom we are acquainted. Otto wrote a chronicle up tothe date 1156, and he relates that in 1145 the Catholic Bishop ofCabala visited Europe to lay certain complaints before the Pope. Hementioned the fall of Edessa, and also "he stated that a few years agoa certain King and Priest called John, who lives on the farther sideof Persia and Armenia, in the remote East, and who, with all hispeople, were Christians, though belonging to the Nestorian Church, hadovercome the royal brothers Samiardi, kings of the Medes and Persians,and had captured Ecbatana, their capital and residence. The said kingshad met with their Persian, Median, and Assyrian troops, and hadfought for three consecutive days, each side having determined to dierather than take to flight. Prester John, for so they are wont to callhim, at length routed the Persians, and after a bloody battle,remained victorious. After which victory the said John was hasteningto the assistance of the Church at Jerusalem, but his host, onreaching the Tigris, was hindered from passing, through a deficiencyin boats, and he directed his march North, since he had heard that theriver was there covered with ice. In that place he had waited manyyears, expecting severe cold; but the winters having provedunpropitious, and the severity of the climate having carried off manysoldiers, he had been forced to retreat to his own land. This kingbelongs to the family of the Magi, mentioned in the Gospel, and herules over the very people formerly governed by the Magi; moreover,his fame and his wealth are so great, that he uses an emerald sceptreonly.
"Excited by the example of his ancestors, who came to worship Christin his cradle, he had proposed to go to Jerusalem, but had beenimpeded by the above-mentioned causes."[19]
At the same time the story crops up in other quarters; so that wecannot look upon Otto as the inventor of the myth. The celebratedMaimonides alludes to it in a passage quoted by Joshua Lorki, a Jewishphysician to Benedict XIII. Maimonides lived from 1135 to 1204. Thepassage is as follows: "It is evident both from the letters of Rambam(Maimonides), whose memory be blessed, and from the narration ofmerchants who have visited the ends of the earth, that at this timethe root of our faith is to be found in the lands of Babel and Teman,where long ago Jerusalem was an exile; not reckoning those who live inthe land of Paras[20] and Madai,[21] of the exiles of Schomrom, thenumber of which people is as the sand: of these some are still underthe yoke of Paras, who is called the Great-Chief Sultan by the Arabs;others live in a place under the yoke of a strange people ... governedby a Christian chief, Preste-Cuan by name. With him they have made acompact, and he with them; and this is a matter concerning which therecan be no manner of doubt."
Benjamin of Tudela, another Jew, travelled in the East between theyears 1159 and 1173, the last being the date of his death. He wrote anaccount of his travels, and gives in it some information with regardto a mythical Jew king, who reigned in the utmost splendor over arealm inhabited by Jews alone, situate somewhere in the midst of adesert of vast extent. About this period there appeared a documentwhich produced intense excitement throughout Europe--a letter, yes! aletter from the mysterious personage himself to Manuel Comnenus,Emperor of Constantinople (1143-1180). The exact date of thisextraordinary epistle cannot be fixed with any certainty, but itcertainly appeared before 1241, the date of the conclusion of thechronicle of Albericus Trium Fontium. This Albericus relates that inthe year 1165 "Presbyter Joannes, the Indian king, sent his wonderfulletter to various Christian princes, and especially to Manuel ofConstantinople, and Frederic the Roman Emperor." Similar letters weresent to Alexander III., to Louis VII. of France, and to the King ofPortugal, which are alluded to in chronicles and romances, and whichwere indeed turned into rhyme, and sung all over Europe by minstrelsand trouvères. The letter is as follows:--
"John, Priest by the Almighty power of God and the Might of our LordJesus Christ, King of Kings, and Lord of Lords, to his friend Emanuel,Prince of Constantinople, greeting, wishing him health, prosperity,and the continuance of Divine favor.
"Our Majesty has been informed that you hold our Excellency in love,and that the report of our greatness has reached you. Moreover, wehave heard through our treasurer that you have been pleased to send tous some objects of art and interest, that our Exaltedness might begratified thereby.
"Being human, I receive it in good part, and we have ordered ourtreasurer to send you some of our articles in return.
"Now we desire to be made certain that you hold the right faith, andin all things cleave to Jesus Christ, our Lord, for we have heard thatyour court regard you as a god, though we know that you are mortal,and subject to human infirmities.... Should you desire to learn thegreatness and excellency of our Exaltedness and of the land subject toour sceptre, then hear and believe:--I, Presbyter Johannes, the Lordof Lords, surpass all under heaven in virtue, in riches, and in power;seventy-two kings pay us tribute.... In the three Indies ourMagnificence rules, and our land extends beyond India, where rests thebody of the holy Apostle Thomas; it reaches towards the sunrise overthe wastes, and it trends towards deserted Babylon near the tower ofBabel. Seventy-two provinces, of which only a few are Christian, serveus. Each has its own king, but all are tributary to us.
"Our land is the home of elephants, dromedaries, camels, crocodiles,meta-collinarum, cametennus, tensevetes, wild asses, white and redlions, white bears, white merules, crickets, griffins, tigers, lamias,hyenas, wild horses, wild oxen and wild men, men with horns, one-eyed,men with eyes before and behind, centaurs, fauns, satyrs, pygmies,forty-ell-high giants, Cyclopses, and similar women; it is the home,too, of the phœnix, and of nearly all living animals. We have somepeople subject to us who feed on the flesh of men and of prematurelyborn animals, and who never fear death. When any of these people die,their friends and relations eat him ravenously, for they regard it asa main duty to munch human flesh. Their names are Gog and Magog, Anie,Agit, Azenach, Fommeperi, Befari, Conei-Samante, Agrimandri,Vintefolei, Casbei, Alanei. These and similar nations were shut inbehind lofty mountains by Alexander the Great, towards the North. Welead them at our pleasure against our foes, and neither man nor beastis left undevoured, if our Majesty gives the requisite permission. Andwhen all our foes are eaten, then we return with our hosts home again.These accursed fifteen nations will burst forth from the four quartersof the earth at the end of the world, in the times of Antichrist, andoverrun all the abodes of the Saints as well as the great city Rome,which, by the way, we are prepared to give to our son who will beborn, along with all Italy, Germany, the two Gauls, Britain andScotland. We shall also give him Spain and all the land as far as theicy sea. The nations to which I have alluded, according to the wordsof the prophet, shall not stand in the judgment, on account of theiroffensive practices, but will be consumed to ashes by a fire whichwill fall on them from heaven.
"Our land streams with honey, and is overflowing with milk. In oneregion grows no poisonous herb, nor does a querulous frog ever quackin it; no scorpion exists, nor does the serpent glide amongst thegrass, nor can any poisonous animals exist in it, or injure any one.
"Among the heathen, flows through a certain province the River Indus;encircling Paradise, it spreads its arms in manifold windings throughthe entire province. Here are found the emeralds, sapphires,carbuncles, topazes, chrysolites, onyxes, beryls, sardius, and othercostly stones. Here grows the plant Assidos, which, when worn by anyone, protects him from the evil spirit, forcing it to state itsbusiness and name; consequently the foul spirits keep out of the waythere. In a certain land subject to us, all kinds of pepper isgathered, and is exchanged for corn and bread, leather and cloth....At the foot of Mount Olympus bubbles up a spring which changes itsflavor hour by hour, night and day, and the spring is scarcely threedays' journey from Paradise, out of which Adam was driven. If any onehas tasted thrice of the fountain, from that day he will feel nofatigue, but will, as long as he lives, be as a man of thirty years.Here are found the small stones called Nudiosi, which, if borne aboutthe body, prevent the sight from waxing feeble, and restore it whereit is lost. The more the stone is looked at, the keener becomes thesight. In our territory is a certain waterless sea, consisting oftumbling billows of sand never at rest. None have crossed this sea; itlacks water altogether, yet fish are cast up upon the beach of variouskinds, very tasty, and the like are nowhere else to be seen. Threedays' journey from this sea are mountains from which rolls down astony, waterless river, which opens into the sandy sea. As soon as thestream reaches the sea, its stones vanish in it, and are never seenagain. As long as the river is in motion, it cannot be crossed; onlyfour days a week is it possible to traverse it. Between the sandy seaand the said mountains, in a certain plain is a fountain of singularvirtue, which purges Christians and would-be Christians from alltransgressions. The water stands four inches high in a hollow stoneshaped like a mussel-shell. Two saintly old men watch by it, and askthe comers whether they are Christians, or are about to becomeChristians, then whether they desire healing with all their hearts. Ifthey have answered well, they are bidden to lay aside their clothes,and to step into the mussel. If what they said be true, then the waterbegins to rise and gush over their heads; thrice does the water thuslift itself, and every one who has entered the mussel leaves it curedof every complaint.
"Near the wilderness trickles between barren mountains a subterraneanrill, which can only by chance be reached, for only occasionally theearth gapes, and he who would descend must do it with precipitation,ere the earth closes again. All that is gathered under the groundthere is gem and precious stone. The brook pours into another river,and the inhabitants of the neighborhood obtain thence abundance ofprecious stones. Yet they never venture to sell them without havingfirst offered them to us for our private use: should we decline them,they are at liberty to dispose of them to strangers. Boys there aretrained to remain three or four days under water, diving after thestones.
"Beyond the stone river are the ten tribes of the Jews, which, thoughsubject to their own kings, are, for all that, our slaves andtributary to our Majesty. In one of our lands, hight Zone, are wormscalled in our tongue Salamanders. These worms can only live in fire,and they build cocoons like silk-worms, which are unwound by theladies of our palace, and spun into cloth and dresses, which are wornby our Exaltedness. These dresses, in order to be cleaned and washed,are cast into flames.... When we go to war, we have fourteen goldenand bejewelled crosses borne before us instead of banners; each ofthese crosses is followed by 10,000 horsemen, and 100,000 footsoldiers fully armed, without reckoning those in charge of the luggageand provision.
"When we ride abroad plainly, we have a wooden, unadorned cross,without gold or gem about it, borne before us, in order that we maymeditate on the sufferings of Our Lord Jesus Christ; also a goldenbowl filled with earth, to remind us of that whence we sprung, andthat to which we must return; but besides these there is borne asilver bowl full of gold, as a token to all that we are the Lord ofLords.
"All riches, such as are upon the world, our Magnificence possesses insuperabundance. With us no one lies, for he who speaks a lie isthenceforth regarded as dead; he is no more thought of, or honored byus. No vice is tolerated by us. Every year we undertake a pilgrimage,with retinue of war, to the body of the holy prophet Daniel, which isnear the desolated site of Babylon. In our realm fishes are caught,the blood of which dyes purple. The Amazons and the Brahmins aresubject to us. The palace in which our Supereminency resides, is builtafter the pattern of the castle built by the Apostle Thomas for theIndian king Gundoforus. Ceilings, joists, and architrave are of Sethymwood, the roof of ebony, which can never catch fire. Over the gable ofthe palace are, at the extremities, two golden apples, in each ofwhich are two carbuncles, so that the gold may shine by day, and thecarbuncles by night. The greater gates of the palace are of sardius,with the horn of the horned snake inwrought, so that no one can bringpoison within.
"The other portals are of ebony. The windows are of crystal; thetables are partly of gold, partly of amethyst, and the columnssupporting the tables are partly of ivory, partly of amethyst. Thecourt in which we watch the jousting is floored with onyx in order toincrease the courage of the combatants. In the palace, at night,nothing is burned for light but wicks supplied with balsam.... Beforeour palace stands a mirror, the ascent to which consists of five andtwenty steps of porphyry and serpentine." After a description of thegems adorning this mirror, which is guarded night and day by threethousand armed men, he explains its use: "We look therein and beholdall that is taking place in every province and region subject to oursceptre.
"Seven kings wait upon us monthly, in turn, with sixty-two dukes, twohundred and fifty-six counts and marquises: and twelve archbishopssit at table with us on our right, and twenty bishops on the left,besides the patriarch of St. Thomas, the Sarmatian Protopope, and theArchpope of Susa.... Our lord high steward is a primate and king, ourcup-bearer is an archbishop and king, our chamberlain a bishop andking, our marshal a king and abbot."
I may be spared further extracts from this extraordinary letter, whichproceeds to describe the church in which Prester John worships, byenumerating the precious stones of which it is constructed, and theirspecial virtues.
Whether this letter was in circulation before Pope Alexander wrotehis, it is not easy to decide. Alexander does not allude to it, butspeaks of the reports which have reached him of the piety and themagnificence of the Priest-King. At the same time, there runs a toneof bitterness through the letter, as though the Pope had been galledat the pretensions of this mysterious personage, and perhaps wincedunder the prospect of the man-eaters overrunning Italy, as suggestedby John the Priest. The papal epistle is an assertion of the claims ofthe See of Rome to universal dominion, and it assures the EasternPrince-Pope that his Christian professions are worthless, unless hesubmits to the successor of Peter. "Not every one that saith unto me,Lord, Lord," &c., quotes the Pope, and then explains that the will ofGod is that every monarch and prelate should eat humble pie to theSovereign Pontiff.
Sir John Maundevil gives the origin of the priestly title of theEastern despot, in his curious book of travels.
"So it befelle, that this emperour cam, with a Cristene knyght withhim, into a chirche in Egypt: and it was Saterday in Wyttson woke. Andthe bishop made orders. And he beheld and listened the servyse fulletentyfly: and he asked the Cristene knyght, what men of degree theischolden ben, that the prelate had before him. And the knyghtanswerede and seyde, that thei scholde ben prestes. And then theemperour seyde, that he wolde no longer ben clept kyng ne emperour,but preest: and that he wolde have the name of the first preest, thatwente out of the chirche; and his name was John. And so evere moresittiens, he is clept Prestre John."
It is probable that the foundation of the whole Prester-John myth layin the report which reached Europe of the wonderful successes ofNestorianism in the East, and there seems reason to believe that thefamous letter given above was a Nestorian fabrication. It certainlylooks un-European; the gorgeous imagery is thoroughly Eastern, and thedisparaging tone in which Rome is spoken of could hardly have been theexpression of Western feelings. The letter has the object in view ofexalting the East in religion and arts to an undue eminence at theexpense of the West, and it manifests some ignorance of Europeangeography, when it speaks of the land extending from Spain to thePolar Sea. Moreover, the sites of the patriarchates, and the dignityconferred on that of St. Thomas, are indications of a Nestorian bias.
A brief glance at the history of this heretical Church may be of valuehere, as showing that there really was a foundation for the wildlegends concerning a Christian empire in the East, so prevalent inEurope. Nestorius, a priest of Antioch and a disciple of St.Chrysostom, was elevated by the emperor to the patriarchate ofConstantinople, and in the year 428 began to propagate his heresy,denying the hypostatic union. The Council of Ephesus denounced him,and, in spite of the emperor and court, Nestorius was anathematizedand driven into exile. His sect spread through the East, and became aflourishing church. It reached to China, where the emperor was all butconverted; its missionaries traversed the frozen tundras of Siberia,preaching their maimed Gospel to the wild hordes which haunted thosedreary wastes; it faced Buddhism, and wrestled with it for thereligious supremacy in Thibet; it established churches in Persia andin Bokhara; it penetrated India; it formed colonies in Ceylon, inSiam, and in Sumatra; so that the Catholicos or Pope of Bagdadexercised sway more extensive than that ever obtained by the successorof St. Peter. The number of Christians belonging to that communionprobably exceeded that of the members of the true Catholic Church inEast and West. But the Nestorian Church was not founded on the Rock;it rested on Nestorius; and when the rain descended, and the windsblew, and the floods came, and beat upon that house, it fell, leavingscarce a fragment behind.
Rubruquis the Franciscan, who in 1253 was sent on a mission intoTartary, was the first to let in a little light on the fable. Hewrites, "The Catai dwelt beyond certain mountains across which Iwandered, and in a plain in the midst of the mountains lived once animportant Nestorian shepherd, who ruled over the Nestorian people,called Nayman. When Coir-Khan died, the Nestorian people raised thisman to be king, and called him King Johannes, and related of him tentimes as much as the truth. The Nestorians thereabouts have this waywith them, that about nothing they make a great fuss, and thus theyhave got it noised abroad that Sartach, Mangu-Khan, and Ken-Khan wereChristians, simply because they treated Christians well, and showedthem more honor than other people. Yet, in fact, they were notChristians at all. And in like manner the story got about that therewas a great King John. However, I traversed his pastures, and no oneknew anything about him, except a few Nestorians. In his pastureslives Ken-Khan, at whose court was Brother Andrew, whom I met on myway back. This Johannes had a brother, a famous shepherd, named Unc,who lived three weeks' journey beyond the mountains of Caracatais."
This Unk-Khan was a real individual; he lost his life in the year1203. Kuschhik, prince of the Nayman, and follower of Kor-Khan, fellin 1218.
Marco Polo, the Venetian traveller (1254-1324), identifies Unk-Khanwith Prester John; he says, "I will now tell you of the deeds of theTartars, how they gained the mastery, and spread over the whole earth.The Tartars dwelt between Georgia and Bargu, where there is a vastplain and level country, on which are neither cities nor forts, butcapital pasturage and water. They had no chief of their own, but paidto Prester Johannes tribute. Of the greatness of this PresterJohannes, who was properly called Un-Khan, the whole world spake; theTartars gave him one of every ten head of cattle. When Prester Johnnoticed that they were increasing, he feared them, and planned how hecould injure them. He determined therefore to scatter them, and hesent barons to do this. But the Tartars guessed what Prester Johnpurposed ... and they went away into the wide wastes of the North,where they might be beyond his reach." He then goes on to relate howTschengis-(Jenghiz-)Khan became the head of the Tartars, and how hefought against Prester John, and, after a desperate fight, overcameand slew him.
The Syriac Chronicle of the Jacobite Primate, Gregory Bar-Hebræus(born 1226, died 1286), also identifies Unk-Khan with Prester John."In the year of the Greeks 1514, of the Arabs 599 (A. D. 1202), whenUnk-Khan, who is the Christian King John, ruled over a stock of thebarbarian Hunns, called Kergt, Tschingys-Khan served him with greatzeal. When John observed the superiority and serviceableness of theother, he envied him, and plotted to seize and murder him. But twosons of Unk-Khan, having heard this, told it to Tschingys; whereuponhe and his comrades fled by night, and secreted themselves. Nextmorning Unk-Khan took possession of the Tartar tents, but found themempty. Then the party of Tschingys fell upon him, and they met by thespring called Balschunah, and the side of Tschingys won the day; andthe followers of Unk-Khan were compelled to yield. They met againseveral times, till Unk-Khan was utterly discomfited, and was slainhimself, and his wives, sons, and daughters carried into captivity.Yet we must consider that King John the Kergtajer was not cast downfor nought; nay, rather, because he had turned his heart from the fearof Christ his Lord, who had exalted him, and had taken a wife of theZinish nation, called Quarakhata. Because he forsook the religion ofhis ancestors and followed strange gods, therefore God took thegovernment from him, and gave it to one better than he, and whoseheart was right before God."
Some of the early travellers, such as John de Plano Carpini and MarcoPolo, in disabusing the popular mind of the belief in Prester John asa mighty Asiatic Christian monarch, unintentionally turned the popularfaith in that individual into a new direction. They spoke of the blackpeople of Abascia in Ethiopia, which, by the way, they called MiddleIndia, as a great people subject to a Christian monarch.
Marco Polo says that the true monarch of Abyssinia is Christ; but thatit is governed by six kings, three of whom are Christians and threeSaracens, and that they are in league with the Soudan of Aden.
Bishop Jordanus, in his description of the world, accordingly setsdown Abyssinia as the kingdom of Prester John; and such was thepopular impression, which was confirmed by the appearance at intervalsof ambassadors at European courts from the King of Abyssinia. Thediscovery of the Cape of Good Hope was due partly to a desiremanifested in Portugal to open communications with this monarch,[22]and King John II. sent two men learned in Oriental languages throughEgypt to the court of Abyssinia. The might and dominion of thisprince, who had replaced the Tartar chief in the popular creed asPrester John, was of course greatly exaggerated, and was supposed toextend across Arabia and Asia to the wall of China. The spread ofgeographical knowledge has contracted the area of his dominions, and acritical acquaintance with history has exploded the myth whichinvested Unk-Khan, the nomad chief, with all the attributes of ademigod, uniting in one the utmost pretensions of a Pope and theproudest claims of a monarch.
FOOTNOTES:
[19] Otto, Ep. Frising., lib. vii. c. 33.
[20] Persia.
[21] Media.
[22] Ludolfi Hist. Æthiopica, lib. ii. cap. 1, 2. Petrus, Petri filiusLusitaniæ princeps, M. Pauli Veneti librum (qui de Indorum rebusmulta: speciatim vero de Presbytero Johanne aliqua magnifice scripsit)Venetiis secum in patriam detulerat, qui (Chronologicis Lusitanorumtestantibus) præcipuam Johanni Regi ansam dedit Indicæ navigationis,quam Henricus Johannis I. filius, patruus ejus, tentaverat,prosequendæ, &c.



The Divining Rod.

From the remotest period a rod has been regarded as the symbol ofpower and authority, and Holy Scripture employs it in the popularsense. Thus David speaks of "Thy rod and Thy staff comforting me;" andMoses works his miracles before Pharaoh with the rod as emblem ofDivine commission. It was his rod which became a serpent, which turnedthe water of Egypt into blood, which opened the waves of the Red Seaand restored them to their former level, which "smote the rock ofstone so that the water gushed out abundantly." The rod of Aaron actedan oracular part in the contest with the princes; laid up before theark, it budded and brought forth almonds. In this instance we have itno longer as a symbol of authority, but as a means of divining thewill of God. And as such it became liable to abuse; thus Hosea rebukesthe chosen people for practising similar divinations. "My people askcounsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth unto them."[23]
Long before this, Jacob had made a different use of rods, employingthem as a charm to make his father-in-law's sheep bear pied andspotted lambs.
We find rhabdomancy a popular form of divination among the Greeks, andalso among the Romans. Cicero in his "De Officiis" alludes to it. "Ifall that is needful for our nourishment and support arrives to us bymeans of some divine rod, as people say, then each of us, free fromall care and trouble, may give himself up to the exclusive pursuit ofstudy and science."
Probably it is to this rod that the allusion of Ennius, as the agentin discovering hidden treasures, quoted in the first book of his "DeDivinatione," refers.
According to Vetranius Maurus, Varro left a satire on the "Virguladivina," which has not been preserved. Tacitus tells us that theGermans practised some sort of divination by means of rods. "For thepurpose their method is simple. They cut a rod off some fruit-treeinto bits, and after having distinguished them by various marks, theycast them into a white cloth.... Then the priest thrice draws eachpiece, and explains the oracle according to the marks." AmmianusMarcellinus says that the Alains employed an osier rod.
The fourteenth law of the Frisons ordered that the discovery ofmurders should be made by means of divining rods used in Church. Theserods should be laid before the altar, and on the sacred relics, afterwhich God was to be supplicated to indicate the culprit. This wascalled the Lot of Rods, or Tan-teen, the Rod of Rods.
But the middle ages was the date of the full development of thesuperstition, and the divining rod was believed to have efficacy indiscovering hidden treasures, veins of precious metal, springs ofwater, thefts, and murders. The first notice of its general use amonglate writers is in the "Testamentum Novum," lib. i. cap. 25, of BasilValentine, a Benedictine monk of the fifteenth century. Basil speaksof the general faith in and adoption of this valuable instrument forthe discovery of metals, which is carried by workmen in mines, eitherin their belts or in their caps. He says that there are seven names bywhich this rod is known, and to its excellences under each title hedevotes a chapter of his book. The names are: Divine Rod, Shining Rod,Leaping Rod, Transcendent Rod, Trembling Rod, Dipping Rod, SuperiorRod. In his admirable treatise on metals, Agricola speaks of the rodin terms of disparagement; he considers its use as a relic of ancientmagical forms, and he says that it is only irreligious workmen whoemploy it in their search after metals. Goclenius, however, in histreatise on the virtue of plants, stoutly does battle for theproperties of the hazel rod. Whereupon Roberti, a Flemish Jesuit,falls upon him tooth and nail, disputes his facts, overwhelms him withabuse, and gibbets him for popular ridicule. Andreas Libavius, awriter I have already quoted in my article on the Wandering Jew,undertook a series of experiments upon the hazel divining rod, andconcluded that there was truth in the popular belief. The JesuitKircher also "experimentalized several times on wooden rods which weredeclared to be sympathetic with regard to certain metals, by placingthem on delicate pivots in equilibrium; but they never turned on theapproach of metal." (De Arte Magnetica.) However, a similar course ofexperiments over water led him to attribute to the rod the power ofindicating subterranean springs and water-courses; "I would not affirmit," he says, "unless I had established the fact by my ownexperience."
Dechales, another Jesuit, author of a treatise on natural springs, andof a huge tome entitled "Mundus Mathematicus," declared in the latterwork, that no means of discovering sources is equal to the diviningrod; and he quotes a friend of his who, with a hazel rod in his hand,could discover springs with the utmost precision and facility, andcould trace on the surface of the ground the course of a subterraneanconduit. Another writer, Saint-Romain, in his "Science dégagée desChimères de l'École," exclaims, "Is it not astonishing to see a rod,which is held firmly in the hands, bow itself and turn visibly in thedirection of water or metal, with more or less promptitude, accordingas the metal or the water are near or remote from the surface!"
In 1659 the Jesuit Gaspard Schott writes that the rod is used in everytown of Germany, and that he had frequent opportunity of seeing itused in the discovery of hidden treasures. "I searched with thegreatest care," he adds, "into the question whether the hazel rod hadany sympathy with gold and silver, and whether any natural propertyset it in motion. In like manner I tried whether a ring of metal, heldsuspended by a thread in the midst of a tumbler, and which strikes thehours, is moved by any similar force. I ascertained that these effectscould only have rise from the deception of those holding the rod orthe pendulum, or, may be, from some diabolic impulsion, or, morelikely still, because imagination sets the hand in motion."
The Sieur le Royer, a lawyer of Rouen, in 1674, published his "Traitédu Bâton universel," in which he gives an account of a trial made withthe rod in the presence of Father Jean François, who had ridiculed theoperation in his treatise on the science of waters, published atRennes in 1655, and which succeeded in convincing the blasphemer ofthe divine Rod. Le Royer denies to it the power of picking outcriminals, which had been popularly attributed to it, and as had beenunhesitatingly claimed for it by Debrio in his "Disquisitio Magica."
And now I am brought to the extraordinary story of Jacques Aymar,which attracted the attention of Europe to the marvellous propertiesof the divining rod. I shall give the history of this man in full, assuch an account is rendered necessary by the mutilated versions I haveseen current in English magazine articles, which follow the lead ofMrs. Crowe, who narrates the earlier portion of this impostor'scareer, but says nothing of his _exposé_ and downfall.
On the 5th July, 1692, at about ten o'clock in the evening, awine-seller of Lyons and his wife were assassinated in their cellar,and their money carried off. On the morrow, the officers of justicearrived, and examined the premises. Beside the corpses, lay a largebottle wrapped in straw, and a bloody hedging bill, which undoubtedlyhad been the instrument used to accomplish the murder. Not a trace ofthose who had committed the horrible deed was to be found, and themagistrates were quite at fault as to the direction in which theyshould turn for a clew to the murderer or murderers.
At this juncture a neighbor reminded the magistrates of an incidentwhich had taken place four years previous. It was this. In 1688 atheft of clothes had been made in Grenoble. In the parish of Crôlelived a man named Jacques Aymar, supposed to be endowed with thefaculty of using the divining rod. This man was sent for. On reachingthe spot where the theft had been committed, his rod moved in hishand. He followed the track indicated by the rod, and it continued torotate between his fingers as long as he followed a certain direction,but ceased to turn if he diverged from it in the smallest degree.Guided by his rod, Aymar went from street to street, till he wasbrought to a standstill before the prison gates. These could not beopened without leave of the magistrate, who hastened to witness theexperiment. The gates were unlocked, and Aymar, under the sameguidance, directed his steps towards four prisoners latelyincarcerated. He ordered the four to be stood in a line, and then heplaced his foot on that of the first. The rod remained immovable. Hepassed to the second, and the rod turned at once. Before the thirdprisoner there were no signs; the fourth trembled, and begged to beheard. He owned himself the thief, along with the second, who alsoacknowledged the theft, and mentioned the name of the receiver of thestolen goods. This was a farmer in the neighborhood of Grenoble. Themagistrate and officers visited him and demanded the articles he hadobtained. The farmer denied all knowledge of the theft and allparticipation in the booty. Aymar, however, by means of his rod,discovered the secreted property, and restored it to the persons fromwhom it had been stolen.
On another occasion Aymar had been in quest of a spring of water, whenhe felt his rod turn sharply in his hand. On digging at the spot,expecting to discover an abundant source, the body of a murdered womanwas found in a barrel, with a rope twisted round her neck. The poorcreature was recognized as a woman of the neighborhood who hadvanished four months before. Aymar went to the house which the victimhad inhabited, and presented his rod to each member of the household.It turned upon the husband of the deceased, who at once took toflight.
The magistrates of Lyons, at their wits' ends how to discover theperpetrators of the double murder in the wine shop, urged theProcureur du Roi to make experiment of the powers of Jacques Aymar.The fellow was sent for, and he boldly asserted his capacity fordetecting criminals, if he were first brought to the spot of themurder, so as to be put _en rapport_ with the murderers.
He was at once conducted to the scene of the outrage, with the rod inhis hand. This remained stationary as he traversed the cellar, till hereached the spot where the body of the wine seller had lain; then thestick became violently agitated, and the man's pulse rose as though hewere in an access of fever. The same motions and symptoms manifestedthemselves when he reached the place where the second victim had lain.
Having thus received his _impression_, Aymar left the cellar, and,guided by his rod, or rather by an internal instinct, he ascended intothe shop, and then stepping into the street, he followed from one toanother, like a hound upon the scent, the track of the murderers. Itconducted him into the court of the archiepiscopal palace, across it,and down to the gate of the Rhone. It was now evening, and the citygates being all closed, the quest of blood was relinquished for thenight.
Next morning Aymar returned to the scent. Accompanied by threeofficers, he left the gate, and descended the right bank of the Rhone.The rod gave indications of there having been three involved in themurder, and he pursued the traces till two of them led to a gardener'scottage. Into this he entered, and there he asserted with warmth,against the asseverations of the proprietor to the contrary, that thefugitives had entered his room, had seated themselves at his table,and had drunk wine out of one of the bottles which he indicated. Aymartested each of the household with his rod, to see if they had been incontact with the murderers. The rod moved over the two children only,aged respectively ten and nine years. These little things, on beingquestioned, answered, with reluctance, that during their father'sabsence on Sunday morning, against his express commands, they had leftthe door open, and that two men, whom they described, had come insuddenly upon them, and had seated themselves and made free with thewine in the bottle pointed out by the man with the rod. This firstverification of the talents of Jacques Aymar convinced some of thesceptical, but the Procurateur Général forbade the prosecution of theexperiment till the man had been further tested.
As already stated, a hedging bill had been discovered, on the scene ofthe murder, smeared with blood, and unquestionably the weapon withwhich the crime had been committed. Three bills from the same maker,and of precisely the same description, were obtained, and the fourwere taken into a garden, and secretly buried at intervals. Aymar wasthen brought, staff in hand, into the garden, and conducted over thespots where lay the bills. The rod began to vibrate as his feet stoodupon the place where was concealed the bill which had been used by theassassins, but was motionless elsewhere. Still unsatisfied, the fourbills were exhumed and concealed anew. The comptroller of the provincehimself bandaged the sorcerer's eyes, and led him by the hand fromplace to place. The divining rod showed no signs of movement till itapproached the blood-stained weapon, when it began to oscillate.
The magistrates were now so far satisfied as to agree that JacquesAymar should be authorized to follow the trail of the murderers, andhave a company of archers to follow him.
Guided by his rod, Aymar now recommenced his pursuit. He continuedtracing down the right bank of the Rhone till he came to half a leaguefrom the bridge of Lyons. Here the footprints of three men wereobserved in the sand, as though engaged in entering a boat. A rowingboat was obtained, and Aymar, with his escort, descended the river; hefound some difficulty in following the trail upon water; still he wasable, with a little care, to detect it. It brought him under an archof the bridge of Vienne, which boats rarely passed beneath. Thisproved that the fugitives were without a guide. The way in which thiscurious journey was made was singular. At intervals Aymar was putashore to test the banks with his rod, and ascertain whether themurderers had landed. He discovered the places where they had slept,and indicated the chairs or benches on which they had sat. In thismanner, by slow degrees, he arrived at the military camp of Sablon,between Vienne and Saint-Valier. There Aymar felt violent agitation,his cheeks flushed, and his pulse beat with rapidity. He penetratedthe crowds of soldiers, but did not venture to use his rod, lest themen should take it ill, and fall upon him. He could not do morewithout special authority, and was constrained to return to Lyons. Themagistrates then provided him with the requisite powers, and he wentback to the camp. Now he declared that the murderers were not there.He recommenced his pursuit, and descended the Rhone again as far asBeaucaire.
On entering the town he ascertained by means of his rod that thosewhom he was pursuing had parted company. He traversed several streets,then crowded on account of the annual fair, and was brought to astandstill before the prison doors. One of the murderers was within,he declared; he would track the others afterwards. Having obtainedpermission to enter, he was brought into the presence of fourteen orfifteen prisoners. Amongst these was a hunchback, who had only an hourpreviously been incarcerated on account of a theft he had committed atthe fair. Aymar applied his rod to each of the prisoners insuccession: it turned upon the hunchback. The sorcerer ascertainedthat the other two had left the town by a little path leading into theNismes road. Instead of following this track, he returned to Lyonswith the hunchback and the guard. At Lyons a triumph awaited him. Thehunchback had hitherto protested his innocence, and declared that hehad never set foot in Lyons. But as he was brought to that town by theway along which Aymar had ascertained that he had left it, the fellowwas recognized at the different houses where he had lodged the night,or stopped for food. At the little town of Bagnols, he was confrontedwith the host and hostess of a tavern where he and his comrades hadslept, and they swore to his identity, and accurately described hiscompanions: their description tallied with that given by the childrenof the gardener. The wretched man was so confounded by thisrecognition, that he avowed having staid there, a few days before,along with two Provençals. These men, he said, were the criminals; hehad been their servant, and had only kept guard in the upper roomwhilst they committed the murders in the cellar.
On his arrival in Lyons he was committed to prison, and his trial wasdecided on. At his first interrogation he told his tale precisely ashe had related it before, with these additions: the murderers spokepatois, and had purchased two bills. At ten o'clock in the evening allthree had entered the wine shop. The Provençals had a large bottlewrapped in straw, and they persuaded the publican and his wife todescend with them into the cellar to fill it, whilst he, thehunchback, acted as watch in the shop. The two men murdered thewine-seller and his wife with their bills, and then mounted to theshop, where they opened the coffer, and stole from it one hundred andthirty crowns, eight louis-d'ors, and a silver belt. The crimeaccomplished, they took refuge in the court of a large house,--thiswas the archbishop's palace, indicated by Aymar,--and passed the nightin it. Next day, early, they left Lyons, and only stopped for a momentat a gardener's cottage. Some way down the river, they found a boatmoored to the bank. This they loosed from its mooring and entered.They came ashore at the spot pointed out by the man with the stick.They staid some days in the camp at Sablon, and then went on toBeaucaire.
Aymar was now sent in quest of the other murderers. He resumed theirtrail at the gate of Beaucaire, and that of one of them, afterconsiderable _détours_, led him to the prison doors of Beaucaire, andhe asked to be allowed to search among the prisoners for his man. Thistime he was mistaken. The second fugitive was not within; but thejailer affirmed that a man whom he described--and his descriptiontallied with the known appearance of one of the Provençals--had calledat the gate shortly after the removal of the hunchback to inquireafter him, and on learning of his removal to Lyons, had hurried offprecipitately. Aymar now followed his track from the prison, and thisbrought him to that of the third criminal. He pursued the double scentfor some days. But it became evident that the two culprits had beenalarmed at what had transpired in Beaucaire, and were flying fromFrance. Aymar traced them to the frontier, and then returned to Lyons.
On the 30th of August, 1692, the poor hunchback was, according tosentence, broken on the wheel, in the Place des Terreaux. On his wayto execution he had to pass the wine shop. There the recorder publiclyread his sentence, which had been delivered by thirty judges. Thecriminal knelt and asked pardon of the poor wretches in whose murderhe was involved, after which he continued his course to the placefixed for his execution.
It may be well here to give an account of the authorities for thisextraordinary story. There are three circumstantial accounts, andnumerous letters written by the magistrate who sat during the trial,and by an eye-witness of the whole transaction, men honorable anddisinterested, upon whose veracity not a shadow of doubt was supposedto rest by their contemporaries.
M. Chauvin, Doctor of Medicine, published a "_Lettre à Mme. laMarquise de Senozan, sur les moyens dont on s'est servi pour découvrirles complices d'un assassinat commis à Lyon, le 5 Juillet, 1692_."Lyons, 1692. The _procès-verbal_ of the Procureur du Roi, M. deVanini, is also extant, and published in the _Physique occulte_ of theAbbé de Vallemont.
Pierre Gamier, Doctor of Medicine of the University of Montpellier,wrote a _Dissertation physique en forme de lettre, à M. de Sève,seigneur de Fléchères_, on Jacques Aymar, printed the same year atLyons, and republished in the _Histoire critique des pratiquessuperstitieuses du Père Lebrun_.
Doctor Chauvin was witness of nearly all the circumstances related, aswas also the Abbé Lagarde, who has written a careful account of thewhole transaction as far as to the execution of the hunchback.
Another eye-witness writes to the Abbé Bignon a letter printed byLebrun in his _Histoire critique_ cited above. "The followingcircumstance happened to me yesterday evening," he says: "M. leProcureur du Roi here, who, by the way, is one of the wisest andcleverest men in the country, sent for me at six o'clock, and had meconducted to the scene of the murder. We found there M. Grimaut,director of the customs, whom I knew to be a very upright man, and ayoung attorney named Besson, with whom I am not acquainted, but who M.le Procureur du Roi told me had the power of using the rod as well asM. Grimaut. We descended into the cellar where the murder had beencommitted, and where there were still traces of blood. Each time thatM. Grimaut and the attorney passed the spot where the murder had beenperpetrated, the rods they held in their hands began to turn, butceased when they stepped beyond the spot. We tried experiments formore than an hour, as also with the bill, which M. le Procureur hadbrought along with him, and they were satisfactory. I observed severalcurious facts in the attorney. The rod in his hands was more violentlymoved than in those of M. Grimaut, and when I placed one of my fingersin each of his hands, whilst the rod turned, I felt the mostextraordinary throbbings of the arteries in his palms. His pulse wasat fever heat. He sweated profusely, and at intervals he was compelledto go into the court to obtain fresh air."
The Sieur Pauthot, Dean of the College of Medicine at Lyons, gave hisobservations to the public as well. Some of them are as follows: "Webegan at the cellar in which the murder had been committed; into thisthe man with the rod (Aymar) shrank from entering, because he feltviolent agitations which overcame him when he used the stick over theplace where the corpses of those who had been assassinated had lain.On entering the cellar, the rod was put in my hands, and arranged bythe master as most suitable for operation; I passed and repassed overthe spot where the bodies had been found, but it remained immovable,and I felt no agitation. A lady of rank and merit, who was with us,took the rod after me; she felt it begin to move, and was internallyagitated. Then the owner of the rod resumed it, and, passing over thesame places, the stick rotated with such violence that it seemedeasier to break than to stop it. The peasant then quitted our companyto faint away, as was his wont after similar experiments. I followedhim. He turned very pale and broke into a profuse perspiration, whilstfor a quarter of an hour his pulse was violently troubled; indeed, thefaintness was so considerable, that they were obliged to dash water inhis face and give him water to drink in order to bring him round." Hethen describes experiments made over the bloody bill and otherssimilar, which succeeded in the hands of Aymar and the lady, butfailed when he attempted them himself. Pierre Garnier, physician ofthe medical college of Montpellier, appointed to that of Lyons, hasalso written an account of what he saw, as mentioned above. He gives acurious proof of Aymar's powers.
"M. le Lieutenant-Général having been robbed by one of his lackeys,seven or eight months ago, and having lost by him twenty-five crownswhich had been taken out of one of the cabinets behind his library,sent for Aymar, and asked him to discover the circumstances. Aymarwent several times round the chamber, rod in hand, placing one foot onthe chairs, on the various articles of furniture, and on two bureauxwhich are in the apartment, each of which contains several drawers. Hefixed on the very bureau and the identical drawer out of which themoney had been stolen. M. le Lieutenant-Général bade him follow thetrack of the robber. He did so. With his rod he went out on a newterrace, upon which the cabinet opens, thence back into the cabinetand up to the fire, then into the library, and from thence he wentdirect up stairs to the lackeys' sleeping apartment, when the rodguided him to one of the beds, and turned over one side of the bed,remaining motionless over the other. The lackeys then present criedout that the thief had slept on the side indicated by the rod, the bedhaving been shared with another footman, who occupied the furtherside." Garnier gives a lengthy account of various experiments he madealong with the Lieutenant-Général, the uncle of the same, the Abbé deSt. Remain, and M. de Puget, to detect whether there was imposture inthe man. But all their attempts failed to discover a trace ofdeception. He gives a report of a verbal examination of Aymar which isinteresting. The man always replied with candor.
The report of the extraordinary discovery of murder made by thedivining rod at Lyons attracted the attention of Paris, and Aymar wasordered up to the capital. There, however, his powers left him. ThePrince de Condé submitted him to various tests, and he broke downunder every one. Five holes were dug in the garden. In one wassecreted gold, in another silver, in a third silver and gold, in thefourth copper, and in the fifth stones. The rod made no signs inpresence of the metals, and at last actually began to move over theburied pebbles. He was sent to Chantilly to discover the perpetratorsof a theft of trout made in the ponds of the park. He went round thewater, rod in hand, and it turned at spots where he said the fish hadbeen drawn out. Then, following the track of the thief, it led him tothe cottage of one of the keepers, but did not move over any of theindividuals then in the house. The keeper himself was absent, butarrived late at night, and, on hearing what was said, he roused Aymarfrom his bed, insisting on having his innocence vindicated. Thedivining rod, however, pronounced him guilty, and the poor fellow tookto his heels, much upon the principle recommended by Montesquieu awhile after. Said he, "If you are accused of having stolen the towersof Notre-Dame, bolt at once."
A peasant, taken at haphazard from the street, was brought to thesorcerer as one suspected. The rod turned slightly, and Aymar declaredthat the man did not steal the fish, but ate of them. A boy was thenintroduced, who was said to be the keeper's son. The rod rotatedviolently at once. This was the finishing stroke, and Aymar was sentaway by the Prince in disgrace. It now transpired that the theft offish had taken place seven years before, and the lad was no relationof the keeper, but a country boy who had only been in Chantilly eightor ten months. M. Goyonnot, Recorder of the King's Council, broke awindow in his house, and sent for the diviner, to whom he related astory of his having been robbed of valuables during the night. Aymarindicated the broken window as the means whereby the thief had enteredthe house, and pointed out the window by which he had left it with thebooty. As no such robbery had been committed, Aymar was turned out ofthe house as an impostor. A few similar cases brought him into suchdisrepute that he was obliged to leave Paris, and return to Grenoble.
Some years after, he was made use of by the Maréchal Montrevel, in hiscruel pursuit of the Camisards.
Was Aymar an impostor from first to last, or did his powers fail himin Paris? and was it only then that he had recourse to fraud?
Much may be said in favor of either supposition. His _exposé_ at Paristells heavily against him, but need not be regarded as conclusiveevidence of imposture throughout his career. If he really did possessthe powers he claimed, it is not to be supposed that these existed infull vigor under all conditions; and Paris is a place most unsuitablefor testing them, built on artificial soil, and full of disturbinginfluences of every description. It has been remarked with others whoused the rod, that their powers languished under excitement, and thatthe faculties had to be in repose, the attention to be concentrated onthe subject of inquiry, or the action--nervous, magnetic, orelectrical, or what you will--was impeded.
Now, Paris, visited for the first time by a poor peasant, its_salons_ open to him, dazzling him with their splendor, and thenovelty of finding himself in the midst of princes, dukes, marquises,and their families, not only may have agitated the countryman to suchan extent as to deprive him of his peculiar faculty, but may have ledhim into simulating what he felt had departed from him, at the momentwhen he was under the eyes of the grandees of the Court. We haveanalogous cases in Bleton and Angelique Cottin. The former was ahydroscope, who fell into convulsions whenever he passed over runningwater. This peculiarity was noticed in him when a child of seven yearsold. When brought to Paris, he failed signally to detect the presenceof water conveyed underground by pipes and conduits, but he pretendedto feel the influence of water where there certainly was none.Angelique Cottin was a poor girl, highly charged with electricity. Anyone touching her received a violent shock; one medical gentleman,having seated her on his knee, was knocked clean out of his chair bythe electric fluid, which thus exhibited its sense of propriety. Butthe electric condition of Angelique became feebler as she approachedParis, and failed her altogether in the capital.
I believe that the imagination is the principal motive force in thosewho use the divining rod; but whether it is so solely, I am unable todecide. The powers of nature are so mysterious and inscrutable that wemust be cautious in limiting them, under abnormal conditions, to theordinary laws of experience.
The manner in which the rod was used by certain persons rendersself-deception possible. The rod is generally of hazel, and is forkedlike a Y; the forefingers are placed against the diverging arms of therod, and the elbows are brought back against the side; thus theimplement is held in front of the operator, delicately balanced beforethe pit of the stomach at a distance of about eight inches. Now, ifthe pressure of the balls of the digits be in the least relaxed, thestalk of the rod will naturally fall. It has been assumed by some,that a restoration of the pressure will bring the stem up again,pointing towards the operator, and a little further pressure willelevate it into a perpendicular position. A relaxation of force willagain lower it, and thus the rotation observed in the rod bemaintained. I confess myself unable to accomplish this. The loweringof the leg of the rod is easy enough, but no efforts of mine toproduce a revolution on its axis have as yet succeeded. The muscleswhich would contract the fingers upon the arms of the stick, pass theshoulder; and it is worthy of remark that one of the medical men whowitnessed the experiments made on Bleton the hydroscope, expresslyalludes to a slight rising of the shoulders during the rotation of thedivining rod.
But the manner of using the rod was by no means identical in allcases. If, in all cases, it had simply been balanced between thefingers, some probability might be given to the suggestion above made,that the rotation was always effected by the involuntary action of themuscles.
The usual manner of holding the rod, however, precluded such apossibility. The most ordinary use consisted in taking a forked stickin such a manner that the palms were turned upwards, and the fingersclosed upon the branching arms of the rod. Some required the normalposition of the rod to be horizontal, others elevated the point,others again depressed it.
If the implement were straight, it was held in a similar manner, butthe hands were brought somewhat together, so as to produce a slightarc in the rod. Some who practised rhabdomancy sustained this speciesof rod between their thumbs and forefingers; or else the thumb andforefingers were closed, and the rod rested on their points; or againit reposed on the flat of the hand, or on the back, the hand beingheld vertically and the rod held in equilibrium.
A third species of divining rod consisted in a straight staff cut intwo: one extremity of the one half was hollowed out, the other halfwas sharpened at the end, and this end was inserted in the hollow, andthe pointed stick rotated in the cavity.
The way in which Bleton used his rod is thus minutely described: "Hedoes not grasp it, nor warm it in his hands, and he does not regardwith preference a hazel branch lately cut and full of sap. Heplaces horizontally between his forefingers a rod of any kind given tohim, or picked up in the road, of any sort of wood except elder, freshor dry, not always forked, but sometimes merely bent. If it isstraight, it rises slightly at the extremities by little jerks, butdoes not turn. If bent, it revolves on its axis with more or lessrapidity, in more or less time, according to the quantity and currentof the water. I counted from thirty to thirty-five revolutions in aminute, and afterwards as many as eighty. A curious phenomenon is,that Bleton is able to make the rod turn between another person'sfingers, even without seeing it or touching it, by approaching hisbody towards it when his feet stand over a subterranean watercourse.It is true, however, that the motion is much less strong and lessdurable in other fingers than his own. If Bleton stood on his head,and placed the rod between his feet, though he felt strongly thepeculiar sensations produced in him by flowing water, yet the rodremained stationary. If he were insulated on glass, silk, or wax, thesensations were less vivid, and the rotation of the stick ceased."
But this experiment failed in Paris, under circumstances which eitherproved that Bleton's imagination produced the movement, or that hisintegrity was questionable. It is quite possible that in manyinstances the action of the muscles is purely involuntary, and isattributable to the imagination, so that the operator deceives himselfas well as others.
This is probably the explanation of the story of Mdlle. Olivet, ayoung lady of tender conscience, who was a skilful performer with thedivining rod, but shrank from putting her powers in operation, lestshe should be indulging in unlawful acts. She consulted the PèreLebrun, author of a work already referred to in this paper, and headvised her to ask God to withdraw the power from her, if the exerciseof it was harmful to her spiritual condition. She entered into retreatfor two days, and prayed with fervor. Then she made her communion,asking God what had been recommended to her at the moment when shereceived the Host. In the afternoon of the same day she madeexperiment with her rod, and found that it would no longer operate.The girl had strong faith in it before--a faith coupled with fear; andas long as that faith was strong in her, the rod moved; now shebelieved that the faculty was taken from her; and the power ceasedwith the loss of her faith.
If the divining rod is put in motion by any other force except theinvoluntary action of the muscles, we must confine its powers to theproperty of indicating the presence of flowing water. There arenumerous instances of hydroscopes thus detecting the existence of aspring, or of a subterranean watercourse; the most remarkably endowedindividuals of this description are Jean-Jacques Parangue, born nearMarseilles, in 1760, who experienced a horror when near water which noone else perceived. He was endowed with the faculty of seeing waterthrough the ground, says l'Abbé Sauri, who gives his history. JennyLeslie, a Scotch girl, about the same date claimed similar powers. In1790, Pennet, a native of Dauphiné, attracted attention in Italy, butwhen carefully tested by scientific men in Padua, his attempts todiscover buried metals failed; at Florence he was detected in anendeavor to find out by night what had been secreted to test hispowers on the morrow. Vincent Amoretti was an Italian, who underwentpeculiar sensations when brought in proximity to water, coal, andsalt; he was skilful in the use of the rod, but made no publicexhibition of his powers.
The rod is still employed, I have heard it asserted, by Cornishminers; but I have never been able to ascertain that such is reallythe case. The mining captains whom I have questioned invariablyrepudiated all knowledge of its use.
In Wiltshire, however, it is still employed for the purpose ofdetecting water; and the following extract from a letter I have justreceived will show that it is still in vogue on the Continent:--
"I believe the use of the divining rod for discovering springs ofwater has by no means been confined to mediæval times; for I waspersonally acquainted with a lady, now deceased, who has successfullypractised with it in this way. She was a very clever and accomplishedwoman; Scotch by birth and education; by no means credulous; possiblya little imaginative, for she wrote not unsuccessfully; and of aremarkably open and straightforward disposition. Captain C----, herhusband, had a large estate in Holstein, near Lubeck, supporting aconsiderable population; and whether for the wants of the people orfor the improvement of the land, it now and then happened that anadditional well was needed.
"On one of these occasions a man was sent for who made a regularprofession of finding water by the divining rod; there happened to bea large party staying at the house, and the whole company turned outto see the fun. The rod gave indications in the usual way, and waterwas ultimately found at the spot. Mrs. C----, utterly sceptical, tookthe rod into her own hands to make experiment, believing that shewould prove the man an impostor; and she said afterwards she was nevermore frightened in her life than when it began to move, on her walkingover the spring. Several other gentlemen and ladies tried it, but itwas quite inactive in their hands. 'Well,' said the host to his wife,'we shall have no occasion to send for the man again, as you are suchan adept.'
"Some months after this, water was wanted in another part of theestate, and it occurred to Mrs. C---- that she would use the rodagain. After some trials, it again gave decided indications, and awell was begun and carried down a very considerable depth. At last shebegan to shrink from incurring more expense, but the laborers hadimplicit faith; and begged to be allowed to persevere. Very soon thewater burst up with such force that the men escaped with difficulty;and this proved afterwards the most unfailing spring for miles round.
"You will take the above for what it is worth; the facts I have givenare undoubtedly true, whatever conclusions may be drawn from them. Ido not propose that you should print my narrative, but I think inthese cases personal testimony, even indirect, is more useful informing one's opinion than a hundred old volumes. I did not hear itfrom Mrs. C----'s own lips, but I was sufficiently acquainted with herto form a very tolerable estimate of her character; and my wife, whohas known her intimately from her own childhood, was in her youngerdays often staying with her for months together."
I remember having been much perplexed by reading a series ofexperiments made with a pendulous ring over metals, by a Mr. Mayo: heascertained that it oscillated in various directions under peculiarcircumstances, when suspended by a thread over the ball of the thumb.I instituted a series of experiments, and was surprised to find thering vibrate in an unaccountable manner in opposite directions overdifferent metals. On consideration, I closed my eyes whilst the ringwas oscillating over gold, and on opening them I found that it hadbecome stationary. I got a friend to change the metals whilst I wasblindfolded--the ring no longer vibrated. I was thus enabled to judgeof the involuntary action of muscles, quite sufficient to havedeceived an eminent medical man like Mr. Mayo, and to have perplexedme till I succeeded in solving the mystery.[24]
FOOTNOTES:
[23] Hos. iv. 12.
[24] A similar series of experiments was undertaken, as I learnedafterwards, by M. Chevreuil in Paris, with similar results.



The Seven Sleepers of Ephesus.

One of the most picturesque myths of ancient days is that which formsthe subject of this article. It is thus told by Jacques de Voragine,in his "Legenda Aurea:"--
    "The seven sleepers were natives of Ephesus. The Emperor    Decius, who persecuted the Christians, having come to    Ephesus, ordered the erection of temples in the city, that    all might come and sacrifice before him; and he commanded    that the Christians should be sought out and given their    choice, either to worship the idols, or to die. So great was    the consternation in the city, that the friend denounced his    friend, the father his son, and the son his father.
    "Now there were in Ephesus seven Christians, Maximian,    Malchus, Marcian, Dionysius, John, Serapion, and Constantine    by name. These refused to sacrifice to the idols, and    remained in their houses praying and fasting. They were    accused before Decius, and they confessed themselves to be    Christians. However, the emperor gave them a little time to    consider what line they would adopt. They took advantage of    this reprieve to dispense their goods among the poor, and    then they retired, all seven, to Mount Celion, where they    determined to conceal themselves.
    "One of their number, Malchus, in the disguise of a    physician, went to the town to obtain victuals. Decius, who    had been absent from Ephesus for a little while, returned,    and gave orders for the seven to be sought. Malchus, having    escaped from the town, fled, full of fear, to his comrades,    and told them of the emperor's fury. They were much alarmed;    and Malchus handed them the loaves he had bought, bidding    them eat, that, fortified by the food, they might have    courage in the time of trial. They ate, and then, as they sat    weeping and speaking to one another, by the will of God they    fell asleep.
    "The pagans sought everywhere, but could not find them, and    Decius was greatly irritated at their escape. He had their    parents brought before him, and threatened them with death    if they did not reveal the place of concealment; but they    could only answer that the seven young men had distributed    their goods to the poor, and that they were quite ignorant as    to their whereabouts.
    "Decius, thinking it possible that they might be hiding in a    cavern, blocked up the mouth with stones, that they might    perish of hunger.
    "Three hundred and sixty years passed, and in the thirtieth    year of the reign of Theodosius, there broke forth a heresy    denying the resurrection of the dead....
    "Now, it happened that an Ephesian was building a stable on    the side of Mount Celion, and finding a pile of stones handy,    he took them for his edifice, and thus opened the mouth of    the cave. Then the seven sleepers awoke, and it was to them    as if they had slept but a single night. They began to ask    Malchus what decision Decius had given concerning them.
    "'He is going to hunt us down, so as to force us to sacrifice    to the idols,' was his reply. 'God knows,' replied Maximian,    'we shall never do that.' Then exhorting his companions, he    urged Malchus to go back to the town to buy some more bread,    and at the same time to obtain fresh information. Malchus    took five coins and left the cavern. On seeing the stones he    was filled with astonishment; however, he went on towards the    city; but what was his bewilderment, on approaching the gate,    to see over it a cross! He went to another gate, and there he    beheld the same sacred sign; and so he observed it over each    gate of the city. He believed that he was suffering from the    effects of a dream. Then he entered Ephesus, rubbing his    eyes, and he walked to a baker's shop. He heard people using    our Lord's name, and he was the more perplexed. 'Yesterday,    no one dared pronounce the name of Jesus, and now it is on    every one's lips. Wonderful! I can hardly believe myself to    be in Ephesus.' He asked a passer-by the name of the city,    and on being told it was Ephesus, he was thunderstruck. Now    he entered a baker's shop, and laid down his money. The    baker, examining the coin, inquired whether he had found a    treasure, and began to whisper to some others in the shop.    The youth, thinking that he was discovered, and that they    were about to conduct him to the emperor, implored them to    let him alone, offering to leave loaves and money if he might    only be suffered to escape. But the shop-men, seizing him,    said, 'Whoever you are, you have found a treasure; show us    where it is, that we may share it with you, and then we will    hide you.' Malchus was too frightened to answer. So they put    a rope round his neck, and drew him through the streets into    the market-place. The news soon spread that the young man had    discovered a great treasure, and there was presently a vast    crowd about him. He stoutly protested his innocence. No one    recognized him, and his eyes, ranging over the faces which    surrounded him, could not see one which he had known, or    which was in the slightest degree familiar to him.
    "St. Martin, the bishop, and Antipater, the governor, having    heard of the excitement, ordered the young man to be brought    before them, along with the bakers.
    "The bishop and the governor asked him where he had found the    treasure, and he replied that he had found none, but that the    few coins were from his own purse. He was next asked whence    he came. He replied that he was a native of Ephesus, 'if this    be Ephesus.'
    "'Send for your relations--your parents, if they live here,'    ordered the governor.
    "'They live here, certainly,' replied the youth; and he    mentioned their names. No such names were known in the town.    Then the governor exclaimed, 'How dare you say that this    money belonged to your parents when it dates back three    hundred and seventy-seven years,[25] and is as old as the    beginning of the reign of Decius, and it is utterly unlike    our modern coinage? Do you think to impose on the old men and    sages of Ephesus? Believe me, I shall make you suffer the    severities of the law till you show where you made the    discovery.'
    "'I implore you,' cried Malchus, 'in the name of God, answer    me a few questions, and then I will answer yours. Where is    the Emperor Decius gone to?'
    "The bishop answered, 'My son, there is no emperor of that    name; he who was thus called died long ago.'
    "Malchus replied, 'All I hear perplexes me more and more.    Follow me, and I will show you my comrades, who fled with me    into a cave of Mount Celion, only yesterday, to escape the    cruelty of Decius. I will lead you to them.'
    "The bishop turned to the governor. 'The hand of God is    here,' he said. Then they followed, and a great crowd after    them. And Malchus entered first into the cavern to his    companions, and the bishop after him.... And there they saw    the martyrs seated in the cave, with their faces fresh and    blooming as roses; so all fell down and glorified God. The    bishop and the governor sent notice to Theodosius, and he    hurried to Ephesus. All the inhabitants met him and conducted    him to the cavern. As soon as the saints beheld the emperor,    their faces shone like the sun, and the emperor gave thanks    unto God, and embraced them, and said, 'I see you, as though    I saw the Savior restoring Lazarus.' Maximian replied,    'Believe us! for the faith's sake, God has resuscitated us    before the great resurrection day, in order that you may    believe firmly in the resurrection of the dead. For as the    child is in its mother's womb living and not suffering, so    have we lived without suffering, fast asleep.' And having    thus spoken, they bowed their heads, and their souls    returned to their Maker. The emperor, rising, bent over them    and embraced them weeping. He gave them orders for golden    reliquaries to be made, but that night they appeared to him    in a dream, and said that hitherto they had slept in the    earth, and that in the earth they desired to sleep on till    God should raise them again."
Such is the beautiful story. It seems to have travelled to us from theEast. Jacobus Sarugiensis, a Mesopotamian bishop, in the fifth orsixth century, is said to have been the first to commit it to writing.Gregory of Tours (De Glor. Mart. i. 9) was perhaps the first tointroduce it to Europe. Dionysius of Antioch (ninth century) told thestory in Syrian, and Photius of Constantinople reproduced it, with theremark that Mahomet had adopted it into the Koran. Metaphrastusalludes to it as well; in the tenth century Eutychius inserted it inhis annals of Arabia; it is found in the Coptic and the Maronitebooks, and several early historians, as Paulus Diaconus, Nicephorus,&c., have inserted it in their works.
A poem on the Seven Sleepers was composed by a trouvère namedChardri, and is mentioned by M. Fr. Michel in his "Rapports Ministrede l'Instruction Public;" a German poem on the same subject, of thethirteenth century, in 935 verses, has been published by M. Karajan;and the Spanish poet, Augustin Morreto, composed a drama on it,entitled "Los Siete Durmientes," which is inserted in the 19th volumeof the rare work, "Comedias Nuevas Escogidas de los Mejores Ingenios."
Mahomet has somewhat improved on the story. He has made the Sleepersprophesy his coming, and he has given them a dog named Kratim, orKratimir, which sleeps with them, and which is endowed with the giftof prophecy.
As a special favor this dog is to be one of the ten animals to beadmitted into his paradise, the others being Jonah's whale, Solomon'sant, Ishmael's ram, Abraham's calf, the Queen of Sheba's ass, theprophet Salech's camel, Moses' ox, Belkis' cuckoo, and Mahomet's ass.
It was perhaps too much for the Seven Sleepers to ask, that theirbodies should be left to rest in earth. In ages when saintly relicswere valued above gold and precious stones, their request was sure tobe shelved; and so we find that their remains were conveyed toMarseilles in a large stone sarcophagus, which is still exhibited inSt. Victor's Church. In the Musæum Victorium at Rome is a curious andancient representation of them in a cement of sulphur and plaster.Their names are engraved beside them, together with certainattributes. Near Constantine and John are two clubs, near Maximian aknotty club, near Malchus and Martinian two axes, near Serapion aburning torch, and near Danesius or Dionysius a great nail, such asthose spoken of by Horace (Lib. 1, Od. 3) and St. Paulinus (Nat. 9, orCarm. 24) as having been used for torture.
In this group of figures, the seven are represented as young, withoutbeards, and indeed in ancient martyrologies they are frequently calledboys.
It has been inferred from this curious plaster representation, thatthe seven may have suffered under Decius, A. D. 250, and have beenburied in the afore-mentioned cave; whilst the discovery andtranslation of their relics under Theodosius, in 479, may have givenrise to the fable. And this I think probable enough. The story oflong sleepers and the number seven connected with it is ancientenough, and dates from heathen mythology.
Like many another ancient myth, it was laid hold of by Christian handsand baptized.
Pliny relates the story of Epimenides the epic poet, who, when tendinghis sheep one hot day, wearied and oppressed with slumber, retreatedinto a cave, where he fell asleep. After fifty-seven years he awoke,and found every thing changed. His brother, whom he had left astripling, was now a hoary man.
Epimenides was reckoned one of the seven sages by those who excludePeriander. He flourished in the time of Solon. After his death, at theage of two hundred and eighty-nine, he was revered as a god, andhonored especially by the Athenians.
This story is a version of the older legend of the perpetual sleep ofthe shepherd Endymion, who was thus preserved in unfading youth andbeauty by Jupiter.
According to an Arabic legend, St. George thrice rose from his grave,and was thrice slain.
In Scandinavian mythology we have Siegfrid or Sigurd thus resting,and awaiting his call to come forth and fight. Charlemagne sleeps inthe Odenberg in Hess, or in the Untersberg near Salzburg, seated onhis throne, with his crown on his head and his sword at his side,waiting till the times of Antichrist are fulfilled, when he will wakeand burst forth to avenge the blood of the saints. Ogier the Dane, orOlger Dansk, will in like manner shake off his slumber and come forthfrom the dream-land of Avallon to avenge the right--O that he hadshown himself in the Schleswig-Holstein war!
Well do I remember, as a child, contemplating with wondering awe thegreat Kyffhäuserberg in Thuringia, for therein, I was told, sleptFrederic Barbarossa and his six knights. A shepherd once penetratedinto the heart of the mountain by a cave, and discovered therein ahall where sat the emperor at a stone table, and his red beard hadgrown through the slab. At the tread of the shepherd Frederic awokefrom his slumber, and asked, "Do the ravens still fly over themountains?"
"Sire, they do."
"Then we must sleep another hundred years."
But when his beard has wound itself thrice round the table, then willthe emperor awake with his knights, and rush forth to release Germanyfrom its bondage, and exalt it to the first place among the kingdomsof Europe.
In Switzerland slumber three Tells at Rutli, near theVierwaldstätter-see, waiting for the hour of their country's direstneed. A shepherd crept into the cave where they rest. The third Tellrose and asked the time. "Noon," replied the shepherd lad. "The timeis not yet come," said Tell, and lay down again.
In Scotland, beneath the Eilden hills, sleeps Thomas of Erceldoune;the murdered French who fell in the Sicilian Vespers at Palermo arealso slumbering till the time is come when they may wake to avengethemselves. When Constantinople fell into the hands of the Turks, apriest was celebrating the sacred mysteries at the great silver altarof St. Sophia. The celebrant cried to God to protect the sacred hostfrom profanation. Then the wall opened, and he entered, bearing theBlessed Sacrament. It closed on him, and there he is sleeping withhis head bowed before the Body of Our Lord, waiting till the Turk iscast out of Constantinople, and St. Sophia is released from itsprofanation. God speed the time!
In Bohemia sleep three miners deep in the heart of the Kuttenberg. InNorth America Rip Van Winkle passed twenty years slumbering in theKatskill mountains. In Portugal it is believed that Sebastian, thechivalrous young monarch who did his best to ruin his country by hisrash invasion of Morocco, is sleeping somewhere; but he will wakeagain to be his country's deliverer in the hour of need. OlafTryggvason is waiting a similar occasion in Norway. Even NapoleonBonaparte is believed among some of the French peasantry to besleeping on in a like manner.
St. Hippolytus relates that St. John the Divine is slumbering atEphesus, and Sir John Mandeville relates the circumstances as follows:"From Pathmos men gone unto Ephesim a fair citee and nyghe to the see.And there dyede Seynte Johne, and was buryed behynde the higheAwtiere, in a toumbe. And there is a faire chirche. For Christene meneweren wont to holden that place alweyes. And in the tombe of SeyntJohn is noughte but manna, that is clept Aungeles mete. For his bodywas translated into Paradys. And Turkes holden now alle that place andthe citee and the Chirche. And all Asie the lesse is yclept Turkye.And ye shalle undrestond, that Seynt Johne bid make his grave there inhis Lyf, and leyd himself there-inne all quyk. And therefore somme menseyn, that he dyed noughte, but that he resteth there till the Day ofDoom. And forsoothe there is a gret marveule: For men may see therethe erthe of the tombe apertly many tymes steren and moven, as thereweren quykke thinges undre." The connection of this legend of St. Johnwith Ephesus may have had something to do with turning the sevenmartyrs of that city into seven sleepers.
The annals of Iceland relate that, in 1403, a Finn of the name ofFethmingr, living in Halogaland, in the North of Norway, happening toenter a cave, fell asleep, and woke not for three whole years, lyingwith his bow and arrows at his side, untouched by bird or beast.
There certainly are authentic accounts of persons having slept for anextraordinary length of time, but I shall not mention any, as Ibelieve the legend we are considering, not to have been anexaggeration of facts, but a Christianized myth of paganism. The factof the number seven being so prominent in many of the tales, seems tolead to this conclusion. Barbarossa changes his position every sevenyears. Charlemagne starts in his chair at similar intervals. OlgerDansk stamps his iron mace on the floor once every seven years. OlafRedbeard in Sweden uncloses his eyes at precisely the same distancesof time.
I believe that the mythological core of this picturesque legend is therepose of the earth through the seven winter months. In the North,Frederic and Charlemagne certainly replace Odin.
The German and Scandinavian still heathen legends represent the heroesas about to issue forth for the defence of Fatherland in the hour ofdirest need. The converted and Christianized tale brings the martyryouths forth in the hour when a heresy is afflicting the Church, thatthey may destroy the heresy by their witness to the truth of theResurrection.
If there is something majestic in the heathen myth, there aresingular grace and beauty in the Christian tale, teaching, as it does,such a glorious doctrine; but it is surpassed in delicacy by themodern form which the same myth has assumed--a form which is a realtransformation, leaving the doctrine taught the same. It has been madeinto a romance by Hoffman, and is versified by Trinius. I may perhapsbe allowed to translate with some freedom the poem of the latter:--
    In an ancient shaft of Falun      Year by year a body lay,    God-preserved, as though a treasure,      Kept unto the waking day.
    Not the turmoil, nor the passions,      Of the busy world o'erhead,    Sounds of war, or peace rejoicings,      Could disturb the placid dead.
    Once a youthful miner, whistling,      Hewed the chamber, now his tomb:    Crash! the rocky fragments tumbled,      Closed him in abysmal gloom.
    Sixty years passed by, ere miners      Toiling, hundred fathoms deep,    Broke upon the shaft where rested      That poor miner in his sleep.
    As the gold-grains lie untarnished      In the dingy soil and sand,    Till they gleam and flicker, stainless,      In the digger's sifting hand;--
    As the gem in virgin brilliance      Rests, till ushered into day;--    So uninjured, uncorrupted,      Fresh and fair the body lay.
    And the miners bore it upward,      Laid it in the yellow sun;    Up, from out the neighboring houses,      Fast the curious peasants run.
    "Who is he?" with eyes they question;      "Who is he?" they ask aloud;    Hush! a wizened hag comes hobbling,      Panting, through the wondering crowd.
    O! the cry,--half joy, half sorrow,--      As she flings her at his side:    "John! the sweetheart of my girlhood,      Here am I, am I, thy bride.
    "Time on thee has left no traces,      Death from wear has shielded thee;    I am agéd, worn, and wasted,      O! what life has done to me!"
    Then his smooth, unfurrowed forehead      Kissed that ancient withered crone;    And the Death which had divided      Now united them in one.
FOOTNOTE:
[25] This calculation is sadly inaccurate.



William Tell.

I suppose that most people regard William Tell, the hero ofSwitzerland, as an historical character, and visit the scenes madememorable by his exploits, with corresponding interest, when theyundertake the regular Swiss round.
It is one of the painful duties of the antiquarian to dispel many apopular belief, and to probe the groundlessness of many an historicalstatement. The antiquarian is sometimes disposed to ask with Pilate,"What is truth?" when he finds historical facts crumbling beneath histouch into mythological fables; and he soon learns to doubt andquestion the most emphatic declarations of, and claims to,reliability.
Sir Walter Raleigh, in his prison, was composing the second volume ofhis History of the World. Leaning on the sill of his window, hemeditated on the duties of the historian to mankind, when suddenlyhis attention was attracted by a disturbance in the court-yard beforehis cell. He saw one man strike another whom he supposed by his dressto be an officer; the latter at once drew his sword, and ran theformer through the body. The wounded man felled his adversary with astick, and then sank upon the pavement. At this juncture the guardcame up, and carried off the officer insensible, and then the corpseof the man who had been run through.
Next day Raleigh was visited by an intimate friend, to whom he relatedthe circumstances of the quarrel and its issue. To his astonishment,his friend unhesitatingly declared that the prisoner had mistaken thewhole series of incidents which had passed before his eyes.
The supposed officer was not an officer at all, but the servant of aforeign ambassador; it was he who had dealt the first blow; he had notdrawn his sword, but the other had snatched it from his side, and hadrun _him_ through the body before any one could interfere; whereupon astranger from among the crowd knocked the murderer down with hisstick, and some of the foreigners belonging to the ambassador'sretinue carried off the corpse. The friend of Raleigh added thatgovernment had ordered the arrest and immediate trial of the murderer,as the man assassinated was one of the principal servants of theSpanish ambassador.
"Excuse me," said Raleigh, "but I cannot have been deceived as yousuppose, for I was eye-witness to the events which took place under myown window, and the man fell there on that spot where you see apaving-stone standing up above the rest."
"My dear Raleigh," replied his friend, "I was sitting on that stonewhen the fray took place, and I received this slight scratch on mycheek in snatching the sword from the murderer; and upon my word ofhonor, you have been deceived upon every particular."
Sir Walter, when alone, took up the second volume of his History,which was in MS., and contemplating it, thought--"If I cannot believemy own eyes, how can I be assured of the truth of a tithe of theevents which happened ages before I was born?" and he flung themanuscript into the fire.[26]
Now, I think that I can show that the story of William Tell is asfabulous as--what shall I say? any other historical event.
It is almost too well known to need repetition.
In the year 1307, Gessler, Vogt of the Emperor Albert of Hapsburg, seta hat on a pole, as symbol of imperial power, and ordered every onewho passed by to do obeisance towards it. A mountaineer of the name ofTell boldly traversed the space before it without saluting theabhorred symbol. By Gessler's command he was at once seized andbrought before him. As Tell was known to be an expert archer, he wasordered, by way of punishment, to shoot an apple off the head of hisown son. Finding remonstrance vain, he submitted. The apple was placedon the child's head, Tell bent his bow, the arrow sped, and apple andarrow fell together to the ground. But the Vogt noticed that Tell,before shooting, had stuck another arrow into his belt, and heinquired the reason.
"It was for you," replied the sturdy archer. "Had I shot my child,know that it would not have missed your heart."
This event, observe, took place in the beginning of the fourteenthcentury. But Saxo Grammaticus, a Danish writer of the twelfth century,tells the story of a hero of his own country, who lived in the tenthcentury. He relates the incident in horrible style as follows:--
"Nor ought what follows to be enveloped in silence. Toki, who had forsome time been in the king's service, had, by his deeds, surpassingthose of his comrades, made enemies of his virtues. One day, when hehad drunk too much, he boasted to those who sat at table with him,that his skill in archery was such, that with the first shot of anarrow he could hit the smallest apple set on the top of a stick at acoconveying what he had said to the king (Harald Bluetooth). But thewickedness of this monarch soon transformed the confidence of thefather to the jeopardy of the son, for he ordered the dearest pledgeof his life to stand in place of the stick, from whom, if the uttererof the boast did not at his first shot strike down the apple, heshould with his head pay the penalty of having made an idle boast. Thecommand of the king urged the soldier to do this, which was so muchmore than he had undertaken, the detracting artifices of the othershaving taken advantage of words spoken when he was hardly sober. Assoon as the boy was led forth, Toki carefully admonished him toreceive the whir of the arrow as calmly as possible, with attentiveears, and without moving his head, lest by a slight motion of the bodyhe should frustrate the experience of his well-tried skill. He alsomade him stand with his back towards him, lest he should be frightenedat the sight of the arrow. Then he drew three arrows from his quiver,and the very first he shot struck the proposed mark. Toki being askedby the king why he had taken so many more arrows out of his quiver,when he was to make but one trial with his bow, 'That I might avengeon thee,' he replied, 'the error of the first, by the points of theothers, lest my innocence might happen to be afflicted, and thyinjustice go unpunished.'"
The same incident is told of Egil, brother of the mythical Velundr,in the Saga of Thidrik.
In Norwegian history also it appears with variations again and again.It is told of King Olaf the Saint (d. 1030), that, desiring theconversion of a brave heathen named Eindridi, he competed with him invarious athletic sports; he swam with him, wrestled, and then shotwith him. The king dared Eindridi to strike a writing-tablet from offhis son's head with an arrow. Eindridi prepared to attempt thedifficult shot. The king bade two men bind the eyes of the child andhold the napkin, so that he might not move when he heard the whistleof the arrow. The king aimed first, and the arrow grazed the lad'shead. Eindridi then prepared to shoot; but the mother of the boyinterfered, and persuaded the king to abandon this dangerous test ofskill. In this version, also, Eindridi is prepared to revenge himselfon the king, should the child be injured.
But a closer approximation still to the Tell myth is found in the lifeof Hemingr, another Norse archer, who was challenged by King Harald,Sigurd's son (d. 1066). The story is thus told:--
"The island was densely overgrown with wood, and the people went intothe forest. The king took a spear and set it with its point in thesoil, then he laid an arrow on the string and shot up into the air.The arrow turned in the air and came down upon the spear-shaft andstood up in it. Hemingr took another arrow and shot up; his was lostto sight for some while, but it came back and pierced the nick of theking's arrow.... Then the king took a knife and stuck it into an oak;he next drew his bow and planted an arrow in the haft of the knife.Thereupon Hemingr took his arrows. The king stood by him and said,'They are all inlaid with gold; you are a capital workman.' Hemingranswered, 'They are not my manufacture, but are presents.' He shot,and his arrow cleft the haft, and the point entered the socket of theblade.
"'We must have a keener contest,' said the king, taking an arrow andflushing with anger; then he laid the arrow on the string and drew hisbow to the farthest, so that the horns were nearly brought to meet.Away flashed the arrow, and pierced a tender twig. All said that thiswas a most astonishing feat of dexterity. But Hemingr shot from agreater distance, and split a hazel nut. All were astonished to seethis. Then said the king, 'Take a nut and set it on the head of yourbrother Bjorn, and aim at it from precisely the same distance. If youmiss the mark, then your life goes.'
"Hemingr answered, 'Sire, my life is at your disposal, but I will notadventure that shot.' Then out spake Bjorn--'Shoot, brother, ratherthan die yourself.' Hemingr said, 'Have you the pluck to stand quitestill without shrinking?' 'I will do my best,' said Bjorn. 'Then letthe king stand by,' said Hemingr, 'and let him see whether I touch thenut.'
"The king agreed, and bade Oddr Ufeigs' son stand by Bjorn, and seethat the shot was fair. Hemingr then went to the spot fixed for him bythe king, and signed himself with the cross, saying, 'God be mywitness that I had rather die myself than injure my brother Bjorn; letall the blame rest on King Harald.'
"Then Hemingr flung his spear. The spear went straight to the mark,and passed between the nut and the crown of the lad, who was not inthe least injured. It flew farther, and stopped not till it fell.
"Then the king came up and asked Oddr what he thought about theshot."
Years after, this risk was revenged upon the hard-hearted monarch. Inthe battle of Stamfordbridge an arrow from a skilled archer penetratedthe windpipe of the king, and it is supposed to have sped, observesthe Saga writer, from the bow of Hemingr, then in the service of theEnglish monarch.
The story is related somewhat differently in the Faroe Isles, and istold of Geyti, Aslak's son. The same Harald asks his men if they knowwho is his match in strength. "Yes," they reply; "there is a peasant'sson in the uplands, Geyti, son of Aslak, who is the strongest of men."Forth goes the king, and at last rides up to the house of Aslak. "Andwhere is your youngest son?"
"Alas! alas! he lies under the green sod of Kolrin kirkgarth." "Come,then, and show me his corpse, old man, that I may judge whether he wasas stout of limb as men say."
The father puts the king off with the excuse that among so many deadit would be hard to find his boy. So the king rides away over theheath. He meets a stately man returning from the chase, with a bowover his shoulder. "And who art thou, friend?" "Geyti, Aslak's son."The dead man, in short, alive and well. The king tells him he hasheard of his prowess, and is come to match his strength with him. SoGeyti and the king try a swimming-match.
The king swims well; but Geyti swims better, and in the end gives themonarch such a ducking, that he is borne to his house devoid of senseand motion. Harald swallows his anger, as he had swallowed the water,and bids Geyti shoot a hazel nut from off his brother's head. Aslak'sson consents, and invites the king into the forest to witness hisdexterity.
    "On the string the shaft he laid,      And God hath heard his prayer;    He shot the little nut away,      Nor hurt the lad a hair."
Next day the king sends for the skilful bowman:--
    "List thee, Geyti, Aslak's son,      And truly tell to me,    Wherefore hadst thou arrows twain      In the wood yestreen with thee?"
The bowman replies,--
    "Therefore had I arrows twain      Yestreen in the wood with me,    Had I but hurt my brother dear,      The other had piercéd thee."
A very similar tale is told also in the celebrated Malleus Maleficarumof a man named Puncher, with this difference, that a coin is placed onthe lad's head instead of an apple or a nut. The person who had daredPuncher to the test of skill, inquires the use of the second arrow inhis belt, and receives the usual answer, that if the first arrow hadmissed the coin, the second would have transfixed a certain heartwhich was destitute of natural feeling.
We have, moreover, our English version of the same story in thevenerable ballad of William of Cloudsley.
The Finn ethnologist Castrén obtained the following tale in theFinnish village of Uhtuwa:--
A fight took place between some freebooters and the inhabitants of thevillage of Alajäwi. The robbers plundered every house, and carried offamongst their captives an old man. As they proceeded with their spoilsalong the strand of the lake, a lad of twelve years old appeared fromamong the reeds on the opposite bank, armed with a bow, and amplyprovided with arrows; he threatened to shoot down the captors unlessthe old man, his father, were restored to him. The robbers mockinglyreplied that the aged man would be given to him if he could shoot anapple off his head. The boy accepted the challenge, and onsuccessfully accomplishing it, the surrender of the venerable captivewas made.
Farid-Uddin Âttar was a Persian dealer in perfumes, born in the year1119. He one day was so impressed with the sight of a dervish, that hesold his possessions, and followed righteousness. He composed the poemMantic Uttaïr, or the language of birds. Observe, the Persian Âttarlived at the same time as the Danish Saxo, and long before the birthof Tell. Curiously enough, we find a trace of the Tell myth in thepages of his poem. According to him, however, the king shoots theapple from the head of a beloved page, and the lad dies from sheerfright, though the arrow does not even graze his skin.
The coincidence of finding so many versions of the same storyscattered through countries as remote as Persia and Iceland,Switzerland and Denmark, proves, I think, that it can in no way beregarded as history, but is rather one of the numerous household mythscommon to the whole stock of Aryan nations. Probably, some one moreacquainted with Sanskrit literature than myself, and with betteraccess to its unpublished stores of fable and legend, will some daylight on an early Indian tale corresponding to that so prevalent amongother branches of the same family. The coincidence of the Tell mythbeing discovered among the Finns is attributable to Russian or Swedishinfluence. I do not regard it as a primeval Turanian, but as an Aryanstory, which, like an erratic block, is found deposited on foreignsoil far from the mountain whence it was torn.
German mythologists, I suppose, consider the myth to represent themanifestation of some natural phenomena, and the individuals of thestory to be impersonifications of natural forces. Most primevalstories were thus constructed, and their origin is traceable enough.In Thorn-rose, for instance, who can fail to see the earth goddessrepresented by the sleeping beauty in her long winter slumber, onlyreturning to life when kissed by the golden-haired sun-god Phœbusor Baldur? But the Tell myth has not its signification thus paintedon the surface; and those who suppose Gessler or Harald to be thepower of evil and darkness,--the bold archer to be the storm-cloudwith his arrow of lightning and his iris bow, bent against the sun,which is resting like a coin or a golden apple on the edge of thehorizon, are over-straining their theories, and exacting too much fromour credulity.
In these pages and elsewhere I have shown how some of the ancientmyths related by the whole Aryan family of nations are reducible toallegorical explanations of certain well-known natural phenomena; butI must protest against the manner in which our German friends fastenrapaciously upon every atom of history, sacred and profane, anddemonstrate all heroes to represent the sun; all villains to be thedemons of night or winter; all sticks and spears and arrows to be thelightning; all cows and sheep and dragons and swans to be clouds.
In a work on the superstition of Werewolves, I have entered into thissubject with some fulness, and am quite prepared to admit the premisesupon which mythologists construct their theories; at the same time Iam not disposed to run to the extravagant lengths reached by some ofthe most enthusiastic German scholars. A wholesome warning to thesegentlemen was given some years ago by an ingenious Frenchecclesiastic, who wrote the following argument to prove that NapoleonBonaparte was a mythological character. Archbishop Whately's "HistoricDoubts" was grounded on a totally different line of argument; Isubjoin the other, as a curiosity and as a caution.
Napoleon is, says the writer, an impersonification of the sun.
1. Between the name Napoleon and Apollo, or Apoleon, the god of thesun, there is but a trifling difference; indeed, the seemingdifference is lessened, if we take the spelling of his name from thecolumn of the Place Vendôme, where it stands Néapoleó. But thissyllable _Ne_ prefixed to the name of the sun-god is of importance;like the rest of the name it is of Greek origin, and is νη or ναι,a particle of affirmation, as though indicating Napoleon as the verytrue Apollo, or sun.
His other name, Bonaparte, makes this apparent connection between theFrench hero and the luminary of the firmament conclusively certain.The day has its two parts, the good and luminous portion, and thatwhich is bad and dark. To the sun belongs the good part, to the moonand stars belongs the bad portion. It is therefore natural that Apolloor Né-Apoleón should receive the surname of _Bonaparte_.
2. Apollo was born in Delos, a Mediterranean island; Napoleon inCorsica, an island in the same sea. According to Pausanias, Apollo wasan Egyptian deity; and in the mythological history of the fabulousNapoleon we find the hero in Egypt, regarded by the inhabitants withveneration, and receiving their homage.
3. The mother of Napoleon was said to be Letitia, which signifies joy,and is an impersonification of the dawn of light dispensing joy andgladness to all creation. Letitia is no other than the break of day,which in a manner brings the sun into the world, and "with rosyfingers opes the gates of Day." It is significant that the Greek namefor the mother of Apollo was Leto. From this the Romans made the nameLatona, which they gave to his mother. But _Læto_ is the unused formof the verb _lætor_, and signified to inspire joy; it is from thisunused form that the substantive _Letitia_ is derived. The identity,then, of the mother of Napoleon with the Greek Leto and the LatinLatona, is established conclusively.
4. According to the popular story, this son of Letitia had threesisters; and was it not the same with the Greek deity, who had thethree Graces?
5. The modern Gallic Apollo had four brothers. It is impossible not todiscern here the anthropomorphosis of the four seasons. But, it willbe objected, the seasons should be females. Here the French languageinterposes; for in French the seasons are masculine, with theexception of autumn, upon the gender of which grammarians areundecided, whilst Autumnus in Latin is not more feminine than theother seasons. This difficulty is therefore trifling, and what followsremoves all shadow of doubt.
Of the four brothers of Napoleon, three are said to have been kings,and these of course are, Spring reigning over the flowers, Summerreigning over the harvest, Autumn holding sway over the fruits. And asthese three seasons owe all to the powerful influence of the Sun, weare told in the popular myth that the three brothers of Napoleon drewtheir authority from him, and received from him their kingdoms. But ifit be added that, of the four brothers of Napoleon, one was not aking, that was because he is the impersonification of Winter, whichhas no reign over anything. If, however, it be asserted, incontradiction, that the winter has an empire, he will be given theprincipality over snows and frosts, which, in the dreary season of theyear, whiten the face of the earth. Well, the fourth brother ofNapoleon is thus invested by popular tradition, commonly calledhistory, with a vain principality accorded to him _in the decline ofthe power of Napoleon_. The principality was that of Canino, a namederived from _cani_, or the whitened hairs of a frozen old age,--trueemblem of winter. To the eyes of poets, the forests covering the hillsare their hair, and when winter frosts them, they represent the snowylocks of a decrepit nature in the old age of the year:--
    "Cum gelidus crescit _canis_ in montibus humor."
Consequently the Prince of Canino is an impersonification ofwinter;--winter whose reign begins when the kingdoms of the three fineseasons are passed from them, and when the sun is driven from hispower by the children of the North, as the poets call the borealwinds. This is the origin of the fabulous invasion of France by theallied armies of the North. The story relates that these invaders--thenorthern gales--banished the many-colored flag, and replaced it by awhite standard. This too is a graceful, but, at the same time, purelyfabulous account of the Northern winds driving all the brilliantcolors from the face of the soil, to replace them by the snowy sheet.
6. Napoleon is said to have had two wives. It is well known that theclassic fable gave two also to Apollo. These two were the moon and theearth. Plutarch asserts that the Greeks gave the moon to Apollo forwife, whilst the Egyptians attributed to him the earth. By the moon hehad no posterity, but by the other he had one son only, the littleHorus. This is an Egyptian allegory, representing the fruits ofagriculture produced by the earth fertilized by the Sun. The pretendedson of the fabulous Napoleon is said to have been born on the 20th ofMarch, the season of the spring equinox, when agriculture is assumingits greatest period of activity.
7. Napoleon is said to have released France from the devastatingscourge which terrorized over the country, the hydra of therevolution, as it was popularly called. Who cannot see in this aGallic version of the Greek legend of Apollo releasing Hellas from theterrible Python? The very name _revolution_, derived from the Latinverb _revolvo_, is indicative of the coils of a serpent like thePython.
8. The famous hero of the 19th century had, it is asserted, twelveMarshals at the head of his armies, and four who were stationary andinactive. The twelve first, as may be seen at once, are the signs ofthe zodiac, marching under the orders of the sun Napoleon, and eachcommanding a division of the innumerable host of stars, which areparted into twelve portions, corresponding to the twelve signs. As forthe four stationary officers, immovable in the midst of generalmotion, they are the cardinal points.
9. It is currently reported that the chief of these brilliant armies,after having gloriously traversed the Southern kingdoms, penetratedNorth, and was there unable to maintain his sway. This too representsthe course of the Sun, which assumes its greatest power in the South,but after the spring equinox seeks to reach the North; and after a_three months'_ march towards the boreal regions, is driven back uponhis traces following the sign of Cancer, a sign given to representthe retrogression of the sun in that portion of the sphere. It is onthis that the story of the march of Napoleon towards Moscow, and hishumbling retreat, is founded.
10. Finally, the sun rises in the East and sets in the Western sea.The poets picture him rising out of the waters in the East, andsetting in the ocean after his twelve hours' reign in the sky. Such isthe history of Napoleon, coming from his Mediterranean isle, holdingthe reins of government for twelve years, and finally disappearing inthe mysterious regions of the great Atlantic.
To those who see in Samson, the image of the sun, the correlative ofthe classic Hercules, this clever skit of the accomplished French Abbémay prove of value as a caution.
FOOTNOTE:
[26] This anecdote is taken from the _Journal de Paris_, May, 1787;but whence did the _Journal_ obtain it?



The Dog Gellert.

Having demolished William Tell, I proceed to the destruction ofanother article of popular belief.
Who that has visited Snowdon has not seen the grave of Llewellyn'sfaithful hound Gellert, and been told by the guide the touching storyof the death of the noble animal? How can we doubt the facts, seeingthat the place, Beth-Gellert, is named after the dog, and that thegrave is still visible? But unfortunately for the truth of the legend,its pedigree can be traced with the utmost precision.
The story is as follows:--
The Welsh Prince Llewellyn had a noble deerhound, Gellert, whom hetrusted to watch the cradle of his baby son whilst he himself wasabsent.
One day, on his return, to his intense horror, he beheld the cradleempty and upset, the clothes dabbled with blood, and Gellert's mouthdripping with gore. Concluding hastily that the hound had provedunfaithful, had fallen on the child and devoured it,--in a paroxysm ofrage the prince drew his sword and slew the dog. Next instant the cryof the babe from behind the cradle showed him that the child wasuninjured; and, on looking farther, Llewellyn discovered the body of ahuge wolf, which had entered the house to seize and devour the child,but which had been kept off and killed by the brave dog Gellert.
In his self-reproach and grief, the prince erected a stately monumentto Gellert, and called the place where he was buried after the poorhound's name.
Now, I find in Russia precisely the same story told, with just thesame appearance of truth, of a Czar Piras. In Germany it appears withconsiderable variations. A man determines on slaying his old dogSultan, and consults with his wife how this is to be effected. Sultanoverhears the conversation, and complains bitterly to the wolf, whosuggests an ingenious plan by which the master may be induced to sparehis dog. Next day, when the man is going to his work, the wolfundertakes to carry off the child from its cradle. Sultan is to attackhim and rescue the infant. The plan succeeds admirably, and the dogspends his remaining years in comfort. (Grimm, K. M. 48.)
But there is a story in closer conformity to that of Gellert among theFrench collections of fabliaux made by Le Grand d'Aussy and Edéléstanddu Méril. It became popular through the "Gesta Romanorum," acollection of tales made by the monks for harmless reading, in thefourteenth century.
In the "Gesta" the tale is told as follows:--
"Folliculus, a knight, was fond of hunting and tournaments. He had anonly son, for whom three nurses were provided. Next to this child, heloved his falcon and his greyhound. It happened one day that he wascalled to a tournament, whither his wife and domestics went also,leaving the child in the cradle, the greyhound lying by him, and thefalcon on his perch. A serpent that inhabited a hole near the castle,taking advantage of the profound silence that reigned, crept from hishabitation, and advanced towards the cradle to devour the child. Thefalcon, perceiving the danger, fluttered with his wings till he awokethe dog, who instantly attacked the invader, and after a fierceconflict, in which he was sorely wounded, killed him. He then lay downon the ground to lick and heal his wounds. When the nurses returned,they found the cradle overturned, the child thrown out, and the groundcovered with blood, as was also the dog, who they immediatelyconcluded had killed the child.
"Terrified at the idea of meeting the anger of the parents, theydetermined to escape; but in their flight fell in with their mistress,to whom they were compelled to relate the supposed murder of the childby the greyhound. The knight soon arrived to hear the sad story, and,maddened with fury, rushed forward to the spot. The poor wounded andfaithful animal made an effort to rise and welcome his master with hisaccustomed fondness; but the enraged knight received him on the pointof his sword, and he fell lifeless to the ground. On examination ofthe cradle, the infant was found alive and unhurt, with the deadserpent lying by him. The knight now perceived what had happened,lamented bitterly over his faithful dog, and blamed himself for havingtoo hastily depended on the words of his wife. Abandoning theprofession of arms, he broke his lance in pieces, and vowed apilgrimage to the Holy Land, where he spent the rest of his days inpeace."
The monkish hit at the wife is amusing, and might have been supposedto have originated with those determined misogynists, as the gallantWelshmen lay all the blame on the man. But the good compilers of the"Gesta" wrote little of their own, except moral applications of thetales they relate, and the story of Folliculus and his dog, like manyothers in their collection, is drawn from a foreign source.
It occurs in the Seven Wise Masters, and in the "Calumnia Novercalis"as well, so that it must have been popular throughout mediæval Europe.Now, the tales of the Seven Wise Masters are translations from aHebrew work, the Kalilah and Dimnah of Rabbi Joel, composed aboutA. D. 1250, or from Simeon Seth's Greek Kylile and Dimne, written in1080. These Greek and Hebrew works were derived from kindred sources.That of Rabbi Joel was a translation from an Arabic version made byNasr-Allah in the twelfth century, whilst Simeon Seth's was atranslation of the Persian Kalilah and Dimnah. But the PersianKalilah and Dimnah was not either an original work; it was in turn atranslation from the Sanskrit Pantschatantra, made about A. D. 540.
In this ancient Indian book the story runs as follows:--
A Brahmin named Devasaman had a wife, who gave birth to a son, andalso to an ichneumon. She loved both her children dearly, giving themalike the breast, and anointing them alike with salves. But she fearedthe ichneumon might not love his brother.
One day, having laid her boy in bed, she took up the water jar, andsaid to her husband, "Hear me, master! I am going to the tank to fetchwater. Whilst I am absent, watch the boy, lest he gets injured by theichneumon." After she had left the house, the Brahmin went forthbegging, leaving the house empty. In crept a black snake, andattempted to bite the child; but the ichneumon rushed at it, and toreit in pieces. Then, proud of its achievement, it sallied forth, allbloody, to meet its mother. She, seeing the creature stained withblood, concluded, with feminine precipitance, that it had fallen onthe baby and killed it, and she flung her water jar at it and slew it.Only on her return home did she ascertain her mistake.
The same story is also told in the Hitopadesa (iv. 13), but the animalis an otter, not an ichneumon. In the Arabic version a weasel takesthe place of the ichneumon.
The Buddhist missionaries carried the story into Mongolia, and in theMongolian Uligerun, which is a translation of the Tibetian Dsanghen,the story reappears with the pole-cat as the brave and sufferingdefender of the child.
Stanislaus Julien, the great Chinese scholar, has discovered the sametale in the Chinese work entitled "The Forest of Pearls from theGarden of the Law." This work dates from 668; and in it the creatureis an ichneumon.
In the Persian Sindibad-nâmeh is the same tale, but the faithfulanimal is a cat. In Sandabar and Syntipas it has become a dog. Throughthe influence of Sandabar on the Hebrew translation of the Kalilah andDimnah, the ichneumon is also replaced by a dog.
Such is the history of the Gellert legend; it is an introduction intoEurope from India, every step of its transmission being clearlydemonstrable. From the Gesta Romanorum it passed into a popular talethroughout Europe, and in different countries it was, like the Tellmyth, localized and individualized. Many a Welsh story, such as thosecontained in the Mabinogion, are as easily traced to an Easternorigin.
But every story has its root. The root of the Gellert tale is this: Aman forms an alliance of friendship with a beast or bird. The dumbanimal renders him a signal service. He misunderstands the act, andkills his preserver.
We have tracked this myth under the Gellert form from India to Wales;but under another form it is the property of the whole Aryan family,and forms a portion of the traditional lore of all nations sprung fromthat stock.
Thence arose the classic fable of the peasant, who, as he slept, wasbitten by a fly. He awoke, and in a rage killed the insect. When toolate, he observed that the little creature had aroused him that hemight avoid a snake which lay coiled up near his pillow.
In the Anvar-i-Suhaili is the following kindred tale. A king had afalcon. One day, whilst hunting, he filled a goblet with waterdropping from a rock. As he put the vessel to his lips, his falcondashed upon it, and upset it with its wings. The king, in a fury, slewthe bird, and then discovered that the water dripped from the jaws ofa serpent of the most poisonous description.
This story, with some variations, occurs in Æsop, Ælian, andApthonius. In the Greek fable, a peasant liberates an eagle from theclutches of a dragon. The dragon spirts poison into the water whichthe peasant is about to drink, without observing what the monster haddone. The grateful eagle upsets the goblet with his wings.
The story appears in Egypt under a whimsical form. A Wali once smasheda pot full of herbs which a cook had prepared. The exasperated cookthrashed the well-intentioned but unfortunate Wali within an inch ofhis life, and when he returned, exhausted with his efforts atbelaboring the man, to examine the broken pot, he discovered amongstthe herbs a poisonous snake.
How many brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts, and cousins of all degreesa little story has! And how few of the tales we listen to can lay anyclaim to originality! There is scarcely a story which I hear which Icannot connect with some family of myths, and whose pedigree I cannotascertain with more or less precision. Shakespeare drew the plots ofhis plays from Boccaccio or Straparola; but these Italians did notinvent the tales they lent to the English dramatist. King Lear doesnot originate with Geofry of Monmouth, but comes from early Indianstores of fable, whence also are derived the Merchant of Venice andthe pound of flesh, ay, and the very incident of the three caskets.
But who would credit it, were it not proved by conclusive facts, thatJohnny Sands is the inheritance of the whole Aryan family of nations,and that Peeping Tom of Coventry peeped in India and on the Tartarsteppes ages before Lady Godiva was born?
If you listen to Traviata at the opera, you have set before you a talewhich has lasted for centuries, and which was perhaps born in India.
If you read in classic fable of Orpheus charming woods and meadows,beasts and birds, with his magic lyre, you remember to have seen thesame fable related in the Kalewala of the Finnish Wainomainen, and inthe Kaleopoeg of the Esthonian Kalewa.
If you take up English history, and read of William the Conquerorslipping as he landed on British soil, and kissing the earth, sayinghe had come to greet and claim his own, you remember that the samestory is told of Napoleon in Egypt, of King Olaf Harold's son inNorway, and in classic history of Junius Brutus on his return from theoracle.
A little while ago I cut out of a Sussex newspaper a story purportingto be the relation of a fact which had taken place at a fixed date inLewes. This was the story. A tyrannical husband locked the dooragainst his wife, who was out having tea with a neighbor, gossipingand scandal-mongering; when she applied for admittance, he pretendednot to know her. She threatened to jump into the well unless he openedthe door.
The man, not supposing that she would carry her threat into execution,declined, alleging that he was in bed, and the night was chilly;besides which he entirely disclaimed all acquaintance with the ladywho claimed admittance.
The wife then flung a log into a well, and secreted herself behind thedoor. The man, hearing the splash, fancied that his good lady wasreally in the deeps, and forth he darted in his nocturnal costume,which was of the lightest, to ascertain whether his deliverance wascomplete. At once the lady darted into the house, locked the door,and, on the husband pleading for admittance, she declared mostsolemnly from the window that she did not know _him_.
Now, this story, I can positively assert, unless the events of thisworld move in a circle, did not happen in Lewes, or any other Sussextown.
It was told in the Gesta Romanorum six hundred years ago, and it wastold, may be, as many hundred years before in India, for it is stillto be found in Sanskrit collections of tales.



Tailed Men.

I well remember having it impressed upon me by a Devonshire nurse, asa little child, that all Cornishmen were born with tails; and it waslong before I could overcome the prejudice thus early implanted in mybreast against my Cornubian neighbors. I looked upon those who dweltacross the Tamar as "uncanny," as being scarcely to be classed withChristian people, and certainly not to be freely associated with bytailless Devonians. I think my eyes were first opened to the fact thatI had been deceived by a worthy bookseller of L----, with whom I hadcontracted a warm friendship, he having at sundry times contributedpictures to my scrapbook. I remember one day resolving to broach thedelicate subject with my tailed friend, whom I liked, notwithstandinghis caudal appendage.
"Mr. X----, is it true that you are a Cornishman?"
"Yes, my little man; born and bred in the West country."
"I like you very much; but--have you really got a tail?"
When the bookseller had recovered from the astonishment which I hadproduced by my question, he stoutly repudiated the charge.
"But you are a Cornishman?"
"To be sure I am."
"And all Cornishmen have tails."
I believe I satisfied my own mind that the good man had sat his off,and my nurse assured me that such was the case with those of sedentaryhabits.
It is curious that Devonshire superstition should attribute the tailto Cornishmen, for it was asserted of certain men of Kent in oldentimes, and was referred to Divine vengeance upon them for havinginsulted St. Thomas à Becket, if we may believe Polydore Vergil."There were some," he says, "to whom it seemed that the king's secretwish was, that Thomas should be got rid of. He, indeed, as oneaccounted to be an enemy of the king's person, was already regardedwith so little respect, nay, was treated with so much contempt, thatwhen he came to Strood, which village is situated on the Medway, theriver that washes Rochester, the inhabitants of the place, being eagerto show some mark of contumely to the prelate in his disgrace, did notscruple to cut off the tail of the horse on which he was riding; butby this profane and inhospitable act they covered themselves witheternal reproach; for it so happened after this, by the will of God,that all the offspring born from the men who had done this thing, wereborn with tails, like brute animals. But this mark of infamy, whichformerly was everywhere notorious, has disappeared with the extinctionof the race whose fathers perpetrated this deed."
John Bale, the zealous reformer, and Bishop of Ossory in Edward VI.'stime, refers to this story, and also mentions a variation of the sceneand cause of this ignoble punishment. He writes, quoting hisauthorities, "John Capgrave and Alexander of Esseby sayth, that forcastynge of fyshe tayles at thys Augustyne, Dorsettshyre men hadtayles ever after. But Polydorus applieth it unto Kentish men atStroud, by Rochester, for cuttinge off Thomas Becket's horse's tail.Thus hath England in all other land a perpetual infamy of tayles bytheye wrytten legendes of lyes, yet can they not well tell where tobestowe them truely." Bale, a fierce and unsparing reformer, and onewho stinted not hard words, applying to the inventors of these legendsan epithet more strong than elegant, says, "In the legends of theirsanctified sorcerers they have diffamed the English posterity withtails, as has been showed afore. That an Englyshman now cannottravayle in another land by way of marchandyse or any other honestoccupyinge, but it is most contumeliously thrown in his tethe that allEnglyshmen have tails. That uncomely note and report have the nationgotten, without recover, by these laisy and idle lubbers, the monkesand the priestes, which could find no matters to advance theircanonized gains by, or their saintes, as they call them, but manifestlies and knaveries."[27]
Andrew Marvel also makes mention of this strange judgment in his_Loyal Scot_:--
    "But who considers right will find, indeed,    'Tis Holy Island parts us, not the Tweed.    Nothing but clergy could us two seclude,    No Scotch was ever like a bishop's feud.    All Litanys in this have wanted faith,    There's no--_Deliver us from a Bishop's wrath._    Never shall Calvin pardoned be for sales,    Never, for Burnet's sake, the Lauderdales;    For Becket's sake, Kent always shall have tails."
It may be remembered that Lord Monboddo, a Scotch judge of lastcentury, and a philosopher of some repute, though of greateccentricity, stoutly maintained the theory that man ought to have atail, that the tail is a _desideratum_, and that the abrupttermination of the spine without caudal elongation is a sad blemish inthe origination of man. The tail, the point in which man is inferiorto the brute, what a delicate index of the mind it is! how itexpresses the passions of love and hate! how nicely it gives token ofthe feelings of joy or fear which animate the soul! But Lord Monboddodid not consider that what the tail is to the brute, that the eye isto man; the lack of one member is supplied by the other. I can tell aproud man by his eye just as truly as if he stalked past one witherect tail; and anger is as plainly depicted in the human eye as inthe bottle-brush tail of a cat. I know a sneak by his cowering glance,though he has not a tail between his legs; and pleasure is evident inthe laughing eye, without there being any necessity for a waggingbrush to express it.
Dr. Johnson paid a visit to the judge, and knocked on the head histheory that men ought to have tails, and actually were born with themoccasionally; for said he, "Of a standing fact, sir, there ought to beno controversy; if there are men with tails, catch a _homo caudatus_."And, "It is a pity to see Lord Monboddo publish such notions as he hasdone--a man of sense, and of so much elegant learning. There would belittle in a fool doing it; we should only laugh; but, when a wise mandoes it, we are sorry. Other people have strange notions, but theyconceal them. If they have tails they hide them; but Monboddo is asjealous of his tail as a squirrel." And yet Johnson seems to have beentickled with the idea, and to have been amused with the notion of anappendage like a tail being regarded as the complement of humanperfection. It may be remembered how Johnson made the acquaintance ofthe young Laird of Col, during his Highland tour, and how pleased hewas with him. "Col," says he, "is a noble animal. He is as complete anislander as the mind can figure. He is a farmer, a sailor, a hunter,a fisher: he will run you down a dog; _if any man has a tail_, it isCol." And notwithstanding all his aversion to puns, the great Doctorwas fain to yield to human weakness on one occasion, under theinfluence of the mirth which Monboddo's name seems to have excited.Johnson writes to Mrs. Thrale of a party he had met one night, whichhe thus enumerates: "There were Smelt, and the Bishop of St. Asaph,who comes to every place; and Sir Joshua, and Lord Monboddo, andladies _out of tale_."
There is a Polish story of a witch who made a girdle of human skin andlaid it across the threshold of a door where a marriage-feast wasbeing held. On the bridal pair stepping across the girdle they weretransformed into wolves. Three years after the witch sought them out,and cast over them dresses of fur with the hair turned outward,whereupon they recovered their human forms, but, unfortunately, thedress cast over the bridegroom was too scanty, and did not extend overhis tail, so that, when he was restored to his former condition, heretained his lupine caudal appendage, and this became hereditary inhis family; so that all Poles with tails are lineal descendants ofthe ancestor to whom this little misfortune happened. John Struys, aDutch traveller, who visited the Isle of Formosa in 1677, gives acurious story, which is worth transcribing.
"Before I visited this island," he writes, "I had often heard tellthat there were men who had long tails, like brute beasts; but I hadnever been able to believe it, and I regarded it as a thing so aliento our nature, that I should now have difficulty in accepting it, ifmy own senses had not removed from me every pretence for doubting thefact, by the following strange adventure: The inhabitants of Formosa,being used to see us, were in the habit of receiving us on terms whichleft nothing to apprehend on either side; so that, although mereforeigners, we always believed ourselves in safety, and had grownfamiliar enough to ramble at large without an escort, when graveexperience taught us that, in so doing, we were hazarding too much. Assome of our party were one day taking a stroll, one of them hadoccasion to withdraw about a stone's throw from the rest, who, beingat the moment engaged in an eager conversation, proceeded withoutheeding the disappearance of their companion. After a while, however,his absence was observed, and the party paused, thinking he wouldrejoin them. They waited some time; but at last, tired of the delay,they returned in the direction of the spot where they remembered tohave seen him last. Arriving there, they were horrified to find hismangled body lying on the ground, though the nature of the lacerationsshowed that he had not had to suffer long ere death released him.Whilst some remained to watch the dead body, others went off in searchof the murderer; and these had not gone far, when they came upon a manof peculiar appearance, who, finding himself enclosed by the exploringparty, so as to make escape from them impossible, began to foam withrage, and by cries and wild gesticulations to intimate that he wouldmake any one repent the attempt who should venture to meddle with him.The fierceness of his desperation for a time kept our people at bay;but as his fury gradually subsided, they gathered more closely roundhim, and at length seized him. He then soon made them understand thatit was he who had killed their comrade, but they could not learn fromhim any cause for this conduct. As the crime was so atrocious, and, ifallowed to pass with impunity, might entail even more seriousconsequences, it was determined to burn the man. He was tied up to astake, where he was kept for some hours before the time of executionarrived. It was then that I beheld what I had never thought to see. Hehad a tail more than a foot long, covered with red hair, and very likethat of a cow. When he saw the surprise that this discovery createdamong the European spectators, he informed us that his tail was theeffect of climate, for that all the inhabitants of the southern sideof the island, where they then were, were provided with likeappendages."[28]
After Struys, Hornemann reported that, between the Gulf of Benin andAbyssinia, were tailed anthropophagi, named by the natives_Niam-niams_; and in 1849, M. Descouret, on his return from Mecca,affirmed that such was a common report, and added that they had longarms, low and narrow foreheads, long and erect ears, and slim legs.
Mr. Harrison, in his "Highlands of Ethiopia," alludes to the commonbelief among the Abyssinians, in a pygmy race of this nature.
MM. Arnault and Vayssière, travellers in the same country, in 1850,brought the subject before the Academy of Sciences.
In 1851, M. de Castelnau gave additional details relative to anexpedition against these tailed men. "The Niam-niams," he says, "weresleeping in the sun: the Haoussas approached, and, falling on them,massacred them to the last man. They had all of them tails fortycentimetres long, and from two to three in diameter. This organ issmooth. Among the corpses were those of several women, who weredeformed in the same manner. In all other particulars, the men wereprecisely like all other negroes. They are of a deep black, theirteeth are polished, their bodies not tattooed. They are armed withclubs and javelins; in war they utter piercing cries. They cultivaterice, maize, and other grain. They are fine looking men, and theirhair is not frizzled."
M. d'Abbadie, another Abyssinian traveller, writing in 1852, gives thefollowing account from the lips of an Abyssinian priest: "At thedistance of fifteen days' journey south of Herrar is a place where allthe men have tails, the length of a palm, covered with hair, andsituated at the extremity of the spine. The females of that countryare very beautiful and are tailless. I have seen some fifteen of thesepeople at Besberah, and I am positive that the tail is natural."
It will be observed that there is a discrepancy between the accountsof M. de Castelnau and M. d'Abbadie. The former accords tails to theladies, whilst the latter denies it. According to the former, the tailis smooth; according to the latter, it is covered with hair.
Dr. Wolf has improved on this in his "Travels and Adventures," vol.ii. 1861. "There are men and women in Abyssinia with tails like dogsand horses." Wolf heard also from a great many Abyssinians andArmenians (and Wolf is convinced of the truth of it), that "there arenear Narea, in Abyssinia, people--men and women--with large tails,with which they are able to knock down a horse; and there are alsosuch people near China." And in a note, "In the College of Surgeonsat Dublin may still be seen a human skeleton, with a tail seven incheslong! There are many known instances of this elongation of the caudalvertebra, as in the Poonangs in Borneo."
But the most interesting and circumstantial account of the Niam-niamsis that given by Dr. Hubsch, physician to the hospitals ofConstantinople. "It was in 1852," says he, "that I saw for the firsttime a tailed negress. I was struck with this phenomenon, and Iquestioned her master, a slave dealer. I learned from him that thereexists a tribe called Niam-niam, occupying the interior of Africa. Allthe members of this tribe bear the caudal appendage, and, as Orientalimagination is given to exaggeration, I was assured that the tailssometimes attained the length of two feet. That which I observed wassmooth and hairless. It was about two inches long, and terminated in apoint. This woman was as black as ebony, her hair was frizzled, herteeth white, large, and planted in sockets which inclined considerablyoutward; her four canine teeth were filed, her eyes bloodshot. She atemeat raw, her clothes fidgeted her, her intellect was on a par withthat of others of her condition.
"Her master had been unable, during six months, to sell her,notwithstanding the low figure at which he would have disposed of her;the abhorrence with which she was regarded was not attributed to hertail, but to the partiality, which she was unable to conceal, forhuman flesh. Her tribe fed on the flesh of the prisoners taken fromthe neighboring tribes, with whom they were constantly at war.
"As soon as one of the tribe dies, his relations, instead of buryinghim, cut him up and regale themselves upon his remains; consequentlythere are no cemeteries in this land. They do not all of them lead awandering life, but many of them construct hovels of the branches oftrees. They make for themselves weapons of war and of agriculture;they cultivate maize and wheat, and keep cattle. The Niam-niams have alanguage of their own, of an entirely primitive character, thoughcontaining an infusion of Arabic words.
"They live in a state of complete nudity, and seek only to satisfytheir brute appetites. There is among them an utter disregard formorality, incest and adultery being common. The strongest among thembecomes the chief of the tribe; and it is he who apportions the sharesof the booty obtained in war. It is hard to say whether they have anyreligion; but in all probability they have none, as they readily adoptany one which they are taught.
"It is difficult to tame them altogether; their instinct impellingthem constantly to seek for human flesh; and instances are related ofslaves who have massacred and eaten the children confided to theircharge.
"I have seen a man of the same race, who had a tail an inch and a halflong, covered with a few hairs. He appeared to be thirty-five yearsold; he was robust, well built, of an ebon blackness, and had the samepeculiar formation of jaw noticed above; that is to say, the toothsockets were inclined outwards. Their four canine teeth are fileddown, to diminish their power of mastication.
"I know also, at Constantinople, the son of a physician, aged twoyears, who was born with a tail an inch long; he belonged to the whiteCaucasian race. One of his grandfathers possessed the same appendage.This phenomenon is regarded generally in the East as a sign of greatbrute force."
About ten years ago, a newspaper paragraph recorded the birth of aboy at Newcastle-on-Tyne, provided with a tail about an inch and aquarter long. It was asserted that the child when sucking wagged thisstump as token of pleasure.
Yet, notwithstanding all this testimony in favor of tailed men andwomen, it is simply a matter of impossibility for a human being tohave a tail, for the spinal vertebræ in man do not admit ofelongation, as in many animals; for the spine terminates in the ossacrum, a large and expanded bone of peculiar character, entirelyprecluding all possibility of production to the spine as in caudateanimals.
FOOTNOTES:
[27] "Actes of English Votaries."
[28] "Voyages de Jean Struys," An. 1650.



Antichrist and Pope Joan.

From the earliest ages of the Church, the advent of the Man of Sin hasbeen looked forward to with terror, and the passages of Scripturerelating to him have been studied with solemn awe, lest that day ofwrath should come upon the Church unawares. As events in the world'shistory took place which seemed to be indications of the approach ofAntichrist, a great horror fell upon men's minds, and theirimaginations conjured up myths which flew from mouth to mouth, andwhich were implicitly believed.
Before speaking of these strange tales which produced such an effecton the minds of men in the middle ages, it will be well briefly toexamine the opinions of divines of the early ages on the passages ofScripture connected with the coming of the last great persecutor ofthe Church. Antichrist was believed by most ancient writers to bedestined to arise out of the tribe of Dan, a belief founded on theprediction of Jacob, "Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder inthe path" (conf. Jeremiah viii. 16), and on the exclamation of thedying patriarch, when looking on his son Dan, "I have waited for ThySalvation, O Lord," as though the long-suffering of God had borne longwith that tribe, but in vain, and it was to be extinguished withouthope. This, indeed, is implied in the sealing of the servants of Godin their foreheads (Revelation vii.), when twelve thousand out ofevery tribe, except Dan, were seen by St. John to receive the seal ofadoption, whilst of the tribe of Dan _not one_ was sealed, as thoughit, to a man, had apostatized.
Opinions as to the nature of Antichrist were divided. Some held thathe was to be a devil in phantom body, and of this number wasHippolytus. Others, again, believed that he would be an incarnatedemon, true man and true devil; in fearful and diabolical parody ofthe Incarnation of our Lord. A third view was, that he would be merelya desperately wicked man, acting upon diabolical inspirations, just asthe saints act upon divine inspirations. St. John Damascene expresslyasserts that he will not be an incarnate demon, but a devilish man;for he says, "Not as Christ assumed humanity, so will the devil becomehuman, but the Man will receive all the inspiration of Satan, and willsuffer the devil to take up his abode within him." In this mannerAntichrist could have many forerunners; and so St. Jerome and St.Augustine saw an Antichrist in Nero, not _the_ Antichrist, but one ofthose of whom the Apostle speaks--"Even now are there manyAntichrists." Thus also every enemy of the faith, such as Diocletian,Julian, and Mahomet, has been regarded as a precursor of theArch-persecutor, who was expected to sum up in himself the cruelty ofa Nero or Diocletian, the show of virtue of a Julian, and thespiritual pride of a Mahomet.
From infancy the evil one is to take possession of Antichrist, and totrain him for his office, instilling into him cunning, cruelty, andpride. His doctrine will be--not downright infidelity, but a "show ofgodliness," whilst "denying the power thereof;" i. e., the miraculousorigin and divine authority of Christianity. He will sow doubts of ourLord's manifestation "in the flesh," he will allow Christ to be anexcellent Man, capable of teaching the most exalted truths, andinculcating the purest morality, yet Himself fallible and carried awayby fanaticism.
In the end, however, Antichrist will "exalt himself to sit as God inthe temple of God," and become "the abomination of desolation standingin the holy place." At the same time there is to be an awful alliancestruck between himself, the impersonification of the world-power andthe Church of God; some high pontiff of which, or the episcopacy ingeneral, will enter into league with the unbelieving state to oppressthe very elect. It is a strange instance of religionary virulencewhich makes some detect the Pope of Rome in the Man of Sin, theHarlot, the Beast, and the Priest going before it. The Man of Sin andthe Beast are unmistakably identical, and refer to an Antichristianworld-power; whilst the Harlot and the Priest are symbols of anapostasy in the Church. There is nothing Roman in this, but somethingvery much the opposite.
How the Abomination of Desolation can be considered as set up in aChurch where every sanctuary is adorned with all that can draw theheart to the Crucified, and raise the thoughts to the imposing ritualof Heaven, is a puzzle to me. To the man uninitiated in the law thatRevelation is to be interpreted by contraries, it would seem more likethe Abomination of Desolation in the Holy Place if he entered a ScotchPresbyterian, or a Dutch Calvinist, place of worship. Rome does notfight against the Daily Sacrifice, and endeavor to abolish it; thathas been rather the labor of so-called Church Reformers, who with thesuppression of the doctrine of Eucharistic Sacrifice and SacramentalAdoration have well nigh obliterated all notion of worship to beaddressed to the God-Man. Rome does not deny the power of thegodliness of which she makes show, but insists on that power with nobroken accents. It is rather in other communities, where authority isflung aside, and any man is permitted to believe or reject what helikes, that we must look for the leaven of the Antichristian spirit atwork.
It is evident that this spirit will infect the Church, and especiallythose in place of authority therein; so that the elect will have towrestle against both "principalities and powers" in the state, andalso "spiritual wickedness in the high places" of the Church. Perhapsit will be this feeling of antagonism between the inferior orders andthe highest which will throw the Bishops into the arms of the state,and establish that unholy alliance which will be cemented for thepurpose of oppressing all who hold the truth in sincerity, who aredefinite in their dogmatic statements of Christ's having beenmanifested in the flesh, who labor to establish the Daily Sacrifice,and offer in every place the pure offering spoken of by Malachi.Perhaps it was in anticipation of this, that ancient mysticalinterpreters explained the scene at the well in Midian as havingreference to the last times.
The Church, like the daughters of Reuel, comes to the Well of livingwaters to water her parched flock; whereupon the shepherds--her chiefpastors--arise and strive with her. "Fear not, O flock, fear not, Odaughter!" exclaims the commentator; "thy true Moses is seated on thewell, and He will arise out of His resting-place, and will with Hisown hand smite the shepherds, and water the flock." Let the sheep bein barren and dry pastures,--so long the shepherds strive not; let thesheep pant and die,--so long the shepherds show no signs ofirritation; but let the Church approach the limpid well of life, andat once her prelates will, in the latter days, combine "to strive"with her, and keep back the flock from the reviving streams.
In the time of Antichrist the Church will be divided: one portion willhold to the world-power, the other will seek out the old paths, andcling to the only true Guide. The high places will be filled withunbelievers in the Incarnation, and the Church will be in a conditionof the utmost spiritual degradation, but enjoying the highest Statepatronage. The religion in favor will be one of morality, but not ofdogma; and the Man of Sin will be able to promulgate his doctrine,according to St. Anselm, through his great eloquence and wisdom, hisvast learning and mightiness in the Holy Scriptures, which he willwrest to the overthrowing of dogma. He will be liberal in bribes, forhe will be of unbounded wealth; he will be capable of performing great"signs and wonders," so as "to deceive--the very elect;" and at thelast, he will tear the moral veil from his countenance, and a monsterof impiety and cruelty, he will inaugurate that awful persecution,which is to last for three years and a half, and to excel in horrorall the persecutions that have gone before.
In that terrible season of confusion faith will be all butextinguished. "When the Son of Man cometh, shall He find faith on theearth?" asks our Blessed Lord, as though expecting the answer, No; andthen, says Marchantius, the vessel of the Church will disappear in thefoam of that boiling deep of infidelity, and be hidden in theblackness of that storm of destruction which sweeps over the earth.The sun shall "be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, andthe stars shall fall from heaven;" the sun of faith shall have goneout; the moon, the Church, shall not give her light, being turned intoblood, through stress of persecution; and the stars, the greatecclesiastical dignitaries, shall fall into apostasy. But still theChurch will remain unwrecked, she will weather the storm; still willshe come forth "beautiful as the moon, terrible as an army withbanners;" for after the lapse of those three and a half years, Christwill descend to avenge the blood of the saints, by destroyingAntichrist and the world-power.
Such is a brief sketch of the scriptural doctrine of Antichrist asheld by the early and mediæval Church. Let us now see to what myths itgave rise among the vulgar and the imaginative. Rabanus Maurus, in hiswork on the life of Antichrist, gives a full account of the miracleshe will perform; he tells us that the Man-fiend will heal the sick,raise the dead, restore sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf,speech to the dumb; he will raise storms and calm them, will removemountains, make trees flourish or wither at a word. He will rebuildthe temple at Jerusalem, and making the Holy City the great capital ofthe world. Popular opinion added that his vast wealth would beobtained from hidden treasures, which are now being concealed by thedemons for his use. Various possessed persons, when interrogated,announced that such was the case, and that the amount of buried goldwas vast.
"In the year 1599," says Canon Moreau, a contemporary historian, "arumor circulated with prodigious rapidity through Europe, thatAntichrist had been born at Babylon, and that already the Jews of thatpart were hurrying to receive and recognize him as their Messiah. Thenews came from Italy and Germany, and extended to Spain, England, andother Western kingdoms, troubling many people, even the most discreet;however, the learned gave it no credence, saying that the signspredicted in Scripture to precede that event were not yetaccomplished, and among other that the Roman empire was not yetabolished.... Others said that, as for the signs, the majority hadalready appeared to the best of their knowledge, and with regard tothe rest, they might have taken place in distant regions without theirhaving been made known to them; that the Roman empire existed but inname, and that the interpretation of the passage on which itsdestruction was predicted, might be incorrect; that for manycenturies, the most learned and pious had believed in the nearapproach of Antichrist, some believing that he had already come, onaccount of the persecutions which had fallen on the Christians;others, on account of fires, or eclipses, or earthquakes.... Everyone was in excitement; some declared that the news must be correct,others believed nothing about it, and the agitation became soexcessive, that Henry IV., who was then on the throne, was compelledby edict to forbid any mention of the subject."
The report spoken of by Moreau gained additional confirmation from theannouncement made by an exorcised demoniac, that in 1600, the Man ofSin had been born in the neighborhood of Paris, of a Jewess, namedBlanchefleure, who had conceived by Satan. The child had been baptizedat the Sabbath of Sorcerers; and a witch, under torture, acknowledgedthat she had rocked the infant Antichrist on her knees, and sheaverred that he had claws on his feet, wore no shoes, and spoke alllanguages.
In 1623 appeared the following startling announcement, which obtainedan immense circulation among the lower orders: "We, brothers of theOrder of St. John of Jerusalem, in the Isle of Malta, have receivedletters from our spies, who are engaged in our service in the countryof Babylon, now possessed by the Grand Turk; by the which letters weare advertised, that, on the 1st of May, in the year of our Lord1623, a child was born in the town of Bourydot, otherwise calledCalka, near Babylon, of the which child the mother is a very agedwoman, of race unknown, called Fort-Juda: of the father nothing isknown. The child is dusky, has pleasant mouth and eyes, teeth pointedlike those of a cat, ears large, stature by no means exceeding that ofother children; the said child, incontinent on his birth, walked andtalked perfectly well. His speech is comprehended by every one,admonishing the people that he is the true Messiah, and the son ofGod, and that in him all must believe. Our spies also swear andprotest that they have seen the said child with their own eyes; andthey add, that, on the occasion of his nativity, there appearedmarvellous signs in heaven, for at full noon the sun lost itsbrightness, and was for some time obscured." This is followed by alist of other signs appearing, the most remarkable being a swarm offlying serpents, and a shower of precious stones.
According to Sebastian Michaeliz, in his history of the possessed ofFlanders, on the authority of the exorcised demons, we learn thatAntichrist is to be a son of Beelzebub, who will accompany hisoffspring under the form of a bird, with four feet and a bull's head;that he will torture Christians with the same tortures with which thelost souls are racked; that he will be able to fly, speak alllanguages, and will have any number of names.
We find that Antichrist is known to the Mussulmans as well as toChristians. Lane, in his edition of the "Arabian Nights," gives somecurious details on Moslem ideas regarding him. According to these,Antichrist will overrun the earth, mounted on an ass, and followed by40,000 Jews; his empire will last forty days, whereof the first daywill be a year long, the duration of the second will be a month, thatof the third a week, the others being of their usual length. He willdevastate the whole world, leaving Mecca and Medina alone in security,as these holy cities will be guarded by angelic legions. Christ atlast will descend to earth, and in a great battle will destroy theMan-devil.
Several writers, of different denominations, no less superstitiousthan the common people, connected the apparition of Antichrist withthe fable of Pope Joan, which obtained such general credence at onetime, but which modern criticism has at length succeeded in excludingfrom history.
Perhaps the earliest writer to mention Pope Joan is Marianus Scotus,who in his chronicle inserts the following passage: "A. D. 854,Lotharii 14, Joanna, a woman, succeeded Leo, and reigned two years,five months, and four days." Marianus Scotus died A. D. 1086. Sigebertde Gemblours (d. 5th Oct., 1112) inserts the same story in hisvaluable chronicle, copying from an interpolated passage in the workof Anastasius the librarian. His words are, "It is reported that thisJohn was a female, and that she conceived by one of her servants. ThePope, becoming pregnant, gave birth to a child; wherefore some do notnumber her among the Pontiffs." Hence the story spread among themediæval chroniclers, who were great plagiarists. Otto of Frisingenand Gotfrid of Viterbo mention the Lady-Pope in their histories, andMartin Polonus gives details as follows: "After Leo IV., John Anglus,a native of Metz, reigned two years, five months, and four days. Andthe pontificate was vacant for a month. He died in Rome. He is relatedto have been a female, and, when a girl, to have accompanied hersweetheart in male costume to Athens; there she advanced in varioussciences, and none could be found to equal her. So, after havingstudied for three years in Rome, she had great masters for her pupilsand hearers. And when there arose a high opinion in the city of hervirtue and knowledge, she was unanimously elected Pope. But during herpapacy she became in the family way by a familiar. Not knowing thetime of birth, as she was on her way from St. Peter's to the Lateranshe had a painful delivery, between the Coliseum and St. Clement'sChurch, in the street. Having died after, it is said that she wasburied on the spot; and therefore the Lord Pope always turns asidefrom that way, and it is supposed by some out of detestation for whathappened there. Nor on that account is she placed in the catalogue ofthe Holy Pontiffs, not only on account of her sex, but also because ofthe horribleness of the circumstance."
Certainly a story at all scandalous _crescit eundo_.
William Ocham alludes to the story, and John Huss, only too happy tobelieve it, provides the lady with a name, and asserts that she wasbaptized Agnes, or, as he will have it with a strong aspirate, Hagnes.Others, however, insist upon her name having been Gilberta; and somestout Germans, not relishing the notion of her being a daughter ofFatherland, palm her off on England. As soon as we arrive atReformation times, the German and French Protestants fasten on thestory with the utmost avidity, and add sweet little touches of theirown, and draw conclusions galling enough to the Roman See,illustrating their accounts with wood engravings vigorous and graphic,but hardly decent. One of these represents the event in a peculiarlystartling manner. The procession of bishops, with the Host and tapers,is sweeping along, when suddenly the cross-bearer before thetriple-crowned and vested Pope starts aside to witness the unexpectedarrival. This engraving, which it is quite impossible for me toreproduce, is in a curious little book, entitled "Puerperium JohannisPapæ 8, 1530."
The following jingling record of the event is from the Rhythmical VitæPontificum of Gulielmus Jacobus of Egmonden, a work never printed.This fragment is preserved in "Wolfii Lectionum Memorabiliumcentenarii, XVI.:"--
    "Priusquàm reconditur Sergius, vocatur    Ad summam, qui dicitur Johannes, huic addatur    Anglicus, Moguntia iste procreatur.    Qui, ut dat sententia, fœminis aptatur    Sexu: quod sequentia monstrant, breviatur,    Hæc vox: nam prolixius chronica procedunt.    Ista, de qua brevius dicta minus lædunt.    Huic erat amasius, ut scriptores credunt.    Patria relinquitur Moguntia, Græcorum    Studiosè petitur schola. Pòst doctorum    Hæc doctrix efficitur Romæ legens: horum    Hæc auditu fungitur loquens. Hinc prostrato    Summo hæc eligitur: sexu exaltato    Quandoque negligitur. Fatur quòd hæc nato    Per servum conficitur. Tempore gignendi    Ad processum equus scanditur, vice flendi,    Papa cadit, panditur improbis ridendi    Norma, puer nascitur in vico Clementis,    Colossœum jungitur. Corpus parentis    In eodem traditur sepulturæ gentis,    Faturque scriptoribus, quòd Papa præfato,    Vico senioribus transiens amato    Congruo ductoribus sequitur negato    Loco, quo Ecclesia partu denigratur,    Quamvis inter spacia Pontificum ponatur,    Propter sexum."
Stephen Blanch, in his "Urbis Romæ Mirabilia," says that an angel ofheaven appeared to Joan before the event, and asked her to choosewhether she would prefer burning eternally in hell, or having herconfinement in public; with sense which does her credit, she chose thelatter. The Protestant writers were not satisfied that the father ofthe unhappy baby should have been a servant: some made him aCardinal, and others the devil himself. According to an eminent Dutchminister, it is immaterial whether the child be fathered on Satan or amonk; at all events, the former took a lively interest in the youthfulAntichrist, and, on the occasion of his birth, was seen and heardfluttering overhead, crowing and chanting in an unmusical voice theSibylline verses announcing the birth of the Arch-persecutor:--
    "Papa pater patrum, Papissæ pandito partum    Et tibi tunc eadem de corpore quando recedam!"
which lines, as being perhaps the only ones known to be of diaboliccomposition, are deserving of preservation.
The Reformers, in order to reconcile dates, were put to the somewhatperplexing necessity of moving Pope Joan to their own times, or elseof giving to the youthful Antichrist an age of seven hundred years.
It must be allowed that the _accouchement_ of a Pope in fullpontificals, during a solemn procession, was a prodigy not likely tooccur more than once in the world's history, and was certain to be ofmomentous import.
It will be seen by the curious woodcut reproduced as frontispiecefrom Baptista Mantuanus, that he consigned Pope Joan to the jaws ofhell, notwithstanding her choice. The verses accompanying this pictureare:--
    "Hic pendebat adhuc sexum mentita virile    Fœmina, cui triplici Phrygiam diademate mitram    Extollebat apex: et pontificalis adulter."
It need hardly be stated that the whole story of Pope Joan isfabulous, and rests on not the slightest historical foundation. It wasprobably a Greek invention to throw discredit on the papal hierarchy,first circulated more than two hundred years after the date of thesupposed Pope. Even Martin Polonus (A. D. 1282), who is the first togive the details, does so merely on popular report.
The great champions of the myth were the Protestants of the sixteenthcentury, who were thoroughly unscrupulous in distorting history andsuppressing facts, so long as they could make a point. A paper war waswaged upon the subject, and finally the whole story was provedconclusively to be utterly destitute of historical truth. A melancholyexample of the blindness of party feeling and prejudice is seen inMosheim, who assumes the truth of the ridiculous story, and gravelyinserts it in his "Ecclesiastical History." "Between Leo IV., who died855, and Benedict III., a woman, who concealed her sex and assumed thename of John, it is said, opened her way to the Pontifical throne byher learning and genius, and governed the Church for a time. She iscommonly called the Papess Joan. During the five subsequent centuriesthe witnesses to this extraordinary event are without number; nor didany one, prior to the Reformation by Luther, regard the thing aseither incredible or disgraceful to the Church." Such are Mosheim'swords, and I give them as a specimen of the credit which is due to hisopinion. The "Ecclesiastical History" he wrote is full of perversionsof the plainest facts, and that under our notice is but one out ofmany. "During the five centuries after her reign," he says, "thewitnesses to the story are innumerable." Now, for two centuries thereis not an allusion to be found to the events. The only passage whichcan be found is a universally acknowledged interpolation of the "Livesof the Popes," by Anastasius Bibliothecarius; and this interpolationis stated in the first printed edition by Busæus, Mogunt. 1602, to beonly found in two MS. copies.
From Marianus Scotus or Sigebert de Gemblours the story passed intoother chronicles _totidem verbis_, and generally with hesitation andan expression of doubt in its accuracy. Martin Polonus is the first togive the particulars, some four hundred and twenty years after thereign of the fabulous Pope.
Mosheim is false again in asserting that no one prior to theReformation regarded the thing as either incredible or disgraceful.This is but of a piece with his malignity and disregard for truth,whenever he can hit the Catholic Church hard. Bart. Platina, in his"Lives of the Popes," written before Luther was born, after relatingthe story, says, "These things which I relate are popular reports, butderived from uncertain and obscure authors, which I have thereforeinserted briefly and baldly, lest I should seem to omit obstinatelyand pertinaciously what most people assert." Thus the facts werejustly doubted by Platina on the legitimate grounds that they restedon popular gossip, and not on reliable history. Marianus Scotus, thefirst to relate the story, died in 1086. He was a monk of St. Martinof Cologne, then of Fulda, and lastly of St. Alban's, at Metz. Howcould he have obtained reliable information, or seen documents uponwhich to ground the assertion? Again, his chronicle has sufferedseverely from interpolations in numerous places, and there is reasonto believe that the Pope-Joan passage is itself a late interpolation.
If so, we are reduced to Sigebert de Gemblours (d. 1112), placing twocenturies and a half between him and the event he records, and hischronicle may have been tampered with.
The historical discrepancies are sufficiently glaring to make thestory more than questionable.
Leo IV. died on the 17th July, 855; and Benedict III. was consecratedon the 1st September in the same year; so that it is impossible toinsert between their pontificates a reign of two years, five months,and four days. It is, however, true that there was an antipope electedupon the death of Leo, at the instance of the Emperor Louis; but hisname was Anastasius. This man possessed himself of the palace of thePopes, and obtained the incarceration of Benedict. However, hissupporters almost immediately deserted him, and Benedict assumed thepontificate. The reign of Benedict was only for two years and a half,so that Anastasius cannot be the supposed Joan; nor do we hear of anycharge brought against him to the effect of his being a woman. But thestout partisans of the Pope-Joan tale assert, on the authority of the"Annales Augustani,"[29] and some other, but late authorities, thatthe female Pope was John VIII., who consecrated Louis II. of France,and Ethelwolf of England. Here again is confusion. Ethelwolf sentAlfred to Rome in 853, and the youth received regal unction from thehands of Leo IV. In 855 Ethelwolf visited Rome, it is true, but wasnot consecrated by the existing Pope, whilst Charles the Bald wasanointed by John VIII. in 875. John VIII. was a Roman, son of Gundus,and an archdeacon of the Eternal City. He assumed the triple crown in872, and reigned till December 18, 882. John took an active part inthe troubles of the Church under the incursions of the Sarasins, and325 letters of his are extant, addressed to the princes and prelatesof his day.
Any one desirous of pursuing this examination into the untenablenature of the story may find an excellent summary of the argumentsused on both sides in Gieseler, "Lehrbuch," &c., Cunningham's trans.,vol. ii. pp. 20, 21, or in Bayle, "Dictionnaire," tom. iii. art.Papesse.
The arguments in favor of the myth may be seen in Spanheim, "Exercit.de Papa Fœmina," Opp. tom. ii. p. 577, or in Lenfant, "Histoire dela Papesse Jeanne," La Haye, 1736, 2 vols. 12mo.
The arguments on the other side may be had in "Allatii ConfutatioFabulæ de Johanna Papissa," Colon. 1645; in Le Quien, "OriensChristianus," tom. iii. p. 777; and in the pages of the LutheranHuemann, "Sylloge Diss. Sacras.," tom. i. par. ii. p. 352.
The final development of this extraordinary story, under the delicatefingers of the German and French Protestant controversialists, may notprove uninteresting.
Joan was the daughter of an English missionary, who left England topreach the Gospel to the recently converted Saxons. She was born atEngelheim, and according to different authors she was christenedAgnes, Gerberta, Joanna, Margaret, Isabel, Dorothy, or Jutt--the lastmust have been a nickname surely! She early distinguished herself forgenius and love of letters. A young monk of Fulda having conceived forher a violent passion, which she returned with ardor, she deserted herparents, dressed herself in male attire, and in the sacred precinctsof Fulda divided her affections between the youthful monk and themusty books of the monastic library. Not satisfied with the restraintsof conventual life, nor finding the library sufficiently well providedwith books of abstruse science, she eloped with her young man, andafter visiting England, France, and Italy, she brought him to Athens,where she addicted herself with unflagging devotion to her literarypursuits. Wearied out by his journey, the monk expired in the arms ofthe blue-stocking who had influenced his life for evil, and the younglady of so many aliases was for a while inconsolable. She left Athensand repaired to Rome. There she opened a school and acquired such areputation for learning and feigned sanctity, that, on the death ofLeo IV., she was unanimously elected Pope. For two years and fivemonths, under the name of John VIII., she filled the papal chair withreputation, no one suspecting her sex. But having taken a fancy to oneof the cardinals, by him she became pregnant. At length arrived thetime of Rogation processions. Whilst passing the street between theamphitheatre and St. Clement's, she was seized with violent pains,fell to the ground amidst the crowd, and, whilst her attendantsministered to her, was delivered of a son. Some say the child andmother died on the spot, some that she survived but was incarcerated,some that the child was spirited away to be the Antichrist of the lastdays. A marble monument representing the papess with her baby waserected on the spot, which was declared to be accursed to all ages.
I have little doubt myself that Pope Joan is an impersonification ofthe great whore of Revelation, seated on the seven hills, and is thepopular expression of the idea prevalent from the twelfth to thesixteenth centuries, that the mystery of iniquity was somehow workingin the papal court. The scandal of the Antipopes, the utterworldliness and pride of others, the spiritual fornication with thekings of the earth, along with the words of Revelation prophesying theadvent of an adulterous woman who should rule over the imperial city,and her connection with Antichrist, crystallized into this curiousmyth, much as the floating uncertainty as to the signification of ourLord's words, "There be some standing here which shall not taste ofdeath till they see the kingdom of God," condensed into the myth ofthe Wandering Jew.
The literature connected with Antichrist is voluminous. I need onlyspecify some of the most curious works which have appeared on thesubject. St. Hippolytus and Rabanus Maurus have been already alludedto. Commodianus wrote "Carmen Apologeticum adversus Gentes," which hasbeen published by Dom Pitra in his "Spicilegium Solesmense," with anintroduction containing Jewish and Christian traditions relating toAntichrist. "De Turpissima Conceptione, Nativitate, et aliis PræsagiisDiaboliciis illius Turpissimi Hominis Antichristi," is the title of astrange little volume published by Lenoir in A. D. 1500, containingrude yet characteristic woodcuts, representing the birth, life, anddeath of the Man of Sin, each picture accompanied by French verses inexplanation. An equally remarkable illustrated work on Antichrist isthe famous "Liber de Antichristo," a blockbook of an early date. It isin twenty-seven folios, and is excessively rare. Dibdin has reproducedthree of the plates in his "Bibliotheca Spenseriana," and Falckensteinhas given full details of the work in his "Geschichte derBuchdruckerkunst."
There is an Easter miracle-play of the twelfth century, still extant,the subject of which is the "Life and Death of Antichrist." Morecurious still is the "Farce de l'Antéchrist et de Trois Femmes"--acomposition of the sixteenth century, when that mysterious personageoccupied all brains. The farce consists in a scene at a fish-stall,with three good ladies quarrelling over some fish. Antichrist stepsin,--for no particular reason that one can see,--upsets fish andfish-women, sets them fighting, and skips off the stage. The best bookon Antichrist, and that most full of learning and judgment, isMalvenda's great work in two folio volumes, "De Antichristo, librixii." Lyons, 1647.
For the fable of the Pope Joan, see J. Lenfant, "Histoire de laPapesse Jeanne." La Haye, 1736, 2 vols. 12mo. "Allatii ConfutatioFabulæ de Johanna Papissa." Colon. 1645.
FOOTNOTE:
[29] These Annals were written in 1135.



The Man in the Moon.

Every one knows that the moon is inhabited by a man with a bundle ofsticks on his back, who has been exiled thither for many centuries,and who is so far off that he is beyond the reach of death.
He has once visited this earth, if the nursery rhyme is to becredited, when it asserts that--
    "The Man in the Moon    Came down too soon,    And asked his way to Norwich;"
but whether he ever reached that city, the same authority does notstate.
The story as told by nurses is, that this man was found by Mosesgathering sticks on a Sabbath, and that, for this crime, he was doomedto reside in the moon till the end of all things; and they refer toNumbers xv. 32-36:--
"And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found aman that gathered sticks upon the Sabbath day. And they that found himgathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all thecongregation. And they put him in ward, because it was not declaredwhat should be done to him. And the Lord said unto Moses, The manshall be surely put to death: all the congregation shall stone himwith stones without the camp. And all the congregation brought himwithout the camp, and stoned him with stones till he died."
Of course, in the sacred writings there is no allusion to the moon.
The German tale is as follows:--
Ages ago there went one Sunday morning an old man into the wood to hewsticks. He cut a fagot and slung it on a stout staff, cast it over hisshoulder, and began to trudge home with his burden. On his way he meta handsome man in Sunday suit, walking towards the Church; this manstopped and asked the fagot-bearer, "Do you know that this is Sundayon earth, when all must rest from their labors?"
"Sunday on earth, or Monday in heaven, it is all one to me!" laughedthe wood-cutter.
"Then bear your bundle forever," answered the stranger; "and as youvalue not Sunday on earth, yours shall be a perpetual Moon-day inheaven; and you shall stand for eternity in the moon, a warning to allSabbath-breakers." Thereupon the stranger vanished, and the man wascaught up with his stock and his fagot into the moon, where he standsyet.
The superstition seems to be old in Germany, for the full moon isspoken of as _wadel_, or _wedel_, a fagot. Tobler relates the storythus: "An arma mā ket alawel am Sonnti holz ufglesa. Do hedem derliebe Gott dwahl gloh, öb er lieber wott ider sonn verbrenna oder immo verfrura, do willer lieber inn mo ihi. Dromm siedma no jetz an maim mo inna, wenns wedel ist. Er hed a püscheli uffem rogga."[30] Thatis to say, he was given the choice of burning in the sun, or offreezing in the moon; he chose the latter; and now at full moon he isto be seen seated with his bundle of fagots on his back.
In Schaumburg-Lippe,[31] the story goes, that a man and a woman standin the moon, the man because he strewed brambles and thorns on thechurch path, so as to hinder people from attending Mass on Sundaymorning; the woman because she made butter on that day. The mancarries his bundle of thorns, the woman her butter-tub. A similar taleis told in Swabia and in Marken. Fischart[32] says, that there "is tobe seen in the moon a manikin who stole wood;" and Prætorius, in hisdescription of the world,[33] that "superstitious people assert thatthe black flecks in the moon are a man who gathered wood on a Sabbath,and is therefore turned into stone."
The Dutch household myth is, that the unhappy man was caught stealingvegetables. Dante calls him Cain:--
    "... Now doth Cain with fork of thorns confine,    On either hemisphere, touching the wave    Beneath the towers of Seville. Yesternight    The moon was round."                              _Hell_, cant. xx.
And again,--
    "... Tell, I pray thee, whence the gloomy spots    Upon this body, which below on earth    Give rise to talk of Cain in fabling quaint?"                              _Paradise_, cant. ii.
Chaucer, in the "Testament of Cresside," adverts to the man in themoon, and attributes to him the same idea of theft. Of Lady Cynthia,or the moon, he says,--
    "Her gite was gray and full of spottis blake,    And on her brest a chorle painted ful even,    Bering a bush of thornis on his backe,    Whiche for his theft might clime so ner the heaven."
Ritson, among his "Ancient Songs," gives one extracted from amanuscript of the time of Edward II., on the Man in the Moon, but invery obscure language. The first verse, altered into more modernorthography, runs as follows:--
    "Man in the Moon stand and stit,      On his bot-fork his burden he beareth,    It is much wonder that he do na doun slit,      For doubt lest he fall he shudd'reth and shivereth.
    ...
    "When the frost freezes must chill he bide,      The thorns be keen his attire so teareth,    Nis no wight in the world there wot when he syt,      Ne bote it by the hedge what weeds he weareth."
Alexander Necham, or Nequam, a writer of the twelfth century, incommenting on the dispersed shadows in the moon, thus alludes to thevulgar belief: "Nonne novisti quid vulgus vocet rusticum in lunaportantem spinas? Unde quidam vulgariter loquens ait:--
    "Rusticus in Luna,    Quem sarcina deprimit una    Monstrat per opinas    Nulli prodesse rapinas,"
which may be translated thus: "Do you know what they call the rusticin the moon, who carries the fagot of sticks?" So that one vulgarlyspeaking says,--
    "See the rustic in the Moon,    How his bundle weighs him down;    Thus his sticks the truth reveal,    It never profits man to steal."
Shakspeare refers to the same individual in his "Midsummer Night'sDream." Quince the carpenter, giving directions for the performance ofthe play of "Pyramus and Thisbe," orders: "One must come in with abush of thorns and a lantern, and say he comes in to disfigure, or topresent, the person of Moonshine." And the enacter of this part says,"All I have to say is, to tell you that the lantern is the moon; I theman in the moon; this thorn-bush my thorn-bush; and this dog my dog."
Also "Tempest," Act 2, Scene 2:--
    "_Cal._ Hast thou not dropt from heaven?
    "_Steph._ Out o' th' moon, I do assure thee. I was the man in    th' moon when time was.
    "_Cal._ I have seen thee in her; and I do adore thee. My    mistress showed me thee, and thy dog, and thy bush."
The dog I have myself had pointed out to me by an old Devonshirecrone. If popular superstition places a dog in the moon, it puts alamb in the sun; for in the same county it is said that those who seethe sun rise on Easter-day, may behold in the orb the lamb and flag.
I believe this idea of locating animals in the two great luminaries ofheaven to be very ancient, and to be a relic of a primevalsuperstition of the Aryan race.
There is an ancient pictorial representation of our friend theSabbath-breaker in Gyffyn Church, near Conway. The roof of thechancel is divided into compartments, in four of which are theEvangelistic symbols, rudely, yet effectively painted. Besides thesesymbols is delineated in each compartment an orb of heaven. The sun,the moon, and two stars, are placed at the feet of the Angel, theBull, the Lion, and the Eagle. The representation of the moon is asbelow; in the disk is the conventional man with his bundle of sticks,but without the dog. There is also a curious seal appended to a deedpreserved in the Record Office, dated the 9th year of Edward the Third(1335), bearing the man in the moon as its device. The deed is one ofconveyance of a messuage, barn, and four acres of ground, in theparish of Kingston-on-Thames, from Walter de Grendesse, clerk, toMargaret his mother. On the seal we see the man carrying his sticks,and the moon surrounds him. There are also a couple of stars added,perhaps to show that he is in the sky. The legend on the seal reads:--
    "Te Waltere docebo    cur spinas phebo          gero,"
which may be translated, "I will teach thee, Walter, why I carrythorns in the moon."

The general superstition with regard to the spots in the moon maybriefly be summed up thus: A man is located in the moon; he is a thiefor Sabbath-breaker;[34] he has a pole over his shoulder, from whichis suspended a bundle of sticks or thorns. In some places a woman isbelieved to accompany him, and she has a butter-tub with her; in otherlocalities she is replaced by a dog.
The belief in the Moon-man seems to exist among the natives of BritishColumbia; for I read in one of Mr. Duncan's letters to the ChurchMissionary Society, "One very dark night I was told that there was amoon to see on the beach. On going to see, there was an illuminateddisk, with the figure of a man upon it. The water was then very low,and one of the conjuring parties had lit up this disk at the water'sedge. They had made it of wax, with great exactness, and presently itwas at full. It was an imposing sight. Nothing could be seen aroundit; but the Indians suppose that the medicine party are then holdingconverse with the man in the moon.... After a short time the moonwaned away, and the conjuring party returned whooping to their house."
Now let us turn to Scandinavian mythology, and see what we learn fromthat source.
Mâni, the moon, stole two children from their parents, and carriedthem up to heaven. Their names were Hjuki and Bil. They had beendrawing water from the well Byrgir, in the bucket Sœgr, suspendedfrom the pole Simul, which they bore upon their shoulders. Thesechildren, pole, and bucket were placed in heaven, "where they could beseen from earth." This refers undoubtedly to the spots in the moon;and so the Swedish peasantry explain these spots to this day, asrepresenting a boy and a girl bearing a pail of water between them.Are we not reminded at once of our nursery rhyme--
    "Jack and Jill went up a hill      To fetch a pail of water;    Jack fell down, and broke his crown,      And Jill came tumbling after"?
This verse, which to us seems at first sight nonsense, I have nohesitation in saying has a high antiquity, and refers to the EddaicHjuki and Bil. The names indicate as much. Hjuki, in Norse, would bepronounced Juki, which would readily become Jack; and Bil, for thesake of euphony, and in order to give a female name to one of thechildren, would become Jill.
The fall of Jack, and the subsequent fall of Jill, simply representthe vanishing of one moon-spot after another, as the moon wanes.
But the old Norse myth had a deeper signification than merely anexplanation of the moon-spots.
Hjuki is derived from the verb jakka, to heap or pile together, toassemble and increase; and Bil from bila, to break up or dissolve.Hjuki and Bil, therefore, signify nothing more than the waxing andwaning of the moon, and the water they are represented as bearingsignifies the fact that the rainfall depends on the phases of themoon. Waxing and waning were individualized, and the meteorologicalfact of the connection of the rain with the moon was represented bythe children as water-bearers.
But though Jack and Jill became by degrees dissevered in the popularmind from the moon, the original myth went through a fresh phase, andexists still under a new form. The Norse superstition attributed_theft_ to the moon, and the vulgar soon began to believe that thefigure they saw in the moon was the thief. The lunar specks certainlymay be made to resemble one figure, and only a lively imagination candiscern two. The girl soon dropped out of popular mythology, the boyoldened into a venerable man, he retained his pole, and the bucketwas transformed into the thing he had stolen--sticks or vegetables.The theft was in some places exchanged for Sabbath-breaking,especially among those in Protestant countries who were acquaintedwith the Bible story of the stick-gatherer.
The Indian superstition is worth examining, because of the connectionexisting between Indian and European mythology, on account of ourbelonging to the same Aryan stock.
According to a Buddhist legend, Sâkyamunni himself, in one of hisearlier stages of existence, was a hare, and lived in friendship witha fox and an ape. In order to test the virtue of the Bodhisattwa,Indra came to the friends, in the form of an old man, asking for food.Hare, ape, and fox went forth in quest of victuals for their guest.The two latter returned from their foraging expedition successful, butthe hare had found nothing. Then, rather than that he should treat theold man with inhospitality, the hare had a fire kindled, and casthimself into the flames, that he might himself become food for hisguest. In reward for this act of self-sacrifice, Indra carried thehare to heaven, and placed him in the moon.[35]
Here we have an old man and a hare in connection with the lunarplanet, just as in Shakspeare we have a fagot-bearer and a dog.
The fable rests upon the name of the moon in Sanskrit, çaçin, or "thatmarked with the hare;" but whether the belief in the spots taking theshape of a hare gave the name çaçin to the moon, or the lunar nameçaçin originated the belief, it is impossible for us to say.
Grounded upon this myth is the curious story of "The Hare and theElephant," in the "Pantschatantra," an ancient collection of Sanskritfables. It will be found as the first tale in the third book. I haveroom only for an outline of the story.

THE CRAFTY HARE.
In a certain forest lived a mighty elephant, king of a herd, Toothy byname. On a certain occasion there was a long drought, so that pools,tanks, swamps, and lakes were dried up. Then the elephants sent outexploring parties in search of water. A young one discovered anextensive lake surrounded with trees, and teeming with water-fowl. Itwent by the name of the Moon-lake. The elephants, delighted at theprospect of having an inexhaustible supply of water, marched off tothe spot, and found their most sanguine hopes realized. Round aboutthe lake, in the sandy soil, were innumerable hare warrens; and as theherd of elephants trampled on the ground, the hares were severelyinjured, their homes broken down, their heads, legs, and backs crushedbeneath the ponderous feet of the monsters of the forest. As soon asthe herd had withdrawn, the hares assembled, some halting, somedripping with blood, some bearing the corpses of their cherishedinfants, some with piteous tales of ruination in their houses, allwith tears streaming from their eyes, and wailing forth, "Alas, we arelost! The elephant-herd will return, for there is no water elsewhere,and that will be the death of all of us."
But the wise and prudent Longear volunteered to drive the herd away;and he succeeded in this manner: Longear went to the elephants, andhaving singled out their king, he addressed him as follows:--
"Ha, ha! bad elephant! what brings you with such thoughtless frivolityto this strange lake? Back with you at once!"
When the king of the elephants heard this, he asked in astonishment,"Pray, who are you?"
"I," replied Longear,--"I am Vidschajadatta by name; the hare whoresides in the Moon. Now am I sent by his Excellency the Moon as anambassador to you. I speak to you in the name of the Moon."
"Ahem! Hare," said the elephant, somewhat staggered; "and what messagehave you brought me from his Excellency the Moon?"
"You have this day injured several hares. Are you not aware that theyare the subjects of me? If you value your life, venture not near thelake again. Break my command, and I shall withdraw my beams from youat night, and your bodies will be consumed with perpetual sun."
The elephant, after a short meditation, said, "Friend! it is true thatI have acted against the rights of the excellent Majesty of the Moon.I should wish to make an apology; how can I do so?"
The hare replied, "Come along with me, and I will show you."
The elephant asked, "Where is his Excellency at present?"
The other replied, "He is now in the lake, hearing the complaints ofthe maimed hares."
"If that be the case," said the elephant, humbly, "bring me to mylord, that I may tender him my submission."
So the hare conducted the king of the elephants to the edge of thelake, and showed him the reflection of the moon in the water, saying,"There stands our lord in the midst of the water, plunged inmeditation; reverence him with devotion, and then depart with speed."
Thereupon the elephant poked his proboscis into the water, andmuttered a fervent prayer. By so doing he set the water in agitation,so that the reflection of the moon was all of a quiver.
"Look!" exclaimed the hare; "his Majesty is trembling with rage atyou!"
"Why is his supreme Excellency enraged with me?" asked the elephant.
"Because you have set the water in motion. Worship him, and then beoff!"
The elephant let his ears droop, bowed his great head to the earth,and after having expressed in suitable terms his regret for havingannoyed the Moon, and the hare dwelling in it, he vowed never totrouble the Moon-lake again. Then he departed, and the hares have eversince lived there unmolested.
FOOTNOTES:
[30] Tobler, Appenz. Sprachsbuch, 20.
[31] Wolf, Zeitschrift für Deut. Myth. i. 168.
[32] Fischart, Garg. 130.
[33] Prætorius, i. 447.
[34] Hebel, in his charming poem on the Man in the Moon, in"Allemanische Gedichte," makes him both thief and Sabbath-breaker.
[35] "Mémoires ... par Hjouen Thsang, traduits du Chinois parStanislas Julien," i. 375. Upham, "Sacred Books of Ceylon," iii. 309.



The Mountain of Venus.

Ragged, bald, and desolate, as though a curse rested upon it, risesthe Hörselberg out of the rich and populous land between Eisenach andGotha, looking, from a distance, like a huge stone sarcophagus--asarcophagus in which rests in magical slumber, till the end of allthings, a mysterious world of wonders.
High up on the north-west flank of the mountain, in a precipitous wallof rock, opens a cavern, called the Hörselloch, from the depths ofwhich issues a muffled roar of water, as though a subterraneous streamwere rushing over rapidly-whirling millwheels. "When I have stoodalone on the ridge of the mountain," says Bechstein, "after havingsought the chasm in vain, I have heard a mighty rush, like that offalling water, beneath my feet, and after scrambling down the scarp,have found myself--how, I never knew--in front of the cave."("Sagenschatz des Thüringes-landes," 1835.)
In ancient days, according to the Thüringian Chronicles, bitter criesand long-drawn moans were heard issuing from this cavern; and atnight, wild shrieks and the burst of diabolical laughter would ringfrom it over the vale, and fill the inhabitants with terror. It wassupposed that this hole gave admittance to Purgatory; and the popularbut faulty derivation of Hörsel was _Höre, die Seele_--Hark, theSouls!
But another popular belief respecting this mountain was, that in itVenus, the pagan Goddess of Love, held her court, in all the pomp andrevelry of heathendom; and there were not a few who declared that theyhad seen fair forms of female beauty beckoning them from the mouth ofthe chasm, and that they had heard dulcet strains of music well upfrom the abyss above the thunder of the falling, unseen torrent.Charmed by the music, and allured by the spectral forms, variousindividuals had entered the cave, and none had returned, except theTanhäuser, of whom more anon. Still does the Hörselberg go by the nameof the Venusberg, a name frequently used in the middle ages, butwithout its locality being defined.
"In 1398, at midday, there appeared suddenly three great fires in theair, which presently ran together into one globe of flame, partedagain, and finally sank into the Hörselberg," says the ThüringianChronicle.
And now for the story of Tanhäuser.
A French knight was riding over the beauteous meadows in the Hörselvale on his way to Wartburg, where the Landgrave Hermann was holding agathering of minstrels, who were to contend in song for a prize.
Tanhäuser was a famous minnesinger, and all his lays were of love andof women, for his heart was full of passion, and that not of thepurest and noblest description.
It was towards dusk that he passed the cliff in which is theHörselloch, and as he rode by, he saw a white glimmering figure ofmatchless beauty standing before him, and beckoning him to her. Heknew her at once, by her attributes and by her superhuman perfection,to be none other than Venus. As she spake to him, the sweetest strainsof music floated in the air, a soft roseate light glowed around her,and nymphs of exquisite loveliness scattered roses at her feet. Athrill of passion ran through the veins of the minnesinger; and,leaving his horse, he followed the apparition. It led him up themountain to the cave, and as it went flowers bloomed upon the soil,and a radiant track was left for Tanhäuser to follow. He entered thecavern, and descended to the palace of Venus in the heart of themountain.
Seven years of revelry and debauch were passed, and the minstrel'sheart began to feel a strange void. The beauty, the magnificence, thevariety of the scenes in the pagan goddess's home, and all itsheathenish pleasures, palled upon him, and he yearned for the purefresh breezes of earth, one look up at the dark night sky spangledwith stars, one glimpse of simple mountain-flowers, one tinkle ofsheep-bells. At the same time his conscience began to reproach him,and he longed to make his peace with God. In vain did he entreat Venusto permit him to depart, and it was only when, in the bitterness ofhis grief, he called upon the Virgin-Mother, that a rift in themountain-side appeared to him, and he stood again above ground.
How sweet was the morning air, balmy with the scent of hay, as itrolled up the mountain to him, and fanned his haggard cheek! Howdelightful to him was the cushion of moss and scanty grass after thedowny couches of the palace of revelry below! He plucked the littleheather-bells, and held them before him; the tears rolled from hiseyes, and moistened his thin and wasted hands. He looked up at thesoft blue sky and the newly-risen sun, and his heart overflowed. Whatwere the golden, jewel-incrusted, lamp-lit vaults beneath to that puredome of God's building!
The chime of a village church struck sweetly on his ear, satiated withBacchanalian songs; and he hurried down the mountain to the churchwhich called him. There he made his confession; but the priest,horror-struck at his recital, dared not give him absolution, butpassed him on to another. And so he went from one to another, till atlast he was referred to the Pope himself. To the Pope he went. UrbanIV. then occupied the chair of St. Peter. To him Tanhäuser related thesickening story of his guilt, and prayed for absolution. Urban was ahard and stern man, and shocked at the immensity of the sin, he thrustthe penitent indignantly from him, exclaiming, "Guilt such as thinecan never, never be remitted. Sooner shall this staff in my hand growgreen and blossom, than that God should pardon thee!"
Then Tanhäuser, full of despair, and with his soul darkened, wentaway, and returned to the only asylum open to him, the Venusberg. Butlo! three days after he had gone, Urban discovered that his pastoralstaff had put forth buds, and had burst into flower. Then he sentmessengers after Tanhäuser, and they reached the Hörsel vale to hearthat a wayworn man, with haggard brow and bowed head, had just enteredthe Hörselloch. Since then Tanhäuser has not been seen.
Such is the sad yet beautiful story of Tanhäuser. It is a very ancientmyth Christianized, a wide-spread tradition localized. Originallyheathen, it has been transformed, and has acquired new beauty by aninfusion of Christianity. Scattered over Europe, it exists in variousforms, but in none so graceful as that attached to the Hörselberg.There are, however, other Venusbergs in Germany; as, for instance, inSwabia, near Waldsee; another near Ufhausen, at no great distance fromFreiburg (the same story is told of this Venusberg as of theHörselberg); in Saxony there is a Venusberg not far from Wolkenstein.Paracelsus speaks of a Venusberg in Italy, referring to that in whichÆneas Sylvius (Ep. 16) says Venus or a Sibyl resides, occupying acavern, and assuming once a week the form of a serpent. Geiler v.Keysersperg, a quaint old preacher of the fifteenth century, speaks ofthe witches assembling on the Venusberg.
The story, either in prose or verse, has often been printed. Some ofthe earliest editions are the following:--
"Das Lied von dem Danhewser." Nürnberg, without date; the same,Nürnberg, 1515.--"Das Lyedt v. d. Thanheuser." Leyptzk, 1520.--"DasLied v. d. Danheüser," reprinted by Bechstein, 1835.--"Das Lied vomedlen Tanheuser, Mons Veneris." Frankfort, 1614; Leipzig, 1668.--"Twelede volgen Dat erste vain Danhüsser." Without date.--"Van heerDanielken." Tantwerpen, 1544.--A Danish version in "Nyerup, DanskeViser," No. VIII.
Let us now see some of the forms which this remarkable myth assumed inother countries. Every popular tale has its root, a root which may betraced among different countries, and though the accidents of thestory may vary, yet the substance remains unaltered. It has been saidthat the common people never invent new story-radicals any more thanwe invent new word-roots; and this is perfectly true. The samestory-root remains, but it is varied according to the temperament ofthe narrator or the exigencies of localization. The story-root of theVenusberg is this:--
    The underground folk seek union with human beings.
        α. A man is enticed into their abode, where he unites            with a woman of the underground race.
        β. He desires to revisit the earth, and escapes.
        γ. He returns again to the region below.
Now, there is scarcely a collection of folk-lore which does notcontain a story founded on this root. It appears in every branch ofthe Aryan family, and examples might be quoted from Modern Greek,Albanian, Neapolitan, French, German, Danish, Norwegian and Swedish,Icelandic, Scotch, Welsh, and other collections of popular tales. Ihave only space to mention some.
There is a Norse Tháttr of a certain Helgi Thorir's son, which is, inits present form, a production of the fourteenth century. Helgi andhis brother Thorstein went on a cruise to Finnmark, or Lapland. Theyreached a ness, and found the land covered with forest. Helgi exploredthis forest, and lighted suddenly on a party of red-dressed womenriding upon red horses. These ladies were beautiful and of troll race.One surpassed the others in beauty, and she was their mistress. Theyerected a tent and prepared a feast. Helgi observed that all theirvessels were of silver and gold. The lady, who named herselfIngibjorg, advanced towards the Norseman, and invited him to live withher. He feasted and lived with the trolls for three days, and thenreturned to his ship, bringing with him two chests of silver and gold,which Ingibjorg had given him. He had been forbidden to mention wherehe had been and with whom; so he told no one whence he had obtainedthe chests. The ships sailed, and he returned home.
One winter's night Helgi was fetched away from home, in the midst of afurious storm, by two mysterious horsemen, and no one was able toascertain for many years what had become of him, till the prayers ofthe king, Olaf, obtained his release, and then he was restored to hisfather and brother, but he was thenceforth blind. All the time of hisabsence he had been with the red-vested lady in her mysterious abodeof Glœsisvellir.
The Scotch story of Thomas of Ercildoune is the same story. Thomas metwith a strange lady, of elfin race, beneath Eildon Tree, who led himinto the underground land, where he remained with her for seven years.He then returned to earth, still, however, remaining bound to come tohis royal mistress whenever she should summon him. Accordingly, whileThomas was making merry with his friends in the Tower of Ercildoune, aperson came running in, and told, with marks of fear and astonishment,that a hart and a hind had left the neighboring forest, and wereparading the street of the village. Thomas instantly arose, left hishouse, and followed the animals into the forest, from which he neverreturned. According to popular belief, he still "drees his weird" inFairy Land, and is one day expected to revisit earth. (Scott,"Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border.") Compare with this the ancientballad of Tamlane.
Debes relates that "it happened a good while since, when the burghersof Bergen had the commerce of the Faroe Isles, that there was a man inSerraade, called Jonas Soideman, who was kept by the spirits in amountain during the space of seven years, and at length came out, butlived afterwards in great distress and fear, lest they should againtake him away; wherefore people were obliged to watch him in thenight." The same author mentions another young man who had beencarried away, and after his return was removed a second time, upon theeve of his marriage.
Gervase of Tilbury says that "in Catalonia there is a lofty mountain,named Cavagum, at the foot of which runs a river with golden sands, inthe vicinity of which there are likewise silver mines. This mountainis steep, and almost inaccessible. On its top, which is always coveredwith ice and snow, is a black and bottomless lake, into which if astone be cast, a tempest suddenly arises; and near this lake is theportal of the palace of demons." He then tells how a young damsel wasspirited in there, and spent seven years with the mountain spirits. Onher return to earth she was thin and withered, with wandering eyes,and almost bereft of understanding.
A Swedish story is to this effect. A young man was on his way to hisbride, when he was allured into a mountain by a beautiful elfin woman.With her he lived forty years, which passed as an hour; on his returnto earth all his old friends and relations were dead, or had forgottenhim, and finding no rest there, he returned to his mountain elf-land.
In Pomerania, a laborer's son, Jacob Dietrich of Rambin, was enticedaway in the same manner.
There is a curious story told by Fordun in his "Scotichronicon," whichhas some interest in connection with the legend of the Tanhäuser. Herelates that in the year 1050, a youth of noble birth had been marriedin Rome, and during the nuptial feast, being engaged in a game ofball, he took off his wedding-ring, and placed it on the finger of astatue of Venus. When he wished to resume it, he found that the stonyhand had become clinched, so that it was impossible to remove thering. Thenceforth he was haunted by the Goddess Venus, who constantlywhispered in his ear, "Embrace me; I am Venus, whom you have wedded; Iwill never restore your ring." However, by the assistance of apriest, she was at length forced to give it up to its rightful owner.
The classic legend of Ulysses, held captive for eight years by thenymph Calypso in the Island of Ogygia, and again for one year by theenchantress Circe, contains the root of the same story of theTanhäuser.
What may have been the significance of the primeval story-radical itis impossible for us now to ascertain; but the legend, as it shapeditself in the middle ages, is certainly indicative of the strugglebetween the new and the old faith.
We see thinly veiled in Tanhäuser the story of a man, Christian inname, but heathen at heart, allured by the attractions of paganism,which seems to satisfy his poetic instincts, and which gives full reinto his passions. But these excesses pall on him after a while, and thereligion of sensuality leaves a great void in his breast.
He turns to Christianity, and at first it seems to promise all that herequires. But alas! he is repelled by its ministers. On all sides heis met by practice widely at variance with profession. Pride,worldliness, want of sympathy exist among those who should be theforemost to guide, sustain, and receive him. All the warm springswhich gushed up in his broken heart are choked, his softened spirit ishardened again, and he returns in despair to bury his sorrows anddrown his anxieties in the debauchery of his former creed.
A sad picture, but doubtless one very true.



Fatality of Numbers.

The laws governing numbers are so perplexing to the uncultivated mind,and the results arrived at by calculation are so astonishing, that itcannot be matter of surprise if superstition has attached itself tonumbers.
But even to those who are instructed in numeration, there is much thatis mysterious and unaccountable, much that only an advancedmathematician can explain to his own satisfaction. The neophyte seesthe numbers obedient to certain laws; but _why_ they obey these lawshe cannot understand; and the fact of his not being able so to do,tends to give to numbers an atmosphere of mystery which impresses himwith awe.
For instance, the property of the number 9, discovered, I believe, byW. Green, who died in 1794, is inexplicable to any one but amathematician. The property to which I allude is this, that when 9 ismultiplied by 2, by 3, by 4, by 5, by 6, &c., it will be found thatthe digits composing the product, when added together, give 9. Thus:--
     2 × 9 = 18, and  1 + 8 = 9     3 × 9 = 27,  "   2 + 7 = 9     4 × 9 = 36,  "   3 + 6 = 9     5 × 9 = 45,  "   4 + 5 = 9     6 × 9 = 54,  "   5 + 4 = 9     7 × 9 = 63,  "   6 + 3 = 9     8 × 9 = 72,  "   7 + 2 = 9     9 × 9 = 81,  "   8 + 1 = 9    10 × 9 = 90,  "   9 + 0 = 9
It will be noticed that 9 × 11 makes 99, the sum of the digits ofwhich is 18 and not 9, but the sum of the digits 1 + 8 equals 9.
    9 × 12 = 108, and  1 + 0 + 8 = 9    9 × 13 = 117,  "   1 + 1 + 7 = 9    9 × 14 = 126,  "   1 + 2 + 6 = 9
And so on to any extent.
M. de Maivan discovered another singular property of the same number.If the order of the digits expressing a number be changed, and thisnumber be subtracted from the former, the remainder will be 9 or amultiple of 9, and, being a multiple, the sum of its digits will be 9.
For instance, take the number 21, reverse the digits, and you have12; subtract 12 from 21, and the remainder is 9. Take 63, reverse thedigits, and subtract 36 from 63; you have 27, a multiple of 9, and 2 +7 = 9. Once more, the number 13 is the reverse of 31; the differencebetween these numbers is 18, or twice 9.
Again, the same property found in two numbers thus changed, isdiscovered in the same numbers raised to any power.
Take 21 and 12 again. The square of 21 is 441, and the square of 12 is144; subtract 144 from 441, and the remainder is 297, a multiple of 9;besides, the digits expressing these powers added together give 9. Thecube of 21 is 9261, and that of 12 is 1728; their difference is 7533,also a multiple of 9.
The number 37 has also somewhat remarkable properties; when multipliedby 3 or a multiple of 3 up to 27, it gives in the product three digitsexactly similar. From the knowledge of this the multiplication of 37is greatly facilitated, the method to be adopted being to multiplymerely the first cipher of the multiplicand by the first multiplier;it is then unnecessary to proceed with the multiplication, it beingsufficient to write twice to the right hand the cipher obtained, sothat the same digit will stand in the unit, tens, and hundreds places.
For instance, take the results of the following table:--
    37 multiplied by 3 gives 111, and 3 times 1 =  3    37      "        6   "   222,  "  3   "   2 =  6    37      "        9   "   333,  "  3   "   3 =  9    37      "       12   "   444,  "  3   "   4 = 12    37      "       15   "   555,  "  3   "   5 = 15    37      "       18   "   666,  "  3   "   6 = 18    37      "       21   "   777,  "  3   "   7 = 21    37      "       24   "   888,  "  3   "   8 = 24    37      "       27   "   999,  "  3   "   9 = 27
The singular property of numbers the most different, when added, toproduce the same sum, originated the use of magical squares fortalismans. Although the reason may be accounted for mathematically,yet numerous authors have written concerning them, as though therewere something "uncanny" about them. But the most remarkable andexhaustive treatise on the subject is that by a mathematician ofDijon, which is entitled "Traité complet des Carrés magiques, pairs etimpairs, simple et composés, à Bordures, Compartiments, Croix,Chassis, Équerres, Bandes détachées, &c.; suivi d'un Traité des Cubesmagiques et d'un Essai sur les Cercles magiques; par M. Violle,Géomètre, Chevalier de St. Louis, avec Atlas de 54 grandes Feuilles,comprenant 400 figures." Paris, 1837. 2 vols. 8vo., the first of 593pages, the second of 616. Price 36 fr.
I give three examples of magical squares:--
    2   7   6    9   5   1    4   3   8
These nine ciphers are disposed in three horizontal lines; add thethree ciphers of each line, and the sum is 15; add the three ciphersin each column, the sum is 15; add the three ciphers formingdiagonals, and the sum is 15.
    1   2   3   4        1   7   13   19   25    2   3   2   3       18  24    5    6   12    4   1   4   1       10  11   17   23    4    3   4   1   2       22   3    9   15   16                        14  20   21    2    8
    The sum is 10.          The sum is 65.
But the connection of certain numbers with the dogmas of religion wassufficient, besides their marvellous properties, to make superstitionattach itself to them. Because there were thirteen at the table whenthe Last Supper was celebrated, and one of the number betrayed hisMaster, and then hung himself, it is looked upon through Christendomas unlucky to sit down thirteen at table, the consequence being thatone of the number will die before the year is out. "When I see," saidVouvenargues, "men of genius not daring to sit down thirteen at table,there is no error, ancient or modern, which astonishes me."
Nine, having been consecrated by Buddhism, is regarded with greatveneration by the Moguls and Chinese: the latter bow nine times onentering the presence of their Emperor.
Three is sacred among Brahminical and Christian people, because of theTrinity of the Godhead.
Pythagoras taught that each number had its own peculiar character,virtue, and properties.
"The unit, or the monad," he says, "is the principle and the end ofall; it is this sublime knot which binds together the chain of causes;it is the symbol of identity, of equality, of existence, ofconservation, and of general harmony. Having no parts, the monadrepresents Divinity; it announces also order, peace, and tranquillity,which are founded on unity of sentiments; consequently ONE is a goodprinciple.
"The number TWO, or the dyad, the origin of contrasts, is the symbolof diversity, or inequality, of division and of separation. TWO isaccordingly an evil principle, a number of bad augury, characterizingdisorder, confusion, and change.
"THREE, or the triad, is the first of unequals; it is the numbercontaining the most sublime mysteries, for everything is composed ofthree substances; it represents God, the soul of the world, the spiritof man." This number, which plays so great a part in the traditions ofAsia, and in the Platonic philosophy, is the image of the attributesof God.
"FOUR, or the tetrad, as the first mathematical power, is also one ofthe chief elements; it represents the generating virtue, whence comeall combinations; it is the most perfect of numbers; it is the root ofall things. It is holy by nature, since it constitutes the Divineessence, by recalling His unity, His power, His goodness, and Hiswisdom, the four perfections which especially characterize God.Consequently, Pythagoricians swear by the quaternary number, whichgives the human soul its eternal nature.
"The number FIVE, or the pentad, has a peculiar force in sacredexpiations; it is everything; it stops the power of poisons, and isredoubted by evil spirits.
"The number SIX, or the hexad, is a fortunate number, and it derivesits merit from the first sculptors having divided the face into sixportions; but, according to the Chaldeans, the reason is, because Godcreated the world in six days.
"SEVEN, or the heptad, is a number very powerful for good or for evil.It belongs especially to sacred things.
"The number EIGHT, or the octad, is the first cube, that is to say,squared in all senses, as a die, proceeding from its base two, an evennumber; so is man four-square, or perfect.
"The number NINE, or the ennead, being the multiple of three, shouldbe regarded as sacred.
"Finally, TEN, or the decad, is the measure of all, since it containsall the numeric relations and harmonies. As the reunion of the fourfirst numbers, it plays an eminent part, since all the branches ofscience, all nomenclatures, emanate from, and retire into it."
It is hardly necessary for me here to do more than mention thepeculiar character given to different numbers by Christianity. One isthe numeral indicating the Unity of the Godhead; Two points to thehypostatic union; Three to the Blessed Trinity; Four to theEvangelists; Five to the Sacred Wounds; Six is the number of sin;Seven that of the gifts of the Spirit; Eight, that of the Beatitudes;Ten is the number of the commandments; Eleven speaks of the Apostlesafter the loss of Judas; Twelve, of the complete apostolic college.
I shall now point out certain numbers which have been regarded withsuperstition, and certain events connected with numbers which are ofcurious interest.
The number 14 has often been observed as having singularly influencedthe life of Henry IV. and other French princes. Let us take thehistory of Henry.
On the 14th May, 1029, the first king of France named Henry wasconsecrated, and on the 14th May, 1610, the last Henry wasassassinated.
Fourteen letters enter into the composition of the name of Henri deBourbon, who was the 14th king bearing the titles of France andNavarre.
The 14th December, 1553, that is, 14 centuries, 14 decades, and 14years after the birth of Christ, Henry IV. was born; the ciphers ofthe date 1553, when added together, giving the number 14.
The 14th May, 1554, Henry II. ordered the enlargement of the Rue de laFerronnerie. The circumstance of this order not having been carriedout, occasioned the murder of Henry IV. in that street, four times 14years after.
The 14th May, 1552, was the date of the birth of Marguérite de Valois,first wife of Henry IV.
On the 14th May, 1588, the Parisians revolted against Henry III., atthe instigation of the Duke of Guise.
On the 14th March, 1590, Henry IV. gained the battle of Ivry.
On the 14th May, 1590, Henry was repulsed from the Fauxbourgs ofParis.
On the 14th November, 1590, the Sixteen took oath to die rather thanserve Henry.
On the 14th November, 1592, the Parliament registered the Papal Bullgiving power to the legate to nominate a king to the exclusion ofHenry.
On the 14th December, 1599, the Duke of Savoy was reconciled to HenryIV.
On the 14th September, 1606, the Dauphin, afterwards Louis XIII., wasbaptized.
On the 14th May, 1610, the king was stopped in the Rue de laFerronnerie, by his carriage becoming locked with a cart, on accountof the narrowness of the street. Ravaillac took advantage of theoccasion for stabbing him.
Henry IV. lived four times 14 years, 14 weeks, and four times 14 days;that is to say, 56 years and 5 months.
On the 14th May, 1643, died Louis XIII., son of Henry IV.; not only onthe same day of the same month as his father, but the date, 1643, whenits ciphers are added together, gives the number 14, just as theciphers of the date of the birth of his father gave 14.
Louis XIV. mounted the throne in 1643: 1 + 6 + 4 + 3 = 14.
He died in the year 1715: 1 + 7 + 1 + 5 = 14.
He lived 77 years, and 7 + 7 = 14.
Louis XV. mounted the throne in the same year; he died in 1774, whichalso bears the stamp of 14, the extremes being 14, and the sum of themeans 7 + 7 making 14.
Louis XVI. had reigned 14 years when he convoked the States General,which was to bring about the Revolution.
The number of years between the assassination of Henry IV. and thedethronement of Louis XVI. is divisible by 14.
Louis XVII. died in 1794; the extreme digits of the date are 14, andthe first two give his number.
The restoration of the Bourbons took place in 1814, also marked by theextremes being 14; also by the sum of the ciphers making 14.
The following are other curious calculations made respecting certainFrench kings.
Add the ciphers composing the year of the birth or of the death ofsome of the kings of the third race, and the result of each sum isthe titular number of each prince. Thus:--
Louis IX. was born in 1215; add the four ciphers of this date, and youhave IX.
Charles VII. was born in 1402; the sum of 1 + 4 + 2 gives VII.
Louis XII. was born in 1461; and 1 + 4 + 6 + 1 = XII.
Henry IV. died in 1610; and 1 + 6 + 1 = twice IV.
Louis XIV. was crowned in 1643; and these four ciphers give XIV. Thesame king died in 1715; and this date gives also XIV. He was aged 77years, and again 7 + 7 = 14.
Louis XVIII. was born in 1755; add the digits, and you have XVIII.
What is remarkable is, that this number 18 is double the number of theking to whom the law first applies, and is triple the number of thekings to whom it has applied.
Here is another curious calculation:--
Robespierre fell in 1794;
Napoleon in 1815, and Charles X. in 1830.
Now, the remarkable fact in connection with these dates is, that thesum of the digits composing them, added to the dates, gives the dateof the fall of the successor. Robesp= 21, 1794 + 21 = 1815, the date of the fall of Napoleon; 1 + 8 + 1 +5 = 15, and 1815 + 15 = 1830, the date of the fall of Charles X.
There is a singular rule which has been supposed to determine thelength of the reigning Pope's life, in the earlier half of a century.Add his number to that of his predecessor, to that add ten, and theresult gives the year of his death.
Pius VII. succeeded Pius VI.; 6 + 7 = 13; add 10, and the sum is 23.Pius VII. died in 1823.
Leo XII. succeeded Pius VII.; 12 + 7 + 10 = 29; and Leo XII. died in1829.
Pius VIII. succeeded Leo XII.; 8 + 12 + 10 = 30; and Pius VIII. diedin 1830.
However, this calculation does not always apply.
Gregory XVI. ought to have died in 1834, but he did not actuallyvacate his see till 1846.
It is also well known that an ancient tradition forbids the hope ofany of St. Peter's successors, _pervenire ad annos Petri_; i. e., toreign 25 years.
Those who sat longest are
                           Years.    Months.    Days.    Pius VI., who reigned    24         6        14    Hadrian I.       "       23        10        17    Pius VII.        "       23         5         6    Alexander III.   "       21        11        23    St. Silvester I. "       21         0         4
There is one numerical curiosity of a very remarkable character, whichI must not omit.
The ancient Chamber of Deputies, such as it existed in 1830, wascomposed of 402 members, and was divided into two parties. The one,numbering 221 members, declared itself strongly for the revolution ofJuly; the other party, numbering 181, did not favor a change. Theresult was the constitutional monarchy, which re-established orderafter the three memorable days of July. The parties were known by thefollowing nicknames. The larger was commonly called _La queue deRobespierre_, and the smaller, _Les honnêtes gens_. Now, theremarkable fact is, that if we give to the letters of the alphabettheir numerical values as they stand in their order, as 1 for A, 2 forB, 3 for C, and so on to Z, which is valued at 25, and then writevertically on the left hand the words, _La queue de Robespierre_,with the number equivalent to each letter opposite to it, and on theright hand, in like manner, _Les honnêtes gens_, if each column ofnumbers be summed up, the result is the number of members who formedeach party.
    1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13    A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H   I   J   K   L   M
    14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25     N   O   P   Q   R   S   T   U   V   X   Y   Z
    L--12      L--12    A-- 1      E-- 5               S--19    Q--17    U--21      H-- 8    E-- 5      O--15    U-- 5      N--14    E-- 5      N--14               E-- 5    D-- 4      T--20    E-- 5      E-- 5               S--19    R--18    O--15      G-- 7    B-- 2      E-- 5    E-- 5      N--14    S--19      S--19    P--16      -----    I-- 9        181    E-- 5    R--18    R--18    E-- 5    -----      221
    Majority     221    Minority     181                ----    Total        402
Some coincidences of dates are very remarkable.
On the 25th August, 1569, the Calvinists massacred the Catholic noblesand priests at Béarn and Navarre.
On the same day of the same month, in 1572, the Calvinists weremassacred in Paris and elsewhere.
On the 25th October, 1615, Louis XIII. married Anne of Austria,infanta of Spain, whereupon we may remark the followingcoincidences:--
The name Loys[36] de Bourbon contains 13 letters; so does the nameAnne d'Austriche.
Louis was 13 years old when this marriage was decided on; Anne was thesame age.
He was the thirteenth king of France bearing the name of Louis, andshe was the thirteenth infanta of the name of Anne of Austria.
On the 23d April, 1616, died Shakspeare: on the same day of the samemonth, in the same year, died the great poet Cervantes.
On the 29th May, 1630, King Charles II. was born.
On the 29th May, 1660, he was restored.
On the 29th May, 1672, the fleet was beaten by the Dutch.
On the 29th May, 1679, the rebellion of the Covenanters broke out inScotland.
The Emperor Charles V. was born on February 24, 1500; on that day hewon the battle of Pavia, in 1525, and on the same day was crowned in1530.
On the 29th January, 1697, M. de Broquemar, president of theParliament of Paris, died suddenly in that city; next day his brother,an officer, died suddenly at Bergue, where he was governor. The livesof these brothers present remarkable coincidences. One day theofficer, being engaged in battle, was wounded in his leg by asword-blow. On the same day, at the same moment, the president wasafflicted with acute pain, which attacked him suddenly in the same legas that of his brother which had been injured.
John Aubrey mentions the case of a friend of his who was born on the15th November; his eldest son was born on the 15th November; and hissecond son's first son on the same day of the same month.
At the hour of prime, April 6, 1327, Petrarch first saw his mistressLaura, in the Church of St. Clara in Avignon. In the same city, samemonth, same hour, 1348, she died.
The deputation charged with offering the crown of Greece to PrinceOtho, arrived in Munich on the 13th October, 1832; and it was on the13th October, 1862, that King Otho left Athens, to return to it nomore.
On the 21st April, 1770, Louis XVI. was married at Vienna, by thesending of the ring.
On the 21st June, in the same year, took place the fatal festivitiesof his marriage.
On the 21st January, 1781, was the _fête_ at the Hôtel de Ville, forthe birth of the Dauphin.
On the 21st June, 1791, took place the flight to Varennes.
On the 21st January, 1793, he died on the scaffold.
There is said to be a tradition of Norman-monkish origin, that thenumber 3 is stamped on the Royal line of England, so that there shallnot be more than three princes in succession without a revolution.
William I., William II., Henry I.; then followed the revolution ofStephen.
Henry II., Richard I., John; invasion of Louis, Dauphin of France, whoclaimed the throne.
Henry III., Edward I., Edward II., who was dethroned and put to death.
Edward III., Richard II., who was dethroned.
Henry IV., Henry V., Henry VI.; the crown passed to the house of York.
Edward IV., Edward V., Richard III.; the crown claimed and won byHenry Tudor.
Henry VII., Henry VIII., Edward VI.; usurpation of Lady Jane Grey.
Mary I., Elizabeth; the crown passed to the house of Stuart.
James I., Charles I.; Revolution.
Charles II., James II.; invasion of William of Orange.
William of Orange and Mary II., Anne; arrival of the house ofBrunswick.
George I., George II., George III., George IV., William IV., Victoria.The law has proved faulty in the last case; but certainly there was acrisis in the reign of George IV.
As I am on the subject of the English princes, I will add anothersingular coincidence, though it has nothing to do with the fatality ofnumbers.
It is that Saturday has been a day of ill omen to the later kings.
William of Orange died Saturday, 18th March, 1702.
Anne died Saturday, 1st August, 1704.
George I. died Saturday, 10th June, 1727.
George II. died Saturday, 25th October, 1760.
George III. died Saturday, 30th January, 1820.
George IV. died Saturday, 26th June, 1830.
FOOTNOTE:
[36] Up to Louis XIII. all the kings of this name spelled Louis asLoys.



The Terrestrial Paradise.

The exact position of Eden, and its present condition, do not seem tohave occupied the minds of our Anglo-Saxon ancestors, nor to havegiven rise among them to wild speculations.
The map of the tenth century in the British Museum, accompanying thePeriegesis of Priscian, is far more correct than the generality ofmaps which we find in MSS. at a later period; and Paradise does notoccupy the place of Cochin China, or the isles of Japan, as it didlater, after that the fabulous voyage of St. Brandan had becomepopular in the eleventh century.[37] The site, however, had beenalready indicated by Cosmas, who wrote in the seventh century, and hadbeen specified by him as occupying a continent east of China, beyondthe ocean, and still watered by the four great rivers Pison, Gihon,Hiddekel, and Euphrates, which sprang from subterranean canals. In amap of the ninth century, preserved in the Strasbourg library, theterrestrial Paradise is, however, on the Continent, placed at theextreme east of Asia; in fact, is situated in the Celestial Empire. Itoccupies the same position in a Turin MS., and also in a mapaccompanying a commentary on the Apocalypse in the British Museum.
According to the fictitious letter of Prester John to the EmperorEmanuel Comnenus, Paradise was situated close to--within three days'journey of--his own territories, but where those territories were, isnot distinctly specified.
"The River Indus, which issues out of Paradise," writes the mythicalking, "flows among the plains, through a certain province, and itexpands, embracing the whole province with its various windings: thereare found emeralds, sapphires, carbuncles, topazes, chrysolites, onyx,beryl, sardius, and many other precious stones. There too grows theplant called Asbetos." A wonderful fountain, moreover, breaks out atthe roots of Olympus, a mountain in Prester John's domain, and "fromhour to hour, and day by day, the taste of this fountain varies; andits source is hardly three days' journey from Paradise, from whichAdam was expelled. If any man drinks thrice of this spring, he willfrom that day feel no infirmity, and he will, as long as he lives,appear of the age of thirty." This Olympus is a corruption of Alumbo,which is no other than Columbo in Ceylon, as is abundantly evidentfrom Sir John Mandeville's Travels; though this important fountain hasescaped the observation of Sir Emmerson Tennant.
"Toward the heed of that forest (he writes) is the cytee of Polombe,and above the cytee is a great mountayne, also clept Polombe. And ofthat mount, the Cytee hathe his name. And at the foot of that Mount isa fayr welle and a gret, that hathe odour and savour of all spices;and at every hour of the day, he chaungethe his odour and his savourdyversely. And whoso drynkethe 3 times fasting of that watre of thatwelle, he is hool of alle maner sykenesse, that he hathe. And theithat duellen there and drynken often of that welle, thei nevere hansykenesse, and thei semen alle weys yonge. I have dronken there of 3of 4 sithes; and zit, methinkethe, I fare the better. Some men clepenit the Welle of Youthe: for thei that often drynken thereat, semenalle weys yongly, and lyven withouten sykenesse. And men seyn, thatthat welle comethe out of Paradys: and therefore it is so vertuous."
Gautier de Metz, in his poem on the "Image du Monde," written in thethirteenth century, places the terrestrial Paradise in anunapproachable region of Asia, surrounded by flames, and having anarmed angel to guard the only gate.
Lambertus Floridus, in a MS. of the twelfth century, preserved in theImperial Library in Paris, describes it as "Paradisus insula in oceanoin oriente:" and in the map accompanying it, Paradise is representedas an island, a little south-east of Asia, surrounded by rays, and atsome distance from the main land; and in another MS. of the samelibrary,--a mediæval encyclopædia,--under the word Paradisus is apassage which states that in the centre of Paradise is a fountainwhich waters the garden--that in fact described by Prester John, andthat of which story-telling Sir John Mandeville declared he had"dronken 3 or 4 sithes." Close to this fountain is the Tree of Life.The temperature of the country is equable; neither frosts nor burningheats destroy the vegetation. The four rivers already mentioned risein it. Paradise is, however, inaccessible to the traveller on accountof the wall of fire which surrounds it.
Paludanus relates in his "Thesaurus Novus," of course onincontrovertible authority, that Alexander the Great was full ofdesire to see the terrestrial Paradise, and that he undertook his warsin the East for the express purpose of reaching it, and obtainingadmission into it. He states that on his nearing Eden an old man wascaptured in a ravine by some of Alexander's soldiers, and they wereabout to conduct him to their monarch, when the venerable man said,"Go and announce to Alexander that it is in vain he seeks Paradise;his efforts will be perfectly fruitless; for the way of Paradise isthe way of humility, a way of which he knows nothing. Take this stoneand give it to Alexander, and say to him, 'From this stone learn whatyou must think of yourself.'" Now, this stone was of great value andexcessively heavy, outweighing and excelling in value all other gems;but when reduced to powder, it was as light as a tuft of hay, and asworthless. By which token the mysterious old man meant, that Alexanderalive was the greatest of monarchs, but Alexander dead would be athing of nought.
That strangest of mediæval preachers, Meffreth, who got into troubleby denying the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin, in hissecond sermon for the Third Sunday in Advent, discusses the localityof the terrestrial Paradise, and claims St. Basil and St. Ambrose ashis authorities for stating that it is situated on the top of a verylofty mountain in Eastern Asia; so lofty indeed is the mountain, thatthe waters of the four rivers fall in cascade down to a lake at itsfoot, with such a roar that the natives who live on the shores of thelake are stone-deaf. Meffreth also explains the escape of Paradisefrom submergence at the Deluge, on the same grounds as does the Masterof Sentences (lib. 2, dist. 17, c. 5), by the mountain being so veryhigh that the waters which rose over Ararat were only able to wash thebase of the mountain of Paradise.
The Hereford map of the thirteenth century represents the terrestrialParadise as a circular island near India, cut off from the continentnot only by the sea, but also by a battlemented wall, with a gatewayto the west.
Rupert of Duytz regards it as having been situated in Armenia.Radulphus Highden, in the thirteenth century, relying on the authorityof St. Basil and St. Isidore of Seville, places Eden in aninaccessible region of Oriental Asia; and this was also the opinion ofPhilostorgus. Hugo de St. Victor, in his book "De Situ Terrarum,"expresses himself thus: "Paradise is a spot in the Orient productiveof all kind of woods and pomiferous trees. It contains the Tree ofLife: there is neither cold nor heat there, but perpetual equabletemperature. It contains a fountain which flows forth in four rivers."
Rabanus Maurus, with more discretion, says, "Many folk want to makeout that the site of Paradise is in the east of the earth, though cutoff by the longest intervening space of ocean or earth from allregions which man now inhabits. Consequently, the waters of theDeluge, which covered the highest points of the surface of our orb,were unable to reach it. However, whether it be there, or whether itbe anywhere else, God knows; but that there _was_ such a spot once,and that it was on earth, that is certain."
Jacques de Vitry ("Historia Orientalis"), Gervais of Tilbury, in his"Otia Imperalia," and many others, hold the same views, as to the siteof Paradise, that were entertained by Hugo de St. Victor.
Jourdain de Sèverac, monk and traveller in the beginning of thefourteenth century, places the terrestrial Paradise in the "ThirdIndia;" that is to say, in trans-Gangic India.
Leonardo Dati, a Florentine poet of the fifteenth century, composed ageographical treatise in verse, entitled "Della Sfera;" and it is inAsia that he locates the garden:--
    "Asia e le prima parte dove l'huomo    Sendo innocente stava in Paradiso."
But perhaps the most remarkable account of the terrestrial Paradiseever furnished, is that of the "Eireks Saga Vídförla," an Icelandicnarrative of the fourteenth century, giving the adventures of acertain Norwegian, named Eirek, who had vowed, whilst a heathen, thathe would explore the fabulous Deathless Land of pagan Scandinavianmythology. The romance is possibly a Christian recension of an ancientheathen myth; and Paradise has taken the place in it ofGlœsisvellir.
According to the majority of the MSS. the story purports to be nothingmore than a religious novel; but one audacious copyist has ventured toassert that it is all fact, and that the details are taken down fromthe lips of those who heard them from Eirek himself. The account isbriefly this:--
Eirek was a son of Thrand, king of Drontheim, and having taken uponhim a vow to explore the Deathless Land, he went to Denmark, where hepicked up a friend of the same name as himself. They then went toConstantinople, and called upon the Emperor, who held a longconversation with them, which is duly reported, relative to the truthsof Christianity and the site of the Deathless Land, which, he assuresthem, is nothing more nor less than Paradise.
"The world," said the monarch, who had not forgotten his geographysince he left school, "is precisely 180,000 stages round (about1,000,000 English miles), and it is not propped up on posts--not abit!--it is supported by the power of God; and the distance betweenearth and heaven is 100,045 miles (another MS. reads 9382 miles--thedifference is immaterial); and round about the earth is a big seacalled Ocean." "And what's to the south of the earth?" asked Eirek."O! there is the end of the world, and that is India." "And pray wheream I to find the Deathless Land?" "That lies--Paradise, I suppose, youmean--well, it lies slightly east of India."
Having obtained this information, the two Eireks started, furnishedwith letters from the Greek Emperor.
They traversed Syria, and took ship--probably at Balsora; then,reaching India, they proceeded on their journey on horseback, tillthey came to a dense forest, the gloom of which was so great, throughthe interlacing of the boughs, that even by day the stars could beobserved twinkling, as though they were seen from the bottom of awell.
On emerging from the forest, the two Eireks came upon a strait,separating them from a beautiful land, which was unmistakablyParadise; and the Danish Eirek, intent on displaying his scripturalknowledge, pronounced the strait to be the River Pison. This wascrossed by a stone bridge, guarded by a dragon.
The Danish Eirek, deterred by the prospect of an encounter with thismonster, refused to advance, and even endeavored to persuade hisfriend to give up the attempt to enter Paradise as hopeless, afterthat they had come within sight of the favored land. But the Norsemandeliberately walked, sword in hand, into the maw of the dragon, andnext moment, to his infinite surprise and delight, found himselfliberated from the gloom of the monster's interior, and safely placedin Paradise.
"The land was most beautiful, and the grass as gorgeous as purple; itwas studded with flowers, and was traversed by honey rills. The landwas extensive and level, so that there was not to be seen mountain orhill, and the sun shone cloudless, without night and darkness; thecalm of the air was great, and there was but a feeble murmur of wind,and that which there was, breathed redolent with the odor ofblossoms." After a short walk, Eirek observed what certainly must havebeen a remarkable object, namely, a tower or steeple self-suspended inthe air, without any support whatever, though access might be had toit by means of a slender ladder. By this Eirek ascended into a loft ofthe tower, and found there an excellent cold collation prepared forhim. After having partaken of this he went to sleep, and in visionbeheld and conversed with his guardian angel, who promised to conducthim back to his fatherland, but to come for him again and fetch himaway from it forever at the expiration of the tenth year after hisreturn to Dronheim.
Eirek then retraced his steps to India, unmolested by the dragon,which did not affect any surprise at having to disgorge him, and,indeed, which seems to have been, notwithstanding his looks, but aharmless and passive dragon.
After a tedious journey of seven years, Eirek reached his native land,where he related his adventures, to the confusion of the heathen, andto the delight and edification of the faithful. "And in the tenthyear, and at break of day, as Eirek went to prayer, God's Spiritcaught him away, and he was never seen again in this world: so hereends all we have to say of him."[38]
The saga, of which I have given the merest outline, is certainlystriking, and contains some beautiful passages. It follows thecommonly-received opinion which identified Paradise with Ceylon; and,indeed, an earlier Icelandic work, the "Rymbegla," indicates thelocality of the terrestrial Paradise as being near India, for itspeaks of the Ganges as taking its rise in the mountains of Eden. Itis not unlikely that the curious history of Eirek, if not aChristianized version of a heathen myth, may contain the tradition ofa real expedition to India, by one of the hardy adventurers whooverran Europe, explored the north of Russia, harrowed the shores ofAfrica, and discovered America.
Later than the fifteenth century, we find no theories propoundedconcerning the terrestrial Paradise, though there are many treatiseson the presumed situation of the ancient Eden. At Madrid was publisheda poem on the subject, entitled "Patriana decas," in 1629. In 1662G. C. Kirchmayer, a Wittemberg professor, composed a thoughtfuldissertation, "De Paradiso," which he inserted in his "DeliciæÆstivæ." Fr. Arnoulx wrote a work on Paradise in 1665, full of thegrossest absurdities. In 1666 appeared Carver's "Discourse on theTerrestrian Paradise." Bochart composed a tract on the subject; Huetwrote on it also, and his work passed through seven editions, the lastdated from Amsterdam, 1701. The Père Hardouin composed a "NouveauTraité de la Situation du Paradis Terrestre," La Haye, 1730. AnArmenian work on the rivers of Paradise was translated by M. SaintMarten in 1819; and in 1842 Sir W. Ouseley read a paper on thesituation of Eden, before the Literary Society in London.
FOOTNOTES:
[37] St. Brandan was an Irish monk, living at the close of the sixthcentury; he founded the Monastery of Clonfert, and is commemorated onMay 16. His voyage seems to be founded on that of Sinbad, and is fullof absurdities. It has been republished by M. Jubinal from MSS. in theBibliothèque du Roi, Paris, 8vo. 1836; the earliest printed Englishedition is that of Wynkyn de Worde, London, 1516.
[38] Compare with this the death of Sir Galahad in the "Morted'Arthur" of Sir Thomas Malory.

THE END.



_The Genius of Solitude._
THE SOLITUDES OF NATURE AND OF MAN; OR, THE LONELINESS OF HUMAN LIFE.By WM. ROUNSEVILLE ALGER.
CONTENTS.
    The Solitudes of Nature.
    The Solitudes of Man.
    The Morals of Solitude.
    Sketches of Lonely Characters: or, Personal Illustrations    of the Good and Evil of Solitude.
    Summary of the Subject.
    In one handsome volume. 16mo. Cloth. Price $2.00.
    "This volume is the result of much investigation, much    meditation, and much experience; and is very comprehensive in    its scope.... The author has shown the influence of solitude    on every grade of mind and character, has discriminated its    beneficent form and its morbid action, and has shown how it    nurtures lofty thoughts as well as how it pampers self-will,    and, in the throng of his personal illustrations, has    indicated its effect on representative men of genius in    almost every department of human effort."--_Boston    Transcript._
    "We know of no work like it, and question whether any of its    size has appeared in this generation with an equal amount of    intellectual enrichment and stimulus, moral nutriment, and    invaluable ethical instruction."--_The Liberal Christian._
    "This book is a worthy mate to Burton's famous Anatomy of    Melancholy. The fortunate reader may learn from it how to win    the benefits and shun the evils of being alone."--_N. Y.    Express._
    "We envy the heart of no one who, unmoved, and with tearless    eye, can read them (The Solitude of the RUIN and the Solitude    of DEATH)."--_West. Missionary._
Mailed, post paid, to any address, on receipt of the price, by thePublishers,
    ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston.

_Memoirs and Correspondence of Madame Récamier._
Translated and Edited by MISS LUYSTER. 1 vol., 16mo., with a finelyengraved Portrait. Price $2.00.
    "The diversified contents of this volume can hardly fail to    gain for it a wide perusal. It has the interest, in a greater    or less degree, of history and romance; of truth stranger    than fiction; of personal sketches; of the curious phases of    an exceptional social life; of singular admixtures of piety    and folly, of greatness and profligacy, fidelity and    intrigue, all mingling or revealed in connection with the    prolonged career of one who was, in certain respects, the    most remarkable woman of her time."--_Boston Transcript._
    "With nothing like the talents which immortalized the author    of _Corinne_, Madame Récamier won herself a place of not less    social influence among the men and women of her day. We must    clearly look elsewhere than either to intellect, wealth,    beauty, or all three combined, for the secret of that    witchery which was so distinctive of her. There was    something, we are led to infer, in her constitutional    temperament, which, even beyond her delicate and indefinable    tact, may afford the real clew to much of her mysterious    ascendency. Love seems to have existed in her as a yearning    of the soul almost entirely free from those elements of    passion which are grounded in the difference of the sexes.    There was in it not so much of the desire which centres in a    single object, as of the emotion which seeks to diffuse    itself over the very widest sphere of objects. It could thus    be warm and deep, while pure and inaccessible to evil.    Sainte-Beuve's remark, that she had carried the art of    friendship to perfection, helps us here to give the true key    to her character. A warm and constant friend, she never    admitted, never showed herself, a lover. Satisfied with the    arrangement which gave her from an early age nothing more    than the name and status of a wife, she could let her natural    affection range with freedom and security wherever it met    with a response that left intact her dignity and    self-respect. Such coquetry as she showed arose rather from    an instinctive desire to please and attract, than from    anything approaching to a vicious instinct, or a silly desire    to swell the list of her conquests. What seemed to begin in    flirtation never went to the point of danger, and men who at    first sight loved her passionately usually ended by becoming    her true friends."--_The London Saturday Review._
Mailed, post paid, to any address, by the Publishers,
    ROBERTS BROTHERS, Boston.