CHAPTER I.
THE GRAND MASTER OF THE SECRET SOCIETY.

On the left bank of the Rhine, near the spot where the Selz rivuletsprings forth, the foothill ranges rise of many mountains, of whichthe bristling humps seem to rush northerly like herds of frightenedbuffaloes, disappearing in the haze. These mountains tower over adeserted region, forming a guard around one more lofty than the rest,whose granite brow, crowned with a ruined monastery, defies the skies.It is Thunder Mount.
On the sixth of May, 1770, as the great river wavelets were dyed inthe rainbow hues of the setting sun, a man who had ridden from Maintz,after a journey through Poland, followed the path out of DanenfelsVillage until it ended, and, then, alighting and leading his steed,tied it up in the pine woods.
"Be quiet, my good _Djerid_ (javelin)," said the horseman to the animalwith this Arabian name which bespoke its blood, and its speed; "andgood-bye, if we never meet again."
He cast a glance round him as if he suspected he were overheard.
The barb neighed and pawed with one foot.
"Right, Djerid, the danger is around us."
But as if he had made up his mind not to struggle with it, theventuresome stranger drew the charges from a pair of splendid pistolsand cast the powder and bullets on the sward before replacing them inthe holsters. He wore a steel-hilted sword which he took off with thebelt, and fastened it to the stirrup leather so as to hang from thesaddle-horn point down.
These odd formalities being done, he ungloved, and searching hispockets produced nail-scissors and pocket-knife, which he flung overhis shoulder without looking to see whither they went.
Drawing the longest possible breath, he plunged at random into thethicket, for there was no trace of a path.
He was a man about thirty, taller than the average, but so wonderfullywell built that the utmost strength and skill seemed to circulate inhis supple and nervy limbs. He wore a black velvet overcoat with giltbuttons; the flaps of an embroidered waistcoat showed below its lowestbuttons, and the buckskin riding breeches defined legs worthy to be asculptor's models; the elegant feet were cased in patent leather boots.
His countenance was a notable mixture of power and intelligence,with all the play of Southern races; his glance, able to display anyemotion, seemed to pierce any one on whom it fell with beams thatsounded the very soul. His cheeks had been browned by a sun hotter thanthat of France. His mouth was large but finely shaped, and parted toreveal magnificent teeth, all the whiter from his dark complexion. Hishand was small but muscular; his foot long but fine.
Scarcely had he taken a dozen steps within the glade before he heardfaint footsteps. He rose on tiptoe and perceived that unseen hands hadunhitched Djerid and were leading him away. He frowned slightly, and afaint smile curled his full cheeks and choicely chiseled lips.
He continued into the heart of the forest.
For a space the twilight guided him, but soon that died out, and hestood in gloom so dense that he had to stop lest he blundered blindly.
"I reached Danenfels from Maintz," he said, aloud, "as there was aroad. I reached this forest as there was a path: I am here as there wassome light: but I must stop now as I have no sight."
Scarcely had he spoken, in a dialect part French, part Sicilian, than alight flashed out only fifty paces off.
"Thanks! I will follow the light as long as it leads."
The light at once moved onward, regularly and steadily, like a stagelamp managed by the lime-light operator.
At a hundred paces, a breath in the adventurer's ear made him wince.
"Turn and you die!" came this whisper.
"All right," answered the stranger.
"Speak, and you die!" whispered a voice on the left-hand.
He bowed without speaking.
"But," said a voice seeming to issue from the bowels of the earth, "ifyou are afraid, go back to the plain, by which it will be clear thatyou are daunted, and renounce your errand."
The traveler waved his hand to imply that he was going ahead, and aheadhe went.
But it was so late and the shade so deep that he stumbled during thehour the magic light preceded him, but he did not murmur or show anytremor in fear, while he heard not a breath.
All of a sudden, the light went out!
He had passed through the woodland, for on lifting his eyes, he couldsee a few stars glitter on the darksome sky.
He kept on in the same direction till he saw loom up the somber mass ofthe ruins of a castle--its spectre. At the same time his foot met itsfallen stones.
A clammy thing wound itself round his forehead and sealed his eyes.He could no longer see even the shadows. It was a wet linen cloth.It must have been an expected thing, for he made no resistance tobeing blindfolded. But he put forth his hand silently as a blindedman naturally does to grope. The gesture was understood, for on theinstant a cold, dry, bony hand clutched his fingers. He knew it was askeleton's, but had it possessed feeling, it must have owned that hisown hand no more trembled.
For a hundred yards the seeker was dragged forward rapidly.
All at once the bandage was plucked aloof, and he stopped; he hadreached the top of the Thunder Mount.
Before him rose the moldy, mossy steps of the portico of the old Castleof Donnerberg. On the first slab stood the phantom with the osseoushand which had guided him thither. From head to foot a long shroudenwrapped it; through a slit the dead eyes peered without luster.The fleshless hand pointed into the ruins where the goal seemed tobe a hall too high up to be viewed, but with the collapsed ceilingflickering with a fickle light.
The traveler nodded in consent. Slowly the ghost mounted the steps oneby one, till amid the ruins. The man followed with the same solemn andtranquil pace regulating his walk, and he also entered.
Behind him slammed the principal door as noisily as a ringing bronzegate.
The phantom guide had paused on the threshold of a round hall hung withblack and illumined with greenish hues of three lamps.
"Open your eyes," said the ghastly guide.
"I see," replied the other, stopping ten paces from him.
Drawing a double-edged sword from his shroud with a swift and haughtygesture, the phantom smote with it a brazen column which boomed a notelike a gong.
Immediately, all around, the slabs of the hall floor rose up, andcountless ghosts like the guide, stole in with drawn swords and tookposts on steps where they stood like statues on their pedestals, coldand motionless. They stood out against the sable drapery.
Higher than the steps was a dais for seven chairs; on these six ghoststook place, leaving one seat vacant; they were chiefs.
"What is our number, brothers?" challenged one of the six rising in themiddle.
"Three hundred is the right tally," answered the spectres, with onevoice thundering through the hall and dying amid the black hangings.
"Three hundred," said the presiding chief, "representing each tenthousand associates; three hundred swords worth three millions ofdaggers. What do you want, stranger?" he demanded, turning to theintruder.
"To see the Light," was the rejoinder.
"The paths leading to the Mountain of Fire are hard and toilsome--fearyou not to tread them?"
"I fear nothing."
"You can not turn back once you start. Bear this in mind."
"I mean to stop only at the goal."
"Are you ready to take the oath?"
"Say it and I will repeat."
The president lifted his hand and slowly and solemnly uttered thesewords:
"In the name of the Master Carpenter, swear to break all carnal bondstying you to whomsoever, and above all to those to whom you may havepledged faith, obedience or service."
The new-comer in a firm voice repeated what was pronounced.
"From this out," continued the president, "you are absolved fromplights made to native land and rulers. Swear to reveal to your newleader what you have seen and done, heard or learned, read or guessed,and further to spy and discover all passing under your eyes."
On his ceasing the novice repeated.
"Honor and respect the Water of Death," went on the president without achange of voice, "as a prompt means in skilled hands, sure and needful,to purge the globe by the death or insanity of those who strive tostifle the Truth or snatch it from our hands."
An echo could not more faithfully repeat the vow.
"Avoid Spain, Naples, and all accursed lands; and moreover thetemptation to let out what you learn and hear--for the lightning isless swift to strike than we with our unseen but inevitable blade,wheresoever you may flee. Now, live in the name of the Supernal Three!"
In spite of the final threat, no emotion could be descried on thenovice's face, as he reiterated the words with as calm a tone as heused at the outset.
"Now, deck the applicant with the sacred ribbon," said the president.
Two shrouded figures placed on the bent brow of the stranger a sky-blueribbon with silver letters and female figures; the ends of the badgewere tied behind on the nape. They stepped aside, leaving him aloneagain.
"What do you want?" asked the chief officer.
"Three things: the iron hand to strangle tyranny; the fiery swordto drive the impure from earth; and the diamond scales to weigh thedestinies of mankind."
"Are you prepared for the tests?"
"Who seeks to be accepted, should be ready for everything."
"The tests!" shouted the ghosts.
"Turn round," said the president.
The stranger faced a man, pale as death, bound and gagged.
"Behold a traitor who revealed the secrets of the Order after takingsuch an oath as you did. Thus guilty, what think you he deserves?"
"Death."
"Death!" cried the three hundred sword-bearers.
Instantly the unhappy culprit, despite superhuman resistance, wasdragged to the back of the hall. The initiated one saw him wrestlingand writhing in the torturers' hands and heard his voice hissing pastthe gag. A poniard flashed in the lamplight like lightning, and afterit fell, with a slapping sound of the hilt, the dead body landedheavily on the stone floor.
"Justice has been executed," observed the stranger, turning round tothe terrifying circle, whose greedy eyes had gazed on him out of theirgrave clothes.
"So you approve of the execution?"
"Yes, if the slain were truly guilty."
"And would you drink the downfall of any one who sold the secrets ofthis Ancient Association?"
"In any beverage."
"Bring hither the cup," said the arch-officer.
One of the two executioners drew near with a skull brimming with a warmand ruddy liquid. The stranger took the goblet by its brass stem andsaid, as he held it up: "I drink to the death of all false brothers."Lowering the cup to his lips, he drained it to the last drop, andcalmly returned it to the giver.
A murmur of astonishment ran around the assemblage, as the phantomsglanced at one another.
"So far well. The pistol," said the chief.
A ghost stole up to the speaker holding a pistol in one hand, andpowder and ball in the other, without the novice seeming to deign aglance in that direction.
"Do you promise passive obedience to the brotherhood, even though itwere to recoil on yourself?"
"Whoso enters the household of the Faithful is no longer his ownproperty."
"Hence you will obey any order given you?"
"Straightway."
"Take this firearm and load it."
"What am I to do with it?"
"Cock it."
The stranger set the hammer, and the click of it going on full cock wasplainly heard in the deep stillness.
"Clap the muzzle to your temple," ordered the president, and thesuppliant obeyed without hesitating.
The silence deepened over all; the lamps seemed to fade, and thebystanders had no more breath than ghosts.
"Fire!" exclaimed the president.
The hammer fell and the flint emitted sparks in the pan; but it wasonly the powder there which took fire and no report followed itsephemeral flame.
An outcry of admiration burst from nearly every breast, and thepresident instinctively held out his hand toward the novice.
But two tests were not enough for some doubters who called out: "Thedagger!"
"Since you require it, bring the dagger," said the presiding officer.
"It is useless," interrupted the stranger, shaking his headdisdainfully.
"What do you mean?" asked several voices.
"Useless," repeated the new-comer, in a voice rising above all theothers, "for you are wasting precious time. I know all your secrets,and these childish proofs are unworthy the head of sensible beings.That man was not murdered; the stuff I drank was wine hid in a pouch onhis chest; the bullet and powder I loaded the trick-pistol with fellinto a hollow in the stock when the weapon was cocked. Take back thesham arm, only good to frighten cowards. Rise, you lying corpse; youcannot frighten the strong-minded."
A terrible roar shook the hall.
"To know our mysteries, you must be an initiate or a spy," said thepresident.
"Who are you?" demanded three hundred voices together, as a score ofswords shone in the grip of the nearest and were lowered by the regularmovement of trained soldiers toward the intruder's bosom.
Calm and smiling, he lifted his head, wound round with the sacredfillet, and replied:
"I am the Man for the Time."
Before his lordly gaze the blades lowered unevenly as they on whom itfell obeyed promptly or tried to resist the influence.
"You have made a rash speech," said the president, "but it may havebeen spoken without your knowing its gravity."
"I have replied as I was bound," said the other, shaking his head andsmiling.
"Whence come you, then?" questioned the chief.
"From the quarter whence cometh the Light," was the response.
"That is the East, and we are informed that you come from Sweden."
"I may have passed through there from the Orient," said the stranger.
"Still we know you not. A second time, who are you?"
"I will tell you in a while, since you pretend not to know me; but,meantime, I will tell you who you are."
The spectres shuddered and their swords clanked as they shifted themfrom the left to the right hands again to point them at his breast.
"To begin with you," said the stranger, pointing to the chief, "onewho fancies himself a god and is but a forerunner--the representativeof the Swedish Circles--I will name you, though I need not name theothers. Swedenborg, have not the angels, who speak familiarly with you,revealed that the Man you expect was on the way?"
"True, they told me so," answered the principal, parting his shroud thebetter to look out.
This act, against the rule and habit during the rites, displayed thevenerable countenance and snowy beard of an old man of eighty.
"And on your left," continued the stranger, "sits the representative ofGreat Britain, the chief of the Scottish Rites. I salute your lordship.If the blood of your forefathers runs in your veins, England may hopenot to have the Light die out."
The swords dropped, for anger was yielding to surprise.
"So this is you, captain?" went on the stranger to the last leaderon the president's left; "in what port have you left your handsomecruiser, which you love like a lass. The _Providence_ is a gallantfrigate, and the name brings good luck to America."
"Now for your turn, Prophet of Zurich," he said to the man on the rightof the chief. "Look me in the face, since you have carried the scienceof Physiognomy to divination, and tell me if you do not read my missionin the lines of my face?"
The person addressed recoiled a step.
"As for you, descendant of Pelagius, for a second time the Moors mustbe driven out of Spain. It would be an easy matter if the Castilianshave not lost the sword of the Cid."
Mute and motionless dwelt the fifth chief: the voice seemed to haveturned him to stone.
"Have you nothing to say to me?" inquired the sixth delegate,anticipating the denouncer who seemed to forget him.
"Yea, to you I have to say what the Son of the Great Architect said toJudas, and I will speak it in a while."
So replied the traveler, fastening on him one of those glances whichpierced to the heart.
The hearer became whiter than his shroud, while a murmur ran round thegathering, wishful to call the accused one to account.
"You forget the delegate of France," observed the chief.
"He is not among you--as you well know, for there is his vacant place,"haughtily made answer the stranger. "Bear in mind that such tricks makethem smile who can see in the dark; who act in spite of the elements,and live though Death menaces them."
"You are a young man to speak thus with the authority of a divinity,"resumed the principal. "Reflect, yourself--impudence only stuns theignorant or the irresolute."
"You are all irresolute," retorted the stranger, with a smile ofsupreme scorn, "or you would have acted against me. You are ignorant,since you do not know me, while I know ye all. With boldness aloneI succeed against you, but boldness would be vain against one withirresistible power."
"Inform us with a proof of this power," said the Swedenborg.
"What brings ye together?"
"The Supreme Council."
"Not without intention," went on the visitant, "have you come from allquarters, to gather in the sanctuary of the Terrible Faith."
"Surely not," replied the Swede; "we come to hail the person who hasfounded a mystic empire in the Orient, uniting the two hemispheres in acommonalty of beliefs, and joining the hands of human brotherhood."
"Would you know him by any token?"
"Heaven has been good enough to unveil it by the intermediation of itsangels," answered the visionary.
"If you hold this secret alone and have not revealed it to a soul, tellit aloud, for the time has come."
"On his breast," said the chief of the Illuminati, "he wears a diamondstar, in the core of which shines the three initials of a phrase knownto him alone."
"State those initials."
"L. P. D."
With a rapid stroke the stranger opened his overcoat, coat andwaistcoat and showed on the fine linen front, gleaming like flame, ajeweled plate on which flared the three letters in rubies.
"HE!" ejaculated the Swede: "can this be he?"
"Whom all await?" added the other leaders, anxiously.
"The Hierophant of Memphis--the Grand Copt?" muttered the three hundredvoices.
"Will you deny me now?" demanded the Man from the East, triumphantly.
"No," cried the phantoms, bowing to the ground.
"Speak, Master," said the president and the five chiefs, bowing, "andwe obey."
The visitor seemed to reflect during the silence, some instants long.
"Brothers," he finally said, "you may lay aside your swords uselesslyfatiguing your arms, and lend me an attentive ear, for you will learnmuch in the few words I address you. The source of great rivers isgenerally unknown, like most divine things: I know whither I go, butnot my origin. When I first opened my eyes to consciousness, I wasin the sacred city of Medina, playing about the gardens of the MuftiSuleyman. I loved this venerable old man like a father, but he wasnone of mine, and he addressed me with respect though he held me inaffection. Three times a day he stood aside to let another old mancome to me whose name I ever utter with gratitude mixed with awe. Thisaugust receptacle of all human wisdom, instructed in all things by theSeven Superior Spirits, bore the name of Althotas. He was my tutor andmaster, and venerable friend, for he is twice the age of the oldesthere."
Long shivers of anxiety hailed this speech, spoken in solemnity, withmajestic gesticulation and in a voice severe while smooth.
"One day in my fifteenth year, in the midst of my studies, my oldmaster came to me with a phial in hand. 'Acharat,' he said--it was myname--'I have always told you that nothing is born to die forever inthis world. Man only lacks clearness of mind to be immortal. I havefound the beverage to scatter the clouds, and next will discover thatto dispel death. Yesterday I drank of this distillation: I want you todrink the rest to-day.'
"I had extreme trust in my teacher but my hand trembled in taking thisphial, like Eve's in taking the apple of Life.
"'Drink,' he said, smiling. And I drank.
"'Sleep,' he said, laying his hands on my head. And I slept.
"Then all that was material about me faded away, and the soul thatsolitarily remained lived again, like Pythagoras, for centuries throughwhich it had passed. In the panorama unfolded before it, I beheldmyself in previous existence, and, awaking, comprehended that I wasmore than man."
He spoke with so strong a conviction, and his eyes were fixedheavenward with so sublime an expression that a murmur of admirationhailed him: astonishment had yielded to wonder, as wrath had toastonishment.
"Thereupon," continued the Enlightened One, "I determined to devote myexistence at present, as well as the fruit of all my previous ones,to the welfare of mankind. Next day, as though he divined my plan,Althotas came to me and said:
"'My son, your mother died twenty years ago as she gave birth to you;for twenty years your sire has kept hidden by some invincible obstacle;we will resume our travels and if we meet him, you may embrace him--butnot knowing him.' You see that all was to be mysterious about me, aswith all the Elect of heaven.
"At the end of our journeys, I was a Theosophist. The many cities hadnot roused my wonderment. Nothing was new to me under the sun. I hadbeen in every place formerly in one or more of my several existences.The only thing striking me was the changes in the peoples. Followingthe March of Progress, I saw that all were proceeding toward Freedom.All the prophets had been sent to prop the tottering steps of mankind,which, though blind at birth, staggers step by step toward Light.Each century is an age for the people. Now you understand that I comenot from the Orient to practice simply the Masonic rites, but to say:Brothers, we must give light to the world. France is chosen to be thetorch-bearer. It may consume, but it will be a wholesome conflagration,for it will enlighten the world. That is why France has no delegatehere; he may have shrunk from his duty. We want one who will recoilfrom nothing--and so I shall go into France. It is the most importantpost, the most perilous, and I undertake it."
"Yet you know what goes on there?" questioned the president.
Smiling, the man called Acharat replied: "I ought to know, for I havebeen preparing matters. The king is old, timid, corrupt, but lessantiquated and hopeless of cure than the monarchy he represents. Onlya few years further will he sit on the throne. We must have the futurelaid out from when he dies. France is the keystone of the arch. Letthat stone be wrenched forth by the six millions of hands which willbe raised at a sign from the Inner Circle, and down will fall themonarchical system. On the day when there shall be no longer a king inFrance, the most insolently enthroned ruler in Europe will turn giddy,and spring of his own accord into the gulf left by the disappearance ofthe throne of Saint Louis."
"Forgive the doubt, most venerated Master," interrupted the chiefon the right, with the Swiss accent, "but have you taken all intocalculation?"
"Everything," replied the Grand Copt, laconically.
"In my studies, master, I was convinced of one truth--that thecharacteristics of a man were written on their faces. Now, I fear thatthe French people will love the new rulers of the country you speakof--the sweet, clement king, and the lovely amiable queen. The bride ofthe Prince Royal, Marie Antoinette, is even now crossing the border.The altar and the nuptial bed are being made ready at Versailles. Isthis the moment to begin your reformation?"
"Most illustrious brother," said the supreme chief to the Prophet ofZurich, "if you read the faces of man, I read the features of thefuture. Marie Antoinette is proud and will obstinately continue theconflict, in which she will fall beneath our attacks. The Dauphin,Louis Auguste, is good and mild; he will weaken in the strife andperish like his wife, and with her. But each will fall and perish bythe opposite virtue and fault. They esteem each other now--we will notgive them time to love one another, and in a year they will entertainmutual contempt. Besides, brothers, why should we debate on the pointwhence cometh the light, since it is shown to me? I come from out ofthe East, like the shepherds guided by the star, announcing a new birthof man. To-morrow, I set to work, and with your help I ask but twentyyears to kill not a mere king but a principle. You may think twentyyears long to efface the idea of royalty from the hearts of those whowould sacrifice their children's lives for the little King Louis XV.You believe it an easy matter to make odious the lilyflowers, emblem ofthe Bourbon line, but it would take you ages to do it.
"You are scattered and tremble in your ignorance of one another'saspirations. I am the master-ring which links you all in one grandfraternal tie. I tell you that the principles which now you mutterat the fireside; scribble in the shadows of your old towers; confideto one another under the rose and the dagger for the traitor or theimprudent friend who utters them louder than you dare--these principlesmay be shouted on the housetops in broad day, printed throughoutEurope and disseminated by peaceful messengers, or on the points ofthe bayonets of five hundred soldiers of Liberty, whose colors willhave them inscribed on their folds. You tremble at the name of NewgatePrison; at that of the Inquisition's dungeon; or of the Bastile, whichI go to flout at--hark ye! We shall all laugh pity for ourselves onthat day when we shall trample on the ruins of the jails, while ourwives and children dance for joy. This can come to pass only after thedeath of monarchy as well as of the king, after religious powers arescorned, after social inferiority is completely forgotten, and afterthe extinction of aristocratic castes and the division of noblemen'sproperty. I ask for a generation to destroy an old world and rear anew one, twenty seconds in Eternity, and you think it is too much!"
A long greeting in admiration and assent hailed the somber prophet'sspeech. It was clear that he had won all the sympathy of the mysteriousmandatories of European intellect. Enjoying his victory just a space,the Grand Copt resumed:
"Let us see now, brothers, since I am going to beard the lion in hisden, what you will do for the cause for which you pledged life, libertyand fortune? I come to learn this."
Silence, dreadful from its solemnity, followed these words. Theimmobile phantoms were absorbed in the thoughts which were to overthrowa score of thrones. The six chiefs conferred with the groups andreturned to the president to consult with him before he was the firstto speak.
"I stand for Sweden," he said. "I offer in her name the miners whoraised the Vasas to the throne--now to upset it, together with ahundred thousand silver crown pieces."
Drawing out tablets, the Hierophant wrote this offer. On thepresident's left spoke another:
"I am sent by the lodges of England and Scotland. I can promise nothingfor the former country, which is burning to fight us Scots. But in thename of poor Erin and poor Scotia, I promise three thousand men, andthree thousand crowns yearly."
"I," said the third speaker, whose vigor and rough activity wasbetrayed beneath the winding sheet fettering such a form. "I representAmerica, where every stick and stone, tree and running brook, and dropof blood belong to rebellion. As long as we have gold in our hills,we will send it ye; as long as blood to shed, we will risk it; but wecannot act till we ourselves are out of the yoke. We are so divided asto be broken strands of a cable. Let a mighty hand unite but two of thestrands, and the rest will twist up with them into a hawser to pulldown the crowned evils from their pride of place. Begin with us, mostvenerable master. If you want the French to be delivered from royalty,make us free of British domination."
"Well spoken," said the Hierophant of Memphis. "You Americans shall befree, and France will lend a helping hand. In all languages, the GrandArchitect hath said: 'Help each other!' Wait a while. You will not havelong to bide, my brother."
Turning to the Switzer, he drew these words from him:
"I can promise only my private contribution. The sons of our republichave long supplied troops to the French monarchy. They are faithfulbargainers, and will carry out their contracts. For the first time,most venerated Master, I am ashamed of their loyalty."
"Be it so, we must win without them and in their teeth. Speak, Spain!"
"I am poor," said the grandee, "and have but three thousand brothers tosupply. But each will furnish a thousand _reals_ a year. Spain is anindolent land, where man would doze though a bed of thorns."
"Be it so," said the Grand Master. "Speak, you, brother."
"I speak for Russia and the Polish clubs. Our brothers are discontentedrich men, or serfs doomed to restless labor and untimely death. Inthe name of the latter, owning nothing, not even life, I can promisenothing; but three thousand rich men will pay twenty louis a head everyyear."
The other deputies came forward by turns, and had their offers set downin the Copt's memorandum book as they bound themselves to fulfill theirplight.
"The word of command," said the leader, "already spread in one part ofthe world, is to be dispensed through the others. It is symbolized bythe three letters which you have seen. Let each one wear them in theheart as well as on it, for we, the Sovereign Master of the shrinesof the Orient and the West, we order the ruin of the Lilies. L. P. D.signifies _Lilia Pedibus Destrue_--Trample Lilies Under! I order you ofSpain, Sweden, Scotland, Switzerland and America, to Trample down theLilies of the Bourbon race."
The cheering was like the roar of the sea, under the vault, escaping bygusts down the mountain gorges.
"In the name of the Architect, begone," said the Master. "By stream andstrand and valley, begone by the rising of the sun. You will see meonce more, and that will be on the day of triumph. Go!"
He terminated his address with a masonic sign which was understoodsolely by the six chiefs, who remained after the inferiors haddeparted. Then the Grand Copt took the Swede aside.
"Swedenborg, you are really an inspired man, and heaven thanks you bymy voice. Send the cash into France to the address I shall give you."
The president bowed humbly, and went away amazed by the second sightwhich had unveiled his name.
"Brave Fairfax," said the Master to another, "I hail you as the worthyson of your sire. Remind me to General Washington when next you writeto him."
Fairfax retired on the heels of Swedenborg.
"Paul Jones," went on the Copt to the American deputy, "you have spokento the mark, as I expected of you. You will be one of the heroes of theAmerican Republic. Be both of you ready when the signal is flying."
Quivering as though inspired by a holy breath, the future capturer ofthe _Serapis_ likewise retired.
"Lavater," said the Master to the Swiss, "drop your theories for it ishigh time to take up practice; no longer study what man is, but whathe may become. Go, and woe to your fellow countrymen who take up armsagainst us, for the wrath of the people is swift and devouring even asthat of the God on high!"
Trembling, the physiognomist bowed and went his way.
"List to me, Ximenes," said the Copt to the Spaniard; "you are zealous,but you distrust yourself. You say, Spain dozes. That is because no onerouses her. Go and awake her; Castile is still the land of the Cid."
The last chief was skulking forward when the head of the Masons checkedhim with a wave of the hand.
"Schieffort, of Russia, you are a traitor who will betray our causebefore the month is over; but before the month is out, you will bedead."
The Muscovite envoy fell on his knees; but the other made him rise witha threatening gesture, and the doomed one reeled out of the hall.
Left by himself in the deserted and silent hall, the strange manbuttoned up his overcoat, settled his hat on his head, pushed thespring of the bronze door to make it open, and went forth. He strodedown the mountain defiles as if they had long been known to him, andwithout light or guide in the woods, went to the further edge. Helistened, and hearing a distant neigh, he proceeded thither. Whistlingpeculiarly, he brought his faithful Djerid to his hand. He leapedlightly into the saddle, and the two, darting away headlong, wereenwrapped in the fogs rising between Danenfels and the top of theThunder Mountain.



CHAPTER II.
THE LIVING-WAGON IN THE STORM.

A week after the events depicted, a living-wagon drawn by four horsesand conducted by two postboys, left Pont-a-Mousson, a pretty townbetween Nancy and Metz. Nothing like this caravan, as show peoplestyle the kind, had ever crossed the bridge, though the good folks seetheatrical carts of queer aspect.
The body was large and painted blue, with a baron's insignia,surmounting a J. and a B., artistically interlaced. This box waslighted by two windows, curtained with muslin, but they were in thefront, where a sort of driver's cab hid them from the vulgar eye. Bythese apertures the inmate of the coach could talk with outsiders.Ventilation was given this case by a glazed skylight in the "dickey,"or hind box of the vehicle, where grooms usually sit. Another orificecompleted the oddity of the affair by presenting a stovepipe, whichbelched smoke, to fade away in the wake as the whole rushed on.
In our times one would have simply imagined that it was a steamconveyance and applauded the mechanician who had done away with horses.
The machine was followed by a led horse of Arab extraction, readysaddled, indicating that one of the passengers sometimes gave himselfthe pleasure and change of riding alongside the vehicle.
At St. Mihiel the mountain ascent was reached. Forced to go at a walk,the quarter of a league took half an hour.
Toward evening the weather turned from mild and clear to tempestuous. Acloud spread over the skies with frightful rapidity and intercepted thesetting sunbeams. All of a sudden the cloud was stripped by a lightningflash, and the startled eye could plunge into the immensity of thefirmament, blazing like the infernal regions. The vehicle was on themountain side when a second clap of thunder flung the rain out of thecloud; after falling in large drops, it poured hard.
The postboys pulled up. "Hello!" demanded a man's voice from inside theconveyance, "what are you stopping for?"
"We are asking one another if we ought to go on," answered onepostillion with the deference to a master who had paid handsomely.
"It seems to me that I ought to be asked about that. Go ahead!"
But the rain had already made the road downward slippery.
"Please, sir, the horses won't go," said the elder postillion.
"What have you got spurs for?"
"They might be plunged rowels deep without making the balky creaturesbudge; may heaven exterminate me if----"
The blasphemy was not finished, as a dreadful lightning stroke cut himshort. The coach was started and ran upon the horses, which had torace to save themselves from being crushed. The equipage flew down thesloping road like an arrow, skimming the precipice.
Instead of the traveler's voice coming from the vehicle, it was hishead.
"You clumsy fellows will kill us all!" he said. "Bear to the left,deuce take ye!"
"Oh, Joseph," screamed a woman's voice inside, "help! Holy Madonna,help us!"
It was time to invoke the Queen of Heaven, for the heavy carriage wasskirting the abysm; one wheel seemed to be in the air and a horse wasnearly over when the traveler, springing out on the pole, grasped thepostboy nearest by the collar and slack of the breeches. He raised himout of his boots as if he were a child, flung him a dozen feet clear,and taking his place in the saddle, gathered up the reins, and said ina terrifying voice to the second rider:
"Keep to the left, rascal, or I shall blow out your brains!"
The order had a magical effect. The foremost rider, haunted by theshriek of his luckless comrade, followed the substitute impulse andbore the horses toward the firm land.
"Gallop!" shouted the traveler. "If you falter, I shall run right overyou and your horses."
The chariot seemed an infernal machine drawn by nightmares and pursuedby a whirlwind.
But they had eluded one danger only to fall into another.
As they reached the foot of the declivity, the cloud split with anawful roar in which was blended the flame and the thunder.
A fire enwrapped the leaders, and the wheelers and the leaders werebrought to their haunches as if the ground gave way under them. Butthe fore pair, rising quickly and feeling that the traces had snapped,carried away their man in the darkness. The vehicle, rolling on a fewpaces, stopped on the dead body of the stricken horse.
The whole event had been accompanied by the screams of the woman.
For a moment of confusion, none knew who was living or dead.
The traveler was safe and sound, on feeling himself; but the lady hadswooned. Although he guessed this was the case, it was elsewhere thathe ran to aid--to the rear of the vehicle.
The led horse was rearing with bristling mane, and shaking the door, tothe handle of which his halter was hitched.
"Hang the confounded beast again!" muttered a broken voice within; "acurse on him for shaking the wall of my laboratory." Becoming louder,the same voice added in Arabic: "I bid you keep quiet, devil!"
"Do not wax angry with Djerid, master," said the traveler, untying thesteed and fastening it to the hind wheel; "he is frightened, and forsound reasons."
So saying, he opened a door, let down the steps, and stepped inside thevehicle, closing the door behind him.
He faced a very aged man, with hooked nose, gray eyes, and shaking yetactive hands. Sunken in a huge armchair, he was following the lines ofa manuscript book on vellum, entitled "The Secret Key to the Cabinet ofMagic," while holding a silver skimmer in his other hand.
The three walls--for this old man had called the sides of theliving-wagon "walls"--held bookcases, with shelves of bottles, jars andbrass-bound boxes, set in wooden cases like utensils on shipboard so asto stand up without upsetting. The old man could reach these articlesby rolling the easy chair to them; a crank enabled him to screw up theseat to the level of the highest. The compartment was, in feet, eightby six and six in height. Facing the door was a furnace with hood andbellows. It was now boiling a crucible at a white heat, whence issuedthe smoke by the pipe overhead exciting the mystery of the villagerswherever the wagon went through.
The whole emitted an odor which in a less grotesque laboratory wouldhave been called a perfume.
The occupant seemed to be in bad humor, for he grumbled:
"The cursed animal is frightened: but what has he got to disturb him,I want to know? He has shaken my door, cracked my furnace, and spilt aquarter of my elixir in the fire. Acharat, in heaven's name, drop thebeast in the first desert we cross."
"In the first place, master," returned the other smiling, "we are notcrossing deserts, for we are in France; and next, I would not abandona horse worth a thousand louis, or rather priceless, as he is of thebreed of Al Borach."
"I will give you a thousand over and over again. He has lost me morethan a million, to say nothing of the days he has robbed me of. Theliquor would have boiled up without loss of a drop, in a little longer,which neither Zoroaster nor Paracelsus stated, but it is positivelyadvised by Borri."
"Never mind, it will soon be boiling again."
"But that is not all--something is dropping down my chimney."
"Merely water--it is raining."
"Water? Then my elixir is spoilt. I must renew the work--as if I hadany time to spare!"
"It is pure water from above. It was pouring, as you might havenoticed."
"Do I notice anything when busy? On my poor soul, Acharat, this isexasperating. For six months I have been begging for a cowl to mychimney--I mean this year. You never think of it, though you are youngand have lots of leisure. What will your negligence bring about? Therain to-day or the wind to-morrow confound my calculations and ruinall my operations. Yet I must hurry, by Jove! for my hundredth yearcommences on the fifteenth of July, at eleven at night precisely,and if my elixir of life is not then ready, good-night to the SageAlthotas."
"But you are getting on well with it, my dear master, I think."
"Yes, by my tests by absorption, I have restored vitality to myparalyzed arm. I only want the plant mentioned by Pliny, which we haveperhaps passed a hundred times or crushed under the wheels. By the way,what rumbling is that? Are we still going?"
"No; that is thunder. The lightning has been playing the mischief withus, but I was safe enough, being clothed in silk."
"Lightning? Pooh! wait till I renew my life and can attend to othermatters. I will put a steel bridle on your electric fluid and make itlight this study and cook my meals. I wish I were as sure of making myelixir perfect----"
"And our great work--how comes it on?"
"Making diamonds? That is done. Look there in the glass dish."
Joseph Balsamo greedily caught up the crystal saucer, and saw a smallbrilliant amid some dust.
"Small, and with flaws," he said, disappointed.
"Because the fire was put out, Acharat, from there being no cowl to thechimney."
"You shall have it; but do take some food."
"I took some elixir a couple of hours ago."
"Nay, that was at six this morning, and it is now the afternoon."
"Another day gone, fled and lost," moaned the alchemist, wringinghis hands; "are they not growing shorter? Have they less thanfour-and-twenty hours?"
"If you will not eat, at least take a nap."
"When I sleep, I am afraid I shall never wake. If I lie down for twohours, you will come and call me, Acharat," said the old man in acoaxing voice.
"I swear I will, master."
At this point they heard the gallop of a horse and a scream ofastonishment and disquiet.
"What does that mean?" questioned the traveler, quickly opening thedoor, and leaping out on the road without using the steps.



CHAPTER III.
THE LOVELY LORENZA.

The woman who was in the fore part of the coach, in the cab, remainedfor a time deprived of sense. As fear alone had caused the swoon, shecame to consciousness.
"Heavens!" she cried, "am I abandoned helpless here, with no humanbeing to take pity upon me?"
"Lady," said a timid voice at hand, "I am here, and I may be some helpto you."
Passing her head and both arms out of the cab by the leather curtains,the young woman, rising, faced a youth who stood on the steps.
"Is it you offered me help? What has happened?"
"The thunderbolt nearly struck you, and the traces were broken of theleading pair, which have run off with the postboy."
"What has become of the person who was riding the other pair?" sheasked, with an anxious look round.
"He got off the horses as if all right and went inside the other partof this coach."
"Heaven be praised," said she, breathing more freely. "But who are youto offer me assistance so timely?"
"Surprised by the storm, I was in that dark hole which is a quarryoutlet, when I suddenly saw a large wagon coming down at a gallop. Ithought it a runaway, but soon saw it was guided by a mighty hand, butthe lightning fell with such an uproar that I feared I was struck andwas stunned. All seemed to have happened in a dream."
The lady nodded as if this satisfied her, but rested her head on herhand in deep thought. He had time to examine her. She was in hertwenty-third year, and of dark complexion, but richly colored with theloveliest pink. Her blue eyes sparkled like stars as she appealed toheaven, and her hair fell in curls of jet, unpowdered contrary to thefashion, on her opal neck.
"Where are we?" she suddenly inquired.
"On the Strasburg to Paris highway, near Pierrefittes, a village.Bar-le-Duc is the next town, with some five thousand population."
"Is there a short cut to it?"
"None I ever heard of."
"What a pity!" she said in Italian.
As she kept silent toward him, the youth was going away, when this drewher from her reverie, for she called him for another question.
"Is there a horse still attached to the coach?"
"The gentleman who entered, tied it to the wheel."
"It is a valuable animal, and I should like to be sure it is unhurt;but how can I go through this mud?"
"I can bring it here," proposed the stripling.
"Do so, I prithee, and I shall be most grateful to you."
But the barb reared and neighed when he went up.
"Do not be afraid," said the lady: "it is gentle as a lamb. Djerid,"she called in a low voice.
The steed recognized the mistress's voice, for it extended itsintelligent head toward the speaker, while the youth unfastened it. Butit was scarcely loose before it jerked the reins away and bounded up tothe vehicle. The woman came forth, and almost as quickly leaped on thesaddle, with the dexterity of those sylphs in German ballads who clingto riders while seated on the crupper. The youth sprang toward her butshe stopped him with an imperative wave of the hand.
"List to me. Though but a boy, or because you are young, you havehumane feelings. Do not oppose my flight. I am fleeing from a man Ilove, but I am above all a good Catholic. This man would destroy mysoul were I to stay by him, as he is a magician whom God sent a warningto by the lighting. May he profit by it! Tell him this, and bless youfor the help given me. Farewell!"
Light as the marsh mist, she was carried away by the gallop of Djerid.On seeing this, the youth could not restrain a cry of surprise, whichwas the one heard inside the coach.



CHAPTER IV.
GILBERT.

The alarmed traveler closed the coach door behind him carefully, andlooked wistfully round. First he saw the young man, frightened. A flashof lighting enabled him to examine him from head to foot, an operationhabitual to him on seeing any new person or thing. This was a springaldof sixteen, small, thin and agile; his bold black eyes lacked sweetnessbut not charm: shrewdness and observation were revealed in his thin,hooked nose, fine lip and projecting cheek bones, while the roundedchin stuck out in token of resolution.
"Was that you screamed just now,--what for?" queried the gentleman.
"The lady from the cab there rode off on the led horse."
The traveler did not make any remark at this hesitating reply; not aword; he rushed to the fore part and saw by the lightning that it wasempty.
"Sblood!" he roared in Italian, almost like the thunder pealaccompanying the oath.
He looked round for means of pursuit, but one of the coach-horses inchase of Djerid would be a tortoise after a gazelle.
"Still I can find out where she is," he muttered, "unless----"
Quickly and anxiously he drew a small book from his vest pocket, and ina folded paper found a tress of raven hair.
His features became serene, and apparently he was calmed.
"All is well," he said, wiping his streaming face. "Did she say nothingwhen she started?"
"Yes, that she quitted you not through hate but fear, as she is aChristian, while you--you are an atheist, and miscreant, to whom Godsought to give a final warning by this storm."
"If that is all, let us drop the subject."
The last traces of disquiet and discontent fled the man's brow. Theyouth noticed all this with curiosity mingled with keen observation.
"What is your name, my young friend?" inquired the traveler.
"Gilbert."
"Your Christian name, but----"
"It is my whole name."
"My dear Gilbert, Providence placed you on my road to save me frombother. I know your youth compels you to be obliging: but I am notgoing to ask anything hard of you--only a night's lodging."
"This rock was my shelter."
"I should like a dwelling better where I could get a good meal andbed."
"We are a league and a half from Pierrefitte, the next village."
"With only two horses that would take two hours. Just think if there isno refuge nearer."
"Taverney Castle is at hand, but it is not an inn."
"Not lived in?"
"Baron Taverney lives there----"
"What is he?"
"Father of Mademoiselle Andrea de Taverney----"
"Delighted to hear it," smilingly said the other: "but I want to knowthe kind of man he is."
"An old nobleman who used to be wealthy."
"An old story. My friend, please take me to Baron Taverney's."
"He does not receive company," said the youth, in apprehension.
"Not welcome a stray gentleman? He must be a bear."
"Much like it. I do not advise your risking it."
"Pooh! The bear will not eat me up alive."
"But he may keep the door closed."
"I will break it in; and unless you refuse to be my guide----"
"I do not; I will show the way."
The traveler took off the carriage lamp, which Gilbert held curiouslyin his hands.
"It has no light," he said.
"I have fire in my pocket."
"Pretty hard to get fire from flint and steel this weather," observedthe youth.
But the other drew a silver case from his pocket, and opening the lidplunged a match into it; a flame sprang up and he drew out the matchaflame. This was so sudden and unexpected by the youth, who only knewof tinder and the spark, and not of phosphorus, the toy of scienceat this period, that he started. He watched the magician restore thecase to his pocket with greed. He would have given much to have theinstrument.
He went on before with the lighted lamp, while his companion forced thehorses to come by his hand on the bridle.
"You appear to know all about this Baron of Taverney, my lad!" he beganthe dialogue.
"I have lived on his estate since a child."
"Oh, your kinsman, tutor, master?"
At this word the youth's cheek colored up, though usually pale, and hequivered.
"I am no man's servant, sir," he retorted. "I am son of one who was afarmer for the baron, and my mother nursed Mademoiselle Andrea."
"I understand; you belong to the household as foster-brother of theyoung lady--I suppose she is young?"
"She is sixteen."
He had answered only one of the two questions, and not the one personalto him.
"How did you chance to be on the road in such weather?" inquired theother, making the same reflection as our own.
"I was not on the road, but in the cave, reading a book called 'TheSocial Contract,' by one Rousseau."
"Oh, found the book in the lord's library?" asked the gentleman withsome astonishment.
"No, I bought it of a peddler who, like others of his trade, has beenhawking good books hereabouts."
"Who told you 'The Contract' was a good book?"
"I found that out by reading it, in comparison with some infamous onesin the baron's library."
"The baron gets indecent books, always costly, in this hole?"
"He does not spend money on them as they are sent him from Paris by hisfriend the Marshal Duke of Richelieu."
"Oh! of course he does not let his daughter see such stuff?"
"He leaves them about, but Mademoiselle Andrea does not read them,"rejoined the youth, drily.
The mocking traveler was briefly silent. He was interested in thissingular character, in whom was blended good and evil, shame andboldness.
"How came you to read bad books?"
"I did not know what they were until read; but I kept on as theytaught me what I was unaware of. But 'The Contract' told me what I hadguessed, that all men are brothers, society badly arranged, and thatinstead of being serfs and slaves, individuals are equal."
"Whew!" whistled the gentleman, as they went on. "You seem to be hungryto learn?"
"Yes, it is my greatest wish to know everything, so as to rise----"
"To what station?"
Gilbert paused, for having a goal in his mind, he wanted to keep ithidden.
"As far as man may go," he answered.
"So you have studied?"
"How study when I was not rich and was cooped up in Taverney? I canread and write; but I shall learn the rest somehow one of these days."
"An odd boy," thought the stranger.
During the quarter of an hour they had trudged on, the rain had ceased,and the earth sent up the sharp tang replacing the sulphurous breath ofthe thunderstorms.
"Do you know what storms are?" questioned Gilbert, after deep musing.
"Thunder and lightning are the result of a shock between theelectricity in the air and in the earth," he said, smiling.
"I do not follow you," sighed Gilbert.
The traveler might have supplied a more lucid explanation but a lightglimmered through the trees.
"That is the carriage-gateway of Taverney," said the guide.
"Open it."
"Taverney gate does not open so easily as that."
"Is it a fort? Knock, and louder than that!"
Thus emboldened, the boy dropped the knocker and hung on to the bell,which clanged so lustily that it might be heard afar.
"That is Mahon barking," said the youth.
"Mahon? He names his watchdog after a victory of his friend my LordRichelieu, I see," remarked the traveler.
"I did not know that. You see how ignorant I am," sighed Gilbert.
These sighs summed up the disappointments and repressed ambition of theyouth.
"That is the goodman Labrie coming," said the latter at the sound offootsteps within.
The door opened, but at the sight of the stranger the old servantwanted to slam it.
"Excuse me, friend," interposed the traveler; "don't shut the door inmy face. I will risk my travel-stained garb, and I warrant you that Ishall not be expelled before I have warmed myself and had a meal. _I_hear you keep good wine, eh? You ought to know that?"
Labrie tried still to resist, but the other was determined and ledthe horses right in with the coach, while Gilbert closed the gates ina trice. Vanquished, the servant ran to announce his own defeat. Herushed toward the house, shouting:
"Nicole Legay!"
"Nicole is Mademoiselle Andrea's maid," explained the boy, as thegentleman advanced with his usual tranquility.
A light appeared among the shrubbery, showing a pretty girl.
"What is all this riot; what's wanted of me?" she challenged.
"Quick, my lass," faltered the old domestic, "announce to master thata stranger, overtaken by the storm, seeks hospitality for the night."
Nicole darted so swiftly toward the building as to be lost instantly tosight. Labrie took breath, as he might be sure that his lord would notbe taken by surprise.
"Announce Baron Joseph Balsamo," said the traveler; "the similarity inrank will disarm your lord."
At the first step of the portal he looked round for Gilbert, but he haddisappeared.



CHAPTER V.
TAVERNEY AND HIS DAUGHTER.

Though forewarned by Gilbert of Baron Taverney's poverty, Baron Balsamowas not the less astonished by the meanness of the dwelling which theyouth had dubbed the Castle. On the paltry threshold stood the masterin a dressing gown and holding a candle.
Taverney was a little, old gentleman of five-and-sixty, with brighteye and high but retreating forehead. His wretched wig had lost byburning at the candles what the rats had spared of its curls. In hishands was held a dubiously white napkin, which proved that he had beendisturbed at table. His spiteful face had a likeness to Voltaire's,and was divided between politeness to the guest and distaste to beingdisturbed. In the flickering light he looked ugly.
"Who was it pointed out my house as a shelter?" queried the baron,holding up the light to spy the pilot to whom he was eager to show hisgratitude, of course.
"The youth bore the name of Gilbert, I believe."
"Ugh! I might have guessed that. I doubted, though, he was good enoughfor that. Gilbert, the idler, the philosopher!"
This flow of epithets, emphasized threateningly, showed the visitorthat little sympathy existed between the lord and his vassal.
"Be pleased to come in," said the baron, after a short silence moreexpressive than his speech.
"Allow me to see to my coach, which contains valuable property,"returned the foreign nobleman.
"Labrie," said Lord Taverney, "put my lord's carriage under the shed,where it will be less uncovered than in the open yard, for someshingles stick to the roof. As for the horses, that is different, for Icannot answer for their supper; still, as they are not yours, but thepost's, I daresay it makes no odds."
"Believe me, I shall be ever grateful to your lordship----"
"Oh, do not deceive yourself," said the baron, holding up the candleagain to light Labrie executing the work with the aid of the foreignnoble; "Taverney is a poor place and a sad one."
When the vehicle was under cover, after a fashion, the guest slipped agold coin into the servant's hand. He thought it a silver piece, andthanked heaven for the boon.
"Lord forbid I should think the ill of your house that you speak," saidBalsamo, returning and bowing as the baron began leading him through abroad, damp antechamber, grumbling:
"Nay, nay, I know what I am talking about; my means are limited. Wereyou French--though your accent is German, in spite of your Italiantitle--but never mind--you would be reminded of the rich Taverney."
"Philosophy," muttered Balsamo, for he had expected the speaker wouldsigh.
The master opened the dining-room door.
"Labrie, serve us as if you were a hundred men in one. I have no otherlackey, and he is bad. But I cannot afford another. This dolt has livedwith me nigh twenty years without taking a penny of wages, and he isworth it. You will see he is stupid."
"Heartless," Balsamo continued his studies; "unless he is putting iton."
The dining-room was the large main room of a farmhouse which had beenconverted into the manor. It was so plainly furnished as to seem empty.A small, round table was placed in the midst, on which reeked one dish,a stew of game and cabbage. The wine was in a stone jar; the battered,worn and tarnished plate was composed of three plates, a goblet and asalt dish; the last, of great weight and exquisite work, seemed a jewelof price amid the rubbish.
"Ah, you let your gaze linger on my salt dish?" said the host. "Youhave good taste to admire it. You notice the sole object presentablehere. No, I have another gem, my daughter----"
"Mademoiselle Andrea?"
"Yes," said Taverney, astonished at the name being known; "I shallpresent you. Come, Andrea, my child, and don't be alarmed."
"I am not, father," said a sonorous but melodious voice as a maidenappeared, who seemed a lovely pagan statue animated.
Though of the utmost plainness, her dress was so tasteful and suitablethat a complete outfit from a royal wardrobe would have appeared lessrich and elegant.
"You are right," he whispered to his host, "she is a precious beauty."
"Do not pay my poor girl too many compliments," said the old Frenchmancarelessly, "for she comes from the nunnery school and may creditthem. Not that I fear that she will be a coquette," he continued; "justthe other way, for the dear girl does not think enough of herself,and I am a good father, who tries to make her know that coquetry is awoman's first power."
Andrea cast down her eyes and blushed; whatever her endeavor she couldnot but overhear this singular theory.
"Was that told to the lady at convent, and is that a rule in religiouseducation?" queried the foreigner, laughing.
"My lord, I have my own ideas, as you may have noticed. I donot imitate those fathers who bid a daughter play the prudeand be inflexible and obtuse; go mad about honor, delicacy anddisinterestedness. Fools! they are like seconds who lead their championinto the lists with all the armor removed and pit him against a manarmed at all points. No, my daughter Andrea will not be that sort,though reared in a rural den at Taverney."
Though agreeing with the master about his place, the baron deemed itduty to suggest a polite reproof.
"That is all very well, but I know Taverney; still, be that as itmay, and far though we are from the sunshine of Versailles Palace,my daughter is going to enter the society where I once flourished.She will enter with a complete arsenal of weapons forged in myexperience and recollections. But I fear, my lord, that the conventhas blunted them. Just my luck! my daughter is the only pupil who tookthe instructions as in earnest and is following the Gospel. Am I notill-fated?"
"The young lady is an angel," returned Balsamo, "and really I am notsurprised at what I hear."
Andrea nodded her thanks, and they sat down at table.
"Eat away, if hungry. That is a beastly mess which Labrie has hashedup."
"Call you partridges so? You slander your feast. Game-birds in May?Shot on your preserves?"
"Mine? My good father left me some, but I got rid of them long ago. Ihave not a yard of land. That lazybones Gilbert, only good for mooningabout, stole a gun somewhere and done a bit of poaching. He will go tojail for it, and a good riddance. But Andrea likes game, and so far, Iforgive the boy."
Balsamo contemplated the lovely face without perceiving a twinge,wrinkle or color, as she helped them to the dish, cooked by Labrie,furnished by Gilbert, and maligned by the baron.
"Are you admiring the salt dish again, baron?"
"No, the arm of your daughter."
"Capital! the reply is worthy the gallant Richelieu. That piece ofplate was ordered of Goldsmith Lucas by the Regent of Orleans.Subject: the Amours of the Bacchantes and Satyrs--rather free."
More than free, obscene--but Balsamo admired the calm unconcern ofAndrea, not blenching as she presented the plate.
"Do eat," said the host; "do not fancy that another dish is coming, foryou will be dreadfully disappointed."
"Excuse me, father," interrupted the girl with habitual coolness, "butif Nicole has understood me, she will have made a cake of which I toldher the recipe."
"You gave Nicole the recipe of a cake? Your waiting maid does thecooking now, eh? The next thing will be your doing it yourself. Doyou find duchesses and countesses playing the kitchen-wench? On thecontrary, the king makes omelets for them. Gracious! that I have livedto see women-cooks under my roof. Pray excuse my daughter, baron."
"We must eat, father," rebuked Andrea tranquilly. "Dish up, Legay!" shecalled out, and the girl brought in a pancake of appetizing smell.
"I know one who won't touch the stuff," cried Taverney, furiouslydashing his plate to pieces.
"But the gentleman, perhaps, will," said the lady coldly. "By the way,father, that leaves only seventeen pieces in that set, which comes tome from my mother."
The guest's spirit of observation found plenty of food in thiscorner of life in the country. The salt dish alone revealed a facetof Taverney's character or rather all its sides. From curiosity orotherwise, he stared at Andrea with such perseverance that she tried tofrown him down; but finally she gave way and yielded to his mesmericinfluence and command.
Meanwhile the baron was storming, grumbling, snarling and nipping thearm of Labrie, who happened to get into his way. He would have done thesame to Nicole's when the baron's gaze fell on her hands.
"Just look at what pretty fingers this lass has," he exclaimed. "Theywould be supremely pretty only for her kitchen work having made cornsat the tips. That is right; perk up, my girl! I can tell you, mydear guest, that Nicole Legay is not a prude like her mistress andcompliments do not frighten her."
Watching the baron's daughter, Balsamo noticed the highest disdainon her beauteous face. He harmonized his features with hers andthis pleased her, spite of herself, for she looked at him with lessharshness, or, better, with less disquiet.
"This girl, only think," continued the poor noble, chucking the girl'schin with the back of his hand, "was at the nunnery with my daughterand picked up as much schooling. She does not leave her mistress amoment. This devotion would rejoice the philosophers, who grant soulsto her class."
"Father, Nicole stays with me because I order her to do so," observedAndrea, discontented.
By the curl of the servant's lip, Balsamo saw that she was notinsensible to the humiliations from her proud superior. But theexpression flitted; and to hide a tear, perhaps, the girl looked asideto a window on the yard. Everything interested the visitor, and heperceived a man's face at the panes.
Each in this curious abode had a secret, he thought; "I hope not to bean hour here without learning Andrea's. Already I know her father's,and I guess Nicole's."
Taverney perceived his short absence of mind.
"What! are you dreaming?" he questioned. "We are all at it, here; butyou might have waited for bedtime. Reverie is a catching complaint. Mydaughter broods; Nicole is wool-gathering; and I get puzzling aboutthat dawdler who killed these birds--and dreams when he kills them.Gilbert is a philosopher, like Labrie. I hope you are not friendly withthem? I forewarn you that philosophers do not go down with me."
"They are neither friends nor foes to me," replied the visitor; "I donot have anything to do with them."
"Very good. Zounds, they are scoundrelly vermin, more venomous thanugly. They will ruin the monarchy with their maxims, like 'People canhardly be virtuous under a monarchy;' or, 'Genuine monarchy is aninstitution devised to corrupt popular manners, and make slaves;' oryet, 'Royal authority may come by the grace of God, but so do plaguesand miseries of mankind.' Pretty flummery, all this! What good woulda virtuous people be, I beg? Things are going to the bad, since hisMajesty spoke to Voltaire and read Diderot's book."
At this Balsamo fancied again to spy the pale face at the window, butit vanished as soon as he fixed his eyes upon it.
"Is your daughter a philosopher?" he asked, smiling.
"I do not know what philosophy is; I only know that I like seriousmatters," was Andrea's reply.
"The most serious thing is to live; stick to that," said her father.
"But the young lady cannot hate life," said the stranger.
"All depends," she said.
"Another stupid saying," interrupted Taverney. "That is just thenonsense my son talks. I have the misfortune to have a son. TheViscount of Taverney is cornet in the dauphin's horse-guards--a niceboy; another philosopher! The other day he talked to me about doingaway with negro slavery. 'What are we to do for sugar?' I retorted,for I like my coffee heavily sweetened, as does Louis XV. 'We mustdo without sugar to benefit a suffering race.' 'Suffering monkeys!'I returned, 'and that is paying them a compliment.' Whereupon heasserted that all men were brothers! Madness must be in the air. I,brother of a blackamoor!"
"This is going too far," observed Balsamo.
"Of course. I told you I was in luck. My children are--one an angel,the other an apostle. Drink, though my wine is detestable."
"I think it exquisite," said the guest, watching Andrea.
"Then you are a philosopher! In my time we learnt pleasant things; weplayed cards, fought duels, though against the law; and wasted ourtime on duchesses and money on opera dancers. That is my story in anutshell. Taverney went wholly into the opera-house; which is all Isorrow for, since a poor noble is nothing of a man. I look aged, doI not? Only because I am impoverished and dwell in a kennel, with atattered wig, and gothic coat; but my friend the marshal duke, withhis house in town and two hundred thousand a year--he is young, inhis new clothes and brushed up perukes--he is still alert, brisk andpleasure-seeking, though ten years my senior, my dear sir, ten years."
"I am astonished that, with powerful friends like the Duke ofRichelieu, you quitted the court."
"Only a temporary retreat, and I am going back one day," said the lord,darting a strange glance on his daughter, which the visitor intercepted.
"But, I suppose, the duke befriends your son?"
"He holds the son of his friend in horror, for he is a philosopher, andhe execrates them."
"The feeling is reciprocal," observed Andrea with perfect calm. "Clearaway, Legay!"
Startled from her vigilant watch on the window, the maid ran back tothe table.
"We used to stay at the board to two A. M. We had luxuries for supper,then, that's why! and we drank when we could eat no more. But how canone drink vinegar when there is nothing to eat? Legay, let us have theMaraschino, provided there is any."
"Liqueurs," said Andrea to the maid, who took her orders from the baronthus second-hand.
Her master sank back in his armchair and sighed with grotesquemelancholy while keeping his eyes closed.
"Albeit the duke may execrate your son--quite right, too, as he is aphilosopher," said Balsamo, "he ought to preserve his liking for you,who are nothing of the kind. I presume you have claims on the king,whom you must have served?"
"Fifteen years in the army. I was the marshal's aid-de-camp, andwe went through the Mahon campaign together. Our friendship datesfrom--let me see! the famous siege of Philipsburg, 1742 to 1743."
"Yes, I was there, and remember you----"
"You remember me at the siege? Why, what is your age?"
"Oh, I am no particular age," replied the guest, holding up his glassto be filled by Andrea's fair hand.
The host interpreted that his guest did not care to tell his years.
"My lord, allow me to say that you do not seem to have been a soldier,then, as it is twenty-eight years ago, and you are hardly over thirty."
Andrea regarded the stranger with the steadfastness of deep curiosity;he came out in a different light every instant.
"I know what I am talking about the famous siege, where the Dukeof Richelieu killed in a duel his cousin the Prince of Lixen. Theencounter came off on the highway, by my fay! on our return from theoutposts; on the embankment, to the left, he ran him through the body.I came up as Prince Deux-ponts held the dying man in his arms. He wasseated on the ditch bank, while Richelieu tranquilly wiped his steel."
"On my honor, my lord, you astound me. Things passed as you describe."
"Stay, you wore a captain's uniform then, in the Queen's Light HorseGuards, so badly cut up at Fontenoy?"
"Were you in that battle, too?" jeered the baron.
"No, I was dead at that time," replied the stranger, calmly.
The baron stared, Andrea shuddered, and Nicole made the sign of thecross.
"To resume the subject, I recall you clearly now, as you held yourhorse and the duke's while he fought. I went up to you for an accountand you gave it. They called you the Little Chevalier. Excuse me notremembering before, but thirty years change a man. To the health ofMarshal Richelieu, my dear baron!"
"But, according to this, you would be upward of fifty."
"I am of the age to have witnessed that affair."
The baron dropped back in the chair so vexed that Nicole could nothelp laughing. But Andrea, instead of laughing, mused with her lookson the mysterious guest. He seemed to await this chance to dart two orthree flaming glances at her, which thrilled her like an electricaldischarge. Her arms stiffened, her neck bent, she smiled against herwill on the hypnotizer, and closed her eyes. He managed to touch herarm, and again she quivered.
"Do you think I tell a fib in asserting I was at Philipsburg?" hedemanded.
"No, I believe you," she replied with a great effort.
"I am in my dotage," muttered Taverney, "unless we have a ghost here."
"Who can tell?" returned Balsamo, with so grave an accent that hesubjugated the lady and made Nicole stare.
"But if you were living at the Siege, you were a child of four or five."
"I was over forty."
The baron laughed and Nicole echoed him.
"You do not believe me. It is plain, though, for I was not the man Iam."
"This is a bit of antiquity," said the French noble. "Was there not aGreek philosopher--these vile philosophers seem to be of all ages--whowould not eat beans because they contained souls, like the negress,according to my son? What the deuse was his name?"
"That is the gentleman."
"Why may I not be Pythagoras?"
"Pythagoras," prompted Andrea.
"I do not deny that, but he was not at Philipsburg; or, at any rate, Idid not see him there."
"But you saw Viscount Jean Barreaux, one of the Black Horse Musketeers?"
"Rather; the musketeers and the light cavalry took turns in guardingthe trenches."
"The day after the Richelieu duel, Barreaux and you were in thetrenches when he asked you for a pinch of snuff, which you offered ina gold box, ornamented with the portrait of a belle, but in the acta cannon ball hit him in the throat, as happened the Duke of Berwickaforetimes, and carried away his head."
"Gad! just so! poor Barreaux!"
"This proves that we were acquainted there, for I am Barreaux," saidthe foreigner.
The host shrank back in fright or stupefaction.
"This is magic," he gasped; "you would have been burnt at the stake ahundred years ago, my dear guest. I seem to smell brimstone!"
"My dear baron, note that a true magician is never burnt or hanged.Only fools are led to the gibbet or pyre. But here is your daughtersent to sleep by our discussions on metaphysics and occult sciences,not calculated to interest a lady."
Indeed, Andrea nodded under irresistible force like a lily on thestalk. At these words she made an effort to repel the subtle fluidwhich overwhelmed her; she shook her head energetically, rose andtottered out of the room, sustained by Nicole. At the same timedisappeared the face glued so often to the window glass on the outside,which Balsamo had recognized as Gilbert's.
"_Eureka!_" exclaimed Balsamo triumphantly, as she vanished. "I can sayit like Archimedes."
"Who is he?" inquired the baron.
"A very good fellow for a wizard, whom I knew over two thousand yearsago," replied the guest.
Whether the baron thought this boast rather too preposterous, or he didnot hear it, or hearing it, wanted the more to be rid of his odd guest,he proposed lending him a horse to get to the nearest posting house.
"What, force me to ride when I am dying to stretch my legs in bed? Donot exaggerate your mediocrity so as to make me believe in a personalill will."
"On the contrary, I treat you as a friend, knowing what you will incurhere. But since you put it this way, remain. Labrie, is the Red-Roomhabitable?"
"Certainly, my lord, as it is Master Philip's when he is here."
"Give it to the gentleman, since he is bent on being disgusted withTaverney."
"I want to be here to-morrow to testify to my gratitude."
"You can do that easily, as you are so friendly with Old Nick that youcan ask him for the stone which turns all things to gold."
"If that is what you want, apply to me direct."
"Labrie, you old rogue, get a candle and light the gentleman to bed,"said the baron, beginning to find such a dialogue dangerous at the latehour.
Labrie ordered Nicole to air the Red Room while he hastened to obey.Nicole left Andrea alone, the latter eager for the solitude to nurseher thoughts. Taverney bade the guest good-night, and went to bed.
Balsamo took out his watch, for he recalled his promise to awakeAlthotas after two hours, and it was a half-hour more. He asked theservant if his coach was still out in the yard, and Labrie answeredin the affirmative--unless it had run off of its own volition. As forGilbert, he had been abed most likely since an hour.
Balsamo went to Althotas after studying the way to the Red Room. Labriewas tidying up the sordid apartment, after Nicole had aired it, whenthe guest returned.
He had paused at Andrea's room to listen at her door to her playing onthe harpsichord to dispel the burden of the influence the stranger hadimposed upon her. In a while he waved his hands as in throwing a magicspell, and so it was, for Andrea slowly stopped playing, let her handsdrop by her sides, and turned rigidly and slowly toward the door, likeone who obeys an influence foreign to will.
Balsamo smiled in the darkness as though he could see through thepanels. This was all he wanted to do, for he groped for the banisterrail, and went up stairs to his room.
As he departed, Andrea turned away from the door and resumed playing,so that the mesmerist heard the air again from where she had been madeto leave off.
Entering the Red Room, he dismissed Labrie; but the latter lingered,feeling in the depths of his pocket till at last he managed to say:
"My lord, you made a mistake this evening, in giving me gold for thepiece of silver you intended."
Balsamo looked on the old servingman with admiration, showing that hehad not a high opinion of the honesty of most men.
"'And honest,'" he muttered in the words of Hamlet, as he took out asecond gold coin to place it beside the other in the old man's hand.
The latter's delight at this splendid generosity may be imagined, forhe had not seen so much gold in twenty years. He was retiring, bowingto the floor, when the donor checked him.
"What are the morning habits of the house?" he asked.
"My lord stays abed late, my lord; but Mademoiselle Andrea is upbetimes, about six."
"Who sleeps overhead?"
"I, my lord; but nobody beneath, as the vestibule is under us."
"Oh, by the way, do not be alarmed if you see a light in my coach, asan old impotent servant inhabits it. Ask Master Gilbert to let me seehim in the morning."
"Is my lord going away so soon?"
"It depends," replied Balsamo, with a smile. "I ought to be atBar-le-Duc tomorrow evening."
Labrie sighed with resignation, and was about to set fire to some oldpapers to warm the room, which was damp and there was no wood, whenBalsamo stayed him.
"No, let them be; I might want to read them, for I may not sleep."
Balsamo went to the door to listen to the servant's departing stepsmaking the stairs creak till they sounded overhead; Labrie was in hisown room. Then he went to the window. In the other wing was a lightedwindow, with half-drawn curtains, facing him. Legay was leisurelytaking off her neckerchief, often peeping down into the yard.
"Striking resemblance," muttered the baron.
The light went out though the girl had not gone to rest. The watcherstood up against the wall. The harpsichord still sounded, with no othernoise. He opened his door, went down stairs with caution, and openedthe door of Andrea's sitting-room.
Suddenly she stopped in the melancholy strain, although she had notheard the intruder. As she was trying to recall the thrill which hadmastered her, it came anew. She shivered all over. In the mirror shesaw movement. The shadow in the doorway could only be her father or aservant. Nothing more natural.
But she saw with spiritual eyes that it was none of these.
"My lord," she faltered, "in heaven's name, what want you?"
It was the stranger, in the black velvet riding coat, for he haddiscarded his silken suit, in which a mesmerist cannot well work hispower.
She tried to rise, but could not; she tried to open her mouth toscream, but with a pass of both hands Balsamo froze the sound on herlips.
With no strength or will, Andrea let her head sink on her shoulder.
At this juncture Balsamo believed he heard a noise at the window.Quickly turning, he caught sight of a man's face beyond. He frowned,and, strangely enough, the same impression flitted across the medium'sface.
"Sleep!" he commanded, lowering the hands he had held above her headwith a smooth gesture, and persevering in filling her with the mesmericfluid in crushing columns. "I will you to sleep."
All yielded to this mighty will. Andrea leaned her elbow on themusical-instrument case, her head on her hand, and slept.
The mesmerist retired backward, drew the door to, and went back to hisroom. As soon as the door closed, the face he had seen reappeared atthe window; it was Gilbert's.
Excluded from the parlor by his inferior position in Taverney Castle,he had watched all the persons through the evening whose rank allowedthem to figure in it. During the supper he had noticed Baron Balsamogesticulate and smile, and his peculiar attention bestowed on the ladyof the house; the master's unheard-of affability to him, and Labrie'srespectful eagerness.
Later on, when they rose from table, he hid in a clump of lilacs andsnowballs, for fear that Nicole, closing the blinds or in going to herroom, should catch him eavesdropping.
But Gilbert had other designs this evening than spying. He waited,without clearly knowing for what. When he saw the light in the maid'swindow, he crossed the yard on tiptoe and crouched down in the gloom topeer in at the window at Andrea playing the harpsichord.
This was the moment when the mesmerist entered the room.
At this sight, Gilbert started and his ardent gaze covered the magicianand his victim.
But he imagined that Balsamo complimented the lady on her musicaltalent, to which she replied with her customary coldness; but hehad persisted with a smile so that she suspended her practice andanswered. He admired the grace with which the visitor retired.
Of all the interview which he fancied he read aright, he had understoodnothing, for what really happened was in the mind, in silence.
However keen an observer he was, he could not divine a mystery, whereeverything had passed quite naturally.
Balsamo gone, Gilbert remained, not watching, but contemplating Andrea,lovely in her thoughtful pose, till he perceived with astonishment thatshe was slumbering. When convinced of this, he grasped his head betweenhis hands like one who fears his brain will burst from the overflow ofemotions.
"Oh, to kiss her hand!" he murmured, in a gush of fury. "Oh, Gilbert,let us approach her--I so long to do it."
Hardly had he entered the room than he felt the importance of hisintrusion. The timid if not respectful son of a farmer to dare to raisehis eyes on that proud daughter of the peers. If he should touch thehem of her dress she would blast him with a glance.
The floor boards creaked under his wary tread, but she did not move,though he was bathed in cold perspiration.
"She sleeps--oh, happiness, she sleeps!" he panted, drawing withirresistible attraction within a yard of the statue, of which he tookthe sleeve and kissed it.
Holding his breath, slowly he raised his eyes, seeking hers. They werewide open, but still saw not. Intoxicated by the delusion that sheexpected his visit and her silence was consent, her quiet a favor, helifted her hand to his lips and impressed a long and feverish kiss.
She shuddered and repulsed him.
"I am lost!" he gasped, dropping the hand and beating the floor withhis forehead.
Andrea rose as though moved by a spring under her feet, passed byGilbert, crushed by shame and terror and with no power to crave pardon,and proceeded to the door. With high-held head and outstretched neck,as if drawn by a secret power toward an invisible goal, she opened thedoor and walked out on the landing.
The youth rose partly and watched her take the stairs. He crawled afterher, pale, trembling and astonished.
"She is going to tell the baron and have me scourged out of thehouse--no, she goes up to where the guest is lodged. For she would haverung, or called, if she wanted Labrie."
He clenched his fists at the bare idea that Andrea was going into thestrange gentleman's room. All this seemed monstrous. And yet that washer end.
That door was ajar. She pushed it open without knocking; the lamplightstreamed on her pure profile and whirled golden reflections into herwildly open eyes.
In the center of the room Gilbert saw the baron standing, with fixedgaze and wrinkled brow, and his hand extended in gesture of command,ere the door swung to.
Gilbert's forces failed him; he wheeled round on the stairs, clingingto the rail, but slid down, with his eyes fastened to the last onthe cursed panel, behind which was sealed up all his vanished dream,present happiness and future hope.



CHAPTER VI.
THE CLAIRVOYANT.

Balsamo had gone up to the young lady, whose appearance in his chamberwas not strange to him.
"I bade you sleep. Do you sleep?"
Andrea sighed and nodded with an effort.
"It is well. Sit here," and he led her by the hand the youth had kissedto a chair, which she took.
"Now, see!"
Her eyes dilated as though to collect all the luminous rays in the room.
"I did not tell you to see with your eyes," said he, "but with those ofthe soul."
He touched her with a steel rod which he drew from under hiswaistcoat. She started as though a fiery dart had transfixed her andher eyes closed instantly; her darkening face expressed the sharpestastonishment.
"Tell me where you are."
"In the Red Room, with you, and I am ashamed and afraid."
"What of? Are we not in sympathy, and do you not know that myintentions are pure, and that I respect you like a sister?"
"You may not mean evil to me, but it is not so as regards others."
"Possibly," said the magician; "but do not heed that," he added in atone of command. "Are all asleep under this roof?"
"All, save my father who is reading one of those bad books, which hepesters me to read, but I will not."
"Good; we are safe in that quarter. Look where Nicole is."
"She is in her room, in the dark, but I need not the light to see thatshe is slipping out of it to go and hide behind the yard door to watch."
"To watch you?"
"No."
"Then, it matters not. When a girl is safe from her father and herattendant, she has nothing to fear, unless she is in love----"
"I, love?" she said sneeringly. And shaking her head, she added sadly:"My heart is free."
Such an expression of candor and virginal modesty embellished herfeatures that Balsamo radiantly muttered:
"A lily--a pupil--a seer!" clasping his hands in delight. "But, withoutloving, you may be loved?"
"I know not; and yet, since I returned from school, a youth has watchedme, and even now he is weeping at the foot of the stairs."
"See his face!"
"He hides it in his hands."
"See through them."
"Gilbert!" she uttered with an effort. "Impossible that he wouldpresume to love me!"
Balsamo smiled at her deep disdain, like one who knew that love willleap any distance.
"What is he doing now?"
"He puts down his hands, he musters up courage to mount hither--no, hehas not the courage--he flees."
She smiled with scorn.
"Cease to look that way. Speak of the Baron of Taverney. He is too poorto give you any amusements?"
"None."
"You are dying of tedium here; for you have ambition?"
"No."
"Love for your father?"
"Yes; though I bear him a grudge for squandering my mother's fortuneso that poor Redcastle pines in the garrison and cannot wear our namehandsomely."
"Who is Redcastle?"
"My brother Philip is called the Knight of Redcastle from a property ofthe eldest son, and will wear it till father's death entitles him to be'Taverney.'"
"Do you love your brother?"
"Dearly, above all else; because he has a noble heart, and would givehis life for me."
"More than your father would. Where is Redcastle?"
"At Strasburg in the garrison; no, he has gone--oh, dear Philip!"continued the medium with sparkling eyes in joy. "I see him ridingthrough a town I know. It is Nancy, where I was at the convent school.The torches round him light up his darling face."
"Why torches?" asked Balsamo in amaze.
"They are around him on horseback, and a handsome gilded carriage."
Balsamo appeared to have a guess at this, for he only said:
"Who is in the coach?"
"A lovely, graceful, majestic woman, but I seem to have seen herbefore--how strange! no, I am wrong--she looks like our Nicole; butas the lily is like the jessamine. She leans out of the coach windowand beckons Philip to draw near. He takes his hat off with respect asshe orders him, with a smile, to hurry on the horses. She says that theescort must be ready at six in the morning, as she wishes to take arest in the daytime--oh, it is at Taverney that she means to stop. Shewants to see my father! So grand a princess stop at our shabby house!What shall we do without linen or plate?"
"Be of good cheer. We will provide all that."
"Oh, thank you!"
The girl, who had partly risen, fell back in the chair, uttering aprofound sigh.
"Regain your strength," said the magician, drawing the excess ofmagnetism from the beautiful body, which bent as if broken, and thefair head heavily resting on the heaving bosom. "I shall require allyour lucidity presently. O, Science! you alone never deceive man. Tonone other ought man sacrifice his all. This is a lovely woman, a pureangel as Thou knowest who created angels. But what is this beauty andthis innocence to me now?--only worth what information they afford. Icare not though this fair darling dies, as long as she tells me what Iseek. Let all worldly delights perish--love, passion and ecstasy, if Imay tread the path surely and well lighted. Now, maiden, that, in a fewseconds, my power has given you the repose of ages, plunge once moreinto your mesmeric slumber. This time, speak for myself alone."
He made the passes which replaced Andrea in repose. From his bosom hedrew the folded paper containing the tress of black hair, from whichthe perfume had made the paper transparent. He laid it in Andrea'shand, saying:
"See!"
"Yes, a woman!"
"Joy!" cried Balsamo. "Science is not a mere name like virtue. Mesmerhas vanquished Brutus. Depict this woman, that I may recognize her."
"Tall, dark, but with blue eyes, her hair like this, her arms sinewy."
"What is she doing?"
"Racing as though carried off on a fine black horse, flecked with foam.She takes the road yonder to Chalons."
"Good! my own road," said Balsamo. "I was going to Paris, and there weshall meet. You may repose now," and he took back the lock of hair.
Andrea's arms fell motionless again along her body.
"Recover strength, and go back to your harpsichord," said themesmerist, enveloping her, as she rose, with a fresh supply ofmagnetism.
Andrea acted like the racehorse which overtaxes itself to accomplishthe master's will, however unfair. She walked through the doorway,where he had opened the door, and, still asleep, descended the stairsslowly.



CHAPTER VII.
THE MAID AND THE MISTRESS.

Gilbert had passed this time in unspeakable anguish. Balsamo was but aman, but he was a strong one, and the youth was weak: He had attemptedtwenty times to mount to the assault of the guest room, but histrembling limbs gave way under him and he fell on his knees.
Then the idea struck him to get the gardener's ladder and by its meansclimb up outside to the window, and listen and spy. But as he stoopedto pick up this ladder, lying on the grass where he remembered, heheard a rustling noise by the house, and he turned.
He let the ladder fall, for he fancied he saw a shade flit across thedoorway. His terror made him believe it, not a ghost--he was a buddingphilosopher who did not credit them--but Baron Taverney. His consciencewhispered another name, and he looked up to the second floor. ButNicole had put out her light, and not another, or a sound came from allover the house--the guest's room excepted.
Seeing and hearing nothing, convinced that he had deluded himself,Gilbert took up the ladder and had set foot on it to climb where heplaced it, when Andrea came down from Balsamo's room. With a laceratedheart, Gilbert forgot all to follow her into the parlor where again shesat at the instrument; her candle still burned beside it.
Gilbert tore his bosom with his nails to think that here he had kissedthe hem of her robe with such reverence. Her condescension must springfrom one of those fits of corruption recorded in the vile books whichhe had read--some freak of the senses.
But as he was going to invade the room again, a hand came out of thedarkness and energetically grasped him by the arm.
"So I have caught you, base deceiver! Try to deny again that you loveher and have an appointment with her!"
Gilbert had not the power to break from the clutch, though he mightreadily have done so, for it was only a girl's. Nicole Legay held him aprisoner.
"What do you want?" he said testily.
"Do you want me to speak out aloud?"
"No, no; be quiet," he stammered, dragging her out of the antechamber.
"Then follow me!" which was what Gilbert wanted, as this was removingNicole from her mistress.
He could with a word have proved that while he might be guilty ofloving the lady, the latter was not an accomplice; but the secret ofAndrea was one that enriches a man, whether with love or lucre.
"Come to my room," she said; "who would surprise us there! Not my younglady, though she may well be jealous of her fine gallant! But folks inthe secret are not to be dreaded. The honorable lady jealous of theservant,--I never expected such an honor! It is I who am jealous, foryou love me no more."
In plainness, Nicole's bedroom did not differ from the others inthat dwelling. She sat on the edge of the bed, and Gilbert on thedressing-case, which Andrea had given her maid.
Coming up the stairs, Nicole had calmed herself, but the youth feltanger rise as it cooled in the girl.
"So you love our young lady," began Nicole with a kindling eye. "Youhave love-trysts with her; or will you pretend you went only to consultthe magician?"
"Perhaps so, for you know I feel ambition----"
"Greed, you mean?"
"It is the same thing, as you take it."
"Don't let us bandy words: you avoid me lately."
"I seek solitude----"
"And you want to go up into solitude by a ladder? Beg pardon, I did notknow that was the way to it."
Gilbert was beaten in the first defenses.
"You had better out with it, that you love me no longer, or love usboth."
"That would only be an error of society, for in some countries men haveseveral wives."
"Savages!" exclaimed the servant, testily.
"Philosophers!" retorted Gilbert.
"But you would not like me to have two beaux on my string?"
"I do not wish tyrannically and unjustly to restrain the impulses ofyour heart. Liberty consists in respecting free will. So, change youraffection, for fidelity is not natural--to some."
Discussion was the youth's strong point; he knew little, but more thanthe girl. So he began to regain coolness.
"Have you a good memory, Master Philosopher?" said Nicole. "Do youremember when I came back from the nunnery with mistress, and youconsoled me, and taking me in your arms, said: 'You are an orphan likeme; let us be brother and sister through similar misfortune.' Did youmean what you said?"
"Yes, then; but five months have changed me; I think otherwise atpresent."
"You mean you will not wed me? Yet Nicole Legay is worth a Gilbert, itseems to me."
"All men are equal; but nature or education improves or depreciatesthem. As their faculties or acquirements expand, they part from oneanother."
"I understand that we must part, and that you are a scamp. How evercould I fancy such a fellow?"
"Nicole, I am never going to marry, but be a learned man or aphilosopher. Learning requires the isolation of the mind; philosophythat of the body."
"Master Gilbert, you are a scoundrel, and not worth a girl like me.But you laugh," she continued, with a dry smile more ominous than hissatirical laugh; "do not make war with me; for I shall do such deedsthat you will be sorry, for they will fall on your head, for havingturned me astray."
"You are growing wiser; and I am convinced now that you would refuse meif I sued you."
Nicole reflected, clenching her hands and gritting her teeth.
"I believe you are right, Gilbert," she said; "I, too, see my horizonenlarge, and believe I am fated for better things than to be so mean asa philosopher's wife. Go back to your ladder, sirrah, and try not tobreak your neck, though I believe it would be a blessing to others, andmay be for yourself."
Gilbert hesitated for a space in indecision, for Nicole, excited bylove and spite, was a ravishing creature; but he had determined tobreak with her, as she hampered his passion and his aspirations.
"Gone," murmured Nicole in a few seconds.
She ran to the window, but all was dark. She went to her mistress'door, where she listened.
"She is asleep; but I will know all about it to-morrow."
It was broad day when Andrea de Taverney awoke.
In trying to rise, she felt such lassitude and sharp pain that she fellback on the pillow uttering a groan.
"Goodness, what is the matter?" cried Nicole, who had opened thecurtains.
"I do not know. I feel lame all over; my chest seems broken in."
"It is the outbreak of the cold you caught last night," said the maid.
"Last night?" repeated the surprised lady; but she remarked thedisorder of her room, and added: "Stay, I remember that I felt verytired--exhausted--it must have been the storm. I fell to sleep over mymusic. I recall nothing further. I went up hither half asleep, and musthave thrown myself on the bed without undressing properly."
"You must have stayed very late at the music, then," observed Nicole,"for, before you retired to your bedroom I came down, having heardsteps about----"
"But I did not stir from the parlor."
"Oh, of course, you know better than me," said Nicole.
"You must mistake," replied the other with the utmost sweetness: "Inever left the seat; but I remember that I was cold, for I walked quiteswiftly."
"When I saw you in the garden, however, you walked very freely."
"I, in the grounds?--you know I never go out after dark."
"I should think I knew my mistress by sight," said the maid, doublingher scrutiny; "I thought that you were taking a stroll with somebody."
"With whom would I be taking a stroll?" demanded Andrea, without seeingthat her servant was putting her to an examination.
Nicole did not think it prudent to proceed, for the coolness of thehypocrite, as she considered her, frightened her. So she changed thesubject.
"I hope you are not going to be sick, either with fatigue or sorrow.Both have the same effect. Ah, well I know how sorrows undermine!"
"You do? Have you sorrows, Nicole?"
"Indeed; I was coming to tell my mistress, when I was frightened to seehow queer you looked; no doubt, we both are upset."
"Really!" queried Andrea, offended at the "we both."
"I am thinking of getting married."
"Why, you are not yet seventeen----"
"But you are sixteen and----"
She was going to say something saucy, but she knew Andrea too well torisk it, and cut short the explanation.
"Indeed, I cannot know what my mistress thinks, but I am low-born and Iact according to my nature. It is natural to have a sweetheart."
"Oh, you have a lover then! You seem to make good use of your timehere."
"I must look forward. You are a lady and have expectations from richkinsfolks going off; but I have no family and must get into one."
As all this seemed straightforward enough, Andrea forgot what had beenoffensive in tone, and said, with her kindness taking the reins:
"Is it any one I know? Speak out, as it is the duty of masters tointerest themselves in the fate of their servants, and I am pleasedwith you."
"That is very kind. It is--Gilbert!"
To her high amaze, Andrea did not wince.
"As he loves you, marry him," she replied, easily. "He is an orphan,too, so you are both your own masters. Only, you are both rather young."
"We shall have the longer life together."
"You are penniless."
"We can work."
"What can he do, who is good for nothing?"
"He is good to catch game for master's table, anyway; you slander poorGilbert, who is full of attention for you."
"He does his duty as a servant----"
"Nay; he is not a servant; he is never paid."
"He is son of a farmer of ours; he is kept and does nothing for it; so,he steals his support. But what are you aiming at to defend so warmly aboy whom nobody attacks?"
"I never thought you would attack him! it is just the other way about!"with a bitter smile.
"Something more I do not understand."
"Because you do not want to."
"Enough! I have no leisure for your riddles. You want my consent tothis marriage?"
"If you please; and I hope you will bear Gilbert no ill will."
"What is it to me whether he loves you or not? You burden me, miss."
"I daresay," said Nicole, bursting out in anger at last; "you have saidthe same thing to Gilbert."
"I speak to your Gilbert! You are mad, girl; leave me in peace."
"If you do not speak to him now, I believe the silence will not lastlong."
"Lord forgive her--the silly jade is jealous!" exclaimed Andrea,covering her with a disdainful look, and laughing. "Cheer up, littleLegay! I never looked at your pretty Gilbert, and I do not so much asknow the color of his eyes."
Andrea was quite ready to overlook what seemed folly and not pertness;but Nicole felt offended, and did not want pardon.
"I can quite believe that--for one cannot get a good look in thenighttime."
"Take care to make yourself clear at once," said Andrea, very pale.
"Last night, I saw----"
"Andrea!" came a voice from below, in the garden.
"My lord your father," said Nicole, "with the stranger who passed thenight here."
"Go down, and say that I cannot answer, as I am not well. I have astiff neck; and return to finish this odd debate."
Nicole obeyed, as Andrea was always obeyed when commanding, withoutreply or wavering. Her mistress felt something unusual; though resolvednot to show herself, she was constrained to go to the window left openby Legay, through a superior and resistless power.



CHAPTER VIII.
THE HARBINGER.

The traveler had risen early to look to his coach and learn howAlthotas was faring.
All were still sleeping but Gilbert, who peeped through a window of hisroom over the doorway and spied all the stranger's movements.
The latter was struck by the change which day brought on the scene sogloomy overnight. The domain of Taverney did not lack dignity or grace.The old house resembled a cavern which nature embellishes with flowers,creepers and capricious rookeries, although at night it would daunt atraveler seeking shelter.
When Balsamo returned after an hour's stroll to the Red Castle ruins,he saw the lord of it all leave the house by a side door to cull rosesand crush snails. His slender person was wrapped in his flowereddressing-gown.
"My lord," said Balsamo, with the more courtesy as he had been soundinghis host's poverty, "allow my excuses with my respects. I ought to waityour coming down, but the aspect of Taverney tempted me, and I yearnedto view the imposing ruins and pretty garden."
"The ruins are rather fine," returned the baron; "about all here worthlooking at. The castle was my ancestors'; it is called the Red Castle,and we long have borne its name together with Taverney, it beingthe same barony. Oh, my lord, as you are a magician," continued thenobleman, "you ought with a wave of your wand uprear again the old RedCastle, as well as restore the two thousand odd acres around it. But Isuppose you wanted all your art to make that beastly bed comfortable.It is my son's, and he growled enough at it."
"I protest it is excellent, and I want to prove it by doing you someservice in return."
Labrie was bringing to his master a glass of spring water on a splendidchina platter.
"Here's your chance," said the baron, always jeering; "turn that intowine as the greatest service of all."
Balsamo smiling, the old lord thought it was backing out and took theglass, swallowing the contents at a gulp.
"Excellent specific," said the mesmerist. "Water is the noblest of theelements, baron. Nothing resists it; it pierces stone now, and one ofthese days will dissolve diamonds."
"It is dissolving me. Will you drink with me. It has the advantage overwine of running freely here. Not like my liquor."
"I might make one useful to you."
"Labrie, a glass of water for the baron. How can the water which Idrink daily comprise properties never suspected by me? As the fellowin the play talked prose all his life without knowing it, have I beenpractising magic for ten years without an idea of it?"
"I do not know about your lordship, but I do know about myself," wasthe other's grave reply.
Taking the glass from Labrie, who had displayed marvelous celerity, helooked at it steadily.
"What do you see in it, my dear guest?" the baron continued to mock."I am dying with eagerness. Come, come! a windfall to me, another RedCastle to set me on my legs again."
"I see the advice here to prepare for a visit. A personage of highdistinction is coming, self-invited, conducted by your son Philip, whois even now near us."
"My dear lord, my son is on military duty at Strasburg, and he will notbe bringing guests at the risk of being punished as a deserter."
"He is none the less bringing a lady, a mighty dame--and, by the way,you had better keep that pretty Abigail of yours at a distance whileshe stays, as there is a close likeness between them."
"The promised lady guest bears a likeness to my servant Legay? Whatcontradiction!"
"Why not? Once I bought a slave so like Cleopatra that the Romanstalked of palming her off for the genuine queen in the triumph in theircapital."
"So you are at your old tricks again?" laughed the baron.
"How would you like it, were you a princess, for instance, to seebehind your chair a maid who looked your picture, in short petticoatsand linen neckerchief."
"Well, we will protect her against that. But I am very pleased withthis boy of mine who brings guests without forewarning us!"
"I am glad my forecast affords you pleasure, my dear baron; and, ifyou meant to properly greet the coming guest, you have not a minute tolose."
The baron shook his head like the most incredulous of beings, and asthe two were near the dwelling part of the baron's daughter, he calledout to her to impart the stranger's predictions.
This was the call which brought her to the window despite herself, andshe saw Balsamo. He bowed deeply to her while fixing his eyes upon her.She reeled and had to catch the sill not to fall.
"Good-morning, my lord," she answered.
She uttered these words at the very moment when Nicole, telling thebaron that his daughter would not come, stopped stupefied and withgaping mouth at this capricious contradiction.
Instantly Andrea fell on a chair, all her powers quitting her. Balsamohad gazed on her to the last.
"This is deusedly hard to believe," remarked the baron, "and seeing isbelieving----"
"Then, see!" said the wonder-worker, pointing up the avenue, from theend of which came galloping at full speed a rider whose steed made thestones rattle under its hoofs.
"Oh, it is indeed----" began the baron.
"Master Philip!" screamed Nicole, standing on tiptoe, while Labriegrunted in pleasure.
"My brother!" cried out Andrea, thrusting her hands through the window.
"This is the commencement," said Balsamo.
"Decidedly you are a magician," said the baron.
A smile of triumph appeared on the mesmerist's lips.
Soon the horse approached plainly, reeking with sweat and smoking, andthe rider, a young man in an officer's uniform, splashed with mud upto the countenance, animated by the speed, leaped off and hurried toembrace his father.
"It is I," said Philip of Taverney, seeing the doubt. "I bear a greathonor for our house. In an hour Marie Antoinette, Archduchess ofAustria and bride of the Dauphin of France, will be here."
The baron dropped his arms with as much humility as he had shownsarcasm and irony, and turned to Balsamo for his forgiveness.
"My lord," said the latter, bowing, "I leave you with your son, fromwhom you have been long separated and to whom you must have a greatdeal to say."
Saluting Andrea, who rushed to meet her brother in high delight,Balsamo drew off, beckoning Nicole and Labrie, who disappeared with himunder the trees.



CHAPTER IX.
THE KNIGHT OF REDCASTLE.

Philip of Taverney, Knight of Redcastle, did not resemble his sister,albeit he was as handsome for a man as she was lovely for a woman.
Andrea's embrace of him was accompanied by sobs revealing all theimportance of this union to her chaste heart. He took her hand and hisfather's, and led them into the parlor, where he sat by their sides.
"You are incredulous, father, and you, sister, surprised. But nothingcan be more true than that this illustrious princess will be hereshortly. You know that the Archduchess made her entry into our realmat Strasburg? As we did not know the exact hour of her arrival, thetroops were under arms early, and I was sent out to scout. When I cameup with the royal party, the lady herself put her head out of the coachwindow, and hailed me. My fatigue vanished as by enchantment. Thedauphiness is young like you, dear, and beautiful as the angels."
"Tell me, you enthusiast," interrupted the baron, "does she resembleany one you have seen here before?"
"No one could resemble her--stay, come to think of it--why, Nicole hasa faint likeness--but what led you to suggest that?"
"I had it from a magician, who at the same time foretold your coming."
"The guest?" timidly inquired Andrea.
"Is he the stranger who discreetly withdrew when I arrived?"
"The same; but continue your story, Philip."
"Perhaps we had better make something ready," hinted the lady.
"No," said her father, staying her; "the more we do, the moreridiculous we shall appear."
"I returned to the city with the news, and all the military marchedto receive the new princess. She listened absently to the governor'sspeech and said suddenly: 'What is the name of this young gentleman whowas sent to meet me?' And her governess wrote on her tablets my name,Chevalier Philip Taverney Redcastle. 'Sir,' she said, 'if you have norepugnance to accompany me to Paris, your superior will oblige me byrelieving you of your military duties here, for I made a vow to attachto my service the first French gentleman met by me in setting foot inFrance; and to make him happy, and his family the same, in case princeshave the power to do so.'"
"What delightful words!" said Andrea, rubbing her hands.
"Hence, I rode at the princess's coach door to Nancy, through whichwe marched by torchlight. She called me to her to say that she meantto stop a while at Taverney, though I said our house was not fit toreceive so mighty a princess.
"'The sweeter will be the welcome, then, the more plain but the morecordial,' she replied. 'Poor though Taverney may be, it can supply abowl of milk to the friend who wishes to forget for a time that she isthe Princess of Austria and the Bride of France.' Respect prevented medebating further. So I have ridden ahead."
"Impossible," said Andrea; "however kind the princess may be, she wouldnever be content with a glass of milk and a bunch of flowers."
"And if she were," went on Taverney, "she would not tolerate mychairs which break one's back, and my ragged tapestry offending thesight. Devil take capricious women! France will be prettily governedby a featherbrain, who has such whims. Plague take such a token of asingular reign!"
"Oh, father! how can you talk so of a princess who floods our housewith favors?"
"Who dishonors me!" returned the old noble. "Who was thinking aboutTaverney?--not a soul. My name slept under Redcastle ruins not to comeforth till I arranged the fit time; and here comes the freak of a royalbabe to pull us out into public, dusty, tattered and beggarly. Thenewspapers, always on the lookout for food for fun, will make a prettycomic talk of the brilliant princess's visit to the Taverney hovel.But, death of my life! an idea strikes me. I know history, and of theCount of Medina setting fire to his palace to win a queen's attention.I will burn down my kennel for a bonfire to the Dauphin's bride."
As nimble as though twenty once more, the old peer ran into the kitchenand plucking a brand, hurried out and over to the barn, but as he wasnearing the trusses of forage, Balsamo sprang forth and clutched hisarm.
"What are you about, my lord?" he asked, wrenching away the flambeau."The Archduchess of Austria is no Constable of Bourbon, a traitor,whose presence so fouls a dwelling that it must be purified by fire."
The old noble paused, pale and trembling and not smiling as usual.
"Go and change your gown, my lord, for something more seemly,"continued the mysterious guest. "When I knew the Baron of Taverney atPhilipsburg Siege, he wore the Grand Cross of St. Louis. I know notof any suit that does not become rich and stylish under the ribbon ofthat order. Take it coolly: her highness will be kept so busy that shewill not notice whether your house be new or old, dull or dazzling. Behospitable, as a noble is bound to be. Never forestall vexations, mylord. Every dog has his day."
Taverney obeyed with the resignation he had previously shown and wentto join his children, who were hunting for him, uneasy at his absence.The magician silently retired like one engaged in a piece of work.



CHAPTER X.
MARIE ANTOINETTE.

As Balsamo had warned them, there was no time to lose. On the highroad, commonly so peaceful, resounded a great tumult of coaches, horsesand voices.
Three carriages stopped at the door, held open by Gilbert, whosedistended eyes and feverish tremor denoted the sharpest emotion atso much magnificence. The principal coach, loaded with gilding andmythological carvings, was no less mud-spattered and dusty than theothers.
A score of brilliant young noblemen ranked themselves near this coach,out of which was assisted a girl of sixteen by a gentleman clad inblack, with the grand sash of the St. Louis order under his coat.She wore no hair powder, but this plainness had not prevented thehairdresser building up her tresses a foot above her forehead.
Marie Antoinette Josepha, for it was she, brought into France a famefor beauty not always owned by princesses destined to share the throneof that realm. Without being fine, her eyes took any expression sheliked; but particularly those so opposite as mildness and scorn;her nose was well shaped; her upper lip pretty; but the lower one,the aristocratic inheritance of seventeen kaisers, too thick andprotruding, even drooping, did not suit the pretty visage, except whenit wanted to show ire or indignation.
On this occasion, Marie Antoinette wore her womanly look and womanlysmile, more, that of a happy woman. If possible, she did not mean to bethe royal princess till the following day. The sweetest calm reigned onher face; the most charming kindness enlivened her eyes.
She was robed in white silk, and her handsome bare arms supported aheavy lace mantle.
She refused the arm of the gentleman in black, and freely advanced,snuffing the air, and casting glances around as though wishful to enjoybrief liberty.
"Oh, the lovely site! What fine old trees! and the pretty littlehouse!" she ejaculated. "How happy they must dwell in this nice air andunder these trees which hide us in so well."
Philip Taverney appeared, followed by Andrea, giving her arm to herfather, wearing a fine royal blue velvet coat, last vestige of formersplendor. Andrea wore a ruddy gray silk dress and had her hair in longplaits. Following Balsamo's hint, the baron had donned the insignia ofthe Knightly Order.
"Your highness," said Philip, pale with emotion and noble in hissorrow, "allow me the honor to present Baron de Taverney, Red Castle,my sire, and Mademoiselle Claire Andrea, my sister."
The old noble bowed low with the style of one who knew how queensshould be saluted; his daughter displayed all the grace of eleganttimidity, and the most flattering politeness of sincere respect.
Regarding the pair, and recalling what Philip had stated on theirpoverty, Marie Antoinette felt with them in their suffering.
"Your highness does Taverney Castle too much honor," said the baron;"so humble a place is nowise worthy to harbor such beauty and nobility."
"I know that I am at the doors of an old soldier of France," was theroyal response, "and my mother, the Empress Maria Theresa, who oftenwent to the wars, says that in your kingdom the richest in glory areoft the poorest in gold."
With ineffable grace she held out her hand to Andrea, who knelt to kissit.
The dauphiness suddenly extricated the baron from his terror aboutharboring the great number of the retinue.
"My lords and gentlemen," she said, "it is not for you to bear thefatigue of my whims or enjoy the privileges of a royal princess.Pray, await me here; in half an hour I shall return. Come with me,Langenshausen," she said to the countess of that house who was herduenna. "Follow me, my lord," she added to the gentleman in black.
His plain attire was of remarkable style; he was a handsome person ofthirty years and smooth manners; he stood aside to let the princessgo by. She took Andrea to her side and motioned Philip to follow. Thebaron fell into place next the fashionable gentleman.
"So you are a Taverney of Redcastle?" queried this fop, as he preenedhis fine honiton lace ruffles with aristocratic impertinence.
"Am I to answer a gentleman or a nobleman?" returned the baron withequal sauciness.
"Prince will do," said the other, "or eminence."
"Well, yes, your eminence, I am a real Taverney," replied the poornobleman, without dropping the insolent tone he usually kept.
The prince had the tact of great lords, for he readily perceived thathe was not dealing with a rustic hobbledehoy.
"I suppose this is your summer residence?" he continued.
"My residence in all seasons," replied the baron, desiring to finishwith this examination, but accompanying his answers with deep bows.
Philip kept turning round to his father with uneasiness; the houseseemed towering up to exhibit more and more of their penury. The baronwas just holding his hand toward the sill, deserted by visitors, whenthe dauphiness turned to him, saying:
"Excuse me not going indoors, but these shady spots are so pleasantthat I could pass my life beneath them. I am rather weary of interiors.For a fortnight I have been received under roofs--and I like open air,flowers and the shade of foliage. Might I not have a drink of milk inthis bower?"
"What a mean refreshment, your highness!" faltered the baron.
"I prefer it, with new-laid eggs, my lord. Such formed my feasts atSchoenbrunn."
All of a sudden, Labrie, puffed up with pride in a showy livery, andholding a damask napkin, appeared in the jessamine hung arbor which thearchduchess was eyeing covetously.
"The refreshment is ready for your royal highness," he said with a neatmingling of respect and serenity.
"Am I housed by an enchanter?" exclaimed the princess, darting into thebower.
The perturbed baron forgot etiquette to leave the gentleman in blackand run after his guest.
Philip and Andrea looked at each other with even more anxiety thanastonishment.
Under the twining clematis, jessamine and honeysuckle an oval table wasset, dazzling from the whiteness of the damask cloth and the carvedbullion plate upon it. Ten sets of silver awaited as many guests. Achoice but strange collation attracted the visitor's gaze. Foreignfruit preserved in sugar; cake and crackers from Aleppo and Madeira,oranges and melons of uncommon size, set in large vases. The richestand noblest wines glittered in all hues of ruby and topaz in fourcut-glass Persian decanters. The milk asked for filled a crystal cup.
"But you must have expected me, since in no ten minutes which I havebeen here could this sumptuous spread be placed." And the princessglanced at Labrie as much as to say: "With only one servant, too?"
"I did expect your royal highness," faltered the baron; "of your comingbeing apprised."
"If your son did not inform you by letter, then it must have been somefairy--I suppose, the godmother of your daughter."
"It was not so much a fairy, as a magician," said Taverney, offeringa seat to the princess. "I do not know anything about how he has donethis, as I do not dabble in magic, but I owe it to him that I am fitlyentertaining your highness."
"Then I will have none of it. It is contrary to the faith--but hiseminence is going to sin, with that liver-pie!"
"We are rather too worldly, we princes of the Church," replied thegentleman in black, "to believe the celestial wrath poisons victuals,and we are too human to visit ill on magicians who provide such goodthings."
"But I assure your eminence that this is a real sorcerer who conjuredup this board ready spread, and who may have produced the gold of thisservice in the same manner."
"Does he know of the stone which changes all into gold?" questioned thechurchman, with his eyes kindling with covetousness.
"This pleases the cardinal, who has passed his life seeking thephilosopher's stone," said the princess.
"I own that I find nothing more interesting than supernatural things,"returned the prince; "nothing more curious than what's impossible."
"So I have hit the vital spot, have I?" said the archduchess. "Everygreat man has a mystery, particularly when he is a diplomatist. Letme warn your eminence that I also am a witch, and that I can see intomatters--if not curious and impossible--incredible."
This was an incomprehensible enigma to all but the cardinal, for he wasplainly embarrassed. The gentle eye of the Austrian had flared with oneof those fires denoting a storm gathering. But there was no thunderousoutbreak, for she went on, restraining herself:
"Come my lord of Taverney, make the feast complete by producing yourmagician. Where is he? In what box have you put Old Hocus Pocus?"
"Labrie, notify Baron Joseph Balsamo that her Royal Highness theDauphiness desires to see him."
"Balsamo?" repeated the high lady, as the valet started off. "What anodd name!"
"I fancy I have heard it before," murmured the cardinal.
Five minutes passed with none thinking of breaking the stillness, whenAndrea shuddered, for she heard before any other the step beneaththe foliage. The branches were parted and right in front of MarieAntoinette, Joseph Balsamo appeared.



CHAPTER XI.
A MARVEL OF MAGIC.

Humble was Balsamo's bow; but immediately raising his intelligent andexpressive brow, he fixed his clear eye, though with respect, on thechief guest, silently waiting for her to question him.
"If you are the person Baron Taverney has mentioned, pray draw nighthat we may see what a magician is like."
Balsamo came a step nearer and bowed to Marie Antoinette.
"So you make a business of foretelling?" said the latter, sipping themilk while regarding the new comer with more curiosity than she likedto betray.
"I make no business of it, but I do foretell, please your royalhighness?" was the answer.
"Educated in an enlightened faith, we place faith solely in themysteries of our religion."
"Undoubtedly they are worthy of veneration," responded the otherdialoguist with a profound cong. "But the Cardinal de Rohan here,though Prince of the Church, will tell you that they are not the onlyones worthy of respect."
The cardinal started, for his title had not been announced.
Not appearing to notice this revelation, Marie Antoinette pursued:
"But you must allow that they alone cannot be controverted."
"There can be fact as well as faith," replied Balsamo, with the samerespect but with the same firmness.
"You speak a trifle darkly, my lord Baron of Magic. I am at heart agood Frenchwoman, but not in mind, and do not yet understand all thefineness of the language. They say I shall soon pick it up, even to thepuns. Meanwhile, I must urge you to speak more plainly if you want mycomprehension."
"I ask your highness to let me dwell obscure," said the baron, with amelancholy smile. "I should feel too much regret to reveal to so greata princess a future not equal to her hopes."
"Dear me, this is becoming serious," said Marie Antoinette, "andAbracadabra whets my curiosity in order to make me beg my fortune to betold."
"Heaven forbid my being forced into it," observed Balsamo coldly.
"Of course, for you would be put to much pains for little result,"laughed the princess.
But her merriment died away without a courtier's echoing it; allsuffered the influence of the mystic man who claimed the wholeattention.
"Still it was you foretold my coming to Taverney?" said the mightylady, to which Balsamo silently bowed. "How was the trick done, my lordbaron?"
"Simply by looking into a glass of water, my liege lady," was the oldnoble's answer.
"If that be truly your magic mirror, it is guileless at any rate; mayyour words be as clear!"
The cardinal smiled, and the master of the place said:
"Your highness will not have to take lessons in punning."
"Nay, my dear host, do not flatter me, or flatter me better. It seemsto me it was a mild quip; but, my lord," she resumed, turning towardBalsamo by that irresistible attraction drawing us to a danger, "if youcan read the future in a glass for a gentleman, may you not read it fora lady in a decanter?"
"Perfectly; but the future is uncertain, and I should shrink fromsaddening your royal highness if a cloud veiled it, as I have alreadyhad the honor to say."
"Do you know me beforetimes? Where did you first see me?"
"I saw you as a child beside your august mother, that mighty queen."
"Empress, my lord."
"Queen by heart and mind, but such have weaknesses when they think theyact for their daughters' happiness."
"I hope history will not record one single weakness in Maria Theresa,"retorted the other.
"Because it does not know what is known solely to your highness, hermother and myself."
"Is there a secret among us three?" sneered the lady. "I must hear it."
"In Schoenbrunn Palace is the Saxony Cabinet, where the empress sitsin private. One morning, about seven, the empress not being up, yourhighness entered this study, and perceived a letter of hers, open, onthe writing-table."
The hearer blushed.
"Reading it, your highness took up a pen and struck out the three wordsbeginning it."
"Speak them aloud!"
"'My dear Friend.'"
Marie Antoinette bit her lips as she turned pale.
"Am I to tell to whom the letter was addressed?" inquired the seer.
"No, no, but you may write it."
The soothsayer took out his memorandum book fastening with a giltclasp, and with a kind of pencil from which flowed ink, wrote on aleaf. Detaching this page, he presented it to the princess, who read:
"The letter was addressed to the marchioness of Pompadour, mistress ofKing Louis XV."
The dauphiness' astounded look rose upon this clearly speaking man,with pure and steady voice, who appeared to tower over her although hebowed lowly.
"All this is quite true," she admitted, "and though I am unaware howyou could learn this secret, I am bound to allow, before all, that youspeak true."
"Then I may retire upon this innocent proof of my science."
"Not so, my lord baron," said the princess, nettled; "the wiser youare, the more I long for your forecast. You have only spoken of thepast, and I demand the future."
Her feverish agitation could not escape the bystanders.
"Let me at least consult the oracle, to learn whether the predictionmay be revealed."
"Good or bad, I must hear it!" cried Marie Antoinette with growingirritation. "I shall not believe it if good, taking it for flattery;but bad, I shall regard it as a warning, and I promise any way not tobear you ill will. Begin your witchcraft."
Balsamo took up the decanter with a broad mouth and stood it in agolden saucer. He raised it thus high up, and, after looking at itshook his head.
"I cannot speak. Some things must not be told to princes," he said.
"Because you have nothing to say?" and she smiled scornfully.
Balsamo appeared embarrassed, so that the cardinal began to laugh inhis face and the baron grumbled.
"My wizard is worn out," he said. "Nothing is to follow but the goldturning into dry leaves, as in the Arabian tale."
"I would have preferred the leaves to all this show; for there is noshame in drinking from a nobleman's pewter goblet, while a dauphinessof France ought not to have to use the thimble-rigging cup of acharlatan."
Balsamo started erect as if a viper had bitten him.
"Your highness shall know your fate, since your blindness drives you toit."
These words were uttered in a voice so steady but so threatening thatthe hearers felt icy chills in their veins. The lady turned palevisibly.
"Do not listen to him, my daughter," whispered the old governess inGerman to her ward.
"Let her hear, for since she wanted to know, know she shall!" saidBalsamo in the same language, which doubled the mystery over theincident. "But to you alone, lady."
"Be it so," said the latter. "Stand back!"
"I suppose this is just an artifice to get a private audience?" sneeredshe, turning again to the magician.
"Do not try to irritate me," said he; "I am but the instrument of ahigher Power, used to enlighten you. Insult fate and it will revengeitself, well knowing how. I merely interpret its moves. Do not fling atme the wrath which will recoil on yourself, for you can not visit on methe woes of which I am the sinister herald."
"Then there are woes?" said the princess, softened by hisrespectfulness and disarmed by his apparent resignation.
"Very great ones."
"Tell me all. First, will my family live happy?"
"Your misfortunes will not reach those you leave at home. They arepersonal to you and your new family. This royal family has threemembers, the Duke of Berry, the Count of Provence, and the Count ofArtois. They will all three reign."
"Am I to have no son?"
"Sons will be among your offspring, but you will deplore that oneshould live and the other die."
"Will not my husband love me?"
"Too well. But his love and your family's support will fail you."
"Those of the people will yet be mine."
"Popular love and support--the ocean in a calm. Have you seen it in astorm?"
"I will prevent it rising, or ride upon the billows."
"The higher its crest, the deeper the abyss."
"Heaven remains to me."
"Heaven does not save the heads it dooms."
"My head in danger? Shall I not reign a queen?"
"Yes--but would to God you never did."
The princess smiled disdainfully.
"Hearken, and remember," proceeded Balsamo. "Did you remark the subjecton the tapestry of the first room you entered on French ground? TheMassacre of the Innocents; the ominous figures must have remained inyour mind. During that storm, did you see that the lightning felled atree on your left, almost to crush your coach? Such presages are not tobe interpreted but as fatal ones."
Letting her head fall upon her bosom, the princess reflected for aspace before asking:
"How will those three die?"
"Your husband the king will die headless; Count Provence, legless; andArtois heartless."
"But myself? I command you to speak, or I shall hold all this as apaltry trick. Take care, my lord, for the daughter of Maria Theresais not to be sported with--a woman who holds in hand the destinies ofthirty millions of souls. You know no more, or your imagination isexhausted."
Balsamo placed the saucer and the decanter on a bench in the darkestnook of the arbor, which thus resembled a pythoness' cave; he led herwithin the gloom.
"Down on your knees," he said, alarming her by the action; "for youwill seem to be imploring God to spare you the terrible outcome whichyou are to view."
Mechanically the princess obeyed, but as Balsamo touched the crystalwith his magic wand, some frightful picture no doubt appeared in it,for the princess tried to rise, reeled, and screamed as she fell in aswoon.
They ran to her.
"That decanter?" she cried, when revived.
The water was limpid and stainless.
The wonder-worker had disappeared!



CHAPTER XII.
TAVERNEY'S PROSPECTS BRIGHTEN.

The first to perceive the archduchess's fainting fit, was BaronTaverney who was on the lookout from being most uneasy about theinterview. Hearing the scream and seeing Balsamo dart out of the bowerhe ran up.
The first word of the dauphiness was to call for the bewitcheddecanter: her second to bid no harm to be done the sorcerer. It wastime to say it, for Philip Taverney had rushed after the latter.
She attributed the swoon to fever from the journey. She talked ofsleeping for some hours, in Andrea's room, but the Governor ofStrasburg arrived in hot haste with a dispatch from Versailles, and shehad to receive Lord Stainville, who was brother in-law of the primeminister.
Opening this missive, the princess read:
"The court presentation of Lady Dubarry is fixed on, if she can find apatroness, which we hope will not be. But the surest method of blockingthe project is to have your royal highness here, in whose presence nonewill dare suggest such an offense."
"Very good. My horses must be put to. We depart at once."
Cardinal Rohan looked at Lord Stainville as if for an explanation ofthis abrupt change.
"The dauphin is in a hurry to see his wife," whispered the latter withsuch cunning that the churchman thought it had slipped his tongue andwas satisfied with it.
Andrea had been trained by her father to understand royal freaks; shewas not surprised at the contradiction. So the lady saw only smoothnesson her face as she turned to her, saying:
"Thank you; your welcome has deeply touched me. Baron, you are awarethat I made the vow to benefit the first French gentleman and hisfamily, whom I should meet on the frontier. But I am not going to stopat this point, and Mademoiselle Andrea is not to be forgotten. Yes, Iwish her to be my maid of honor. The brother will defend the king inthe army, the sister will serve me; the father will instruct the firstin loyalty, the other in virtue. I shall have enviable servitors, doyou not agree?" she continued to Philip, who was kneeling. "I willleave one of my carriages to bring you in my train. Governor, namesomebody to accompany my carriage for the Taverneys, and notify that itis of my household."
"Beausire," called out the governor, "come forward."
A sharp-eyed cavalier, some twenty-four years old, rode out from theescort and saluted.
"Set a guard over Baron Taverney's coach, and escort it."
"We shall meet soon again, then," said the princess with a smile. "Letus be off, my lords and gentlemen."
In a quarter of an hour, all remaining of the whirling cavalcade wasthe carriage left in the avenue and the guardsman whose horse wascropping the dandelions.
"Where is the magician?" inquired Taverney.
"Gone, too, my lord."
"I never heard of the like--leaving all that valuable plate."
"He left a note which Gilbert is fretting to deliver."
"Father," said Andrea, "I know what is tormenting you. You know I havethirty gold pieces, and the diamond-set watch Queen Maria Leczinskagave my mother."
"That is well," said the baron, "but keep it, though we must hunt upmeans for a handsome robe for your court presentation. Hush! here isLabrie."
"The note, my lord, which was given Gilbert by the strange gentleman."
The baron snatched it from the servant and read in an undertone:
    "MY LORD: Since an august hand touched this service of plate under    your roof, it belongs to your lordship, and I pray you to keep it    as a memento, and sometimes to remember, your grateful guest,
    BALSAMO."
"Labrie, is there a good goldsmith at Bar-le-Duc?"
"Yes, my lord, the one who mended our young lady's jewelry."
"Put aside the cup the princess used, and pack up the rest of the platein our carriage. And then, haste to the cellar and serve that officerwith all the liquor left. Come, come, Andrea, courage! We are going tocourt, a splendid place where the sun never fails. You are naturallylovely and have only to set the gem becomingly to outshine them all."
Nicole followed Andrea to her room.
"I am off to arrange my titles of nobility and proofs of service,"continued the baron, trotting to his room briskly. "We shall be offfrom this den in an hour; do you hear, Andrea? And we leave by thegolden gates, too. What a trump that magician is! Really, I have becomeas superstitious as the devil's own. But make haste, Labrie!" he criedto his man groping about in the cellar.
"I can't get on faster, master--we have not a candle left."
"It is plain that we are getting out in the right time," thought thebaron.



CHAPTER XIII.
NICOLE'S DOWER.

Nicole aided her young mistress in her traveling preparations withardor which speedily dissipated the cloud risen that morning betweenmaid and mistress. The latter smiled as she found that she would haveno need to scold her.
"She is a good, devoted girl and grateful," she mused; "only she hasweaknesses, like all womankind. Let us forget."
On her part, Nicole was not the girl not to watch her mistress' face,and she saw the kindliness increasing.
"I was a fool nearly to get into a scrape with her for that rascalGilbert, when she is going to town, where everybody makes a fortune."
"Put my lace in my box. Stop! I gave you that box, I remember; and youwill want it, as you are going to set up housekeeping."
"Oh, my lady," said Nicole, reddening, and replying merrily, "mywedding garments will be easily kept in no great space."
"How so? I want you to be well off when you wed."
"Have you found me a rich match?"
"No, but a dower of twenty-five gold pieces."
"You would give me such a treasure!" Emotion followed her surprise, andtears gushed into her eyes as she kissed Andrea's hand.
Nicole began to think that Gilbert had rejected her from fear ofpoverty, and that now she had funds, she had better marry the ambitiousspark to whom she would appear more desirable. But a germ of pridemingled with the generosity, as she wanted to humble one who had jiltedher.
"It looks as though you really loved your Gilbert," observed the lady."How incredible for something in the lad to please you. I must have alook at this lady-killer next time I see him."
Nicole eyed her with lingering doubt. Was this deep hypocrisy orperfect ignorance?
"Is Gilbert coming to Paris with us?" she inquired, to be settled onthe point.
"What for? he is not a domestic and is not fitted for a Parisianestablishment. The loungers about Taverney are like the birds which canpick up a living on their own ground; but in Paris a hanger-on wouldcost too much, and we cannot tolerate that. If you marry him, you muststay here. I give you an hour to decide between my household or yourhusband's. I detest these connubial details and will not have a marriedservant. In any case, here is the money; marry, and have it as dower;follow me, and it is your first two years' wages, in advance."
Nicole took the purse from her hand and kissed it.
The lady watched her go away and muttered: "She is happy, for sheloves."
Nicole in five minutes was at the window of Gilbert's room, at the backof which he was turning over his things.
"I have come to tell you that my mistress wants me to go with her toParis."
"Good!" said the young man.
"Unless I get married and settled here."
"Are you thinking still of that?" he asked, without any feeling.
"Particularly, since I am rich from my lady dowering me," and sheshowed the bright gold.
"A pretty sum," he said drily.
"That is not all. My lord is going to be rich. He will rebuild thecastle, and the house will have to be guarded----"
"By the happy mate of Nicole," suggested Gilbert with irony, notsufficiently wrapped up not to wound the girl, though she containedherself. "I refuse the offer, for I am not going to bury myself herewhen Paris is open to me also. Paris is my stage, do you understand?"
"And mine, and I understand you. You may not regret me; but you willfear me, and blush to see to what you drive me. I longed to be anhonest woman, but, when I was leaning over the verge, you repulsed meinstead of pulling me back. I am slipping and I shall fall, and heavenwill ask you to account for the loss. Farewell, Gilbert!"
The proud girl spun round without anger now, or impatience, havingexhausted all her generosity of soul.
Gilbert quietly closed the window and resumed the mysterious businesswhich Nicole's coming had interrupted.
She returned to her mistress with a deliberate air.
"I shall not marry," she said.
"But your great love?"
"It is not worth the kindness your ladyship has done me. I belong toyou and shall ever so belong. I know the mistress which heaven gave me;but I might never know the master whom I give myself."
Andrea was touched by this display of emotion, which she was far fromexpecting in the maid. She was of course ignorant that Nicole wasmaking her a pillow to fall back upon. She smiled to believe a humancreature was better than she estimated.
"You are doing right," she said. "If bliss befalls me, you shall haveyour share. But did you settle with your sweetheart?"
"I told him that I would have no more to do with him."
She was restored to her former suspicions, and it was fated that thetwo should never understand each other--one with her diamond purity andthe other with her tendency to evil.
Meanwhile, the baron had packed up his scanty valuables, and Labrieshouldered the half-empty trunk, containing them, to accompany hismaster out to where the corporal of guards was finishing the wine tothe last drop.
This soldier gallant had remarked the fine waist and pretty limbs ofNicole, and he was prowling round the pool to see her again. He wasdrawn from his reverie by the baron calling for his carriage. Salutinghim, he called in a ringing voice for the driver to come up theavenue. Labrie put the trunk on the rack behind with unspeakable prideand delight.
"I am going to ride in the royal coaches," he muttered.
"But up behind, my old boy," corrected Beausire, with a patronizingsmile.
"Who is to keep Taverney if you take Labrie, father?" inquired Andrea.
"That lazy philosopher, Gilbert; with his gun he will have ample toeat, I warrant, for there is plenty of game at Taverney."
Andrea looked at Nicole, who laughed and added:
"He is a sly dog; he will not starve."
"Leave him a trifle," suggested Andrea.
"It will spoil him. He is bad enough now. If he wants anything we willsend him help."
"He would not accept money, my lord."
"Your Gilbert must be pretty proud, then?"
"Thank heaven, he is no longer my Gilbert!"
"Deuse take Gilbert, whoever's property he is," said Taverney, to cutshort what annoyed his selfishness. "The coach is stopping the way; getin, daughter."
Andrea gave the house a farewell glance and stepped into the vehicle.The baron installed himself next her; Labrie in his glorious liveryand Nicole got upon the box, for the driver turned himself into apostillion and bestrode one of the horses.
"But the corporal?" queried the baron.
"I ride my charger," responded Beausire, ogling Nicole, who colored upwith pleasure at having so soon replaced the rustic lad with a stylishcavalier.
Gilbert stood with his hat off at the gate, and, without seeming tosee, looked on Andrea alone. She was bending out of the opposite windowto watch the house to the last.
"Stop a bit," ordered Baron Taverney; "hark you, master idler," hesaid to Gilbert, "you ought to be a happy dog to be left by yourself,as suits a true philosopher, with nobody to bother you or upbraid you.Don't let the house catch afire while you brood, and take care of thewatchdog. Go ahead, coachman!"
Gilbert slammed the gates, groaning for want of oil, and ran backto his little room, where he had his little bundle ready. It alsocontained his savings in a silver piece.
Mahon was howling when he came out, and straining at his chain.
"Am I not cast off like a dog? why should not a dog be cast off likea man? No, you shall at least be free to seek your livelihood likemyself."
The liberated dog ran round the house, but finding all the doorsclosed, he bounded the ruins.
"Now we are going to see who fares the better--man or dog," saidGilbert. "Farewell, mansion where I have suffered and where alldespised me! where bread was cast to me with the reproach that I wasstealing it by making no return. Farewell--no, curses on you! My heartleaps with joy at no longer being jailed up in your walls. Forever beaccursed, prison, hell, lair of tyrants!"



CHAPTER XIV.
THE OUTCAST'S LUCK.

But in his long journey to Paris he had often to regret this abodewhich he had cursed. Sore, wearied, famished--for he had lost hiscoin--he fell in the dusty highway, but with clenched fists and eyesglaring with rage.
"Out of the way, there!" yelled a hoarse voice, amid cracking of a whip.
He did not hear, for his senses left him. He remained before the hoofsof the horses, drawing a postchaise up a side road between Vauclere andThieblemont, which he had not perceived.
A scream pealed from inside the carriage, which the horses werewhirling along like a feather on the gale. The postboy made asuperhuman effort and managed to keep his horses from trampling on theboy, though one of the leaders gave him a kick.
"Good God!" screamed a woman again; "you have crushed the unhappychild."
The lady traveler got out, and the postillion alighted to liftGilbert's body from under the wheel.
"What luck!" said the man; "dashed if he be hurted--only swooned."
"With fright, I suppose."
"I'll drag him to the roadside, and let us go on, since your ladyshipis in hot haste."
"I cannot possibly leave this poor boy in such a plight. So young, poorlittle thing! It is some truant scholar undertaking a journey beyondhis powers. How pale he is--he will die. No, no! I will not abandonhim. Put him inside, on the front seat."
The postboy obeyed the lady, who had already got in the berlin, as werecalled such carriages. Gilbert was put on a good cushion with his backsupported by the padded sides.
"Away you go again," said the lady. "Ten minutes lost, for which youmust make up, while I will pay you the more."
When Gilbert came to his senses he found himself in the coach, sweptalong by three posthorses. He was not a little surprised, too, to bealmost in the lap of a young woman who attentively studied him.
She was not more than twenty-five. She had cheeks scorched by thesouthern sun, with a turn-up nose and gray eyes. A clear character ofcunning and circumspection was given to her open and jovial countenanceby the little mouth of delicate and fanciful design. Her arms, thefinest in the world, were molded in violet velvet sleeves adorned withgilt buttons. Nearly the whole vehicle was filled up by the wavy foldsof her large flower-patterned gray silk dress.
As the countenance was smiling and expressed interest, Gilbert staredfor fear he was in a dream.
"Well, are you better, my little man?" asked she.
"Where am I?" counter-queried Gilbert, who had learned this phrase fromnovels, where alone it is used.
"In safety, my dear little fellow," replied the lady in a southernaccent. "A while ago you ran great risk of being smashed under mycarriage wheels. What happened you, to drop on the highroad right inthe middle?"
"I swooned from having walked some eighteen leagues since fouryesterday afternoon, or, rather, run."
"Whither are you bound?"
"To Versailles, lady. I come from Taverney, a castle betweenPierrefitte and Bar-le-Duc."
"Did you not give yourself time to eat?"
"I had neither the time nor the means, for I lost a bit of money, and Isoon ate the crusts I carried."
"Poor boy! but you might have asked for more bread."
"I am too proud, lady," said Gilbert, smiling loftily.
"Pride is all very well, but not when it lets one die of hunger."
"Death before disgrace!"
"Hello! where did you learn such talk?"
"Not at home, for I am an orphan. My name is Gilbert, and no more."
"Some by-blow of a country squire," thought the woman. "You are veryyoung to roam the highway," she continued.
"I was not roaming," said the youth, who thought the truth wouldrecommend him to a woman. "I was following a carriage."
"With your lady love in it? Dear me! there is a romance in youradventure?"
Gilbert was not enough his own master not to redden.
"What was the carriage, my little Cato?"
"One of the dauphiness' retinue."
"What, is she ahead of us?" exclaimed the woman. "Are they not making afuss over her along the route?"
"They wanted to, but she pressed on after having talked of staying forrest at Taverney Castle, for a letter came from Versailles, they said,and she was off in three-quarters of an hour."
"A letter?"
"Brought by the Governor of Strasburg."
"Lord Stainville? Duke Choiseul's brother? The mischief! Whip on,postillion! faster, faster!"
The whip snapped and Gilbert felt the vehicle jump with more velocity.
"We may outstrip her if she stops for breakfast, or at night,"meditated the woman. "Postillion, which is the next town of anyaccount?"
"Vitry."
"Where do we change horses?"
"Vauclere."
"Go on; but tell me if you see a string of carriages on the main road.Poor child!" she continued, seeing how pale Gilbert was; "it is myfault for making him chatter when he is dying of hunger and thirst."
To make up for the lost time, she took out a traveling flask with asilver cap as stopper, into which she poured a cordial.
"Drink that and eat a cake," she said, "until you can have asubstantial breakfast in an hour or two. Now, as you are a whitrefreshed, tell me, if you have any trust in me, what interest you havein following the carriage belonging to the dauphiness' train?"
He related his story with much clearness.
"Cheer up," she said. "I congratulate you. But you must know that onecannot live on courage at Versailles or Paris."
"But one can by toil."
"That's so. But you have not the hands of a craftsman or laborer."
"I will work with my head."
"Yes, you appear rather knowing."
"I know I am ignorant," said Gilbert, recalling Socrates.
"You will make a good doctor, then, since a doctor is one whoadministers drugs of which he knows little into a body of which heknows less. In ten years I promise you my custom."
"I shall try to deserve the honor, lady," replied Gilbert.
The horses were changed without their having overtaken the royal party,which had stopped for the same and to breakfast at Vitry. The ladyoffered bounteously for the distance between to be covered, but thepostillion dared not outstrip the princess--a crime for which he wouldbe sent to prison for life.
"If I might suggest," observed Gilbert, "you could cut ahead by aby-road."
The vehicle therefore turned off to the right and came out on the mainroad at Chalons. The princess had breakfasted at Vitry, but was sotired that she was reposing, having ordered the horses to be ready tostart again at three or four P. M. This so delighted the lady travelerthat she paid the postboy lavishly and said to Gilbert:
"We shall have a feast at the next posting house."
But it was decreed that Gilbert should not dine there.
The change of horses was to be at Chaussee village. The most remarkableobject here was a man who stood in the mid-road, as if on duty there.He looked along it and on a long-tailed barb which was hitched to awindow shutter and neighed fretfully for its master to come out of thecottage.
At length the man knocked on the shutter, and called.
"I say, sir," he demanded of the man who showed his head at the window,"if you want to sell that horse, here is the customer."
"Not for sale," replied the peasant, banging the shutter to.
This did not satisfy the stranger, who was a lusty man of forty, talland ruddy, with coarse hands in lace ruffles. He wore a laced cockedhat crosswise, like soldiers who want to scare rustics.
"You are not polite," he said, hammering on the shutter. "If you do notopen, I shall smash in the blind."
The panel opened at this menace and the clown reappeared.
"Who does this Arab belong to?"
"A lady lodging here, who is very fond of it."
"Let me speak with her."
"Can't; she is sleeping."
"Ask her if she wants five hundred pistoles for the barb."
"That is a right royal price." And the rustic opened his eyes widely.
"Just, so; the king wants the creature."
"You are not the king."
"But I represent him, and he is in a hurry."
"I must not wake her."
"Then I shall!" and he swung up a cane with a gold head in hisherculean fist.
But he lowered it without hitting, for at the same instant he caughtsight of a carriage tearing up the slope behind three fagged horses.The skilled eye of the would-be buyer recognized the vehicle, for herushed toward it with a speed the Arabian might have envied.
It was the post carriage of Gilbert's guardian angel, which the postboywas enchanted to stop, on seeing the man wave him to do so, for he knewthe nags would never reach the post house.
"Chon, my dear Chon," said the stranger. "What joy that you turn up, atlast!"
"It is I, Jean," replied the lady to whom was given this odd name;"what are you doing here?"
"A pretty question, by Jove! I was waiting for you."
The Hercules stepped on the folding-step, and kissed the lady throughthe window. Suddenly he caught sight of Gilbert, and turned as black asa dog from which is snatched a bone, from not knowing the terms betweenthe pair in the berlin.
"It is a most amusing little philosopher whom I picked up," returnedChon, caring little whether she wounded the pet's feelings or not, "onthe road--but never mind him."
"Another matter indeed worries us. What about the old Countess ofBearn?" asked Jean.
"I have done the job, and she will come. I said I was her lawyer'sdaughter, Mademoiselle Flageot, and that, passing through Verdun, Irepeated from my father that her case was coming on. I added that shemust appear in person, whereupon she opened her gray eyes, took a pinchof snuff, and saying Lawyer Flageot was the first of business men, shegave orders for her departure."
"Splendid, Chon! I appoint you my ambassador extraordinary. Come andhave breakfast!"
"Only too glad, for this poor boy is dying of hunger. But we must makehaste, for the dauphiness is only three leagues off."
"Plague! that changes the tune. Go on to the posting house, with mehanging on as I am."
In five minutes the coach was at the inn door, where Chon orderedcutlets, fowl, wine and eggs, as they had to be off forthwith.
"Excuse me, lady, but it will have to be with your own horses, for allmine are out. If you find one at the manger, I will eat it."
"You ought to have some, for the regulations require it. Let me tellyou," thundered Jean with a hectoring air, "I am not the man to jest."
"If I had fifty in the stable it would be the same as none, for theyare all held on the dauphiness' service."
"Fifty, and you would not let us have three?" said Jean; "I do not askfor eight, to which number royal highnesses are entitled, but three."
"You shall not have one," returned the post master, springing inbetween the stables and the obstinate gentleman.
"Blunderhead, do you know who I am?" cried the other, pale with rage.
"Viscount," interposed Chon, "in heaven's name, no disorder."
"You are right, my dear; no more words; only deeds." He turned to theinnkeeper, saying, "I shall shield you from responsibility by takingthree horses myself."
"It must not be done, I tell 'ee."
"Do not help him harness," said the posting house keeper to the grooms.
"Jean," said Chon, "don't get into a scrape. On an errand one must putup with anything."
"Except delay," replied Viscount Jean with the utmost ease.
And he began taking down three sets of harness, which he threw on threehorses' backs.
"Mind, master," said the post master, as he followed Jean, leading thehorses out to the coach, "this is high treason."
"I am not stealing the royal horses but taking them on loan."
The innkeeper rushed at the reins but the strong man sent him spinning.
"Brother, oh, brother!" screamed Chon.
"Only her brother!" muttered Gilbert.



CHAPTER XV.
TAVERNEY TO THE RESCUE.

At this period a window in the cottage opened and a lovely woman's faceappeared, above the Arabian courser, the uproar having aroused her.
"The very person wanted," cried Jean. "Fair lady, I offer you fivehundred pistoles for your horse."
"My horse?" questioned the lady in bad French.
"Yes, the barb hitched there."
"Not for sale," and the lady slammed the window.
"Come, come, I am not in luck this day," said Jean, "for folk willneither sell nor hire. Confound it all! I shall take the Arab, if notfor sale, and the coach horses if not for hire, and run them to theirlast legs. Put the horses to," he concluded to the lady traveler'slackey, who was on the coach.
"Help me, boys?" shouted the post master to his hostlers.
"Oh, don't," cried Chon to her brother; "you will only be massacred."
"Massacred, with three to three? for I count on your philosopher,"said Jean, shouting to Gilbert, who was stupefied. "Get out and pitchin with a cane, or a rock, or the fist. And don't look like a plasterimage!"
Here the burlesque battle began, with the horses pulled between Jeanand their owner. The stronger man hurled the latter into the duckpond,where he floundered among the frightened ducks and geese.
"Help! murder!" he shrieked, while the viscount hastened to get thefresh horses into the traces.
"Help, in the king's name!" yelled the innkeeper, rallying his twogrooms.
"Who claims help in the royal name?" challenged a horseman whosuddenly galloped into the inn yard and pulled up his reeking steedamid the fighting party.
"Lieutenant Philip de Taverney!" exclaimed Gilbert, sinking back deeperthan ever in the carriage corner.
Chon, who let nothing slip her, caught this name.
The young officer of the dauphin's dragoon guards leaped off his horseamid the scene, which was attracting all the villagers. The innkeeperran up to him imploringly as the saver.
"Officer, this gentleman is trying to take away the horses kept for herRoyal Highness," he faltered.
"Gentleman?" queried Philip.
"Yes, this gentleman;" retorted Jean.
"You mistake, you are mad--or no gentleman," replied the Chevalier ofRedcastle.
"My dear lieutenant, you are wrong on both points," said the viscount;"I have my senses, and I am entitled to ride in the royal carriages."
"How dare you, then, lay hands on the horses for the royal princess?"
"Because there are fifty here and the _Royals_ are entitled to buteight. Am I to go afoot when lackeys have four nags to draw them?"
"If it is the order of his Majesty, they may have what they like. So begood enough to make your fellow take back those horses."
"Yes, if you are on duty to guard them, lieutenant," replied Jean; "butI did not know that the dauphiness' dragoons were set to guard grooms.Better shut your eyes, tell your squad to do the same, and I wish you apleasant journey!"
"You are wrong, sir; I am on duty, as the dauphiness has sent meforward to look after the relays."
"That is different. But allow the remark that you are on paltry duty,and the young Bonnibel is shamefully treating the army----"
"Of whom are you speaking in such terms?" interrupted Philip.
"Oh, only of that Austrian beauty."
Taverney turned pale as his cravat, but in his usual calm voice hesaid, as he caught hold of the bridle:
"Do me the pleasure to acquaint me with your name?"
"If you are bent upon that--I am Viscount Jean Dubarry."
"What, brother of that notorious----"
"Who will send you to rot in the Bastille prison, if you add a word tothe adjective."
The viscount sprang into the coach, up to the door of which went thebaron's son.
"If you do not come forth in a second I give you my word of honor thatI shall run my sword through your body."
Having hold of the door with his left hand, pulling against theviscount, he drew his sword with the other.
"The idea!" said Chon; "this is murder. Give up the horses, Jean."
"Oh, you threaten me, do you?" hissed the viscount, exasperated, andsnatching his sword from the cushion.
"We shall never get away at this rate," whispered Chon; "do smooth theofficer down."
"Neither violence nor gentleness will stay me in my duty," observedTaverney, politely bowing to the young woman. "Advise obedience to thegentleman, or in the name of the king, whom I represent, I shall killhim if he will fight me, or arrest him if he refuses."
"Shall I lug him out, lieutenant?" asked the corporal, who hadTaverney's half-dozen men as escort.
"No, this is a personal quarrel," said his superior. "You need notinterfere."
There was truly no need; for, after three minutes, Jean Dubarry drewback from the conflict with Redcastle, his sleeve dyed with blood.
"Go, sir," said the victor, "and do not play such pranks any more."
"Tush, I pay for them," grumbled the viscount.
Luckily three horses came in which would do for the change, and theinnkeeper was only too glad to get rid of the turbulent viscount attheir price. As he mounted the carriage steps, he grumbled at Gilbert'sbeing in the way.
"Hush, brother," said Chon; "he knows the man who wounded you. He isPhilip of Taverney."
"Then we shall be even yet," said the viscount, with a gleam ofgladness. "You are on the high horse at present, my little dragoon," heshouted out to Taverney; "but turn about is fair play."
"To the return, if you please," replied the officer.
"Yes, Chevalier Philip de Taverney!" called Jean, watching for theeffect of the sudden declaration of his name.
Indeed, his hearer raised his head with sharp surprise, in whichentered some unease, but recovering himself and lifting his hat, herejoined with the utmost grace:
"A pleasant journey, Chevalier Jean Dubarry!"
"A thousand thunders," swore the viscount, grinning horribly as thecoach started. "I am in acute pain, Chon, and shall want a surgeonsooner than breakfast."
"We will get one at the first stop while this youth has his meal."
"Excuse me," said Gilbert, as the invalid expressed a desire to drink."But strong drink is bad for you at present."
"What, are you a doctor as well as philosopher?" queried Jean.
"Not yet, my lord; though I hope to be one some day. But I read thatwounded patients must not take anything heated. But if you will let mehave your handkerchief, I will dip it in water at the first spring andcool the wound by bandaging it."
The carriage was stopped for Gilbert to get out and wet the cambric.
"This youngster is dreadfully in the way for us to talk business," saidDubarry.
"Pshaw! we will talk in the Southern dialect," said Chon; and it wasthanks to this precaution that the two communed to the puzzlement ofthe youth on the rest of the journey.
But he had the consolation of thinking that he had comforted a viscountwho stood in the king's favor. If Andrea only saw him now! He did notthink of Nicole.
"Hello!" broke off the viscount, as he looked behind out of the window."Here comes that Arab with the strange woman on its back. I would givea thousand pistoles for that steed, and a fortune for the beauty."
The black-eyed woman wrapped in a white cloak, with her brow shadedby a broad-brimmed felt hat with long feathers, flew by like an arrowalong the roadside, crying:
"_Avanti_, Djerid!"
"She says 'Forward!' in Italian," said the viscount. "Oh, the lovelycreature. If I were not in such pain, I would jump out and after her."
"You could not catch her, on that horse. It is the magician, and she ishis wife."
"Magician?" questioned the Dubarrys together.
"Yes, Baron Joseph Balsamo."
The sister looked at the brother as much as to say: "Was I not right tokeep him?" and he nodded emphatically.



CHAPTER XVI.
THE KING'S FAVORITE.

In the apartments of Princess Adelaide, daughter of King Louis X., hehad housed the Countess Jeanne Dubarry, his favorite since a year, notwithout studying the effect it would have on the realm. The jolly,mirthful, devil-may-care mad-cap had transformed the silent palace intoa monkey-house, where any one was tolerated who kept the fun alive.
At about nine in the morning, the hour of her reception, JeanneVaubernier, to give her her true name, stepped out of her couch,wrapped in an embroidered gauze gown which allowed a glimpse throughthe floating lace of her alabaster arms. This seductive statue,awakening more and more, drew a lace mantle over her shoulders andheld out her little foot for a slipper which, with its jewels, wouldenrich a woodcutter in her native woods had he found it.
"Any news of Chon, or the Viscount Jean?" she asked at once of herchambermaid.
"None, and no letters, my lady."
"What a bore to be kept waiting!" pouted the royal pet, with a prettywry face. "Will they never invent a method of corresponding a hundredmiles apart? Faith, I pity anybody I visit with my vexation this day.But I suppose that, as this star the dauphiness is coming, I, the poorglowworm, will be left alone. Who is waiting, tell me?"
"Duke Daiguillon, Prince Soubise, Count Sartines and President Maupeou."
"But the Duke of Richelieu?"
"He has not yet come."
"No more than yesterday. That political weathercock has turned from me.He is afraid to be injured, Doris. You must send to his house to askafter him."
"Yes, my lady; but the king is here."
"Very well; I am ready."
The Fifteenth Louis entered the room with a smile on his lips and hishead upright. He was accompanied solely by a gentleman in black, whotried by a smile to counteract the baleful effect of thin, hard lipsand severe gray eyes. It was Lieutenant of Police Sartines.
The waiting maid and a little negro boy were in the room; but they werenot counted.
"Good-morning, countess," hailed the monarch; "how fresh we are lookingto-day. Don't be afraid of Sartines; he is not going to talk business,I trust. Oh, how magnificent Zamore is looking!"
The blackamoor was appareled with the barbaric splendor in whichOthello was attired at that period.
"Sire, he has a favor to crave of your Majesty."
"He seems to me very ambitious, after having been granted by you thegreatest boon one can desire--being your slave, like myself."
Sartines bowed, smiling, but bit his lips at the same time.
"How delightful you are, sire," said the countess. "I adore you,France!" she whispered in the royal ear, and set him smiling.
"Well, what do you desire for Zamore?"
"Recompense for his long service----"
"He is only twelve years old!"
"You will be paying him in advance; that is a good way of not beingtreated with ingratitude."
"Capital idea! What do you think, Sartines?" asked the king.
"I support it, as all devoted subjects will gain by it."
"Well, sire, I want Zamore to be appointed governor of my summerresidence, Luciennes, which shall be created a royal place."
"It would be a parody and make all the governors of the royal placesprotest, and with reason."
"A good thing, for they are always making a noise for nothing. Zamore,kneel down and thank his majesty for the favor. Sire, you have anotherroyal property from this time forward. Get up, Zamore. You areappointed."
"Sartines, do you know the way to refuse this witch anything?"
"If there is one, it is not yet out into practice, sire."
"When found, I wager it will be by Chief of Police Sartines. I amexpecting him to find me something--and I have been on thorns about itfor three months. I want a magician."
"To have him burnt alive?" asked the sovereign, while Sartines breathedagain. "It is warm weather, now; wait for winter."
"Not to burn him, but to give him a golden rod, sire."
"Oh, did he predict some ill which has not happened?"
"Nay, a blessing which came to pass."
"Tell us, countess," said Louis, settling down in an easy chair, likeone who is not sure he will be pleased or oppressed but will risk it.
"I am agreeable, sire, only you must share in rewarding him."
"I must make the present entirely."
"That is right royal."
"I listen."
"It begins like a fairy tale. Once upon a time, a poor girl was walkingthe streets of Paris, what time she had neither pages, carriages, negroboy to hold up her train and enrage the dowagers, or parrot or monkey.Crossing the Tuileries gardens, she suddenly perceived that she waspursued."
"Deuce take it! thereupon she stopped," said the king.
"Fie! It is clear that your experience has been in following duchessesor marchionesses. She was the more alarmed as a thick fog came on, andthe chaser emerged from it upon her. She screamed."
"For the rogue was ugly?"
"No, he was a bright and handsome young man; but still she sued him tospare her from harm. He smiled charmingly and called heaven as witnessthat he had no such intention. He only wanted her pledge to grant him afavor when--when she should be a queen. She thought she was not bindingherself much with such a promise, and the man disappeared."
"Sartines is very wrong in not finding him."
"Sire, I do not refuse, but I cannot."
"Cannot ought not to be in the police dictionary," said Dubarry.
"We have a clew."
"Ha, ha! that is the old story."
"It is the truth. The fault is that your description is so slight."
"Slight? she painted him so brightly that I forbid you to find the dog."
"I only want to ask a piece of information."
"What for, when his prophecy is accomplished?"
"If I am almost a queen, I want to ask him when I shall be placed inthe court."
"Presented formally?"
"It is not enough to reign in the night; I want to reign a little inthe daytime."
"That is not the magician's business, but mine," said Louis, frowningat the conversation getting upon delicate ground. "Or rather yours, forall that is wanted is an introductress."
"Among the court prudes--all sold to Choiseul or Praslin?"
"Pray let us have no politics here."
"If I am not to speak, I shall act without speaking, and upset theministers without any further notice."
At this juncture the maid Doris entered and spoke a word to hermistress.
"It is Chon, who comes from traveling and begs to present her respectsto your majesty."
"Let us have Chon in, for I have missed something lately, and it may beher."
"I thank your majesty," said Chon, coming in, and hastening to whisperto her sister in kissing her:
"I have done it."
The countess could not repress an outcry of delight.
"I am so glad to see her."
"Quite so; go on and chat with her while I confer with Sartines tolearn whence you come, Chon."
"Sire," said Sartines, eager to avoid the pinch, "may I have a momentfor the most important matter?--about these seers, illuminati, miracleworkers----"
"Quacks? make them take out licenses as conjurers at a high figure, andthey will not be any cause of fear."
"Sire, the situation is more serious than most believe. New masoniclodges are being opened. This society has become a sect to which isaffiliated all the foes of the monarchy, the idealists, encyclopedistsand philosophers. Voltaire has been received at court."
"A dying man."
"Only his pretense. All are agitating, writing, speaking,corresponding, plotting and threatening. From some words dropped, theyare expecting a leader."
"When he turns up, Sartines, we will turn him down, in the Bastille."
"These philosophers whom you despise will destroy the monarchy."
"In what space of time, my lord?"
"How can I tell?" said the chief of police, looking astonished. "Ten,fifteen or more years."
"My dear friend, in that time I shall be no more; tell this to mysuccessor."
He turned away, and this was the opportunity that the favorite waswaiting for, since she heaved a sigh, and said:
"Oh, gracious, Chon, what are you telling me? My poor brother Jean sobadly wounded that his arm will have to be amputated!"
"Oh, wounded in some street affray or in a drinking-saloon quarrel?"
"No, sire! attacked on the king's highway and nearly murdered."
"Murdered?" repeated the ruler, who had no feelings, but could finelyfeign them. "This is in your province, Sartines."
"Can such a thing have happened?" said the chief of police, apparentlyless concerned than the king, but in reality more so.
"I saw a man spring on my brother," said Chon, "force him to draw hissword and cut him grievously."
"Was the ruffian alone?"
"He had half a dozen bullies with him."
"Poor viscount forced to fight," sighed the monarch, trying to regulatethe amount of his grief by the countess'; but he saw that she was notpretending.
"And wounded?" he went on, in a heartbroken tone.
"But what was the scuffle about?" asked the police lieutenant, tryingto see into the affair.
"Most frivolous; about posthorses, disputed for with the viscount, whowas in a hurry to help me home to my sister, whom I had promised tojoin this morning."
"This requires retaliation, eh, Sartines?" said the king.
"It looks so, but I will inquire into it. The aggressor's name andrank?"
"I believe he is a military officer, in the dauphiness' dragoon guards,and named something like Baverne, or Faver--stop--it is Taverney."
"To-morrow he will sleep in prison," said the chief of police.
"Oh, dear, no," interrupted the countess out of deep silence; "thatis not likely, for he is but an instrument and you will not punishthe real instigators of the outrage. It is the work of the Duke ofChoiseul. I shall leave the field free for my foes, and quit a realmwhere the ruler is daunted by his ministers."
"How dare you?" cried Louis, offended.
Chon understood that her sister was going too far, and she struck in.
She plucked her sister by the dress and said:
"Sire, my sister's love for our poor brother carries her away. Icommitted the fault and I must repair it. As the most humble subject ofyour majesty, I merely apply for justice."
"That is good; I only ask to deal justice. If the man has done wrong,let him be chastised."
"Am I asking anything else?" said the countess, glancing pityingly atthe monarch, who was so worried elsewhere and seldom tormented in herrooms. "But I do not like my suspicions snubbed."
"Your suspicions shall be changed to certainty by a very simple course.We will have the Duke of Choiseul here. We will confront the parties atodds, as the lawyers say."
At this moment the usher opened the door and announced that the princeroyal was waiting in the king's apartments to see him.
"It is written I shall have no peace," grumbled Louis. But he was notsorry to avoid the wrangle with Choiseul, and he brightened up. "I amgoing, countess. Farewell! you see how miserable I am with everybodypulling me about. Ah, if the philosophers only knew what a dog's life aking has--especially when he is king of France."
"But what am I say to the Duke of Choiseul?"
"Send him to me, countess."
Kissing her hand, trembling with fury, he hastened away as usual,fearing every time to lose the fruit of a battle won by palliatives andcommon cunning.
"Alas! he escapes us again!" wailed the courtesan, clenching her plumphands in vexation.



CHAPTER XVII.
A ROYAL CLOCK-REPAIRER.

In the Hall of the Clocks, in Versailles Palace, a pink-cheeked andmeek-eyed young gentleman was walking about with a somewhat vulgarstep. His arms were pendent and his head sunk forward. He was in hisseventeenth year. He was recognizable as the king's heir by being theliving image of the Bourbon race, most exaggerated. Louis Auguste,Duke of Berry and heir to the throne as the dauphin, soon wearied ofhis lounge and stopped to gaze with the air of one who understoodhorology, on the great clock in the back of the hall. It was auniversal machine, which told of time to the century, with the lunarphases and the courses of the planets, and was always the prince'sadmiration.
Suddenly the hands on which his eyes were fastened came to astandstill. A grain of sand had checked the mechanism, and themaster-piece was dead.
On seeing this misfortune, the royal one forgot what he had come to do.He opened the clock-case glazed door, and put his head inside to seewhat was the matter. All at once he uttered a cry of joy, for he hadspied a screw loose, of which the head had worked up and caught anotherpart of the machinery. With a tortoise shell pick in one hand, andholding the wheel with the other, he began to fix the screw, with hishead in the box. Thus absorbed he never heard the usher at the door,cry out: "The king!"
Louis was some time glancing about before he spied the prince's legs ashe stood half eclipsed before the clock.
"What the deuse are you doing there?" he asked, as he tapped his son onthe shoulder.
The amateur clockmaker drew himself out with the proper precautions forso noble a timepiece.
"Oh, your majesty, I was just _killing time_ while you were notpresent."
"By murdering my clock! Pretty amusement!"
"Oh, no, only setting it to rights. A screw was loose and----"
"Never mind mechanics! What do you want of me? I am eager to be off toMarly."
He started for the door, always trying to avoid awkward situations.
"Is it money you are after? I will send you some."
"Nay, I have savings out of my last quarter's money."
"What a miser, and yet a spendthrift was his tutor! I believe he hasall the virtues missing in me."
"Sire, is not the bride near at hand yet?"
"Your bride? I should say fifty leagues off. Are you in a hurry."
The prince royal blushed.
"I am not eager for the motive you think."
"No? So much the worse. Hang it all! You are sixteen and the princessvery pretty. You are warranted in being impatient."
"Cannot the ceremonies be curtailed, for at this rate she will be anage coming. I don't think the traveling arrangements are well made."
"The mischief! thirty thousand horses placed along the route, with menand carts and coaches--how can you believe there is bad managementwhen I have made all these arrangements?"
"Sire, in spite of these, I am bound to say that I think, as in thecase of your clock, there is a screw loose. The progress has been rightroyally arranged, but did your majesty make it fully understood thatall the horses, men and vehicles were to be employed by the dauphiness?"
A vague suspicion annoyed the monarch, who looked hard at his heir;this suggestion agreed with another idea fretting him.
"Certainly," he replied. "Of course you are satisfied, then? The bridewill arrive on time, and she is properly attended to. You are rich withyour savings, and you can wind up my clock and set it going again. Ihave a good mind to appoint you Clockmaker Extraordinary to the RoyalHousehold, do you hear?" and, laughing, he was going to snatch theopportunity to slip away, when, as he opened the door, he faced a manon the sill.
Louis drew back a step.
"Choiseul!" he exclaimed. "I had forgotten she was to send him to me.Never mind, he shall pay for my son irritating me. So you have come, mylord? You heard I wanted you?"
"Yes, sire," replied the prime minister, coldly. "I was dressing tocome, any way."
"Good; I have serious matters to discuss," said the sovereign, frowningto intimidate the minister, who was, unfortunately, the hardest man tobrowbeat in the kingdom.
"Very serious matters I have to discuss, too," he replied, with aglance for the dauphin, who was skulking behind the clock.
"Oho!" thought the king; "my son is my foe, too. I am in a trianglewith woman, minister and son, and cannot escape."
"I come to say that the Viscount Jean----"
"Was nearly murdered in an ambush?"
"Nay, that he was wounded in the forearm in a duel. I know itperfectly."
"So do I, and I will tell you the true story."
"We listen," responded Choiseul. "For the prince is concerned in theaffray, so far as it was on account of the dauphiness."
"The dauphiness and Jean Dubarry in some way connected?" questionedthe king. "This is getting curious. Pray explain, my lord, and concealnothing. Was it the princess who gave the swordthrust to Dubarry?"
"Not her highness, but one of the officers of her escort," repliedChoiseul, as calm as ever.
"One whom you know?"
"No, sire; but your majesty ought to know him, if your majestyremembers all his old servants; for his father fought for you atFontenoy, Philipsburg and Mahon--he is a Taverney Redcastle."
The dauphin mutely repeated the title to engrave it on his mind.
"Certainly, I know the Redcastles," returned Louis. "Why did he fightagainst Jean, whom I like--unless because I like him? Absurd jealousy,outbreaks of discontent, and partial sedition!"
"Does the defender of the royal princess deserve this reproach?" saidthe duke.
"I must say," said the prince, rising erect and folding his arms, "I amgrateful to the young gentleman who risked his life for a lady who willshortly be my wife."
"What did he risk his life for?" queried the king.
"Because the Chevalier Jean in a hurry wanted to take the horses setaside by your majesty for the royal bride."
The king bit his lips and changed color, for the new way of presentingthe case was again a menacing phantom.
"Yes, Chevalier Dubarry was putting the insult on the royal house oftaking the reserved royal horses, when up came the Chevalier Redcastle,sent onward by her highness, and after much civil remonstrance----"
"Oh!" protested the king. "Civil--a military man?"
"It was so," interposed the dauphin. "I have been fully informed.Dubarry whipped out his sword----"
"Was he the first to draw?" demanded the king.
The prince blushed and looked to Choiseul for support.
"The fact is, the two crossed swords," the latter hastened to say, "onehaving insulted the lady, the other defending her and your majesty'sproperty."
"But who was the aggressor, for Jean is mild as a lamb," said themonarch, glad that things were getting equalized.
"The officer must have been malapert."
"Impertinent to a man who was dragging away the horses reserved foryour majesty's destined daughter?" exclaimed Choiseul. "Is thispossible?"
"Hasty, anyway," said the king, as the dauphin stood pale without aword.
"A zealous servitor can never do wrong," remarked the duke, receding astep.
"Come, now, how did you get the news?" asked the king of his son,without losing sight of the minister, who was troubled by this abruptquestion.
"I had an advice from one who was offended by the insult to the lady ofmy choice."
"Secret correspondence, eh?" exclaimed the sovereign. "Plots,plots! Here you are, beginning to worry me again, as in the days ofPompadour."
"No, this is only a secondary matter. Let the culprit be punished, andthat will end the affair."
At the suggestion of punishment, Louis saw Jeanne furious and Chon upin arms.
"Punish, without hearing the case?" he said. "I have signed quiteenough blank committals to jail. A pretty mess you are dragging meinto, duke."
"But what a scandal, if the first outrage to the princess is allowed togo unpunished, sire."
"I entreat your majesty," said the dauphin.
"What, don't you think the sword cut was enough punishment?"
"No, sire, for he might have wounded Lieutenant Taverney. In that caseI should have asked for his head."
"Nay," said the dauphin, "I only ask for his banishment."
"Exile, for an alehouse scuffle," said the king. "In spite of yourphilosophical notions, you are harsh, Louis. It is true that you area mathematician, and such are hard as--well, they would sacrifice theworld to have their ciphering come out correct."
"Sire, I am not angry with Chevalier Dubarry personally, but as heinsulted the dauphiness."
"What a model husband!" sneered the king. "But I am not to be gulledin this way. I see that I am attacked under all these blinds. It isodd that you cannot let me live in my own way, but must hate all whomI like, and like all I dislike! Am I mad, or sane? Am I the master, ornot!"
The prince went back to the clock. Choiseul bowed as before.
"No answer, eh? Why don't you say something? Do you want to worry meinto the grave with your petty hints and strange silence, your paltryspites and minute dreads?"
"I do not hate Chevalier Dubarry," said the prince.
"I do not dread him," added Choiseul.
"You are both bad at heart," went on the sovereign, trying to befurious but only showing spite. "Do you want me to realize the fablewith which my cousin of Prussia jeers me, that mine is the Court ofKing Petaud? No, I shall do nothing of the kind. I stand on my honor inmy own style and will defend it similarly."
"Sire," said the prince with his inexhaustible meekness but eternalpersistency, "your majesty's honor is not affected--it is the dignityof the royal princess which is struck at."
"Let Chevalier Jean make excuses, then, as he is free to do. But he isfree to do the other thing."
"I warn your majesty that the affair will be talked of, if thusdropped," said the prime minister.
"Who cares? Do as I do. Let the public chatter, and heed themnot--unless you like to laugh at them. I shall be deaf to all. Thesooner they make such a noise as to deafen me, the sooner I shall ceaseto hear them. Think over what I say, for I am sick of this. I am goingto Marly, where I can get a little quiet--if I am not followed outthere. At least, I shall not meet your sister the Lady Louise there,for she has retired to the nunnery of St. Denis."
But the dauphin was not listening to this news of the breaking up ofhis family.
"It is going," he exclaimed in delight, real or feigned, as the clockresumed its regular tickings.
The minister frowned and bowed himself out backward from the hall,where the heir to the throne was left alone.
The king going into his study, paced it with long strides.
"I can clearly see that Choiseul is railing at me. The prince lookson himself as half the master, and believes he will be entirely sowhen he mounts with this Austrian on the throne. My daughter Louiseloves me, but she preaches morality and she gives me the go-by to livein the nunnery. My three other girls sing songs against me and poorJeanne. The Count of Provence is translating Lucretius. His brother ofArtois is running wild about the streets. Decidedly none but this poorcountess loves me. Devil take those who try to displease her!"
Sitting at the table where his father signed papers, his treaties andgrandiloquent epistles, the son of the great king took up the pen.
"I understand why they are all hastening the arrival of thearchduchess. But I am not going to be perturbed by her sooner than canbe helped," and he wrote an order for Governor Stainville to stop threedays at one city and three at another.
With the same pen he wrote:
    "DEAR COUNTESS: This day we install Zamore in his new government.    I am off for Marly, but I will come over to Luciennes this evening    to tell you all I am thinking about at present.
    FRANCE."
"Lebel," he said to his confidential valet, "away with this to thecountess, and my advice is for you to keep in her good graces."



CHAPTER XVIII.
THE COUNTESS OF BEARN.

A hackney coach stopping at the doorway of Chancellor Maupeou,president of Parliament, induced the porter to deign to stalk out tothe door of the vehicle and see why the way was thus blocked.
He saw an old lady in an antiquated costume. She was thin and bony butactive, with cat's eyes rolling under gray brows. But poverty strickenthough she appeared, the porter showed respect as he asked her name.
"I am the Countess of Bearn," she replied; "but I fear that I shall nothave the fortune to find his lordship at home."
"My lord is receiving," answered the janitor. "That is, he will receiveyour ladyship."
The old lady stepped out of the carriage, wondering if she did notdream, while the porter gave two jerks to a bellrope. An usher came tothe portals, where the first servant motioned that the visitor mightenter.
"If your ladyship desires speech with the lord high chancellor," saidthe usher, "step this way, please."
"They do speak ill of this official," uttered the lady; "but he has thegood trait that he is easily accessible. But it is strange that so highan officer of the law should have open doors."
Chancellor Maupeou, buried in an enormous wig and clad in black velvet,was writing in his study, where the door was open.
On entering, the old countess threw a rapid glance around, but to hersurprise there was no other face than hers and that of the law lord,thin, yellow and busy, reflected in the mirrors.
He rose in one piece and placed himself with his back to the fireplace.
The lady made the three courtesies according to rule.
Her little compliment was rather unsteady; she had not expected thehonor; she never could have believed that a cabinet minister would giveher some time out of his business or his repose.
Maupeou replied that time was no less precious to subject than hismajesty's ministers, although preference had to be given to personswith urgent affairs, consequently, he gave what leisure he had to suchclients.
"My lord," said the old lady, with fresh courtesies, "I beg most humblyto speak to your excellency of a grave matter on which depends myfortune. You know that my all depends, or rather my son's, on the casesustained by me against the Saluces family. You are a friend of thatfamily, but your lordship's equity is so well known that I have nothesitated to apply to you."
The chancellor was fondling his chin, but he could not help a smile tohear his fair play extolled.
"My lady, you are right in calling me friend of the Saluces; but I laidaside friendship when I took the seals of office up. I look into yourbusiness simply as a juris consultus. The case is soon coming on?"
"In another week I should beg your lordship to look over my papers."
"I have done so already."
"Oh! What do you think of it?"
"I beg to say that you ought to be prepared to go home and get themoney together to pay the costs--for you will infallibly lose the case."
"Then my son and I are ruined!"
"Unless you have friends at court to counterbalance the influence ofthe Saluces brothers, who are linked with three parts of the courtiers.In fact, I know not if they have an enemy."
"I am sorry to hear your Excellency say this."
"I am sorry to say so, for I really wanted to be useful to yourladyship."
The countess shuddered at the tone of feigned kindness, for she seemedto catch a glimpse of something dark in the mind, if not the speech ofthe chancellor; if that obscurity could be swept away she fancied shewould see something favorable to her.
"Do you know nobody at court?" he insisted.
"Only some old noblemen, probably retired, who would blush to see theirold friend so poor. I have my right of entry to the palace, but what isthe good? Better to have the right to enter into enjoyment of my twohundred thousand livres. Work that miracle, my lord."
"Judges cannot be led astray by private influence," he said, forgettingthat he was contradicting himself. "Why not, however, apply to thenew powers, eager to make recruits? You must have known the royalprincesses?"
"They have grown out of remembrance."
"The prince royal?"
"I never knew him."
"Besides, he is dwelling too much on his bride, who is on the roadhither, to do any one a good turn. Oh! why not address the favorites?"
"The Duke of Choiseul?"
"No, the other, the Countess----"
"Dubarry?" said the prude, opening her fan.
"Yes, she is goodhearted and she likes to do kindnesses to her friends."
"I am of too old a line for her to like me."
"That is where you are wrong; for she is trying to ally herself withthe old families."
"But I have never seen her."
"What a pity! Or her sister, Chon, the other sister Bischi, her brotherJean, or her negro boy Zamore?"
"What! is her negro a power at court?"
"Indeed he is."
"A black who looks like a pug dog, for they sell his picture in thestreets. How was I to meet this blackamoor, my lord?" and the dame drewherself up, offended.
"It is a pity you did not, for Zamore would win your suit for you. Askthe dukes and peers of the realm who take candies to him at Marly orLuciennes. I am the lord high chancellor, but what do you think I wasabout when your ladyship called? Drawing up the instructions for him asgovernor of Luciennes, to which Zamore has been appointed."
"The Count of Bearn was recompensed for his services of twenty yearswith merely the same title. What degradation! Is the monarchy indeedgoing to the dogs?" cried the indignant lady.
"I do not know about the government, but the crumbs are going to them,and, faith! we must scramble among them to get the tidbits away fromthem. If you wanted to be welcomed by Lady Dubarry, you could not dobetter than carry these papers for her pet to her."
"It is plain that fate is against me; for, though your lordship haskindly greeted me, the next step is out of the question. Not onlyam I to pay court to a Dubarry, but I must carry her negro-boy'sappointment--a black whom I would not have deigned to kick out of myway on the street----"
Suddenly the usher interrupted:
"Viscount Jean Dubarry."
The chancellor dropped his hands in stupor, while the old petitionersank back in an armchair without pulse or breath.
Our old acquaintance pranced in, with his arm in a sling:
"Oh, engaged? Pray, do not disturb yourself, my lady; I want onlya couple of minutes to make a complaint, a couple of his preciousminutes. They have tried to murder me! I did not mind their making funat us, singing lewd ballads, slandering and libeling us; but it is toomuch of a vile thing to waylay and murder. But I am interrupting thelady."
"This is the Countess of Bearn," said the chancellor.
Dubarry drew back gracefully to make a proper bow, and the lady did thesame for her courtesy, and they saluted as ceremoniously as though theyhad been in court.
"After you, viscount," she said; "my case is about property; yoursabout honor, and so takes the lead."
Profiting by her obligingness Dubarry unfolded his complaint.
"You will want witnesses on your side," observed the chancellor.
"That is awkward, for everybody there seems to be on the other side."
"Not everybody," interrupted the countess, "for if the affray was theone that happened in Chaussee village, I can be your witness. I camethrough there a couple of hours after, and all were talking of it!"
"Have a care, my lady," said the viscount; "for if you speak in myfavor, you will make an enemy of Choiseul."
"She ought to lean on your arm, then; though one is wounded, it willsoon be healed, and the other is still formidable," said the law lord,while the old dame rolled from one gulf into another.
"Ah, but I know another, whose arms are perfect," said Jean, merrily;"and service for service, she will offer your ladyship hers. I am goingstraight to my sister, and I offer you a seat in my carriage."
"But without motive, without preparations," faltered the countess.
"Here is your excuse," whispered Maupeou, slipping Zamore'sgovernmental instructions into her sallow, wrinkled hand.
"My lord chancellor, you are my deliverer," she gasped. "And theviscount is the flower of the chivalry."
Indeed, a splendid coach in the royal colors was waiting at the doors.The countess placed herself in it, swelling with pride. Jean enteredlikewise, and gave the word for the departure.
In her joy at this smooth sailing, the countess forgot that she hadwanted to lay a private complaint before the chancellor as head of thelegal fraternity.
It may be remembered that Chon had decoyed her into traveling to Parisby pretending to be the daughter of her lawyer Flageot.
What was her amazement, therefore, on calling on that gentleman,to learn that not only was he a bachelor without a daughter, butthat he had no good news to impart to her on her suit. Burning withdisappointment, she had sought a remedy against this lawyer or thiswoman who had hoaxed her.



CHAPTER XIX.
CHON SPOILS ALL.

After the king's departure from the short and unpleasant call, as hetermed it to the courtiers, the Countess Dubarry remained closeted withChon and her brother, who had kept in the background for fear that hiswound would be found to be but a scratch. The outcome of this familycouncil was that the countess, instead of going to Luciennes, went to aprivate house of hers in Valois Street, Paris.
Jeanne read a book while Zamore, at the window, watched for thecarriage to return. When the viscount brought the old countess he lefther in the anteroom while he ran to tell his sister of his success.
"Where is Chon?" he asked.
"At Versailles, where I bade her keep close."
"Then go in, my princess."
Lady Dubarry opened the boudoir door and walked into her visitor'spresence.
"I have already thanked my brother," she said, "for having procured methe honor of your ladyship's visit; but I must thank you at present formaking it."
"I cannot find expressions," said the delighted suitor, "to show mygratitude for the kind reception granted me."
"Allow me," said Jean, as the ladies took seats; "the countess must notseem to be applying to you for a favor. The chancellor has confided acommission for you, that is all."
The visitor gave the speaker a thankful look, and handed the letterspatent from the chancellor which created Luciennes a royal castle andintrusted Zamore with the governership.
"It is I who am obliged," said the younger countess, "and I shallconsider myself happy when the chance comes for me to do something inmy turn."
"That will be easy," cried the other with a quickness delighting thepair of plotters. "You will not be ignorant of my name?"
"How could we? The name of the princess to whom we owe King Henry theFourth?"
"Then you may have heard of a lawsuit which ties up my property."
"Claimed by the Saluces? Yes, the king was talking of the matter withChancellor Maupeou, my cousin, the other evening."
"The king talked of my case? In what terms, pray?"
"Alas! he seemed to think that it ought to be the Saluces."
"Good heavens! then we would have to pay twice over a sum which morallywas paid. I have not the receipt, I grant, but I can prove paymentmorally."
"I think moral proofs are accepted," said Jean gravely.
"The claim of two hundred thousand livres, with interest, now amountingto a capital of over a million, dated 1406. It must have been settledby Guy Gaston IV., Count of Bearn, because on his deathbed, in 1417, hewrote in his will 'Owing no debts,' and so on."
"That settles it," said Jean.
"But your adversaries hold the note?" said the countess, pretending totake an interest in the subject.
"Yes, that embroils it," said the old lady, who ought to have said,"This clears it up."
"It terribly changes the position for the Saluces."
"Oh, my lady, I would that you were one of the judges!"
"In olden times, you might have claimed a champion to do battle foryou. I have such belief in your case that I would go into the lists foryou. Unfortunately we have not to do with knights but a gang of robbersin black gowns, who will not understand so plain an expression as 'Idie owing no debts.'"
"Stay, though; as the words were spoken three hundred years ago theywould be outlawed, I think," ventured Countess Dubarry.
"But you would be convinced of the lady's rights, sister, if you wereto hear her, as I have heard coming along."
"Then do me the favor of coming out to my place at Luciennes, where, bythe way, the king drops in now and again."
"But I cannot rely on such a chance, for the case is called Monday, andthis is Friday."
"What the deuce can be done?" grumbled the viscount, appearing tomeditate profoundly.
"If I could have a royal hearing at Versailles through yourintroduction?" suggested the old lady.
"Not to be thought of. The king does not like me to meddle with law orpolitics. And at present he is worried about my presentation to thecourt."
"Oh!" exclaimed the aged litigant.
"The king wants it to come off before the new dauphiness arrives,so that my sister can go to the festivities at Compiegne, in spiteof Choiseul's opposition, Praslin's intrigues and Lady Grammont'sintervention."
"I understand. The countess has no introductress?" queried Lady Bearn,timidly.
"Beg pardon, we have Baroness Alogny, only the king would prefersomebody with a historical name."
"I cannot say that I ever heard of the Alognys," hissed the olddescendant of kings with incredible envy.
"It will be a grand thing for her, for the king is tired of the jadeswho put on airs prouder than himself!" said Jean. "I could make LadyAlogny draw off by telling her what the king said."
"It would be unfair," said the viscount.
"What a pity! for in that case, here is a lady of ancient lineage, andregal. She would win her lawsuit, her son could have a lieutenancy inthe household troops, and as Lady Bearn must have gone to much outlayin her trips to Paris, she would have compensation out of the privypurse. Such luck does not rain down twice in a lifetime."
"Alas! no," said Lady Bearn, crushed in her chair by all things beingagainst her.
"An idea strikes me," said Jean. "All has been kept quiet, and so theking does not know that we have a lady patroness to present my sister.Suppose you were at Versailles and expressed your willingness to actas social sponsor for my sister. Why, the king would accept one who ishis relative, and that would prevent the Alognys complaining. The kingcould do no wrong."
"The king would do right about the suit," said Jeanne. "He would bedelighted and he would be sure to say to Chancellor Maupeou: 'I wantyou to treat Lady Bearn properly, my lord!'"
"But this may look bad, when everybody thinks my case lost," objectedthe old countess.
"Well, let it be lost," returned the other lady quickly: "What matter,if you are compensated?"
"Two hundred thousand livres?" said the other with sorrow.
"Pooh, what if there be a royal present of a hundred thousand livres?"
"I have a son," remarked the victim, while the two eyed her greedily.
"So much the better, as he will be another servitor for the king; hemust not have less than a cornetcy in the army," said Jean. "Any otherkinsmen?"
"A nephew."
"We shall find a berth for him."
"We rely on your invention," said Countess Dubarry, rising. "You willallow me to mention your ladyship to the king?"
"Do me the honor," said the old dame with a sigh.
"No later than this evening," said the royal favorite. "I trust I havewon your friendship?"
"Yes, though I believe I am in a dream."
But the dream only lasted to the foot of the stairs, where CountessBearn was conducted on Jean's hale arm, for there the irrepressibleChon came bounding out of a sedan chair. Lady Bearn recognized thepretended daughter of Lawyer Flageot.
"It is Mistress Chon," roared Zamore.
"Is that little fool Gilbert here?" asked Chon of the footmen, when shesuddenly looked up and saw Jean trying to hush her.
She followed the direction of his finger and perceived Lady Bearn. Shegave a scream, lowered her cap-veil, and plunged into the vestibule.
Appearing to notice nothing, the old lady got into the carriage andgave her address to the coachman.



CHAPTER XX.
ANNOYANCE AND AMUSEMENT.

The king had been at Luciennes from three o'clock till dark, when,supremely wearied, he reposed on a sofa in a sitting-room, whereCountess Dubarry surprised him about half-past ten.
Zamore was at the door when she woke him up.
"Have you come at last, countess?" he said.
"At last? I have been waiting for you this hour. How soundly yourMajesty sleeps."
"I have slept three hours. But what do I see there?"
"That is the governor of Luciennes. The chancellor sent me theappointment, and so he donned the uniform. Swear him in quickly, andlet him begin guarding us."
Zamore marched up, wearing a showy lace dress, with a sword. His hugethree-cocked hat was under his arm. He went down on his knees, laid onehand on his heart, the other one was placed in the king's, and he said:
"Me swear faith and homage to my massa and missee; me will defendthe castle placed under my guard to the last gasp, and me will notsurrender it till the last can of jelly is eaten."
The sovereign laughed, less at the comic oath than at the black boy'sgravity in taking it.
"In return for this pledge," he said with due seriousness, "I confer onyou, Sir Governor, the sovereign right of dealing out justice to theextent of capital punishment over all in your hold, in earth, air, fireand water."
"Thankee, massa," said Zamore, rising.
"Now, run away into the servants hall and show your fine trappings."
As Zamore went out by one door, Chon came in by another. The king tookher on his knee and kissed her.
"Good-evening, Chon. I like you because you tell me the truth. I wantto know what has made your sister so late in hunting me up."
"No, Jeanne is the one to tell the truth. Still, if you will pay me formy report, I will show you that my police spies are up to the mark ofChief Sartines'."
"I have the pay ready," said the king, jingling some coins in hispocket. "No fibs."
"The Countess Dubarry went to her private residence in Valois Street,Paris, where Zamore met her about six o'clock. She went to speak withher sponsor."
"What, is she going to be baptized?"
"Her social sponsor--I do not know the right name for it."
"Say, the lady patroness. So you have fabricated one."
"Nay, she is ready made, and from away back. It is Countess Bearn, ofthe family of reigning princes. I guess she will not disgrace the linewhich is allied with the Royal Stuarts, the Dubarry-Moores."
"I never knew of any Countess Bearn but the one who lives by Verdun."
"The very one, who will call to-morrow at seven for a private audience.If the question will be allowed, she will ask when the introduction isto take place, and you will fix it shortly, eh, my Lord of France,"said the countess.
The king laughed, but not frankly.
"To-morrow at eleven?"
"At our breakfast hour."
"Impossible, my darling, for I must away; I have important businesswith Sartines."
"Oh, if you cannot even stay supper----"
The king saw her make a sign to Chon, and suspecting a trap, he calledfor his horses to go. Delighted with this display of his free will, hewalked to the door, but his gentlemen in waiting were not in the outerroom. The castle was mute, even in its echoes to his call.
He ran and opened the window, but the courtyard was deserted. Thetremulous moon shone on the river and lit up the calm night. Thisharmony was wasted on the king, who was far from poetic, artistic ormusing, but rather material.
"Come, come, countess!" he broke forth in vexation; "put an end to thisjoke."
"Sire, I have no authority here," said the countess. "It is a royalresidence, and the power is confided in the governor. And GovernorZamore is going the rounds with his guard of four men."
The king rather forced a smile.
"This is rather funny," he said. "But I want the horses put to mycoach."
"The governor has locked them up in the stables for fear robbers mightget at them. As for the escort, they are asleep, by orders of thegovernor, too."
"Then I will walk out of the castle alone."
"Hardly, for the gates are locked and the keys hang at the governor'sbelt."
"Pest on it! we have one castle strictly guarded!"
The countess lounged on a divan, playing with a rose, less red than hercoral lips.
"But we might go in quest of him," she said, rising. "Chon, carry thelight before his majesty."
The little procession of three had barely reached the end of the firsthall before a whiff of delicious odor set the royal mouth watering.
"You smell supper, my lord," explained the countess. "I thought youwere going to partake with me, and I had a feast prepared."
The king reflected that if he went on to Marly he would find nothingbut a cold collation. Here, through a doorway open he saw a table setfor two. The odor continued to scent the house.
"Bless us! you have a good cook."
"I do not know, for this is his first attempt to please us. I engagedhim because he has a reputation for a choice omelet of pheasants' eggs."
"My favorite dish! I should not like to grieve your new cook, countess,and I might taste it while we wait for the governor to finish hisinspection. But who will wait upon us?" he asked, entering.
"I hope to do so without upsetting any of this iced champagne--a newinvention, of which I wish your opinion."
"I fear I shall never take it from your hand, for it fascinates me intosolely admiring it."
"Ah, if my hired eulogists would say something so sweet as that!"
"I see that I must let you have your own way," and he settled down inan easy chair like one who was put in good humor by the prospect of aluxurious repast.
They finished it with coffee burnt in brandy, with a paper which theking held while the fair cajoler lighted.
"That is bad luck to the Choiseul party," said she; "that was one ofthe lampoons against us which they inspire and allow to be circulated."
"Did I call you a fay? I mistook: you are a demon."
The countess rose.
"I think I had better see if Governor Zamore is not on the return."
But the king shook his head, inflamed by the punch, the tokay and thechampagne. He was conscious of still another perfume, and his nosedirected him to a doorway suddenly opened. It led into a temptingchamber, hung with sky-blue satin, embroidered with flowers in theirnatural colors, an alcove where a mysterious soft light reigned.
"Well, sire, the governor seems to have locked us in. And unless wesave ourselves out of window with the curtains----"
"No, do not let us pull them down--rather, draw them close!"
He opened his arms, laughing, and the beauty let the rose fall from herteeth and it burst all its petals open as it reached the carpet.



CHAPTER XXI.
COUNTESS CUT COUNTESS.

On the road to Paris from Luciennes the poor Countess Dubarry wasracing along like a disembodied spirit. An advice from her brotherJean had dashed her down when she had brought the king to the point ofarranging for her presentation day.
"So the old donkey has fooled us?" she cried, when she was alone withhim.
"I am afraid so. But listen: I stayed in town because I am not trustfullike you--and I am not wrong. An hour before the time when I oughtto call for the old countess at her inn, I met my man Patrick at thedoor, where I had sent him to stand sentry since daybreak. He hadseen nothing wrong, and I left the carriage and went up stairs quiteassured. At her door a woman stopped me to say that her mistress hadupset the chocolate, which she boiled herself, on her foot, and wascrippled."
"Oh, heavens! you drive me to despair, Jean."
"I am not in despair. You can do what I could not; if there be anyimposture you can discover it, and somehow we will punish her. I wasconsulting a lawyer; he says we must not thrash a person in a house; itis fine and prison, while without----"
"Beat a woman, a countess of the old stock? You mad rogue, let merather see her and try another method."
Jean conducted her to the Chanticleer Inn, where the old lady dwelt. Atthe foot of the stairs she was stopped by the landlady.
"Countess Bearn is ill," she said.
"Just so; I am coming to see how she is," and Jeanne darted by her asnimble as a fawn.
"Your ladyship here!" ejaculated the old lady, on seeing the courtbeauty's face screwed up into the conventional expression of condolence.
"I have only just learnt of the accident. You seem to be in much pain."
"My right foot is scalded. But misfortunes will happen."
"But you know the king expected you this morning?"
"You double my despair, lady."
"His majesty was vexed at your not coming."
"My excuse is in my sufferings, and I must present my most humbleexcuses to his majesty."
"I am not saying this to cause you pain," said Lady Dubarry, seeingthat the old noblewoman was angry, "but just to show you how set hismajesty was on seeing you for the step which made him grateful. Iregret the accident the more as I think it was due to your excitementfrom meeting a certain person abruptly at my house."
"The lady who came as I went away?"
"The same; my sister, Mademoiselle Dubarry; only she bore another namewhen you met her--that of Mademoiselle Flageot."
"Oh, indeed!" said the old dame, with unhidden sourness. "Did you sendher to deceive me?"
"No, to do you a service at the same time as you did me one. Let usspeak seriously. In spite of your wound, painful but not dangerous,could you make the effort to ride to Luciennes and stand up a shortwhile before the king?"
"Impossible; if you could bear the sight----"
"I wish to assure myself of its extent."
To her great surprise, while writhing in agony, the lady let Jeanneundo the bandage and expose a burn, horridly raw. It spoke eloquently,for, as Lady Bearn had seen and recognized Chon, this self-inflictedhurt raised her to the height of Mutius Scaevola.
The visitor mutely admired. Come to consciousness, the old countessfully enjoyed her triumph; her wild eye gloated on the young womankneeling at her foot. The latter replaced the bands with the tendernessof her sex to the ailing, placed the limb on the cushions as before,and said as she took a seat beside her:
"You are a grander character than I suspected. I ask your pardonfor not having gone straight to business at the start. Name yourconditions."
"I want the two hundred thousand livres at stake in my lawsuit to beguaranteed me," replied the old dame, with a firmness clearly provingthat one queen was speaking with another.
"But that would make double if you won your case."
"No, for I look upon the sum I am contesting with the Saluces for asmine own. The like sum is something to thank you for in addition to thehonor of your acquaintance. I ask a captaincy and a company for my son,who has martial instincts inborn but would make a bad soldier becausehe is fit for officership alone. A captaincy now, with a promotion to acolonelcy next year."
"Who is to raise the regiment?"
"The king, for if I spent my money in so doing I should be no betteroff. I ask the restitution of my vineyard in Touraine; the royalengineers took six acres for the Grand Canal, and condemning it at theexpert's valuation I was cheated out of half price. I went to some lawexpenses in the matter and my whole bill at Lawyer Flageot's is nearlyten thousand livres."
"I will pay this last bill out of my own purse," said Jeanne. "Is thisall?"
"Stay, I cannot appear before our great monarch thus. Versailles andits splendors have been so long strange to me that I have no dresses."
"I foresaw that, and ordered a costume at the same maker's as mine own.It will be ready by noon to-morrow."
"I have no jewels."
"The court jewelers will loan you my set called the 'Louise,' as Ibought them when the Princess Louise sold her jewels to go into thenunnery. They will charge you two hundred thousand and ten livres, butwill take it back in a day or two for two hundred thousand, so thatthus you will receive that sum in cash."
"Very well, countess; I have nothing to desire."
"I will write you my pledges, but first, the little letter to the king,which I beg to dictate. We will exchange the documents."
"That is fair," said the old fox, drawing the table toward her, andgetting the pen and paper ready, as Lady Dubarry spoke.
    "SIRE: The happiness I feel at seeing your majesty's acceptance of    my offer to present the Countess Dubarry at court----"
The pen stuck and spluttered.
"A bad pen; you should change it!"
"Never mind; it must be broken in."
    "--emboldens me (the letter proceeded) to solicit your majesty's    favorable eye when I appear at Versailles to-morrow under    permission. I venture to hope for a kind welcome from my kinship    to a house of which every head has shed his blood in the service    of your august ancestors.
    "ANASTASIE EUPHRAMIE RODOLPHE, Countess of Bearn."
In return, the plotter handed over the notes and the order on herjewelry.
"Will you let me send my brother for you at three o'clock with thecoach?"
"Just so."
"Mind you take care of yourself."
"Fear nothing. I am a noblewoman, and as you have my word, I will keepit to-morrow though I die for it."
So they parted, the old countess, lying down, going over her documents,and the young one lighter than she arrived, but with her heart achingat not having baffled the old litigant who easily defeated the king ofFrance. In the main room, she perceived her brother, draining a secondbottle of wine in order not to rouse suspicions on his reasons forstaying in the inn. He jumped up and ran to her.
"How goes it?" he asked.
"As Marshal Saxe said to the king on showing him the field of Fontenoy:'Sire, learn by this sight how dear and agonizing a victory is.'"
"But you have a patroness?"
"Yes, but she costs us a million! It is cruel; but I could not helpmyself. Mind how you handle her, or she may back out, or charge doubleher present price."
"What a woman! A Roman!"
"A Spartan. But bring her to Luciennes at three, for I shall not beeasy till I have her under lock and key."
As the countess sprang into the coach, Jean watched her and muttered:
"By Croesus, we cost France a nice round sum! It is highly flatteringto the Dubarrys."



CHAPTER XXII.
AT A LOSS FOR EVERYTHING.

At eleven A. M., Lady Dubarry arrived at her house in Valois Street,determined to make Paris her starting-point for her march toVersailles. Lady Bearn was there, kept close when not under her eye,with the utmost art of the doctors trying to alleviate the pain of herburn.
From over night Jean and Chon and the waiting-woman had been at workand none who knew not the power of gold would have believed in thewonders they wrought in short time.
The hairdresser was engaged to come at six o'clock; the dress was amarvel on which twenty-six seamstresses were sewing the pearls, ribbonsand trimmings, so that it would be done in time instead of taking aweek as usual. At the same hour as the hairdresser, it would be onhand. As for the coach, the varnish was drying on it in a shed builtto heat the air. The mob flocked to see it, a carriage superior to anythe dauphiness had; with the Dubarry war-cry emblazoned on the panels:"Charge Onward!" palliated by doves billing and cooing on one side, anda heart transfixed with a dart on the other. The whole was enrichedwith the attributes of Cupid bows, quivers and the hymeneal torch. Thiscoach was to be at the door at nine.
While the preparations were proceeding at the favorites' the news ranround the town.
Idle and indifferent as the Parisians pretend to be, they are fonder ofnovelty than any other people. Lady Dubarry in her regal coach paradedbefore the populace like an actress on the stage.
One is interested in those whose persons are known.
Everybody knew the beauty, as she was eager to show herself in theplayhouse, on the promenade and in the stores, like all pretty, richand young belles. Besides, she was known by her portraits, freaks, andthe funny negro boy Zamore. People crowded the Palais Royal, not tosee Rousseau play chess, worse luck to the philosophers! but to admirethe lovely fairy in her fine dresses and gilded coach, which were sotalked about.
Jean Dubarry's saying that "the Dubarrys cost the country a nice sum"was deep, and it was only fair that France who paid the bill, shouldsee the show.
Jeanne knew that the French liked to be dazzled; she was more one ofthe nation than the queen, a Polander; and as she was kindly, she triedto get her money's worth in the display.
Instead of lying down for a rest as her brother suggested, shetook a bath of milk for her complexion, and was ready by six forthe hairdresser. A headdress for a lady to go to the court in wasa building which took time, in those days. The operator had to benot only a man of art, but of patience. Alone among the craftsmen,hairdressers were allowed to wear the sword like gentlemen.
At six o'clock the court hairdresser, the great Lubin, had not arrived.Nor at a quarter past seven; the only hope was that, like all greatmen, Lubin was not going to be held cheap by coming punctually.
But a running-footman was sent to learn about him, and returned withthe news that Lubin had left his house and would probably arriveshortly.
"There has been a block of vehicles on the way," explained the viscount.
"Plenty of time," said the countess. "I will try on my dress whileawaiting him. Chon, fetch my dress."
"Your ladyship's sister went off ten minutes ago to get it," said Doris.
"Hark, to wheels!" interrupted Jean. "It is our coach."
No, it was Chon, with the news that the dressmaker, with two of herassistants, was just starting with the dress to try it on and finishfitting it. But she was a little anxious.
"Viscount," said the countess, "won't you send for the coach?"
"You are right, Jeanne. Take the new horses to Francian thecoach-builder's," he ordered at the door, "and bring the new coach withthem harnessed to it."
As the sound of the departing horses was still heard, Zamore trotted inwith a letter.
"Buckra gemman give Zamore letter."
"What gentleman?"
"On horseback, at the door."
"Read it, dear, instead of questioning. I hope it is nothing untoward."
"Really, viscount, you are very silly to be so frightened," said thecountess, but on opening the letter, she screamed and fell half dead onthe lounge.
"No hairdresser! no dress! no coach!" she panted, while Chon rushed toher and Jean picked up the letter.
Thus it ran in a feminine handwriting:
    "Be on your guard. You will have no hairdresser, dress or coach    this evening. I hope you will get this in time. As I do not seek    your gratitude, I do not name myself. If you know of a sincere    friend, take that as me."
"This is the last straw," cried Jean in his rage. "By the Blue Moon, Imust kill somebody! No hairdresser? I will scalp this Lubin. For it ishalf-past seven, and he has not turned up. Malediction!"
He was not going to court, so he did not hesitate to tear at his hair.
"The trouble is the dress," groaned Chon. "Hairdressers can be foundanywhere."
The countess said nothing, but she heaved a sigh which would havemelted the Choiseul party had they heard it. Then:
"Come, come," said Chon; "let us be calm. Let us hunt up anotherhairdresser, and see about that dress not coming."
"Then there is the coach," said Jean. "It ought to have been hereby this. It is a plot. Will you not make Sartines arrest the guiltyones--Maupeou sentence them to death--and the whole gang be burned withtheir fellows on Execution Place? I want to rack the hairdresser, breakthe dressmaker on the wheel, and flay the coachbuilder alive."
The countess had come to her senses but only to see the dreadfuldilemma the better.
At the height of this scene of tribulation, echoing from the boudoirto the street door, while the footmen were blundering over each otherin confusion at a score of different orders, a young blade in anapplegreen silk coat and vest, lilac breeches and white silk stockings,skipped out of a cab, crossed the deserted sill and the courtyard,bounded up the stairs and rapped on the dressing-room door.
Jean was wrestling with a chins stand with which his coat-tail wasentangled, while steadying a huge Japanese idol which he had struck toohard with his fist, when the three knocks, wary, modest and delicate,came at the panel.
Jean opened it with a fist which would have beaten in the gates ofGaza. But the stranger eluded the shock by a leap, and falling on hisfeet in the third position of dancing, he said:
"My lord, I come to offer my service as hairdresser to the CountessDubarry, who, I hear, is commanded to present herself at court."
"A hairdresser!" cried the Dubarrys, ready to hug him and dragging himinto the room. "Did Lubin send you?"
"You are an angel," said the countess.
"Nobody sent me," returned the young man. "I read in the newspapersthat your ladyship was going to court this evening, and I thought Imight have a chance of showing that I have a new idea for a courtheaddress."
"What might be your name, younker?" demanded Jean, distrustfully.
"Leonard, unknown at present, but if the lady will only try me, it willbe celebrated to-morrow. Only I must see her dress, that I may createthe headdress in harmony."
"Oh my dress, my poor, poor dress!" moaned the countess, recalled toreality by the allusion. "What is the use of having one's hair done up,when one has no robe?" and she fell back on the lounge.
At this instant the doorbell rang. It was a dress-box which the janitortook from a porter in the street, which the butler took from him andwhich Jean tore out of his hands. He took off the lid, plunged hishand into the depths and yelled with glee. It enclosed a court dressof China satin, with flowers _appliqu_, and the lace trimming ofincredible value.
"A dress!" gasped Jeanne, almost fainting with joy as she had withgrief. "But how can it suit me, who was not measured for it?"
Chon tried it with the tape measure.
"It is right in length and width of the waist," said Chon. "This isfabulous."
"The material is wonderful," said Jean.
"The whole is terrifying," said the countess.
"Nonsense! This only proves that if you have bitter enemies, you havesome sweet friends."
"It cannot be a mere human friend, Jean," said Chon, "for how wouldsuch know the mischief set against us? it must be a sylph."
"I don't care if it is the Old Harry, if he will help me against theGrammonts! He is not so black as those wretches," said the countess.
"Now I think of it, I wager you may entrust your hair to thishairdresser, for he must be sent by the same friend who furnishes thedress," suggested Jean. "Own up that your story was pure gammon?"
"Not at all," protested the young man, showing the newspaper. "I keptit to make the curls for the hair."
"It is no use, for I have no carriage."
"Hark, here it is rolling up to our door," exclaimed Chon.
"Quick!" shouted Jean, "do not let them get away without our knowing towhom we owe all these kindnesses."
And he rushed with janitor, steward and footmen out on the street. Itwas too late. Before the door stood two magnificent bay horses, with agilded coach, lined with white satin. Not a trace of driver or footmen.A man in the street had run up to get the job of holding the horses andthose who brought them had left him in charge. A hasty hand had blottedout the coat of arms on the panels and painted a rose.
All this counter-action to the misadventures had taken place in an hour.
Jean had the horses brought into the yard, locking the gates andpocketing the key. Then he returned to the room where the hairdresserwas about to give the lady the first proofs of his skill.
"Miracle!" said Chon, "the robe fits perfectly, except an inch out infront, too long; but we can take it up in a minute."
"Will the coach pass muster?" inquired the countess.
"It is in the finest taste. I got into it to try the springs," answeredJean. "It is lined with white satin, and scented with attar of roses."
"Then everything is going on swimmingly," said the countess clappingher hands. "Go on, Master Leonard; if you succeed your fortune is made."
With the first stroke of the comb, Leonard showed that he was anexperienced hand. In three-quarters of an hour, Lady Dubarry came forthfrom his hands more seductive than Aphrodite; for she had more clotheson her, and she was quite as handsome.
"You shall be my own hairdresser," said the lady, eyeing herself in ahand glass, "and every time you do my hair up for a court occasion, youshall have fifty gold pieces. Chon, count out a hundred to the artist,for I want him to consider fifty as a retaining fee. But you must workfor none but me."
"Then take your money back, my lady. I want to be free. Liberty is theprimary boon of mankind."
"God bless us! It is a philosophic hairdresser!" groaned Jean,lifting his hands. "What are we coming to? Well, Master Leonard, takethe hundred, and do as you deused well please. Come to your coach,countess."
These words were addressed to Countess Bearn, who limped out of theinner room.
"Four of you footmen take the lady between you," ordered Jean, "andcarry her gently down the stairs. If she utters a single groan, I willhave you flogged."
Leonard disappeared during this delicate task.
"Where can he have slipped away?" the young countess wanted to know.
"Where? By some rat hole or bang through the wall!" said the viscount."As the spirits cut away. Have a care, my dear, lest your headdressbecomes a wasp nest, your dress a cobweb, and your carriage a pumpkindrawn by a pair of mice, on arriving at Versailles."
Enunciating this dreadful threat, Viscount Jean got into the carriage,in which was already placed Countess Bearn and the happy woman to whomshe was to stand sponsor.



CHAPTER XXIII.
THE PRESENTATION.

Versailles is still fine to look upon; but it was splendid to view inthe period of its glory.
Particularly was it resplendent when a great ceremony was performed,when the wardrobes and warehouses were ransacked to display theirsumptuous treasures, and the dazzling illuminations doubled the magicof its wealth.
It had degenerated, but it still was glowing when it opened all itsdoors and lit up all its flambeaux to hail the court reception ofCountess Dubarry. The curious populace forgot its misery and its ragsbefore so much bewildering show, and crammed the squares and Paris road.
All the palace windows spouted flame, and the skyrockets resembledstars floating and shooting in a golden dust.
The king came out of his private rooms at ten precisely, dressed withmore care than usual, his lace being richer and the jewels in hisgarter and shoe buckles being worth a fortune. Informed by Satines thatthe court ladies were plotting against his favorite, he was carewornand trembled with fury when he saw none but men in the ante-chamber.But he took heart when, in the queen's drawing-room, set aside forthe reception, he saw in a cloud of powder and diamond luster, histhree daughters, and all the ladies who had vowed the night before tostay away. The Duke of Richelieu ran from one to another, playfullyreproaching them for giving in and complimenting them on thinkingbetter of it.
"But what has made you come, duke?" they naturally challenged him.
"Oh, I am not here really--I am but the proxy for my daughter, CountessEgmont. If you will look around you will not see her; she alone, withLady Grammont and Lady Guemenee has kept the pledge to keep aloof. I amsure what will happen to me for practically staying away. I shall besent into exile for the fifth time, or to the Bastille for the fourth.That will end my plotting, and I vow to conspire never again."
The king remarked the absentees, and he went up to the Duke of Choiseulwho affected the utmost calm and demanded:
"I do not see the Duchess of Grammont."
"Sire, my sister is not well, and she begs me to offer her most humblerespects," said Choiseul, only succeeding in flimsy indifference.
"That is bad for her!" ominously said the sovereign, turning his backon the duke and thus facing Prince Guemenee.
"Have you brought your wife?" he questioned.
"Impossible, your majesty: when I went to bring her, she was sick abed."
"Nothing could be worse," said the king. "Good-evening, marshal," hesaid to Richelieu, who bowed with the suppleness of a young courtier."You do not seem to have a touch of the complaint?"
"Sire, I am always in good health when I have the pleasure of beholdingyour majesty."
"But I do not see your daughter the Countess of Egmont. What is thereason of her absence?"
"Alas! sire," responded the old duke, assuming the most sorrowful mien,"my poor child is the more indisposed from the mishap depriving her ofthe happiness of this occasion, but----"
"Lady Egmont unwell, whose health was the most robust in the realm!this is sad for her!" and the king turned his back on the old courtieras he had on the others whom he snubbed.
Gloomy, anxious and irritated, the king went over to the window, andseizing the carved handle of the sash with one hand, he cooled hisfevered brow against the pane. The courtiers could be heard chattering,like leaves rustling before the tempest, while all eyes stared atthe clock; it struck the half-hour, when a great uproar of vehiclesrumbling on the yard cobblestones resounded under the carriage-wayvault. Suddenly the royal brow brightened and a flash shot from hiseyes.
"The Right Honorable Lady the Countess of Dubarry!" roared the usher tothe grand master of ceremonies. "The Right Honorable the Countess ofBearn!"
Different sensations were making all hearts leap. Invincibly drawn bycuriosity, a flood of courtiers moved toward the monarch.
The wife of the Marshal of Mirepoix was carried close up to the king,and though she had been in the front of the anti-Dubarryists, sheclasped her hands ready for adoration, and exclaimed:
"Oh, how lovely she is!"
The king turned and smiled on the speaker.
"But she is not a mere mortal," said Richelieu; "she is a fairy," whichwon him the end of the smile.
In truth, never had the countess been fairer, more winsome inexpression, more modest in bearing, more noble in figure, more elegantin step or more cunning in showing emotion; her like had never excitedadmiration in the queen's drawing-room.
Charmingly beautiful, richly but not flauntingly dressed and notablefor a tastefully novel headdress, she advanced held by the hand ofCountess Bearn. Spite of atrocious pangs, the latter did not hobble oreven wince, though the rouge fell in flakes from her face as each stepwrung her to the core.
All eyes turned on the singular pair.
The old dame, with an old-fashioned low-necked robe, and her hair builtup a foot high above her bright but deep-set eyes like an osprey's,her splendid attire and her skeleton-tread, seemed the image of thepast giving her hand to the present. This model of cold, dry dignityguiding decent and voluptuous beauty, struck most with admiration andastonishment.
The vivid contrast made the king fancy that Countess Bearn was bringinghim his favorite more youthful and brilliant than ever.
"You have a very fair novice to present, my lady," said he; "but shealso has a noble introductress, than whom there is not one whom I ammore pleased to see again at court."
The old lady courtesied.
"Go and bow to my daughters," whispered the monarch to Jeanne, "andshow that you know how to courtesy. I hope you will not be dissatisfiedwith the way they reply to you."
His eyes were fixed upon his daughters and compelled them to showpoliteness, and as Lady Dubarry bowed more lowly than court etiquetteprescribed, they were touched, and embraced her with a cordiality whichpleased their father.
Henceforward, the countess' success became a triumph.
The Duke of Richelieu, as the victor of Mahon, knew how to maneuver; hewent and placed himself behind the chair ready for Countess Dubarry, sothat he was near her when the presentation was over, without having tobattle with the crowd. Lady Mirepoix, knowing how lucky her old friendwas in warfare, had imitated him, and drew her stool close to thefavorite's chair.
Supported by the royal love, and the favorable welcome of the royalprincesses, Jeanne looked less timidly around among the noblemen,though it was among the ladies that she expected enemies.
"Ah, my Lord of Richelieu," she said, "I had to come here to find you,for you have let a week pass without calling at Luciennes."
"I was preparing for the pleasure of seeing you here, certain here tomeet!" "I wish you had imparted the certainty to me, for I was nonetoo sure on that head--considering that I am surrounded by plots tothwart me."
She glared at the old gallant who bore the glance imperturbably.
"Plots? Goodness! what are you talking about?"
"In the first place my hairdresser was spirited away."
"Was he, indeed! what a lucky thing that I sent you a pearl of hiscraft whom my daughter the Countess of Egmont found somewhere--anartiste most superior to the general run, even to the royal perrukeers,my little Leonard."
"Leonard," repeated the lady.
"Yes, a little fellow who does up my Septimanie's tresses, and whomshe keeps hidden from all eyes, as a miser does his cash-box. You arenot complaining of him, I think, for your ladyship is turned out, asbarbers say, marvelously. Curiously enough, the style reminds me of asketch which the court painter Boucher gave my daughter, for her to bedressed in accord with it, had she not fallen ill. Poor Seppie! But youwere talking of plots?"
"Yes, they kept back my dress."
"This is odious! Though you are not to be pitied when arrayed in sucha choice China silk; with flower work applied; now, had you _applied_to me in your quandary, as I hope you will in the future, I would havesent you the dress my daughter had made for her presence here--it is solike this, that I could vow it is the same."
Countess Dubarry seized both his hands, beginning to understand who wasthe enchanter who had saved her from the embarrassment.
"I suppose it was in your daughter's coach that I was brought here?"she said.
"Oh, I should know hers, for it was renovated for this occasion withwhite satin; but there was no time to paint her blazon upon thepanels----"
"Only time to paint a rose! Duke, you are a delightful nobleman."
The old peer kissed the hands, of which he made a warm and perfumedmask. Feeling them thrill, he started and asked the cause.
"Who is that man yonder, in a Prussian officer's dress, with black eyesand expressive countenance, by Prince Guemenee?"
"Some superior officer whom the king of Prussia sends to honor yourpresentation."
"Do not laugh, duke; but that man was in France three or four yearsago, and I have been seeking for him everywhere without avail."
"You are in error, countess; the stranger is Count Fenix, who arrivedbut yesterday."
"How hard he looks at me!"
"Nay, how tenderly everybody is looking at you!"
"Look, he is bowing to me!"
"Everybody is doing that, if they have not done so."
A prey to extraordinary emotion, the lady did not heed the duke'scompliments, and, with her sight riveted on the stranger who captivatedher attention, she quitted Richelieu, in spite of herself, to movetoward the foreigner. The king was watching her and perceived themovement. He thought she wanted him, and approached her, as hehad quite long enough stood aloof out of regard for the socialrestrictions. But the countess was so engrossed that her mind would notbe diverted.
"Sire, who is that Prussian officer, now turning away from PrinceGuemenee to look this way?"
"The stout figure with the square face enframed in a goldencollar?--accredited from my cousin of Prussia--some philosopher of hisstamp. I am glad that German philosophy celebrates the triumph of KingPetticoat the Third, as they nickname the Louis for their devotion tothe sex of which you are the brightest gem. His title is Count Fenix,"added the sovereign reflecting.
"It is he," thought Countess Dubarry, but as she kept silence the kingproceeded, raising his voice:
"Ladies, the dauphiness arrives at Compiegne to-morrow, the journeyhaving been shortened. Her royal highness will receive at middayprecisely. All the ladies _presented_ at court will be of the receptionparty, except those who were absent to-day. The journey is fatiguing,and her highness can have no desire to aggravate the ills of those whoare indisposed."
He looked with severity at Choiseul, Guemenee and Richelieu. A silenceof terror surrounded the speaker, whose words were fully understood asmeaning disgrace.
"Sire, I pray the exception for the Countess of Egmont, as she is thedaughter of my most faithful friend, the Duke of Richelieu."
"His Grace your friend?"
Approaching the old courtier who had comprehended from the motion ofthe pleader's lips, he said:
"I hope Lady Egmont will be well enough to-morrow to come?"
"Certainly, sire. She would be fit for travel this hour, if yourmajesty desired it." And he saluted with respect and thankfulness.
The king leaned over to the countess' ear and whispered a word.
"Sire, I am your majesty's most obedient servant." Her reverence wasaccompanied by a most bewitching smile.
The king waved his hand and retired to his own rooms.
Scarcely had he crossed the threshold before the countess turned morefrightened than ever to the singular man who had so monopolized her.Like the others, he had bowed as the monarch withdrew, but his browhad worn a haughty, almost menacing aspect. As soon as Louis haddisappeared, he came and paused within a step or two of Lady Dubarry.
Urged by invincible curiosity, she took a step toward him, so that hecould say in a low voice as he bent to her:
"Am I recognized, lady?"
"Yes, as my prophet of Louis XV. Square."
"Well," queried the man with the clear, steady gaze, "Did I lie when Itold you of becoming the Queen of France?"
"No; your prophecy is all but accomplished. Hence, I am ready to keepmy promise. Speak your wish."
"The place is ill chosen, and the time has not come."
"I am ready to fulfill it any time."
"Can I come any time?"
"Yes; will it be as Count Fenix?"
"My title will be Count Joseph Balsamo."
"I shall not forget it, Balsamo," repeated the favorite as themysterious stranger was merged with the crowd.



CHAPTER XXIV.
THE DAUPHINESS' RECEPTION.

On the following day, Compiegne was intoxicated and transported. Thepeople had not slept through the night from getting ready to welcomethe bride of the prince royal.
Latin, French, and German inscriptions adorned the evergreen arches,wound with garlands of roses and lilac.
The royal prince had come down in the night _incog_, with his twobrothers, and they had ridden out to meet the princess from Austria.The gallant idea had not come to the dauphin of his own impulse, butfrom his tutor, Lord Lavauguyon, who had been instructed by the king onthe proper line of conduct to be followed by the heir to the throne.Previous sovereigns had also taken this kind of preliminary view of thefated spouse, without the veil of etiquette.
The eldest prince rode out, grave, and his two brothers, smiling.At half after eight, they came back; the dauphin serious as whenhe started, Provence almost sulky, and Artois gayer than at theoutset. The first was disquieted, the second envious, and the lastdelighted--for all had found the lady most lovely. Thus each betrayedhis temperament.
At the meeting of the two parties, that of the king and the brideof his son, all got out of the carriages, except the king and thearchduchess. Around the dauphin were all the young nobles, while theold nobility clustered round the king.
The lady's carriage door opened, and the Austrian princess spranglightly to the ground. As she advanced toward the royal coach, Louishad the door opened, and eagerly stepped out.
The princess had so exactly calculated the steps that she threw herselfon her knees just as he alighted. He stooped to lift her up, and kissedher affectionately, covering her with a look which caused her to redden.
She blushed again as the dauphin was presented to her. She had pleasantwords to say to all the royal princes and princesses. But here came ahitch, till the king, glancing around, spied the Countess Dubarry, andtook her hand.
Everybody stepped aloof, so that the sovereign was left alone with hisfavorite and the new arrival.
"I present the Countess Dubarry, my dearest friend!"
The Austrian turned pale, but the most kindly smile glittered on herblanching lips.
"Your majesty is very happy in having so lovely a friend," she said,"and I am not surprised at the attachment she inspires."
All looked on with astonishment approaching stupefaction. It wasevident that the new-comer was repeating the Austrian court'sinstructions--perhaps her mother's own words.
While the princess entered the royal coach, passing the Duke ofChoisuel without noticing him, the church bells clanged. CountessDubarry radiantly got into her coach, up to the door of which cameChevalier Jean.
"Do you know who that young whippersnapper is?" he asked, pointing to ahorseman at the dauphiness' coach window. "That is Philip of Taverney,who gave me that sword thrust."
"Well, who is the beautiful girl with whom he is talking?"
"His sister, and to my mind you have the same need to beware of thatgirl as I of her brother."
"You are mad."
"I have my wits about me. I shall keep an eye on the blade anyhow."
"And I shall watch the budding beauty."
"Hush!" said Jean; "here comes your friend Richelieu."
"What is wrong, my dear duke? You look discontented," said thecountess, with her sweetest smile.
"Does it not strike your ladyship that we are all very dull, not to saysad, for such a joyous affair? I can recall going out to meet anotherprincess for the royal couch, amiable like this one, and as fair. Itwas the dauphin's mother. We were all jolly. Is it because we wereyounger?"
"No, my dear marshal, it is because the monarchy is older."
All who heard shuddered at this voice behind the duke. He turned andsaw an elderly gentleman, stylish in appearance, who laid his hand onhis shoulder as he smiled misanthropically.
"Gads my life! it is Baron Taverney. Countess," added the duke, "hereis one of my oldest friends, for whom I beg your kindness--BaronTaverney of Redcastle."
"The father of that pair," said Jean and Jeanne to themselves, as theybowed in salutation.
"My lords and gentlemen," shouted the grand master of ceremonies, "toyour places in the coaches."
The two aged nobles bowed to the favorite and her brother, and wentinto the same vehicle, glad to be united after long absence.
"What do you say to that? I do not like the old fellow a whit betterthan the cubs," said Jean Dubarry.
"What a pity that the little imp, Gilbert, ran away. As he was broughtup in their house, he might furnish particulars about the family," saidthe countess.
The dialogue was broken off by the movement of all the carriages.
After a night at Compiegne, the united courts--the sundown of one era,the sunburst of another--swept intermingled on to Paris, that gulfwhich was to swallow up the whole of them.



CHAPTER XXV.
GILBERT SNAPS GOLDEN CHAINS.

It is time to return to Gilbert.
Our little philosopher had cooled in his admiration for Chon since atthe outbreak of the collision between Chevalier Jean and Philip ofTaverney he had learnt the name of his protectress.
Often, at Taverney, when he was skulking and listening to the chat ofthe baron and his daughter, he had heard the old noble express himselfplainly about the favorite Dubarry. His interested hatred had found asympathetic echo in the boy's bosom; and Andrea never contradicted herfather's abuse, for, it must be allowed, Lady Dubarry's name was deeplyscorned in the country.
What completely ranked Gilbert on the side of the old noble was thatNicole had sometimes exclaimed:
"I wish I were Dubarry."
Chon was too busy after the duel to think about Gilbert, who forgot hisbad impression as he entered the court capital in his frank admiration.He was still under the spell when he slept in the attic of the royalpalace. The only matter in his dreams was that he, the poor boy, waslodged like the foremost noblemen of France, without his being acourtier or a lackey.
Gilbert was in one of the thinking fits common to him when eventssurpassed his will or comprehension, when he was told thatMademoiselle Chon wanted to see him. She was waiting in her carriagefor him to accompany her on a ride. She sat in the front seat, with alarge chest and a small dog. Gilbert and a steward named Cranche wereto have the other places.
To preserve his position, Gilbert sat behind Chon, and the steward,without even thinking of objecting, sat behind the dog and box.
Like all who lived in Versailles, Chon drew a free breath with pleasurein quitting the grand palace for the woods and pastures, and said asshe turned half round on their leaving the town:
"How does the philosopher like Versailles?"
"It is very fine. So we are quitting it so soon?"
"We are going to our place."
"Your place, you mean," grumbled Gilbert in the tone of a bear becomingtamed.
"I mean that I am going to introduce you to my sister, whom you musttry to please, for she is hand and glove with all the great lords ofthe kingdom. By the way, Master Cranche, we must have a suit of clothesmade for this young gentleman."
"The ordinary livery?" queried the man.
"Livery?" snarled Gilbert, giving the upper servant a fierce look.
"Oh, no; I will tell you the style after I communicate my notion to mysister. But it must be ready at the same time as Zamore's new clothes."
Gilbert was startled at this talk.
"Zamore is a little playfellow for you, the governor of the royalcastle of Luciennes," explained Chon. "Make friends with him, as he isa good fellow, in spite of his color."
Gilbert was eager to know what color Zamore was, but he reflected thatphilosophers ought not to be reproved for inquisitiveness, and hecontained himself.
"I will try," replied the youth with a smile which he thought full ofdignity.
Luciennes was what had been described to him.
"So this is the pleasure house which has cost the country so dearly!"he mused.
Joyous dogs and eager servants came to greet the mistress' sister.Jeanne had not come, and Chon was glad to see her first of all.
"Sylvie," she said to a pretty girl who came to take the lap dog andthe chest, "give Misapoof and the box to Cranche, and take my littlephilosopher to Zamore!"
The chambermaid did not know what kind of animal a philosopher was, butChon's glance directed her to Gilbert, and she beckoned him to followher. But for the tone of command which Chon had used, the youth wouldhave taken Sylvie for other than a servant. She was dressed more likeAndrea than Nicole. She gave Gilbert a smile, for the recommendationdenoted that Chon had a fancy, if not affection for the new-comer.
Gilbert was rather daunted by the idea of appearing before so grandan official as a royal governor, but the words that Zamore was a goodfellow reassured him. Friend of a viscount and a court lady already, hemight face a governor.
"How the court is slandered!" he thought; "for it is easy to makefriends among the courtiers. They are kind and hospitable."
In a noble Roman room, on cushions, with crossed legs, squatted Zamore,eating candies out a satin bag.
"Oh!" exclaimed the incipient philosopher, "what do you call thisthing?"
"Me no ting--me gubbernor," blubbered Zamore.
Gilbert had never before seen a negro. The uneasy glance which heturned up to Sylvie caused that lively girl to burst into a peal oflaughter.
Grave and motionless as an idol, Zamore kept on diving with his paw inthe bag of sweetmeats and munching away.
At this moment the door opened to give admission to Steward Cranche anda tailor to take the measures of Gilbert.
"Do not pull him about too much," said the steward.
"Oh, I am done," said the knight of the thimble; "the costume ofSganarelle is a loose one, and we never bother about a fit."
"Oh, he will look fine as Sganarelle," said Sylvie. "And is he to havethe high hat like Mother Goose's?"
Gilbert did not hear the reply, as he pushed aside the tailor and wouldnot help any more preparations. He did not know that Sganarelle was acomic character in a popular play, but he saw that it was a ludicrousone, and he was enlightened further by Sylvie's laughter. She departedwith tailor and steward, leaving him alone with the black boy, whocontinued to roll his eyes and devour the bonbons.
What riddles for the country boy! what dreads and pangs for thephilosopher who guessed that his manly dignity was in as much danger inLuciennes as at Taverney.
Still he tried to talk to Zamore, but that interesting African, sittingastride of a chair on casters, made it run him round the room a dozentimes with a celerity which ought to have shown by anticipation thatthe velocipede was a practical machine.
Suddenly a bell tinkled and Zamore darted out of the room with as muchrapidity as he had shown on the novel quadricycle.
Gilbert would have followed, but on looking through the doorway, he sawthe passage so crowded with servants guarding noblemen in gay clothes,that he shivered and slunk back.
An hour passed, without the return of Zamore or Sylvie. Gilbertwas longing for human company, when a footman came to take him toMademoiselle Chon.
Free, after having informed her sister how she had conducted themission to Lady Bearn, Chon was breakfasting with a hearty appetite, ina loose dressing-gown, in a morning room. She cast a glance on Gilbertwithout offering him a seat.
"How have you hit off with Zamore?" she inquired, after tossing off aglass of wine like liquid topaz.
"How could I make the acquaintance of a black boy who does not speak,but stares and gulps down candies?"
"I thought you said all were equal?"
"He may be my equal, but I do not think him so," answered Gilbert.
"What fun he is!" muttered Chon: "you seem not to give away your heartin a hurry?"
"With slowness, lady."
"I hoped you held me in affection?"
"I have considerable liking for you personally, but----"
"Thanks for so much! You overpower me. How long does it take for one towin the good graces of so disdainful a fellow?"
"Much time; some would never win them."
"Ah, this explains why you could suddenly leave Taverney Castle afterstaying there eighteen years. It appears that its masters could notobtain your friendship and confidence?"
"Not all."
"What did they do? Who displeased you?"
"I am not complaining."
"Oh, very well! if you do not want to give your confidence. I mighthelp you to come out even with these Taverneys if you told me what theyare like."
"I take no revenge, or I take it with my own hand," said Gilbertproudly.
"Still as you bear a grudge against them, or several, and we have one,we ought to be allies."
"You are wrong, lady. I feel very different toward different members ofthe family."
"Is Lord Philip one whom you paint black or rosy?"
"I bear no ill to Master Philip, who has done nothing to me one way oranother."
"Then you would not be a witness against him in favor of my brotherabout that duel?"
"I should be bound to speak the truth, and that would be unfavorabletoward Chevalier Dubarry."
"Do you make him out wrong?"
"He was so, to insult the dauphiness."
"Are you upholding the dauphiness?"
"I stand for justice."
"You are mad, boy; never talk of justice in a royal residence. When oneserves a master, he takes the responsibility."
"Not so; every man should obey his conscience. Any way, I have nomaster. I did not ask to come here, and now I will go away, freely as Icame."
"Oh, no, you don't," cried Chon, amazed at this rebellion and gettingangered.
Gilbert frowned.
"No, no, let us have peace. Here you will have but three persons toplease. The king, my sister and myself."
"How am I to please you?"
"Well, you have seen Zamore? He gets already so much a year out of theroyal private purse; he is governor of Luciennes, and though he maybe laughed at for his blubber lips and complexion, he is courted andcalled my lord."
"I shall not do that."
"What, when you assert that all men are brothers?"
"That is the reason why I will not acknowledge him my lord."
Chon was beaten with her own weapons; she bit her lips.
"You do not seem to be ambitious?"
"Yes, I am," and his eyes sparkled.
"To be a doctor? You shall be a doctor. That was the costume you weremeasured for. Royal physician, too."
"I? who know not the A B C of medical science. You are mocking at me,lady."
"Does Zamore know anything about governing a castle?"
"I see: you want me to be a sham doctor, a buffoon? The king wantsanother merry-maker?"
"Why not? Don't you know that the Duke of Tresmes begs my sister toappoint him her monkey. But don't hang your head. Keep that lumpish airfor your doctoral uniform. Meanwhile, as you must live on somethingbetter than your pills, go and have breakfast with the governor."
"With Zamore? I am not hungry."
"You will be before evening; if we must give you an appetite, we willcall in the whipper to the royal pages."
The youth trembled and turned pale.
"Go back to my Lord Zamore," continued Chon, taking the silence forconsent, or at least submission. "You will find he is fed daintily.Mind not to be an ingrate, or you will be taught what gratitude is."
A lackey conducted Gilbert to the mock governor's dining-room, but hewould not eat anything. Nevertheless, when the costume of the doctor inMolire's comedy was brought, he submitted to being shown how he was towear it.
"I thought that the doctors of that time carried an inkhorn and a quillto write out their prescriptions," suggested Gilbert.
"By Jove they did!" exclaimed the steward. "Let us have the ****complete while we are about it."
The foreman charged to get the articles, also acquainted Chon, who wasgoing to join her sister in Paris, with the astonishing willingnessof her pet. She was so pleased that she sent a little purse with somesilver in it, to be added to the doctor's girdle along with the inkhorn.
Gilbert sent his thanks, and expressed a wish to be left alone to puton the costume.
"Make haste," said the steward, "that the young lady may see you beforeshe is off to Paris."
Gilbert looked out of the window to see how the gardens were arranged.Returning to the table, he tore the long black doctoral gown into threestrips, which he made a rope of by tying the ends together. On thetable he laid the hat and the purse and the following declaration whichhe wrote:
    "LADY: The foremost of boons is Liberty. The holiest of duties is    to preserve it. As you do violence to my feelings, I set myself    free.
    GILBERT."
He addressed this epistle to Chon, tied his twelve feet of serge ropeto the window sill, glided down like a serpent, and dropped on theterrace at risk of breaking his neck. Though stunned a little by thefall, he ran to some trees, scrambled up among the boughs, slippeddownward till he was on a lower level and could reach the ground wherehe ran away with all his might.
When they came for him half an hour after, he was far beyond theirreach.



CHAPTER XXVI.
THE OLD BOTANIST.

On the trunk of a tree overthrown by a storm in Meudon Woods a man wasseated.
Under his grizzled wig he showed a mild and shrewd visage. His browncoat was of good cloth, as were his breeches; and his gray waistcoatwas worked on the flaps. His gray cotton stockings imprisoned well-madeand muscular legs; his buckled shoes, though dusty in patches, had beenwashed at the top by the morning dews.
Near him, on the trunk, was a green box, open and stuffed with freshlygathered plants. Between his legs he held a cane with a crutch handle,ending in a sort of pick.
He was eating a piece of bread, and tossing crumbs to the wild birds,which flew down on the pieces and took them off to their nooks withjoyful peeps.
Suddenly he heard hurried steps, and seeing on looking up, a young manwith disquieting aspect, he rose. He buttoned up his coat and closedhis overcoat above it.
His air was so calming that the intruder on his peace came to a stopand doffed his hat.
It was Gilbert. Gilbert, much the worse for his roaming the woodsthrough the night since he had fled from Luciennes in order not to losehis freedom.
Remarking this sudden timidity, the old man appeared to be put at easeby it.
"Do you want to speak to me, my friend?" he asked, smiling, and layingthe piece of bread on the tree.
"Yes, for I see that you are throwing away bread on the birds as thoughit were not written that the Lord provides for the sparrows."
"The Lord provides," returned the old gentleman, "no doubt, young man;but the hand of man is one of the means. You are wrong if you saidthat as a reproach, for never is cast-away bread--in the desert or onthe crowded street--lost to living creatures. Here, the birds get it;there, the beggars."
"Though this be the wilds, I know of a man who wants to dispute thatbread with the birds," said Gilbert, though struck by the soft andpenetrating voice of the stranger.
"Are you the man--and are you hungered?"
"Sharply so, and if you would allow----"
With eager compassion the gentleman took up the crust, but, suddenlyreflecting, he scrutinized Gilbert with a quick yet profound glance.
Gilbert was not so like a starving man that the meditation waswarranted. His dress was decent, though earth-stained in places. Hislinen was white, for he had at Versailles, on the previous evening,changed his shirt out of his parcel; but from its dampness, it wasvisible that he had slept in the woods. In all this and his white andtaper hands, the man of vague reverie was revealed rather than the hardworker.
Not wanting for tact, Gilbert understood the distrust and hesitation ofthe stranger in respect to him, and hastened to annul conjectures whichmight be unfavorable.
"After twelve hours, hunger begins, and I have eaten nothing forfour-and-twenty," he observed.
The truth of the words was supported by his emotion, the quaver of hisvoice and the pallor of his face. The old gentleman therefore ceasedto waver, or rather to fear. He held out not only the bread, but ahandkerchief in which he was carrying cherries.
"I thank you," said Gilbert, repulsing the fruit gently; "only thebread, which is ample."
Breaking the crust in two, he took one portion and pushed back theother. Then he sat on the grass, a yard or two away from the oldgentlemen, who viewed him with increasing wonder. The meal did not lastlong, as the bread was scant and Gilbert hungry. With no words did theobserver trouble him, but continued his mute and furtive examinationwhile apparently only attending to his plants and flowers in the box.
But seeing that Gilbert was going to drink at a pool, he quickly calledout:
"Do not drink that water, young man. It is infected by the detritusof the plants dead last year and by the frog-spawn swimming on thesurface. You had better take some cherries, as they will quench thirstbetter than water. I invite you to partake as I see you are not animportunate guest."
"It is true, sir; importunity is the opposite of my nature. I fearnothing so much as being importunate, as I have just been proving atVersailles."
"Oh! so you come from Versailles?" queried the stranger, looking hardat him. "A rich place, where only the proud or the poor die of want."
"I am both, sir."
"Have you quarreled with your master?"
"I have no master."
"That is a very lofty answer," said the other, putting away the plantsin the box, while regarding the young man.
"Still it is exact."
"No, young man, for everybody has a master here, as we all sufferthe domination of a higher power. Some are ruled by men, some byprinciples: and the sternest masters are not always those who order orstrike with the human voice or hand."
"I confess I am ruled by principles," replied Gilbert. "They are theonly masters which the mind may acknowledge without shame."
"Oh, those are your principles, are they? You seem very young to haveany settled principles."
"I am young but I have studied, or rather read a little in such worksas 'On the Inequality of Classes,' and 'The Social Contract;' out ofthem comes all my knowledge, and perhaps all my dreams."
These words kindled a flame in the hearer's eyes; he so started that hebroke a flower rebellious to being packed away.
"These may not be your principles, but they are Rousseau's."
"Dry stuff for a youth," said the other; "sad matter for contemplationat twenty years of age; a dry and scentless flower for imagination inthe springtide of life."
"Misfortune ripens a man unseasonably, sir."
"As you study the philosopher of Geneva, do you make a personalallusion there?"
"I do not know anything about him," rejoined Gilbert, candidly.
"Know, young man, that he is an unhappy creature." With a sigh he saidit.
"Impossible! Jean Jacques Rousseau unhappy? Is there no justice abovemore than on earth? The man unhappy who has consecrated his life to thewelfare of the race."
"I plainly see that you do not know him; so let us rather speak ofyourself. Whither are you going?"
"To Paris. Do you belong there?"
"So far as I am living there, but I was not born in it. Why thequestion?"
"It is attached to the subject we were talking of; if you live inParis, you may have seen the Philosopher Rousseau."
"Oh, yes, I have seen him."
"He is looked at as he passes along--they point to him as thebenefactor of humanity?"
"No; the children follow him, and, encouraged by their parents, throwstones at him."
"Gracious! still he has the consolation of being rich," said Gilbert,with painful stupefaction.
"Like yourself, he often wonders where the next meal is coming from."
"But, though poor, he is powerful, respected and well considered?"
"He does not know of a night, in lying down, that he will not wake inthe Bastille."
"How he must hate men!"
"He neither loves not hates them: they fill him with disgust, that isall."
"I do not understand how he can not hate those who ill use him,"exclaimed Gilbert.
"Rousseau has always been free, and strong enough to rely on himself.Strength and liberty make men meek and good; it is only weakness andslavery which create the wicked."
"I guessed this as you explain it; and that is why I wished to befree." I see that we agree on one point, our liking for Rousseau.
"Speak for yourself, young man: youth is the season for illusions."
"Nay; one may be deceived upon things, but not on men."
"Alas, you will learn by and by, that it is men particularly about whomdeception is easiest. Perhaps Rousseau is a little fairer than othermen; but he has his faults, and great ones."
Gilbert shook his head, but the stranger continued to treat him withthe same favor, though he was so uncivil.
"You said you had no master?"
"None, though it dwelt with me to have a most illustrious one; but Irefused on the condition that I should make the amusement of nobleidlers. Being young, able to study and make my way, I ought not to losethe precious time of youth and compromise in my person the dignity ofman."
"This was right," said the stranger gravely; "but have you determinedon a career?"
"I should like to be a physician."
"A grand and noble career, where one may decide between true science,modest and martyr-like, and quackery, impudent, rich and bloated. Ifyou love truth, young man, be a doctor. If you love popular applause,be a doctor."
"I am afraid it will cost a lot of money to study, although Rousseaulearned for nothing."
"Nothing? oh, young man," said the plant-collector, with amournful smile, "do you call nothing the most precious of heavenlyblessings--candor, health and sleep? That was the price the Genevianseeker of wisdom paid for the little he knows."
"Little! when he is a great musical composer!"
"Pooh, because the king sings 'I have lost my servant,' that does notprove 'The Village Sorcerer' to be a good opera."
"He is a noted botanist!"
"An herb-gatherer, very humble and ignorant amid the marvels known asplants and flowers."
"He is a Latin scholar, for I read that he had translated Tacitus."
"Bah, because in his conceit he wanted to be master of all crafts. ButTacitus, who is a rough antagonist to wrestle with, tired him. No,no, my good young man, in spite of your admiration, there are no moreAdmirable Crichtons, and what man gains in breadth he loses in depth.Rousseau is a superficial man whose surface is a trifle wider than mostmen's, that is all."
"Many would like to attain his mark," said the youth.
"Do you slur at me?" asked the stranger with a good nature disarmingGilbert.
"God forbid, for it is too much pleasure to chat for me to disobligeyou. You draw me out and I am amazed at the language I am using, forI only picked it out of books, which I did not clearly follow. I haveread too much, but I will read again with care. But I forget that whileyour talk is valuable to me, mine only wastes your time, for you areherb-gathering."
"No," said the botanist, fixing his gray eyes on the youth, who madea move to go but wanted to be detained. "My box is clearly full and Ionly want certain mosses; I heard that capillary grows round here."
"Stay, I saw some yonder."
"How do you know capillarys?"
"I was born on the woodland; the daughter of the nobleman on whoseestate I was reared, liked botany; she had a collection and the objectshad their names on labels attached. I noticed that what she calledcapillary was called by us rustics maidenhair fern."
"So you took a taste for botany?"
"It was this way. I sometimes heard Nicole--she is the maid toMademoiselle Andrea de Taverney--say that her mistress wanted such andsuch a plant for her herbarium, so I asked her to get a sketch of them,and I searched in the woods till I raked them up. Then I transplantedthem where she must find them, and used to hear the lady, in taking herwalk, cry out: 'How odd! here is the very thing I was looking for!'"
The old gentleman looked with more heed and it made Gilbert lower hiseyes blushing, for the interest had tenderness in it.
"Continue to study botany, which leads as a flowery path to medicine.Paris has free schools, and I suppose your folks will supply yourmaintenance."
"I have no relations, but I can earn my living at some trade."
"Yes, Rousseau says in his 'Emile,' that every one should learn a tradeeven though he were a prince's son."
"I have not read that book, but I have heard Baron Taverney mock at themaxim, and pretend grief at not having made his son a joiner. Instead,he made him a soldier, so that he will dismember instead of joining."
"Yes, these nobles bring their sons up to kill and not to nourish. Whenrevolution comes, they will be forced to beg their bread abroad or selltheir sword to the foreigners, which is more shameful. But you are notnoble, and you have a craft?"
"No, I have a horror for rough toil; but give me a study and see how Iwill wear out night and day in my tasks."
"You have been to school, if not to college?"
"I know but to read and write," said Gilbert, shaking his head. "Mymother taught me to read, for seeing me slight in physique, she said,'You will never be a good workman, but must try to be priest orscholar. Learn to read, Gilbert, and you will not have to split wood,guide the plow or hew stone.' Unhappily my mother died before I couldmore than read, so I taught myself writing. First I traced letters onsand with a sharp stick till I found that the letters used in writingwere not those of print, which I was copying. Hence I hope to meet someone who will need my pen, a blind man who will need my eyes, or a dumbywho needs my tongue."
"You appear to have willingness and courage; but do you know what itwill cost you to live in town?--at least three times what it did in thecountry."
"Well, suppose I have shelter and for rest after toil, I can shift onsix cents a day."
"That is the right talk. I like this kind of man," said the plantcollector. "Come with me to Paris and I will find you an independentprofession by which you may live."
"Oh, my friend," exclaimed Gilbert, intoxicated with delight. "I acceptyour offer and I am grateful. But what will I have to do in yourcompany?"
"Nothing but toil. But you will mete out the amount of your work. Youwill exercise your right of youth, freedom, happiness and even ofidleness after you earn the right to be at leisure," added the unnamedbenefactor, smiling as though in spite of his will.
Then, raising his eyes to heaven, he ejaculated: "Oh, youth, vigor andliberty!" with an inexpressibly poetical melancholy spreading over hisfine, pure lineaments.
"Now, lead me to the spot where the maidenhair is to be found," he said.
Gilbert stepped out before the old gentleman and the pair disappearedin the underwood.



CHAPTER XXVII.
MASTER JACQUES.

Before the day was over the pair could enter the capital. The youngman's heart beat as he perceived Notre Dame Cathedral towers and theocean of housetops.
"Oh, Paris!" he cried with rapture.
"Yes, Paris, a mass of buildings, a gulf of evils," said the oldgentleman. "On each stone yonder you would see a drop of blood ora tear, if the miseries within those abodes could show themselveswithout."
Gilbert repressed his enthusiasm, which cooled of itself.
They entered by a poor district and the sights were hideous.
"It is going on eight," said the conductor, "let us be quick, youngman, for goodness' sake."
Gilbert hurried on.
"I forget to say that I am a married man," said the stranger, aftera cold silence which began to worry the youth. "And my wife, who isa genuine Parisian, will probably grumble at our coming home late.Besides, she does not like strangers. Still, I have invited you; so,come along. Or, rather, here we are."
By the last sunbeams, Gilbert, looking up, saw the name-plate ofPlastrire Street at a corner.
The other paused before an alley door with iron bars to the upperportion. He pulled a leather thong hanging out of a hole, and thisopened the door.
"Come quickly," he called to the youth, who hesitated on the threshold,and he closed the alley door after them.
At the end of a few steps up the dark passage, Gilbert stumbled on thelower step of a black, steep flight of stairs. Used to the locality,the old gentleman had gone up a dozen steps. Gilbert rejoined him andstopped only when he did, on a landing worn by feet, on which openedtwo doors. The stranger pulled a hare's foot hanging at one, and ashrill bell tinkled inside the room.
A woman some fifty years of age appeared, and she and the man spoketogether:
"Is it very late, Therese?" asked the latter timidly.
"A nice hour to come to supper, Jacques!" snarled the woman.
"Come, come, we will make up for the delay," said the one calledJacques, shutting the door and taking the collecting case fromGilbert's hands.
"Have we a messenger boy here?" exclaimed the old woman: "We onlywanted him to complete the merry company. So you can no longer do somuch as carry your heap of weeds and grass? Master Jacques does thegrand with a boy to carry his trash--I beg his pardon, he is becomingquite a great nobleman."
"Be a little quiet, Therese."
"Pay the boy and get rid of him; we want no spies here."
Pale as death, Gilbert sprang toward the door, but Jacques stopped him,saying with some firmness:
"This is not a messenger-boy or a spy. He is a guest whom I bring home."
"A guest?" and the hag let her hands drop along her hips. "This is thelast straw."
"Light up, Therese," said the host, still kindly, but showing morewill; "I am warm, and we are hungry."
The vixen's grumbling diminished in loudness. She drew fire with flintand steel, while Gilbert stood still by the sill which he regretted hehad crossed. Jacques perceived what he suffered, and begged him to comeforward.
Gilbert saw the hag's yellow and morose face by the first glimmer ofthe thin candle stuck in a brass candlestick. It inspired him withdislike. On her part the virago was far from liking the pale, finecountenance, circumspect silence and rigidity of the youth.
"I do not wonder at your being heated and hungry," she growled. "Itmust be tiresome to go browsing in the woods, and it is awful hard workto stoop from time to time to pick up a root. For I suppose this persongathers leaves and buds, too, for herb-collecting is the trade forthose who do not any work."
"This is a good and honest young man," said Jacques, in a still firmervoice, "who has honored me with his company all day, and whom my goodTherese will greet as a friend, I am sure."
"Enough for two is scant for three," she grumbled.
"We are both frugal."
"I know your kind of frugality. I declare that there is not enoughbread in the house for such abstemiousness, and that I am not goingdown three flights of stairs for more. Anyway, the baker's is shut up."
"Then, I will go," said Jacques, frowning. "Open the door, for I meanit."
"Oh, in that case, I suppose I must do it," said the scold.
"What am I for but to carry out your freaks? Come and have supper."
A table was set in the next room, small and square, with cherry woodchairs, having straw bottoms, and a bureau full of darned hose.
Gilbert took a chair; the old woman placed a plate and theappurtenances, all worn with hard use, before him, with a pewter goblet.
"I thought you were going after bread?" said Jacques.
"Never mind; I found a roll in the cupboard, and you ought to manage ona pound and a half of bread, eh?"
So saying, she put the soup on the board. All three had good appetites,but Gilbert held in his, but he was the first to get through.
"Who has called to-day?" inquired the host, to change the termagant'sideas.
"The whole world, as usual. You promised Lady Boufflers four quiresof music, Lady Escars two arias, and Lady Penthievre a quartet withaccompaniment. They came or sent. But the ladies must go without theirmusic because our lord was out plucking dandelions."
Jacques did not show anger, though Gilbert expected him to do so, forhe was used to this manner. The soup was followed by a chunk of boiledbeef, on a delft plate grooved with knife points. The host servedGilbert scantily, as Therese was watching, took the same sized pieceand passed the plate to his Xantippe.
She handed a slice of bread to the guest. It was so small that Jacquesblushed, but he waited until she had helped him and herself, when hetook the loaf from her. He handed it to Gilbert and bade him cut offaccording to his wants.
"Thank you," said Gilbert, as some beans in butter were served, "but Ihave no longer any hunger. I never eat but one dish. And I drink onlywater."
Jacques had a little wine for himself.
"You must see about the young man's bed," said the latter, putting downthe bottle. "He must be tired."
Therese dropped her fork and stared at the speaker.
"Sleep here? you must be mad. Bring people home to sleep--I expect youwant to give up your own bed to them. You must be off your head. Is itkeeping a lodging-house you are about? If this is so, don't look to me!get a cook and servants. It is bad enough to be yours, without waitingon Tom, Dick and Harry."
"Therese, listen to me," replied Jacques, with his grave, even voice;"it is for one night only. This young man has never set foot in Paris,and comes under my safe-conduct. I am not going to have him go to aninn, though he has to have my own bed, look you."
Therese understood that struggle was out of the question for thepresent and she changed her tactics by fighting for Gilbert, but as anally who would stab him in the back at the first chance.
"I daresay you know all about him, or you would not have brought himhome, and he ought to stay here. I will shake up some kind of a bed inyour study among the papers."
"No, no, a study is not fit for a sleeping-room; a light might set fireto the writings."
"Which would be no loss," sneered Therese.
"There is the garret; the room with a fine outlook over such gardens asare scarce in Paris. Have no anxiety, Therese; the young man will notbe a burden; he will earn his own living. Take a candle and follow me."
Therese sighed, but she was mastered. Gilbert gravely rose and followedhis benefactor. On the landing Gilbert saw drinking water in a tank.
"Is water dear in town?" he inquired.
"They charge for it; but any way, bread and water are two things whichman has no right to refuse to his fellow-man."
"But at Taverney, water ran freely, and the luxury of the poor iscleanliness."
"Take as much as you like, my friend," said Master Jacques.
Gilbert filled a crock and followed the host, who was astonished at soyoung a man allying the firmness of the people with the instinct of thearistocratic.



CHAPTER XXVIII.
IN THE LOFT.

To tell the truth, the loft where Jacques stowed his guest was not fitfor habitation. The mattress was on the floor and the chief article offurniture. Rats had pulled about and gnawed a heap of yellowed papers.On clotheslines across the attic were paper bags in which were dryingbeans, herbs and household linen.
"It is not nice to look upon," apologized the host, "but sleep anddarkness make the sumptuous palace and the meanest cottage much alike.Sleep as youth can do, and nothing will prevent you thinking you sleptin the royal palace. But mind you do not set the house afire. We willtalk over matters in the morning."
"Good-night and hearty thanks," said Gilbert, left alone in the garret.
With all the precaution recommended, he took up the light and made therounds of the room. As the newspapers and pamphlets were tied in baleshe did not open them; but the bean bags were made of printed pages ofa book, which caught his eye with the lines. One sack, knocked off theline by his head, burst on the floor, and in trying to replace thebeans, he fell to reading the wrappers. It was a page from the loveof a poor youth for a lovely and fashionable lady named Lady Warrens.Gilbert was congratulating himself on having the whole night to readthis love story on the wrappers when the candle went out and left himin gloom. He was ready to weep with rage. He dropped the papers on theheap of beans and flung himself on his couch where he slept deeply inspite of his disappointment.
He was roused only by the grating of the lock. It was bright day;Gilbert saw his host gently enter.
"Good-morning," he muttered, with the red of shame on his cheeks as hesaw Jacques staring at the beans and emptied bags.
"Did you sleep soundly?"
"Ye-es."
"Nay, are you not a sleep-walker?"
"Alas, I see why you say that. I sat up reading till the candle wasburnt out, from the first sheet on which my eyes fell so greatlyinteresting me. Do you, who know so much, know to what lovely novelthose pages belong?"
"I do not know, but as I notice the word 'Confessions' on the headline,I should think it was Memoirs."
"Oh, no, the man so speaking is not doing so of himself; the avowalsare too frank--the opinions too impartial."
"I think you are wrong," said the old gentleman quickly. "The authorwanted to set an example of showing himself to his fellows as heavencreated him."
"Do you know the author?"
"The writer is Jean Jacques Rousseau. These are stray pages out of his'Confessions.'"
"So this unknown, poor, obscure youth, almost begging his way afooton the highroads, was the man who was to write 'Emile' and the 'SocialContract?'"
"Yes--or, rather no!" said the other with unspeakable sadness. "Thisauthor is the man disenchanted with life, glory, society and almostwith heaven; but the other Rousseau, Lady Warrens', was the youthentering life by the same door as Aurora comes into the world; youthwith his joys and hopes. An abyss divides the two Rousseaus thirtyyears wide."
The old gentleman shook his head, let his arms sadly droop, andappeared to sink into deep musing.
"So," went on Gilbert, "it is possible for the meanly born likeRousseau to win the love of a mighty and beautiful lady? This iscalculated to drive those mad who have lifted their eyes to those abovetheir sphere."
"Are you in love and do you see some likeness between your case andRousseau's?" asked the old gentleman.
Gilbert blushed without answering the question.
"But he won, because he was Rousseau," he observed. "Yet, were I tofeel a spark of his flame of genius, I should aspire to the star, andseek to wear it even though----"
"You had to commit a crime?"
Jacques started and cut short the interview by saying:
"I think my wife must be up. We will go down stairs. Besides, a workingday never begins too soon. Come, young man, come."
On going forth, Jacques secured the garret door with a padlock.
This time he guided his ward into what Therese called the study.The furniture of this little room was composed of glazed cases ofbutterflies, herbs and minerals, framed in ebonized wood; books in awalnut case, a long, narrow table, covered with a worn and blackenedcloth; with manuscripts orderly arranged on it, and four wooden chairscovered in horsehair. All was glossy, lustrous, irreproachable in orderand cleanness, but cold to sight and heart, from the light through thegauze curtains being gray and weak, and luxury, or comfort itself,being far from this cold, ashy and black fireside.
A small rosewood piano stood on four legs, and a clock on themantel-piece alone showed any life in this domestic tomb.
Gilbert walked in respectfully, for it was grand in his eyes; almost asrich as Taverney, and the waxed floor imposed on him.
"I am going to show you the nature of your work," said the oldgentleman. "This is music paper. When I copy a page I earn ten cents,the price I myself fix. Do you know music?"
"I know the names of the notes but not their value, as well as thesesigns. In the house where I lived was a young lady who played theharpsichord----" and Gilbert hung his head, coloring.
"Oh, the same who studied botany," queried Jacques.
"Precisely; and she played very well."
"This does not account for your learning music."
"Rousseau says that the man is incomplete who enjoys a result withoutseeking the cause."
"Yes; but, also, that man in perfecting himself by the discovery, loseshis happiness, freshness and instincts."
"What matter if what he gains compensates him for the losses?"
"Gad! you are not only a botanist and a musician, but a logician. Atpresent we only require a copyist. While copying, you will train yourhand to write more easily when you compose for yourself. Meanwhile,with a couple of hours' copy work at night, you may earn thewherewithal to follow the courses in the colleges of medicine, surgeryand botany."
"I understand you," exclaimed Gilbert, "and I thank you from the bottomof my heart."
He settled himself to begin work on the sheet of paper held out by thekind gentleman.




CHAPTER XXIX.
WHO MASTER JACQUES WAS.

While the novice was covering the paper with his first attempts, theold gentleman set to reading printer's proofs--long leaves blank on oneside like the paper of which was made the bean bags.
At nine Therese rushed in.
"Quick, quick!" she cried to Jacques, who raised his head. "Come out.It is a prince who calls. Goodness me! when will this procession ofhigh-cockalorums cease? I hope this one will not take it into his headto have breakfast with us, like the Duke of Chartres the other day."
"Which prince is this one?" asked Jacques in an undertone.
"His Highness the Prince of Conti."
Gilbert let a blob of ink fall on the paper much more resembling a blotthan a full note.
Jacques went out, smiling behind Therese, who shut the door after them.
"Princes here!" thought Gilbert. "Dukes calling on a copier of music!"
With his heart singularly beating, he went up to the door to listen.
"I want to take you with me," said a strange voice.
"For what purpose, prince?" inquired Jacques.
"To present you to the dauphiness. A new era opens for philosophers inher coming reign."
"I am a thousand times thankful to your highness; but my infirmitieskeep me indoors."
"And your misanthropy?"
"Suppose it were that? Is it so curious a thing that I should putmyself out for it?"
"Come, and I will spare you the grand reception at the celebration atSt. Denis, and take you on to Muette, where her royal highness willpass the night in a couple of days."
"Does she get to St. Denis the day after to-morrow?"
"With her whole retinue. Come! the princess is a pupil of Gluck and anexcellent musician."
Gilbert did not listen to any more after hearing that the dauphiness'retinue would be at St. Denis, only a few miles out, in a day or two.He might soon be within view of Andrea. This idea dazzled him like aflash from a looking-glass in his face. When he opened his eyes afterthis giddiness they fell on a book which happened to be open on thesideboard; it was Rousseau's _Confessions_, "adorned with a portrait ofthe author."
"The very thing I was looking for. I had never seen what he was like."
He quickly turned over the tissue paper on the steel plate and ashe looked, the door opened and the living original of the portraitreturned. With extended hands, dropping the volume, and trembling allover, he muttered:
"Oh! I am under the roof of Jean Jacques Rousseau!"
The old gentleman smiled with more happiness at this unstudied ovationthan at the thousand triumphs of his glorious life.
"Yes, my friend, you are in Rousseau's house."
"Pray forgive me for the nonsense I have talked," said thehero-worshiper, clasping his hands and about to fall on his knees.
"Did it require a prince's call for you to recognize the persecutedphilosopher of Geneva? poor child--but lucky one--who is ignorant ofpersecution."
"Oh, I am happy to see you, to know you, to dwell by you."
"Yes, yes, that is all very well; but we must earn our living. Whenyou shall have copied this piece--for you have practiced enough tomake a start--you will have earned your keep to-day. I charge nothingfor the lodging--only do not sit up late and burn up the candles, forTherese will scold. What was left over from supper last night will beour breakfast; but this will be the last meal we take together, unlessI invite you. In the street is a cheap dining-house for artisans,where you will fare nicely. I recommend it. In the mean time, let usbreakfast."
Gilbert followed without a word, for he was conquered, for the firsttime; but then this was a man superior to others.
After the first mouthfuls he left table; the shock had spoilt hisappetite. At eight in the evening he had copied a piece of music, notartistically but legibly, and Rousseau paid him the six cents.
"We have plenty of bread," remarked Therese, on whom the young man'sgentleness, application and discretion had produced good effect.
"I shall never forget your kindness, madame," he said, about to excusehimself, when he caught the host's eye and guessed that it would offendhim.
"I accept," he said.
He went up to his loft, with the bread and money.
"At last I am my own master," he said to himself, "or should be but forthis bread, which is from charity."
Although hungry, he placed it on the window sill and did not touch itduring the night, though famine made him remember it.
He woke up at daylight, but still he did not eat the bread. He took itup, though, and at five o'clock, went down and outdoors.
From suspicion, or merely to study his guest, Rousseau was on thelookout, and he followed the youth up the street.
A beggar coming up to Gilbert, he gave him the hunk of bread. Enteringthe baker's, he bought another roll.
"He is going into the eating-house," thought the watcher, "where themoney will soon fly."
But Gilbert munched part of the roll while strolling; he washed downthe rest at the public fountain, washed his hands and sauntered home.
"By my faith, I believe that I am happier than Diogenes and have foundan honest man," thought Rousseau.
The day passed in uninterrupted labor. At even Gilbert had turned outseven pages of copy--if not elegant, faultless. He tested in his handthe money received for it with ardent satisfaction.
"You are my master," he said, "since I find work in your place and yougive me lodgings gratis. I should therefore lay myself open to be badlythought of by you if I acted without consulting you."
"What," said Rousseau, frightened; "what are you going to do? Going offelsewhere to work?"
"No, only I want a holiday, with your leave, to-morrow."
"To idle?"
"No, to go to St. Denis to see the dauphiness arrive."
"I thought you scorned the pomps of this worldly show," said Rousseau."I, though an obscure citizen, despised the invitation of these greatpeople to be of the reception party."
Gilbert nodded approval.
"I am not philosophic," said he, "but I am discreet."
This word struck the tutor, who saw there was some mystery in thisbehavior, and he looked at the speaker with admiration.
"I am glad to see you have a motive."
"Yes, and one which does not resemble the curiosity of a man at a show."
"It is for the better, or for the worse, for your look is deep, youngman, and I seek in it in vain for youthful calm and candor."
"I told you I was unfortunate," returned Gilbert; "and such have noyouth."
"But at the hour when you are seeing all the pomps of societyglitter before you, I shall open one of my herbariums and review themagnificence of nature."
"But would you not have turned your back on herbariums if you weregoing to see your sweetheart--the one to whom you tossed a bunch ofcherries?"
"Quite true! And you are young. Go to the show, my boy. It is notambition in him, but love," he commented when Gilbert had gone outgleefully.



CHAPTER XXX.
OLD PATRICIANS AND NEW.

When the news spread of the royal splendor over the reception ofthe bride from Austria, the dreadful curiosity of the Parisians wassharpened, and they were to be seen flocking out to St. Denis byscores, hundreds and thousands.
Gilbert was lost in the multitude, but, seeing some urchins climb upin the trees, and the exercise being child's play to him, he clamberedinto a linn tree and perched on a bough to wait.
Half an hour after, drums beat, cannon thundered, and the majesticcathedral bell began to boom.
In the distance a shrill cry arose, but became full and more deep as itdrew near. It made Gilbert prick up the ear and his whole body quiver.
"Long life to the king!"
It was the customary cheer.
A herd of horses, neighing under housings of gold and purple, swarmedon the highway; they were the royal household troops, guards, Swissdragoons, musketeers and gendarmes.
Then a massive and magnificent coach loomed up.
Gilbert perceived a stately head under a hat, when all were uncovered,and a blue sash. He saw the royal glance, cold and penetrative, beforewhich all bowed and heads were bared. Fascinated, intoxicated, pantingand frozen, he forgot to lift his hat. A violent blow drew himfrom his ecstasy; his hat had been knocked off with the stroke of asoldier's halberd.
"I beg pardon," he stammered. "I am fresh from the country."
"Then learn that you must salute all the royal carriages, whoever maybe in them," said the halberdier gruffly. "If you do not know theemblem of the lilyflower, I will teach you."
"You need not. I know," said Gilbert.
The royal equipages passed in a prolonged line. Gilbert gazed on themso intently that he seemed stupefied.
At the Royal Abbey doors they stopped successively to let the noblemenand ladies alight. These setting-down movements caused halts of a fewminutes.
In one of them Gilbert felt a burning dart rush through his heart.
He was dazzled so that all was effaced in his sight, and so violent ashivering overwhelmed him that he was forced to catch at the branch notto tumble off.
Right in front of him, not ten paces off, in one of the vehicles withthe lily brand which he had been advised to salute, he perceived thesplendidly luminous face of Andrea Taverney; she was clad in white,like an angel or a ghost.
He uttered a faint outcry; but then, triumphing over the emotions whichhad mastered him together, he commanded his heart to cease to beat thathe might look at the star.
Such was the young man's power over himself that he succeeded.
Wishful to learn why the horses had been reined in, Andrea leanedout, and, as her bright blue eyes traveled round, she caught sight ofGilbert and recognized him.
Gilbert suspected that she would be surprised and would inform herfather of the discovery, as he sat next her.
He was not wrong, for Andrea called the baron's attention to the youth.
"Gilbert," said the nobleman, who was puffing himself up at the coachwindow, in his handsome red sash of the order of knighthood. "He, here?Who is taking care of my hound, then?"
Hearing the words, the young man respectfully bowed to Andrea and herfather. But it took him all his powers to make the effort.
"It is so. It is the rascal in person," said the baron.
On Andrea's face, observed by Gilbert with sustained attention, wasperfect calm under slight surprise.
Leaning out of the carriage, the baron beckoned to his ex-retainer. Butthe soldier who had given the youth a lesson in etiquette stopped him.
"Let the lad come to me," said the lord; "I have a couple of words tosay to him."
"You may go half a dozen, my lord," said the sergeant, flattered by thenobleman addressing him; "plenty of time, for they are speechifyingunder the porch. Pass, younker."
"Come hither, rogue," said the baron on Gilbert affecting not to hurryhimself out of his usual walk. "Tell me by what chance you are out hereat St. Denis when you ought to be at Taverney?"
"It is no chance," replied Gilbert, saluting lord and lady for thesecond time, "but the act of my free will."
"What do you mean by your will, varlet? Have you such a thing as a willof your own?"
"Why not? Every free man has his own."
"Free man? Do you fancy yourself free, you unhappy dog?"
"Of course, since I parted with my freedom to no one."
"On my word, here's a pretty knave," said the baron, taken aback bythe coolness of the speaker. "How dare you be in town, and how did youmanage to get here?"
"I walked it," said Gilbert shortly.
"Walked!" repeated Andrea with some pity.
"But I ask what you have come here for?" continued the baron.
"To get an education, which is assured me, and make my fortune, which Ihope for."
"What are you doing meanwhile--begging?"
"Begging?" reiterated Gilbert, with superb scorn.
"Thieving, then?"
"I never stole anything from Taverney," retorted Gilbert, with suchproud and wild firmness that it riveted the girl's attention on him fora space.
"What mischief does your idle hand find to do, then?"
"What a genius is doing, whom I seek to resemble if only byperseverance; I copy music," replied the rebel.
"You copy music?" queried Andrea, turning round. "Then you know it?" inthe tone of one saying, "You are a liar."
"I know the notes, and that is enough for copying. I like music dearly,and I used to listen to the lady playing at the harpsichord."
"You eavesdropper!"
"I got the airs by heart to begin with; and next, as I saw they werewritten in a book, I saw a method in it and I learnt it."
"You dared to touch my book?" said Andrea, at the height of indignation.
"I had no need to touch it; it lay open. I looked, and there is nosoiling a printed page by a look."
"Let me tell you," sneered the baron, "that we shall have this impdeclare that he can play the piano like Haydn."
"I might have learnt that if I had presumed to touch the keys," saidthe youth, confidently.
Against her inclination, Andrea cast a second look on the face animatedby a feeling like a martyr's in fanaticism. But the lord, who had nothis daughter's calmness and clear head, felt his wrath kindle at theyouth being right and their being inhumane in leaving him with thewatchdog at Taverney. It is hard to forgive an inferior for the wrongwhich he may convict us with; hence he grew heated as his daughtercooled.
"You rapscallion!" he said. "You desert and play the vagabond andspout such tomfoolery as we hear when you are brought to task. But asI do not wish the king's highway to be infested with gipsy tramps andthieves----"
Andrea held up her hand to appease the patrician, whose exaggerationannulled his superiority. But he put her aside and continued:
"I shall tell Chief of Police Sartines about you, and have you lockedup in the House of Correction, you fledgeling philosopher."
"Lord Baron," returned Gilbert, drawing back but slapping his hat downon his head with the ire which made him white, "I have found patrons intown at whose door your Sartines dances attendance!"
"The deuse you say so?" questioned the baron. "You shall taste thestirrup leather anyway. Andrea, call your brother, who is close tohand."
Andrea stooped out toward the offender and bade him begone in animperious voice.
"Philip," called the old noble.
Gilbert stood on the spot, mute and unmoving, as in ecstatic worship.Up rode a cavalier at the call; it was the Knight of Redcastle, joyousand brilliant in a captain's uniform.
"Why, it is Gilbert," he exclaimed. "The idea of his being here!Good-day, Gilbert. What do you want, father?"
"I want you to whip this malapert with your sword-scabbard," roared theold patrician, pale with anger.
"What has he done?" inquired Philip, looking with growing astonishmentfrom his father in age to the youth who had tranquilly returned hisgreeting.
"Never mind what he has done, but lash him, Philip, as you would a dog!"
"What has he done?" asked the chevalier, turning to his sister. "Has heinsulted you?"
"I insult her?" repeated Gilbert.
"Not at all," answered Andrea. "He has done nothing. Father let hispassion get the upper hand of him. Gilbert is no longer in our serviceand has the right to go wherever he likes. Father does not understandthis and flew into a rage."
"Is that all?" asked Captain Philip.
"All, brother, and I do not understand father's wrath about such stuffand for the trash who do not deserve a look. Just see if we are not togo on again, Philip."
Subdued by his daughter's serenity, the baron was quiet. Crushed bysuch scorn, Gilbert lowered his head. Something ran through his heartmuch like hatred. He would have preferred Philip Taverney's sword oreven a cut of his whip. He came near swooning.
Luckily the speechmaking was over and the procession moved forward oncemore. Andrea was carried on, and faded as in a dream.
Gilbert thought he was alone in his grief, believing that he couldnever support the weight of such misfortune. But a hand was laid on hisshoulder.
Turning, he saw Philip, who came smiling toward him, having dismountedand given his steed to his orderly to hold.
"I should like to hear what has happened," he said, "and how my poorGilbert has come to Paris?"
This frank and cordial greeting touched the young man.
"What was I to do on the old place?" he asked, with a sigh, tornfrom his wild stoicism. "I should have died of hunger, ignorance anddespair."
Philip started, for his impartial mind, like Andrea's, was struck bythe painful loneliness in which the youth was left.
"But do you imagine that you can succeed in Paris, a poor boy, withoutresources and protectors?"
"I do. The man who can work rarely dies of want, where so many want tolive without working."
The hearer started at this reply; previously he had regarded him as adependent of no importance.
"I earn my daily bread, Captain Philip, and that is a great gain forone who was blamed for eating bread which he did nothing for."
"I hope you are not referring to what you had at Taverney, for yourfather and mother were good tenants and you were often useful."
"I only did my duty."
"Mark me, Gilbert," continued the young gentleman. "You know I alwaysliked you. I looked upon you differently to others. The future willshow whether I was right or wrong. To me your standing aloof wasfastidiousness; your plainspokenness I called straightforward."
"Thanks," said the young man, breathing delightedly.
"It follows that I wish you well. Young like you and unhappy as I wassituated, I thus understood you. Fortune has smiled upon me. Letme help you in anticipation of the lady on the wheel smiling on youlikewise."
"I thank you."
"Do you blush to take my help, when all men are brothers?"
Gilbert fastened his intelligent eyes on the speaker's noble features,astonished at hearing the language from those lips.
"Such is the talk of the new generation," said he; "opinions shared bythe dauphin himself. Do not be proud with me, but take what you mayreturn me another day. Who knows but that you may be a great financieror statesman----"
"Or doctor-surgeon," said Gilbert.
"Just as you please. Here is my purse; take half."
"I thank you, but I need nothing," replied the unconquerable young man,softened by Philip's admirable brotherly love; "but be sure that I ammore grateful to you than if I had accepted your offer."
He mingled with the mob, leaving Philip stupefied for several seconds,unable to credit sight and hearing. Seeing Gilbert did not reappear, hemounted his horse and regained his place.



CHAPTER XXXI.
THE MAGICIAN'S WIFE.

All the rumbling of the coaches, the booming of the bells swingingto the full extent, the rolling of the drums, all the majesty of thesociety the Princess Louise had discarded in order to live in thenunnery, glided over her soul and died away at the base of her cellwall, like the useless tide. She had refused to return to the court,and while her sisterhood were still agitated by the royal visit, shealone did not quiver when the heavy door banged and shut out the worldfrom her solitude.
She summoned her treasurer to her.
"During these two days of frivolous uproar," she inquired, "have thepoor been visited, the sick attended, and those soldiers on guard givenbread and wine!"
"Nobody has wanted in this house."
Suddenly the kick of a horse was heard against the woodwork of thestables.
"What is that? Has any courtier remained?"
"Only his eminence the Cardinal de Rohan; that is the horse of theItalian lady who came here yesterday to crave hospitality of yourhighness."
"True; I remember. Where is she?"
"In her room, or in the church. She refuses all food save bread, andprayed in the chapel all through the night."
"Some very guilty person, no doubt," said the lady superior, frowning.
"I know not, for she speaks to no one."
"What is she like?"
"Handsome, but proud, along with tenderness."
"How did she act during the royal ceremony?"
"She peeped out of her window, hiding in the curtains, and examinedeverybody as though she feared to see an enemy."
"Some member of the class which I have reigned over. What is her name?"
"Lorenza Feliciani."
"I know of no person of that name, but show her in."
Princess Louise sat in an ancient oak chair, carved in the reign ofHenri II. and used by nine Carmelite abbesses. Before this seat ofjustice many poor novices had quailed between spiritual and temporalpower.
A moment following the treasurer returned, ushering in the foreignerwhom we know; she wore a long veil. With the piercing eye of her race,Princess Louise studied Lorenza on her entering the closet; but herhostile feelings became sisterly and benevolent on seeing so much graceand humility in the visitor, so much sublime beauty, and, in short, somuch innocence in the large black eyes wet with tears.
The princess prevented her dropping on her knees.
"Draw near and speak," said she. "Are you called Lorenza Feliciani?"
"Yes, lady."
"You want to confide a secret to me?"
"I am dying with the desire."
"But why do you not go to the penitential chamber? I have no power butto console; a priest can comfort and forgive." She spoke the last wordhesitatingly.
"I need comfort alone; and to a woman alone can I entrust myconfession. Will you listen patiently to my most strange story, to betold to you alone, for you are mighty, and I require the hand of heavento defend me."
"Defend? Are you pursued and attacked?"
"Yes, indeed, my lady," said the fugitive, with unutterable fright.
"Reflect, madame, that this is a nunnery and not a castle," said theprincess; "what agitates mankind enters here but to be extinguished;weapons to use against man are not here; it is the abode of God, not ofmight, repression and justice."
"The very thing I seek," answered Lorenza; "in the abode of God alonecan I find a life of rest."
"But not of vengeance. If you want reprisal on your foes, apply to themagistrates."
"They can do nothing against the man whom I dread."
"Who can he be?" asked the lady superior, with secret and involuntaryfright.
"Who?" said the Italian, approaching the princess-abbess under the swayof mysterious exaltation. "I am certain that he is one of those devilswho war against mankind, endowed by their Prince Satan with superhumanpower."
"What are you telling me?" said the other, regarding the woman to makesure that she was not mad.
"What a wretch am I to have fallen across the path of this demon,"groaned Lorenza, writhing her lovely arms, seemingly reft from aflawless ancient statue. "I am possessed of a fiend," she gasped, goingup to the lady and speaking in a low voice, as if afraid to hear herown tones.
"Possessed! Speak out, if you are in your senses."
"I am not mad, though I may become so, if you drive me away."
"But allow me to say that I see you like a creature favored by heaven;you seem rich and are beauteous; you express yourself correctly, andyour face does not wear traces of the terrible and mysterious complaintcalled demoniac possession."
"In my life, madame, and its adventures resides the sinister secretwhich I wish I could keep from myself. Lady, I am a Roman, where myfather came of the old patricians, but like most Roman nobles, heis poor. I have also a mother and elder brother. In France, when anaristocratic family has a son and a daughter, she is put into a nunnerythat the money which should have been her marriage portion shall buythe son a military commission. Among us, the daughter is sacrificed tohelp the son rise in holy orders. I was given no education, while mybrother was trained to be a cardinal, as my mother simply said. I wasdestined to take the veil among the Subiaco Carmelites. Such a futurehad been held out to me from youth as a necessity. I had no will orstrength in the matter. I was not consulted but ordered, and had toobey. We Roman girls love society without knowing anything about it,as the suffering souls in paradise love heaven. I was surrounded byexamples which would have doomed me, had the idea of resistance cometo me, but none such came. But my mother fondled me a little more thanusual when the fatal day dawned.
"My father gathered five hundred Roman crowns to pay my entrance feeinto the convent, and we set out for Subiaco. It is some nine leaguesfrom Rome; but the mountain roads were so bad that we were five hoursgetting over three of them. But the journey pleased me, though it mightbe fatiguing. I smiled on it as my last pleasure, and along the roadbade farewell to the trees, bushes, stones and the dried grass itself.I feared that in the nunnery would be not even grass and flowers.
"Suddenly, amid my dreams, and as we were passing between a grove anda pile of rocks, the carriage stopped. I heard my mother scream, andmy father jumped to get his pistols. My eyes and mind dropped from theskies to the earth, for we were stopped by highwaymen."
"Poor girl!" exclaimed Princess Louise, interested in the tale.
"I was not frightened, for the brigands waylaid us for money, and whatthey took was to pay my way into the nunnery; hence there would be adelay until it was made up again, and I knew that it would take timeand trouble. But when, after sharing this plunder, the bandits, insteadof letting us go our way, sprang upon me, and I saw my father's effortsto defend me and my mother's tears in entreaty, then I comprehendedthat a great though unknown misfortune threatened me, and I began tocall for mercy. It was natural, though I knew that it was uselesscalling and that nobody would hear in this wild spot. Hence, withoutheeding my father's struggles, my mother's weeping, or my appeals, thebanditti tied my hands behind my back, and began throwing dice on oneof their handkerchiefs spread on the ground, while burning me withhideous glances, which I understood from terror giving me clearness ofsight.
"What most frightened me was not to see any stake on the board. Ishuddered as the dice cup passed from hand to hand, at the thought thatI was the stake.
"All of a sudden, one of them, with a yell of triumph, jumped up, whilethe others ground their teeth and swore. He ran up to me, took me inhis arms and pressed his lips to mine. The contact of redhot iron couldnot have drawn a more heartrending scream from me.
"'Rather death, O God!' I shrieked.
"My mother writhed on the ground where my father lay, in a dead swoon.My only hope was that one of the losing villains would kill me out ofspite with the dagger he held in his clenched fist. I waited for thisstroke--longed, prayed for it.
"Suddenly a horseman rode up the path. He spoke to one of thesentinels, who let him pass, exchanging a sign with him. He was ofmedium stature, imposing in mien and resolute in gaze. He came on atthe walking pace of his horse, calm and tranquil. He stopped in frontof me. The bandit who had clutched me turned round sharply at the firstblow of the whistle which the stranger carried in the handle of hisriding whip. He let me drop to the ground.
"'Come here,' said the horseman, and as the bandit hesitated, he formeda triangle with his arms, crossing his forefingers upon his breast.
"As though this were the token of a mighty master, the robber went upto the stranger, who stooped down to his ear, and said:
"'Mak.'
"I am sure he uttered but this single word, for I looked at him as onelooks at the knife about to slay oneself, and listened as one does forthe sentence of life or death.
"'Benak,' answered the highwayman.
"Subdued like a lion, with growling, he returned to me, untied the roperound my wrists, and did the same release for my parents. As the coinhad been shared, every man went and put his portion on a flat rock. Nota piece was missing. Meanwhile I felt myself coming to life again inthe hands of my father and mother.
"'Be off,' said the deliverer to the robbers, who obeyed and dived intothe wood to the last man.
"'Lorenza Feliciani,' said the stranger, covering me with a superhumangaze, 'you are free to go your way.'
"My father and mother thanked the stranger who knew me and yet wasunknown to us. They stepped into the carriage where I followed themwith regret, for some unknown power irresistibly attracted me towardmy savior. He remained unstirring in the same spot, as if to continuebetween us and harm. I looked at him as long as I could and theoppression on my bosom did not go off until he was lost to view. In acouple of hours we reached Subiaco."
"But who was this extraordinary man?" cried Princess Louise, moved bythe simplicity of the story.
"Kindly let me finish. Alas! this is not the whole of it.
"On the road, we three did nothing but talk about the singularliberator who had come mysteriously and powerfully like an agent ofheaven. Less credulous than me, my father suspected him to be one ofthose heads of the robber leagues infesting the suburbs of Rome, whohave absolute authority to reward, punish and share. Though I could notargue against my father's experience, I obeyed instinct and the effectof my gratitude, and did not believe him a robber. In my prayers to theMadonna, I set aside a special one for her to bless my savior.
"That same day I entered the convent. As the money was ready, nothingprevented my reception. I was sad but more resigned than ever. Asuperstitious Italian, I believed that heaven had protected me fromthe devils to hand me over pure to the religious haven. So I yieldedwith eagerness to the wishes of my parents and the lady superior. Apetition to be made a nun without having to go through the novitiatein the white veil was placed before me, and I signed it. My father hadwritten it in such fervent strains that the pope must have thought therequest was the ardent aspiration of a soul disgusted with the worldand turning to solitude. The plea was granted and I only had to be anovice for one month. The news caused me neither joy nor displeasure.I seemed already to be dead to the world, and a corpse with simply theimpassible spirit outliving it.
"They kept me immured a fortnight for fear the worldly craving wouldseize me, and on the fifteenth morning ordered me to go down into thechapel with the other sisters.
"In Italy, the convent chapels are public churches, the pope notbelieving that priests should make a private house of any place setaside for the worshippers of the Divine.
"I went into the choir and took my place. Between the green screenssupposed to veil the choir in was a space through which the nave couldbe viewed. By this peep-crack out on the world I saw a man standing byhimself among the kneeling crowd. The previous feeling of uneasinesscame over me once more--the superhuman attraction to my soul to draw itforth, as I have seen my brother move iron filings on a sheet of paperby waving a magnet underneath it.
"Alas! vanquished and subjugated, with no power to withstand thisattraction, I bent toward him, clasping my hands as in worship, andwith lips and heart I sent him my thanks. My sisters stared at me withsurprise, for they had not comprehended my words nor my movement. Tofollow the direction of my gesture and glance, they rose on tiptoeto peer over into the nave, and I trembled; but the stranger haddisappeared. They questioned me, but I only blushed and faltered, asnext I turned pale.
"From that time, madame," said Lorenza, in despair, "I have lived inthe control of the devil!"
"I cannot say I see anything supernatural in this," observed theprincess, with a smile. "Pray be calm, and proceed."
"You do not know what I feel. The demon possesses me entirely--body andsoul. Love would not make me suffer so much; would not shake me like atree by the storm, and would not give me the wicked thoughts coming tome. I ought to confess these to the priest, and the demon bids me notto think of such a thing.
"One day a pious friend, a neighbor and a Roman lady, came to see me.She passed most of the time praying before the image of the Virgin.That night in undressing I found a note in the lining of my robe. Itcontained these lines:
    "'It is death here in Rome for a nun to love a man. But will you    not risk death for him who saved your life?'
"That made his possession of me complete, lady; for I should lie if Isaid that I thought about anybody more than I do about that man."
Frightened at her own words, Lorenza stopped to study the abbess' sweetand intelligent countenance.
"This is not demoniac possession," said Louise of France with firmness."It is but an unfortunate passion, and unless in the state of regret,human passions have no business here."
"Regret? you see me in tears, on my knees, entreating you to deliver mefrom the power of this infernal wretch, and you talk of my regret? Morethan that, I feel remorse!
"My misery could not escape my companions' eyes. The superior wasnotified, and she acquainted my mother. Only three days after I hadtaken the vows, I saw the three persons enter my cell who were my onlykin--my mother, father and brother. They came to embrace me for thelast time, they said, but I saw that they had another aim. Left alonewith me, my mother questioned me. The influence of the demon was plainonce more, for I was stubbornly silent.
"The day when I was to take the black veil came amid a terriblestruggle with myself, for I feared that then the fiend would work hisworst. Yet I trusted that heaven would save me as it had when therobbers seized me, forgetting that heaven had sent that man to rescueme.
"The hour of the ceremonial arrived. Pale, uneasy, but not apparentlymore agitated than usual, I went down into the church. I hurriedlyassented to everything, for was I not in the holy edifice and was I notmy own mistress while that demon was out of the way? All at once I feltthat his step was on the sill; irresistible attraction as before causedme to turn my eyes away from the altar, whatever my efforts.
"All my strength fled me, even while the scissors were thrust forwardto cut my hair off--my soul seemed to leap out of my throat to go andmeet him, and I fell prostrate on the stone slabs. Not like a womanswooning but like one in a trance. I only heard a murmur, when theceremony was interrupted by a dreadful tumult."
The princess clasped her hands in compassion.
"Was not this a dreadful event," said the Roman, "in which it was easyto recognize the intervention of the enemy of mankind?"
"Poor woman!" said the abbess, with tender pity; "take care! I amafraid that you are apt to attribute to the wonderful what was butnatural weakness. I suppose you saw this man, and you fainted away.There was nothing more. Continue."
"Madame, when I came to my senses," said Lorenza, "it was night. Iexpected to find myself in the chapel or in my cell. But I saw rocksand trees around me; clouds; I was in a grotto and beside me was a man,that persecutor! I touched myself to make sure if I were alive and notdreaming. I screamed, for I was clad in bridal white. On my brow was awreath or white roses--such as the bride of man--or in religion--wears."
The princess uttered an exclamation.
"Next day," resumed the Italian, sobbing, and hiding her head in herhands, "I reckoned the time which had elapsed, I had been three days inthe trance, ignorant of what transpired."



CHAPTER XXXII.
THE NUN'S HUSBAND.

A deep silence long surrounded the two women, one in painfulmeditation, the other in astonishment readily understood.
"If you were removed out of the nunnery," said Lady Louise, to breakthis silence, "you are unaware of how it was done? Yet a convent iswell enclosed and guarded, with bars to the windows, walls of heightand a warder who keeps the keys. In Italy it is particularly so, wherethe regulations are stricter than in France."
"What can I tell your ladyship, when I puzzle my brains without findinga clue?"
"But if you saw this man, did you not blame him for the abduction?"
"I did, but he excused himself on the plea that he loved me. I told himthat he frightened me, and that I was sure that I did not like him. Thestrange feeling is another kind. I am not myself when he is by, buthis; whatever he wills, I must do; one look fascinates me and subduesme. You see, lady, this must be magic."
"At least, it is strange, if not supernatural," said the princess. "Butyou are in the company of this man?"
"Yes; but I do not love him."
"Then why not appeal to the authorities, your parents, theecclesiastical powers?"
"He so watched me that I could not move."
"But you could have written."
"On the road, he stopped at houses where everything is owned by him andhe is master of everybody. When I asked the people about for writingmaterials, they gave no answer; they were his bondwomen."
"But how did you travel?"
"At first in a postchaise; but at Milan, he had a kind of house onwheels to continue the journey in."
"Still, he must have left you alone sometimes?"
"Yes; but then he bade me sleep, and sleep I did, only waking up whenhe returned."
"You could not have strongly wanted to get away," observed PrincessLouise, shaking her head, "or else you would have managed it."
"Alas! I was so fascinated."
"By his loving speech and endearments?"
"Seldom did he speak of love, and I remember me of no caresses save akiss night and morning."
"Really, this is very strange?" muttered the abbess; but as a suspicionstruck her, she resumed: "Repeat to me that you do not love him, andthat as no worldly tie unites you, he would have no claim on you if hecame."
"He has none."
"But tell me how you came here through all; for I am in a fog," saidthe princess.
"I took advantage of a violent thunderstorm, which broke on us neara town called Nancy, I believe. He left me to go into a part of histravelling house which is inhabited by an old man; I leaped upon hishorse and fled. My resolution was to hide in Paris, or some great citywhere I could be lost to all eyes, especially to his. When I arrivedhere, all were talking of your highness' retirement into the Carmeliteconvent. All extolled your piety, solicitude for the unhappy, andcompassion for the afflicted. This was a ray of heavenly light, showingme that you alone were generous enough to receive me and powerfulenough to defend me."
"You continually appeal to power, my child, as though he were powerful?"
"I am ignorant what he is. I only know that no king inspires morerespect--no idol commands more adoration--than he from those to whom hedeigns to reveal himself."
"But his name--how is he entitled?"
"I have heard him called by many names. But only two remain in mymemory. One is used by the old man who is his traveling companion fromMilan to where I left him; the other that he gives himself. The agedman calls him Acharat, and that sounds anti-Christian, does it not,lady? He calls himself Joseph Balsamo."
"What does he say of himself?"
"He knows everything and divines what he knew not. He is thecontemporary of all time. He has lived through all ages. He speaks--theLord forgive me! and forgive him for such blasphemy! not only ofAlexander the Great, Csar and Charlemagne, as though he had knownthem, albeit I believe they were dead ever so long ago, but also ofthe high priest Caiaphas, Pontius Pilate and Our Lord Himself, whosemartyrdom he claims to have witnessed."
"He is some quack," said the Princess Louise.
"I do not clearly understand the word, madame; but he is a dangerousman, terrible too, before whom everything bends, snaps and crumblesaway. When he is taken to be defenseless he is armed at all points;when believed alone, he stamps his foot and an army springs up; or ata beck of the finger--smiling the while."
"Very well," soothed the daughter of France; "take cheer, my child; youwill be protected against him. So long as you desire the protection,of course. But do not believe any longer in these supernatural visionsborn of a sick brain. In any case the walls of St. Denis Abbey are asure rampart against infernal power, and what is more to be dreaded,mark you! against human power. Now, what do you propose doing?"
"With this property of mine, in jewels, I mean to pay for my repose ina convent--if possible, in this one."
Lorenza placed on the table some twenty thousand crowns' worth ofbracelets, rings and earrings of price.
"These jewels are mine, as Balsamo gave them to me, and I shall turnthem over to Heaven's use. I have nothing of his but his steed Djerid,which was the instrument of my deliverance, but I should like him tohave it. So I solicit the favor of staying here, on my knees."
"Rest easy, my child," said the lady superior; "from this time forthyou may dwell among us; and when you shall have shown by your exemplaryconduct that you deserve the favor, you may again be the bride of theLord; and I will answer for it that you will not be removed out of St.Denis without knowledge of the superior."
Lorenza fell at the princess feet and poured forth the mostaffectionate and sincere thanks.
But suddenly she rose on one knee, and listened with trembling andpallor.
"Oh, God, how I shake! he is coming! he means to be my destroyer--thatman is at hand. Do you not see how my limbs quiver?"
"I see this, indeed."
"Now I feel the stab in the heart," continued the Italian: "he comesnearer and nearer."
"You are mistaken."
"No, no. In spite of myself, he draws me to him. Hold me back from him."
Princess Louise seized the speaker in her arms.
"Recover your senses, child," she said. "Even if any one came, even he,you would be in safety here."
"He approaches--I tell you, he approaches," screamed Lorenza, terrifiedinto inertia, but with her hands and her eyes directed toward the roomdoor.
"Madness!" said the abbess. "Do you think that anybody can intrude onthe Royal Lady of France? None but the bearer of an order from theking."
"I do not know how he entered," stammered the fugitive, recoiling,"but I am certain that he is coming up the stairs--he is not ten stepsoff--there he is!"
The door flew open, so that the princess receded, frightened in spiteof herself by the odd coincidence. But it was a nun who appeared.
"What do you want--who is there?" cried her superior.
"Madame, it is a nobleman who presents himself to have speech with yourroyal highness."
"His title?"
"Count Fenix, please your highness."
"Do you know the name as his?" inquired the princess of the fugitive.
"I do not know the name, but it is he," she replied.
"Charged with a mission to the king of France from the king ofPrussia," said the nun, "he wishes the honor of a hearing by yourhighness."
Princess Louise reflected an instant; then turning to Lorenza andbidding her go into her inner room, she ordered the sister to show inthe visitor. She went and took her chair, waiting, not without emotion,for the sequel of the incident.
Almost instantly reappearing, the Carmelite ushered in a man whom wehave seen under the title of Fenix, at the presentation of JeanneDubarry at court. He was garbed in the same Prussian uniform, of severecut; he wore the military wig and the black stock; his expressive blackeyes lowered in presence of Princess Louise, but only with the respectof any man for a princess of the royal house, whatever his rank. Heraised them rapidly, as though he feared showing too much timidity.
"I thank your royal highness for the favor kindly done me," he said,"though I reckoned upon it from knowing that your highness alwaysupholds the unfortunate."
"I endeavor so to do, my lord," replied the lady with dignity, for shehoped in ten minutes to defeat the man who impudently came to claimoutside help to oppress where he had abused his powers.
The count bowed as if he did not see any hidden meaning in therejoinder.
"What can I do for your lordship?" continued the lady in the same toneof irony.
"Everything. I should like your highness to believe that I would notwithout grave motives vex you in the solitude she has chosen, but youhave sheltered a person in whom I am interested in all points."
"What is the name of this person?"
"Lorenza Feliciani."
"What is this person to you--a relative, sister?"
"She is my wife."
"Lorenza Feliciani, wife of Count Fenix!" said the abbess, raising hervoice so as to be heard in the inner room. "No Countess Fenix is in St.Denis Abbey," she dryly added.
"It may be," said the count, who was not yet acknowledging his defeat,"that your highness is not persuaded that Lorenza and Countess Fenixare the same person. Kindly give the order that Lorenza shall bebrought before you, and all doubt will cease. I ask pardon for beingso persistent, but I am tenderly attached to this wife of mine, and Ibelieve she is sorry we are separated, poor as is my merit."
"Ah!" thought the princess, "Lorenza spoke the truth, for this man ishighly dangerous."
The count stood with a calm bearing, strictly according to courtetiquette.
"I must prevaricate," thought Princess Louise, before she said: "Mylord, I am not in the position to restore a wife who is not here. Iunderstand your seeking her with such persistency, if you love her asdearly as you say; but you will have to seek elsewhere if you wantsuccess."
On entering, the count had glanced round the closet, and his gaze hadcaught a reflection, however slight, of the jewels placed by Lorenzaon the little table in the darkest corner. By the sparkling Fenixrecognized them.
"If your royal highness would kindly collect your memory, though Ihave to ask her to do such violence--it will be recalled that LorenzaFeliciani was here, for she laid those jewels on yonder table beforeshe retired into the next room."
The princess colored up as the count continued:
"So that I wait solely for your highness' leave for me to order her tocome forth, for I cannot doubt that she will immediately obey."
The abbess remembered that Lorenza had locked the door behind her,and consequently that she could not be prevailed upon except by herown will to come out. No longer trying to dissimulate her vexation athaving been lying uselessly to this man, from whom nothing could beconcealed, she said:
"Were she to enter, what would be done to her?"
"Nothing, your highness; she will merely tell you that she wishes to gowith her husband."
This encouraged the princess, recalling the Italian woman's protests.
"It would seem that your highness does not believe me," said the count,in answer to her apparent indignation. "Is there anything incredible inCount Fenix marrying Lorenza Feliciani, and claiming his wife. I caneasily lay before your royal highness's eyes the marriage certificate,properly signed by the priest who performed the ceremony."
The princess started, for such calmness shook her conviction. Heopened a portfolio and took out a twice-folded paper.
"This is the proof of my claim on my wife," he said; "the signatureought to carry belief. It is that of the curate of St. John's inStrasburg, well-known to Prince Louis of Rohan for one, and were hiseminence the cardinal here----"
"He is here at this very time," exclaimed the abbess, fastening fierylooks on the count. "His eminence has not left the abbey, wherehe is with the cathedral canons; so nothing is more easy than theverification you challenge."
"This is a great boon to me," said the count, coolly replacing thedocument in the pocket-book. "I hope this verification will dispel yourroyal highness' unjust suspicions against me."
"Indeed, impudence does disgust me," said the princess, ringing herhand bell quickly.
The nun in waiting entered hastily.
"Send my courier to carry this note to Cardinal Rohan, who is in thecathedral chapter. Let his eminence come hither, as I await him."
While speaking she scribbled a couple of lines on paper which shehanded the nun, whispering:
"Post two archers of the rural guard in the corridor, and let not asoul issue without my leave. Go!"
The count had watched all the princess' preparations to fight out thebattle with him. While she was writing, he approached the inner room,and he muttered some words while extending and working his hands in amovement more methodical than nervous, with his eyes fastened on thedoor. The princess, turning, caught him in the act.
"Madame," said the count, "I am adjuring Lorenza Feliciani to comepersonally and confirm by her own words and by her free will whetherI am or not a forger and an impostor, without prejudice to the otherproofs your highness may exact. Lorenza," called out the count, risingabove all--even to the princess' will, "come forth!"
The key grated in the lock and the princess beheld with unspeakableapprehension the coming of the Italian beauty. Her eyes were fixed onthe count, with no show of hatred or anger.
"What are you doing, child," faltered the Lady Louise, "and why do youcome to the man whom you shunned? I told you that you were in safetythere."
"She is also in safety in my house, my lady," replied the nobleman."Are you not in safety there, Lorenza," he demanded of the refugee.
"Yes," was the other's answer.
At the height of amazement the princess clasped her hands and droppedinto her chair.
"Lorenza," went on the count, in a soft voice but one with the accentof command, "I am accused of doing you violence. Tell me if I have everacted so toward you?"
"Never," replied the woman, in a clear and precise voice but withoutany gesture accompanying the denial.
"Then what did the story about the abduction mean?" questioned theprincess.
Lorenza remained dumb, but looking at the count as though all her life,and speech--which is its expression--must come from him.
"Her highness doubtless wishes to know how you came to leave yournunnery. Relate what happened from your fainting in the choir until youawoke in our postchaise."
"I remember," said Lorenza in the same monotonous voice.
"Speak, for I wish it."
"When I fainted, as the scissors touched my hair, I was carried into mycell, and placed in bed. My mother stayed with me until evening, whenthe village doctor declared that I was dead."
"How did you know this?" inquired the princess.
"Her highness wishes to know how you were aware of what went on," saidthe count.
"Strange thing!" said Lorenza, "I could see and hear but without havingmy eyes open. I was in a trance."
"In fact," said the abbess, "I have heard Doctor Tronchin speak ofpatients in catalepsy who were buried alive."
"Proceed Lorenza."
"My mother was in despair and would not believe in my death. She passedsix-and thirty hours beside me, without my making a move or uttering asigh. The priest came three times and told my mother that she was wrongto dispute the interment as her daughter had passed away just as shewas speaking the vow, and that my soul had gone straight from the altarto heaven. But my mother insisted on watching all Monday night.
"Tuesday morning I was in the same insensibility, and my motherretired, vanquished. The nuns hooted her for the sacrilege.
"The death-candles were lighted in the chapel, where the custom was forthe exposure of the body to repose a day and a night.
"I was shrouded, dressed in white, as I had not taken the vow; my handscrossed on my bosom, and a wreath of white blossoms placed on my brow.
"When the coffin was brought in, I felt a shiver pass over my body;for, I repeat, I saw all that happened as though I were my second selfstanding invisibly beside my counter-part.
"I was placed in the coffin, and after my time of lying in state, leftwith only the hospital sister to watch me.
"A dreadful thought tormented me in this lethargy--that I should beburied living on the morrow unless some interposition came.
"Each stroke of the time bell echoed in my heart, for I waslistening--doleful idea! to my own death-knell.
"Heaven alone knows what efforts I made to break the iron bonds whichheld me down on the bier; but it had pity on me in my frozen sleep,since here I am.
"Midnight rang.
"At the first stroke, I felt that convulsion experienced wheneverAcharat approached me; a shock came to my heart; I saw him appear inthe chapel doorway."
"Was it fright that you felt?" asked Count Fenix.
"No, no; it was joy, bliss, ecstasy, for I knew that he came to tear mefrom the desperate death which I so abhorred. Slowly he came up to mycoffin; he smiled on me as he gazed for a moment, and he said:
"'Are you glad to live? Then come with me.'
"All the bonds snapped at his call; I rose, extricated myself from thebier as from the grave clothes, and passed by the slumbering nun. Ifollowed him who for the second time had snatched me from death.
"Out in the courtyard I beheld the sky spangled with stars which nevermore had I expected to see. I felt that cool night air which blessesnot the dead, but which is so refreshing to the living.
"'Now,' said my liberator, 'before quitting the convent, choose betweenit and me. Will you be a nun, or will you be my wife?' I wanted to behis wife, and I followed him.
"The tower gate was closed and locked. He asked where were the keys,and as I said in the pocket of the wardress, who slept within, he sentme there to get them.
"Five minutes after we were in the street. I took his arm and we ranto the end of Subiaco village. A hundred paces beyond the last housea postchaise was waiting, all ready. We got in, and off it went at agallop."
"And no violence was done you? No threat was proffered? You followedthe man willingly?"
Lorenza remained mute.
"Her royal highness asks you, Lorenza, if by threat or act I forced youto follow me."
"No; I went because I loved you, darling."
With a triumphant smile, Count Fenix turned round to the royalprincess.



CHAPTER XXXIII.
COUNT AND CARDINAL.

What took place under the princess-abbess' sight was so extraordinarythat her mind, strong and yet tender, questioned if she did not facea true magician who disposed of sentiments and wills as he liked. ButCount Fenix was not going to leave things thus.
"As your royal highness has heard only part of the story from my wife'slips, doubts might linger if the rest was not spoken by them. DearLorenza," he said, turning again to the Italian, "after leaving yourcountry we went on a tour to the Alps and to the Rhine, the magnificentTiber of the North----"
"Yes, Lorenza has seen these sights," said the woman.
"Lured by this man--led by a power resistless of which you spoke, mychild?" suggested the princess.
"Why should your highness believe this when all you hear is to thecontrary? I have a palpable proof in the letter my wife wrote me when Iwas obliged to leave her at Maintz. She sorrowed and longed for me, sothat she wrote this note, which your highness may read."
She looked at the letter which the count took out of the letter case.
    "Return, Acharat; for all goes when you leave me. When shall I    have you for eternity?
    LORENZA."
With the flame of choler on her brow the princess went up to thefugitive, holding out this letter. The other allowed her to approach,without seeming to see or hear any but the count. "I understand," saidthe latter, decided to clear up matters completely. "Your highnessdoubts, and wishes to be sure the writing is Lorenza's. She herselfshall enlighten you. Lorenza, answer; who wrote this note?"
On his putting the paper in her hand, she pressed it to her heart.
"It was Lorenza," she said.
"Lorenza knows what is in it?"
"Of course."
"Well, then, tell the princess what it says, that she may not believethat I deceive her in asserting that you love me. I want you to tellher."
Appearing to make an effort, but without looking at the note, unfoldingit or bringing it to her eyes, she read, word for word, what theprincess had seen without speaking it aloud.
"This is hard to believe," said the superior. "And I do not believeyou, from what is supernatural and inexplicable in what happens."
"It was this very letter which determined me to hurry on our wedding,"said Count Fenix, without heeding the interruption. "I love Lorenza asmuch as she loves me. In our roaming life, accidents might happen. If Idied, I wanted my property to be my dear one's; so we were united whenwe reached Strasburg."
"But she told me that she was not your wife."
"Lorenza," said the count, without replying to the abbess, and turningto the Italian, "do you remember where and when we were married?"
"Yes; in the St. John's Chapel of Strasburg Cathedral, on the third ofMay."
"Did you oppose any resistance to the marriage?"
"No; I was only too happy."
"The fact is, Lorenza," continued the count, taking her hand, "theprincess thinks you were constrained to it."
"I hate you?" she said, shivering all over with delight. "Oh, no; Ilove you. You are good, generous and mighty."
Seized with affright, the princess recoiled to where an ivory crucifixgleamed on a black velvet background.
"Is this all your highness wishes to know?" asked Fenix, lettingLorenza's hand fall.
"Keep away!" gasped the abbess; "and she, too!"
A carriage was heard to stop before the nunnery door.
"The cardinal?" exclaimed the lady superior; "we shall see how thingsstand at last."
Fenix bowed, said a few words to the Italian woman, and waited with thecalmness of one who directs events.
In another instant the door opened and Cardinal Rohan was announced.
"Show him in," said the abbess, encouraged by the new addition to theparty being a churchman.
The prince had no sooner saluted the princess than he exclaimed withsurprise on seeing Balsamo:
"Are you here, my lord?"
"Are you acquaintances?" cried the princess, more and more astonished."Then you can tell me who this is."
"Nothing is easier; the gentleman is a magician."
"His eminence will make this clear presently, and to everybody'ssatisfaction," said the count.
"Has the gentleman been telling your highness' fortune, that I see youso affected?" questioned the cardinal.
"The marriage certificate at once!" cried the princess, to theastonishment of the newcomer, ignorant of the allusion.
"What is this?"
"My lord, the question is, whether this paper is real and thesignature valid?" said the princess, as Balsamo held out the document.
Rohan read the paper as presented by the abbess and nodded.
"It is in proper form, and the signature is Curate Saint-Remy's, of St.John's, Strasburg, one of my appointees. But what does this matter toyour highness?"
"Considerable; but----"
"The signature might have been extorted."
"True, that is possible," said the princess.
"How about Lorenza's consent, then?" said the count, sarcastically.
"By what means could a priest have been induced----"
"By the magic in the gentleman's powers."
"Your eminence is jesting."
"Not at all, and the proof is that I want to have a serious explanationfrom this gentleman. Do not forget, my lord, that I shall do all thequestioning," added the cardinal, with haughtiness.
"And remember that I was quite willing to answer aloud, even before herroyal highness--if your eminence desired so; but I am certain you willnot desire it."
The cardinal had to smile.
"My lord," said he, "it is hard to play the wizard nowadays. I haveseen you perform, and with great success; but everybody has not thepatience, and still less the generosity, of the dauphiness."
"The dauphiness?" queried Princess Louise.
"Yes, your highness, I had the honor of presentation to her," said thecount.
"But how did you repay the honor? Answer that, my lord."
"Alas, with more evil than I liked," said Fenix, "for I have nopersonal hate to men, and less to women. My misfortune was that I wascompelled to tell your august niece the truth she craved."
"A piece of truthfulness which caused her to faint."
"Is it fault of mine," retorted the mesmerist, in that voice which hecould sometimes make thunderous, "that truth is so awful as to producesuch effects? Did I seek out the princess, and beg to be presented toher? No, I was avoiding her, when they almost dragged me before her,and she ordered me to answer her interrogation."
"But what was the dreadful truth you told her, my lord?" inquired theprincess.
"She saw it in the gap which I tore in the veil over the future,"rejoined the mysterious man. "That future which has appeared so awfulto your royal highness that you have fled into a cloister to wrestleagainst it at the altar with tears and prayers. Is it fault of mine,I say, if this future, revealed to you as a holy woman, should beshown to me as a precursor; and if the dauphiness, alarmed at the fatepersonally threatening her, swooned when it loomed upon her?"
"Do you hear this?" said the cardinal.
"Woe is me!" moaned the Carmelite superior.
"For her reign is doomed as the most fatal and unfortunate of theentire monarchy," continued the count.
"My lord!" cried the abbess.
"Perchance your prayers will earn your grace," proceeded the prophet,"but then you will see nothing of what comes to pass, as you will restin the arms of the angels. Pray, lady; continue to pray!"
Overcome by this prophetic voice, which harmonized so well with theterrors in her soul, the princess dropped kneeling before the crucifixand began indeed to pray, and with fervor.
"Now, our turn, cardinal," said the count turning to the prince, andleading him into a window recess. "Speak as to your want of me."
"I want to know what you are?"
"You do know--you say that I am a magician."
"I mean that you are called Joseph Balsamo in the south; and here,Count Fenix."
"That merely proves that I change my name."
"Yes; but I would have you know that such changes on the part of such aman will set Chief of Police Sartines to thinking."
"This is petty warfare for a Rohan," said the other, smiling.
"Your eminence stoops to wrangle over words. _Verba et voces_, says theLatin. Is there nothing worse to fling at me?"
"You are railing, my lord."
"Always; it is my style."
"Then I shall make you change your note; which will help me in the goodgraces of the dauphiness, whom you have offended."
"Do so, as it will not be a useless act, considering the delicateground on which you stand as regards her," returned Balsamophlegmatically.
"What will you say if I have you arrested straightway, my lord thehoroscopist?"
"You would do yourself injury, my lord cardinal."
"Really! How do you make that out?" demanded the proud peer withcrushing scorn.
"You would unmake yourself."
"At least, we shall know who really is Baron Joseph Balsamo, _alias_Count Fenix, a sprig of a family tree of which I have never seen thepicture in any heraldic work in Europe."
"You should have asked to see it in the portfolio of the Duke ofBreteuil, your friend----"
"His grace is no friend of mine."
"He was, and an intimate one, or your eminence would never have writtenhim that letter--but draw closer, my lord, lest we are overheard inwhat may compromise you!--that letter written from Vienna to Paris todissuade the dauphin from making his marriage."
"That letter!" gasped the prince, starting with fright.
"I know it by heart."
"Breteuil has betrayed? because he said it was--burned when I asked itback, when the marriage was settled."
"He did not like to admit that he had lost it. A lost letter may befound; and, indeed, I found it in the Marble Court at Versailles. Itook good care not to restore it to the duke, for I knew your eminencewas ill-disposed toward me. If you were going through the woods andexpected highwaymen to attack you, and you found a loaded pistol, wouldyou not pick it up to use it? A man would be an idiot not to do so."
The cardinal felt giddy and leaned on the window-sill. Afterhesitation, during which the count watched the play of his features, hesaid:
"Granted thus. But it shall never be said that a prince of my lineyielded to the threats of a mountebank. Though this letter may havebeen lost, and found, and will be shown to the dauphiness herself,and may ruin me as a politician, I will stand to it that I am still aloyal subject and a faithful ambassador. I will speak the truth--that Ithought the alliance injurious to the interests of my country, and letit defend me or blame me."
"But what will be the answer of this faithful subject and loyal envoyif somebody asserts that this gallant young beau of an ambassador,never doubting his winning all before him with his title of prince andname of Rohan, did not say this from any opinion that the alliancewould be hurtful to his country, but because--being graciously welcomedby Marie Antoinette--this coxcomb of an envoy had the vanity to thinkthe feast was fitter for Jack than his master?"
"He would deny; for of this feeling which you pretend to have existed,no proof can be exhibited."
"You are wrong; the token is in the dauphiness' coldness toward you."
The cardinal wavered.
"Believe me, prince," went on the count, "instead of quarreling, as weshould have done, only for my having more prudence than you, we hadbetter be friends--good ones, for such do one another service."
"Have I ever asked aught of your lordship?"
"Just there you are wrong; for you might have called on me during thetwo days you spent in town. You cannot conceal from a sorcerer what youhave been about. You left the Austrian princess at Soissons, whenceyou rushed posthaste to Paris, where you dunned your friends for help,which they all refused you. This left you desperate."
"What kind of help could I expect from you, had I applied?" asked theRohan, confounded.
"Such as a man gives who can make gold. And you ought to want gold whenyou have to pay five hundred thousand francs in forty-eight hours. Youwant to know what good a man is who makes gold? Why, he is the very onewhere you will find the cash demanded. You could easily tell my housein Saint Claude Street in the swamp, as the knocker is a brass griffin."
"When could I call?"
"Six, to-morrow afternoon, please your eminence, and whenever afteryou like. But we have finished our chat in time, for the princess hasconcluded her devotions."
The cardinal was conquered.
"Your highness," he said, "I am forced to acknowledge that Count Fenixis quite right; the document he produces is most reliable, and theexplanations he has furnished have completely satisfied me."
"Your highness' orders?" asked the count, bowing.
"Let me put one last question to this young lady."
Again the count bowed in assent.
"Is it of your own free will that you quit the abbey of St. Denis,where you came to seek refuge?"
"Her highness," repeated Fenix, quickly, "asks you whether you areleaving this place of your own free will. Speak out Lorenza."
"I go of my own free will," replied the Italian.
"In order to accompany Count Fenix, your husband?" prompted themagician.
"To accompany my husband."
"In this case I retain neither of you," said the princess, "for itwould be running counter to my feelings. But, if there be anything inall this out of the natural order of things, may the divine punishmentfall on whomsoever disturbs the harmony of nature for his profit orinterests. Go, my Lord Count Fenix; and you, Lorenza Feliciani--Idetain you no more. But take back your jewels."
"They are for the poor," replied Balsamo; "distributed by your hands,the alms will be doubly agreeable to God. All I ask is to have my horseDjerid."
"Take him as you go forth. Begone!"
Bowing to the speaker, the count presented his arm to Lorenza, wholeaned upon it and walked out without a word.
"Alas, my lord cardinal," sighed the abbess, sadly shaking her head,"in the very air we breathe are fatal and incomprehensible things!"



CHAPTER XXXIV.
NEAR NEIGHBORS.

On parting from young Taverney, Gilbert had plunged into the crowd. Butnot with a heart bounding with glee and expectation--rather with thesoul ulcerated by grief which the noble's kind welcome and obligingoffers of assistance could not mollify.
Andrea never suspected that she had been cruel to the youth. The fairand serene maiden was completely unaware that there could be any linkbetween her and her foster-brother, for joy or sorrow. She soared overearthly spheres, casting on them shine or shadow according to her beingsmiling or gloomy. This time it chanced that her shade of disdain hadchilled Gilbert; as she had merely followed the impulse of her temper,she was ignorant that she had been scornful.
But Gilbert, like a disarmed gladiator, had received the proud speechand the scorning looks straight in the heart. He was not enough of aphilosopher yet not to console himself with despair while the wound wasbleeding.
Hence he did not notice men or horses in the press. Gathering up hisstrength, he rushed into it, at the risk of being crushed, like a wildboar cutting through the pack of hounds.
At length breathing more freely, he reached the green sward, water sideand loneliness. He had run to the river Seine, and came out oppositeSt. Denis island. Exhausted, not by bodily fatigue but by spiritualanguish, he rolled on the grass, and roared like a lion transfixed bya spear, as if the animal's voice better expressed his woes than humantongue.
Was not all the vague and undecided hope which had flung a little lighton the mad ideas, not to be accounted for to himself, now extinguishedat a blow? To whatever step on the social ladder Gilbert might riseby dint of genius, science and study, he would always be a man or athing--according to her own words, for which her father was wrong inpaying any attention, and not worth her lowering her eyes upon.
He had briefly fancied that, on seeing him in the capital, and learninghis resolution to struggle till he came up through the darkness, Andreawould applaud the effort. Not only had the cheer failed the brave boy,but he had met the haughty indifference always had for the dependent bythe young lady of the manor.
Furthermore she had shown anger that he should have looked at her musicbook; had he touched it, he did not doubt that he would be thought fitto be burned at the stake.
As he writhed on the turf, he knew not whether he loved or hated historturer; he suffered, that was all. But as he was not capable of longpatience, he sprang out of his prostration, decided to invent someenergetic course.
"Granted that she does not love me," he reasoned, "I must not hopethat she never will. I had the right to expect from her the mildinterest attached to those who wrestle with their misfortune. She didnot understand what her brother saw. He thought that I might become acelebrity; should it happen so, he would act fairly and let me have hissister, in reward of my earned glory, as he would have exchanged herfor my native aristocracy, had I been born his equal.
"But I shall always be plain Gilbert in her eyes, for she looks downin me upon what nothing can efface, gild or cover--my low birth. Asthough, supposing I attain my mark, it would not be greater of me thanif I had started on her high level! Oh, mad creature! senseless being!oh, woman, woman--your other name is Imperfection.
"Do not be deluded by the splendid gaze, intelligent smile, andqueenly port of Andrea de Taverney, whose beauty makes her fit to rulesociety--she is but a rustic dame, straitlaced, limited, swathed inaristocratic prejudices. Equals for her are those empty-headed fops,with effete minds, who had the means to learn everything and knownothing; they are the men to whom she pays heed. Gilbert is but a dog,less than a dog, for I believe she asked after Mahon, and not about mywelfare.
"Ah, she is ignorant that I am fit to cope with them; when I wearthe like coats, I shall look as well; and that, with my inflexibledetermination, I shall grasp----"
A dreadful smile was defined on his lips where the sentence died awayunfinished. Frowning, he slowly lowered his head.
What passed in that obscure soul? What terrible plan bent the paleforehead, already sallow with sleepless nights, and furrowed bythinking? Who shall tell?
At the close of half an hour's profound meditation, Gilbert rose,coldly determined. He went to the river, drank a long draft, andlooking round, saw the distant waves of the people in a sea coming outof St. Denis.
They so crowded in upon the first coaches that the horses had to go ata walk, on the road to St. Ouen.
The dauphin wanted the ceremony to be a national family festival. Sothe French family abused the privilege; a number of Parisians climbedon the footboards and hung there without being disturbed.
Very soon Gilbert recognized the Taverney carriage, with Philip holdingin his capering horse by the side.
"I must know where she goes," thought the lover; "and so shall followthem."
It was intended that the dauphiness should sup with the royalfamily in private at Muette, but Louis XV. had broken the etiquetteso far as to make up a larger party. He handed a list of guests tothe dauphiness, with a pencil, and suggested she should strike outthe names of any not liked to come. When she came to the last name,Countess Dubarry's, she felt her lips quiver and lose blood; butsustained by her mother's instructions, she summoned up her powers toher aid, and with a charming smile returned the paper and pencil to theking, saying that she was very happy to be let into the bosom of allhis family at the very first.
Gilbert knew nothing about this, and it was only when he got to Muettethat he recognized the coach of Dubarry, with Zamore mounted on a highwhite horse. Luckily it was dark, and Gilbert threw himself on theground in a grove and waited.
The king, then, shared supper between mistress and daughter-in-law, andwas merry especially on seeing that the newcomer treated the usurpermore kindly even than at Compiegne.
But the dauphin, gloomy and careworn, spoke of having the headache, andretired before they sat at table.
The supper was prolonged to eleven o'clock.
The king sent a band of music to play to the repast for the gentry ofthe retinue--of which our proud Andrea had to admit she was a member;as the accommodation was limited, fifty masters had to picnic on thelawn, served by men in royal livery. In the thicket, Gilbert lostnothing of this scene. Taking out a piece of bread, he ate along withthe guests, while watching that those he attended to did not slip away.
After the meal, the dauphiness came out on the balcony to take leaveof her hosts. Near her stood the king. Countess Dubarry kept out ofsight in the back of the room, with that exquisite tact which even herenemies allowed she had.
The courtiers passed under the balcony to salute the king, who namedsuch of them to the dauphiness as she did not already know. From timeto time some happy allusion or pleasant saying dropped from his lips,to delight those who received it. Seeing this servility, Gilbertmuttered to himself:
"I am a touch above these slaves, for I would not crouch like that forall the gold in the world."
He rose on one knee when the turn came for the Taverneys to pass.
"Captain Taverney," said the dauphiness, "I grant you leave to conductyour father and sister to Paris."
In the nightly silence and amid the attention of those drinking in theaugust words, Gilbert caught the sound coming in his direction.
"My lord baron," continued the princess, "I have no accommodation yetfor you among my household; so guard your daughter in town until I setup my establishment at Versailles. Keep me in mind, my dear young lady."
The baron passed on with son and daughter. Others came up for whom theprincess had pretty stuff to say, but that little mattered to Gilbert.Gliding out of the covert, he followed the baron among the two hundredfootmen shouting out their master's names, fifty coachmen roaring outin answer to the lackeys, while sixty coaches rolled over the pavementlike thunder.
As Taverney had a royal carriage, it waited for him aside from thecommon herd. He stepped in, with Andrea and Philip, and the door closedafter them.
"Get on the box with the driver," said Philip to the footman. "He hasbeen on his feet all day, and must be worn out."
The baron grumbled some remonstrance not heard by Gilbert, but thelackey mounted beside the driver. Gilbert went nearer. At the time ofstarting a trace got loose and the driver had to alight to set it right.
"It is very late," said the baron.
"I am dreadfully tired," sighed Andrea. "I hope we shall find asleeping place somewhere."
"I expect so," replied her brother. "I sent Labrie and Nicole straightto Paris from Soissons. I gave him a letter to a friend for him to letus have a little house in the rear of his, where his mother and sisterlive when they come up from the country. It is not luxury, but it iscomfortable. You do not want to make a show while you are waiting forthe coming out in the suitable style."
"Anything will easily beat Taverney," said the old lord.
"Unfortunately, yes," added the captain.
"Any garden?" asked Andrea.
"Quite a little park, for town, with fine trees. However, you will notlong enjoy it, as you will be presented as soon as the wedding is over."
"We are in a bright dream--do not waken us. Did you give the coachmanthe address?"
"Yes, father," replied the young noble, while Gilbert greedily listened.
He had hoped to catch the address.
"Never mind," he muttered; "it is only a league to town. I will followthem."
But the royal horses could go at a rattling gait when not kept in linewith others. The trace being mended, the man mounted his box and droveoff rapidly--so rapidly that this reminded poor Gilbert of how he hadfallen on the road under the hoofs of Chon's post-horses.
Making a spurt, he reached the untenanted footboard, and hung on behindfor an instant. But the thought struck him that he was in the menial'splace behind Andrea's carriage, and he muttered:
"No! it shall not be said that I did not fight it out to the last. Mylegs are tired, but not my arms."
Seizing the edge of the footboard with both hands, the inflexible youthswung his feet up under the body of the coach so as to get them on theforesprings; thus suspended, he was carried on, spite of the jerking,over the wretched rutty road. He stuck to the desperate situation bystrength of arm, rather than capitulate with his conscience.
"I shall learn her address," he thought. "It will be another wakefulnight; but to-morrow I shall have repose, seated while I am copyingmusic. I have a trifle of money, too, and I will take a little rest."
He reflected that Paris was very large and that he might be lost afterseeing the baron to his house. Happily it was near midnight, and dawncame at half after three.
As he was pondering he remarked that they crossed an open place wherestood an equestrian statue in the midst.
"Victories Place," he thought gleefully; "I know it."
The vehicle turning partly round and Andrea put her head out to see thestatue.
"The late king," explained her brother. "We are pretty nearly therenow."
They went down so steep a hill that Gilbert was nearly scraped off.
"Here we are," cried the dragoon captain.
Gilbert dropped and slipped out from beneath to hide behind ahorseblock on the other side.
Young Taverney got out first, rang at a house doorbell, and returned toreceive Andrea in his arms. The baron was the last out.
"Are those rascals going to keep us out all night?" he snarled.
At this the voices of Labrie and Nicole were heard, and a door opened.The three Taverneys were engulfed in a dark courtyard where the doorclosed upon them. The vehicle and attendants went their way to theroyal stables.
Nothing remarkable was apparent on the house; but the carriage lampshad flashed on the next doorway, which had a label: "This is themansion of the Armenonvilles." Gilbert did not know what street it wasas yet, but going to the far end, the same the carriage had gone outof, he was startled to see the public fountain at which he drank in themornings. Going ten paces up the street he saw the baker's shop wherehe supplied himself. Still doubting, he returned to the corner. By thegleam of a swinging lamp, he could read on a white stone the name readthree days before when coming from Meudon Wood with Rousseau:
"Plastrire Street."
It followed that Andrea was lodged a hundred steps apart, nearer thanshe was to him at Taverney.
So he went to his own door, hoping that the latchet might not bedrawn altogether within. It was pulled in, but it was frayed and afew threads stuck out. He drew one and then another so that the thongitself came forth at last. He lifted the latch, and entered, for it wasone of his lucky days.
He groped up the stairs one by one, without making any noise, andfinally touched the padlock on his own bedroom door, in which Rousseauhad thoughtfully left the key.



CHAPTER XXXV.
THE GARDEN HOUSE.

From coming home so late, and dropping off to sleep so soon andheavily, Gilbert forgot to hang up the linen cloth which served ascurtain to the garret window. The unintercepted sunbeam struck his eyesat five and speedily woke him. He rose, vexed at having overslept.
Brought up in the country, he could exactly tell the time by the sun'sinclination and the amount of heat it emitted. He hastened to consultthis clock. The pallor of the dawn, scarcely clearing the high trees,set him at ease; he was rising too early, not too late.
He made his ablutions at the skylight, thinking over what had happenedover night, and gladly baring his burning and burdened forehead to thefresh morning breeze. Then it came to his mind that Andrea was housednext door to Armenonville House, in an adjoining street. He wanted todistinguish this residence.
The sight of shade-trees reminded him of her question to herbrother,--Was there a garden where they were going?
"Why may it not be just such a house in the back garden as we haveyonder?" he asked himself.
By a strange coincidence with his thought, a sound and a movementquite unusual drew his attention where it was turning; one of the longfastened up windows of a house built at the rear of the one on theother street shook under a rough or clumsy hand. The frame gave way atthe top; but it stuck probably with damp swelling it at the bottom. Astill rougher push started the two folds of the sash, which opened likea door, and the gap showed a girl, red with the exertion she had tomake and shaking her dusty hands.
Gilbert uttered an outcry in astonishment and quickly drew back, forthis sleepy and yawning girl was Nicole.
He could harbor no doubt now. Philip Taverney had told his father thathe had sent on Labrie and their maid servant to get a lodging ready inParis. Hence this was the one. The house in Coq-Heron Street, where thetravelers had disappeared--was this with the extra building in the rear.
Gilbert's withdrawal had been so marked that Nicole must have noticedit only for her being absorbed in that idle fit seizing one justarisen. But he had retired swiftly, not to be caught by her whilelooking out of a garret window. Perhaps if he had lived on the firstfloor, and his window had given a view within of a richly furnishedapartment, he would have called her attention on it. But the fifth flatstill classed him among social inferiors, so that he wanted to keep inthe background.
Besides, it is always an advantage to see without being seen.
Again, if Andrea saw him, might she not consider that enough to induceher to move away, or at least not to stroll about the garden?
Alas, for Gilbert's conceit! it enlarged him in his own eyes; but whatmattered Gilbert to the patrician, and what would make her move a stepnearer or further from him? Was she not of the class of women who wouldcome out from a bath with a peasant or a footman by, and not regardthem as men?
But Nicole was not of this degree, and she had to be avoided.
But Gilbert did not keep away from the window. He returned to peep outat the corner.
A second window, exactly beneath the other, opened also, and thewhite figure appearing there was Andrea's. In a morning gown, she wasstooping to look after her slipper fallen under a chair.
In vain did Gilbert, every time he saw his beloved, make a vow toresist his passion within a rampart of hate; the same effect followedthe cause. He was obliged to lean on the wall, with his heart throbbingas if to burst and the blood boiling all over his body.
As the arteries cooled gradually, he reflected. The main point was tospy without being seen. He took one of Madame Rousseau's old dressesoff the clothesline, and fastened it with a pin on a string across hiswindow so that he might watch Andrea under the improvised screen.
Andrea imitated Nicole in stretching her lovely arms, which, by thisextension, parted the gown an instant; then she leaned out to examinethe neighboring grounds at her leisure. Her face expressed raresatisfaction, for while she seldom smiled on men, she made up for it byoften smiling on things.
On all sides the rear house was shaded by fine trees.
Rousseau's house attracted her gaze like all the other buildings, butno more. From her point, the upper part alone could be espied, but whatconcern had she in the servants' quarters in a house?
Andrea therefore came to the conclusion that she was unseen and alone,with no curious or joking face of Parisians on the edge of thistranquil retreat, so dreaded by country ladies.
Leaving her window wide open for the sunshine to flush the remotestcorners, the young lady went to pull the bellrope at the fire-placeside and began to dress in the twilight. Nicole ran in and opening thestraps of a shagreen dressing-case dating from a previous reign, took atortoise-shell comb and disentangled her mistress' tresses.
Gilbert smothered a sigh. He could hardly be said to recognize thehair, for Andrea followed the fashion in powdering it, but he knew hera hundred times fairer without the frippery than in the most pompousdecorations. His mouth dried up, his fingers scorched with fever, andhis eye ceased to see from his staring too hard.
Chance ruled that Andrea's gaze, idle as it was from her sitting stillto have her hair brushed, fell on Rousseau's attic.
"Yes, yes, keep on staring," uttered the youth, "but you will seenothing and I shall see all."
But he was wrong, for she descried the novel screen of the old dresswhich floated round the man's head as a kind of turban. She pointed outthis odd curtain to her maid. Nicole stopped and pointed with the combto the object to ask whether that were the reason for her mistress'amusement.
Without his suspecting it, this had a fourth spectator.
He suddenly felt a hasty hand snatch Madame Rousseau's dress from hisbrow, and he fell back thunderstricken at recognizing the master.
"What the deuse are you up to?" queried the philosopher, with afrowning brow and a sour grin as he examined the gown.
"Nothing," stammered the other, trying to divert the intruder's sightfrom the window.
"Then why hide up in this dress?"
"The sun was too bright for me."
"The sun is at the back of us, and I think it is you who are too brightfor me. You have very weak eyes, young man."
Rousseau walked straight up to the window. By a very natural feeling tobe a veil to his beauty, Gilbert, who had shrunk away, now rushed inbetween.
"Bless me, the rear house is lived in now!" The tone froze the blood inGilbert's veins, and he could not get out a word. "And by people whoknow my house, for they are pointing up to it," added the suspiciousauthor.
Gilbert, fearful now that he was too forward, retreated. Neither themovement nor its cause escaped Rousseau, who saw that his employeetrembled to be seen.
"No, you don't, young man!" he said, grasping him by the wrist; "thereis some plot afoot, for they are pointing out your garret. Stand here,pray."
He placed him before the window, in the uncovered glare.
Gilbert would have had to struggle with his idol, and respectrestrained him from thus being free.
"You know those women, and they know you," continued Rosseau, "or, whydo you shrink from showing yourself?"
"Monsieur Rousseau, you have had secrets in your life. Pity for mine!"
"Traitor!" cried the writer; "I know your sort of secret. You are thetool of my enemies, the Grimms and Holbachs. They taught you a partto captivate my benevolence, and, sneaking into my house, you arebetraying me. Threefold fool that I am, stupid lover of nature, tothink I was helping one of my kind, and to nourish a spy!"
"A spy?" repeated the other in revolt.
"When are you to deliver me to my murderers, O Judas?" demandedRousseau, draping himself in Therese's dress, which he had mechanicallykept in hand, and looking droll when he fancied he was sublime withsorrow.
"You calumniate me, sir," said Gilbert.
"Calumniate this little viper!" said the philosopher, "when I catch youcorresponding in dumb show with my enemies--I daresay acquainting themin signs with my latest work."
"Had I come to steal your story, sir, I should better have made a copyof the manuscript, lying on your desk, than to convey it in signs."
This was true, and Rousseau felt that he had made one of those blunderswhich escaped him in his moments of fear, and he became angry.
"I am sorry for you, but experience makes me stern," he said. "My lifehas passed amid deceit. I have been betrayed by everybody, denied, soldand martyrized. You know I am one of those illustrious unfortunateswhom governments outlaw. Under such circumstances, I may be allowedto be suspicious. As you are a suspicious character, you must takeyourself out of this house."
Gilbert had not expected this conclusion. He was to be driven forth!He clenched his fists, and a flash in his eyes made Rousseau start.Gilbert reflected that in going he would lose the mild pleasure ofseeing his loved one during the day, and lose Rousseau's affection--itwas shame as well as misfortune.
Dropping from his fierce pride, he clasped his hands and implored:
"Listen to me, if only one word!"
"I am merciless," replied the author: "man's injustice has made memore ferocious than a tiger. Go and join my enemies with whom youcorrespond. League yourself with them, which I do not hinder, but doall this beyond my domicile."
"Those young women are no enemies of yours--they are MademoiselleAndrea of Taverney, the young lady I told you of, on whose estate I wasborn, and her maid Nicole. Excuse me troubling you with such matters,but you drive me to it. This is the lady whom I love more than you everloved all your flames. It is she whom I followed afoot, penniless andwanting bread, until I fell exhausted on the highway and racked withpain. It is she whom I saw once more yesterday at St. Denis, and behindwhose coach I came till I housed her in the place yonder. In short, itis she for whom I wish one of these days to be a great man--a Rousseau!"
His hearer knew the human heart, and the gamut of its exclamations. Thebest actor could hardly have Gilbert's tearful voice and the feverishgesture accompanying the effusion.
"So this is your lady love?"
"My foster-sister, yes."
"Then you lied a while ago when you said you knew her not, and you area liar, if not a traitor."
"You are racking my heart and you would hurt me less were you to slayme on the spot."
"Pooh! that is a mere piece of fustian out of the Diderot or Marmontelbooks. You are a liar, sir."
"Have it so, and the worse for you that you do not understand suchwhite lies!" retorted Gilbert. "I shall go, heartbroken, and you willhave my despair on your conscience."
Rousseau smoothed his chin and regarded the youth whose case had somuch analogy with his own.
"He is either a great rogue or a lad with a big heart," he mused; "butafter all, if he is in a plot against me, it will be best to have thewires of the puppets in my hand."
Gilbert strode to the door, but he paused with his hand on the knob,waiting for the last word to recall or banish him.
"Enough on this head, my son," said the man of letters. "It is hardenough for you to be in love, to this degree. But it is getting on, andwe have thirty pages of music to copy this day. Look alive, Gilbert,look alive!"
Gilbert grasped the speaker's hand and pressed it to his lips as hewould not a king's. While Gilbert leaned up against the doorjamb withemotion, Rousseau took a last peep out of the window. This was themoment when Andrea stood up to put on her dress, but seeing a person upat the attic window, she darted back and bade Nicole shut the sashes.
"My old head frightened her," mumbled the philosopher; "his youthfulone would not have done that. Oh, youth, lovely youth!" he broke forth,sighing, "'Spring is the love-time of the year! love is the springtimeof life!'"
Hanging up the dress, he melancholically descended the stairs at theheels of Gilbert, for whose youth he would at that time have barteredhis reputation, at that juncture counterbalancing Voltaire's and withit sharing the admiration of the entire world.



CHAPTER XXXVI.
BALSAMO AT HOME.

The house in St. Claude Street, to which Joseph Balsamo invited theCardinal Prince of Rohan did not look strange in his day, but itresembled a fortress to such an extent that it would be remarkable atpresent. Strongly built, and with barred windows and grated doors, tosay nothing of the ditch in front and high balconies, it was in keepingwith this part of the town, pretty unsafe at this epoch after dark.
There were scarcely a dozen houses on the quarter of a league to theBastille, and the municipal authorities did not think it worth while tosupply lamps. Along this deserted and unlighted highway a carriage wasdriven after nine one evening, which stopped at the low, deep doorwaywhere gleamed the brazen griffin for a knocker which Count Fenix haddescribed.
The arms of the nobleman were on the carriage panels. He preceded it bysome yards, riding Djerid, who whisked his long tail till it whistledin the dust of the dirty pavement.
Behind the closed blinds slumbered Lorenza on the cushions.
At the rolling of the wheels, the door opened as by enchantment, andthe carriage vanished in the black gulf of the mansion courtyard.
There was no need of any mystery, for nobody was about to see the countcome home or mark what he brought, even if it were the treasure-chestof St. Denis Abbey.
A skillful calculator, given the size of the building lot and that ofthe house on street, would be surprised how so small a one covered somuch ground. The fact of the matter was that there stood a house behindthe outer house, known only to the tenant.
A German servant, aged about thirty; closed the coachway door andbolted it. Opening the coach door while the emotionless driverunharnessed the team, he drew from within the senseless Lorenza, whomhe carried indoors to an antechamber. He laid her on a table anddiscreetly wrapped her in her long veil to the feet.
He went out to light at the coach lamps a seven-candle chandelier, withwhich he came back.
During that short space, Lorenza had disappeared.
In fact Count Fenix had entered after the valet went out. He had takenup the girl in his arms, and carried her out by a secret passage intoa room furnished with trophies of outlandish weapons.
With his foot he pressed the spring of the backplate of the highfireplace, which turned on well-oiled hinges, so that the count couldgo forth, as he did, while the secret panel slid to behind him.
On the other side of the chimney was another flight of steps. Mountinga dozen, covered with Utrecht velvet carpet, he reached the sill of aroom elegantly tapestried with satin, so wonderfully embroidered inhigh relief with flowers in their natural colors that they seemed real.
The extremely rich furniture was of a boudoir and toilet chamberleading to a parlor.
Curtains hid two windows, but as it was night, they were not wanted togive light. Lamps burning perfumed oil burnt here night and day, forthe room had no external openings. They were drawn up through aperturesin the ceiling by unseen hands when they needed replenishing.
Not a sound penetrated here, and one might feel as a thousand milesout of the world. But gilding flashed on all sides and Bohemian glassmirrors sparkled as, dissatisfied with the light, after having placedLorenza on a sofa, the count struck a fire with the silver phosphorusmatchbox so startling to Gilbert, and kindled two pink candledchandeliers on the mantel-piece.
Returning to Lorenza, and kneeling with one knee on a pile of cushionsbeside her, he called her by name. Though her eyes remained closed, sherose on one elbow, but without replying.
"Are you sleeping naturally or through the magnetic spell?"
"Lorenza sleeps in the magnetic sleep," she replied.
"Then you can answer my questions. Look into the room of the PrincessLouise which we have just quitted, and tell me if the Cardinal of Rohanis there."
"No; the abbess is praying before going to rest."
"Look through the house for the cardinal. Is his carriage at the door?Is it on the road? Come along nearer to Paris, as we drove. Nearer!"
"Ah, I see it! It has stopped at the tollbar. A footman gets down tospeak with his master."
"List to him, Lorenza, for it is important that I should know what thecardinal says to this man."
"You did not order me to listen in time, for he has done speaking tothe man. But the man speaks to the coachman, who is told to drive toSt. Claude Street, in the swamp, by the rampart road."
"Thank you, Lorenza."
The count went to the wall, pulled aside an ornament which disclosed anivory mouthpiece and spoke some words in a tube of unknown length anddirection; it was his way of corresponding here with his man of trust,Fritz.
"Are you content with me?" asked the medium.
"Yes, dear Lorenza, and here is your reward," he said, giving her afond caress.
"Oh, Joseph, how I love you!" she said with an almost painful sigh.
Her arms opened to enfold Balsamo on her heart.



CHAPTER XXXVII.
THE DOUBLE EXISTENCE.

But he recoiled swiftly, and the arms came together ere falling foldedon her bosom.
"Would you like to speak with your friend?" he asked.
"Yes, speak to me often. I like to hear your voice."
"You have often told me, dearest, that you would be very happy if wecould dwell together afar from the world."
"That would indeed be bliss."
"Well, I have realized your wish, darling. We are by ourselves in thisparlor, where none can hear and none intrude."
"I am glad to hear it."
"Tell me how you like the place."
"Order me to see it."
"Does it please you?" asked the count, after a pause.
"Yes; here are my favorite flowers. Thank you, my kind Joseph. How goodyou are!"
"I do all I can to please you."
"Oh, you are a hundred times kinder to me than I deserve."
"You confess that you have been wicked?"
"Very badly so, but you will overlook that?"
"After you explain the enigma which I have struggled against ever sinceI knew you."
"Hearken, Balsamo. In me are two Lorenzas, quite distinct. One lovesyou and the other detests you, as if I lived two existences. One duringwhich I enjoy the delights of paradise, the other when I suffer theopposite."
"These two existences are your waking mood and your magnetic sleep?"
"Yes."
"Why do you hate me when in your waking senses and love me when in thecharmed sleep?"
"Because Lorenza is the superstitious Italian girl who believes thatscience is a crime and love a sin. Then she is afraid of the sageBalsamo and the loving Joseph. She has been told that to love woulddestroy her soul; and so she flees from the lover to the confines ofthe earth."
"But when Lorenza sleeps?"
"It is another matter. She is no longer a Roman girl and superstitious,but a woman. She sees that the genius of Balsamo dreams of sublimethemes. She understands how petty an object she is compared with him.She longs to live by him and die at his side, in order that the futureshall breathe her name while it trumpets the glory of--Cagliostro."
"Is that the name I am to be celebrated under?"
"The name."
"Dear Lorenza! so you like our new home?"
"It is richer than any you have found for me; but that is not why Ilike it more--but because you say you will be oftener with me here."
"So, when you sleep, you know how fondly I adore you?"
"Yes," she said with a faint smile, "I see that passion, then, and yetthere is something you love above Lorenza," she sighed. "Your dream."
"Rather say, my task."
"Well, your ambition!"
"Say, my glory."
"Oh, heaven!" and her heart was laboring; her closed lids allowed tearsto struggle out.
"What is it you see?" inquired Balsamo, astounded at the lucidity whichfrightened even him.
"I see phantoms gliding about among the shadows. Some hold in their ownhands their severed crowned heads, like St. Denis in that Abbey; andyou stand in the heart of the battle like a general in command. Youseem to rule, and you are obeyed."
"Does that not make you proud of me?" inquired the other joyfully.
"You are good enough not to care to be great. Besides, in looking formyself in this scene, I see nothing of me. Oh, I shall not be there,"she sighed. "I shall be in the grave."
"You dead, my dearest Lorenza!" said Balsamo, frowning. "No, we shalllive and love together."
"No, you love me no more, or not enough," crowding upon his forehead,held between her hands, a multitude of glowing kisses. "I have toreproach you for your coldness. Look now how you draw away from me asthough you fled my fondlings. Oh, restore to me my maiden quietude, inmy nunnery of Subiaco--when the night was so calm in my cell. Return methose kisses which you sent on the wings of the wind coming to me inmy solitude like golden-pinioned sylph, which melted on me in delight.Do not retreat from me. Give me your hand, that I may press it; let mekiss your dear eyes--let me be your wife, in short."
"Lorenza, sweetest, you are my well-beloved wife."
"Yet you pass by the chaste and solitary flower and scorn the perfume?I am sure that I am nothing to you."
"On the contrary, you are everything--my Lorenza. For it is you whogive me strength, power and genius--without you I should be nothing.Cease, then, to love me with this insensate fever which wrecks thenights of your people, and love me as I love you. Thus I am happy."
"You call that happiness?" scornfully said the Italian.
"Yes, for to be great is happiness."
She heaved a long sigh.
"Oh, if you only knew the gladness in being able to read the heartsof man and manipulate them with the strings of their own dominantpassions."
"Yes, I know that in this I serve your purpose."
"It is not all. Your eyes read the sealed book of the future. You,sweet dove, pure and guideless, you have taught me what I could notascertain in twenty years' application. You enlighten my steps, beforewhich my enemies multiply traps and snares; on my mind depend my life,fortune and liberty--you dilate it like the lynx's eye which seesin the dark. As your lovely orbs close on this world, they open insuperhuman clarity. They watch for me. It is you who make me rich, freeand powerful."
"And in return, you make me unhappy," replied Lorenza, wrapped up inher frenzy.
More fiery than ever, she enfolded him in her arms, so that he wasimpregnated with a flame which he feebly resisted. But he made such aneffort that he broke the living bondage.
"Have pity, Lorenza!" he sued.
"Was it to pity you that I left my native land, my name, my family, myfaith!" she said, almost threatening with her lovely arms, rising whiteand yet muscular amid the waves of her long black tresses coming down."Why have you laid on me this absolute empire, so that if I am yourslave and have to give you my life and breath? Was it to mock me everwith the name of the virgin Lorenza?"
Balsamo sighed, himself crushed by the weight of her immense despair.
"Alas, is it your fault, or that of the Creator. Why were you madethe angel with the infallible gaze, by whose aid I should make theuniverse submit? Why is it that you are the one to read a soul throughits bodily envelope as one may read a book through a glass! Becauseyou are an angel of purity, Lorenza, and nothing throws a shadow uponyour soul. In your radiant and immaculate bosom the divine spark may beenshrined, a place without sullying where it may fitly nestle. You area seer because you are blameless, Lorenza; as a woman, you would be butso much substance."
"And you prefer this to my love," continued the Italian, clappingher hands with such rage that they became impurpled; "you set my lovebeneath these whims that you pursue and fables that you invent? Yousnatch me out of the cold cloister, but, in the bustling, ardent worldyou condemn me to the conventional chastity? Joseph, you commit acrime, I tell you."
"Do not blaspheme," said Balsamo, "for I suffer, too. Read in my heart,and never again say that I love you not. I resist you because I want toraise you on the throne of the world."
"Ugh, your ambition!" sneered the young Roman; "will your ambition evergive you what you might have in my love?"
He yielded to her and his head rested in her arms.
"Ah, yes," she cried, "I see at last that you love me more than yourambition, than power, than your aspiration! Oh, you love me as I loveyou!"
But at the touch of their lips, reason came to him who would be masterof Europe. With his hands he beat aside the air charged with magneticvapor.
"Lorenza, awake, I bid you!"
Thereupon the chain which he could not break was relaxed, and theopening arms were dropped, while the kiss died away on the paling lipsof Lorenza, languishing in her last sigh. Her closed eyes parted theirlids; the dilated pupils resumed their normal size. She shook herselfwith an effort, and sank in lassitude, but awake, on the sofa.
Seated three paces from her, the mesmerist sighed deeply.
"Good-bye to the dream!" he said; "good-bye to happiness!"



CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE WAKEFUL STATE.

As soon as Lorenza's sight had recovered its power, she glancedrapidly around her. After examining everything without one of the manyknick-knacks which delight woman brightening her brow, she stopped withher look upon Balsamo, and nervously shuddered.
"You again?" she said, receding.
On her physiognomy appeared all the tokens of alarm; her lips becamewhite and perspiration came as pearls at the root of her hair.
"Where am I?" she asked as he said nothing.
"As you know where you came from, you can readily guess where you are,"he responded.
"You are right in reminding me; I do, indeed, remember. I know thatI have been pursued by you, and torn from the arms of the royalintermediary whom I chose between heaven and you."
"Then you ought to know that this princess has been unable to defendyou, however powerful she may be."
"You have overruled her by some witching violence," said Lorenza,wringing her hands, "Oh, saints of mercy, deliver me from this demon!"
"Where do you see anything demoniacal in me," returned Balsamo,shrugging his shoulders. "Once for all I beg you to lay aside this packof puerile beliefs brought from Rome, and all the rubbish of absurdsuperstitions which you have carted about with you since you ran awayfrom the nunnery."
"Oh, my dear nunnery--who will restore me to my dear nunnery?" criedthe Italian, bursting into tears.
"Indeed, a nunnery is much to be deplored," said Balsamo.
Lorenza ran to one of the windows, opened the curtains andthen the sash, but came against iron bars, which were thereunmistakably--however many flowers were masking them.
"If I must live in a prison," she said, "I prefer that whence one goesto heaven to that which has a trap door into hades." And she begantrying the bars with her dainty hands.
"Were you more reasonable, Lorenza, you would find only flowers at yourwindow, and not bars."
"Was I not reasonable when you confined me in that other prison, theone on wheels, with the vampire you call Althotas? But still you keptyour eye on me when by, and never left me till you had breathed into methat spirit which possesses me and I cannot shake it off. Where is thathorrid old man who frightens me to death? In some corner, I suppose.Let us hush and listen till his ghostly voice be heard."
"You let your fancy sway you, like a child," said Balsamo. "My friendand preceptor, Althotas, my second father, is an inoffensive old manwho has never seen you, let alone approached you, or if he did comenear, he would not heed you, being absorbed in his work."
"His work--tell me what the work is!" muttered the Roman.
"He is seeking the elixir of long life, for which superior minds havebeen seeking these two thousand years."
"What are you working for?"
"Human perfection."
"A pair of demons!" said Lorenza, lifting her hands to heaven.
"Is this your fit coming on again? You are ignorant of one thing: yourlife is divided into two parts. During one, you are gentle, good andsensible: during the other, you are mad."
"And you shut me up under the vain pretext of this malady."
"It had to be done."
"Oh, barbarian, be cruel, without pity! imprison me, and kill me, butdo not play the hypocrite and pretend to feel for me while you tear meto pieces."
"Do you call it torture to live in a luxurious suite of rooms?" saidBalsamo with a kindly smile and not at all disturbed.
"With bars to all the issues!"
"Put there for the sake of your life, Lorenza."
"Oh, he roasts me to death at a slow fire, and he talks of my life'ssake!" exclaimed the Italian.
Approaching, he offered to take her hand, but she repelled his as if itwere a serpent.
"Do not touch me!" she said.
"Do you hate me so much, Lorenza!"
"Ask the victim how he likes the executioner."
"It is because I do not want to be one that I restrict your liberty alittle. Could you come and go as you like, who can tell what your follymight drive you to."
"Wait till I am free some day, and see what I shall do!"
"Lorenza, you are behaving badly toward the husband whom you chose. Youare my wife."
"That was the work of Satan."
"Poor crazy creature!" said the mesmerist, with a tender look.
"I am a daughter of Rome," continued she, "and some day I shall takerevenge."
"Do you say that merely to frighten me?" he asked, gently shaking hishead.
"No, no; I will do what I say."
"What are you saying--and you a Christian woman?" exclaimed Balsamowith surprising authority in his voice. "Is your creed which bids youreturn good for evil but a hypocrisy, that you pretend to follow it,and you boast of revenge--evil for good?"
"Oh," replied Lorenza, for an instant struck by the argument. "It isduty, not revenge, to denounce society's enemies."
"If you denounced me as a master in the black art, it would be not beas an offender against society, but against heaven. Were I to defyheaven, which need but comprise me as one atom in the myriads slain byan earthquake or pestilence, but which takes no pains to punish me, whyshould weak men like myself undertake to punish me?"
"Heaven forgets, or tolerates--waiting for you to reform," said theItalian.
"Meanwhile," said the other, smiling, "you are advised to tolerate yourhusband, friend and benefactor?"
"Husband? Oh, that I should have to endure your yoke!"
"Oh, what an impenetrable mystery?" muttered the magician, pursuing histhought rather than heeding the speaker.
"Let us have done. Why do you take away my liberty?"
"Why, having bestowed it on me, would you take it back? Why flee fromyour protector? Why unceasingly threaten one who never threatens you,with revelation of secrets which are not yours and have aims beyondanything you can conceive?"
"Oh," said Lorenza, without replying to the question, "the prisoner whoyearns for freedom eventually obtains it, and your house bars will nomore hold me than your wagon-sides."
"Happily for you, they are stout," replied Balsamo, with ominoustranquillity.
"Heaven will send another such storm as befel us in Lorraine, and somethunderbolt will shatter them."
"Take my advice to pray for nothing of the kind, Lorenza; distrustthese romantic transports: I speak to you as a friend--listen to me."
Stunned at the height of her rebellion, Lorenza listened in spite ofherself, from so much concentrated wrath being in his voice, and gloomyfire in his eye, while his white but powerful hand opened and shut sostrangely as he slowly and solemnly spoke:
"Mark this, my child, that I have tried to have this place fit for aqueen, with nothing lacking for your comfort. So calm your folly. Livehere as you would do in your convent cell. You must become habituatedto my presence. As I have great sorrows, I will confide in you;dreadful disappointment, for which I will crave a smile. The kinder,more patient and attentive you are, the more of your bars I willremove, so that in some months--who knows how soon?--you will becomeperhaps more free than I am, in the sense that you will not want tocurtail my liberty."
"No, no," replied the Italian, unable to understand that firmresolution could be allied to such gentle words, "no more professionsand falsehoods. You abducted me, so that I am my own property still;restore me to heaven, if you will not let me be my own mistress. I haveborne with your despotism so far from remembering that you saved mefrom the robbers who would have ruined me; but this gratitude is muchenfeebled. A few days more of this captivity against which I revolt,and I shall no longer feel obliged to you; a few more, and I shallperhaps believe you were in concert with those highwaymen."
"So you honor me with a captaincy of brigands," sneered Balsamo.
"I do not know about that, but I noticed secret signs and peculiarwords."
"But," replied the other, losing color, "you will never tell them;never to a living soul? You will bury them in the remotest place inyour memory so that they shall die there, smothered."
"Just the other way," retorted Lorenza, delighted as angry persons areat having found the antagonist's vulnerable point. "My memory shallpiously preserve those words, which I will repeat over and over againwhen alone, and say aloud when the opening comes, as already I havedone."
"To whom?"
"To the princess royal."
"Lorenza, mind this well," said he, clenching his nails in his fleshto subdue his fury and check his rushing blood at the thought that hisbrothers were in danger through the woman whom he had selected to aidthem all, "if you said them, never again will you do so. For the doorswill be kept fastened, those bars pointed at the head, and those wallsreared as high as Babel's."
"I have already told you, Balsamo, that any soul wherein the love ofliberty is reinforced by the hate of tyranny must escape from allprison houses."
"Well and good; try it, woman; but mark this well: you will only twicetry it. For the first time I will punish you so severely that you willweep all the tears in your body; and for the second I will strike youpitilessly that you will pour forth all the blood in your veins."
"Help, help, he is murdering me," shrieked the woman, at the lastparoxysm of wrath, tearing her hair and rolling on the carpet.
For an instant Balsamo considered her with mingled rage and pity, thelatter overcoming the other.
"Come, come, Lorenza, return to your senses, and be calm. A day willcome when you will be rewarded amply for what you have suffered, orfancy."
"Imprisoned," screamed the Italian, "and beaten."
"These are times to try the mind. You are mad, but you shall be cured."
"Better throw me into a madhouse at once; shut me up in a real jail."
"No, you have warned me what you would do against me."
"Then," said the infuriate, "let me have death straightway."
Springing up with the suppleness and rapidity of the wild beast, sheleaped to break her head against the wall. But Balsamo had merely tostretch out his hands toward her and utter a single word rather withhis will than with his lips, to stop her dead. She stopped, indeed,reeled and dropped sleep-stricken in the magnetiser's arms.
The strange enchanter, who seemed to rule all the material part of thewoman though the mental portion baffled him, lifted up Lorenza in hisarms and carried her to the couch; there he laid a long kiss on herlips, drew the curtains of bed and windows, and left her.
A sweet and blessed sleep enveloped her like the cloak of a kind motherwrapping the willful child who has much suffered and wept.



CHAPTER XXXIX.
THE PREDICTED VISIT.

Lorenza was not mistaken.
A carriage, going through St. Denis gateway, and following the streetof the same name, turned into the road leading out to the Bastille.
As the clairvoyant had stated, this conveyance enclosed the CardinalPrince of Rohan, Bishop of Strasburg, whose impatience had caused himto anticipate the hour fixed for his visit to the magician in his caveof mystery.
The coachman, who had been inured to obscurity, pitfalls and dangers ofsome darksome streets by the prelate's love adventures, was not dauntedthe least when, after leaving the part of the way still populated andlighted, he had to take the black and lonesome Bastille Boulevard.
The vehicle stopped at the corner of St. Claude Street, where it hidalong the trees twenty paces off.
Prince Rohan, in plain dress, glided up the street, and rapped threetimes on the door, which he easily recognized from the indication thecount had afforded.
Fritz's steps sounded in the passage, and he opened the door.
"Is it here resides Count Fenix?" inquired Rohan.
"Yes, my lord, and he is at home."
"Say a visitor is here."
"Shall I announce his Eminence Cardinal Prince de Rohan?" asked Fritz.
The prince stood aghast, looking round him and at himself to see ifanything about him in costume or surroundings betrayed his rank. No; hewas alone and in civilian dress.
"How do you know my name?" he inquired.
"My lord told me just now, that he expected your Eminence."
"Yes, but to-morrow, or the day after?"
"Not so, please your highness--this evening."
"Announce me, any way," said the prelate, putting a double-louis goldpiece in his hand.
Fritz intimated that the visitor should follow him; and he walkedbriskly to the door of the ante-chamber, which a large chandelierwith a dozen tapers illuminated. The visitor followed, surprised andmeditative.
"There must be some mistake, my friend," he said, pausing at the door,"in which case I do not wish to disturb the count. It is impossible hecan expect me, as he could not know I was coming."
"As your highness is Cardinal Prince Rohan, you are certainly expectedby my lord."
Lighting the other candelabra, Fritz bowed and went out. Five minuteselapsed, during which the prelate, the prey to singular emotion,scanned the elegant furniture of the room, and the half-dozen paintingsby masters on the tapestried walls. When the door opened, Count Fenixappeared on the threshold.
"Good-evening to your highness," he simply said.
"I am told that you expected me," observed the visitor, withoutreplying to the welcome. "Expected this evening? impossible!"
"I ask your pardon, but I was expecting your highness," returned thehost. "I may be doubted, seeing how paltry is my reception, but I havehardly got settled yet, from being but a few days in town. I hope foryour eminence's excusing me."
"My visit expected? Who could have forewarned you?"
"Yourself, my lord. When you called your footman to the carriage door,did you not say to him: 'Drive to St. Claude Street, in the Swamp, bySt. Denis Street and the Boulevard?'--words which he repeated to thedriver?"
"Yes; but how could you see this and hear the words, not being present?"
"I was not there, but I saw and heard at this distance, as I am, youmust not forget, a wizard."
"I had forgotten. By the way, am I to entitle you Baron Balsamo orCount Fenix!"
"In my own house I have no title--I am plainly The MASTER."
"Ah, the title in alchemy. So, my master in hermetics, if you expectedme, the fire would be lit in the laboratory!"
"The fire is always kept burning, my lord. And I will have the honor toshow your highness into the place."
"I follow you on the condition that you do not personally confront mewith the devil. I am dreadfully afraid of his Satanic Majesty Lucifer."
"My lord, my familiar friends," replied Balsamo, "never forget how todeal with princes, and they will behave properly."
"This encourages me; so, ho! for the laboratory."



CHAPTER XL.
THE ART OF MAKING GOLD.

The two threaded a narrow staircase which led, as did the grand stairs,to the first floor rooms, but a door was under an archway there, whichthe guide opened and the cardinal bravely walked into a dark corridorthus disclosed.
Balsamo shut the door, and the sound of the closing made the visitorlook back with some emotion.
"We have arrived," said the leader. "Only one door to open and shutbehind us. Do not be astonished at the noise it makes, as it is ofiron."
It was fortunate that the cardinal was warned in time, for the snapof the handle and the grinding of the hinges might make nerves moresusceptible than his to vibrate.
They went down three steps and entered a large cell with raftersoverhead, a huge lamp with shade, many books, and a number of chemicaland physical instruments--such was the aspect.
In a few seconds the cardinal felt a difficulty in breathing.
"What does this mean, my lord?" he asked. "The water is streaming offme and I am stifling. What sound is that, master?"
"This is the cause," answered the host, pulling aside a large curtainof asbestos, and uncovering a large brick furnace in the centre ofwhich glared two fiery cavities like lions' eyes in the gloom.
This furnace stood in an inner room, centrally, twice the size of thefirst, unseen from the stone-cloth screen.
"This is rather alarming, meseems," said the prince.
"Only a furnace, my lord."
"But there are different kinds of furnaces; this one strikes me asdiabolical, and the smell is not pleasant. What devil's broth are youcooking?"
"What your eminence wants. I believe you will accept a sample of myproduce. I was not going to work until to-morrow; but as your eminencechanged his mind, I lit the fire as soon as I saw you on the roadhither. I made the mixture so that the furnace is boiling, and you canhave your gold in about ten minutes. Let me open the ventilator to letin some air."
"What, are these crucibles on the fire----"
"In ten minutes they will pour you out the gold as pure as from anyassayer's in christendom."
"I should like to look at them."
"Of course, you can; but you must take the indispensable precaution ofputting on this asbestos mask with glass eyes; or the ardent fire willscorch your sight."
"Have a care, indeed! I prize my eyes, and would not give them for thehundred thousand crowns you promised me."
"So I thought, and your lordship's eyes are good and bright."
The compliment did not displease the prince, who was proud of hispersonal advantages.
"He, he!" he chuckled; "so we are going to see gold made?"
"I expect so, my lord."
"A hundred thousand crowns' worth?"
"There may be a little more, as I mixed up liberally the raw stuff."
"You are certainly a generous magician," said the prince, fastening thefireproof mask on, while his heart throbbed gladly.
"Less than your eminence, though it is kind to praise me forgenerosity, of which you are a good judge. Will your highness stand alittle one side while I lift off the crucible covers?"
He had put on a stone-cloth shirt, and seizing iron pincers, he liftedoff an iron cover. This allowed one to see four similar melting pots,each containing a fluid mass, one vermilion red, others lighter but allruddy.
"Is that gold?" queried the prelate in an undertone, as if afraid byloud speaking to injure the mystery in progress.
"Yes, the four crucibles contain the metal in different stages ofproduction, some having been on eleven hours, some twelve. The mixtureis to be thrown into the first mass of ingredients--the living stuffinto the gross--at the moment of boiling--that is the secret, whichI do not mind communicating to a friend of the science. But, as youreminence may notice, the first crucible is turning white hot; it istime to draw the charge. Will you please stand well back, my lord?"
Rohan obeyed with the same punctuality as a soldier obeying hiscaptain. Dropping the iron pincers, which had already heated toredness, the other ran up to the furnace a carriage on wheels of thesame level, the top being an iron block, in which were set eight moldsof round shape and the same capacity.
"This is the mold in which I cast the ingots," explained the alchemist.
On the floor he spread a lot of wet oakum wads to prevent the splashingof the metal setting the floor afire. He placed himself between themolds and the furnace, opened a large book, from which he read anincantation, and said, as he caught up long tongs in his hand to clutchthe crucible:
"The gold will be splendid, my lord, of the first quality."
"Oh, you are never going to lift that mass single-handed?" exclaimedthe spectator.
"Though it weighs fifty pounds, yes, my lord; but do not fear, for fewmetal-melters have my strength and skill."
"But if the crucible were to burst----"
"That did happen once to me: it was in 1399, while I was experimentingwith Nicolas Flamel, in his house by St. Jacques' in the Shambles. PoorNick almost lost his life, and I lost twenty-seven marks' worth of asubstance more precious than gold."
"What the deuse are you telling me? that you were pursuing the greatwork in 1399 with Nicolas Flamel?"
"Yes, Flamel and I found the way while together fifty or sixty yearsbefore, working with Pietro the Good, in Pela town. He did not pour outthe crucible quickly enough, and I had a bad eye, the left one, for tenor twelve years, from the steam. Of course you know Pietro's book, thefamous 'Margarita Pretiosa,' dated 1330?"
"To be sure; and you knew Flamel and Peter the Good?"
"I was the pupil of one and the master of the other."
While the alarmed prelate, wondered whether this might not be thePrince of Darkness himself and not one of his imps by his side, Balsamoplunged his tongs into the incandescence.
It was a sure and rapid seizure. He nipped the crucible four inchesbeneath the rim, testing the grip by lifting it just a couple ofinches. Then, by a vigorous effort, straining his muscles, he raisedthe frightful pot from the scorching bed. The tongs reddened almostup to the grasp. On the superheated surface white streaks ran likelightning in a sulphurous cloud. The pot edges deepened into brick red,then browner, while its conical shape appeared rosy and silvery inthe twilight of the recess. Finally the molten metal could be spied,forming a violet cream on the top, with golden shivers, which hissedout of the lips of the container, and leaped flaming into the blackmold. At its orifice reappeared the gold, spouting up furious andfuming, as if insulted by the vile metal which confined it.
"Number two," said Balsamo, passing to the second mold, which he filledwith the same skill and strength.
Perspiration streamed from the founder, while the beholder crossedhimself, in the shadow.
It was truly a picture of wild and majestic horror. Illumined bythe yellow gleams of the metallic flame, the operator resembled thecondemned souls writhing in the Infernos of Dante and Michelangelo,in their caldrons. Add to this the sensation of what was in progressbeing unheard-of. Balsamo did not stop to take breath between the twodrawings of the charges, for time pressed.
"There is little loss," observed he, after filling the second mold. "Ilet the boiling go on the hundredth of a minute too long."
"The hundredth of a minute?" repeated the cardinal, not trying toconceal his stupefaction.
"Trifles are enormous in the hermetical art," replied the magiciansimply; "but anyway, here are two crucibles empty and two ingots cast,and they amount to a hundred weight of fine gold."
Seizing the first mold with the powerful tongs, he threw it into atub of water, which seethed and steamed for a long time; at lengthhe opened it, and drew out an ingot of purest gold in the shape of asugarloaf, flattened at both ends.
"We shall have to wait nearly an hour for the other two," said Balsamo."While waiting, would your eminence not like to sit down and breathethe fresh air?"
"And this is gold!" said the cardinal, without replying, which made thehearer smile, for he had firm hold of him now.
"Does your eminence doubt?"
"Science has so many times been deceived."
"You are not speaking your mind wholly," said Balsamo. "You supposethat I cheat you, but do so with full knowledge. My lord, I shouldlook very small to myself if I acted thus, for my ambition would thenbe restricted by the walls of this foundry, whence you would go forthto give the rest of your admiration to the first juggler at the streetcorner. Come, come! honor me better, my prince, and take it that Iwould cheat you more skillfully and with a higher aim if cheating wasintended by me. At all events your eminence knows how to test gold?"
"By the touchstone, of course."
"Has not my lord made the application of the lunar caustic to theSpanish gold coins much liked at card-play on account of the gold beingthe finest, but among which a lot of counterfeits have got afloat?"
"This indeed has happened me."
"Well, here is acid, and a bluestone, my lord."
"No, I am convinced."
"My lord, do me the pleasure of ascertaining that this is not onlygold, but gold without alloy."
The doubter seemed averse to giving this proof of unbelief, and yet itwas clear that he was not convinced. Balsamo himself tested the ingotsand showed the result to his guest.
"Twenty-eight karats fine," he said: "I am going to turn out the othertwain."
Ten minutes subsequently, the two hundred thousand crowns' worth ofthe precious metal was lying on the damp oakum bed, in four ingotsaltogether.
"I saw your eminence coming in a carriage, so I presume it is inwaiting. Let it be driven up to my door, and I will have my man put thebullion in it."
"A hundred thousand crowns," muttered the prince, taking off the maskin order to gloat on the metal at his feet.
"As you saw it made, you can freely say so," added the conjurer, "butdo not make a town talk of it, for wizards are not liked in France. IfI were making theories instead of solid metal, it would be a differentmatter."
"Then what can I do for you?" questioned the prince, with difficultyhoisting one of the fifty pound lumps in his delicate hands.
The other looked hard at him and burst into laughter without anyrespect.
"What is there laughable in the offer I make you?" asked the cardinal.
"Why, your lordship offers me his services, and it seems more to thepurpose that I should offer mine."
"You oblige me," he said, with a clouding brow, "and that I am eagerto acknowledge. But if my gratitude ought to be rated higher than Iappraise it, I will not accept the service. Thank heaven, there arestill enough usurers in Paris for me to find the hundred thousandcrowns in a day, half on my note of hand, half on security; myepiscopal ring alone is worth forty thousand livres."
Holding out his hand, white as a woman's, a diamond flashed on thering-finger as large as a hickory nut.
"Prince, you cannot possibly have held the idea for an instant that Imeant to insult you. It is strange that truth seems to have this effecton all princes," he added, as to himself. "Your eminence offers me hisservices; I ask you yourself of what nature can they be?"
"My credit at court, to begin with."
"My lord, you know that is shaky, and I would rather have the Dukeof Choiseul's, albeit he may not be the prime minister for yet afortnight. Against your credit, look at my cash--the pure, bright gold!Every time your eminence wants some, advise me overnight or the samemorning, and I will conform to his desire. And with gold one obtainseverything, eh, my lord?"
"Nay, not everything," muttered the prince, falling from the perch ofpatronage, and not even seeking to regain it.
"Quite right. I forgot that your eminence seeks something else thangold, a more precious boon than all earthly gifts; but that does notcome within the scope of science as in the range of magic. Say theword, my lord, and the alchemist will become a magician, to serve you."
"Thank you, I need nothing and desire no longer," sighed the prelate.
"My lord," sighed the tempter, drawing nearer, "such a reply ought notto be made to a wizard by a prince, young, fiery, handsome, rich andbearing the name of Rohan. Because the wizard reads hearts and knows tothe contrary."
"I wish for nothing," repeated the high nobleman, almost frightened.
"On the contrary, I thought that your eminence entertained desireswhich he shrank from naming to himself, as they are truly royal."
"I believe you are alluding to some words you used in the PrincessRoyal's rooms?" said the prince, starting. "You were in error then, andare so still."
"Your highness is forgetting that I see as clearly in your heart whatis going on now as I saw your carriage coming from the Carmeliteconvent, traversing the town and stopping under the trees fifty pacesoff from my house."
"Then explain what is there?"
"My lord, the princes of your house have always hungered for a greatand hazardous love affair."
"I do not know what you mean, my lord," faltered the prince.
"Nay, you understand to a T. I might have touched several chords inyou--but why the useless? I went straight to the heartstring whichsounds loudest, and it is vibrating deeply, I am sure."
With a final effort of mistrust the cardinal raised his head andinterrogated the other's clear and sure gaze. The latter smiled withsuch superiority that the cardinal lowered his eyes.
"Oh, you are right not to meet my glance, my lord, for then I see intoyour heart too clearly. It is a mirror which retains the image which ithas reflected."
"Silence, Count Fenix; do be silent," said the prelate, subjugated.
"Silence?--you are right, for the time has not come to parade such apassion."
"Not yet? may it expect a future?"
"Why not?"
"And can you tell me whether this is not a mad passion, as I havethought, and must think until I have a proof to the opposite?"
"You ask too much, my lord. I cannot say anything until I am in contactwith some portion of the love-inspirer's self--for instance, a tress ofher golden hair, however scanty."
"Verily you are a deep man! You truly say you can read into hearts as Iin my prayer-book."
"Almost the very words your ancestor used--I mean Chevalier LouisRohan, when I bade farewell to him, on the execution-stage in theBastille, which he had ascended so courageously."
"He said that you were deep?"
"And that I read hearts. For I had forewarned him that ChevalierPreault would betray him. He would not believe me, and he was betrayed."
"What a singular connection you make between my ancestor and me," saidthe cardinal, turning pale against his wish.
"Only to show that you ought to be wary, in procuring the lock to becut from under a crown."
"No matter whence it comes, you shall have it."
"Very well. Here is your gold; I hope you no longer doubt that it isgold?"
"Give me pen and paper to write the receipt for this generous loan."
"What do I want a receipt from your lordship for?"
"My dear count, I often borrow, but I never fail to write a receipt,"rejoined the prince.
"Have it your own way, my lord."
The cardinal took a quill and scrawled in large and illegible writing asignature under a line or two which a schoolboy would be ashamed of atpresent.
"Will that do?" he inquired, handing it to Balsamo, who put it in hispocket without looking at it.
"Perfectly," he said.
"You have not read it."
"I have the word of a Rohan, and that is better than a bond."
"Count Fenix, you are truly a noble man, and I cannot make you beholdento me. I am glad to be your debtor."
Balsamo bowed, and rang a bell, to which Fritz responded.
Saying a few words in German to him, the servant wrapped up the ingotsof gold in their wads of ropeyarn, and took them all up as a boy mightas many oranges in a handkerchief, a little strained but not hamperedor bent under the weight.
"Have we Hercules here?" questioned the cardinal.
"He is rather lusty, my lord," answered the necromancer, "but I mustown that, since he has been in my employment, I make him drink threedrops every morning of an elixir which my learned friend Dr. Althotascompounded. It is beginning to do him good. In a year he will be ableto carry a hundredweight on each finger."
"Marvelous! incomprehensible!" declared the prince-priest. "Oh, Icannot resist the temptation to tell everybody about this."
"Do so, my lord," replied the host, laughing. "But do not forget thatit is tantamount to pledging yourself to put out the match when theystart the fire going to burn me in public."
Having escorted his illustrious caller to the outer door, he took hisleave with a respectful bow.
"But I do not see your man," said the visitor.
"He went to carry the gold to your carriage, at the fourth tree on theright round the corner on the main street. That is what I told him inGerman, my lord."
The cardinal lifted his hands in wonder and disappeared in the shadows.
Balsamo waited until Fritz returned, when he went back to the privateinner house, fastening all the doors.



CHAPTER XLI.
THE WATER OF LIFE.

He went to listen at Lorenza's door, where she was sleeping evenly andsweetly.
He opened a panel and looked in upon her, for some while inaffectionate reverie. Closing the wicket, he stole away to hislaboratory, where he put out the fire, by opening a register platewhich sent most of the heat up the chimney, and ran in water from atank without.
In a pocket-book, he carefully fastened up the receipt of CardinalRohan, saying:
"The parole of a Rohan is all very well, but only for me, and thebrothers will want to know yonder how I employ their money."
These words were dying on his lips when three sharp raps on the ceilingmade him lift his head.
"Althotas wants me, and in a hurry. That is a good sign."
With a long iron rod he rapped in answer. He put away the tools, andby means of an iron ring in a trap overhead, which was the floor ofa dumb-waiter, as then they called elevators, he pulled this down tohis feet. Placing himself in the center of it, he was carried gently,by no spring but a simple hydraulic machine, worked by the reservoirwhich had extinguished the fire, up into the study reserved for the oldalchemist.
This new dwelling was eight feet by nine in height, and sixteen inlength; all the light came from a skylight, as the four walls werewithout inlet. It was, relatively to the house on wheels, a palace.
The old man was sitting in his easy-chair on casters, at the middleof a horseshoe-shaped table in iron, with a marble top, laden witha quantity of plants, books, tools, bottles, and papers traced withcabalistic signs--a chaos.
He was so wrapt in thought that he was not disturbed by the entrance.
A globe of crystal hung over his yellow and bald pate; in this a sortof serpent, fine and coiled like a spring, seemed to curl, and it sentforth a bright and unvarying light, without other apparent source ofluminous supply than the chain supporting the globe might contain totransmit.
He was "candling" a phial of ground glass in his fingers as a good wifetries eggs.
"Well, anything new?" said Balsamo, after having silently watched himfor a while.
"Yes, yes; I am delighted, Acharat, for I have found what I sought."
"Gold--diamonds?"
"Pooh! They are pretty discoveries for my soul to rejoice over."
"I suppose you mean your elixir, in that case."
"Yes, my boy, my elixir--life everlasting."
"Oh, so you are still harping on that string," said the younger sagesadly, for he thought his senior was following an idle dream.
But without listening Althotas was lovingly peering into his phial.
"The proportions are found at last," he mumbled. "Elixir of Aristus,twenty grams; balm of mercury, fifteen; precipitate of gold, fifteen;essence of Lebanon cedar, twenty-five grams."
"But it seems to me, bar the Aristan elixir, this is about what youlast mixed up."
"That is so, but there was lacking the binding ingredient, withoutwhich the rest are no good."
"Can one procure it?"
"Certainly; it is three drops of a child's arterial blood."
"And have you the child?" gasped Balsamo, horrified.
"No, I expect you to find one for me."
"Master, you are mad."
"In what respect?" asked the emotionless old man, licking with histongue the stopper of the phial, from which a little of the nectar hadoozed.
"The child would be killed."
"What of it--the finer the child, the better the heart's blood."
"It cannot be; children are no longer butchered, but brought up withcare."
"Indeed! how fickle is the world. Three years ago, we were offered morechildren than we knew what to do with, for four charges of gunpowder ora pint of traders' whiskey."
"That was on the Congo River, in Africa, master."
"I believe so: but it does not matter if the young is black. I rememberthat what they offered were sprightly, woolly-headed, jolly littleurchins."
"Unfortunately we are no longer on the Congo. We are in Paris."
"Well, we can embark from Marseilles and be in Africa in six weeks."
"That can be done; but I must stay in France on serious business."
"Business?" sneered the old man, sending forth a peal of shrilllaughter, most lugubrious. "True, I had forgotten that you havepolitical clubs to organize, conspiracies to foster, and, in short,serious business!" And he laughed again forced and false.
Balsamo held his peace, reserving his powers for the storm impending.
"How far has your business advanced?" he inquired, painfully turning inhis chair and fixing his large gray eyes on the pupil.
"I have thrown the first stone," he replied, feeling the glance gothrough him. "The pool is stirred up. The mud is in agitation--thephilosophic sediment."
"Yes, you are going to bring into play your utopias, fogs and hollowdreams. These idiots dispute about the existence or non-existence ofthe Almighty, when they might become little gods themselves. Let ushear who are the famous philosophers whom you have enlisted!"
"I have already the leading poet and the greatest atheist of the age,who will be coming into France presently, to be made a Freemason, inthe lodge I am getting up in the old Jesuits' College, Potaufer street.His name is Voltaire."
"I do not know him. The next?"
"I am to be introduced to the greatest sower of ideas of the century,the author of the Social Contract, Rousseau."
"He is not known to me either."
"I expect not, as you only know such old alchemists as Alfonso theWise, Raymond Lully, Peter of Toledo and Albert the Great."
"Because they are the only men who have really loved a life, sowedideas that live, and labored at the grand question of to be or not tobe."
"There are two ways of living, master."
"I only know of one--existing. But to return to your brace ofphilosophers. With their help you intend to----"
"Grasp the present and sap the future."
"How stupid they must be in this country to be lured away by ideas."
"No, it is because they have too much brains that they are ledby ideas. And then, I have a more powerful help than all thephilosophers--the fact that monarchy has lasted sixteen hundred yearsin France, and the French are tired of it."
"Hence, they are going to overturn the throne, and you are backing themwith all your forces! You fool! What good is the upsetting of thismonarchy going to do you?"
"It will bring me nothing, at the best, but it will be happiness forothers."
"Come, come, I am in a good humor to-day, and can listen to yournonsense. Explain to me how you will obtain the general weal and whatit consists of."
"A ministry is in power which is the last rampart defending themonarchy; it is a cabinet, brave, industrious and intelligent, whichmight sustain this wornout and staggering monarchy for yet twentyyears. My aids will overturn it."
"Your philosophers?"
"Oh, no, for they are in favor of the ministry, for its head is aphilosopher too."
"Then they are a selfish pack. What great imbeciles!"
"I do not care to discuss what they are, for I do not know," saidBalsamo, who was losing his patience. "I only know that they will allcry down the next ministry when this one is destroyed."
"This new cabinet will have against it the philosophers and thenthe Parliament. They will make such an uproar that the cabinet willpersecute the philosophers and block the Parliament. Then in mindand matter will be organized a sullen league, a tenacious, stubborn,restless opposition, which will attack everything, undermining andshaking. Instead of Parliament they will try to rule with judgesappointed by the king; they will do everything for their appointer.With reason they will be accused of venality, corruption and injustice.The people will rise, and at last royalty will have arrayed againstit philosophy, which is intelligence, Parliament, which is the middleclass, and the mob, which is the people; in other words, the lever withwhich Archimedes can raise the world."
"Well, when you have lifted it, you will have to let it fall again."
"Yes, but when it falls it will smash the royalty."
"To use your figurative language, when this wormeaten monarchy isbroken, what will come out of the ruins?"
"Freedom."
"The French be free? Well, then, there will be thirty millions offreemen in France?"
"Yes."
"Among them do you not think there will be one with a bigger brainthan another, who will rob them of freedom some fine morning that hemay have a larger share than his proper one for himself? Do you notremember a dog we had at Medina which used to eat as much as all therest together?"
"Yes, and I remember that they all together pitched on him one day anddevoured him."
"Because they were dogs; men would have continued to give in to thegreediest."
"Do you set the instincts of animals above the intelligence of man?"
"Forsooth, the examples abound by which to prove it. Among the ancientswas one Julius Csar, and among the moderns one Oliver Cromwell, whoate up the Roman and the English cake, without anybody snatching manycrumbs away from them."
"Well, supposing such an usurper comes, he must die some day, beingmortal, but before dying he must do good to even those whom heoppressed; for he would have changed the nature of the upper classes.Obliged to have some kind of support, he will choose the popular as thestrongest. To the equality which abases, he will oppose the kind whichelevates. Equality has no fixed water mark, but takes the level of himwho makes it. In raising the lowest classes he will have hallowed aprinciple unknown before his time. The Revolution will have made theFrench free; the Protectorate of another Csar or Cromwell will havemade them equal."
"What a stupid fellow this is!" said Althotas, starting in his chair."To spend twenty years in bringing up a child so that he shall cameand tell you, who taught him all you knew--'Men are equal.' Beforethe law, maybe; but before death? how about that? One dies in threedays--another lives a hundred years! Men, equals before they haveconquered death? Oh, the brute, the triple brute!"
Althotas sat back to laugh more freely at Balsamo, who kept his headlowered, gloomy and thoughtful. His instructor took pity on him.
"Unhappy sophist that you are, bear in mind one thing, that men willnot be equals until they are immortal. Then they will be gods, andthese alone are undying."
"Immortal--what a dream!" sighed the mesmerist.
"Dream? so is the steam, the electric fluid, all that we are huntingafter and not yet caught--a dream. But we will seize and they will berealities. Move with me the dust of ages, and see that man in all timeshas been seeking what I am engaged upon, under the different titles ofthe Bliss, the Best, the Perfection. Had they found it, this decrepitworld would be fresh and rosy as the morning. Instead, see the dryleaf, the corpse, the carrion heap! Is suffering desirable--the corpsepleasant to look upon--the carrion sweet?"
"You yourself are saying that nobody has found this water of life,"observed Balsamo, as the old man was interrupted by a dry cough. "Itell you that nobody will find it."
"By this rule there would be no discoveries. Do you think discoveriesare novelties which are invented? Not so--they are forgotten thingscoming up anew. Why were the once-found things forgotten. Becausethe inventor's life was too short for him to derive from it all itsperfection. Twenty times they have nearly consummated the water oflife. Chiron would have made Achilles completely immortal but for thelack of the three drops of blood which you refuse me. In the flaw deathfound a passage, and entered. I repeat that Chiron was another Althotasprevented by an Acharat from completing the work which would save allmankind by shielding it from the divine malediction. Well, what haveyou to say to that?"
"Merely," said Balsamo, visibly shaken, "that you have your work and Imine. Let each accomplish his, at his risks and perils. But I will notsecond yours by a crime."
"A crime? when I ask but three drops of blood--one child--and you woulddeluge a country with billions of gallons! Tell me now who is thecannibal of us two? Ha, ha! you do not answer me."
"My answer is that three drops would be nothing if you were sure ofsuccess."
"Are you sure, who would send millions to the scaffold andbattle-field? Can you stand up before the Creator and say, 'O Masterof Life, in return for four millions of slain men, I will warrant thehappiness of humanity.'"
"Master, ask for something else," said Balsamo, eluding the point.
"Ha! you do not answer; you cannot answer," taunted Althotastriumphantly.
"You must be mistaken on the efficacy of the means. It is impossible."
"It looks as if you argued with me, disputed, deem me a liar," said theold alchemist, rolling with cold anger his gray eyes under his whitebrows.
"No, but I am in contact with men and things, and you dwell in a nook,in the pure abstraction of a student; I see the difficulties and haveto point them out."
"You would soon overcome such difficulties if you liked, or believed."
"I do not believe."
"But do you believe that death is an incontestable thing, invincibleand infinite? And when you see a dead body, does not the perspirationcome to your brow, and a regret is born in your breast?"
"No regret comes in to my breast because I have familiarized myself toall human miseries; and I esteem life as a little thing: but I say inpresence of the corpse: 'Dead! thou who wert mighty as a god! O Death!it is thou who reign sovereignly, and nothing can prevail againstthee.'"
Althotas listened in silence, with no other token of impatience thanfidgeting with a scalpel in his hands. When his disciple had finishedthe solemn and doleful phrase, he smiled while looking round. His eyes,so burning that no secrets seemed to exist for him, stopped on a nookin the room, where a little dog trembled on a handful of straw. It wasthe last of three of a kind, which Balsamo had provided on request ofthe elder for his experiments.
"Bring that dog to this table," said he to Balsamo, who laid thecreature on a marble slab.
Seeming to foresee its doom and having probably already been handled bythe dissector, the animal shuddered, wriggled and yelped at contact ofthe cold stone.
"So you believe in life, since you do in death?" squeaked Althotas."This dog looks live enough, eh?"
"Certainly, as it moves and whines."
"How ugly black dogs are! I should like white ones another time. Howlaway, you cur," said the vivisectionist with his lugubrious laugh;"howl, to convince Grand Seignior Acharat that you live."
He pierced the animal at a certain muscle so that he whimpered insteadof barking.
"Good! push the bell of the air pump hither. But stay, I must ask whatkind of death you prefer for him--deem best?"
"I do not know what you mean; death is death, master."
"Very correct, what you say, and I agree with you. Since one kind ofdeath is the same as another, exhaust the air, Acharat."
Balsamo worked the air pump, and the air in the bell of glass hissedout at the bottom, so that the little puppy grew uneasy at the first,looked around, began to sniff, put his paw to the issue till the painof the pressure made him take it away, and then he fell suffocated,puffed up and asphyxiated.
"Behold the dog dead of apoplexy," pronounced the sage; "this is a finemode with no long suffering. But you do not seem fully convinced. Isuppose you know how well laden I am with resources, and you think Ihave the method of restoring the respiration."
"No, I am not supposing that. The dog is truly not alive."
"Never mind, we will make assurance doubly sure by killing the caninetwice. Lift off the receiver, Acharat."
The glass bell was removed and there lay the victim, never stirring,with eyes shut and heart without a beat.
"Take the scalpel and sever the spinal column without cutting thelarynx."
"I do so solely because you say it."
"And to finish the poor creature in case it be not dead," said theother, with the smile of obstinacy peculiar to the aged.
With one incision Balsamo separated the vertebral column a couple ofinches from the brain, and opened a yawning gash. The body remainedunmoving.
"He is an inert animal, icy cold, forever without movement, eh? Yousay nothing prevails against death? No power can restore even theappearance of life, far less life itself, to this carcass?"
"Only the miracle of Heaven!"
"But Heaven does not do such things. Supreme wisdom kills because thereis reason or benefit in the act. An assassin said so, and he was quiteright. Nature has an interest in the death. Now, what will you say ifthis dog opens his eyes and looks at you?"
"It would much astonish me," said the pupil smiling.
"I am glad to hear that it would do as much as that."
As he drew the dog up to an apparatus which we know as a voltaic pile,he rounded off his words with his false and grating laugh. The pile wascomposed of a vessel containing strips of metal separated by felt. Allwere bathed in acidulated water; out of the cup came the two ends ofwire--the poles to speak technically.
"Which eye shall it open, Acharat?" inquired the experimentalist.
"The right."
The two extremities were brought together, but parted by a little silk,on a neck muscle. In an instant the dog's right eye opened and staredat Balsamo, who could not help recoiling.
"Look out," said the infernal jester, with his dry laugh; "our dead dogis going to bite you!"
Indeed, the animal, in spite of its sundered spine, with gaping jawsand tremulous eye, suddenly got upon its four legs, and tottered onthem. With his hair bristling, Balsamo receded to the door, uncertainwhether to flee or remain.
"But we must not frighten you to death in trying to teach you," saidAlthotas, pushing back the cadaver and the machine; the contact broken,the carcass fell back into immovability.
"You see that we may arrive at the point I spoke of, my son, andprolong life since we can annul death?"
"Not so, for you have only obtained a semblance of life," objectedBalsamo.
"In time, we shall make it real. The Roman poets--and they wereesteemed prophets--assert that Cassidus revived the dead."
"But one objection: supposing your elixir perfect and a dog given some,it would live on--until it fell into the hands of a dissector who wouldcut its throat."
"I thought you would take me there," chuckled the old wizard, clappinghis hands.
"Your elixir will not prevent a chimney falling on a man, a bulletgoing clear through him, or a horse kicking his skull open?"
Althotas eyed the speaker like a fencer watching his antagonist make alunge which lays him open to defeat.
"No, no, no, and you are a true logician. No, my dear Acharat, suchaccidents cannot be avoided; the wounds will still be made, but I canstop the vital spirit issuing by the hole. Look!"
Before the other could interfere he drove the lancet into his arm. Theold man had so little blood that it was some time flowing to the cut;but when it came it was abundantly.
"Great God! you have hurt yourself!" cried the younger man.
"We must convince you."
Taking up a phial of colorless fluid, he poured a few drops on thewound; instantly the liquid congealed, or rather threw out fibresmaterializing, and, soon a plaster of a yellow hue covered in the gashand stanched the flow. Balsamo had never seen collodion, and he gazedin stupefaction at the old sage.
"You are the wisest of men, father!"
"At least if I have not dealt Death a death-blow, I have given him athrust under which he will find it hard to rise. You see, my son, thatthe human frame has brittle bones--I will harden and yet supple themlike steel. It has blood which, in flowing out, carries life with it--Iwill stop the flow. The skin and flesh are soft--I will tan them sothat they will turn the edge of steel and blunt the points of spears,while bullets will flatten against it. Only let an Althotas live threehundred years. Well, give me what I want, and I shall live a thousand.Oh, my dear Acharat, all depends on you. Bring me the child."
"I will think it over, and do you likewise reflect."
The sage darted a look of withering scorn on his adept.
"Go!" he snarled, "I will convince you later. Besides, human bloodis not so precious that I cannot use a substitute. Go, and let meseek--and I shall find. I have no need of you. Begone!"
Balsamo walked over to the elevator, and with a stamp of the foot,caused it to carry him down to the other floor. Mute, crushed by thegenius of this wizard, he was forced to believe in impossible things byhis doing them.



CHAPTER XLII.
THE KING'S NEW AMOUR.

This same long night had been employed by Countess Dubarry in trying tomold the king's mind to a new policy according to her views.
Above all she had dwelt upon the necessity of not letting the Choiseulparty win possession of the dauphiness. The king had answeredcarelessly that the princess was a girl and Choiseul an old statesman,so that there was no danger, since one only wanted to sport and theother to labor. Enchanted at what he thought a witticism, he cut shortfurther dry talk.
But Jeanne did not stay stopped, for she fancied the royal lover wasthinking of another.
He was fickle. His great pleasure was in making his lady-loves jealous,as long as they did not sulk too long or become too riotous in theirjealous fits.
Jeanne Dubarry was jealous naturally, and from fear of a fall. Herposition had cost her too much pains to conquer and was too far fromthe starting-point for her to tolerate rivals as Lady Pompadour haddone.
Hence she wanted to know what was on the royal mind.
He answered by these memorable words, of which he did not mean a jot:
"I intend to make my daughter-in-law very happy and I am afraid that myson will not make her so."
"Why not, sire?"
"Because he looks at other women a good deal, and very seldom at her."
"If any but your majesty said that, I should disbelieve them, for thearchduchess is sweetly pretty."
"She might be rounded out more; that Mademoiselle de Taverney is thesame age and she has a finer figure. She is perfectly lovely."
Fire flashed in the favorite's eyes and warned the speaker of hisblunder.
"Why, I wager that you were plump as Watteau's shepherdesses atsixteen," said he quickly, which adulation improved matters a little,but the mischief was done.
"Humph," said she, bridling up under the pleased smile, "is the younglady of the Taverney family so very, very fair?"
"I only noticed that she was not a bag of bones. You know I amshort-sighted and the general outline alone strikes me. I saw that thenew-comer from Austria was not plump, that is all."
"Yes, you must only see generally, for the Austrian is a stylishbeauty, and the provincial lady a vulgar one."
"According to this, Jeanne, you would be the vulgar kind," said themonarch. "You are joking, I think."
"That is a compliment, but it is wrapped up in a compliment toanother," thought the favorite, and aloud she said: "Faith, I shouldlike the dauphiness to choose a bevy of beauties for maids of honor. Acourt of old tabbies is frightful."
"You are talking over one won to your side, for I was saying the samething to the dauphin; but he is indifferent."
"However, she begins well, you think, to take this Taverney girl. Shehas no money?"
"No, but she has blood. The Taverney Redcastles are a good old houseand long-time servants of the realm."
"Who is backing them?"
"Not the Choiseuls, for they would be overfeasted with pensions in thatcase."
"I beg you not to bring in politics, countess!"
"Is it bringing in politics to say the Choiseuls are blood-sucking therealm?"
"Certainly." And he arose.
An hour after he regained the Grand Trianon palace, happy at havinginspired jealousy, though he said to himself, as a Richelieu might doat thirty:
"What a bother these jealous women are!"
Dubarry went into her boudoir, where Chon was impatiently waiting forthe news.
"You are having fine success," she exclaimed; "day before yesterdaypresented to the dauphiness, you dined at her table yesterday."
"That's so--but much good in such nonsense."
"Nonsense, when a hundred fashionable carriages are racing to bring youcourtiers?"
"I am vexed, sorry for them, as they will not have any smiles from methis morning. Let me have my chocolate."
"Stormy weather, eh?"
Chon rang and Zamore came in to get the order. He started off soslowly, and humping up his back, that the mistress cried:
"Is that slowcoach going to make me perish of hunger? If he plays thecamel and does not hurry, he'll get a hundred lashes on his back."
"Me no hurry--me gubbernor," replied the black boy, majestically.
"You a governor?" screamed the lady, flourishing a fancy riding whipkept to maintain order among the spaniels. "I'll give you a lesson ingoverning."
But the negro ran out yelling.
"You are quite ferocious, Jeanne," remarked her sister.
"Surely I have the right to be ferocious in my own house?"
"Certainly; but I am going to elope, for fear I may be devoured alive."
Three knocks on the door came to interrupt the outbreak.
"Hang it all--who is bothering now?" cried the countess, stamping herfoot.
"He is in for a nice welcome," muttered Chon.
"It will be a good thing if I am badly received," said Jean, as hepushed open the door as widely as though he were a king, "for then Ishould take myself off and not come again. And you would be the greaterloser of the two."
"Saucebox----"
"Because I am not a flatterer. What is the matter with the girl thismorning, Chon?"
"She is not safe to go near."
"Oh, here comes the chocolate! Good-morning, Chocolate," said thefavorite's brother, taking the platter and putting it on a small table,at which he seated himself. "Come and tuck it in, Chon! those who aretoo proud won't get any, that's all."
"You are a nice pair," said Jeanne, "gobbling up the bread and butterinstead of wondering what worries me."
"Out of cash, I suppose?" said Chon.
"Pooh, the king will run out before I do."
"Then lend me a thousand--I can do with it," said the man.
"You will get a thousand _fillips_ on the nose sooner than a thousand_Louis_."
"Is the king going to keep that abominable Choiseul?" questioned Chon.
"That is no novelty--you know that they are sticks-in-the-mud."
"Has the old boy fallen in love with the dauphiness?"
"You are getting warm; but look at the glutton, ready to burst withswilling chocolate and will not lift a finger to help me out of myquandary."
"You never mean to say the king has another fancy?" cried Chon,clasping her hands, and turning pale.
"If I did not say so your brother would, for he will either choke withthe chocolate or get it out."
Thus adjured, Jean managed to gasp the name:
"Andrea of Taverney!"
"The baron's daughter--oh, mercy!" groaned Chon.
"I do not know what keeps me from tearing his eyes out, the lazybones,to go puffing them up with sleep when our fortunes stagger."
"With want of sleep you mean," returned Jean. "I am sleepy, as I amhungry, for the same reason--I have been running about the streets allnight."
"Just like you."
"And all the morning."
"You might have run to some purpose, and found out where thatintriguing jade is housed."
"The very thing--I questioned the driver of the carriage lent to them,and he took them to Coq Heron street. They are living in a little houseat the back, next door to Armenonville House."
"Jean, Jean, we are good friends again," said the countess. "Gorgeas you like. But we must have all the particulars about her, how shelives, who calls on her, and what she is about. Does she get any loveletters--these are important to know."
"I have got us started on the right road anyway," said Jean; "supposeyou do a little now."
"Well," suggested Chon, "there must be rooms to let in that street."
"Excellent idea," said the countess. "You must be off quickly to theplace, Jean, and hire a flat there, where a watcher can mark down allher doings."
"No use; there are no rooms to hire there; I inquired; but I can getwhat we want in the street at the back, overlooking their place,Plastrire Street."
"Well, quick! get a room there."
"I have done that," answered Jean.
"Admirable fellow--come, let me buss thee!" exclaimed the royalfavorite.
Jean wiped his mouth, received the caress and made a ceremonious bow toshow that he was duly grateful for the honor.
"I took the little suite for a young widow. Young widow, you, Chon."
"Capital! it shall be Chon who will take the lodgings and keep an eyeon what goes on. But you must not lose any time. The coach," criedDubarry, ringing the bell so loudly that she would have roused all thespellbound servants of the palace of the Sleeping Beauty.
The three knew how highly to rate Andrea, for at her first sight shehad excited the king's attention; hence she was dangerous.
"This girl," said the countess while the carriage was being got ready;"cannot be a true country wench if she has not made some sweetheartfollow her to Paris. Let us hunt up this chap and get her marriedto him offhand. Nothing would so **** off the king as rustic loversgetting wedded."
"I do not know so much about that," said Jean. "Let us be distrustful.His most Christian majesty is greedy for what is another's property."
Chon departed in the coach, with Jean's promise that he would be herfirst visitor in the new lodgings. She was in luck, for she had hardlymore than taken possession of the rooms, and gone to look out of thewindow commanding a view of the rear gardens than a young lady came tosit at the summer-house window, with embroidery in her hand.
It was Andrea.



CHAPTER XLIII.
TWO BIRDS WITH ONE STONE.

Chon had not been many minutes scanning the Taverney lady, whenViscount Jean, racing up the stairs four at a time like a schoolboy,appeared on the threshold of the pretended widow's room.
"Hurrah, Jean, I am placed splendidly to see what goes on, but I amunfortunate about hearing."
"You ask too much. Oh, I say, I have a bit of news, marvelous andincomparable. Those philosophic fellows say a wise man ought to beready for anything, but I cannot be wise, for this knocked me. Igive you a hundred chances to guess who I ran up against at a publicfountain at the corner; he was sopping a piece of bread in the gush,and it was--our philosopher."
"Who? Gilbert?"
"The very boy, with bare head, open waistcoat, stockings ungartered,shoes without buckles, in short, just as he turned out of bed."
"Then he lives by here? Did you speak to him?"
"We recognized one another, and when I thrust out my hand, he boltedlike a harrier among the crowd, so that I lost sight of him. You don'tthink I was going to run after him, do you?"
"Hardly, but then you have lost him."
"What a pity!" said the girl Sylvie, whom Chon had brought along as hermaid.
"Yes, certainly," said Jean; "I owe him a hundred stripes with a whip,and they would not have spoilt by keeping any longer had I got a gripof his collar; but he guessed my good intentions and fled. No matter,here he is in town; and when one has the ear of the chief of police,anybody can be found."
"Shut him up when you catch him," said Sylvie, "but in a safe place."
"And make you turnkey over him," suggested Jean, winking. "She wouldlike to take him his bread and water."
"Stop your joking, brother," said Chon; "the young fellow saw your rowover the post-horses, and he is to be feared if you set him againstyou."
"How can he live without means?"
"Tut, he will hold horses or run errands."
"Never mind him; come to our observatory."
Brother and sister approached the window with infinity of precautions.Jean had provided himself with a telescope.
Andrea had dropped her needlework, put up her feet on a lower chair,taken a book, and was reading it with some attention, for she remainedvery still.
"Fie on the studious person!" sneered Chon.
"What an admirable one!" added Jean. "A perfect being--what arms, whathands! what eyes! lips that would wreck the soul of St. Anthony--oh,the divine feet--and what an ankle in that silk hose?"
"Hold your tongue! this is coming on finely," said Chon. "You aresmitten with her, now. This is the drop that fills the bucket."
"It would not be a bad job if it were so, and she returned me the flamea little. It would save our poor sister a lot of worry."
"Let me have the spyglass a while. Yes, she is very handsome, and shemust have had a sweetheart out there in the woods. But she is notreading--see, the book slips out of her hand. I tell you, Jean, thatshe is in a brown study."
"She sleeps, you mean."
"Not with her eyes open--what lovely eyes! This a good glass, Jean--Ican almost read in her book."
"What is the book, then?"
Chon was leaning out a little when she suddenly drew back.
"Gracious! look at that head sticking out of the garret window----"
"Gilbert, by Jove! with what burning eyes he is glaring on the Taverneygirl!"
"I have it: he is the country gallant of his lady. He has had thenotice where she was coming to live in Paris and he has taken a roomclose to her. A change of dovecote for the turtle-doves."
"Sister, we need not trouble now, for he will do all the watching----"
"For his own gain."
"No, for ours. Let me pass, as I must go and see the chief of police.By Jupiter, what luck we have! But don't you let Philosopher catch aglimpse of you--he would decamp very quick."



CHAPTER XLIV.
THE PLAN OF ACTION.

Sartines had allowed himself to sleep late, as he had managed themultitude very well during the dauphiness' reception, and he was tryingon new wigs at noon as a kind of holiday when Chevalier Jean Dubarrywas announced.
The minister of police was sure that nothing unpleasant had occurred,as the favorite's brother was smiling.
"What brings you so early?"
"To begin with," replied Jean, always ready to flatter those of whom hewanted to make use, "I am bound to compliment you on the admirable wayin which you regulated the processions."
"Is this official?"
"Quite, so far as Luciennes is concerned."
"Is not that ample--does not the Sun rise in that quarter?"
"It goes down there very often, eh?" and the pair laughed. "But, thecompliments apart, I have a service to ask of you."
"Two, if you like."
"Tell me if anything lost in Paris can be found?"
"Yes, whether worthless or very valuable."
"My object of search is not worth much," responded Jean, shaking hishead. "Only a young fellow of eighteen, named Gilbert, who was in theservice of the Taverneys in Lorraine, but was picked up on the roadby my sister Chon. She took him to Luciennes, where he abused thehospitality."
"Stole something?"
"I do not say so, but he took flight in a suspicious manner."
"Have you any clue to his hiding place?"
"I met him at the fountain at the corner of Plastrire Street, whereI suppose he is living, and I believe I could lay my hand on the veryhouse."
"All right, I will send a sure agent, who will take him out of it!"
"The fact is, this is a special affair, and I should like you to manageit without a third party."
"Oh, in that case, let me pick out a becoming wig and I am with you."
"I have a carriage below."
"Thank you, I prefer my own; it gets a new coat of paint every month,so as not to betray me."
He had tried on his twentieth peruke when the carriage was waiting atthe door.
"There it is, the dirty house," said Jean, pointing in the direction ofa dwelling in Plastrire street.
"Whew!" said Sartines, "dash me if I did not suspect this. You areunlucky, for that is the dwelling of Rousseau, of Geneva."
"The scribbler? What does that matter?"
"It matters that Rousseau is a man to be dreaded."
"Pooh! it is not likely my little man will be harbored by a celebrity."
"Why not, as you nicknamed him a philosopher? Birds of a feather--youknow----"
"Suppose it is so. Why not put this Rousseau in the Bastille if he isin our way?"
"Well, he would be more in our way there than here. You see the moblikes to throw stones at him, but they would pelt us if he was nolonger their target, and they want him for themselves. But let us seeinto this. Sit back in the carriage."
He referred to a notebook.
"I have it. If your young blade is with Rousseau, when would he havemet him?"
"Say, on the sixteenth instant."
"Good! he returned from botanizing in Meudon Wood on the seventeenthwith a youth, and this stranger stayed all night under his roof. Youare crossed by luck. Give it up or you would have all the philosophersagainst us in riot."
"Oh, Lord! what will sister Jeanne say?"
"Oh, does the countess want the lad? Why not coax him out, and then wewould nab him, anywhere not inside Rousseau's house?"
"You might as well coax a hyena."
"I doubt it is so difficult. All you want is a go-between. Let mesee; a prince will not do; better one of these writers, a poet, aphilosopher or a bota--stay, I have him!"
"Gilbert?"
"Yes, through a botanist friend of Rousseau's. You know Jussieu?"
"Yes, for the countess lets him prowl in her gardens and rifle them."
"I begin to believe that you shall have your Gilbert, without anynoise. Rousseau will hand him over, pinioned, so to say. So you go onmaking a trap for philosophers, according to a plan I will give you,on vacant ground out Meudon or Marly way. Now, let us be off, as thepassengers are beginning to stare at us. Home, coachman!"



CHAPTER XLV.
TOO GOOD A TEACHER.

Fatigued by the ceremonies of the dauphin's nuptials, and particularlyby the dinner, which was too stately, the king retired at nine o'clockand dismissed all attendants except Duke Vauguyon, tutor of the royalchildren. As he was losing his best pupil by the marriage, havingonly his two brothers to teach, and as it is the custom to rewarda preceptor when education of a charge is complete, he expected arecompense.
He had been sobbing, and now he slipped out a pockethandkerchief andbegan to weep.
"Come, my poor Vauguyon," said the king, pointing to a foot-stool inthe light, while he would be in the shade, "pray be seated, without anyto-do."
The duke sighed.
"The education is over, and you have turned out in the prince royal thebest educated prince in Europe."
"I believe he is."
"Good at history, and geography, and at wood-turning----"
"The praise for that goes to another, sire."
"And at setting timepieces in order. Before he handled them, my clockstold the time one after another like wheels of a coach; but he has putthem right. In short, the heir to the crown will, I believe, be a goodking, a good manager, and a good father of family. I suppose he will bea good father?" he insisted.
"Why, your majesty," said Vauguyon simply, "I consider that as thedauphin has all the germs of good in his bosom, those that constitutethat are in the cluster."
"Come, come, my lord," said the sovereign, "let us speak plainly. Asyou know the dauphin thoroughly, you must know all about his tastes andhis passions----"
"Pardon me, sire, but I have extirpated all his passions."
"Confound it all! this is just what I feared!" exclaimed Louis XV.,with an energy which made the hearer's wig stand its hairs on end.
"Sire, the Duke of Berri has lived under your august roof with theinnocence of the studious youth."
"But the youth is now a married man."
"Sire, as the guide of----"
"Yes, well, I see that you must guide him to the very last."
"Please your majesty."
"This is the way of it. You will go to the dauphin, who is nowreceiving the final compliments of the gentlemen as the dauphinessis receiving those of the ladies. Get a candle and take your pupilaside. Show him the nuptial chamber which is at the end of a corridorfilled with pictures which I have selected as a complete course of theinstruction which your lordship omitted----"
"Ah," said the duke, starting at the smile of his master, which wouldhave appeared cynical on any mouth but his, the wittiest in the kingdom.
"At the end of the new corridor, I say, of which here is the key."
Vauguyon took it trembling.
"You will shake your pupil's hand, put the candle into it, wish himgood-night, and tell him that it will take twenty minutes to reach thebedroom door, giving a minute to each painting."
"I--I understand."
"That is a good thing."
"Your majesty is good enough to excuse me----"
"I suppose I shall have to, but you were making this end prettily formy family!"
From the window the king could see the candle which passed from thehands of Vauguyon into that of his guileless pupil, go the way up thenew gallery, and flicker out.
"I gave him twenty minutes--I myself found five long enough," mutteredthe king, "Alas, will they say of the dauphin as of the second Racine:'He is the nephew of his grandfather.'"



CHAPTER XLVI.
A TERRIBLE WEDDING-NIGHT.

The dauphin opened the door of the anteroom before the wedding chamber.
The archduchess was waiting, in a long white wrapper, with the strangeanticipation on her brow, along with the sweet expectation of thebride, of some disaster. She seemed menaced with one of those terrorswhich nervous dispositions foresee and support sometimes with morebravery than if not awaited.
Lady Noailles was seated by the gilded couch, which easily held theprincess' frail and dainty body.
The maids of honor stood at the back, waiting for the mistress of theattendants to make them the sign to withdraw. These were all ignorantthat the dauphin was coming by a new way in. As the corridor was emptyand the door at the end ajar, he could see and hear what went on in theroom.
"In what direction does my lord the dauphin come?" inquired theAustrian's pure and harmonious voice though slightly tremulous.
"Yonder," replied Lady Noailles, pointing just the wrong way.
"What is that noise outside--not unlike the roaring of angry waters?"
"It is the tumult of the innumerable sight-seers walking about underthe illumination and waiting for the fireworks display."
"The illuminations?" said the princess with a sad smile. "They musthave been timely this evening, for did you not notice it was very blackweather?"
At this moment the dauphin, who was tired of waiting, thrust his headin at the door, and asked if he might enter. Lady Noailles screamed,for she did not recognize the intruder at first. The dauphiness,worked up into a nervous state by the incidents of the day, seized theduchess' arm in her fright.
"It is I, madame; have no fear," called out the prince.
"But why by that way?" said Lady Noailles.
"Because," explained Louis the King, showing his head at the half-opendoor, "because the Duke of Vauguyon knows so much Latin, mathematicsand geography as to leave room for nothing else."
In presence of the king so untimely arrived, the dauphiness slipped offthe couch and stood up in the wrapper, clothed from head to foot like avestal virgin in her stole.
"Any one can see that she is thin," muttered the king; "what the deusemade Choiseul pick out the skinny chicken among all the pullets ofEuropean courts?"
"Your majesty will please to observe that I acted according to thestrict etiquette," said the Duchess of Noailles, "the infraction was onmy lord the dauphin's part."
"I take it on myself. So, let us leave the children to themselves,"said the monarch.
The princess seized the lady's arm with more terror than before.
"Oh, don't go away!" she faltered; "I shall die of shame."
"Sire, the dauphiness begs to be allowed to go to rest without anystate," said Lady Noailles.
"The deuce--and does 'Lady Etiquette' herself crave that?"
"Look at the archduchess----"
In fact, Marie Antoinette, standing up, pale and with her rigid armsustaining her by a chair, resembled a statue of fright, but for theslight chattering of her teeth, and the cold perspiration bedewing herforehead.
"Oh, I should not think of causing the young lady any pain," said LouisXV., as little strict about forms as his father was the other thing."Let us retire, duchess; besides, the doors have locks."
The dauphin blushed to hear these words of his grandfather, but thelady, though hearing, had not understood.
King Louis XV. embraced his grand-daughter-in-law, and went forth, withLady Noailles, laughing mockingly and sadly, for those who did notshare his merriment.
The other persons had gone out by the other door.
The wedded pair were left alone in silence.
At last the young husband approached his bride with bosom beatingrapidly; to his temples, breast and wrist he felt all his repressedblood rushing hotly. But he guessed that his grandfather was behind thedoor, and the cynical glance still chilled the dauphin, very timid andawkward by nature.
"You are not well, madame," he stammered. "You are very pale, and Ithink you are trembling."
"I cannot conceal that I am under a spell of agitation; there mustbe some terrible storm overhead, for I am peculiarly affected bythunderstorms."
Indeed, she shook by spasms as though affected by electrical shocks.
At this time, as though to justify her assertion, a furious gust ofwind, such as shear the tops off mountains and heap up half the seaagainst the other--the first whoop of the coming tempest filled thepalace with tumult, anguish and many a creaking. Leaves were swept offthe branches, branches off the boughs and from the trees. A long andimmense clamor was drawn from the hundred thousand spectators in thegardens. A lugubrious and endless bellowing ran through the corridorsand galleries, composing the most awful notes that had ever vibrated inhuman ears.
Then an ominous rattling and jingling succeeded the roar; it was thefall of countless shivers of glass out of the window panes on themarble slabs and cornices.
At the same time the gale had opened one of the shutters and banged itto and fro like a wings of a bird of night. Wherever the window hadbeen open and where the glass was shivered the lights were put out.
The prince went over to the window to fasten the broken shutter, buthis wife held him back.
"Oh, pray, do not open that window, for the lights will be blown out,and I should die of fright."
He stopped. Through the casement beyond the curtain which he had drawnthe tree tops of the park were visible, swayed from side to side as ifsome unseen giant were waving them by the stems. All the illuminationswere extinguished.
Then could be seen on the dark sky still blacker clouds, coming on witha rolling motion like troops of cavalry wrapped in dust.
The pallid prince stood with one hand on the sash-handle. The bridesank on a chair, with a sigh.
"You are very much alarmed, madame?"
"Yes, though your presence supports me. Oh, what a storm! all thepretty lights are put out."
"Yes, it is a southwest wind, always the worst for storms. If it holdsout, I do not know how they will be able to set off the fireworks."
"What would be the use of them? Everybody will be out of the gardens insuch weather."
"You do not know what our French are when there is a show. They cry forthe pyrotechnics, and this is to be superb; the pyrotechnist showed methe sketches. There! look at the first rockets!"
Indeed, brilliant as long fiery serpents, the trial rockets rushed upinto the clouds, but at the same time, as if the storm had taken theflash as a challenge, one stroke of lightning, seeming to split thesky, snaked among the rockets ascending and eclipsed their red glarewith its bluish flaring.
"Verily, it is impiety for man to contest with God," said thearchduchess.
The trial rockets had preceded the general display by but a few minutesas the pyrotechnist felt the need of hastening, and the first setpieces were fired and were hailed with a cheer of delight.
But as though there were really a war between man and heaven, thestorm, irritated by the impiety, drowned with its thunder the cheers ofthe mobs, and all the cataracts on high opened at once. Torrents ofrain were precipitated from the cloudy heights.
In like manner to the wind putting out the illuminations, the rain putout the fireworks.
"What a misfortune, the fireworks are spoilt," said the dauphin.
"Alas, everything goes wrong since I entered France," said MarieAntoinette. "This storm suits the feast that was given me. It waswanted to hide from the people the miseries of this dilapidatedpalace of Versailles. So, blow, you southwest wind! spout, rain! pileyourselves together, tempestuous clouds, to hide from my eyes thepaltry, tawdry reception given to the daughter of the kaisers, when shelaid her hand in that of the future king!"
The visibly embarrassed dauphin did not know what answer to make tothis, these reproaches, and particularly this exalted melancholy, sofar from his character; he only sighed.
"I afflict you," continued she; "but do not believe that my pride isspeaking. No, no, it is nowise in it. Would that they had only shownme the pretty little Trianon, with its flower gardens, and smilingshades--the rain will but refresh it, the wind but open the blossoms.That charming nest would content me; but these ruins frighten me, sorepugnant to my youth, and yet how many more ruins will be created bythis frightful storm."
A fresh gust, worse than the first, shook the palace. The princessstarted up aghast.
"Oh, heavens, tell me that there is no danger!" she moaned; "I shalldie of fright."
"There is no fear, madame. Versailles is built on terraces so as todefy the storm. If lightning fell it would only strike yonder chapelwith its sharp roof, or the little tower which has turrets. You knowthat peaks attract the electric fluid and flat surfaces repel them."
He took her frozen yet palpitating hand.
Just then a vivid flash inundated the room with its violet and lividglare. She uttered a scream and repulsed her husband.
"Oh, you looked in the lurid gleam like a phantom, pale, headless andbleeding!"
"It is the mirage caused by the sulphur," said the prince. "I willexplain----"
But a deafening peal of thunder cut short the sentence of thephlegmatic prince lecturing the royal spouse.
"Come, come, madame, let us leave such fears to the common people.Physical agitation is one of the conditions of nature. A storm, andthis is no more, is one of the most frequent and natural phenomena. Ido not know why people are surprised at them."
"I should not quail so much at another time; but for a storm toburst on our wedding-night, another awful forwarning joined to thoseheralding my entry into France! My mother has told me that this centuryis fraught with horrors, as the heavens above are charged with fire anddestruction."
"Madame, no dangers can menace the throne to which we shall ascend, forwe royalties dwell above the common plane. The thunder is at our feetand we wield the bolts."
"Alas, something dreadful was predicted me, or rather, shown to me ina dish of water. It is hard to describe what was utterly novel to me;a machine reared on high like a scaffold, two upright beams betweenwhich glided an axe of odd shape. I saw my head beneath this blade. Itdescended and my head, severed from the body, leaped to the earth. Thisis what I was shown."
"Pure hallucination," said the scoffer; "there is no such an instrumentin existence, so be encouraged."
"Alas! I cannot drive away the odious thought."
"You will succeed, Marie," said the dauphin, drawing nearer.
"Beside you will be an affectionate and assiduously protective husband."
At the instant when the husband's lips nearly touched the wife's cheek,the picture gallery door opened again, and the curious, covetous lookof King Louis XV. penetrated the place. But simultaneously a crash, ofwhich no words can give an idea, resounded through the palace. A spoutof white flame, streaked with green, dashed past the widow but shivereda statue on the balcony; then after a prodigious ripping and splittingsound, it bounded upward and vanished like a meteor.
Out went the candles! the dauphin staggered back, dazed and frightenedto the very wall. The dauphiness fell, half swooned, on the step of herpraying-desk and dwelt in deadly torpor.
Believing the earth was quaking under him, Louis XV. regained hisrooms, followed by his faithful valet.
In the morning Versailles was not recognizable. The ground had drunk upthe deluge, and the trees absorbed the sulphur.
Everywhere was mud and the broken boughs dragging their blackenedlengths like scotched serpents.
Louis XV. went to the bridal chamber for the third time, and looked in.He shuddered to see at the praying-stand the bride, pale and prone,with the aurora tinging her spotless robe, like a Magdalen of Rubens.
On a chair, with his velvet slippers in a puddle of water, the dauphinof France sat as pale as his wife and with the same air of having faceda nightmare.
The nuptial bed was untouched.
Louis XV. frowned; a never-before-experienced pain ran through hisbrow, cooled by egotism even when debauchery tried to heat it.
He shook his head, sighed and returned to his apartments full of grimforebodings over the future which this tragic event had marked on itsbrow.
What dread and mysterious incidents were enfolded in its bosom it willbe our mission to disclose in the sequel to this book, entitled "THEMESMERIST'S VICTIM."




_A BOOK FOR EVERY FAMILY._
How to Live Well On 25 Cents a Day.
By MRS. GESINE LEMCKE,
One of the Most Noted Cooks and Housekeepers of the Day.
It contains a complete bill of fare for every day for six weeks, alsovaluable hints and helps for housekeepers.
The _Philadelphia Call_ says of it:
"Utopia discovered! Everybody happy and want absolutely abolished. Hatsoff to Mrs. Lemcke! Whether this volume accomplishes its purpose or notis immaterial. It is stuffed full of just the sort of information thatis good for young housekeepers and should be widely read, and is worth$1.00 to any family."
This book is for sale by all dealers, or it will be sent by mail,post-paid, on receipt of 25 cents, by J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Company,57 Rose Street, New York.

TERMS TO AGENTS.
_Sample Copy by mail, postpaid, 15 Cents._
  _Less than 100 Copies,        12 Cents per Copy._  _One Hundred or more Copies,  10 Cents per Copy._
The above prices do not include freight or express charges. _=Termscash with order.=_ Address,
  J. S. OGILVIE PUBLISHING CO.,  57 Rose Street, New York.



  ARE YOU A WOMAN?  And Do You Want to Get Married?
If so, you ought to buy our new book.
"How to Get Married Although a Woman."
By A YOUNG WIDOW.
Read what _The Christian Advocate_ says about it:
    "How to Get Married Although a Woman," by a young widow, comes    from the J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Co., 57 Rose Street, New York.    The woman anxious to get married, but unable to do so, will find    an immense amount of advice and assistance in this little volume,    and will learn what manner of woman is liked and what disliked by    men, the reasons of success and failure in the race matrimonial,    some unfailing methods of catching a husband, why it is that a    plain widow can come into a community and take her pick among    the most eligible men, and finally, how to retain the love of a    husband when he has been captured and how to get another one when    he has been gathered to his fathers. Any woman who cannot catch    a husband by the rules laid down in this book does not deserve    one, and it costs only 25 cents for all this valuable advice and    information.
This book will be sent by mail, postpaid, to any address on receipt of25 cents. Address
  _J. S. OGILVIE PUBLISHING COMPANY,  Lock Box 2767. 57 Rose St., New York._



CATALOGUE of USEFUL and POPULAR BOOKS.
Any of the Books on this List will be mailed postpaid to any address onreceipt of price by J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Company, 57 Rose Street,New York.
_Write your name and address very plainly so as to avoid mistakes._

=ALBUM WRITER'S FRIEND (THE).=--Compiled by J. S. Ogilvie, 16mo, 128pages. Paper cover, 15 cents; cloth 30 cents.
This is a new and choice selection of gems of Prose and Poetry,comprising over seven hundred selections, suitable for writingin Autograph Albums, Valentines, and for Birthday and Weddingcelebrations. It also contains a new and choice collection of versessuitable for Christmas and New-Year Cards. It contains 128 pages, withpaper cover, price 15 cents: bound in cloth, 30 cents.

=AMATEUR'S GUIDE TO MAGIC AND MYSTERY.=--An entirely new work,containing full and ample instructions on the mysteries of magic,sleight-of-hand tricks, card tricks, etc. The best work on conjuringfor amateurs published. Illustrated. 15 cents.

=ART OF VENTRILOQUISM.=--Contains simple and full directions by whichany one may acquire the amusing art, with numerous examples forpractice. Also instructions for making the magic whistle, for imitatingbirds, animals, and peculiar sounds of various kinds. Any boy whowishes to obtain an art by which he can develop a wonderful amountof astonishment, mystery, and fun, should learn Ventriloquism, as heeasily can follow the simple secret given in this book. Mailed for 15cents.

=BAD BOY'S DIARY (A).=--This is one of the most successful humorousbooks of the present day, filled with fun and good humor, and "willdrive the blues out of a bag of indigo." It is printed from new, largetype, and on fine, heavy white paper of a superior finish, and contains280 pages. New, full-page illustrations from unique designs have beenprepared expressly for this edition. Handsome paper cover, 25 cents.

=BATTLE FOR BREAD (THE).=--This book contains a series of Sermonsby Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage, the greatest of living preachers. Everyworkingman and those who employ them should read this book, and thus beinformed of the real solution of the question of the relations of Laborand Capital. 12mo, 125 pages. Paper cover, 25 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

=BLACK ART EXPOSED (THE).=--This book contains some of the mostmarvelous things in ancient and modern magic, jugglery, etc., everprinted, and has to be seen to be fully appreciated. Suffice it to saythat any boy knowing the secrets it contains will be able to do thingsthat will astonish all. 15 cts.

=BLUNDERS OF A BASHFUL MAN (THE).=--By the popular author of "A BadBoy's Diary." This is one of the most humorous books ever issued,and has been pronounced _better_ than "A Bad Boy's Diary." 12mo, 160pages. Handsomely illustrated from original designs, including also theportrait and autograph of "The Bashful Man." Price, paper cover, 25cents.

=BOILER-MAKER'S ASSISTANT (THE)=, and the Theoretical and PracticalBoiler-Maker and Engineer's Reference Book. By Samuel Nicholls, ForemanBoiler-Maker. 1 vol. 12mo, extra cloth, $2.50.

=COMPLETE FORTUNE TELLER AND DREAM BOOK.=--This book containsa complete Dictionary of Dreams, alphabetically, with a clearinterpretation of each dream, and the lucky numbers that belong to it.It includes Palmistry, or telling fortunes by the lines of the hand;fortune telling by the grounds in a tea or coffee cup; how to read yourfuture life by the white of an egg; tells how to know who your futurehusband will be, and how soon you will be married; fortune-telling bycards; Hymen's lottery; good and bad omens, etc. 25 cents.

=CONCERT EXERCISES FOR SUNDAY SCHOOLS.=--5 cents each; 30 cents perdozen; per hundred, by mail, postpaid, $2.00. No. 1, THE CHRISTIAN'SJOURNEY. No. 2, THE STORY OF REDEEMING LOVE. (For Christmas.) No. 3,CHRIST IS RISEN. (Appropriate for Easter.) No. 4, WELCOME GREETING.(Appropriate for Children's Day.) No. 5, GOOD TIDINGS. (Appropriate foranniversaries and celebrations.)

=LEISURE-HOUR WORK FOR LADIES.=--Containing instructions for flower andshell work; Antique, Grecian and Theorem painting; Botanical specimens;Cone work; Anglo-Japanese work; Decalcomanie; Diaphame; Leather work;Modeling in clay; Transferring; Crayon drawing; Photograph coloring,etc., etc. A very complete book, and one that no young lady havingspare time can afford to be without. 15 cents.

=LOVER'S GUIDE (THE).=--A book no lover should be without. It giveshandkerchief, parasol, glove, and fan flirtations; also windowand dining-room signaling; the language of flowers; how to kissdeliciously; love-letters, and how to write them, with specimens;bashfulness and timidity, and how to overcome them, etc., etc. 15cents.

=COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE=; or, The Mysteries of Making Love FullyExplained.--This is an entirely new work on a most interesting subject.CONTENTS: First steps in courtship; Advice to both parties at theoutset; Introduction to the lady's family; Restrictions imposed byetiquette; What the lady should observe in early courtship; What thesuitor should observe; Etiquette as to presents; The proposal; Modeof refusal when not approved; Conduct to be observed by a rejectedsuitor; Refusal by the lady's parents or guardians; Etiquette of anengagement; Demeanor of the betrothed pair; Should a courtship be longor short; Preliminary etiquette of a wedding; Fixing the day; How tobe married; The trousseau; Duties to be attended to by the bridegroom;Who should be asked to the wedding; Duties of the bridesmaids andgroomsmen; Etiquette of a wedding; Costume of bride, bridesmaids, andbridegroom; Arrival at the church; The marriage ceremonial; Registryof the marriage; Return home, and wedding breakfast; Departure for thehoneymoon; Wedding cards; Modern practice of "No cards;" Reception andreturn of wedding visits; Practical advice to a newly married couple.Price, **** cents.

="DON'T MARRY"=--At least until you have read our new book entitled"Don't Marry." Some marry too soon, others wait too long. This bookwill tell you how, when, and whom to marry; besides giving you valuablehints and helps not found in any other book. It contains 112 pages,paper cover, and is worth $10 to any one. Price, 25 cents.

=DIARY OF A MINISTER'S WIFE.=--By Almedia M. Brown. Complete edition,****, 544 pages. Handsomely bound in cloth, with fine full-pageillustrations, including portraits of Mrs. Minnie Hardscrabble, theminister's wife, from the facts and incidents in whose life thestory was written; also Rev. John Hardscrabble, with three othercharacteristic engravings, which will amuse and interest every reader.Price, $1.50.
This popular book is also issued complete in two volumes in papercovers. Price, per volume, 25 cents.

=DIARY OF A VILLAGE GOSSIP.=--By Almedia M. Brown, author of "Diary ofa Minister's Wife," etc., etc. 12mo, 293 pages. Paper cover, 25 cents;handsomely bound in cloth, $1.00.
=MAGIC DIAL (THE).=--By the use of which secret correspondence may becarried on without fear of detection. No one (even if provided with oneof these dials) can decipher it. It is entirely new, and nothing likeit has ever appeared. It is simple and reliable and can be used by anyperson. It will be mailed for 15 cents.

=EDUCATING THE HORSE.=--A new and improved system of Educating theHorse. Also a Treatise on Shoeing, with new and valuable Receipts forDiseases of Horses. CONTENTS: The great secret of Horse-Taming; How tothrow a horse; the wild colts to halter; break a colt; hitching coltin stall; how to handle a colt's feet; breaking and driving colts toharness; objects of fear; to train a horse to stand when getting intoa carriage; balking horses; pulling at halter; to break horses fromjumping; pawing in stall and kicking in harness; the runaway horse;shoeing; corns; to teach a horse to appear intelligent; to teach ahorse how to dance, waltz, kiss you, shake hands, etc., etc.; cure ofsore breasts, big head, big leg, fullness of blood, catarrh; loosebowels, corns, cough, inflammation of eye, brittle feet, sand crackin foot, founder (a sure cure), galled back, grease, inflammation ofkidneys, worms, itch, nasal, gleet, over-reaching, staggers, botts,etc., etc.; concluding with rules and regulations for the government oftrotting and racing. [**right-pointing hand] No man who owns a horsecan afford to do without this book. It is very thorough, complete andreliable, and well worth a dozen times the price asked for it. Itcontains matter not to be found in any other horse book. Price, 15cents.

=GRAND WONDER COLLECTION.=--A wonderful offer. $3.00 worth of goodsfor only 50 cents! Everything is now very cheap, and people get a gooddeal more for their money than they used to, but we have no hesitationin saying that never before was so much offered for the money as isoffered in this GRAND WONDER COLLECTION. It could not be done, onlythat we expect to sell thousands of them and are fully satisfied thateach one sold will sell a dozen more.
The contents of the GRAND WONDER COLLECTION--comprising seven completebooks in one--1. Old Secrets and New Discoveries. 2. Secrets forFarmers. 3. Laughing Gas. 4. The Swindlers of America. 5. Preservingand Manufacturing Secrets. 6. The Housewife's Treasure. 7. FourteenPopular Songs, Words and Music.
[**right-pointing hand] Any person ordering this collection and notfully satisfied, the money will be cheerfully refunded. Price, 50 cents.

=MAGIC TRICK CARDS.=--The Magician's Own Cards, for performingwonderful tricks. Every boy a magician! Every man a conjurer! Everygirl a witch! Every one astonished! They are the most superior trickcards ever offered for sale, and with them you can perform some of themost remarkable illusions ever discovered.
Complete illustrated directions accompany each pack. They will bemailed, postpaid, sealed as a letter, for 15 cents a pack.

=HEALTH HINTS.=--A new book showing how to Acquire and Retain BodilySymmetry, Health, Vigor, and Beauty. Its contents are as follows:Laws of Beauty--Air, Sunshine, Water, and Food--Work and Rest--Dressand Ornament--The Hair and its Management--Skin and Complexion--TheMouth--The Eyes, Ears, and Nose--The Neck, Hands and Feet--Growth andMarks that are Enemies of Beauty--Cosmetics and Perfumery.

=Fat People.=--It gives ample rules how Corpulency may be cured--theFat made Lean, Comely and Active.

=Lean People.=--It also give directions, the following of which willenable Lean, Angular, Bony or Sharp Visaged People, to be Plump andRosy Skinned.

=Gray Hair.=--It tells how Gray Hair may be Restored to its naturalcolor without the aid of Dyes, Restorers or Pomades.

=Baldness.=--It gives ample directions for Restoring Hair on BaldHeads, as well as how to stop Falling of the Hair, how to Curl theHair, etc.

=Beard and Mustache.=--It tells what Young Men should do to acquire aFine, Silky and Handsome Beard and Mustache.

=Freckles and Pimples.=--It gives full directions for the Cure ofSunburn, Freckles, Pimples, Wrinkles, Warts, etc., so that they can beentirely removed.

=Cosmetics.=--This chapter, among other things, gives an Analysis ofPerry's Moth and Freckle Lotion, Balm of White Lilies, Hagan's MagnoliaBalm, Laird's Bloom of Youth, Phalon's Enamel, Clark's Restorativefor the Hair, Chevalier's Life for the Hair, Ayer's Hair Vigor,Professor Wood's Hair Restorative, Hair Restorer America, Gray's HairRestorative, Phalon's Vitalia, Ring's Vegetable Ambrosia, Mrs. Allen'sWorld's Hair Restorer, Hall's Vegetable Sicilian Hair Renewer, MarthaWashington Hair Restorative, etc., etc. (no room for more), showinghow the lead, etc., in these mixtures causes disease and oftentimespremature death. Price, 25 cents.

=LOVE AND COURTSHIP CARDS.=--Sparking, courting, and lovemaking allmade easy by the use of these cards. They are arranged with such aptconversation that you will be able to ask the momentous question insuch a delicate manner that the girl will not suspect what you are at.They may be used by two persons only, or they will make lots of fun foran evening party of young people. There are sixty cards in all, andeach answer will respond differently to every one of the questions.Price, 30 cents.

=MISS SLIMMENS' BOARDING-HOUSE.=--By the author of "A Bad Boy's Diary."16mo, 188 pages, with nine illustrations. Complete edition. Papercover, 25 cents.

=HOUSEWIFE'S TREASURE (THE).=--A manual of information of everythingthat relates to household economies. It gives the method of makingJackson's Universal Washing Compound, which can clean the dirtiestcotton, linen or woolen clothes in twenty minutes without rubbing orharming the material. This recipe is being constantly peddled throughthe country at $5.00 each, and is certainly worth it. It also tellsall about soap-making at home, so as to make it cost about one-quarterof what bar soap costs; it tells how to make candles by molding ordipping; it gives seven methods for destroying rats and mice; how tomake healthy bread without flour (something entirely new); to preserveclothes and furs from moths; a sure plan for destroying houseflies,cockroaches, beetles, ants, bedbugs and fleas; all about housecleaning, papering, etc., and hundreds of other valuable hints justsuch as housekeepers are wanting to know. 25 cents.

=HOW TO ENTERTAIN A SOCIAL PARTY.=--A complete selection of HomeRecreations. Profusely illustrated with fine wood-cuts, containing:Round Games and Forfeit Games; Parlor Magic and Curious Puzzles; ComicDiversions and Parlor Tricks; Scientific Recreations and EveningAmusements; The Blue Beard tableaux; Tableaux-vivant for acting; Theplay-room; Blindman's buff; One old ox opening oysters; How do you likeit? when do you like it? and where do you like it? Cross questions andcrooked answers; Cupid's coming; Proverbs; Earth, air and water; Yesand no; Copenhagen; Hunt the hare, and a thousand other games.
Here is family amusement for the million. Here is parlor ordrawing-room entertainment, night after night, for a whole winter. Ayoung man with this volume may render himself the _beau ideal_ of adelightful companion to every party. Price, 25 cents.

=HOW TO WOO AND HOW TO WIN.=--This interesting work contains full andinteresting rules for the etiquette of courtship, with directionsshowing how to win the favor of the ladies; how to begin and end acourtship; and how love-letters should be written. It not only tellshow to win the favor of the ladies, but how to address a lady; Conducta courtship; "Pop the Question;" Write love-letters; All about themarriage ceremony; Bridal chamber; After marriage, etc. Price, 15 cents.

=ODELL'S SYSTEM OF SHORTHAND.=--By which the taking down of sermons,lectures, trials, speeches, etc., may be easily acquired, without theaid of a master. By this plan the difficulties of mastering this usefulart are very much lessened, and the time required to attain proficiencyreduced to the least possible limits. Price 15 cents.

=HOW TO TALK AND DEBATE.=--CONTENTS: Introduction; Laws ofConversation; Listening; Self-possession; Appreciativeness;Conversation, when confidential; The matter and the manner; Propersubjects; Trifles; Objectionable subjects; Politics; Rights of women;Wit and humor; Questions and negatives; Our own hobbies; The voice, howto improve; Speaking one's mind; Public speaking; How to make a Speech;Opening a debate; Division of the subject; The affirmative; The reply,etc., etc. A really valuable book, and one that every man and woman,boy and girl should possess. 15 cents.

=LIFE IN THE BACKWOODS.=--A Guide to the successful Hunting andTrapping of all kinds of Animals. It gives the right season fortrapping; how to make, set and bait all kinds of traps, traps forminks, weasels, skunks, hawks, owls, gophers, birds, squirrels,musk-rats, foxes, rabbits, raccoons, etc.; how to make and use birdlime. It gives the English secrets for catching alive all kinds ofbirds; it tells how to know the true value of skins, as well as howto skin all animals; deodorize, stretch, and cure them; to dress andtan skins, furs and leather; to tan with or without the wool or hair;to skin and stuff birds; baits and hooks for fishing; how to fishsuccessfully without nets, lines, spears, snares, "bobs," or bait (agreat secret); how to choose and clean guns; how to breed minks fortheir skins (hundreds of dollars can be made by any boy or young manwho knows how to breed minks), etc.
This book is by an old trapper, for many years engaged in trapping inthe Northwest, who has finally consented to publish and disclose thesesecrets. Persons living where wild animals exist, with some traps andthe information contained in this book, can make money faster throughthe trapping season by giving their time and energies to the businessthan they can by seeking their fortunes in the gold regions or in oilspeculations. This is at once the most complete and practical book nowin the market. Price, 15 cents.

=MODEL LETTER-WRITER (THE).=--A comprehensive and completeguide and assistant for those who desire to carry on epistolarycorrespondence--containing instructions for writing letters ofintroduction; Letters of business; Letters of recommendation;Applications for employment; Letters of congratulation; Letters ofcondolence; Letters of friendship and relationship; Love-letters; Notesof invitation; Letters of favor, of advice, and of excuse, etc., etc.,together with appropriate answers to each. This is an invaluable bookfor those persons who have not had sufficient practice to enable themto write letters without great effort. 15 cents.

=NAPOLEON'S COMPLETE BOOK= of Fate and Complete Fortune Teller.--Thisis the celebrated Oracle of Human Destiny consulted by Napoleon theFirst previous to any of his undertakings, and by which he was sosuccessful in war, business, and love. It is the only authentic andcomplete copy extant, being translated into English from a Germantranslation of an ancient Egyptian manuscript found in the year 1801by M. Sonini, in one of the royal tombs near Mount Libycus, in UpperEgypt. This Oraculum is so arranged that any question on business,love, wealth, losses, hidden treasures, no matter what its nature, theOraculum has an answer for it. It also shows how to learn of one's fateby consulting the planets. Price 15 cents.

=OGILVIE'S HOUSE PLANS; OR HOW TO BUILD A HOUSE.=--A neat new book,containing over thirty finely executed engravings of dwellings of allsizes, from two rooms up; also churches, barns, and out-houses in greatvariety.
This handy, compact, and very useful volume contains, in addition tothe foregoing, plans for each floor in each and every dwelling of whichan engraving is given. It has, also, valuable information relativeto building, such as number of shingles required in a roof, quantityof plaster for a house, quantity of materials required for buildinga house, etc., etc., and much other information of permanent andpractical value.
Any one of the plans is alone worth very much more than the price askedfor the book. It is invaluable to every architect, builder, mason, orcarpenter, and particularly do we urge all who anticipate erecting anew or remodeling an old dwelling to send for a copy, as its fortunatepossessor may save hundreds of dollars by following the suggestions itcontains. 25 cents.

=HOW TO BEHAVE.=--Hand-book of Etiquette and Guide to TruePoliteness. CONTENTS: Etiquette and its uses; Introductions; Cuttingacquaintances; Letters of introduction; Street etiquette; Domesticetiquette and duties; Visiting; Receiving company; Evening parties;The lady's toilet; The gentleman's toilet; Invitations; Etiquette ofthe ball-room; General rules of conversation; Bashfulness and howto overcome it; Dinner parties; Table etiquette; Carving; Servants;Traveling; Visiting cards; Letter writing; Conclusion. This is thebest book of the kind yet published, and every person wishing to beconsidered well-bred, who wishes to understand the customs of goodsociety, and to avoid incorrect and vulgar habits, should send for acopy. 15 cents.

=MISS SLIMMENS' WINDOW.=--Complete edition in one volume now ready.16mo, 150 pages. Bound in heavy paper covers, with 13 illustrations, 25cents.

=OGILVIE'S HANDY MONITOR AND UNIVERSAL ASSISTANT=, containingStatistical Tables of Practical Value for Mechanics, Merchants,Editors, Lawyers, Printers, Doctors, Farmers, Lumbermen, Bankers,Bookkeepers Politicians and all classes of workers in every departmentof human effort, and containing a compilation of facts for reference onvarious subjects, being an epitome of matters Historical, Statistical,Biographical, Political, Geographical and general interest. 192 pagesbound in paper, 25 cents.
No more valuable books have ever been offered containing so muchinformation of practical value in everyday life.

=OLD SECRETS AND NEW DISCOVERIES.=--Containing Information of RareValue for all Classes, in all Conditions of Society.
=It Tells= all about _Electrical Psychology_, showing how you canbiologize any person, and, while under the influence, he will doanything you may wish him, no matter how ridiculous it may be, and hecannot help doing it.
=It Tells= how to _Mesmerize_. Knowing this, you can place any personin a mesmeric sleep, and then be able to do with him as you will. Thissecret has been sold over and over again for $10.
=It Tells= how to make persons at a distance think of you--somethingall lovers should know.
=It Tells= how you can charm those you meet and make them love you,whether they will or not.
=It Tells= how Spiritualists and others can make writing appear on thearm in blood characters, as performed by Foster and all noted magicians.
=It Tells= how to make a cheap Galvanic Battery; how to plate and gildwithout a battery; how to make a candle burn all night, how to makea clock for 25 cents; how to detect counterfeit money; how to banishand prevent mosquitoes from biting; how to make yellow butter inwinter; Circassian curling fluid; Sympathetic or Secret Writing Ink;Cologne Water; Artificial honey; Stammering; how to make large nosessmall; to cure drunkenness; to copy letters without a press; to obtainfresh-blown flowers in winter; to make good burning candles from lard.
=It Tells= how to make a horse appear as though he was badly foundered;to make a horse temporarily lame; how to make him stand by his foodand not eat it; how to cure a horse from the crib or sucking wind;how to put a young countenance on the horse; how to cover up theheaves; how to make him appear as if he had the glanders; how to makea true-pulling horse balk: how to nerve a horse that is lame, etc.,etc.--These horse secrets being continually sold at one dollar each.
=It Tells= how to make the Eggs of Pharo's Serpents, which whenlighted, though but the size of a pea, there issues from it a coiling,hissing serpent, wonderful in length and similarity to a genuineserpent.
=It Tells= how to make gold and silver from block tin (the least saidabout which the better). Also how to take impressions from coins. Alsohow to imitate gold and silver.
=It Tells= of a simple and ingenious method of copying any kind ofdrawing or picture. Also, more wonderful still, how to print picturesfrom the print itself.
=It Tells= how to perform the Davenport Brothers' "Spirit Mysteries."So that any person can astonish an audience, as they have done. Alsoscores of other wonderful things which there is no room to mention.
=Old Secrets and New Discoveries= is worth $5 to any person; but itwill be mailed to any address on receipt of only 25 cents.

=OUT IN THE STREETS.=--By S. N. Cook. Price, 15 cents.
We take pleasure in offering the strictly moral and very amusingtemperance drama entitled, "Out in the Streets," to all entertainmentcommittees as one that will give entire satisfaction. The parts aretaken by six male and six female characters.

=PHUNNY PHELLOW'S GRAB BAG=; or, Jolly Tid-Bits for MirthfulMortals.--Josh Billings, Danbury News Man and Bret Harte rolledinto one. It is not too much to say that the book contains thechoicest humor in the English language. Its size is mammoth,containing more than one thousand of the raciest jests, comical hits,exhilarating stories, flowers of wit, excruciating jokes, uproariouspoems, laughable sketches, darky comicalities, clowns' efforts,button-bursting conundrums, endmen's jokes, plantation humors, funnycaricatures, hifalutin dialogues, curious scenes, cute sayings,ludicrous drolleries, peculiar repartees, and nearly 500 illustrations.25 cents.

=SCIENCE OF A NEW LIFE (THE).=--By John Cowan, M.D. A handsome 8vo,containing over 400 pages, with more than 100 illustrations, and soldat the following prices: English cloth, beveled boards, gilt side andback, $3.00; leather, sprinkled edges, $3.50; half turkey morocco,marbled edges, gilt back, $4.00.

=SOME FUNNY THINGS= said by Clever Children. Who is not interestedin children? We are satisfied that this book will give genuinesatisfaction to all who are interested in listening to the happy voicesof children. This will show that humor is not confined to adult mindsby any means. 64 pages, 10 cents.

=PALLISER'S AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE=; or EVERY MAN A COMPLETE BUILDER.The Latest and Best Publication on Modern Artistic Dwellings and otherBuildings of Low Cost. This is a new book just published, and there isnot a Builder or any one intending to Build or otherwise interested inbuilding that can afford to be without it. It is a practical work andeverybody buys it. The best, cheapest and most popular work of the kindever issued. Nearly four hundred drawings. A $5 book in size and style,but we have determined to make it meet the popular demand, to suit thetimes, so that it can be easily reached by all.
This book contains 104 pages, 1114 inches in size, and consists oflarge 912 plate pages giving plans, elevations, perspective views,descriptions, owners' names, actual cost of construction, no guesswork, and instructions HOW TO BUILD 70 Cottages, Villas, Double Houses,Brick Block Houses, suitable for city suburbs, town and country,houses for the farm and workingmen's homes for all sections of thecountry, and costing from $300 to $4,500; also Barns, Stables, SchoolHouse, Town Hall, Churches and other public buildings, together withspecifications, form of contract, etc., etc., and a large amount ofinformation on the erection of buildings, selection of site, employmentof Architects, etc., etc.
This book of 104 pages, as described above, will be sent by mail,postpaid to any address on receipt of price. Price, heavy paper cover,$1; handsomely bound in cloth, $2.

=SECRETS FOR FARMERS.=--This book tells how to restore rancid butterto its original flavor and purity; a new way of coloring butter; howlargely to increase the milk of cows; a sure cure for kicking cows; howto make Thorley'e celebrated condimental food for cattle; how to makehens lay every day in the year; it gives an effectual remedy for theCanada thistle; to save mice-girdled trees; a certain plan to destroythe curculio and peach-borer; how to convert dead animals and bonesinto manure; Barnet's certain preventive for the potato rot, worth $50to any farmer; remedy for smut in wheat; to cure blight in fruit trees;to destroy potato bug; to prevent mildew and rust in wheat; to destroythe cutworm; home-made stump machine, as good as any sold; to keepcellars from freezing, etc., etc.
It is impossible to give the full contents of this valuable book here;space will not allow. Price, 25 cents.

=SIDNEY'S STUMP SPEAKER.=--Price, 15 cents.
A collection of Yankee, Dutch, French, Irish and Ethiopian StumpSpeeches and Recitations, Burlesque Orations, Laughable Scenes,Humorous Lectures, Button-bursting Witticisms, Ridiculous Drolleries,Funny Stories, etc., etc.

=SUNNYSIDE COLLECTION OF READINGS AND RECITATIONS, NO 1.=--Compiledby J. S. Ogilvie. 12mo, 192 pages, paper cover, 25 cents. This bookcontains a choice collection of Readings and Recitations, which havebeen selected with great care, and are especially adapted for Dayand Sabbath Schools, all adult and juvenile Organizations, YoungPeople's Associations, Reading Clubs, Temperance Societies, and ParlorEntertainments. They comprise Prose and Poetry--Serious, Humorous,Pathetic, Comic, Temperance, Patriotic. All those who are interested inproviding an entertainment should have this collection.

=THE SUNNYSIDE COOK BOOK.=--12mo, 250 pages. Paper cover, 25 cents;bound in cloth, 75 cents. This book is offered as one of the best andmost complete books of the kind published. Not only are all the recipespractical, but they are economical and such as come within the reachof families of moderate income. It also contains valuable informationin relation to home matters not found in any other publication. Italso gives plain and easily understood directions for preparing andcooking, with the greatest economy, every kind of dish, with completeinstruction for serving the same. This book is just the thing for ayoung housekeeper.

=HOW TO GET MARRIED ALTHOUGH A WOMAN=; or, THE ART OF PLEASING MEN. By"A Young Widow." A new book that every woman will buy! The followingtable of contents indicates the character of the work and will alsoinsure a large demand for it: Girls and Matrimony, The Girls Whom MenLike, The Girl Who Wins, The Girl Who Fails, Some Unfailing Methods,A Word of Warning, The Secret of the Widow's Power, Lady Beauty, TheLoved Wife, etc., etc.
Every unmarried woman, and, indeed, every woman, will be interested inreading this book. It will be sent by mail, postpaid, to any address onreceipt of 25 cents.

=DO YOU EVER DREAM?= And would you like to know the meaning of any orall of your dreams? If so, you ought to buy the OLD WITCHES' DREAMBOOK AND COMPLETE FORTUNE TELLER, which contains the full and correctinterpretations of all dreams and their lucky numbers. Also FortuneTelling by cards, by the grounds in the coffee cup, how to discover athief, to know whether a woman shall have the man she wishes, to knowwhat fortune your future husband shall have, to see your future wife orhusband. The Dumb Cake, together with charms, incantations etc., etc.
This is a book that every one that wishes to know what is going tohappen ought to buy. It will be sent by mail, postpaid, to any addresson receipt of 25 cents.

=ADVICE TO WOMEN= ON THE CARE OF THE HEALTH, BEFORE, DURING AND AFTERCONFINEMENT. By Florence Stacpoole, Diplomee of the London ObstetricalSociety, and Lecturer to the National Health Society. This is one ofthe most valuable and practical books ever issued and should be inpossession of every married woman. With this book no woman need haveany fear in reference to childbirth and confinement. Paper cover, 50cents.

=THREE THOUSAND THINGS WORTH KNOWING.=--By R. Moore, author of "Moore'sUniversal Assistant," 12mo, 410 pages. Price, paper cover, 50 cents;cloth, 75 cents. It contains Calculations, Processes, Trade Secrets,Rules, Legal Items, Business Forms, etc., in every Occupation, from theHousehold to the Manufactory.
A work of unequaled utility to every mechanic, farmer, merchant,business man, professional gentleman, and householder, as it embracesthe main points in over 200 trades and occupations. It contains 410pages and is illustrated.
Until this new edition was printed the book has always sold for $2.00.It is worth $5.00 to any one.

=WEDDING RING (THE).=--This book contains a series of sermons deliveredby Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage, D.D. No sermons ever delivered have createdso great a sensation as this series. Hundreds of people could not getinto the church to listen to them.
If you are married, or expect to be, or if you have father, mother,brother, or sister, you should read this book. The sermons are notonly on the relations between husband and wife, but on all the familyrelations. It tells how, when, and whom you should marry, and givesgood advice on all the relations of life.
The following is a table of contents: The Choice of a Wife; The Choiceof a Husband; Clandestine Marriage; Matrimonial Harmony or Discord;Marital Duties; Costume and Morals; Duties of Wives to Husbands;Hotels _versus_ Homes; The Domestic Circle; Sisters and Brothers; TheChildren's Patrimony; Motherhood; Trials of Housekeeping. Paper cover,25 cents; cloth, 75 cents.

=WOMAN; HER POWER AND PRIVILEGES.=--This is a series of Twelve Sermonsby Rev. T. DeWitt Talmage, and should be read by all who are interestedin the home and family, The following is the table of contents:
Women Who Fight the Battle of Life Alone; Worldly Marriages; BrokenPromises of Marriage; Dominion of Fashion; The Veil of Modesty; WifelyAmbitions; Good and Bad; Woman's Happiness--What Can and What CannotMake a Woman Happy; The Grandmother; Woman's Opportunity; The Queen ofHome; Parental Blunders; Christ the Song. Paper cover, 25 cents; clothcover, 75 cents.

=THE SUNNYSIDE SERIES.=--This is a new series of paper-covered books.Price, 25 cents each, UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED.
1 THE SECRET SORROW. By Mrs. May Agnes Fleming.
2 FUNNY STORIES. Funny enough to make a horse laugh.
3 WITTY SAYINGS SELECTED FROM ALL SOURCES.
4 WHICH SHALL IT BE? By Mrs. M. B. W. Parrish.
5 HOW TO ENTERTAIN A SOCIAL PARTY.
6 OGILVIE'S HANDY MONITOR OF USEFUL FACTS.
7 THE SUNNYSIDE COOK BOOK. By Mrs. Jennie Harlan.
8 SUNNYSIDE COLLECTION OF READINGS AND RECITATIONS.
9 THE FUNNY WORLD. 125 illustrations.
10 LOOKING BEHIND. By Frederick Alva Dean.
11 A FORCED MARRIAGE. By Frederick W. Pearson.
12 THE VICTIM OF HIS CLOTHES. By Fielding and Burton.
13 ONE HUNDRED POEMS. By Jane A. Van Allen, A.M.
14 A DARK PLOT. By Sylvanus Cobb, Jr.
15 TWENTY-FIVE SERMONS ON THE HOLY LAND. By Talmage.
16 A MORAL INHERITANCE. By Lydia Hoyt Farmer.
17 MASTER AND MAN. By O. O. B. Strayer.
18 MARRIED FOR MONEY. By Mrs. May Agnes Fleming.
19 THE FUGITIVES OF PEARL HILL. By E. A. Young.
20 LIFE OF REV. T. DE WITT TALMAGE, D.D.
21 FUN ON DRAUGHT. A Comic Book. 10 cents.
22 A BASKET OF FUN. Cover Printed in 12 Colors.
23 FUNNY FELLOW'S GRAB-BAG. Cover Printed in 12 Colors.
24 TWENTY GOOD STORIES. By Opie P. Read. 60 illustrations.
25 A DOUBLE LIFE. By Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
26 LOVE AND REBELLION. By Miss M. C. Keller.
27 "CY ROSS." By Mellen Cole.
28 HIS EVIL EYE. By Harry I. Hancock.
29 THE WIDDER DOODLE'S COURTSHIP. By Josiah Allen's Wife.
30 THE HANDY COOK BOOK. Price, 10 cents.
39 DON'T MARRY. By Hildreth.
40 A LITTLE NONSENSE.



TWO HUNDRED OLD-TIME SONGS.

This volume contains the _words and music_ of choicest gems of the oldand familiar songs we used to sing when we were young. It has beenarranged with great care and we have no hesitation in saying that it isthe best book of the kind published. Read the following =partial tableof Contents=. The book contains 130 songs besides the ones mentionedhere and would cost $50 in sheet music form.
  Annie Laurie.  Auld Lang Syne.  Angel's Whisper, The.  Black Eyed Susan.  Billy Boy.  Baby Mine.  Bell Brandon.  Bonnie Dundee.  Ben Bolt.  Bingen on the Rhine.  Comrades.  Comin' Thro' the Rye.  Caller Herrin'.  Do They Miss Me at Home?  Don't You Go, Tommy.  Flee as a Bird.  In the Gloaming.  John Anderson, My Joe.  Katie's Letter.  Little Annie Rooney.  Larboard Watch.  Life on the Ocean Wave, A.  Low Backed Car, The.  Mollie, Put the Kettle On.  Meet Me by Moonlight.  Nancy Lee.  O, Boys Carry Me 'Long.  Oh! Susannah.  Our Flag is There.  O Had I Wings Like a Dove.  Old Oaken Bucket, The.  O Come, Come Away.  Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep.  Rock Me to Sleep, Mother.  Sparkling and Bright.  There was an Old Woman.  'Tis the Last Rose of Summer.  Willie, We Have Missed You.  Wait for the Wagon.  Oh Dear! What Can the Matter be.  Oh Why do you Tease Me.  Oh, Would I Were a Bird.  Oh, Would I Were a Boy Again.  Over the Garden Wall.  Pilgrim Fathers, The.  Pat Malloy.  Pauper's Drive, The.  Paddle Your Own Canoe.  Robin Adair.  Robinson Crusoe.  Rose of Allandale.  Star Spangled Banner, The.  Saint Patrick Was a Gentleman.  See Saw, Margery Daw.  Sing a Song of Sixpence.  See, the Conquering Hero Comes.  Stop Dat Knockin'.  Sally in Our Alley.  Scots, What Ha'e Wi' Wallace Bled.  Sword of Bunker Hill, The.  Spider and the Fly, The.  Shells of Ocean.  Steal Away.  Take Back the Heart.  Three Fishers Went Sailing.  Ten Little Niggers.  'Tis the Last Rose of Summer.  Ta-Ra-Ra-Boom-De-Ay.  Thou Art Gone From My Gaze.  There is a Green Hill far Away.  There was a Jolly Miller.
This book of 176 pages containing the above entire list of songs andmany others, _words and music_, will be sent by mail postpaid uponreceipt of price. Paper Cover, 25 cents. Address all orders to
=J. S. OGILVIE PUBLISHING CO., 57 Rose Street, New York.=



AYER'S PILLS

are a sure cure for sick headache, liver and stomach troubles,dyspepsia constipation, and all kindred complaints. Taken in seasonthey will break up a cold, prevent la grippe, check fever, and regulatethe digestive organs. They received the highest honors at the World'sFair.

=CURE=
"I was troubled a long time with sick headache. It was usuallyaccompanied with severe pains in the temples, a bad taste in my mouth,tongue coated, hands and feet cold, and sickness at the stomach. Itried many remedies, but until I began taking Ayer's Pills received nobenefit. A box of these pills did the work for me, and I am now freefrom headaches and am a well man."--C. H. HUTCHINGS, E. Auburn, Me.
=SICK HEADACHE=
AYER'S SARSAPARILLA purifies the blood.