STONE GATE, WORCESTER,
MASSACHUSETTS,
December 27.
Dear Judy:
Your letter is here. I have read it twice, and with amazement. Do Iunderstand that Jervis has given you, for a Christmas present, themaking over of the John Grier Home into a model institution, and thatyou have chosen me to disburse the money? Me--I, Sallie McBride, thehead of an orphan asylum! My poor people, have you lost your senses, orhave you become addicted to the use of opium, and is this the raving oftwo fevered imaginations? I am exactly as well fitted to take care ofone hundred children as to become the curator of a zoo.
And you offer as bait an interesting Scotch doctor? My dearJudy,--likewise my dear Jervis,--I see through you! I know exactlythe kind of family conference that has been held about the Pendletonfireside.
"Isn't it a pity that Sallie hasn't amounted to more since she leftcollege? She ought to be doing something useful instead of fritteringher time away in the petty social life of Worcester. Also [Jervisspeaks] she is getting interested in that confounded young Hallock, toogood-looking and fascinating and erratic; I never did like politicians.We must deflect her mind with some uplifting and absorbing occupationuntil the danger is past. Ha! I have it! We will put her in charge ofthe John Grier Home." Oh, I can hear him as clearly as if I were there!On the occasion of my last visit in your delectable household Jervis andI had a very solemn conversation in regard to (1) marriage, (2) the lowideals of politicians, (3) the frivolous, useless lives that societywomen lead.
Please tell your moral husband that I took his words deeply to heart,and that ever since my return to Worcester I have been spending oneafternoon a week reading poetry with the inmates of the Female InebriateAsylum. My life is not so purposeless as it appears.
Also let me assure you that the politician is not dangerously imminent;and that, anyway, he is a very desirable politician, even thoughhis views on tariff and single tax and trade-unionism do not exactlycoincide with Jervis's.
Your desire to dedicate my life to the public good is very sweet, butyou should look at it from the asylum's point of view.
Have you no pity for those poor defenseless little orphan children?
I have, if you haven't, and I respectfully decline the position whichyou offer.
I shall be charmed, however, to accept your invitation to visit you inNew York, though I must acknowledge that I am not very excited over thelist of gaieties you have planned.
Please substitute for the New York Orphanage and the Foundling Hospitala few theaters and operas and a dinner or so. I have two new eveninggowns and a blue and gold coat with a white fur collar.
I dash to pack them; so telegraph fast if you don't wish to see me formyself alone, but only as a successor to Mrs. Lippett. Yours as ever,
Entirely frivolous,
And intending to remain so,
SALLIE McBRIDE.

P.S. Your invitation is especially seasonable. A charming youngpolitician named Gordon Hallock is to be in New York next week. I amsure you will like him when you know him better. P.S. 2. Sallie takingher afternoon walk as Judy would like to see her:

I ask you again, have you both gone mad?

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
February 15.
Dear Judy:
We arrived in a snowstorm at eleven last night, Singapore and Jane andI. It does not appear to be customary for superintendents of orphanasylums to bring with them personal maids and Chinese chows. The nightwatchman and housekeeper, who had waited up to receive me, were throwninto an awful flutter. They had never seen the like of Sing, and thoughtthat I was introducing a wolf into the fold. I reassured them as to hisdogginess, and the watchman, after studying his black tongue, ventured awitticism. He wanted to know if I fed him on huckleberry pie.
It was difficult to find accommodations for my family. Poor Sing wasdragged off whimpering to a strange woodshed, and given a piece ofburlap. Jane did not fare much better. There was not an extra bed inthe building, barring a five-foot crib in the hospital room. She, as youknow, approaches six. We tucked her in, and she spent the night foldedup like a jackknife. She has limped about today, looking like a decrepitletter S, openly deploring this latest escapade on the part of herflighty mistress, and longing for the time when we shall come to oursenses, and return to the parental fireside in Worcester.
I know that she is going to spoil all my chances of being popular withthe rest of the staff. Having her here is the silliest idea that wasever conceived, but you know my family. I fought their objections stepby step, but they made their last stand on Jane. If I brought her alongto see that I ate nourishing food and didn't stay up all night, I mightcome--temporarily; but if I refused to bring her--oh, dear me, I am notsure that I was ever again to cross the threshold of Stone Gate! So herewe are, and neither of us very welcome, I am afraid.
I woke by a gong at six this morning, and lay for a time listening tothe racket that twenty-five little girls made in the lavatory over myhead. It appears that they do not get baths,--just face-washes,--butthey make as much splashing as twenty-five puppies in a pool. I rose anddressed and explored a bit. You were wise in not having me come to lookthe place over before I engaged.
While my little charges were at breakfast, it seemed a happy timeto introduce myself; so I sought the dining room. Horror piled onhorror--those bare drab walls and oil-cloth-covered tables with tincups and plates and wooden benches, and, by way of decoration, that oneilluminated text, "The Lord Will Provide"! The trustee who added thatlast touch must possess a grim sense of humor.
Really, Judy, I never knew there was any spot in the world soentirely ugly; and when I saw those rows and rows of pale, listless,blue-uniformed children, the whole dismal business suddenly struckme with such a shock that I almost collapsed. It seemed like anunachievable goal for one person to bring sunshine to one hundred littlefaces when what they need is a mother apiece.
I plunged into this thing lightly enough, partly because you were toopersuasive, and mostly, I honestly think, because that scurrilous GordonHallock laughed so uproariously at the idea of my being able to managean asylum. Between you all you hypnotized me. And then of course, afterI began reading up on the subject and visiting all those seventeeninstitutions, I got excited over orphans, and wanted to put my own ideasinto practice. But now I'm aghast at finding myself here; it's such astupendous undertaking. The future health and happiness of a hundredhuman beings lie in my hands, to say nothing of their three or fourhundred children and thousand grandchildren. The thing's geometricallyprogressive. It's awful. Who am I to undertake this job? Look, oh, lookfor another superintendent!
Jane says dinner's ready. Having eaten two of your institution meals,the thought of another doesn't excite me.
LATER.

The staff had mutton hash and spinach, with tapioca pudding for dessert.What the children had I hate to consider.
I started to tell you about my first official speech at breakfast thismorning. It dealt with all the wonderful new changes that are to come tothe John Grier Home through the generosity of Mr. Jervis Pendleton,the president of our board of trustees, and of Mrs. Pendleton, the dear"Aunt Judy" of every little boy and girl here.
Please don't object to my featuring the Pendleton family so prominently.I did it for political reasons. As the entire working staff of theinstitution was present, I thought it a good opportunity to emphasizethe fact that all of these upsetting, innovations come straight fromheadquarters, and not out of my excitable brain.
The children stopped eating and stared. The conspicuous color of myhair and the frivolous tilt of my nose are evidently new attributes in asuperintendent. My colleagues also showed plainly that they consider metoo young and too inexperienced to be set in authority. I haven't seenJervis's wonderful Scotch doctor yet, but I assure you that he will haveto be VERY wonderful to make up for the rest of these people, especiallythe kindergarten teacher. Miss Snaith and I clashed early on the subjectof fresh air; but I intend to get rid of this dreadful institutionsmell, if I freeze every child into a little ice statue.
This being a sunny, sparkling, snowy afternoon, I ordered that dungeonof a playroom closed and the children out of doors.
"She's chasin' us out," I heard one small urchin grumbling as hestruggled into a two-years-too-small overcoat.
They simply stood about the yard, all humped in their clothes, waitingpatiently to be allowed to come back in. No running or shouting orcoasting or snowballs. Think of it! These children don't know how toplay.
STILL LATER.

I have already begun the congenial task of spending your money. I boughteleven hot-water bottles this afternoon (every one that the village drugstore contained) likewise some woolen blankets and padded quilts. Andthe windows are wide open in the babies' dormitory. Those poor littletots are going to enjoy the perfectly new sensation of being able tobreathe at night.
There are a million things I want to grumble about, but it's half-pastten, and Jane says I MUST go to bed.
Yours in command,
SALLIE McBRIDE.
P.S. Before turning in, I tiptoed through the corridor to make sure thatall was right, and what do you think I found? Miss Snaith softly closingthe windows in the babies' dormitory! Just as soon as I can finda suitable position for her in an old ladies' home, I am going todischarge that woman.
Jane takes the pen from my hand.
Good night.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
February 20.
Dear Judy:
Dr. Robin MacRae called this afternoon to make the acquaintance of thenew superintendent. Please invite him to dinner upon the occasion of hisnext visit to New York, and see for yourself what your husband has done.Jervis grossly misrepresented the facts when he led me to believethat one of the chief advantages of my position would be the dailyintercourse with a man of Dr. MacRae's polish and brilliancy andscholarliness and charm.
He is tall and thinnish, with sandy hair and cold gray eyes. During thehour he spent in my society (and I was very sprightly) no shadow of asmile so much as lightened the straight line of his mouth. Can a shadowlighten? Maybe not; but, anyway, what IS the matter with the man? Has hecommitted some remorseful crime, or is his taciturnity due merely to hisnatural Scotchness? He's as companionable as a granite tombstone!
Incidentally, our doctor didn't like me any more than I liked him. Hethinks I'm frivolous and inconsequential, and totally unfitted for thisposition of trust. I dare say Jervis has had a letter from him by nowasking to have me removed.
In the matter of conversation we didn't hit it off in the least. Hediscussed broadly and philosophically the evils of institutional carefor dependent children, while I lightly deplored the unbecoming coiffurethat prevails among our girls.
To prove my point, I had in Sadie Kate, my special errand orphan. Herhair is strained back as tightly as though it had been done with amonkey wrench, and is braided behind into two wiry little pigtails.Decidedly, orphans' ears need to be softened. But Dr. Robin MacRaedoesn't give a hang whether their ears are becoming or not; what hecares about is their stomachs. We also split upon the subject ofred petticoats. I don't see how any little girl can preserve anyself-respect when dressed in a red flannel petticoat an irregular inchlonger than her blue checked gingham dress; but he thinks that redpetticoats are cheerful and warm and hygienic. I foresee a warlike reignfor the new superintendent.
In regard to the doctor, there is just one detail to be thankful for: heis almost as new as I am, and he cannot instruct me in the traditionsof the asylum. I don't believe I COULD have worked with the old doctor,who, judging from the specimens of his art that he left behind, knew asmuch about babies as a veterinary surgeon.
In the matter of asylum etiquette, the entire staff has undertaken myeducation. Even the cook this morning told me firmly that the John GrierHome has corn meal mush on Wednesday nights.
Are you searching hard for another superintendent? I'll stay until shecomes, but please find her fast.
Yours,
With my mind made up,
SALLIE McBRIDE.


SUP'T'S OFFICE,
JOHN GRIER HOME,
February 27.
Dear Gordon:
Are you still insulted because I wouldn't take your advice? Don't youknow that a reddish-haired person of Irish forebears, with a dash ofScotch, can't be driven, but must be gently led? Had you been lessobnoxiously insistent, I should have listened sweetly, and been saved.As it is, I frankly confess that I have spent the last five days inrepenting our quarrel. You were right, and I was wrong, and, as yousee, I handsomely acknowledge it. If I ever emerge from this presentpredicament, I shall in the future be guided (almost always) by yourjudgment. Could any woman make a more sweeping retraction than that?
The romantic glamour which Judy cast over this orphan asylum exists onlyin her poetic imagination. The place is AWFUL. Words can't tell youhow dreary and dismal and smelly it is: long corridors, bare walls;blue-uniformed, dough-faced little inmates that haven't the slightestresemblance to human children. And oh, the dreadful institution smell!A mingling of wet scrubbed floors, unaired rooms, and food for a hundredpeople always steaming on the stove.
The asylum not only has to be made over, but every child as well, andit's too herculean a task for such a selfish, luxurious, and lazy personas Sallie McBride ever to have undertaken. I'm resigning the very firstmoment that Judy can find a suitable successor, but that, I fear, willnot be immediately. She has gone off South, leaving me stranded, and ofcourse, after having promised, I can't simply abandon her asylum. But inthe meantime I assure you that I'm homesick.
Write me a cheering letter, and send a flower to brighten my privatedrawing room. I inherited it, furnished, from Mrs. Lippett. The wallis covered with a tapestry paper in brown and red; the furniture iselectric-blue plush, except the center table, which is gilt. Greenpredominates in the carpet. If you presented some pink rosebuds, theywould complete the color scheme.
I really was obnoxious that last evening, but you are avenged.
Remorsefully yours,
SALLIE McBRIDE.
P.S. You needn't have been so grumpy about the Scotch doctor. The man iseverything dour that the word "Scotch" implies. I detest him on sight,and he detests me. Oh, we're going to have a sweet time working together


THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
February 22.
My dear Gordon:
Your vigorous and expensive message is here. I know that you have plentyof money, but that is no reason why you should waste it so frivolously.When you feel so bursting with talk that only a hundred-word telegramwill relieve an explosion, at least turn it into a night lettergram. Myorphans can use the money if you don't need it.
Also, my dear sir, please use a trifle of common sense. Of course Ican't chuck the asylum in the casual manner you suggest. It wouldn'tbe fair to Judy and Jervis. If you will pardon the statement, they havebeen my friends for many more years than you, and I have no intentionof letting them go hang. I came up here in a spirit of--well, sayadventure, and I must see the venture through. You wouldn't like me ifI were a short sport. This doesn't mean, however, that I am sentencingmyself for life; I am intending to resign just as soon as theopportunity comes. But really I ought to feel somewhat gratified thatthe Pendletons were willing to trust me with such a responsible post.Though you, my dear sir, do not suspect it, I possess considerableexecutive ability, and more common sense than is visible on the surface.If I chose to put my whole soul into this enterprise, I could make therippingest superintendent that any 111 orphans ever had.
I suppose you think that's funny? It's true. Judy and Jervis know it,and that's why they asked me to come. So you see, when they haveshown so much confidence in me, I can't throw them over in quite theunceremonious fashion you suggest. So long as I am here, I am going toaccomplish just as much as it is given one person to accomplish everytwenty-four hours. I am going to turn the place over to my successorwith things moving fast in the right direction.
But in the meantime please don't wash your hands of me under the beliefthat I'm too busy to be homesick; for I'm not. I wake up every morningand stare at Mrs. Lippett's wallpaper in a sort of daze, feeling asthough it's some bad dream, and I'm not really here. What on earth was Ithinking of to turn my back upon my nice cheerful own home and the goodtimes that by rights are mine? I frequently agree with your opinion ofmy sanity.
But why, may I ask, should you be making such a fuss? You wouldn't beseeing me in any case. Worcester is quite as far from Washington as theJohn Grier Home. And I will add, for your further comfort, that whereasthere is no man in the neighborhood of this asylum who admires red hair,in Worcester there are several. Therefore, most difficult of men, pleasebe appeased. I didn't come entirely to spite you. I wanted an adventurein life, and, oh dear! oh dear! I'm having it! PLEASE write soon, andcheer me up. Yours in sackcloth,
SALLIE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
February 24. Dear Judy:
You tell Jervis that I am not hasty at forming judgments. I have asweet, sunny, unsuspicious nature, and I like everybody, almost. But noone could like that Scotch doctor. He NEVER smiles.
He paid me another visit this afternoon. I invited him to accommodatehimself in one of Mrs. Lippett's electric-blue chairs, and then satdown opposite to enjoy the harmony. He was dressed in a mustard-coloredhomespun, with a dash of green and a glint of yellow in the weave, a"heather mixture" calculated to add life to a dull Scotch moor. Purplesocks and a red tie, with an amethyst pin, completed the picture.Clearly, your paragon of a doctor is not going to be of much assistancein pulling up the esthetic tone of this establishment.
During the fifteen minutes of his call he succinctly outlined all thechanges he wishes to see accomplished in this institution. HE forsooth!And what, may I ask, are the duties of a superintendent? Is she merely afigurehead to take orders from the visiting physician?
It's up wi' the bonnets o' McBride and MacRae!
I am,
Indignantly yours, SALLIE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Monday.
Dear Dr. MacRae:
I am sending this note by Sadie Kate, as it seems impossible to reachyou by telephone. Is the person who calls herself Mrs. McGur-rk andhangs up in the middle of a sentence your housekeeper? If she answersthe telephone often, I don't see how your patients have any patienceleft.
As you did not come this morning, per agreement, and the painters didcome, I was fain to choose a cheerful corn color to be placed upon thewalls of your new laboratory room. I trust there is nothing unhygienicabout corn color.
Also, if you can spare a moment this afternoon, kindly motor yourselfto Dr. Brice's on Water Street and look at the dentist's chair andappurtenances which are to be had at half-price. If all of the pleasantparaphernalia of his profession were here,--in a corner of yourlaboratory,--Dr. Brice could finish his 111 new patients with much moredespatch than if we had to transport them separately to Water Street.Don't you think that's a useful idea? It came to me in the middle ofthe night, but as I never happened to buy a dentist's chair before, I'dappreciate some professional advice. Yours truly,
S. McBRIDE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
March 1.
Dear Judy:
Do stop sending me telegrams!
Of course I know that you want to know everything that is happening, andI would send a daily bulletin, but I truly don't find a minute. I am sotired when night comes that if it weren't for Jane's strict discipline,I should go to bed with my clothes on.
Later, when we slip a little more into routine, and I can be sure thatmy assistants are all running off their respective jobs, I shall be theregularest correspondent you ever had.
It was five days ago, wasn't it, that I wrote? Things have beenhappening in those five days. The MacRae and I have mapped out a plan ofcampaign, and are stirring up this place to its sluggish depths. I likehim less and less, but we have declared a sort of working truce. And theman IS a worker. I always thought I had sufficient energy myself, butwhen an improvement is to be introduced, I toil along panting in hiswake. He is as stubborn and tenacious and bull-doggish as a Scotchmancan be, but he does understand babies; that is, he understands theirphysiological aspects. He hasn't any more feeling for them personallythan for so many frogs that he might happen to be dissecting.
Do you remember Jervis's holding forth one evening for an hour or soabout our doctor's beautiful humanitarian ideals? C'EST A RIRE! The manmerely regards the J. G. H. as his own private laboratory, where hecan try out scientific experiments with no loving parents to object.I shouldn't be surprised anyday to find him introducing scarlet fevercultures into the babies' porridge in order to test a newly inventedserum.
Of the house staff, the only two who strike me as really efficient arethe primary teacher and the furnace-man. You should see how the childrenrun to meet Miss Matthews and beg for caresses, and how painstakinglypolite they are to the other teachers. Children are quick to size upcharacter. I shall be very embarrassed if they are too polite to me.
Just as soon as I get my bearings a little, and know exactly what weneed, I am going to accomplish some widespread discharging. I shouldlike to begin with Miss Snaith; but I discover that she is the nieceof one of our most generous trustees, and isn't exactly dischargeable.She's a vague, chinless, pale-eyed creature, who talks through her noseand breathes through her mouth. She can't say anything decisively andthen stop; her sentences all trail off into incoherent murmurings. Everytime I see the woman I feel an almost uncontrollable desire to take herby the shoulders and shake some decision into her. And Miss Snaith isthe one who has had entire supervision of the seventeen little tots agedfrom two to five! But, anyway, even if I can't discharge her, I havereduced her to a subordinate position without her being aware of thefact.
The doctor has found for me a charming girl who lives a few miles fromhere and comes in every day to manage the kindergarten. She has big,gentle, brown eyes, like a cow's, and motherly manners (she is justnineteen), and the babies love her.
At the head of the nursery I have placed a jolly, comfortablemiddle-aged woman who has reared five of her own and has a hand withbairns. Our doctor also found her. You see, he is useful. She istechnically under Miss Snaith, but is usurping dictatorship in asatisfactory fashion. I can now sleep at night without being afraid thatmy babies are being inefficiently murdered.
You see, our reforms are getting started; and while I acquiesce withall the intelligence at my command to our doctor's basic scientificupheavals, still, they sometimes leave me cold. The problem that keepschurning and churning in my mind is: How can I ever instil enough loveand warmth and sunshine into those bleak little lives? And I am not surethat the doctor's science will accomplish that.
One of our most pressing INTELLIGENT needs just now is to get ourrecords into coherent form. The books have been most outrageouslyunkept. Mrs. Lippett had a big black account book into which she jumbledany facts that happened to drift her way as to the children's family,their conduct, and their health. But for weeks at a time she didn'ttrouble to make an entry. If any adopting family wants to know a child'sparentage, half the time we can't even tell where we got the child!
     "Where did you come from, baby dear?"     "The blue sky opened, and I am here,"
is an exact description of their arrival.
We need a field worker to travel about the country and pick up allthe hereditary statistics she can about our chicks. It will be an easymatter, as most of them have relatives. What do you think of Janet Warefor the job? You remember what a shark she was in economics; she simplybattened on tables and charts and surveys.
I have also to inform you that the John Grier Home is undergoing a verysearching physical examination, and it is the shocking truth that outof the twenty-eight poor little rats so far examined only five are up tospecification. And the five have not been here long.
Do you remember the ugly green reception room on the first floor? I haveremoved as much of its greenness as possible, and fitted it up as thedoctor's laboratory. It contains scales and drugs and, most professionaltouch of all, a dentist's chair and one of those sweet grindingmachines. (Bought them second-hand from Doctor Brice in the village, whois putting in, for the gratification of his own patients, white enameland nickel-plate.) That drilling machine is looked upon as an infernalengine, and I as an infernal monster for instituting it. But everylittle victim who is discharged FILLED may come to my room every day fora week and receive two pieces of chocolate. Though our children are notconspicuously brave, they are, we discover, fighters. Young Thomas Kehoenearly bit the doctor's thumb in two after kicking over a tableful ofinstruments. It requires physical strength as well as skill to be dentaladviser to the J. G. H. . . . . . . . . . .
Interrupted here to show a benevolent lady over the institution. Sheasked fifty irrelevant questions, took up an hour of my time, thenfinally wiped away a tear and left a dollar for my "poor littlecharges."
So far, my poor little charges are not enthusiastic about these newreforms. They don't care much for the sudden draft of fresh air that hasblown in upon them, or the deluge of water. I am shoving in two bathsa week, and as soon as we collect tubs enough and a few extra faucets,they are going to get SEVEN.
But at least I have started one most popular reform. Our daily billof fare has been increased, a change deplored by the cook as causingtrouble, and deplored by the rest of the staff as causing an immoralincrease in expense. ECONOMY spelt in capitals has been the guidingprinciple of this institution for so many years that it has become areligion. I assure my timid co-workers twenty times a day that, owing tothe generosity of our president, the endowment has been exactly doubled,and that I have vast sums besides from Mrs. Pendleton for necessarypurposes like ice cream. But they simply CAN'T get over the feeling thatit is a wicked extravagance to feed these children.
The doctor and I have been studying with care the menus of the past, andwe are filled with amazement at the mind that could have devised them.Here is one of her frequently recurring dinners:
BOILED POTATOES BOILED RICE BLANC MANGE

It's a wonder to me that the children are anything more than one hundredand eleven little lumps of starch.
Looking about this institution, one is moved to misquote RobertBrowning.
     "There may be heaven; there must be hell;     Meantime, there is the John Grier--well!"S. McB.


THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Saturday.
Dear Judy:
Dr. Robin MacRae and I fought another battle yesterday over a verytrivial matter (in which I was right), and since then I have adopted forour doctor a special pet name. "Good morning, Enemy!" was my greetingtoday, at which he was quite solemnly annoyed. He says he does not wishto be regarded as an enemy. He is not in the least antagonistic--so longas I mold my policy upon his wishes!
We have two new children, Isador Gutschneider and Max Yog, given to usby the Baptist Ladies' Aid Society. Where on earth do you suppose thosechildren picked up such a religion? I didn't want to take them, but thepoor ladies were very persuasive, and they pay the princely sum of fourdollars and fifty cents per week per child. This makes 113, which makesus very crowded. I have half a dozen babies to give away. Find me somekind families who want to adopt.
You know it's very embarrassing not to be able to remember offhand howlarge your family is, but mine seems to vary from day to day, like thestock market. I should like to keep it at about par. When a womanhas more than a hundred children, she can't give them the individualattention they ought to have.

Monday.

This letter has been lying two days on my desk, and I haven't found thetime to stick on a stamp. But now I seem to have a free evening ahead,so I will add a page or two more before starting it on a pleasantjourney to Florida.
I am just beginning to pick out individual faces among the children.It seemed at first as though I could never learn them, they looked sohopelessly cut out of one pattern, with those unspeakably ugly uniforms.Now please don't write back that you want the children put into newclothes immediately. I know you do; you've already told me five times.In about a month I shall be ready to consider the question, but just nowtheir insides are more important than their outsides.
There is no doubt about it--orphans in the mass do not appeal to me. Iam beginning to be afraid that this famous mother instinct which we hearso much about was left out of my character. Children as children aredirty, spitty little things, and their noses all need wiping. Hereand there I pick out a naughty, mischievous little one that awakens aflicker of interest; but for the most part they are just a compositeblur of white face and blue check.
With one exception, though. Sadie Kate Kilcoyne emerged from the massthe first day, and bids fair to stay out for all time. She is my speciallittle errand girl, and she furnishes me with all my daily amusement.No piece of mischief has been launched in this institution for the lasteight years that did not originate in her abnormal brain. This youngperson has, to me, a most unusual history, though I understand it'scommon enough in foundling circles. She was discovered eleven yearsago on the bottom step of a Thirty-ninth Street house, asleep in apasteboard box labeled, "Altman & Co."
"Sadie Kate Kilcoyne, aged five weeks. Be kind to her," was neatlyprinted on the cover.
The policeman who picked her up took her to Bellevue where thefoundlings are pronounced, in the order of their arrival, "Catholic,Protestant, Catholic, Protestant," with perfect impartiality. Our SadieKate, despite her name and blue Irish eyes, was made a Protestant. Andhere she is growing Irisher and Irisher every day, but, true to herchristening, protesting loudly against every detail of life.
Her two little black braids point in opposite directions; her littlemonkey face is all screwed up with mischief; she is as active as aterrier, and you have to keep her busy every moment. Her record ofbadnesses occupies pages in the Doomsday Book. The last item reads:
"For stumping Maggie Geer to get a doorknob into her mouth--punishment,the afternoon spent in bed, and crackers for supper."
It seems that Maggie Geer, fitted with a mouth of unusual stretchingcapacity, got the doorknob in, but couldn't get it out. The doctorwas called, and cannily solved the problem with a buttered shoe-horn."Muckle-mouthed Meg," he has dubbed the patient ever since.
You can understand that my thoughts are anxiously occupied in fillingevery crevice of Sadie Kate's existence.
There are a million subjects that I ought to consult with the presidentabout. I think it was very unkind of you and him to saddle me with yourorphan asylum and run off South to play. It would serve you right if Idid everything wrong. While you are traveling about in private cars, andstrolling in the moonlight on palm beaches, please think of me in thedrizzle of a New York March, taking care of 113 babies that by rightsare yours--and be grateful.
I remain (for a limited time),
S. McBRIDE.

SUP'T JOHN GRIER HOME.
Dear Enemy:
I am sending herewith (under separate cover) Sammy Speir, who gotmislaid when you paid your morning visit. Miss Snaith brought him tolight after you had gone. Please scrutinize his thumb. I never saw afelon, but I have diagnosed it as such. Yours truly, S. McBRIDE.

SUP'T JOHN GRIER HOME,
March 6.
Dear Judy:
I don't know yet whether the children are going to love me or not, butthey DO love my dog. No creature so popular as Singapore ever enteredthese gates. Every afternoon three boys who have been perfect indeportment are allowed to brush and comb him, while three other goodboys may serve him with food and drink. But every Saturday morning theclimax of the week is reached, when three superlatively good boys givehim a nice lathery bath with hot water and flea soap. The privilege ofserving as Singapore's valet is going to be the only incentive I shallneed for maintaining discipline.
But isn't it pathetically unnatural for these youngsters to be livingin the country and never owning a pet? Especially when they, of allchildren, do so need something to love. I am going to manage pets forthem somehow, if I have to spend our new endowment for a menagerie.Couldn't you bring back some baby alligators and a pelican? Anythingalive will be gratefully received.
This should by rights be my first "Trustees' Day." I am deeply gratefulto Jervis for arranging a simple business meeting in New York, as weare not yet on dress parade up here; but we are hoping by the firstWednesday in April to have something visible to show. If all of thedoctor's ideas, and a few of my own, get themselves materialized, ourtrustees will open their eyes a bit when we show them about.
I have just made out a chart for next week's meals, and posted it in thekitchen in the sight of an aggrieved cook. Variety is a word hithertonot found in the lexicon of the J.G.H. You would never dream all ofthe delightful surprises we are going to have: brown bread, corn pone,graham muffins, samp, rice pudding with LOTS of raisins, thick vegetablesoup, macaroni Italian fashion, polenta cakes with molasses, appledumplings, gingerbread--oh, an endless list! After our biggest girlshave assisted in the manufacture of such appetizing dainties, they willalmost be capable of keeping future husbands in love with them.
Oh, dear me! Here I am babbling these silly nothings when I have somereal news up my sleeve. We have a new worker, a gem of a worker.
Do you remember Betsy Kindred, 1910? She led the glee club and waspresident of dramatics. I remember her perfectly; she always had lovelyclothes. Well, if you please, she lives only twelve miles from here. Iran across her by chance yesterday morning as she was motoring throughthe village; or, rather, she just escaped running across me.
I never spoke to her in my life, but we greeted each other like theoldest friends. It pays to have conspicuous hair; she recognized meinstantly. I hopped upon the running board of her car and said:
"Betsy Kindred, 1910, you've got to come back to my orphan asylum andhelp me catalogue my orphans."
And it astonished her so that she came. She's to be here four or fivedays a week as temporary secretary, and somehow I must manage to keepher permanently. She's the most useful person I ever saw. I am hopingthat orphans will become such a habit with her that she won't be able togive them up. I think she might stay if we pay her a big enough salary.She likes to be independent of her family, as do all of us in thesedegenerate times.
In my growing zeal for cataloguing people, I should like to get ourdoctor tabulated. If Jervis knows any gossip about him, write it to me,please; the worse, the better. He called yesterday to lance a felon onSammy Speir's thumb, then ascended to my electric-blue parlor togive instructions as to the dressing of thumbs. The duties of asuperintendent are manifold.
It was just teatime, so I casually asked him to stay, and he did! Notfor the pleasure of my society,--no, indeed,--but because Jane appearedat the moment with a plate of toasted muffins. He hadn't had anyluncheon, it seems, and dinner was a long way ahead. Between muffins(he ate the whole plateful) he saw fit to interrogate me as to mypreparedness for this position. Had I studied biology in college? Howfar had I gone in chemistry? What did I know of sociology? Had I visitedthat model institution at Hastings?
To all of which I responded affably and openly. Then I permitted myselfa question or two: just what sort of youthful training had been requiredto produce such a model of logic, accuracy, dignity, and common senseas I saw sitting before me? Through persistent prodding I elicited afew forlorn facts, but all quite respectable. You'd think, from hisreticence, there'd been a hanging in the family. The MacRae PERE wasborn in Scotland, and came to the States to occupy a chair at JohnsHopkins; son Robin was shipped back to Auld Reekie for his education.His grandmother was a M'Lachlan of Strathlachan (I am sure she soundsrespectable), and his vacations were spent in the Hielands a-chasing thedeer.
So much could I gather; so much, and no more. Tell me, I beg, somegossip about my enemy--something scandalous by preference.
Why, if he is such an awfully efficient person does he bury himself inthis remote locality? You would think an up-and-coming scientific manwould want a hospital at one elbow and a morgue at the other. Are yousure that he didn't commit a crime and isn't hiding from the law?
I seem to have covered a lot of paper without telling you much. VIVE LABAGATELLE! Yours as usual,
SALLIE.
P.S. I am relieved on one point. Dr. MacRae does not pick out his ownclothes. He leaves all such unessential trifles to his housekeeper, Mrs.Maggie McGurk.
Again, and irrevocably, good-by!


THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Wednesday.
Dear Gordon:
Your roses and your letter cheered me for an entire morning, and it'sthe first time I've approached cheerfulness since the fourteenth ofFebruary, when I waved good-by to Worcester.
Words can't tell you how monotonously oppressive the daily round ofinstitution life gets to be. The only glimmer in the whole dull affairis the fact that Betsy Kindred spends four days a week with us. Betsyand I were in college together, and we do occasionally find somethingfunny to laugh about.
Yesterday we were having tea in my HIDEOUS parlor when we suddenlydetermined to revolt against so much unnecessary ugliness. We called insix sturdy and destructive orphans, a step-ladder, and a bucket of hotwater, and in two hours had every vestige of that tapestry paper offthose walls. You can't imagine what fun it is ripping paper off walls.
Two paperhangers are at work this moment hanging the best that ourvillage affords, while a German upholsterer is on his knees measuring mychairs for chintz slip covers that will hide every inch of their plushupholstery.
Please don't get nervous. This doesn't mean that I'm preparing to spendmy life in the asylum. It means only that I'm preparing a cheerfulwelcome for my successor. I haven't dared tell Judy how dismal I findit, because I don't want to cloud Florida; but when she returns to NewYork she will find my official resignation waiting to meet her in thefront hall.
I would write you a long letter in grateful payment for seven pages, buttwo of my little dears are holding a fight under the window. I dash toseparate them.
Yours as ever,
S. McB.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
March 8.
My dear Judy:
I myself have bestowed a little present upon the John Grier Home--therefurnishing of the superintendent's private parlor. I saw the firstnight here that neither I nor any future occupant could be happywith Mrs. Lippett's electric plush. You see, I am planning to make mysuccessor contented and willing to stay.
Betsy Kindred assisted in the rehabilitation of the Lippett's chamberof horrors, and between us we have created a symphony in dull blue andgold. Really and truly, it's one of the loveliest rooms you've everseen. The sight of it will be an artistic education to any orphan.New paper on the wall, new rugs on the floor (my own prized Persiansexpressed from Worcester by an expostulating family). New casementcurtains at my three windows, revealing a wide and charming view,hitherto hidden by Nottingham lace. A new big table, some lamps andbooks and a picture or so, and a real open fire. She had closed thefireplace because it let in air.
I never realized what a difference artistic surroundings make in thepeace of one's soul. I sat last night and watched my fire throw nicehighlights on my new old fender, and purred with contentment. And Iassure you it's the first purr that has come from this cat since sheentered the gates of the John Grier Home.
But the refurnishing of the superintendent's parlor is the slightestof our needs. The children's private apartments demand so much basicattention that I can't decide where to begin. That dark north playroomis a shocking scandal, but no more shocking than our hideous dining roomor our unventilated dormitories or our tubless lavatories.
If the institution is very saving, do you think it can ever afford toburn down this smelly old original building, and put up instead somenice, ventilated modern cottages? I cannot contemplate that wonderfulinstitution at Hastings without being filled with envy. It would be somefun to run an asylum if you had a plant like that to work with. But,anyway, when you get back to New York and are ready to consult thearchitect about remodeling, please apply to me for suggestions. Amongother little details I want two hundred feet of sleeping porch runningalong the outside of our dormitories.
You see, it's this way: our physical examination reveals the fact thatabout half of our children are aenemic--aneamic--anaemic (Mercy! whata word!), and a lot of them have tubercular ancestors, and more havealcoholic. Their first need is oxygen rather than education. And if thesickly ones need it, why wouldn't it be good for the well ones? I shouldlike to have every child, winter and summer, sleeping in the open air;but I know that if I let fall such a bomb on the board of trustees, thewhole body would explode.
Speaking of trustees, I have met up with the Hon. Cyrus Wykoff, andI really believe that I dislike him more than Dr. Robin MacRae orthe kindergarten teacher or the cook. I seem to have a genius fordiscovering enemies!
Mr. Wykoff called on Wednesday last to look over the new superintendent.
Having lowered himself into my most comfortable armchair, he proceededto spend the day. He asked my father's business, and whether or not hewas well-to-do. I told him that my father manufactured overalls, andthat, even in these hard times, the demand for overalls was prettysteady.
He seemed relieved. He approves of the utilitarian aspect of overalls.He had been afraid that I had come from the family of a minister orprofessor or writer, a lot of high thinking and no common sense. Cyrusbelieves in common sense.
And what had been my training for this position?
That, as you know, is a slightly embarrassing question. But I producedmy college education and a few lectures at the School of Philanthropy,also a short residence in the college settlement (I didn't tell himthat all I had done there was to paint the back hall and stairs). ThenI submitted some social work among my father's employees and a fewfriendly visits to the Home for Female Inebriates.
To all of which he grunted.
I added that I had lately made a study of the care of dependentchildren, and casually mentioned my seventeen institutions.
He grunted again, and said he didn't take much stock in this new-fangledscientific charity.
At this point Jane entered with a box of roses from the florist's.That blessed Gordon Hallock sends me roses twice a week to brighten therigors of institution life.
Our trustee began an indignant investigation. He wished to know where Igot those flowers, and was visibly relieved when he learned that I hadnot spent the institution's money for them. He next wished to know whoJane might be. I had foreseen that question and decided to brazen itout.
"My maid," said I.
"Your what?" he bellowed, quite red in the face.
"My maid."
"What is she doing here?"
I amiably went into details. "She mends my clothes, blacks my boots,keeps my bureau drawers in order, washes my hair."
I really thought the man would choke, so I charitably added that I paidher wages out of my own private income, and paid five dollars and fiftycents a week to the institution for her board; and that, though she wasbig, she didn't eat much.
He allowed that I might make use of one of the orphans for alllegitimate service.
I explained--still polite, but growing bored--that Jane had been in myservice for many years, and was indispensable.
He finally took himself off, after telling me that he, for one,had never found any fault with Mrs. Lippett. She was a common-senseChristian woman, without many fancy ideas, but with plenty of good solidwork in her. He hoped that I would be wise enough to model my policyupon hers!
And what, my dear Judy, do you think of that?
The doctor dropped in a few minutes later, and I repeated the Hon.Cyrus's conversation in detail. For the first time in the history of ourintercourse the doctor and I agreed.
"Mrs. Lippett indeed!" he growled. "The blethering auld gomerel! May theLord send him mair sense!"
When our doctor really becomes aroused, he drops into Scotch. My latestpet name for him (behind his back) is Sandy.
Sadie Kate is sitting on the floor as I write, untangling sewing-silksand winding them neatly for Jane, who is becoming quite attached to thelittle imp.
"I am writing to your Aunt Judy," say I to Sadie Kate. "What messageshall I send from you?"
"I never heard of no Aunt Judy."
"She is the aunt of every good little girl in this school."
"Tell her to come and visit me and bring some candy," says Sadie Kate.
I say so, too.
My love to the president,
SALLIE.


March 13.
MRS. JUDY ABBOTT PENDLETON,
Dear Madam:
Your four letters, two telegrams, and three checks are at hand, andyour instructions shall be obeyed just as quickly as this overworkedsuperintendent can manage it.
I delegated the dining room job to Betsy Kindred. One hundred dollarsdid I allow her for the rehabilitation of that dreary apartment. Sheaccepted the trust, picked out five likely orphans to assist in themechanical details, and closed the door.
For three days the children have been eating from the desks in theschoolroom. I haven't an idea what Betsy is doing; but she has a lotbetter taste than I, so there isn't much use in interfering.
It is such a heaven-sent relief to be able to leave something tosomebody else, and be sure it will be carried out! With all due respectto the age and experience of the staff I found here, they are not veryopen to new ideas. As the John Grier Home was planned by its noblefounder in 1875, so shall it be run today.
Incidentally, my dear Judy, your idea of a private dining room for thesuperintendent, which I, being a social soul, at first scorned, hasbeen my salvation. When I am dead tired I dine alone, but in my liveintervals I invite an officer to share the meal; and in the expansiveintimacy of the dinner-table I get in my most effective strokes. When itbecomes desirable to plant the seeds of fresh air in the soul of MissSnaith, I invite her to dinner, and tactfully sandwich in a littleoxygen between her slices of pressed veal.
Pressed veal is our cook's idea of an acceptable PIECE DE RESISTANCEfor a dinner party. In another month I am going to face the subject ofsuitable nourishment for the executive staff.
Meanwhile there are so many things more important than our own comfortthat we shall have to worry along on veal.
A terrible bumping has just occurred outside my door. One little cherubseems to be kicking another little cherub downstairs. But I write onundisturbed. If I am to spend my days among orphans, I must cultivate acheerful detachment.
Did you get Leonora Fenton's cards? She's marrying a medical missionaryand going to Siam to live! Did you ever hear of anything so absurd asLeonora presiding over a missionary's menage? Do you suppose she willentertain the heathen with skirt dances?
It isn't any absurder, though, than me in an orphan asylum, or you as aconservative settled matron, or Marty Keene a social butterfly in Paris.Do you suppose she goes to embassy balls in riding clothes, and what onearth does she do about hair? It couldn't have grown so soon; she mustwear a wig. Isn't our class turning out some hilarious surprises?
The mail arrives. Excuse me while I read a nice fat letter fromWashington.

Not so nice; quite impertinent. Gordon can't get over the idea that itis a joke, S. McB. in conjunction with one hundred and thirteen orphans.But he wouldn't think it such a joke if he could try it for a few days.He says he is going to drop off here on his next trip North and watchthe struggle. How would it be if I left him in charge while I dashed toNew York to accomplish some shopping? Our sheets are all worn out, andwe haven't more than two hundred and eleven blankets in the house.
Singapore, sole puppy of my heart and home, sends his respectful love. Ialso, S. McB.



THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Friday. My dearest Judy:
You should see what your hundred dollars and Betsy Kindred did to thatdining room!
It's a dazzling dream of yellow paint. Being a north room, she thoughtto brighten it; and she has. The walls are kalsomined buff, with afrieze of little molly cottontails skurrying around the top. All ofthe woodwork--tables and benches included--is a cheerful chrome yellow.Instead of tablecloths, which we can't afford, we have linen runners,with stenciled rabbits hopping along their length. Also yellow bowls,filled at present with pussywillows, but looking forward to dandelionsand cowslips and buttercups. And new dishes, my dear--white, with yellowjonquils (we think), though they may be roses; there is no botany expertin the house. Most wonderful touch of all, we have NAPKINS, the firstwe have seen in our whole lives. The children thought they werehandkerchiefs and ecstatically wiped their noses.
To honor the opening of the new room, we had ice-cream and cake fordessert. It is such a pleasure to see these children anything but cowedand apathetic, that I am offering prizes for boisterousness--to everyone but Sadie Kate. She drummed on the table with her knife and fork andsang, "Welcome to dem golden halls."
You remember that illuminated text over the dining-room door--"The LordWill Provide." We've painted it out, and covered the spot with rabbits.It's all very well to teach so easy a belief to normal children, whohave a proper family and roof behind them; but a person whose onlyrefuge in distress will be a park bench must learn a more militant creedthan that.
"The Lord has given you two hands and a brain and a big world to usethem in. Use them well, and you will be provided for; use them ill, andyou will want," is our motto, and that with reservations.
In the sorting process that has been going on I have got rid of elevenchildren. That blessed State Charities Aid Association helped me disposeof three little girls, all placed in very nice homes, and one to beadopted legally if the family likes her. And the family will like her;I saw to that. She was the prize child of the institution, obedient andpolite, with curly hair and affectionate ways, exactly the little girlthat every family needs. When a couple of adopting parents are choosinga daughter, I stand by with my heart in my mouth, feeling as though Iwere assisting in the inscrutable designs of Fate. Such a little thingturns the balance! The child smiles, and a loving home is hers for life;she sneezes, and it passes her by forever.
Three of our biggest boys have gone to work on farms, one of them outWest to a RANCH! Report has it that he is to become a cowboy and Indianfighter and grizzly-bear hunter, though I believe in reality he is toengage in the pastoral work of harvesting wheat. He marched off, a heroof romance, followed by the wistful eyes of twenty-five adventurouslads, who turned back with a sigh to the safely monotonous life of theJ. G. H.
Five other children have been sent to their proper institutions. One ofthem is deaf, one an epileptic, and the other three approachingidiocy. None of them ought ever to have been accepted here. This as aneducational institution, and we can't waste our valuable plant in caringfor defectives.
Orphan asylums have gone out of style. What I am going to develop is aboarding school for the physical, moral, and mental growth of childrenwhose parents have not been able to provide for their care.
"Orphans" is merely my generic term for the children; a good manyof them are not orphans in the least. They have one troublesome andtenacious parent left who won't sign a surrender, so I can't place themout for adoption. But those that are available would be far better offin loving foster-homes than in the best institution that I can evermake. So I am fitting them for adoption as quickly as possible, andsearching for the homes.
You ought to run across a lot of pleasant families in your travels;can't you bully some of them into adopting children? Boys by preference.We've got an awful lot of extra boys, and nobody wants them. Talk aboutanti-feminism! It's nothing to the anti-masculinism that exists in thebreasts of adopting parents. I could place out a thousand dimpled littlegirls with yellow hair, but a good live boy from nine to thirteen is adrug on the market. There seems to be a general feeling that they trackin dirt and scratch up mahogany furniture.
Shouldn't you think that men's clubs might like to adopt boys, as a sortof mascot? The boy could be boarded in a nice respectable family, anddrawn out by the different members on Saturday afternoons. They couldtake him to ball games and the circus, and then return him when theyhad had enough, just as you do with a library book. It would be veryvaluable training for the bachelors. People are forever talking aboutthe desirability of training girls for motherhood. Why not institute acourse of training in fatherhood, and get the best men's clubs to takeit up? Will you please have Jervis agitate the matter at his variousclubs, and I'll have Gordon start the idea in Washington. They bothbelong to such a lot of clubs that we ought to dispose of at least adozen boys.
I remain,
The ever-distracted mother of 113.
S. McB.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
March 18.
Dear Judy:
I have been having a pleasant respite from the 113 cares of motherhood.
Yesterday who should drop down upon our peaceful village but Mr. GordonHallock, on his way back to Washington to resume the cares of thenation. At least he said it was on his way, but I notice from the map inthe primary room that it was one hundred miles out of his way.
And dear, but I was glad to see him! He is the first glimpse of theoutside world I have had since I was incarcerated in this asylum. Andsuch a lot of entertaining businesses he had to talk about! He knows theinside of all the outside things you read in the newspapers; so far as Ican make out, he is the social center about which Washington revolves.I always knew he would get on in politics, for he has a way with him;there's no doubt about it.
You can't imagine how exhilarated and set-up I feel, as though I'd comeinto my own again after a period of social ostracism. I must confessthat I get lonely for some one who talks my kind of nonsensical talk.Betsy trots off home every week end, and the doctor is conversationalenough, but, oh, so horribly logical! Gordon somehow seems to stand forthe life I belong to,--of country clubs and motors and dancing and sportand politeness,--a poor, foolish, silly life, if you will, but mine own.And I have missed it. This serving society business is theoreticallyadmirable and compelling and interesting, but deadly stupid in itsworking details. I am afraid I was never born to set the crookedstraight.
I tried to show Gordon about and make him take an interest in thebabies, but he wouldn't glance at them. He thinks I came just to spitehim, which, of course, I did. Your siren call would never have lured mefrom the path of frivolity had Gordon not been so unpleasantly hilariousat the idea of my being able to manage an orphan asylum. I came here toshow him that I could; and now, when I can show him, the beast refusesto look.
I invited him to dinner, with a warning about the pressed veal; but hesaid no, thanks, that I needed a change. So we went to Brantwood Inn andhad broiled lobster. I had positively forgotten that the creatures wereedible.
This morning at seven o'clock I was wakened by the furious ringing ofthe telephone bell. It was Gordon at the station, about to resume hisjourney to Washington. He was in quite a contrite mood about the asylum,and apologized largely for refusing to look at my children. It was notthat he didn't like orphans, he said; it was just that he didn't likethem in juxtaposition to me. And to prove his good intentions, he wouldsend them a bag of peanuts.
I feel as fresh and revivified after my little fling as though I'd had areal vacation. There's no doubt about it, an hour or so of exciting talkis more of a tonic to me than a pint of iron and strychnine pills.
You owe me two letters, dear Madam. Pay them TOUT DE SUITE, or I laydown my pen forever.
Yours, as usual,
S. McB.

Tuesday, 5 P.M. My dear Enemy:
I am told that during my absence this afternoon you paid us a call anddug up a scandal. You claim that the children under Miss Snaith are notreceiving their due in the matter of cod-liver oil.
I am sorry if your medicinal orders have not been carried out, but youmust know that it is a difficult matter to introduce that abominablysmelling stuff into the inside of a squirming child. And poor MissSnaith is a very much overworked person. She has ten more children tocare for than should rightly fall into the lot of any single woman, anduntil we find her another assistant, she has very little time for thefancy touches you demand.
Also, my dear Enemy, she is very susceptible to abuse. When you feel ina fighting mood, I wish you would expend your belligerence upon me. Idon't mind it; quite the contrary. But that poor lady has retired to herroom in a state of hysterics, leaving nine babies to be tucked into bedby whomever it may concern.
If you have any powders that would be settling to her nerves, pleasesend them back by Sadie Kate.
Yours truly,
S. McBRIDE.

Wednesday Morning.
Dear Dr. MacRae:
I am not taking an unintelligent stand in the least; I am simply askingthat you come to me with all complaints, and not stir up my staff in anysuch volcanic fashion as that of yesterday.
I endeavor to carry out all of your orders--of a medical nature--withscrupulous care. In the present case there seems to have beensome negligence; I don't know what did become of those fourteenunadministered bottles of cod-liver oil that you have made such a fussabout, but I shall investigate.
And I cannot, for various reasons, pack off Miss Snaith in the summaryfashion you demand. She may be, in certain respects, inefficient;but she is kind to the children, and with supervision will answertemporarily.
Yours truly,
S. McBRIDE.

Thursday.
Dear Enemy:
SOYEZ TRANQUILLE. I have issued orders, and in the future the childrenshall receive all of the cod-liver oil that by rights is theirs. Awilfu' man maun hae his way.
S. McB.

March 22.
Dear Judy:
Asylum life has looked up a trifle during the past few days--since thegreat Cod-Liver Oil War has been raging. The first skirmish occurred onTuesday, and I unfortunately missed it, having accompanied four ofmy children on a shopping trip to the village. I returned to find theasylum teeming with hysterics. Our explosive doctor had paid us a visit.
Sandy has two passions in life: one is for cod-liver oil and the otherfor spinach, neither popular in our nursery. Some time ago--before Icame, in fact--he had ordered cod-liver oil for all of the{aenemic} --Heavens! there's that word again! {aneamic}--children, andhad given instructions as to its application to Miss Snaith. Yesterday,in his suspicious Scotch fashion, he began nosing about to find out whythe poor little rats weren't fattening up as fast as he thought theyought, and he unearthed a hideous scandal. They haven't received a whiffof cod-liver oil for three whole weeks! At that point he exploded, andall was joy and excitement and hysterics.
Betsy says that she had to send Sadie Kate to the laundry on animprovised errand, as his language was not fit for orphan ears. By thetime I got home he had gone, and Miss Snaith had retired, weeping, toher room, and the whereabouts of fourteen bottles of cod-liver oil wasstill unexplained. He had accused her at the top of his voice of takingthem herself. Imagine Miss Snaith,--she who looks so innocent andchinless and inoffensive--stealing cod-liver oil from these poorhelpless little orphans and guzzling it in private!
Her defense consisted in hysterical assertions that she loved thechildren, and had done her duty as she saw it. She did not believe ingiving medicine to babies; she thought drugs bad for their poor littlestomachs. You can imagine Sandy! Oh, dear! oh, dear! To think I missedit!
Well, the tempest raged for three days, and Sadie Kate nearly ran herlittle legs off carrying peppery messages back and forth between usand the doctor. It is only under stress that I communicate with him bytelephone, as he has an interfering old termagant of a housekeeper who"listens in" on the down-stairs switch. I don't wish the scandaloussecrets of the John Grier spread abroad. The doctor demanded MissSnaith's instant dismissal, and I refused. Of course she is a vague,unfocused, inefficient old thing, but she does love the children, andwith proper supervision is fairly useful.
At least, in the light of her exalted family connections, I can'tpack her off in disgrace like a drunken cook. I am hoping in time toeliminate her by a process of delicate suggestion; perhaps I can makeher feel that her health requires a winter in California. And also, nomatter what the doctor wants, so positive and dictatorial is his mannerthat just out of self-respect one must take the other side. When hestates that the world is round, I instantly assert it to be triangular.
Finally, after three pleasantly exhilarating days, the whole businesssettled itself. An apology (a very dilute one) was extracted from himfor being so unkind to the poor lady, and full confession, with promisesfor the future, was drawn from her. It seems that she couldn't bearto make the little dears take the stuff, but, for obvious reasons, shecouldn't bear to cross Dr. MacRae, so she hid the last fourteen bottlesin a dark corner of the cellar. Just how she was planning to dispose ofher loot I don't know. Can you pawn cod-liver oil?
LATER.

Peace negotiations had just ended this afternoon, and Sandy had made adignified exit, when the Hon. Cyrus Wykoff was announced. Two enemies inthe course of an hour are really too much!
The Hon. Cy was awfully impressed with the new dining room, especiallywhen he heard that Betsy had put on those rabbits with her ownlily-white hands. Stenciling rabbits on walls, he allows, is a fittingpursuit for a woman, but an executive position like mine is a trifle outof her sphere. He thinks it would be far wiser if Mr. Pendleton did notgive me such free scope in the spending of his money.
While we were still contemplating Betsy's mural flight, an awful crashcame from the pantry, and we found Gladiola Murphy weeping among theruins of five yellow plates. It is sufficiently shattering to my nervesto hear these crashes when I am alone, but it is peculiarly shatteringwhen receiving a call from an unsympathetic trustee.
I shall cherish that set of dishes to the best of my ability, but if youwish to see your gift in all its uncracked beauty, I should advise youto hurry North, and visit the John Grier Home without delay.
Yours as ever,
SALLIE.

March 26. My dear Judy:
I have just been holding an interview with a woman who wants to takea baby home to surprise her husband. I had a hard time convincing herthat, since he is to support the child, it might be a delicate attentionto consult him about its adoption. She argued stubbornly that it wasnone of his business, seeing that the onerous work of washing anddressing and training would fall upon her. I am really beginning to feelsorry for men. Some of them seem to have very few rights.
Even our pugnacious doctor I suspect of being a victim of domestictyranny, and his housekeeper's at that. It is scandalous the way MaggieMcGurk neglects the poor man. I have had to put him in charge of anorphan. Sadie Kate, with a very housewifely air, is this moment sittingcross-legged on the hearth rug sewing buttons on his overcoat while heis upstairs tending babies.
You would never believe it, but Sandy and I are growing quiteconfidential in a dour Scotch fashion. It has become his habit, whenhomeward bound after his professional calls, to chug up to our doorabout four in the afternoon, and make the rounds of the house tomake sure that we are not developing cholera morbus or infanticide oranything catching, and then present himself at four-thirty at my librarydoor to talk over our mutual problems.
Does he come to see me? Oh, no, indeed; he comes to get tea and toastand marmalade. The man hath a lean and hungry look. His housekeeperdoesn't feed him enough. As soon as I get the upper hand of him a littlemore, I am going to urge him on to revolt.
Meanwhile he is very grateful for something to eat, but oh, so funny inhis attempts at social grace! At first he would hold a cup of tea inone hand, a plate of muffins in the other, and then search blankly for athird hand to eat them with. Now he has solved the problem. He turns inhis toes and brings his knees together; then he folds his napkin intoa long, narrow wedge that fills the crack between them, thus forming avery workable pseudo lap; after that he sits with tense musclesuntil the tea is drunk. I suppose I ought to provide a table, but thespectacle of Sandy with his toes turned in is the one gleam of amusementthat my day affords.
The postman is just driving in with, I trust, a letter from you. Lettersmake a very interesting break in the monotony of asylum life. If youwish to keep this superintendent contented, you'd better write often.
. . . . . . . .
Mail received and contents noted.
Kindly convey my thanks to Jervis for three alligators in a swamp.He shows rare artistic taste in the selection of his post cards. Yourseven-page illustrated letter from Miami arrives at the same time. Ishould have known Jervis from the palm tree perfectly, even without thelabel, as the tree has so much the more hair of the two. Also, I have apolite bread-and-butter letter from my nice young man in Washington,and a book from him, likewise a box of candy. The bag of peanuts for thekiddies he has shipped by express. Did you ever know such assiduity?
Jimmie favors me with the news that he is coming to visit me as soonas father can spare him from the factory. The poor boy does hate thatfactory so! It isn't that he is lazy; he just simply isn't interested inoveralls. But father can't understand such a lack of taste. Having builtup the factory, he of course has developed a passion for overalls,which should have been inherited by his eldest son. I find it awfullyconvenient to have been born a daughter; I am not asked to likeoveralls, but am left free to follow any morbid career I may choose,such as this.
To return to my mail: There arrives an advertisement from a wholesalegrocer, saying that he has exceptionally economical brands of oatmeal,rice, flour, prunes, and dried apples that he packs specially forprisons and charitable institutions. Sounds nutritious, doesn't it?
I also have letters from a couple of farmers, each of whom would liketo have a strong, husky boy of fourteen who is not afraid of work, theirobject being to give him a good home. These good homes appear with greatfrequency just as the spring planting is coming on. When we investigatedone of them last week, the village minister, in answer to our usualquestion, "Does he own any property?" replied in a very guarded manner,"I think he must own a corkscrew."
You would hardly credit some of the homes that we have investigated. Wefound a very prosperous country family the other day, who lived huddledtogether in three rooms in order to keep the rest of their handsomehouse clean. The fourteen-year girl they wished to adopt, by way of acheap servant, was to sleep in the same tiny room with their own threechildren. Their kitchen-dining-parlor apartment was more cluttered upand unaired than any city tenement I ever saw, and the thermometer ateighty-four. One could scarcely say they were living there; they wererather COOKING. You may be sure they got no girl from us!
I have made one invariable rule--every other is flexible. No child isto be placed out unless the proposed family can offer better advantagesthan we can give. I mean than we are going to be able to give in thecourse of a few months, when we get ourselves made over into a modelinstitution. I shall have to confess that at present we are still prettybad.
But anyway, I am very CHOOSEY in regard to homes, and I rejectthree-fourths of those that offer.
LATER.

Gordon has made honorable amends to my children. His bag of peanuts ishere, made of burlap and three feet high.
Do you remember the dessert of peanuts and maple sugar they used togive us at college? We turned up our noses, but ate. I am instituting ithere, and I assure you we don't turn up our noses. It is a pleasure tofeed children who have graduated from a course of Mrs. Lippett; they arepathetically grateful for small blessings.
You can't complain that this letter is too short.
Yours,
On the verge of writer's cramp,
S. McB.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Off and on, all day Friday.
Dear Judy:
You will be interested to hear that I have encountered anotherenemy--the doctor's housekeeper. I had talked to the creature severaltimes over the telephone, and had noted that her voice was notdistinguished by the soft, low accents that mark the caste of "Vere deVere"; but now I have seen her. This morning, while returning from thevillage, I made a slight detour, and passed our doctor's house. Sandyis evidently the result of environment--olive green, with a mansard roofand the shades pulled down. You would think he had just been holding afuneral.
I don't wonder that the amenities of life have somewhat escaped thepoor man. After studying the outside of his house, I was filled withcuriosity to see if the inside matched.
Having sneezed five times before breakfast this morning, I decided togo in and consult him professionally. To be sure, he is a children'sspecialist, but sneezes are common to all ages. So I boldly marched upthe steps and rang the bell.
Hark! What sound is that that breaks upon our revelry? The Hon. Cy'svoice, as I live, approaching up the stairs. I've letters to write, andI can't be tormented by his blether, so I am rushing Jane to the doorwith orders to look him firmly in the eye and tell him I am out.
. . . . . . . .
On with the dance! Let joy be unconfined. He's gone.
But those eight stars represent eight agonizing minutes spent in thedark of my library closet. The Hon. Cy received Jane's communicationwith the affable statement that he would sit down and wait. Whereuponhe entered and sat. But did Jane leave me to languish in the closet? No;she enticed him to the nursery to see the AWFUL thing that Sadie Katehas done. The Hon. Cy loves to see awful things, particularly when doneby Sadie Kate. I haven't an idea what scandal Jane is about to disclose;but no matter, he has gone.
Where was I? Oh, yes; I had rung the doctor's bell.
The door was opened by a large, husky person with her sleeves rolled up.She looked very businesslike, with a hawk's nose and cold gray eyes.
"Well?" said she, her tone implying that I was a vacuum-cleaning agent.
"Good morning." I smiled affably, and stepped inside. "Is this Mrs.McGurk?"
"It is," said she. "An' ye'll be the new young woman in the orphanasylum?"
"I am that," said I. "Is himself at home?"
"He is not," said she.
"But this is his office hour."
"He don't keep it regular'."
"He ought," said I, sternly. "Kindly tell him that Miss McBride calledto consult him, and ask him to look in at the John Grier Home thisafternoon."
"Ump'!" grunted Mrs. McGurk, and closed the door so promptly that sheshut in the hem of my skirt.
When I told the doctor this afternoon, he shrugged his shoulders, andobserved that that was Maggie's gracious way.
"And why do you put up with Maggie?" said I.
"And where would I find any one better?" said he. "Doing the work fora lone man who comes as irregularly to meals as a twenty-four-hour daywill permit is no sinecure. She furnishes little sunshine in the home,but she does manage to produce a hot dinner at nine o'clock at night."
Just the same, I am willing to wager that her hot dinners are neitherdelicious nor well served. She's an inefficient, lazy old termagant, andI know why she doesn't like me. She imagines that I want to steal awaythe doctor and oust her from a comfortable position, something of ajoke, considering. But I am not undeceiving her; it will do the oldthing good to worry a little. She may cook him better dinners, andfatten him up a trifle. I understand that fat men are good-natured.
TEN O'CLOCK.

I don't know what silly stuff I have been writing to you off and on allday, between interruptions. It has got to be night at last, and I am tootired to do so much as hold up my head. Your song tells the sad truth,"There is no joy in life but sleep."
I bid you good night.
S. McB.

Isn't the English language absurd? Look at those forty monosyllables ina row!

J. G. H.,
April 1.
Dear Judy:
I have placed out Isador Gutschneider. His new mother is a Swedishwoman, fat and smiling, with blue eyes and yellow hair. She chose himout of the whole nurseryful of children because he was the brunettestbaby there. She has always loved brunettes, but in her most ambitiousdreams has never hoped to have one of her own. His name is going to bechanged to Oscar Carlson, after his new dead uncle.
My first trustees' meeting is to occur next Wednesday. I confess that Iam not looking forward to it with impatience--especially as an inauguraladdress by me will be its chief feature. I wish our president were hereto back me up! But at least I am sure of one thing. I am never going toadopt the Uriah Heepish attitude toward trustees that characterized Mrs.Lippett's manners. I shall treat "first Wednesdays" as a pleasant socialdiversion, my day at home, when the friends of the asylum gather fordiscussion and relaxation; and I shall endeavor not to let our pleasuresdiscommode the orphans. You see how I have taken to heart the unhappyexperiences of that little Jerusha.
Your last letter has arrived, and no suggestion in it of travelingNorth. Isn't it about time that you were turning your faces back towardFifth Avenue? Hame is hame, be 't ever sae hamely. Don't you marvel atthe Scotch that flows so readily from my pen? Since being acquent' wi'Sandy, I hae gathered a muckle new vocabulary. The dinner gong! I leaveyou, to devote a revivifying half-hour to mutton hash. We eat to live inthe John Grier Home.
SIX O'CLOCK.

The Hon. Cy has been calling again. He drops in with great frequency,hoping to catch me IN DELICTU. How I do not like that man! He is a pink,fat, puffy old thing, with a pink, fat, puffy soul. I was in a verycheery, optimistic frame of mind before his arrival, but now I shall donothing but grumble for the rest of the day.
He deplores all of the useless innovations that I am endeavoring tointroduce, such as a cheerful playroom, prettier clothes, baths, andbetter food and fresh air and play and fun and ice-cream and kisses.He says that I will unfit these children to occupy the position in lifethat God has called them to occupy.
At that my Irish blood came to the surface, and I told him that ifGod had planned to make all of these 113 little children into useless,ignorant, unhappy citizens, I was going to fool God! That we weren'teducating them out of their class in the least. We were educating themINTO their natural class much more effectually than is done in theaverage family. We weren't trying to force them into college if theyhadn't any brains, as happens with rich men's sons; and we weren'tputting them to work at fourteen if they were naturally ambitious,as happens with poor men's sons. We were watching them closely andindividually and discovering their level. If our children showed anaptitude to become farm laborers and nurse-maids, we were going to teachthem to be the best possible farm laborers and nurse-maids; and if theyshowed a tendency to become lawyers, we would turn them into honest,intelligent, open-minded lawyers. (He's a lawyer himself, but certainlynot an open-minded one.)
He grunted when I had finished my remarks, and stirred his teavigorously. Whereupon I suggested that perhaps he needed another lump ofsugar, and dropped it in, and left him to absorb it.
The only way to deal with trustees is with a firm and steady hand. Youhave to keep them in their places.
Oh, my dear! that smudge in the corner was caused by Singapore's blacktongue. He is trying to send you an affectionate kiss. Poor Sing thinkshe's a lap dog--isn't it a tragedy when people mistake their vocations?I myself am not always certain that I was born an orphan asylumsuperintendent.
Yours, til deth,
S. McB.

SUPERINTENDENT'S OFFICE,
JOHN GRIER HOME,
April 4.
THE PENDLETON FAMILY,
Palm Beach, Florida.
Dear Sir and Madam:
I have weathered my first visitors' day, and made the trustees abeautiful speech. Everybody said it was a beautiful speech--even myenemies.
Mr. Gordon Hallock's recent visit was exceptionally opportune; I gleanedfrom him many suggestions as to how to carry an audience.
"Be funny."--I told about Sadie Kate and a few other cherubs that youdon't know.
"Keep it concrete and fitted to the intelligence of your audience."--Iwatched the Hon. Cy, and never said a thing that he couldn't understand.
"Flatter your hearers."--I hinted delicately that all of these newreforms were due to the wisdom and initiative of our peerless trustees.
"Give it a high moral tone, with a dash of pathos."--I dwelt upon theparentless condition of these little wards of Society. And it was veryaffecting--my enemy wiped away a tear!
Then I fed them up on chocolate and whipped cream and lemonade andtartar sandwiches, and sent them home, expansive and beaming, butwithout any appetite for dinner.
I dwell thus at length upon our triumph, in order to create in you ahappy frame of mind, before passing to the higeous calamity that sonearly wrecked the occasion.
     "Now follows the dim horror of my tale,     And I feel I'm growing gradually pale,          For, even at this day,          Though its smell has passed away,     When I venture to remember it, I quail!"

You never heard of our little Tammas Kehoe, did you? I simply haven'tfeatured Tammas because he requires so much ink and time and vocabulary.He's a spirited lad, and he follows his dad, a mighty hunter ofold--that sounds like more Bab Ballads, but it isn't; I made it up as Iwent along.
We can't break Tammas of his inherited predatory instincts. He shootsthe chickens with bows and arrows and lassoes the pigs and playsbull-fight with the cows--and oh, is very destructive! But his crowningvillainy occurred an hour before the trustees' meeting, when we wantedto be so clean and sweet and engaging.
It seems that he had stolen the rat trap from the oat bin, and had setit up in the wood lot, and yesterday morning was so fortunate as tocatch a fine big skunk.
Singapore was the first to report the discovery. He returned to thehouse and rolled on the rugs in a frenzy of remorse over his part of thebusiness. While our attention was occupied with Sing, Tammas was busilyskinning his prey in the seclusion of the woodshed. He buttoned the peltinside his jacket, conveyed it by a devious route through the lengthof this building, and concealed it under his bed where he thought itwouldn't be found.
Then he went--per schedule--to the basement to help freeze the ice-creamfor our guests. You notice that we omitted ice-cream from the menu.
In the short time that remained we created all the counter-irritationthat was possible. Noah (negro furnace man) started smudge fires atintervals about the grounds. Cook waved a shovelful of burning coffeethrough the house. Betsy sprinkled the corridors with ammonia. MissSnaith daintily treated the rugs with violet water. I sent an emergencycall to the doctor who came and mixed a gigantic solution of chloridof lime. But still, above and beneath and through every other odor, theunlaid ghost of Tammas's victim cried for vengeance.
The first business that came up at the meeting, was whether we shoulddig a hole and bury, not only Tammas, but the whole main building. Youcan see with what finesse I carried off the shocking event, when I tellyou that the Hon. Cy went home chuckling over a funny story, instead ofgrumbling at the new superintendent's inability to manage boys.
We've our ain bit weird to dree!
As ever,
S. McBRIDE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Friday, likewise Saturday.
Dear Judy:
Singapore is still living in the carriage house, and receiving a dailycarbolic-scented bath from Tammas Kehoe. I am hoping that some day, inthe distant future, my darling will be fit to return.
You will be pleased to hear that I have instituted a new method ofspending your money. We are henceforth to buy a part of our shoes anddrygoods and drug store comestibles from local shops, at not quite suchlow prices as the wholesale jobbers give, but still at a discount,and the education that is being thrown in is worth the difference. Thereason is this: I have made the discovery that half of my children knownothing of money or its purchasing power. They think that shoes and cornmeal and red-flannel petticoats and mutton stew and gingham shirts justfloat down from the blue sky.
Last week I dropped a new green dollar bill out of my purse, and aneight-year-old urchin picked it up and asked if he could keep thatpicture of a bird. (American eagle in the center.) That child had neverseen a bill in his life! I began an investigation, and discovered thatdozens of children in this asylum have never bought anything or haveever seen anybody buy anything. And we are planning to turn them outat sixteen into a world governed entirely by the purchasing power ofdollars and cents! Good heavens! just think of it! They are not to leadsheltered lives with somebody eternally looking after them; they havegot to know how to get the very most they can out of every penny theycan manage to earn.
I pondered the question all one night, at intervals, and went to thevillage at nine o'clock the next morning. I held conferences with sevenstorekeepers; found four open-minded and helpful, two doubtful, andone actively stupid. I have started with the four--drygoods, groceries,shoes, and stationery. In return for somewhat large orders from us, theyare to turn themselves and their clerks into teachers for my children,who are to go to the stores, inspect the stocks, and do their ownpurchasing with real money.
For example, Jane needs a spool of blue sewing-silk and a yard ofelastic; so two little girls, intrusted with a silver quarter, trothand in hand to Mr. Meeker's. They match the silk with anxious care, andwatch the clerk jealously while he measures the elastic, to make surethat he doesn't stretch it. Then they bring back six cents change,receive my thanks and praise, and retire to the ranks tingling with asense of achievement.
Isn't it pathetic? Ordinary children of ten or twelve automatically knowso many things that our little incubator chicks have never dreamed of.But I have a variety of plans on foot. Just give me time, and youwill see. One of these days I'll be turning out some nearly normalyoungsters.

LATER.

I've an empty evening ahead, so I'll settle to some further gossip withyou.
You remember the peanuts that Gordon Hallock sent? Well, I was sogracious when I thanked him that it incited him to fresh effort. Heapparently went into a toy shop, and placed himself unreservedly in thehands of an enterprising clerk. Yesterday two husky expressmen depositedin our front hall a crate full of expensive furry animals built to beconsumed by the children of the rich. They are not exactly what I shouldhave purchased had I been the one to disburse such a fortune, but mybabies find them very huggable. The chicks are now taking to bed withthem lions and elephants and bears and giraffes. I don't know what thepsychological effect will be. Do you suppose when they grow up they willall join the circus?
Oh, dear me, here is Miss Snaith, coming to pay a social call.

Good-by.
S.
P.S. The prodigal has returned. He sends his respectful regards, andthree wags of the tail.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
April 7. My dear Judy:
I have just been reading a pamphlet on manual training for girls,and another on the proper diet for institutions--right proportions ofproteins, fats, starches, etc. In these days of scientific charity, whenevery problem has been tabulated, you can run an institution by chart.I don't see how Mrs. Lippett could have made all the mistakes she did,assuming, of course,that she knew how to read. But there is one quiteimportant branch of institutional work that has not been touched upon,and I myself am gathering data. Some day I shall issue a pamphlet on the"Management and Control of Trustees."
I must tell you the joke about my enemy--not the Hon. Cy, but my first,my original enemy. He has undertaken a new field of endeavor. He saysquite soberly (everything he does is sober; he has never smiled yet)that he has been watching me closely since my arrival, and though I amuntrained and foolish and flippant (sic), he doesn't think that I amreally so superficial as I at first appeared. I have an almost masculineability of grasping the whole of a question and going straight to thepoint.
Aren't men funny? When they want to pay you the greatest compliment intheir power, they naively tell you that you have a masculine mind. Thereis one compliment, incidentally, that I shall never be paying him.I cannot honestly say that he has a quickness of perception almostfeminine.
So, though Sandy quite plainly sees my faults, still, he thinks thatsome of them may be corrected; and he has determined to carry on myeducation from the point where the college dropped it. A person inmy position ought to be well read in physiology, biology, psychology,sociology, and eugenics; she should know the hereditary effects ofinsanity, idiocy, and alcohol; should be able to administer the Binettest; and should understand the nervous system of a frog. In pursuancewhereof, he has placed at my disposal his own scientific library of fourthousand volumes. He not only fetches in the books he wants me to read,but comes and asks questions to make sure I haven't skipped.
We devoted last week to the life and letters of the Jukes family.Margaret, the mother of criminals, six generations ago, founded aprolific line, and her progeny, mostly in jail, now numbers some twelvehundred. Moral: watch the children with a bad heredity so carefully thatnone of them can ever have any excuse for growing up into Jukeses.
So now, as soon as we have finished our tea, Sandy and I get outthe Doomsday Book, and pore over its pages in an anxious search foralcoholic parents. It's a cheerful little game to while away thetwilight hour after the day's work is done.
QUELLE VIE! Come home fast and take me out of it. I'm wearying for thesight of you.
SALLIE.


J. G. H.,
Thursday morning. My dear Pendleton Family:
I have received your letter, and I seize my pen to stop you. I don'twish to be relieved. I take it back. I change my mind. The person youare planning to send sounds like an exact twin of Miss Snaith. How canyou ask me to turn over my darling children to a kind, but ineffectual,middle-aged lady without any chin? The very thought of it wrings amother's heart.
Do you imagine that such a woman can carry on this work eventemporarily? No! The manager of an institution like this has got to beyoung and husky and energetic and forceful and efficient and red-hairedand sweet-tempered, like me. Of course I've been discontented,--anybodywould be with things in such a mess,--but it's what you socialists calla holy discontent. And do you think that I am going to abandon all ofthe beautiful reforms I have so painstakingly started? No! I am notto be moved from this spot until you find a superintendent superior toSallie McBride.
That does not mean, though, that I am mortgaging myself forever. Justfor the present, until things get on their feet. While the face washing,airing, reconstructing period lasts, I honestly believe you chose theright person when you hit upon me. I LOVE to plan improvements and orderpeople about.
This is an awfully messy letter, but I'm dashing it off in three minutesin order to catch you before you definitely engage that pleasant,inefficient middle-aged person without a chin.
Please, kind lady and gentleman, don't do me out of me job! Let me staya few months longer. Just gimme a chance to show what I'm good for, andI promise you won't never regret it.
S. McB.

J. G. H.,
Thursday afternoon.
Dear Judy:
I've composed a poem--a paean of victory.
Robin MacRae Smiled today.
It's the truth! S. McB.


THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
April 13.
Dear Judy:
I am gratified to learn that you were gratified to learn that I am goingto stay. I hadn't realized it, but I am really getting sort of attachedto orphans.
It's an awful disappointment that Jervis has business which will keepyou South so much longer. I am bursting with talk, and it is such alaborious nuisance having to write everything I want to say.
Of course I am glad that we are to have the building remodeled, and Ithink all of your ideas good, but I have a few extra good ones myself.It will be nice to have the new gymnasium and sleeping-porches, but,oh, my soul does long for cottages! The more I look into the internalworkings of an orphan asylum, the more I realize that the only typeof asylum that can compete with a private family is one on the cottagesystem. So long as the family is the unit of society, children should behardened early to family life.
The problem that is keeping me awake at present is, What to do with thechildren while we are being made over? It is hard to live in a house andbuild it at the same time. How would it be if I rented a circus tent andpitched it on the lawn?
Also, when we plunge into our alterations, I want a few guest roomswhere our children can come back when ill or out of work. The greatsecret of our lasting influence in their lives will be our watchful careafterward. What a terrible ALONE feeling it must give a person not tohave a family hovering in the background! With all my dozens of auntsand uncles and mothers and fathers and cousins and brothers and sisters,I can't visualize it. I'd be terrified and panting if I didn't have lotsof cover to run to. And for these forlorn little mites, somehow or otherthe John Grier Home must supply their need. So, dear people, send mehalf a dozen guest rooms, if you please.
Good-by, and I'm glad you didn't put in the other woman. The verysuggestion of somebody else taking over my own beautiful reforms beforethey were even started, stirred up all the opposition in me. I'm afraidI'm like Sandy--I canna think aught is dune richt except my ain hand isin 't.
Yours, for the present,
SALLIE McBRIDE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Sunday.
Dear Gordon:
I know that I haven't written lately; you have a perfect right togrumble, but oh dear! oh dear! you can't imagine what a busy person anorphan asylum superintendent is. And all the writing energy I possesshas to be expended upon that voracious Judy Abbott Pendleton. If threedays go by without a letter she telegraphs to know if the asylum hasburned; whereas, if you--nice man--go letterless, you simply send us apresent to remind us of your existence. So, you see, it's distinctly toour advantage to slight you often.
You will probably be annoyed when I tell you that I have promised tostay on here. They finally did find a woman to take my place, but shewasn't at all the right type and would have answered only temporarily.And, my dear Gordon, it's true, when I faced saying good-by to thisfeverish planning and activity, Worcester somehow looked rathercolorless. I couldn't bear to let my asylum go unless I was sure ofsubstituting a life packed equally full of sensation.
I know the alternative you will suggest, but please don't--just now. Itold you before that I must have a few months longer to make up my mind.And in the meantime I like the feeling that I'm of use in the world.There's something constructive and optimistic about working withchildren; that is, if you look at it from my cheerful point of view,and not from our Scotch doctor's. I've never seen anybody like that man;he's always pessimistic and morbid and down. It's best not to be toointelligent about insanity and dipsomania and all the other hereditarydetails. I am just about ignorant enough to be light-hearted andeffective in a place like this.
The thought of all of these little lives expanding in every directioneternally thrills me. There are so many possibilities in ourchild garden for every kind of flower. It has been planted ratherpromiscuously, to be sure, but though we undoubtedly shall gathera number of weeds, we are also hoping for some rare and beautifulblossoms. Am I not growing sentimental? It is due to hunger--and theregoes the dinner-gong! We are going to have a delicious meal: roast beefand creamed carrots and beet greens, with rhubarb pie for dessert. Wouldyou not like to dine with me? I should love to have you.
Most cordially yours,
S. McB.
P.S. You should see the number of poor homeless cats that these childrenwant to adopt. We had four when I came, and they have all had kittenssince. I haven't taken an exact census, but I think the institutionpossesses nineteen.

April 15. My dear Judy:
You'd like to make another slight donation to the J. G. H. out ofthe excess of last month's allowance? BENE! Will you kindly have thefollowing inserted in all low-class metropolitan dailies:
                Notice!     To Parents Planning to Abandon their Children:     Please do it before they have reached their third year.

I can't think of any action on the part of abandoning parents that wouldhelp us more effectually. This having to root up evil before you beginplanting good is slow, discouraging work.
We have one child here who has almost floored me; but I WILL NOTacknowledge myself beaten by a child of five. He alternates betweensullen moroseness, when he won't speak a word, and the most violentoutbursts of temper, when he smashes everything within reach. He hasbeen here only three months, and in that time he has destroyed nearlyevery piece of bric-a-brac in the institution--not, by the way, a greatloss to art.
A month or so before I came he pulled the tablecloth from the officers'table while the girl in charge was in the corridor sounding the gong.The soup had already been served. You can imagine the mess! Mrs. Lippetthalf killed the child on that occasion, but the killing did nothing tolessen the temper, which was handed on to me intact.
His father was Italian and his mother Irish; he has red hair andfreckles from County Cork and the most beautiful brown eyes that evercame out of Naples. After the father was stabbed in a fight and themother had died of alcoholism, the poor little chap by some chance orother got to us. I suspect that he belongs in the Catholic Protectory.As for his manners--oh dear! oh dear! They are what you would expect. Hekicks and bites and swears. I have dubbed him Punch.
Yesterday he was brought squirming and howling to my office, chargedwith having knocked down a little girl and robbed her of her doll. MissSnaith plumped him into a chair behind me, and left him to grow quiet,while I went on with my writing. I was suddenly startled by an awfulcrash. He had pushed that big green jardiniere off the window-sill andbroken it into five hundred pieces. I jumped with a suddenness thatswept the ink-bottle to the floor, and when Punch saw that secondcatastrophe, he stopped roaring with rage and threw back his head androared with laughter. The child is DIABOLICAL.
I have determined to try a new method of discipline that I don't believein the whole of his forlorn little life he has ever experienced. I amgoing to see what praise and encouragement and love will do. So, insteadof scolding him about the jardiniere, I assumed that it was an accident.I kissed him and told him not to feel bad; that I didn't mind in theleast. It shocked him into being quiet; he simply held his breath andstared while I wiped away his tears and sopped up the ink.
The child just now is the biggest problem that the J. G. H. affords.He needs the most patient, loving, individual care--a proper motherand father, likewise some brothers and sisters and a grandmother. But Ican't place him in a respectable family until I make over his languageand his propensity to break things. I separated him from the otherchildren, and kept him in my room all the morning, Jane having removedto safe heights all destructible OBJETS D'ART. Fortunately, he lovesto draw, and he sat on a rug for two hours, and occupied himself withcolored pencils. He was so surprised when I showed an interest in ared-and-green ferryboat, with a yellow flag floating from the mast, thathe became quite profanely affable. Until then I couldn't get a word outof him.
In the afternoon Dr. MacRae dropped in and admired the ferryboat, whilePunch swelled with the pride of creation. Then, as a reward for beingsuch a good little boy, the doctor took him out in his automobile on avisit to a country patient.
Punch was restored to the fold at five o'clock by a sadder and wiserdoctor. At a sedate country estate he had stoned the chickens, smasheda cold frame, and swung the pet Angora cat by its tail. Then when thesweet old lady tried to make him be kind to poor pussy, he told her togo to hell.
I can't bear to consider what some of these children have seen andexperienced. It will take years of sunshine and happiness and love toeradicate the dreadful memories that they have stored up in the far-backcorners of their little brains. And there are so many children and sofew of us that we can't hug them enough; we simply haven't arms or lapsto go around.
MAIS PARLONS D'AUTRES CHOSES! Those awful questions of heredity andenvironment that the doctor broods over so constantly are getting intomy blood, too; and it's a vicious habit. If a person is to be of anyuse in a place like this, she must see nothing but good in the world.Optimism is the only wear for a social worker.
"'Tis the middle of night by the castle clock"--do you know where thatbeautiful line of poetry comes from? "Cristabel," of English K. Mercy!how I hated that course! You, being an English shark, liked it; butI never understood a word that was said from the time I entered theclassroom till I left it. However, the remark with which I opened thisparagraph is true. It IS the middle of night by the mantelpiece clock,so I'll wish you pleasant dreams. ADDIO!
SALLIE.

Tuesday.

Dear Enemy:
You doctored the whole house, then stalked past my library with yournose in the air, while I was waiting tea with a plate of Scotch sconessitting on the trivet, ordered expressly for you as a peace-offering.
If you are really hurt, I will read the Kallikak book; but I must tellyou that you are working me to death. It takes almost all of my energyto be an effective superintendent, and this university extension coursethat you are conducting I find wearing. You remember how indignant youwere one day last week because I confessed to having stayed up until oneo'clock the night before? Well, my dear man, if I were to accomplish allthe vicarious reading you require, I should sit up until morning everynight.
However, bring it in. I usually manage half an hour of recreation afterdinner, and though I had wanted to glance at Wells's latest novel, Iwill amuse myself instead with your feeble-minded family.
Life of late is unco steep. Obligingly yours,
S. McB.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
April 17.
Dear Gordon:
Thank you for the tulips, likewise the lilies of the valley. They aremost becoming to my blue Persian bowls.
Have you ever heard of the Kallikaks? Get the book and read them up.They are a two-branch family in New Jersey, I think, though theirreal name and origin is artfully concealed. But, anyway,--and this istrue,--six generations ago a young gentleman, called for convenienceMartin Kallikak, got drunk one night and temporarily eloped with afeeble-minded barmaid, thus founding a long line of feeble-mindedKallikaks,--drunkards, gamblers, prostitutes, horse thieves,--a scourgeto New Jersey and surrounding States.
Martin later straightened up, married a normal woman, and founded asecond line of proper Kallikaks,--judges, doctors, farmers, professors,politicians,--a credit to their country. And there the two branchesstill are, flourishing side by side. You can see what a blessing itwould have been to New Jersey if something drastic had happened to thatfeeble-minded barmaid in her infancy.
It seems that feeblemindedness is a very hereditary quality, andscience isn't able to overcome it. No operation has been discovered forintroducing brains into the head of a child who didn't start with them.And the child grows up with, say, a nine-year brain in a thirty-yearbody, and becomes an easy tool for any criminal he meets. Our prisonsare one-third full of feeble-minded convicts. Society ought to segregatethem on feeble-minded farms, where they can earn their livings inpeaceful menial pursuits, and not have children. Then in a generation orso we might be able to wipe them out.
Did you know all that? It's very necessary information for a politicianto have. Get the book and read it, please; I'd send my copy only thatit's borrowed.
It's also very necessary information for me to have. There are eleven ofthese chicks that I suspect a bit, and I am SURE of Loretta Higgins. Ihave been trying for a month to introduce one or two basic ideas intothat child's brain, and now I know what the trouble is: her head isfilled with a sort of soft cheesy substance instead of brain.
I came up here to make over this asylum in such little details as freshair and food and clothes and sunshine, but, heavens! you can see whatproblems I am facing. I've got to make over society first, so that itwon't send me sub-normal children to work with. Excuse all thisexcited conversation; but I've just met up with the subject offeeble-mindedness, and it's appalling--and interesting. It is yourbusiness as a legislator to make laws that will remove it from theworld. Please attend to this immediately, And oblige,
S. McBRIDE,
Sup't John Grier Home.

Friday.
Dear Man of Science:
You didn't come today. Please don't skip us tomorrow. I have finishedthe Kallikak family and I am bursting with talk. Don't you think weought to have a psychologist examine these children?
We owe it to adopting parents not to saddle them with feeble-mindedoffspring.
You know, I'm tempted to ask you to prescribe arsenic for Loretta'scold. I've diagnosed her case; she's a Kallikak. Is it right to let hergrow up and found a line of 378 feeble-minded people for society to carefor? Oh dear! I do hate to poison the child, but what can I do?
S. McB.


Dear Gordon:
You aren't interested in feeble-minded people, and you are shockedbecause I am? Well, I am equally shocked because you are not. If youaren't interested in everything of the sort that there unfortunately isin this world, how can you make wise laws?
You can't.
However, at your request, I will converse upon a less morbid subject.I've just bought fifty yards of blue and rose and green and corn-coloredhair-ribbon as an Easter present for my fifty little daughters. I amalso thinking of sending you an Easter present. How would a nice fluffylittle kitten please you? I can offer any of the following patterns:--

Number 3 comes in any color, gray, black, or yellow. If you will let meknow which you would rather have, I will express it at once.
I would write a respectable letter, but it's teatime, and I see that aguest approaches.
ADDIO!
SALLIE.
P.S. Don't you know some one who would like to adopt a desirable babyboy with seventeen nice new teeth?

April 20. My dear Judy:
One a penny, two a penny, hot cross buns! We've had a Good Fridaypresent of ten dozen, given by Mrs. De Peyster Lambert, a high church,stained-glass-window soul whom I met at a tea a few days ago. (Whosays now that teas are a silly waste of time?) She asked me about my"precious little waifs," and said I was doing a noble work and would berewarded. I saw buns in her eye, and sat down and talked to her for halfan hour.
Now I shall go and thank her in person, and tell her with a great dealof affecting detail how much those buns were appreciated by my preciouslittle waifs--omitting the account of how precious little Punch threwhis bun at Miss Snaith and plastered her neatly in the eye. I think,with encouragement, Mrs. De Peyster Lambert can be developed into acheerful giver.
Oh, I'm growing into the most shocking beggar! My family don't dareto visit me, because I demand BAKSHISH in such a brazen manner. Ithreatened to remove father from my calling list unless he shippedimmediately sixty-five pairs of overalls for my prospective gardeners.A notice from the freight office this morning asks me to remove twopacking cases consigned to them by the J. L. McBride Co. of Worcester;so I take it that father desires to continue my acquaintance. Jimmiehasn't sent us anything yet, and he's getting a huge salary. I write himfrequently a pathetic list of our needs.
But Gordon Hallock has learned the way to a mother's heart. I was sopleasant about the peanuts and menagerie that now he sends a present ofsome sort every few days, and I spend my entire time composing thank-youletters that aren't exact copies of the ones I've sent before. Last weekwe received a dozen big scarlet balls. The nursery is FULL of them;you kick them before you as you walk. And yesterday there arrived ahalf-bushel of frogs and ducks and fishes to float in the bathtubs.
Send, O best of trustees, the tubs in which to float them!
I am, as usual,
S. McBRIDE.

Tuesday. My dear Judy:
Spring must be lurking about somewhere; the birds are arriving from theSouth. Isn't it time you followed their example?
Society note from the BIRD O' PASSAGE NEWS:
"Mr. and Mrs. First Robin have returned from a trip to Florida. It ishoped that Mr. and Mrs. Jervis Pendleton will arrive shortly."
Even up here in our dilatory Dutchess County the breeze smells green.It makes you want to be out and away, roaming the hills, or else down onyour knees grubbing in the dirt. Isn't it funny what farmering instinctsthe budding spring awakens in even the most urban souls?
I have spent the morning making plans for little private gardens forevery child over nine. The big potato field is doomed. That is the onlyfeasible spot for sixty-two private gardens. It is near enough to bewatched from the north windows, and yet far enough away, so that theirmessing will not injure our highly prized landscape lawn. Also the earthis rich, and they have some chance of success. I don't want the poorlittle chicks to scratch all summer, and then not turn up any treasurein the end. In order to furnish an incentive, I shall announce thatthe institution will buy their produce and pay in real money, though Iforesee we shall be buried under a mountain of radishes.
I do so want to develop self-reliance and initiative in these children,two sturdy qualities in which they are conspicuously lacking (with theexception of Sadie Kate and a few other bad ones). Children who havespirit enough to be bad I consider very hopeful. It's those who are goodjust from inertia that are discouraging.
The last few days have been spent mainly in charming the devil out ofPunch, an interesting task if I could devote my whole time to it.But with one hundred and seven other little devils to charm away, myattention is sorely deflected.
The awful thing about this life is that whatever I am doing, the otherthings that I am not doing, but ought to be, keep tugging at my skirts.There is no doubt but Punch's personal devil needs the whole attentionof a whole person,--preferably two persons,--so that they could spelleach other and get some rest.
Sadie Kate has just flown in from the nursery with news of a scarletgoldfish (Gordon's gift) swallowed by one of our babies. Mercy! thenumber of calamities that can occur in an orphan asylum!
9 P.M.

My children are in bed, and I've just had a thought. Wouldn't it beheavenly if the hibernating system prevailed among the human young?There would be some pleasure in running an asylum if one could just tuckthe little darlings into bed the first of October and keep them thereuntil the twenty-second of April.
I'm yours, as ever,
SALLIE.


April 24.
Dear Jervis Pendleton, Esq.:
This is to supplement a night telegram which I sent you ten minutesago. Fifty words not being enough to convey any idea of my emotions, Iherewith add a thousand.
As you will know by the time you receive this, I have discharged thefarmer, and he has refused to be discharged. Being twice the size of me,I can't lug him to the gate and chuck him out. He wants a notificationfrom the president of the board of trustees written in vigorous languageon official paper in typewriting. So, dear president of the board oftrustees, kindly supply all of this at your earliest convenience.
Here follows the history of the case:
The winter season still being with us when I arrived and farmingactivities at a low ebb, I have heretofore paid little attention toRobert Sterry except to note on two occasions that his pigpens neededcleaning; but today I sent for him to come and consult with me in regardto spring planting.
Sterry came, as requested, and seated himself at ease in my office withhis hat upon his head. I suggested as tactfully as might be that heremove it, an entirely necessary request, as little orphan boys werein and out on errands, and "hats off in the house" is our first rule inmasculine deportment.
Sterry complied with my request, and stiffened himself to be againstwhatever I might desire.
I proceeded to the subject in hand, namely, that the diet of theJohn Grier Home in the year to come is to consist less exclusively ofpotatoes. At which our farmer grunted in the manner of the Hon. CyrusWykoff, only it was a less ethereal and gentlemanly grunt than a trusteepermits himself. I enumerated corn and beans and onions and peas andtomatoes and beets and carrots and turnips as desirable substitutes.
Sterry observed that if potatoes and cabbages was good enough for him,he guessed they was good enough for charity children.
I proceeded imperturbably to say that the two-acre potato field was tobe plowed and fertilized, and laid out into sixty individual gardens,the boys assisting in the work.
At that Sterry exploded. The two-acre field was the most fertile andvaluable piece of earth on the whole place. He guessed if I was to breakthat up into play gardens for the children to mess about in, I'd behearing about it pretty danged quick from the board of trustees. Thatfield was fitted for potatoes, it had always raised potatoes, and it wasgoing to continue to raise them just as long as he had anything to sayabout it.
"You have nothing whatever to say about it," I amiably replied. "Ihave decided that the two-acre field is the best plot to use for thechildren's gardens, and you and the potatoes will have to give way."
Whereupon he rose in a storm of bucolic wrath, and said he'd be goldarned if he'd have a lot of these danged city brats interfering withhis work.
I explained--very calmly for a red-haired person with Irishforebears--that this place was run for the exclusive benefit of thesechildren; that the children were not here to be exploited for thebenefit of the place, a philosophy which he did not grasp, though myfancy city language had a slightly dampening effect. I added that whatI required in a farmer was the ability and patience to instruct theboys in gardening and simple outdoor work; that I wished a man oflarge sympathies whose example would be an inspiring influence to thesechildren of the city streets.
Sterry, pacing about like a caged woodchuck, launched into a tiradeabout silly Sunday-school notions, and, by a transition which I did notgrasp, passed to a review of the general subject of woman's suffrage.I gathered that he is not in favor of the movement. I let him arguehimself quiet, then I handed him a check for his wages, and told him tovacate the tenant house by twelve o'clock next Wednesday.
Sterry says he'll be danged if he will. (Excuse so many DANGEDS. Itis the creature's only adjective.) He was engaged to work for thisinstitution by the president of the board of trustees, and he will notmove from that house until the president of the board of trustees tellshim to go. I don't think poor Sterry realizes that since his arrival anew president has come to the throne.
ALORS you have the story. I make no threats, but Sterry or McBride--takeyour choice, dear sir.
I am also about to write to the head of the Massachusetts AgriculturalCollege, at Amherst, asking him to recommend a good, practical man witha nice, efficient, cheerful wife, who will take the entire care of ourmodest domain of seventeen acres, and who will be a man with the rightpersonality to place over our boys.
If we get the farming end of this institution into running shape, itought to furnish not only beans and onions for the table, but educationfor our hands and brains.

I remain, sir, Yours most truly, S. McBRIDE, Superintendent of the JohnGrier Home.
P.S. I think that Sterry will probably come back some night and throwrocks through the windows. Shall I have them insured?


My dear Enemy:
You disappeared so quickly this afternoon that I had no chance to thankyou, but the echoes of that discharge penetrated as far as my library.Also, I have viewed the debris. What on earth did you do to poor Sterry?Watching the purposeful set of your shoulders as you strode toward thecarriage house, I was filled with sudden compunction. I did not want theman murdered, merely reasoned with. I am afraid you were a little harsh.
However, your technic seems to have been effective. Report says that hehas telephoned for a moving wagon and that Mrs. Sterry is even now onher hands and knees ripping up the parlor carpet.
For this relief much thanks.
SALLIE McBRIDE.


April 26.
Dear Jervis:
Your vigorous telegram was, after all, not needed. Dr. Robin MacRae, whois a grand PAWKY mon when it comes to a fight, accomplished the businesswith beautiful directness. I was so bubbling with rage that immediatelyafter writing to you I called up the doctor on the telephone, andrehearsed the whole business over again. Now, our Sandy, whatever hisfailings (and he has them), does have an uncommon supply of commonsense. He knows how useful those gardens are going to be, and how worsethan useless Sterry was. Also says he, "The superintendent's authoritymust be upheld." (That, incidentally, is beautiful, coming from him.)But anyway, those were his words. And he hung up the receiver, crankedup his car, and flew up here at lawless speed. He marched straight toSterry, impelled by a fine Scotch rage, and he discharged the man withsuch vigor and precision, that the carriage house window was shatteredto fragments.
Since this morning at eleven, when Sterry's wagonload of furniturerumbled out of the gates, a sweet peace has reigned over the J. G. H.A man from the village is helping us out while we hopefully await thefarmer of our dreams.
I am sorry to have troubled you with our troubles. Tell Judy that sheowes me a letter, and won't hear from me until she has paid it. Your ob'd'tservant,
S. McBRIDE.

Dear Judy:
In my letter of yesterday to Jervis I forgotted (Punch's word) to conveyto you our thanks for three tin bathtubs. The skyblue tub with poppieson the side adds a particularly bright note to the nursery. I do lovepresents for the babies that are too big to be swallowed.
You will be pleased to hear that our manual training is well under way.The carpenter benches are being installed in the old primary room,and until our schoolhouse gets its new addition, our primary classis meeting on the front porch, in accordance with Miss Matthew's ablesuggestion.
The girls' sewing classes are also in progress. A circle of benchesunder the copper beech tree accommodates the hand sewers, while the biggirls take turns at our three machines. Just as soon as they gainsome proficiency we will begin the glorious work of redressing theinstitution. I know you think I'm slow, but it's really a task toaccomplish one hundred and eighty new frocks. And the girls willappreciate them so much more if they do the work themselves.
I may also report that our hygiene system has risen to a high level. Dr.MacRae has introduced morning and evening exercises, and a glass of milkand a game of tag in the middle of school hours. He has instituted aphysiology class, and has separated the children into small groups, sothat they may come to his house, where he has a manikin that comes apartand shows all its messy insides. They can now rattle off scientifictruths about their little digestions as fluently as Mother Goose rhymes.We are really becoming too intelligent for recognition. You would neverguess that we were orphans to hear us talk; we are quite like Bostonchildren.
2 P.M.

O Judy, such a calamity! Do you remember several weeks ago I told youabout placing out a nice little girl in a nice family home where Ihoped she would be adopted? It was a kind Christian family living ina pleasant country village, the foster-father a deacon in the church.Hattie was a sweet, obedient, housewifely little body, and it lookedas though we had exactly fitted them to each other. My dear, she wasreturned this morning for STEALING. Scandal piled on scandal: SHE HADSTOLEN A COMMUNION CUP FROM CHURCH!
Between her sobs and their accusations it took me half an hour to gatherthe truth. It seems that the church they attend is very modern andhygienic, like our doctor, and has introduced individual communion cups.Poor little Hattie had never heard of communion in her life. In fact,she wasn't very used to church, Sunday-school having always sufficed forher simple religious needs. But in her new home she attended both, andone day, to her pleased surprise, they served refreshments. But theyskipped her. She made no comment, however; she is used to being skipped.
But as they were starting home she saw that the little silver cup hadbeen casually left in the seat, and supposing that it was a souvenirthat you could take if you wished, she put it into her pocket.
It came to light two days later as the most treasured ornament of herdoll's-house. It seems that Hattie long ago saw a set of doll's dishesin a toy shop window, and has ever since dreamed of possessing a set ofher own. The communion cup was not quite the same, but it answered.Now, if our family had only had a little less religion and a little moresense, they would have returned the cup, perfectly unharmed, and havemarched Hattie to the nearest toy shop and bought her some dishes. Butinstead, they bundled the child and her belongings into the first trainthey could catch, and shoved her in at our front door, proclaimingloudly that she was a thief.
I am pleased to say that I gave that indignant deacon and his wife sucha thorough scolding as I am sure they have never listened to from thepulpit. I borrowed some vigorous bits from Sandy's vocabulary, and sentthem home quite humbled. As for poor little Hattie, here she is backagain, after going out with such high hopes. It has an awfully bad moraleffect on a child to be returned to the asylum in disgrace, especiallywhen she wasn't aware of committing a crime. It gives her a feeling thatthe world is full of unknown pitfalls, and makes her afraid to takea step. I must bend all my energies now toward finding another set ofparents for her, and ones that haven't grown so old and settled and goodthat they have entirely forgotten their own childhood.
Sunday.

I forgot to tell you that our new farmer is here, Turnfelt by name; andhis wife is a love, yellow hair and dimples. If she were an orphan,I could place her in a minute. We can't let her go to waste. I havea beautiful plan of building an addition to the farmer's cottage, andestablishing under her comfortable care a sort of brooding-house wherewe can place our new little chicks, to make sure they haven't anythingcontagious and to eliminate as much profanity as possible before turningthem loose among our other perfect chicks.
How does that strike you? It is very necessary in an institution as fullof noise and movement and stir as this to have some isolated spot wherewe can put cases needing individual attention. Some of our childrenhave inherited nerves, and a period of quiet contemplation is indicated.Isn't my vocabulary professional and scientific? Daily intercourse withDr. Robin MacRae is extremely educational.
Since Turnfelt came, you should see our pigs. They are so clean and pinkand unnatural that they don't recognize one another any more as theypass.
Our potato field is also unrecognizable. It has been divided with stringand pegs into as many squares as a checker-board, and every child hasstaked out a claim. Seed catalogues form our only reading matter.
Noah has just returned from a trip to the village for the Sunday papersto amuse his leisure. Noah is a very cultivated person; he not onlyreads perfectly, but he wears tortoise-shell-rimmed spectacles while hedoes it. He also brought from the post office a letter from you, writtenFriday night. I am pained to note that you do not care for "GostaBerling" and that Jervis doesn't. The only comment I can make is, "Whata shocking lack of literary taste in the Pendleton family!"
Dr. MacRae has another doctor visiting him, a very melancholy gentlemanwho is at the head of a private psychopathic institution, and thinksthere's no good in life. But I suppose this pessimistic view is naturalif you eat three meals a day with a tableful of melancholics. He goesup and down the world looking for signs of degeneracy, and finds themeverywhere. I expected, after half an hour's conversation, that he wouldask to look down my throat to see if I had a cleft palate. Sandy's tastein friends seems to resemble his taste in literature. Gracious! this isa letter!
Good-by.
SALLIE.

Thursday, May 2.
Dear Judy:
Such a bewildering whirl of events! The J. G. H. is breathless.Incidentally, I am on the way toward solving my problem of what to dowith the children while the carpenters and plumbers and masons are here.Or, rather, my precious brother has solved it for me.
This afternoon I went over my linen supply, and made the shockingdiscovery that we have only sheets enough to change the children's bedsevery two weeks, which, it appears, is our shiftless custom. While Iwas still in the midst of my household gear, with a bunch of keys at mygirdle, looking like the chatelaine of a medieval chateau, who should beushered in but Jimmie?
Being extremely occupied, I dropped a slanting kiss on his nose, andsent him off to look over the place in charge of my two oldest urchins.They collected six friends and organized a baseball game. Jimmie cameback blown, but enthusiastic, and consented to prolong his visit overthe week end, though after the dinner I gave him he has decided to takehis future meals at the hotel. As we sat with our coffee before thefire, I confided to him my anxiety as to what should be done with thechicks while their new brooder is building. You know Jimmie. In one halfa minute his plan was formulated.
"Build an Adirondack camp on that little plateau up by the wood lot.You can make three open shacks, each holding eight bunks, and move thetwenty-four oldest boys out there for the summer. It won't cost twocents."
"Yes," I objected, "but it will cost more than two cents to engage a manto look after them."
"Perfectly easy," said Jimmie, grandly. "I'll find you a college fellowwho'll be glad to come during the vacation for his board and a merepittance, only you'll have to set up more filling board than you gave metonight."
Dr. MacRae dropped in about nine o'clock, after visiting the hospitalward. We've got three cases of whooping cough, but all isolated, and nomore coming. How those three got in is a mystery. It seems there is alittle bird that brings whooping cough to orphan asylums.
Jimmie fell upon him for backing in his camp scheme, and the doctor gaveit enthusiastically. They seized pencil and paper and drew up plans. Andbefore the evening was over, the last nail was hammered. Nothing wouldsatisfy those two men but to go to the telephone at ten o'clock androuse a poor carpenter from his sleep. He and some lumber are orderedfor eight in the morning.
I finally got rid of them at ten-thirty, still talking uprights andjoists and drainage and roof slants.
The excitement of Jimmie and coffee and all these building operationsinduced me to sit down immediately and write a letter to you; but Ithink, by your leave, I'll postpone further details to another time.Yours ever,
SALLIE.

Saturday.
Dear Enemy:
Will you be after dining with us at seven tonight? It's a real dinnerparty; we're going to have ice-cream.
My brother has discovered a promising young man to take charge of theboys,--maybe you know him,--Mr. Witherspoon, at the bank. I wish tointroduce him to asylum circles by easy steps, so PLEASE don't mentioninsanity or epilepsy or alcoholism or any of your other favorite topics.
He is a gay young society leader, used to very fancy things to eat. Doyou suppose we can ever make him happy at the John Grier Home? Yours inevident haste,
SALLIE McBRIDE.

Sunday.
Dear Judy:
Jimmie was back at eight Friday morning, and the doctor at a quarterpast. They and the carpenter and our new farmer and Noah and our twohorses and our eight biggest boys have been working ever since. Neverwere building operations set going in faster time. I wish I had a dozenJimmies on the place, though I will say that my brother works fasterif you catch him before the first edge of his enthusiasm wears away. Hewould not be much good at chiseling out a medieval cathedral.
He came back Saturday morning aglow with a new idea. He had met atthe hotel the night before a friend who belongs to his hunting club inCanada, and who is cashier of our First (and only) National Bank.
"He's a bully good sport," said Jimmie, "and exactly the man you wantto camp out with those kids and lick 'em into shape. He'll be willing tocome for his board and forty dollars a month, because he's engaged to agirl in Detroit and wants to save. I told him the food was rotten, butif he kicked enough, you'd probably get a new cook."
"What's his name?" said I, with guarded interest.
"He's got a peach of a name. It's Percy de Forest Witherspoon."
I nearly had hysterics. Imagine a Percy de Forest Witherspoon in chargeof those twenty-four wild little savages!
But you know Jimmie when he has an idea. He had already invited Mr.Witherspoon to dine with me on Saturday evening, and had ordered oystersand squabs and ice-cream from the village caterer to help out my veal.It ended by my giving a very formal dinner party, with Miss Matthews andBetsy and the doctor included.
I almost asked the Hon. Cy and Miss Snaith. Ever since I have knownthose two, I have felt that there ought to be a romance between them.Never have I known two people who matched so perfectly. He's a widowerwith five children. Don't you suppose it might be arranged? If he hada wife to take up his attention, it might deflect him a little from us.I'd be getting rid of them both at one stroke. It's to be consideredamong our future improvements.
Anyway, we had our dinner. And during the course of the evening myanxiety grew, not as to whether Percy would do for us, but as to whetherwe should do for Percy. If I searched the world over, I never couldfind a young man more calculated to win the affection of those boys.You know, just by looking at him, that he does everything well, at leasteverything vigorous. His literary and artistic accomplishments I suspecta bit, but he rides and shoots and plays golf and football and sails aboat. He likes to sleep out of doors and he likes boys. He has alwayswanted to know some orphans; often read about 'em in books, he says, butnever met any face to face. Percy does seem too good to be true.
Before they left, Jimmie and the doctor hunted up a lantern, and intheir evening clothes conducted Mr. Witherspoon across a plowed field toinspect his future dwelling.
And such a Sunday as we passed! I had absolutely to forbid theircarpentering. Those men would have put in a full day, quite irrespectiveof the damage done to one hundred and four little moral natures. As itis, they have just stood and looked at those shacks and handled theirhammers, and thought about where they would drive the first nailtomorrow morning. The more I study men, the more I realize that they arenothing in the world but boys grown too big to be spankable.
I am awfully worried as to how to feed Mr. Witherspoon. He looks asthough he had a frightfully healthy appetite, and he looks as though hecouldn't swallow his dinner unless he had on evening clothes. I've madeBetsy send home for a trunkful of evening gowns in order to keep up oursocial standing. One thing is fortunate: he takes his luncheon at thehotel, and I hear their luncheons are very filling.
Tell Jervis I am sorry he is not with us to drive a nail for the camp.Here comes the Hon. Cy up the path. Heaven save us!
Ever your unfortunate,
S. McB.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
May 8.
Dear Judy:
Our camp is finished, our energetic brother has gone, and ourtwenty-four boys have passed two healthful nights in the open. The threebark-covered shacks add a pleasant rustic touch to the grounds. They arelike those we used to have in the Adirondacks, closed on three sidesand open in the front, and one larger than the rest to allow a privatepavilion for Mr. Percy Witherspoon. An adjacent hut, less exposed to theweather, affords extremely adequate bathing facilities, consisting of afaucet in the wall and three watering-cans. Each camp has a bath masterwho stands on a stool and sprinkles each little shiverer as he trotsunder. Since our trustees WON'T give us enough bathtubs, we have to useour wits.
The three camps have organized into three tribes of Indians, each witha chief of its own to answer for its conduct, Mr. Witherspoon high chiefof all, and Dr. MacRae the medicine man. They dedicated their lodgesTuesday evening with appropriate tribal ceremonies. And though theypolitely invited me to attend, I decided that it was a purely masculineaffair, so I declined to go, but sent refreshments, a very popular move.Betsy and I walked as far as the baseball field in the course of theevening, and caught a glimpse of the orgies. The braves were squattingin a circle about a big fire, each decorated with a blanket from his bedand a rakish band of feathers. (Our chickens seem very scant as to tail,but I have asked no unpleasant questions.) The doctor, with a Navajoblanket about his shoulders, was executing a war dance, while Jimmieand Mr. Witherspoon beat on war drums--two of our copper kettles, nowpermanently dented. Fancy Sandy! It's the first youthful glimmer I haveever caught in the man.
After ten o'clock, when the braves were safely stowed for the night,the three men came in and limply dropped into comfortable chairs in mylibrary, with the air of having made martyrs of themselves in the greatcause of charity. But they did not deceive me. They originated all thattomfoolery for their own individual delectation.
So far Mr. Percy Witherspoon appears fairly happy. He is presiding atone end of the officers' table under the special protection of Betsy,and I am told that he instills considerable life into that sedateassemblage. I have endeavored to run up their menu a trifle, andhe accepts what is put before him with a perfectly good appetite,irrespective of the absence of such accustomed trifles as oysters andquail and soft-shell crabs.
There was no sign of a private sitting room that I could put at thisyoung man's disposal, but he himself has solved the difficulty byproposing to occupy our new laboratory. So he spends his evenings with abook and a pipe, comfortably stretched in the dentist's chair. Thereare not many society men who would be willing to spend their evenings soharmlessly. That girl in Detroit is a lucky young thing.
Mercy! An automobile full of people has just arrived to look over theinstitution, and Betsy, who usually does the honors, not here. I fly.
ADDIO!
SALLIE.

My dear Gordon:
This is not a letter,--I don't owe you one,--it's a receipt forsixty-five pairs of roller skates.
Many thanks.
S. McB.

Friday.
Dear Enemy:
I hear that I missed a call today, but Jane delivered your message,together with the "Genetic Philosophy of Education." She says thatyou will call in a few days for my opinion of the book. Is it to be awritten or an oral examination?
And doesn't it ever occur to you that this education business is ratherone-sided? It often strikes me that Dr. Robin MacRae's mental attitudewould also be the better for some slight refurbishing. I will promise toread your book, provided you read one of mine. I am sending herewith the"Dolly Dialogues," and shall ask for an opinion in a day or so.
It's uphill work making a Scotch Presbyterian frivolous, but persistencyaccomplishes wonders.
S. McB.

May 12. My dear, dear Judy:
Talk about floods in Ohio! Right here in Dutchess County we are theconsistency of a wet sponge. Rain for five days, and everything wrongwith this institution.
The babies have had croup, and we have been up o' nights with them. Cookhas given notice, and there's a dead rat in the walls. Our three campsleaked, and in the early dawn, after the first cloudburst, twenty-fourbedraggled little Indians, wrapped in damp bedding, came shivering tothe door and begged for admission. Since then every clothesline, everystair-railing has been covered with wet and smelly blankets that steam,but won't dry. Mr. Percy de Forest Witherspoon has returned to the hotelto wait until the sun comes out.
After being cooped up for four days with no exercise to speak of, thechildren's badness is breaking out in red spots, like the measles. Betsyand I have thought of every form of active and innocent occupation thatcould be carried on in such a congested quarter as this: blind man'sbuff and pillow fights and hide-and-go-seek, gymnastics in the diningroom, and bean-bags in the school room. (We broke two windows.) The boysplayed leapfrog up and down the hall, and jarred all the plaster in thebuilding. We have cleaned energetically and furiously. All the woodworkhas been washed, and all of the floors polished. But despite everything,we have a great deal of energy left, and we are getting to that point ofnerves where we want to punch one another.
Sadie Kate has been acting like a little deil--do they have femininedeils? If not, Sadie Kate has originated the species. And this afternoonLoretta Higgins had--well, I don't know whether it was a sort of fit orjust a temper. She lay down on the floor and howled for a solid hour,and when any one tried to approach her, she thrashed about like a littlewindmill and bit and kicked.
By the time the doctor came she had pretty well worn herself out.He picked her up, limp and drooping, and carried her to a cot in thehospital room; and after she was asleep he came down to my library andasked to look at the archives.
Loretta is thirteen; in the three years she has been here she has hadfive of these outbreaks, and has been punished good and hard for them.The child's ancestral record is simple: "Mother died of alcoholicdementia, Bloomingdale Asylum. Father unknown."
He studied the page long and frowningly and shook his head.
"With a heredity like that, is it right to punish the child for having ashattered nervous system?"
"It is not," said I, firmly. "We will mend her shattered nervoussystem."
"If we can."
"We'll feed her up on cod-liver oil and sunshine, and find a nice kindfoster mother who will take pity on the poor little--"
But then my voice trailed off into nothing as I pictured Loretta's face,with her hollow eyes and big nose and open mouth and no chin and stringyhair and sticking-out ears. No foster mother in the world would love achild who looked like that.
"Why, oh, why," I wailed, "doesn't the good Lord send orphan childrenwith blue eyes and curly hair and loving dispositions? I could place amillion of that sort in kind homes, but no one wants Loretta."
"I'm afraid the good Lord doesn't have anything to do with bringing ourLorettas into the world. It is the devil who attends to them."
Poor Sandy! He gets awfully pessimistic about the future of theuniverse; but I don't wonder, with such a cheerless life as he leads. Helooked today as though his own nervous system was shattered. He had beensplashing about in the rain since five this morning, when he was calledto a sick baby case. I made him sit down and have some tea, and we had anice, cheerful talk on drunkenness and idiocy and epilepsy and insanity.He dislikes alcoholic parents, but he ties himself into a knot overinsane parents.
Privately, I don't believe there's one thing in heredity, provided yousnatch the babies away before their eyes are opened.
We've got the sunniest youngster here you ever saw; his mother andAunt Ruth and Uncle Silas all died insane, but he is as placid andunexcitable as a cow.
Good-by, my dear. I am sorry this is not a more cheerful letter, thoughat this moment nothing unpleasant seems to be happening. It's eleveno'clock, and I have just stuck my head into the corridor, and all isquiet except for two banging shutters and leaking eaves. I promised JaneI would go to bed at ten. Good night, and joy be wi' ye baith!
SALLIE.
P.S. There is one thing in the midst of all my troubles that I have tobe grateful for: the Hon. Cy has been stricken with a lingering attackof grippe. In a burst of thankfulness I sent him a bunch of violets.P.S. 2. We are having an epidemic of pinkeye.

May 16. Good morning, my dear Judy!
Three days of sunshine, and the J. G. H. is smiling.
I am getting my immediate troubles nicely settled. Those beastlyblankets have dried at last, and our camps have been made livable again.They are floored with wooden slats and roofed with tar paper. (Mr.Witherspoon calls them chicken coops.) We are digging a stone-linedditch to convey any further cloudbursts from the plateau on which theystand to the cornfield below. The Indians have resumed savage life, andtheir chief is back at his post.
The doctor and I have been giving Loretta Higgins's nerves our mostcareful consideration. We think that this barrack life, with itsconstant movement and stir, is too exciting, and we have decided thatthe best plan will be to board her out in a private family, where shewill receive a great deal of individual attention.
The doctor, with his usual resourcefulness, has produced the family.They live next door to him and are very nice people; I have justreturned from calling. The husband is foreman of the casting room at theiron works, and the wife is a comfortable soul who shakes all overwhen she laughs. They live mostly in their kitchen in order to keep theparlor neat; but it is such a cheerful kitchen that I should like tolive in it myself. She has potted begonias in the window and a nicepurry tiger cat asleep on a braided rug in front of the stove. She bakeson Saturday--cookies and gingerbread and doughnuts. I am planning to paymy weekly call upon Loretta every Saturday morning at eleven o'clock.Apparently I made as favorable an impression on Mrs. Wilson as she madeon me. After I had gone, she confided to the doctor that she liked mebecause I was just as common as she was.
Loretta is to learn housework and have a little garden of her own, andparticularly play out of doors in the sunshine. She is to go to bedearly and be fed up on nice nourishing food, and they are to pet her andmake her happy. All this for three dollars a week!
Why not find a hundred such families, and board out all the children?Then this building could be turned into an idiot asylum, and I, notknowing anything about idiots, could conscientiously resign and go backhome and live happily ever after.
Really, Judy, I am growing frightened. This asylum will get me if I staylong enough. I am becoming so interested in it that I can't think ortalk or dream of anything else. You and Jervis have blasted all myprospects in life.
Suppose I should retire and marry and have a family. As families gonowadays, I couldn't hope for more than five or six children at themost, and all with the same heredity. But, mercy! such a family appearsperfectly insignificant and monotonous. You have institutionalized me.
Reproachfully yours,
SALLIE McBRIDE.
P.S. We have a child here whose father was lynched. Isn't that a piquantdetail to have in one's history?

Tuesday.
Dearest Judy:
What shall we do? Mamie Prout does not like prunes. This antipathy to acheap and healthful foodstuff is nothing but imagination, and oughtnot to be countenanced among the inmates of a well-managed institution.Mamie must be made to like prunes. So says our grammar teacher, whospends the noonday hour with us and overlooks the morals of our charges.About one o'clock today she marched Mamie to my office charged with theoffense of refusing, ABSOLUTELY refusing, to open her mouth and put ina prune. The child was plumped down on a stool to await punishment fromme.
Now, as you know, I do not like bananas, and I should hate awfully to beforced to swallow them; so, by the same token, why should I force MamieProut to swallow prunes?
While I was pondering a course that would seem to uphold Miss Keller'sauthority, but would at the same time leave a loophole for Mamie, I wascalled to the telephone.
"Sit there until I come back," I said, and went out and closed the door.
The message was from a kind lady wishing to motor me to a committeemeeting. I didn't tell you that I am organizing local interest in ourbehalf. The idle rich who possess estates in this neighborhood arebeginning to drift out from town, and I am laying my plans to catchthem before they are deflected by too many garden parties and tennistournaments. They have never been of the slightest use to this asylum,and I think it's about time they woke up to a realization of ourpresence.
Returning at teatime, I was waylaid in the hall by Dr. MacRae, whodemanded some statistics from my office. I opened the door, and theresat Mamie Prout exactly where she had been left four hours before.
"Mamie darling!" I cried in horror. "You haven't been here all thistime?"
"Yes, ma'am," said Mamie; "you told me to wait until you came back."
That poor patient little thing was fairly swaying with weariness, butshe never uttered a whimper.
I will say for Sandy that he was SWEET. He gathered her up in his armsand carried her to my library, and petted her and caressed her back tosmiles. Jane brought the sewing table and spread it before the fire,and while the doctor and I had tea, Mamie had her supper. I suppose,according to the theory of some educators, now, when she was thoroughlyworn out and hungry, would have been the psychological moment to ply herwith prunes. But you will be pleased to hear that I did nothing of thesort, and that the doctor for once upheld my unscientific principles.Mamie had the most wonderful supper of her life, embellished withstrawberry jam from my private jar and peppermints from Sandy's pocket.We returned her to her mates happy and comforted, but still possessingthat regrettable distaste for prunes.
Did you ever know anything more appalling than this soul-crushingunreasoning obedience which Mrs. Lippett so insistently fostered? It'sthe orphan asylum attitude toward life, and somehow I must crush it out.Initiative, responsibility, curiosity, inventiveness, fight--oh dear! Iwish the doctor had a serum for injecting all these useful virtues intoan orphan's circulation.
LATER.

I wish you'd come back to New York. I've appointed you press agentfor this institution, and we need some of your floweriest writingimmediately. There are seven tots here crying to be adopted, and it'syour business to advertise them.
Little Gertrude is cross-eyed, but dear and affectionate and generous.Can't you write her up so persuasively that some loving family willbe willing to take her even if she isn't beautiful? Her eyes can beoperated on when she's older; but if it were a cross disposition shehad, no surgeon in the world could remove that. The child knows there issomething missing, though she has never seen a live parent in her life.She holds up her arms persuasively to every person who passes. Put inall the pathos you are capable of, and see if you can't fetch her amother and father.
Maybe you can get one of the New York papers to run a Sunday featurearticle about a lot of different children. I'll send some photographs.You remember what a lot of responses that "Smiling Joe" picture broughtfor the Sea Breeze people? I can furnish equally taking portraits ofLaughing Lou and Gurgling Gertrude and Kicking Karl if you will just addthe literary touch.
And do find me some sports who are not afraid of heredity. This wantingevery child to come from one of the first families of Virginia isgetting tiresome.
Yours, as usual,
SALLIE.

Friday. My dear, dear Judy:
Such an upheaval! I've discharged the cook and the housekeeper, and indelicate language conveyed the impression to our grammar teacher thatshe needn't come back next year. But, oh, if I could only discharge theHonorable Cy!
I must tell you what happened this morning. Our trustee, who has had adangerous illness, is now dangerously well again, and dropped in topay a neighborly call. Punch was occupying a rug on my library floor,virtuously engaged with building blocks. I am separating him from theother kindergarten children, and trying the Montessori method of aprivate rug and no nervous distraction. I was flattering myself that itwas working well; his vocabulary of late has become almost prudish.
After half an hour's desultory visit, the Hon. Cy rose to go. As thedoor closed behind him (I am at least thankful the child waited forthat), Punch raised his appealing brown eyes to mine and murmured, witha confiding smile:
"Gee! ain't he got de hell of a mug?"
If you know a kind Christian family where I can place out a sweet littlefive-year boy, please communicate at once with
S. McBRIDE,
Sup't John Grier Home.



Dear Pendletons:
I've never known anything like you two snails. You've only just reachedWashington, and I have had my suitcase packed for days, ready to spenda rejuvenating week end CHEZ VOUS. Please hurry! I've languished in thisasylum atmosphere as long as humanely possible. I shall gasp and die ifI don't get a change.
Yours,
on the point of suffocation,
S. McB.
P.S. Drop a card to Gordon Hallock, telling him you are there. He willbe charmed to put himself and the Capitol at your disposal. I knowthat Jervis doesn't like him, but Jervis ought to get over his baselessprejudices against politicians. Who knows? I may be entering politicsmyself some day.

My dear Judy:
We do receive the most amazing presents from our friends andbenefactors. Listen to this. Last week Mr. Wilton J. Leverett (I quotefrom his card) ran over a broken bottle outside our gate, and came into visit the institution while his chauffeur was mending the tire. Betsyshowed him about. He took an intelligent interest in everything he saw,particularly our new camps. That is an exhibit which appeals to men.He ended by removing his coat, and playing baseball with two tribesof Indians. After an hour and a half he suddenly looked at his watch,begged for a glass of water, and bowed himself off.
We had entirely forgotten the episode until this afternoon, when theexpressman drove up to the door with a present for the John GrierHome from the chemical laboratories of Wilton J. Leverett. It was abarrel--well, anyway, a good sized keg--full of liquid green soap!
Did I tell you that the seeds for our garden came from Washington?A polite present from Gordon Hallock and the U. S. Government. As anexample of what the past regime did not accomplish, Martin Schladerwitz,who has spent three years on this pseudo farm, knew no more than to diga grave two feet deep and bury his lettuce seeds!
Oh, you can't imagine the number of fields in which we need making over;but of course you, of all people, can imagine. Little by little I amgetting my eyes wide open, and things that just looked funny to me atfirst, now--oh dear! It's very disillusionizing. Every funny thing thatcomes up seems to have a little tragedy wrapped inside it.
Just at present we are paying anxious attention to our manners--notorphan asylum manners, but dancing school manners. There is to benothing Uriah Heepish about our attitude toward the world. The littlegirls make curtseys when they shake hands, and the boys remove caps andrise when a lady stands, and push in chairs at the table. (Tommy Woolseyshot Sadie Kate into her soup yesterday, to the glee of all observersexcept Sadie, who is an independent young damsel and doesn't care forthese useless masculine attentions.) At first the boys were inclined tojeer, but after observing the politeness of their hero, Percy de ForestWitherspoon, they have come up to the mark like little gentlemen.
Punch is paying a call this morning. For the last half-hour, while Ihave been busily scratching away to you, he has been established in thewindow seat, quietly and undestructively engaged with colored pencils.Betsy, EN PASSANT, just dropped a kiss upon his nose.
"Aw, gwan!" said Punch, blushing quite pink, and wiping off the caresswith a fine show of masculine indifference. But I notice he has resumedwork upon his red-and-green landscape with heightened ardor and anattempt at whistling. We'll succeed yet in conquering that young man'stemper.

Tuesday.

The doctor is in a very grumbly mood today. He called just as thechildren were marching in to dinner, whereupon he marched, too, andsampled their food, and, oh, my dear! the potatoes were scorched! Andsuch a clishmaclaver as that man made! It is the first time the potatoesever have been scorched, and you know that scorching sometimes happensin the best of families. But you would think from Sandy's language thatthe cook had scorched them on purpose, in accordance with my orders.
As I have told you before, I could do very nicely without Sandy.

Wednesday.

Yesterday being a wonderful sunny day, Betsy and I turned our backs uponduty and motored to the very fancy home of some friends of hers, wherewe had tea in an Italian garden. Punch and Sadie Kate had been SUCH goodchildren all day that at the last moment we telephoned for permission toinclude them, too.
"Yes, indeed, do bring the little dears," was the enthusiastic response.
But the choice of Punch and Sadie Kate was a mistake. We ought to havetaken Mamie Prout, who has demonstrated her ability to sit. I shallspare you the details of our visit; the climax was reached when Punchwent goldfishing in the bottom of the swimming pool. Our host pulled himout by an agitated leg, and the child returned to the asylum swathed inthat gentleman's rose-colored bathrobe.
What do you think? Dr. Robin MacRae, in a contrite mood for having beenso intensely disagreeable yesterday, has just invited Betsy and meto take supper in his olive-green house next Sunday evening at seveno'clock in order to look at some microscopic slides. The entertainment,I believe, is to consist of a scarlet-fever culture, some alcoholictissue, and a tubercular gland. These social attentions bore himexcessively; but he realizes that if he is to have free scope inapplying his theories to the institution he must be a little polite toits superintendent.
I have just read this letter over, and I must admit that it skipslightly from topic to topic. But though it may not contain news of anygreat moment, I trust you will realize that its writing has consumedevery vacant minute during the last three days. I am,
Most fully occupied,
SALLIE McBRIDE.
P.S. A blessed woman came this morning and said she would take a childfor the summer--one of the sickest, weakest, neediest babies I couldgive her. She had just lost her husband, and wanted something HARD todo. Isn't that really very touching?

Saturday afternoon.
Dear Judy and Jervis:
Brother Jimmie (we are very alliterative!), spurred on by sundry beggingletters from me, has at last sent us a present; but he picked it outhimself.
WE HAVE A MONKEY! His name is Java. The children no longer hear theschool bell ring. On the day the creature came, this entire institutionformed in line and filed past and shook his paw. Poor Sing's nose is outof joint. I have to PAY to have him washed.
Sadie Kate is developing into my private secretary. I have her answerthe thank-you letters for the institution, and her literary style ismaking a hit among our benefactors. She invariably calls out a secondgift. I had hitherto believed that the Kilcoyne family sprang fromthe wild west of Ireland, but I begin to suspect that their source wasnearer Blarney Castle. You can see from the inclosed copy of the lettershe sent to Jimmie what a persuasive pen the young person has. Itrust that in this case at least, it will not bear the fruit that shesuggests.

Dear Mr. Jimie
We thank you very much for the lovly monkey you give. We name him javabecause that's a warm iland across the ocian where he was born up in anest like a bird only big the doctor told us.
The first day he come every boy and girl shook his hand and said goodmorning java his hand feels funny he holds so tite. I was afraid totouch him but now I let him sit on my shoulder and put his arms aroundmy kneck if he wants to. He makes a funny noise that sounds like sweringand gets mad when his tale is puled.
We love him dearly and we love you two.
The next time you have to give a present, please send an elifant. Well Iguess Ill stop.
Yours truly,
SADIE KATE KILCOYNE.


Percy de Forest Witherspoon is still faithful to his little followers,though I am so afraid he will get tired that I urge him to take frequentvacations. He has not only been faithful himself, but has brought inrecruits. He has large social connections in the neighborhood, and lastSaturday evening he introduced two friends, nice men who sat around thecampfire and swapped hunting stories.
One of them was just back from around the world, and told hair-raisinganecdotes of the head hunters of Sarawak, a narrow pink country on thetop of Borneo. My little braves pant to grow up and get to Sarawak, andgo out on the war-path after head hunters. Every encyclopedia in thisinstitution has been consulted, and there isn't a boy here who cannottell you the history, manners, climate, flora, and fungi of Borneo.I only wish Mr. Witherspoon would introduce friends who had been headhunting in England, France, and Germany, countries not quite so CHIC asSarawak, but more useful for general culture.
We have a new cook, the fourth since my reign began. I haven't botheredyou with my cooking troubles, but institutions don't escape anymore than families. The last is a negro woman, a big, fat, smiling,chocolate-colored creature from Souf Ca'lina. And ever since she cameon honey dew we've fed! Her name is--what do you guess? SALLIE, if youplease. I suggested that she change it.
"Sho, Miss, I's had dat name Sallie longer'n you, an' I couldn't getused nohow to answerin' up pert-like when you sings out `Mollie!' Seemslike Sallie jest b'longs to me."
So "Sallie" she remains; but at least there is no danger of our gettingour letters mixed, for her last name is nothing so plebeian as McBride.It's Johnston-Washington, with a hyphen.
Sunday.

Our favorite game of late is finding pet names for Sandy. His austerepresence lends itself to caricature. We have just originated a newbatch. The "Laird o' Cockpen" is Percy's choice.
The Laird o' Cockpen he's proud and he's great; His mind is ta'en up wi'the things of the state.
Miss Snaith disgustedly calls him "that man," and Betsy refers to him(in his absence) as "Dr. Cod-Liver." My present favorite is "MacphairsonClon Glocketty Angus McClan." But for real poetic feeling, Sadie Katebeats us all. She calls him "Mister Someday Soon." I don't believe thatthe doctor ever dropped into verse but once in his life, but every childin this institution knows that one poem by heart.
Someday soon something nice is going to happen;
Be a good little girl and take this hint: Swallow with a smile yourcod-liver ile,
And the first thing you know you will have a peppermint.

It's this evening that Betsy and I attend his supper party, and Iconfess that we are looking forward to seeing the interior of his gloomymansion with gleeful eagerness. He never talks about himself or his pastor anybody connected with himself. He appears to be an isolated figurestanding on a pedestal labeled S C I E N C E, without a glimmer of anyordinary affections or emotions or human frailties except temper. Betsyand I are simply eaten up with curiosity to know what sort of past hecame out of; but just let us get inside his house, and to our detectivesenses it will tell its own story. So long as the portal was guardedby a fierce McGurk, we had despaired of ever effecting an entrance; butnow, behold! The door has opened of its own accord.
To be continued.
S. McB.

Monday.
Dear Judy:
We attended the doctor's supper party last night, Betsy and Mr.Witherspoon and I. It turned out a passably cheerful occasion, though Iwill say that it began under heavy auspices.
His house on the inside is all that the outside promises. Never in mylife have I seen such an interior as that man's dining room. The wallsand carpets and lambrequins are a heavy dark green. A black marblemantelpiece shelters a few smoking black coals. The furniture isas nearly black as furniture comes. The decorations are two steelengravings in shiny black frames--the "Monarch of the Glen," and the"Stag at Bay."
We tried hard to be light and sparkling, but it was like eating supperin the family vault. Mrs. McGurk, in black alpaca with a black silkapron, clumped around the table, passing cold, heavy things to eat, witha step so firm that she rattled the silver in the sideboard drawers. Hernose was up, and her mouth was down. She clearly does not approve of themaster's entertaining, and she wishes to discourage all guests from everaccepting again.
Sandy sort of dimly knows that there is something the matter with hishouse, and in order to brighten it up a bit in honor of his guests,he had purchased flowers,--dozens of them,--the most exquisite pinkKillarney roses and red and yellow tulips. The McGurk had wedged themall together as tight as they would fit into a peacock-blue jardiniere,and plumped it down in the center of the table. The thing was as big asa bushel-basket. Betsy and I nearly forgot our manners when we sawthat centerpiece; but the doctor seemed so innocently pleased athaving obtained a bright note in his dining room that we suppressed ouramusement and complimented him warmly upon his happy color scheme.
The moment supper was over, we hastened with relief to his own part ofthe house, where the McGurk's influence does not penetrate. No one in acleaning capacity ever enters either his library or office or laboratoryexcept Llewelyn, a short, wiry, bow-legged Welshman, who combines to aunique degree the qualities of chambermaid and chauffeur.
The library, though not the most cheerful room I have ever seen,still, for a man's house, is not so bad--books all around from floor toceiling, with the overflow in piles on floor and table and mantelpiece;half a dozen abysmal leather chairs and a rug or so, with another blackmarble mantelpiece, but this time containing a crackling wood fire. Byway of bric-a-brac, he has a stuffed pelican and a crane with a frog inits mouth, also a raccoon sitting on a log, and a varnished tarpon. Afaint suggestion of iodoform floats in the air.
The doctor made the coffee himself in a French machine, and we dismissedhis housekeeper from our spirits. He really did do his best to be athoughtful host and I have to report that the word "insanity" was notonce mentioned. It seems that Sandy, in his moments of relaxation, is afisherman. He and Percy began swapping stories of salmon and trout, andhe finally got out his case of fishing flies, and gallantly presentedBetsy and me with a "silver doctor" and a "Jack Scott" out of whichto make hatpins. Then the conversation wandered to sport on the Scotchmoors, and he told about one time when he was lost, and spent the nightout in the heather. There is no doubt about it, Sandy's heart is in thehighlands.
I am afraid that Betsy and I have wronged him. Though it is hard torelinquish the interesting idea, he may not, after all, have committed acrime. We are now leaning to the belief that he was crossed in love.
It's really horrid of me to make fun of poor Sandy, for, despite hisstern bleakness of disposition, he's a pathetic figure of a man. Thinkof coming home after an anxious day's round to eat a solitary dinner inthat grim dining room!
Do you suppose it would cheer him up a little if I should send mycompany of artists to paint a frieze of rabbits around the wall?
With love, as usual,
SALLIE.

Dear Judy:
Aren't you ever coming back to New York? Please hurry! I need a new hat,and am desirous of shopping for it on Fifth Avenue, not on Water Street.Mrs. Gruby, our best milliner, does not believe in slavishly followingParis Fashions; she originates her own styles. But three years ago, asa great concession to convention, she did make a tour of the New Yorkshops, and is still creating models on the uplift of that visit.
Also, besides my own hat, I must buy 113 hats for my children, to saynothing of shoes and knickerbockers and shirts and hair-ribbons andstockings and garters. It's quite a task to keep a little family likemine decently clothed.
Did you get that big letter I wrote you last week? You never had thegrace to mention it in yours of Thursday, and it was seventeen pageslong, and took me DAYS to write.
Yours truly,
S. McBRIDE.
P.S. Why don't you tell me some news about Gordon? Have you seen him,and did he mention me? Is he running after any of those pretty Southerngirls that Washington is so full of? You know that I want to hear. Whymust you be so beastly uncommunicative?

Tuesday, 4:27 P.M.
Dear Judy:
Your telegram came two minutes ago by telephone.
Yes, thank you, I shall be delighted to arrive at 5:49 on Thursdayafternoon. And don't make any engagements for that evening, please, asI intend to sit up until midnight talking John Grier gossip with you andthe president.
Friday and Saturday and Monday I shall have to devote to shopping. Oh,yes, you're right; I already possess more clothes than any jailbirdneeds, but when spring comes, I must have new plumage. As it is, I wearan evening gown every night just to wear them out--no, not entirelythat; to make myself believe that I'm still an ordinary girl despitethis extraordinary life that you have pushed me into.
The Hon. Cy found me yesterday arrayed in a Nile-green crepe (Jane'screation, though it looked Parisian). He was quite puzzled when he foundI wasn't going to a ball. I invited him to stay and dine with me, andhe accepted! We got on very affably. He expands over his dinner. Foodappears to agree with him. If there's any Bernard Shaw in New York justnow, I believe that I might spare a couple of hours Saturday afternoonfor a matinee. G. B. S.'s dialogue would afford such a life-givingcontrast to the Hon. Cy's.
There's no use writing any more; I'll wait and talk.
ADDIO.
SALLIE.
P.S. Oh dear! just as I had begun to catch glimmerings of niceness inSandy, he broke out again and was ABOMINABLE. We unfortunately have fivecases of measles in this institution, and the man's manner suggests thatMiss Snaith and I gave the measles to the children on purpose to makehim trouble. There are many days when I should be willing to accept ourdoctor's resignation.

Wednesday.
Dear Enemy:
Your brief and dignified note of yesterday is at hand. I have neverknown anybody whose literary style resembled so exactly his spoken word.
And you will be greatly obliged if I will drop my absurd fashion ofcalling you "Enemy"? I will drop my absurd fashion of calling youEnemy just as soon as you drop your absurd fashion of getting angry andabusive and insulting the moment any little thing goes wrong.
I am leaving tomorrow afternoon to spend four days in New York.
Yours truly,
S. McBRIDE.

CHEZ THE PENDLETONS, New York. My dear Enemy:
I trust that this note will find you in a more affable frame of mindthan when I saw you last. I emphatically repeat that it was not due tothe carelessness of the superintendent of our institution that those twonew cases of measles crept in, but rather to the unfortunate anatomyof our old-fashioned building, which does not permit of the properisolation of contagious cases.
As you did not deign to visit us yesterday morning before I left, Icould not offer any parting suggestions. I therefore write to ask thatyou cast your critical eye upon Mamie Prout. She is covered all overwith little red spots which may be measles, though I am hoping not.Mamie spots very easily.
I return to prison life next Monday at six o'clock.
Yours truly,
S. McBRIDE.
P.S. I trust you will pardon my mentioning it, but you are not the kindof doctor that I admire. I like them chubby and round and smiling.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
June 9.
Dear Judy:
You are an awful family for an impressionable young girl to visit.How can you expect me to come back and settle down contentedly toinstitution life after witnessing such a happy picture of domesticconcord as the Pendleton household presents?
All the way back in the train, instead of occupying myself with twonovels, four magazines, and one box of chocolates that your husbandthoughtfully provided, I spent the time in a mental review of the youngmen of my acquaintance to see if I couldn't discover one as nice asJervis. I did! (A little nicer, I think.) From this day on he is themarked-down victim, the destined prey.
I shall hate to give up the asylum after getting so excited over it,but unless you are willing to move it to the capital, I don't see anyalternative.
The train was awfully late. We sat and smoked on a siding while twoaccommodations and a freight dashed past. I think we must have brokensomething, and had to tinker up our engine. The conductor was soothing,but uncommunicative.
It was 7:30 when I descended, the only passenger, at our insignificantstation in the pitch darkness and RAIN, without an umbrella, and wearingthat precious new hat. No Turnfelt to meet me; not even a station hack.To be sure, I hadn't telegraphed the exact time of my arrival, but,still, I did feel rather neglected. I had sort of vaguely expected allONE HUNDRED AND THIRTEEN to be drawn up by the platform, scatteringflowers and singing songs of welcome. Just as I was telling the stationman that I would watch his telegraph instrument while he ran acrossto the corner saloon and telephoned for a vehicle, there came whirlingaround the corner two big searchlights aimed straight at me. Theystopped nine inches before running me down, and I heard Sandy's voicesaying:
"Weel, weel, Miss Sallie McBride! I'm thinking it's ower time you cameback to tak' the bit bairns off my hands."
That man had come three times to meet me on the off chance of thetrain's getting in some time. He tucked me and my new hat and bags andbooks and chocolates all in under his waterproof flap, and we splashedoff. Really, I felt as if I was getting back home again, and quite sadat the thought of ever having to leave. Mentally, you see, I had alreadyresigned and packed and gone. The mere idea that you are not in a placefor the rest of your life gives you an awfully unstable feeling. That'swhy trial marriages would never work. You've got to feel you're in athing irrevocably and forever in order to buckle down and really putyour whole mind into making it a success.
It's astounding how much news can accrue in four days. Sandy justcouldn't talk fast enough to tell me everything I wanted to hear.Among other items, I learned that Sadie Kate had spent two days in theinfirmary, her malady being, according to the doctor's diagnosis, half ajar of gooseberry jam and Heaven knows how many doughnuts. Her work hadbeen changed during my absence to dishwashing in the officers' pantry,and the juxtaposition of so many exotic luxuries was too much for herfragile virtue.
Also, our colored cook Sallie and our colored useful man Noah haveentered upon a war of extermination. The original trouble was over alittle matter of kindling, augmented by a pail of hot water that Salliethrew out of the window with, for a woman, unusual accuracy of aim. Youcan see what a rare character the head of an orphan asylum musthave. She has to combine the qualities of a baby nurse and a policemagistrate.
The doctor had told only the half when we reached the house, and ashe had not yet dined, owing to meeting me three times, I begged himto accept the hospitality of the John Grier. I would get Betsy and Mr.Witherspoon, and we would hold an executive meeting, and settle all ourneglected businesses.
Sandy accepted with flattering promptness. He likes to dine outside ofthe family vault.
But Betsy, I found, had dashed home to greet a visiting grandparent,and Percy was playing bridge in the village. It's seldom the young thinggets out of an evening, and I'm glad for him to have a little cheerfuldiversion.
So it ended in the doctor's and my dining tete-a-tete on a hastilyimprovised dinner,--it was then close upon eight, and our normal dinnerhour is 6:30,--but it was such an improvised dinner as I am sureMrs. McGurk never served him. Sallie, wishing to impress me with herinvaluableness, did her absolutely Southern best. And after dinner wehad coffee before the fire in my comfortable blue library, while thewind howled outside and the shutters banged.
We passed a most cordial and intimate evening. For the first timesince our acquaintance I struck a new note in the man. There really issomething attractive about him when you once come to know him. But theprocess of knowing him requires time and tact. He's no' very gleg at theuptak. I've never seen such a tantalizing inexplicable person. All thetime I'm talking to him I feel as though behind his straight line of amouth and his half-shut eyes there were banked fires smoldering inside.Are you sure he hasn't committed a crime? He does manage to convey thedelicious feeling that he has.
And I must add that Sandy's not so bad a talker when he lets himself go.He has the entire volume of Scotch literature at his tongue's end.
"Little kens the auld wife as she sits by the fire what the wind isdoing on Hurly-Burly-Swire," he observed as a specially fierce blastdrove the rain against the window. That sounds pat, doesn't it? Ihaven't, though, the remotest idea what it means. And listen to this:between cups of coffee (he drinks far too much coffee for a sensiblemedical man) he casually let fall the news that his family knew the R.L. S. family personally, and used to take supper at 17 Heriot Row! Itended him assiduously for the rest of the evening in a Did you once seeShelley plain, And did he stop and speak to you? frame of mind.
When I started this letter, I had no intention of filling it with adescription of the recently excavated charms of Robin MacRae; it's justby way of remorseful apology. He was so nice and companionable lastnight that I have been going about today feeling conscience-smitten atthe thought of how mercilessly I made fun of him to you and Jervis. Ireally didn't mean quite all of the impolite things that I said. Aboutonce a month the man is sweet and tractable and engaging.
Punch has just been paying a social call, and during the course of ithe lost three little toadlings an inch long. Sadie Kate recovered one ofthem from under the bookcase, but the other two hopped away; and I'm soafraid they've taken sanctuary in my bed! I do wish that mice and snakesand toads and angleworms were not so portable. You never know what isgoing on in a perfectly respectable-looking child's pocket.
I had a beautiful visit in Casa Pendleton. Don't forget your promise toreturn it soon.
Yours as ever,
SALLIE.
P.S. I left a pair of pale-blue bedroom slippers under the bed. Willyou please have Mary wrap them up and mail them to me? And hold herhand while she writes the address. She spelt my name on the place cards"Mackbird."

Tuesday.
Dear Enemy:
As I told you, I left an application for an accomplished nurse with theemployment bureau of New York.

Wanted! A nurse maid with an ample lap suitable for the accommodation ofseventeen babies at once.

She came this afternoon, and this is the fine figure of a woman that Idrew!
We couldn't keep a baby from sliding off her lap unless we fastened himfirmly with safety pins.
Please give Sadie Kate the magazine. I'll read it tonight and return ittomorrow.
Was there ever a more docile and obedient pupil than
S. McBRIDE?

Thursday. My dear Judy:
I've been spending the last three days busily getting under way allthose latest innovations that we planned in New York. Your word is law.A public cooky jar has been established.
Also, the eighty play boxes have been ordered. It is a wonderfulidea, having a private box for each child, where he can store up histreasures. The ownership of a little personal property will help developthem into responsible citizens. I ought to have thought of it myself,but for some reason the idea didn't come. Poor Judy! You have insideknowledge of the longings of their little hearts that I shall never beable to achieve, not with all the sympathy I can muster.
We are doing our best to run this institution with as few discommodingrules as possible, but in regard to those play boxes there is one pointon which I shall have to be firm. The children may not keep in them miceor toads or angleworms.
I can't tell you how pleased I am that Betsy's salary is to be raised,and that we are to keep her permanently. But the Hon. Cy Wykoffdeprecates the step. He has been making inquiries, and he finds that herpeople are perfectly able to take care of her without any salary.
"You don't furnish legal advice for nothing," say I to him. "Why shouldshe furnish her trained services for nothing?"
"This is charitable work."
"Then work which is undertaken for your own good should be paid, butwork which is undertaken for the public good should not be paid?"
"Fiddlesticks!" says he. "She's a woman, and her family ought to supporther."
This opened up vistas of argument which I did not care to enter with theHon. Cy, so I asked him whether he thought it would be nicer to havea real lawn or hay on the slope that leads to the gate. He likes tobe consulted, and I pamper him as much as possible in all unessentialdetails. You see, I am following Sandy's canny advice: "Trustees arelike fiddle-strings; they maunna be screwed ower tight. Humor the mon,but gang your ain gait." Oh, the tact that this asylum is teaching me! Ishould make a wonderful politician's wife.
Thursday night.

You will be interested to hear that I have temporarily placed out Punchwith two charming spinsters who have long been tottering on the brinkof a child. They finally came last week, and said they would like to tryone for a month to see what the sensation felt like.
They wanted, of course, a pretty ornament, dressed in pink and white anddescended from the Mayflower. I told them that any one could bring upa daughter of the Mayflower to be an ornament to society, but the realfeat was to bring up a son of an Italian organ-grinder and an Irishwasherwoman. And I offered Punch. That Neapolitan heredity of his,artistically speaking, may turn out a glorious mixture, if the rightenvironment comes along to choke out all the weeds.
I put it up to them as a sporting proposition, and they were game. Theyhave agreed to take him for one month and concentrate upon his remakingall their years of conserved force, to the end that he may be fit foradoption in some moral family. They both have a sense of humor andACCOMPLISHING characters, or I should never have dared to propose it.And really I believe it's going to be the one way of taming our youngfire-eater. They will furnish the affection and caresses and attentionthat in his whole abused little life he has never had.
They live in a fascinating old house with an Italian garden, andfurnishings selected from the whole round world. It does seem likesacrilege to turn that destructive child loose in such a collection oftreasures. But he hasn't broken anything here for more than a month, andI believe that the Italian in him will respond to all that beauty.
I warned them that they must not shrink from any profanity that mightissue from his pretty baby lips.
He departed last night in a very fancy automobile, and maybe I wasn'tglad to say good-by to our disreputable young man! He has absorbed justabout half of my energy.

Friday.

The pendant arrived this morning. Many thanks! But you really ought notto have given me another; a hostess cannot be held accountable for allthe things that careless guests lose in her house. It is far toopretty for my chain. I am thinking of having my nose pierced, Cingalesefashion, and wearing my new jewel where it will really show.
I must tell you that our Percy is putting some good constructive workinto this asylum. He has founded the John Grier Bank, and has workedout all the details in a very professional and businesslike fashion,entirely incomprehensible to my non-mathematical mind. All of the olderchildren possess properly printed checkbooks, and they are each to bepaid five dollars a week for their services, such as going to school andaccomplishing housework. They are then to pay the institution (by check)for their board and clothes, which will consume their five dollars. Itlooks like a vicious circle, but it's really very educative; they willcomprehend the value of money before we dump them into a mercenaryworld. Those who are particularly good in lessons or work will receivean extra recompense. My head aches at the thought of the bookkeeping,but Percy waves that aside as a mere bagatelle. It is to be accomplishedby our prize arithmeticians, and will train them for positions of trust.If Jervis hears of any opening for bank officials, let me know; I shallhave a well-trained president, cashier, and paying teller ready to beplaced by this time next year.

Saturday.

Our doctor doesn't like to be called "Enemy." It hurts his feelings orhis dignity or something of the sort. But since I will persist, despitehis expostulations, he has finally retaliated with a nickname for me. Hecalls me "Miss Sally Lunn," and is in a glow of pride at having achievedsuch an imaginative flight.
He and I have invented a new pastime: he talks Scotch, and I answer inIrish. Our conversations run like this:
"Good afthernoon to ye, docther. An' how's yer health the day?"
"Verra weel, verra weel. And how gas it wi' a' the bairns?"
"Shure, they're all av thim doin' foin."
"I'm gey glad to hear it. This saft weather is hard on folk. There'smuckle sickness aboot the kintra."
"Hiven be praised it has not lighted here! But sit down, docther, an'make yersilf at home. Will ye be afther havin' a cup o' tay?"
"Hoot, woman! I would na hae you fash yoursel', but a wee drap tea winnacoom amiss."
"Whist! It's no thruble at all."
You may not think this a very dizzying excursion into frivolity; but Iassure you, for one of Sandy's dignity, it's positively riotous. The manhas been in a heavenly temper ever since I came back; not a single crossword. I am beginning to think I may reform him as well as Punch.
This letter must be about long enough even for you. I've been writing itbit by bit for three days, whenever I happened to pass my desk.
Yours as ever,
SALLIE.
P.S. I don't think much of your vaunted prescription for hair tonic.Either the druggist didn't mix it right, or Jane didn't apply it withdiscretion. I stuck to the pillow this morning.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Saturday.
Dear Gordon:
Your letter of Thursday is at hand, and extremely silly I consider it.Of course I am not trying to let you down easy; that isn't my way. If Ilet you down at all, it will be suddenly and with an awful bump. ButI honestly didn't realize that it had been three weeks since I wrote.Please excuse!
Also, my dear sir, I have to bring you to account. You were in New Yorklast week, and you never ran up to see us. You thought we wouldn't findit out, but we heard--and are insulted.
Would you like an outline of my day's activities? Wrote monthly reportfor trustees' meeting. Audited accounts. Entertained agent of StateCharities Aid Association for luncheon. Supervised children's menus fornext ten days. Dictated five letters to families who have our children.Visited our little feeble-minded Loretta Higgins (pardon the reference;I know you don't like me to mention the feeble-minded), who is beingboarded out in a nice comfortable family, where she is learning to work.Came back to tea and a conference with the doctor about sending a childwith tubercular glands to a sanatorium. Read an article on cottageVERSUS congregate system for housing dependent children. (We do needcottages! I wish you'd send us a few for a Christmas present.) And nowat nine o'clock I'm sleepily beginning a letter to you. Do you know manyyoung society girls who can point to such a useful day as that?
Oh, I forgot to say that I stole ten minutes from my accounts thismorning to install a new cook. Our Sallie Washington-Johnston, whocooked fit for the angels had a dreadful, dreadful temper and terrorizedpoor Noah, our super-excellent furnace man, to the point of givingnotice. We couldn't spare Noah. He's more useful to the institution thanits superintendent, and so Sallie Washington-Johnston is no more.
When I asked the new cook her name, she replied, "Ma name is SuzanneEstelle, but ma friends call me Pet." Pet cooked the dinner tonight,but I must say that she lacks Sallie's delicate touch. I am awfullydisappointed that you didn't visit us while Sallie was still here. Youwould have taken away an exalted opinion of my housekeeping.

Drowsiness overcame me at that point, and it's now two days later.
Poor neglected Gordon! It has just occurred to me that you never gotthanked for the modeling clay which came two weeks ago, and it wassuch an unusually intelligent present that I should have telegraphed myappreciation. When I opened the box and saw all that nice messy puttystuff, I sat down on the spot and created a statue of Singapore. Thechildren love it; and it is very good to have the handicraft side oftheir training encouraged.
After a careful study of American history, I have determined thatnothing is so valuable to a future president as an early obligatoryunescapable performance of CHORES.
Therefore I have divided the daily work of this institution into ahundred parcels, and the children rotate weekly through a succession ofunaccustomed tasks. Of course they do everything badly, for just as theylearn how, they progress to something new. It would be infinitely easierfor us to follow Mrs. Lippett's immoral custom of keeping each childsentenced for life to a well-learned routine; but when the temptationassails me, I recall the dreary picture of Florence Henty, who polishedthe brass doorknobs of this institution for seven years--and I sternlyshove the children on.
I get angry every time I think of Mrs Lippett. She had exactly thepoint of view of a Tammany politician--no slightest sense of service tosociety. Her only interest in the John Grier Home was to get a livingout of it.

Wednesday.

What new branch of learning do you think I have introduced into myasylum? Table manners!
I never had any idea that it was such a lot of trouble to teach childrenhow to eat and drink. Their favorite method is to put their mouths downto their mugs and lap their milk like kittens. Good manners are notmerely snobbish ornaments, as Mrs. Lippett's regime appeared to believe.They mean self-discipline and thought for others, and my children havegot to learn them.
That woman never allowed them to talk at their meals, and I am havingthe most dreadful time getting any conversation out of them above afrightened whisper. So I have instituted the custom of the entire staff,myself included, sitting with them at the table, and directing the talkalong cheerful and improving lines.
Also I have established a small, very strict training table, wherethe little dears, in relays, undergo a week of steady badgering. Ouruplifting table conversations run like this:
"Yes, Tom, Napoleon Bonaparte was a very great man--elbows off thetable. He possessed a tremendous power of concentrating his mind onwhatever he wanted to have; and that is the way to accomplish--don'tsnatch, Susan; ask politely for the bread, and Carrie will pass it toyou.--But he was an example of the fact that selfish thought just foroneself, without considering the lives of others, will come to disasterin the--Tom! Keep your mouth shut when you chew--and after the battleof Waterloo--let Sadie's cooky alone--his fall was all the greaterbecause--Sadie Kate, you may leave the table. It makes no differencewhat he did. Under no provocation does a lady slap a gentleman."

Two more days have passed; this is the same kind of meandering letter Iwrite to Judy. At least, my dear man, you can't complain that I haven'tbeen thinking about you this week! I know you hate to be told all aboutthe asylum, but I can't help it, for it's all I know. I don't have fiveminutes a day to read the papers. The big outside world has droppedaway. My interests all lie on the inside of this little iron inclosure.
I am at present,
S. McBRIDE,
Superintendent of the
John Grier Home.

Thursday.
Dear Enemy:
"Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in." Hasn't that a veryphilosophical, detached, Lord of the Universe sound? It comes fromThoreau, whom I am assiduously reading at present. As you see, I haverevolted against your literature and taken to my own again. The lasttwo evenings have been devoted to "Walden," a book as far removed aspossible from the problems of the dependent child.
Did you ever read old Henry David Thoreau? You really ought. I thinkyou'd find him a congenial soul. Listen to this: "Society is commonlytoo cheap. We meet at very short intervals, not having had time toacquire any new value for each other. It would be better if there werebut one habitation to a square mile, as where I live." A pleasant,expansive, neebor-like man he must have been! He minds me in some wayso' Sandy.
This is to tell you that we have a placing-out agent visiting us. She isabout to dispose of four chicks, one of them Thomas Kehoe. What do youthink? Ought we to risk it? The place she has in mind for him is a farmin a no-license portion of Connecticut, where he will work hard forhis board, and live in the farmer's family. It sounds exactly the rightthing, and we can't keep him here forever; he'll have to be turned outsome day into a world full of whisky.
I'm sorry to tear you away from that cheerful work on "Dementia Precox,"but I'd be most obliged if you'd drop in here toward eight o'clock for aconference with the agent.
I am, as usual,
S. McBRIDE.

June 17. My dear Judy:
Betsy has perpetrated a most unconscionable trick upon a pair ofadopting parents. They have traveled East from Ohio in their touring carfor the dual purpose of seeing the country and picking up a daughter.They appear to be the leading citizens of their town, whose name atthe moment escapes me; but it's a very important town. It has electriclights and gas, and Mr. Leading Citizen owns the controlling interestin both plants. With a wave of his hand he could plunge that entire towninto darkness; but fortunately he's a kind man, and won't do anything soharsh, not even if they fail to reelect him mayor. He lives in a brickhouse with a slate roof and two towers, and has a deer and fountain andlots of nice shade trees in the yard. (He carries its photograph in hispocket.) They are good-natured, generous, kind-hearted, smiling people,and a little fat; you can see what desirable parents they would make.
Well, we had exactly the daughter of their dreams, only, as they camewithout giving us notice, she was dressed in a flannellet nightgown, andher face was dirty. They looked Caroline over, and were not impressed;but they thanked us politely, and said they would bear her in mind. Theywanted to visit the New York Orphanage before deciding. We knew wellthat, if they saw that superior assemblage of children, our poor littleCaroline would never have a chance.
Then Betsy rose to the emergency. She graciously invited them to motorover to her house for tea that afternoon and inspect one of our littlewards who would be visiting her baby niece. Mr. and Mrs. Leading Citizendo not know many people in the East, and they haven't been receiving theinvitations that they feel are their due; so they were quite innocentlypleased at the prospect of a little social diversion. The moment theyhad retired to the hotel for luncheon, Betsy called up her car, andrushed baby Caroline over to her house. She stuffed her into babyniece's best pink-and-white embroidered frock, borrowed a hat of Irishlace, some pink socks and white slippers, and set her picturesquelyupon the green lawn under a spreading beech tree. A white-aproned nurse(borrowed also from baby niece) plied her with bread and milk and gailycolored toys. By the time prospective parents arrived, our Caroline,full of food and contentment, greeted them with cooes of delight. Fromthe moment their eyes fell upon her they were ravished with desire.Not a suspicion crossed their unobservant minds that this sweet littlerosebud was the child of the morning. And so, a few formalities havingbeen complied with, it really looks as though baby Caroline would livein the Towers and grow into a leading citizen.
I must really get to work, without any further delay, upon the burningquestion of new clothes for our girls.
With the highest esteem, I am, D'r Ma'am, Y'r most ob'd't and h'mbleserv't,
SAL. McBRIDE.

June 19th. My dearest Judy:
Listen to the grandest innovation of all, and one that will delight yourheart.
NO MORE BLUE GINGHAM!

Feeling that this aristocratic neighborhood of country estates mightcontain valuable food for our asylum, I have of late been moving inthe village social circles, and at a luncheon yesterday I dug out abeautiful and charming widow who wears delectable, flowing gowns thatshe designs herself. She confided to me that she would have loved tohave been a dressmaker, if she had only been born with a needle in hermouth instead of a golden spoon. She says she never sees a pretty girlbadly dressed but she longs to take her in hand and make her over. Didyou ever hear anything so apropos? From the moment she opened her lipsshe was a marked man.
"I can show you fifty-nine badly dressed girls," said I to her, "and youhave got to come back with me and plan their new clothes and make thembeautiful."
She expostulated; but in vain. I led her out to her automobile, shovedher in, and murmured, "John Grier Home" to the chauffeur. The firstinmate our eyes fell upon was Sadie Kate, just fresh, I judge, fromhugging the molasses barrel; and a shocking spectacle she was for anyesthetically minded person. In addition to the stickiness, one stockingwas coming down, her pinafore was buttoned crookedly, and she had lost ahair-ribbon. But--as always--completely at ease, she welcomed us with acheery grin, and offered the lady a sticky paw.
"Now," said I, in triumph, "you see how much we need you. What can youdo to make Sadie Kate beautiful?"
"Wash her," said Mrs. Livermore.
Sadie Kate was marched to my bathroom. When the scrubbing was finishedand the hair strained back and the stocking restored to seemly heights,I returned her for a second inspection--a perfectly normal littleorphan. Mrs. Livermore turned her from side to side, and studied herlong and earnestly.
Sadie Kate by nature is a beauty, a wild, dark, Gypsyish little colleen.She looks fresh from the wind-swept moors of Connemara. But, oh, wehave managed to rob her of her birthright with this awful institutionuniform!
After five minutes' silent contemplation, Mrs. Livermore raised her eyesto mine.
"Yes, my dear, you need me."
And then and there we formed our plans. She is to head the committeeon C L O T H E S. She is to choose three friends to help her. And they,with the two dozen best sewers among the girls and our sewing-teacherand five sewing machines, are going to make over the looks of thisinstitution. And the charity is all on our side. We are supplying Mrs.Livermore with the profession that Providence robbed her of. Wasn't itclever of me to find her? I woke this morning at dawn and crowed!
Lots more news,--I could run into a second volume,--but I am going tosend this letter to town by Mr. Witherspoon, who, in a very high collarand the blackest of evening clothes, is on the point of departure for abarn dance at the country club. I told him to pick out the nicest girlshe danced with to come and tell stories to my children.
It is dreadful, the scheming person I am getting to be. All the time Iam talking to any one, I am silently thinking, "What use can you be tomy asylum?"
There is grave danger that this present superintendent will become sointerested in her job that she will never want to leave. I sometimespicture her a white-haired old lady, propelled about the building ina wheeled chair, but still tenaciously superintending her fourthgeneration of orphans.
PLEASE discharge her before that day!
Yours,
SALLIE.

Friday.
Dear Judy:
Yesterday morning, without the slightest warning, a station hack droveup to the door and disgorged upon the steps two men, two little boys, ababy girl, a rocking horse, and a Teddy bear, and then drove off!
The men were artists, and the little ones were children of anotherartist, dead three weeks ago. They had brought the mites to us becausethey thought "John Grier" sounded solid and respectable, and not like apublic institution. It had never entered their unbusinesslike heads thatany formality is necessary about placing a child in an asylum.
I explained that we were full, but they seemed so stranded and aghast,that I told them to sit down while I advised them what to do. So thechicks were sent to the nursery, with a recommendation of bread andmilk, while I listened to their history. Those artists had a fatallyliterary touch, or maybe it was just the sound of the baby girl's laugh,but, anyway, before they had finished, the babes were ours.
Never have I seen a sunnier creature than the little Allegra (we don'toften get such fancy names or such fancy children). She is three yearsold, is lisping funny baby talk and bubbling with laughter. The tragedyshe has just emerged from has never touched her. But Don and Clifford,sturdy little lads of five and seven, are already solemn-eyed andfrightened at the hardness of life.
Their mother was a kindergarten teacher who married an artist on acapital of enthusiasm and a few tubes of paint. His friends say that hehad talent, but of course he had to throw it away to pay the milkman.They lived in a haphazard fashion in a rickety old studio, cookingbehind screens, the babies sleeping on shelves.
But there seems to have been a very happy side to it--a great deal oflove and many friends, all more or less poor, but artistic and congenialand high-thinking. The little lads, in their gentleness and fineness,show that phase of their upbringing. They have an air which many ofmy children, despite all the good manners I can pour into them, willforever lack.
The mother died in the hospital a few days after Allegra's birth, andthe father struggled on for two years, caring for his brood and paintinglike mad--advertisements, anything--to keep a roof over their heads.
He died in St. Vincent's three weeks ago,--overwork, worry, pneumonia.His friends rallied about the babies, sold such of the studio fittingsas had escaped pawning, paid off the debts, and looked about for thebest asylum they could find. And, Heaven save them! they hit upon us!
Well, I kept the two artists for luncheon,--nice creatures in softhats and Windsor ties, and looking pretty frayed themselves,--and thenstarted them back to New York with the promise that I would give thelittle family my most parental attention.
So here they are, one little mite in the nursery, two in thekindergarten room, four big packing cases full of canvases in thecellar, and a trunk in the store room with the letters of theirfather and mother. And a look in their faces, an intangible spiritualSOMETHING, that is their heritage.
I can't get them out of my mind. All night long I was planning theirfuture. The boys are easy. They have already been graduated fromcollege, Mr. Pendleton assisting, and are pursuing honorable businesscareers. But Allegra I don't know about; I can't think what to wish forthe child. Of course the normal thing to wish for any sweet little girlis that two kind foster parents will come along to take the place of thereal parents that Fate has robbed her of. But in this case it would becruel to steal her away from her brothers. Their love for the baby ispitiful. You see, they have brought her up. The only time I ever hearthem laugh is when she has done something funny.
The poor little fellows miss their father horribly. I found Don, thefive-year-old one, sobbing in his crib last night because he couldn'tsay good night to "daddy."
But Allegra is true to her name, the happiest young miss of three I haveever seen. The poor father managed well by her, and she, little ingrate,has already forgotten that she has lost him.
Whatever can I do with these little ones? I think and think and thinkabout them. I can't place them out, and it does seem too awful to bringthem up here; for as good as we are going to be when we get ourselvesmade over, still, after all, we are an institution, and our inmates arejust little incubator chicks. They don't get the individual, fussy carethat only an old hen can give.
There is a lot of interesting news that I might have been telling you,but my new little family has driven everything out of my mind.
Bairns are certain joy, but nae sma' care.
Yours ever,
SALLIE. P.S. Don't forget that you are coming to visit me next week.
P.S. II. The doctor, who is ordinarily so scientific and unsentimental,has fallen in love with Allegra. He didn't so much as glance at hertonsils; he simply picked her up in his arms and hugged her. Oh, she isa little witch! Whatever is to become of her?


June 22. My dear Judy:
I may report that you need no longer worry as to our inadequate fireprotection. The doctor and Mr. Witherspoon have been giving thematter their gravest attention, and no game yet devised has proved soentertaining and destructive as our fire drill.
The children all retire to their beds and plunge into alert slumber.Fire alarm sounds. They spring up and into their shoes, snatch the topblanket from their beds, wrap it around their imaginary nightclothes,fall into line, and trot to the hall and stairs.
Our seventeen little tots in the nursery are each in charge of anIndian, and are bundled out, shrieking with delight. The remainingIndians, so long as there is no danger of the roof falling, devotethemselves to salvage. On the occasion of our first drill, Percy incommand, the contents of a dozen clothes lockers were dumped into sheetsand hurled out of the windows. I usurped dictatorship just in time tokeep the pillows and mattresses from following. We spent hours resortingthose clothes, while Percy and the doctor, having lost all intereststrolled up to the camp with their pipes.
Our future drills are to be a touch less realistic. However, I ampleased to tell you that, under the able direction of Fire ChiefWitherspoon, we emptied the building in six minutes and twenty-eightseconds.
That baby Allegra has fairy blood in her veins. Never did thisinstitution harbor such a child, barring one that Jervis and I know of.She has completely subjugated the doctor. Instead of going about hisvisits like a sober medical man, he comes down to my library hand inhand with Allegra, and for half an hour at a time crawls about on a rug,pretending he's a horse, while the bonnie wee lassie sits on his backand kicks. You know, I am thinking of putting a card in the paper:
Characters neatly remodeled. S. McBride.

Sandy dropped in two nights ago to have a bit of conversation with Betsyand me, and he was FRIVOLOUS. He made three jokes, and he sat down atthe piano and sang some old Scotch, "My luve's like a red, red rose,"and "Come under my plaidie," and "Wha's at the window? Wha? Wha?" not inthe least educational, and then danced a few steps of the strathspey!
I sat and beamed upon my handiwork, for it's true, I've done it allthrough my frivolous example and the books I've given him and theintroducing of such lightsome companions as Jimmie and Percy and GordonHallock. If I have a few more months in which to work, I shall get theman human. He has given up purple ties, and at my tactful suggestion hasadopted a suit of gray. You have no idea how it sets him off. He willbe quite distinguished looking as soon as I can make him stop carryingbulgy things in his pockets.
Good-by; and remember that we're expecting you on Friday.
SALLIE.
P.S. Here is a picture of Allegra, taken by Mr. Witherspoon. Isn't shea love? Her present clothes do not enhance her beauty, but in the courseof a few weeks she will move into a pink smocked frock.
Wednesday, June 24, 10 A.M. MRS. JERVIS PENDLETON.
Madam:
Your letter is at hand, stating that you cannot visit me on Friday perpromise, because your husband has business that keeps him in town. Whatclishmaclaver is this! Has it come to such a pass that you can't leavehim for two days?
I did not let 113 babies interfere with my visit to you, and I see noreason why you should let one husband interfere with your visit to me. Ishall meet the Berkshire express on Friday as agreed. S. McBRIDE.

June 30. My dear Judy:
That was a very flying visit you paid us; but for all small favors weare grateful. I am awfully pleased that you were so delighted with theway things are going, and I can't wait for Jervis and the architect toget up here and really begin a fundamental ripping-up.
You know, I had the queerest feeling all the time that you were here. Ican't make it seem true that you, my dear, wonderful Judy, were actuallybrought up in this institution, and know from the bitter inside whatthese little tots need. Sometimes the tragedy of your childhood fillsme with an anger that makes me want to roll up my sleeves and fight thewhole world and force it into making itself over into a place more fitfor children to live in. That Scotch-Irish ancestry of mine seems tohave deposited a tremendous amount of FIGHT in my character.
If you had started me with a modern asylum, equipped with nice, clean,hygienic cottages and everything in running order, I couldn't have stoodthe monotony of its perfect clockwork. It's the sight of so many thingscrying to be done that makes it possible for me to stay. Sometimes, Imust confess, I wake up in the morning and listen to these institutionnoises, and sniff this institution air, and long for the happy, carefreelife that by rights is mine.
You my dear witch, cast a spell over me, and I came. But often inthe night watches your spell wears thin, and I start the day with theburning decision to run away from the John Grier Home. But I postponestarting until after breakfast. And as I issue into the corridor, oneof these pathetic tots runs to meet me, and shyly slips a warm, crumpledlittle fist into my hand, and looks up with wide baby eyes, mutelyasking for a little petting, and I snatch him up and hug him. And then,as I look over his shoulder at the other forlorn little mites, I longto take all 113 into my arms and love them into happiness. There issomething hypnotic about this working with children. Struggle as youmay, it gets you in the end.
Your visit seems to have left me in a broadly philosophical frame ofmind; but I really have one or two bits of news that I might convey. Thenew frocks are marching along, and, oh, but they are going to be sweet!Mrs. Livermore was entranced with those parti-colored bales of cottoncloth you sent,--you should see our workroom, with it all scatteredabout,--and when I think of sixty little girls, attired in pink and blueand yellow and lavender, romping upon our lawn of a sunny day, I feelthat we should have a supply of smoked eye glasses to offer visitors.Of course you know that some of those brilliant fabrics are going to bevery fadeable and impractical. But Mrs. Livermore is as bad as you--shedoesn't give a hang. She'll make a second and a third set if necessary.DOWN WITH CHECKED GINGHAM!
I am glad you liked our doctor. Of course we reserve the right to sayanything about him we choose, but our feelings would be awfully hurt ifanybody else should make fun of him.
He and I are still superintending each other's reading. Last week heappeared with Herbert Spencer's "System of Synthetic Philosophy" forme to glance at. I gratefully accepted it, and gave him in return the"Diary of Marie Bashkirtseff." Do you remember in college how we used toenrich our daily speech with quotations from Marie? Well, Sandy took herhome and read her painstakingly and thoughtfully.
"Yes," he acknowledged today when he came to report, "it is a truthfulrecord of a certain kind of morbid, egotistical personality thatunfortunately does exist. But I can't understand why you care toread it; for, thank God! Sally Lunn, you and Bash haven't anything incommon."
That's the nearest to a compliment he ever came, and I feel extremelyflattered. As to poor Marie, he refers to her as "Bash" because he can'tpronounce her name, and is too disdainful to try.
We have a child here, the daughter of a chorus girl, and she is aconceited, selfish, vain, posing, morbid, lying little minx, but she haseyelashes! Sandy has taken the most violent dislike to that child.And since reading poor Marie's diary, he has found a new comprehensiveadjective for summing up all of her distressing qualities. He calls herBASHY, and dismisses her.
Good-by and come again.
SALLIE.
P.S. My children show a distressing tendency to draw out their entirebank accounts to buy candy.


Tuesday night. My dear Judy:
What do you think Sandy has done now? He has gone off on a pleasure tripto that psychopathic institution whose head alienist visited us a monthor so ago. Did you ever know anything like the man? He is fascinated byinsane people, and can't let them alone.
When I asked for some parting medical instructions, he replied:
"Feed a cowld and hunger a colic and put nae faith in doctors."
With that advice, and a few bottles of cod-liver oil we are left to ourown devices. I feel very free and adventurous. Perhaps you had betterrun up here again, as there's no telling what joyous upheaval I mayaccomplish when out from under Sandy's dampening influence.
S.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Friday.
Dear Enemy:
Here I stay lashed to the mast, while you run about the countrydisporting yourself with insane people. And just as I was thinking thatI had nicely cured you of this morbid predilection for psychopathicinstitutions! It's very disappointing. You had seemed almost human oflate.
May I ask how long you are intending to stay? You had permission to gofor two days, and you've already been away four.
Charlie Martin fell out of a cherry tree yesterday and cut his headopen, and we were driven to calling in a foreign doctor. Five stitches.Patient doing well. But we don't like to depend on strangers. I wouldn'tsay a word if you were away on legitimate business, but you know verywell that, after associating with melancholics for a week, you will comeback home in a dreadful state of gloom, dead sure that humanity is goingto the dogs; and upon me will fall the burden of getting you decentlycheerful again.
Do leave those insane people to their delusions, and come back to theJohn Grier Home, which needs you.
I am most fervent' Your friend and servant, S. McB.
P.S. Don't you admire that poetical ending? It was borrowed from RobertBurns, whose works I am reading assiduously as a compliment to a Scotchfriend.

July 6.
Dear Judy:
That doctor man is still away. No word; just disappeared into space.I don't know whether he is ever coming back or not, but we seem to berunning very happily without him.
I lunched yesterday CHEZ the two kind ladies who have taken our Punch totheir hearts. The young man seems to be very much at home. He took meby the hand, and did the honors of the garden, presenting me with thebluebell of my choice. At luncheon the English butler lifted him intohis chair and tied on his bib with as much manner as though he wereserving a prince of the blood. The butler has lately come from thehousehold of the Earl of Durham, Punch from a cellar in Houston Street.It was a very uplifting spectacle.
My hostesses entertained me afterward with excerpts from their tableconversations of the last two weeks. (I wonder the butler hasn't givennotice; he looked like a respectable man.) If nothing more comes of it,at least Punch has furnished them with funny stories for the rest oftheir lives. One of them is even thinking of writing a book. "At least,"says she, wiping hysterical tears from her eyes, "we have lived!"
The Hon. Cy dropped in at 6:30 last night, and found me in an eveninggown, starting for a dinner at Mrs. Livermore's house. He mildlyobserved that Mrs. Lippett did not aspire to be a society leader, butsaved her energy for her work. You know I'm not vindictive, but I neverlook at that man without wishing he were at the bottom of the duck pond,securely anchored to a rock.
Otherwise he'd pop up and float.
Singapore respectfully salutes you, and is very glad that you can't seehim as he now appears. A shocking calamity has befallen his good looks.Some bad child--and I don't think she's a boy--has clipped that poorbeastie in spots, until he looks like a mangy, moth-eaten checkerboard.No one can imagine who did it. Sadie Kate is very handy with thescissors, but she is also handy with an alibi! During the time when theclipping presumably occurred, she was occupying a stool in the corner ofthe schoolroom with her face to the wall, as twenty-eight children cantestify. However, it has become Sadie Kate's daily duty to treat thosespots with your hair tonic.
I am, as usual,
SALLIE.
P.S. This is a recent portrait of the Hon. Cy drawn from life. The man,in some respects, is a fascinating talker; he makes gestures with hisnose.

Thursday evening.
Dear Judy:
Sandy is back after a ten-days' absence,--no explanations,--and plungeddeep into gloom. He resents our amiable efforts to cheer him up, andwill have nothing to do with any of us except baby Allegra. He tookher to his house for supper tonight and never brought her back untilhalf-past seven, a scandalous hour for a young miss of three. I don'tknow what to make of our doctor; he grows more incomprehensible everyday.
But Percy, now, is an open-minded, confiding young man. He has just beenmaking a dinner call (he is very punctilious in all social matters), andour entire conversation was devoted to the girl in Detroit. He is lonelyand likes to talk about her; and the wonderful things he says! I hopethat Miss Detroit is worthy of all this fine affection, but I'm afraid.He fetched out a leather case from the innermost recesses of hiswaistcoat and, reverently unwrapping two layers of tissue-paper, showedme the photograph of a silly little thing, all eyes and earrings andfuzzy hair. I did my best to appear congratulatory, but my heart shut upout of pity for the poor boy's future.
Isn't it funny how the nicest men often choose the worst wives, and thenicest women the worst husbands? Their very niceness, I suppose, makesthem blind and unsuspicious.
You know, the most interesting pursuit in the world is studyingcharacter. I believe I was meant to be a novelist; people fascinateme--until I know them thoroughly. Percy and the doctor form a mostengaging contrast. You always know at any moment what that nice youngman is thinking about; he is written like a primer in big type andone-syllable words. But the doctor! He might as well be written inChinese so far as legibility goes. You have heard of people with a dualnature; well, Sandy possesses a triple one. Usually he's scientificand as hard as granite, but occasionally I suspect him of being quite asentimental person underneath his official casing. For days at a timehe will be patient and kind and helpful, and I begin to like him; thenwithout any warning an untamed wild man swells up from the innermostdepths, and--oh, dear! the creature's impossible.
I always suspect that sometime in the past he has suffered a terriblehurt, and that he is still brooding over the memory of it. All the timehe is talking you have the uncomfortable feeling that in the far backcorners of his mind he is thinking something else. But this may bemerely my romantic interpretation of an uncommonly bad temper. In anycase, he's baffling.
We have been waiting for a week for a fine windy afternoon, and this isit. My children are enjoying "kite-day," a leaf taken from Japan. Allof the big-enough boys and most of the girls are spread over "Knowltop"(that high, rocky sheep pasture which joins us on the east) flying kitesmade by themselves.
I had a dreadful time coaxing the crusty old gentleman who owns theestate into granting permission. He doesn't like orphans, he says,and if he once lets them get a start in his grounds, the place willbe infested with them forever. You would think, to hear him talk, thatorphans were a pernicious kind of beetle.
But after half an hour's persuasive talking on my part, he grudginglymade us free of his sheep pasture for two hours, provided we didn't stepfoot into the cow pasture over the lane, and came home promptly when ourtime was up. To insure the sanctity of his cow pasture, Mr. Knowltop hassent his gardener and chauffeur and two grooms to patrol its boundarieswhile the flying is on. The children are still at it, and are having awonderful adventure racing over that windy height and getting tangled upin one another's strings. When they come panting back they are to have asurprise in the shape of ginger cookies and lemonade.
These pitiful little youngsters with their old faces! It's a difficulttask to make them young, but I believe I'm accomplishing it. And itreally is fun to feel you're doing something positive for the good ofthe world. If I don't fight hard against it, you'll be accomplishingyour purpose of turning me into a useful person. The social excitementsof Worcester almost seem tame before the engrossing interest of 113live, warm, wriggling little orphans.
Yours with love,
SALLIE.
P.S. I believe, to be accurate, that it's 107 children I possess thisafternoon.

Dear Judy:
This being Sunday and a beautiful blossoming day, with a warm windblowing, I sat at my window with the "Hygiene of the Nervous System"(Sandy's latest contribution to my mental needs) open in my lap, andmy eyes on the prospect without. "Thank Heaven!" thought I, "that thisinstitution was so commandingly placed that at least we can look outover the cast-iron wall which shuts us in."
I was feeling very cooped-up and imprisoned and like an orphan myself;so I decided that my own nervous system required fresh air and exerciseand adventure. Straight before me ran that white ribbon of road thatdips into the valley and up over the hills on the other side. Ever sinceI came I have longed to follow it to the top and find out what liesbeyond those hills. Poor Judy! I dare say that very same longingenveloped your childhood. If any one of my little chicks ever stands bythe window and looks across the valley to the hills and asks, "What'sover there?" I shall telephone for a motor car.
But today my chicks were all piously engaged with their little souls,I the only wanderer at heart. I changed my silken Sunday gown forhomespun, planning meanwhile a means to get to the top of those hills.
Then I went to the telephone and brazenly called up 505.
"Good afternoon, Mrs. McGurk," said I, very sweet. "May I be speakingwith Dr. MacRae?"
"Howld the wire," said she, very short.
"Afternoon, Doctor," said I to him. "Have ye, by chance, any dyingpatients who live on the top o' the hills beyant?"
"I have not, thank the Lord!"
"'Tis a pity," said I, disappointed. "And what are ye afther doin' withyerself the day?"
"I am reading the `Origin of Species.'"
"Shut it up; it's not fit for Sunday. And tell me now, is yer motor cariled and ready to go?"
"It is at your disposal. Are you wanting me to take some orphans for aride?"
"Just one who's sufferin' from a nervous system. She's taken a fixedidea that she must get to the top o' the hills."
"My car is a grand climber. In fifteen minutes--"
"Wait!" said I. "Bring with ye a frying pan that's a decent size fortwo. There's nothing in my kitchen smaller than a cart wheel. And askMrs. McGurk can ye stay out for supper."
So I packed in a basket a jar of bacon and some eggs and muffins andginger cookies, with hot coffee in the thermos bottle, and was waitingon the steps when Sandy chugged up with his automobile and frying pan.
We really had a beautiful adventure, and he enjoyed the sensationof running away exactly as much as I. Not once did I let him mentioninsanity. I made him look at the wide stretches of meadow and the linesof pollard willows backed by billowing hills, and sniff the air, andlisten to the cawing crows and the tinkle of cowbells and the gurglingof the river. And we talked--oh, about a million things far removed fromour asylum. I made him throw away the idea that he is a scientist, andpretend to be a boy. You will scarcely credit the assertion, but hesucceeded--more or less. He did pull off one or two really boyishpranks. Sandy is not yet out of his thirties and, mercy! that is tooearly to be grown up.
We camped on a bluff overlooking our view, gathered some driftwood,built a fire, and cooked the NICEST supper--a sprinkling of burnt stickin our fried eggs, but charcoal's healthy. Then, when Sandy had finishedhis pipe and "the sun was setting in its wonted west," we packed up andcoasted back home.
He says it was the nicest afternoon he has had in years, and, poordeluded man of science, I actually believe it's true. His olive greenhome is so uncomfortable and dreary and uninspiring that I don't wonderhe drowns his troubles in books. Just as soon as I can find a nicecomfortable house mother to put in charge, I am going to plot for thedismissal of Maggie McGurk, though I foresee that she will be evenharder than Sterry to pry from her moorings.
Please don't draw the conclusion that I am becoming unduly interestedin our bad-tempered doctor, for I'm not. It's just that he leads such acomfortless life that I sometimes long to pat him on the head and tellhim to cheer up; the world's full of sunshine, and some of it's forhim--just as I long to comfort my hundred and seven orphans; so much andno more.
I am sure that I had some real news to tell you, but it has completelygone out of my head. The rush of fresh air has made me sleepy. It'shalf-past nine, and I bid you good night.
S.
P.S. Gordon Hallock has evaporated into thin air. Not a word for threeweeks; no candy or stuffed animals or tokimentoes of any description.What on earth do you suppose has become of that attentive young man?

July 13.
Dearest Judy:
Hark to the glad tidings!
This being the thirty-first day of Punch's month, I telephoned to histwo patronesses, as nominated in the bond, to arrange for his return. Iwas met by an indignant refusal. Give up their sweet little volcanojust as they are getting it trained not to belch forth fire? They areoutraged that I can make such an ungrateful request. Punch has acceptedtheir invitation to spend the summer.
The dressmaking is still going on. You should hear the machines whirand the tongues clatter in the sewing room. Our most cowed, apathetic,spiritless little orphan cheers up and takes an interest in life whenshe hears that she is to possess three perfectly private dresses of herown, and each a different color, chosen by herself. And you should seehow it encourages their sewing ability. Even the little ten-year-oldsare bursting into seamstresses. I wish I could devise an equallyeffective way to make them take an interest in cooking. But ourkitchen is extremely uneducative. You know how hampering it is to one'senthusiasm to have to prepare a bushel of potatoes at once.
I think you've heard me mention the fact that I should like to divide upmy kiddies into ten nice little families, with a nice comfortable housemother over each? If we just had ten picturesque cottages to put themin, with flowers in the front yard and rabbits and kittens andpuppies and chickens in the back, we should be a perfectly presentableinstitution, and wouldn't be ashamed to have these charity experts comevisiting us.

Thursday.

I started this letter three days ago, was interrupted to talk to apotential philanthropist (fifty tickets to the circus), and have not hadtime to pick up my pen since. Betsy has been in Philadelphia for threedays, being a bridesmaid for a miserable cousin. I hope that no more ofher family are thinking of getting married, for it's most upsetting tothe J. G. H.
While there, she investigated a family who had applied for a child. Ofcourse we haven't a proper investigating plant, but once in a while,when a family drops right into our arms, we do like to put the businessthrough. As a usual thing, we work with the State Charities' AidAssociation. They have a lot of trained agents traveling about theState, keeping in touch with families who are willing to take children,and with asylums that have them to give. Since they are willing towork for us, there is no slightest use in our going to the expenseof peddling our own babies. And I do want to place out as many as areavailable, for I firmly believe that a private home is the best thingfor the child, provided, of course, that we are very fussy about thecharacter of the homes we choose. I don't require rich foster parents,but I do require kind, loving, intelligent parents. This time I thinkBetsy has landed a gem of a family. The child is not yet delivered orthe papers signed, and of course there is always danger that they maygive a sudden flop, and splash back into the water.
Ask Jervis if he ever heard of J. F. Bretland of Philadelphia. He seemsto move in financial circles. The first I ever heard of him was aletter addressed to the "Supt. John Grier Home, Dear Sir,"--a curt,typewritten, businesslike letter, from an AWFULLY businesslike lawyer,saying that his wife had determined to adopt a baby girl of attractiveappearance and good health between the ages of two and three years. Thechild must be an orphan of American stock, with unimpeachable heredity,and no relatives to interfere. Could I furnish one as required andoblige, yours truly, J. F. Bretland?
By way of reference he mentioned "Bradstreets." Did you ever hear ofanything so funny? You would think he was opening a charge account at anursery, and inclosing an order from our seed catalogue.
We began our usual investigation by mailing a reference blank to aclergyman in Germantown, where the J. F. B.'s reside.
Does he own any property?
Does he pay his bills?
Is he kind to animals?
Does he attend church?
Does he quarrel with his wife? And a dozen other impertinent questions.
We evidently picked a clergyman with a sense of humor. Instead ofanswering in laborious detail, he wrote up and down and across thesheet, "I wish they'd adopt me!"
This looked promising, so B. Kindred obligingly dashed out to Germantownas soon as the wedding breakfast was over. She is developing the mostphenomenal detective instinct. In the course of a social call she canabsorb from the chairs and tables a family's entire moral history.
She returned from Germantown bursting with enthusiastic details.
Mr. J. F. Bretland is a wealthy and influential citizen, cordially lovedby his friends and deeply hated by his enemies (discharged employees,who do not hesitate to say that he is a HAR-RD man). He is a littleshaky in his attendance at church, but his wife seems regular, and hegives money.
She is a charming, kindly, cultivated gentlewoman, just out of asanatorium after a year of nervous prostration. The doctor says thatwhat she needs is some strong interest in life, and advises adoptinga child. She has always longed to do it, but her hard husband hasstubbornly refused. But finally, as always, it is the gentle, persistentwife who has triumphed, and hard husband has been forced to give in.Waiving his own natural preference for a boy, he wrote, as above, theusual request for a blue-eyed girl.
Mrs. Bretland, with the firm intention of taking a child, has beenreading up for years, and there is no detail of infant dieteticsthat she does not know. She has a sunny nursery, with a southwesternexposure, all ready. And a closet full of surreptitiously gathereddolls! She has made the clothes for them herself,--she showed them toBetsy with the greatest pride,--so you can understand the necessity fora girl.
She has just heard of an excellent English trained nurse that she cansecure, but she isn't sure but that it would be better to start with aFrench nurse, so that the child can learn the language before her vocalcords are set. Also, she was extremely interested when she heard thatBetsy was a college woman. She couldn't make up her mind whether tosend the baby to college or not. What was Betsy's honest opinion? If thechild were Betsy's own daughter, would Betsy send her to college?
All this would be funny if it weren't so pathetic; but really I can'tget away from the picture of that poor lonely woman sewing those dollclothes for the little unknown girl that she wasn't sure she could have.She lost her own two babies years ago, or, rather, she never had them;they were never alive.
You can see what a good home it's going to be. There's lots of lovewaiting for the little mite, and that is better than all the wealthwhich, in this case, goes along.
But the problem now is to find the child, and that isn't easy. The J. F.Bretlands are so abominably explicit in their requirements. I havejust the baby boy to give them; but with that closetful of dolls, he isimpossible. Little Florence won't do--one tenacious parent living. I'vea wide variety of foreigners with liquid brown eyes--won't do at all.Mrs. Bretland is a blonde, and daughter must resemble her. I haveseveral sweet little mites with unspeakable heredity, but the Bretlandswant six generations of church-attending grandparents, with a colonialgovernor at the top. Also I have a darling little curly-headed girl (andcurls are getting rarer and rarer), but illegitimate. And that seems tobe an unsurmountable barrier in the eyes of adopting parents, though,as a matter of fact, it makes no slightest difference in the child.However, she won't do. The Bretlands hold out sternly for a marriagecertificate.
There remains just one child out of all these one hundred and seven thatappears available. Our little Sophie's father and mother were killed ina railroad accident, and the only reason she wasn't killed was becausethey had just left her in a hospital to get an abscess cut out of herthroat. She comes from good common American stock, irreproachable anduninteresting in every way. She's a washed-out, spiritless, whineylittle thing. The doctor has been pouring her full of his favoritecod-liver oil and spinach, but he can't get any cheerfulness into her.
However, individual love and care does accomplish wonders in institutionchildren, and she may bloom into something rare and beautiful after afew months' transplanting. So I yesterday wrote a glowing account of herimmaculate family history to J. F. Bretland, offering to deliver her inGermantown.
This morning I received a telegram from J. F. B. Not at all! He does notpurpose to buy any daughter sight unseen. He will come and inspect thechild in person at three o'clock on Wednesday next.
Oh dear, if he shouldn't like her! We are now bending all our energiestoward enhancing that child's beauty--like a pup bound for the dogshow. Do you think it would be awfully immoral if I rouged her cheeks asuspicion? She is too young to pick up the habit.
Heavens! what a letter! A million pages written without a break. You cansee where my heart is. I'm as excited over little Sophie's settling inlife as though she were my own darling daughter.
Respectful regards to the president.
SAL. McB.

Dear Gordon:
That was an obnoxious, beastly, low-down trick not to send me a cheeringline for four weeks just because, in a period of abnormal stress I oncelet you go for three. I had really begun to be worried for fear you'dtumbled into the Potomac. My chicks would miss you dreadfully; they lovetheir uncle Gordon. Please remember that you promised to send them adonkey.
Please also remember that I'm a busier person than you. It's a lotharder to run the John Grier Home than the House of Representatives.Besides, you have more efficient people to help.
This isn't a letter; it's an indignant remonstrance. I'll writetomorrow--or the next day.
S.
P.S. On reading your letter over again I am slightly mollified, butdinna think I believe a' your saft words. I ken weel ye only flatterwhen ye speak sae fair.

July 17.
Dear Judy:
I have a history to recount.
This, please remember, is Wednesday next. So at half-past two o'clockour little Sophie was bathed and brushed and clothed in fine linen, andput in charge of a trusty orphan, with anxious instructions to keep herclean.
At three-thirty to the minute--never have I known a human being sodisconcertingly businesslike as J. F. Bretland--an automobile ofexpensive foreign design rolled up to the steps of this imposingchateau. A square-shouldered, square-jawed personage, with a chopped-offmustache and a manner that inclines one to hurry, presented himselfthree minutes later at my library door. He greeted me briskly as "MissMcKosh." I gently corrected him, and he changed to "Miss McKim." Iindicated my most soothing armchair, and invited him to take some lightrefreshment after his journey. He accepted a glass of water (I admire atemperate parent), and evinced an impatient desire to be done with thebusiness. So I rang the bell and ordered the little Sophie to be broughtdown.
"Hold on, Miss McGee!" said he to me. "I'd rather see her in her ownenvironment. I will go with you to the playroom or corral or whereveryou keep your youngsters."
So I led him to the nursery, where thirteen or fourteen mites in ginghamrompers were tumbling about on mattresses on the floor. Sophie, alonein the glory of feminine petticoats, was ensconced in the blue-ginghamedarms of a very bored orphan. She was squirming and fighting to get down,and her feminine petticoats were tightly wound about her neck. I tookher in my arms, smoothed her clothes, wiped her nose, and invited her tolook at the gentleman.
That child's whole future hung upon five minutes of sunniness, andinstead of a single smile, she WHINED!
Mr. Bretland shook her hand in a very gingerly fashion and chirruped toher as you might to a pup. Sophie took not the slightest notice of him,but turned her back, and buried her face in my neck. He shrugged hisshoulders, supposed that they could take her on trial. She might suithis wife; he himself didn't want one, anyway. And we turned to go out.
Then who should come toddling straight across his path but that littlesunbeam Allegra! Exactly in front of him she staggered, threw her armsabout like a windmill, and plumped down on all fours. He hopped asidewith great agility to avoid stepping on her, and then picked her up andset her on her feet. She clasped her arms about his leg, and looked upat him with a gurgling laugh.
"Daddy! Frow baby up!"
He is the first man, barring the doctor, whom the child has seen forweeks, and evidently he resembles somewhat her almost forgotten father.
J. F. Bretland picked her up and tossed her in the air as handily asthough it were a daily occurrence, while she ecstatically shrieked herdelight. Then when he showed signs of lowering her, she grasped him byan ear and a nose, and drummed a tattoo on his stomach with both feet.No one could ever accuse Allegra of lacking vitality!
J. F. disentangled himself from her endearments, and emerged, rumpled asto hair, but with a firm-set jaw. He set her on her feet, but retainedher little doubled-up fist.
"This is the kid for me," he said. "I don't believe I need to look anyfurther."
I explained that we couldn't separate little Allegra from her brothers;but the more I objected, the stubborner his jaw became. We went back tothe library, and argued about it for half an hour.
He liked her heredity, he liked her looks, he liked her spirit, he likedHER. If he was going to have a daughter foisted on him, he wanted onewith some ginger. He'd be hanged if he'd take that other whimperinglittle thing. It wasn't natural. But if I gave him Allegra, he wouldbring her up as his own child, and see that she was provided for for therest of her life. Did I have any right to cut her out from all that justfor a lot of sentimental nonsense? The family was already broken up; thebest I could do for them now was to provide for them individually. "Takeall three," said I, quite brazenly.
But, no, he couldn't consider that; his wife was an invalid, and onechild was all that she could manage.
Well, I was in a dreadful quandary. It seemed such a chance for thechild, and yet it did seem so cruel to separate her from those twoadoring little brothers. I knew that if the Bretlands adopted herlegally, they would do their best to break all ties with the past, andthe child was still so tiny she would forget her brothers as quickly asshe had her father.
Then I thought about you, Judy, and of how bitter you have always beenbecause, when that family wanted to adopt you, the asylum wouldn't letyou go. You have always said that you might have had a home, too, likeother children, but that Mrs. Lippett stole it away from you. Was Iperhaps stealing little Allegra's home from her? With the two boys itwould be different; they could be educated and turned out to shift forthemselves. But to a girl a home like this would mean everything. Eversince baby Allegra came to us, she has seemed to me just such anotherchild as baby Judy must have been. She has ability and spirit. We mustsomehow furnish her with opportunity. She, too, deserves her shareof the world's beauty and good--as much as nature has fitted her toappreciate. And could any asylum ever give her that? I stood and thoughtand thought while Mr. Bretland impatiently paced the floor.
"You have those boys down and let me talk to them," Mr. Bretlandinsisted. "If they have a spark of generosity, they'll be glad to lether go."
I sent for them, but my heart was a solid lump of lead. They were stillmissing their father; it seemed merciless to snatch away that darlingbaby sister, too.
They came hand in hand, sturdy, fine little chaps, and stood solemnly atattention, with big, wondering eyes fixed on the strange gentleman.
"Come here, boys. I want to talk to you." He took each by a hand. "Inthe house I live in we haven't any little baby, so my wife and Idecided to come here, where there are so many babies without fathers andmothers, and take one home to be ours. She will have a beautiful houseto live in, and lots of toys to play with, and she will be happy all herlife--much happier than she could ever be here. I know that you will bevery glad to hear that I have chosen your little sister."
"And won't we ever see her any more?" asked Clifford.
"Oh, yes, sometimes."
Clifford looked from me to Mr. Bretland, and two big tears began rollingdown his cheeks. He jerked his hand away and came and hurled himselfinto my arms.
"Don't let him have her! Please! Please! Send him away!"
"Take them all!" I begged.
But he's a hard man.
"I didn't come for an entire asylum," said he, shortly.
By this time Don was sobbing on the other side. And then who shouldinject himself into the hubbub but Dr. MacRae, with baby Allegra in hisarms!
I introduced them, and explained. Mr. Bretland reached for the baby, andSandy held her tight.
"Quite impossible," said Sandy, shortly. "Miss McBride will tell youthat it's one of the rules of this institution never to separate afamily."
"Miss McBride has already decided," said J. F. B., stiffly. "We havefully discussed the question."
"You must be mistaken," said Sandy, becoming his Scotchest, and turningto me. "You surely had no intention of performing any such cruelty asthis?"
Here was the decision of Solomon all over again, with two of thestubbornest men that the good Lord ever made wresting poor littleAllegra limb from limb.
I despatched the three chicks back to the nursery and returned to thefray. We argued loud and hotly, until finally J. F. B. echoed my ownfrequent query of the last five months: "Who is the head of this asylum,the superintendent or the visiting physician?"
I was furious with the doctor for placing me in such a position beforethat man, but I couldn't quarrel with him in public; so I had ultimatelyto tell Mr. Bretland with finality and flatness, that Allegra was out ofthe question. Would he not reconsider Sophie?
No, he'd be darned if he'd reconsider Sophie. Allegra or nobody. Hehoped that I realized that I had weakly allowed the child's entirefuture to be ruined. And with that parting shot he backed to the door."Miss MacRae, Dr. McBride, good afternoon." He achieved two formal bowsand withdrew.
And the moment the door closed Sandy and I fought it out. He said thatany person who claimed to have any modern, humane views on the subjectof child-care ought to be ashamed to have considered for even a momentthe question of breaking up such a family. And I accused him of keepingher for the purely selfish reason that he was fond of the child anddidn't wish to lose her.
(And that, I believe, is the truth.) Oh, we had the battle of ourcareer, and he finally took himself off with a stiffness and politenessthat excelled J. F. B.'s.
Between the two of them I feel as limp as though I'd been run throughour new mangling machine. And then Betsy came home, and reviled me forthrowing away the choicest family we have ever discovered!
So this is the end of our week of feverish activity; and both Sophie andAllegra are, after all, to be institution children. Oh dear! oh dear!Please remove Sandy from the staff, and send me, instead, a German, aFrenchman, a Chinaman, if you choose--anything but a Scotchman.
Yours wearily,
SALLIE.

P.S. I dare say that Sandy is also passing a busy evening in writingto have me removed. I won't object if you wish to do it. I am tired ofinstitutions.

Dear Gordon:
You are a captious, caviling, carping, crabbed, contentious,cantankerous chap. Hoot mon! an' why shouldna I drap into Scotch gin Ichoose? An' I with a Mac in my name.
Of course the John Grier will be delighted to welcome you on Thursdaynext, not only for the donkey, but for your sweet sunny presence aswell. I was planning to write you a mile-long letter to make up for pastdeficiencies, but wha's the use? I'll be seeing you the morn's morn, an'unco gude will be the sight o' you for sair een.
Dinna fash yoursel, Laddie, because o'my language. My forebears werefrom the Hielands.
McBRIDE.

Dear Judy:
All's well with the John Grier--except for a broken tooth, a sprainedwrist, a badly scratched knee, and one case of pinkeye. Betsy and I arebeing polite, but cool, toward the doctor. The annoying thing is thathe is rather cool, too. And he seems to be under the impression that thedrop in temperature is all on his side. He goes about his business in ascientific, impersonal way, entirely courteous, but somewhat detached.
However, the doctor is not disturbing us very extensively at present.We are about to receive a visit from a far more fascinating person thanSandy. The House of Representatives again rests from its labors, andGordon enjoys a vacation, two days of which he is planning to spend atthe Brantwood Inn.
I am delighted to hear that you have had enough seaside, and areconsidering our neighborhood for the rest of the summer. There areseveral spacious estates to be had within a few miles of the John Grier,and it will be a nice change for Jervis to come home only at week ends.After a pleasantly occupied absence, you will each have some new ideasto add to the common stock.
I can't add any further philosophy just now on the subject of marriedlife, having to refresh my memory on the Monroe Doctrine and one or twoother political topics.
I am looking eagerly forward to August and three months with you.
As ever,
SALLIE.

Friday.
Dear Enemy:
It's very forgiving of me to invite you to dinner after that volcanicexplosion of last week. However, please come. You remember ourphilanthropic friend, Mr. Hallock, who sent us the peanuts and goldfishand other indigestible trifles? He will be with us tonight, so this isyour chance to turn the stream of his benevolence into more hygienicchannels.
We dine at seven.
As ever,
SALLIE McBRIDE.


Dear Enemy:
You should have lived in the days when each man inhabited a separatecave on a separate mountain.
S. McBRIDE.

Friday, 6:30.
Dear Judy:
Gordon is here, and a reformed man so far as his attitude toward myasylum goes. He has discovered the world-old truth that the way to amother's heart is through praise of her children, and he had nothing butpraise for all 107 of mine. Even in the case of Loretta Higgins he foundsomething pleasant to say. He thinks it nice that she isn't cross-eyed.
He went shopping with me in the village this afternoon, and was veryhelpful about picking out hair-ribbons for a couple of dozen littlegirls. He begged to choose Sadie Kate's himself, and after manyhesitations he hit upon orange satin for one braid and emerald green forthe other.
While we were immersed in this business I became aware of a neighboringcustomer, ostensibly engaged with hooks and eyes, but straining everyear to listen to our nonsense.
She was so dressed up in a picture hat, a spotted veil, a feather boa,and a NOUVEAU ART parasol that I never dreamed she was any acquaintanceof mine till I happened to catch her eye with a familiar malicious gleamin it. She bowed stiffly, and disapprovingly; and I nodded back. Mrs.Maggie McGurk in her company clothes!
That is a pleasanter expression than she really has. Her smile is due toa slip of the pen.
Poor Mrs. McGurk can't understand any possible intellectual interest ina man. She suspects me of wanting to marry every single one that I meet.At first she thought I wanted to snatch away her doctor; but now, afterseeing me with Gordon, she considers me a bigamous monster who wantsthem both.
Good-by; some guests approach.

11:30 P.M.

I have just been giving a dinner for Gordon, with Betsy and Mrs.Livermore and Mr. Witherspoon as guests. I graciously included thedoctor, but he curtly declined on the ground that he wasn't in a socialmood. Our Sandy does not let politeness interfere with truth!
There is no doubt about it, Gordon is the most presentable man that everbreathed. He is so good looking and easy and gracious and witty, and hismanners are so impeccable--Oh, he would make a wonderfully decorativehusband! But after all, I suppose you do live with a husband. You don'tjust show him off at dinners and teas.
He was exceptionally nice tonight. Betsy and Mrs. Livermore both fell inlove with him--and I just a trifle. He entertained us with a speech inhis best public manner, apropos of Java's welfare. We have been havinga dreadful time finding a sleeping place for that monkey, and Gordonproved with incontestable logic that, since he was presented to us byJimmie, and Jimmie is Percy's friend, he should sleep with Percy. Gordonis a natural talker, and an audience affects him like champagne. He canargue with as much emotional earnestness on the subject of a monkey ason the greatest hero that ever bled for his country.
I felt tears coming to my eyes when he described Java's loneliness as hewatched out the night in our furnace cellar, and pictured his brothersat play in the far-off tropical jungle.
A man who can talk like that has a future before him. I haven't a doubtbut that I shall be voting for him for President in another twentyyears.
We all had a beautiful time, and entirely forgot--for a space of threehours--that 107 orphans slumbered about us. Much as I love the littledears, it is pleasant to get away from them once in a while.
My guests left at ten, and it must be midnight by now. (This is theeighth day, and my clock has stopped again; Jane forgets to wind it asregularly as Friday comes around.) However, I know it's late; and as awoman, it's my duty to try for beauty sleep, especially with an eligibleyoung suitor at hand.
I'll finish tomorrow. Good night.

Saturday.

Gordon spent this morning playing with my asylum and planning someintelligent presents to be sent later. He thinks that three neatlypainted totem poles would add to the attractiveness of our Indian camps.He is also going to make us a present of three dozen pink rompers forthe babies. Pink is a color that is very popular with the superintendentof this asylum, who is deadly tired of blue! Our generous friend islikewise amusing himself with the idea of a couple of donkeys andsaddles and a little red cart. Isn't it nice that Gordon's fatherprovided for him so amply, and that he is such a charitably inclinedyoung man? He is at present lunching with Percy at the hotel, and, Itrust, imbibing fresh ideas in the field of philanthropy.
Perhaps you think I haven't enjoyed this interruption to the monotonyof institution life! You can say all you please, my dear Mrs. Pendleton,about how well I am managing your asylum, but, just the same, it isn'tnatural for me to be so stationary. I very frequently need a change.That is why Gordon, with his bubbling optimism and boyish spirits, is soexhilarating especially as a contrast to too much doctor.

Sunday morning.

I must tell you the end of Gordon's visit. His intention had been toleave at four, but in an evil moment I begged him to stay over till9:30, and yesterday afternoon he and Singapore and I took a long'cross-country walk, far out of sight of the towers of this asylum,and stopped at a pretty little roadside inn, where we had a satisfyingsupper of ham and eggs and cabbage. Sing stuffed so disgracefully thathe has been languid ever since.
The walk and all was fun, and a very grateful change from thismonotonous life I lead. It would have kept me pleasant and contentedfor weeks if something most unpleasant hadn't happened later. We hada beautiful, sunny, carefree afternoon, and I'm sorry to have hadit spoiled. We came back very unromantically in the trolley car, andreached the J. G. H. before nine, just in good time for him to run onto the station and catch his train. So I didn't ask him to come in, butpolitely wished him a pleasant journey at the porte-cochere.
A car was standing at the side of the drive, in the shadow of the house.I recognized it, and thought the doctor was inside with Mr. Witherspoon.(They frequently spend their evenings together in the laboratory.) Well,Gordon, at the moment of parting, was seized with an unfortunate impulseto ask me to abandon the management of this asylum, and take over themanagement of a private house instead.
Did you ever know anything like the man? He had the whole afternoon andmiles of empty meadow in which to discuss the question, but instead hemust choose our door mat!
I don't know just what I did say. I tried to turn it off lightly andhurry him to his train. But he refused to be turned off lightly. Hebraced himself against a post and insisted upon arguing it out. I knewthat he was missing his train, and that every window in this institutionwas open. A man never has the slightest thought of possible overhearers.It is always the woman who thinks of convention.
Being in a nervous twitter to get rid of him, I suppose I was prettyabrupt and tactless. He began to get angry, and then by some unluckychance his eye fell on that car. He recognized it, too, and, being ina savage mood, he began making fun of the doctor. "Old Goggle-eyes"he called him, and "Scatchy," and oh, the awfullest lot of unmannerly,silly things!
I was assuring him with convincing earnestness that I didn't care a rapabout the doctor, that I thought he was just as funny and impossible ashe could be, when suddenly the doctor rose out of his car and walked upto us.
I could have evaporated from the earth very comfortably at that moment!
Sandy was quite clearly angry, as well he might be, after the thingshe'd heard, but he was entirely cold and collected. Gordon was hot, andbursting with imaginary wrongs. I was aghast at this perfectly foolishand unnecessary muddle that had suddenly arisen out of nothing. Sandyapologized to me with unimpeachable politeness for inadvertentlyoverhearing, and then turned to Gordon and stiffly invited him to getinto his car and ride to the station.
I begged him not to go. I didn't wish to be the cause of any sillyquarrel between them. But without paying the slightest attention tome, they climbed into the car, and whirled away, leaving me placidlystanding on the door mat.
I came in and went to bed, and lay awake for hours, expecting to hear--Idon't know what kind of explosion. It is now eleven o'clock, and thedoctor hasn't appeared. I don't know how on earth I shall meet him whenhe does. I fancy I shall hide in the clothes closet.
Did you ever know anything as unnecessary and stupid as this wholesituation? I suppose now I've quarreled with Gordon,--and I positivelydon't know over what,--and of course my relations with the doctor aregoing to be terribly awkward. I said horrid things about him,--you knowthe silly way I talk,--things I didn't mean in the least.
I wish it were yesterday at this time. I would make Gordon go at four.
SALLIE.


Sunday afternoon.
Dear Dr. MacRae:
That was a horrid, stupid, silly business last night. But by this timeyou must know me well enough to realize that I never mean the foolishthings I say. My tongue has no slightest connection with my brain; itjust runs along by itself. I must seem to you very ungrateful forall the help you have given me in this unaccustomed work and for thepatience you have (occasionally) shown.
I do appreciate the fact that I could never have run this asylum bymyself without your responsible presence in the background. And thoughonce in a while, as you yourself must acknowledge, you have been prettyimpatient and bad tempered and difficult, still I have never held it upagainst you, and I really didn't mean any of the ill-mannered things Isaid last night. Please forgive me for being rude. I should hate verymuch to lose your friendship. And we are friends, are we not? I like tothink so.
S. McB.

Dear Judy:
I am sure I haven't an idea whether or not the doctor and I have made upour differences. I sent him a polite note of apology, which he receivedin abysmal silence. He didn't come near us until this afternoon, andhe hasn't by the blink of an eyelash referred to our unfortunatecontretemps. We talked exclusively about an ichthyol salve that willremove eczema from a baby's scalp; then, Sadie Kate being present, theconversation turned to cats. It seems that the doctor's Maltese cat hasfour kittens, and Sadie Kate will not be silenced until she hasseen them. Before I knew what was happening I found myself making anengagement to take her to see those miserable kittens at four o'clocktomorrow afternoon.
Whereupon the doctor, with an indifferently polite bow, took himselfoff. And that apparently is the end.
Your Sunday note arrives, and I am delighted to hear that you have takenthe house. It will be beautiful having you for a neighbor for so long.Our improvements ought to march along, with you and the president atour elbow. But it does seem as though, you ought to get out here beforeAugust 7. Are you sure that city air is good for you just now? I havenever known so devoted a wife.
My respects to the president.
S. McB.

July 22.
Dear Judy:
Please listen to this!
At four o'clock I took Sadie Kate to the doctor's house to look atthose cats. But Freddy Howland just twenty minutes before had fallendownstairs, so the doctor was at the Howland house occupying himselfwith Freddy's collarbone. He had left word for us to sit down and wait,that he would be back shortly.
Mrs. McGurk ushered us into the library; and then, not to leave usalone, came in herself on a pretense of polishing the brass. I don'tknow what she thought we'd do! Run off with the pelican perhaps.
I settled down to an article about the Chinese situation in the Century,and Sadie Kate roamed about at large examining everything she found,like a curious little mongoose.
She commenced with his stuffed flamingo and wanted to know what madeit so tall and what made it so red. Did it always eat frogs, and had ithurt its other foot? She ticks off questions with the steady persistencyof an eight-day clock.
I buried myself in my article and left Mrs. McGurk to deal with Sadie.Finally, after she had worked half-way around the room, she came to aportrait of a little girl occupying a leather frame in the center of thedoctor's writing desk--a child with a queer elf-like beauty, resemblingvery strangely our little Allegra. This photograph might have been aportrait of Allegra grown five years older. I had noticed the picturethe night we took supper with the doctor, and had meant to ask which ofhis little patients she was. Happily I didn't!
"Who's that?" said Sadie Kate, pouncing upon it.
"It's the docthor's little gurrl."
"Where is she?"
"Shure, she's far away wit' her gran'ma."
"Where'd he get her?"
"His wife give her to him."
I emerged from my book with electric suddenness.
"His wife!" I cried.
The next instant I was furious with myself for having spoken, but I wasso completely taken off my guard. Mrs. McGurk straightened up and becamevolubly conversational at once.
"And didn't he never tell you about his wife? She went insane six yearsago. It got so it weren't safe to keep her in the house, and he had toput her away. It near killed him. I never seen a lady more beautifulthan her. I guess he didn't so much as smile for a year. It's funny henever told you nothing, and you such a friend!"
"Naturally it's not a subject he cares to talk about," said I dryly, andI asked her what kind of brass polish she used.
Sadie Kate and I went out to the garage and hunted up the kittensourselves; and we mercifully got away before the doctor came back.
But will you tell me what this means? Didn't Jervis know he wasmarried? It's the queerest thing I ever heard. I do think, as the McGurksuggests, that Sandy might casually have dropped the information that hehad a wife in an insane asylum.
But of course it must be a terrible tragedy and I suppose he can't bringhimself to talk about it. I see now why he's so morbid over the questionof heredity--I dare say he fears for the little girl. When I think ofall the jokes I've made on the subject, I'm aghast at how I must havehurt him, and angry with myself and angry with him.
I feel as though I never wanted to see the man again. Mercy! did youever know such a muddle as we are getting ourselves into?
Yours, SALLIE.
P.S. Tom McCoomb has pushed Mamie Prout into the box of mortar that themasons use. She's parboiled. I've sent for the doctor.

July 24. My dear Madam:
I have a shocking scandal to report about the superintendent of the JohnGrier Home. Don't let it get into the newspapers, please. I can picturethe spicy details of the investigation prior to her removal by the"Cruelty."
I was sitting in the sunshine by my open window this morning readinga sweet book on the Froebel theory of child culture--never lose yourtemper, always speak kindly to the little ones. Though they may appearbad, they are not so in reality. It is either that they are not feelingwell or have nothing interesting to do. Never punish; simply deflecttheir attention. I was entertaining a very loving, uplifted attitudetoward all this young life about me when my attention was attracted by agroup of little boys beneath the window.
"Aw--John--don't hurt it!"
"Let it go!"
"Kill it quick!"
And above their remonstrances rose the agonized squealing of some animalin pain. I dropped Froebel and, running downstairs, burst upon themfrom the side door. They saw me coming, and scattered right and left,revealing Johnnie Cobden engaged in torturing a mouse. I will spare youthe grisly details. I called to one of the boys to come and drown thecreature quick! John I seized by the collar; and dragged him squirmingand kicking in at the kitchen door. He is a big, hulking boy ofthirteen, and he fought like a little tiger, holding on to posts anddoorjambs as we passed. Ordinarily I doubt if I could have handled him,but that one sixteenth Irish that I possess was all on top, and I wasfighting mad. We burst into the kitchen, and I hastily looked about fora means of chastisement. The pancake turner was the first utensil thatmet my eyes. I seized it and beat that child with all my strength, untilI had reduced him to a cowering, whimpering mendicant for mercy, insteadof the fighting little bully he had been four minutes before.
And then who should suddenly burst into the midst of this explosion butDr. MacRae! His face was blank with astonishment. He strode over andtook the pancake turner out of my hand and set the boy on his feet.Johnnie got behind him and clung! I was so angry that I really couldn'ttalk. It was all I could do not to cry.
"Come, we will take him up to the office," was all the doctor said. Andwe marched out, Johnnie keeping as far from me as possible and limpingconspicuously. We left him in the outer office, and went into my libraryand shut the door.
"What in the world has the child done?" he asked.
At that I simply laid my head down on the table and began to cry! I wasutterly exhausted both emotionally and physically. It had taken all thestrength I possessed to make the pancake turner effective.
I sobbed out all the bloody details, and he told me not to think aboutit; the mouse was dead now. Then he got me some water to drink, and toldme to keep on crying till I was tired; it would do me good. I amnot sure that he didn't pat me on the head! Anyway, it was his bestprofessional manner. I have watched him administer the same treatment adozen times to hysterical orphans. And this was the first time in a weekthat we had spoken beyond the formality of "good morning"!
Well, as soon as I had got to the stage where I could sit up and laugh,intermittently dabbing my eyes with a wad of handkerchief, we begana review of Johnnie's case. The boy has a morbid heredity, and may beslightly defective, says Sandy. We must deal with the fact as we wouldwith any other disease. Even normal boys are often cruel. A child'smoral sense is undeveloped at thirteen.
Then he suggested that I bathe my eyes with hot water and resumemy dignity. Which I did. And we had Johnnie in. He stood--bypreference--through the entire interview. The doctor talked to him, oh,so sensibly and kindly and humanely! John put up the plea that the mousewas a pest and ought to be killed. The doctor replied that the welfareof the human race demanded the sacrifice of many animals for its owngood, not for revenge, but that the sacrifice must be carried out withthe least possible hurt to the animal. He explained about the mouse'snervous system, and how the poor little creature had no means of defense.It was a cowardly thing to hurt it wantonly. He told John to try todevelop imagination enough to look at things from the other person'spoint of view, even if the other person was only a mouse. Then he wentto the bookcase and took down my copy of Burns, and told the boy what agreat poet he was, and how all Scotchmen loved his memory.
"And this is what he wrote about a mouse," said Sandy, turning to the"Wee, sleekit, cow'rin, timorous beastie," which he read and explainedto the lad as only a Scotchman could.
Johnnie departed penitent, and Sandy redirected his professionalattention to me. He said I was tired and in need of a change. Why notgo to the Adirondacks for a week? He and Betsy and Mr. Witherspoon wouldmake themselves into a committee to run the asylum.
You know, that's exactly what I was longing to do! I need a shifting ofideas and some pine-scented air. My family opened the camp last week,and think I'm awful not to join them. They won't understand thatwhen you accept a position like this you can't casually toss it asidewhenever you feel like it. But for a few days I can easily manage. Myasylum is wound up like an eight-day clock, and will run until a weekfrom next Monday at 4 P.M., when my train will return me. Then I shallbe comfortably settled again before you arrive, and with no errantfancies in my brain.
Meanwhile Master John is in a happily chastened frame of mind and body.And I rather suspect that Sandy's moralizing had the more force becauseit was preceded by my pancake turner! But one thing I know--SuzanneEstelle is terrified whenever I step into her kitchen. I casually pickedup the potato-masher this morning while I was commenting upon lastnight's over-salty soup, and she ran to cover behind the woodshed door.
Tomorrow at nine I set out on my travels, after preparing the way withfive telegrams. And, oh! you can't imagine how I'm looking forward tobeing a gay, carefree young thing again--to canoeing on the lake andtramping in the woods and dancing at the clubhouse. I was in a state ofdelirium all night long at the prospect. Really, I hadn't realized howmortally tired I had become of all this asylum scenery.
"What you need," said Sandy to me, "is to get away for a little and sowsome wild oats."
That diagnosis was positively clairvoyant. I can't think of anything inthe world I'd rather do than sow a few wild oats. I'll come back withfresh energy, ready to welcome you and a busy summer.
As ever,
SALLIE.
P.S. Jimmie and Gordon are both going to be up there. How I wish youcould join us! A husband is very discommoding.

CAMP McBRIDE,
July 29.
Dear Judy:
This is to tell you that the mountains are higher than usual, the woodsgreener, and the lake bluer.
People seem late about coming up this year. The Harrimans' camp is theonly other one at our end of the lake that is open. The clubhouse isvery scantily supplied with dancing men, but we have as house guest anobliging young politician who likes to dance, so I am not discommoded bythe general scarcity.
The affairs of the nation and the rearing of orphans are alike delegatedto the background while we paddle about among the lily pads of thisdelectable lake. I look forward with reluctance to 7:56 next Mondaymorning, when I turn my back on the mountains. The awful thing about avacation is that the moment it begins your happiness is already cloudedby its approaching end.
I hear a voice on the veranda asking if Sallie is to be found within orwithout.

ADDIO!
S.

August 3.
Dear Judy:
Back at the John Grier, reshouldering the burdens of the cominggeneration. What should meet my eyes upon entering these grounds butJohn Cobden, of pancake turner memory, wearing a badge upon his sleeve.I turned it to me and read "S. P. C. A." in letters of gold! The doctor,during my absence, has formed a local branch of the Cruelty to Animals,and made Johnnie its president.
I hear that yesterday he stopped the workmen on the foundation for thenew farm cottage and scolded them severely for whipping their horses upthe incline! None of all this strikes any one but me as funny.
There's a lot of news, but with you due in four days, why bother towrite? Just one delicious bit I am saving for the end.
So hold your breath. You are going to receive a thrill on page 4. Youshould hear Sadie Kate squeal! Jane is cutting her hair.
Instead of wearing it in two tight braids like this--our little colleenwill in the future look like this--

"Them pigtails got on my nerves," says Jane.
You can see how much more stylish and becoming the present coiffure is.I think somebody will be wanting to adopt her. Only Sadie Kate is suchan independent, manly little creature; she is eminently fitted by natureto shift for herself. I must save adopting parents for the helplessones.
You should see our new clothes! I can't wait for this assemblageof rosebuds to burst upon you. And you should have seen those blueginghamed eyes brighten when the new frocks were actually givenout--three for each girl, all different colors, and all perfectlyprivate personal property, with the owner's indelible name inside thecollar. Mrs. Lippett's lazy system of having each child draw from thewash a promiscuous dress each week, was an insult to feminine nature.
Sadie Kate is squealing like a baby pig. I must go to see if Jane has bymistake clipped off an ear.

Jane hasn't. Sadie's excellent ears are still intact. She is justsquealing on principle; the way one does in a dentist's chair, under thebelief that it is going to hurt the next instant.
I really can't think of anything else to write except my news,--so hereit is,--and I hope you'll like it.
I am engaged to be married.
My love to you both.
S. McB.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
November 15.
Dear Judy:

Betsy and I are just back from a GIRO in our new motor car. Itundoubtedly does add to the pleasure of institution life. The car of itsown accord turned up Long Ridge Road, and stopped before the gates ofShadywell. The chains were up, and the shutters battened down, and theplace looked closed and gloomy and rain-soaked. It wore a sort of fallof the House of Usher air, and didn't in the least resemble the cheerfulhouse that used to greet me hospitably of an afternoon.
I hate to have our nice summer ended. It seems as though a section ofmy life was shut away behind me, and the unknown future was pressingawfully close. Positively, I'd like to postpone that wedding another sixmonths, but I'm afraid poor Gordon would make too dreadful a fuss. Don'tthink I'm getting wobbly, for I'm not. It's just that somehow I needmore time to think about it, and March is getting nearer every day. Iknow absolutely that I'm doing the most sensible thing. Everybody,man or woman, is the better for being nicely and appropriately andcheerfully married. But oh dear! oh dear! I do hate upheavals, and thisis going to be such a world-without-end upheaval! Sometimes when theday's work is over, and I'm tired, I haven't the spirit to rise and meetit.
And now especially since you've bought Shadywell, and are going to behere every summer, I resent having to leave. Next year, when I'm faraway, I'll be consumed with homesickness, thinking of all the busy,happy times at the John Grier, with you and Betsy and Percy and ourgrumbly Scotchman working away cheerfully without me. How can anythingever make up to a mother for the loss of 107 children?
I trust that Judy, junior, stood the journey into town without upsettingher usual poise. I am sending her a bit giftie, made partly by myselfand chiefly by Jane. But two rows, I must inform you, were done by thedoctor. One only gradually plumbs the depths of Sandy's nature. After aten-months' acquaintance with the man, I discover that he knows how toknit, an accomplishment he picked up in his boyhood from an old shepherdon the Scotch moors.
He dropped in three days ago and stayed for tea, really in almost hisold friendly mood. But he has since stiffened up again to the same manof granite we knew all summer. I've given up trying to make him out. Isuppose, however, that any one might be expected to be a bit down witha wife in an insane asylum. I wish he'd talk about it once. It's awfulhaving such a shadow hovering in the background of your thoughts andnever coming out into plain sight.
I know that this letter doesn't contain a word of the kind of news thatyou like to hear. But it's that beastly twilight hour of a damp Novemberday, and I'm in a beastly uncheerful mood. I'm awfully afraid that Iam developing into a temperamental person, and Heaven knows Gordon cansupply all the temperament that one family needs! I don't know wherewe'll land if I don't preserve my sensibly stolid, cheerful nature.
Have you really decided to go South with Jervis? I appreciate yourfeeling (to a slight extent) about not wanting to be separated from ahusband; but it does seem sort of hazardous to me to move so young adaughter to the tropics.
The children are playing blind man's buff in the lower corridor. I thinkI'll have a romp with them, and try to be in a more affable mood beforeresuming my pen.
A BIENTOT!
SALLIE.
P.S. These November nights are pretty cold, and we are getting ready tomove the camps indoors. Our Indians are very pampered young savages atpresent, with a double supply of blankets and hot-water bottles. I shallhate to see the camps go; they have done a lot for us. Our lads will beas tough as Canadian trappers when they come in.

November 20.
Dear Judy:
Your motherly solicitude is sweet, but I didn't mean what I said.
Of course it's perfectly safe to convey Judy, junior, to the temperatelytropical lands that are washed by the Caribbean. She'll thrive aslong as you don't set her absolutely on top of the equator. And yourbungalow, shaded by palms and fanned by sea breezes, with an ice machinein the back yard and an English doctor across the bay, sounds made forthe rearing of babies.
My objections were all due to the selfish fact that I and the John Grierare going to be lonely without you this winter. I really think it'sentrancing to have a husband who engages in such picturesque pursuitsas financing tropical railroads and developing asphalt lakes and rubbergroves and mahogany forests. I wish that Gordon would take to lifein those picturesque countries; I'd be more thrilled by the romanticpossibilities of the future. Washington seems awfully commonplacecompared with Honduras and Nicaragua and the islands of the Caribbean.
I'll be down to wave good-by.
ADDIO!
SALLIE.


November 24.
Dear Gordon:
Judy has gone back to town, and is sailing next week for Jamaica, whereshe is to make her headquarters while Jervis cruises about adjacentwaters on these entertaining new ventures of his. Couldn't you engage intraffic in the South Seas? I think I'd feel pleasanter about leaving myasylum if you had something romantic and adventurous to offer instead.And think how beautiful you'd be in those white linen clothes! I reallybelieve I might be able to stay in love with a man quite permanently ifhe always dressed in white.
You can't imagine how I miss Judy. Her absence leaves a dreadful hole inmy afternoons. Can't you run up for a week end soon? I think the sightof you would be very cheering, and I'm feeling awfully down of late.You know, my dear Gordon, I like you much better when you're right herebefore my eyes than when I merely think about you from a distance. Ibelieve you must have a sort of hypnotic influence. Occasionally, afteryou've been away a long time, your spell wears a little thin. But when Isee you, it all comes back. You've been away now a long, long time; so,please come fast and bewitch me over again!
S.

December 2.
Dear Judy:
Do you remember in college, when you and I used to plan our favoritefutures, how we were forever turning our faces southward? And now tothink it has really come true, and you are there, coasting around thosetropical isles! Did you ever have such a thrill in the whole of yourlife, barring one or two connected with Jervis, as when you came up ondeck in the early dawn and found yourself riding at anchor in the harborof Kingston, with the water so blue and the palms so green and the beachso white?
I remember when I first woke in that harbor. I felt like a heroine ofgrand opera surrounded by untruly beautiful painted scenery. Nothingin my four trips to Europe ever thrilled me like the queer sights andtastes and smells of those three warm weeks seven years ago. And eversince, I've panted to get back. When I stop to think about it, I canhardly bring myself to swallow our unexciting meals; I wish to be diningon curries and tamales and mangos. Isn't it funny? You'd think I musthave a dash of Creole or Spanish or some warm blood in me somewhere,but I'm nothing on earth but a chilly mixture of English and Irish andScotch. Perhaps that is why I hear the South calling. "The palm dreamsof the pine, and the pine of the palm."
After seeing you off, I turned back to New York with an awfulwander-thirst gnawing at my vitals. I, too, wanted to be starting offon my travels in a new blue hat and a new blue suit with a big bunchof violets in my hand. For five minutes I would cheerfully have saidgood-by forever to poor dear Gordon in return for the wide worldto wander in. I suppose you are thinking they are not entirelyincompatible--Gordon and the wide world--but I don't seem able to getyour point of view about husbands. I see marriage as a man must, a good,sensible workaday institution; but awfully curbing to one's liberty.Somehow, after you're married forever, life has lost its feeling ofadventure. There aren't any romantic possibilities waiting to surpriseyou around each corner.
The disgraceful truth is that one man doesn't seem quite enough for me.I like the variety of sensation that you get only from a variety of men.I'm afraid I've spent too flirtatious a youth, and it isn't easy for meto settle.
I seem to have a very wandering pen. To return: I saw you off, and tookthe ferry back to New York with a horribly empty feeling. After ourintimate, gossipy three months together, it seems a terrible task totell you my troubles in tones that will reach to the bottom of thecontinent. My ferry slid right under the nose of your steamer, andI could see you and Jervis plainly leaning on the rail. I wavedfrantically, but you never blinked an eyelash. Your gaze was fixed inhomesick contemplation upon the top of the Woolworth Building.
Back in New York, I took myself to a department store to accomplisha few trifles in the way of shopping. As I was entering through theirrevolving doors, who should be revolving in the other direction butHelen Brooks! We had a terrible time meeting, as I tried to go back out,and she tried to come back in; I thought we should revolve eternally.But we finally got together and shook hands, and she obligingly helpedme choose fifteen dozen pairs of stockings and fifty caps and sweatersand two hundred union suits, and then we gossiped all the way up toFifty-second Street, where we had luncheon at the Women's UniversityClub.
I always liked Helen. She's not spectacular, but steady and dependable.Will you ever forget the way she took hold of that senior pageantcommittee and whipped it into shape after Mildred had made such a messof it? How would she do here as a successor to me? I am filled withjealousy at the thought of a successor, but I suppose I must face it.
"When did you last see Judy Abbott?" was Helen's first question.
"Fifteen minutes ago," said I. "She has just set sail for the Spanishmain with a husband and daughter and nurse and maid and valet and dog."
"Has she a nice husband?"
"None better."
"And does she still like him?"
"Never saw a happier marriage."
It struck me that Helen looked a trifle bleak, and I suddenly rememberedall that gossip that Marty Keene told us last summer; so I hastilychanged the conversation to a perfectly safe subject like orphans.
But later she told me the whole story herself in as detached andimpersonal a way as though she were discussing the characters in a book.She has been living alone in the city, hardly seeing any one, and sheseemed low in spirits and glad to talk. Poor Helen appears to have madean awful mess of her life. I don't know any one who has covered so muchground in such a short space of time. Since her graduation she has beenmarried, has had a baby and lost him, divorced her husband, quarreledwith her family, and come to the city to earn her own living. She isreading manuscript for a publishing house.
There seems to have been no reason for her divorce from the ordinarypoint of view; the marriage just simply didn't work. They weren'tfriends. If he had been a woman, she wouldn't have wasted half an hourtalking with him. If she had been a man, he would have said: "Gladto see you. How are you?" and gone on. And yet they MARRIED. Isn't itdreadful how blind this sex business can make people?
She was brought up on the theory that a woman's only legitimateprofession is homemaking. When she finished college, she was naturallyeager to start on her career, and Henry presented himself. Her familyscanned him closely, and found him perfect in every respect--goodfamily, good morals, good financial position, good looking. Helen was inlove with him. She had a big wedding and lots of new clothes and dozensof embroidered towels. Everything looked propitious.
But as they began to get acquainted, they didn't like the same booksor jokes or people or amusements. He was expansive and social andhilarious, and she wasn't. First they bored, and then they irritated,each other. Her orderliness made him impatient, and his disorderlinessdrove her wild. She would spend a day getting closets and bureau drawersin order, and in five minutes he would stir them into chaos. He wouldleave his clothes about for her to pick up, and his towels in a messyheap on the bathroom floor, and he never scrubbed out the tub. And she,on her side, was awfully unresponsive and irritating,--she realized itfully,--she got to the point where she wouldn't laugh at his jokes.
I suppose most old-fashioned, orthodox people would think it awful tobreak up a marriage on such innocent grounds. It seemed so to me atfirst; but as she went on piling up detail on detail each trivial initself, but making a mountainous total, I agreed with Helen that it wasawful to keep it going. It wasn't really a marriage; it was a mistake.
So one morning at breakfast, when the subject of what they should do forthe summer came up, she said quite casually that she thought she wouldgo West and get a residence in some State where you could get a divorcefor a respectable cause; and for the first time in months he agreed withher.
You can imagine the outraged feelings of her Victorian family. In allthe seven generations of their sojourn in America they have never hadanything like this to record in the family Bible. It all comes fromsending her to college and letting her read such dreadful modern peopleas Ellen Key and Bernard Shaw.
"If he had only got drunk and dragged me about by the hair," Helenwailed, "it would have been legitimate; but because we didn't actuallythrow things at each other, no one could see any reason for a divorce."
The pathetic part of the whole business is that both she and Henry wereadmirably fitted to make some one else happy. They just simply didn'tmatch each other; and when two people don't match, all the ceremonies inthe world can't marry them.
Saturday morning.

I meant to get this letter off two days ago; and here I am with volumeswritten, but nothing mailed.
We've just had one of those miserable deceiving nights--cold and frostywhen you go to bed, and warm and lifeless when you wake in the dark,smothered under a mountain of blankets. By the time I had removed my ownextra covers and plumped up my pillow and settled comfortably, I thoughtof those fourteen bundled-up babies in the fresh-air nursery. Theirso-called night nurse sleeps like a top the whole night through. (Hername is next on the list to be expunged.) So I roused myself again, andmade a little blanket removing tour, and by the time I had finished Iwas forever awake. It is not often that I pass a NUIT BLANCHE; but whenI do, I settle world problems. Isn't it funny how much keener your mindis when you are lying awake in the dark?
I began thinking about Helen Brooks, and I planned her whole life overagain. I don't know why her miserable story has taken such a hold overme. It's a disheartening subject for an engaged girl to contemplate.I keep saying to myself, what if Gordon and I, when we really getacquainted, should change our minds about liking each other? The feargrips my heart and wrings it dry. But I am marrying him for no reason inthe world except affection. I'm not particularly ambitious. Neither hisposition nor his money ever tempted me in the least. And certainly I amnot doing it to find my life work, for in order to marry I am havingto give up the work that I love. I really do love this work. I go aboutplanning and planning their baby futures, feeling that I'm constructingthe nation. Whatever becomes of me in after life, I am sure I'll bethe more capable for having had this tremendous experience. And it IS atremendous experience, the nearness to humanity that an asylum brings.I am learning so many new things every day that when each Saturday nightcomes I look back on the Sallie of last Saturday night, amazed at herignorance.
You know I am developing a funny old characteristic; I am getting tohate change. I don't like the prospect of having my life disrupted. Iused to love the excitement of volcanoes, but now a high level plateauis my choice in landscape. I am very comfortable where I am. My deskand closet and bureau drawers are organized to suit me; and, oh, I dreadunspeakably the thought of the upheaval that is going to happen to menext year! Please don't imagine that I don't care for Gordon quite asmuch as any man has a right to be cared for. It isn't that I like himany the less, but I am getting to like orphans the more.
I just met our medical adviser a few minutes ago as he was emergingfrom the nursery--Allegra is the only person in the institution who isfavored by his austere social attentions. He paused in passing to make apolite comment upon the sudden change in the weather, and to express thehope that I would remember him to Mrs. Pendleton when I wrote.
This is a miserable letter to send off on its travels, with scarcelya word of the kind of news that you like to hear. But our bare littleorphan asylum up in the hills must seem awfully far away from the palmsand orange groves and lizards and tarantulas that you are enjoying.
Have a good time, and don't forget the John Grier Home
and
SALLIE.

December 11.
Dear Judy:
Your Jamaica letter is here, and I'm glad to learn that Judy, Junior,enjoys traveling. Write me every detail about your house, and send somephotographs, so I can see you in it. What fun it must be to have a boatof your own that chugs about those entertaining seas! Have you worn allof your eighteen white dresses yet? And aren't you glad now that I madeyou wait about buying a Panama hat till you reached Kingston?
We are running along here very much as usual without anything excitingto chronicle. You remember little Maybelle Fuller, don't you--the chorusgirl's daughter whom our doctor doesn't like? We have placed her out.I tried to make the woman take Hattie Heaphy instead,--the quiet littleone who stole the communion cup,--but no, indeed! Maybelle's eyelasheswon the day. After all, as poor Marie says, the chief thing is to bepretty. All else in life depends on that.
When I got home last week, after my dash to New York, I made a briefspeech to the children. I told them that I had just been seeing AuntJudy off on a big ship, and I am embarrassed to have to report that theinterest--at least on the part of the boys--immediately abandoned AuntJudy and centered upon the ship. How many tons of coal did she burn aday? Was she long enough to reach from the carriage house to the Indiancamp? Were there any guns aboard, and if a privateer should attack her,could she hold her own? In case of a mutiny, could the captain shootdown anybody he chose, and wouldn't he be hanged when he got to shore?
I had ignominiously to call upon Sandy to finish my speech. I realizethat the best-equipped feminine mind in the world can't cope with thepeculiar class of questions that originate in a thirteen-year boy'sbrain.
As a result of their seafaring interest, the doctor conceived the ideaof inviting seven of the oldest and most alert lads to spend the daywith him in New York and see with their own eyes an oceanliner. Theyrose at five yesterday morning, caught the 7:30 train, and had the mostwonderful adventure that has happened in all their seven lives. Theyvisited one of the big liners (Sandy knows the Scotch engineer),and were conducted from the bottom of the hold to the top of thecrow's-nest, and then had luncheon on board. And after luncheon theyvisited the aquarium and the top of the Singer Building, and tookthe subway uptown to spend an hour with the birds of America in theirhabitats. Sandy with great difficulty pried them away from theNatural History Museum in time to catch the 6:15 train. Dinner in thedining-car. They inquired with great particularity how much it wascosting, and when they heard that it was the same, no matter how muchyou ate, they drew deep breaths and settled quietly and steadily to thetask of not allowing their host to be cheated. The railroad made nothingon that party, and all the tables around stopped eating to stare. Onetraveler asked the doctor if it was a boarding school he had in charge;so you can see how the manners and bearing of our lads have picked up.I don't wish to boast, but no one would ever have asked such a questionconcerning seven of Mrs. Lippett's youngsters. "Are they bound for areformatory?" would have been the natural question after observing thetable manners of her offspring.
My little band tumbled in toward ten o'clock, excitedly babbling amess of statistics about reciprocating compound engines and watertightbulkheads, devil-fish and sky-scrapers and birds of paradise. I thoughtI should never get them to bed. And, oh, but they had had a gloriousday! I do wish I could manage breaks in the routine oftener. It givesthem a new outlook on life and makes them more like normal children.Wasn't it really nice of Sandy? But you should have seen that man'sbehavior when I tried to thank him. He waved me aside in the middle ofa sentence, and growlingly asked Miss Snaith if she couldn't economize alittle on carbolic acid. The house smelt like a hospital.
I must tell you that Punch is back with us again, entirely renovated asto manners. I am looking for a family to adopt him.
I had hoped those two intelligent spinsters would see their way tokeeping him forever, but they want to travel, and they feel he's tooconsuming of their liberty. I inclose a sketch in colored chalk of yoursteamer, which he has just completed. There is some doubt as to thedirection in which it is going; it looks as though it might progressbackward and end in Brooklyn. Owing to the loss of my blue pencil, ourflag has had to adopt the Italian colors.
The three figures on the bridge are you and Jervis and the baby. I ampained to note that you carry your daughter by the back of her neck, asif she were a kitten. That is not the way we handle babies in the J. G.H. nursery. Please also note that the artist has given Jervis his fulldue in the matter of legs. When I asked Punch what had become of thecaptain, he said that the captain was inside, putting coal on the fire.Punch was terribly impressed, as well he might be, when he heard thatyour steamer burned three hundred wagonloads a day, and he naturallysupposed that all hands had been piped to the stokehole.
BOW! WOW!
That's a bark from Sing. I told him I was writing to you, and heresponded instantly.
We both send love.
Yours,
SALLIE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Saturday.
Dear Enemy:
You were so terribly gruff last night when I tried to thank you forgiving my boys such a wonderful day that I didn't have a chance toexpress half of the appreciation I felt.
What on earth is the matter with you, Sandy? You used to be a tolerablynice man--in spots, but these last three or four months you have onlybeen nice to other people, never to me. We have had from the first along series of misunderstandings and foolish contretemps, but after eachone we seemed to reach a solider basis of understanding, until I hadthought our friendship was on a pretty firm foundation, capable ofwithstanding any reasonable shock.
And then came that unfortunate evening last June when you overheard somefoolish impolitenesses, which I did not in the slightest degree mean;and from then on you faded into the distance. Really, I have feltterribly bad about it, and have wanted to apologize, but your mannerhas not been inviting of confidence. It isn't that I have any excuse orexplanation to offer; I haven't. You know how foolish and silly I am onoccasions, but you will just have to realize that though I'm flippantand foolish and trivial on top, I am pretty solid inside; and you've gotto forgive the silly part. The Pendletons knew that long ago, or theywouldn't have sent me up here. I have tried hard to pull off an honestjob, partly because I wanted to justify their judgment, partly becauseI was really interested in giving the poor little kiddies their share ofhappiness, but mostly, I actually believe, because I wanted to showyou that your first derogatory opinion of me was ill founded. Won't youplease expunge that unfortunate fifteen minutes at the porte-cocherelast June, and remember instead the fifteen hours I spent reading theKallikak Family?
I would like to feel that we're friends again.
SALLIE McBRIDE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Sunday.
Dear Dr. MacRae:
I am in receipt of your calling card with an eleven-word answer to myletter on the back. I didn't mean to annoy you by my attentions. Whatyou think and how you behave are really matters of extreme indifferenceto me. Be just as impolite as you choose.
S. McB.

December 14.
Dear Judy:
PLEASE pepper your letters with stamps, inside and out. I have thirtycollectors in the family. Since you have taken to travel, every dayabout post time an eager group gathers at the gate, waiting to snatchany letters of foreign design, and by the time the letters reach methey are almost in shreds through the tenacity of rival snatchers. TellJervis to send us some more of those purple pine trees from Honduras;likewise some green parrots from Guatemala. I could use a pint of them!
Isn't it wonderful to have got these apathetic little things soenthusiastic? My children are getting to be almost like real children.B dormitory started a pillow fight last night of its own accord; andthough it was very wearing to our scant supply of linen, I stood by andbeamed, and even tossed a pillow myself.
Last Saturday those two desirable friends of Percy's spent the wholeafternoon playing with my boys. They brought up three rifles, and eachman took the lead of a camp of Indians, and passed the afternoon in abottle shooting contest, with a prize for the winning camp. They broughtthe prize with them--an atrocious head of an Indian painted on leather.Dreadful taste; but the men thought it lovely, so I admired it with allthe ardor I could assume.
When they had finished, I warmed them up with cookies and hot chocolate,and I really think the men enjoyed it as much as the boys; theyundoubtedly enjoyed it more than I did. I couldn't help being in afeminine twitter all the time the firing was going on for fear somebodywould shoot somebody else. But I know that I can't keep twenty-fourIndians tied to my apron strings, and I never could find in the wholewide world three nicer men to take an interest in them.
Just think of all that healthy, exuberant volunteer service going towaste under the asylum's nose! I suppose the neighborhood is full ofplenty more of it, and I am going to make it my business to dig it out.
What I want most are about eight nice, pretty, sensible young women tocome up here one night a week, and sit before the fire and tell storieswhile the chicks pop corn. I do so want to contrive a little individualpetting for my babies. You see, Judy, I am remembering your ownchildhood, and am trying hard to fill in the gaps.
The trustees' meeting last week went beautifully. The new women are mosthelpful, and only the nice men came. I am happy to announce that theHon. Cy Wykoff is visiting his married daughter in Scranton. I wish shewould invite father to live with her permanently.

Wednesday.

I am in the most childish temper with the doctor, and for no verydefinite reason. He keeps along his even, unemotional way without payingthe slightest attention to anything or anybody. I have swallowed moreslights during these last few months than in the whole of my lifebefore, and I'm developing the most shockingly revengeful nature. Ispend all my spare time planning situations in which he will beterribly hurt and in need of my help, and in which 1, with the utmostcallousness, will shrug my shoulders and turn away. I am growing intoa person entirely foreign to the sweet, sunny young thing you used toknow.

Evening.

Do you realize that I am an authority on the care of dependent children?Tomorrow I and other authorities visit officially the Hebrew ShelteringGuardian Society's Orphan Asylum at Pleasantville. (All that's itsname!) It's a terribly difficult and roundabout journey from this point,involving a daybreak start and two trains and an automobile. But if I'mto be an authority, I must live up to the title. I'm keen about lookingover other institutions and gleaning as many ideas as possible againstour own alterations next year. And this Pleasantville asylum is anarchitectural model.
I acknowledge now, upon sober reflection, that we were wise to postponeextensive building operations until next summer. Of course I wasdisappointed, because it meant that I won't be the center of theripping-up, and I do so love to be the center of ripping-ups! But,anyway, you'll take my advice, even though I'm no longer an officialhead? The two building details we did accomplish are very promising. Ournew laundry grows better and better; it has removed from us that steamysmell so dear to asylums. The farmer's cottage will finally be readyfor occupancy next week. All it now lacks is a coat of paint and somedoorknobs.
But, oh dear! oh dear! another bubble has burst! Mrs Turnfelt, for allher comfortable figure and sunny smile, hates to have children messingabout. They make her nervous. And as for Turnfelt himself, thoughindustrious and methodical and an excellent gardener, still, his mentalprocesses are not quite what I had hoped for. When he first came, I madehim free of the library. He began at the case nearest the door, whichcontains thirty-seven volumes of Pansy's works. Finally, after he hadspent four months on Pansy, I suggested a change, and sent him home with"Huckleberry Finn." But he brought it back in a few days, and shook hishead. He says that after reading Pansy, anything else seems tame. Iam afraid I shall have to look about for some one a little moreup-and-coming. But at least, compared with Sterry, Turnfelt is ascholar!
And speaking of Sterry, he paid us a social call a few days ago, inquite a chastened frame of mind. It seems that the "rich city feller"whose estate he has been managing no longer needs his services; andSterry has graciously consented to return to us and let the childrenhave gardens if they wish. I kindly, but convincingly, declined hisoffer.

Friday.

I came back from Pleasantville last night with a heart full of envy.Please, Mr. President, I want some gray stucco cottages, with Lucadella Robbia figures baked into the front. They have nearly 700 childrenthere, and all sizable youngsters. Of course that makes a very differentproblem from my hundred and seven, ranging from babyhood up. ButI borrowed from their superintendent several very fancy ideas. I'mdividing my chicks into big and little sisters and brothers, each bigone to have a little one to love and help and fight for. Big sisterSadie Kate has to see that little sister Gladiola always has her hairneatly combed and her stockings pulled up and knows her lessons and getsa touch of petting and her share of candy--very pleasant for Gladiola,but especially developing for Sadie Kate.
Also I am going to start among our older children a limited form ofself-government such as we had in college. That will help fit them togo out into the world and govern themselves when they get there. Thisshoving children into the world at the age of sixteen seems terriblymerciless. Five of my children are ready to be shoved, but I can't bringmyself to do it. I keep remembering my own irresponsible silly youngself, and wondering what would have happened to me had I been turned outto work at the age of sixteen!
I must leave you now to write an interesting letter to my politician inWashington, and it's hard work. What have I to say that will interest apolitician? I can't do anything any more but babble about babies, andhe wouldn't care if every baby was swept from the face of the earth. Oh,yes, he would, too! I'm afraid I'm slandering him. Babies--at least boybabies--grow into voters.
Good-by,
SALLIE.

Dearest Judy:
If you expect a cheerful letter from me the day, don't read this.
The life of man is a wintry road. Fog, snow, rain, slush, drizzle,cold--such weather! such weather! And you in dear Jamaica with thesunshine and the orange blossoms!
We've got whooping cough, and you can hear us whoop when you get offthe train two miles away. We don't know how we got it--just one of thepleasures of institution life. Cook has left,--in the night,--what theScotch call a "moonlight flitting." I don't know how she got her trunkaway, but it's gone. The kitchen fire went with her. The pipes arefrozen. The plumbers are here, and the kitchen floor is all rippedup. One of our horses has the spavin. And, to crown all, our cheery,resourceful Percy is down, down, down in the depths of despair. We havenot been quite certain for three days past whether we could keep himfrom suicide. The girl in Detroit,--I knew she was a heartless littleminx,--without so much as going through the formality of sendingback his ring, has gone and married herself to a man and a couple ofautomobiles and a yacht. It is the best thing that could ever havehappened to Percy, but it will be a long, long time before he realizesit.
We have our twenty-four Indians back in the house with us. I was sorryto have to bring them in, but the shacks were scarcely planned forwinter quarters. I have stowed them away very comfortably, however,thanks to the spacious iron verandas surrounding our new fire-escape.It was a happy idea of Jervis's having them glassed in for sleepingporches. The babies' sun parlor is a wonderful addition to our nursery.We can fairly see the little tots bloom under the influence of thatextra air and sunshine.
With the return of the Indians to civilized life, Percy's occupation wasended, and he was supposed to remove himself to the hotel. But he didn'twant to remove himself. He has got used to orphans, he says, and hewould miss not seeing them about. I think the truth is that he isfeeling so miserable over his wrecked engagement that he is afraid to bealone. He needs something to occupy every waking moment out of bankinghours. And goodness knows we're glad enough to keep him! He has beenwonderful with those youngsters, and they need a man's influence.
But what on earth to do with the man? As you discovered last summer,this spacious chateau does not contain a superabundance of guest rooms.He has finally fitted himself into the doctor's laboratory, and themedicines have moved themselves to a closet down the hall. He and thedoctor fixed it up between them, and if they are willing to be mutuallyinconvenienced, I have no fault to find.
Mercy! I've just looked at the calendar, and it's the eighteenth, withChristmas only a week away. However shall we finish all our plans in aweek? The chicks are making presents for one another, and something likea thousand secrets have been whispered in my ear.
Snow last night. The boys have spent the morning in the woods, gatheringevergreens and drawing them home on sleds; and twenty girls are spendingthe afternoon in the laundry, winding wreaths for the windows. I don'tknow how we are going to do our washing this week. We were planning tokeep the Christmas tree a secret, but fully fifty children have beenboosted up to the carriage house window to take a peep at it, and I amafraid the news has spread among the remaining fifty.
At your insistence, we have sedulously fostered the Santa Claus myth,but it doesn't meet with much credence. "Why didn't he ever comebefore?" was Sadie Kate's skeptical question. But Santa Claus isundoubtedly coming this time. I asked the doctor, out of politeness, toplay the chief role at our Christmas tree; and being certain ahead oftime that he was going to refuse, I had already engaged Percy as anunderstudy. But there is no counting on a Scotchman. Sandy accepted withunprecedented graciousness, and I had privately to unengage Percy!

Tuesday.

Isn't it funny, the way some inconsequential people have of pouring outwhatever happens to be churning about in their minds at the moment? Theyseem to have no residue of small talk, and are never able to dismiss acrisis in order to discuss the weather.
This is apropos of a call I received today. A woman had come to deliverher sister's child--sister in a sanatorium for tuberculosis; we to keepthe child until the mother is cured, though I fear, from what I hear,that will never be. But, anyway, all the arrangements had been made, andthe woman had merely to hand in the little girl and retire. But having acouple of hours between trains, she intimated a desire to look about, soI showed her the kindergarten rooms and the little crib that Lily willoccupy, and our yellow dining room, with its frieze of bunnies, in orderthat she might report as many cheerful details as possible to the poormother. After this, as she seemed tired, I socially asked her to walkinto my parlor and have a cup of tea. Doctor MacRae, being at hand andin a hungry mood (a rare state for him; he now condescends to a cup oftea with the officers of this institution about twice a month), came,too, and we had a little party.
The woman seemed to feel that the burden of entertainment rested uponher, and by way of making conversation, she told us that her husband hadfallen in love with the girl who sold tickets at a moving picture show(a painted, yellow-haired thing who chewed gum like a cow, was herdescription of the enchantress), and he spent all of his money on thegirl, and never came home except when he was drunk. Then he smashed thefurniture something awful. An easel, with her mother's picture on it,that she had had since before she was married, he had thrown down justfor the pleasure of hearing it crash. And finally she had just got tootired to live, so she drank a bottle of swamp root because somebody hadtold her it was poison if you took it all at once. But it didn't killher; it only made her sick. And he came back, and said he would chokeher if she ever tried that on him again; so she guessed he must stillcare something for her. All this quite casually while she stirred hertea.
I tried to think of something to say, but it was a social exigency thatleft me dumb. But Sandy rose to the occasion like a gentleman. He talkedto her beautifully and sanely, and sent her away actually uplifted. OurSandy, when he tries, can be exceptionally nice, particularly to peoplewho have no claim upon him. I suppose it is a matter of professionaletiquette--part of a doctor's business to heal the spirit as well as thebody. Most spirits appear to need it in this world. My caller has leftme needing it. I have been wondering ever since what I should do if Imarried a man who deserted me for a chewing gum girl, and who came homeand smashed the bric-a-brac. I suppose, judging from the theaters thiswinter, that it is a thing that might happen to any one, particularly inthe best society.
You ought to be thankful you've got Jervis. There is something awfullycertain about a man like him. The longer I live, the surer I am thatcharacter is the only thing that counts. But how on earth can you evertell? Men are so good at talking! Good-by, and a merry Christmas toJervis and both Judies.
S. McB.
P.S. It would be a pleasant attention if you would answer my letters alittle more promptly.

JOHN GRIER HOME,
December 29.
Dear Judy:
Sadie Kate has spent the week composing a Christmas letter to you,and it leaves nothing for me to tell. Oh, we've had a wonderful time!Besides all the presents and games and fancy things to eat, we have hadhayrides and skating parties and candy pulls. I don't know whetherthese pampered little orphans will ever settle down again into normalchildren.
Many thanks for my six gifts. I like them all, particularly the pictureof Judy, junior; the tooth adds a pleasant touch to her smile.
You'll be glad to hear that I've placed out Hattie Heaphy in aminister's family, and a dear family they are. They never blinked aneyelash when I told them about the communion cup. They've given herto themselves for a Christmas present, and she went off so happily,clinging to her new father's hand!
I won't write more now, because fifty children are writing thank-youletters, and poor Aunt Judy will be buried beneath her mail when thisweek's steamer gets in.
My love to the Pendletons.
S. McB.
P.S. Singapore sends his love to Togo, and is sorry he bit him on theear.

JOHN GRIER HOME,
December 30.
O DEAR, Gordon, I have been reading the most upsetting book!
I tried to talk some French the other day, and not making out very well,decided that I had better take my French in hand if I didn't want tolose it entirely. That Scotch doctor of ours has mercifully abandonedmy scientific education, so I have a little time at my own disposal. Bysome unlucky chance I began with "Numa Roumestan," by Daudet. It isa terribly disturbing book for a girl to read who is engaged to apolitician. Read it, Gordon dear, and assiduously train your characteraway from Numa's. It's the story of a politician who is disquietinglyfascinating (like you). Who is adored by all who know him (like you).Who has a most persuasive way of talking and makes wonderful speeches(again like you). He is worshiped by everybody, and they all say tohis wife, "What a happy life you must lead, knowing so intimately thatwonderful man!"
But he wasn't very wonderful when he came home to her--only when he hadan audience and applause. He would drink with every casual acquaintance,and be gay and bubbling and expansive; and then return morose and sullenand down. "Joie de rue, douleur de maison," is the burden of the book.
I read it till twelve last night, and honestly I didn't sleep for beingscared. I know you'll be angry, but really and truly, Gordon dear,there's just a touch too much truth in it for my entire amusement. Ididn't mean ever to refer again to that unhappy matter of August 20,--wetalked it all out at the time,--but you know perfectly that you need abit of watching. And I don't like the idea. I want to have a feeling ofabsolute confidence and stability about the man I marry. I never couldlive in a state of anxious waiting for him to come home.
Read "Numa" for yourself, and you'll see the woman's point of view.I'm not patient or meek or long-suffering in any way, and I'm a littleafraid of what I'm capable of doing if I have the provocation. My hearthas to be in a thing in order to make it work, and, oh, I do so want ourmarriage to work!
Please forgive me for writing all this. I don't mean that I really thinkyou'll be a "joy of the street, and sorrow of the home." It's just thatI didn't sleep last night, and I feel sort of hollow behind the eyes.
May the year that's coming bring good counsel and happiness andtranquillity to both of us!
As ever,
S.
January 1.
Dear Judy:
Something terribly sort of queer has happened, and positively I don'tknow whether it did happen or whether I dreamed it. I'll tell youfrom the beginning, and I think it might be as well if you burned thisletter; it's not quite proper for Jervis's eyes.
You remember my telling you the case of Thomas Kehoe, whom we placedout last June? He had an alcoholic heredity on both sides, and as a babyseems to have been fattened on beer instead of milk. He entered theJohn Grier at the age of nine, and twice, according to his record inthe Doomsday Book, he managed to get himself intoxicated, once on beerstolen from some workmen, and once (and thoroughly) on cooking brandy.You can see with what misgivings we placed him out. But we warned thefamily (hard-working temperate farming people) and hoped for the best.
Yesterday the family telegraphed that they could keep him no longer.Would I please meet him on the six o'clock train? Turnfelt met the sixo'clock train. No boy. I sent a night message telling of his non-arrivaland asking for particulars.
I stayed up later than usual last night putting my desk in orderand--sort of making up my mind to face the New Year. Toward twelve Isuddenly realized that the hour was late and that I was very tired. Ihad begun getting ready for bed when I was startled by a banging onthe front door. I stuck my head out of the window and demanded who wasthere.
"Tommy Kehoe," said a very shaky voice.
I went down and opened the door, and that lad, sixteen years old,tumbled in, dead drunk. Thank Heaven! Percy Witherspoon was within call,and not away off in the Indian camp.
I roused him, and together we conveyed Thomas to our guest room, theonly decently isolated spot in the building. Then I telephoned for thedoctor, who, I am afraid, had already had a long day. He came, and weput in a pretty terrible night. It developed afterward that the boy hadbrought along with his luggage a bottle of liniment belonging to hisemployer. It was made half of alcohol and half of witch hazel; andThomas had refreshed his journey with this!
He was in such shape that positively I didn't think we'd pull himthrough--and I hoped we wouldn't. If I were a physician, I'd let suchcases gently slip away for the good of society; but you should have seenSandy work! That terrible lifesaving instinct of his was aroused, and hefought with every inch of energy he possessed.
I made black coffee, and helped all I could, but the details were prettymessy, and I left the two men to deal with him alone and went back tomy room. But I didn't attempt to go to bed; I was afraid they might bewanting me again. Toward four o'clock Sandy came to my library withword that the boy was asleep and that Percy had moved up a cot and wouldsleep in his room the rest of the night. Poor Sandy looked sort of ashenand haggard and done with life. As I looked at him, I thought about howdesperately he worked to save others, and never saved himself, and aboutthat dismal home of his, with never a touch of cheer, and the horribletragedy in the background of his life. All the rancor I've been savingup seemed to vanish, and a wave of sympathy swept over me. I stretchedmy hand out to him; he stretched his out to me. And suddenly--I don'tknow--something electric happened. In another moment we were in eachother's arms. He loosened my hands, and put me down in the big armchair.
"My God! Sallie, do you think I'm made of iron?" he said and walked out.I went to sleep in the chair, and when I woke the sun was shining in myeyes and Jane was standing over me in amazed consternation.
This morning at eleven he came back, looked me coldly in the eye withoutso much as the flicker of an eyelash, and told me that Thomas was tohave hot milk every two hours and that the spots in Maggie Peters'sthroat must be watched.
Here we are back on our old standing, and positively I don't know butwhat I dreamed that one minute in the night!
But it would be a piquant situation, wouldn't it, if Sandy and Ishould discover that we were falling in love with each other, he with aperfectly good wife in the insane asylum and I with an outraged fiancein Washington? I don't know but what the wisest thing for me to do is toresign at once and take myself home, where I can placidly settle downto a few months of embroidering "S McB" on table-cloths, like any otherrespectable engaged girl.
I repeat very firmly that this letter isn't for Jervis's consumption.Tear it into little pieces and scatter them in the Caribbean.
S.


January 3.
Dear Gordon:
You are right to be annoyed. I know I'm not a satisfactory love letterwriter. I have only to glance at the published correspondence ofElizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning to realize that the warmth of mystyle is not up to standard. But you know already--you have known a longtime--that I am not a very emotional person. I suppose I might write alot of such things as: "Every waking moment you are in my thoughts." "Mydear boy, I only live when you are near." But it wouldn't be absolutelytrue. You don't fill all my thoughts; 107 orphans do that. And I reallyam quite comfortably alive whether you are here or not. I have to benatural. You surely don't want me to pretend more desolation than Ifeel. But I do love to see you,--you know that perfectly,--and I amdisappointed when you can't come. I fully appreciate all your charmingqualities, but, my dear boy, I CAN'T be sentimental on paper. I amalways thinking about the hotel chambermaid who reads the letters youcasually leave on your bureau. You needn't expostulate that you carrythem next your heart, for I know perfectly well that you don't.
Forgive me for that last letter if it hurt your feelings. Since I cameto this asylum I am extremely touchy on the subject of drink. You wouldbe, too, if you had seen what I have seen. Several of my chicks are thesad result of alcoholic parents, and they are never going to have a fairchance all their lives. You can't look about a place like this without"aye keeping up a terrible thinking."
You are right, I am afraid, about its being a woman's trick to make agreat show of forgiving a man, and then never letting him hear the endof it. Well, Gordon, I positively don't know what the word "forgiving"means. It can't include "forgetting," for that is a physiologicalprocess, and does not result from an act of the will. We all have acollection of memories that we would happily lose, but somehow those arejust the ones that insist upon sticking. If "forgiving" means promisingnever to speak of a thing again, I can doubtless manage that. But itisn't always the wisest way to shut an unpleasant memory inside you. Itgrows and grows, and runs all through you like a poison.
Oh dear! I really didn't mean to be saying all this. I try to be thecheerful, carefree (and somewhat light-headed) Sallie you like best; butI've come in touch with a great deal of REALNESS during this last year,and I'm afraid I've grown into a very different person from the girl youfell in love with. I'm no longer a gay young thing playing with life.I know it pretty thoroughly now, and that means that I can't be alwayslaughing.
I know this is another beastly uncheerful letter,--as bad as the last,and maybe worse,--but if you knew what we've just been through! Aboy--sixteen--of unspeakable heredity has nearly poisoned himself witha disgusting mixture of alcohol and witch hazel. We have been workingthree days over him, and are just sure now that he is going torecuperate sufficiently to do it again! "It's a gude warld, but they'reill that's in 't."
Please excuse that Scotch--it slipped out. Please excuse everything.
SALLIE.

January 11.
Dear Judy:
I hope my two cablegrams didn't give you too terrible a shock. I wouldhave waited to let the first news come by letter, with a chance fordetails, but I was so afraid you might hear it in some indirect way.The whole thing is dreadful enough, but no lives were lost, and only oneserious accident. We can't help shuddering at the thought of how muchworse it might have been, with over a hundred sleeping children in thisfiretrap of a building. That new fire escape was absolutely useless. Thewind was blowing toward it, and the flames simply enveloped it. We savedthem all by the center stairs--but I'll begin at the beginning, and tellthe whole story.
It had rained all day Friday, thanks to a merciful Providence, and theroofs were thoroughly soaked. Toward night it began to freeze, and therain turned to sleet. By ten o'clock, when I went to bed the wind wasblowing a terrible gale from the northwest, and everything loose aboutthe building was banging and rattling. About two o'clock I suddenlystarted wide awake, with a bright light in my eyes. I jumped out of bedand ran to the window. The carriage house was a mass of flames, anda shower of sparks was sweeping over our eastern wing. I ran to thebathroom and leaned out of the window. I could see that the roof overthe nursery was already blazing in half a dozen places.
Well, my dear, my heart just simply didn't beat for as much as a minute.I thought of those seventeen babies up under that roof, and I couldn'tswallow. I finally managed to get my shaking knees to work again, and Idashed back to the hall, grabbing my automobile coat as I ran.
I drummed on Betsy's and Miss Matthews' and Miss Snaith's doors, just asMr. Witherspoon, who had also been wakened by the light, came tumblingupstairs three steps at a time, struggling into an overcoat as he ran.
"Get all the children down to the dining room, babies first," I gasped."I'll turn in the alarm."
He dashed on up to the third floor while I ran to the telephone--and oh,I thought I'd never get Central! She was sound asleep.
"The John Grier Home is burning! Turn in the fire alarm and rouse thevillage. Give me 505," I said.
In one second I had the doctor. Maybe I wasn't glad to hear his cool,unexcited voice!
"We're on fire!" I cried. "Come quick, and bring all the men you can!"
"I'll be there in fifteen minutes. Fill the bathtubs with water and putin blankets." And he hung up.
I dashed back to the hall. Betsy was ringing our fire bell, and Percyhad already routed out his Indian tribes in dormitories B and C.
Our first thought was not to stop the fire, but to get the children to aplace of safety. We began in G, and went from crib to crib, snatching ababy and a blanket, and rushing them to the door, and handing them outto the Indians, who lugged them downstairs. Both G and F were full ofsmoke, and the children so dead asleep that we couldn't rouse them to awalking state.
Many times during the next hour did I thank Providence--and PercyWitherspoon--for those vociferous fire drills we have suffered weekly.The twenty-four oldest boys, under his direction, never lost their headsfor a second. They divided into four tribes, and sprang to their postslike little soldiers.
Two tribes helped in the work of clearing the dormitories and keepingthe terrified children in order. One tribe worked the hose from thecupola tank until the firemen came, and the rest devoted themselves tosalvage. They spread sheets on the floor, dumped the contents of lockersand bureau drawers into them, and bundled them down the stairs. All ofthe extra clothes were saved except those the children had actually beenwearing the day before, and most of the staff's things. But clothes,bedding--everything belonging to G and F went. The rooms were too fullof smoke to make it safe to enter after we had got out the last child.
By the time the doctor arrived with Luellen and two neighbors he hadpicked up, we were marching the last dormitory down to the kitchen, themost remote corner from the fire. The poor chicks were mainly barefootedand wrapped in blankets. We told them to bring their clothes when wewakened them, but in their fright they thought only of getting out.
By this time the halls were so full of smoke we could scarcely breathe.It looked as though the whole building would go, though the wind wasblowing away from my west wing.
Another automobile full of retainers from Knowltop came up almostimmediately, and they all fell to fighting the fire. The regular firedepartment didn't come for ten minutes after that. You see, they haveonly horses, and we are three miles out, and the roads pretty bad. Itwas a dreadful night, cold and sleety, and such a wind blowing that youcould scarcely stand up. The men climbed out on the roof, and worked intheir stocking feet to keep from slipping off. They beat out the sparkswith wet blankets, and chopped, and squirted that tankful of water, andbehaved like heroes.
The doctor meanwhile took charge of the children. Our first thought wasto get them away to a place of safety, for if the whole building shouldgo, we couldn't march them out of doors into that awful wind, with onlytheir night clothes and blankets for protection. By this time severalmore automobiles full of men had come, and we requisitioned the cars.
Knowltop had providentially been opened for the week end in order toentertain a house party in honor of the old gentleman's sixty-seventhbirthday. He was one of the first to arrive, and he put his entireplace at our disposal. It was the nearest refuge, and we accepted itinstantaneously. We bundled our twenty littlest tots into cars, and ranthem down to the house. The guests, who were excitedly dressing in orderto come to the fire, received the chicks and tucked them away into theirown beds. This pretty well filled up all the available house room, butMr. Reimer (Mr. Knowltop's family name) has just built a big new stuccobarn, with a garage hitched to it, all nicely heated, and ready for us.
After the babies were disposed of in the house, those helpful guestsgot to work and fixed the barn to receive the next older kiddies. Theycovered the floor with hay, and spread blankets and carriage robes overit, and bedded down thirty of the children in rows like little calves.Miss Matthews and a nurse went with them, administered hot milk allaround, and within half an hour the tots were sleeping as peacefully asin their little cribs.
But meanwhile we at the house were having sensations. The doctor's firstquestion upon arrival had been:
"You've counted the children? You know they're all here?"
"We've made certain that every dormitory was empty before we left it," Ireplied.
You see, they couldn't be counted in that confusion. Twenty or so of theboys were still in the dormitories, working under Percy Witherspoonto save clothing and furniture, and the older girls were sorting overbushels of shoes and trying to fit them to the little ones, who wererunning about underfoot and wailing dismally.
Well, after we had loaded and despatched about seven car loads ofchildren, the doctor suddenly called out:
"Where's Allegra?"
There was a horrified silence. No one had seen her. And then Miss Snaithstood up and SHRIEKED. Betsy took her by the shoulders, and shook herinto coherence.
It seems that she had thought Allegra was coming down with a cough, andin order to get her out of the cold, had moved her crib from the freshair nursery into the store room--and then forgotten it.
Well, my dear, you know where the store room is! We simply stared at oneanother with white faces. By this time the whole east wing was guttedand the third-floor stairs in flames. There didn't seem a chance thatthe child was still alive. The doctor was the first to move. He snatchedup a wet blanket that was lying in a soppy pile on the floor of thehall and sprang for the stairs. We yelled to him to come back. It simplylooked like suicide; but he kept on, and disappeared into the smoke. Idashed outside and shouted to the firemen on the roof. The store roomwindow was too little for a man to go through, and they hadn't opened itfor fear of creating a draft.
I can't describe what happened in the next agonizing ten minutes. Thethird-floor stairs fell in with a crash and a burst of flame about fiveseconds after the doctor passed over them. We had given him up for lostwhen a shout went up from the crowd on the lawn, and he appeared for aninstant at one of those dormer windows in the attic, and called for thefiremen to put up a ladder. Then he disappeared, and it seemed to usthat they'd never get that ladder in place; but they finally did, andtwo men went up. The opening of the window had created a draft, and theywere almost overpowered by the volume of smoke that burst out at thetop. After an eternity the doctor appeared again with a white bundle inhis arms. He passed it out to the men, and then he staggered back anddropped out of sight!
I don't know what happened for the next few minutes; I turned away andshut my eyes. Somehow or other they got him out and halfway down theladder, and then they let him slip. You see, he was unconscious fromall the smoke he'd swallowed, and the ladder was slippery with ice andterribly wobbly. Anyway, when I looked again he was lying in a heap onthe ground, with the crowd all running, and somebody yelling to give himair. They thought at first he was dead. But Dr. Metcalf from the villageexamined him, and said his leg was broken, and two ribs, and that asidefrom that he seemed whole. He was still unconscious when they put him ontwo of the baby mattresses that had been thrown out of the windows andlaid him in the wagon that brought the ladders and started him home.
And the rest of us, left behind, kept right on with the work as thoughnothing had happened. The queer thing about a calamity like this is thatthere is so much to be done on every side that you don't have a momentto think, and you don't get any of your values straightened out untilafterward. The doctor, without a moment's hesitation, had risked hislife to save Allegra. It was the bravest thing I ever saw, and yet thewhole business occupied only fifteen minutes out of that dreadful night.At the time, it was just an incident.
And he saved Allegra. She came out of that blanket with rumpled hairand a look of pleased surprise at the new game of peek-a-boo. She wassmiling! The child's escape was little short of a miracle. The fire hadstarted within three feet of her wall, but owing to the direction of thewind, it had worked away from her. If Miss Snaith had believed a littlemore in fresh air and had left the window open, the fire would haveeaten back. But fortunately Miss Snaith does not believe in fresh air,and no such thing happened. If Allegra had gone, I never should haveforgiven myself for not letting the Bretlands take her, and I know thatSandy wouldn't.
Despite all the loss, I can't be anything but happy when I think of thetwo horrible tragedies that have been averted. For seven minutes, whilethe doctor was penned in that blazing third floor, I lived throughthe agony of believing them both gone, and I start awake in the nighttrembling with horror.
But I'll try to tell you the rest. The firemen and thevolunteers--particularly the chauffeur and stablemen fromKnowltop--worked all night in an absolute frenzy. Our newest negro cook,who is a heroine in her own right, went out and started the laundryfire and made up a boilerful of coffee. It was her own idea. Thenon-combatants served it to the firemen when they relieved one anotherfor a few minutes' rest, and it helped.
We got the remainder of the children off to various hospitable houses,except the older boys, who worked all night as well as any one. It wasabsolutely inspiring to see the way this entire township turned out andhelped. People who haven't appeared to know that the asylum existed camein the middle of the night and put their whole houses at our disposal.They took the children in, gave them hot baths and hot soup, and tuckedthem into bed. And so far as I can make out, not one of my one hundredand seven chicks is any the worse for hopping about on drenched floorsin their bare feet, not even the whooping cough cases.
It was broad daylight before the fire was sufficiently under controlto let us know just what we had saved. I will report that my wing isentirely intact, though a little smoky, and the main corridor is prettynearly all right up to the center staircase; after that everything ischarred and drenched. The east wing is a blackened, roofless shell.Your hated Ward F, dear Judy, is gone forever. I wish that you couldobliterate it from your mind as absolutely as it is obliterated from theearth. Both in substance and in spirit the old John Grier is done for.
I must tell you something funny. I never saw so many funny things in mylife as happened through that night. When everybody there was in extremenegligee, most of the men in pajamas and ulsters, and all of themwithout collars, the Hon. Cyrus Wykoff put in a tardy appearance,arrayed as for an afternoon tea. He wore a pearl scarf pin and whitespats! But he really was extremely helpful. He put his entire houseat our disposal, and I turned over to him Miss Snaith in a state ofhysterics; and her nerves so fully occupied him that he didn't get inour way the whole night through.
I can't write any more details now; I've never been so rushed in thewhole of my life. I'll just assure you that there's no slightest reasonfor you to cut your trip short. Five trustees were on the spot earlySaturday morning, and we are all working like mad to get affairs intosome semblance of order. Our asylum at the present moment is scatteredover the entire township; but don't be unduly anxious. We know whereall the children are. None of them is permanently mislaid. I didn't knowthat perfect strangers could be so kind. My opinion of the human racehas gone up.
I haven't seen the doctor. They telegraphed to New York for a surgeon,who set his leg. The break was pretty bad, and will take time. Theydon't think there are any internal injuries, though he is awfullybattered up. As soon as we are allowed to see him I will send moredetailed particulars. I really must stop if I am to catch tomorrow'ssteamer.
Good-by. Don't worry. There are a dozen silver linings to this cloudthat I'll write about tomorrow.
SALLIE.

Good heavens! here comes an automobile with J. F. Bretland in it!

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
January 14.
Dear Judy:
Listen to this! J. F. Bretland read about our fire in a New York paper(I will say that the metropolitan press made the most of details), andhe posted up here in a twitter of anxiety. His first question as hetumbled across our blackened threshold was,
"Is Allegra safe?"
"Yes," said I.
"Thank God!" he cried, and dropped into a chair. "This is no place forchildren," he said severely, "and I have come to take her home. I wantthe boys, too," he added hastily before I had a chance to speak. "Mywife and I have talked it over, and we have decided that since we aregoing to the trouble of starting a nursery, we might as well run it forthree as for one."
I led him up to my library, where our little family has been domiciledsince the fire, and ten minutes later, when I was called down to conferwith the trustees, I left J. F. Bretland with his new daughter on hisknee and a son leaning against each arm, the proudest father in theUnited States.
So, you see, our fire has accomplished one thing: those three childrenare settled for life. It is almost worth the loss.
But I don't believe I told you how the fire started. There are so manythings I haven't told you that my arm aches at the thought of writingthem all. Sterry, we have since discovered, was spending the week endas our guest. After a bibulous evening passed at "Jack's Place," hereturned to our carriage house, climbed in through a window, lighteda candle, made himself comfortable, and dropped asleep. He must haveforgotten to put out the candle; anyway, the fire happened, and Sterryjust escaped with his life. He is now in the town hospital, bathed insweet oil, and painfully regretting his share in our troubles.
I am pleased to learn that our insurance was pretty adequate, so themoney loss won't be so tremendous, after all. As for other kinds ofloss, there aren't any! Actually, nothing but gain so far as I can makeout, barring, of course, our poor smashed-up doctor. Everybody has beenwonderful; I didn't know that so much charity and kindness existed inthe human race. Did I ever say anything against trustees? I take itback. Four of them posted up from New York the morning after the fire,and all of the local people have been wonderful. Even the Hon. Cy hasbeen so occupied in remaking the morals of the five orphans quarteredupon him that he hasn't caused any trouble at all.
The fire occurred early Saturday morning, and Sunday the ministers inall the churches called for volunteers to accept in their houses one ortwo children as guests for three weeks, until the asylum could get itsplant into working order again.
It was inspiring to see the response. Every child was disposed of withinhalf an hour. And consider what that means for the future: every one ofthose families is going to take a personal interest in this asylum fromnow on. Also, consider what it means for the children. They are findingout how a real family lives, and this is the first time that dozens ofthem have ever crossed the threshold of a private house.
As for more permanent plans to take us through the winter, listen to allthis. The country club has a caddies' clubhouse which they don't use inwinter and which they have politely put at our disposal. It joins ourland on the back, and we are fitting it up for fourteen children, withMiss Matthews in charge. Our dining room and kitchen still being intact,they will come here for meals and school, returning home at night allthe better for half a mile walk. "The Pavilion on the Links" we arecalling it.
Then that nice motherly Mrs. Wilson, next door to the doctor's,--she whohas been so efficient with our little Loretta,--has agreed to take infive more at four dollars a week each. I am leaving with her some of themost promising older girls who have shown housekeeping instincts, andwould like to learn cooking on a decently small scale. Mrs. Wilson andher husband are such a wonderful couple, thrifty and industrious andsimple and loving, I think it would do the girls good to observe them. Atraining class in wifehood!
I told you about the Knowltop people on the east of us, who took inforty-seven youngsters the night of the fire, and how their entire houseparty turned themselves into emergency nursemaids? We relieved them ofthirty-six the next day, but they still have eleven. Did I ever call Mr.Knowltop a crusty old curmudgeon? I take it back. I beg his pardon.He's a sweet lamb. Now, in the time of our need, what do you think thatblessed man has done? He has fitted up an empty tenant house on theestate for our babies, has himself engaged an English trained baby nurseto take charge, and furnishes them with the superior milk from his ownmodel dairy. He says he has been wondering for years what to do withthat milk. He can't afford to sell it, because he loses four cents onevery quart!
The twelve older girls from dormitory A I am putting into the farmer'snew cottage. The poor Turnfelts, who had occupied it just two days,are being shoved on into the village. But they wouldn't be any goodin looking after the children, and I need their room. Three or four ofthese girls have been returned from foster homes as intractable, andthey require pretty efficient supervision. So what do you think I'vedone? Telegraphed to Helen Brooks to chuck the publishers and takecharge of my girls instead. You know she will be wonderful withthem. She accepted provisionally. Poor Helen has had enough of thisirrevocable contract business; she wants everything in life to be ontrial!
For the older boys something particularly nice has happened; we havereceived a gift of gratitude from J. F. Bretland. He went down to thankthe doctor for Allegra. They had a long talk about the needs of theinstitution, and J. F. B. came back and gave me a check for $3000 tobuild the Indian camps on a substantial scale. He and Percy and thevillage architect have drawn up plans, and in two weeks, we hope, thetribes will move into winter quarters.
What does it matter if my one hundred and seven children have beenburned out, since they live in such a kind-hearted world as this?
Friday.

I suppose you are wondering why I don't vouchsafe some details about thedoctor's condition. I can't give any first-hand information, since hewon't see me. However, he has seen everybody except me--Betsy, Allegra,Mrs. Livermore, Mr. Bretland, Percy, various trustees. They all reportthat he is progressing as comfortably as could be expected with twobroken ribs and a fractured fibula. That, I believe, is the professionalname of the particular leg bone he broke. He doesn't like to have afuss made over him, and he won't pose gracefully as a hero. I myself, asgrateful head of this institution, called on several different occasionsto present my official thanks, but I was invariably met at the door withword that he was sleeping and did not wish to be disturbed. The firsttwo times I believed Mrs. McGurk; after that--well, I know our doctor!So when it came time to send our little maid to prattle her unconsciousgood-bys to the man who had saved her life, I despatched her in chargeof Betsy.
I haven't an idea what is the matter with the man. He was friendlyenough last week, but now, if I want an opinion from him, I have tosend Percy to extract it. I do think that he might see me as thesuperintendent of the asylum, even if he doesn't wish our acquaintanceto be on a personal basis. There is no doubt about it, our Sandy isScotch!

LATER.

It is going to require a fortune in stamps to get this letter toJamaica, but I do want you to know all the news, and we have never hadso many exhilarating things happen since 1876, when we were founded.This fire has given us such a shock that we are going to be more alivefor years to come. I believe that every institution ought to beburned to the ground every twenty-five years in order to get rid ofold-fashioned equipment and obsolete ideas. I am superlatively gladnow that we didn't spend Jervis's money last summer; it would have beenintensively tragic to have had that burn. I don't mind so much aboutJohn Grier's, since he made it in a patent medicine which, I hear,contained opium.
As to the remnant of us that the fire left behind, it is already boardedup and covered with tar-paper, and we are living along quite comfortablyin our portion of a house. It affords sufficient room for the staff andthe children's dining room and kitchen, and more permanent plans can bemade later.
Do you perceive what has happened to us? The good Lord has heard myprayer, and the John Grier Home is a cottage institution!

I am,
The busiest person north of the equator,
S. McBRIDE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
January 16.
Dear Gordon:
Please, please behave yourself, and don't make things harder than theyare. It's absolutely out of the question for me to give up the asylumthis instant. You ought to realize that I can't abandon my chicks justwhen they are so terribly in need of me. Neither am I ready to dropthis blasted philanthropy. (You can see how your language looks in myhandwriting!)
You have no cause to worry. I am not overworking. I am enjoying it;never was so busy and happy in my life. The papers made the fire outmuch more lurid than it really was. That picture of me leaping fromthe roof with a baby under each arm was overdrawn. One or two of thechildren have sore throats, and our poor doctor is in a plaster cast.But we're all alive, thank Heaven! and are going to pull through withoutpermanent scars.
I can't write details now; I'm simply rushed to death. And don'tcome--please! Later, when things have settled just a little, you andI must have a talk about you and me, but I want time to think about itfirst.
S.

January 21.
Dear Judy:
Helen Brooks is taking hold of those fourteen fractious girls in a mostmasterly fashion. The job is quite the toughest I had to offer, and shelikes it. I think she is going to be a valuable addition to our staff.
And I forgot to tell you about Punch. When the fire occurred, those twonice women who kept him all summer were on the point of catching a trainfor California--and they simply tucked him under their arms, alongwith their luggage, and carried him off. So Punch spends the winter inPasadena and I rather fancy he is theirs for good. Do you wonder that Iam in an exalted mood over all these happenings?
LATER.

Poor bereaved Percy has just been spending the evening with me, becauseI am supposed to understand his troubles. Why must I be supposed tounderstand everybody's troubles? It's awfully wearing to be pouring outsympathy from an empty heart. The poor boy at present is pretty low,but I rather suspect--with Betsy's aid--that he will pull through. He isjust on the edge of falling in love with Betsy, but he doesn't know it.He's in the stage now where he's sort of enjoying his troubles. He feelshimself a tragic hero, a man who has suffered deeply. But I notice thatwhen Betsy is about, he offers cheerful assistance in whatever work istoward.
Gordon telegraphed today that he is coming tomorrow. I am dreading theinterview, for I know we are going to have an altercation. He wrote theday after the fire and begged me to "chuck the asylum" and get marriedimmediately, and now he's coming to argue it out. I can't make himunderstand that a job involving the happiness of one hundred or sochildren can't be chucked with such charming insouciance. I tried mybest to keep him away, but, like the rest of his sex, he's stubborn. Ohdear, I don't know what's ahead of us! I wish I could glance into nextyear for a moment.
The doctor is still in his plaster cast, but I hear is doing well,after a grumbly fashion. He is able to sit up a little every day and toreceive a carefully selected list of visitors. Mrs. McGurk sorts themout at the door, and repudiates the ones she doesn't like.
Good-by. I'd write some more, but I'm so sleepy that my eyes areshutting on me. (The idiom is Sadie Kate's.) I must go to bed and getsome sleep against the one hundred and seven troubles of tomorrow.
With love to the Pendletons,
S. McB.

January 22.
Dear Judy:
This letter has nothing to do with the John Grier Home. It's merely fromSallie McBride.
Do you remember when we read Huxley's letters our senior year? That bookcontained a phrase which has stuck in my memory ever since: "There isalways a Cape Horn in one's life that one either weathers or wrecksoneself on." It's terribly true; and the trouble is that you can'talways recognize your Cape Horn when you see it. The sailing issometimes pretty foggy, and you're wrecked before you know it.
I've been realizing of late that I have reached the Cape Horn of my ownlife. I entered upon my engagement to Gordon honestly and hopefully, butlittle by little I've grown doubtful of the outcome. The girl he lovesis not the ME I want to be. It's the ME I've been trying to grow awayfrom all this last year. I'm not sure she ever really existed. Gordonjust imagined she did. Anyway, she doesn't exist any more, and the onlyfair course both to him and to myself was to end it.
We no longer have any interests in common; we are not friends. Hedoesn't comprehend it; he thinks that I am making it up, that all I haveto do is to take an interest in his life, and everything will turn outhappily. Of course I do take an interest when he's with me. I talk aboutthe things he wants to talk about, and he doesn't know that there's awhole part of me--the biggest part of me--that simply doesn't meet himat any point. I pretend when I am with him. I am not myself, and if wewere to live together in constant daily intercourse, I'd have to keep onpretending all my life. He wants me to watch his face and smile when hesmiles and frown when he frowns. He can't realize that I'm an individualjust as much as he is.
I have social accomplishments. I dress well, I'm spectacular, I wouldbe an ideal hostess in a politician's household--and that's why he likesme.
Anyway, I suddenly saw with awful distinctness that if I kept on I'dbe in a few years where Helen Brooks is. She's a far better model ofmarried life for me to contemplate just this moment than you, dear Judy.I think that such a spectacle as you and Jervis is a menace to society.You look so happy and peaceful and companionable that you inducea defenseless onlooker to rush off and snap up the first man shemeets--and he's always the wrong man.
Anyway, Gordon and I have quarreled definitely and finally. Ishould rather have ended without a quarrel, but considering histemperament,--and mine, too, I must confess,--we had to go off in a bigsmoky explosion. He came yesterday afternoon, after I'd written him notto come, and we went walking over Knowltop. For three and a half hourswe paced back and forth over that windy moor and discussed ourselvesto the bottommost recesses of our beings. No one can ever say the breakcame through misunderstanding each other!
It ended by Gordon's going, never to return. As I stood there at theend and watched him drop out of sight over the brow of the hill, andrealized that I was free and alone and my own master well, Judy, such asense of joyous relief, of freedom, swept over me! I can't tell you;I don't believe any happily married person could ever realize howwonderfully, beautifully ALONE I felt. I wanted to throw my arms out andembrace the whole waiting world that belonged suddenly to me. Oh, itis such a relief to have it settled! I faced the truth the night ofthe fire when I saw the old John Grier go, and realized that a new JohnGrier would be built in its place and that I wouldn't be here to do it.A horrible jealousy clutched at my heart. I couldn't give it up, andduring those agonizing moments while I thought we had lost our doctor,I realized what his life meant, and how much more significant thanGordon's. And I knew then that I couldn't desert him. I had to go on andcarry out all of the plans we made together.
I don't seem to be telling you anything but a mess of words, I am sofull of such a mess of crowding emotions. I want to talk and talk andtalk myself into coherence. But, anyway, I stood alone in the wintertwilight, and I took a deep breath of clear cold air, and I feltbeautifully, wonderfully, electrically free.
And then I ran and leaped and skipped down the hill and across thepastures toward our iron confines, and I sang to myself. Oh, it was ascandalous proceeding, when, according to all precedent, I should havegone trailing home with a broken wing. I never gave one thought topoor Gordon, who was carrying a broken, bruised, betrayed heart to therailroad station.
As I entered the house I was greeted by the joyous clatter of thechildren trooping to their supper. They were suddenly MINE, and lately,as my doom became more and more imminent, they had seemed fading awayinto little strangers. I seized the three nearest and hugged them hard.I have suddenly found such new life and exuberance, I feel as though Ihad been released from prison and were free. I feel,--oh, I'll stop,--Ijust want you to know the truth. Don't show Jervis this letter, but tellhim what's in it in a decently subdued and mournful fashion.
It's midnight now, and I'm going to try to go to sleep. It's wonderfulnot to be going to marry some one you don't want to marry. I'm glad ofall these children's needs, I'm glad of Helen Brooks, and, yes, of thefire, and everything that has made me see clearly. There's never been adivorce in my family, and they would have hated it.
I know I'm horribly egotistical and selfish; I ought to be thinkingof poor Gordon's broken heart. But really it would just be a pose if Ipretended to be very sorrowful. He'll find some one else with just asconspicuous hair as mine, who will make just as effective a hostess, andwho won't be bothered by any of these damned modern ideas about publicservice and woman's mission and all the rest of the tomfoolery themodern generation of women is addicted to. (I paraphrase, and soften ouryoung man's heartbroken utterances.)
Good-by, dear people. How I wish I could stand with you on your beachand look across the blue, blue sea! I salute the Spanish main.
ADDIO!
SALLIE.

January 27.
Dear Dr. MacRae:
I wonder if this note will be so fortunate as to find you awake? Perhapsyou are not aware that I have called four times to offer thanks andconsolation in my best bed-side manner? I am touched by the news thatMrs. McGurk's time is entirely occupied in taking in flowers and jellyand chicken broth, donated by the adoring ladies of the parish tothe ungracious hero in a plaster cast. I know that you find a cap ofhomespun more comfortable than a halo, but I really do think that youmight have regarded me in a different light from the hysterical ladiesin question. You and I used to be friends (intermittently), and thoughthere are one or two details in our past intercourse that might betterbe expunged, still I don't see why we should let them upset our entirerelationship. Can't we be sensible and expunge them?
The fire has brought out such a lot of unexpected kindliness andcharity, I wish it might bring out a little from you. You see, Sandy,I know you well. You may pose to the world as being gruff and curt andungracious and scientific and inhuman and S C O T C H, but you can'tfool me. My newly trained psychological eye has been upon you for tenmonths, and I have applied the Binet test. You are really kind andsympathetic and wise and forgiving and big, so please be at home thenext time I come to see you, and we will perform a surgical operationupon Time and amputate five months.
Do you remember the Sunday afternoon we ran away, and what a nice timewe had? It is now the day after that.
SALLIE McBRIDE.
P.S. If I condescend to call upon you again, please condescend to seeme, for I assure you I won't try more than once! Also, I assure you thatI won't drip tears on your counterpane or try to kiss your hand, as Ihear one admiring lady did.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Thursday.
Dear Enemy:
You see, I'm feeling very friendly toward you this moment. When I callyou "MacRae" I don't like you, and when I call you "Enemy" I do.
Sadie Kate delivered your note (as an afterthought). And it's a verycreditable production for a left-handed man; I thought at first glanceit was from Punch.
You may expect me tomorrow at four, and mind you're awake! I'm glad thatyou think we're friends. Really, I feel that I've got back somethingquite precious which I had carelessly mislaid.
S. McB.
P.S. Java caught cold the night of the fire and he has the toothache. Hesits and holds his cheek like a poor little kiddie.

Thursday, January 29.
Dear Judy:
Those must have been ten terribly incoherent pages I dashed off to youlast week. Did you respect my command to destroy that letter? I shouldnot care to have it appear in my collected correspondence. I know thatmy state of mind is disgraceful, shocking, scandalous, but one reallycan't help the way one feels. It is usually considered a pleasantsensation to be engaged, but, oh, it is nothing compared with thewonderful untrammeled, joyous, free sensation of being unengaged! I havehad a terribly unstable feeling these last few months, and now at lastI am settled. No one ever looked forward to spinsterhood more thankfullythan I.
Our fire, I have come to believe, was providential. It was sent fromheaven to clear the way for a new John Grier. We are already deep inplans for cottages. I favor gray stucco, Betsy leans to brick, andPercy, half-timber. I don't know what our poor doctor would prefer;olive green with a mansard roof appears to be his taste.
With ten different kitchens to practice in, won't our children learn howto cook! I am already looking about for ten loving house mothers to putin charge. I think, in fact, I'll search for eleven, in order to haveone for Sandy. He's as pathetically in need of a little mothering asany of the chicks.
It must be pretty dispiriting to come home every night to theministrations of Mrs. McGur-rk.
How I do not like that woman! She has with complacent firmness told mefour different times that the dochther was ashleep and not wantin' to bedisturbed. I haven't set eyes on him yet, and I have just about finishedbeing polite. However, I waive judgment until tomorrow at four, whenI am to pay a short, unexciting call of half an hour. He made theappointment himself, and if she tells me again that he is ashleep,I shall give her a gentle push and tip her over (she's very fat andunstable) and, planting a foot firmly on her stomach, pursue my waytranquilly in and up. Luellen, formerly chauffeur, chambermaid, andgardener, is now also trained nurse. I am eager to see how he looks in awhite cap and apron.
The mail has just come, with a letter from Mrs. Bretland, tellinghow happy they are to have the children. She inclosed their firstphotograph--all packed in a governess cart, with Clifford proudlyholding the reins, and a groom at the pony's head. How is that for threelate inmates of the John Grier Home?
It's all very inspiring when I think of their futures, but a trifle sadwhen I remember their poor father, and how he worked himself to deathfor those three chicks who are going to forget him. The Bretlandswill do their best to accomplish that. They are jealous of any outsideinfluence and want to make the babies wholly theirs. After all, I thinkthe natural way is best--for each family to produce its own children,and keep them.
Friday.

I saw the doctor today. He's a pathetic sight, consisting mostly ofbandages. Somehow or other we got our misunderstandings all made up.Isn't it dreadful the way two human beings, both endowed with fairpowers of speech, can manage to convey nothing of their psychologicalprocesses to each other?
I haven't understood his mental attitude from the first, and he evenyet doesn't understand mine. This grim reticence that we Northernpeople struggle so hard to maintain! I don't know after all but that theexcitable Southern safety valve method is the best.
But, Judy, such a dreadful thing--do you remember last year when hevisited that psychopathic institution, and stayed ten days, and I madesuch a silly fuss about it? Oh, my dear, the impossible things I do! Hewent to attend his wife's funeral. She died there in the institution.Mrs. McGurk knew it all the time, and might have added it to the rest ofher news, but she didn't.
He told me all about her, very sweetly. The poor man for years and yearshas undergone a terrible strain, and I fancy her death is a blessedrelief. He confesses that he knew at the time of his marriage that heought not to marry her, he knew all about her nervous instability;but he thought, being a doctor, that he could overcome it, and she wasbeautiful! He gave up his city practice and came to the country on heraccount. And then after the little girl's birth she went all to pieces,and he had to "put her away," to use Mrs. McGurk's phrase. The child issix now, a sweet, lovely little thing to look at, but, I judge from whathe said, quite abnormal. He has a trained nurse with her always. Justthink of all that tragedy looming over our poor patient good doctor, forhe is patient, despite being the most impatient man that ever lived!
Thank Jervis for his letter. He's a dear man, and I'm glad to see himgetting his deserts. What fun we are going to have when you get back toShadywell, and we lay our plans for a new John Grier! I feel as though Ihad spent this past year learning, and am now just ready to begin. We'llturn this into the nicest orphan asylum that ever lived. I'm so absurdlyhappy at the prospect that I start in the morning with a spring, and goabout my various businesses singing inside.
The John Grier Home sends its blessing to the two best friends it everhad!
ADDIO!
SALLIE.

THE JOHN GRIER HOME,
Saturday at half-past six in the morning!
My dearest Enemy:
"Some day soon something nice is going to happen."
Weren't you surprised when you woke up this morning and remembered thetruth? I was! I couldn't think for about two minutes what made me sohappy.
It's not light yet, but I'm wide awake and excited and having to writeto you. I shall despatch this note by the first to-be-trusted littleorphan who appears, and it will go up on your breakfast tray along withyour oatmeal.
I shall follow VERY PROMPTLY at four o'clock this afternoon. Do youthink Mrs. McGurk will ever countenance the scandal if I stay two hours,and no orphan for a chaperon?
It was in all good faith, Sandy, that I promised not to kiss your handor drip tears on the counterpane, but I'm afraid I did both--or worse!Positively, I didn't suspect how much I cared for you till I crossed thethreshold and saw you propped up against the pillows, all covered withbandages, and your hair singed off. You are a sight! If I love you now,when fully one third of you is plaster of Paris and surgical dressing,you can imagine how I'm going to love you when it's all you!
But my dear, dear Robin, what a foolish man you are! How should I everhave dreamed all those months that you were caring for me when you actedso abominably S C O T C H? With most men, behavior like yours wouldnot be considered a mark of affection. I wish you had just given me aglimmering of an idea of the truth, and maybe you would have saved usboth a few heartaches.
But we mustn't be looking back; we must look forward and be grateful.The two happiest things in life are going to be ours, a FRIENDLYmarriage and work that we love.
Yesterday, after leaving you, I walked back to the asylum sort of dazed.I wanted to get by myself and THINK, but instead of being by myself,I had to have Betsy and Percy and Mrs. Livermore for dinner (alreadyinvited) and then go down and talk to the children. Friday night-socialevening. They had a lot of new records for the victrola, given byMrs. Livermore, and I had to sit politely and listen to them. And, mydear--you'll think this funny--the last thing they played was "JohnAnderson, my jo John," and suddenly I found myself crying! I had tosnatch up the earnest orphan and hug her hard, with my head buried inher shoulder, to keep them all from seeing.
     John Anderson, my jo John,     We clamb the hill thegither,     And monie a canty day, John,     We've had wi' ane anither;     Now we maun totter down, John,     But hand in hand we'll go,     And sleep thegither at the foot,     John Anderson, my jo.
I wonder, when we are old and bent and tottery, can you and I look back,with no regrets, on monie a canty day we've had wi' ane anither? It'snice to look forward to, isn't it--a life of work and play and littledaily adventures side by side with somebody you love? I'm not afraid ofthe future any more. I don't mind growing old with you, Sandy. "Time isbut the stream I go a-fishing in."
The reason I've grown to love these orphans is because they need me so,and that's the reason--at least one of the reasons--I've grown to loveyou. You're a pathetic figure of a man, my dear, and since you won'tmake yourself comfortable, you must be MADE comfortable.
We'll build a house on the hillside just beyond the asylum--how does ayellow Italian villa strike you, or preferably a pink one? Anyway, itwon't be green. And it won't have a mansard roof. And we'll have a bigcheerful living room, all fireplace and windows and view, and no McGURK.Poor old thing! won't she be in a temper and cook you a dreadful dinnerwhen she hears the news! But we won't tell her for a long, long time--oranybody else. It's too scandalous a proceeding right on top of my ownbroken engagement. I wrote to Judy last night, and with unprecedentedself-control I never let fall so much as a hint. I'm growing Scotchmysel'!
Perhaps I didn't tell you the exact truth, Sandy, when I said I hadn'tknown how much I cared. I think it came to me the night the John Grierburned. When you were up under that blazing roof, and for the half hourthat followed, when we didn't know whether or not you would live, Ican't tell you what agonies I went through. It seemed to me, if you didgo, that I would never get over it all my life; that somehow to havelet the best friend I ever had pass away with a dreadful chasm ofmisunderstanding between us--well--I couldn't wait for the moment when Ishould be allowed to see you and talk out all that I have been shuttinginside me for five months. And then--you know that you gave strictorders to keep me out; and it hurt me dreadfully. How should I suspectthat you really wanted to see me more than any of the others, and thatit was just that terrible Scotch moral sense that was holding you back?You are a very good actor, Sandy. But, my dear, if ever in our livesagain we have the tiniest little cloud of a misunderstanding, let'spromise not to shut it up inside ourselves, but to TALK.
Last night, after they all got off,--early, I am pleased to say, sincethe chicks no longer live at home,--I came upstairs and finished myletter to Judy, and then I looked at the telephone and struggled withtemptation. I wanted to call up 505 and say good night to you. But Ididn't dare. I'm still quite respectably bashful! So, as the next bestthing to talking with you, I got out Burns and read him for an hour. Idropped asleep with all those Scotch love songs running in my head, andhere I am at daybreak writing them to you.
Good-by, Robin lad, I lo'e you weel.
SALLIE.