PART I



Book I. The History Of A Family



Chapter I.Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov

Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov was the third son of Fyodor PavlovitchKaramazov, a land owner well known in our district in his own day, andstill remembered among us owing to his gloomy and tragic death, whichhappened thirteen years ago, and which I shall describe in its properplace. For the present I will only say that this “landowner”—for so weused to call him, although he hardly spent a day of his life on his ownestate—was a strange type, yet one pretty frequently to be met with, atype abject and vicious and at the same time senseless. But he was oneof those senseless persons who are very well capable of looking aftertheir worldly affairs, and, apparently, after nothing else. FyodorPavlovitch, for instance, began with next to nothing; his estate was ofthe smallest; he ran to dine at other men’s tables, and fastened onthem as a toady, yet at his death it appeared that he had a hundredthousand roubles in hard cash. At the same time, he was all his lifeone of the most senseless, fantastical fellows in the whole district. Irepeat, it was not stupidity—the majority of these fantastical fellowsare shrewd and intelligent enough—but just senselessness, and apeculiar national form of it.
He was married twice, and had three sons, the eldest, Dmitri, by hisfirst wife, and two, Ivan and Alexey, by his second. FyodorPavlovitch’s first wife, Adelaïda Ivanovna, belonged to a fairly richand distinguished noble family, also landowners in our district, theMiüsovs. How it came to pass that an heiress, who was also a beauty,and moreover one of those vigorous, intelligent girls, so common inthis generation, but sometimes also to be found in the last, could havemarried such a worthless, puny weakling, as we all called him, I won’tattempt to explain. I knew a young lady of the last “romantic”generation who after some years of an enigmatic passion for agentleman, whom she might quite easily have married at any moment,invented insuperable obstacles to their union, and ended by throwingherself one stormy night into a rather deep and rapid river from a highbank, almost a precipice, and so perished, entirely to satisfy her owncaprice, and to be like Shakespeare’s Ophelia. Indeed, if thisprecipice, a chosen and favorite spot of hers, had been lesspicturesque, if there had been a prosaic flat bank in its place, mostlikely the suicide would never have taken place. This is a fact, andprobably there have been not a few similar instances in the last two orthree generations. Adelaïda Ivanovna Miüsov’s action was similarly, nodoubt, an echo of other people’s ideas, and was due to the irritationcaused by lack of mental freedom. She wanted, perhaps, to show herfeminine independence, to override class distinctions and the despotismof her family. And a pliable imagination persuaded her, we mustsuppose, for a brief moment, that Fyodor Pavlovitch, in spite of hisparasitic position, was one of the bold and ironical spirits of thatprogressive epoch, though he was, in fact, an ill‐natured buffoon andnothing more. What gave the marriage piquancy was that it was precededby an elopement, and this greatly captivated Adelaïda Ivanovna’s fancy.Fyodor Pavlovitch’s position at the time made him specially eager forany such enterprise, for he was passionately anxious to make a careerin one way or another. To attach himself to a good family and obtain adowry was an alluring prospect. As for mutual love it did not existapparently, either in the bride or in him, in spite of AdelaïdaIvanovna’s beauty. This was, perhaps, a unique case of the kind in thelife of Fyodor Pavlovitch, who was always of a voluptuous temper, andready to run after any petticoat on the slightest encouragement. Sheseems to have been the only woman who made no particular appeal to hissenses.
Immediately after the elopement Adelaïda Ivanovna discerned in a flashthat she had no feeling for her husband but contempt. The marriageaccordingly showed itself in its true colors with extraordinaryrapidity. Although the family accepted the event pretty quickly andapportioned the runaway bride her dowry, the husband and wife began tolead a most disorderly life, and there were everlasting scenes betweenthem. It was said that the young wife showed incomparably moregenerosity and dignity than Fyodor Pavlovitch, who, as is now known,got hold of all her money up to twenty‐five thousand roubles as soon asshe received it, so that those thousands were lost to her for ever. Thelittle village and the rather fine town house which formed part of herdowry he did his utmost for a long time to transfer to his name, bymeans of some deed of conveyance. He would probably have succeeded,merely from her moral fatigue and desire to get rid of him, and fromthe contempt and loathing he aroused by his persistent and shamelessimportunity. But, fortunately, Adelaïda Ivanovna’s family intervenedand circumvented his greediness. It is known for a fact that frequentfights took place between the husband and wife, but rumor had it thatFyodor Pavlovitch did not beat his wife but was beaten by her, for shewas a hot‐tempered, bold, dark‐browed, impatient woman, possessed ofremarkable physical strength. Finally, she left the house and ran awayfrom Fyodor Pavlovitch with a destitute divinity student, leavingMitya, a child of three years old, in her husband’s hands. ImmediatelyFyodor Pavlovitch introduced a regular harem into the house, andabandoned himself to orgies of drunkenness. In the intervals he used todrive all over the province, complaining tearfully to each and all ofAdelaïda Ivanovna’s having left him, going into details too disgracefulfor a husband to mention in regard to his own married life. What seemedto gratify him and flatter his self‐love most was to play theridiculous part of the injured husband, and to parade his woes withembellishments.
“One would think that you’d got a promotion, Fyodor Pavlovitch, youseem so pleased in spite of your sorrow,” scoffers said to him. Manyeven added that he was glad of a new comic part in which to play thebuffoon, and that it was simply to make it funnier that he pretended tobe unaware of his ludicrous position. But, who knows, it may have beensimplicity. At last he succeeded in getting on the track of his runawaywife. The poor woman turned out to be in Petersburg, where she had gonewith her divinity student, and where she had thrown herself into a lifeof complete emancipation. Fyodor Pavlovitch at once began bustlingabout, making preparations to go to Petersburg, with what object hecould not himself have said. He would perhaps have really gone; buthaving determined to do so he felt at once entitled to fortify himselffor the journey by another bout of reckless drinking. And just at thattime his wife’s family received the news of her death in Petersburg.She had died quite suddenly in a garret, according to one story, oftyphus, or as another version had it, of starvation. Fyodor Pavlovitchwas drunk when he heard of his wife’s death, and the story is that heran out into the street and began shouting with joy, raising his handsto Heaven: “Lord, now lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace,” butothers say he wept without restraint like a little child, so much sothat people were sorry for him, in spite of the repulsion he inspired.It is quite possible that both versions were true, that he rejoiced athis release, and at the same time wept for her who released him. As ageneral rule, people, even the wicked, are much more naïve andsimple‐hearted than we suppose. And we ourselves are, too.



Chapter II.He Gets Rid Of His Eldest Son

You can easily imagine what a father such a man could be and how hewould bring up his children. His behavior as a father was exactly whatmight be expected. He completely abandoned the child of his marriagewith Adelaïda Ivanovna, not from malice, nor because of his matrimonialgrievances, but simply because he forgot him. While he was wearyingevery one with his tears and complaints, and turning his house into asink of debauchery, a faithful servant of the family, Grigory, took thethree‐year‐old Mitya into his care. If he hadn’t looked after him therewould have been no one even to change the baby’s little shirt.
It happened moreover that the child’s relations on his mother’s sideforgot him too at first. His grandfather was no longer living, hiswidow, Mitya’s grandmother, had moved to Moscow, and was seriously ill,while his daughters were married, so that Mitya remained for almost awhole year in old Grigory’s charge and lived with him in the servant’scottage. But if his father had remembered him (he could not, indeed,have been altogether unaware of his existence) he would have sent himback to the cottage, as the child would only have been in the way ofhis debaucheries. But a cousin of Mitya’s mother, Pyotr AlexandrovitchMiüsov, happened to return from Paris. He lived for many yearsafterwards abroad, but was at that time quite a young man, anddistinguished among the Miüsovs as a man of enlightened ideas and ofEuropean culture, who had been in the capitals and abroad. Towards theend of his life he became a Liberal of the type common in the fortiesand fifties. In the course of his career he had come into contact withmany of the most Liberal men of his epoch, both in Russia and abroad.He had known Proudhon and Bakunin personally, and in his decliningyears was very fond of describing the three days of the ParisRevolution of February 1848, hinting that he himself had almost takenpart in the fighting on the barricades. This was one of the mostgrateful recollections of his youth. He had an independent property ofabout a thousand souls, to reckon in the old style. His splendid estatelay on the outskirts of our little town and bordered on the lands ofour famous monastery, with which Pyotr Alexandrovitch began an endlesslawsuit, almost as soon as he came into the estate, concerning therights of fishing in the river or wood‐cutting in the forest, I don’tknow exactly which. He regarded it as his duty as a citizen and a manof culture to open an attack upon the “clericals.” Hearing all aboutAdelaïda Ivanovna, whom he, of course, remembered, and in whom he hadat one time been interested, and learning of the existence of Mitya, heintervened, in spite of all his youthful indignation and contempt forFyodor Pavlovitch. He made the latter’s acquaintance for the firsttime, and told him directly that he wished to undertake the child’seducation. He used long afterwards to tell as a characteristic touch,that when he began to speak of Mitya, Fyodor Pavlovitch looked for sometime as though he did not understand what child he was talking about,and even as though he was surprised to hear that he had a little son inthe house. The story may have been exaggerated, yet it must have beensomething like the truth.
Fyodor Pavlovitch was all his life fond of acting, of suddenly playingan unexpected part, sometimes without any motive for doing so, and evento his own direct disadvantage, as, for instance, in the present case.This habit, however, is characteristic of a very great number ofpeople, some of them very clever ones, not like Fyodor Pavlovitch.Pyotr Alexandrovitch carried the business through vigorously, and wasappointed, with Fyodor Pavlovitch, joint guardian of the child, who hada small property, a house and land, left him by his mother. Mitya did,in fact, pass into this cousin’s keeping, but as the latter had nofamily of his own, and after securing the revenues of his estates wasin haste to return at once to Paris, he left the boy in charge of oneof his cousins, a lady living in Moscow. It came to pass that, settlingpermanently in Paris he, too, forgot the child, especially when theRevolution of February broke out, making an impression on his mind thathe remembered all the rest of his life. The Moscow lady died, and Mityapassed into the care of one of her married daughters. I believe hechanged his home a fourth time later on. I won’t enlarge upon that now,as I shall have much to tell later of Fyodor Pavlovitch’s firstborn,and must confine myself now to the most essential facts about him,without which I could not begin my story.
In the first place, this Mitya, or rather Dmitri Fyodorovitch, was theonly one of Fyodor Pavlovitch’s three sons who grew up in the beliefthat he had property, and that he would be independent on coming ofage. He spent an irregular boyhood and youth. He did not finish hisstudies at the gymnasium, he got into a military school, then went tothe Caucasus, was promoted, fought a duel, and was degraded to theranks, earned promotion again, led a wild life, and spent a good dealof money. He did not begin to receive any income from Fyodor Pavlovitchuntil he came of age, and until then got into debt. He saw and knew hisfather, Fyodor Pavlovitch, for the first time on coming of age, when hevisited our neighborhood on purpose to settle with him about hisproperty. He seems not to have liked his father. He did not stay longwith him, and made haste to get away, having only succeeded inobtaining a sum of money, and entering into an agreement for futurepayments from the estate, of the revenues and value of which he wasunable (a fact worthy of note), upon this occasion, to get a statementfrom his father. Fyodor Pavlovitch remarked for the first time then(this, too, should be noted) that Mitya had a vague and exaggeratedidea of his property. Fyodor Pavlovitch was very well satisfied withthis, as it fell in with his own designs. He gathered only that theyoung man was frivolous, unruly, of violent passions, impatient, anddissipated, and that if he could only obtain ready money he would besatisfied, although only, of course, for a short time. So FyodorPavlovitch began to take advantage of this fact, sending him from timeto time small doles, installments. In the end, when four years later,Mitya, losing patience, came a second time to our little town to settleup once for all with his father, it turned out to his amazement that hehad nothing, that it was difficult to get an account even, that he hadreceived the whole value of his property in sums of money from FyodorPavlovitch, and was perhaps even in debt to him, that by variousagreements into which he had, of his own desire, entered at variousprevious dates, he had no right to expect anything more, and so on, andso on. The young man was overwhelmed, suspected deceit and cheating,and was almost beside himself. And, indeed, this circumstance led tothe catastrophe, the account of which forms the subject of my firstintroductory story, or rather the external side of it. But before Ipass to that story I must say a little of Fyodor Pavlovitch’s other twosons, and of their origin.



Chapter III.The Second Marriage And The Second Family

Very shortly after getting his four‐year‐old Mitya off his hands FyodorPavlovitch married a second time. His second marriage lasted eightyears. He took this second wife, Sofya Ivanovna, also a very younggirl, from another province, where he had gone upon some small piece ofbusiness in company with a Jew. Though Fyodor Pavlovitch was a drunkardand a vicious debauchee he never neglected investing his capital, andmanaged his business affairs very successfully, though, no doubt, notover‐ scrupulously. Sofya Ivanovna was the daughter of an obscuredeacon, and was left from childhood an orphan without relations. Shegrew up in the house of a general’s widow, a wealthy old lady of goodposition, who was at once her benefactress and tormentor. I do not knowthe details, but I have only heard that the orphan girl, a meek andgentle creature, was once cut down from a halter in which she washanging from a nail in the loft, so terrible were her sufferings fromthe caprice and everlasting nagging of this old woman, who wasapparently not bad‐hearted but had become an insufferable tyrantthrough idleness.
Fyodor Pavlovitch made her an offer; inquiries were made about him andhe was refused. But again, as in his first marriage, he proposed anelopement to the orphan girl. There is very little doubt that she wouldnot on any account have married him if she had known a little moreabout him in time. But she lived in another province; besides, whatcould a little girl of sixteen know about it, except that she would bebetter at the bottom of the river than remaining with her benefactress.So the poor child exchanged a benefactress for a benefactor. FyodorPavlovitch did not get a penny this time, for the general’s widow wasfurious. She gave them nothing and cursed them both. But he had notreckoned on a dowry; what allured him was the remarkable beauty of theinnocent girl, above all her innocent appearance, which had a peculiarattraction for a vicious profligate, who had hitherto admired only thecoarser types of feminine beauty.
“Those innocent eyes slit my soul up like a razor,” he used to sayafterwards, with his loathsome snigger. In a man so depraved thismight, of course, mean no more than sensual attraction. As he hadreceived no dowry with his wife, and had, so to speak, taken her “fromthe halter,” he did not stand on ceremony with her. Making her feelthat she had “wronged” him, he took advantage of her phenomenalmeekness and submissiveness to trample on the elementary decencies ofmarriage. He gathered loose women into his house, and carried on orgiesof debauchery in his wife’s presence. To show what a pass things hadcome to, I may mention that Grigory, the gloomy, stupid, obstinate,argumentative servant, who had always hated his first mistress,Adelaïda Ivanovna, took the side of his new mistress. He championed hercause, abusing Fyodor Pavlovitch in a manner little befitting aservant, and on one occasion broke up the revels and drove all thedisorderly women out of the house. In the end this unhappy young woman,kept in terror from her childhood, fell into that kind of nervousdisease which is most frequently found in peasant women who are said tobe “possessed by devils.” At times after terrible fits of hysterics sheeven lost her reason. Yet she bore Fyodor Pavlovitch two sons, Ivan andAlexey, the eldest in the first year of marriage and the second threeyears later. When she died, little Alexey was in his fourth year, and,strange as it seems, I know that he remembered his mother all his life,like a dream, of course. At her death almost exactly the same thinghappened to the two little boys as to their elder brother, Mitya. Theywere completely forgotten and abandoned by their father. They werelooked after by the same Grigory and lived in his cottage, where theywere found by the tyrannical old lady who had brought up their mother.She was still alive, and had not, all those eight years, forgotten theinsult done her. All that time she was obtaining exact information asto her Sofya’s manner of life, and hearing of her illness and hideoussurroundings she declared aloud two or three times to her retainers:
“It serves her right. God has punished her for her ingratitude.”
Exactly three months after Sofya Ivanovna’s death the general’s widowsuddenly appeared in our town, and went straight to Fyodor Pavlovitch’shouse. She spent only half an hour in the town but she did a greatdeal. It was evening. Fyodor Pavlovitch, whom she had not seen forthose eight years, came in to her drunk. The story is that instantlyupon seeing him, without any sort of explanation, she gave him twogood, resounding slaps on the face, seized him by a tuft of hair, andshook him three times up and down. Then, without a word, she wentstraight to the cottage to the two boys. Seeing, at the first glance,that they were unwashed and in dirty linen, she promptly gave Grigory,too, a box on the ear, and announcing that she would carry off both thechildren she wrapped them just as they were in a rug, put them in thecarriage, and drove off to her own town. Grigory accepted the blow likea devoted slave, without a word, and when he escorted the old lady toher carriage he made her a low bow and pronounced impressively that,“God would repay her for the orphans.” “You are a blockhead all thesame,” the old lady shouted to him as she drove away.
Fyodor Pavlovitch, thinking it over, decided that it was a good thing,and did not refuse the general’s widow his formal consent to anyproposition in regard to his children’s education. As for the slaps shehad given him, he drove all over the town telling the story.
It happened that the old lady died soon after this, but she left theboys in her will a thousand roubles each “for their instruction, and sothat all be spent on them exclusively, with the condition that it be soportioned out as to last till they are twenty‐one, for it is more thanadequate provision for such children. If other people think fit tothrow away their money, let them.” I have not read the will myself, butI heard there was something queer of the sort, very whimsicallyexpressed. The principal heir, Yefim Petrovitch Polenov, the Marshal ofNobility of the province, turned out, however, to be an honest man.Writing to Fyodor Pavlovitch, and discerning at once that he couldextract nothing from him for his children’s education (though thelatter never directly refused but only procrastinated as he always didin such cases, and was, indeed, at times effusively sentimental), YefimPetrovitch took a personal interest in the orphans. He becameespecially fond of the younger, Alexey, who lived for a long while asone of his family. I beg the reader to note this from the beginning.And to Yefim Petrovitch, a man of a generosity and humanity rarely tobe met with, the young people were more indebted for their educationand bringing up than to any one. He kept the two thousand roubles leftto them by the general’s widow intact, so that by the time they came ofage their portions had been doubled by the accumulation of interest. Heeducated them both at his own expense, and certainly spent far morethan a thousand roubles upon each of them. I won’t enter into adetailed account of their boyhood and youth, but will only mention afew of the most important events. Of the elder, Ivan, I will only saythat he grew into a somewhat morose and reserved, though far from timidboy. At ten years old he had realized that they were living not intheir own home but on other people’s charity, and that their father wasa man of whom it was disgraceful to speak. This boy began very early,almost in his infancy (so they say at least), to show a brilliant andunusual aptitude for learning. I don’t know precisely why, but he leftthe family of Yefim Petrovitch when he was hardly thirteen, entering aMoscow gymnasium, and boarding with an experienced and celebratedteacher, an old friend of Yefim Petrovitch. Ivan used to declareafterwards that this was all due to the “ardor for good works” of YefimPetrovitch, who was captivated by the idea that the boy’s genius shouldbe trained by a teacher of genius. But neither Yefim Petrovitch northis teacher was living when the young man finished at the gymnasiumand entered the university. As Yefim Petrovitch had made no provisionfor the payment of the tyrannical old lady’s legacy, which had grownfrom one thousand to two, it was delayed, owing to formalitiesinevitable in Russia, and the young man was in great straits for thefirst two years at the university, as he was forced to keep himself allthe time he was studying. It must be noted that he did not even attemptto communicate with his father, perhaps from pride, from contempt forhim, or perhaps from his cool common sense, which told him that fromsuch a father he would get no real assistance. However that may havebeen, the young man was by no means despondent and succeeded in gettingwork, at first giving sixpenny lessons and afterwards gettingparagraphs on street incidents into the newspapers under the signatureof “Eye‐Witness.” These paragraphs, it was said, were so interestingand piquant that they were soon taken. This alone showed the youngman’s practical and intellectual superiority over the masses of needyand unfortunate students of both sexes who hang about the offices ofthe newspapers and journals, unable to think of anything better thaneverlasting entreaties for copying and translations from the French.Having once got into touch with the editors Ivan Fyodorovitch alwayskept up his connection with them, and in his latter years at theuniversity he published brilliant reviews of books upon various specialsubjects, so that he became well known in literary circles. But only inhis last year he suddenly succeeded in attracting the attention of afar wider circle of readers, so that a great many people noticed andremembered him. It was rather a curious incident. When he had just leftthe university and was preparing to go abroad upon his two thousandroubles, Ivan Fyodorovitch published in one of the more importantjournals a strange article, which attracted general notice, on asubject of which he might have been supposed to know nothing, as he wasa student of natural science. The article dealt with a subject whichwas being debated everywhere at the time—the position of theecclesiastical courts. After discussing several opinions on the subjecthe went on to explain his own view. What was most striking about thearticle was its tone, and its unexpected conclusion. Many of the Churchparty regarded him unquestioningly as on their side. And yet not onlythe secularists but even atheists joined them in their applause.Finally some sagacious persons opined that the article was nothing butan impudent satirical burlesque. I mention this incident particularlybecause this article penetrated into the famous monastery in ourneighborhood, where the inmates, being particularly interested in thequestion of the ecclesiastical courts, were completely bewildered byit. Learning the author’s name, they were interested in his being anative of the town and the son of “that Fyodor Pavlovitch.” And justthen it was that the author himself made his appearance among us.
Why Ivan Fyodorovitch had come amongst us I remember asking myself atthe time with a certain uneasiness. This fateful visit, which was thefirst step leading to so many consequences, I never fully explained tomyself. It seemed strange on the face of it that a young man solearned, so proud, and apparently so cautious, should suddenly visitsuch an infamous house and a father who had ignored him all his life,hardly knew him, never thought of him, and would not under anycircumstances have given him money, though he was always afraid thathis sons Ivan and Alexey would also come to ask him for it. And herethe young man was staying in the house of such a father, had beenliving with him for two months, and they were on the best possibleterms. This last fact was a special cause of wonder to many others aswell as to me. Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miüsov, of whom we have spokenalready, the cousin of Fyodor Pavlovitch’s first wife, happened to bein the neighborhood again on a visit to his estate. He had come fromParis, which was his permanent home. I remember that he was moresurprised than any one when he made the acquaintance of the young man,who interested him extremely, and with whom he sometimes argued and notwithout an inner pang compared himself in acquirements.
“He is proud,” he used to say, “he will never be in want of pence; hehas got money enough to go abroad now. What does he want here? Everyone can see that he hasn’t come for money, for his father would nevergive him any. He has no taste for drink and dissipation, and yet hisfather can’t do without him. They get on so well together!”
That was the truth; the young man had an unmistakable influence overhis father, who positively appeared to be behaving more decently andeven seemed at times ready to obey his son, though often extremely andeven spitefully perverse.
It was only later that we learned that Ivan had come partly at therequest of, and in the interests of, his elder brother, Dmitri, whom hesaw for the first time on this very visit, though he had before leavingMoscow been in correspondence with him about an important matter ofmore concern to Dmitri than himself. What that business was the readerwill learn fully in due time. Yet even when I did know of this specialcircumstance I still felt Ivan Fyodorovitch to be an enigmatic figure,and thought his visit rather mysterious.
I may add that Ivan appeared at the time in the light of a mediatorbetween his father and his elder brother Dmitri, who was in openquarrel with his father and even planning to bring an action againsthim.
The family, I repeat, was now united for the first time, and some ofits members met for the first time in their lives. The younger brother,Alexey, had been a year already among us, having been the first of thethree to arrive. It is of that brother Alexey I find it most difficultto speak in this introduction. Yet I must give some preliminary accountof him, if only to explain one queer fact, which is that I have tointroduce my hero to the reader wearing the cassock of a novice. Yes,he had been for the last year in our monastery, and seemed willing tobe cloistered there for the rest of his life.



Chapter IV.The Third Son, Alyosha

He was only twenty, his brother Ivan was in his twenty‐fourth year atthe time, while their elder brother Dmitri was twenty‐seven. First ofall, I must explain that this young man, Alyosha, was not a fanatic,and, in my opinion at least, was not even a mystic. I may as well givemy full opinion from the beginning. He was simply an early lover ofhumanity, and that he adopted the monastic life was simply because atthat time it struck him, so to say, as the ideal escape for his soulstruggling from the darkness of worldly wickedness to the light oflove. And the reason this life struck him in this way was that he foundin it at that time, as he thought, an extraordinary being, ourcelebrated elder, Zossima, to whom he became attached with all the warmfirst love of his ardent heart. But I do not dispute that he was verystrange even at that time, and had been so indeed from his cradle. Ihave mentioned already, by the way, that though he lost his mother inhis fourth year he remembered her all his life—her face, her caresses,“as though she stood living before me.” Such memories may persist, asevery one knows, from an even earlier age, even from two years old, butscarcely standing out through a whole lifetime like spots of light outof darkness, like a corner torn out of a huge picture, which has allfaded and disappeared except that fragment. That is how it was withhim. He remembered one still summer evening, an open window, theslanting rays of the setting sun (that he recalled most vividly ofall); in a corner of the room the holy image, before it a lighted lamp,and on her knees before the image his mother, sobbing hysterically withcries and moans, snatching him up in both arms, squeezing him closetill it hurt, and praying for him to the Mother of God, holding him outin both arms to the image as though to put him under the Mother’sprotection ... and suddenly a nurse runs in and snatches him from herin terror. That was the picture! And Alyosha remembered his mother’sface at that minute. He used to say that it was frenzied but beautifulas he remembered. But he rarely cared to speak of this memory to anyone. In his childhood and youth he was by no means expansive, andtalked little indeed, but not from shyness or a sullen unsociability;quite the contrary, from something different, from a sort of innerpreoccupation entirely personal and unconcerned with other people, butso important to him that he seemed, as it were, to forget others onaccount of it. But he was fond of people: he seemed throughout his lifeto put implicit trust in people: yet no one ever looked on him as asimpleton or naïve person. There was something about him which made onefeel at once (and it was so all his life afterwards) that he did notcare to be a judge of others—that he would never take it upon himselfto criticize and would never condemn any one for anything. He seemed,indeed, to accept everything without the least condemnation thoughoften grieving bitterly: and this was so much so that no one couldsurprise or frighten him even in his earliest youth. Coming at twentyto his father’s house, which was a very sink of filthy debauchery, he,chaste and pure as he was, simply withdrew in silence when to look onwas unbearable, but without the slightest sign of contempt orcondemnation. His father, who had once been in a dependent position,and so was sensitive and ready to take offense, met him at first withdistrust and sullenness. “He does not say much,” he used to say, “andthinks the more.” But soon, within a fortnight indeed, he took toembracing him and kissing him terribly often, with drunken tears, withsottish sentimentality, yet he evidently felt a real and deep affectionfor him, such as he had never been capable of feeling for any onebefore.
Every one, indeed, loved this young man wherever he went, and it was sofrom his earliest childhood. When he entered the household of hispatron and benefactor, Yefim Petrovitch Polenov, he gained the heartsof all the family, so that they looked on him quite as their own child.Yet he entered the house at such a tender age that he could not haveacted from design nor artfulness in winning affection. So that the giftof making himself loved directly and unconsciously was inherent in him,in his very nature, so to speak. It was the same at school, though heseemed to be just one of those children who are distrusted, sometimesridiculed, and even disliked by their schoolfellows. He was dreamy, forinstance, and rather solitary. From his earliest childhood he was fondof creeping into a corner to read, and yet he was a general favoriteall the while he was at school. He was rarely playful or merry, but anyone could see at the first glance that this was not from anysullenness. On the contrary he was bright and good‐tempered. He nevertried to show off among his schoolfellows. Perhaps because of this, hewas never afraid of any one, yet the boys immediately understood thathe was not proud of his fearlessness and seemed to be unaware that hewas bold and courageous. He never resented an insult. It would happenthat an hour after the offense he would address the offender or answersome question with as trustful and candid an expression as thoughnothing had happened between them. And it was not that he seemed tohave forgotten or intentionally forgiven the affront, but simply thathe did not regard it as an affront, and this completely conquered andcaptivated the boys. He had one characteristic which made all hisschoolfellows from the bottom class to the top want to mock at him, notfrom malice but because it amused them. This characteristic was a wildfanatical modesty and chastity. He could not bear to hear certain wordsand certain conversations about women. There are “certain” words andconversations unhappily impossible to eradicate in schools. Boys purein mind and heart, almost children, are fond of talking in school amongthemselves, and even aloud, of things, pictures, and images of whicheven soldiers would sometimes hesitate to speak. More than that, muchthat soldiers have no knowledge or conception of is familiar to quiteyoung children of our intellectual and higher classes. There is nomoral depravity, no real corrupt inner cynicism in it, but there is theappearance of it, and it is often looked upon among them as somethingrefined, subtle, daring, and worthy of imitation. Seeing that AlyoshaKaramazov put his fingers in his ears when they talked of “that,” theyused sometimes to crowd round him, pull his hands away, and shoutnastiness into both ears, while he struggled, slipped to the floor,tried to hide himself without uttering one word of abuse, enduringtheir insults in silence. But at last they left him alone and gave uptaunting him with being a “regular girl,” and what’s more they lookedupon it with compassion as a weakness. He was always one of the best inthe class but was never first.
At the time of Yefim Petrovitch’s death Alyosha had two more years tocomplete at the provincial gymnasium. The inconsolable widow wentalmost immediately after his death for a long visit to Italy with herwhole family, which consisted only of women and girls. Alyosha went tolive in the house of two distant relations of Yefim Petrovitch, ladieswhom he had never seen before. On what terms he lived with them he didnot know himself. It was very characteristic of him, indeed, that henever cared at whose expense he was living. In that respect he was astriking contrast to his elder brother Ivan, who struggled with povertyfor his first two years in the university, maintained himself by hisown efforts, and had from childhood been bitterly conscious of livingat the expense of his benefactor. But this strange trait in Alyosha’scharacter must not, I think, be criticized too severely, for at theslightest acquaintance with him any one would have perceived thatAlyosha was one of those youths, almost of the type of religiousenthusiast, who, if they were suddenly to come into possession of alarge fortune, would not hesitate to give it away for the asking,either for good works or perhaps to a clever rogue. In general heseemed scarcely to know the value of money, not, of course, in aliteral sense. When he was given pocket‐money, which he never askedfor, he was either terribly careless of it so that it was gone in amoment, or he kept it for weeks together, not knowing what to do withit.
In later years Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miüsov, a man very sensitive on thescore of money and bourgeois honesty, pronounced the followingjudgment, after getting to know Alyosha:
“Here is perhaps the one man in the world whom you might leave alonewithout a penny, in the center of an unknown town of a millioninhabitants, and he would not come to harm, he would not die of coldand hunger, for he would be fed and sheltered at once; and if he werenot, he would find a shelter for himself, and it would cost him noeffort or humiliation. And to shelter him would be no burden, but, onthe contrary, would probably be looked on as a pleasure.”
He did not finish his studies at the gymnasium. A year before the endof the course he suddenly announced to the ladies that he was going tosee his father about a plan which had occurred to him. They were sorryand unwilling to let him go. The journey was not an expensive one, andthe ladies would not let him pawn his watch, a parting present from hisbenefactor’s family. They provided him liberally with money and evenfitted him out with new clothes and linen. But he returned half themoney they gave him, saying that he intended to go third class. On hisarrival in the town he made no answer to his father’s first inquiry whyhe had come before completing his studies, and seemed, so they say,unusually thoughtful. It soon became apparent that he was looking forhis mother’s tomb. He practically acknowledged at the time that thatwas the only object of his visit. But it can hardly have been the wholereason of it. It is more probable that he himself did not understandand could not explain what had suddenly arisen in his soul, and drawnhim irresistibly into a new, unknown, but inevitable path. FyodorPavlovitch could not show him where his second wife was buried, for hehad never visited her grave since he had thrown earth upon her coffin,and in the course of years had entirely forgotten where she was buried.
Fyodor Pavlovitch, by the way, had for some time previously not beenliving in our town. Three or four years after his wife’s death he hadgone to the south of Russia and finally turned up in Odessa, where hespent several years. He made the acquaintance at first, in his ownwords, “of a lot of low Jews, Jewesses, and Jewkins,” and ended bybeing received by “Jews high and low alike.” It may be presumed that atthis period he developed a peculiar faculty for making and hoardingmoney. He finally returned to our town only three years beforeAlyosha’s arrival. His former acquaintances found him looking terriblyaged, although he was by no means an old man. He behaved not exactlywith more dignity but with more effrontery. The former buffoon showedan insolent propensity for making buffoons of others. His depravitywith women was not simply what it used to be, but even more revolting.In a short time he opened a great number of new taverns in thedistrict. It was evident that he had perhaps a hundred thousand roublesor not much less. Many of the inhabitants of the town and district weresoon in his debt, and, of course, had given good security. Of late,too, he looked somehow bloated and seemed more irresponsible, moreuneven, had sunk into a sort of incoherence, used to begin one thingand go on with another, as though he were letting himself goaltogether. He was more and more frequently drunk. And, if it had notbeen for the same servant Grigory, who by that time had agedconsiderably too, and used to look after him sometimes almost like atutor, Fyodor Pavlovitch might have got into terrible scrapes.Alyosha’s arrival seemed to affect even his moral side, as thoughsomething had awakened in this prematurely old man which had long beendead in his soul.
“Do you know,” he used often to say, looking at Alyosha, “that you arelike her, ‘the crazy woman’ ”—that was what he used to call his deadwife, Alyosha’s mother. Grigory it was who pointed out the “crazywoman’s” grave to Alyosha. He took him to our town cemetery and showedhim in a remote corner a cast‐iron tombstone, cheap but decently kept,on which were inscribed the name and age of the deceased and the dateof her death, and below a four‐lined verse, such as are commonly usedon old‐fashioned middle‐class tombs. To Alyosha’s amazement this tombturned out to be Grigory’s doing. He had put it up on the poor “crazywoman’s” grave at his own expense, after Fyodor Pavlovitch, whom he hadoften pestered about the grave, had gone to Odessa, abandoning thegrave and all his memories. Alyosha showed no particular emotion at thesight of his mother’s grave. He only listened to Grigory’s minute andsolemn account of the erection of the tomb; he stood with bowed headand walked away without uttering a word. It was perhaps a year beforehe visited the cemetery again. But this little episode was not withoutan influence upon Fyodor Pavlovitch—and a very original one. Hesuddenly took a thousand roubles to our monastery to pay for requiemsfor the soul of his wife; but not for the second, Alyosha’s mother, the“crazy woman,” but for the first, Adelaïda Ivanovna, who used to thrashhim. In the evening of the same day he got drunk and abused the monksto Alyosha. He himself was far from being religious; he had probablynever put a penny candle before the image of a saint. Strange impulsesof sudden feeling and sudden thought are common in such types.
I have mentioned already that he looked bloated. His countenance atthis time bore traces of something that testified unmistakably to thelife he had led. Besides the long fleshy bags under his little, alwaysinsolent, suspicious, and ironical eyes; besides the multitude of deepwrinkles in his little fat face, the Adam’s apple hung below his sharpchin like a great, fleshy goiter, which gave him a peculiar, repulsive,sensual appearance; add to that a long rapacious mouth with full lips,between which could be seen little stumps of black decayed teeth. Heslobbered every time he began to speak. He was fond indeed of makingfun of his own face, though, I believe, he was well satisfied with it.He used particularly to point to his nose, which was not very large,but very delicate and conspicuously aquiline. “A regular Roman nose,”he used to say, “with my goiter I’ve quite the countenance of anancient Roman patrician of the decadent period.” He seemed proud of it.
Not long after visiting his mother’s grave Alyosha suddenly announcedthat he wanted to enter the monastery, and that the monks were willingto receive him as a novice. He explained that this was his strongdesire, and that he was solemnly asking his consent as his father. Theold man knew that the elder Zossima, who was living in the monasteryhermitage, had made a special impression upon his “gentle boy.”
“That is the most honest monk among them, of course,” he observed,after listening in thoughtful silence to Alyosha, and seeming scarcelysurprised at his request. “H’m!... So that’s where you want to be, mygentle boy?”
He was half drunk, and suddenly he grinned his slow half‐drunken grin,which was not without a certain cunning and tipsy slyness. “H’m!... Ihad a presentiment that you would end in something like this. Would youbelieve it? You were making straight for it. Well, to be sure you haveyour own two thousand. That’s a dowry for you. And I’ll never desertyou, my angel. And I’ll pay what’s wanted for you there, if they askfor it. But, of course, if they don’t ask, why should we worry them?What do you say? You know, you spend money like a canary, two grains aweek. H’m!... Do you know that near one monastery there’s a placeoutside the town where every baby knows there are none but ‘the monks’wives’ living, as they are called. Thirty women, I believe. I have beenthere myself. You know, it’s interesting in its own way, of course, asa variety. The worst of it is it’s awfully Russian. There are no Frenchwomen there. Of course they could get them fast enough, they haveplenty of money. If they get to hear of it they’ll come along. Well,there’s nothing of that sort here, no ‘monks’ wives,’ and two hundredmonks. They’re honest. They keep the fasts. I admit it.... H’m.... Soyou want to be a monk? And do you know I’m sorry to lose you, Alyosha;would you believe it, I’ve really grown fond of you? Well, it’s a goodopportunity. You’ll pray for us sinners; we have sinned too much here.I’ve always been thinking who would pray for me, and whether there’sany one in the world to do it. My dear boy, I’m awfully stupid aboutthat. You wouldn’t believe it. Awfully. You see, however stupid I amabout it, I keep thinking, I keep thinking—from time to time, ofcourse, not all the while. It’s impossible, I think, for the devils toforget to drag me down to hell with their hooks when I die. Then Iwonder—hooks? Where would they get them? What of? Iron hooks? Where dothey forge them? Have they a foundry there of some sort? The monks inthe monastery probably believe that there’s a ceiling in hell, forinstance. Now I’m ready to believe in hell, but without a ceiling. Itmakes it more refined, more enlightened, more Lutheran that is. And,after all, what does it matter whether it has a ceiling or hasn’t? But,do you know, there’s a damnable question involved in it? If there’s noceiling there can be no hooks, and if there are no hooks it all breaksdown, which is unlikely again, for then there would be none to drag medown to hell, and if they don’t drag me down what justice is there inthe world? _Il faudrait les inventer_, those hooks, on purpose for mealone, for, if you only knew, Alyosha, what a blackguard I am.”
“But there are no hooks there,” said Alyosha, looking gently andseriously at his father.
“Yes, yes, only the shadows of hooks, I know, I know. That’s how aFrenchman described hell: ‘_J’ai vu l’ombre d’un cocher qui avecl’ombre d’une brosse frottait l’ombre d’une carrosse._’ How do you knowthere are no hooks, darling? When you’ve lived with the monks you’llsing a different tune. But go and get at the truth there, and then comeand tell me. Anyway it’s easier going to the other world if one knowswhat there is there. Besides, it will be more seemly for you with themonks than here with me, with a drunken old man and young harlots ...though you’re like an angel, nothing touches you. And I dare saynothing will touch you there. That’s why I let you go, because I hopefor that. You’ve got all your wits about you. You will burn and youwill burn out; you will be healed and come back again. And I will waitfor you. I feel that you’re the only creature in the world who has notcondemned me. My dear boy, I feel it, you know. I can’t help feelingit.”
And he even began blubbering. He was sentimental. He was wicked andsentimental.



Chapter V.Elders

Some of my readers may imagine that my young man was a sickly,ecstatic, poorly developed creature, a pale, consumptive dreamer. Onthe contrary, Alyosha was at this time a well‐grown, red‐cheeked,clear‐eyed lad of nineteen, radiant with health. He was very handsome,too, graceful, moderately tall, with hair of a dark brown, with aregular, rather long, oval‐shaped face, and wide‐set dark gray, shiningeyes; he was very thoughtful, and apparently very serene. I shall betold, perhaps, that red cheeks are not incompatible with fanaticism andmysticism; but I fancy that Alyosha was more of a realist than any one.Oh! no doubt, in the monastery he fully believed in miracles, but, tomy thinking, miracles are never a stumbling‐block to the realist. It isnot miracles that dispose realists to belief. The genuine realist, ifhe is an unbeliever, will always find strength and ability todisbelieve in the miraculous, and if he is confronted with a miracle asan irrefutable fact he would rather disbelieve his own senses thanadmit the fact. Even if he admits it, he admits it as a fact of naturetill then unrecognized by him. Faith does not, in the realist, springfrom the miracle but the miracle from faith. If the realist oncebelieves, then he is bound by his very realism to admit the miraculousalso. The Apostle Thomas said that he would not believe till he saw,but when he did see he said, “My Lord and my God!” Was it the miracleforced him to believe? Most likely not, but he believed solely becausehe desired to believe and possibly he fully believed in his secretheart even when he said, “I do not believe till I see.”
I shall be told, perhaps, that Alyosha was stupid, undeveloped, had notfinished his studies, and so on. That he did not finish his studies istrue, but to say that he was stupid or dull would be a great injustice.I’ll simply repeat what I have said above. He entered upon this pathonly because, at that time, it alone struck his imagination andpresented itself to him as offering an ideal means of escape for hissoul from darkness to light. Add to that that he was to some extent ayouth of our last epoch—that is, honest in nature, desiring the truth,seeking for it and believing in it, and seeking to serve it at oncewith all the strength of his soul, seeking for immediate action, andready to sacrifice everything, life itself, for it. Though these youngmen unhappily fail to understand that the sacrifice of life is, in manycases, the easiest of all sacrifices, and that to sacrifice, forinstance, five or six years of their seething youth to hard and tediousstudy, if only to multiply tenfold their powers of serving the truthand the cause they have set before them as their goal—such a sacrificeis utterly beyond the strength of many of them. The path Alyosha chosewas a path going in the opposite direction, but he chose it with thesame thirst for swift achievement. As soon as he reflected seriously hewas convinced of the existence of God and immortality, and at once heinstinctively said to himself: “I want to live for immortality, and Iwill accept no compromise.” In the same way, if he had decided that Godand immortality did not exist, he would at once have become an atheistand a socialist. For socialism is not merely the labor question, it isbefore all things the atheistic question, the question of the formtaken by atheism to‐day, the question of the tower of Babel builtwithout God, not to mount to heaven from earth but to set up heaven onearth. Alyosha would have found it strange and impossible to go onliving as before. It is written: “Give all that thou hast to the poorand follow Me, if thou wouldst be perfect.”
Alyosha said to himself: “I can’t give two roubles instead of ‘all,’and only go to mass instead of ‘following Him.’ ” Perhaps his memoriesof childhood brought back our monastery, to which his mother may havetaken him to mass. Perhaps the slanting sunlight and the holy image towhich his poor “crazy” mother had held him up still acted upon hisimagination. Brooding on these things he may have come to us perhapsonly to see whether here he could sacrifice all or only “two roubles,”and in the monastery he met this elder. I must digress to explain whatan “elder” is in Russian monasteries, and I am sorry that I do not feelvery competent to do so. I will try, however, to give a superficialaccount of it in a few words. Authorities on the subject assert thatthe institution of “elders” is of recent date, not more than a hundredyears old in our monasteries, though in the orthodox East, especiallyin Sinai and Athos, it has existed over a thousand years. It ismaintained that it existed in ancient times in Russia also, but throughthe calamities which overtook Russia—the Tartars, civil war, theinterruption of relations with the East after the destruction ofConstantinople—this institution fell into oblivion. It was revivedamong us towards the end of last century by one of the great“ascetics,” as they called him, Païssy Velitchkovsky, and hisdisciples. But to this day it exists in few monasteries only, and hassometimes been almost persecuted as an innovation in Russia. Itflourished especially in the celebrated Kozelski Optin Monastery. Whenand how it was introduced into our monastery I cannot say. There hadalready been three such elders and Zossima was the last of them. But hewas almost dying of weakness and disease, and they had no one to takehis place. The question for our monastery was an important one, for ithad not been distinguished by anything in particular till then: theyhad neither relics of saints, nor wonder‐working ikons, nor glorioustraditions, nor historical exploits. It had flourished and beenglorious all over Russia through its elders, to see and hear whompilgrims had flocked for thousands of miles from all parts.
What was such an elder? An elder was one who took your soul, your will,into his soul and his will. When you choose an elder, you renounce yourown will and yield it to him in complete submission, complete self‐abnegation. This novitiate, this terrible school of abnegation, isundertaken voluntarily, in the hope of self‐conquest, of self‐mastery,in order, after a life of obedience, to attain perfect freedom, thatis, from self; to escape the lot of those who have lived their wholelife without finding their true selves in themselves. This institutionof elders is not founded on theory, but was established in the Eastfrom the practice of a thousand years. The obligations due to an elderare not the ordinary “obedience” which has always existed in ourRussian monasteries. The obligation involves confession to the elder byall who have submitted themselves to him, and to the indissoluble bondbetween him and them.
The story is told, for instance, that in the early days of Christianityone such novice, failing to fulfill some command laid upon him by hiselder, left his monastery in Syria and went to Egypt. There, aftergreat exploits, he was found worthy at last to suffer torture and amartyr’s death for the faith. When the Church, regarding him as asaint, was burying him, suddenly, at the deacon’s exhortation, “Departall ye unbaptized,” the coffin containing the martyr’s body left itsplace and was cast forth from the church, and this took place threetimes. And only at last they learnt that this holy man had broken hisvow of obedience and left his elder, and, therefore, could not beforgiven without the elder’s absolution in spite of his great deeds.Only after this could the funeral take place. This, of course, is onlyan old legend. But here is a recent instance.
A monk was suddenly commanded by his elder to quit Athos, which heloved as a sacred place and a haven of refuge, and to go first toJerusalem to do homage to the Holy Places and then to go to the northto Siberia: “There is the place for thee and not here.” The monk,overwhelmed with sorrow, went to the Œcumenical Patriarch atConstantinople and besought him to release him from his obedience. Butthe Patriarch replied that not only was he unable to release him, butthere was not and could not be on earth a power which could release himexcept the elder who had himself laid that duty upon him. In this waythe elders are endowed in certain cases with unbounded and inexplicableauthority. That is why in many of our monasteries the institution wasat first resisted almost to persecution. Meantime the eldersimmediately began to be highly esteemed among the people. Masses of theignorant people as well as men of distinction flocked, for instance, tothe elders of our monastery to confess their doubts, their sins, andtheir sufferings, and ask for counsel and admonition. Seeing this, theopponents of the elders declared that the sacrament of confession wasbeing arbitrarily and frivolously degraded, though the continualopening of the heart to the elder by the monk or the layman had nothingof the character of the sacrament. In the end, however, the institutionof elders has been retained and is becoming established in Russianmonasteries. It is true, perhaps, that this instrument which had stoodthe test of a thousand years for the moral regeneration of a man fromslavery to freedom and to moral perfectibility may be a two‐edgedweapon and it may lead some not to humility and complete self‐controlbut to the most Satanic pride, that is, to bondage and not to freedom.
The elder Zossima was sixty‐five. He came of a family of landowners,had been in the army in early youth, and served in the Caucasus as anofficer. He had, no doubt, impressed Alyosha by some peculiar qualityof his soul. Alyosha lived in the cell of the elder, who was very fondof him and let him wait upon him. It must be noted that Alyosha wasbound by no obligation and could go where he pleased and be absent forwhole days. Though he wore the monastic dress it was voluntarily, notto be different from others. No doubt he liked to do so. Possibly hisyouthful imagination was deeply stirred by the power and fame of hiselder. It was said that so many people had for years past come toconfess their sins to Father Zossima and to entreat him for words ofadvice and healing, that he had acquired the keenest intuition andcould tell from an unknown face what a new‐comer wanted, and what wasthe suffering on his conscience. He sometimes astounded and almostalarmed his visitors by his knowledge of their secrets before they hadspoken a word.
Alyosha noticed that many, almost all, went in to the elder for thefirst time with apprehension and uneasiness, but came out with brightand happy faces. Alyosha was particularly struck by the fact thatFather Zossima was not at all stern. On the contrary, he was alwaysalmost gay. The monks used to say that he was more drawn to those whowere more sinful, and the greater the sinner the more he loved him.There were, no doubt, up to the end of his life, among the monks somewho hated and envied him, but they were few in number and they weresilent, though among them were some of great dignity in the monastery,one, for instance, of the older monks distinguished for his strictkeeping of fasts and vows of silence. But the majority were on FatherZossima’s side and very many of them loved him with all their hearts,warmly and sincerely. Some were almost fanatically devoted to him, anddeclared, though not quite aloud, that he was a saint, that there couldbe no doubt of it, and, seeing that his end was near, they anticipatedmiracles and great glory to the monastery in the immediate future fromhis relics. Alyosha had unquestioning faith in the miraculous power ofthe elder, just as he had unquestioning faith in the story of thecoffin that flew out of the church. He saw many who came with sickchildren or relatives and besought the elder to lay hands on them andto pray over them, return shortly after—some the next day—and, fallingin tears at the elder’s feet, thank him for healing their sick.
Whether they had really been healed or were simply better in thenatural course of the disease was a question which did not exist forAlyosha, for he fully believed in the spiritual power of his teacherand rejoiced in his fame, in his glory, as though it were his owntriumph. His heart throbbed, and he beamed, as it were, all over whenthe elder came out to the gates of the hermitage into the waiting crowdof pilgrims of the humbler class who had flocked from all parts ofRussia on purpose to see the elder and obtain his blessing. They felldown before him, wept, kissed his feet, kissed the earth on which hestood, and wailed, while the women held up their children to him andbrought him the sick “possessed with devils.” The elder spoke to them,read a brief prayer over them, blessed them, and dismissed them. Oflate he had become so weak through attacks of illness that he wassometimes unable to leave his cell, and the pilgrims waited for him tocome out for several days. Alyosha did not wonder why they loved himso, why they fell down before him and wept with emotion merely atseeing his face. Oh! he understood that for the humble soul of theRussian peasant, worn out by grief and toil, and still more by theeverlasting injustice and everlasting sin, his own and the world’s, itwas the greatest need and comfort to find some one or something holy tofall down before and worship.
“Among us there is sin, injustice, and temptation, but yet, somewhereon earth there is some one holy and exalted. He has the truth; he knowsthe truth; so it is not dead upon the earth; so it will come one day tous, too, and rule over all the earth according to the promise.”
Alyosha knew that this was just how the people felt and even reasoned.He understood it, but that the elder Zossima was this saint andcustodian of God’s truth—of that he had no more doubt than the weepingpeasants and the sick women who held out their children to the elder.The conviction that after his death the elder would bring extraordinaryglory to the monastery was even stronger in Alyosha than in any onethere, and, of late, a kind of deep flame of inner ecstasy burnt moreand more strongly in his heart. He was not at all troubled at thiselder’s standing as a solitary example before him.
“No matter. He is holy. He carries in his heart the secret of renewalfor all: that power which will, at last, establish truth on the earth,and all men will be holy and love one another, and there will be nomore rich nor poor, no exalted nor humbled, but all will be as thechildren of God, and the true Kingdom of Christ will come.” That wasthe dream in Alyosha’s heart.
The arrival of his two brothers, whom he had not known till then,seemed to make a great impression on Alyosha. He more quickly madefriends with his half‐brother Dmitri (though he arrived later) thanwith his own brother Ivan. He was extremely interested in his brotherIvan, but when the latter had been two months in the town, though theyhad met fairly often, they were still not intimate. Alyosha wasnaturally silent, and he seemed to be expecting something, ashamedabout something, while his brother Ivan, though Alyosha noticed atfirst that he looked long and curiously at him, seemed soon to haveleft off thinking of him. Alyosha noticed it with some embarrassment.He ascribed his brother’s indifference at first to the disparity oftheir age and education. But he also wondered whether the absence ofcuriosity and sympathy in Ivan might be due to some other causeentirely unknown to him. He kept fancying that Ivan was absorbed insomething—something inward and important—that he was striving towardssome goal, perhaps very hard to attain, and that that was why he had nothought for him. Alyosha wondered, too, whether there was not somecontempt on the part of the learned atheist for him—a foolish novice.He knew for certain that his brother was an atheist. He could not takeoffense at this contempt, if it existed; yet, with an uneasyembarrassment which he did not himself understand, he waited for hisbrother to come nearer to him. Dmitri used to speak of Ivan with thedeepest respect and with a peculiar earnestness. From him Alyoshalearnt all the details of the important affair which had of late formedsuch a close and remarkable bond between the two elder brothers.Dmitri’s enthusiastic references to Ivan were the more striking inAlyosha’s eyes since Dmitri was, compared with Ivan, almost uneducated,and the two brothers were such a contrast in personality and characterthat it would be difficult to find two men more unlike.
It was at this time that the meeting, or, rather gathering of themembers of this inharmonious family took place in the cell of the elderwho had such an extraordinary influence on Alyosha. The pretext forthis gathering was a false one. It was at this time that the discordbetween Dmitri and his father seemed at its acutest stage and theirrelations had become insufferably strained. Fyodor Pavlovitch seems tohave been the first to suggest, apparently in joke, that they shouldall meet in Father Zossima’s cell, and that, without appealing to hisdirect intervention, they might more decently come to an understandingunder the conciliating influence of the elder’s presence. Dmitri, whohad never seen the elder, naturally supposed that his father was tryingto intimidate him, but, as he secretly blamed himself for his outburstsof temper with his father on several recent occasions, he accepted thechallenge. It must be noted that he was not, like Ivan, staying withhis father, but living apart at the other end of the town. It happenedthat Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miüsov, who was staying in the district atthe time, caught eagerly at the idea. A Liberal of the forties andfifties, a freethinker and atheist, he may have been led on by boredomor the hope of frivolous diversion. He was suddenly seized with thedesire to see the monastery and the holy man. As his lawsuit with themonastery still dragged on, he made it the pretext for seeing theSuperior, in order to attempt to settle it amicably. A visitor comingwith such laudable intentions might be received with more attention andconsideration than if he came from simple curiosity. Influences fromwithin the monastery were brought to bear on the elder, who of late hadscarcely left his cell, and had been forced by illness to deny even hisordinary visitors. In the end he consented to see them, and the day wasfixed.
“Who has made me a judge over them?” was all he said, smilingly, toAlyosha.
Alyosha was much perturbed when he heard of the proposed visit. Of allthe wrangling, quarrelsome party, Dmitri was the only one who couldregard the interview seriously. All the others would come fromfrivolous motives, perhaps insulting to the elder. Alyosha was wellaware of that. Ivan and Miüsov would come from curiosity, perhaps ofthe coarsest kind, while his father might be contemplating some pieceof buffoonery. Though he said nothing, Alyosha thoroughly understoodhis father. The boy, I repeat, was far from being so simple as everyone thought him. He awaited the day with a heavy heart. No doubt he wasalways pondering in his mind how the family discord could be ended. Buthis chief anxiety concerned the elder. He trembled for him, for hisglory, and dreaded any affront to him, especially the refined,courteous irony of Miüsov and the supercilious half‐utterances of thehighly educated Ivan. He even wanted to venture on warning the elder,telling him something about them, but, on second thoughts, saidnothing. He only sent word the day before, through a friend, to hisbrother Dmitri, that he loved him and expected him to keep his promise.Dmitri wondered, for he could not remember what he had promised, but heanswered by letter that he would do his utmost not to let himself beprovoked “by vileness,” but that, although he had a deep respect forthe elder and for his brother Ivan, he was convinced that the meetingwas either a trap for him or an unworthy farce.
“Nevertheless I would rather bite out my tongue than be lacking inrespect to the sainted man whom you reverence so highly,” he wrote inconclusion. Alyosha was not greatly cheered by the letter.



Book II. An Unfortunate Gathering



Chapter I.They Arrive At The Monastery

It was a warm, bright day at the end of August. The interview with theelder had been fixed for half‐past eleven, immediately after late mass.Our visitors did not take part in the service, but arrived just as itwas over. First an elegant open carriage, drawn by two valuable horses,drove up with Miüsov and a distant relative of his, a young man oftwenty, called Pyotr Fomitch Kalganov. This young man was preparing toenter the university. Miüsov, with whom he was staying for the time,was trying to persuade him to go abroad to the university of Zurich orJena. The young man was still undecided. He was thoughtful andabsent‐minded. He was nice‐ looking, strongly built, and rather tall.There was a strange fixity in his gaze at times. Like all veryabsent‐minded people he would sometimes stare at a person withoutseeing him. He was silent and rather awkward, but sometimes, when hewas alone with any one, he became talkative and effusive, and wouldlaugh at anything or nothing. But his animation vanished as quickly asit appeared. He was always well and even elaborately dressed; he hadalready some independent fortune and expectations of much more. He wasa friend of Alyosha’s.
In an ancient, jolting, but roomy, hired carriage, with a pair of oldpinkish‐gray horses, a long way behind Miüsov’s carriage, came FyodorPavlovitch, with his son Ivan. Dmitri was late, though he had beeninformed of the time the evening before. The visitors left theircarriage at the hotel, outside the precincts, and went to the gates ofthe monastery on foot. Except Fyodor Pavlovitch, none of the party hadever seen the monastery, and Miüsov had probably not even been tochurch for thirty years. He looked about him with curiosity, togetherwith assumed ease. But, except the church and the domestic buildings,though these too were ordinary enough, he found nothing of interest inthe interior of the monastery. The last of the worshippers were comingout of the church, bareheaded and crossing themselves. Among thehumbler people were a few of higher rank—two or three ladies and a veryold general. They were all staying at the hotel. Our visitors were atonce surrounded by beggars, but none of them gave them anything, exceptyoung Kalganov, who took a ten‐ copeck piece out of his purse, and,nervous and embarrassed—God knows why!—hurriedly gave it to an oldwoman, saying: “Divide it equally.” None of his companions made anyremark upon it, so that he had no reason to be embarrassed; but,perceiving this, he was even more overcome.
It was strange that their arrival did not seem expected, and that theywere not received with special honor, though one of them had recentlymade a donation of a thousand roubles, while another was a very wealthyand highly cultured landowner, upon whom all in the monastery were in asense dependent, as a decision of the lawsuit might at any moment puttheir fishing rights in his hands. Yet no official personage met them.
Miüsov looked absent‐mindedly at the tombstones round the church, andwas on the point of saying that the dead buried here must have paid apretty penny for the right of lying in this “holy place,” butrefrained. His liberal irony was rapidly changing almost into anger.
“Who the devil is there to ask in this imbecile place? We must findout, for time is passing,” he observed suddenly, as though speaking tohimself.
All at once there came up a bald‐headed, elderly man with ingratiatinglittle eyes, wearing a full, summer overcoat. Lifting his hat, heintroduced himself with a honeyed lisp as Maximov, a landowner of Tula.He at once entered into our visitors’ difficulty.
“Father Zossima lives in the hermitage, apart, four hundred paces fromthe monastery, the other side of the copse.”
“I know it’s the other side of the copse,” observed Fyodor Pavlovitch,“but we don’t remember the way. It is a long time since we’ve beenhere.”
“This way, by this gate, and straight across the copse ... the copse.Come with me, won’t you? I’ll show you. I have to go.... I am goingmyself. This way, this way.”
They came out of the gate and turned towards the copse. Maximov, a manof sixty, ran rather than walked, turning sideways to stare at themall, with an incredible degree of nervous curiosity. His eyes lookedstarting out of his head.
“You see, we have come to the elder upon business of our own,” observedMiüsov severely. “That personage has granted us an audience, so tospeak, and so, though we thank you for showing us the way, we cannotask you to accompany us.”
“I’ve been there. I’ve been already; _un chevalier parfait_,” andMaximov snapped his fingers in the air.
“Who is a _chevalier_?” asked Miüsov.
“The elder, the splendid elder, the elder! The honor and glory of themonastery, Zossima. Such an elder!”
But his incoherent talk was cut short by a very pale, wan‐looking monkof medium height, wearing a monk’s cap, who overtook them. FyodorPavlovitch and Miüsov stopped.
The monk, with an extremely courteous, profound bow, announced:
“The Father Superior invites all of you gentlemen to dine with himafter your visit to the hermitage. At one o’clock, not later. And youalso,” he added, addressing Maximov.
“That I certainly will, without fail,” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, hugelydelighted at the invitation. “And, believe me, we’ve all given our wordto behave properly here.... And you, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, will you go,too?”
“Yes, of course. What have I come for but to study all the customshere? The only obstacle to me is your company....”
“Yes, Dmitri Fyodorovitch is non‐existent as yet.”
“It would be a capital thing if he didn’t turn up. Do you suppose Ilike all this business, and in your company, too? So we will come todinner. Thank the Father Superior,” he said to the monk.
“No, it is my duty now to conduct you to the elder,” answered the monk.
“If so I’ll go straight to the Father Superior—to the Father Superior,”babbled Maximov.
“The Father Superior is engaged just now. But as you please—” the monkhesitated.
“Impertinent old man!” Miüsov observed aloud, while Maximov ran back tothe monastery.
“He’s like von Sohn,” Fyodor Pavlovitch said suddenly.
“Is that all you can think of?... In what way is he like von Sohn? Haveyou ever seen von Sohn?”
“I’ve seen his portrait. It’s not the features, but somethingindefinable. He’s a second von Sohn. I can always tell from thephysiognomy.”
“Ah, I dare say you are a connoisseur in that. But, look here, FyodorPavlovitch, you said just now that we had given our word to behaveproperly. Remember it. I advise you to control yourself. But, if youbegin to play the fool I don’t intend to be associated with youhere.... You see what a man he is”—he turned to the monk—“I’m afraid togo among decent people with him.” A fine smile, not without a certainslyness, came on to the pale, bloodless lips of the monk, but he madeno reply, and was evidently silent from a sense of his own dignity.Miüsov frowned more than ever.
“Oh, devil take them all! An outer show elaborated through centuries,and nothing but charlatanism and nonsense underneath,” flashed throughMiüsov’s mind.
“Here’s the hermitage. We’ve arrived,” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch. “Thegates are shut.”
And he repeatedly made the sign of the cross to the saints paintedabove and on the sides of the gates.
“When you go to Rome you must do as the Romans do. Here in thishermitage there are twenty‐five saints being saved. They look at oneanother, and eat cabbages. And not one woman goes in at this gate.That’s what is remarkable. And that really is so. But I did hear thatthe elder receives ladies,” he remarked suddenly to the monk.
“Women of the people are here too now, lying in the portico therewaiting. But for ladies of higher rank two rooms have been builtadjoining the portico, but outside the precincts—you can see thewindows—and the elder goes out to them by an inner passage when he iswell enough. They are always outside the precincts. There is a Harkovlady, Madame Hohlakov, waiting there now with her sick daughter.Probably he has promised to come out to her, though of late he has beenso weak that he has hardly shown himself even to the people.”
“So then there are loopholes, after all, to creep out of the hermitageto the ladies. Don’t suppose, holy father, that I mean any harm. But doyou know that at Athos not only the visits of women are not allowed,but no creature of the female sex—no hens, nor turkey‐hens, nor cows.”
“Fyodor Pavlovitch, I warn you I shall go back and leave you here.They’ll turn you out when I’m gone.”
“But I’m not interfering with you, Pyotr Alexandrovitch. Look,” hecried suddenly, stepping within the precincts, “what a vale of rosesthey live in!”
Though there were no roses now, there were numbers of rare andbeautiful autumn flowers growing wherever there was space for them, andevidently tended by a skillful hand; there were flower‐beds round thechurch, and between the tombs; and the one‐storied wooden house wherethe elder lived was also surrounded with flowers.
“And was it like this in the time of the last elder, Varsonofy? Hedidn’t care for such elegance. They say he used to jump up and thrasheven ladies with a stick,” observed Fyodor Pavlovitch, as he went upthe steps.
“The elder Varsonofy did sometimes seem rather strange, but a greatdeal that’s told is foolishness. He never thrashed any one,” answeredthe monk. “Now, gentlemen, if you will wait a minute I will announceyou.”
“Fyodor Pavlovitch, for the last time, your compact, do you hear?Behave properly or I will pay you out!” Miüsov had time to mutteragain.
“I can’t think why you are so agitated,” Fyodor Pavlovitch observedsarcastically. “Are you uneasy about your sins? They say he can tell byone’s eyes what one has come about. And what a lot you think of theiropinion! you, a Parisian, and so advanced. I’m surprised at you.”
But Miüsov had no time to reply to this sarcasm. They were asked tocome in. He walked in, somewhat irritated.
“Now, I know myself, I am annoyed, I shall lose my temper and begin toquarrel—and lower myself and my ideas,” he reflected.



Chapter II.The Old Buffoon

They entered the room almost at the same moment that the elder came infrom his bedroom. There were already in the cell, awaiting the elder,two monks of the hermitage, one the Father Librarian, and the otherFather Païssy, a very learned man, so they said, in delicate health,though not old. There was also a tall young man, who looked about twoand twenty, standing in the corner throughout the interview. He had abroad, fresh face, and clever, observant, narrow brown eyes, and waswearing ordinary dress. He was a divinity student, living under theprotection of the monastery. His expression was one of unquestioning,but self‐respecting, reverence. Being in a subordinate and dependentposition, and so not on an equality with the guests, he did not greetthem with a bow.
Father Zossima was accompanied by a novice, and by Alyosha. The twomonks rose and greeted him with a very deep bow, touching the groundwith their fingers; then kissed his hand. Blessing them, the elderreplied with as deep a reverence to them, and asked their blessing. Thewhole ceremony was performed very seriously and with an appearance offeeling, not like an everyday rite. But Miüsov fancied that it was alldone with intentional impressiveness. He stood in front of the othervisitors. He ought—he had reflected upon it the evening before—fromsimple politeness, since it was the custom here, to have gone up toreceive the elder’s blessing, even if he did not kiss his hand. Butwhen he saw all this bowing and kissing on the part of the monks heinstantly changed his mind. With dignified gravity he made a ratherdeep, conventional bow, and moved away to a chair. Fyodor Pavlovitchdid the same, mimicking Miüsov like an ape. Ivan bowed with greatdignity and courtesy, but he too kept his hands at his sides, whileKalganov was so confused that he did not bow at all. The elder let fallthe hand raised to bless them, and bowing to them again, asked them allto sit down. The blood rushed to Alyosha’s cheeks. He was ashamed. Hisforebodings were coming true.
Father Zossima sat down on a very old‐fashioned mahogany sofa, coveredwith leather, and made his visitors sit down in a row along theopposite wall on four mahogany chairs, covered with shabby blackleather. The monks sat, one at the door and the other at the window.The divinity student, the novice, and Alyosha remained standing. Thecell was not very large and had a faded look. It contained nothing butthe most necessary furniture, of coarse and poor quality. There weretwo pots of flowers in the window, and a number of holy pictures in thecorner. Before one huge ancient ikon of the Virgin a lamp was burning.Near it were two other holy pictures in shining settings, and, nextthem, carved cherubims, china eggs, a Catholic cross of ivory, with aMater Dolorosa embracing it, and several foreign engravings from thegreat Italian artists of past centuries. Next to these costly andartistic engravings were several of the roughest Russian prints ofsaints and martyrs, such as are sold for a few farthings at all thefairs. On the other walls were portraits of Russian bishops, past andpresent.
Miüsov took a cursory glance at all these “conventional” surroundingsand bent an intent look upon the elder. He had a high opinion of hisown insight, a weakness excusable in him as he was fifty, an age atwhich a clever man of the world of established position can hardly helptaking himself rather seriously. At the first moment he did not likeZossima. There was, indeed, something in the elder’s face which manypeople besides Miüsov might not have liked. He was a short, bent,little man, with very weak legs, and though he was only sixty‐five, helooked at least ten years older. His face was very thin and coveredwith a network of fine wrinkles, particularly numerous about his eyes,which were small, light‐colored, quick, and shining like two brightpoints. He had a sprinkling of gray hair about his temples. His pointedbeard was small and scanty, and his lips, which smiled frequently, wereas thin as two threads. His nose was not long, but sharp, like a bird’sbeak.
“To all appearances a malicious soul, full of petty pride,” thoughtMiüsov. He felt altogether dissatisfied with his position.
A cheap little clock on the wall struck twelve hurriedly, and served tobegin the conversation.
“Precisely to our time,” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, “but no sign of myson, Dmitri. I apologize for him, sacred elder!” (Alyosha shuddered allover at “sacred elder.”) “I am always punctual myself, minute forminute, remembering that punctuality is the courtesy of kings....”
“But you are not a king, anyway,” Miüsov muttered, losing his self‐restraint at once.
“Yes; that’s true. I’m not a king, and, would you believe it, PyotrAlexandrovitch, I was aware of that myself. But, there! I always saythe wrong thing. Your reverence,” he cried, with sudden pathos, “youbehold before you a buffoon in earnest! I introduce myself as such.It’s an old habit, alas! And if I sometimes talk nonsense out of placeit’s with an object, with the object of amusing people and makingmyself agreeable. One must be agreeable, mustn’t one? I was seven yearsago in a little town where I had business, and I made friends with somemerchants there. We went to the captain of police because we had to seehim about something, and to ask him to dine with us. He was a tall,fat, fair, sulky man, the most dangerous type in such cases. It’s theirliver. I went straight up to him, and with the ease of a man of theworld, you know, ‘Mr. Ispravnik,’ said I, ‘be our Napravnik.’ ‘What doyou mean by Napravnik?’ said he. I saw, at the first half‐second, thatit had missed fire. He stood there so glum. ‘I wanted to make a joke,’said I, ‘for the general diversion, as Mr. Napravnik is our well‐knownRussian orchestra conductor and what we need for the harmony of ourundertaking is some one of that sort.’ And I explained my comparisonvery reasonably, didn’t I? ‘Excuse me,’ said he, ‘I am an Ispravnik,and I do not allow puns to be made on my calling.’ He turned and walkedaway. I followed him, shouting, ‘Yes, yes, you are an Ispravnik, not aNapravnik.’ ‘No,’ he said, ‘since you called me a Napravnik I am one.’And would you believe it, it ruined our business! And I’m always likethat, always like that. Always injuring myself with my politeness.Once, many years ago, I said to an influential person: ‘Your wife is aticklish lady,’ in an honorable sense, of the moral qualities, so tospeak. But he asked me, ‘Why, have you tickled her?’ I thought I’d bepolite, so I couldn’t help saying, ‘Yes,’ and he gave me a finetickling on the spot. Only that happened long ago, so I’m not ashamedto tell the story. I’m always injuring myself like that.”
“You’re doing it now,” muttered Miüsov, with disgust.
Father Zossima scrutinized them both in silence.
“Am I? Would you believe it, I was aware of that, too, PyotrAlexandrovitch, and let me tell you, indeed, I foresaw I should as soonas I began to speak. And do you know I foresaw, too, that you’d be thefirst to remark on it. The minute I see my joke isn’t coming off, yourreverence, both my cheeks feel as though they were drawn down to thelower jaw and there is almost a spasm in them. That’s been so since Iwas young, when I had to make jokes for my living in noblemen’sfamilies. I am an inveterate buffoon, and have been from birth up, yourreverence, it’s as though it were a craze in me. I dare say it’s adevil within me. But only a little one. A more serious one would havechosen another lodging. But not your soul, Pyotr Alexandrovitch; you’renot a lodging worth having either. But I do believe—I believe in God,though I have had doubts of late. But now I sit and await words ofwisdom. I’m like the philosopher, Diderot, your reverence. Did you everhear, most Holy Father, how Diderot went to see the MetropolitanPlaton, in the time of the Empress Catherine? He went in and saidstraight out, ‘There is no God.’ To which the great bishop lifted uphis finger and answered, ‘The fool hath said in his heart there is noGod.’ And he fell down at his feet on the spot. ‘I believe,’ he cried,‘and will be christened.’ And so he was. Princess Dashkov was hisgodmother, and Potyomkin his godfather.”
“Fyodor Pavlovitch, this is unbearable! You know you’re telling liesand that that stupid anecdote isn’t true. Why are you playing thefool?” cried Miüsov in a shaking voice.
“I suspected all my life that it wasn’t true,” Fyodor Pavlovitch criedwith conviction. “But I’ll tell you the whole truth, gentlemen. Greatelder! Forgive me, the last thing about Diderot’s christening I made upjust now. I never thought of it before. I made it up to add piquancy. Iplay the fool, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, to make myself agreeable. Though Ireally don’t know myself, sometimes, what I do it for. And as forDiderot, I heard as far as ‘the fool hath said in his heart’ twentytimes from the gentry about here when I was young. I heard your aunt,Pyotr Alexandrovitch, tell the story. They all believe to this day thatthe infidel Diderot came to dispute about God with the MetropolitanPlaton....”
Miüsov got up, forgetting himself in his impatience. He was furious,and conscious of being ridiculous.
What was taking place in the cell was really incredible. For forty orfifty years past, from the times of former elders, no visitors hadentered that cell without feelings of the profoundest veneration.Almost every one admitted to the cell felt that a great favor was beingshown him. Many remained kneeling during the whole visit. Of thosevisitors, many had been men of high rank and learning, some evenfreethinkers, attracted by curiosity, but all without exception hadshown the profoundest reverence and delicacy, for here there was noquestion of money, but only, on the one side love and kindness, and onthe other penitence and eager desire to decide some spiritual problemor crisis. So that such buffoonery amazed and bewildered thespectators, or at least some of them. The monks, with unchangedcountenances, waited, with earnest attention, to hear what the elderwould say, but seemed on the point of standing up, like Miüsov. Alyoshastood, with hanging head, on the verge of tears. What seemed to himstrangest of all was that his brother Ivan, on whom alone he had restedhis hopes, and who alone had such influence on his father that he couldhave stopped him, sat now quite unmoved, with downcast eyes, apparentlywaiting with interest to see how it would end, as though he had nothingto do with it. Alyosha did not dare to look at Rakitin, the divinitystudent, whom he knew almost intimately. He alone in the monastery knewRakitin’s thoughts.
“Forgive me,” began Miüsov, addressing Father Zossima, “for perhaps Iseem to be taking part in this shameful foolery. I made a mistake inbelieving that even a man like Fyodor Pavlovitch would understand whatwas due on a visit to so honored a personage. I did not suppose Ishould have to apologize simply for having come with him....”
Pyotr Alexandrovitch could say no more, and was about to leave theroom, overwhelmed with confusion.
“Don’t distress yourself, I beg.” The elder got on to his feeble legs,and taking Pyotr Alexandrovitch by both hands, made him sit down again.“I beg you not to disturb yourself. I particularly beg you to be myguest.” And with a bow he went back and sat down again on his littlesofa.
“Great elder, speak! Do I annoy you by my vivacity?” Fyodor Pavlovitchcried suddenly, clutching the arms of his chair in both hands, asthough ready to leap up from it if the answer were unfavorable.
“I earnestly beg you, too, not to disturb yourself, and not to beuneasy,” the elder said impressively. “Do not trouble. Make yourselfquite at home. And, above all, do not be so ashamed of yourself, forthat is at the root of it all.”
“Quite at home? To be my natural self? Oh, that is much too much, but Iaccept it with grateful joy. Do you know, blessed Father, you’d betternot invite me to be my natural self. Don’t risk it.... I will not go sofar as that myself. I warn you for your own sake. Well, the rest isstill plunged in the mists of uncertainty, though there are peoplewho’d be pleased to describe me for you. I mean that for you, PyotrAlexandrovitch. But as for you, holy being, let me tell you, I ambrimming over with ecstasy.”
He got up, and throwing up his hands, declaimed, “Blessed be the wombthat bare thee, and the paps that gave thee suck—the paps especially.When you said just now, ‘Don’t be so ashamed of yourself, for that isat the root of it all,’ you pierced right through me by that remark,and read me to the core. Indeed, I always feel when I meet people thatI am lower than all, and that they all take me for a buffoon. So I say,‘Let me really play the buffoon. I am not afraid of your opinion, foryou are every one of you worse than I am.’ That is why I am a buffoon.It is from shame, great elder, from shame; it’s simplyover‐sensitiveness that makes me rowdy. If I had only been sure thatevery one would accept me as the kindest and wisest of men, oh, Lord,what a good man I should have been then! Teacher!” he fell suddenly onhis knees, “what must I do to gain eternal life?”
It was difficult even now to decide whether he was joking or reallymoved.
Father Zossima, lifting his eyes, looked at him, and said with a smile:
“You have known for a long time what you must do. You have senseenough: don’t give way to drunkenness and incontinence of speech; don’tgive way to sensual lust; and, above all, to the love of money. Andclose your taverns. If you can’t close all, at least two or three. And,above all—don’t lie.”
“You mean about Diderot?”
“No, not about Diderot. Above all, don’t lie to yourself. The man wholies to himself and listens to his own lie comes to such a pass that hecannot distinguish the truth within him, or around him, and so losesall respect for himself and for others. And having no respect he ceasesto love, and in order to occupy and distract himself without love hegives way to passions and coarse pleasures, and sinks to bestiality inhis vices, all from continual lying to other men and to himself. Theman who lies to himself can be more easily offended than any one. Youknow it is sometimes very pleasant to take offense, isn’t it? A man mayknow that nobody has insulted him, but that he has invented the insultfor himself, has lied and exaggerated to make it picturesque, hascaught at a word and made a mountain out of a molehill—he knows thathimself, yet he will be the first to take offense, and will revel inhis resentment till he feels great pleasure in it, and so pass togenuine vindictiveness. But get up, sit down, I beg you. All this, too,is deceitful posturing....”
“Blessed man! Give me your hand to kiss.”
Fyodor Pavlovitch skipped up, and imprinted a rapid kiss on the elder’sthin hand. “It is, it is pleasant to take offense. You said that sowell, as I never heard it before. Yes, I have been all my life takingoffense, to please myself, taking offense on esthetic grounds, for itis not so much pleasant as distinguished sometimes to be insulted—thatyou had forgotten, great elder, it is distinguished! I shall make anote of that. But I have been lying, lying positively my whole lifelong, every day and hour of it. Of a truth, I am a lie, and the fatherof lies. Though I believe I am not the father of lies. I am gettingmixed in my texts. Say, the son of lies, and that will be enough. Only... my angel ... I may sometimes talk about Diderot! Diderot will do noharm, though sometimes a word will do harm. Great elder, by the way, Iwas forgetting, though I had been meaning for the last two years tocome here on purpose to ask and to find out something. Only do tellPyotr Alexandrovitch not to interrupt me. Here is my question: Is ittrue, great Father, that the story is told somewhere in the _Lives ofthe Saints_ of a holy saint martyred for his faith who, when his headwas cut off at last, stood up, picked up his head, and, ‘courteouslykissing it,’ walked a long way, carrying it in his hands. Is that trueor not, honored Father?”
“No, it is untrue,” said the elder.
“There is nothing of the kind in all the lives of the saints. Whatsaint do you say the story is told of?” asked the Father Librarian.
“I do not know what saint. I do not know, and can’t tell. I wasdeceived. I was told the story. I had heard it, and do you know whotold it? Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miüsov here, who was so angry just nowabout Diderot. He it was who told the story.”
“I have never told it you, I never speak to you at all.”
“It is true you did not tell me, but you told it when I was present. Itwas three years ago. I mentioned it because by that ridiculous storyyou shook my faith, Pyotr Alexandrovitch. You knew nothing of it, but Iwent home with my faith shaken, and I have been getting more and moreshaken ever since. Yes, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, you were the cause of agreat fall. That was not a Diderot!”
Fyodor Pavlovitch got excited and pathetic, though it was perfectlyclear to every one by now that he was playing a part again. Yet Miüsovwas stung by his words.
“What nonsense, and it is all nonsense,” he muttered. “I may reallyhave told it, some time or other ... but not to you. I was told itmyself. I heard it in Paris from a Frenchman. He told me it was read atour mass from the _Lives of the Saints_ ... he was a very learned manwho had made a special study of Russian statistics and had lived a longtime in Russia.... I have not read the _Lives of the Saints_ myself,and I am not going to read them ... all sorts of things are said atdinner—we were dining then.”
“Yes, you were dining then, and so I lost my faith!” said FyodorPavlovitch, mimicking him.
“What do I care for your faith?” Miüsov was on the point of shouting,but he suddenly checked himself, and said with contempt, “You defileeverything you touch.”
The elder suddenly rose from his seat. “Excuse me, gentlemen, forleaving you a few minutes,” he said, addressing all his guests. “I havevisitors awaiting me who arrived before you. But don’t you tell liesall the same,” he added, turning to Fyodor Pavlovitch with agood‐humored face. He went out of the cell. Alyosha and the novice flewto escort him down the steps. Alyosha was breathless: he was glad toget away, but he was glad, too, that the elder was good‐humored and notoffended. Father Zossima was going towards the portico to bless thepeople waiting for him there. But Fyodor Pavlovitch persisted instopping him at the door of the cell.
“Blessed man!” he cried, with feeling. “Allow me to kiss your hand oncemore. Yes, with you I could still talk, I could still get on. Do youthink I always lie and play the fool like this? Believe me, I have beenacting like this all the time on purpose to try you. I have beentesting you all the time to see whether I could get on with you. Isthere room for my humility beside your pride? I am ready to give you atestimonial that one can get on with you! But now, I’ll be quiet; Iwill keep quiet all the time. I’ll sit in a chair and hold my tongue.Now it is for you to speak, Pyotr Alexandrovitch. You are the principalperson left now—for ten minutes.”



Chapter III.Peasant Women Who Have Faith

Near the wooden portico below, built on to the outer wall of theprecinct, there was a crowd of about twenty peasant women. They hadbeen told that the elder was at last coming out, and they had gatheredtogether in anticipation. Two ladies, Madame Hohlakov and her daughter,had also come out into the portico to wait for the elder, but in aseparate part of it set aside for women of rank.
Madame Hohlakov was a wealthy lady, still young and attractive, andalways dressed with taste. She was rather pale, and had lively blackeyes. She was not more than thirty‐three, and had been five years awidow. Her daughter, a girl of fourteen, was partially paralyzed. Thepoor child had not been able to walk for the last six months, and waswheeled about in a long reclining chair. She had a charming littleface, rather thin from illness, but full of gayety. There was a gleamof mischief in her big dark eyes with their long lashes. Her mother hadbeen intending to take her abroad ever since the spring, but they hadbeen detained all the summer by business connected with their estate.They had been staying a week in our town, where they had come more forpurposes of business than devotion, but had visited Father Zossima oncealready, three days before. Though they knew that the elder scarcelysaw any one, they had now suddenly turned up again, and urgentlyentreated “the happiness of looking once again on the great healer.”
The mother was sitting on a chair by the side of her daughter’s invalidcarriage, and two paces from her stood an old monk, not one of ourmonastery, but a visitor from an obscure religious house in the farnorth. He too sought the elder’s blessing.
But Father Zossima, on entering the portico, went first straight to thepeasants who were crowded at the foot of the three steps that led upinto the portico. Father Zossima stood on the top step, put on hisstole, and began blessing the women who thronged about him. One crazywoman was led up to him. As soon as she caught sight of the elder shebegan shrieking and writhing as though in the pains of childbirth.Laying the stole on her forehead, he read a short prayer over her, andshe was at once soothed and quieted.
I do not know how it may be now, but in my childhood I often happenedto see and hear these “possessed” women in the villages andmonasteries. They used to be brought to mass; they would squeal andbark like a dog so that they were heard all over the church. But whenthe sacrament was carried in and they were led up to it, at once the“possession” ceased, and the sick women were always soothed for a time.I was greatly impressed and amazed at this as a child; but then I heardfrom country neighbors and from my town teachers that the whole illnesswas simulated to avoid work, and that it could always be cured bysuitable severity; various anecdotes were told to confirm this. Butlater on I learnt with astonishment from medical specialists that thereis no pretense about it, that it is a terrible illness to which womenare subject, specially prevalent among us in Russia, and that it is dueto the hard lot of the peasant women. It is a disease, I was told,arising from exhausting toil too soon after hard, abnormal andunassisted labor in childbirth, and from the hopeless misery, frombeatings, and so on, which some women were not able to endure likeothers. The strange and instant healing of the frantic and strugglingwoman as soon as she was led up to the holy sacrament, which had beenexplained to me as due to malingering and the trickery of the“clericals,” arose probably in the most natural manner. Both the womenwho supported her and the invalid herself fully believed as a truthbeyond question that the evil spirit in possession of her could nothold out if the sick woman were brought to the sacrament and made tobow down before it. And so, with a nervous and psychically derangedwoman, a sort of convulsion of the whole organism always took place,and was bound to take place, at the moment of bowing down to thesacrament, aroused by the expectation of the miracle of healing and theimplicit belief that it would come to pass; and it did come to pass,though only for a moment. It was exactly the same now as soon as theelder touched the sick woman with the stole.
Many of the women in the crowd were moved to tears of ecstasy by theeffect of the moment: some strove to kiss the hem of his garment,others cried out in sing‐song voices.
He blessed them all and talked with some of them. The “possessed” womanhe knew already. She came from a village only six versts from themonastery, and had been brought to him before.
“But here is one from afar.” He pointed to a woman by no means old butvery thin and wasted, with a face not merely sunburnt but almostblackened by exposure. She was kneeling and gazing with a fixed stareat the elder; there was something almost frenzied in her eyes.
“From afar off, Father, from afar off! From two hundred miles fromhere. From afar off, Father, from afar off!” the woman began in asing‐song voice as though she were chanting a dirge, swaying her headfrom side to side with her cheek resting in her hand.
There is silent and long‐suffering sorrow to be met with among thepeasantry. It withdraws into itself and is still. But there is a griefthat breaks out, and from that minute it bursts into tears and findsvent in wailing. This is particularly common with women. But it is nolighter a grief than the silent. Lamentations comfort only bylacerating the heart still more. Such grief does not desireconsolation. It feeds on the sense of its hopelessness. Lamentationsspring only from the constant craving to reopen the wound.
“You are of the tradesman class?” said Father Zossima, lookingcuriously at her.
“Townfolk we are, Father, townfolk. Yet we are peasants though we livein the town. I have come to see you, O Father! We heard of you, Father,we heard of you. I have buried my little son, and I have come on apilgrimage. I have been in three monasteries, but they told me, ‘Go,Nastasya, go to them’—that is to you. I have come; I was yesterday atthe service, and to‐day I have come to you.”
“What are you weeping for?”
“It’s my little son I’m grieving for, Father. He was three yearsold—three years all but three months. For my little boy, Father, I’m inanguish, for my little boy. He was the last one left. We had four, myNikita and I, and now we’ve no children, our dear ones have all gone. Iburied the first three without grieving overmuch, and now I have buriedthe last I can’t forget him. He seems always standing before me. Henever leaves me. He has withered my heart. I look at his littleclothes, his little shirt, his little boots, and I wail. I lay out allthat is left of him, all his little things. I look at them and wail. Isay to Nikita, my husband, ‘Let me go on a pilgrimage, master.’ He is adriver. We’re not poor people, Father, not poor; he drives our ownhorse. It’s all our own, the horse and the carriage. And what good isit all to us now? My Nikita has begun drinking while I am away. He’ssure to. It used to be so before. As soon as I turn my back he givesway to it. But now I don’t think about him. It’s three months since Ileft home. I’ve forgotten him. I’ve forgotten everything. I don’t wantto remember. And what would our life be now together? I’ve done withhim, I’ve done. I’ve done with them all. I don’t care to look upon myhouse and my goods. I don’t care to see anything at all!”
“Listen, mother,” said the elder. “Once in olden times a holy saint sawin the Temple a mother like you weeping for her little one, her onlyone, whom God had taken. ‘Knowest thou not,’ said the saint to her,‘how bold these little ones are before the throne of God? Verily thereare none bolder than they in the Kingdom of Heaven. “Thou didst give uslife, O Lord,” they say, “and scarcely had we looked upon it when Thoudidst take it back again.” And so boldly they ask and ask again thatGod gives them at once the rank of angels. Therefore,’ said the saint,‘thou, too, O mother, rejoice and weep not, for thy little son is withthe Lord in the fellowship of the angels.’ That’s what the saint saidto the weeping mother of old. He was a great saint and he could nothave spoken falsely. Therefore you too, mother, know that your littleone is surely before the throne of God, is rejoicing and happy, andpraying to God for you, and therefore weep not, but rejoice.”
The woman listened to him, looking down with her cheek in her hand. Shesighed deeply.
“My Nikita tried to comfort me with the same words as you. ‘Foolishone,’ he said, ‘why weep? Our son is no doubt singing with the angelsbefore God.’ He says that to me, but he weeps himself. I see that hecries like me. ‘I know, Nikita,’ said I. ‘Where could he be if not withthe Lord God? Only, here with us now he is not as he used to sit besideus before.’ And if only I could look upon him one little time, if onlyI could peep at him one little time, without going up to him, withoutspeaking, if I could be hidden in a corner and only see him for onelittle minute, hear him playing in the yard, calling in his littlevoice, ‘Mammy, where are you?’ If only I could hear him pattering withhis little feet about the room just once, only once; for so often, sooften I remember how he used to run to me and shout and laugh, if onlyI could hear his little feet I should know him! But he’s gone, Father,he’s gone, and I shall never hear him again. Here’s his little sash,but him I shall never see or hear now.”
She drew out of her bosom her boy’s little embroidered sash, and assoon as she looked at it she began shaking with sobs, hiding her eyeswith her fingers through which the tears flowed in a sudden stream.
“It is Rachel of old,” said the elder, “weeping for her children, andwill not be comforted because they are not. Such is the lot set onearth for you mothers. Be not comforted. Consolation is not what youneed. Weep and be not consoled, but weep. Only every time that you weepbe sure to remember that your little son is one of the angels of God,that he looks down from there at you and sees you, and rejoices at yourtears, and points at them to the Lord God; and a long while yet willyou keep that great mother’s grief. But it will turn in the end intoquiet joy, and your bitter tears will be only tears of tender sorrowthat purifies the heart and delivers it from sin. And I shall pray forthe peace of your child’s soul. What was his name?”
“Alexey, Father.”
“A sweet name. After Alexey, the man of God?”
“Yes, Father.”
“What a saint he was! I will remember him, mother, and your grief in myprayers, and I will pray for your husband’s health. It is a sin for youto leave him. Your little one will see from heaven that you haveforsaken his father, and will weep over you. Why do you trouble hishappiness? He is living, for the soul lives for ever, and though he isnot in the house he is near you, unseen. How can he go into the housewhen you say that the house is hateful to you? To whom is he to go ifhe find you not together, his father and mother? He comes to you indreams now, and you grieve. But then he will send you gentle dreams. Goto your husband, mother; go this very day.”
“I will go, Father, at your word. I will go. You’ve gone straight to myheart. My Nikita, my Nikita, you are waiting for me,” the woman beganin a sing‐song voice; but the elder had already turned away to a veryold woman, dressed like a dweller in the town, not like a pilgrim. Hereyes showed that she had come with an object, and in order to saysomething. She said she was the widow of a non‐commissioned officer,and lived close by in the town. Her son Vasenka was in the commissariatservice, and had gone to Irkutsk in Siberia. He had written twice fromthere, but now a year had passed since he had written. She did inquireabout him, but she did not know the proper place to inquire.
“Only the other day Stepanida Ilyinishna—she’s a rich merchant’swife—said to me, ‘You go, Prohorovna, and put your son’s name down forprayer in the church, and pray for the peace of his soul as though hewere dead. His soul will be troubled,’ she said, ‘and he will write youa letter.’ And Stepanida Ilyinishna told me it was a certain thingwhich had been many times tried. Only I am in doubt.... Oh, you lightof ours! is it true or false, and would it be right?”
“Don’t think of it. It’s shameful to ask the question. How is itpossible to pray for the peace of a living soul? And his own mothertoo! It’s a great sin, akin to sorcery. Only for your ignorance it isforgiven you. Better pray to the Queen of Heaven, our swift defense andhelp, for his good health, and that she may forgive you for your error.And another thing I will tell you, Prohorovna. Either he will soon comeback to you, your son, or he will be sure to send a letter. Go, andhenceforward be in peace. Your son is alive, I tell you.”
“Dear Father, God reward you, our benefactor, who prays for all of usand for our sins!”
But the elder had already noticed in the crowd two glowing eyes fixedupon him. An exhausted, consumptive‐looking, though young peasant womanwas gazing at him in silence. Her eyes besought him, but she seemedafraid to approach.
“What is it, my child?”
“Absolve my soul, Father,” she articulated softly, and slowly sank onher knees and bowed down at his feet. “I have sinned, Father. I amafraid of my sin.”
The elder sat down on the lower step. The woman crept closer to him,still on her knees.
“I am a widow these three years,” she began in a half‐whisper, with asort of shudder. “I had a hard life with my husband. He was an old man.He used to beat me cruelly. He lay ill; I thought looking at him, if hewere to get well, if he were to get up again, what then? And then thethought came to me—”
“Stay!” said the elder, and he put his ear close to her lips.
The woman went on in a low whisper, so that it was almost impossible tocatch anything. She had soon done.
“Three years ago?” asked the elder.
“Three years. At first I didn’t think about it, but now I’ve begun tobe ill, and the thought never leaves me.”
“Have you come from far?”
“Over three hundred miles away.”
“Have you told it in confession?”
“I have confessed it. Twice I have confessed it.”
“Have you been admitted to Communion?”
“Yes. I am afraid. I am afraid to die.”
“Fear nothing and never be afraid; and don’t fret. If only yourpenitence fail not, God will forgive all. There is no sin, and therecan be no sin on all the earth, which the Lord will not forgive to thetruly repentant! Man cannot commit a sin so great as to exhaust theinfinite love of God. Can there be a sin which could exceed the love ofGod? Think only of repentance, continual repentance, but dismiss fearaltogether. Believe that God loves you as you cannot conceive; that Heloves you with your sin, in your sin. It has been said of old that overone repentant sinner there is more joy in heaven than over tenrighteous men. Go, and fear not. Be not bitter against men. Be notangry if you are wronged. Forgive the dead man in your heart what wronghe did you. Be reconciled with him in truth. If you are penitent, youlove. And if you love you are of God. All things are atoned for, allthings are saved by love. If I, a sinner, even as you are, am tenderwith you and have pity on you, how much more will God. Love is such apriceless treasure that you can redeem the whole world by it, andexpiate not only your own sins but the sins of others.”
He signed her three times with the cross, took from his own neck alittle ikon and put it upon her. She bowed down to the earth withoutspeaking.
He got up and looked cheerfully at a healthy peasant woman with a tinybaby in her arms.
“From Vyshegorye, dear Father.”
“Five miles you have dragged yourself with the baby. What do you want?”
“I’ve come to look at you. I have been to you before—or have youforgotten? You’ve no great memory if you’ve forgotten me. They told usyou were ill. Thinks I, I’ll go and see him for myself. Now I see you,and you’re not ill! You’ll live another twenty years. God bless you!There are plenty to pray for you; how should you be ill?”
“I thank you for all, daughter.”
“By the way, I have a thing to ask, not a great one. Here are sixtycopecks. Give them, dear Father, to some one poorer than me. I thoughtas I came along, better give through him. He’ll know whom to give to.”
“Thanks, my dear, thanks! You are a good woman. I love you. I will doso certainly. Is that your little girl?”
“My little girl, Father, Lizaveta.”
“May the Lord bless you both, you and your babe Lizaveta! You havegladdened my heart, mother. Farewell, dear children, farewell, dearones.”
He blessed them all and bowed low to them.



Chapter IV.A Lady Of Little Faith

A visitor looking on the scene of his conversation with the peasantsand his blessing them shed silent tears and wiped them away with herhandkerchief. She was a sentimental society lady of genuinely gooddisposition in many respects. When the elder went up to her at last shemet him enthusiastically.
“Ah, what I have been feeling, looking on at this touching scene!...”She could not go on for emotion. “Oh, I understand the people’s lovefor you. I love the people myself. I want to love them. And who couldhelp loving them, our splendid Russian people, so simple in theirgreatness!”
“How is your daughter’s health? You wanted to talk to me again?”
“Oh, I have been urgently begging for it, I have prayed for it! I wasready to fall on my knees and kneel for three days at your windowsuntil you let me in. We have come, great healer, to express our ardentgratitude. You have healed my Lise, healed her completely, merely bypraying over her last Thursday and laying your hands upon her. We havehastened here to kiss those hands, to pour out our feelings and ourhomage.”
“What do you mean by healed? But she is still lying down in her chair.”
“But her night fevers have entirely ceased ever since Thursday,” saidthe lady with nervous haste. “And that’s not all. Her legs arestronger. This morning she got up well; she had slept all night. Lookat her rosy cheeks, her bright eyes! She used to be always crying, butnow she laughs and is gay and happy. This morning she insisted on myletting her stand up, and she stood up for a whole minute without anysupport. She wagers that in a fortnight she’ll be dancing a quadrille.I’ve called in Doctor Herzenstube. He shrugged his shoulders and said,‘I am amazed; I can make nothing of it.’ And would you have us not comehere to disturb you, not fly here to thank you? Lise, thank him—thankhim!”
Lise’s pretty little laughing face became suddenly serious. She rose inher chair as far as she could and, looking at the elder, clasped herhands before him, but could not restrain herself and broke intolaughter.
“It’s at him,” she said, pointing to Alyosha, with childish vexation atherself for not being able to repress her mirth.
If any one had looked at Alyosha standing a step behind the elder, hewould have caught a quick flush crimsoning his cheeks in an instant.His eyes shone and he looked down.
“She has a message for you, Alexey Fyodorovitch. How are you?” themother went on, holding out her exquisitely gloved hand to Alyosha.
The elder turned round and all at once looked attentively at Alyosha.The latter went nearer to Lise and, smiling in a strangely awkward way,held out his hand to her too. Lise assumed an important air.
“Katerina Ivanovna has sent you this through me.” She handed him alittle note. “She particularly begs you to go and see her as soon aspossible; that you will not fail her, but will be sure to come.”
“She asks me to go and see her? Me? What for?” Alyosha muttered ingreat astonishment. His face at once looked anxious. “Oh, it’s all todo with Dmitri Fyodorovitch and—what has happened lately,” the motherexplained hurriedly. “Katerina Ivanovna has made up her mind, but shemust see you about it.... Why, of course, I can’t say. But she wants tosee you at once. And you will go to her, of course. It is a Christianduty.”
“I have only seen her once,” Alyosha protested with the sameperplexity.
“Oh, she is such a lofty, incomparable creature! If only for hersuffering.... Think what she has gone through, what she is enduringnow! Think what awaits her! It’s all terrible, terrible!”
“Very well, I will come,” Alyosha decided, after rapidly scanning thebrief, enigmatic note, which consisted of an urgent entreaty that hewould come, without any sort of explanation.
“Oh, how sweet and generous that would be of you!” cried Lise withsudden animation. “I told mamma you’d be sure not to go. I said youwere saving your soul. How splendid you are! I’ve always thought youwere splendid. How glad I am to tell you so!”
“Lise!” said her mother impressively, though she smiled after she hadsaid it.
“You have quite forgotten us, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” she said; “younever come to see us. Yet Lise has told me twice that she is neverhappy except with you.”
Alyosha raised his downcast eyes and again flushed, and again smiledwithout knowing why. But the elder was no longer watching him. He hadbegun talking to a monk who, as mentioned before, had been awaiting hisentrance by Lise’s chair. He was evidently a monk of the humblest, thatis of the peasant, class, of a narrow outlook, but a true believer,and, in his own way, a stubborn one. He announced that he had come fromthe far north, from Obdorsk, from Saint Sylvester, and was a member ofa poor monastery, consisting of only ten monks. The elder gave him hisblessing and invited him to come to his cell whenever he liked.
“How can you presume to do such deeds?” the monk asked suddenly,pointing solemnly and significantly at Lise. He was referring to her“healing.”
“It’s too early, of course, to speak of that. Relief is not completecure, and may proceed from different causes. But if there has been anyhealing, it is by no power but God’s will. It’s all from God. Visit me,Father,” he added to the monk. “It’s not often I can see visitors. I amill, and I know that my days are numbered.”
“Oh, no, no! God will not take you from us. You will live a long, longtime yet,” cried the lady. “And in what way are you ill? You look sowell, so gay and happy.”
“I am extraordinarily better to‐day. But I know that it’s only for amoment. I understand my disease now thoroughly. If I seem so happy toyou, you could never say anything that would please me so much. For menare made for happiness, and any one who is completely happy has a rightto say to himself, ‘I am doing God’s will on earth.’ All the righteous,all the saints, all the holy martyrs were happy.”
“Oh, how you speak! What bold and lofty words!” cried the lady. “Youseem to pierce with your words. And yet—happiness, happiness—where isit? Who can say of himself that he is happy? Oh, since you have been sogood as to let us see you once more to‐day, let me tell you what Icould not utter last time, what I dared not say, all I am suffering andhave been for so long! I am suffering! Forgive me! I am suffering!”
And in a rush of fervent feeling she clasped her hands before him.
“From what specially?”
“I suffer ... from lack of faith.”
“Lack of faith in God?”
“Oh, no, no! I dare not even think of that. But the future life—it issuch an enigma! And no one, no one can solve it. Listen! You are ahealer, you are deeply versed in the human soul, and of course I darenot expect you to believe me entirely, but I assure you on my word ofhonor that I am not speaking lightly now. The thought of the lifebeyond the grave distracts me to anguish, to terror. And I don’t knowto whom to appeal, and have not dared to all my life. And now I am sobold as to ask you. Oh, God! What will you think of me now?”
She clasped her hands.
“Don’t distress yourself about my opinion of you,” said the elder. “Iquite believe in the sincerity of your suffering.”
“Oh, how thankful I am to you! You see, I shut my eyes and ask myselfif every one has faith, where did it come from? And then they do saythat it all comes from terror at the menacing phenomena of nature, andthat none of it’s real. And I say to myself, ‘What if I’ve beenbelieving all my life, and when I come to die there’s nothing but theburdocks growing on my grave?’ as I read in some author. It’s awful!How—how can I get back my faith? But I only believed when I was alittle child, mechanically, without thinking of anything. How, how isone to prove it? I have come now to lay my soul before you and to askyou about it. If I let this chance slip, no one all my life will answerme. How can I prove it? How can I convince myself? Oh, how unhappy Iam! I stand and look about me and see that scarcely any one else cares;no one troubles his head about it, and I’m the only one who can’t standit. It’s deadly—deadly!”
“No doubt. But there’s no proving it, though you can be convinced ofit.”
“How?”
“By the experience of active love. Strive to love your neighboractively and indefatigably. In as far as you advance in love you willgrow surer of the reality of God and of the immortality of your soul.If you attain to perfect self‐forgetfulness in the love of yourneighbor, then you will believe without doubt, and no doubt canpossibly enter your soul. This has been tried. This is certain.”
“In active love? There’s another question—and such a question! You see,I so love humanity that—would you believe it?—I often dream offorsaking all that I have, leaving Lise, and becoming a sister ofmercy. I close my eyes and think and dream, and at that moment I feelfull of strength to overcome all obstacles. No wounds, no festeringsores could at that moment frighten me. I would bind them up and washthem with my own hands. I would nurse the afflicted. I would be readyto kiss such wounds.”
“It is much, and well that your mind is full of such dreams and notothers. Sometime, unawares, you may do a good deed in reality.”
“Yes. But could I endure such a life for long?” the lady went onfervently, almost frantically. “That’s the chief question—that’s mymost agonizing question. I shut my eyes and ask myself, ‘Would youpersevere long on that path? And if the patient whose wounds you arewashing did not meet you with gratitude, but worried you with hiswhims, without valuing or remarking your charitable services, beganabusing you and rudely commanding you, and complaining to the superiorauthorities of you (which often happens when people are in greatsuffering)—what then? Would you persevere in your love, or not?’ And doyou know, I came with horror to the conclusion that, if anything coulddissipate my love to humanity, it would be ingratitude. In short, I ama hired servant, I expect my payment at once—that is, praise, and therepayment of love with love. Otherwise I am incapable of loving anyone.”
She was in a very paroxysm of self‐castigation, and, concluding, shelooked with defiant resolution at the elder.
“It’s just the same story as a doctor once told me,” observed theelder. “He was a man getting on in years, and undoubtedly clever. Hespoke as frankly as you, though in jest, in bitter jest. ‘I lovehumanity,’ he said, ‘but I wonder at myself. The more I love humanityin general, the less I love man in particular. In my dreams,’ he said,‘I have often come to making enthusiastic schemes for the service ofhumanity, and perhaps I might actually have faced crucifixion if it hadbeen suddenly necessary; and yet I am incapable of living in the sameroom with any one for two days together, as I know by experience. Assoon as any one is near me, his personality disturbs myself‐complacency and restricts my freedom. In twenty‐four hours I beginto hate the best of men: one because he’s too long over his dinner;another because he has a cold and keeps on blowing his nose. I becomehostile to people the moment they come close to me. But it has alwayshappened that the more I detest men individually the more ardentbecomes my love for humanity.’ ”
“But what’s to be done? What can one do in such a case? Must onedespair?”
“No. It is enough that you are distressed at it. Do what you can, andit will be reckoned unto you. Much is done already in you since you canso deeply and sincerely know yourself. If you have been talking to meso sincerely, simply to gain approbation for your frankness, as you didfrom me just now, then of course you will not attain to anything in theachievement of real love; it will all get no further than dreams, andyour whole life will slip away like a phantom. In that case you willnaturally cease to think of the future life too, and will of yourselfgrow calmer after a fashion in the end.”
“You have crushed me! Only now, as you speak, I understand that I wasreally only seeking your approbation for my sincerity when I told you Icould not endure ingratitude. You have revealed me to myself. You haveseen through me and explained me to myself!”
“Are you speaking the truth? Well, now, after such a confession, Ibelieve that you are sincere and good at heart. If you do not attainhappiness, always remember that you are on the right road, and try notto leave it. Above all, avoid falsehood, every kind of falsehood,especially falseness to yourself. Watch over your own deceitfulness andlook into it every hour, every minute. Avoid being scornful, both toothers and to yourself. What seems to you bad within you will growpurer from the very fact of your observing it in yourself. Avoid fear,too, though fear is only the consequence of every sort of falsehood.Never be frightened at your own faint‐heartedness in attaining love.Don’t be frightened overmuch even at your evil actions. I am sorry Ican say nothing more consoling to you, for love in action is a harshand dreadful thing compared with love in dreams. Love in dreams isgreedy for immediate action, rapidly performed and in the sight of all.Men will even give their lives if only the ordeal does not last longbut is soon over, with all looking on and applauding as though on thestage. But active love is labor and fortitude, and for some people too,perhaps, a complete science. But I predict that just when you see withhorror that in spite of all your efforts you are getting farther fromyour goal instead of nearer to it—at that very moment I predict thatyou will reach it and behold clearly the miraculous power of the Lordwho has been all the time loving and mysteriously guiding you. Forgiveme for not being able to stay longer with you. They are waiting for me.Good‐by.”
The lady was weeping.
“Lise, Lise! Bless her—bless her!” she cried, starting up suddenly.
“She does not deserve to be loved. I have seen her naughtiness allalong,” the elder said jestingly. “Why have you been laughing atAlexey?”
Lise had in fact been occupied in mocking at him all the time. She hadnoticed before that Alyosha was shy and tried not to look at her, andshe found this extremely amusing. She waited intently to catch his eye.Alyosha, unable to endure her persistent stare, was irresistibly andsuddenly drawn to glance at her, and at once she smiled triumphantly inhis face. Alyosha was even more disconcerted and vexed. At last heturned away from her altogether and hid behind the elder’s back. Aftera few minutes, drawn by the same irresistible force, he turned again tosee whether he was being looked at or not, and found Lise almosthanging out of her chair to peep sideways at him, eagerly waiting forhim to look. Catching his eye, she laughed so that the elder could nothelp saying, “Why do you make fun of him like that, naughty girl?”
Lise suddenly and quite unexpectedly blushed. Her eyes flashed and herface became quite serious. She began speaking quickly and nervously ina warm and resentful voice:
“Why has he forgotten everything, then? He used to carry me about whenI was little. We used to play together. He used to come to teach me toread, do you know. Two years ago, when he went away, he said that hewould never forget me, that we were friends for ever, for ever, forever! And now he’s afraid of me all at once. Am I going to eat him? Whydoesn’t he want to come near me? Why doesn’t he talk? Why won’t he comeand see us? It’s not that you won’t let him. We know that he goeseverywhere. It’s not good manners for me to invite him. He ought tohave thought of it first, if he hasn’t forgotten me. No, now he’ssaving his soul! Why have you put that long gown on him? If he runshe’ll fall.”
And suddenly she hid her face in her hand and went off intoirresistible, prolonged, nervous, inaudible laughter. The elderlistened to her with a smile, and blessed her tenderly. As she kissedhis hand she suddenly pressed it to her eyes and began crying.
“Don’t be angry with me. I’m silly and good for nothing ... and perhapsAlyosha’s right, quite right, in not wanting to come and see such aridiculous girl.”
“I will certainly send him,” said the elder.



Chapter V.So Be It! So Be It!

The elder’s absence from his cell had lasted for about twenty‐fiveminutes. It was more than half‐past twelve, but Dmitri, on whoseaccount they had all met there, had still not appeared. But he seemedalmost to be forgotten, and when the elder entered the cell again, hefound his guests engaged in eager conversation. Ivan and the two monkstook the leading share in it. Miüsov, too, was trying to take a part,and apparently very eagerly, in the conversation. But he wasunsuccessful in this also. He was evidently in the background, and hisremarks were treated with neglect, which increased his irritability. Hehad had intellectual encounters with Ivan before and he could notendure a certain carelessness Ivan showed him.
“Hitherto at least I have stood in the front ranks of all that isprogressive in Europe, and here the new generation positively ignoresus,” he thought.
Fyodor Pavlovitch, who had given his word to sit still and be quiet,had actually been quiet for some time, but he watched his neighborMiüsov with an ironical little smile, obviously enjoying hisdiscomfiture. He had been waiting for some time to pay off old scores,and now he could not let the opportunity slip. Bending over hisshoulder he began teasing him again in a whisper.
“Why didn’t you go away just now, after the ‘courteously kissing’? Whydid you consent to remain in such unseemly company? It was because youfelt insulted and aggrieved, and you remained to vindicate yourself byshowing off your intelligence. Now you won’t go till you’ve displayedyour intellect to them.”
“You again?... On the contrary, I’m just going.”
“You’ll be the last, the last of all to go!” Fyodor Pavlovitchdelivered him another thrust, almost at the moment of Father Zossima’sreturn.
The discussion died down for a moment, but the elder, seating himselfin his former place, looked at them all as though cordially invitingthem to go on. Alyosha, who knew every expression of his face, saw thathe was fearfully exhausted and making a great effort. Of late he hadbeen liable to fainting fits from exhaustion. His face had the pallorthat was common before such attacks, and his lips were white. But heevidently did not want to break up the party. He seemed to have somespecial object of his own in keeping them. What object? Alyosha watchedhim intently.
“We are discussing this gentleman’s most interesting article,” saidFather Iosif, the librarian, addressing the elder, and indicating Ivan.“He brings forward much that is new, but I think the argument cuts bothways. It is an article written in answer to a book by an ecclesiasticalauthority on the question of the ecclesiastical court, and the scope ofits jurisdiction.”
“I’m sorry I have not read your article, but I’ve heard of it,” saidthe elder, looking keenly and intently at Ivan.
“He takes up a most interesting position,” continued the FatherLibrarian. “As far as Church jurisdiction is concerned he is apparentlyquite opposed to the separation of Church from State.”
“That’s interesting. But in what sense?” Father Zossima asked Ivan.
The latter, at last, answered him, not condescendingly, as Alyosha hadfeared, but with modesty and reserve, with evident goodwill andapparently without the slightest _arrière‐pensée_.
“I start from the position that this confusion of elements, that is, ofthe essential principles of Church and State, will, of course, go onfor ever, in spite of the fact that it is impossible for them tomingle, and that the confusion of these elements cannot lead to anyconsistent or even normal results, for there is falsity at the veryfoundation of it. Compromise between the Church and State in suchquestions as, for instance, jurisdiction, is, to my thinking,impossible in any real sense. My clerical opponent maintains that theChurch holds a precise and defined position in the State. I maintain,on the contrary, that the Church ought to include the whole State, andnot simply to occupy a corner in it, and, if this is, for some reason,impossible at present, then it ought, in reality, to be set up as thedirect and chief aim of the future development of Christian society!”
“Perfectly true,” Father Païssy, the silent and learned monk, assentedwith fervor and decision.
“The purest Ultramontanism!” cried Miüsov impatiently, crossing andrecrossing his legs.
“Oh, well, we have no mountains,” cried Father Iosif, and turning tothe elder he continued: “Observe the answer he makes to the following‘fundamental and essential’ propositions of his opponent, who is, youmust note, an ecclesiastic. First, that ‘no social organization can orought to arrogate to itself power to dispose of the civic and politicalrights of its members.’ Secondly, that ‘criminal and civil jurisdictionought not to belong to the Church, and is inconsistent with its nature,both as a divine institution and as an organization of men forreligious objects,’ and, finally, in the third place, ‘the Church is akingdom not of this world.’ ”
“A most unworthy play upon words for an ecclesiastic!” Father Païssycould not refrain from breaking in again. “I have read the book whichyou have answered,” he added, addressing Ivan, “and was astounded atthe words ‘the Church is a kingdom not of this world.’ If it is not ofthis world, then it cannot exist on earth at all. In the Gospel, thewords ‘not of this world’ are not used in that sense. To play with suchwords is indefensible. Our Lord Jesus Christ came to set up the Churchupon earth. The Kingdom of Heaven, of course, is not of this world, butin Heaven; but it is only entered through the Church which has beenfounded and established upon earth. And so a frivolous play upon wordsin such a connection is unpardonable and improper. The Church is, intruth, a kingdom and ordained to rule, and in the end must undoubtedlybecome the kingdom ruling over all the earth. For that we have thedivine promise.”
He ceased speaking suddenly, as though checking himself. Afterlistening attentively and respectfully Ivan went on, addressing theelder with perfect composure and as before with ready cordiality:
“The whole point of my article lies in the fact that during the firstthree centuries Christianity only existed on earth in the Church andwas nothing but the Church. When the pagan Roman Empire desired tobecome Christian, it inevitably happened that, by becoming Christian,it included the Church but remained a pagan State in very many of itsdepartments. In reality this was bound to happen. But Rome as a Stateretained too much of the pagan civilization and culture, as, forexample, in the very objects and fundamental principles of the State.The Christian Church entering into the State could, of course,surrender no part of its fundamental principles—the rock on which itstands—and could pursue no other aims than those which have beenordained and revealed by God Himself, and among them that of drawingthe whole world, and therefore the ancient pagan State itself, into theChurch. In that way (that is, with a view to the future) it is not theChurch that should seek a definite position in the State, like ‘everysocial organization,’ or as ‘an organization of men for religiouspurposes’ (as my opponent calls the Church), but, on the contrary,every earthly State should be, in the end, completely transformed intothe Church and should become nothing else but a Church, rejecting everypurpose incongruous with the aims of the Church. All this will notdegrade it in any way or take from its honor and glory as a greatState, nor from the glory of its rulers, but only turns it from afalse, still pagan, and mistaken path to the true and rightful path,which alone leads to the eternal goal. This is why the author of thebook _On the Foundations of Church Jurisdiction_ would have judgedcorrectly if, in seeking and laying down those foundations, he hadlooked upon them as a temporary compromise inevitable in our sinful andimperfect days. But as soon as the author ventures to declare that thefoundations which he predicates now, part of which Father Iosif justenumerated, are the permanent, essential, and eternal foundations, heis going directly against the Church and its sacred and eternalvocation. That is the gist of my article.”
“That is, in brief,” Father Païssy began again, laying stress on eachword, “according to certain theories only too clearly formulated in thenineteenth century, the Church ought to be transformed into the State,as though this would be an advance from a lower to a higher form, so asto disappear into it, making way for science, for the spirit of theage, and civilization. And if the Church resists and is unwilling, somecorner will be set apart for her in the State, and even that undercontrol—and this will be so everywhere in all modern Europeancountries. But Russian hopes and conceptions demand not that the Churchshould pass as from a lower into a higher type into the State, but, onthe contrary, that the State should end by being worthy to become onlythe Church and nothing else. So be it! So be it!”
“Well, I confess you’ve reassured me somewhat,” Miüsov said smiling,again crossing his legs. “So far as I understand, then, the realizationof such an ideal is infinitely remote, at the second coming of Christ.That’s as you please. It’s a beautiful Utopian dream of the abolitionof war, diplomacy, banks, and so on—something after the fashion ofsocialism, indeed. But I imagined that it was all meant seriously, andthat the Church might be _now_ going to try criminals, and sentencethem to beating, prison, and even death.”
“But if there were none but the ecclesiastical court, the Church wouldnot even now sentence a criminal to prison or to death. Crime and theway of regarding it would inevitably change, not all at once of course,but fairly soon,” Ivan replied calmly, without flinching.
“Are you serious?” Miüsov glanced keenly at him.
“If everything became the Church, the Church would exclude all thecriminal and disobedient, and would not cut off their heads,” Ivan wenton. “I ask you, what would become of the excluded? He would be cut offthen not only from men, as now, but from Christ. By his crime he wouldhave transgressed not only against men but against the Church ofChrist. This is so even now, of course, strictly speaking, but it isnot clearly enunciated, and very, very often the criminal of to‐daycompromises with his conscience: ‘I steal,’ he says, ‘but I don’t goagainst the Church. I’m not an enemy of Christ.’ That’s what thecriminal of to‐day is continually saying to himself, but when theChurch takes the place of the State it will be difficult for him, inopposition to the Church all over the world, to say: ‘All men aremistaken, all in error, all mankind are the false Church. I, a thiefand murderer, am the only true Christian Church.’ It will be verydifficult to say this to himself; it requires a rare combination ofunusual circumstances. Now, on the other side, take the Church’s ownview of crime: is it not bound to renounce the present almost paganattitude, and to change from a mechanical cutting off of its taintedmember for the preservation of society, as at present, into completelyand honestly adopting the idea of the regeneration of the man, of hisreformation and salvation?”
“What do you mean? I fail to understand again,” Miüsov interrupted.“Some sort of dream again. Something shapeless and evenincomprehensible. What is excommunication? What sort of exclusion? Isuspect you are simply amusing yourself, Ivan Fyodorovitch.”
“Yes, but you know, in reality it is so now,” said the elder suddenly,and all turned to him at once. “If it were not for the Church of Christthere would be nothing to restrain the criminal from evil‐doing, noreal chastisement for it afterwards; none, that is, but the mechanicalpunishment spoken of just now, which in the majority of cases onlyembitters the heart; and not the real punishment, the only effectualone, the only deterrent and softening one, which lies in therecognition of sin by conscience.”
“How is that, may one inquire?” asked Miüsov, with lively curiosity.
“Why,” began the elder, “all these sentences to exile with hard labor,and formerly with flogging also, reform no one, and what’s more, deterhardly a single criminal, and the number of crimes does not diminishbut is continually on the increase. You must admit that. Consequentlythe security of society is not preserved, for, although the obnoxiousmember is mechanically cut off and sent far away out of sight, anothercriminal always comes to take his place at once, and often two of them.If anything does preserve society, even in our time, and doesregenerate and transform the criminal, it is only the law of Christspeaking in his conscience. It is only by recognizing his wrong‐doingas a son of a Christian society—that is, of the Church—that herecognizes his sin against society—that is, against the Church. So thatit is only against the Church, and not against the State, that thecriminal of to‐day can recognize that he has sinned. If society, as aChurch, had jurisdiction, then it would know when to bring back fromexclusion and to reunite to itself. Now the Church having no realjurisdiction, but only the power of moral condemnation, withdraws ofher own accord from punishing the criminal actively. She does notexcommunicate him but simply persists in motherly exhortation of him.What is more, the Church even tries to preserve all Christian communionwith the criminal. She admits him to church services, to the holysacrament, gives him alms, and treats him more as a captive than as aconvict. And what would become of the criminal, O Lord, if even theChristian society—that is, the Church—were to reject him even as thecivil law rejects him and cuts him off? What would become of him if theChurch punished him with her excommunication as the direct consequenceof the secular law? There could be no more terrible despair, at leastfor a Russian criminal, for Russian criminals still have faith. Though,who knows, perhaps then a fearful thing would happen, perhaps thedespairing heart of the criminal would lose its faith and then whatwould become of him? But the Church, like a tender, loving mother,holds aloof from active punishment herself, as the sinner is tooseverely punished already by the civil law, and there must be at leastsome one to have pity on him. The Church holds aloof, above all,because its judgment is the only one that contains the truth, andtherefore cannot practically and morally be united to any otherjudgment even as a temporary compromise. She can enter into no compactabout that. The foreign criminal, they say, rarely repents, for thevery doctrines of to‐day confirm him in the idea that his crime is nota crime, but only a reaction against an unjustly oppressive force.Society cuts him off completely by a force that triumphs over himmechanically and (so at least they say of themselves in Europe)accompanies this exclusion with hatred, forgetfulness, and the mostprofound indifference as to the ultimate fate of the erring brother. Inthis way, it all takes place without the compassionate intervention ofthe Church, for in many cases there are no churches there at all, forthough ecclesiastics and splendid church buildings remain, the churchesthemselves have long ago striven to pass from Church into State and todisappear in it completely. So it seems at least in Lutheran countries.As for Rome, it was proclaimed a State instead of a Church a thousandyears ago. And so the criminal is no longer conscious of being a memberof the Church and sinks into despair. If he returns to society, oftenit is with such hatred that society itself instinctively cuts him off.You can judge for yourself how it must end. In many cases it would seemto be the same with us, but the difference is that besides theestablished law courts we have the Church too, which always keeps uprelations with the criminal as a dear and still precious son. Andbesides that, there is still preserved, though only in thought, thejudgment of the Church, which though no longer existing in practice isstill living as a dream for the future, and is, no doubt, instinctivelyrecognized by the criminal in his soul. What was said here just now istrue too, that is, that if the jurisdiction of the Church wereintroduced in practice in its full force, that is, if the whole of thesociety were changed into the Church, not only the judgment of theChurch would have influence on the reformation of the criminal such asit never has now, but possibly also the crimes themselves would beincredibly diminished. And there can be no doubt that the Church wouldlook upon the criminal and the crime of the future in many cases quitedifferently and would succeed in restoring the excluded, in restrainingthose who plan evil, and in regenerating the fallen. It is true,” saidFather Zossima, with a smile, “the Christian society now is not readyand is only resting on some seven righteous men, but as they are neverlacking, it will continue still unshaken in expectation of its completetransformation from a society almost heathen in character into a singleuniversal and all‐powerful Church. So be it, so be it! Even though atthe end of the ages, for it is ordained to come to pass! And there isno need to be troubled about times and seasons, for the secret of thetimes and seasons is in the wisdom of God, in His foresight, and Hislove. And what in human reckoning seems still afar off, may by theDivine ordinance be close at hand, on the eve of its appearance. And sobe it, so be it!”
“So be it, so be it!” Father Païssy repeated austerely and reverently.
“Strange, extremely strange!” Miüsov pronounced, not so much with heatas with latent indignation.
“What strikes you as so strange?” Father Iosif inquired cautiously.
“Why, it’s beyond anything!” cried Miüsov, suddenly breaking out; “theState is eliminated and the Church is raised to the position of theState. It’s not simply Ultramontanism, it’s arch‐Ultramontanism! It’sbeyond the dreams of Pope Gregory the Seventh!”
“You are completely misunderstanding it,” said Father Païssy sternly.“Understand, the Church is not to be transformed into the State. Thatis Rome and its dream. That is the third temptation of the devil. Onthe contrary, the State is transformed into the Church, will ascend andbecome a Church over the whole world—which is the complete opposite ofUltramontanism and Rome, and your interpretation, and is only theglorious destiny ordained for the Orthodox Church. This star will arisein the east!”
Miüsov was significantly silent. His whole figure expressedextraordinary personal dignity. A supercilious and condescending smileplayed on his lips. Alyosha watched it all with a throbbing heart. Thewhole conversation stirred him profoundly. He glanced casually atRakitin, who was standing immovable in his place by the door listeningand watching intently though with downcast eyes. But from the color inhis cheeks Alyosha guessed that Rakitin was probably no less excited,and he knew what caused his excitement.
“Allow me to tell you one little anecdote, gentlemen,” Miüsov saidimpressively, with a peculiarly majestic air. “Some years ago, soonafter the _coup d’état_ of December, I happened to be calling in Parison an extremely influential personage in the Government, and I met avery interesting man in his house. This individual was not precisely adetective but was a sort of superintendent of a whole regiment ofpolitical detectives—a rather powerful position in its own way. I wasprompted by curiosity to seize the opportunity of conversation withhim. And as he had not come as a visitor but as a subordinate officialbringing a special report, and as he saw the reception given me by hischief, he deigned to speak with some openness, to a certain extentonly, of course. He was rather courteous than open, as Frenchmen knowhow to be courteous, especially to a foreigner. But I thoroughlyunderstood him. The subject was the socialist revolutionaries who wereat that time persecuted. I will quote only one most curious remarkdropped by this person. ‘We are not particularly afraid,’ said he, ‘ofall these socialists, anarchists, infidels, and revolutionists; we keepwatch on them and know all their goings on. But there are a fewpeculiar men among them who believe in God and are Christians, but atthe same time are socialists. These are the people we are most afraidof. They are dreadful people! The socialist who is a Christian is moreto be dreaded than a socialist who is an atheist.’ The words struck meat the time, and now they have suddenly come back to me here,gentlemen.”
“You apply them to us, and look upon us as socialists?” Father Païssyasked directly, without beating about the bush.
But before Pyotr Alexandrovitch could think what to answer, the dooropened, and the guest so long expected, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, came in.They had, in fact, given up expecting him, and his sudden appearancecaused some surprise for a moment.



Chapter VI.Why Is Such A Man Alive?

Dmitri Fyodorovitch, a young man of eight and twenty, of medium heightand agreeable countenance, looked older than his years. He wasmuscular, and showed signs of considerable physical strength. Yet therewas something not healthy in his face. It was rather thin, his cheekswere hollow, and there was an unhealthy sallowness in their color. Hisrather large, prominent, dark eyes had an expression of firmdetermination, and yet there was a vague look in them, too. Even whenhe was excited and talking irritably, his eyes somehow did not followhis mood, but betrayed something else, sometimes quite incongruous withwhat was passing. “It’s hard to tell what he’s thinking,” those whotalked to him sometimes declared. People who saw something pensive andsullen in his eyes were startled by his sudden laugh, which borewitness to mirthful and light‐ hearted thoughts at the very time whenhis eyes were so gloomy. A certain strained look in his face was easyto understand at this moment. Every one knew, or had heard of, theextremely restless and dissipated life which he had been leading oflate, as well as of the violent anger to which he had been roused inhis quarrels with his father. There were several stories current in thetown about it. It is true that he was irascible by nature, “of anunstable and unbalanced mind,” as our justice of the peace,Katchalnikov, happily described him.
He was stylishly and irreproachably dressed in a carefully buttonedfrock‐ coat. He wore black gloves and carried a top‐hat. Having onlylately left the army, he still had mustaches and no beard. His darkbrown hair was cropped short, and combed forward on his temples. He hadthe long, determined stride of a military man. He stood still for amoment on the threshold, and glancing at the whole party went straightup to the elder, guessing him to be their host. He made him a low bow,and asked his blessing. Father Zossima, rising in his chair, blessedhim. Dmitri kissed his hand respectfully, and with intense feeling,almost anger, he said:
“Be so generous as to forgive me for having kept you waiting so long,but Smerdyakov, the valet sent me by my father, in reply to myinquiries, told me twice over that the appointment was for one. Now Isuddenly learn—”
“Don’t disturb yourself,” interposed the elder. “No matter. You are alittle late. It’s of no consequence....”
“I’m extremely obliged to you, and expected no less from yourgoodness.”
Saying this, Dmitri bowed once more. Then, turning suddenly towards hisfather, made him, too, a similarly low and respectful bow. He hadevidently considered it beforehand, and made this bow in allseriousness, thinking it his duty to show his respect and goodintentions.
Although Fyodor Pavlovitch was taken unawares, he was equal to theoccasion. In response to Dmitri’s bow he jumped up from his chair andmade his son a bow as low in return. His face was suddenly solemn andimpressive, which gave him a positively malignant look. Dmitri bowedgenerally to all present, and without a word walked to the window withhis long, resolute stride, sat down on the only empty chair, nearFather Païssy, and, bending forward, prepared to listen to theconversation he had interrupted.
Dmitri’s entrance had taken no more than two minutes, and theconversation was resumed. But this time Miüsov thought it unnecessaryto reply to Father Païssy’s persistent and almost irritable question.
“Allow me to withdraw from this discussion,” he observed with a certainwell‐bred nonchalance. “It’s a subtle question, too. Here IvanFyodorovitch is smiling at us. He must have something interesting tosay about that also. Ask him.”
“Nothing special, except one little remark,” Ivan replied at once.“European Liberals in general, and even our liberal dilettanti, oftenmix up the final results of socialism with those of Christianity. Thiswild notion is, of course, a characteristic feature. But it’s not onlyLiberals and dilettanti who mix up socialism and Christianity, but, inmany cases, it appears, the police—the foreign police, of course—do thesame. Your Paris anecdote is rather to the point, PyotrAlexandrovitch.”
“I ask your permission to drop this subject altogether,” Miüsovrepeated. “I will tell you instead, gentlemen, another interesting andrather characteristic anecdote of Ivan Fyodorovitch himself. Only fivedays ago, in a gathering here, principally of ladies, he solemnlydeclared in argument that there was nothing in the whole world to makemen love their neighbors. That there was no law of nature that manshould love mankind, and that, if there had been any love on earthhitherto, it was not owing to a natural law, but simply because menhave believed in immortality. Ivan Fyodorovitch added in parenthesisthat the whole natural law lies in that faith, and that if you were todestroy in mankind the belief in immortality, not only love but everyliving force maintaining the life of the world would at once be driedup. Moreover, nothing then would be immoral, everything would belawful, even cannibalism. That’s not all. He ended by asserting thatfor every individual, like ourselves, who does not believe in God orimmortality, the moral law of nature must immediately be changed intothe exact contrary of the former religious law, and that egoism, evento crime, must become not only lawful but even recognized as theinevitable, the most rational, even honorable outcome of his position.From this paradox, gentlemen, you can judge of the rest of oureccentric and paradoxical friend Ivan Fyodorovitch’s theories.”
“Excuse me,” Dmitri cried suddenly; “if I’ve heard aright, crime mustnot only be permitted but even recognized as the inevitable and themost rational outcome of his position for every infidel! Is that so ornot?”
“Quite so,” said Father Païssy.
“I’ll remember it.”
Having uttered these words Dmitri ceased speaking as suddenly as he hadbegun. Every one looked at him with curiosity.
“Is that really your conviction as to the consequences of thedisappearance of the faith in immortality?” the elder asked Ivansuddenly.
“Yes. That was my contention. There is no virtue if there is noimmortality.”
“You are blessed in believing that, or else most unhappy.”
“Why unhappy?” Ivan asked smiling.
“Because, in all probability you don’t believe yourself in theimmortality of your soul, nor in what you have written yourself in yourarticle on Church jurisdiction.”
“Perhaps you are right! ... But I wasn’t altogether joking,” Ivansuddenly and strangely confessed, flushing quickly.
“You were not altogether joking. That’s true. The question is stillfretting your heart, and not answered. But the martyr likes sometimesto divert himself with his despair, as it were driven to it by despairitself. Meanwhile, in your despair, you, too, divert yourself withmagazine articles, and discussions in society, though you don’t believeyour own arguments, and with an aching heart mock at them inwardly....That question you have not answered, and it is your great grief, for itclamors for an answer.”
“But can it be answered by me? Answered in the affirmative?” Ivan wenton asking strangely, still looking at the elder with the sameinexplicable smile.
“If it can’t be decided in the affirmative, it will never be decided inthe negative. You know that that is the peculiarity of your heart, andall its suffering is due to it. But thank the Creator who has given youa lofty heart capable of such suffering; of thinking and seeking higherthings, for our dwelling is in the heavens. God grant that your heartwill attain the answer on earth, and may God bless your path.”
The elder raised his hand and would have made the sign of the crossover Ivan from where he stood. But the latter rose from his seat, wentup to him, received his blessing, and kissing his hand went back to hisplace in silence. His face looked firm and earnest. This action and allthe preceding conversation, which was so surprising from Ivan,impressed every one by its strangeness and a certain solemnity, so thatall were silent for a moment, and there was a look almost ofapprehension in Alyosha’s face. But Miüsov suddenly shrugged hisshoulders. And at the same moment Fyodor Pavlovitch jumped up from hisseat.
“Most pious and holy elder,” he cried, pointing to Ivan, “that is myson, flesh of my flesh, the dearest of my flesh! He is my most dutifulKarl Moor, so to speak, while this son who has just come in, Dmitri,against whom I am seeking justice from you, is the undutiful FranzMoor—they are both out of Schiller’s _Robbers_, and so I am thereigning Count von Moor! Judge and save us! We need not only yourprayers but your prophecies!”
“Speak without buffoonery, and don’t begin by insulting the members ofyour family,” answered the elder, in a faint, exhausted voice. He wasobviously getting more and more fatigued, and his strength was failing.
“An unseemly farce which I foresaw when I came here!” cried Dmitriindignantly. He too leapt up. “Forgive it, reverend Father,” he added,addressing the elder. “I am not a cultivated man, and I don’t even knowhow to address you properly, but you have been deceived and you havebeen too good‐natured in letting us meet here. All my father wants is ascandal. Why he wants it only he can tell. He always has some motive.But I believe I know why—”
“They all blame me, all of them!” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch in his turn.“Pyotr Alexandrovitch here blames me too. You have been blaming me,Pyotr Alexandrovitch, you have!” he turned suddenly to Miüsov, althoughthe latter was not dreaming of interrupting him. “They all accuse me ofhaving hidden the children’s money in my boots, and cheated them, butisn’t there a court of law? There they will reckon out for you, DmitriFyodorovitch, from your notes, your letters, and your agreements, howmuch money you had, how much you have spent, and how much you haveleft. Why does Pyotr Alexandrovitch refuse to pass judgment? Dmitri isnot a stranger to him. Because they are all against me, while DmitriFyodorovitch is in debt to me, and not a little, but some thousands ofwhich I have documentary proof. The whole town is echoing with hisdebaucheries. And where he was stationed before, he several times spenta thousand or two for the seduction of some respectable girl; we knowall about that, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, in its most secret details. I’llprove it.... Would you believe it, holy Father, he has captivated theheart of the most honorable of young ladies of good family and fortune,daughter of a gallant colonel, formerly his superior officer, who hadreceived many honors and had the Anna Order on his breast. Hecompromised the girl by his promise of marriage, now she is an orphanand here; she is betrothed to him, yet before her very eyes he isdancing attendance on a certain enchantress. And although thisenchantress has lived in, so to speak, civil marriage with arespectable man, yet she is of an independent character, anunapproachable fortress for everybody, just like a legal wife—for sheis virtuous, yes, holy Fathers, she is virtuous. Dmitri Fyodorovitchwants to open this fortress with a golden key, and that’s why he isinsolent to me now, trying to get money from me, though he has wastedthousands on this enchantress already. He’s continually borrowing moneyfor the purpose. From whom do you think? Shall I say, Mitya?”
“Be silent!” cried Dmitri, “wait till I’m gone. Don’t dare in mypresence to asperse the good name of an honorable girl! That you shouldutter a word about her is an outrage, and I won’t permit it!”
He was breathless.
“Mitya! Mitya!” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch hysterically, squeezing out atear. “And is your father’s blessing nothing to you? If I curse you,what then?”
“Shameless hypocrite!” exclaimed Dmitri furiously.
“He says that to his father! his father! What would he be with others?Gentlemen, only fancy; there’s a poor but honorable man living here,burdened with a numerous family, a captain who got into trouble and wasdischarged from the army, but not publicly, not by court‐martial, withno slur on his honor. And three weeks ago, Dmitri seized him by thebeard in a tavern, dragged him out into the street and beat himpublicly, and all because he is an agent in a little business of mine.”
“It’s all a lie! Outwardly it’s the truth, but inwardly a lie!” Dmitriwas trembling with rage. “Father, I don’t justify my action. Yes, Iconfess it publicly, I behaved like a brute to that captain, and Iregret it now, and I’m disgusted with myself for my brutal rage. Butthis captain, this agent of yours, went to that lady whom you call anenchantress, and suggested to her from you, that she should takeI.O.U.’s of mine which were in your possession, and should sue me forthe money so as to get me into prison by means of them, if I persistedin claiming an account from you of my property. Now you reproach me forhaving a weakness for that lady when you yourself incited her tocaptivate me! She told me so to my face.... She told me the story andlaughed at you.... You wanted to put me in prison because you arejealous of me with her, because you’d begun to force your attentionsupon her; and I know all about that, too; she laughed at you for thatas well—you hear—she laughed at you as she described it. So here youhave this man, this father who reproaches his profligate son!Gentlemen, forgive my anger, but I foresaw that this crafty old manwould only bring you together to create a scandal. I had come toforgive him if he held out his hand; to forgive him, and askforgiveness! But as he has just this minute insulted not only me, butan honorable young lady, for whom I feel such reverence that I dare nottake her name in vain, I have made up my mind to show up his game,though he is my father....”
He could not go on. His eyes were glittering and he breathed withdifficulty. But every one in the cell was stirred. All except FatherZossima got up from their seats uneasily. The monks looked austere butwaited for guidance from the elder. He sat still, pale, not fromexcitement but from the weakness of disease. An imploring smile lightedup his face; from time to time he raised his hand, as though to checkthe storm, and, of course, a gesture from him would have been enough toend the scene; but he seemed to be waiting for something and watchedthem intently as though trying to make out something which was notperfectly clear to him. At last Miüsov felt completely humiliated anddisgraced.
“We are all to blame for this scandalous scene,” he said hotly. “But Idid not foresee it when I came, though I knew with whom I had to deal.This must be stopped at once! Believe me, your reverence, I had noprecise knowledge of the details that have just come to light, I wasunwilling to believe them, and I learn for the first time.... A fatheris jealous of his son’s relations with a woman of loose behavior andintrigues with the creature to get his son into prison! This is thecompany in which I have been forced to be present! I was deceived. Ideclare to you all that I was as much deceived as any one.”
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” yelled Fyodor Pavlovitch suddenly, in anunnatural voice, “if you were not my son I would challenge you thisinstant to a duel ... with pistols, at three paces ... across ahandkerchief,” he ended, stamping with both feet.
With old liars who have been acting all their lives there are momentswhen they enter so completely into their part that they tremble or shedtears of emotion in earnest, although at that very moment, or a secondlater, they are able to whisper to themselves, “You know you are lying,you shameless old sinner! You’re acting now, in spite of your ‘holy’wrath.”
Dmitri frowned painfully, and looked with unutterable contempt at hisfather.
“I thought ... I thought,” he said, in a soft and, as it were,controlled voice, “that I was coming to my native place with the angelof my heart, my betrothed, to cherish his old age, and I find nothingbut a depraved profligate, a despicable clown!”
“A duel!” yelled the old wretch again, breathless and spluttering ateach syllable. “And you, Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miüsov, let me tell youthat there has never been in all your family a loftier, and morehonest—you hear—more honest woman than this ‘creature,’ as you havedared to call her! And you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, have abandoned yourbetrothed for that ‘creature,’ so you must yourself have thought thatyour betrothed couldn’t hold a candle to her. That’s the woman called a‘creature’!”
“Shameful!” broke from Father Iosif.
“Shameful and disgraceful!” Kalganov, flushing crimson, cried in aboyish voice, trembling with emotion. He had been silent till thatmoment.
“Why is such a man alive?” Dmitri, beside himself with rage, growled ina hollow voice, hunching up his shoulders till he looked almostdeformed. “Tell me, can he be allowed to go on defiling the earth?” Helooked round at every one and pointed at the old man. He spoke evenlyand deliberately.
“Listen, listen, monks, to the parricide!” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch,rushing up to Father Iosif. “That’s the answer to your ‘shameful!’ Whatis shameful? That ‘creature,’ that ‘woman of loose behavior’ is perhapsholier than you are yourselves, you monks who are seeking salvation!She fell perhaps in her youth, ruined by her environment. But she lovedmuch, and Christ himself forgave the woman ‘who loved much.’ ”
“It was not for such love Christ forgave her,” broke impatiently fromthe gentle Father Iosif.
“Yes, it was for such, monks, it was! You save your souls here, eatingcabbage, and think you are the righteous. You eat a gudgeon a day, andyou think you bribe God with gudgeon.”
“This is unendurable!” was heard on all sides in the cell.
But this unseemly scene was cut short in a most unexpected way. FatherZossima rose suddenly from his seat. Almost distracted with anxiety forthe elder and every one else, Alyosha succeeded, however, in supportinghim by the arm. Father Zossima moved towards Dmitri and reaching himsank on his knees before him. Alyosha thought that he had fallen fromweakness, but this was not so. The elder distinctly and deliberatelybowed down at Dmitri’s feet till his forehead touched the floor.Alyosha was so astounded that he failed to assist him when he got upagain. There was a faint smile on his lips.
“Good‐by! Forgive me, all of you!” he said, bowing on all sides to hisguests.
Dmitri stood for a few moments in amazement. Bowing down to him—whatdid it mean? Suddenly he cried aloud, “Oh, God!” hid his face in hishands, and rushed out of the room. All the guests flocked out afterhim, in their confusion not saying good‐by, or bowing to their host.Only the monks went up to him again for a blessing.
“What did it mean, falling at his feet like that? Was it symbolic orwhat?” said Fyodor Pavlovitch, suddenly quieted and trying to reopenconversation without venturing to address anybody in particular. Theywere all passing out of the precincts of the hermitage at the moment.
“I can’t answer for a madhouse and for madmen,” Miüsov answered at onceill‐humoredly, “but I will spare myself your company, FyodorPavlovitch, and, trust me, for ever. Where’s that monk?”
“That monk,” that is, the monk who had invited them to dine with theSuperior, did not keep them waiting. He met them as soon as they camedown the steps from the elder’s cell, as though he had been waiting forthem all the time.
“Reverend Father, kindly do me a favor. Convey my deepest respect tothe Father Superior, apologize for me, personally, Miüsov, to hisreverence, telling him that I deeply regret that owing to unforeseencircumstances I am unable to have the honor of being present at histable, greatly as I should desire to do so,” Miüsov said irritably tothe monk.
“And that unforeseen circumstance, of course, is myself,” FyodorPavlovitch cut in immediately. “Do you hear, Father; this gentlemandoesn’t want to remain in my company or else he’d come at once. And youshall go, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, pray go to the Father Superior and goodappetite to you. I will decline, and not you. Home, home, I’ll eat athome, I don’t feel equal to it here, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, my amiablerelative.”
“I am not your relative and never have been, you contemptible man!”
“I said it on purpose to madden you, because you always disclaim therelationship, though you really are a relation in spite of yourshuffling. I’ll prove it by the church calendar. As for you, Ivan, stayif you like. I’ll send the horses for you later. Propriety requires youto go to the Father Superior, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, to apologize forthe disturbance we’ve been making....”
“Is it true that you are going home? Aren’t you lying?”
“Pyotr Alexandrovitch! How could I dare after what’s happened! Forgiveme, gentlemen, I was carried away! And upset besides! And, indeed, I amashamed. Gentlemen, one man has the heart of Alexander of Macedon andanother the heart of the little dog Fido. Mine is that of the littledog Fido. I am ashamed! After such an escapade how can I go to dinner,to gobble up the monastery’s sauces? I am ashamed, I can’t. You mustexcuse me!”
“The devil only knows, what if he deceives us?” thought Miüsov, stillhesitating, and watching the retreating buffoon with distrustful eyes.The latter turned round, and noticing that Miüsov was watching him,waved him a kiss.
“Well, are you coming to the Superior?” Miüsov asked Ivan abruptly.
“Why not? I was especially invited yesterday.”
“Unfortunately I feel myself compelled to go to this confoundeddinner,” said Miüsov with the same irritability, regardless of the factthat the monk was listening. “We ought, at least, to apologize for thedisturbance, and explain that it was not our doing. What do you think?”
“Yes, we must explain that it wasn’t our doing. Besides, father won’tbe there,” observed Ivan.
“Well, I should hope not! Confound this dinner!”
They all walked on, however. The monk listened in silence. On the roadthrough the copse he made one observation however—that the FatherSuperior had been waiting a long time, and that they were more thanhalf an hour late. He received no answer. Miüsov looked with hatred atIvan.
“Here he is, going to the dinner as though nothing had happened,” hethought. “A brazen face, and the conscience of a Karamazov!”



Chapter VII.A Young Man Bent On A Career

Alyosha helped Father Zossima to his bedroom and seated him on his bed.It was a little room furnished with the bare necessities. There was anarrow iron bedstead, with a strip of felt for a mattress. In thecorner, under the ikons, was a reading‐desk with a cross and the Gospellying on it. The elder sank exhausted on the bed. His eyes glitteredand he breathed hard. He looked intently at Alyosha, as thoughconsidering something.
“Go, my dear boy, go. Porfiry is enough for me. Make haste, you areneeded there, go and wait at the Father Superior’s table.”
“Let me stay here,” Alyosha entreated.
“You are more needed there. There is no peace there. You will wait, andbe of service. If evil spirits rise up, repeat a prayer. And remember,my son”—the elder liked to call him that—“this is not the place for youin the future. When it is God’s will to call me, leave the monastery.Go away for good.”
Alyosha started.
“What is it? This is not your place for the time. I bless you for greatservice in the world. Yours will be a long pilgrimage. And you willhave to take a wife, too. You will have to bear _all_ before you comeback. There will be much to do. But I don’t doubt of you, and so I sendyou forth. Christ is with you. Do not abandon Him and He will notabandon you. You will see great sorrow, and in that sorrow you will behappy. This is my last message to you: in sorrow seek happiness. Work,work unceasingly. Remember my words, for although I shall talk with youagain, not only my days but my hours are numbered.”
Alyosha’s face again betrayed strong emotion. The corners of his mouthquivered.
“What is it again?” Father Zossima asked, smiling gently. “The worldlymay follow the dead with tears, but here we rejoice over the father whois departing. We rejoice and pray for him. Leave me, I must pray. Go,and make haste. Be near your brothers. And not near one only, but nearboth.”
Father Zossima raised his hand to bless him. Alyosha could make noprotest, though he had a great longing to remain. He longed, moreover,to ask the significance of his bowing to Dmitri, the question was onthe tip of his tongue, but he dared not ask it. He knew that the elderwould have explained it unasked if he had thought fit. But evidently itwas not his will. That action had made a terrible impression onAlyosha; he believed blindly in its mysterious significance.Mysterious, and perhaps awful.
As he hastened out of the hermitage precincts to reach the monastery intime to serve at the Father Superior’s dinner, he felt a sudden pang athis heart, and stopped short. He seemed to hear again Father Zossima’swords, foretelling his approaching end. What he had foretold so exactlymust infallibly come to pass. Alyosha believed that implicitly. But howcould he be left without him? How could he live without seeing andhearing him? Where should he go? He had told him not to weep, and toleave the monastery. Good God! It was long since Alyosha had known suchanguish. He hurried through the copse that divided the monastery fromthe hermitage, and unable to bear the burden of his thoughts, he gazedat the ancient pines beside the path. He had not far to go—about fivehundred paces. He expected to meet no one at that hour, but at thefirst turn of the path he noticed Rakitin. He was waiting for some one.
“Are you waiting for me?” asked Alyosha, overtaking him.
“Yes,” grinned Rakitin. “You are hurrying to the Father Superior, Iknow; he has a banquet. There’s not been such a banquet since theSuperior entertained the Bishop and General Pahatov, do you remember? Ishan’t be there, but you go and hand the sauces. Tell me one thing,Alexey, what does that vision mean? That’s what I want to ask you.”
“What vision?”
“That bowing to your brother, Dmitri. And didn’t he tap the ground withhis forehead, too!”
“You speak of Father Zossima?”
“Yes, of Father Zossima.”
“Tapped the ground?”
“Ah, an irreverent expression! Well, what of it? Anyway, what does thatvision mean?”
“I don’t know what it means, Misha.”
“I knew he wouldn’t explain it to you! There’s nothing wonderful aboutit, of course, only the usual holy mummery. But there was an object inthe performance. All the pious people in the town will talk about itand spread the story through the province, wondering what it meant. Tomy thinking the old man really has a keen nose; he sniffed a crime.Your house stinks of it.”
“What crime?”
Rakitin evidently had something he was eager to speak of.
“It’ll be in your family, this crime. Between your brothers and yourrich old father. So Father Zossima flopped down to be ready for whatmay turn up. If something happens later on, it’ll be: ‘Ah, the holy manforesaw it, prophesied it!’ though it’s a poor sort of prophecy,flopping like that. ‘Ah, but it was symbolic,’ they’ll say, ‘anallegory,’ and the devil knows what all! It’ll be remembered to hisglory: ‘He predicted the crime and marked the criminal!’ That’s alwaysthe way with these crazy fanatics; they cross themselves at the tavernand throw stones at the temple. Like your elder, he takes a stick to ajust man and falls at the feet of a murderer.”
“What crime? What murderer? What do you mean?”
Alyosha stopped dead. Rakitin stopped, too.
“What murderer? As though you didn’t know! I’ll bet you’ve thought ofit before. That’s interesting, too, by the way. Listen, Alyosha, youalways speak the truth, though you’re always between two stools. Haveyou thought of it or not? Answer.”
“I have,” answered Alyosha in a low voice. Even Rakitin was takenaback.
“What? Have you really?” he cried.
“I ... I’ve not exactly thought it,” muttered Alyosha, “but directlyyou began speaking so strangely, I fancied I had thought of it myself.”
“You see? (And how well you expressed it!) Looking at your father andyour brother Mitya to‐day you thought of a crime. Then I’m notmistaken?”
“But wait, wait a minute,” Alyosha broke in uneasily. “What has led youto see all this? Why does it interest you? That’s the first question.”
“Two questions, disconnected, but natural. I’ll deal with themseparately. What led me to see it? I shouldn’t have seen it, if Ihadn’t suddenly understood your brother Dmitri, seen right into thevery heart of him all at once. I caught the whole man from one trait.These very honest but passionate people have a line which mustn’t becrossed. If it were, he’d run at your father with a knife. But yourfather’s a drunken and abandoned old sinner, who can never draw theline—if they both let themselves go, they’ll both come to grief.”
“No, Misha, no. If that’s all, you’ve reassured me. It won’t come tothat.”
“But why are you trembling? Let me tell you; he may be honest, ourMitya (he is stupid, but honest), but he’s—a sensualist. That’s thevery definition and inner essence of him. It’s your father has handedhim on his low sensuality. Do you know, I simply wonder at you,Alyosha, how you can have kept your purity. You’re a Karamazov too, youknow! In your family sensuality is carried to a disease. But now, thesethree sensualists are watching one another, with their knives in theirbelts. The three of them are knocking their heads together, and you maybe the fourth.”
“You are mistaken about that woman. Dmitri—despises her,” said Alyosha,with a sort of shudder.
“Grushenka? No, brother, he doesn’t despise her. Since he has openlyabandoned his betrothed for her, he doesn’t despise her. There’ssomething here, my dear boy, that you don’t understand yet. A man willfall in love with some beauty, with a woman’s body, or even with a partof a woman’s body (a sensualist can understand that), and he’ll abandonhis own children for her, sell his father and mother, and his country,Russia, too. If he’s honest, he’ll steal; if he’s humane, he’ll murder;if he’s faithful, he’ll deceive. Pushkin, the poet of women’s feet,sung of their feet in his verse. Others don’t sing their praises, butthey can’t look at their feet without a thrill—and it’s not only theirfeet. Contempt’s no help here, brother, even if he did despiseGrushenka. He does, but he can’t tear himself away.”
“I understand that,” Alyosha jerked out suddenly.
“Really? Well, I dare say you do understand, since you blurt it out atthe first word,” said Rakitin, malignantly. “That escaped you unawares,and the confession’s the more precious. So it’s a familiar subject;you’ve thought about it already, about sensuality, I mean! Oh, youvirgin soul! You’re a quiet one, Alyosha, you’re a saint, I know, butthe devil only knows what you’ve thought about, and what you knowalready! You are pure, but you’ve been down into the depths.... I’vebeen watching you a long time. You’re a Karamazov yourself; you’re athorough Karamazov—no doubt birth and selection have something toanswer for. You’re a sensualist from your father, a crazy saint fromyour mother. Why do you tremble? Is it true, then? Do you know,Grushenka has been begging me to bring you along. ‘I’ll pull off hiscassock,’ she says. You can’t think how she keeps begging me to bringyou. I wondered why she took such an interest in you. Do you know,she’s an extraordinary woman, too!”
“Thank her and say I’m not coming,” said Alyosha, with a strainedsmile. “Finish what you were saying, Misha. I’ll tell you my ideaafter.”
“There’s nothing to finish. It’s all clear. It’s the same old tune,brother. If even you are a sensualist at heart, what of your brother,Ivan? He’s a Karamazov, too. What is at the root of all you Karamazovsis that you’re all sensual, grasping and crazy! Your brother Ivanwrites theological articles in joke, for some idiotic, unknown motiveof his own, though he’s an atheist, and he admits it’s a fraudhimself—that’s your brother Ivan. He’s trying to get Mitya’s betrothedfor himself, and I fancy he’ll succeed, too. And what’s more, it’s withMitya’s consent. For Mitya will surrender his betrothed to him to berid of her, and escape to Grushenka. And he’s ready to do that in spiteof all his nobility and disinterestedness. Observe that. Those are themost fatal people! Who the devil can make you out? He recognizes hisvileness and goes on with it! Let me tell you, too, the old man, yourfather, is standing in Mitya’s way now. He has suddenly gone crazy overGrushenka. His mouth waters at the sight of her. It’s simply on heraccount he made that scene in the cell just now, simply because Miüsovcalled her an ‘abandoned creature.’ He’s worse than a tom‐cat in love.At first she was only employed by him in connection with his tavernsand in some other shady business, but now he has suddenly realized allshe is and has gone wild about her. He keeps pestering her with hisoffers, not honorable ones, of course. And they’ll come into collision,the precious father and son, on that path! But Grushenka favors neitherof them, she’s still playing with them, and teasing them both,considering which she can get most out of. For though she could filch alot of money from the papa he wouldn’t marry her, and maybe he’ll turnstingy in the end, and keep his purse shut. That’s where Mitya’s valuecomes in; he has no money, but he’s ready to marry her. Yes, ready tomarry her! to abandon his betrothed, a rare beauty, Katerina Ivanovna,who’s rich, and the daughter of a colonel, and to marry Grushenka, whohas been the mistress of a dissolute old merchant, Samsonov, a coarse,uneducated, provincial mayor. Some murderous conflict may well come topass from all this, and that’s what your brother Ivan is waiting for.It would suit him down to the ground. He’ll carry off KaterinaIvanovna, for whom he is languishing, and pocket her dowry of sixtythousand. That’s very alluring to start with, for a man of noconsequence and a beggar. And, take note, he won’t be wronging Mitya,but doing him the greatest service. For I know as a fact that Mityaonly last week, when he was with some gypsy girls drunk in a tavern,cried out aloud that he was unworthy of his betrothed, Katya, but thathis brother Ivan, he was the man who deserved her. And KaterinaIvanovna will not in the end refuse such a fascinating man as Ivan.She’s hesitating between the two of them already. And how has that Ivanwon you all, so that you all worship him? He is laughing at you, andenjoying himself at your expense.”
“How do you know? How can you speak so confidently?” Alyosha askedsharply, frowning.
“Why do you ask, and are frightened at my answer? It shows that youknow I’m speaking the truth.”
“You don’t like Ivan. Ivan wouldn’t be tempted by money.”
“Really? And the beauty of Katerina Ivanovna? It’s not only the money,though a fortune of sixty thousand is an attraction.”
“Ivan is above that. He wouldn’t make up to any one for thousands. Itis not money, it’s not comfort Ivan is seeking. Perhaps it’s sufferinghe is seeking.”
“What wild dream now? Oh, you—aristocrats!”
“Ah, Misha, he has a stormy spirit. His mind is in bondage. He ishaunted by a great, unsolved doubt. He is one of those who don’t wantmillions, but an answer to their questions.”
“That’s plagiarism, Alyosha. You’re quoting your elder’s phrases. Ah,Ivan has set you a problem!” cried Rakitin, with undisguised malice.His face changed, and his lips twitched. “And the problem’s a stupidone. It is no good guessing it. Rack your brains—you’ll understand it.His article is absurd and ridiculous. And did you hear his stupidtheory just now: if there’s no immortality of the soul, then there’s novirtue, and everything is lawful. (And by the way, do you remember howyour brother Mitya cried out: ‘I will remember!’) An attractive theoryfor scoundrels!—(I’m being abusive, that’s stupid.) Not for scoundrels,but for pedantic _poseurs_, ‘haunted by profound, unsolved doubts.’He’s showing off, and what it all comes to is, ‘on the one hand wecannot but admit’ and ‘on the other it must be confessed!’ His wholetheory is a fraud! Humanity will find in itself the power to live forvirtue even without believing in immortality. It will find it in lovefor freedom, for equality, for fraternity.”
Rakitin could hardly restrain himself in his heat, but, suddenly, asthough remembering something, he stopped short.
“Well, that’s enough,” he said, with a still more crooked smile. “Whyare you laughing? Do you think I’m a vulgar fool?”
“No, I never dreamed of thinking you a vulgar fool. You are clever but... never mind, I was silly to smile. I understand your getting hotabout it, Misha. I guess from your warmth that you are not indifferentto Katerina Ivanovna yourself; I’ve suspected that for a long time,brother, that’s why you don’t like my brother Ivan. Are you jealous ofhim?”
“And jealous of her money, too? Won’t you add that?”
“I’ll say nothing about money. I am not going to insult you.”
“I believe it, since you say so, but confound you, and your brotherIvan with you. Don’t you understand that one might very well dislikehim, apart from Katerina Ivanovna. And why the devil should I like him?He condescends to abuse me, you know. Why haven’t I a right to abusehim?”
“I never heard of his saying anything about you, good or bad. Hedoesn’t speak of you at all.”
“But I heard that the day before yesterday at Katerina Ivanovna’s hewas abusing me for all he was worth—you see what an interest he takesin your humble servant. And which is the jealous one after that,brother, I can’t say. He was so good as to express the opinion that, ifI don’t go in for the career of an archimandrite in the immediatefuture and don’t become a monk, I shall be sure to go to Petersburg andget on to some solid magazine as a reviewer, that I shall write for thenext ten years, and in the end become the owner of the magazine, andbring it out on the liberal and atheistic side, with a socialistictinge, with a tiny gloss of socialism, but keeping a sharp look out allthe time, that is, keeping in with both sides and hoodwinking thefools. According to your brother’s account, the tinge of socialismwon’t hinder me from laying by the proceeds and investing them underthe guidance of some Jew, till at the end of my career I build a greathouse in Petersburg and move my publishing offices to it, and let outthe upper stories to lodgers. He has even chosen the place for it, nearthe new stone bridge across the Neva, which they say is to be built inPetersburg.”
“Ah, Misha, that’s just what will really happen, every word of it,”cried Alyosha, unable to restrain a good‐humored smile.
“You are pleased to be sarcastic, too, Alexey Fyodorovitch.”
“No, no, I’m joking, forgive me. I’ve something quite different in mymind. But, excuse me, who can have told you all this? You can’t havebeen at Katerina Ivanovna’s yourself when he was talking about you?”
“I wasn’t there, but Dmitri Fyodorovitch was; and I heard him tell itwith my own ears; if you want to know, he didn’t tell me, but Ioverheard him, unintentionally, of course, for I was sitting inGrushenka’s bedroom and I couldn’t go away because Dmitri Fyodorovitchwas in the next room.”
“Oh, yes, I’d forgotten she was a relation of yours.”
“A relation! That Grushenka a relation of mine!” cried Rakitin, turningcrimson. “Are you mad? You’re out of your mind!”
“Why, isn’t she a relation of yours? I heard so.”
“Where can you have heard it? You Karamazovs brag of being an ancient,noble family, though your father used to run about playing the buffoonat other men’s tables, and was only admitted to the kitchen as a favor.I may be only a priest’s son, and dirt in the eyes of noblemen likeyou, but don’t insult me so lightly and wantonly. I have a sense ofhonor, too, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I couldn’t be a relation of Grushenka,a common harlot. I beg you to understand that!”
Rakitin was intensely irritated.
“Forgive me, for goodness’ sake, I had no idea ... besides ... how canyou call her a harlot? Is she ... that sort of woman?” Alyosha flushedsuddenly. “I tell you again, I heard that she was a relation of yours.You often go to see her, and you told me yourself you’re not her lover.I never dreamed that you of all people had such contempt for her! Doesshe really deserve it?”
“I may have reasons of my own for visiting her. That’s not yourbusiness. But as for relationship, your brother, or even your father,is more likely to make her yours than mine. Well, here we are. You’dbetter go to the kitchen. Hullo! what’s wrong, what is it? Are we late?They can’t have finished dinner so soon! Have the Karamazovs beenmaking trouble again? No doubt they have. Here’s your father and yourbrother Ivan after him. They’ve broken out from the Father Superior’s.And look, Father Isidor’s shouting out something after them from thesteps. And your father’s shouting and waving his arms. I expect he’sswearing. Bah, and there goes Miüsov driving away in his carriage. Yousee, he’s going. And there’s old Maximov running!—there must have beena row. There can’t have been any dinner. Surely they’ve not beenbeating the Father Superior! Or have they, perhaps, been beaten? Itwould serve them right!”
There was reason for Rakitin’s exclamations. There had been ascandalous, an unprecedented scene. It had all come from the impulse ofa moment.



Chapter VIII.The Scandalous Scene

Miüsov, as a man of breeding and delicacy, could not but feel someinward qualms, when he reached the Father Superior’s with Ivan: he feltashamed of having lost his temper. He felt that he ought to havedisdained that despicable wretch, Fyodor Pavlovitch, too much to havebeen upset by him in Father Zossima’s cell, and so to have forgottenhimself. “The monks were not to blame, in any case,” he reflected, onthe steps. “And if they’re decent people here (and the Father Superior,I understand, is a nobleman) why not be friendly and courteous withthem? I won’t argue, I’ll fall in with everything, I’ll win them bypoliteness, and ... and ... show them that I’ve nothing to do with thatÆsop, that buffoon, that Pierrot, and have merely been taken in overthis affair, just as they have.”
He determined to drop his litigation with the monastery, and relinquishhis claims to the wood‐cutting and fishery rights at once. He was themore ready to do this because the rights had become much less valuable,and he had indeed the vaguest idea where the wood and river in questionwere.
These excellent intentions were strengthened when he entered the FatherSuperior’s dining‐room, though, strictly speaking, it was not a dining‐room, for the Father Superior had only two rooms altogether; they were,however, much larger and more comfortable than Father Zossima’s. Butthere was no great luxury about the furnishing of these rooms either.The furniture was of mahogany, covered with leather, in theold‐fashioned style of 1820; the floor was not even stained, buteverything was shining with cleanliness, and there were many choiceflowers in the windows; the most sumptuous thing in the room at themoment was, of course, the beautifully decorated table. The cloth wasclean, the service shone; there were three kinds of well‐baked bread,two bottles of wine, two of excellent mead, and a large glass jug ofkvas—both the latter made in the monastery, and famous in theneighborhood. There was no vodka. Rakitin related afterwards that therewere five dishes: fish‐soup made of sterlets, served with little fishpatties; then boiled fish served in a special way; then salmon cutlets,ice pudding and compote, and finally, blanc‐mange. Rakitin found outabout all these good things, for he could not resist peeping into thekitchen, where he already had a footing. He had a footing everywhere,and got information about everything. He was of an uneasy and envioustemper. He was well aware of his own considerable abilities, andnervously exaggerated them in his self‐conceit. He knew he would play aprominent part of some sort, but Alyosha, who was attached to him, wasdistressed to see that his friend Rakitin was dishonorable, and quiteunconscious of being so himself, considering, on the contrary, thatbecause he would not steal money left on the table he was a man of thehighest integrity. Neither Alyosha nor any one else could haveinfluenced him in that.
Rakitin, of course, was a person of too little consequence to beinvited to the dinner, to which Father Iosif, Father Païssy, and oneother monk were the only inmates of the monastery invited. They werealready waiting when Miüsov, Kalganov, and Ivan arrived. The otherguest, Maximov, stood a little aside, waiting also. The Father Superiorstepped into the middle of the room to receive his guests. He was atall, thin, but still vigorous old man, with black hair streaked withgray, and a long, grave, ascetic face. He bowed to his guests insilence. But this time they approached to receive his blessing. Miüsoveven tried to kiss his hand, but the Father Superior drew it back intime to avoid the salute. But Ivan and Kalganov went through theceremony in the most simple‐hearted and complete manner, kissing hishand as peasants do.
“We must apologize most humbly, your reverence,” began Miüsov,simpering affably, and speaking in a dignified and respectful tone.“Pardon us for having come alone without the gentleman you invited,Fyodor Pavlovitch. He felt obliged to decline the honor of yourhospitality, and not without reason. In the reverend Father Zossima’scell he was carried away by the unhappy dissension with his son, andlet fall words which were quite out of keeping ... in fact, quiteunseemly ... as”—he glanced at the monks—“your reverence is, no doubt,already aware. And therefore, recognizing that he had been to blame, hefelt sincere regret and shame, and begged me, and his son IvanFyodorovitch, to convey to you his apologies and regrets. In brief, hehopes and desires to make amends later. He asks your blessing, and begsyou to forget what has taken place.”
As he uttered the last word of his tirade, Miüsov completely recoveredhis self‐complacency, and all traces of his former irritationdisappeared. He fully and sincerely loved humanity again.
The Father Superior listened to him with dignity, and, with a slightbend of the head, replied:
“I sincerely deplore his absence. Perhaps at our table he might havelearnt to like us, and we him. Pray be seated, gentlemen.”
He stood before the holy image, and began to say grace, aloud. All benttheir heads reverently, and Maximov clasped his hands before him, withpeculiar fervor.
It was at this moment that Fyodor Pavlovitch played his last prank. Itmust be noted that he really had meant to go home, and really had feltthe impossibility of going to dine with the Father Superior as thoughnothing had happened, after his disgraceful behavior in the elder’scell. Not that he was so very much ashamed of himself—quite thecontrary perhaps. But still he felt it would be unseemly to go todinner. Yet his creaking carriage had hardly been brought to the stepsof the hotel, and he had hardly got into it, when he suddenly stoppedshort. He remembered his own words at the elder’s: “I always feel whenI meet people that I am lower than all, and that they all take me for abuffoon; so I say let me play the buffoon, for you are, every one ofyou, stupider and lower than I.” He longed to revenge himself on everyone for his own unseemliness. He suddenly recalled how he had once inthe past been asked, “Why do you hate so and so, so much?” And he hadanswered them, with his shameless impudence, “I’ll tell you. He hasdone me no harm. But I played him a dirty trick, and ever since I havehated him.”
Remembering that now, he smiled quietly and malignantly, hesitating fora moment. His eyes gleamed, and his lips positively quivered. “Well,since I have begun, I may as well go on,” he decided. His predominantsensation at that moment might be expressed in the following words,“Well, there is no rehabilitating myself now. So let me shame them forall I am worth. I will show them I don’t care what they think—that’sall!”
He told the coachman to wait, while with rapid steps he returned to themonastery and straight to the Father Superior’s. He had no clear ideawhat he would do, but he knew that he could not control himself, andthat a touch might drive him to the utmost limits of obscenity, butonly to obscenity, to nothing criminal, nothing for which he could belegally punished. In the last resort, he could always restrain himself,and had marveled indeed at himself, on that score, sometimes. Heappeared in the Father Superior’s dining‐room, at the moment when theprayer was over, and all were moving to the table. Standing in thedoorway, he scanned the company, and laughing his prolonged, impudent,malicious chuckle, looked them all boldly in the face. “They thought Ihad gone, and here I am again,” he cried to the whole room.
For one moment every one stared at him without a word; and at onceevery one felt that something revolting, grotesque, positivelyscandalous, was about to happen. Miüsov passed immediately from themost benevolent frame of mind to the most savage. All the feelings thathad subsided and died down in his heart revived instantly.
“No! this I cannot endure!” he cried. “I absolutely cannot! and ... Icertainly cannot!”
The blood rushed to his head. He positively stammered; but he wasbeyond thinking of style, and he seized his hat.
“What is it he cannot?” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, “that he absolutelycannot and certainly cannot? Your reverence, am I to come in or not?Will you receive me as your guest?”
“You are welcome with all my heart,” answered the Superior.“Gentlemen!” he added, “I venture to beg you most earnestly to layaside your dissensions, and to be united in love and familyharmony—with prayer to the Lord at our humble table.”
“No, no, it is impossible!” cried Miüsov, beside himself.
“Well, if it is impossible for Pyotr Alexandrovitch, it is impossiblefor me, and I won’t stop. That is why I came. I will keep with PyotrAlexandrovitch everywhere now. If you will go away, PyotrAlexandrovitch, I will go away too, if you remain, I will remain. Youstung him by what you said about family harmony, Father Superior, hedoes not admit he is my relation. That’s right, isn’t it, von Sohn?Here’s von Sohn. How are you, von Sohn?”
“Do you mean me?” muttered Maximov, puzzled.
“Of course I mean you,” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch. “Who else? The FatherSuperior could not be von Sohn.”
“But I am not von Sohn either. I am Maximov.”
“No, you are von Sohn. Your reverence, do you know who von Sohn was? Itwas a famous murder case. He was killed in a house of harlotry—Ibelieve that is what such places are called among you—he was killed androbbed, and in spite of his venerable age, he was nailed up in a boxand sent from Petersburg to Moscow in the luggage van, and while theywere nailing him up, the harlots sang songs and played the harp, thatis to say, the piano. So this is that very von Sohn. He has risen fromthe dead, hasn’t he, von Sohn?”
“What is happening? What’s this?” voices were heard in the group ofmonks.
“Let us go,” cried Miüsov, addressing Kalganov.
“No, excuse me,” Fyodor Pavlovitch broke in shrilly, taking anotherstep into the room. “Allow me to finish. There in the cell you blamedme for behaving disrespectfully just because I spoke of eating gudgeon,Pyotr Alexandrovitch. Miüsov, my relation, prefers to have _plus denoblesse que de sincérité_ in his words, but I prefer in mine _plus desincérité que de noblesse_, and—damn the _noblesse_! That’s right,isn’t it, von Sohn? Allow me, Father Superior, though I am a buffoonand play the buffoon, yet I am the soul of honor, and I want to speakmy mind. Yes, I am the soul of honor, while in Pyotr Alexandrovitchthere is wounded vanity and nothing else. I came here perhaps to have alook and speak my mind. My son, Alexey, is here, being saved. I am hisfather; I care for his welfare, and it is my duty to care. While I’vebeen playing the fool, I have been listening and having a look on thesly; and now I want to give you the last act of the performance. Youknow how things are with us? As a thing falls, so it lies. As a thingonce has fallen, so it must lie for ever. Not a bit of it! I want toget up again. Holy Father, I am indignant with you. Confession is agreat sacrament, before which I am ready to bow down reverently; butthere in the cell, they all kneel down and confess aloud. Can it beright to confess aloud? It was ordained by the holy Fathers to confessin secret: then only your confession will be a mystery, and so it wasof old. But how can I explain to him before every one that I did thisand that ... well, you understand what—sometimes it would not be properto talk about it—so it is really a scandal! No, Fathers, one might becarried along with you to the Flagellants, I dare say ... at the firstopportunity I shall write to the Synod, and I shall take my son,Alexey, home.”
We must note here that Fyodor Pavlovitch knew where to look for theweak spot. There had been at one time malicious rumors which had evenreached the Archbishop (not only regarding our monastery, but in otherswhere the institution of elders existed) that too much respect was paidto the elders, even to the detriment of the authority of the Superior,that the elders abused the sacrament of confession and so on and soon—absurd charges which had died away of themselves everywhere. But thespirit of folly, which had caught up Fyodor Pavlovitch, and was bearinghim on the current of his own nerves into lower and lower depths ofignominy, prompted him with this old slander. Fyodor Pavlovitch did notunderstand a word of it, and he could not even put it sensibly, for onthis occasion no one had been kneeling and confessing aloud in theelder’s cell, so that he could not have seen anything of the kind. Hewas only speaking from confused memory of old slanders. But as soon ashe had uttered his foolish tirade, he felt he had been talking absurdnonsense, and at once longed to prove to his audience, and above all tohimself, that he had not been talking nonsense. And, though he knewperfectly well that with each word he would be adding more and moreabsurdity, he could not restrain himself, and plunged forward blindly.
“How disgraceful!” cried Pyotr Alexandrovitch.
“Pardon me!” said the Father Superior. “It was said of old, ‘Many havebegun to speak against me and have uttered evil sayings about me. Andhearing it I have said to myself: it is the correction of the Lord andHe has sent it to heal my vain soul.’ And so we humbly thank you,honored guest!” and he made Fyodor Pavlovitch a low bow.
“Tut—tut—tut—sanctimoniousness and stock phrases! Old phrases and oldgestures. The old lies and formal prostrations. We know all about them.A kiss on the lips and a dagger in the heart, as in Schiller’s_Robbers_. I don’t like falsehood, Fathers, I want the truth. But thetruth is not to be found in eating gudgeon and that I proclaim aloud!Father monks, why do you fast? Why do you expect reward in heaven forthat? Why, for reward like that I will come and fast too! No, saintlymonk, you try being virtuous in the world, do good to society, withoutshutting yourself up in a monastery at other people’s expense, andwithout expecting a reward up aloft for it—you’ll find that a bitharder. I can talk sense, too, Father Superior. What have they gothere?” He went up to the table. “Old port wine, mead brewed by theEliseyev Brothers. Fie, fie, fathers! That is something beyond gudgeon.Look at the bottles the fathers have brought out, he he he! And who hasprovided it all? The Russian peasant, the laborer, brings here thefarthing earned by his horny hand, wringing it from his family and thetax‐gatherer! You bleed the people, you know, holy fathers.”
“This is too disgraceful!” said Father Iosif.
Father Païssy kept obstinately silent. Miüsov rushed from the room, andKalganov after him.
“Well, Father, I will follow Pyotr Alexandrovitch! I am not coming tosee you again. You may beg me on your knees, I shan’t come. I sent youa thousand roubles, so you have begun to keep your eye on me. He he he!No, I’ll say no more. I am taking my revenge for my youth, for all thehumiliation I endured.” He thumped the table with his fist in aparoxysm of simulated feeling. “This monastery has played a great partin my life! It has cost me many bitter tears. You used to set my wife,the crazy one, against me. You cursed me with bell and book, you spreadstories about me all over the place. Enough, fathers! This is the ageof Liberalism, the age of steamers and railways. Neither a thousand,nor a hundred roubles, no, nor a hundred farthings will you get out ofme!”
It must be noted again that our monastery never had played any greatpart in his life, and he never had shed a bitter tear owing to it. Buthe was so carried away by his simulated emotion, that he was for onemoment almost believing it himself. He was so touched he was almostweeping. But at that very instant, he felt that it was time to drawback.
The Father Superior bowed his head at his malicious lie, and againspoke impressively:
“It is written again, ‘Bear circumspectly and gladly dishonor thatcometh upon thee by no act of thine own, be not confounded and hate nothim who hath dishonored thee.’ And so will we.”
“Tut, tut, tut! Bethinking thyself and the rest of the rigmarole.Bethink yourselves, Fathers, I will go. But I will take my son, Alexey,away from here for ever, on my parental authority. Ivan Fyodorovitch,my most dutiful son, permit me to order you to follow me. Von Sohn,what have you to stay for? Come and see me now in the town. It is funthere. It is only one short verst; instead of lenten oil, I will giveyou sucking‐pig and kasha. We will have dinner with some brandy andliqueur to it.... I’ve cloudberry wine. Hey, von Sohn, don’t lose yourchance.” He went out, shouting and gesticulating.
It was at that moment Rakitin saw him and pointed him out to Alyosha.
“Alexey!” his father shouted, from far off, catching sight of him. “Youcome home to me to‐day, for good, and bring your pillow and mattress,and leave no trace behind.”
Alyosha stood rooted to the spot, watching the scene in silence.Meanwhile, Fyodor Pavlovitch had got into the carriage, and Ivan wasabout to follow him in grim silence without even turning to say good‐byto Alyosha. But at this point another almost incredible scene ofgrotesque buffoonery gave the finishing touch to the episode. Maximovsuddenly appeared by the side of the carriage. He ran up, panting,afraid of being too late. Rakitin and Alyosha saw him running. He wasin such a hurry that in his impatience he put his foot on the step onwhich Ivan’s left foot was still resting, and clutching the carriage hekept trying to jump in. “I am going with you!” he kept shouting,laughing a thin mirthful laugh with a look of reckless glee in hisface. “Take me, too.”
“There!” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, delighted. “Did I not say he was vonSohn. It is von Sohn himself, risen from the dead. Why, how did youtear yourself away? What did you _vonsohn_ there? And how could you getaway from the dinner? You must be a brazen‐faced fellow! I am thatmyself, but I am surprised at you, brother! Jump in, jump in! Let himpass, Ivan. It will be fun. He can lie somewhere at our feet. Will youlie at our feet, von Sohn? Or perch on the box with the coachman. Skipon to the box, von Sohn!”
But Ivan, who had by now taken his seat, without a word gave Maximov aviolent punch in the breast and sent him flying. It was quite by chancehe did not fall.
“Drive on!” Ivan shouted angrily to the coachman.
“Why, what are you doing, what are you about? Why did you do that?”Fyodor Pavlovitch protested.
But the carriage had already driven away. Ivan made no reply.
“Well, you are a fellow,” Fyodor Pavlovitch said again.
After a pause of two minutes, looking askance at his son, “Why, it wasyou got up all this monastery business. You urged it, you approved ofit. Why are you angry now?”
“You’ve talked rot enough. You might rest a bit now,” Ivan snappedsullenly.
Fyodor Pavlovitch was silent again for two minutes.
“A drop of brandy would be nice now,” he observed sententiously, butIvan made no response.
“You shall have some, too, when we get home.”
Ivan was still silent.
Fyodor Pavlovitch waited another two minutes.
“But I shall take Alyosha away from the monastery, though you willdislike it so much, most honored Karl von Moor.”
Ivan shrugged his shoulders contemptuously, and turning away stared atthe road. And they did not speak again all the way home.



Book III. The Sensualists



Chapter I.In The Servants’ Quarters

The Karamazovs’ house was far from being in the center of the town, butit was not quite outside it. It was a pleasant‐looking old house of twostories, painted gray, with a red iron roof. It was roomy and snug, andmight still last many years. There were all sorts of unexpected littlecupboards and closets and staircases. There were rats in it, but FyodorPavlovitch did not altogether dislike them. “One doesn’t feel sosolitary when one’s left alone in the evening,” he used to say. It washis habit to send the servants away to the lodge for the night and tolock himself up alone. The lodge was a roomy and solid building in theyard. Fyodor Pavlovitch used to have the cooking done there, althoughthere was a kitchen in the house; he did not like the smell of cooking,and, winter and summer alike, the dishes were carried in across thecourtyard. The house was built for a large family; there was room forfive times as many, with their servants. But at the time of our storythere was no one living in the house but Fyodor Pavlovitch and his sonIvan. And in the lodge there were only three servants: old Grigory, andhis old wife Marfa, and a young man called Smerdyakov. Of these threewe must say a few words. Of old Grigory we have said something already.He was firm and determined and went blindly and obstinately for hisobject, if once he had been brought by any reasons (and they were oftenvery illogical ones) to believe that it was immutably right. He washonest and incorruptible. His wife, Marfa Ignatyevna, had obeyed herhusband’s will implicitly all her life, yet she had pestered himterribly after the emancipation of the serfs. She was set on leavingFyodor Pavlovitch and opening a little shop in Moscow with their smallsavings. But Grigory decided then, once for all, that “the woman’stalking nonsense, for every woman is dishonest,” and that they oughtnot to leave their old master, whatever he might be, for “that was nowtheir duty.”
“Do you understand what duty is?” he asked Marfa Ignatyevna.
“I understand what duty means, Grigory Vassilyevitch, but why it’s ourduty to stay here I never shall understand,” Marfa answered firmly.
“Well, don’t understand then. But so it shall be. And you hold yourtongue.”
And so it was. They did not go away, and Fyodor Pavlovitch promisedthem a small sum for wages, and paid it regularly. Grigory knew, too,that he had an indisputable influence over his master. It was true, andhe was aware of it. Fyodor Pavlovitch was an obstinate and cunningbuffoon, yet, though his will was strong enough “in some of the affairsof life,” as he expressed it, he found himself, to his surprise,extremely feeble in facing certain other emergencies. He knew hisweaknesses and was afraid of them. There are positions in which one hasto keep a sharp look out. And that’s not easy without a trustworthyman, and Grigory was a most trustworthy man. Many times in the courseof his life Fyodor Pavlovitch had only just escaped a sound thrashingthrough Grigory’s intervention, and on each occasion the old servantgave him a good lecture. But it wasn’t only thrashings that FyodorPavlovitch was afraid of. There were graver occasions, and very subtleand complicated ones, when Fyodor Pavlovitch could not have explainedthe extraordinary craving for some one faithful and devoted, whichsometimes unaccountably came upon him all in a moment. It was almost amorbid condition. Corrupt and often cruel in his lust, like somenoxious insect, Fyodor Pavlovitch was sometimes, in moments ofdrunkenness, overcome by superstitious terror and a moral convulsionwhich took an almost physical form. “My soul’s simply quaking in mythroat at those times,” he used to say. At such moments he liked tofeel that there was near at hand, in the lodge if not in the room, astrong, faithful man, virtuous and unlike himself, who had seen all hisdebauchery and knew all his secrets, but was ready in his devotion tooverlook all that, not to oppose him, above all, not to reproach him orthreaten him with anything, either in this world or in the next, and,in case of need, to defend him—from whom? From somebody unknown, butterrible and dangerous. What he needed was to feel that there was_another_ man, an old and tried friend, that he might call him in hissick moments merely to look at his face, or, perhaps, exchange somequite irrelevant words with him. And if the old servant were not angry,he felt comforted, and if he were angry, he was more dejected. Ithappened even (very rarely however) that Fyodor Pavlovitch went atnight to the lodge to wake Grigory and fetch him for a moment. When theold man came, Fyodor Pavlovitch would begin talking about the mosttrivial matters, and would soon let him go again, sometimes even with ajest. And after he had gone, Fyodor Pavlovitch would get into bed witha curse and sleep the sleep of the just. Something of the same sort hadhappened to Fyodor Pavlovitch on Alyosha’s arrival. Alyosha “piercedhis heart” by “living with him, seeing everything and blaming nothing.”Moreover, Alyosha brought with him something his father had never knownbefore: a complete absence of contempt for him and an invariablekindness, a perfectly natural unaffected devotion to the old man whodeserved it so little. All this was a complete surprise to the oldprofligate, who had dropped all family ties. It was a new andsurprising experience for him, who had till then loved nothing but“evil.” When Alyosha had left him, he confessed to himself that he hadlearnt something he had not till then been willing to learn.
I have mentioned already that Grigory had detested Adelaïda Ivanovna,the first wife of Fyodor Pavlovitch and the mother of Dmitri, and thathe had, on the contrary, protected Sofya Ivanovna, the poor “crazywoman,” against his master and any one who chanced to speak ill orlightly of her. His sympathy for the unhappy wife had become somethingsacred to him, so that even now, twenty years after, he could not beara slighting allusion to her from any one, and would at once check theoffender. Externally, Grigory was cold, dignified and taciturn, andspoke, weighing his words, without frivolity. It was impossible to tellat first sight whether he loved his meek, obedient wife; but he reallydid love her, and she knew it.
Marfa Ignatyevna was by no means foolish; she was probably, indeed,cleverer than her husband, or, at least, more prudent than he inworldly affairs, and yet she had given in to him in everything withoutquestion or complaint ever since her marriage, and respected him forhis spiritual superiority. It was remarkable how little they spoke toone another in the course of their lives, and only of the mostnecessary daily affairs. The grave and dignified Grigory thought overall his cares and duties alone, so that Marfa Ignatyevna had long grownused to knowing that he did not need her advice. She felt that herhusband respected her silence, and took it as a sign of her good sense.He had never beaten her but once, and then only slightly. Once duringthe year after Fyodor Pavlovitch’s marriage with Adelaïda Ivanovna, thevillage girls and women—at that time serfs—were called together beforethe house to sing and dance. They were beginning “In the GreenMeadows,” when Marfa, at that time a young woman, skipped forward anddanced “the Russian Dance,” not in the village fashion, but as she haddanced it when she was a servant in the service of the rich Miüsovfamily, in their private theater, where the actors were taught to danceby a dancing master from Moscow. Grigory saw how his wife danced, and,an hour later, at home in their cottage he gave her a lesson, pullingher hair a little. But there it ended: the beating was never repeated,and Marfa Ignatyevna gave up dancing.
God had not blessed them with children. One child was born but it died.Grigory was fond of children, and was not ashamed of showing it. WhenAdelaïda Ivanovna had run away, Grigory took Dmitri, then a child ofthree years old, combed his hair and washed him in a tub with his ownhands, and looked after him for almost a year. Afterwards he had lookedafter Ivan and Alyosha, for which the general’s widow had rewarded himwith a slap in the face; but I have already related all that. The onlyhappiness his own child had brought him had been in the anticipation ofits birth. When it was born, he was overwhelmed with grief and horror.The baby had six fingers. Grigory was so crushed by this, that he wasnot only silent till the day of the christening, but kept away in thegarden. It was spring, and he spent three days digging the kitchengarden. The third day was fixed for christening the baby: mean‐timeGrigory had reached a conclusion. Going into the cottage where theclergy were assembled and the visitors had arrived, including FyodorPavlovitch, who was to stand god‐ father, he suddenly announced thatthe baby “ought not to be christened at all.” He announced thisquietly, briefly, forcing out his words, and gazing with dullintentness at the priest.
“Why not?” asked the priest with good‐humored surprise.
“Because it’s a dragon,” muttered Grigory.
“A dragon? What dragon?”
Grigory did not speak for some time. “It’s a confusion of nature,” hemuttered vaguely, but firmly, and obviously unwilling to say more.
They laughed, and of course christened the poor baby. Grigory prayedearnestly at the font, but his opinion of the new‐born child remainedunchanged. Yet he did not interfere in any way. As long as the sicklyinfant lived he scarcely looked at it, tried indeed not to notice it,and for the most part kept out of the cottage. But when, at the end ofa fortnight, the baby died of thrush, he himself laid the child in itslittle coffin, looked at it in profound grief, and when they werefilling up the shallow little grave he fell on his knees and bowed downto the earth. He did not for years afterwards mention his child, nordid Marfa speak of the baby before him, and, even if Grigory were notpresent, she never spoke of it above a whisper. Marfa observed that,from the day of the burial, he devoted himself to “religion,” and tookto reading the _Lives of the Saints_, for the most part sitting aloneand in silence, and always putting on his big, round, silver‐rimmedspectacles. He rarely read aloud, only perhaps in Lent. He was fond ofthe Book of Job, and had somehow got hold of a copy of the sayings andsermons of “the God‐fearing Father Isaac the Syrian,” which he readpersistently for years together, understanding very little of it, butperhaps prizing and loving it the more for that. Of late he had begunto listen to the doctrines of the sect of Flagellants settled in theneighborhood. He was evidently shaken by them, but judged it unfittingto go over to the new faith. His habit of theological reading gave himan expression of still greater gravity.
He was perhaps predisposed to mysticism. And the birth of his deformedchild, and its death, had, as though by special design, beenaccompanied by another strange and marvelous event, which, as he saidlater, had left a “stamp” upon his soul. It happened that, on the verynight after the burial of his child, Marfa was awakened by the wail ofa new‐born baby. She was frightened and waked her husband. He listenedand said he thought it was more like some one groaning, “it might be awoman.” He got up and dressed. It was a rather warm night in May. As hewent down the steps, he distinctly heard groans coming from the garden.But the gate from the yard into the garden was locked at night, andthere was no other way of entering it, for it was enclosed all round bya strong, high fence. Going back into the house, Grigory lighted alantern, took the garden key, and taking no notice of the hystericalfears of his wife, who was still persuaded that she heard a childcrying, and that it was her own baby crying and calling for her, wentinto the garden in silence. There he heard at once that the groans camefrom the bath‐house that stood near the garden gate, and that they werethe groans of a woman. Opening the door of the bath‐house, he saw asight which petrified him. An idiot girl, who wandered about thestreets and was known to the whole town by the nickname of LizavetaSmerdyastchaya (Stinking Lizaveta), had got into the bath‐ house andhad just given birth to a child. She lay dying with the baby besideher. She said nothing, for she had never been able to speak. But herstory needs a chapter to itself.



Chapter II.Lizaveta

There was one circumstance which struck Grigory particularly, andconfirmed a very unpleasant and revolting suspicion. This Lizaveta wasa dwarfish creature, “not five foot within a wee bit,” as many of thepious old women said pathetically about her, after her death. Herbroad, healthy, red face had a look of blank idiocy and the fixed starein her eyes was unpleasant, in spite of their meek expression. Shewandered about, summer and winter alike, barefooted, wearing nothingbut a hempen smock. Her coarse, almost black hair curled like lamb’swool, and formed a sort of huge cap on her head. It was always crustedwith mud, and had leaves, bits of stick, and shavings clinging to it,as she always slept on the ground and in the dirt. Her father, ahomeless, sickly drunkard, called Ilya, had lost everything and livedmany years as a workman with some well‐to‐do tradespeople. Her motherhad long been dead. Spiteful and diseased, Ilya used to beat Lizavetainhumanly whenever she returned to him. But she rarely did so, forevery one in the town was ready to look after her as being an idiot,and so specially dear to God. Ilya’s employers, and many others in thetown, especially of the tradespeople, tried to clothe her better, andalways rigged her out with high boots and sheepskin coat for thewinter. But, although she allowed them to dress her up withoutresisting, she usually went away, preferably to the cathedral porch,and taking off all that had been given her—kerchief, sheepskin, skirtor boots—she left them there and walked away barefoot in her smock asbefore. It happened on one occasion that a new governor of theprovince, making a tour of inspection in our town, saw Lizaveta, andwas wounded in his tenderest susceptibilities. And though he was toldshe was an idiot, he pronounced that for a young woman of twenty towander about in nothing but a smock was a breach of the proprieties,and must not occur again. But the governor went his way, and Lizavetawas left as she was. At last her father died, which made her even moreacceptable in the eyes of the religious persons of the town, as anorphan. In fact, every one seemed to like her; even the boys did nottease her, and the boys of our town, especially the schoolboys, are amischievous set. She would walk into strange houses, and no one droveher away. Every one was kind to her and gave her something. If she weregiven a copper, she would take it, and at once drop it in the alms‐jugof the church or prison. If she were given a roll or bun in the market,she would hand it to the first child she met. Sometimes she would stopone of the richest ladies in the town and give it to her, and the ladywould be pleased to take it. She herself never tasted anything butblack bread and water. If she went into an expensive shop, where therewere costly goods or money lying about, no one kept watch on her, forthey knew that if she saw thousands of roubles overlooked by them, shewould not have touched a farthing. She scarcely ever went to church.She slept either in the church porch or climbed over a hurdle (thereare many hurdles instead of fences to this day in our town) into akitchen garden. She used at least once a week to turn up “at home,”that is at the house of her father’s former employers, and in thewinter went there every night, and slept either in the passage or thecowhouse. People were amazed that she could stand such a life, but shewas accustomed to it, and, although she was so tiny, she was of arobust constitution. Some of the townspeople declared that she did allthis only from pride, but that is hardly credible. She could hardlyspeak, and only from time to time uttered an inarticulate grunt. Howcould she have been proud?
It happened one clear, warm, moonlight night in September (many yearsago) five or six drunken revelers were returning from the club at avery late hour, according to our provincial notions. They passedthrough the “back‐ way,” which led between the back gardens of thehouses, with hurdles on either side. This way leads out on to thebridge over the long, stinking pool which we were accustomed to call ariver. Among the nettles and burdocks under the hurdle our revelers sawLizaveta asleep. They stopped to look at her, laughing, and beganjesting with unbridled licentiousness. It occurred to one younggentleman to make the whimsical inquiry whether any one could possiblylook upon such an animal as a woman, and so forth.... They allpronounced with lofty repugnance that it was impossible. But FyodorPavlovitch, who was among them, sprang forward and declared that it wasby no means impossible, and that, indeed, there was a certain piquancyabout it, and so on.... It is true that at that time he was overdoinghis part as a buffoon. He liked to put himself forward and entertainthe company, ostensibly on equal terms, of course, though in reality hewas on a servile footing with them. It was just at the time when he hadreceived the news of his first wife’s death in Petersburg, and, withcrape upon his hat, was drinking and behaving so shamelessly that eventhe most reckless among us were shocked at the sight of him. Therevelers, of course, laughed at this unexpected opinion; and one ofthem even began challenging him to act upon it. The others repelled theidea even more emphatically, although still with the utmost hilarity,and at last they went on their way. Later on, Fyodor Pavlovitch sworethat he had gone with them, and perhaps it was so, no one knows forcertain, and no one ever knew. But five or six months later, all thetown was talking, with intense and sincere indignation, of Lizaveta’scondition, and trying to find out who was the miscreant who had wrongedher. Then suddenly a terrible rumor was all over the town that thismiscreant was no other than Fyodor Pavlovitch. Who set the rumor going?Of that drunken band five had left the town and the only one stillamong us was an elderly and much respected civil councilor, the fatherof grown‐up daughters, who could hardly have spread the tale, even ifthere had been any foundation for it. But rumor pointed straight atFyodor Pavlovitch, and persisted in pointing at him. Of course this wasno great grievance to him: he would not have troubled to contradict aset of tradespeople. In those days he was proud, and did not condescendto talk except in his own circle of the officials and nobles, whom heentertained so well.
At the time, Grigory stood up for his master vigorously. He provokedquarrels and altercations in defense of him and succeeded in bringingsome people round to his side. “It’s the wench’s own fault,” heasserted, and the culprit was Karp, a dangerous convict, who hadescaped from prison and whose name was well known to us, as he hadhidden in our town. This conjecture sounded plausible, for it wasremembered that Karp had been in the neighborhood just at that time inthe autumn, and had robbed three people. But this affair and all thetalk about it did not estrange popular sympathy from the poor idiot.She was better looked after than ever. A well‐to‐do merchant’s widownamed Kondratyev arranged to take her into her house at the end ofApril, meaning not to let her go out until after the confinement. Theykept a constant watch over her, but in spite of their vigilance sheescaped on the very last day, and made her way into Fyodor Pavlovitch’sgarden. How, in her condition, she managed to climb over the high,strong fence remained a mystery. Some maintained that she must havebeen lifted over by somebody; others hinted at something more uncanny.The most likely explanation is that it happened naturally—thatLizaveta, accustomed to clambering over hurdles to sleep in gardens,had somehow managed to climb this fence, in spite of her condition, andhad leapt down, injuring herself.
Grigory rushed to Marfa and sent her to Lizaveta, while he ran to fetchan old midwife who lived close by. They saved the baby, but Lizavetadied at dawn. Grigory took the baby, brought it home, and making hiswife sit down, put it on her lap. “A child of God—an orphan is akin toall,” he said, “and to us above others. Our little lost one has sent usthis, who has come from the devil’s son and a holy innocent. Nurse himand weep no more.”
So Marfa brought up the child. He was christened Pavel, to which peoplewere not slow in adding Fyodorovitch (son of Fyodor). Fyodor Pavlovitchdid not object to any of this, and thought it amusing, though hepersisted vigorously in denying his responsibility. The townspeoplewere pleased at his adopting the foundling. Later on, Fyodor Pavlovitchinvented a surname for the child, calling him Smerdyakov, after hismother’s nickname.
So this Smerdyakov became Fyodor Pavlovitch’s second servant, and wasliving in the lodge with Grigory and Marfa at the time our storybegins. He was employed as cook. I ought to say something of thisSmerdyakov, but I am ashamed of keeping my readers’ attention so longoccupied with these common menials, and I will go back to my story,hoping to say more of Smerdyakov in the course of it.



Chapter III.The Confession Of A Passionate Heart—In Verse

Alyosha remained for some time irresolute after hearing the command hisfather shouted to him from the carriage. But in spite of his uneasinesshe did not stand still. That was not his way. He went at once to thekitchen to find out what his father had been doing above. Then he setoff, trusting that on the way he would find some answer to the doubttormenting him. I hasten to add that his father’s shouts, commandinghim to return home “with his mattress and pillow” did not frighten himin the least. He understood perfectly that those peremptory shouts weremerely “a flourish” to produce an effect. In the same way a tradesmanin our town who was celebrating his name‐day with a party of friends,getting angry at being refused more vodka, smashed up his own crockeryand furniture and tore his own and his wife’s clothes, and finallybroke his windows, all for the sake of effect. Next day, of course,when he was sober, he regretted the broken cups and saucers. Alyoshaknew that his father would let him go back to the monastery next day,possibly even that evening. Moreover, he was fully persuaded that hisfather might hurt any one else, but would not hurt him. Alyosha wascertain that no one in the whole world ever would want to hurt him,and, what is more, he knew that no one could hurt him. This was for himan axiom, assumed once for all without question, and he went his waywithout hesitation, relying on it.
But at that moment an anxiety of a different sort disturbed him, andworried him the more because he could not formulate it. It was the fearof a woman, of Katerina Ivanovna, who had so urgently entreated him inthe note handed to him by Madame Hohlakov to come and see her aboutsomething. This request and the necessity of going had at once arousedan uneasy feeling in his heart, and this feeling had grown more andmore painful all the morning in spite of the scenes at the hermitageand at the Father Superior’s. He was not uneasy because he did not knowwhat she would speak of and what he must answer. And he was not afraidof her simply as a woman. Though he knew little of women, he had spenthis life, from early childhood till he entered the monastery, entirelywith women. He was afraid of that woman, Katerina Ivanovna. He had beenafraid of her from the first time he saw her. He had only seen her twoor three times, and had only chanced to say a few words to her. Hethought of her as a beautiful, proud, imperious girl. It was not herbeauty which troubled him, but something else. And the vagueness of hisapprehension increased the apprehension itself. The girl’s aims were ofthe noblest, he knew that. She was trying to save his brother Dmitrisimply through generosity, though he had already behaved badly to her.Yet, although Alyosha recognized and did justice to all these fine andgenerous sentiments, a shiver began to run down his back as soon as hedrew near her house.
He reflected that he would not find Ivan, who was so intimate a friend,with her, for Ivan was certainly now with his father. Dmitri he waseven more certain not to find there, and he had a foreboding of thereason. And so his conversation would be with her alone. He had a greatlonging to run and see his brother Dmitri before that fatefulinterview. Without showing him the letter, he could talk to him aboutit. But Dmitri lived a long way off, and he was sure to be away fromhome too. Standing still for a minute, he reached a final decision.Crossing himself with a rapid and accustomed gesture, and at oncesmiling, he turned resolutely in the direction of his terrible lady.
He knew her house. If he went by the High Street and then across themarket‐place, it was a long way round. Though our town is small, it isscattered, and the houses are far apart. And meanwhile his father wasexpecting him, and perhaps had not yet forgotten his command. He mightbe unreasonable, and so he had to make haste to get there and back. Sohe decided to take a short cut by the back‐way, for he knew every inchof the ground. This meant skirting fences, climbing over hurdles, andcrossing other people’s back‐yards, where every one he met knew him andgreeted him. In this way he could reach the High Street in half thetime.
He had to pass the garden adjoining his father’s, and belonging to alittle tumbledown house with four windows. The owner of this house, asAlyosha knew, was a bedridden old woman, living with her daughter, whohad been a genteel maid‐servant in generals’ families in Petersburg.Now she had been at home a year, looking after her sick mother. Shealways dressed up in fine clothes, though her old mother and she hadsunk into such poverty that they went every day to Fyodor Pavlovitch’skitchen for soup and bread, which Marfa gave readily. Yet, though theyoung woman came up for soup, she had never sold any of her dresses,and one of these even had a long train—a fact which Alyosha had learnedfrom Rakitin, who always knew everything that was going on in the town.He had forgotten it as soon as he heard it, but now, on reaching thegarden, he remembered the dress with the train, raised his head, whichhad been bowed in thought, and came upon something quite unexpected.
Over the hurdle in the garden, Dmitri, mounted on something, wasleaning forward, gesticulating violently, beckoning to him, obviouslyafraid to utter a word for fear of being overheard. Alyosha ran up tothe hurdle.
“It’s a good thing you looked up. I was nearly shouting to you,” Mityasaid in a joyful, hurried whisper. “Climb in here quickly! How splendidthat you’ve come! I was just thinking of you!”
Alyosha was delighted too, but he did not know how to get over thehurdle. Mitya put his powerful hand under his elbow to help him jump.Tucking up his cassock, Alyosha leapt over the hurdle with the agilityof a bare‐ legged street urchin.
“Well done! Now come along,” said Mitya in an enthusiastic whisper.
“Where?” whispered Alyosha, looking about him and finding himself in adeserted garden with no one near but themselves. The garden was small,but the house was at least fifty paces away.
“There’s no one here. Why do you whisper?” asked Alyosha.
“Why do I whisper? Deuce take it!” cried Dmitri at the top of hisvoice. “You see what silly tricks nature plays one. I am here insecret, and on the watch. I’ll explain later on, but, knowing it’s asecret, I began whispering like a fool, when there’s no need. Let usgo. Over there. Till then be quiet. I want to kiss you.
Glory to God in the world,Glory to God in me ...

I was just repeating that, sitting here, before you came.”
The garden was about three acres in extent, and planted with trees onlyalong the fence at the four sides. There were apple‐trees, maples,limes and birch‐trees. The middle of the garden was an empty grassspace, from which several hundredweight of hay was carried in thesummer. The garden was let out for a few roubles for the summer. Therewere also plantations of raspberries and currants and gooseberries laidout along the sides; a kitchen garden had been planted lately near thehouse.
Dmitri led his brother to the most secluded corner of the garden.There, in a thicket of lime‐trees and old bushes of black currant,elder, snowball‐tree, and lilac, there stood a tumble‐down greensummer‐house, blackened with age. Its walls were of lattice‐work, butthere was still a roof which could give shelter. God knows when thissummer‐house was built. There was a tradition that it had been put upsome fifty years before by a retired colonel called von Schmidt, whoowned the house at that time. It was all in decay, the floor wasrotting, the planks were loose, the woodwork smelled musty. In thesummer‐house there was a green wooden table fixed in the ground, andround it were some green benches upon which it was still possible tosit. Alyosha had at once observed his brother’s exhilarated condition,and on entering the arbor he saw half a bottle of brandy and awineglass on the table.
“That’s brandy,” Mitya laughed. “I see your look: ‘He’s drinkingagain!’ Distrust the apparition.
Distrust the worthless, lying crowd,And lay aside thy doubts.

I’m not drinking, I’m only ‘indulging,’ as that pig, your Rakitin,says. He’ll be a civil councilor one day, but he’ll always talk about‘indulging.’ Sit down. I could take you in my arms, Alyosha, and pressyou to my bosom till I crush you, for in the whole world—in reality—inre‐al‐ i‐ty—(can you take it in?) I love no one but you!”
He uttered the last words in a sort of exaltation.
“No one but you and one ‘jade’ I have fallen in love with, to my ruin.But being in love doesn’t mean loving. You may be in love with a womanand yet hate her. Remember that! I can talk about it gayly still. Sitdown here by the table and I’ll sit beside you and look at you, and goon talking. You shall keep quiet and I’ll go on talking, for the timehas come. But on reflection, you know, I’d better speak quietly, forhere—here—you can never tell what ears are listening. I will explaineverything; as they say, ‘the story will be continued.’ Why have I beenlonging for you? Why have I been thirsting for you all these days, andjust now? (It’s five days since I’ve cast anchor here.) Because it’sonly to you I can tell everything; because I must, because I need you,because to‐morrow I shall fly from the clouds, because to‐morrow lifeis ending and beginning. Have you ever felt, have you ever dreamt offalling down a precipice into a pit? That’s just how I’m falling, butnot in a dream. And I’m not afraid, and don’t you be afraid. At least,I am afraid, but I enjoy it. It’s not enjoyment though, but ecstasy.Damn it all, whatever it is! A strong spirit, a weak spirit, a womanishspirit—whatever it is! Let us praise nature: you see what sunshine, howclear the sky is, the leaves are all green, it’s still summer; fouro’clock in the afternoon and the stillness! Where were you going?”
“I was going to father’s, but I meant to go to Katerina Ivanovna’sfirst.”
“To her, and to father! Oo! what a coincidence! Why was I waiting foryou? Hungering and thirsting for you in every cranny of my soul andeven in my ribs? Why, to send you to father and to her, KaterinaIvanovna, so as to have done with her and with father. To send anangel. I might have sent any one, but I wanted to send an angel. Andhere you are on your way to see father and her.”
“Did you really mean to send me?” cried Alyosha with a distressedexpression.
“Stay! You knew it! And I see you understand it all at once. But bequiet, be quiet for a time. Don’t be sorry, and don’t cry.”
Dmitri stood up, thought a moment, and put his finger to his forehead.
“She’s asked you, written to you a letter or something, that’s whyyou’re going to her? You wouldn’t be going except for that?”
“Here is her note.” Alyosha took it out of his pocket. Mitya lookedthrough it quickly.
“And you were going the back‐way! Oh, gods, I thank you for sending himby the back‐way, and he came to me like the golden fish to the sillyold fishermen in the fable! Listen, Alyosha, listen, brother! Now Imean to tell you everything, for I must tell some one. An angel inheaven I’ve told already; but I want to tell an angel on earth. You arean angel on earth. You will hear and judge and forgive. And that’s whatI need, that some one above me should forgive. Listen! If two peoplebreak away from everything on earth and fly off into the unknown, or atleast one of them, and before flying off or going to ruin he comes tosome one else and says, ‘Do this for me’—some favor never asked beforethat could only be asked on one’s deathbed—would that other refuse, ifhe were a friend or a brother?”
“I will do it, but tell me what it is, and make haste,” said Alyosha.
“Make haste! H’m!... Don’t be in a hurry, Alyosha, you hurry and worryyourself. There’s no need to hurry now. Now the world has taken a newturning. Ah, Alyosha, what a pity you can’t understand ecstasy. Butwhat am I saying to him? As though you didn’t understand it. What anass I am! What am I saying? ‘Be noble, O man!’—who says that?”
Alyosha made up his mind to wait. He felt that, perhaps, indeed, hiswork lay here. Mitya sank into thought for a moment, with his elbow onthe table and his head in his hand. Both were silent.
“Alyosha,” said Mitya, “you’re the only one who won’t laugh. I shouldlike to begin—my confession—with Schiller’s _Hymn to Joy_, _An dieFreude_! I don’t know German, I only know it’s called that. Don’t thinkI’m talking nonsense because I’m drunk. I’m not a bit drunk. Brandy’sall very well, but I need two bottles to make me drunk:
Silenus with his rosy phizUpon his stumbling ass.

But I’ve not drunk a quarter of a bottle, and I’m not Silenus. I’m notSilenus, though I am strong,[1] for I’ve made a decision once for all.Forgive me the pun; you’ll have to forgive me a lot more than punsto‐day. Don’t be uneasy. I’m not spinning it out. I’m talking sense,and I’ll come to the point in a minute. I won’t keep you in suspense.Stay, how does it go?”
He raised his head, thought a minute, and began with enthusiasm:
“Wild and fearful in his cavernHid the naked troglodyte,And the homeless nomad wanderedLaying waste the fertile plain.Menacing with spear and arrowIn the woods the hunter strayed....Woe to all poor wretches strandedOn those cruel and hostile shores!
“From the peak of high OlympusCame the mother Ceres down,Seeking in those savage regionsHer lost daughter Proserpine.But the Goddess found no refuge,Found no kindly welcome there,And no temple bearing witnessTo the worship of the gods.
“From the fields and from the vineyardsCame no fruits to deck the feasts,Only flesh of bloodstained victimsSmoldered on the altar‐fires,And where’er the grieving goddessTurns her melancholy gaze,Sunk in vilest degradationMan his loathsomeness displays.”

Mitya broke into sobs and seized Alyosha’s hand.
“My dear, my dear, in degradation, in degradation now, too. There’s aterrible amount of suffering for man on earth, a terrible lot oftrouble. Don’t think I’m only a brute in an officer’s uniform,wallowing in dirt and drink. I hardly think of anything but of thatdegraded man—if only I’m not lying. I pray God I’m not lying andshowing off. I think about that man because I am that man myself.
Would he purge his soul from vilenessAnd attain to light and worth,He must turn and cling for everTo his ancient Mother Earth.

But the difficulty is how am I to cling for ever to Mother Earth. Idon’t kiss her. I don’t cleave to her bosom. Am I to become a peasantor a shepherd? I go on and I don’t know whether I’m going to shame orto light and joy. That’s the trouble, for everything in the world is ariddle! And whenever I’ve happened to sink into the vilest degradation(and it’s always been happening) I always read that poem about Ceresand man. Has it reformed me? Never! For I’m a Karamazov. For when I doleap into the pit, I go headlong with my heels up, and am pleased to befalling in that degrading attitude, and pride myself upon it. And inthe very depths of that degradation I begin a hymn of praise. Let me beaccursed. Let me be vile and base, only let me kiss the hem of the veilin which my God is shrouded. Though I may be following the devil, I amThy son, O Lord, and I love Thee, and I feel the joy without which theworld cannot stand.
Joy everlasting fosterethThe soul of all creation,It is her secret ferment firesThe cup of life with flame.’Tis at her beck the grass hath turnedEach blade towards the lightAnd solar systems have evolvedFrom chaos and dark night,Filling the realms of boundless spaceBeyond the sage’s sight.At bounteous Nature’s kindly breast,All things that breathe drink Joy,And birds and beasts and creeping thingsAll follow where She leads.Her gifts to man are friends in need,The wreath, the foaming must,To angels—vision of God’s throne,To insects—sensual lust.

But enough poetry! I am in tears; let me cry. It may be foolishnessthat every one would laugh at. But you won’t laugh. Your eyes areshining, too. Enough poetry. I want to tell you now about the insectsto whom God gave “sensual lust.”
To insects—sensual lust.

I am that insect, brother, and it is said of me specially. All weKaramazovs are such insects, and, angel as you are, that insect livesin you, too, and will stir up a tempest in your blood. Tempests,because sensual lust is a tempest—worse than a tempest! Beauty is aterrible and awful thing! It is terrible because it has not beenfathomed and never can be fathomed, for God sets us nothing butriddles. Here the boundaries meet and all contradictions exist side byside. I am not a cultivated man, brother, but I’ve thought a lot aboutthis. It’s terrible what mysteries there are! Too many riddles weighmen down on earth. We must solve them as we can, and try to keep a dryskin in the water. Beauty! I can’t endure the thought that a man oflofty mind and heart begins with the ideal of the Madonna and ends withthe ideal of Sodom. What’s still more awful is that a man with theideal of Sodom in his soul does not renounce the ideal of the Madonna,and his heart may be on fire with that ideal, genuinely on fire, justas in his days of youth and innocence. Yes, man is broad, too broad,indeed. I’d have him narrower. The devil only knows what to make of it!What to the mind is shameful is beauty and nothing else to the heart.Is there beauty in Sodom? Believe me, that for the immense mass ofmankind beauty is found in Sodom. Did you know that secret? The awfulthing is that beauty is mysterious as well as terrible. God and thedevil are fighting there and the battlefield is the heart of man. But aman always talks of his own ache. Listen, now to come to facts.”



Chapter IV.The Confession Of A Passionate Heart—In Anecdote

“I was leading a wild life then. Father said just now that I spentseveral thousand roubles in seducing young girls. That’s a swinishinvention, and there was nothing of the sort. And if there was, Ididn’t need money simply for _that_. With me money is an accessory, theoverflow of my heart, the framework. To‐day she would be my lady,to‐morrow a wench out of the streets in her place. I entertained themboth. I threw away money by the handful on music, rioting, and gypsies.Sometimes I gave it to the ladies, too, for they’ll take it greedily,that must be admitted, and be pleased and thankful for it. Ladies usedto be fond of me: not all of them, but it happened, it happened. But Ialways liked side‐paths, little dark back‐alleys behind the mainroad—there one finds adventures and surprises, and precious metal inthe dirt. I am speaking figuratively, brother. In the town I was in,there were no such back‐alleys in the literal sense, but morally therewere. If you were like me, you’d know what that means. I loved vice, Iloved the ignominy of vice. I loved cruelty; am I not a bug, am I not anoxious insect? In fact a Karamazov! Once we went, a whole lot of us,for a picnic, in seven sledges. It was dark, it was winter, and I begansqueezing a girl’s hand, and forced her to kiss me. She was thedaughter of an official, a sweet, gentle, submissive creature. Sheallowed me, she allowed me much in the dark. She thought, poor thing,that I should come next day to make her an offer (I was looked upon asa good match, too). But I didn’t say a word to her for five months. Iused to see her in a corner at dances (we were always having dances),her eyes watching me. I saw how they glowed with fire—a fire of gentleindignation. This game only tickled that insect lust I cherished in mysoul. Five months later she married an official and left the town,still angry, and still, perhaps, in love with me. Now they livehappily. Observe that I told no one. I didn’t boast of it. Though I’mfull of low desires, and love what’s low, I’m not dishonorable. You’reblushing; your eyes flashed. Enough of this filth with you. And allthis was nothing much—wayside blossoms _à la_ Paul de Kock—though thecruel insect had already grown strong in my soul. I’ve a perfect albumof reminiscences, brother. God bless them, the darlings. I tried tobreak it off without quarreling. And I never gave them away. I neverbragged of one of them. But that’s enough. You can’t suppose I broughtyou here simply to talk of such nonsense. No, I’m going to tell yousomething more curious; and don’t be surprised that I’m glad to tellyou, instead of being ashamed.”
“You say that because I blushed,” Alyosha said suddenly. “I wasn’tblushing at what you were saying or at what you’ve done. I blushedbecause I am the same as you are.”
“You? Come, that’s going a little too far!”
“No, it’s not too far,” said Alyosha warmly (obviously the idea was nota new one). “The ladder’s the same. I’m at the bottom step, and you’reabove, somewhere about the thirteenth. That’s how I see it. But it’sall the same. Absolutely the same in kind. Any one on the bottom stepis bound to go up to the top one.”
“Then one ought not to step on at all.”
“Any one who can help it had better not.”
“But can you?”
“I think not.”
“Hush, Alyosha, hush, darling! I could kiss your hand, you touch me so.That rogue Grushenka has an eye for men. She told me once that she’ddevour you one day. There, there, I won’t! From this field ofcorruption fouled by flies, let’s pass to my tragedy, also befouled byflies, that is by every sort of vileness. Although the old man toldlies about my seducing innocence, there really was something of thesort in my tragedy, though it was only once, and then it did not comeoff. The old man who has reproached me with what never happened doesnot even know of this fact; I never told any one about it. You’re thefirst, except Ivan, of course—Ivan knows everything. He knew about itlong before you. But Ivan’s a tomb.”
“Ivan’s a tomb?”
“Yes.”
Alyosha listened with great attention.
“I was lieutenant in a line regiment, but still I was undersupervision, like a kind of convict. Yet I was awfully well received inthe little town. I spent money right and left. I was thought to berich; I thought so myself. But I must have pleased them in other waysas well. Although they shook their heads over me, they liked me. Mycolonel, who was an old man, took a sudden dislike to me. He was alwaysdown upon me, but I had powerful friends, and, moreover, all the townwas on my side, so he couldn’t do me much harm. I was in fault myselffor refusing to treat him with proper respect. I was proud. Thisobstinate old fellow, who was really a very good sort, kind‐hearted andhospitable, had had two wives, both dead. His first wife, who was of ahumble family, left a daughter as unpretentious as herself. She was ayoung woman of four and twenty when I was there, and was living withher father and an aunt, her mother’s sister. The aunt was simple andilliterate; the niece was simple but lively. I like to say nice thingsabout people. I never knew a woman of more charming character thanAgafya—fancy, her name was Agafya Ivanovna! And she wasn’t bad‐lookingeither, in the Russian style: tall, stout, with a full figure, andbeautiful eyes, though a rather coarse face. She had not married,although she had had two suitors. She refused them, but was as cheerfulas ever. I was intimate with her, not in ‘that’ way, it was purefriendship. I have often been friendly with women quite innocently. Iused to talk to her with shocking frankness, and she only laughed. Manywomen like such freedom, and she was a girl too, which made it veryamusing. Another thing, one could never think of her as a young lady.She and her aunt lived in her father’s house with a sort of voluntaryhumility, not putting themselves on an equality with other people. Shewas a general favorite, and of use to every one, for she was a cleverdressmaker. She had a talent for it. She gave her services freelywithout asking for payment, but if any one offered her payment, shedidn’t refuse. The colonel, of course, was a very different matter. Hewas one of the chief personages in the district. He kept open house,entertained the whole town, gave suppers and dances. At the time Iarrived and joined the battalion, all the town was talking of theexpected return of the colonel’s second daughter, a great beauty, whohad just left a fashionable school in the capital. This second daughteris Katerina Ivanovna, and she was the child of the second wife, whobelonged to a distinguished general’s family; although, as I learnt ongood authority, she too brought the colonel no money. She hadconnections, and that was all. There may have been expectations, butthey had come to nothing.
“Yet, when the young lady came from boarding‐school on a visit, thewhole town revived. Our most distinguished ladies—two ‘Excellencies’and a colonel’s wife—and all the rest following their lead, at oncetook her up and gave entertainments in her honor. She was the belle ofthe balls and picnics, and they got up _tableaux vivants_ in aid ofdistressed governesses. I took no notice, I went on as wildly asbefore, and one of my exploits at the time set all the town talking. Isaw her eyes taking my measure one evening at the battery commander’s,but I didn’t go up to her, as though I disdained her acquaintance. Idid go up and speak to her at an evening party not long after. Shescarcely looked at me, and compressed her lips scornfully. ‘Wait a bit.I’ll have my revenge,’ thought I. I behaved like an awful fool on manyoccasions at that time, and I was conscious of it myself. What made itworse was that I felt that ‘Katenka’ was not an innocentboarding‐school miss, but a person of character, proud and reallyhigh‐principled; above all, she had education and intellect, and I hadneither. You think I meant to make her an offer? No, I simply wanted torevenge myself, because I was such a hero and she didn’t seem to feelit.
“Meanwhile, I spent my time in drink and riot, till thelieutenant‐colonel put me under arrest for three days. Just at thattime father sent me six thousand roubles in return for my sending him adeed giving up all claims upon him—settling our accounts, so to speak,and saying that I wouldn’t expect anything more. I didn’t understand aword of it at the time. Until I came here, Alyosha, till the last fewdays, indeed, perhaps even now, I haven’t been able to make head ortail of my money affairs with father. But never mind that, we’ll talkof it later.
“Just as I received the money, I got a letter from a friend telling mesomething that interested me immensely. The authorities, I learnt, weredissatisfied with our lieutenant‐colonel. He was suspected ofirregularities; in fact, his enemies were preparing a surprise for him.And then the commander of the division arrived, and kicked up the devilof a shindy. Shortly afterwards he was ordered to retire. I won’t tellyou how it all happened. He had enemies certainly. Suddenly there was amarked coolness in the town towards him and all his family. His friendsall turned their backs on him. Then I took my first step. I met AgafyaIvanovna, with whom I’d always kept up a friendship, and said, ‘Do youknow there’s a deficit of 4,500 roubles of government money in yourfather’s accounts?’
“ ‘What do you mean? What makes you say so? The general was here notlong ago, and everything was all right.’
“ ‘Then it was, but now it isn’t.’
“She was terribly scared.
“ ‘Don’t frighten me!’ she said. ‘Who told you so?’
“ ‘Don’t be uneasy,’ I said, ‘I won’t tell any one. You know I’m assilent as the tomb. I only wanted, in view of “possibilities,” to add,that when they demand that 4,500 roubles from your father, and he can’tproduce it, he’ll be tried, and made to serve as a common soldier inhis old age, unless you like to send me your young lady secretly. I’vejust had money paid me. I’ll give her four thousand, if you like, andkeep the secret religiously.’
“ ‘Ah, you scoundrel!’—that’s what she said. ‘You wicked scoundrel! Howdare you!’
“She went away furiously indignant, while I shouted after her once morethat the secret should be kept sacred. Those two simple creatures,Agafya and her aunt, I may as well say at once, behaved like perfectangels all through this business. They genuinely adored their ‘Katya,’thought her far above them, and waited on her, hand and foot. ButAgafya told her of our conversation. I found that out afterwards. Shedidn’t keep it back, and of course that was all I wanted.
“Suddenly the new major arrived to take command of the battalion. Theold lieutenant‐colonel was taken ill at once, couldn’t leave his roomfor two days, and didn’t hand over the government money. Dr. Kravchenkodeclared that he really was ill. But I knew for a fact, and had knownfor a long time, that for the last four years the money had never beenin his hands except when the Commander made his visits of inspection.He used to lend it to a trustworthy person, a merchant of our towncalled Trifonov, an old widower, with a big beard and gold‐rimmedspectacles. He used to go to the fair, do a profitable business withthe money, and return the whole sum to the colonel, bringing with it apresent from the fair, as well as interest on the loan. But this time(I heard all about it quite by chance from Trifonov’s son and heir, adriveling youth and one of the most vicious in the world)—this time, Isay, Trifonov brought nothing back from the fair. Thelieutenant‐colonel flew to him. ‘I’ve never received any money fromyou, and couldn’t possibly have received any.’ That was all the answerhe got. So now our lieutenant‐colonel is confined to the house, with atowel round his head, while they’re all three busy putting ice on it.All at once an orderly arrives on the scene with the book and the orderto ‘hand over the battalion money immediately, within two hours.’ Hesigned the book (I saw the signature in the book afterwards), stood up,saying he would put on his uniform, ran to his bedroom, loaded hisdouble‐barreled gun with a service bullet, took the boot off his rightfoot, fixed the gun against his chest, and began feeling for thetrigger with his foot. But Agafya, remembering what I had told her, hadher suspicions. She stole up and peeped into the room just in time. Sherushed in, flung herself upon him from behind, threw her arms roundhim, and the gun went off, hit the ceiling, but hurt no one. The othersran in, took away the gun, and held him by the arms. I heard all aboutthis afterwards. I was at home, it was getting dusk, and I was justpreparing to go out. I had dressed, brushed my hair, scented myhandkerchief, and taken up my cap, when suddenly the door opened, andfacing me in the room stood Katerina Ivanovna.
“It’s strange how things happen sometimes. No one had seen her in thestreet, so that no one knew of it in the town. I lodged with twodecrepit old ladies, who looked after me. They were most obliging oldthings, ready to do anything for me, and at my request were as silentafterwards as two cast‐iron posts. Of course I grasped the position atonce. She walked in and looked straight at me, her dark eyesdetermined, even defiant, but on her lips and round her mouth I sawuncertainty.
“ ‘My sister told me,’ she began, ‘that you would give me 4,500 roublesif I came to you for it—myself. I have come ... give me the money!’
“She couldn’t keep it up. She was breathless, frightened, her voicefailed her, and the corners of her mouth and the lines round itquivered. Alyosha, are you listening, or are you asleep?”
“Mitya, I know you will tell the whole truth,” said Alyosha inagitation.
“I am telling it. If I tell the whole truth just as it happened Ishan’t spare myself. My first idea was a—Karamazov one. Once I wasbitten by a centipede, brother, and laid up a fortnight with fever fromit. Well, I felt a centipede biting at my heart then—a noxious insect,you understand? I looked her up and down. You’ve seen her? She’s abeauty. But she was beautiful in another way then. At that moment shewas beautiful because she was noble, and I was a scoundrel; she in allthe grandeur of her generosity and sacrifice for her father, and I—abug! And, scoundrel as I was, she was altogether at my mercy, body andsoul. She was hemmed in. I tell you frankly, that thought, thatvenomous thought, so possessed my heart that it almost swooned withsuspense. It seemed as if there could be no resisting it; as though Ishould act like a bug, like a venomous spider, without a spark of pity.I could scarcely breathe. Understand, I should have gone next day toask for her hand, so that it might end honorably, so to speak, and thatnobody would or could know. For though I’m a man of base desires, I’mhonest. And at that very second some voice seemed to whisper in my ear,‘But when you come to‐morrow to make your proposal, that girl won’teven see you; she’ll order her coachman to kick you out of the yard.“Publish it through all the town,” she would say, “I’m not afraid ofyou.” ’ I looked at the young lady, my voice had not deceived me. Thatis how it would be, not a doubt of it. I could see from her face nowthat I should be turned out of the house. My spite was roused. I longedto play her the nastiest swinish cad’s trick: to look at her with asneer, and on the spot where she stood before me to stun her with atone of voice that only a shopman could use.
“ ‘Four thousand! What do you mean? I was joking. You’ve been countingyour chickens too easily, madam. Two hundred, if you like, with all myheart. But four thousand is not a sum to throw away on such frivolity.You’ve put yourself out to no purpose.’
“I should have lost the game, of course. She’d have run away. But itwould have been an infernal revenge. It would have been worth it all.I’d have howled with regret all the rest of my life, only to haveplayed that trick. Would you believe it, it has never happened to mewith any other woman, not one, to look at her at such a moment withhatred. But, on my oath, I looked at her for three seconds, or fiveperhaps, with fearful hatred—that hate which is only a hair’s‐breadthfrom love, from the maddest love!
“I went to the window, put my forehead against the frozen pane, and Iremember the ice burnt my forehead like fire. I did not keep her long,don’t be afraid. I turned round, went up to the table, opened thedrawer and took out a banknote for five thousand roubles (it was lyingin a French dictionary). Then I showed it her in silence, folded it,handed it to her, opened the door into the passage, and, stepping back,made her a deep bow, a most respectful, a most impressive bow, believeme! She shuddered all over, gazed at me for a second, turned horriblypale—white as a sheet, in fact—and all at once, not impetuously butsoftly, gently, bowed down to my feet—not a boarding‐school curtsey,but a Russian bow, with her forehead to the floor. She jumped up andran away. I was wearing my sword. I drew it and nearly stabbed myselfwith it on the spot; why, I don’t know. It would have been frightfullystupid, of course. I suppose it was from delight. Can you understandthat one might kill oneself from delight? But I didn’t stab myself. Ionly kissed my sword and put it back in the scabbard—which there was noneed to have told you, by the way. And I fancy that in telling youabout my inner conflict I have laid it on rather thick to glorifymyself. But let it pass, and to hell with all who pry into the humanheart! Well, so much for that ‘adventure’ with Katerina Ivanovna. Sonow Ivan knows of it, and you—no one else.”
Dmitri got up, took a step or two in his excitement, pulled out hishandkerchief and mopped his forehead, then sat down again, not in thesame place as before, but on the opposite side, so that Alyosha had toturn quite round to face him.



Chapter V.The Confession Of A Passionate Heart—“Heels Up”

“Now,” said Alyosha, “I understand the first half.”
“You understand the first half. That half is a drama, and it was playedout there. The second half is a tragedy, and it is being acted here.”
“And I understand nothing of that second half so far,” said Alyosha.
“And I? Do you suppose I understand it?”
“Stop, Dmitri. There’s one important question. Tell me, you werebetrothed, you are betrothed still?”
“We weren’t betrothed at once, not for three months after thatadventure. The next day I told myself that the incident was closed,concluded, that there would be no sequel. It seemed to me caddish tomake her an offer. On her side she gave no sign of life for the sixweeks that she remained in the town; except, indeed, for one action.The day after her visit the maid‐servant slipped round with an envelopeaddressed to me. I tore it open: it contained the change out of thebanknote. Only four thousand five hundred roubles was needed, but therewas a discount of about two hundred on changing it. She only sent meabout two hundred and sixty. I don’t remember exactly, but not a note,not a word of explanation. I searched the packet for a pencilmark—n‐nothing! Well, I spent the rest of the money on such an orgythat the new major was obliged to reprimand me.
“Well, the lieutenant‐colonel produced the battalion money, to theastonishment of every one, for nobody believed that he had the moneyuntouched. He’d no sooner paid it than he fell ill, took to his bed,and, three weeks later, softening of the brain set in, and he died fivedays afterwards. He was buried with military honors, for he had not hadtime to receive his discharge. Ten days after his funeral, KaterinaIvanovna, with her aunt and sister, went to Moscow. And, behold, on thevery day they went away (I hadn’t seen them, didn’t see them off ortake leave) I received a tiny note, a sheet of thin blue paper, and onit only one line in pencil: ‘I will write to you. Wait. K.’ And thatwas all.
“I’ll explain the rest now, in two words. In Moscow their fortuneschanged with the swiftness of lightning and the unexpectedness of anArabian fairy‐tale. That general’s widow, their nearest relation,suddenly lost the two nieces who were her heiresses andnext‐of‐kin—both died in the same week of small‐pox. The old lady,prostrated with grief, welcomed Katya as a daughter, as her one hope,clutched at her, altered her will in Katya’s favor. But that concernedthe future. Meanwhile she gave her, for present use, eighty thousandroubles, as a marriage portion, to do what she liked with. She was anhysterical woman. I saw something of her in Moscow, later.
“Well, suddenly I received by post four thousand five hundred roubles.I was speechless with surprise, as you may suppose. Three days latercame the promised letter. I have it with me now. You must read it. Sheoffers to be my wife, offers herself to me. ‘I love you madly,’ shesays, ‘even if you don’t love me, never mind. Be my husband. Don’t beafraid. I won’t hamper you in any way. I will be your chattel. I willbe the carpet under your feet. I want to love you for ever. I want tosave you from yourself.’ Alyosha, I am not worthy to repeat those linesin my vulgar words and in my vulgar tone, my everlastingly vulgar tone,that I can never cure myself of. That letter stabs me even now. Do youthink I don’t mind—that I don’t mind still? I wrote her an answer atonce, as it was impossible for me to go to Moscow. I wrote to her withtears. One thing I shall be ashamed of for ever. I referred to herbeing rich and having a dowry while I was only a stuck‐up beggar! Imentioned money! I ought to have borne it in silence, but it slippedfrom my pen. Then I wrote at once to Ivan, and told him all I couldabout it in a letter of six pages, and sent him to her. Why do you looklike that? Why are you staring at me? Yes, Ivan fell in love with her;he’s in love with her still. I know that. I did a stupid thing, in theworld’s opinion; but perhaps that one stupid thing may be the saving ofus all now. Oo! Don’t you see what a lot she thinks of Ivan, how sherespects him? When she compares us, do you suppose she can love a manlike me, especially after all that has happened here?”
“But I am convinced that she does love a man like you, and not a manlike him.”
“She loves her own _virtue_, not me.” The words broke involuntarily,and almost malignantly, from Dmitri. He laughed, but a minute later hiseyes gleamed, he flushed crimson and struck the table violently withhis fist.
“I swear, Alyosha,” he cried, with intense and genuine anger athimself; “you may not believe me, but as God is holy, and as Christ isGod, I swear that though I smiled at her lofty sentiments just now, Iknow that I am a million times baser in soul than she, and that theselofty sentiments of hers are as sincere as a heavenly angel’s. That’sthe tragedy of it—that I know that for certain. What if any one doesshow off a bit? Don’t I do it myself? And yet I’m sincere, I’m sincere.As for Ivan, I can understand how he must be cursing nature now—withhis intellect, too! To see the preference given—to whom, to what? To amonster who, though he is betrothed and all eyes are fixed on him,can’t restrain his debaucheries—and before the very eyes of hisbetrothed! And a man like me is preferred, while he is rejected. Andwhy? Because a girl wants to sacrifice her life and destiny out ofgratitude. It’s ridiculous! I’ve never said a word of this to Ivan, andIvan of course has never dropped a hint of the sort to me. But destinywill be accomplished, and the best man will hold his ground while theundeserving one will vanish into his back‐ alley for ever—his filthyback‐alley, his beloved back‐alley, where he is at home and where hewill sink in filth and stench at his own free will and with enjoyment.I’ve been talking foolishly. I’ve no words left. I use them at random,but it will be as I have said. I shall drown in the back‐ alley, andshe will marry Ivan.”
“Stop, Dmitri,” Alyosha interrupted again with great anxiety. “There’sone thing you haven’t made clear yet: you are still betrothed all thesame, aren’t you? How can you break off the engagement if she, yourbetrothed, doesn’t want to?”
“Yes, formally and solemnly betrothed. It was all done on my arrival inMoscow, with great ceremony, with ikons, all in fine style. Thegeneral’s wife blessed us, and—would you believe it?—congratulatedKatya. ‘You’ve made a good choice,’ she said, ‘I see right throughhim.’ And—would you believe it?—she didn’t like Ivan, and hardlygreeted him. I had a lot of talk with Katya in Moscow. I told her aboutmyself—sincerely, honorably. She listened to everything.
There was sweet confusion,There were tender words.

Though there were proud words, too. She wrung out of me a mightypromise to reform. I gave my promise, and here—”
“What?”
“Why, I called to you and brought you out here to‐day, this veryday—remember it—to send you—this very day again—to Katerina Ivanovna,and—”
“What?”
“To tell her that I shall never come to see her again. Say, ‘He sendsyou his compliments.’ ”
“But is that possible?”
“That’s just the reason I’m sending you, in my place, because it’simpossible. And, how could I tell her myself?”
“And where are you going?”
“To the back‐alley.”
“To Grushenka, then!” Alyosha exclaimed mournfully, clasping his hands.“Can Rakitin really have told the truth? I thought that you had justvisited her, and that was all.”
“Can a betrothed man pay such visits? Is such a thing possible and withsuch a betrothed, and before the eyes of all the world? Confound it, Ihave some honor! As soon as I began visiting Grushenka, I ceased to bebetrothed, and to be an honest man. I understand that. Why do you lookat me? You see, I went in the first place to beat her. I had heard, andI know for a fact now, that that captain, father’s agent, had givenGrushenka an I.O.U. of mine for her to sue me for payment, so as to putan end to me. They wanted to scare me. I went to beat her. I had had aglimpse of her before. She doesn’t strike one at first sight. I knewabout her old merchant, who’s lying ill now, paralyzed; but he’sleaving her a decent little sum. I knew, too, that she was fond ofmoney, that she hoarded it, and lent it at a wicked rate of interest,that she’s a merciless cheat and swindler. I went to beat her, and Istayed. The storm broke—it struck me down like the plague. I’mplague‐stricken still, and I know that everything is over, that therewill never be anything more for me. The cycle of the ages isaccomplished. That’s my position. And though I’m a beggar, as fatewould have it, I had three thousand just then in my pocket. I drovewith Grushenka to Mokroe, a place twenty‐five versts from here. I gotgypsies there and champagne and made all the peasants there drunk onit, and all the women and girls. I sent the thousands flying. In threedays’ time I was stripped bare, but a hero. Do you suppose the hero hadgained his end? Not a sign of it from her. I tell you that rogue,Grushenka, has a supple curve all over her body. You can see it in herlittle foot, even in her little toe. I saw it, and kissed it, but thatwas all, I swear! ‘I’ll marry you if you like,’ she said, ‘you’re abeggar, you know. Say that you won’t beat me, and will let me doanything I choose, and perhaps I will marry you.’ She laughed, andshe’s laughing still!”
Dmitri leapt up with a sort of fury. He seemed all at once as though hewere drunk. His eyes became suddenly bloodshot.
“And do you really mean to marry her?”
“At once, if she will. And if she won’t, I shall stay all the same.I’ll be the porter at her gate. Alyosha!” he cried. He stopped shortbefore him, and taking him by the shoulders began shaking himviolently. “Do you know, you innocent boy, that this is all delirium,senseless delirium, for there’s a tragedy here. Let me tell you,Alexey, that I may be a low man, with low and degraded passions, but athief and a pickpocket Dmitri Karamazov never can be. Well, then; letme tell you that I am a thief and a pickpocket. That very morning, justbefore I went to beat Grushenka, Katerina Ivanovna sent for me, and instrict secrecy (why I don’t know, I suppose she had some reason) askedme to go to the chief town of the province and to post three thousandroubles to Agafya Ivanovna in Moscow, so that nothing should be knownof it in the town here. So I had that three thousand roubles in mypocket when I went to see Grushenka, and it was that money we spent atMokroe. Afterwards I pretended I had been to the town, but did not showher the post office receipt. I said I had sent the money and wouldbring the receipt, and so far I haven’t brought it. I’ve forgotten it.Now what do you think you’re going to her to‐day to say? ‘He sends hiscompliments,’ and she’ll ask you, ‘What about the money?’ You mightstill have said to her, ‘He’s a degraded sensualist, and a lowcreature, with uncontrolled passions. He didn’t send your money then,but wasted it, because, like a low brute, he couldn’t control himself.’But still you might have added, ‘He isn’t a thief though. Here is yourthree thousand; he sends it back. Send it yourself to Agafya Ivanovna.But he told me to say “he sends his compliments.” ’ But, as it is, shewill ask, ‘But where is the money?’ ”
“Mitya, you are unhappy, yes! But not as unhappy as you think. Don’tworry yourself to death with despair.”
“What, do you suppose I’d shoot myself because I can’t get threethousand to pay back? That’s just it. I shan’t shoot myself. I haven’tthe strength now. Afterwards, perhaps. But now I’m going to Grushenka.I don’t care what happens.”
“And what then?”
“I’ll be her husband if she deigns to have me, and when lovers come,I’ll go into the next room. I’ll clean her friends’ goloshes, blow uptheir samovar, run their errands.”
“Katerina Ivanovna will understand it all,” Alyosha said solemnly.“She’ll understand how great this trouble is and will forgive. She hasa lofty mind, and no one could be more unhappy than you. She’ll seethat for herself.”
“She won’t forgive everything,” said Dmitri, with a grin. “There’ssomething in it, brother, that no woman could forgive. Do you know whatwould be the best thing to do?”
“What?”
“Pay back the three thousand.”
“Where can we get it from? I say, I have two thousand. Ivan will giveyou another thousand—that makes three. Take it and pay it back.”
“And when would you get it, your three thousand? You’re not of age,besides, and you must—you absolutely must—take my farewell to herto‐day, with the money or without it, for I can’t drag on any longer,things have come to such a pass. To‐morrow is too late. I shall sendyou to father.”
“To father?”
“Yes, to father first. Ask him for three thousand.”
“But, Mitya, he won’t give it.”
“As though he would! I know he won’t. Do you know the meaning ofdespair, Alexey?”
“Yes.”
“Listen. Legally he owes me nothing. I’ve had it all from him, I knowthat. But morally he owes me something, doesn’t he? You know he startedwith twenty‐eight thousand of my mother’s money and made a hundredthousand with it. Let him give me back only three out of thetwenty‐eight thousand, and he’ll draw my soul out of hell, and it willatone for many of his sins. For that three thousand—I give you mysolemn word—I’ll make an end of everything, and he shall hear nothingmore of me. For the last time I give him the chance to be a father.Tell him God Himself sends him this chance.”
“Mitya, he won’t give it for anything.”
“I know he won’t. I know it perfectly well. Now, especially. That’s notall. I know something more. Now, only a few days ago, perhaps onlyyesterday he found out for the first time _in earnest_ (underline _inearnest_) that Grushenka is really perhaps not joking, and really meansto marry me. He knows her nature; he knows the cat. And do you supposehe’s going to give me money to help to bring that about when he’s crazyabout her himself? And that’s not all, either. I can tell you more thanthat. I know that for the last five days he has had three thousanddrawn out of the bank, changed into notes of a hundred roubles, packedinto a large envelope, sealed with five seals, and tied across with redtape. You see how well I know all about it! On the envelope is written:‘To my angel, Grushenka, when she will come to me.’ He scrawled ithimself in silence and in secret, and no one knows that the money’sthere except the valet, Smerdyakov, whom he trusts like himself. So nowhe has been expecting Grushenka for the last three or four days; hehopes she’ll come for the money. He has sent her word of it, and shehas sent him word that perhaps she’ll come. And if she does go to theold man, can I marry her after that? You understand now why I’m here insecret and what I’m on the watch for.”
“For her?”
“Yes, for her. Foma has a room in the house of these sluts here. Fomacomes from our parts; he was a soldier in our regiment. He does jobsfor them. He’s watchman at night and goes grouse‐shooting in theday‐time; and that’s how he lives. I’ve established myself in his room.Neither he nor the women of the house know the secret—that is, that Iam on the watch here.”
“No one but Smerdyakov knows, then?”
“No one else. He will let me know if she goes to the old man.”
“It was he told you about the money, then?”
“Yes. It’s a dead secret. Even Ivan doesn’t know about the money, oranything. The old man is sending Ivan to Tchermashnya on a two or threedays’ journey. A purchaser has turned up for the copse: he’ll giveeight thousand for the timber. So the old man keeps asking Ivan to helphim by going to arrange it. It will take him two or three days. That’swhat the old man wants, so that Grushenka can come while he’s away.”
“Then he’s expecting Grushenka to‐day?”
“No, she won’t come to‐day; there are signs. She’s certain not tocome,” cried Mitya suddenly. “Smerdyakov thinks so, too. Father’sdrinking now. He’s sitting at table with Ivan. Go to him, Alyosha, andask for the three thousand.”
“Mitya, dear, what’s the matter with you?” cried Alyosha, jumping upfrom his place, and looking keenly at his brother’s frenzied face. Forone moment the thought struck him that Dmitri was mad.
“What is it? I’m not insane,” said Dmitri, looking intently andearnestly at him. “No fear. I am sending you to father, and I know whatI’m saying. I believe in miracles.”
“In miracles?”
“In a miracle of Divine Providence. God knows my heart. He sees mydespair. He sees the whole picture. Surely He won’t let something awfulhappen. Alyosha, I believe in miracles. Go!”
“I am going. Tell me, will you wait for me here?”
“Yes. I know it will take some time. You can’t go at him point blank.He’s drunk now. I’ll wait three hours—four, five, six, seven. Onlyremember you must go to Katerina Ivanovna to‐day, if it has to be atmidnight, _with the money or without the money_, and say, ‘He sends hiscompliments to you.’ I want you to say that verse to her: ‘He sends hiscompliments to you.’ ”
“Mitya! And what if Grushenka comes to‐day—if not to‐day, to‐morrow, orthe next day?”
“Grushenka? I shall see her. I shall rush out and prevent it.”
“And if—”
“If there’s an if, it will be murder. I couldn’t endure it.”
“Who will be murdered?”
“The old man. I shan’t kill her.”
“Brother, what are you saying?”
“Oh, I don’t know.... I don’t know. Perhaps I shan’t kill, and perhapsI shall. I’m afraid that he will suddenly become so loathsome to mewith his face at that moment. I hate his ugly throat, his nose, hiseyes, his shameless snigger. I feel a physical repulsion. That’s whatI’m afraid of. That’s what may be too much for me.”
“I’ll go, Mitya. I believe that God will order things for the best,that nothing awful may happen.”
“And I will sit and wait for the miracle. And if it doesn’t come topass—”
Alyosha went thoughtfully towards his father’s house.



Chapter VI.Smerdyakov

He did in fact find his father still at table. Though there was adining‐ room in the house, the table was laid as usual in thedrawing‐room, which was the largest room, and furnished withold‐fashioned ostentation. The furniture was white and very old,upholstered in old, red, silky material. In the spaces between thewindows there were mirrors in elaborate white and gilt frames, ofold‐fashioned carving. On the walls, covered with white paper, whichwas torn in many places, there hung two large portraits—one of someprince who had been governor of the district thirty years before, andthe other of some bishop, also long since dead. In the corner oppositethe door there were several ikons, before which a lamp was lighted atnightfall ... not so much for devotional purposes as to light the room.Fyodor Pavlovitch used to go to bed very late, at three or four o’clockin the morning, and would wander about the room at night or sit in anarm‐chair, thinking. This had become a habit with him. He often sleptquite alone in the house, sending his servants to the lodge; butusually Smerdyakov remained, sleeping on a bench in the hall.
When Alyosha came in, dinner was over, but coffee and preserves hadbeen served. Fyodor Pavlovitch liked sweet things with brandy afterdinner. Ivan was also at table, sipping coffee. The servants, Grigoryand Smerdyakov, were standing by. Both the gentlemen and the servantsseemed in singularly good spirits. Fyodor Pavlovitch was roaring withlaughter. Before he entered the room, Alyosha heard the shrill laugh heknew so well, and could tell from the sound of it that his father hadonly reached the good‐humored stage, and was far from being completelydrunk.
“Here he is! Here he is!” yelled Fyodor Pavlovitch, highly delighted atseeing Alyosha. “Join us. Sit down. Coffee is a lenten dish, but it’shot and good. I don’t offer you brandy, you’re keeping the fast. Butwould you like some? No; I’d better give you some of our famousliqueur. Smerdyakov, go to the cupboard, the second shelf on the right.Here are the keys. Look sharp!”
Alyosha began refusing the liqueur.
“Never mind. If you won’t have it, we will,” said Fyodor Pavlovitch,beaming. “But stay—have you dined?”
“Yes,” answered Alyosha, who had in truth only eaten a piece of breadand drunk a glass of kvas in the Father Superior’s kitchen. “Though Ishould be pleased to have some hot coffee.”
“Bravo, my darling! He’ll have some coffee. Does it want warming? No,it’s boiling. It’s capital coffee: Smerdyakov’s making. My Smerdyakov’san artist at coffee and at fish patties, and at fish soup, too. Youmust come one day and have some fish soup. Let me know beforehand....But, stay; didn’t I tell you this morning to come home with yourmattress and pillow and all? Have you brought your mattress? He he he!”
“No, I haven’t,” said Alyosha, smiling, too.
“Ah, but you were frightened, you were frightened this morning, weren’tyou? There, my darling, I couldn’t do anything to vex you. Do you know,Ivan, I can’t resist the way he looks one straight in the face andlaughs? It makes me laugh all over. I’m so fond of him. Alyosha, let megive you my blessing—a father’s blessing.”
Alyosha rose, but Fyodor Pavlovitch had already changed his mind.
“No, no,” he said. “I’ll just make the sign of the cross over you, fornow. Sit still. Now we’ve a treat for you, in your own line, too. It’llmake you laugh. Balaam’s ass has begun talking to us here—and how hetalks! How he talks!”
Balaam’s ass, it appeared, was the valet, Smerdyakov. He was a youngman of about four and twenty, remarkably unsociable and taciturn. Notthat he was shy or bashful. On the contrary, he was conceited andseemed to despise everybody.
But we must pause to say a few words about him now. He was brought upby Grigory and Marfa, but the boy grew up “with no sense of gratitude,”as Grigory expressed it; he was an unfriendly boy, and seemed to lookat the world mistrustfully. In his childhood he was very fond ofhanging cats, and burying them with great ceremony. He used to dress upin a sheet as though it were a surplice, and sang, and waved someobject over the dead cat as though it were a censer. All this he did onthe sly, with the greatest secrecy. Grigory caught him once at thisdiversion and gave him a sound beating. He shrank into a corner andsulked there for a week. “He doesn’t care for you or me, the monster,”Grigory used to say to Marfa, “and he doesn’t care for any one. Are youa human being?” he said, addressing the boy directly. “You’re not ahuman being. You grew from the mildew in the bath‐house.[2] That’s whatyou are.” Smerdyakov, it appeared afterwards, could never forgive himthose words. Grigory taught him to read and write, and when he wastwelve years old, began teaching him the Scriptures. But this teachingcame to nothing. At the second or third lesson the boy suddenlygrinned.
“What’s that for?” asked Grigory, looking at him threateningly fromunder his spectacles.
“Oh, nothing. God created light on the first day, and the sun, moon,and stars on the fourth day. Where did the light come from on the firstday?”
Grigory was thunderstruck. The boy looked sarcastically at his teacher.There was something positively condescending in his expression. Grigorycould not restrain himself. “I’ll show you where!” he cried, and gavethe boy a violent slap on the cheek. The boy took the slap without aword, but withdrew into his corner again for some days. A week later hehad his first attack of the disease to which he was subject all therest of his life—epilepsy. When Fyodor Pavlovitch heard of it, hisattitude to the boy seemed changed at once. Till then he had taken nonotice of him, though he never scolded him, and always gave him acopeck when he met him. Sometimes, when he was in good humor, he wouldsend the boy something sweet from his table. But as soon as he heard ofhis illness, he showed an active interest in him, sent for a doctor,and tried remedies, but the disease turned out to be incurable. Thefits occurred, on an average, once a month, but at various intervals.The fits varied too, in violence: some were light and some were verysevere. Fyodor Pavlovitch strictly forbade Grigory to use corporalpunishment to the boy, and began allowing him to come upstairs to him.He forbade him to be taught anything whatever for a time, too. One daywhen the boy was about fifteen, Fyodor Pavlovitch noticed him lingeringby the bookcase, and reading the titles through the glass. FyodorPavlovitch had a fair number of books—over a hundred—but no one eversaw him reading. He at once gave Smerdyakov the key of the bookcase.“Come, read. You shall be my librarian. You’ll be better sittingreading than hanging about the courtyard. Come, read this,” and FyodorPavlovitch gave him _Evenings in a Cottage near Dikanka_.
He read a little but didn’t like it. He did not once smile, and endedby frowning.
“Why? Isn’t it funny?” asked Fyodor Pavlovitch.
Smerdyakov did not speak.
“Answer, stupid!”
“It’s all untrue,” mumbled the boy, with a grin.
“Then go to the devil! You have the soul of a lackey. Stay, here’sSmaragdov’s _Universal History_. That’s all true. Read that.”
But Smerdyakov did not get through ten pages of Smaragdov. He thoughtit dull. So the bookcase was closed again.
Shortly afterwards Marfa and Grigory reported to Fyodor Pavlovitch thatSmerdyakov was gradually beginning to show an extraordinaryfastidiousness. He would sit before his soup, take up his spoon andlook into the soup, bend over it, examine it, take a spoonful and holdit to the light.
“What is it? A beetle?” Grigory would ask.
“A fly, perhaps,” observed Marfa.
The squeamish youth never answered, but he did the same with his bread,his meat, and everything he ate. He would hold a piece on his fork tothe light, scrutinize it microscopically, and only after longdeliberation decide to put it in his mouth.
“Ach! What fine gentlemen’s airs!” Grigory muttered, looking at him.
When Fyodor Pavlovitch heard of this development in Smerdyakov hedetermined to make him his cook, and sent him to Moscow to be trained.He spent some years there and came back remarkably changed inappearance. He looked extraordinarily old for his age. His face hadgrown wrinkled, yellow, and strangely emasculate. In character heseemed almost exactly the same as before he went away. He was just asunsociable, and showed not the slightest inclination for anycompanionship. In Moscow, too, as we heard afterwards, he had alwaysbeen silent. Moscow itself had little interest for him; he saw verylittle there, and took scarcely any notice of anything. He went once tothe theater, but returned silent and displeased with it. On the otherhand, he came back to us from Moscow well dressed, in a clean coat andclean linen. He brushed his clothes most scrupulously twice a dayinvariably, and was very fond of cleaning his smart calf boots with aspecial English polish, so that they shone like mirrors. He turned outa first‐rate cook. Fyodor Pavlovitch paid him a salary, almost thewhole of which Smerdyakov spent on clothes, pomade, perfumes, and suchthings. But he seemed to have as much contempt for the female sex asfor men; he was discreet, almost unapproachable, with them. FyodorPavlovitch began to regard him rather differently. His fits werebecoming more frequent, and on the days he was ill Marfa cooked, whichdid not suit Fyodor Pavlovitch at all.
“Why are your fits getting worse?” asked Fyodor Pavlovitch, lookingaskance at his new cook. “Would you like to get married? Shall I findyou a wife?”
But Smerdyakov turned pale with anger, and made no reply. FyodorPavlovitch left him with an impatient gesture. The great thing was thathe had absolute confidence in his honesty. It happened once, whenFyodor Pavlovitch was drunk, that he dropped in the muddy courtyardthree hundred‐rouble notes which he had only just received. He onlymissed them next day, and was just hastening to search his pockets whenhe saw the notes lying on the table. Where had they come from?Smerdyakov had picked them up and brought them in the day before.
“Well, my lad, I’ve never met any one like you,” Fyodor Pavlovitch saidshortly, and gave him ten roubles. We may add that he not only believedin his honesty, but had, for some reason, a liking for him, althoughthe young man looked as morosely at him as at every one and was alwayssilent. He rarely spoke. If it had occurred to any one to wonder at thetime what the young man was interested in, and what was in his mind, itwould have been impossible to tell by looking at him. Yet he usedsometimes to stop suddenly in the house, or even in the yard or street,and would stand still for ten minutes, lost in thought. A physiognomiststudying his face would have said that there was no thought in it, noreflection, but only a sort of contemplation. There is a remarkablepicture by the painter Kramskoy, called “Contemplation.” There is aforest in winter, and on a roadway through the forest, in absolutesolitude, stands a peasant in a torn kaftan and bark shoes. He stands,as it were, lost in thought. Yet he is not thinking; he is“contemplating.” If any one touched him he would start and look at oneas though awakening and bewildered. It’s true he would come to himselfimmediately; but if he were asked what he had been thinking about, hewould remember nothing. Yet probably he has, hidden within himself, theimpression which had dominated him during the period of contemplation.Those impressions are dear to him and no doubt he hoards themimperceptibly, and even unconsciously. How and why, of course, he doesnot know either. He may suddenly, after hoarding impressions for manyyears, abandon everything and go off to Jerusalem on a pilgrimage forhis soul’s salvation, or perhaps he will suddenly set fire to hisnative village, and perhaps do both. There are a good many“contemplatives” among the peasantry. Well, Smerdyakov was probably oneof them, and he probably was greedily hoarding up his impressions,hardly knowing why.



Chapter VII.The Controversy

But Balaam’s ass had suddenly spoken. The subject was a strange one.Grigory had gone in the morning to make purchases, and had heard fromthe shopkeeper Lukyanov the story of a Russian soldier which hadappeared in the newspaper of that day. This soldier had been takenprisoner in some remote part of Asia, and was threatened with animmediate agonizing death if he did not renounce Christianity andfollow Islam. He refused to deny his faith, and was tortured, flayedalive, and died, praising and glorifying Christ. Grigory had relatedthe story at table. Fyodor Pavlovitch always liked, over the dessertafter dinner, to laugh and talk, if only with Grigory. This afternoonhe was in a particularly good‐humored and expansive mood. Sipping hisbrandy and listening to the story, he observed that they ought to makea saint of a soldier like that, and to take his skin to some monastery.“That would make the people flock, and bring the money in.”
Grigory frowned, seeing that Fyodor Pavlovitch was by no means touched,but, as usual, was beginning to scoff. At that moment Smerdyakov, whowas standing by the door, smiled. Smerdyakov often waited at tabletowards the end of dinner, and since Ivan’s arrival in our town he haddone so every day.
“What are you grinning at?” asked Fyodor Pavlovitch, catching the smileinstantly, and knowing that it referred to Grigory.
“Well, my opinion is,” Smerdyakov began suddenly and unexpectedly in aloud voice, “that if that laudable soldier’s exploit was so very greatthere would have been, to my thinking, no sin in it if he had on suchan emergency renounced, so to speak, the name of Christ and his ownchristening, to save by that same his life, for good deeds, by which,in the course of years to expiate his cowardice.”
“How could it not be a sin? You’re talking nonsense. For that you’ll gostraight to hell and be roasted there like mutton,” put in FyodorPavlovitch.
It was at this point that Alyosha came in, and Fyodor Pavlovitch, as wehave seen, was highly delighted at his appearance.
“We’re on your subject, your subject,” he chuckled gleefully, makingAlyosha sit down to listen.
“As for mutton, that’s not so, and there’ll be nothing there for this,and there shouldn’t be either, if it’s according to justice,”Smerdyakov maintained stoutly.
“How do you mean ‘according to justice’?” Fyodor Pavlovitch cried stillmore gayly, nudging Alyosha with his knee.
“He’s a rascal, that’s what he is!” burst from Grigory. He lookedSmerdyakov wrathfully in the face.
“As for being a rascal, wait a little, Grigory Vassilyevitch,” answeredSmerdyakov with perfect composure. “You’d better consider yourselfthat, once I am taken prisoner by the enemies of the Christian race,and they demand from me to curse the name of God and to renounce myholy christening, I am fully entitled to act by my own reason, sincethere would be no sin in it.”
“But you’ve said that before. Don’t waste words. Prove it,” criedFyodor Pavlovitch.
“Soup‐maker!” muttered Grigory contemptuously.
“As for being a soup‐maker, wait a bit, too, and consider for yourself,Grigory Vassilyevitch, without abusing me. For as soon as I say tothose enemies, ‘No, I’m not a Christian, and I curse my true God,’ thenat once, by God’s high judgment, I become immediately and speciallyanathema accursed, and am cut off from the Holy Church, exactly asthough I were a heathen, so that at that very instant, not only when Isay it aloud, but when I think of saying it, before a quarter of asecond has passed, I am cut off. Is that so or not, GrigoryVassilyevitch?”
He addressed Grigory with obvious satisfaction, though he was reallyanswering Fyodor Pavlovitch’s questions, and was well aware of it, andintentionally pretending that Grigory had asked the questions.
“Ivan,” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch suddenly, “stoop down for me towhisper. He’s got this all up for your benefit. He wants you to praisehim. Praise him.”
Ivan listened with perfect seriousness to his father’s excited whisper.
“Stay, Smerdyakov, be quiet a minute,” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch oncemore. “Ivan, your ear again.”
Ivan bent down again with a perfectly grave face.
“I love you as I do Alyosha. Don’t think I don’t love you. Somebrandy?”
“Yes.—But you’re rather drunk yourself,” thought Ivan, looking steadilyat his father.
He was watching Smerdyakov with great curiosity.
“You’re anathema accursed, as it is,” Grigory suddenly burst out, “andhow dare you argue, you rascal, after that, if—”
“Don’t scold him, Grigory, don’t scold him,” Fyodor Pavlovitch cut himshort.
“You should wait, Grigory Vassilyevitch, if only a short time, andlisten, for I haven’t finished all I had to say. For at the very momentI become accursed, at that same highest moment, I become exactly like aheathen, and my christening is taken off me and becomes of no avail.Isn’t that so?”
“Make haste and finish, my boy,” Fyodor Pavlovitch urged him, sippingfrom his wine‐glass with relish.
“And if I’ve ceased to be a Christian, then I told no lie to the enemywhen they asked whether I was a Christian or not a Christian, seeing Ihad already been relieved by God Himself of my Christianity by reasonof the thought alone, before I had time to utter a word to the enemy.And if I have already been discharged, in what manner and with whatsort of justice can I be held responsible as a Christian in the otherworld for having denied Christ, when, through the very thought alone,before denying Him I had been relieved from my christening? If I’m nolonger a Christian, then I can’t renounce Christ, for I’ve nothing thento renounce. Who will hold an unclean Tatar responsible, GrigoryVassilyevitch, even in heaven, for not having been born a Christian?And who would punish him for that, considering that you can’t take twoskins off one ox? For God Almighty Himself, even if He did make theTatar responsible, when he dies would give him the smallest possiblepunishment, I imagine (since he must be punished), judging that he isnot to blame if he has come into the world an unclean heathen, fromheathen parents. The Lord God can’t surely take a Tatar and say he wasa Christian? That would mean that the Almighty would tell a realuntruth. And can the Lord of Heaven and earth tell a lie, even in oneword?”
Grigory was thunderstruck and looked at the orator, his eyes nearlystarting out of his head. Though he did not clearly understand what wassaid, he had caught something in this rigmarole, and stood, lookinglike a man who has just hit his head against a wall. Fyodor Pavlovitchemptied his glass and went off into his shrill laugh.
“Alyosha! Alyosha! What do you say to that! Ah, you casuist! He musthave been with the Jesuits, somewhere, Ivan. Oh, you stinking Jesuit,who taught you? But you’re talking nonsense, you casuist, nonsense,nonsense, nonsense. Don’t cry, Grigory, we’ll reduce him to smoke andashes in a moment. Tell me this, O ass; you may be right before yourenemies, but you have renounced your faith all the same in your ownheart, and you say yourself that in that very hour you became anathemaaccursed. And if once you’re anathema they won’t pat you on the headfor it in hell. What do you say to that, my fine Jesuit?”
“There is no doubt that I have renounced it in my own heart, but therewas no special sin in that. Or if there was sin, it was the mostordinary.”
“How’s that the most ordinary?”
“You lie, accursed one!” hissed Grigory.
“Consider yourself, Grigory Vassilyevitch,” Smerdyakov went on, staidand unruffled, conscious of his triumph, but, as it were, generous tothe vanquished foe. “Consider yourself, Grigory Vassilyevitch; it issaid in the Scripture that if you have faith, even as a mustard seed,and bid a mountain move into the sea, it will move without the leastdelay at your bidding. Well, Grigory Vassilyevitch, if I’m withoutfaith and you have so great a faith that you are continually swearingat me, you try yourself telling this mountain, not to move into the seafor that’s a long way off, but even to our stinking little river whichruns at the bottom of the garden. You’ll see for yourself that it won’tbudge, but will remain just where it is however much you shout at it,and that shows, Grigory Vassilyevitch, that you haven’t faith in theproper manner, and only abuse others about it. Again, taking intoconsideration that no one in our day, not only you, but actually noone, from the highest person to the lowest peasant, can shove mountainsinto the sea—except perhaps some one man in the world, or, at most,two, and they most likely are saving their souls in secret somewhere inthe Egyptian desert, so you wouldn’t find them—if so it be, if all therest have no faith, will God curse all the rest? that is, thepopulation of the whole earth, except about two hermits in the desert,and in His well‐known mercy will He not forgive one of them? And so I’mpersuaded that though I may once have doubted I shall be forgiven if Ished tears of repentance.”
“Stay!” cried Fyodor Pavlovitch, in a transport of delight. “So you dosuppose there are two who can move mountains? Ivan, make a note of it,write it down. There you have the Russian all over!”
“You’re quite right in saying it’s characteristic of the people’sfaith,” Ivan assented, with an approving smile.
“You agree. Then it must be so, if you agree. It’s true, isn’t it,Alyosha? That’s the Russian faith all over, isn’t it?”
“No, Smerdyakov has not the Russian faith at all,” said Alyosha firmlyand gravely.
“I’m not talking about his faith. I mean those two in the desert, onlythat idea. Surely that’s Russian, isn’t it?”
“Yes, that’s purely Russian,” said Alyosha smiling.
“Your words are worth a gold piece, O ass, and I’ll give it to youto‐day. But as to the rest you talk nonsense, nonsense, nonsense. Letme tell you, stupid, that we here are all of little faith, only fromcarelessness, because we haven’t time; things are too much for us, and,in the second place, the Lord God has given us so little time, onlytwenty‐four hours in the day, so that one hasn’t even time to get sleepenough, much less to repent of one’s sins. While you have denied yourfaith to your enemies when you’d nothing else to think about but toshow your faith! So I consider, brother, that it constitutes a sin.”
“Constitute a sin it may, but consider yourself, Grigory Vassilyevitch,that it only extenuates it, if it does constitute. If I had believedthen in very truth, as I ought to have believed, then it really wouldhave been sinful if I had not faced tortures for my faith, and had goneover to the pagan Mohammedan faith. But, of course, it wouldn’t havecome to torture then, because I should only have had to say at thatinstant to the mountain, ‘Move and crush the tormentor,’ and it wouldhave moved and at the very instant have crushed him like ablack‐beetle, and I should have walked away as though nothing hadhappened, praising and glorifying God. But, suppose at that very momentI had tried all that, and cried to that mountain, ‘Crush thesetormentors,’ and it hadn’t crushed them, how could I have helpeddoubting, pray, at such a time, and at such a dread hour of mortalterror? And apart from that, I should know already that I could notattain to the fullness of the Kingdom of Heaven (for since the mountainhad not moved at my word, they could not think very much of my faith upaloft, and there could be no very great reward awaiting me in the worldto come). So why should I let them flay the skin off me as well, and tono good purpose? For, even though they had flayed my skin half off myback, even then the mountain would not have moved at my word or at mycry. And at such a moment not only doubt might come over one but onemight lose one’s reason from fear, so that one would not be able tothink at all. And, therefore, how should I be particularly to blame ifnot seeing my advantage or reward there or here, I should, at least,save my skin. And so trusting fully in the grace of the Lord I shouldcherish the hope that I might be altogether forgiven.”



Chapter VIII.Over The Brandy

The controversy was over. But, strange to say, Fyodor Pavlovitch, whohad been so gay, suddenly began frowning. He frowned and gulped brandy,and it was already a glass too much.
“Get along with you, Jesuits!” he cried to the servants. “Go away,Smerdyakov. I’ll send you the gold piece I promised you to‐day, but beoff! Don’t cry, Grigory. Go to Marfa. She’ll comfort you and put you tobed. The rascals won’t let us sit in peace after dinner,” he snappedpeevishly, as the servants promptly withdrew at his word.
“Smerdyakov always pokes himself in now, after dinner. It’s you he’s sointerested in. What have you done to fascinate him?” he added to Ivan.
“Nothing whatever,” answered Ivan. “He’s pleased to have a high opinionof me; he’s a lackey and a mean soul. Raw material for revolution,however, when the time comes.”
“For revolution?”
“There will be others and better ones. But there will be some like himas well. His kind will come first, and better ones after.”
“And when will the time come?”
“The rocket will go off and fizzle out, perhaps. The peasants are notvery fond of listening to these soup‐makers, so far.”
“Ah, brother, but a Balaam’s ass like that thinks and thinks, and thedevil knows where he gets to.”
“He’s storing up ideas,” said Ivan, smiling.
“You see, I know he can’t bear me, nor any one else, even you, thoughyou fancy that he has a high opinion of you. Worse still with Alyosha,he despises Alyosha. But he doesn’t steal, that’s one thing, and he’snot a gossip, he holds his tongue, and doesn’t wash our dirty linen inpublic. He makes capital fish pasties too. But, damn him, is he worthtalking about so much?”
“Of course he isn’t.”
“And as for the ideas he may be hatching, the Russian peasant,generally speaking, needs thrashing. That I’ve always maintained. Ourpeasants are swindlers, and don’t deserve to be pitied, and it’s a goodthing they’re still flogged sometimes. Russia is rich in birches. Ifthey destroyed the forests, it would be the ruin of Russia. I stand upfor the clever people. We’ve left off thrashing the peasants, we’vegrown so clever, but they go on thrashing themselves. And a good thingtoo. ‘For with what measure ye mete it shall be measured to you again,’or how does it go? Anyhow, it will be measured. But Russia’s allswinishness. My dear, if you only knew how I hate Russia.... That is,not Russia, but all this vice! But maybe I mean Russia. _Tout celac’est de la cochonnerie_.... Do you know what I like? I like wit.”
“You’ve had another glass. That’s enough.”
“Wait a bit. I’ll have one more, and then another, and then I’ll stop.No, stay, you interrupted me. At Mokroe I was talking to an old man,and he told me: ‘There’s nothing we like so much as sentencing girls tobe thrashed, and we always give the lads the job of thrashing them. Andthe girl he has thrashed to‐day, the young man will ask in marriageto‐morrow. So it quite suits the girls, too,’ he said. There’s a set ofde Sades for you! But it’s clever, anyway. Shall we go over and have alook at it, eh? Alyosha, are you blushing? Don’t be bashful, child. I’msorry I didn’t stay to dinner at the Superior’s and tell the monksabout the girls at Mokroe. Alyosha, don’t be angry that I offended yourSuperior this morning. I lost my temper. If there is a God, if Heexists, then, of course, I’m to blame, and I shall have to answer forit. But if there isn’t a God at all, what do they deserve, yourfathers? It’s not enough to cut their heads off, for they keep backprogress. Would you believe it, Ivan, that that lacerates mysentiments? No, you don’t believe it as I see from your eyes. Youbelieve what people say, that I’m nothing but a buffoon. Alyosha, doyou believe that I’m nothing but a buffoon?”
“No, I don’t believe it.”
“And I believe you don’t, and that you speak the truth. You looksincere and you speak sincerely. But not Ivan. Ivan’s supercilious....I’d make an end of your monks, though, all the same. I’d take all thatmystic stuff and suppress it, once for all, all over Russia, so as tobring all the fools to reason. And the gold and the silver that wouldflow into the mint!”
“But why suppress it?” asked Ivan.
“That Truth may prevail. That’s why.”
“Well, if Truth were to prevail, you know, you’d be the first to berobbed and suppressed.”
“Ah! I dare say you’re right. Ah, I’m an ass!” burst out FyodorPavlovitch, striking himself lightly on the forehead. “Well, yourmonastery may stand then, Alyosha, if that’s how it is. And we cleverpeople will sit snug and enjoy our brandy. You know, Ivan, it must havebeen so ordained by the Almighty Himself. Ivan, speak, is there a Godor not? Stay, speak the truth, speak seriously. Why are you laughingagain?”
“I’m laughing that you should have made a clever remark just now aboutSmerdyakov’s belief in the existence of two saints who could movemountains.”
“Why, am I like him now, then?”
“Very much.”
“Well, that shows I’m a Russian, too, and I have a Russiancharacteristic. And you may be caught in the same way, though you are aphilosopher. Shall I catch you? What do you bet that I’ll catch youto‐morrow. Speak, all the same, is there a God, or not? Only, beserious. I want you to be serious now.”
“No, there is no God.”
“Alyosha, is there a God?”
“There is.”
“Ivan, and is there immortality of some sort, just a little, just atiny bit?”
“There is no immortality either.”
“None at all?”
“None at all.”
“There’s absolute nothingness then. Perhaps there is just something?Anything is better than nothing!”
“Absolute nothingness.”
“Alyosha, is there immortality?”
“There is.”
“God and immortality?”
“God and immortality. In God is immortality.”
“H’m! It’s more likely Ivan’s right. Good Lord! to think what faith,what force of all kinds, man has lavished for nothing, on that dream,and for how many thousand years. Who is it laughing at man? Ivan! Forthe last time, once for all, is there a God or not? I ask for the lasttime!”
“And for the last time there is not.”
“Who is laughing at mankind, Ivan?”
“It must be the devil,” said Ivan, smiling.
“And the devil? Does he exist?”
“No, there’s no devil either.”
“It’s a pity. Damn it all, what wouldn’t I do to the man who firstinvented God! Hanging on a bitter aspen tree would be too good forhim.”
“There would have been no civilization if they hadn’t invented God.”
“Wouldn’t there have been? Without God?”
“No. And there would have been no brandy either. But I must take yourbrandy away from you, anyway.”
“Stop, stop, stop, dear boy, one more little glass. I’ve hurt Alyosha’sfeelings. You’re not angry with me, Alyosha? My dear little Alexey!”
“No, I am not angry. I know your thoughts. Your heart is better thanyour head.”
“My heart better than my head, is it? Oh, Lord! And that from you.Ivan, do you love Alyosha?”
“Yes.”
“You must love him” (Fyodor Pavlovitch was by this time very drunk).“Listen, Alyosha, I was rude to your elder this morning. But I wasexcited. But there’s wit in that elder, don’t you think, Ivan?”
“Very likely.”
“There is, there is. _Il y a du Piron là‐dedans._ He’s a Jesuit, aRussian one, that is. As he’s an honorable person there’s a hiddenindignation boiling within him at having to pretend and affectholiness.”
“But, of course, he believes in God.”
“Not a bit of it. Didn’t you know? Why, he tells every one so, himself.That is, not every one, but all the clever people who come to him. Hesaid straight out to Governor Schultz not long ago: ‘_Credo_, but Idon’t know in what.’ ”
“Really?”
“He really did. But I respect him. There’s something of Mephistophelesabout him, or rather of ‘The hero of our time’ ... Arbenin, or what’shis name?... You see, he’s a sensualist. He’s such a sensualist that Ishould be afraid for my daughter or my wife if she went to confess tohim. You know, when he begins telling stories.... The year before lasthe invited us to tea, tea with liqueur (the ladies send him liqueur),and began telling us about old times till we nearly split our sides....Especially how he once cured a paralyzed woman. ‘If my legs were notbad I know a dance I could dance you,’ he said. What do you say tothat? ‘I’ve plenty of tricks in my time,’ said he. He did Dernidov, themerchant, out of sixty thousand.”
“What, he stole it?”
“He brought him the money as a man he could trust, saying, ‘Take careof it for me, friend, there’ll be a police search at my placeto‐morrow.’ And he kept it. ‘You have given it to the Church,’ hedeclared. I said to him: ‘You’re a scoundrel,’ I said. ‘No,’ said he,‘I’m not a scoundrel, but I’m broad‐minded.’ But that wasn’t he, thatwas some one else. I’ve muddled him with some one else ... withoutnoticing it. Come, another glass and that’s enough. Take away thebottle, Ivan. I’ve been telling lies. Why didn’t you stop me, Ivan, andtell me I was lying?”
“I knew you’d stop of yourself.”
“That’s a lie. You did it from spite, from simple spite against me. Youdespise me. You have come to me and despised me in my own house.”
“Well, I’m going away. You’ve had too much brandy.”
“I’ve begged you for Christ’s sake to go to Tchermashnya for a day ortwo, and you don’t go.”
“I’ll go to‐morrow if you’re so set upon it.”
“You won’t go. You want to keep an eye on me. That’s what you want,spiteful fellow. That’s why you won’t go.”
The old man persisted. He had reached that state of drunkenness whenthe drunkard who has till then been inoffensive tries to pick a quarreland to assert himself.
“Why are you looking at me? Why do you look like that? Your eyes lookat me and say, ‘You ugly drunkard!’ Your eyes are mistrustful. They’recontemptuous.... You’ve come here with some design. Alyosha, here,looks at me and his eyes shine. Alyosha doesn’t despise me. Alexey, youmustn’t love Ivan.”
“Don’t be ill‐tempered with my brother. Leave off attacking him,”Alyosha said emphatically.
“Oh, all right. Ugh, my head aches. Take away the brandy, Ivan. It’sthe third time I’ve told you.”
He mused, and suddenly a slow, cunning grin spread over his face.
“Don’t be angry with a feeble old man, Ivan. I know you don’t love me,but don’t be angry all the same. You’ve nothing to love me for. You goto Tchermashnya. I’ll come to you myself and bring you a present. I’llshow you a little wench there. I’ve had my eye on her a long time.She’s still running about bare‐foot. Don’t be afraid of bare‐footedwenches—don’t despise them—they’re pearls!”
And he kissed his hand with a smack.
“To my thinking,” he revived at once, seeming to grow sober the instanthe touched on his favorite topic. “To my thinking ... Ah, you boys! Youchildren, little sucking‐pigs, to my thinking ... I never thought awoman ugly in my life—that’s been my rule! Can you understand that? Howcould you understand it? You’ve milk in your veins, not blood. You’renot out of your shells yet. My rule has been that you can always findsomething devilishly interesting in every woman that you wouldn’t findin any other. Only, one must know how to find it, that’s the point!That’s a talent! To my mind there are no ugly women. The very fact thatshe is a woman is half the battle ... but how could you understandthat? Even in _vieilles filles_, even in them you may discoversomething that makes you simply wonder that men have been such fools asto let them grow old without noticing them. Bare‐footed girls orunattractive ones, you must take by surprise. Didn’t you know that? Youmust astound them till they’re fascinated, upset, ashamed that such agentleman should fall in love with such a little slut. It’s a jollygood thing that there always are and will be masters and slaves in theworld, so there always will be a little maid‐ of‐all‐work and hermaster, and you know, that’s all that’s needed for happiness. Stay ...listen, Alyosha, I always used to surprise your mother, but in adifferent way. I paid no attention to her at all, but all at once, whenthe minute came, I’d be all devotion to her, crawl on my knees, kissher feet, and I always, always—I remember it as though it wereto‐day—reduced her to that tinkling, quiet, nervous, queer littlelaugh. It was peculiar to her. I knew her attacks always used to beginlike that. The next day she would begin shrieking hysterically, andthis little laugh was not a sign of delight, though it made a very goodcounterfeit. That’s the great thing, to know how to take every one.Once Belyavsky—he was a handsome fellow, and rich—used to like to comehere and hang about her—suddenly gave me a slap in the face in herpresence. And she—such a mild sheep—why, I thought she would haveknocked me down for that blow. How she set on me! ‘You’re beaten,beaten now,’ she said. ‘You’ve taken a blow from him. You have beentrying to sell me to him,’ she said.... ‘And how dared he strike you inmy presence! Don’t dare come near me again, never, never! Run at once,challenge him to a duel!’... I took her to the monastery then to bringher to her senses. The holy Fathers prayed her back to reason. But Iswear, by God, Alyosha, I never insulted the poor crazy girl! Onlyonce, perhaps, in the first year; then she was very fond of praying.She used to keep the feasts of Our Lady particularly and used to turnme out of her room then. I’ll knock that mysticism out of her, thoughtI! ‘Here,’ said I, ‘you see your holy image. Here it is. Here I take itdown. You believe it’s miraculous, but here, I’ll spit on it directlyand nothing will happen to me for it!’... When she saw it, good Lord! Ithought she would kill me. But she only jumped up, wrung her hands,then suddenly hid her face in them, began trembling all over and fellon the floor ... fell all of a heap. Alyosha, Alyosha, what’s thematter?”
The old man jumped up in alarm. From the time he had begun speakingabout his mother, a change had gradually come over Alyosha’s face. Heflushed crimson, his eyes glowed, his lips quivered. The old sot hadgone spluttering on, noticing nothing, till the moment when somethingvery strange happened to Alyosha. Precisely what he was describing inthe crazy woman was suddenly repeated with Alyosha. He jumped up fromhis seat exactly as his mother was said to have done, wrung his hands,hid his face in them, and fell back in his chair, shaking all over inan hysterical paroxysm of sudden violent, silent weeping. Hisextraordinary resemblance to his mother particularly impressed the oldman.
“Ivan, Ivan! Water, quickly! It’s like her, exactly as she used to bethen, his mother. Spurt some water on him from your mouth, that’s whatI used to do to her. He’s upset about his mother, his mother,” hemuttered to Ivan.
“But she was my mother, too, I believe, his mother. Was she not?” saidIvan, with uncontrolled anger and contempt. The old man shrank beforehis flashing eyes. But something very strange had happened, though onlyfor a second; it seemed really to have escaped the old man’s mind thatAlyosha’s mother actually was the mother of Ivan too.
“Your mother?” he muttered, not understanding. “What do you mean? Whatmother are you talking about? Was she?... Why, damn it! of course shewas yours too! Damn it! My mind has never been so darkened before.Excuse me, why, I was thinking, Ivan.... He he he!” He stopped. Abroad, drunken, half‐senseless grin overspread his face.
At that moment a fearful noise and clamor was heard in the hall, therewere violent shouts, the door was flung open, and Dmitri burst into theroom. The old man rushed to Ivan in terror.
“He’ll kill me! He’ll kill me! Don’t let him get at me!” he screamed,clinging to the skirt of Ivan’s coat.



Chapter IX.The Sensualists

Grigory and Smerdyakov ran into the room after Dmitri. They had beenstruggling with him in the passage, refusing to admit him, acting oninstructions given them by Fyodor Pavlovitch some days before. Takingadvantage of the fact that Dmitri stopped a moment on entering the roomto look about him, Grigory ran round the table, closed the double doorson the opposite side of the room leading to the inner apartments, andstood before the closed doors, stretching wide his arms, prepared todefend the entrance, so to speak, with the last drop of his blood.Seeing this, Dmitri uttered a scream rather than a shout and rushed atGrigory.
“Then she’s there! She’s hidden there! Out of the way, scoundrel!”
He tried to pull Grigory away, but the old servant pushed him back.Beside himself with fury, Dmitri struck out, and hit Grigory with allhis might. The old man fell like a log, and Dmitri, leaping over him,broke in the door. Smerdyakov remained pale and trembling at the otherend of the room, huddling close to Fyodor Pavlovitch.
“She’s here!” shouted Dmitri. “I saw her turn towards the house justnow, but I couldn’t catch her. Where is she? Where is she?”
That shout, “She’s here!” produced an indescribable effect on FyodorPavlovitch. All his terror left him.
“Hold him! Hold him!” he cried, and dashed after Dmitri. MeanwhileGrigory had got up from the floor, but still seemed stunned. Ivan andAlyosha ran after their father. In the third room something was heardto fall on the floor with a ringing crash: it was a large glassvase—not an expensive one—on a marble pedestal which Dmitri had upsetas he ran past it.
“At him!” shouted the old man. “Help!”
Ivan and Alyosha caught the old man and were forcibly bringing himback.
“Why do you run after him? He’ll murder you outright,” Ivan criedwrathfully at his father.
“Ivan! Alyosha! She must be here. Grushenka’s here. He said he saw herhimself, running.”
He was choking. He was not expecting Grushenka at the time, and thesudden news that she was here made him beside himself. He was tremblingall over. He seemed frantic.
“But you’ve seen for yourself that she hasn’t come,” cried Ivan.
“But she may have come by that other entrance.”
“You know that entrance is locked, and you have the key.”
Dmitri suddenly reappeared in the drawing‐room. He had, of course,found the other entrance locked, and the key actually was in FyodorPavlovitch’s pocket. The windows of all the rooms were also closed, soGrushenka could not have come in anywhere nor have run out anywhere.
“Hold him!” shrieked Fyodor Pavlovitch, as soon as he saw him again.“He’s been stealing money in my bedroom.” And tearing himself from Ivanhe rushed again at Dmitri. But Dmitri threw up both hands and suddenlyclutched the old man by the two tufts of hair that remained on histemples, tugged at them, and flung him with a crash on the floor. Hekicked him two or three times with his heel in the face. The old manmoaned shrilly. Ivan, though not so strong as Dmitri, threw his armsround him, and with all his might pulled him away. Alyosha helped himwith his slender strength, holding Dmitri in front.
“Madman! You’ve killed him!” cried Ivan.
“Serve him right!” shouted Dmitri breathlessly. “If I haven’t killedhim, I’ll come again and kill him. You can’t protect him!”
“Dmitri! Go away at once!” cried Alyosha commandingly.
“Alexey! You tell me. It’s only you I can believe; was she here justnow, or not? I saw her myself creeping this way by the fence from thelane. I shouted, she ran away.”
“I swear she’s not been here, and no one expected her.”
“But I saw her.... So she must ... I’ll find out at once where sheis.... Good‐by, Alexey! Not a word to Æsop about the money now. But goto Katerina Ivanovna at once and be sure to say, ‘He sends hiscompliments to you!’ Compliments, his compliments! Just compliments andfarewell! Describe the scene to her.”
Meanwhile Ivan and Grigory had raised the old man and seated him in anarm‐chair. His face was covered with blood, but he was conscious andlistened greedily to Dmitri’s cries. He was still fancying thatGrushenka really was somewhere in the house. Dmitri looked at him withhatred as he went out.
“I don’t repent shedding your blood!” he cried. “Beware, old man,beware of your dream, for I have my dream, too. I curse you, and disownyou altogether.”
He ran out of the room.
“She’s here. She must be here. Smerdyakov! Smerdyakov!” the old manwheezed, scarcely audibly, beckoning to him with his finger.
“No, she’s not here, you old lunatic!” Ivan shouted at him angrily.“Here, he’s fainting! Water! A towel! Make haste, Smerdyakov!”
Smerdyakov ran for water. At last they got the old man undressed, andput him to bed. They wrapped a wet towel round his head. Exhausted bythe brandy, by his violent emotion, and the blows he had received, heshut his eyes and fell asleep as soon as his head touched the pillow.Ivan and Alyosha went back to the drawing‐room. Smerdyakov removed thefragments of the broken vase, while Grigory stood by the table lookinggloomily at the floor.
“Shouldn’t you put a wet bandage on your head and go to bed, too?”Alyosha said to him. “We’ll look after him. My brother gave you aterrible blow—on the head.”
“He’s insulted me!” Grigory articulated gloomily and distinctly.
“He’s ‘insulted’ his father, not only you,” observed Ivan with a forcedsmile.
“I used to wash him in his tub. He’s insulted me,” repeated Grigory.
“Damn it all, if I hadn’t pulled him away perhaps he’d have murderedhim. It wouldn’t take much to do for Æsop, would it?” whispered Ivan toAlyosha.
“God forbid!” cried Alyosha.
“Why should He forbid?” Ivan went on in the same whisper, with amalignant grimace. “One reptile will devour the other. And serve themboth right, too.”
Alyosha shuddered.
“Of course I won’t let him be murdered as I didn’t just now. Stay here,Alyosha, I’ll go for a turn in the yard. My head’s begun to ache.”
Alyosha went to his father’s bedroom and sat by his bedside behind thescreen for about an hour. The old man suddenly opened his eyes andgazed for a long while at Alyosha, evidently remembering andmeditating. All at once his face betrayed extraordinary excitement.
“Alyosha,” he whispered apprehensively, “where’s Ivan?”
“In the yard. He’s got a headache. He’s on the watch.”
“Give me that looking‐glass. It stands over there. Give it me.”
Alyosha gave him a little round folding looking‐glass which stood onthe chest of drawers. The old man looked at himself in it; his nose wasconsiderably swollen, and on the left side of his forehead there was arather large crimson bruise.
“What does Ivan say? Alyosha, my dear, my only son, I’m afraid of Ivan.I’m more afraid of Ivan than the other. You’re the only one I’m notafraid of....”
“Don’t be afraid of Ivan either. He is angry, but he’ll defend you.”
“Alyosha, and what of the other? He’s run to Grushenka. My angel, tellme the truth, was she here just now or not?”
“No one has seen her. It was a mistake. She has not been here.”
“You know Mitya wants to marry her, to marry her.”
“She won’t marry him.”
“She won’t. She won’t. She won’t. She won’t on any account!”
The old man fairly fluttered with joy, as though nothing morecomforting could have been said to him. In his delight he seizedAlyosha’s hand and pressed it warmly to his heart. Tears positivelyglittered in his eyes.
“That image of the Mother of God of which I was telling you just now,”he said. “Take it home and keep it for yourself. And I’ll let you goback to the monastery.... I was joking this morning, don’t be angrywith me. My head aches, Alyosha.... Alyosha, comfort my heart. Be anangel and tell me the truth!”
“You’re still asking whether she has been here or not?” Alyosha saidsorrowfully.
“No, no, no. I believe you. I’ll tell you what it is: you go toGrushenka yourself, or see her somehow; make haste and ask her; see foryourself, which she means to choose, him or me. Eh? What? Can you?”
“If I see her I’ll ask her,” Alyosha muttered, embarrassed.
“No, she won’t tell you,” the old man interrupted, “she’s a rogue.She’ll begin kissing you and say that it’s you she wants. She’s adeceitful, shameless hussy. You mustn’t go to her, you mustn’t!”
“No, father, and it wouldn’t be suitable, it wouldn’t be right at all.”
“Where was he sending you just now? He shouted ‘Go’ as he ran away.”
“To Katerina Ivanovna.”
“For money? To ask her for money?”
“No. Not for money.”
“He’s no money; not a farthing. I’ll settle down for the night, andthink things over, and you can go. Perhaps you’ll meet her.... Only besure to come to me to‐morrow in the morning. Be sure to. I have a wordto say to you to‐morrow. Will you come?”
“Yes.”
“When you come, pretend you’ve come of your own accord to ask after me.Don’t tell any one I told you to. Don’t say a word to Ivan.”
“Very well.”
“Good‐by, my angel. You stood up for me, just now. I shall never forgetit. I’ve a word to say to you to‐morrow—but I must think about it.”
“And how do you feel now?”
“I shall get up to‐morrow and go out, perfectly well, perfectly well!”
Crossing the yard Alyosha found Ivan sitting on the bench at thegateway. He was sitting writing something in pencil in his note‐book.Alyosha told Ivan that their father had waked up, was conscious, andhad let him go back to sleep at the monastery.
“Alyosha, I should be very glad to meet you to‐morrow morning,” saidIvan cordially, standing up. His cordiality was a complete surprise toAlyosha.
“I shall be at the Hohlakovs’ to‐morrow,” answered Alyosha, “I may beat Katerina Ivanovna’s, too, if I don’t find her now.”
“But you’re going to her now, anyway? For that ‘compliments andfarewell,’ ” said Ivan smiling. Alyosha was disconcerted.
“I think I quite understand his exclamations just now, and part of whatwent before. Dmitri has asked you to go to her and say that he—well, infact—takes his leave of her?”
“Brother, how will all this horror end between father and Dmitri?”exclaimed Alyosha.
“One can’t tell for certain. Perhaps in nothing: it may all fizzle out.That woman is a beast. In any case we must keep the old man indoors andnot let Dmitri in the house.”
“Brother, let me ask one thing more: has any man a right to look atother men and decide which is worthy to live?”
“Why bring in the question of worth? The matter is most often decidedin men’s hearts on other grounds much more natural. And as forrights—who has not the right to wish?”
“Not for another man’s death?”
“What even if for another man’s death? Why lie to oneself since all menlive so and perhaps cannot help living so. Are you referring to what Isaid just now—that one reptile will devour the other? In that case letme ask you, do you think me like Dmitri capable of shedding Æsop’sblood, murdering him, eh?”
“What are you saying, Ivan? Such an idea never crossed my mind. I don’tthink Dmitri is capable of it, either.”
“Thanks, if only for that,” smiled Ivan. “Be sure, I should alwaysdefend him. But in my wishes I reserve myself full latitude in thiscase. Good‐by till to‐morrow. Don’t condemn me, and don’t look on me asa villain,” he added with a smile.
They shook hands warmly as they had never done before. Alyosha feltthat his brother had taken the first step towards him, and that he hadcertainly done this with some definite motive.



Chapter X.Both Together

Alyosha left his father’s house feeling even more exhausted anddejected in spirit than when he had entered it. His mind too seemedshattered and unhinged, while he felt that he was afraid to puttogether the disjointed fragments and form a general idea from all theagonizing and conflicting experiences of the day. He felt somethingbordering upon despair, which he had never known till then. Toweringlike a mountain above all the rest stood the fatal, insoluble question:How would things end between his father and his brother Dmitri withthis terrible woman? Now he had himself been a witness of it, he hadbeen present and seen them face to face. Yet only his brother Dmitricould be made unhappy, terribly, completely unhappy: there was troubleawaiting him. It appeared too that there were other people concerned,far more so than Alyosha could have supposed before. There wassomething positively mysterious in it, too. Ivan had made a steptowards him, which was what Alyosha had been long desiring. Yet now hefelt for some reason that he was frightened at it. And these women?Strange to say, that morning he had set out for Katerina Ivanovna’s inthe greatest embarrassment; now he felt nothing of the kind. On thecontrary, he was hastening there as though expecting to find guidancefrom her. Yet to give her this message was obviously more difficultthan before. The matter of the three thousand was decided irrevocably,and Dmitri, feeling himself dishonored and losing his last hope, mightsink to any depth. He had, moreover, told him to describe to KaterinaIvanovna the scene which had just taken place with his father.
It was by now seven o’clock, and it was getting dark as Alyosha enteredthe very spacious and convenient house in the High Street occupied byKaterina Ivanovna. Alyosha knew that she lived with two aunts. One ofthem, a woman of little education, was that aunt of her half‐sisterAgafya Ivanovna who had looked after her in her father’s house when shecame from boarding‐school. The other aunt was a Moscow lady of styleand consequence, though in straitened circumstances. It was said thatthey both gave way in everything to Katerina Ivanovna, and that sheonly kept them with her as chaperons. Katerina Ivanovna herself gaveway to no one but her benefactress, the general’s widow, who had beenkept by illness in Moscow, and to whom she was obliged to write twice aweek a full account of all her doings.
When Alyosha entered the hall and asked the maid who opened the door tohim to take his name up, it was evident that they were already aware ofhis arrival. Possibly he had been noticed from the window. At least,Alyosha heard a noise, caught the sound of flying footsteps andrustling skirts. Two or three women, perhaps, had run out of the room.
Alyosha thought it strange that his arrival should cause suchexcitement. He was conducted however to the drawing‐room at once. Itwas a large room, elegantly and amply furnished, not at all inprovincial style. There were many sofas, lounges, settees, big andlittle tables. There were pictures on the walls, vases and lamps on thetables, masses of flowers, and even an aquarium in the window. It wastwilight and rather dark. Alyosha made out a silk mantle thrown down onthe sofa, where people had evidently just been sitting; and on a tablein front of the sofa were two unfinished cups of chocolate, cakes, aglass saucer with blue raisins, and another with sweetmeats. Alyoshasaw that he had interrupted visitors, and frowned. But at that instantthe portière was raised, and with rapid, hurrying footsteps KaterinaIvanovna came in, holding out both hands to Alyosha with a radiantsmile of delight. At the same instant a servant brought in two lightedcandles and set them on the table.
“Thank God! At last you have come too! I’ve been simply praying for youall day! Sit down.”
Alyosha had been struck by Katerina Ivanovna’s beauty when, three weeksbefore, Dmitri had first brought him, at Katerina Ivanovna’s specialrequest, to be introduced to her. There had been no conversationbetween them at that interview, however. Supposing Alyosha to be veryshy, Katerina Ivanovna had talked all the time to Dmitri to spare him.Alyosha had been silent, but he had seen a great deal very clearly. Hewas struck by the imperiousness, proud ease, and self‐confidence of thehaughty girl. And all that was certain, Alyosha felt that he was notexaggerating it. He thought her great glowing black eyes were veryfine, especially with her pale, even rather sallow, longish face. Butin those eyes and in the lines of her exquisite lips there wassomething with which his brother might well be passionately in love,but which perhaps could not be loved for long. He expressed thisthought almost plainly to Dmitri when, after the visit, his brotherbesought and insisted that he should not conceal his impressions onseeing his betrothed.
“You’ll be happy with her, but perhaps—not tranquilly happy.”
“Quite so, brother. Such people remain always the same. They don’tyield to fate. So you think I shan’t love her for ever.”
“No; perhaps you will love her for ever. But perhaps you won’t alwaysbe happy with her.”
Alyosha had given his opinion at the time, blushing, and angry withhimself for having yielded to his brother’s entreaties and put such“foolish” ideas into words. For his opinion had struck him as awfullyfoolish immediately after he had uttered it. He felt ashamed too ofhaving given so confident an opinion about a woman. It was with themore amazement that he felt now, at the first glance at KaterinaIvanovna as she ran in to him, that he had perhaps been utterlymistaken. This time her face was beaming with spontaneous good‐naturedkindliness, and direct warm‐hearted sincerity. The “pride andhaughtiness,” which had struck Alyosha so much before, was onlybetrayed now in a frank, generous energy and a sort of bright, strongfaith in herself. Alyosha realized at the first glance, at the firstword, that all the tragedy of her position in relation to the man sheloved so dearly was no secret to her; that she perhaps already kneweverything, positively everything. And yet, in spite of that, there wassuch brightness in her face, such faith in the future. Alyosha felt atonce that he had gravely wronged her in his thoughts. He was conqueredand captivated immediately. Besides all this, he noticed at her firstwords that she was in great excitement, an excitement perhaps quiteexceptional and almost approaching ecstasy.
“I was so eager to see you, because I can learn from you the wholetruth—from you and no one else.”
“I have come,” muttered Alyosha confusedly, “I—he sent me.”
“Ah, he sent you! I foresaw that. Now I know everything—everything!”cried Katerina Ivanovna, her eyes flashing. “Wait a moment, AlexeyFyodorovitch, I’ll tell you why I’ve been so longing to see you. Yousee, I know perhaps far more than you do yourself, and there’s no needfor you to tell me anything. I’ll tell you what I want from you. I wantto know your own last impression of him. I want you to tell me mostdirectly, plainly, coarsely even (oh, as coarsely as you like!), whatyou thought of him just now and of his position after your meeting withhim to‐day. That will perhaps be better than if I had a personalexplanation with him, as he does not want to come to me. Do youunderstand what I want from you? Now, tell me simply, tell me everyword of the message he sent you with (I knew he would send you).”
“He told me to give you his compliments—and to say that he would nevercome again—but to give you his compliments.”
“His compliments? Was that what he said—his own expression?”
“Yes.”
“Accidentally perhaps he made a mistake in the word, perhaps he did notuse the right word?”
“No; he told me precisely to repeat that word. He begged me two orthree times not to forget to say so.”
Katerina Ivanovna flushed hotly.
“Help me now, Alexey Fyodorovitch. Now I really need your help. I’lltell you what I think, and you must simply say whether it’s right ornot. Listen! If he had sent me his compliments in passing, withoutinsisting on your repeating the words, without emphasizing them, thatwould be the end of everything! But if he particularly insisted onthose words, if he particularly told you not to forget to repeat themto me, then perhaps he was in excitement, beside himself. He had madehis decision and was frightened at it. He wasn’t walking away from mewith a resolute step, but leaping headlong. The emphasis on that phrasemay have been simply bravado.”
“Yes, yes!” cried Alyosha warmly. “I believe that is it.”
“And, if so, he’s not altogether lost. I can still save him. Stay! Didhe not tell you anything about money—about three thousand roubles?”
“He did speak about it, and it’s that more than anything that’scrushing him. He said he had lost his honor and that nothing mattersnow,” Alyosha answered warmly, feeling a rush of hope in his heart andbelieving that there really might be a way of escape and salvation forhis brother. “But do you know about the money?” he added, and suddenlybroke off.
“I’ve known of it a long time; I telegraphed to Moscow to inquire, andheard long ago that the money had not arrived. He hadn’t sent themoney, but I said nothing. Last week I learnt that he was still in needof money. My only object in all this was that he should know to whom toturn, and who was his true friend. No, he won’t recognize that I am histruest friend; he won’t know me, and looks on me merely as a woman.I’ve been tormented all the week, trying to think how to prevent himfrom being ashamed to face me because he spent that three thousand. Lethim feel ashamed of himself, let him be ashamed of other people’sknowing, but not of my knowing. He can tell God everything withoutshame. Why is it he still does not understand how much I am ready tobear for his sake? Why, why doesn’t he know me? How dare he not know meafter all that has happened? I want to save him for ever. Let himforget me as his betrothed. And here he fears that he is dishonored inmy eyes. Why, he wasn’t afraid to be open with you, AlexeyFyodorovitch. How is it that I don’t deserve the same?”
The last words she uttered in tears. Tears gushed from her eyes.
“I must tell you,” Alyosha began, his voice trembling too, “whathappened just now between him and my father.”
And he described the whole scene, how Dmitri had sent him to get themoney, how he had broken in, knocked his father down, and after thathad again specially and emphatically begged him to take his complimentsand farewell. “He went to that woman,” Alyosha added softly.
“And do you suppose that I can’t put up with that woman? Does he thinkI can’t? But he won’t marry her,” she suddenly laughed nervously.“Could such a passion last for ever in a Karamazov? It’s passion, notlove. He won’t marry her because she won’t marry him.” Again KaterinaIvanovna laughed strangely.
“He may marry her,” said Alyosha mournfully, looking down.
“He won’t marry her, I tell you. That girl is an angel. Do you knowthat? Do you know that?” Katerina Ivanovna exclaimed suddenly withextraordinary warmth. “She is one of the most fantastic of fantasticcreatures. I know how bewitching she is, but I know too that she iskind, firm and noble. Why do you look at me like that, AlexeyFyodorovitch? Perhaps you are wondering at my words, perhaps you don’tbelieve me? Agrafena Alexandrovna, my angel!” she cried suddenly tosome one, peeping into the next room, “come in to us. This is a friend.This is Alyosha. He knows all about our affairs. Show yourself to him.”
“I’ve only been waiting behind the curtain for you to call me,” said asoft, one might even say sugary, feminine voice.
The portière was raised and Grushenka herself, smiling and beaming,came up to the table. A violent revulsion passed over Alyosha. He fixedhis eyes on her and could not take them off. Here she was, that awfulwoman, the “beast,” as Ivan had called her half an hour before. And yetone would have thought the creature standing before him most simple andordinary, a good‐natured, kind woman, handsome certainly, but so likeother handsome ordinary women! It is true she was very, verygood‐looking with that Russian beauty so passionately loved by manymen. She was a rather tall woman, though a little shorter than KaterinaIvanovna, who was exceptionally tall. She had a full figure, with soft,as it were, noiseless, movements, softened to a peculiarover‐sweetness, like her voice. She moved, not like Katerina Ivanovna,with a vigorous, bold step, but noiselessly. Her feet made absolutelyno sound on the floor. She sank softly into a low chair, softlyrustling her sumptuous black silk dress, and delicately nestling hermilk‐white neck and broad shoulders in a costly cashmere shawl. She wastwenty‐two years old, and her face looked exactly that age. She wasvery white in the face, with a pale pink tint on her cheeks. Themodeling of her face might be said to be too broad, and the lower jawwas set a trifle forward. Her upper lip was thin, but the slightlyprominent lower lip was at least twice as full, and looked pouting. Buther magnificent, abundant dark brown hair, her sable‐colored eyebrowsand charming gray‐blue eyes with their long lashes would have made themost indifferent person, meeting her casually in a crowd in the street,stop at the sight of her face and remember it long after. What struckAlyosha most in that face was its expression of childlike good nature.There was a childlike look in her eyes, a look of childish delight. Shecame up to the table, beaming with delight and seeming to expectsomething with childish, impatient, and confiding curiosity. The lightin her eyes gladdened the soul—Alyosha felt that. There was somethingelse in her which he could not understand, or would not have been ableto define, and which yet perhaps unconsciously affected him. It wasthat softness, that voluptuousness of her bodily movements, thatcatlike noiselessness. Yet it was a vigorous, ample body. Under theshawl could be seen full broad shoulders, a high, still quite girlishbosom. Her figure suggested the lines of the Venus of Milo, thoughalready in somewhat exaggerated proportions. That could be divined.Connoisseurs of Russian beauty could have foretold with certainty thatthis fresh, still youthful beauty would lose its harmony by the age ofthirty, would “spread”; that the face would become puffy, and thatwrinkles would very soon appear upon her forehead and round the eyes;the complexion would grow coarse and red perhaps—in fact, that it wasthe beauty of the moment, the fleeting beauty which is so often metwith in Russian women. Alyosha, of course, did not think of this; butthough he was fascinated, yet he wondered with an unpleasant sensation,and as it were regretfully, why she drawled in that way and could notspeak naturally. She did so evidently feeling there was a charm in theexaggerated, honeyed modulation of the syllables. It was, of course,only a bad, underbred habit that showed bad education and a false ideaof good manners. And yet this intonation and manner of speakingimpressed Alyosha as almost incredibly incongruous with the childishlysimple and happy expression of her face, the soft, babyish joy in hereyes. Katerina Ivanovna at once made her sit down in an arm‐ chairfacing Alyosha, and ecstatically kissed her several times on hersmiling lips. She seemed quite in love with her.
“This is the first time we’ve met, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” she saidrapturously. “I wanted to know her, to see her. I wanted to go to her,but I’d no sooner expressed the wish than she came to me. I knew weshould settle everything together—everything. My heart told me so—I wasbegged not to take the step, but I foresaw it would be a way out of thedifficulty, and I was not mistaken. Grushenka has explained everythingto me, told me all she means to do. She flew here like an angel ofgoodness and brought us peace and joy.”
“You did not disdain me, sweet, excellent young lady,” drawledGrushenka in her sing‐song voice, still with the same charming smile ofdelight.
“Don’t dare to speak to me like that, you sorceress, you witch! Disdainyou! Here, I must kiss your lower lip once more. It looks as though itwere swollen, and now it will be more so, and more and more. Look howshe laughs, Alexey Fyodorovitch! It does one’s heart good to see theangel.”
Alyosha flushed, and faint, imperceptible shivers kept running downhim.
“You make so much of me, dear young lady, and perhaps I am not at allworthy of your kindness.”
“Not worthy! She’s not worthy of it!” Katerina Ivanovna cried againwith the same warmth. “You know, Alexey Fyodorovitch, we’re fanciful,we’re self‐willed, but proudest of the proud in our little heart. We’renoble, we’re generous, Alexey Fyodorovitch, let me tell you. We haveonly been unfortunate. We were too ready to make every sacrifice for anunworthy, perhaps, or fickle man. There was one man—one, an officertoo, we loved him, we sacrificed everything to him. That was long ago,five years ago, and he has forgotten us, he has married. Now he is awidower, he has written, he is coming here, and, do you know, we’veloved him, none but him, all this time, and we’ve loved him all ourlife! He will come, and Grushenka will be happy again. For the lastfive years she’s been wretched. But who can reproach her, who can boastof her favor? Only that bedridden old merchant, but he is more like herfather, her friend, her protector. He found her then in despair, inagony, deserted by the man she loved. She was ready to drown herselfthen, but the old merchant saved her—saved her!”
“You defend me very kindly, dear young lady. You are in a great hurryabout everything,” Grushenka drawled again.
“Defend you! Is it for me to defend you? Should I dare to defend you?Grushenka, angel, give me your hand. Look at that charming soft littlehand, Alexey Fyodorovitch! Look at it! It has brought me happiness andhas lifted me up, and I’m going to kiss it, outside and inside, here,here, here!”
And three times she kissed the certainly charming, though rather fat,hand of Grushenka in a sort of rapture. She held out her hand with acharming musical, nervous little laugh, watched the “sweet young lady,”and obviously liked having her hand kissed.
“Perhaps there’s rather too much rapture,” thought Alyosha. He blushed.He felt a peculiar uneasiness at heart the whole time.
“You won’t make me blush, dear young lady, kissing my hand like thisbefore Alexey Fyodorovitch.”
“Do you think I meant to make you blush?” said Katerina Ivanovna,somewhat surprised. “Ah, my dear, how little you understand me!”
“Yes, and you too perhaps quite misunderstand me, dear young lady.Maybe I’m not so good as I seem to you. I’ve a bad heart; I will havemy own way. I fascinated poor Dmitri Fyodorovitch that day simply forfun.”
“But now you’ll save him. You’ve given me your word. You’ll explain itall to him. You’ll break to him that you have long loved another man,who is now offering you his hand.”
“Oh, no! I didn’t give you my word to do that. It was you kept talkingabout that. I didn’t give you my word.”
“Then I didn’t quite understand you,” said Katerina Ivanovna slowly,turning a little pale. “You promised—”
“Oh, no, angel lady, I’ve promised nothing,” Grushenka interruptedsoftly and evenly, still with the same gay and simple expression. “Yousee at once, dear young lady, what a willful wretch I am compared withyou. If I want to do a thing I do it. I may have made you some promisejust now. But now again I’m thinking: I may take to Mitya again. Iliked him very much once—liked him for almost a whole hour. Now maybe Ishall go and tell him to stay with me from this day forward. You see,I’m so changeable.”
“Just now you said—something quite different,” Katerina Ivanovnawhispered faintly.
“Ah, just now! But, you know. I’m such a soft‐hearted, silly creature.Only think what he’s gone through on my account! What if when I go homeI feel sorry for him? What then?”
“I never expected—”
“Ah, young lady, how good and generous you are compared with me! Nowperhaps you won’t care for a silly creature like me, now you know mycharacter. Give me your sweet little hand, angelic lady,” she saidtenderly, and with a sort of reverence took Katerina Ivanovna’s hand.
“Here, dear young lady, I’ll take your hand and kiss it as you didmine. You kissed mine three times, but I ought to kiss yours threehundred times to be even with you. Well, but let that pass. And then itshall be as God wills. Perhaps I shall be your slave entirely and wantto do your bidding like a slave. Let it be as God wills, without anyagreements and promises. What a sweet hand—what a sweet hand you have!You sweet young lady, you incredible beauty!”
She slowly raised the hands to her lips, with the strange object indeedof “being even” with her in kisses.
Katerina Ivanovna did not take her hand away. She listened with timidhope to the last words, though Grushenka’s promise to do her biddinglike a slave was very strangely expressed. She looked intently into hereyes; she still saw in those eyes the same simple‐hearted, confidingexpression, the same bright gayety.
“She’s perhaps too naïve,” thought Katerina Ivanovna, with a gleam ofhope.
Grushenka meanwhile seemed enthusiastic over the “sweet hand.” Sheraised it deliberately to her lips. But she held it for two or threeminutes near her lips, as though reconsidering something.
“Do you know, angel lady,” she suddenly drawled in an even more softand sugary voice, “do you know, after all, I think I won’t kiss yourhand?” And she laughed a little merry laugh.
“As you please. What’s the matter with you?” said Katerina Ivanovna,starting suddenly.
“So that you may be left to remember that you kissed my hand, but Ididn’t kiss yours.”
There was a sudden gleam in her eyes. She looked with awful intentnessat Katerina Ivanovna.
“Insolent creature!” cried Katerina Ivanovna, as though suddenlygrasping something. She flushed all over and leapt up from her seat.
Grushenka too got up, but without haste.
“So I shall tell Mitya how you kissed my hand, but I didn’t kiss yoursat all. And how he will laugh!”
“Vile slut! Go away!”
“Ah, for shame, young lady! Ah, for shame! That’s unbecoming for you,dear young lady, a word like that.”
“Go away! You’re a creature for sale!” screamed Katerina Ivanovna.Every feature was working in her utterly distorted face.
“For sale indeed! You used to visit gentlemen in the dusk for moneyonce; you brought your beauty for sale. You see, I know.”
Katerina Ivanovna shrieked, and would have rushed at her, but Alyoshaheld her with all his strength.
“Not a step, not a word! Don’t speak, don’t answer her. She’ll goaway—she’ll go at once.”
At that instant Katerina Ivanovna’s two aunts ran in at her cry, andwith them a maid‐servant. All hurried to her.
“I will go away,” said Grushenka, taking up her mantle from the sofa.“Alyosha, darling, see me home!”
“Go away—go away, make haste!” cried Alyosha, clasping his handsimploringly.
“Dear little Alyosha, see me home! I’ve got a pretty little story totell you on the way. I got up this scene for your benefit, Alyosha. Seeme home, dear, you’ll be glad of it afterwards.”
Alyosha turned away, wringing his hands. Grushenka ran out of thehouse, laughing musically.
Katerina Ivanovna went into a fit of hysterics. She sobbed, and wasshaken with convulsions. Every one fussed round her.
“I warned you,” said the elder of her aunts. “I tried to prevent yourdoing this. You’re too impulsive. How could you do such a thing? Youdon’t know these creatures, and they say she’s worse than any of them.You are too self‐willed.”
“She’s a tigress!” yelled Katerina Ivanovna. “Why did you hold me,Alexey Fyodorovitch? I’d have beaten her—beaten her!”
She could not control herself before Alyosha; perhaps she did not careto, indeed.
“She ought to be flogged in public on a scaffold!”
Alyosha withdrew towards the door.
“But, my God!” cried Katerina Ivanovna, clasping her hands. “He! He! Hecould be so dishonorable, so inhuman! Why, he told that creature whathappened on that fatal, accursed day! ‘You brought your beauty forsale, dear young lady.’ She knows it! Your brother’s a scoundrel,Alexey Fyodorovitch.”
Alyosha wanted to say something, but he couldn’t find a word. His heartached.
“Go away, Alexey Fyodorovitch! It’s shameful, it’s awful for me! To‐morrow, I beg you on my knees, come to‐morrow. Don’t condemn me.Forgive me. I don’t know what I shall do with myself now!”
Alyosha walked out into the street reeling. He could have wept as shedid. Suddenly he was overtaken by the maid.
“The young lady forgot to give you this letter from Madame Hohlakov;it’s been left with us since dinner‐time.”
Alyosha took the little pink envelope mechanically and put it, almostunconsciously, into his pocket.



Chapter XI.Another Reputation Ruined

It was not much more than three‐quarters of a mile from the town to themonastery. Alyosha walked quickly along the road, at that hourdeserted. It was almost night, and too dark to see anything clearly atthirty paces ahead. There were cross‐roads half‐way. A figure came intosight under a solitary willow at the cross‐roads. As soon as Alyoshareached the cross‐ roads the figure moved out and rushed at him,shouting savagely:
“Your money or your life!”
“So it’s you, Mitya,” cried Alyosha, in surprise, violently startledhowever.
“Ha ha ha! You didn’t expect me? I wondered where to wait for you. Byher house? There are three ways from it, and I might have missed you.At last I thought of waiting here, for you had to pass here, there’s noother way to the monastery. Come, tell me the truth. Crush me like abeetle. But what’s the matter?”
“Nothing, brother—it’s the fright you gave me. Oh, Dmitri! Father’sblood just now.” (Alyosha began to cry, he had been on the verge oftears for a long time, and now something seemed to snap in his soul.)“You almost killed him—cursed him—and now—here—you’re makingjokes—‘Your money or your life!’ ”
“Well, what of that? It’s not seemly—is that it? Not suitable in myposition?”
“No—I only—”
“Stay. Look at the night. You see what a dark night, what clouds, whata wind has risen. I hid here under the willow waiting for you. And asGod’s above, I suddenly thought, why go on in misery any longer, whatis there to wait for? Here I have a willow, a handkerchief, a shirt, Ican twist them into a rope in a minute, and braces besides, and why goon burdening the earth, dishonoring it with my vile presence? And thenI heard you coming—Heavens, it was as though something flew down to mesuddenly. So there is a man, then, whom I love. Here he is, that man,my dear little brother, whom I love more than any one in the world, theonly one I love in the world. And I loved you so much, so much at thatmoment that I thought, ‘I’ll fall on his neck at once.’ Then a stupididea struck me, to have a joke with you and scare you. I shouted, likea fool, ‘Your money!’ Forgive my foolery—it was only nonsense, andthere’s nothing unseemly in my soul.... Damn it all, tell me what’shappened. What did she say? Strike me, crush me, don’t spare me! Wasshe furious?”
“No, not that.... There was nothing like that, Mitya. There—I foundthem both there.”
“Both? Whom?”
“Grushenka at Katerina Ivanovna’s.”
Dmitri was struck dumb.
“Impossible!” he cried. “You’re raving! Grushenka with her?”
Alyosha described all that had happened from the moment he went in toKaterina Ivanovna’s. He was ten minutes telling his story. He can’t besaid to have told it fluently and consecutively, but he seemed to makeit clear, not omitting any word or action of significance, and vividlydescribing, often in one word, his own sensations. Dmitri listened insilence, gazing at him with a terrible fixed stare, but it was clear toAlyosha that he understood it all, and had grasped every point. But asthe story went on, his face became not merely gloomy, but menacing. Hescowled, he clenched his teeth, and his fixed stare became still morerigid, more concentrated, more terrible, when suddenly, with incrediblerapidity, his wrathful, savage face changed, his tightly compressedlips parted, and Dmitri Fyodorovitch broke into uncontrolled,spontaneous laughter. He literally shook with laughter. For a long timehe could not speak.
“So she wouldn’t kiss her hand! So she didn’t kiss it; so she ranaway!” he kept exclaiming with hysterical delight; insolent delight itmight have been called, if it had not been so spontaneous. “So theother one called her tigress! And a tigress she is! So she ought to beflogged on a scaffold? Yes, yes, so she ought. That’s just what Ithink; she ought to have been long ago. It’s like this, brother, lether be punished, but I must get better first. I understand the queen ofimpudence. That’s her all over! You saw her all over in thathand‐kissing, the she‐devil! She’s magnificent in her own line! So sheran home? I’ll go—ah—I’ll run to her! Alyosha, don’t blame me, I agreethat hanging is too good for her.”
“But Katerina Ivanovna!” exclaimed Alyosha sorrowfully.
“I see her, too! I see right through her, as I’ve never done before!It’s a regular discovery of the four continents of the world, that is,of the five! What a thing to do! That’s just like Katya, who was notafraid to face a coarse, unmannerly officer and risk a deadly insult ona generous impulse to save her father! But the pride, the recklessness,the defiance of fate, the unbounded defiance! You say that aunt triedto stop her? That aunt, you know, is overbearing, herself. She’s thesister of the general’s widow in Moscow, and even more stuck‐up thanshe. But her husband was caught stealing government money. He losteverything, his estate and all, and the proud wife had to lower hercolors, and hasn’t raised them since. So she tried to prevent Katya,but she wouldn’t listen to her! She thinks she can overcome everything,that everything will give way to her. She thought she could bewitchGrushenka if she liked, and she believed it herself: she plays a partto herself, and whose fault is it? Do you think she kissed Grushenka’shand first, on purpose, with a motive? No, she really was fascinated byGrushenka, that’s to say, not by Grushenka, but by her own dream, herown delusion—because it was _her_ dream, _her_ delusion! Alyosha,darling, how did you escape from them, those women? Did you pick upyour cassock and run? Ha ha ha!”
“Brother, you don’t seem to have noticed how you’ve insulted KaterinaIvanovna by telling Grushenka about that day. And she flung it in herface just now that she had gone to gentlemen in secret to sell herbeauty! Brother, what could be worse than that insult?”
What worried Alyosha more than anything was that, incredible as itseemed, his brother appeared pleased at Katerina Ivanovna’shumiliation.
“Bah!” Dmitri frowned fiercely, and struck his forehead with his hand.He only now realized it, though Alyosha had just told him of theinsult, and Katerina Ivanovna’s cry: “Your brother is a scoundrel!”
“Yes, perhaps, I really did tell Grushenka about that ‘fatal day,’ asKatya calls it. Yes, I did tell her, I remember! It was that time atMokroe. I was drunk, the gypsies were singing.... But I was sobbing. Iwas sobbing then, kneeling and praying to Katya’s image, and Grushenkaunderstood it. She understood it all then. I remember, she criedherself.... Damn it all! But it’s bound to be so now.... Then shecried, but now ‘the dagger in the heart’! That’s how women are.”
He looked down and sank into thought.
“Yes, I am a scoundrel, a thorough scoundrel!” he said suddenly, in agloomy voice. “It doesn’t matter whether I cried or not, I’m ascoundrel! Tell her I accept the name, if that’s any comfort. Come,that’s enough. Good‐by. It’s no use talking! It’s not amusing. You goyour way and I mine. And I don’t want to see you again except as a lastresource. Good‐ by, Alexey!”
He warmly pressed Alyosha’s hand, and still looking down, withoutraising his head, as though tearing himself away, turned rapidlytowards the town.
Alyosha looked after him, unable to believe he would go away soabruptly.
“Stay, Alexey, one more confession to you alone!” cried Dmitri,suddenly turning back. “Look at me. Look at me well. You see here,here—there’s terrible disgrace in store for me.” (As he said “here,”Dmitri struck his chest with his fist with a strange air, as though thedishonor lay precisely on his chest, in some spot, in a pocket,perhaps, or hanging round his neck.) “You know me now, a scoundrel, anavowed scoundrel, but let me tell you that I’ve never done anythingbefore and never shall again, anything that can compare in basenesswith the dishonor which I bear now at this very minute on my breast,here, here, which will come to pass, though I’m perfectly free to stopit. I can stop it or carry it through, note that. Well, let me tellyou, I shall carry it through. I shan’t stop it. I told you everythingjust now, but I didn’t tell you this, because even I had not brassenough for it. I can still pull up; if I do, I can give back the fullhalf of my lost honor to‐morrow. But I shan’t pull up. I shall carryout my base plan, and you can bear witness that I told you sobeforehand. Darkness and destruction! No need to explain. You’ll findout in due time. The filthy back‐alley and the she‐ devil. Good‐by.Don’t pray for me, I’m not worth it. And there’s no need, no need atall.... I don’t need it! Away!”
And he suddenly retreated, this time finally. Alyosha went towards themonastery.
“What? I shall never see him again! What is he saying?” he wonderedwildly. “Why, I shall certainly see him to‐morrow. I shall look him up.I shall make a point of it. What does he mean?”

He went round the monastery, and crossed the pine‐wood to thehermitage. The door was opened to him, though no one was admitted atthat hour. There was a tremor in his heart as he went into FatherZossima’s cell.
“Why, why, had he gone forth? Why had he sent him into the world? Herewas peace. Here was holiness. But there was confusion, there wasdarkness in which one lost one’s way and went astray at once....”
In the cell he found the novice Porfiry and Father Païssy, who cameevery hour to inquire after Father Zossima. Alyosha learnt with alarmthat he was getting worse and worse. Even his usual discourse with thebrothers could not take place that day. As a rule every evening afterservice the monks flocked into Father Zossima’s cell, and all confessedaloud their sins of the day, their sinful thoughts and temptations;even their disputes, if there had been any. Some confessed kneeling.The elder absolved, reconciled, exhorted, imposed penance, blessed, anddismissed them. It was against this general “confession” that theopponents of “elders” protested, maintaining that it was a profanationof the sacrament of confession, almost a sacrilege, though this wasquite a different thing. They even represented to the diocesanauthorities that such confessions attained no good object, but actuallyto a large extent led to sin and temptation. Many of the brothersdisliked going to the elder, and went against their own will becauseevery one went, and for fear they should be accused of pride andrebellious ideas. People said that some of the monks agreed beforehand,saying, “I’ll confess I lost my temper with you this morning, and youconfirm it,” simply in order to have something to say. Alyosha knewthat this actually happened sometimes. He knew, too, that there wereamong the monks some who deeply resented the fact that letters fromrelations were habitually taken to the elder, to be opened and read byhim before those to whom they were addressed.
It was assumed, of course, that all this was done freely, and in goodfaith, by way of voluntary submission and salutary guidance. But, infact, there was sometimes no little insincerity, and much that wasfalse and strained in this practice. Yet the older and more experiencedof the monks adhered to their opinion, arguing that “for those who havecome within these walls sincerely seeking salvation, such obedience andsacrifice will certainly be salutary and of great benefit; those, onthe other hand, who find it irksome, and repine, are no true monks, andhave made a mistake in entering the monastery—their proper place is inthe world. Even in the temple one cannot be safe from sin and thedevil. So it was no good taking it too much into account.”
“He is weaker, a drowsiness has come over him,” Father Païssy whisperedto Alyosha, as he blessed him. “It’s difficult to rouse him. And hemust not be roused. He waked up for five minutes, sent his blessing tothe brothers, and begged their prayers for him at night. He intends totake the sacrament again in the morning. He remembered you, Alexey. Heasked whether you had gone away, and was told that you were in thetown. ‘I blessed him for that work,’ he said, ‘his place is there, nothere, for awhile.’ Those were his words about you. He remembered youlovingly, with anxiety; do you understand how he honored you? But howis it that he has decided that you shall spend some time in the world?He must have foreseen something in your destiny! Understand, Alexey,that if you return to the world, it must be to do the duty laid uponyou by your elder, and not for frivolous vanity and worldly pleasures.”
Father Païssy went out. Alyosha had no doubt that Father Zossima wasdying, though he might live another day or two. Alyosha firmly andardently resolved that in spite of his promises to his father, theHohlakovs, and Katerina Ivanovna, he would not leave the monastery nextday, but would remain with his elder to the end. His heart glowed withlove, and he reproached himself bitterly for having been able for oneinstant to forget him whom he had left in the monastery on hisdeathbed, and whom he honored above every one in the world. He wentinto Father Zossima’s bedroom, knelt down, and bowed to the groundbefore the elder, who slept quietly without stirring, with regular,hardly audible breathing and a peaceful face.
Alyosha returned to the other room, where Father Zossima had receivedhis guests in the morning. Taking off his boots, he lay down on thehard, narrow, leathern sofa, which he had long used as a bed, bringingnothing but a pillow. The mattress, about which his father had shoutedto him that morning, he had long forgotten to lie on. He took off hiscassock, which he used as a covering. But before going to bed, he fellon his knees and prayed a long time. In his fervent prayer he did notbeseech God to lighten his darkness but only thirsted for the joyousemotion, which always visited his soul after the praise and adoration,of which his evening prayer usually consisted. That joy always broughthim light untroubled sleep. As he was praying, he suddenly felt in hispocket the little pink note the servant had handed him as he leftKaterina Ivanovna’s. He was disturbed, but finished his prayer. Then,after some hesitation, he opened the envelope. In it was a letter tohim, signed by Lise, the young daughter of Madame Hohlakov, who hadlaughed at him before the elder in the morning.
“Alexey Fyodorovitch,” she wrote, “I am writing to you without anyone’s knowledge, even mamma’s, and I know how wrong it is. But I cannotlive without telling you the feeling that has sprung up in my heart,and this no one but us two must know for a time. But how am I to saywhat I want so much to tell you? Paper, they say, does not blush, but Iassure you it’s not true and that it’s blushing just as I am now, allover. Dear Alyosha, I love you, I’ve loved you from my childhood, sinceour Moscow days, when you were very different from what you are now,and I shall love you all my life. My heart has chosen you, to unite ourlives, and pass them together till our old age. Of course, on conditionthat you will leave the monastery. As for our age we will wait for thetime fixed by the law. By that time I shall certainly be quite strong,I shall be walking and dancing. There can be no doubt of that.
“You see how I’ve thought of everything. There’s only one thing I can’timagine: what you’ll think of me when you read this. I’m alwayslaughing and being naughty. I made you angry this morning, but I assureyou before I took up my pen, I prayed before the Image of the Mother ofGod, and now I’m praying, and almost crying.
“My secret is in your hands. When you come to‐morrow, I don’t know howI shall look at you. Ah, Alexey Fyodorovitch, what if I can’t restrainmyself like a silly and laugh when I look at you as I did to‐day.You’ll think I’m a nasty girl making fun of you, and you won’t believemy letter. And so I beg you, dear one, if you’ve any pity for me, whenyou come to‐ morrow, don’t look me straight in the face, for if I meetyour eyes, it will be sure to make me laugh, especially as you’ll be inthat long gown. I feel cold all over when I think of it, so when youcome, don’t look at me at all for a time, look at mamma or at thewindow....
“Here I’ve written you a love‐letter. Oh, dear, what have I done?Alyosha, don’t despise me, and if I’ve done something very horrid andwounded you, forgive me. Now the secret of my reputation, ruinedperhaps for ever, is in your hands.
“I shall certainly cry to‐day. Good‐by till our meeting, our _awful_meeting.—LISE.
“P.S.—Alyosha! You must, must, must come!—LISE.”
Alyosha read the note in amazement, read it through twice, thought alittle, and suddenly laughed a soft, sweet laugh. He started. Thatlaugh seemed to him sinful. But a minute later he laughed again just assoftly and happily. He slowly replaced the note in the envelope,crossed himself and lay down. The agitation in his heart passed atonce. “God, have mercy upon all of them, have all these unhappy andturbulent souls in Thy keeping, and set them in the right path. Allways are Thine. Save them according to Thy wisdom. Thou art love. Thouwilt send joy to all!” Alyosha murmured, crossing himself, and fallinginto peaceful sleep.



PART II



Book IV. Lacerations



Chapter I.Father Ferapont

Alyosha was roused early, before daybreak. Father Zossima woke upfeeling very weak, though he wanted to get out of bed and sit up in achair. His mind was quite clear; his face looked very tired, yet brightand almost joyful. It wore an expression of gayety, kindness andcordiality. “Maybe I shall not live through the coming day,” he said toAlyosha. Then he desired to confess and take the sacrament at once. Healways confessed to Father Païssy. After taking the communion, theservice of extreme unction followed. The monks assembled and the cellwas gradually filled up by the inmates of the hermitage. Meantime itwas daylight. People began coming from the monastery. After the servicewas over the elder desired to kiss and take leave of every one. As thecell was so small the earlier visitors withdrew to make room forothers. Alyosha stood beside the elder, who was seated again in hisarm‐chair. He talked as much as he could. Though his voice was weak, itwas fairly steady.
“I’ve been teaching you so many years, and therefore I’ve been talkingaloud so many years, that I’ve got into the habit of talking, and somuch so that it’s almost more difficult for me to hold my tongue thanto talk, even now, in spite of my weakness, dear Fathers and brothers,”he jested, looking with emotion at the group round him.
Alyosha remembered afterwards something of what he said to them. Butthough he spoke out distinctly and his voice was fairly steady, hisspeech was somewhat disconnected. He spoke of many things, he seemedanxious before the moment of death to say everything he had not said inhis life, and not simply for the sake of instructing them, but asthough thirsting to share with all men and all creation his joy andecstasy, and once more in his life to open his whole heart.
“Love one another, Fathers,” said Father Zossima, as far as Alyoshacould remember afterwards. “Love God’s people. Because we have comehere and shut ourselves within these walls, we are no holier than thosethat are outside, but on the contrary, from the very fact of cominghere, each of us has confessed to himself that he is worse than others,than all men on earth.... And the longer the monk lives in hisseclusion, the more keenly he must recognize that. Else he would havehad no reason to come here. When he realizes that he is not only worsethan others, but that he is responsible to all men for all andeverything, for all human sins, national and individual, only then theaim of our seclusion is attained. For know, dear ones, that every oneof us is undoubtedly responsible for all men and everything on earth,not merely through the general sinfulness of creation, but each onepersonally for all mankind and every individual man. This knowledge isthe crown of life for the monk and for every man. For monks are not aspecial sort of men, but only what all men ought to be. Only throughthat knowledge, our heart grows soft with infinite, universal,inexhaustible love. Then every one of you will have the power to winover the whole world by love and to wash away the sins of the worldwith your tears.... Each of you keep watch over your heart and confessyour sins to yourself unceasingly. Be not afraid of your sins, evenwhen perceiving them, if only there be penitence, but make noconditions with God. Again I say, Be not proud. Be proud neither to thelittle nor to the great. Hate not those who reject you, who insult you,who abuse and slander you. Hate not the atheists, the teachers of evil,the materialists—and I mean not only the good ones—for there are manygood ones among them, especially in our day—hate not even the wickedones. Remember them in your prayers thus: Save, O Lord, all those whohave none to pray for them, save too all those who will not pray. Andadd: it is not in pride that I make this prayer, O Lord, for I am lowerthan all men.... Love God’s people, let not strangers draw away theflock, for if you slumber in your slothfulness and disdainful pride, orworse still, in covetousness, they will come from all sides and drawaway your flock. Expound the Gospel to the people unceasingly ... benot extortionate.... Do not love gold and silver, do not hoard them....Have faith. Cling to the banner and raise it on high.”
But the elder spoke more disconnectedly than Alyosha reported his wordsafterwards. Sometimes he broke off altogether, as though to takebreath, and recover his strength, but he was in a sort of ecstasy. Theyheard him with emotion, though many wondered at his words and foundthem obscure.... Afterwards all remembered those words.
When Alyosha happened for a moment to leave the cell, he was struck bythe general excitement and suspense in the monks who were crowdingabout it. This anticipation showed itself in some by anxiety, in othersby devout solemnity. All were expecting that some marvel would happenimmediately after the elder’s death. Their suspense was, from one pointof view, almost frivolous, but even the most austere of the monks wereaffected by it. Father Païssy’s face looked the gravest of all.
Alyosha was mysteriously summoned by a monk to see Rakitin, who hadarrived from town with a singular letter for him from Madame Hohlakov.In it she informed Alyosha of a strange and very opportune incident. Itappeared that among the women who had come on the previous day toreceive Father Zossima’s blessing, there had been an old woman from thetown, a sergeant’s widow, called Prohorovna. She had inquired whethershe might pray for the rest of the soul of her son, Vassenka, who hadgone to Irkutsk, and had sent her no news for over a year. To whichFather Zossima had answered sternly, forbidding her to do so, andsaying that to pray for the living as though they were dead was a kindof sorcery. He afterwards forgave her on account of her ignorance, andadded, “as though reading the book of the future” (this was MadameHohlakov’s expression), words of comfort: “that her son Vassya wascertainly alive and he would either come himself very shortly or send aletter, and that she was to go home and expect him.” And “Would youbelieve it?” exclaimed Madame Hohlakov enthusiastically, “the prophecyhas been fulfilled literally indeed, and more than that.” Scarcely hadthe old woman reached home when they gave her a letter from Siberiawhich had been awaiting her. But that was not all; in the letterwritten on the road from Ekaterinenburg, Vassya informed his motherthat he was returning to Russia with an official, and that three weeksafter her receiving the letter he hoped “to embrace his mother.”
Madame Hohlakov warmly entreated Alyosha to report this new “miracle ofprediction” to the Superior and all the brotherhood. “All, all, oughtto know of it!” she concluded. The letter had been written in haste,the excitement of the writer was apparent in every line of it. ButAlyosha had no need to tell the monks, for all knew of it already.Rakitin had commissioned the monk who brought his message “to informmost respectfully his reverence Father Païssy, that he, Rakitin, has amatter to speak of with him, of such gravity that he dare not defer itfor a moment, and humbly begs forgiveness for his presumption.” As themonk had given the message to Father Païssy before that to Alyosha, thelatter found after reading the letter, there was nothing left for himto do but to hand it to Father Païssy in confirmation of the story.
And even that austere and cautious man, though he frowned as he readthe news of the “miracle,” could not completely restrain some inneremotion. His eyes gleamed, and a grave and solemn smile came into hislips.
“We shall see greater things!” broke from him.
“We shall see greater things, greater things yet!” the monks aroundrepeated.
But Father Païssy, frowning again, begged all of them, at least for atime, not to speak of the matter “till it be more fully confirmed,seeing there is so much credulity among those of this world, and indeedthis might well have chanced naturally,” he added, prudently, as itwere to satisfy his conscience, though scarcely believing his owndisavowal, a fact his listeners very clearly perceived.
Within the hour the “miracle” was of course known to the wholemonastery, and many visitors who had come for the mass. No one seemedmore impressed by it than the monk who had come the day before from St.Sylvester, from the little monastery of Obdorsk in the far North. Itwas he who had been standing near Madame Hohlakov the previous day andhad asked Father Zossima earnestly, referring to the “healing” of thelady’s daughter, “How can you presume to do such things?”
He was now somewhat puzzled and did not know whom to believe. Theevening before he had visited Father Ferapont in his cell apart, behindthe apiary, and had been greatly impressed and overawed by the visit.This Father Ferapont was that aged monk so devout in fasting andobserving silence who has been mentioned already, as antagonistic toFather Zossima and the whole institution of “elders,” which he regardedas a pernicious and frivolous innovation. He was a very formidableopponent, although from his practice of silence he scarcely spoke aword to any one. What made him formidable was that a number of monksfully shared his feeling, and many of the visitors looked upon him as agreat saint and ascetic, although they had no doubt that he was crazy.But it was just his craziness attracted them.
Father Ferapont never went to see the elder. Though he lived in thehermitage they did not worry him to keep its regulations, and this toobecause he behaved as though he were crazy. He was seventy‐five ormore, and he lived in a corner beyond the apiary in an old decayingwooden cell which had been built long ago for another great ascetic,Father Iona, who had lived to be a hundred and five, and of whosesaintly doings many curious stories were still extant in the monasteryand the neighborhood.
Father Ferapont had succeeded in getting himself installed in this samesolitary cell seven years previously. It was simply a peasant’s hut,though it looked like a chapel, for it contained an extraordinarynumber of ikons with lamps perpetually burning before them—which menbrought to the monastery as offerings to God. Father Ferapont had beenappointed to look after them and keep the lamps burning. It was said(and indeed it was true) that he ate only two pounds of bread in threedays. The beekeeper, who lived close by the apiary, used to bring himthe bread every three days, and even to this man who waited upon him,Father Ferapont rarely uttered a word. The four pounds of bread,together with the sacrament bread, regularly sent him on Sundays afterthe late mass by the Father Superior, made up his weekly rations. Thewater in his jug was changed every day. He rarely appeared at mass.Visitors who came to do him homage saw him sometimes kneeling all daylong at prayer without looking round. If he addressed them, he wasbrief, abrupt, strange, and almost always rude. On very rare occasions,however, he would talk to visitors, but for the most part he wouldutter some one strange saying which was a complete riddle, and noentreaties would induce him to pronounce a word in explanation. He wasnot a priest, but a simple monk. There was a strange belief, chieflyhowever among the most ignorant, that Father Ferapont had communicationwith heavenly spirits and would only converse with them, and so wassilent with men.
The monk from Obdorsk, having been directed to the apiary by thebeekeeper, who was also a very silent and surly monk, went to thecorner where Father Ferapont’s cell stood. “Maybe he will speak as youare a stranger and maybe you’ll get nothing out of him,” the beekeeperhad warned him. The monk, as he related afterwards, approached in theutmost apprehension. It was rather late in the evening. Father Ferapontwas sitting at the door of his cell on a low bench. A huge old elm waslightly rustling overhead. There was an evening freshness in the air.The monk from Obdorsk bowed down before the saint and asked hisblessing.
“Do you want me to bow down to you, monk?” said Father Ferapont. “Getup!”
The monk got up.
“Blessing, be blessed! Sit beside me. Where have you come from?”
What most struck the poor monk was the fact that in spite of his strictfasting and great age, Father Ferapont still looked a vigorous old man.He was tall, held himself erect, and had a thin, but fresh and healthyface. There was no doubt he still had considerable strength. He was ofathletic build. In spite of his great age he was not even quite gray,and still had very thick hair and a full beard, both of which had oncebeen black. His eyes were gray, large and luminous, but strikinglyprominent. He spoke with a broad accent. He was dressed in a peasant’slong reddish coat of coarse convict cloth (as it used to be called) andhad a stout rope round his waist. His throat and chest were bare.Beneath his coat, his shirt of the coarsest linen showed almost blackwith dirt, not having been changed for months. They said that he woreirons weighing thirty pounds under his coat. His stockingless feet werethrust in old slippers almost dropping to pieces.
“From the little Obdorsk monastery, from St. Sylvester,” the monkanswered humbly, whilst his keen and inquisitive, but rather frightenedlittle eyes kept watch on the hermit.
“I have been at your Sylvester’s. I used to stay there. Is Sylvesterwell?”
The monk hesitated.
“You are a senseless lot! How do you keep the fasts?”
“Our dietary is according to the ancient conventual rules. During Lentthere are no meals provided for Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. ForTuesday and Thursday we have white bread, stewed fruit with honey, wildberries, or salt cabbage and wholemeal stirabout. On Saturday whitecabbage soup, noodles with peas, kasha, all with hemp oil. On weekdayswe have dried fish and kasha with the cabbage soup. From Monday tillSaturday evening, six whole days in Holy Week, nothing is cooked, andwe have only bread and water, and that sparingly; if possible nottaking food every day, just the same as is ordered for first week inLent. On Good Friday nothing is eaten. In the same way on the Saturdaywe have to fast till three o’clock, and then take a little bread andwater and drink a single cup of wine. On Holy Thursday we drink wineand have something cooked without oil or not cooked at all, inasmuch asthe Laodicean council lays down for Holy Thursday: ‘It is unseemly byremitting the fast on the Holy Thursday to dishonor the whole of Lent!’This is how we keep the fast. But what is that compared with you, holyFather,” added the monk, growing more confident, “for all the yearround, even at Easter, you take nothing but bread and water, and whatwe should eat in two days lasts you full seven. It’s trulymarvelous—your great abstinence.”
“And mushrooms?” asked Father Ferapont, suddenly.
“Mushrooms?” repeated the surprised monk.
“Yes. I can give up their bread, not needing it at all, and go awayinto the forest and live there on the mushrooms or the berries, butthey can’t give up their bread here, wherefore they are in bondage tothe devil. Nowadays the unclean deny that there is need of suchfasting. Haughty and unclean is their judgment.”
“Och, true,” sighed the monk.
“And have you seen devils among them?” asked Ferapont.
“Among them? Among whom?” asked the monk, timidly.
“I went to the Father Superior on Trinity Sunday last year, I haven’tbeen since. I saw a devil sitting on one man’s chest hiding under hiscassock, only his horns poked out; another had one peeping out of hispocket with such sharp eyes, he was afraid of me; another settled inthe unclean belly of one, another was hanging round a man’s neck, andso he was carrying him about without seeing him.”
“You—can see spirits?” the monk inquired.
“I tell you I can see, I can see through them. When I was coming outfrom the Superior’s I saw one hiding from me behind the door, and a bigone, a yard and a half or more high, with a thick long gray tail, andthe tip of his tail was in the crack of the door and I was quick andslammed the door, pinching his tail in it. He squealed and began tostruggle, and I made the sign of the cross over him three times. And hedied on the spot like a crushed spider. He must have rotted there inthe corner and be stinking, but they don’t see, they don’t smell it.It’s a year since I have been there. I reveal it to you, as you are astranger.”
“Your words are terrible! But, holy and blessed Father,” said the monk,growing bolder and bolder, “is it true, as they noise abroad even todistant lands about you, that you are in continual communication withthe Holy Ghost?”
“He does fly down at times.”
“How does he fly down? In what form?”
“As a bird.”
“The Holy Ghost in the form of a dove?”
“There’s the Holy Ghost and there’s the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spiritcan appear as other birds—sometimes as a swallow, sometimes a goldfinchand sometimes as a blue‐tit.”
“How do you know him from an ordinary tit?”
“He speaks.”
“How does he speak, in what language?”
“Human language.”
“And what does he tell you?”
“Why, to‐day he told me that a fool would visit me and would ask meunseemly questions. You want to know too much, monk.”
“Terrible are your words, most holy and blessed Father,” the monk shookhis head. But there was a doubtful look in his frightened little eyes.
“Do you see this tree?” asked Father Ferapont, after a pause.
“I do, blessed Father.”
“You think it’s an elm, but for me it has another shape.”
“What sort of shape?” inquired the monk, after a pause of vainexpectation.
“It happens at night. You see those two branches? In the night it isChrist holding out His arms to me and seeking me with those arms, I seeit clearly and tremble. It’s terrible, terrible!”
“What is there terrible if it’s Christ Himself?”
“Why, He’ll snatch me up and carry me away.”
“Alive?”
“In the spirit and glory of Elijah, haven’t you heard? He will take mein His arms and bear me away.”
Though the monk returned to the cell he was sharing with one of thebrothers, in considerable perplexity of mind, he still cherished atheart a greater reverence for Father Ferapont than for Father Zossima.He was strongly in favor of fasting, and it was not strange that onewho kept so rigid a fast as Father Ferapont should “see marvels.” Hiswords seemed certainly queer, but God only could tell what was hiddenin those words, and were not worse words and acts commonly seen inthose who have sacrificed their intellects for the glory of God? Thepinching of the devil’s tail he was ready and eager to believe, and notonly in the figurative sense. Besides he had, before visiting themonastery, a strong prejudice against the institution of “elders,”which he only knew of by hearsay and believed to be a perniciousinnovation. Before he had been long at the monastery, he had detectedthe secret murmurings of some shallow brothers who disliked theinstitution. He was, besides, a meddlesome, inquisitive man, who pokedhis nose into everything. This was why the news of the fresh “miracle”performed by Father Zossima reduced him to extreme perplexity. Alyosharemembered afterwards how their inquisitive guest from Obdorsk had beencontinually flitting to and fro from one group to another, listeningand asking questions among the monks that were crowding within andwithout the elder’s cell. But he did not pay much attention to him atthe time, and only recollected it afterwards.
He had no thought to spare for it indeed, for when Father Zossima,feeling tired again, had gone back to bed, he thought of Alyosha as hewas closing his eyes, and sent for him. Alyosha ran at once. There wasno one else in the cell but Father Païssy, Father Iosif, and the novicePorfiry. The elder, opening his weary eyes and looking intently atAlyosha, asked him suddenly:
“Are your people expecting you, my son?”
Alyosha hesitated.
“Haven’t they need of you? Didn’t you promise some one yesterday to seethem to‐day?”
“I did promise—to my father—my brothers—others too.”
“You see, you must go. Don’t grieve. Be sure I shall not die withoutyour being by to hear my last word. To you I will say that word, myson, it will be my last gift to you. To you, dear son, because you loveme. But now go to keep your promise.”
Alyosha immediately obeyed, though it was hard to go. But the promisethat he should hear his last word on earth, that it should be the lastgift to him, Alyosha, sent a thrill of rapture through his soul. Hemade haste that he might finish what he had to do in the town andreturn quickly. Father Païssy, too, uttered some words of exhortationwhich moved and surprised him greatly. He spoke as they left the celltogether.
“Remember, young man, unceasingly,” Father Païssy began, withoutpreface, “that the science of this world, which has become a greatpower, has, especially in the last century, analyzed everything divinehanded down to us in the holy books. After this cruel analysis thelearned of this world have nothing left of all that was sacred of old.But they have only analyzed the parts and overlooked the whole, andindeed their blindness is marvelous. Yet the whole still standssteadfast before their eyes, and the gates of hell shall not prevailagainst it. Has it not lasted nineteen centuries, is it not still aliving, a moving power in the individual soul and in the masses ofpeople? It is still as strong and living even in the souls of atheists,who have destroyed everything! For even those who have renouncedChristianity and attack it, in their inmost being still follow theChristian ideal, for hitherto neither their subtlety nor the ardor oftheir hearts has been able to create a higher ideal of man and ofvirtue than the ideal given by Christ of old. When it has beenattempted, the result has been only grotesque. Remember thisespecially, young man, since you are being sent into the world by yourdeparting elder. Maybe, remembering this great day, you will not forgetmy words, uttered from the heart for your guidance, seeing you areyoung, and the temptations of the world are great and beyond yourstrength to endure. Well, now go, my orphan.”
With these words Father Païssy blessed him. As Alyosha left themonastery and thought them over, he suddenly realized that he had met anew and unexpected friend, a warmly loving teacher, in this austeremonk who had hitherto treated him sternly. It was as though FatherZossima had bequeathed him to him at his death, and “perhaps that’sjust what had passed between them,” Alyosha thought suddenly. Thephilosophic reflections he had just heard so unexpectedly testified tothe warmth of Father Païssy’s heart. He was in haste to arm the boy’smind for conflict with temptation and to guard the young soul left inhis charge with the strongest defense he could imagine.



Chapter II.At His Father’s

First of all, Alyosha went to his father. On the way he remembered thathis father had insisted the day before that he should come without hisbrother Ivan seeing him. “Why so?” Alyosha wondered suddenly. “Even ifmy father has something to say to me alone, why should I go in unseen?Most likely in his excitement yesterday he meant to say somethingdifferent,” he decided. Yet he was very glad when Marfa Ignatyevna, whoopened the garden gate to him (Grigory, it appeared, was ill in bed inthe lodge), told him in answer to his question that Ivan Fyodorovitchhad gone out two hours ago.
“And my father?”
“He is up, taking his coffee,” Marfa answered somewhat dryly.
Alyosha went in. The old man was sitting alone at the table wearingslippers and a little old overcoat. He was amusing himself by lookingthrough some accounts, rather inattentively however. He was quite alonein the house, for Smerdyakov too had gone out marketing. Though he hadgot up early and was trying to put a bold face on it, he looked tiredand weak. His forehead, upon which huge purple bruises had come outduring the night, was bandaged with a red handkerchief; his nose toohad swollen terribly in the night, and some smaller bruises covered itin patches, giving his whole face a peculiarly spiteful and irritablelook. The old man was aware of this, and turned a hostile glance onAlyosha as he came in.
“The coffee is cold,” he cried harshly; “I won’t offer you any. I’veordered nothing but a Lenten fish soup to‐day, and I don’t invite anyone to share it. Why have you come?”
“To find out how you are,” said Alyosha.
“Yes. Besides, I told you to come yesterday. It’s all of noconsequence. You need not have troubled. But I knew you’d come pokingin directly.”
He said this with almost hostile feeling. At the same time he got upand looked anxiously in the looking‐glass (perhaps for the fortiethtime that morning) at his nose. He began, too, binding his redhandkerchief more becomingly on his forehead.
“Red’s better. It’s just like the hospital in a white one,” he observedsententiously. “Well, how are things over there? How is your elder?”
“He is very bad; he may die to‐day,” answered Alyosha. But his fatherhad not listened, and had forgotten his own question at once.
“Ivan’s gone out,” he said suddenly. “He is doing his utmost to carryoff Mitya’s betrothed. That’s what he is staying here for,” he addedmaliciously, and, twisting his mouth, looked at Alyosha.
“Surely he did not tell you so?” asked Alyosha.
“Yes, he did, long ago. Would you believe it, he told me three weeksago? You don’t suppose he too came to murder me, do you? He must havehad some object in coming.”
“What do you mean? Why do you say such things?” said Alyosha, troubled.
“He doesn’t ask for money, it’s true, but yet he won’t get a farthingfrom me. I intend living as long as possible, you may as well know, mydear Alexey Fyodorovitch, and so I need every farthing, and the longerI live, the more I shall need it,” he continued, pacing from one cornerof the room to the other, keeping his hands in the pockets of his loosegreasy overcoat made of yellow cotton material. “I can still pass for aman at five and fifty, but I want to pass for one for another twentyyears. As I get older, you know, I shan’t be a pretty object. Thewenches won’t come to me of their own accord, so I shall want my money.So I am saving up more and more, simply for myself, my dear son AlexeyFyodorovitch. You may as well know. For I mean to go on in my sins tothe end, let me tell you. For sin is sweet; all abuse it, but all menlive in it, only others do it on the sly, and I openly. And so all theother sinners fall upon me for being so simple. And your paradise,Alexey Fyodorovitch, is not to my taste, let me tell you that; and it’snot the proper place for a gentleman, your paradise, even if it exists.I believe that I fall asleep and don’t wake up again, and that’s all.You can pray for my soul if you like. And if you don’t want to, don’t,damn you! That’s my philosophy. Ivan talked well here yesterday, thoughwe were all drunk. Ivan is a conceited coxcomb, but he has noparticular learning ... nor education either. He sits silent and smilesat one without speaking—that’s what pulls him through.”
Alyosha listened to him in silence.
“Why won’t he talk to me? If he does speak, he gives himself airs. YourIvan is a scoundrel! And I’ll marry Grushenka in a minute if I want to.For if you’ve money, Alexey Fyodorovitch, you have only to want a thingand you can have it. That’s what Ivan is afraid of, he is on the watchto prevent me getting married and that’s why he is egging on Mitya tomarry Grushenka himself. He hopes to keep me from Grushenka by that (asthough I should leave him my money if I don’t marry her!). Besides ifMitya marries Grushenka, Ivan will carry off his rich betrothed, that’swhat he’s reckoning on! He is a scoundrel, your Ivan!”
“How cross you are! It’s because of yesterday; you had better liedown,” said Alyosha.
“There! you say that,” the old man observed suddenly, as though it hadstruck him for the first time, “and I am not angry with you. But ifIvan said it, I should be angry with him. It is only with you I havegood moments, else you know I am an ill‐natured man.”
“You are not ill‐natured, but distorted,” said Alyosha with a smile.
“Listen. I meant this morning to get that ruffian Mitya locked up and Idon’t know now what I shall decide about it. Of course in thesefashionable days fathers and mothers are looked upon as a prejudice,but even now the law does not allow you to drag your old father aboutby the hair, to kick him in the face in his own house, and brag ofmurdering him outright—all in the presence of witnesses. If I liked, Icould crush him and could have him locked up at once for what he didyesterday.”
“Then you don’t mean to take proceedings?”
“Ivan has dissuaded me. I shouldn’t care about Ivan, but there’sanother thing.”
And bending down to Alyosha, he went on in a confidential half‐whisper.
“If I send the ruffian to prison, she’ll hear of it and run to see himat once. But if she hears that he has beaten me, a weak old man, withinan inch of my life, she may give him up and come to me.... For that’sher way, everything by contraries. I know her through and through!Won’t you have a drop of brandy? Take some cold coffee and I’ll pour aquarter of a glass of brandy into it, it’s delicious, my boy.”
“No, thank you. I’ll take that roll with me if I may,” said Alyosha,and taking a halfpenny French roll he put it in the pocket of hiscassock. “And you’d better not have brandy, either,” he suggestedapprehensively, looking into the old man’s face.
“You are quite right, it irritates my nerves instead of soothing them.Only one little glass. I’ll get it out of the cupboard.”
He unlocked the cupboard, poured out a glass, drank it, then locked thecupboard and put the key back in his pocket.
“That’s enough. One glass won’t kill me.”
“You see you are in a better humor now,” said Alyosha, smiling.
“Um! I love you even without the brandy, but with scoundrels I am ascoundrel. Ivan is not going to Tchermashnya—why is that? He wants tospy how much I give Grushenka if she comes. They are all scoundrels!But I don’t recognize Ivan, I don’t know him at all. Where does he comefrom? He is not one of us in soul. As though I’d leave him anything! Ishan’t leave a will at all, you may as well know. And I’ll crush Mityalike a beetle. I squash black‐beetles at night with my slipper; theysquelch when you tread on them. And your Mitya will squelch too. _Your_Mitya, for you love him. Yes, you love him and I am not afraid of yourloving him. But if Ivan loved him I should be afraid for myself at hisloving him. But Ivan loves nobody. Ivan is not one of us. People likeIvan are not our sort, my boy. They are like a cloud of dust. When thewind blows, the dust will be gone.... I had a silly idea in my headwhen I told you to come to‐day; I wanted to find out from you aboutMitya. If I were to hand him over a thousand or maybe two now, wouldthe beggarly wretch agree to take himself off altogether for five yearsor, better still, thirty‐five, and without Grushenka, and give her uponce for all, eh?”
“I—I’ll ask him,” muttered Alyosha. “If you would give him threethousand, perhaps he—”
“That’s nonsense! You needn’t ask him now, no need! I’ve changed mymind. It was a nonsensical idea of mine. I won’t give him anything, nota penny, I want my money myself,” cried the old man, waving his hand.“I’ll crush him like a beetle without it. Don’t say anything to him orelse he will begin hoping. There’s nothing for you to do here, youneedn’t stay. Is that betrothed of his, Katerina Ivanovna, whom he haskept so carefully hidden from me all this time, going to marry him ornot? You went to see her yesterday, I believe?”
“Nothing will induce her to abandon him.”
“There you see how dearly these fine young ladies love a rake and ascoundrel. They are poor creatures I tell you, those pale young ladies,very different from—Ah, if I had his youth and the looks I had then(for I was better‐looking than he at eight and twenty) I’d have been aconquering hero just as he is. He is a low cad! But he shan’t haveGrushenka, anyway, he shan’t! I’ll crush him!”
His anger had returned with the last words.
“You can go. There’s nothing for you to do here to‐day,” he snappedharshly.
Alyosha went up to say good‐by to him, and kissed him on the shoulder.
“What’s that for?” The old man was a little surprised. “We shall seeeach other again, or do you think we shan’t?”
“Not at all, I didn’t mean anything.”
“Nor did I, I did not mean anything,” said the old man, looking at him.“Listen, listen,” he shouted after him, “make haste and come again andI’ll have a fish soup for you, a fine one, not like to‐day. Be sure tocome! Come to‐morrow, do you hear, to‐morrow!”
And as soon as Alyosha had gone out of the door, he went to thecupboard again and poured out another half‐glass.
“I won’t have more!” he muttered, clearing his throat, and again helocked the cupboard and put the key in his pocket. Then he went intohis bedroom, lay down on the bed, exhausted, and in one minute he wasasleep.



Chapter III.A Meeting With The Schoolboys

“Thank goodness he did not ask me about Grushenka,” thought Alyosha, ashe left his father’s house and turned towards Madame Hohlakov’s, “or Imight have to tell him of my meeting with Grushenka yesterday.”
Alyosha felt painfully that since yesterday both combatants had renewedtheir energies, and that their hearts had grown hard again. “Father isspiteful and angry, he’s made some plan and will stick to it. And whatof Dmitri? He too will be harder than yesterday, he too must bespiteful and angry, and he too, no doubt, has made some plan. Oh, Imust succeed in finding him to‐day, whatever happens.”
But Alyosha had not long to meditate. An incident occurred on the road,which, though apparently of little consequence, made a great impressionon him. Just after he had crossed the square and turned the cornercoming out into Mihailovsky Street, which is divided by a small ditchfrom the High Street (our whole town is intersected by ditches), he sawa group of schoolboys between the ages of nine and twelve, at thebridge. They were going home from school, some with their bags on theirshoulders, others with leather satchels slung across them, some inshort jackets, others in little overcoats. Some even had those highboots with creases round the ankles, such as little boys spoilt by richfathers love to wear. The whole group was talking eagerly aboutsomething, apparently holding a council. Alyosha had never from hisMoscow days been able to pass children without taking notice of them,and although he was particularly fond of children of three orthereabout, he liked schoolboys of ten and eleven too. And so, anxiousas he was to‐day, he wanted at once to turn aside to talk to them. Helooked into their excited rosy faces, and noticed at once that all theboys had stones in their hands. Behind the ditch some thirty pacesaway, there was another schoolboy standing by a fence. He too had asatchel at his side. He was about ten years old, pale, delicate‐lookingand with sparkling black eyes. He kept an attentive and anxious watchon the other six, obviously his schoolfellows with whom he had justcome out of school, but with whom he had evidently had a feud.
Alyosha went up and, addressing a fair, curly‐headed, rosy boy in ablack jacket, observed:
“When I used to wear a satchel like yours, I always used to carry it onmy left side, so as to have my right hand free, but you’ve got yours onyour right side. So it will be awkward for you to get at it.”
Alyosha had no art or premeditation in beginning with this practicalremark. But it is the only way for a grown‐up person to get at onceinto confidential relations with a child, or still more with a group ofchildren. One must begin in a serious, businesslike way so as to be ona perfectly equal footing. Alyosha understood it by instinct.
“But he is left‐handed,” another, a fine healthy‐looking boy of eleven,answered promptly. All the others stared at Alyosha.
“He even throws stones with his left hand,” observed a third.
At that instant a stone flew into the group, but only just grazed theleft‐handed boy, though it was well and vigorously thrown by the boystanding the other side of the ditch.
“Give it him, hit him back, Smurov,” they all shouted. But Smurov, theleft‐handed boy, needed no telling, and at once revenged himself; hethrew a stone, but it missed the boy and hit the ground. The boy theother side of the ditch, the pocket of whose coat was visibly bulgingwith stones, flung another stone at the group; this time it flewstraight at Alyosha and hit him painfully on the shoulder.
“He aimed it at you, he meant it for you. You are Karamazov,Karamazov!” the boys shouted, laughing. “Come, all throw at him atonce!” and six stones flew at the boy. One struck the boy on the headand he fell down, but at once leapt up and began ferociously returningtheir fire. Both sides threw stones incessantly. Many of the group hadtheir pockets full too.
“What are you about! Aren’t you ashamed? Six against one! Why, you’llkill him,” cried Alyosha.
He ran forward and met the flying stones to screen the solitary boy.Three or four ceased throwing for a minute.
“He began first!” cried a boy in a red shirt in an angry childishvoice. “He is a beast, he stabbed Krassotkin in class the other daywith a penknife. It bled. Krassotkin wouldn’t tell tales, but he mustbe thrashed.”
“But what for? I suppose you tease him.”
“There, he sent a stone in your back again, he knows you,” cried thechildren. “It’s you he is throwing at now, not us. Come, all of you, athim again, don’t miss, Smurov!” and again a fire of stones, and a veryvicious one, began. The boy the other side of the ditch was hit in thechest; he screamed, began to cry and ran away uphill towardsMihailovsky Street. They all shouted: “Aha, he is funking, he isrunning away. Wisp of tow!”
“You don’t know what a beast he is, Karamazov, killing is too good forhim,” said the boy in the jacket, with flashing eyes. He seemed to bethe eldest.
“What’s wrong with him?” asked Alyosha, “is he a tell‐tale or what?”
The boys looked at one another as though derisively.
“Are you going that way, to Mihailovsky?” the same boy went on. “Catchhim up.... You see he’s stopped again, he is waiting and looking atyou.”
“He is looking at you,” the other boys chimed in.
“You ask him, does he like a disheveled wisp of tow. Do you hear, askhim that!”
There was a general burst of laughter. Alyosha looked at them, and theyat him.
“Don’t go near him, he’ll hurt you,” cried Smurov in a warning voice.
“I shan’t ask him about the wisp of tow, for I expect you tease himwith that question somehow. But I’ll find out from him why you hate himso.”
“Find out then, find out,” cried the boys, laughing.
Alyosha crossed the bridge and walked uphill by the fence, straighttowards the boy.
“You’d better look out,” the boys called after him; “he won’t be afraidof you. He will stab you in a minute, on the sly, as he didKrassotkin.”
The boy waited for him without budging. Coming up to him, Alyosha sawfacing him a child of about nine years old. He was an undersized weaklyboy with a thin pale face, with large dark eyes that gazed at himvindictively. He was dressed in a rather shabby old overcoat, which hehad monstrously outgrown. His bare arms stuck out beyond his sleeves.There was a large patch on the right knee of his trousers, and in hisright boot just at the toe there was a big hole in the leather,carefully blackened with ink. Both the pockets of his great‐coat wereweighed down with stones. Alyosha stopped two steps in front of him,looking inquiringly at him. The boy, seeing at once from Alyosha’s eyesthat he wouldn’t beat him, became less defiant, and addressed himfirst.
“I am alone, and there are six of them. I’ll beat them all, alone!” hesaid suddenly, with flashing eyes.
“I think one of the stones must have hurt you badly,” observed Alyosha.
“But I hit Smurov on the head!” cried the boy.
“They told me that you know me, and that you threw a stone at me onpurpose,” said Alyosha.
The boy looked darkly at him.
“I don’t know you. Do you know me?” Alyosha continued.
“Let me alone!” the boy cried irritably; but he did not move, as thoughhe were expecting something, and again there was a vindictive light inhis eyes.
“Very well, I am going,” said Alyosha; “only I don’t know you and Idon’t tease you. They told me how they tease you, but I don’t want totease you. Good‐by!”
“Monk in silk trousers!” cried the boy, following Alyosha with the samevindictive and defiant expression, and he threw himself into anattitude of defense, feeling sure that now Alyosha would fall upon him;but Alyosha turned, looked at him, and walked away. He had not gonethree steps before the biggest stone the boy had in his pocket hit hima painful blow in the back.
“So you’ll hit a man from behind! They tell the truth, then, when theysay that you attack on the sly,” said Alyosha, turning round again.This time the boy threw a stone savagely right into Alyosha’s face; butAlyosha just had time to guard himself, and the stone struck him on theelbow.
“Aren’t you ashamed? What have I done to you?” he cried.
The boy waited in silent defiance, certain that now Alyosha wouldattack him. Seeing that even now he would not, his rage was like alittle wild beast’s; he flew at Alyosha himself, and before Alyosha hadtime to move, the spiteful child had seized his left hand with both ofhis and bit his middle finger. He fixed his teeth in it and it was tenseconds before he let go. Alyosha cried out with pain and pulled hisfinger away with all his might. The child let go at last and retreatedto his former distance. Alyosha’s finger had been badly bitten to thebone, close to the nail; it began to bleed. Alyosha took out hishandkerchief and bound it tightly round his injured hand. He was a fullminute bandaging it. The boy stood waiting all the time. At lastAlyosha raised his gentle eyes and looked at him.
“Very well,” he said, “you see how badly you’ve bitten me. That’senough, isn’t it? Now tell me, what have I done to you?”
The boy stared in amazement.
“Though I don’t know you and it’s the first time I’ve seen you,”Alyosha went on with the same serenity, “yet I must have done somethingto you—you wouldn’t have hurt me like this for nothing. So what have Idone? How have I wronged you, tell me?”
Instead of answering, the boy broke into a loud tearful wail and ranaway. Alyosha walked slowly after him towards Mihailovsky Street, andfor a long time he saw the child running in the distance as fast asever, not turning his head, and no doubt still keeping up his tearfulwail. He made up his mind to find him out as soon as he had time, andto solve this mystery. Just now he had not the time.



Chapter IV.At The Hohlakovs’

Alyosha soon reached Madame Hohlakov’s house, a handsome stone house oftwo stories, one of the finest in our town. Though Madame Hohlakovspent most of her time in another province where she had an estate, orin Moscow, where she had a house of her own, yet she had a house in ourtown too, inherited from her forefathers. The estate in our districtwas the largest of her three estates, yet she had been very little inour province before this time. She ran out to Alyosha in the hall.
“Did you get my letter about the new miracle?” She spoke rapidly andnervously.
“Yes.”
“Did you show it to every one? He restored the son to his mother!”
“He is dying to‐day,” said Alyosha.
“I have heard, I know, oh, how I long to talk to you, to you or someone, about all this. No, to you, to you! And how sorry I am I can’t seehim! The whole town is in excitement, they are all suspense. But now—doyou know Katerina Ivanovna is here now?”
“Ah, that’s lucky,” cried Alyosha. “Then I shall see her here. She toldme yesterday to be sure to come and see her to‐day.”
“I know, I know all. I’ve heard exactly what happened yesterday—and theatrocious behavior of that—creature. _C’est tragique_, and if I’d beenin her place I don’t know what I should have done. And your brotherDmitri Fyodorovitch, what do you think of him?—my goodness! AlexeyFyodorovitch, I am forgetting, only fancy; your brother is in therewith her, not that dreadful brother who was so shocking yesterday, butthe other, Ivan Fyodorovitch, he is sitting with her talking; they arehaving a serious conversation. If you could only imagine what’s passingbetween them now—it’s awful, I tell you it’s lacerating, it’s like someincredible tale of horror. They are ruining their lives for no reasonany one can see. They both recognize it and revel in it. I’ve beenwatching for you! I’ve been thirsting for you! It’s too much for me,that’s the worst of it. I’ll tell you all about it presently, but now Imust speak of something else, the most important thing—I had quiteforgotten what’s most important. Tell me, why has Lise been inhysterics? As soon as she heard you were here, she began to behysterical!”
“_Maman_, it’s you who are hysterical now, not I,” Lise’s voice caroledthrough a tiny crack of the door at the side. Her voice sounded asthough she wanted to laugh, but was doing her utmost to control it.Alyosha at once noticed the crack, and no doubt Lise was peepingthrough it, but that he could not see.
“And no wonder, Lise, no wonder ... your caprices will make mehysterical too. But she is so ill, Alexey Fyodorovitch, she has been soill all night, feverish and moaning! I could hardly wait for themorning and for Herzenstube to come. He says that he can make nothingof it, that we must wait. Herzenstube always comes and says that he canmake nothing of it. As soon as you approached the house, she screamed,fell into hysterics, and insisted on being wheeled back into this roomhere.”
“Mamma, I didn’t know he had come. It wasn’t on his account I wanted tobe wheeled into this room.”
“That’s not true, Lise, Yulia ran to tell you that Alexey Fyodorovitchwas coming. She was on the look‐out for you.”
“My darling mamma, it’s not at all clever of you. But if you want tomake up for it and say something very clever, dear mamma, you’d bettertell our honored visitor, Alexey Fyodorovitch, that he has shown hiswant of wit by venturing to us after what happened yesterday andalthough every one is laughing at him.”
“Lise, you go too far. I declare I shall have to be severe. Who laughsat him? I am so glad he has come, I need him, I can’t do without him.Oh, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I am exceedingly unhappy!”
“But what’s the matter with you, mamma, darling?”
“Ah, your caprices, Lise, your fidgetiness, your illness, that awfulnight of fever, that awful everlasting Herzenstube, everlasting,everlasting, that’s the worst of it! Everything, in fact,everything.... Even that miracle, too! Oh, how it has upset me, how ithas shattered me, that miracle, dear Alexey Fyodorovitch! And thattragedy in the drawing‐room, it’s more than I can bear, I warn you. Ican’t bear it. A comedy, perhaps, not a tragedy. Tell me, will FatherZossima live till to‐morrow, will he? Oh, my God! What is happening tome? Every minute I close my eyes and see that it’s all nonsense, allnonsense.”
“I should be very grateful,” Alyosha interrupted suddenly, “if youcould give me a clean rag to bind up my finger with. I have hurt it,and it’s very painful.”
Alyosha unbound his bitten finger. The handkerchief was soaked withblood. Madame Hohlakov screamed and shut her eyes.
“Good heavens, what a wound, how awful!”
But as soon as Lise saw Alyosha’s finger through the crack, she flungthe door wide open.
“Come, come here,” she cried, imperiously. “No nonsense now! Goodheavens, why did you stand there saying nothing about it all this time?He might have bled to death, mamma! How did you do it? Water, water!You must wash it first of all, simply hold it in cold water to stop thepain, and keep it there, keep it there.... Make haste, mamma, somewater in a slop‐basin. But do make haste,” she finished nervously. Shewas quite frightened at the sight of Alyosha’s wound.
“Shouldn’t we send for Herzenstube?” cried Madame Hohlakov.
“Mamma, you’ll be the death of me. Your Herzenstube will come and saythat he can make nothing of it! Water, water! Mamma, for goodness’ sakego yourself and hurry Yulia, she is such a slowcoach and never can comequickly! Make haste, mamma, or I shall die.”
“Why, it’s nothing much,” cried Alyosha, frightened at this alarm.
Yulia ran in with water and Alyosha put his finger in it.
“Some lint, mamma, for mercy’s sake, bring some lint and that muddycaustic lotion for wounds, what’s it called? We’ve got some. You knowwhere the bottle is, mamma; it’s in your bedroom in the right‐handcupboard, there’s a big bottle of it there with the lint.”
“I’ll bring everything in a minute, Lise, only don’t scream and don’tfuss. You see how bravely Alexey Fyodorovitch bears it. Where did youget such a dreadful wound, Alexey Fyodorovitch?”
Madame Hohlakov hastened away. This was all Lise was waiting for.
“First of all, answer the question, where did you get hurt like this?”she asked Alyosha, quickly. “And then I’ll talk to you about somethingquite different. Well?”
Instinctively feeling that the time of her mother’s absence wasprecious for her, Alyosha hastened to tell her of his enigmatic meetingwith the schoolboys in the fewest words possible. Lise clasped herhands at his story.
“How can you, and in that dress too, associate with schoolboys?” shecried angrily, as though she had a right to control him. “You arenothing but a boy yourself if you can do that, a perfect boy! But youmust find out for me about that horrid boy and tell me all about it,for there’s some mystery in it. Now for the second thing, but first aquestion: does the pain prevent you talking about utterly unimportantthings, but talking sensibly?”
“Of course not, and I don’t feel much pain now.”
“That’s because your finger is in the water. It must be changeddirectly, for it will get warm in a minute. Yulia, bring some ice fromthe cellar and another basin of water. Now she is gone, I can speak;will you give me the letter I sent you yesterday, dear AlexeyFyodorovitch—be quick, for mamma will be back in a minute and I don’twant—”
“I haven’t got the letter.”
“That’s not true, you have. I knew you would say that. You’ve got it inthat pocket. I’ve been regretting that joke all night. Give me back theletter at once, give it me.”
“I’ve left it at home.”
“But you can’t consider me as a child, a little girl, after that sillyjoke! I beg your pardon for that silliness, but you must bring me theletter, if you really haven’t got it—bring it to‐day, you must, youmust.”
“To‐day I can’t possibly, for I am going back to the monastery and Ishan’t come and see you for the next two days—three or four perhaps—forFather Zossima—”
“Four days, what nonsense! Listen. Did you laugh at me very much?”
“I didn’t laugh at all.”
“Why not?”
“Because I believed all you said.”
“You are insulting me!”
“Not at all. As soon as I read it, I thought that all that would cometo pass, for as soon as Father Zossima dies, I am to leave themonastery. Then I shall go back and finish my studies, and when youreach the legal age we will be married. I shall love you. Though Ihaven’t had time to think about it, I believe I couldn’t find a betterwife than you, and Father Zossima tells me I must marry.”
“But I am a cripple, wheeled about in a chair,” laughed Lise, flushingcrimson.
“I’ll wheel you about myself, but I’m sure you’ll get well by then.”
“But you are mad,” said Lise, nervously, “to make all this nonsense outof a joke! Here’s mamma, very _à propos_, perhaps. Mamma, how slow youalways are, how can you be so long! And here’s Yulia with the ice!”
“Oh, Lise, don’t scream, above all things don’t scream. That screamdrives me ... How can I help it when you put the lint in another place?I’ve been hunting and hunting—I do believe you did it on purpose.”
“But I couldn’t tell that he would come with a bad finger, or elseperhaps I might have done it on purpose. My darling mamma, you begin tosay really witty things.”
“Never mind my being witty, but I must say you show nice feeling forAlexey Fyodorovitch’s sufferings! Oh, my dear Alexey Fyodorovitch,what’s killing me is no one thing in particular, not Herzenstube, buteverything together, that’s what is too much for me.”
“That’s enough, mamma, enough about Herzenstube,” Lise laughed gayly.“Make haste with the lint and the lotion, mamma. That’s simplyGoulard’s water, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I remember the name now, but it’sa splendid lotion. Would you believe it, mamma, on the way here he hada fight with the boys in the street, and it was a boy bit his finger,isn’t he a child, a child himself? Is he fit to be married after that?For only fancy, he wants to be married, mamma. Just think of himmarried, wouldn’t it be funny, wouldn’t it be awful?”
And Lise kept laughing her thin hysterical giggle, looking slyly atAlyosha.
“But why married, Lise? What makes you talk of such a thing? It’s quiteout of place—and perhaps the boy was rabid.”
“Why, mamma! As though there were rabid boys!”
“Why not, Lise, as though I had said something stupid! Your boy mighthave been bitten by a mad dog and he would become mad and bite any onenear him. How well she has bandaged it, Alexey Fyodorovitch! I couldn’thave done it. Do you still feel the pain?”
“It’s nothing much now.”
“You don’t feel afraid of water?” asked Lise.
“Come, that’s enough, Lise, perhaps I really was rather too quicktalking of the boy being rabid, and you pounced upon it at onceKaterina Ivanovna has only just heard that you are here, AlexeyFyodorovitch, she simply rushed at me, she’s dying to see you, dying!”
“Ach, mamma, go to them yourself. He can’t go just now, he is in toomuch pain.”
“Not at all, I can go quite well,” said Alyosha.
“What! You are going away? Is that what you say?”
“Well, when I’ve seen them, I’ll come back here and we can talk as muchas you like. But I should like to see Katerina Ivanovna at once, for Iam very anxious to be back at the monastery as soon as I can.”
“Mamma, take him away quickly. Alexey Fyodorovitch, don’t trouble tocome and see me afterwards, but go straight back to your monastery anda good riddance. I want to sleep, I didn’t sleep all night.”
“Ah, Lise, you are only making fun, but how I wish you would sleep!”cried Madame Hohlakov.
“I don’t know what I’ve done.... I’ll stay another three minutes, fiveif you like,” muttered Alyosha.
“Even five! Do take him away quickly, mamma, he is a monster.”
“Lise, you are crazy. Let us go, Alexey Fyodorovitch, she is toocapricious to‐day. I am afraid to cross her. Oh, the trouble one haswith nervous girls! Perhaps she really will be able to sleep afterseeing you. How quickly you have made her sleepy, and how fortunate itis!”
“Ah, mamma, how sweetly you talk! I must kiss you for it, mamma.”
“And I kiss you too, Lise. Listen, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” MadameHohlakov began mysteriously and importantly, speaking in a rapidwhisper. “I don’t want to suggest anything, I don’t want to lift theveil, you will see for yourself what’s going on. It’s appalling. It’sthe most fantastic farce. She loves your brother, Ivan, and she isdoing her utmost to persuade herself she loves your brother, Dmitri.It’s appalling! I’ll go in with you, and if they don’t turn me out,I’ll stay to the end.”



Chapter V.A Laceration In The Drawing‐Room

But in the drawing‐room the conversation was already over. KaterinaIvanovna was greatly excited, though she looked resolute. At the momentAlyosha and Madame Hohlakov entered, Ivan Fyodorovitch stood up to takeleave. His face was rather pale, and Alyosha looked at him anxiously.For this moment was to solve a doubt, a harassing enigma which had forsome time haunted Alyosha. During the preceding month it had beenseveral times suggested to him that his brother Ivan was in love withKaterina Ivanovna, and, what was more, that he meant “to carry her off”from Dmitri. Until quite lately the idea seemed to Alyosha monstrous,though it worried him extremely. He loved both his brothers, anddreaded such rivalry between them. Meantime, Dmitri had said outrighton the previous day that he was glad that Ivan was his rival, and thatit was a great assistance to him, Dmitri. In what way did it assisthim? To marry Grushenka? But that Alyosha considered the worst thingpossible. Besides all this, Alyosha had till the evening beforeimplicitly believed that Katerina Ivanovna had a steadfast andpassionate love for Dmitri; but he had only believed it till theevening before. He had fancied, too, that she was incapable of loving aman like Ivan, and that she did love Dmitri, and loved him just as hewas, in spite of all the strangeness of such a passion.
But during yesterday’s scene with Grushenka another idea had struckhim. The word “lacerating,” which Madame Hohlakov had just uttered,almost made him start, because half waking up towards daybreak thatnight he had cried out “Laceration, laceration,” probably applying itto his dream. He had been dreaming all night of the previous day’sscene at Katerina Ivanovna’s. Now Alyosha was impressed by MadameHohlakov’s blunt and persistent assertion that Katerina Ivanovna was inlove with Ivan, and only deceived herself through some sort of pose,from “self‐laceration,” and tortured herself by her pretended love forDmitri from some fancied duty of gratitude. “Yes,” he thought, “perhapsthe whole truth lies in those words.” But in that case what was Ivan’sposition? Alyosha felt instinctively that a character like KaterinaIvanovna’s must dominate, and she could only dominate some one likeDmitri, and never a man like Ivan. For Dmitri might at last submit toher domination “to his own happiness” (which was what Alyosha wouldhave desired), but Ivan—no, Ivan could not submit to her, and suchsubmission would not give him happiness. Alyosha could not helpbelieving that of Ivan. And now all these doubts and reflectionsflitted through his mind as he entered the drawing‐room. Another idea,too, forced itself upon him: “What if she loved neither of them—neitherIvan nor Dmitri?”
It must be noted that Alyosha felt as it were ashamed of his ownthoughts and blamed himself when they kept recurring to him during thelast month. “What do I know about love and women and how can I decidesuch questions?” he thought reproachfully, after such doubts andsurmises. And yet it was impossible not to think about it. He feltinstinctively that this rivalry was of immense importance in hisbrothers’ lives and that a great deal depended upon it.
“One reptile will devour the other,” Ivan had pronounced the daybefore, speaking in anger of his father and Dmitri. So Ivan looked uponDmitri as a reptile, and perhaps had long done so. Was it perhaps sincehe had known Katerina Ivanovna? That phrase had, of course, escapedIvan unawares yesterday, but that only made it more important. If hefelt like that, what chance was there of peace? Were there not, on thecontrary, new grounds for hatred and hostility in their family? Andwith which of them was Alyosha to sympathize? And what was he to wishfor each of them? He loved them both, but what could he desire for eachin the midst of these conflicting interests? He might go quite astrayin this maze, and Alyosha’s heart could not endure uncertainty, becausehis love was always of an active character. He was incapable of passivelove. If he loved any one, he set to work at once to help him. And todo so he must know what he was aiming at; he must know for certain whatwas best for each, and having ascertained this it was natural for himto help them both. But instead of a definite aim, he found nothing butuncertainty and perplexity on all sides. “It was lacerating,” as wassaid just now. But what could he understand even in this “laceration”?He did not understand the first word in this perplexing maze.
Seeing Alyosha, Katerina Ivanovna said quickly and joyfully to Ivan,who had already got up to go, “A minute! Stay another minute! I want tohear the opinion of this person here whom I trust absolutely. Don’t goaway,” she added, addressing Madame Hohlakov. She made Alyosha sit downbeside her, and Madame Hohlakov sat opposite, by Ivan.
“You are all my friends here, all I have in the world, my dearfriends,” she began warmly, in a voice which quivered with genuinetears of suffering, and Alyosha’s heart warmed to her at once. “You,Alexey Fyodorovitch, were witness yesterday of that abominable scene,and saw what I did. You did not see it, Ivan Fyodorovitch, he did. Whathe thought of me yesterday I don’t know. I only know one thing, that ifit were repeated to‐day, this minute, I should express the samefeelings again as yesterday—the same feelings, the same words, the sameactions. You remember my actions, Alexey Fyodorovitch; you checked mein one of them” ... (as she said that, she flushed and her eyes shone).“I must tell you that I can’t get over it. Listen, Alexey Fyodorovitch.I don’t even know whether I still love _him_. I feel _pity_ for him,and that is a poor sign of love. If I loved him, if I still loved him,perhaps I shouldn’t be sorry for him now, but should hate him.”
Her voice quivered, and tears glittered on her eyelashes. Alyoshashuddered inwardly. “That girl is truthful and sincere,” he thought,“and she does not love Dmitri any more.”
“That’s true, that’s true,” cried Madame Hohlakov.
“Wait, dear. I haven’t told you the chief, the final decision I came toduring the night. I feel that perhaps my decision is a terrible one—forme, but I foresee that nothing will induce me to change it—nothing. Itwill be so all my life. My dear, kind, ever‐faithful and generousadviser, the one friend I have in the world, Ivan Fyodorovitch, withhis deep insight into the heart, approves and commends my decision. Heknows it.”
“Yes, I approve of it,” Ivan assented, in a subdued but firm voice.
“But I should like Alyosha, too (Ah! Alexey Fyodorovitch, forgive mycalling you simply Alyosha), I should like Alexey Fyodorovitch, too, totell me before my two friends whether I am right. I feel instinctivelythat you, Alyosha, my dear brother (for you are a dear brother to me),”she said again ecstatically, taking his cold hand in her hot one, “Iforesee that your decision, your approval, will bring me peace, inspite of all my sufferings, for, after your words, I shall be calm andsubmit—I feel that.”
“I don’t know what you are asking me,” said Alyosha, flushing. “I onlyknow that I love you and at this moment wish for your happiness morethan my own!... But I know nothing about such affairs,” somethingimpelled him to add hurriedly.
“In such affairs, Alexey Fyodorovitch, in such affairs, the chief thingis honor and duty and something higher—I don’t know what—but higherperhaps even than duty. I am conscious of this irresistible feeling inmy heart, and it compels me irresistibly. But it may all be put in twowords. I’ve already decided, even if he marries that—creature,” shebegan solemnly, “whom I never, never can forgive, _even then I will notabandon him_. Henceforward I will never, never abandon him!” she cried,breaking into a sort of pale, hysterical ecstasy. “Not that I would runafter him continually, get in his way and worry him. Oh, no! I will goaway to another town—where you like—but I will watch over him all mylife—I will watch over him all my life unceasingly. When he becomesunhappy with that woman, and that is bound to happen quite soon, lethim come to me and he will find a friend, a sister.... Only a sister,of course, and so for ever; but he will learn at least that that sisteris really his sister, who loves him and has sacrificed all her life tohim. I will gain my point. I will insist on his knowing me andconfiding entirely in me, without reserve,” she cried, in a sort offrenzy. “I will be a god to whom he can pray—and that, at least, heowes me for his treachery and for what I suffered yesterday throughhim. And let him see that all my life I will be true to him and thepromise I gave him, in spite of his being untrue and betraying me. Iwill—I will become nothing but a means for his happiness, or—how shallI say?—an instrument, a machine for his happiness, and that for mywhole life, my whole life, and that he may see that all his life!That’s my decision. Ivan Fyodorovitch fully approves me.”
She was breathless. She had perhaps intended to express her idea withmore dignity, art and naturalness, but her speech was too hurried andcrude. It was full of youthful impulsiveness, it betrayed that she wasstill smarting from yesterday’s insult, and that her pride cravedsatisfaction. She felt this herself. Her face suddenly darkened, anunpleasant look came into her eyes. Alyosha at once saw it and felt apang of sympathy. His brother Ivan made it worse by adding:
“I’ve only expressed my own view,” he said. “From any one else, thiswould have been affected and overstrained, but from you—no. Any otherwoman would have been wrong, but you are right. I don’t know how toexplain it, but I see that you are absolutely genuine and, therefore,you are right.”
“But that’s only for the moment. And what does this moment stand for?Nothing but yesterday’s insult.” Madame Hohlakov obviously had notintended to interfere, but she could not refrain from this very justcomment.
“Quite so, quite so,” cried Ivan, with peculiar eagerness, obviouslyannoyed at being interrupted, “in any one else this moment would beonly due to yesterday’s impression and would be only a moment. But withKaterina Ivanovna’s character, that moment will last all her life. Whatfor any one else would be only a promise is for her an everlastingburdensome, grim perhaps, but unflagging duty. And she will besustained by the feeling of this duty being fulfilled. Your life,Katerina Ivanovna, will henceforth be spent in painful brooding overyour own feelings, your own heroism, and your own suffering; but in theend that suffering will be softened and will pass into sweetcontemplation of the fulfillment of a bold and proud design. Yes, proudit certainly is, and desperate in any case, but a triumph for you. Andthe consciousness of it will at last be a source of completesatisfaction and will make you resigned to everything else.”
This was unmistakably said with some malice and obviously withintention; even perhaps with no desire to conceal that he spokeironically and with intention.
“Oh, dear, how mistaken it all is!” Madame Hohlakov cried again.
“Alexey Fyodorovitch, you speak. I want dreadfully to know what youwill say!” cried Katerina Ivanovna, and burst into tears. Alyosha gotup from the sofa.
“It’s nothing, nothing!” she went on through her tears. “I’m upset, Ididn’t sleep last night. But by the side of two such friends as you andyour brother I still feel strong—for I know—you two will never desertme.”
“Unluckily I am obliged to return to Moscow—perhaps to‐morrow—and toleave you for a long time—And, unluckily, it’s unavoidable,” Ivan saidsuddenly.
“To‐morrow—to Moscow!” her face was suddenly contorted; “but—but, dearme, how fortunate!” she cried in a voice suddenly changed. In oneinstant there was no trace left of her tears. She underwent aninstantaneous transformation, which amazed Alyosha. Instead of a poor,insulted girl, weeping in a sort of “laceration,” he saw a womancompletely self‐ possessed and even exceedingly pleased, as thoughsomething agreeable had just happened.
“Oh, not fortunate that I am losing you, of course not,” she correctedherself suddenly, with a charming society smile. “Such a friend as youare could not suppose that. I am only too unhappy at losing you.” Sherushed impulsively at Ivan, and seizing both his hands, pressed themwarmly. “But what is fortunate is that you will be able in Moscow tosee auntie and Agafya and to tell them all the horror of my presentposition. You can speak with complete openness to Agafya, but sparedear auntie. You will know how to do that. You can’t think how wretchedI was yesterday and this morning, wondering how I could write them thatdreadful letter—for one can never tell such things in a letter.... Nowit will be easy for me to write, for you will see them and explaineverything. Oh, how glad I am! But I am only glad of that, believe me.Of course, no one can take your place.... I will run at once to writethe letter,” she finished suddenly, and took a step as though to go outof the room.
“And what about Alyosha and his opinion, which you were so desperatelyanxious to hear?” cried Madame Hohlakov. There was a sarcastic, angrynote in her voice.
“I had not forgotten that,” cried Katerina Ivanovna, coming to a suddenstandstill, “and why are you so antagonistic at such a moment?” sheadded, with warm and bitter reproachfulness. “What I said, I repeat. Imust have his opinion. More than that, I must have his decision! As hesays, so it shall be. You see how anxious I am for your words, AlexeyFyodorovitch.... But what’s the matter?”
“I couldn’t have believed it. I can’t understand it!” Alyosha criedsuddenly in distress.
“What? What?”
“He is going to Moscow, and you cry out that you are glad. You saidthat on purpose! And you begin explaining that you are not glad of thatbut sorry to be—losing a friend. But that was acting, too—you wereplaying a part—as in a theater!”
“In a theater? What? What do you mean?” exclaimed Katerina Ivanovna,profoundly astonished, flushing crimson, and frowning.
“Though you assure him you are sorry to lose a friend in him, youpersist in telling him to his face that it’s fortunate he is going,”said Alyosha breathlessly. He was standing at the table and did not sitdown.
“What are you talking about? I don’t understand.”
“I don’t understand myself.... I seemed to see in a flash ... I know Iam not saying it properly, but I’ll say it all the same,” Alyosha wenton in the same shaking and broken voice. “What I see is that perhapsyou don’t love Dmitri at all ... and never have, from the beginning....And Dmitri, too, has never loved you ... and only esteems you.... Ireally don’t know how I dare to say all this, but somebody must tellthe truth ... for nobody here will tell the truth.”
“What truth?” cried Katerina Ivanovna, and there was an hysterical ringin her voice.
“I’ll tell you,” Alyosha went on with desperate haste, as though hewere jumping from the top of a house. “Call Dmitri; I will fetchhim—and let him come here and take your hand and take Ivan’s and joinyour hands. For you’re torturing Ivan, simply because you love him—andtorturing him, because you love Dmitri through ‘self‐laceration’—withan unreal love—because you’ve persuaded yourself.”
Alyosha broke off and was silent.
“You ... you ... you are a little religious idiot—that’s what you are!”Katerina Ivanovna snapped. Her face was white and her lips were movingwith anger.
Ivan suddenly laughed and got up. His hat was in his hand.
“You are mistaken, my good Alyosha,” he said, with an expressionAlyosha had never seen in his face before—an expression of youthfulsincerity and strong, irresistibly frank feeling. “Katerina Ivanovnahas never cared for me! She has known all the time that I cared forher—though I never said a word of my love to her—she knew, but shedidn’t care for me. I have never been her friend either, not for onemoment; she is too proud to need my friendship. She kept me at her sideas a means of revenge. She revenged with me and on me all the insultswhich she has been continually receiving from Dmitri ever since theirfirst meeting. For even that first meeting has rankled in her heart asan insult—that’s what her heart is like! She has talked to me ofnothing but her love for him. I am going now; but, believe me, KaterinaIvanovna, you really love him. And the more he insults you, the moreyou love him—that’s your ‘laceration.’ You love him just as he is; youlove him for insulting you. If he reformed, you’d give him up at onceand cease to love him. But you need him so as to contemplatecontinually your heroic fidelity and to reproach him for infidelity.And it all comes from your pride. Oh, there’s a great deal ofhumiliation and self‐abasement about it, but it all comes frompride.... I am too young and I’ve loved you too much. I know that Iought not to say this, that it would be more dignified on my partsimply to leave you, and it would be less offensive for you. But I amgoing far away, and shall never come back.... It is for ever. I don’twant to sit beside a ‘laceration.’... But I don’t know how to speaknow. I’ve said everything.... Good‐by, Katerina Ivanovna; you can’t beangry with me, for I am a hundred times more severely punished thanyou, if only by the fact that I shall never see you again. Good‐by! Idon’t want your hand. You have tortured me too deliberately for me tobe able to forgive you at this moment. I shall forgive you later, butnow I don’t want your hand. ‘Den Dank, Dame, begehr ich nicht,’ ” headded, with a forced smile, showing, however, that he could readSchiller, and read him till he knew him by heart—which Alyosha wouldnever have believed. He went out of the room without saying good‐byeven to his hostess, Madame Hohlakov. Alyosha clasped his hands.
“Ivan!” he cried desperately after him. “Come back, Ivan! No, nothingwill induce him to come back now!” he cried again, regretfullyrealizing it; “but it’s my fault, my fault. I began it! Ivan spokeangrily, wrongly. Unjustly and angrily. He must come back here, comeback,” Alyosha kept exclaiming frantically.
Katerina Ivanovna went suddenly into the next room.
“You have done no harm. You behaved beautifully, like an angel,” MadameHohlakov whispered rapidly and ecstatically to Alyosha. “I will do myutmost to prevent Ivan Fyodorovitch from going.”
Her face beamed with delight, to the great distress of Alyosha, butKaterina Ivanovna suddenly returned. She had two hundred‐rouble notesin her hand.
“I have a great favor to ask of you, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” she began,addressing Alyosha with an apparently calm and even voice, as thoughnothing had happened. “A week—yes, I think it was a week ago—DmitriFyodorovitch was guilty of a hasty and unjust action—a very uglyaction. There is a low tavern here, and in it he met that dischargedofficer, that captain, whom your father used to employ in somebusiness. Dmitri Fyodorovitch somehow lost his temper with thiscaptain, seized him by the beard and dragged him out into the streetand for some distance along it, in that insulting fashion. And I amtold that his son, a boy, quite a child, who is at the school here, sawit and ran beside them crying and begging for his father, appealing toevery one to defend him, while every one laughed. You must forgive me,Alexey Fyodorovitch, I cannot think without indignation of thatdisgraceful action of _his_ ... one of those actions of which onlyDmitri Fyodorovitch would be capable in his anger ... and in hispassions! I can’t describe it even.... I can’t find my words. I’ve madeinquiries about his victim, and find he is quite a poor man. His nameis Snegiryov. He did something wrong in the army and was discharged. Ican’t tell you what. And now he has sunk into terrible destitution,with his family—an unhappy family of sick children, and, I believe, aninsane wife. He has been living here a long time; he used to work as acopying clerk, but now he is getting nothing. I thought if you ... thatis I thought ... I don’t know. I am so confused. You see, I wanted toask you, my dear Alexey Fyodorovitch, to go to him, to find some excuseto go to them—I mean to that captain—oh, goodness, how badly I explainit!—and delicately, carefully, as only you know how to” (Alyoshablushed), “manage to give him this assistance, these two hundredroubles. He will be sure to take it.... I mean, persuade him to takeit.... Or, rather, what do I mean? You see it’s not by way ofcompensation to prevent him from taking proceedings (for I believe hemeant to), but simply a token of sympathy, of a desire to assist himfrom me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch’s betrothed, not from himself.... But youknow.... I would go myself, but you’ll know how to do it ever so muchbetter. He lives in Lake Street, in the house of a woman calledKalmikov.... For God’s sake, Alexey Fyodorovitch, do it for me, and now... now I am rather ... tired. Good‐ by!”
She turned and disappeared behind the portière so quickly that Alyoshahad not time to utter a word, though he wanted to speak. He longed tobeg her pardon, to blame himself, to say something, for his heart wasfull and he could not bear to go out of the room without it. But MadameHohlakov took him by the hand and drew him along with her. In the hallshe stopped him again as before.
“She is proud, she is struggling with herself; but kind, charming,generous,” she exclaimed, in a half‐whisper. “Oh, how I love her,especially sometimes, and how glad I am again of everything! DearAlexey Fyodorovitch, you didn’t know, but I must tell you, that we all,all—both her aunts, I and all of us, Lise, even—have been hoping andpraying for nothing for the last month but that she may give up yourfavorite Dmitri, who takes no notice of her and does not care for her,and may marry Ivan Fyodorovitch—such an excellent and cultivated youngman, who loves her more than anything in the world. We are in a regularplot to bring it about, and I am even staying on here perhaps on thataccount.”
“But she has been crying—she has been wounded again,” cried Alyosha.
“Never trust a woman’s tears, Alexey Fyodorovitch. I am never for thewomen in such cases. I am always on the side of the men.”
“Mamma, you are spoiling him,” Lise’s little voice cried from behindthe door.
“No, it was all my fault. I am horribly to blame,” Alyosha repeatedunconsoled, hiding his face in his hands in an agony of remorse for hisindiscretion.
“Quite the contrary; you behaved like an angel, like an angel. I amready to say so a thousand times over.”
“Mamma, how has he behaved like an angel?” Lise’s voice was heardagain.
“I somehow fancied all at once,” Alyosha went on as though he had notheard Lise, “that she loved Ivan, and so I said that stupid thing....What will happen now?”
“To whom, to whom?” cried Lise. “Mamma, you really want to be the deathof me. I ask you and you don’t answer.”
At the moment the maid ran in.
“Katerina Ivanovna is ill.... She is crying, struggling ... hysterics.”
“What is the matter?” cried Lise, in a tone of real anxiety. “Mamma, Ishall be having hysterics, and not she!”
“Lise, for mercy’s sake, don’t scream, don’t persecute me. At your ageone can’t know everything that grown‐up people know. I’ll come and tellyou everything you ought to know. Oh, mercy on us! I am coming, I amcoming.... Hysterics is a good sign, Alexey Fyodorovitch; it’s anexcellent thing that she is hysterical. That’s just as it ought to be.In such cases I am always against the woman, against all these femininetears and hysterics. Run and say, Yulia, that I’ll fly to her. As forIvan Fyodorovitch’s going away like that, it’s her own fault. But hewon’t go away. Lise, for mercy’s sake, don’t scream! Oh, yes; you arenot screaming. It’s I am screaming. Forgive your mamma; but I amdelighted, delighted, delighted! Did you notice, Alexey Fyodorovitch,how young, how young Ivan Fyodorovitch was just now when he went out,when he said all that and went out? I thought he was so learned, such a_savant_, and all of a sudden he behaved so warmly, openly, andyouthfully, with such youthful inexperience, and it was all so fine,like you.... And the way he repeated that German verse, it was justlike you! But I must fly, I must fly! Alexey Fyodorovitch, make hasteto carry out her commission, and then make haste back. Lise, do youwant anything now? For mercy’s sake, don’t keep Alexey Fyodorovitch aminute. He will come back to you at once.”
Madame Hohlakov at last ran off. Before leaving, Alyosha would haveopened the door to see Lise.
“On no account,” cried Lise. “On no account now. Speak through thedoor. How have you come to be an angel? That’s the only thing I want toknow.”
“For an awful piece of stupidity, Lise! Good‐by!”
“Don’t dare to go away like that!” Lise was beginning.
“Lise, I have a real sorrow! I’ll be back directly, but I have a great,great sorrow!”
And he ran out of the room.



Chapter VI.A Laceration In The Cottage

He certainly was really grieved in a way he had seldom been before. Hehad rushed in like a fool, and meddled in what? In a love‐affair. “Butwhat do I know about it? What can I tell about such things?” herepeated to himself for the hundredth time, flushing crimson. “Oh,being ashamed would be nothing; shame is only the punishment I deserve.The trouble is I shall certainly have caused more unhappiness.... AndFather Zossima sent me to reconcile and bring them together. Is thisthe way to bring them together?” Then he suddenly remembered how he hadtried to join their hands, and he felt fearfully ashamed again. “ThoughI acted quite sincerely, I must be more sensible in the future,” heconcluded suddenly, and did not even smile at his conclusion.
Katerina Ivanovna’s commission took him to Lake Street, and his brotherDmitri lived close by, in a turning out of Lake Street. Alyosha decidedto go to him in any case before going to the captain, though he had apresentiment that he would not find his brother. He suspected that hewould intentionally keep out of his way now, but he must find himanyhow. Time was passing: the thought of his dying elder had not leftAlyosha for one minute from the time he set off from the monastery.
There was one point which interested him particularly about KaterinaIvanovna’s commission; when she had mentioned the captain’s son, thelittle schoolboy who had run beside his father crying, the idea had atonce struck Alyosha that this must be the schoolboy who had bitten hisfinger when he, Alyosha, asked him what he had done to hurt him. NowAlyosha felt practically certain of this, though he could not have saidwhy. Thinking of another subject was a relief, and he resolved to thinkno more about the “mischief” he had done, and not to torture himselfwith remorse, but to do what he had to do, let come what would. At thatthought he was completely comforted. Turning to the street where Dmitrilodged, he felt hungry, and taking out of his pocket the roll he hadbrought from his father’s, he ate it. It made him feel stronger.
Dmitri was not at home. The people of the house, an old cabinet‐maker,his son, and his old wife, looked with positive suspicion at Alyosha.“He hasn’t slept here for the last three nights. Maybe he has goneaway,” the old man said in answer to Alyosha’s persistent inquiries.Alyosha saw that he was answering in accordance with instructions. Whenhe asked whether he were not at Grushenka’s or in hiding at Foma’s(Alyosha spoke so freely on purpose), all three looked at him in alarm.“They are fond of him, they are doing their best for him,” thoughtAlyosha. “That’s good.”
At last he found the house in Lake Street. It was a decrepit littlehouse, sunk on one side, with three windows looking into the street,and with a muddy yard, in the middle of which stood a solitary cow. Hecrossed the yard and found the door opening into the passage. On theleft of the passage lived the old woman of the house with her olddaughter. Both seemed to be deaf. In answer to his repeated inquiry forthe captain, one of them at last understood that he was asking fortheir lodgers, and pointed to a door across the passage. The captain’slodging turned out to be a simple cottage room. Alyosha had his hand onthe iron latch to open the door, when he was struck by the strange hushwithin. Yet he knew from Katerina Ivanovna’s words that the man had afamily. “Either they are all asleep or perhaps they have heard mecoming and are waiting for me to open the door. I’d better knockfirst,” and he knocked. An answer came, but not at once, after aninterval of perhaps ten seconds.
“Who’s there?” shouted some one in a loud and very angry voice.
Then Alyosha opened the door and crossed the threshold. He foundhimself in a regular peasant’s room. Though it was large, it wascumbered up with domestic belongings of all sorts, and there wereseveral people in it. On the left was a large Russian stove. From thestove to the window on the left was a string running across the room,and on it there were rags hanging. There was a bedstead against thewall on each side, right and left, covered with knitted quilts. On theone on the left was a pyramid of four print‐covered pillows, eachsmaller than the one beneath. On the other there was only one verysmall pillow. The opposite corner was screened off by a curtain or asheet hung on a string. Behind this curtain could be seen a bed made upon a bench and a chair. The rough square table of plain wood had beenmoved into the middle window. The three windows, which consisted eachof four tiny greenish mildewy panes, gave little light, and were closeshut, so that the room was not very light and rather stuffy. On thetable was a frying‐pan with the remains of some fried eggs, ahalf‐eaten piece of bread, and a small bottle with a few drops ofvodka.
A woman of genteel appearance, wearing a cotton gown, was sitting on achair by the bed on the left. Her face was thin and yellow, and hersunken cheeks betrayed at the first glance that she was ill. But whatstruck Alyosha most was the expression in the poor woman’s eyes—a lookof surprised inquiry and yet of haughty pride. And while he was talkingto her husband, her big brown eyes moved from one speaker to the otherwith the same haughty and questioning expression. Beside her at thewindow stood a young girl, rather plain, with scanty reddish hair,poorly but very neatly dressed. She looked disdainfully at Alyosha ashe came in. Beside the other bed was sitting another female figure. Shewas a very sad sight, a young girl of about twenty, but hunchback andcrippled “with withered legs,” as Alyosha was told afterwards. Hercrutches stood in the corner close by. The strikingly beautiful andgentle eyes of this poor girl looked with mild serenity at Alyosha. Aman of forty‐five was sitting at the table, finishing the fried eggs.He was spare, small and weakly built. He had reddish hair and a scantylight‐colored beard, very much like a wisp of tow (this comparison andthe phrase “a wisp of tow” flashed at once into Alyosha’s mind for somereason, he remembered it afterwards). It was obviously this gentlemanwho had shouted to him, as there was no other man in the room. But whenAlyosha went in, he leapt up from the bench on which he was sitting,and, hastily wiping his mouth with a ragged napkin, darted up toAlyosha.
“It’s a monk come to beg for the monastery. A nice place to come to!”the girl standing in the left corner said aloud. The man spun roundinstantly towards her and answered her in an excited and breakingvoice:
“No, Varvara, you are wrong. Allow me to ask,” he turned again toAlyosha, “what has brought you to—our retreat?”
Alyosha looked attentively at him. It was the first time he had seenhim. There was something angular, flurried and irritable about him.Though he had obviously just been drinking, he was not drunk. There wasextraordinary impudence in his expression, and yet, strange to say, atthe same time there was fear. He looked like a man who had long beenkept in subjection and had submitted to it, and now had suddenly turnedand was trying to assert himself. Or, better still, like a man whowants dreadfully to hit you but is horribly afraid you will hit him. Inhis words and in the intonation of his shrill voice there was a sort ofcrazy humor, at times spiteful and at times cringing, and continuallyshifting from one tone to another. The question about “our retreat” hehad asked as it were quivering all over, rolling his eyes, and skippingup so close to Alyosha that he instinctively drew back a step. He wasdressed in a very shabby dark cotton coat, patched and spotted. He worechecked trousers of an extremely light color, long out of fashion, andof very thin material. They were so crumpled and so short that helooked as though he had grown out of them like a boy.
“I am Alexey Karamazov,” Alyosha began in reply.
“I quite understand that, sir,” the gentleman snapped out at once toassure him that he knew who he was already. “I am Captain Snegiryov,sir, but I am still desirous to know precisely what has led you—”
“Oh, I’ve come for nothing special. I wanted to have a word with you—ifonly you allow me.”
“In that case, here is a chair, sir; kindly be seated. That’s what theyused to say in the old comedies, ‘kindly be seated,’ ” and with a rapidgesture he seized an empty chair (it was a rough wooden chair, notupholstered) and set it for him almost in the middle of the room; then,taking another similar chair for himself, he sat down facing Alyosha,so close to him that their knees almost touched.
“Nikolay Ilyitch Snegiryov, sir, formerly a captain in the Russianinfantry, put to shame for his vices, but still a captain. Though Imight not be one now for the way I talk; for the last half of my lifeI’ve learnt to say ‘sir.’ It’s a word you use when you’ve come down inthe world.”
“That’s very true,” smiled Alyosha. “But is it used involuntarily or onpurpose?”
“As God’s above, it’s involuntary, and I usen’t to use it! I didn’t usethe word ‘sir’ all my life, but as soon as I sank into low water Ibegan to say ‘sir.’ It’s the work of a higher power. I see you areinterested in contemporary questions, but how can I have excited yourcuriosity, living as I do in surroundings impossible for the exerciseof hospitality?”
“I’ve come—about that business.”
“About what business?” the captain interrupted impatiently.
“About your meeting with my brother Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” Alyoshablurted out awkwardly.
“What meeting, sir? You don’t mean that meeting? About my ‘wisp oftow,’ then?” He moved closer so that his knees positively knockedagainst Alyosha. His lips were strangely compressed like a thread.
“What wisp of tow?” muttered Alyosha.
“He is come to complain of me, father!” cried a voice familiar toAlyosha—the voice of the schoolboy—from behind the curtain. “I bit hisfinger just now.” The curtain was pulled, and Alyosha saw his assailantlying on a little bed made up on the bench and the chair in the cornerunder the ikons. The boy lay covered by his coat and an old waddedquilt. He was evidently unwell, and, judging by his glittering eyes, hewas in a fever. He looked at Alyosha without fear, as though he felt hewas at home and could not be touched.
“What! Did he bite your finger?” The captain jumped up from his chair.“Was it your finger he bit?”
“Yes. He was throwing stones with other schoolboys. There were six ofthem against him alone. I went up to him, and he threw a stone at meand then another at my head. I asked him what I had done to him. Andthen he rushed at me and bit my finger badly, I don’t know why.”
“I’ll thrash him, sir, at once—this minute!” The captain jumped up fromhis seat.
“But I am not complaining at all, I am simply telling you ... I don’twant him to be thrashed. Besides, he seems to be ill.”
“And do you suppose I’d thrash him? That I’d take my Ilusha and thrashhim before you for your satisfaction? Would you like it done at once,sir?” said the captain, suddenly turning to Alyosha, as though he weregoing to attack him. “I am sorry about your finger, sir; but instead ofthrashing Ilusha, would you like me to chop off my four fingers withthis knife here before your eyes to satisfy your just wrath? I shouldthink four fingers would be enough to satisfy your thirst forvengeance. You won’t ask for the fifth one too?” He stopped short witha catch in his throat. Every feature in his face was twitching andworking; he looked extremely defiant. He was in a sort of frenzy.
“I think I understand it all now,” said Alyosha gently and sorrowfully,still keeping his seat. “So your boy is a good boy, he loves hisfather, and he attacked me as the brother of your assailant.... Now Iunderstand it,” he repeated thoughtfully. “But my brother DmitriFyodorovitch regrets his action, I know that, and if only it ispossible for him to come to you, or better still, to meet you in thatsame place, he will ask your forgiveness before every one—if you wishit.”
“After pulling out my beard, you mean, he will ask my forgiveness? Andhe thinks that will be a satisfactory finish, doesn’t he?”
“Oh, no! On the contrary, he will do anything you like and in any wayyou like.”
“So if I were to ask his highness to go down on his knees before me inthat very tavern—‘The Metropolis’ it’s called—or in the market‐place,he would do it?”
“Yes, he would even go down on his knees.”
“You’ve pierced me to the heart, sir. Touched me to tears and piercedme to the heart! I am only too sensible of your brother’s generosity.Allow me to introduce my family, my two daughters and my son—my litter.If I die, who will care for them, and while I live who but they willcare for a wretch like me? That’s a great thing the Lord has ordainedfor every man of my sort, sir. For there must be some one able to loveeven a man like me.”
“Ah, that’s perfectly true!” exclaimed Alyosha.
“Oh, do leave off playing the fool! Some idiot comes in, and you put usto shame!” cried the girl by the window, suddenly turning to her fatherwith a disdainful and contemptuous air.
“Wait a little, Varvara!” cried her father, speaking peremptorily butlooking at her quite approvingly. “That’s her character,” he said,addressing Alyosha again.
“And in all nature there was naughtThat could find favor in his eyes—

or rather in the feminine: that could find favor in her eyes. But nowlet me present you to my wife, Arina Petrovna. She is crippled, she isforty‐ three; she can move, but very little. She is of humble origin.Arina Petrovna, compose your countenance. This is Alexey FyodorovitchKaramazov. Get up, Alexey Fyodorovitch.” He took him by the hand andwith unexpected force pulled him up. “You must stand up to beintroduced to a lady. It’s not the Karamazov, mamma, who ... h’m ...etcetera, but his brother, radiant with modest virtues. Come, ArinaPetrovna, come, mamma, first your hand to be kissed.”
And he kissed his wife’s hand respectfully and even tenderly. The girlat the window turned her back indignantly on the scene; an expressionof extraordinary cordiality came over the haughtily inquiring face ofthe woman.
“Good morning! Sit down, Mr. Tchernomazov,” she said.
“Karamazov, mamma, Karamazov. We are of humble origin,” he whisperedagain.
“Well, Karamazov, or whatever it is, but I always think ofTchernomazov.... Sit down. Why has he pulled you up? He calls mecrippled, but I am not, only my legs are swollen like barrels, and I amshriveled up myself. Once I used to be so fat, but now it’s as though Ihad swallowed a needle.”
“We are of humble origin,” the captain muttered again.
“Oh, father, father!” the hunchback girl, who had till then been silenton her chair, said suddenly, and she hid her eyes in her handkerchief.
“Buffoon!” blurted out the girl at the window.
“Have you heard our news?” said the mother, pointing at her daughters.“It’s like clouds coming over; the clouds pass and we have music again.When we were with the army, we used to have many such guests. I don’tmean to make any comparisons; every one to their taste. The deacon’swife used to come then and say, ‘Alexandr Alexandrovitch is a man ofthe noblest heart, but Nastasya Petrovna,’ she would say, ‘is of thebrood of hell.’ ‘Well,’ I said, ‘that’s a matter of taste; but you area little spitfire.’ ‘And you want keeping in your place,’ says she.‘You black sword,’ said I, ‘who asked you to teach me?’ ‘But mybreath,’ says she, ‘is clean, and yours is unclean.’ ‘You ask all theofficers whether my breath is unclean.’ And ever since then I had it inmy mind. Not long ago I was sitting here as I am now, when I saw thatvery general come in who came here for Easter, and I asked him: ‘YourExcellency,’ said I, ‘can a lady’s breath be unpleasant?’ ‘Yes,’ heanswered; ‘you ought to open a window‐ pane or open the door, for theair is not fresh here.’ And they all go on like that! And what is mybreath to them? The dead smell worse still! ‘I won’t spoil the air,’said I, ‘I’ll order some slippers and go away.’ My darlings, don’tblame your own mother! Nikolay Ilyitch, how is it I can’t please you?There’s only Ilusha who comes home from school and loves me. Yesterdayhe brought me an apple. Forgive your own mother—forgive a poor lonelycreature! Why has my breath become unpleasant to you?”
And the poor mad woman broke into sobs, and tears streamed down hercheeks. The captain rushed up to her.
“Mamma, mamma, my dear, give over! You are not lonely. Every one lovesyou, every one adores you.” He began kissing both her hands again andtenderly stroking her face; taking the dinner‐napkin, he began wipingaway her tears. Alyosha fancied that he too had tears in his eyes.“There, you see, you hear?” he turned with a sort of fury to Alyosha,pointing to the poor imbecile.
“I see and hear,” muttered Alyosha.
“Father, father, how can you—with him! Let him alone!” cried the boy,sitting up in his bed and gazing at his father with glowing eyes.
“Do give over fooling, showing off your silly antics which never leadto anything!” shouted Varvara, stamping her foot with passion.
“Your anger is quite just this time, Varvara, and I’ll make haste tosatisfy you. Come, put on your cap, Alexey Fyodorovitch, and I’ll puton mine. We will go out. I have a word to say to you in earnest, butnot within these walls. This girl sitting here is my daughter Nina; Iforgot to introduce her to you. She is a heavenly angel incarnate ...who has flown down to us mortals,... if you can understand.”
“There he is shaking all over, as though he is in convulsions!” Varvarawent on indignantly.
“And she there stamping her foot at me and calling me a fool just now,she is a heavenly angel incarnate too, and she has good reason to callme so. Come along, Alexey Fyodorovitch, we must make an end.”
And, snatching Alyosha’s hand, he drew him out of the room into thestreet.



Chapter VII.And In The Open Air

“The air is fresh, but in my apartment it is not so in any sense of theword. Let us walk slowly, sir. I should be glad of your kind interest.”
“I too have something important to say to you,” observed Alyosha, “onlyI don’t know how to begin.”
“To be sure you must have business with me. You would never have lookedin upon me without some object. Unless you come simply to complain ofthe boy, and that’s hardly likely. And, by the way, about the boy: Icould not explain to you in there, but here I will describe that sceneto you. My tow was thicker a week ago—I mean my beard. That’s thenickname they give to my beard, the schoolboys most of all. Well, yourbrother Dmitri Fyodorovitch was pulling me by my beard, I’d donenothing, he was in a towering rage and happened to come upon me. Hedragged me out of the tavern into the market‐place; at that moment theboys were coming out of school, and with them Ilusha. As soon as he sawme in such a state he rushed up to me. ‘Father,’ he cried, ‘father!’ Hecaught hold of me, hugged me, tried to pull me away, crying to myassailant, ‘Let go, let go, it’s my father, forgive him!’—yes, heactually cried ‘forgive him.’ He clutched at that hand, that very hand,in his little hands and kissed it.... I remember his little face atthat moment, I haven’t forgotten it and I never shall!”
“I swear,” cried Alyosha, “that my brother will express his most deepand sincere regret, even if he has to go down on his knees in that samemarket‐place.... I’ll make him or he is no brother of mine!”
“Aha, then it’s only a suggestion! And it does not come from him butsimply from the generosity of your own warm heart. You should have saidso. No, in that case allow me to tell you of your brother’s highlychivalrous soldierly generosity, for he did give expression to it atthe time. He left off dragging me by my beard and released me: ‘You arean officer,’ he said, ‘and I am an officer, if you can find a decentman to be your second send me your challenge. I will give satisfaction,though you are a scoundrel.’ That’s what he said. A chivalrous spiritindeed! I retired with Ilusha, and that scene is a family recordimprinted for ever on Ilusha’s soul. No, it’s not for us to claim theprivileges of noblemen. Judge for yourself. You’ve just been in ourmansion, what did you see there? Three ladies, one a cripple andweak‐minded, another a cripple and hunchback and the third not crippledbut far too clever. She is a student, dying to get back to Petersburg,to work for the emancipation of the Russian woman on the banks of theNeva. I won’t speak of Ilusha, he is only nine. I am alone in theworld, and if I die, what will become of all of them? I simply ask youthat. And if I challenge him and he kills me on the spot, what then?What will become of them? And worse still, if he doesn’t kill me butonly cripples me: I couldn’t work, but I should still be a mouth tofeed. Who would feed it and who would feed them all? Must I take Ilushafrom school and send him to beg in the streets? That’s what it meansfor me to challenge him to a duel. It’s silly talk and nothing else.”
“He will beg your forgiveness, he will bow down at your feet in themiddle of the market‐place,” cried Alyosha again, with glowing eyes.
“I did think of prosecuting him,” the captain went on, “but look in ourcode, could I get much compensation for a personal injury? And thenAgrafena Alexandrovna[3] sent for me and shouted at me: ‘Don’t dare todream of it! If you proceed against him, I’ll publish it to all theworld that he beat you for your dishonesty, and then you will beprosecuted.’ I call God to witness whose was the dishonesty and bywhose commands I acted, wasn’t it by her own and Fyodor Pavlovitch’s?‘And what’s more,’ she went on, ‘I’ll dismiss you for good and you’llnever earn another penny from me. I’ll speak to my merchant too’(that’s what she calls her old man) ‘and he will dismiss you!’ And ifhe dismisses me, what can I earn then from any one? Those two are all Ihave to look to, for your Fyodor Pavlovitch has not only given overemploying me, for another reason, but he means to make use of papersI’ve signed to go to law against me. And so I kept quiet, and you haveseen our retreat. But now let me ask you: did Ilusha hurt your fingermuch? I didn’t like to go into it in our mansion before him.”
“Yes, very much, and he was in a great fury. He was avenging you on meas a Karamazov, I see that now. But if only you had seen how he wasthrowing stones at his school‐fellows! It’s very dangerous. They mightkill him. They are children and stupid. A stone may be thrown and breaksomebody’s head.”
“That’s just what has happened. He has been bruised by a stone to‐day.Not on the head but on the chest, just above the heart. He came homecrying and groaning and now he is ill.”
“And you know he attacks them first. He is bitter against them on youraccount. They say he stabbed a boy called Krassotkin with a pen‐knifenot long ago.”
“I’ve heard about that too, it’s dangerous. Krassotkin is an officialhere, we may hear more about it.”
“I would advise you,” Alyosha went on warmly, “not to send him toschool at all for a time till he is calmer ... and his anger ispassed.”
“Anger!” the captain repeated, “that’s just what it is. He is a littlecreature, but it’s a mighty anger. You don’t know all, sir. Let me tellyou more. Since that incident all the boys have been teasing him aboutthe ‘wisp of tow.’ Schoolboys are a merciless race, individually theyare angels, but together, especially in schools, they are oftenmerciless. Their teasing has stirred up a gallant spirit in Ilusha. Anordinary boy, a weak son, would have submitted, have felt ashamed ofhis father, sir, but he stood up for his father against them all. Forhis father and for truth and justice. For what he suffered when hekissed your brother’s hand and cried to him ‘Forgive father, forgivehim,’—that only God knows—and I, his father. For our children—not yourchildren, but ours—the children of the poor gentlemen looked down uponby every one—know what justice means, sir, even at nine years old. Howshould the rich know? They don’t explore such depths once in theirlives. But at that moment in the square when he kissed his hand, atthat moment my Ilusha had grasped all that justice means. That truthentered into him and crushed him for ever, sir,” the captain said hotlyagain with a sort of frenzy, and he struck his right fist against hisleft palm as though he wanted to show how “the truth” crushed Ilusha.“That very day, sir, he fell ill with fever and was delirious allnight. All that day he hardly said a word to me, but I noticed he keptwatching me from the corner, though he turned to the window andpretended to be learning his lessons. But I could see his mind was noton his lessons. Next day I got drunk to forget my troubles, sinful manas I am, and I don’t remember much. Mamma began crying, too—I am veryfond of mamma—well, I spent my last penny drowning my troubles. Don’tdespise me for that, sir, in Russia men who drink are the best. Thebest men amongst us are the greatest drunkards. I lay down and I don’tremember about Ilusha, though all that day the boys had been jeering athim at school. ‘Wisp of tow,’ they shouted, ‘your father was pulled outof the tavern by his wisp of tow, you ran by and begged forgiveness.’ ”
“On the third day when he came back from school, I saw he looked paleand wretched. ‘What is it?’ I asked. He wouldn’t answer. Well, there’sno talking in our mansion without mamma and the girls taking part init. What’s more, the girls had heard about it the very first day.Varvara had begun snarling. ‘You fools and buffoons, can you ever doanything rational?’ ‘Quite so,’ I said, ‘can we ever do anythingrational?’ For the time I turned it off like that. So in the evening Itook the boy out for a walk, for you must know we go for a walk everyevening, always the same way, along which we are going now—from ourgate to that great stone which lies alone in the road under the hurdle,which marks the beginning of the town pasture. A beautiful and lonelyspot, sir. Ilusha and I walked along hand in hand as usual. He has alittle hand, his fingers are thin and cold—he suffers with his chest,you know. ‘Father,’ said he, ‘father!’ ‘Well?’ said I. I saw his eyesflashing. ‘Father, how he treated you then!’ ‘It can’t be helped,Ilusha,’ I said. ‘Don’t forgive him, father, don’t forgive him! Atschool they say that he has paid you ten roubles for it.’ ‘No, Ilusha,’said I, ‘I would not take money from him for anything.’ Then he begantrembling all over, took my hand in both his and kissed it again.‘Father,’ he said, ‘father, challenge him to a duel, at school they sayyou are a coward and won’t challenge him, and that you’ll accept tenroubles from him.’ ‘I can’t challenge him to a duel, Ilusha,’ Ianswered. And I told briefly what I’ve just told you. He listened.‘Father,’ he said, ‘anyway don’t forgive it. When I grow up I’ll callhim out myself and kill him.’ His eyes shone and glowed. And of courseI am his father, and I had to put in a word: ‘It’s a sin to kill,’ Isaid, ‘even in a duel.’ ‘Father,’ he said, ‘when I grow up, I’ll knockhim down, knock the sword out of his hand, I’ll fall on him, wave mysword over him and say: “I could kill you, but I forgive you, sothere!” ’ You see what the workings of his little mind have been duringthese two days; he must have been planning that vengeance all day, andraving about it at night.
“But he began to come home from school badly beaten, I found out aboutit the day before yesterday, and you are right, I won’t send him tothat school any more. I heard that he was standing up against all theclass alone and defying them all, that his heart was full ofresentment, of bitterness—I was alarmed about him. We went for anotherwalk. ‘Father,’ he asked, ‘are the rich people stronger than any oneelse on earth?’ ‘Yes, Ilusha,’ I said, ‘there are no people on earthstronger than the rich.’ ‘Father,’ he said, ‘I will get rich, I willbecome an officer and conquer everybody. The Tsar will reward me, Iwill come back here and then no one will dare—’ Then he was silent andhis lips still kept trembling. ‘Father,’ he said, ‘what a horrid townthis is.’ ‘Yes, Ilusha,’ I said, ‘it isn’t a very nice town.’ ‘Father,let us move into another town, a nice one,’ he said, ‘where peopledon’t know about us.’ ‘We will move, we will, Ilusha,’ said I, ‘only Imust save up for it.’ I was glad to be able to turn his mind frompainful thoughts, and we began to dream of how we would move to anothertown, how we would buy a horse and cart. ‘We will put mamma and yoursisters inside, we will cover them up and we’ll walk, you shall have alift now and then, and I’ll walk beside, for we must take care of ourhorse, we can’t all ride. That’s how we’ll go.’ He was enchanted atthat, most of all at the thought of having a horse and driving him. Forof course a Russian boy is born among horses. We chattered a longwhile. Thank God, I thought, I have diverted his mind and comfortedhim.
“That was the day before yesterday, in the evening, but last nighteverything was changed. He had gone to school in the morning, he cameback depressed, terribly depressed. In the evening I took him by thehand and we went for a walk; he would not talk. There was a windblowing and no sun, and a feeling of autumn; twilight was coming on. Wewalked along, both of us depressed. ‘Well, my boy,’ said I, ‘how aboutour setting off on our travels?’ I thought I might bring him back toour talk of the day before. He didn’t answer, but I felt his fingerstrembling in my hand. Ah, I thought, it’s a bad job; there’s somethingfresh. We had reached the stone where we are now. I sat down on thestone. And in the air there were lots of kites flapping and whirling.There were as many as thirty in sight. Of course, it’s just the seasonfor the kites. ‘Look, Ilusha,’ said I, ‘it’s time we got out our lastyear’s kite again. I’ll mend it, where have you put it away?’ My boymade no answer. He looked away and turned sideways to me. And then agust of wind blew up the sand. He suddenly fell on me, threw both hislittle arms round my neck and held me tight. You know, when childrenare silent and proud, and try to keep back their tears when they are ingreat trouble and suddenly break down, their tears fall in streams.With those warm streams of tears, he suddenly wetted my face. He sobbedand shook as though he were in convulsions, and squeezed up against meas I sat on the stone. ‘Father,’ he kept crying, ‘dear father, how heinsulted you!’ And I sobbed too. We sat shaking in each other’s arms.‘Ilusha,’ I said to him, ‘Ilusha darling.’ No one saw us then. Godalone saw us, I hope He will record it to my credit. You must thankyour brother, Alexey Fyodorovitch. No, sir, I won’t thrash my boy foryour satisfaction.”
He had gone back to his original tone of resentful buffoonery. Alyoshafelt though that he trusted him, and that if there had been some oneelse in his, Alyosha’s place, the man would not have spoken so openlyand would not have told what he had just told. This encouraged Alyosha,whose heart was trembling on the verge of tears.
“Ah, how I would like to make friends with your boy!” he cried. “If youcould arrange it—”
“Certainly, sir,” muttered the captain.
“But now listen to something quite different!” Alyosha went on. “I havea message for you. That same brother of mine, Dmitri, has insulted hisbetrothed, too, a noble‐hearted girl of whom you have probably heard. Ihave a right to tell you of her wrong; I ought to do so, in fact, forhearing of the insult done to you and learning all about yourunfortunate position, she commissioned me at once—just now—to bring youthis help from her—but only from her alone, not from Dmitri, who hasabandoned her. Nor from me, his brother, nor from any one else, butfrom her, only from her! She entreats you to accept her help.... Youhave both been insulted by the same man. She thought of you only whenshe had just received a similar insult from him—similar in its cruelty,I mean. She comes like a sister to help a brother in misfortune.... Shetold me to persuade you to take these two hundred roubles from her, asfrom a sister, knowing that you are in such need. No one will know ofit, it can give rise to no unjust slander. There are the two hundredroubles, and I swear you must take them unless—unless all men are to beenemies on earth! But there are brothers even on earth.... You have agenerous heart ... you must see that, you must,” and Alyosha held outtwo new rainbow‐colored hundred‐rouble notes.
They were both standing at the time by the great stone close to thefence, and there was no one near. The notes seemed to produce atremendous impression on the captain. He started, but at first onlyfrom astonishment. Such an outcome of their conversation was the lastthing he expected. Nothing could have been farther from his dreams thanhelp from any one—and such a sum!
He took the notes, and for a minute he was almost unable to answer,quite a new expression came into his face.
“That for me? So much money—two hundred roubles! Good heavens! Why, Ihaven’t seen so much money for the last four years! Mercy on us! Andshe says she is a sister.... And is that the truth?”
“I swear that all I told you is the truth,” cried Alyosha.
The captain flushed red.
“Listen, my dear, listen. If I take it, I shan’t be behaving like ascoundrel? In your eyes, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I shan’t be a scoundrel?No, Alexey Fyodorovitch, listen, listen,” he hurried, touching Alyoshawith both his hands. “You are persuading me to take it, saying thatit’s a sister sends it, but inwardly, in your heart won’t you feelcontempt for me if I take it, eh?”
“No, no, on my salvation I swear I shan’t! And no one will ever knowbut me—I, you and she, and one other lady, her great friend.”
“Never mind the lady! Listen, Alexey Fyodorovitch, at a moment likethis you must listen, for you can’t understand what these two hundredroubles mean to me now.” The poor fellow went on rising gradually intoa sort of incoherent, almost wild enthusiasm. He was thrown off hisbalance and talked extremely fast, as though afraid he would not beallowed to say all he had to say.
“Besides its being honestly acquired from a ‘sister,’ so highlyrespected and revered, do you know that now I can look after mamma andNina, my hunchback angel daughter? Doctor Herzenstube came to me in thekindness of his heart and was examining them both for a whole hour. ‘Ican make nothing of it,’ said he, but he prescribed a mineral waterwhich is kept at a chemist’s here. He said it would be sure to do hergood, and he ordered baths, too, with some medicine in them. Themineral water costs thirty copecks, and she’d need to drink fortybottles perhaps; so I took the prescription and laid it on the shelfunder the ikons, and there it lies. And he ordered hot baths for Ninawith something dissolved in them, morning and evening. But how can wecarry out such a cure in our mansion, without servants, without help,without a bath, and without water? Nina is rheumatic all over, I don’tthink I told you that. All her right side aches at night, she is inagony, and, would you believe it, the angel bears it without groaningfor fear of waking us. We eat what we can get, and she’ll only take theleavings, what you’d scarcely give to a dog. ‘I am not worth it, I amtaking it from you, I am a burden on you,’ that’s what her angel eyestry to express. We wait on her, but she doesn’t like it. ‘I am auseless cripple, no good to any one.’ As though she were not worth it,when she is the saving of all of us with her angelic sweetness. Withouther, without her gentle word it would be hell among us! She softenseven Varvara. And don’t judge Varvara harshly either, she is an angeltoo, she, too, has suffered wrong. She came to us for the summer, andshe brought sixteen roubles she had earned by lessons and saved up, togo back with to Petersburg in September, that is now. But we took hermoney and lived on it, so now she has nothing to go back with. Thoughindeed she couldn’t go back, for she has to work for us like a slave.She is like an overdriven horse with all of us on her back. She waitson us all, mends and washes, sweeps the floor, puts mamma to bed. Andmamma is capricious and tearful and insane! And now I can get a servantwith this money, you understand, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I can getmedicines for the dear creatures, I can send my student to Petersburg,I can buy beef, I can feed them properly. Good Lord, but it’s a dream!”
Alyosha was delighted that he had brought him such happiness and thatthe poor fellow had consented to be made happy.
“Stay, Alexey Fyodorovitch, stay,” the captain began to talk withfrenzied rapidity, carried away by a new day‐dream. “Do you know thatIlusha and I will perhaps really carry out our dream. We will buy ahorse and cart, a black horse, he insists on its being black, and wewill set off as we pretended the other day. I have an old friend, alawyer in K. province, and I heard through a trustworthy man that if Iwere to go he’d give me a place as clerk in his office, so, who knows,maybe he would. So I’d just put mamma and Nina in the cart, and Ilushacould drive, and I’d walk, I’d walk.... Why, if I only succeed ingetting one debt paid that’s owing me, I should have perhaps enough forthat too!”
“There would be enough!” cried Alyosha. “Katerina Ivanovna will sendyou as much more as you need, and you know, I have money too, take whatyou want, as you would from a brother, from a friend, you can give itback later.... (You’ll get rich, you’ll get rich!) And you know youcouldn’t have a better idea than to move to another province! It wouldbe the saving of you, especially of your boy—and you ought to goquickly, before the winter, before the cold. You must write to us whenyou are there, and we will always be brothers.... No, it’s not adream!”
Alyosha could have hugged him, he was so pleased. But glancing at himhe stopped short. The man was standing with his neck outstretched andhis lips protruding, with a pale and frenzied face. His lips weremoving as though trying to articulate something; no sound came, butstill his lips moved. It was uncanny.
“What is it?” asked Alyosha, startled.
“Alexey Fyodorovitch ... I ... you,” muttered the captain, faltering,looking at him with a strange, wild, fixed stare, and an air ofdesperate resolution. At the same time there was a sort of grin on hislips. “I ... you, sir ... wouldn’t you like me to show you a littletrick I know?” he murmured, suddenly, in a firm rapid whisper, hisvoice no longer faltering.
“What trick?”
“A pretty trick,” whispered the captain. His mouth was twisted on theleft side, his left eye was screwed up. He still stared at Alyosha.
“What is the matter? What trick?” Alyosha cried, now thoroughlyalarmed.
“Why, look,” squealed the captain suddenly, and showing him the twonotes which he had been holding by one corner between his thumb andforefinger during the conversation, he crumpled them up savagely andsqueezed them tight in his right hand. “Do you see, do you see?” heshrieked, pale and infuriated. And suddenly flinging up his hand, hethrew the crumpled notes on the sand. “Do you see?” he shrieked again,pointing to them. “Look there!”
And with wild fury he began trampling them under his heel, gasping andexclaiming as he did so:
“So much for your money! So much for your money! So much for yourmoney! So much for your money!”
Suddenly he darted back and drew himself up before Alyosha, and hiswhole figure expressed unutterable pride.
“Tell those who sent you that the wisp of tow does not sell his honor,”he cried, raising his arm in the air. Then he turned quickly and beganto run; but he had not run five steps before he turned completely roundand kissed his hand to Alyosha. He ran another five paces and thenturned round for the last time. This time his face was not contortedwith laughter, but quivering all over with tears. In a tearful,faltering, sobbing voice he cried:
“What should I say to my boy if I took money from you for our shame?”
And then he ran on without turning. Alyosha looked after him,inexpressibly grieved. Oh, he saw that till the very last moment theman had not known he would crumple up and fling away the notes. He didnot turn back. Alyosha knew he would not. He would not follow him andcall him back, he knew why. When he was out of sight, Alyosha picked upthe two notes. They were very much crushed and crumpled, and had beenpressed into the sand, but were uninjured and even rustled like newones when Alyosha unfolded them and smoothed them out. After smoothingthem out, he folded them up, put them in his pocket and went toKaterina Ivanovna to report on the success of her commission.



Book V. Pro And Contra



Chapter I.The Engagement

Madame Hohlakov was again the first to meet Alyosha. She was flustered;something important had happened. Katerina Ivanovna’s hysterics hadended in a fainting fit, and then “a terrible, awful weakness hadfollowed, she lay with her eyes turned up and was delirious. Now shewas in a fever. They had sent for Herzenstube; they had sent for theaunts. The aunts were already here, but Herzenstube had not yet come.They were all sitting in her room, waiting. She was unconscious now,and what if it turned to brain fever!”
Madame Hohlakov looked gravely alarmed. “This is serious, serious,” sheadded at every word, as though nothing that had happened to her beforehad been serious. Alyosha listened with distress, and was beginning todescribe his adventures, but she interrupted him at the first words.She had not time to listen. She begged him to sit with Lise and waitfor her there.
“Lise,” she whispered almost in his ear, “Lise has greatly surprised mejust now, dear Alexey Fyodorovitch. She touched me, too, and so myheart forgives her everything. Only fancy, as soon as you had gone, shebegan to be truly remorseful for having laughed at you to‐day andyesterday, though she was not laughing at you, but only joking. But shewas seriously sorry for it, almost ready to cry, so that I was quitesurprised. She has never been really sorry for laughing at me, but hasonly made a joke of it. And you know she is laughing at me everyminute. But this time she was in earnest. She thinks a great deal ofyour opinion, Alexey Fyodorovitch, and don’t take offense or be woundedby her if you can help it. I am never hard upon her, for she’s such aclever little thing. Would you believe it? She said just now that youwere a friend of her childhood, ‘the greatest friend of herchildhood’—just think of that—‘greatest friend’—and what about me? Shehas very strong feelings and memories, and, what’s more, she uses thesephrases, most unexpected words, which come out all of a sudden when youleast expect them. She spoke lately about a pine‐tree, for instance:there used to be a pine‐tree standing in our garden in her earlychildhood. Very likely it’s standing there still; so there’s no need tospeak in the past tense. Pine‐trees are not like people, AlexeyFyodorovitch, they don’t change quickly. ‘Mamma,’ she said, ‘I rememberthis pine‐tree as in a dream,’ only she said something so originalabout it that I can’t repeat it. Besides, I’ve forgotten it. Well,good‐by! I am so worried I feel I shall go out of my mind. Ah! AlexeyFyodorovitch, I’ve been out of my mind twice in my life. Go to Lise,cheer her up, as you always can so charmingly. Lise,” she cried, goingto her door, “here I’ve brought you Alexey Fyodorovitch, whom youinsulted so. He is not at all angry, I assure you; on the contrary, heis surprised that you could suppose so.”
“_Merci, maman._ Come in, Alexey Fyodorovitch.”
Alyosha went in. Lise looked rather embarrassed, and at once flushedcrimson. She was evidently ashamed of something, and, as people alwaysdo in such cases, she began immediately talking of other things, asthough they were of absorbing interest to her at the moment.
“Mamma has just told me all about the two hundred roubles, AlexeyFyodorovitch, and your taking them to that poor officer ... and shetold me all the awful story of how he had been insulted ... and youknow, although mamma muddles things ... she always rushes from onething to another ... I cried when I heard. Well, did you give him themoney and how is that poor man getting on?”
“The fact is I didn’t give it to him, and it’s a long story,” answeredAlyosha, as though he, too, could think of nothing but his regret athaving failed, yet Lise saw perfectly well that he, too, looked away,and that he, too, was trying to talk of other things.
Alyosha sat down to the table and began to tell his story, but at thefirst words he lost his embarrassment and gained the whole of Lise’sattention as well. He spoke with deep feeling, under the influence ofthe strong impression he had just received, and he succeeded in tellinghis story well and circumstantially. In old days in Moscow he had beenfond of coming to Lise and describing to her what had just happened tohim, what he had read, or what he remembered of his childhood.Sometimes they had made day‐dreams and woven whole romancestogether—generally cheerful and amusing ones. Now they both feltsuddenly transported to the old days in Moscow, two years before. Lisewas extremely touched by his story. Alyosha described Ilusha with warmfeeling. When he finished describing how the luckless man trampled onthe money, Lise could not help clasping her hands and crying out:
“So you didn’t give him the money! So you let him run away! Oh, dear,you ought to have run after him!”
“No, Lise; it’s better I didn’t run after him,” said Alyosha, gettingup from his chair and walking thoughtfully across the room.
“How so? How is it better? Now they are without food and their case ishopeless?”
“Not hopeless, for the two hundred roubles will still come to them.He’ll take the money to‐morrow. To‐morrow he will be sure to take it,”said Alyosha, pacing up and down, pondering. “You see, Lise,” he wenton, stopping suddenly before her, “I made one blunder, but that, eventhat, is all for the best.”
“What blunder, and why is it for the best?”
“I’ll tell you. He is a man of weak and timorous character; he hassuffered so much and is very good‐natured. I keep wondering why he tookoffense so suddenly, for I assure you, up to the last minute, he didnot know that he was going to trample on the notes. And I think nowthat there was a great deal to offend him ... and it could not havebeen otherwise in his position.... To begin with, he was sore at havingbeen so glad of the money in my presence and not having concealed itfrom me. If he had been pleased, but not so much; if he had not shownit; if he had begun affecting scruples and difficulties, as otherpeople do when they take money, he might still endure to take it. Buthe was too genuinely delighted, and that was mortifying. Ah, Lise, heis a good and truthful man—that’s the worst of the whole business. Allthe while he talked, his voice was so weak, so broken, he talked sofast, so fast, he kept laughing such a laugh, or perhaps he wascrying—yes, I am sure he was crying, he was so delighted—and he talkedabout his daughters—and about the situation he could get in anothertown.... And when he had poured out his heart, he felt ashamed athaving shown me his inmost soul like that. So he began to hate me atonce. He is one of those awfully sensitive poor people. What had madehim feel most ashamed was that he had given in too soon and accepted meas a friend, you see. At first he almost flew at me and tried tointimidate me, but as soon as he saw the money he had begun embracingme; he kept touching me with his hands. This must have been how he cameto feel it all so humiliating, and then I made that blunder, a veryimportant one. I suddenly said to him that if he had not money enoughto move to another town, we would give it to him, and, indeed, I myselfwould give him as much as he wanted out of my own money. That struckhim all at once. Why, he thought, did I put myself forward to help him?You know, Lise, it’s awfully hard for a man who has been injured, whenother people look at him as though they were his benefactors.... I’veheard that; Father Zossima told me so. I don’t know how to put it, butI have often seen it myself. And I feel like that myself, too. And theworst of it was that though he did not know, up to the very lastminute, that he would trample on the notes, he had a kind ofpresentiment of it, I am sure of that. That’s just what made him soecstatic, that he had that presentiment.... And though it’s sodreadful, it’s all for the best. In fact, I believe nothing bettercould have happened.”
“Why, why could nothing better have happened?” cried Lise, looking withgreat surprise at Alyosha.
“Because if he had taken the money, in an hour after getting home, hewould be crying with mortification, that’s just what would havehappened. And most likely he would have come to me early to‐morrow, andperhaps have flung the notes at me and trampled upon them as he didjust now. But now he has gone home awfully proud and triumphant, thoughhe knows he has ‘ruined himself.’ So now nothing could be easier thanto make him accept the two hundred roubles by to‐morrow, for he hasalready vindicated his honor, tossed away the money, and trampled itunder foot.... He couldn’t know when he did it that I should bring itto him again to‐morrow, and yet he is in terrible need of that money.Though he is proud of himself now, yet even to‐day he’ll be thinkingwhat a help he has lost. He will think of it more than ever at night,will dream of it, and by to‐morrow morning he may be ready to run to meto ask forgiveness. It’s just then that I’ll appear. ‘Here, you are aproud man,’ I shall say: ‘you have shown it; but now take the money andforgive us!’ And then he will take it!”
Alyosha was carried away with joy as he uttered his last words, “Andthen he will take it!” Lise clapped her hands.
“Ah, that’s true! I understand that perfectly now. Ah, Alyosha, how doyou know all this? So young and yet he knows what’s in the heart.... Ishould never have worked it out.”
“The great thing now is to persuade him that he is on an equal footingwith us, in spite of his taking money from us,” Alyosha went on in hisexcitement, “and not only on an equal, but even on a higher footing.”
“ ‘On a higher footing’ is charming, Alexey Fyodorovitch; but go on, goon!”
“You mean there isn’t such an expression as ‘on a higher footing’; butthat doesn’t matter because—”
“Oh, no, of course it doesn’t matter. Forgive me, Alyosha, dear.... Youknow, I scarcely respected you till now—that is I respected you but onan equal footing; but now I shall begin to respect you on a higherfooting. Don’t be angry, dear, at my joking,” she put in at once, withstrong feeling. “I am absurd and small, but you, you! Listen, AlexeyFyodorovitch. Isn’t there in all our analysis—I mean your analysis ...no, better call it ours—aren’t we showing contempt for him, for thatpoor man—in analyzing his soul like this, as it were, from above, eh?In deciding so certainly that he will take the money?”
“No, Lise, it’s not contempt,” Alyosha answered, as though he hadprepared himself for the question. “I was thinking of that on the wayhere. How can it be contempt when we are all like him, when we are alljust the same as he is? For you know we are just the same, no better.If we are better, we should have been just the same in his place.... Idon’t know about you, Lise, but I consider that I have a sordid soul inmany ways, and his soul is not sordid; on the contrary, full of finefeeling.... No, Lise, I have no contempt for him. Do you know, Lise, myelder told me once to care for most people exactly as one would forchildren, and for some of them as one would for the sick in hospitals.”
“Ah, Alexey Fyodorovitch, dear, let us care for people as we would forthe sick!”
“Let us, Lise; I am ready. Though I am not altogether ready in myself.I am sometimes very impatient and at other times I don’t see things.It’s different with you.”
“Ah, I don’t believe it! Alexey Fyodorovitch, how happy I am!”
“I am so glad you say so, Lise.”
“Alexey Fyodorovitch, you are wonderfully good, but you are sometimessort of formal.... And yet you are not a bit formal really. Go to thedoor, open it gently, and see whether mamma is listening,” said Lise,in a nervous, hurried whisper.
Alyosha went, opened the door, and reported that no one was listening.
“Come here, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” Lise went on, flushing redder andredder. “Give me your hand—that’s right. I have to make a greatconfession, I didn’t write to you yesterday in joke, but in earnest,”and she hid her eyes with her hand. It was evident that she was greatlyashamed of the confession.
Suddenly she snatched his hand and impulsively kissed it three times.
“Ah, Lise, what a good thing!” cried Alyosha joyfully. “You know, I wasperfectly sure you were in earnest.”
“Sure? Upon my word!” She put aside his hand, but did not leave go ofit, blushing hotly, and laughing a little happy laugh. “I kiss his handand he says, ‘What a good thing!’ ”
But her reproach was undeserved. Alyosha, too, was greatly overcome.
“I should like to please you always, Lise, but I don’t know how to doit,” he muttered, blushing too.
“Alyosha, dear, you are cold and rude. Do you see? He has chosen me ashis wife and is quite settled about it. He is sure I was in earnest.What a thing to say! Why, that’s impertinence—that’s what it is.”
“Why, was it wrong of me to feel sure?” Alyosha asked, laughingsuddenly.
“Ah, Alyosha, on the contrary, it was delightfully right,” cried Lise,looking tenderly and happily at him.
Alyosha stood still, holding her hand in his. Suddenly he stooped downand kissed her on her lips.
“Oh, what are you doing?” cried Lise. Alyosha was terribly abashed.
“Oh, forgive me if I shouldn’t.... Perhaps I’m awfully stupid.... Yousaid I was cold, so I kissed you.... But I see it was stupid.”
Lise laughed, and hid her face in her hands. “And in that dress!” sheejaculated in the midst of her mirth. But she suddenly ceased laughingand became serious, almost stern.
“Alyosha, we must put off kissing. We are not ready for that yet, andwe shall have a long time to wait,” she ended suddenly. “Tell me ratherwhy you who are so clever, so intellectual, so observant, choose alittle idiot, an invalid like me? Ah, Alyosha, I am awfully happy, forI don’t deserve you a bit.”
“You do, Lise. I shall be leaving the monastery altogether in a fewdays. If I go into the world, I must marry. I know that. _He_ told meto marry, too. Whom could I marry better than you—and who would have meexcept you? I have been thinking it over. In the first place, you’veknown me from a child and you’ve a great many qualities I haven’t. Youare more light‐ hearted than I am; above all, you are more innocentthan I am. I have been brought into contact with many, many thingsalready.... Ah, you don’t know, but I, too, am a Karamazov. What doesit matter if you do laugh and make jokes, and at me, too? Go onlaughing. I am so glad you do. You laugh like a little child, but youthink like a martyr.”
“Like a martyr? How?”
“Yes, Lise, your question just now: whether we weren’t showing contemptfor that poor man by dissecting his soul—that was the question of asufferer.... You see, I don’t know how to express it, but any one whothinks of such questions is capable of suffering. Sitting in yourinvalid chair you must have thought over many things already.”
“Alyosha, give me your hand. Why are you taking it away?” murmured Lisein a failing voice, weak with happiness. “Listen, Alyosha. What willyou wear when you come out of the monastery? What sort of suit? Don’tlaugh, don’t be angry, it’s very, very important to me.”
“I haven’t thought about the suit, Lise; but I’ll wear whatever youlike.”
“I should like you to have a dark blue velvet coat, a white piquéwaistcoat, and a soft gray felt hat.... Tell me, did you believe that Ididn’t care for you when I said I didn’t mean what I wrote?”
“No, I didn’t believe it.”
“Oh, you insupportable person, you are incorrigible.”
“You see, I knew that you—seemed to care for me, but I pretended tobelieve that you didn’t care for me to make it—easier for you.”
“That makes it worse! Worse and better than all! Alyosha, I am awfullyfond of you. Just before you came this morning, I tried my fortune. Idecided I would ask you for my letter, and if you brought it out calmlyand gave it to me (as might have been expected from you) it would meanthat you did not love me at all, that you felt nothing, and were simplya stupid boy, good for nothing, and that I am ruined. But you left theletter at home and that cheered me. You left it behind on purpose, soas not to give it back, because you knew I would ask for it? That wasit, wasn’t it?”
“Ah, Lise, it was not so a bit. The letter is with me now, and it wasthis morning, in this pocket. Here it is.”
Alyosha pulled the letter out laughing, and showed it her at adistance.
“But I am not going to give it to you. Look at it from here.”
“Why, then you told a lie? You, a monk, told a lie!”
“I told a lie if you like,” Alyosha laughed, too. “I told a lie so asnot to give you back the letter. It’s very precious to me,” he addedsuddenly, with strong feeling, and again he flushed. “It always willbe, and I won’t give it up to any one!”
Lise looked at him joyfully. “Alyosha,” she murmured again, “look atthe door. Isn’t mamma listening?”
“Very well, Lise, I’ll look; but wouldn’t it be better not to look? Whysuspect your mother of such meanness?”
“What meanness? As for her spying on her daughter, it’s her right, it’snot meanness!” cried Lise, firing up. “You may be sure, AlexeyFyodorovitch, that when I am a mother, if I have a daughter like myselfI shall certainly spy on her!”
“Really, Lise? That’s not right.”
“Oh, my goodness! What has meanness to do with it? If she werelistening to some ordinary worldly conversation, it would be meanness,but when her own daughter is shut up with a young man.... Listen,Alyosha, do you know I shall spy upon you as soon as we are married,and let me tell you I shall open all your letters and read them, so youmay as well be prepared.”
“Yes, of course, if so—” muttered Alyosha, “only it’s not right.”
“Ah, how contemptuous! Alyosha, dear, we won’t quarrel the very firstday. I’d better tell you the whole truth. Of course, it’s very wrong tospy on people, and, of course, I am not right and you are, only I shallspy on you all the same.”
“Do, then; you won’t find out anything,” laughed Alyosha.
“And, Alyosha, will you give in to me? We must decide that too.”
“I shall be delighted to, Lise, and certain to, only not in the mostimportant things. Even if you don’t agree with me, I shall do my dutyin the most important things.”
“That’s right; but let me tell you I am ready to give in to you notonly in the most important matters, but in everything. And I am readyto vow to do so now—in everything, and for all my life!” cried Lisefervently, “and I’ll do it gladly, gladly! What’s more, I’ll swearnever to spy on you, never once, never to read one of your letters. Foryou are right and I am not. And though I shall be awfully tempted tospy, I know that I won’t do it since you consider it dishonorable. Youare my conscience now.... Listen, Alexey Fyodorovitch, why have youbeen so sad lately—both yesterday and to‐day? I know you have a lot ofanxiety and trouble, but I see you have some special grief besides,some secret one, perhaps?”
“Yes, Lise, I have a secret one, too,” answered Alyosha mournfully. “Isee you love me, since you guessed that.”
“What grief? What about? Can you tell me?” asked Lise with timidentreaty.
“I’ll tell you later, Lise—afterwards,” said Alyosha, confused. “Nowyou wouldn’t understand it perhaps—and perhaps I couldn’t explain it.”
“I know your brothers and your father are worrying you, too.”
“Yes, my brothers too,” murmured Alyosha, pondering.
“I don’t like your brother Ivan, Alyosha,” said Lise suddenly.
He noticed this remark with some surprise, but did not answer it.
“My brothers are destroying themselves,” he went on, “my father, too.And they are destroying others with them. It’s ‘the primitive force ofthe Karamazovs,’ as Father Païssy said the other day, a crude,unbridled, earthly force. Does the spirit of God move above that force?Even that I don’t know. I only know that I, too, am a Karamazov.... Mea monk, a monk! Am I a monk, Lise? You said just now that I was.”
“Yes, I did.”
“And perhaps I don’t even believe in God.”
“You don’t believe? What is the matter?” said Lise quietly and gently.But Alyosha did not answer. There was something too mysterious, toosubjective in these last words of his, perhaps obscure to himself, butyet torturing him.
“And now on the top of it all, my friend, the best man in the world, isgoing, is leaving the earth! If you knew, Lise, how bound up in soul Iam with him! And then I shall be left alone.... I shall come to you,Lise.... For the future we will be together.”
“Yes, together, together! Henceforward we shall be always together, allour lives! Listen, kiss me, I allow you.”
Alyosha kissed her.
“Come, now go. Christ be with you!” and she made the sign of the crossover him. “Make haste back to _him_ while he is alive. I see I’ve keptyou cruelly. I’ll pray to‐day for him and you. Alyosha, we shall behappy! Shall we be happy, shall we?”
“I believe we shall, Lise.”
Alyosha thought it better not to go in to Madame Hohlakov and was goingout of the house without saying good‐by to her. But no sooner had heopened the door than he found Madame Hohlakov standing before him. Fromthe first word Alyosha guessed that she had been waiting on purpose tomeet him.
“Alexey Fyodorovitch, this is awful. This is all childish nonsense andridiculous. I trust you won’t dream—It’s foolishness, nothing butfoolishness!” she said, attacking him at once.
“Only don’t tell her that,” said Alyosha, “or she will be upset, andthat’s bad for her now.”
“Sensible advice from a sensible young man. Am I to understand that youonly agreed with her from compassion for her invalid state, because youdidn’t want to irritate her by contradiction?”
“Oh, no, not at all. I was quite serious in what I said,” Alyoshadeclared stoutly.
“To be serious about it is impossible, unthinkable, and in the firstplace I shall never be at home to you again, and I shall take her away,you may be sure of that.”
“But why?” asked Alyosha. “It’s all so far off. We may have to waitanother year and a half.”
“Ah, Alexey Fyodorovitch, that’s true, of course, and you’ll have timeto quarrel and separate a thousand times in a year and a half. But I amso unhappy! Though it’s such nonsense, it’s a great blow to me. I feellike Famusov in the last scene of _Sorrow from Wit_. You are Tchatskyand she is Sofya, and, only fancy, I’ve run down to meet you on thestairs, and in the play the fatal scene takes place on the staircase. Iheard it all; I almost dropped. So this is the explanation of herdreadful night and her hysterics of late! It means love to the daughterbut death to the mother. I might as well be in my grave at once. And amore serious matter still, what is this letter she has written? Show itme at once, at once!”
“No, there’s no need. Tell me, how is Katerina Ivanovna now? I mustknow.”
“She still lies in delirium; she has not regained consciousness. Heraunts are here; but they do nothing but sigh and give themselves airs.Herzenstube came, and he was so alarmed that I didn’t know what to dofor him. I nearly sent for a doctor to look after him. He was drivenhome in my carriage. And on the top of it all, you and this letter!It’s true nothing can happen for a year and a half. In the name of allthat’s holy, in the name of your dying elder, show me that letter,Alexey Fyodorovitch. I’m her mother. Hold it in your hand, if you like,and I will read it so.”
“No, I won’t show it to you. Even if she sanctioned it, I wouldn’t. Iam coming to‐morrow, and if you like, we can talk over many things, butnow good‐by!”
And Alyosha ran downstairs and into the street.



Chapter II.Smerdyakov With A Guitar

He had no time to lose indeed. Even while he was saying good‐by toLise, the thought had struck him that he must attempt some stratagem tofind his brother Dmitri, who was evidently keeping out of his way. Itwas getting late, nearly three o’clock. Alyosha’s whole soul turned tothe monastery, to his dying saint, but the necessity of seeing Dmitrioutweighed everything. The conviction that a great inevitablecatastrophe was about to happen grew stronger in Alyosha’s mind withevery hour. What that catastrophe was, and what he would say at thatmoment to his brother, he could perhaps not have said definitely. “Evenif my benefactor must die without me, anyway I won’t have to reproachmyself all my life with the thought that I might have saved somethingand did not, but passed by and hastened home. If I do as I intend, Ishall be following his great precept.”
His plan was to catch his brother Dmitri unawares, to climb over thefence, as he had the day before, get into the garden and sit in thesummer‐house. If Dmitri were not there, thought Alyosha, he would notannounce himself to Foma or the women of the house, but would remainhidden in the summer‐house, even if he had to wait there till evening.If, as before, Dmitri were lying in wait for Grushenka to come, hewould be very likely to come to the summer‐house. Alyosha did not,however, give much thought to the details of his plan, but resolved toact upon it, even if it meant not getting back to the monastery thatday.
Everything happened without hindrance, he climbed over the hurdlealmost in the same spot as the day before, and stole into thesummer‐house unseen. He did not want to be noticed. The woman of thehouse and Foma too, if he were here, might be loyal to his brother andobey his instructions, and so refuse to let Alyosha come into thegarden, or might warn Dmitri that he was being sought and inquired for.
There was no one in the summer‐house. Alyosha sat down and began towait. He looked round the summer‐house, which somehow struck him as agreat deal more ancient than before. Though the day was just as fine asyesterday, it seemed a wretched little place this time. There was acircle on the table, left no doubt from the glass of brandy having beenspilt the day before. Foolish and irrelevant ideas strayed about hismind, as they always do in a time of tedious waiting. He wondered, forinstance, why he had sat down precisely in the same place as before,why not in the other seat. At last he felt very depressed—depressed bysuspense and uncertainty. But he had not sat there more than a quarterof an hour, when he suddenly heard the thrum of a guitar somewherequite close. People were sitting, or had only just sat down, somewherein the bushes not more than twenty paces away. Alyosha suddenlyrecollected that on coming out of the summer‐house the day before, hehad caught a glimpse of an old green low garden‐seat among the busheson the left, by the fence. The people must be sitting on it now. Whowere they?
A man’s voice suddenly began singing in a sugary falsetto, accompanyinghimself on the guitar:
With invincible forceI am bound to my dear.O Lord, have mercyOn her and on me!On her and on me!On her and on me!

The voice ceased. It was a lackey’s tenor and a lackey’s song. Anothervoice, a woman’s, suddenly asked insinuatingly and bashfully, thoughwith mincing affectation:
“Why haven’t you been to see us for so long, Pavel Fyodorovitch? Why doyou always look down upon us?”
“Not at all,” answered a man’s voice politely, but with emphaticdignity. It was clear that the man had the best of the position, andthat the woman was making advances. “I believe the man must beSmerdyakov,” thought Alyosha, “from his voice. And the lady must be thedaughter of the house here, who has come from Moscow, the one who wearsthe dress with a tail and goes to Marfa for soup.”
“I am awfully fond of verses of all kinds, if they rhyme,” the woman’svoice continued. “Why don’t you go on?”
The man sang again:
What do I care for royal wealthIf but my dear one be in health?Lord have mercyOn her and on me!On her and on me!On her and on me!

“It was even better last time,” observed the woman’s voice. “You sang‘If my darling be in health’; it sounded more tender. I suppose you’veforgotten to‐day.”
“Poetry is rubbish!” said Smerdyakov curtly.
“Oh, no! I am very fond of poetry.”
“So far as it’s poetry, it’s essential rubbish. Consider yourself, whoever talks in rhyme? And if we were all to talk in rhyme, even thoughit were decreed by government, we shouldn’t say much, should we? Poetryis no good, Marya Kondratyevna.”
“How clever you are! How is it you’ve gone so deep into everything?”The woman’s voice was more and more insinuating.
“I could have done better than that. I could have known more than that,if it had not been for my destiny from my childhood up. I would haveshot a man in a duel if he called me names because I am descended froma filthy beggar and have no father. And they used to throw it in myteeth in Moscow. It had reached them from here, thanks to GrigoryVassilyevitch. Grigory Vassilyevitch blames me for rebelling against mybirth, but I would have sanctioned their killing me before I was bornthat I might not have come into the world at all. They used to say inthe market, and your mamma too, with great lack of delicacy, set offtelling me that her hair was like a mat on her head, and that she wasshort of five foot by a wee bit. Why talk of a wee bit while she mighthave said ‘a little bit,’ like every one else? She wanted to make ittouching, a regular peasant’s feeling. Can a Russian peasant be said tofeel, in comparison with an educated man? He can’t be said to havefeeling at all, in his ignorance. From my childhood up when I hear ‘awee bit,’ I am ready to burst with rage. I hate all Russia, MaryaKondratyevna.”
“If you’d been a cadet in the army, or a young hussar, you wouldn’thave talked like that, but would have drawn your saber to defend allRussia.”
“I don’t want to be a hussar, Marya Kondratyevna, and, what’s more, Ishould like to abolish all soldiers.”
“And when an enemy comes, who is going to defend us?”
“There’s no need of defense. In 1812 there was a great invasion ofRussia by Napoleon, first Emperor of the French, father of the presentone, and it would have been a good thing if they had conquered us. Aclever nation would have conquered a very stupid one and annexed it. Weshould have had quite different institutions.”
“Are they so much better in their own country than we are? I wouldn’tchange a dandy I know of for three young Englishmen,” observed MaryaKondratyevna tenderly, doubtless accompanying her words with a mostlanguishing glance.
“That’s as one prefers.”
“But you are just like a foreigner—just like a most gentlemanlyforeigner. I tell you that, though it makes me bashful.”
“If you care to know, the folks there and ours here are just alike intheir vice. They are swindlers, only there the scoundrel wears polishedboots and here he grovels in filth and sees no harm in it. The Russianpeople want thrashing, as Fyodor Pavlovitch said very truly yesterday,though he is mad, and all his children.”
“You said yourself you had such a respect for Ivan Fyodorovitch.”
“But he said I was a stinking lackey. He thinks that I might be unruly.He is mistaken there. If I had a certain sum in my pocket, I would haveleft here long ago. Dmitri Fyodorovitch is lower than any lackey in hisbehavior, in his mind, and in his poverty. He doesn’t know how to doanything, and yet he is respected by every one. I may be only a soup‐maker, but with luck I could open a café restaurant in Petrovka, inMoscow, for my cookery is something special, and there’s no one inMoscow, except the foreigners, whose cookery is anything special.Dmitri Fyodorovitch is a beggar, but if he were to challenge the son ofthe first count in the country, he’d fight him. Though in what way ishe better than I am? For he is ever so much stupider than I am. Look atthe money he has wasted without any need!”
“It must be lovely, a duel,” Marya Kondratyevna observed suddenly.
“How so?”
“It must be so dreadful and so brave, especially when young officerswith pistols in their hands pop at one another for the sake of somelady. A perfect picture! Ah, if only girls were allowed to look on, I’dgive anything to see one!”
“It’s all very well when you are firing at some one, but when he isfiring straight in your mug, you must feel pretty silly. You’d be gladto run away, Marya Kondratyevna.”
“You don’t mean you would run away?” But Smerdyakov did not deign toreply. After a moment’s silence the guitar tinkled again, and he sangagain in the same falsetto:
Whatever you may say,I shall go far away.Life will be bright and gayIn the city far away.I shall not grieve,I shall not grieve at all,I don’t intend to grieve at all.

Then something unexpected happened. Alyosha suddenly sneezed. They weresilent. Alyosha got up and walked towards them. He found Smerdyakovdressed up and wearing polished boots, his hair pomaded, and perhapscurled. The guitar lay on the garden‐seat. His companion was thedaughter of the house, wearing a light‐blue dress with a train twoyards long. She was young and would not have been bad‐looking, but thather face was so round and terribly freckled.
“Will my brother Dmitri soon be back?” asked Alyosha with as muchcomposure as he could.
Smerdyakov got up slowly; Marya Kondratyevna rose too.
“How am I to know about Dmitri Fyodorovitch? It’s not as if I were hiskeeper,” answered Smerdyakov quietly, distinctly, and superciliously.
“But I simply asked whether you do know?” Alyosha explained.
“I know nothing of his whereabouts and don’t want to.”
“But my brother told me that you let him know all that goes on in thehouse, and promised to let him know when Agrafena Alexandrovna comes.”
Smerdyakov turned a deliberate, unmoved glance upon him.
“And how did you get in this time, since the gate was bolted an hourago?” he asked, looking at Alyosha.
“I came in from the back‐alley, over the fence, and went straight tothe summer‐house. I hope you’ll forgive me,” he added, addressing MaryaKondratyevna. “I was in a hurry to find my brother.”
“Ach, as though we could take it amiss in you!” drawled MaryaKondratyevna, flattered by Alyosha’s apology. “For Dmitri Fyodorovitchoften goes to the summer‐house in that way. We don’t know he is hereand he is sitting in the summer‐house.”
“I am very anxious to find him, or to learn from you where he is now.Believe me, it’s on business of great importance to him.”
“He never tells us,” lisped Marya Kondratyevna.
“Though I used to come here as a friend,” Smerdyakov began again,“Dmitri Fyodorovitch has pestered me in a merciless way even here byhis incessant questions about the master. ‘What news?’ he’ll ask.‘What’s going on in there now? Who’s coming and going?’ and can’t Itell him something more. Twice already he’s threatened me with death.”
“With death?” Alyosha exclaimed in surprise.
“Do you suppose he’d think much of that, with his temper, which you hada chance of observing yourself yesterday? He says if I let AgrafenaAlexandrovna in and she passes the night there, I’ll be the first tosuffer for it. I am terribly afraid of him, and if I were not even moreafraid of doing so, I ought to let the police know. God only knows whathe might not do!”
“His honor said to him the other day, ‘I’ll pound you in a mortar!’ ”added Marya Kondratyevna.
“Oh, if it’s pounding in a mortar, it may be only talk,” observedAlyosha. “If I could meet him, I might speak to him about that too.”
“Well, the only thing I can tell you is this,” said Smerdyakov, asthough thinking better of it; “I am here as an old friend and neighbor,and it would be odd if I didn’t come. On the other hand, IvanFyodorovitch sent me first thing this morning to your brother’s lodgingin Lake Street, without a letter, but with a message to DmitriFyodorovitch to go to dine with him at the restaurant here, in themarket‐place. I went, but didn’t find Dmitri Fyodorovitch at home,though it was eight o’clock. ‘He’s been here, but he is quite gone,’those were the very words of his landlady. It’s as though there was anunderstanding between them. Perhaps at this moment he is in therestaurant with Ivan Fyodorovitch, for Ivan Fyodorovitch has not beenhome to dinner and Fyodor Pavlovitch dined alone an hour ago, and isgone to lie down. But I beg you most particularly not to speak of meand of what I have told you, for he’d kill me for nothing at all.”
“Brother Ivan invited Dmitri to the restaurant to‐day?” repeatedAlyosha quickly.
“That’s so.”
“The Metropolis tavern in the market‐place?”
“The very same.”
“That’s quite likely,” cried Alyosha, much excited. “Thank you,Smerdyakov; that’s important. I’ll go there at once.”
“Don’t betray me,” Smerdyakov called after him.
“Oh, no, I’ll go to the tavern as though by chance. Don’t be anxious.”
“But wait a minute, I’ll open the gate to you,” cried MaryaKondratyevna.
“No; it’s a short cut, I’ll get over the fence again.”
What he had heard threw Alyosha into great agitation. He ran to thetavern. It was impossible for him to go into the tavern in his monasticdress, but he could inquire at the entrance for his brothers and callthem down. But just as he reached the tavern, a window was flung open,and his brother Ivan called down to him from it.
“Alyosha, can’t you come up here to me? I shall be awfully grateful.”
“To be sure I can, only I don’t quite know whether in this dress—”
“But I am in a room apart. Come up the steps; I’ll run down to meetyou.”
A minute later Alyosha was sitting beside his brother. Ivan was alonedining.



Chapter III.The Brothers Make Friends

Ivan was not, however, in a separate room, but only in a place shut offby a screen, so that it was unseen by other people in the room. It wasthe first room from the entrance with a buffet along the wall. Waiterswere continually darting to and fro in it. The only customer in theroom was an old retired military man drinking tea in a corner. Butthere was the usual bustle going on in the other rooms of the tavern;there were shouts for the waiters, the sound of popping corks, theclick of billiard balls, the drone of the organ. Alyosha knew that Ivandid not usually visit this tavern and disliked taverns in general. Sohe must have come here, he reflected, simply to meet Dmitri byarrangement. Yet Dmitri was not there.
“Shall I order you fish, soup or anything. You don’t live on tea alone,I suppose,” cried Ivan, apparently delighted at having got hold ofAlyosha. He had finished dinner and was drinking tea.
“Let me have soup, and tea afterwards, I am hungry,” said Alyoshagayly.
“And cherry jam? They have it here. You remember how you used to lovecherry jam when you were little?”
“You remember that? Let me have jam too, I like it still.”
Ivan rang for the waiter and ordered soup, jam and tea.
“I remember everything, Alyosha, I remember you till you were eleven, Iwas nearly fifteen. There’s such a difference between fifteen andeleven that brothers are never companions at those ages. I don’t knowwhether I was fond of you even. When I went away to Moscow for thefirst few years I never thought of you at all. Then, when you came toMoscow yourself, we only met once somewhere, I believe. And now I’vebeen here more than three months, and so far we have scarcely said aword to each other. To‐morrow I am going away, and I was just thinkingas I sat here how I could see you to say good‐by and just then youpassed.”
“Were you very anxious to see me, then?”
“Very. I want to get to know you once for all, and I want you to knowme. And then to say good‐by. I believe it’s always best to get to knowpeople just before leaving them. I’ve noticed how you’ve been lookingat me these three months. There has been a continual look ofexpectation in your eyes, and I can’t endure that. That’s how it isI’ve kept away from you. But in the end I have learned to respect you.The little man stands firm, I thought. Though I am laughing, I amserious. You do stand firm, don’t you? I like people who are firm likethat whatever it is they stand by, even if they are such little fellowsas you. Your expectant eyes ceased to annoy me, I grew fond of them inthe end, those expectant eyes. You seem to love me for some reason,Alyosha?”
“I do love you, Ivan. Dmitri says of you—Ivan is a tomb! I say of you,Ivan is a riddle. You are a riddle to me even now. But I understandsomething in you, and I did not understand it till this morning.”
“What’s that?” laughed Ivan.
“You won’t be angry?” Alyosha laughed too.
“Well?”
“That you are just as young as other young men of three and twenty,that you are just a young and fresh and nice boy, green in fact! Now,have I insulted you dreadfully?”
“On the contrary, I am struck by a coincidence,” cried Ivan, warmly andgood‐humoredly. “Would you believe it that ever since that scene withher, I have thought of nothing else but my youthful greenness, and justas though you guessed that, you begin about it. Do you know I’ve beensitting here thinking to myself: that if I didn’t believe in life, if Ilost faith in the woman I love, lost faith in the order of things, wereconvinced in fact that everything is a disorderly, damnable, andperhaps devil‐ridden chaos, if I were struck by every horror of man’sdisillusionment—still I should want to live and, having once tasted ofthe cup, I would not turn away from it till I had drained it! Atthirty, though, I shall be sure to leave the cup, even if I’ve notemptied it, and turn away—where I don’t know. But till I am thirty, Iknow that my youth will triumph over everything—every disillusionment,every disgust with life. I’ve asked myself many times whether there isin the world any despair that would overcome this frantic and perhapsunseemly thirst for life in me, and I’ve come to the conclusion thatthere isn’t, that is till I am thirty, and then I shall lose it ofmyself, I fancy. Some driveling consumptive moralists—and poetsespecially—often call that thirst for life base. It’s a feature of theKaramazovs, it’s true, that thirst for life regardless of everything;you have it no doubt too, but why is it base? The centripetal force onour planet is still fearfully strong, Alyosha. I have a longing forlife, and I go on living in spite of logic. Though I may not believe inthe order of the universe, yet I love the sticky little leaves as theyopen in spring. I love the blue sky, I love some people, whom one lovesyou know sometimes without knowing why. I love some great deeds done bymen, though I’ve long ceased perhaps to have faith in them, yet fromold habit one’s heart prizes them. Here they have brought the soup foryou, eat it, it will do you good. It’s first‐rate soup, they know howto make it here. I want to travel in Europe, Alyosha, I shall set offfrom here. And yet I know that I am only going to a graveyard, but it’sa most precious graveyard, that’s what it is! Precious are the deadthat lie there, every stone over them speaks of such burning life inthe past, of such passionate faith in their work, their truth, theirstruggle and their science, that I know I shall fall on the ground andkiss those stones and weep over them; though I’m convinced in my heartthat it’s long been nothing but a graveyard. And I shall not weep fromdespair, but simply because I shall be happy in my tears, I shall steepmy soul in my emotion. I love the sticky leaves in spring, the bluesky—that’s all it is. It’s not a matter of intellect or logic, it’sloving with one’s inside, with one’s stomach. One loves the firststrength of one’s youth. Do you understand anything of my tirade,Alyosha?” Ivan laughed suddenly.
“I understand too well, Ivan. One longs to love with one’s inside, withone’s stomach. You said that so well and I am awfully glad that youhave such a longing for life,” cried Alyosha. “I think every one shouldlove life above everything in the world.”
“Love life more than the meaning of it?”
“Certainly, love it, regardless of logic as you say, it must beregardless of logic, and it’s only then one will understand the meaningof it. I have thought so a long time. Half your work is done, Ivan, youlove life, now you’ve only to try to do the second half and you aresaved.”
“You are trying to save me, but perhaps I am not lost! And what doesyour second half mean?”
“Why, one has to raise up your dead, who perhaps have not died afterall. Come, let me have tea. I am so glad of our talk, Ivan.”
“I see you are feeling inspired. I am awfully fond of such _professionsde foi_ from such—novices. You are a steadfast person, Alexey. Is ittrue that you mean to leave the monastery?”
“Yes, my elder sends me out into the world.”
“We shall see each other then in the world. We shall meet before I amthirty, when I shall begin to turn aside from the cup. Father doesn’twant to turn aside from his cup till he is seventy, he dreams ofhanging on to eighty in fact, so he says. He means it only tooseriously, though he is a buffoon. He stands on a firm rock, too, hestands on his sensuality—though after we are thirty, indeed, there maybe nothing else to stand on.... But to hang on to seventy is nasty,better only to thirty; one might retain ‘a shadow of nobility’ bydeceiving oneself. Have you seen Dmitri to‐day?”
“No, but I saw Smerdyakov,” and Alyosha rapidly, though minutely,described his meeting with Smerdyakov. Ivan began listening anxiouslyand questioned him.
“But he begged me not to tell Dmitri that he had told me about him,”added Alyosha. Ivan frowned and pondered.
“Are you frowning on Smerdyakov’s account?” asked Alyosha.
“Yes, on his account. Damn him, I certainly did want to see Dmitri, butnow there’s no need,” said Ivan reluctantly.
“But are you really going so soon, brother?”
“Yes.”
“What of Dmitri and father? how will it end?” asked Alyosha anxiously.
“You are always harping upon it! What have I to do with it? Am I mybrother Dmitri’s keeper?” Ivan snapped irritably, but then he suddenlysmiled bitterly. “Cain’s answer about his murdered brother, wasn’t it?Perhaps that’s what you’re thinking at this moment? Well, damn it all,I can’t stay here to be their keeper, can I? I’ve finished what I hadto do, and I am going. Do you imagine I am jealous of Dmitri, that I’vebeen trying to steal his beautiful Katerina Ivanovna for the last threemonths? Nonsense, I had business of my own. I finished it. I am going.I finished it just now, you were witness.”
“At Katerina Ivanovna’s?”
“Yes, and I’ve released myself once for all. And after all, what have Ito do with Dmitri? Dmitri doesn’t come in. I had my own business tosettle with Katerina Ivanovna. You know, on the contrary, that Dmitribehaved as though there was an understanding between us. I didn’t askhim to do it, but he solemnly handed her over to me and gave us hisblessing. It’s all too funny. Ah, Alyosha, if you only knew how lightmy heart is now! Would you believe, it, I sat here eating my dinner andwas nearly ordering champagne to celebrate my first hour of freedom.Tfoo! It’s been going on nearly six months, and all at once I’ve thrownit off. I could never have guessed even yesterday, how easy it would beto put an end to it if I wanted.”
“You are speaking of your love, Ivan?”
“Of my love, if you like. I fell in love with the young lady, I worriedmyself over her and she worried me. I sat watching over her ... and allat once it’s collapsed! I spoke this morning with inspiration, but Iwent away and roared with laughter. Would you believe it? Yes, it’s theliteral truth.”
“You seem very merry about it now,” observed Alyosha, looking into hisface, which had suddenly grown brighter.
“But how could I tell that I didn’t care for her a bit! Ha ha! Itappears after all I didn’t. And yet how she attracted me! Howattractive she was just now when I made my speech! And do you know sheattracts me awfully even now, yet how easy it is to leave her. Do youthink I am boasting?”
“No, only perhaps it wasn’t love.”
“Alyosha,” laughed Ivan, “don’t make reflections about love, it’sunseemly for you. How you rushed into the discussion this morning! I’veforgotten to kiss you for it.... But how she tormented me! It certainlywas sitting by a ‘laceration.’ Ah, she knew how I loved her! She lovedme and not Dmitri,” Ivan insisted gayly. “Her feeling for Dmitri wassimply a self‐ laceration. All I told her just now was perfectly true,but the worst of it is, it may take her fifteen or twenty years to findout that she doesn’t care for Dmitri, and loves me whom she torments,and perhaps she may never find it out at all, in spite of her lessonto‐day. Well, it’s better so; I can simply go away for good. By theway, how is she now? What happened after I departed?”
Alyosha told him she had been hysterical, and that she was now, heheard, unconscious and delirious.
“Isn’t Madame Hohlakov laying it on?”
“I think not.”
“I must find out. Nobody dies of hysterics, though. They don’t matter.God gave woman hysterics as a relief. I won’t go to her at all. Whypush myself forward again?”
“But you told her that she had never cared for you.”
“I did that on purpose. Alyosha, shall I call for some champagne? Letus drink to my freedom. Ah, if only you knew how glad I am!”
“No, brother, we had better not drink,” said Alyosha suddenly. “BesidesI feel somehow depressed.”
“Yes, you’ve been depressed a long time, I’ve noticed it.”
“Have you settled to go to‐morrow morning, then?”
“Morning? I didn’t say I should go in the morning.... But perhaps itmay be the morning. Would you believe it, I dined here to‐day only toavoid dining with the old man, I loathe him so. I should have left longago, so far as he is concerned. But why are you so worried about mygoing away? We’ve plenty of time before I go, an eternity!”
“If you are going away to‐morrow, what do you mean by an eternity?”
“But what does it matter to us?” laughed Ivan. “We’ve time enough forour talk, for what brought us here. Why do you look so surprised?Answer: why have we met here? To talk of my love for Katerina Ivanovna,of the old man and Dmitri? of foreign travel? of the fatal position ofRussia? Of the Emperor Napoleon? Is that it?”
“No.”
“Then you know what for. It’s different for other people; but we in ourgreen youth have to settle the eternal questions first of all. That’swhat we care about. Young Russia is talking about nothing but theeternal questions now. Just when the old folks are all taken up withpractical questions. Why have you been looking at me in expectation forthe last three months? To ask me, ‘What do you believe, or don’t youbelieve at all?’ That’s what your eyes have been meaning for thesethree months, haven’t they?”
“Perhaps so,” smiled Alyosha. “You are not laughing at me, now, Ivan?”
“Me laughing! I don’t want to wound my little brother who has beenwatching me with such expectation for three months. Alyosha, lookstraight at me! Of course I am just such a little boy as you are, onlynot a novice. And what have Russian boys been doing up till now, someof them, I mean? In this stinking tavern, for instance, here, they meetand sit down in a corner. They’ve never met in their lives before and,when they go out of the tavern, they won’t meet again for forty years.And what do they talk about in that momentary halt in the tavern? Ofthe eternal questions, of the existence of God and immortality. Andthose who do not believe in God talk of socialism or anarchism, of thetransformation of all humanity on a new pattern, so that it all comesto the same, they’re the same questions turned inside out. And masses,masses of the most original Russian boys do nothing but talk of theeternal questions! Isn’t it so?”
“Yes, for real Russians the questions of God’s existence and ofimmortality, or, as you say, the same questions turned inside out, comefirst and foremost, of course, and so they should,” said Alyosha, stillwatching his brother with the same gentle and inquiring smile.
“Well, Alyosha, it’s sometimes very unwise to be a Russian at all, butanything stupider than the way Russian boys spend their time one canhardly imagine. But there’s one Russian boy called Alyosha I am awfullyfond of.”
“How nicely you put that in!” Alyosha laughed suddenly.
“Well, tell me where to begin, give your orders. The existence of God,eh?”
“Begin where you like. You declared yesterday at father’s that therewas no God.” Alyosha looked searchingly at his brother.
“I said that yesterday at dinner on purpose to tease you and I saw youreyes glow. But now I’ve no objection to discussing with you, and I sayso very seriously. I want to be friends with you, Alyosha, for I haveno friends and want to try it. Well, only fancy, perhaps I too acceptGod,” laughed Ivan; “that’s a surprise for you, isn’t it?”
“Yes, of course, if you are not joking now.”
“Joking? I was told at the elder’s yesterday that I was joking. Youknow, dear boy, there was an old sinner in the eighteenth century whodeclared that, if there were no God, he would have to be invented._S’il n’existait pas Dieu, il faudrait l’inventer._ And man hasactually invented God. And what’s strange, what would be marvelous, isnot that God should really exist; the marvel is that such an idea, theidea of the necessity of God, could enter the head of such a savage,vicious beast as man. So holy it is, so touching, so wise and so greata credit it does to man. As for me, I’ve long resolved not to thinkwhether man created God or God man. And I won’t go through all theaxioms laid down by Russian boys on that subject, all derived fromEuropean hypotheses; for what’s a hypothesis there, is an axiom withthe Russian boy, and not only with the boys but with their teacherstoo, for our Russian professors are often just the same boysthemselves. And so I omit all the hypotheses. For what are we aiming atnow? I am trying to explain as quickly as possible my essential nature,that is what manner of man I am, what I believe in, and for what Ihope, that’s it, isn’t it? And therefore I tell you that I accept Godsimply. But you must note this: if God exists and if He really didcreate the world, then, as we all know, He created it according to thegeometry of Euclid and the human mind with the conception of only threedimensions in space. Yet there have been and still are geometriciansand philosophers, and even some of the most distinguished, who doubtwhether the whole universe, or to speak more widely the whole of being,was only created in Euclid’s geometry; they even dare to dream that twoparallel lines, which according to Euclid can never meet on earth, maymeet somewhere in infinity. I have come to the conclusion that, since Ican’t understand even that, I can’t expect to understand about God. Iacknowledge humbly that I have no faculty for settling such questions,I have a Euclidian earthly mind, and how could I solve problems thatare not of this world? And I advise you never to think about it either,my dear Alyosha, especially about God, whether He exists or not. Allsuch questions are utterly inappropriate for a mind created with anidea of only three dimensions. And so I accept God and am glad to, andwhat’s more, I accept His wisdom, His purpose—which are utterly beyondour ken; I believe in the underlying order and the meaning of life; Ibelieve in the eternal harmony in which they say we shall one day beblended. I believe in the Word to Which the universe is striving, andWhich Itself was ‘with God,’ and Which Itself is God and so on, and soon, to infinity. There are all sorts of phrases for it. I seem to be onthe right path, don’t I? Yet would you believe it, in the final resultI don’t accept this world of God’s, and, although I know it exists, Idon’t accept it at all. It’s not that I don’t accept God, you mustunderstand, it’s the world created by Him I don’t and cannot accept.Let me make it plain. I believe like a child that suffering will behealed and made up for, that all the humiliating absurdity of humancontradictions will vanish like a pitiful mirage, like the despicablefabrication of the impotent and infinitely small Euclidian mind of man,that in the world’s finale, at the moment of eternal harmony, somethingso precious will come to pass that it will suffice for all hearts, forthe comforting of all resentments, for the atonement of all the crimesof humanity, of all the blood they’ve shed; that it will make it notonly possible to forgive but to justify all that has happened withmen—but though all that may come to pass, I don’t accept it. I won’taccept it. Even if parallel lines do meet and I see it myself, I shallsee it and say that they’ve met, but still I won’t accept it. That’swhat’s at the root of me, Alyosha; that’s my creed. I am in earnest inwhat I say. I began our talk as stupidly as I could on purpose, butI’ve led up to my confession, for that’s all you want. You didn’t wantto hear about God, but only to know what the brother you love lives by.And so I’ve told you.”
Ivan concluded his long tirade with marked and unexpected feeling.
“And why did you begin ‘as stupidly as you could’?” asked Alyosha,looking dreamily at him.
“To begin with, for the sake of being Russian. Russian conversations onsuch subjects are always carried on inconceivably stupidly. Andsecondly, the stupider one is, the closer one is to reality. Thestupider one is, the clearer one is. Stupidity is brief and artless,while intelligence wriggles and hides itself. Intelligence is a knave,but stupidity is honest and straightforward. I’ve led the conversationto my despair, and the more stupidly I have presented it, the betterfor me.”
“You will explain why you don’t accept the world?” said Alyosha.
“To be sure I will, it’s not a secret, that’s what I’ve been leading upto. Dear little brother, I don’t want to corrupt you or to turn youfrom your stronghold, perhaps I want to be healed by you.” Ivan smiledsuddenly quite like a little gentle child. Alyosha had never seen sucha smile on his face before.



Chapter IV.Rebellion

“I must make you one confession,” Ivan began. “I could never understandhow one can love one’s neighbors. It’s just one’s neighbors, to mymind, that one can’t love, though one might love those at a distance. Ionce read somewhere of John the Merciful, a saint, that when a hungry,frozen beggar came to him, he took him into his bed, held him in hisarms, and began breathing into his mouth, which was putrid andloathsome from some awful disease. I am convinced that he did that from‘self‐laceration,’ from the self‐laceration of falsity, for the sake ofthe charity imposed by duty, as a penance laid on him. For any one tolove a man, he must be hidden, for as soon as he shows his face, loveis gone.”
“Father Zossima has talked of that more than once,” observed Alyosha;“he, too, said that the face of a man often hinders many people notpracticed in love, from loving him. But yet there’s a great deal oflove in mankind, and almost Christ‐like love. I know that myself,Ivan.”
“Well, I know nothing of it so far, and can’t understand it, and theinnumerable mass of mankind are with me there. The question is, whetherthat’s due to men’s bad qualities or whether it’s inherent in theirnature. To my thinking, Christ‐like love for men is a miracleimpossible on earth. He was God. But we are not gods. Suppose I, forinstance, suffer intensely. Another can never know how much I suffer,because he is another and not I. And what’s more, a man is rarely readyto admit another’s suffering (as though it were a distinction). Whywon’t he admit it, do you think? Because I smell unpleasant, because Ihave a stupid face, because I once trod on his foot. Besides, there issuffering and suffering; degrading, humiliating suffering such ashumbles me—hunger, for instance—my benefactor will perhaps allow me;but when you come to higher suffering—for an idea, for instance—he willvery rarely admit that, perhaps because my face strikes him as not atall what he fancies a man should have who suffers for an idea. And sohe deprives me instantly of his favor, and not at all from badness ofheart. Beggars, especially genteel beggars, ought never to showthemselves, but to ask for charity through the newspapers. One can loveone’s neighbors in the abstract, or even at a distance, but at closequarters it’s almost impossible. If it were as on the stage, in theballet, where if beggars come in, they wear silken rags and tatteredlace and beg for alms dancing gracefully, then one might like lookingat them. But even then we should not love them. But enough of that. Isimply wanted to show you my point of view. I meant to speak of thesuffering of mankind generally, but we had better confine ourselves tothe sufferings of the children. That reduces the scope of my argumentto a tenth of what it would be. Still we’d better keep to the children,though it does weaken my case. But, in the first place, children can beloved even at close quarters, even when they are dirty, even when theyare ugly (I fancy, though, children never are ugly). The second reasonwhy I won’t speak of grown‐up people is that, besides being disgustingand unworthy of love, they have a compensation—they’ve eaten the appleand know good and evil, and they have become ‘like gods.’ They go oneating it still. But the children haven’t eaten anything, and are sofar innocent. Are you fond of children, Alyosha? I know you are, andyou will understand why I prefer to speak of them. If they, too, sufferhorribly on earth, they must suffer for their fathers’ sins, they mustbe punished for their fathers, who have eaten the apple; but thatreasoning is of the other world and is incomprehensible for the heartof man here on earth. The innocent must not suffer for another’s sins,and especially such innocents! You may be surprised at me, Alyosha, butI am awfully fond of children, too. And observe, cruel people, theviolent, the rapacious, the Karamazovs are sometimes very fond ofchildren. Children while they are quite little—up to seven, forinstance—are so remote from grown‐up people; they are differentcreatures, as it were, of a different species. I knew a criminal inprison who had, in the course of his career as a burglar, murderedwhole families, including several children. But when he was in prison,he had a strange affection for them. He spent all his time at hiswindow, watching the children playing in the prison yard. He trainedone little boy to come up to his window and made great friends withhim.... You don’t know why I am telling you all this, Alyosha? My headaches and I am sad.”
“You speak with a strange air,” observed Alyosha uneasily, “as thoughyou were not quite yourself.”
“By the way, a Bulgarian I met lately in Moscow,” Ivan went on, seemingnot to hear his brother’s words, “told me about the crimes committed byTurks and Circassians in all parts of Bulgaria through fear of ageneral rising of the Slavs. They burn villages, murder, outrage womenand children, they nail their prisoners by the ears to the fences,leave them so till morning, and in the morning they hang them—all sortsof things you can’t imagine. People talk sometimes of bestial cruelty,but that’s a great injustice and insult to the beasts; a beast cannever be so cruel as a man, so artistically cruel. The tiger only tearsand gnaws, that’s all he can do. He would never think of nailing peopleby the ears, even if he were able to do it. These Turks took a pleasurein torturing children, too; cutting the unborn child from the mother’swomb, and tossing babies up in the air and catching them on the pointsof their bayonets before their mothers’ eyes. Doing it before themothers’ eyes was what gave zest to the amusement. Here is anotherscene that I thought very interesting. Imagine a trembling mother withher baby in her arms, a circle of invading Turks around her. They’veplanned a diversion: they pet the baby, laugh to make it laugh. Theysucceed, the baby laughs. At that moment a Turk points a pistol fourinches from the baby’s face. The baby laughs with glee, holds out itslittle hands to the pistol, and he pulls the trigger in the baby’s faceand blows out its brains. Artistic, wasn’t it? By the way, Turks areparticularly fond of sweet things, they say.”
“Brother, what are you driving at?” asked Alyosha.
“I think if the devil doesn’t exist, but man has created him, he hascreated him in his own image and likeness.”
“Just as he did God, then?” observed Alyosha.
“ ‘It’s wonderful how you can turn words,’ as Polonius says in_Hamlet_,” laughed Ivan. “You turn my words against me. Well, I amglad. Yours must be a fine God, if man created Him in his image andlikeness. You asked just now what I was driving at. You see, I am fondof collecting certain facts, and, would you believe, I even copyanecdotes of a certain sort from newspapers and books, and I’ve alreadygot a fine collection. The Turks, of course, have gone into it, butthey are foreigners. I have specimens from home that are even betterthan the Turks. You know we prefer beating—rods and scourges—that’s ournational institution. Nailing ears is unthinkable for us, for we are,after all, Europeans. But the rod and the scourge we have always withus and they cannot be taken from us. Abroad now they scarcely do anybeating. Manners are more humane, or laws have been passed, so thatthey don’t dare to flog men now. But they make up for it in another wayjust as national as ours. And so national that it would be practicallyimpossible among us, though I believe we are being inoculated with it,since the religious movement began in our aristocracy. I have acharming pamphlet, translated from the French, describing how, quiterecently, five years ago, a murderer, Richard, was executed—a youngman, I believe, of three and twenty, who repented and was converted tothe Christian faith at the very scaffold. This Richard was anillegitimate child who was given as a child of six by his parents tosome shepherds on the Swiss mountains. They brought him up to work forthem. He grew up like a little wild beast among them. The shepherdstaught him nothing, and scarcely fed or clothed him, but sent him outat seven to herd the flock in cold and wet, and no one hesitated orscrupled to treat him so. Quite the contrary, they thought they hadevery right, for Richard had been given to them as a chattel, and theydid not even see the necessity of feeding him. Richard himselfdescribes how in those years, like the Prodigal Son in the Gospel, helonged to eat of the mash given to the pigs, which were fattened forsale. But they wouldn’t even give him that, and beat him when he stolefrom the pigs. And that was how he spent all his childhood and hisyouth, till he grew up and was strong enough to go away and be a thief.The savage began to earn his living as a day laborer in Geneva. Hedrank what he earned, he lived like a brute, and finished by killingand robbing an old man. He was caught, tried, and condemned to death.They are not sentimentalists there. And in prison he was immediatelysurrounded by pastors, members of Christian brotherhoods, philanthropicladies, and the like. They taught him to read and write in prison, andexpounded the Gospel to him. They exhorted him, worked upon him,drummed at him incessantly, till at last he solemnly confessed hiscrime. He was converted. He wrote to the court himself that he was amonster, but that in the end God had vouchsafed him light and showngrace. All Geneva was in excitement about him—all philanthropic andreligious Geneva. All the aristocratic and well‐bred society of thetown rushed to the prison, kissed Richard and embraced him; ‘You areour brother, you have found grace.’ And Richard does nothing but weepwith emotion, ‘Yes, I’ve found grace! All my youth and childhood I wasglad of pigs’ food, but now even I have found grace. I am dying in theLord.’ ‘Yes, Richard, die in the Lord; you have shed blood and mustdie. Though it’s not your fault that you knew not the Lord, when youcoveted the pigs’ food and were beaten for stealing it (which was verywrong of you, for stealing is forbidden); but you’ve shed blood and youmust die.’ And on the last day, Richard, perfectly limp, did nothingbut cry and repeat every minute: ‘This is my happiest day. I am goingto the Lord.’ ‘Yes,’ cry the pastors and the judges and philanthropicladies. ‘This is the happiest day of your life, for you are going tothe Lord!’ They all walk or drive to the scaffold in procession behindthe prison van. At the scaffold they call to Richard: ‘Die, brother,die in the Lord, for even thou hast found grace!’ And so, covered withhis brothers’ kisses, Richard is dragged on to the scaffold, and led tothe guillotine. And they chopped off his head in brotherly fashion,because he had found grace. Yes, that’s characteristic. That pamphletis translated into Russian by some Russian philanthropists ofaristocratic rank and evangelical aspirations, and has been distributedgratis for the enlightenment of the people. The case of Richard isinteresting because it’s national. Though to us it’s absurd to cut offa man’s head, because he has become our brother and has found grace,yet we have our own speciality, which is all but worse. Our historicalpastime is the direct satisfaction of inflicting pain. There are linesin Nekrassov describing how a peasant lashes a horse on the eyes, ‘onits meek eyes,’ every one must have seen it. It’s peculiarly Russian.He describes how a feeble little nag has foundered under too heavy aload and cannot move. The peasant beats it, beats it savagely, beats itat last not knowing what he is doing in the intoxication of cruelty,thrashes it mercilessly over and over again. ‘However weak you are, youmust pull, if you die for it.’ The nag strains, and then he beginslashing the poor defenseless creature on its weeping, on its ‘meekeyes.’ The frantic beast tugs and draws the load, trembling all over,gasping for breath, moving sideways, with a sort of unnatural spasmodicaction—it’s awful in Nekrassov. But that’s only a horse, and God hasgiven horses to be beaten. So the Tatars have taught us, and they leftus the knout as a remembrance of it. But men, too, can be beaten. Awell‐educated, cultured gentleman and his wife beat their own childwith a birch‐rod, a girl of seven. I have an exact account of it. Thepapa was glad that the birch was covered with twigs. ‘It stings more,’said he, and so he began stinging his daughter. I know for a fact thereare people who at every blow are worked up to sensuality, to literalsensuality, which increases progressively at every blow they inflict.They beat for a minute, for five minutes, for ten minutes, more oftenand more savagely. The child screams. At last the child cannot scream,it gasps, ‘Daddy! daddy!’ By some diabolical unseemly chance the casewas brought into court. A counsel is engaged. The Russian people havelong called a barrister ‘a conscience for hire.’ The counsel protestsin his client’s defense. ‘It’s such a simple thing,’ he says, ‘aneveryday domestic event. A father corrects his child. To our shame beit said, it is brought into court.’ The jury, convinced by him, give afavorable verdict. The public roars with delight that the torturer isacquitted. Ah, pity I wasn’t there! I would have proposed to raise asubscription in his honor! Charming pictures.
“But I’ve still better things about children. I’ve collected a great,great deal about Russian children, Alyosha. There was a little girl offive who was hated by her father and mother, ‘most worthy andrespectable people, of good education and breeding.’ You see, I mustrepeat again, it is a peculiar characteristic of many people, this loveof torturing children, and children only. To all other types ofhumanity these torturers behave mildly and benevolently, likecultivated and humane Europeans; but they are very fond of tormentingchildren, even fond of children themselves in that sense. It’s justtheir defenselessness that tempts the tormentor, just the angelicconfidence of the child who has no refuge and no appeal, that sets hisvile blood on fire. In every man, of course, a demon lies hidden—thedemon of rage, the demon of lustful heat at the screams of the torturedvictim, the demon of lawlessness let off the chain, the demon ofdiseases that follow on vice, gout, kidney disease, and so on.
“This poor child of five was subjected to every possible torture bythose cultivated parents. They beat her, thrashed her, kicked her forno reason till her body was one bruise. Then, they went to greaterrefinements of cruelty—shut her up all night in the cold and frost in aprivy, and because she didn’t ask to be taken up at night (as though achild of five sleeping its angelic, sound sleep could be trained towake and ask), they smeared her face and filled her mouth withexcrement, and it was her mother, her mother did this. And that mothercould sleep, hearing the poor child’s groans! Can you understand why alittle creature, who can’t even understand what’s done to her, shouldbeat her little aching heart with her tiny fist in the dark and thecold, and weep her meek unresentful tears to dear, kind God to protecther? Do you understand that, friend and brother, you pious and humblenovice? Do you understand why this infamy must be and is permitted?Without it, I am told, man could not have existed on earth, for hecould not have known good and evil. Why should he know that diabolicalgood and evil when it costs so much? Why, the whole world of knowledgeis not worth that child’s prayer to ‘dear, kind God’! I say nothing ofthe sufferings of grown‐up people, they have eaten the apple, damnthem, and the devil take them all! But these little ones! I am makingyou suffer, Alyosha, you are not yourself. I’ll leave off if you like.”
“Never mind. I want to suffer too,” muttered Alyosha.
“One picture, only one more, because it’s so curious, socharacteristic, and I have only just read it in some collection ofRussian antiquities. I’ve forgotten the name. I must look it up. It wasin the darkest days of serfdom at the beginning of the century, andlong live the Liberator of the People! There was in those days ageneral of aristocratic connections, the owner of great estates, one ofthose men—somewhat exceptional, I believe, even then—who, retiring fromthe service into a life of leisure, are convinced that they’ve earnedabsolute power over the lives of their subjects. There were such menthen. So our general, settled on his property of two thousand souls,lives in pomp, and domineers over his poor neighbors as though theywere dependents and buffoons. He has kennels of hundreds of hounds andnearly a hundred dog‐boys—all mounted, and in uniform. One day aserf‐boy, a little child of eight, threw a stone in play and hurt thepaw of the general’s favorite hound. ‘Why is my favorite dog lame?’ Heis told that the boy threw a stone that hurt the dog’s paw. ‘So you didit.’ The general looked the child up and down. ‘Take him.’ He wastaken—taken from his mother and kept shut up all night. Early thatmorning the general comes out on horseback, with the hounds, hisdependents, dog‐boys, and huntsmen, all mounted around him in fullhunting parade. The servants are summoned for their edification, and infront of them all stands the mother of the child. The child is broughtfrom the lock‐up. It’s a gloomy, cold, foggy autumn day, a capital dayfor hunting. The general orders the child to be undressed; the child isstripped naked. He shivers, numb with terror, not daring to cry....‘Make him run,’ commands the general. ‘Run! run!’ shout the dog‐boys.The boy runs.... ‘At him!’ yells the general, and he sets the wholepack of hounds on the child. The hounds catch him, and tear him topieces before his mother’s eyes!... I believe the general wasafterwards declared incapable of administering his estates. Well—whatdid he deserve? To be shot? To be shot for the satisfaction of ourmoral feelings? Speak, Alyosha!”
“To be shot,” murmured Alyosha, lifting his eyes to Ivan with a pale,twisted smile.
“Bravo!” cried Ivan, delighted. “If even you say so.... You’re a prettymonk! So there is a little devil sitting in your heart, AlyoshaKaramazov!”
“What I said was absurd, but—”
“That’s just the point, that ‘but’!” cried Ivan. “Let me tell you,novice, that the absurd is only too necessary on earth. The worldstands on absurdities, and perhaps nothing would have come to pass init without them. We know what we know!”
“What do you know?”
“I understand nothing,” Ivan went on, as though in delirium. “I don’twant to understand anything now. I want to stick to the fact. I made upmy mind long ago not to understand. If I try to understand anything, Ishall be false to the fact, and I have determined to stick to thefact.”
“Why are you trying me?” Alyosha cried, with sudden distress. “Will yousay what you mean at last?”
“Of course, I will; that’s what I’ve been leading up to. You are dearto me, I don’t want to let you go, and I won’t give you up to yourZossima.”
Ivan for a minute was silent, his face became all at once very sad.
“Listen! I took the case of children only to make my case clearer. Ofthe other tears of humanity with which the earth is soaked from itscrust to its center, I will say nothing. I have narrowed my subject onpurpose. I am a bug, and I recognize in all humility that I cannotunderstand why the world is arranged as it is. Men are themselves toblame, I suppose; they were given paradise, they wanted freedom, andstole fire from heaven, though they knew they would become unhappy, sothere is no need to pity them. With my pitiful, earthly, Euclidianunderstanding, all I know is that there is suffering and that there arenone guilty; that cause follows effect, simply and directly; thateverything flows and finds its level—but that’s only Euclidiannonsense, I know that, and I can’t consent to live by it! What comfortis it to me that there are none guilty and that cause follows effectsimply and directly, and that I know it?—I must have justice, or I willdestroy myself. And not justice in some remote infinite time and space,but here on earth, and that I could see myself. I have believed in it.I want to see it, and if I am dead by then, let me rise again, for ifit all happens without me, it will be too unfair. Surely I haven’tsuffered, simply that I, my crimes and my sufferings, may manure thesoil of the future harmony for somebody else. I want to see with my owneyes the hind lie down with the lion and the victim rise up and embracehis murderer. I want to be there when every one suddenly understandswhat it has all been for. All the religions of the world are built onthis longing, and I am a believer. But then there are the children, andwhat am I to do about them? That’s a question I can’t answer. For thehundredth time I repeat, there are numbers of questions, but I’ve onlytaken the children, because in their case what I mean is sounanswerably clear. Listen! If all must suffer to pay for the eternalharmony, what have children to do with it, tell me, please? It’s beyondall comprehension why they should suffer, and why they should pay forthe harmony. Why should they, too, furnish material to enrich the soilfor the harmony of the future? I understand solidarity in sin amongmen. I understand solidarity in retribution, too; but there can be nosuch solidarity with children. And if it is really true that they mustshare responsibility for all their fathers’ crimes, such a truth is notof this world and is beyond my comprehension. Some jester will say,perhaps, that the child would have grown up and have sinned, but yousee he didn’t grow up, he was torn to pieces by the dogs, at eightyears old. Oh, Alyosha, I am not blaspheming! I understand, of course,what an upheaval of the universe it will be, when everything in heavenand earth blends in one hymn of praise and everything that lives andhas lived cries aloud: ‘Thou art just, O Lord, for Thy ways arerevealed.’ When the mother embraces the fiend who threw her child tothe dogs, and all three cry aloud with tears, ‘Thou art just, O Lord!’then, of course, the crown of knowledge will be reached and all will bemade clear. But what pulls me up here is that I can’t accept thatharmony. And while I am on earth, I make haste to take my own measures.You see, Alyosha, perhaps it really may happen that if I live to thatmoment, or rise again to see it, I, too, perhaps, may cry aloud withthe rest, looking at the mother embracing the child’s torturer, ‘Thouart just, O Lord!’ but I don’t want to cry aloud then. While there isstill time, I hasten to protect myself, and so I renounce the higherharmony altogether. It’s not worth the tears of that one tortured childwho beat itself on the breast with its little fist and prayed in itsstinking outhouse, with its unexpiated tears to ‘dear, kind God’! It’snot worth it, because those tears are unatoned for. They must be atonedfor, or there can be no harmony. But how? How are you going to atonefor them? Is it possible? By their being avenged? But what do I carefor avenging them? What do I care for a hell for oppressors? What goodcan hell do, since those children have already been tortured? And whatbecomes of harmony, if there is hell? I want to forgive. I want toembrace. I don’t want more suffering. And if the sufferings of childrengo to swell the sum of sufferings which was necessary to pay for truth,then I protest that the truth is not worth such a price. I don’t wantthe mother to embrace the oppressor who threw her son to the dogs! Shedare not forgive him! Let her forgive him for herself, if she will, lether forgive the torturer for the immeasurable suffering of her mother’sheart. But the sufferings of her tortured child she has no right toforgive; she dare not forgive the torturer, even if the child were toforgive him! And if that is so, if they dare not forgive, what becomesof harmony? Is there in the whole world a being who would have theright to forgive and could forgive? I don’t want harmony. From love forhumanity I don’t want it. I would rather be left with the unavengedsuffering. I would rather remain with my unavenged suffering andunsatisfied indignation, _even if I were wrong_. Besides, too high aprice is asked for harmony; it’s beyond our means to pay so much toenter on it. And so I hasten to give back my entrance ticket, and if Iam an honest man I am bound to give it back as soon as possible. Andthat I am doing. It’s not God that I don’t accept, Alyosha, only I mostrespectfully return Him the ticket.”
“That’s rebellion,” murmured Alyosha, looking down.
“Rebellion? I am sorry you call it that,” said Ivan earnestly. “One canhardly live in rebellion, and I want to live. Tell me yourself, Ichallenge you—answer. Imagine that you are creating a fabric of humandestiny with the object of making men happy in the end, giving thempeace and rest at last, but that it was essential and inevitable totorture to death only one tiny creature—that baby beating its breastwith its fist, for instance—and to found that edifice on its unavengedtears, would you consent to be the architect on those conditions? Tellme, and tell the truth.”
“No, I wouldn’t consent,” said Alyosha softly.
“And can you admit the idea that men for whom you are building it wouldagree to accept their happiness on the foundation of the unexpiatedblood of a little victim? And accepting it would remain happy forever?”
“No, I can’t admit it. Brother,” said Alyosha suddenly, with flashingeyes, “you said just now, is there a being in the whole world who wouldhave the right to forgive and could forgive? But there is a Being andHe can forgive everything, all and for all, because He gave Hisinnocent blood for all and everything. You have forgotten Him, and onHim is built the edifice, and it is to Him they cry aloud, ‘Thou artjust, O Lord, for Thy ways are revealed!’ ”
“Ah! the One without sin and His blood! No, I have not forgotten Him;on the contrary I’ve been wondering all the time how it was you did notbring Him in before, for usually all arguments on your side put Him inthe foreground. Do you know, Alyosha—don’t laugh! I made a poem about ayear ago. If you can waste another ten minutes on me, I’ll tell it toyou.”
“You wrote a poem?”
“Oh, no, I didn’t write it,” laughed Ivan, “and I’ve never written twolines of poetry in my life. But I made up this poem in prose and Iremembered it. I was carried away when I made it up. You will be myfirst reader—that is listener. Why should an author forego even onelistener?” smiled Ivan. “Shall I tell it to you?”
“I am all attention,” said Alyosha.
“My poem is called ‘The Grand Inquisitor’; it’s a ridiculous thing, butI want to tell it to you.”



Chapter V.The Grand Inquisitor

“Even this must have a preface—that is, a literary preface,” laughedIvan, “and I am a poor hand at making one. You see, my action takesplace in the sixteenth century, and at that time, as you probablylearnt at school, it was customary in poetry to bring down heavenlypowers on earth. Not to speak of Dante, in France, clerks, as well asthe monks in the monasteries, used to give regular performances inwhich the Madonna, the saints, the angels, Christ, and God himself werebrought on the stage. In those days it was done in all simplicity. InVictor Hugo’s _Notre Dame de Paris_ an edifying and gratuitousspectacle was provided for the people in the Hôtel de Ville of Paris inthe reign of Louis XI. in honor of the birth of the dauphin. It wascalled _Le bon jugement de la très sainte et gracieuse Vierge Marie_,and she appears herself on the stage and pronounces her _bon jugement_.Similar plays, chiefly from the Old Testament, were occasionallyperformed in Moscow too, up to the times of Peter the Great. Butbesides plays there were all sorts of legends and ballads scatteredabout the world, in which the saints and angels and all the powers ofHeaven took part when required. In our monasteries the monks busiedthemselves in translating, copying, and even composing such poems—andeven under the Tatars. There is, for instance, one such poem (ofcourse, from the Greek), _The Wanderings of Our Lady through Hell_,with descriptions as bold as Dante’s. Our Lady visits hell, and theArchangel Michael leads her through the torments. She sees the sinnersand their punishment. There she sees among others one noteworthy set ofsinners in a burning lake; some of them sink to the bottom of the lakeso that they can’t swim out, and ‘these God forgets’—an expression ofextraordinary depth and force. And so Our Lady, shocked and weeping,falls before the throne of God and begs for mercy for all in hell—forall she has seen there, indiscriminately. Her conversation with God isimmensely interesting. She beseeches Him, she will not desist, and whenGod points to the hands and feet of her Son, nailed to the Cross, andasks, ‘How can I forgive His tormentors?’ she bids all the saints, allthe martyrs, all the angels and archangels to fall down with her andpray for mercy on all without distinction. It ends by her winning fromGod a respite of suffering every year from Good Friday till TrinityDay, and the sinners at once raise a cry of thankfulness from hell,chanting, ‘Thou art just, O Lord, in this judgment.’ Well, my poemwould have been of that kind if it had appeared at that time. He comeson the scene in my poem, but He says nothing, only appears and passeson. Fifteen centuries have passed since He promised to come in Hisglory, fifteen centuries since His prophet wrote, ‘Behold, I comequickly’; ‘Of that day and that hour knoweth no man, neither the Son,but the Father,’ as He Himself predicted on earth. But humanity awaitshim with the same faith and with the same love. Oh, with greater faith,for it is fifteen centuries since man has ceased to see signs fromheaven.
No signs from heaven come to‐dayTo add to what the heart doth say.

There was nothing left but faith in what the heart doth say. It is truethere were many miracles in those days. There were saints who performedmiraculous cures; some holy people, according to their biographies,were visited by the Queen of Heaven herself. But the devil did notslumber, and doubts were already arising among men of the truth ofthese miracles. And just then there appeared in the north of Germany aterrible new heresy. “A huge star like to a torch” (that is, to achurch) “fell on the sources of the waters and they became bitter.”These heretics began blasphemously denying miracles. But those whoremained faithful were all the more ardent in their faith. The tears ofhumanity rose up to Him as before, awaited His coming, loved Him, hopedfor Him, yearned to suffer and die for Him as before. And so many agesmankind had prayed with faith and fervor, “O Lord our God, hasten Thycoming,” so many ages called upon Him, that in His infinite mercy Hedeigned to come down to His servants. Before that day He had come down,He had visited some holy men, martyrs and hermits, as is written intheir lives. Among us, Tyutchev, with absolute faith in the truth ofhis words, bore witness that
Bearing the Cross, in slavish dress,Weary and worn, the Heavenly KingOur mother, Russia, came to bless,And through our land went wandering.

And that certainly was so, I assure you.
“And behold, He deigned to appear for a moment to the people, to thetortured, suffering people, sunk in iniquity, but loving Him likechildren. My story is laid in Spain, in Seville, in the most terribletime of the Inquisition, when fires were lighted every day to the gloryof God, and ‘in the splendid _auto da fé_ the wicked heretics wereburnt.’ Oh, of course, this was not the coming in which He will appearaccording to His promise at the end of time in all His heavenly glory,and which will be sudden ‘as lightning flashing from east to west.’ No,He visited His children only for a moment, and there where the flameswere crackling round the heretics. In His infinite mercy He came oncemore among men in that human shape in which He walked among men forthree years fifteen centuries ago. He came down to the ‘hot pavements’of the southern town in which on the day before almost a hundredheretics had, _ad majorem gloriam Dei_, been burnt by the cardinal, theGrand Inquisitor, in a magnificent _auto da fé_, in the presence of theking, the court, the knights, the cardinals, the most charming ladiesof the court, and the whole population of Seville.
“He came softly, unobserved, and yet, strange to say, every onerecognized Him. That might be one of the best passages in the poem. Imean, why they recognized Him. The people are irresistibly drawn toHim, they surround Him, they flock about Him, follow Him. He movessilently in their midst with a gentle smile of infinite compassion. Thesun of love burns in His heart, light and power shine from His eyes,and their radiance, shed on the people, stirs their hearts withresponsive love. He holds out His hands to them, blesses them, and ahealing virtue comes from contact with Him, even with His garments. Anold man in the crowd, blind from childhood, cries out, ‘O Lord, heal meand I shall see Thee!’ and, as it were, scales fall from his eyes andthe blind man sees Him. The crowd weeps and kisses the earth under Hisfeet. Children throw flowers before Him, sing, and cry hosannah. ‘It isHe—it is He!’ all repeat. ‘It must be He, it can be no one but Him!’ Hestops at the steps of the Seville cathedral at the moment when theweeping mourners are bringing in a little open white coffin. In it liesa child of seven, the only daughter of a prominent citizen. The deadchild lies hidden in flowers. ‘He will raise your child,’ the crowdshouts to the weeping mother. The priest, coming to meet the coffin,looks perplexed, and frowns, but the mother of the dead child throwsherself at His feet with a wail. ‘If it is Thou, raise my child!’ shecries, holding out her hands to Him. The procession halts, the coffinis laid on the steps at His feet. He looks with compassion, and Hislips once more softly pronounce, ‘Maiden, arise!’ and the maidenarises. The little girl sits up in the coffin and looks round, smilingwith wide‐ open wondering eyes, holding a bunch of white roses they hadput in her hand.
“There are cries, sobs, confusion among the people, and at that momentthe cardinal himself, the Grand Inquisitor, passes by the cathedral. Heis an old man, almost ninety, tall and erect, with a withered face andsunken eyes, in which there is still a gleam of light. He is notdressed in his gorgeous cardinal’s robes, as he was the day before,when he was burning the enemies of the Roman Church—at this moment heis wearing his coarse, old, monk’s cassock. At a distance behind himcome his gloomy assistants and slaves and the ‘holy guard.’ He stops atthe sight of the crowd and watches it from a distance. He seeseverything; he sees them set the coffin down at His feet, sees thechild rise up, and his face darkens. He knits his thick gray brows andhis eyes gleam with a sinister fire. He holds out his finger and bidsthe guards take Him. And such is his power, so completely are thepeople cowed into submission and trembling obedience to him, that thecrowd immediately makes way for the guards, and in the midst ofdeathlike silence they lay hands on Him and lead Him away. The crowdinstantly bows down to the earth, like one man, before the oldInquisitor. He blesses the people in silence and passes on. The guardslead their prisoner to the close, gloomy vaulted prison in the ancientpalace of the Holy Inquisition and shut Him in it. The day passes andis followed by the dark, burning, ‘breathless’ night of Seville. Theair is ‘fragrant with laurel and lemon.’ In the pitch darkness the irondoor of the prison is suddenly opened and the Grand Inquisitor himselfcomes in with a light in his hand. He is alone; the door is closed atonce behind him. He stands in the doorway and for a minute or two gazesinto His face. At last he goes up slowly, sets the light on the tableand speaks.
“ ‘Is it Thou? Thou?’ but receiving no answer, he adds at once, ‘Don’tanswer, be silent. What canst Thou say, indeed? I know too well whatThou wouldst say. And Thou hast no right to add anything to what Thouhadst said of old. Why, then, art Thou come to hinder us? For Thou hastcome to hinder us, and Thou knowest that. But dost Thou know what willbe to‐ morrow? I know not who Thou art and care not to know whether itis Thou or only a semblance of Him, but to‐morrow I shall condemn Theeand burn Thee at the stake as the worst of heretics. And the verypeople who have to‐day kissed Thy feet, to‐morrow at the faintest signfrom me will rush to heap up the embers of Thy fire. Knowest Thou that?Yes, maybe Thou knowest it,’ he added with thoughtful penetration,never for a moment taking his eyes off the Prisoner.”
“I don’t quite understand, Ivan. What does it mean?” Alyosha, who hadbeen listening in silence, said with a smile. “Is it simply a wildfantasy, or a mistake on the part of the old man—some impossible_quiproquo_?”
“Take it as the last,” said Ivan, laughing, “if you are so corrupted bymodern realism and can’t stand anything fantastic. If you like it to bea case of mistaken identity, let it be so. It is true,” he went on,laughing, “the old man was ninety, and he might well be crazy over hisset idea. He might have been struck by the appearance of the Prisoner.It might, in fact, be simply his ravings, the delusion of an old man ofninety, over‐excited by the _auto da fé_ of a hundred heretics the daybefore. But does it matter to us after all whether it was a mistake ofidentity or a wild fantasy? All that matters is that the old man shouldspeak out, should speak openly of what he has thought in silence forninety years.”
“And the Prisoner too is silent? Does He look at him and not say aword?”
“That’s inevitable in any case,” Ivan laughed again. “The old man hastold Him He hasn’t the right to add anything to what He has said ofold. One may say it is the most fundamental feature of RomanCatholicism, in my opinion at least. ‘All has been given by Thee to thePope,’ they say, ‘and all, therefore, is still in the Pope’s hands, andthere is no need for Thee to come now at all. Thou must not meddle forthe time, at least.’ That’s how they speak and write too—the Jesuits,at any rate. I have read it myself in the works of their theologians.‘Hast Thou the right to reveal to us one of the mysteries of that worldfrom which Thou hast come?’ my old man asks Him, and answers thequestion for Him. ‘No, Thou hast not; that Thou mayest not add to whathas been said of old, and mayest not take from men the freedom whichThou didst exalt when Thou wast on earth. Whatsoever Thou revealestanew will encroach on men’s freedom of faith; for it will be manifestas a miracle, and the freedom of their faith was dearer to Thee thananything in those days fifteen hundred years ago. Didst Thou not oftensay then, “I will make you free”? But now Thou hast seen these “free”men,’ the old man adds suddenly, with a pensive smile. ‘Yes, we’ve paiddearly for it,’ he goes on, looking sternly at Him, ‘but at last wehave completed that work in Thy name. For fifteen centuries we havebeen wrestling with Thy freedom, but now it is ended and over for good.Dost Thou not believe that it’s over for good? Thou lookest meekly atme and deignest not even to be wroth with me. But let me tell Thee thatnow, to‐day, people are more persuaded than ever that they have perfectfreedom, yet they have brought their freedom to us and laid it humblyat our feet. But that has been our doing. Was this what Thou didst? Wasthis Thy freedom?’ ”
“I don’t understand again,” Alyosha broke in. “Is he ironical, is hejesting?”
“Not a bit of it! He claims it as a merit for himself and his Churchthat at last they have vanquished freedom and have done so to make menhappy. ‘For now’ (he is speaking of the Inquisition, of course) ‘forthe first time it has become possible to think of the happiness of men.Man was created a rebel; and how can rebels be happy? Thou wastwarned,’ he says to Him. ‘Thou hast had no lack of admonitions andwarnings, but Thou didst not listen to those warnings; Thou didstreject the only way by which men might be made happy. But, fortunately,departing Thou didst hand on the work to us. Thou hast promised, Thouhast established by Thy word, Thou hast given to us the right to bindand to unbind, and now, of course, Thou canst not think of taking itaway. Why, then, hast Thou come to hinder us?’ ”
“And what’s the meaning of ‘no lack of admonitions and warnings’?”asked Alyosha.
“Why, that’s the chief part of what the old man must say.
“ ‘The wise and dread spirit, the spirit of self‐destruction and non‐existence,’ the old man goes on, ‘the great spirit talked with Thee inthe wilderness, and we are told in the books that he “tempted” Thee. Isthat so? And could anything truer be said than what he revealed to Theein three questions and what Thou didst reject, and what in the books iscalled “the temptation”? And yet if there has ever been on earth a realstupendous miracle, it took place on that day, on the day of the threetemptations. The statement of those three questions was itself themiracle. If it were possible to imagine simply for the sake of argumentthat those three questions of the dread spirit had perished utterlyfrom the books, and that we had to restore them and to invent themanew, and to do so had gathered together all the wise men of theearth—rulers, chief priests, learned men, philosophers, poets—and hadset them the task to invent three questions, such as would not only fitthe occasion, but express in three words, three human phrases, thewhole future history of the world and of humanity—dost Thou believethat all the wisdom of the earth united could have invented anything indepth and force equal to the three questions which were actually put toThee then by the wise and mighty spirit in the wilderness? From thosequestions alone, from the miracle of their statement, we can see thatwe have here to do not with the fleeting human intelligence, but withthe absolute and eternal. For in those three questions the wholesubsequent history of mankind is, as it were, brought together into onewhole, and foretold, and in them are united all the unsolved historicalcontradictions of human nature. At the time it could not be so clear,since the future was unknown; but now that fifteen hundred years havepassed, we see that everything in those three questions was so justlydivined and foretold, and has been so truly fulfilled, that nothing canbe added to them or taken from them.
“ ‘Judge Thyself who was right—Thou or he who questioned Thee then?Remember the first question; its meaning, in other words, was this:“Thou wouldst go into the world, and art going with empty hands, withsome promise of freedom which men in their simplicity and their naturalunruliness cannot even understand, which they fear and dread—fornothing has ever been more insupportable for a man and a human societythan freedom. But seest Thou these stones in this parched and barrenwilderness? Turn them into bread, and mankind will run after Thee likea flock of sheep, grateful and obedient, though for ever trembling,lest Thou withdraw Thy hand and deny them Thy bread.” But Thou wouldstnot deprive man of freedom and didst reject the offer, thinking, whatis that freedom worth, if obedience is bought with bread? Thou didstreply that man lives not by bread alone. But dost Thou know that forthe sake of that earthly bread the spirit of the earth will rise upagainst Thee and will strive with Thee and overcome Thee, and all willfollow him, crying, “Who can compare with this beast? He has given usfire from heaven!” Dost Thou know that the ages will pass, and humanitywill proclaim by the lips of their sages that there is no crime, andtherefore no sin; there is only hunger? “Feed men, and then ask of themvirtue!” that’s what they’ll write on the banner, which they will raiseagainst Thee, and with which they will destroy Thy temple. Where Thytemple stood will rise a new building; the terrible tower of Babel willbe built again, and though, like the one of old, it will not befinished, yet Thou mightest have prevented that new tower and have cutshort the sufferings of men for a thousand years; for they will comeback to us after a thousand years of agony with their tower. They willseek us again, hidden underground in the catacombs, for we shall beagain persecuted and tortured. They will find us and cry to us, “Feedus, for those who have promised us fire from heaven haven’t given it!”And then we shall finish building their tower, for he finishes thebuilding who feeds them. And we alone shall feed them in Thy name,declaring falsely that it is in Thy name. Oh, never, never can theyfeed themselves without us! No science will give them bread so long asthey remain free. In the end they will lay their freedom at our feet,and say to us, “Make us your slaves, but feed us.” They will understandthemselves, at last, that freedom and bread enough for all areinconceivable together, for never, never will they be able to sharebetween them! They will be convinced, too, that they can never be free,for they are weak, vicious, worthless and rebellious. Thou didstpromise them the bread of Heaven, but, I repeat again, can it comparewith earthly bread in the eyes of the weak, ever sinful and ignoblerace of man? And if for the sake of the bread of Heaven thousands shallfollow Thee, what is to become of the millions and tens of thousands ofmillions of creatures who will not have the strength to forego theearthly bread for the sake of the heavenly? Or dost Thou care only forthe tens of thousands of the great and strong, while the millions,numerous as the sands of the sea, who are weak but love Thee, mustexist only for the sake of the great and strong? No, we care for theweak too. They are sinful and rebellious, but in the end they too willbecome obedient. They will marvel at us and look on us as gods, becausewe are ready to endure the freedom which they have found so dreadfuland to rule over them—so awful it will seem to them to be free. But weshall tell them that we are Thy servants and rule them in Thy name. Weshall deceive them again, for we will not let Thee come to us again.That deception will be our suffering, for we shall be forced to lie.
“ ‘This is the significance of the first question in the wilderness,and this is what Thou hast rejected for the sake of that freedom whichThou hast exalted above everything. Yet in this question lies hid thegreat secret of this world. Choosing “bread,” Thou wouldst havesatisfied the universal and everlasting craving of humanity—to findsome one to worship. So long as man remains free he strives for nothingso incessantly and so painfully as to find some one to worship. But manseeks to worship what is established beyond dispute, so that all menwould agree at once to worship it. For these pitiful creatures areconcerned not only to find what one or the other can worship, but tofind something that all would believe in and worship; what is essentialis that all may be _together_ in it. This craving for _community_ ofworship is the chief misery of every man individually and of allhumanity from the beginning of time. For the sake of common worshipthey’ve slain each other with the sword. They have set up gods andchallenged one another, “Put away your gods and come and worship ours,or we will kill you and your gods!” And so it will be to the end of theworld, even when gods disappear from the earth; they will fall downbefore idols just the same. Thou didst know, Thou couldst not but haveknown, this fundamental secret of human nature, but Thou didst rejectthe one infallible banner which was offered Thee to make all men bowdown to Thee alone—the banner of earthly bread; and Thou hast rejectedit for the sake of freedom and the bread of Heaven. Behold what Thoudidst further. And all again in the name of freedom! I tell Thee thatman is tormented by no greater anxiety than to find some one quickly towhom he can hand over that gift of freedom with which the ill‐fatedcreature is born. But only one who can appease their conscience cantake over their freedom. In bread there was offered Thee an invinciblebanner; give bread, and man will worship thee, for nothing is morecertain than bread. But if some one else gains possession of hisconscience—oh! then he will cast away Thy bread and follow after himwho has ensnared his conscience. In that Thou wast right. For thesecret of man’s being is not only to live but to have something to livefor. Without a stable conception of the object of life, man would notconsent to go on living, and would rather destroy himself than remainon earth, though he had bread in abundance. That is true. But whathappened? Instead of taking men’s freedom from them, Thou didst make itgreater than ever! Didst Thou forget that man prefers peace, and evendeath, to freedom of choice in the knowledge of good and evil? Nothingis more seductive for man than his freedom of conscience, but nothingis a greater cause of suffering. And behold, instead of giving a firmfoundation for setting the conscience of man at rest for ever, Thoudidst choose all that is exceptional, vague and enigmatic; Thou didstchoose what was utterly beyond the strength of men, acting as thoughThou didst not love them at all—Thou who didst come to give Thy lifefor them! Instead of taking possession of men’s freedom, Thou didstincrease it, and burdened the spiritual kingdom of mankind with itssufferings for ever. Thou didst desire man’s free love, that he shouldfollow Thee freely, enticed and taken captive by Thee. In place of therigid ancient law, man must hereafter with free heart decide forhimself what is good and what is evil, having only Thy image before himas his guide. But didst Thou not know that he would at last reject evenThy image and Thy truth, if he is weighed down with the fearful burdenof free choice? They will cry aloud at last that the truth is not inThee, for they could not have been left in greater confusion andsuffering than Thou hast caused, laying upon them so many cares andunanswerable problems.
“ ‘So that, in truth, Thou didst Thyself lay the foundation for thedestruction of Thy kingdom, and no one is more to blame for it. Yetwhat was offered Thee? There are three powers, three powers alone, ableto conquer and to hold captive for ever the conscience of theseimpotent rebels for their happiness—those forces are miracle, mysteryand authority. Thou hast rejected all three and hast set the examplefor doing so. When the wise and dread spirit set Thee on the pinnacleof the temple and said to Thee, “If Thou wouldst know whether Thou artthe Son of God then cast Thyself down, for it is written: the angelsshall hold him up lest he fall and bruise himself, and Thou shalt knowthen whether Thou art the Son of God and shalt prove then how great isThy faith in Thy Father.” But Thou didst refuse and wouldst not castThyself down. Oh, of course, Thou didst proudly and well, like God; butthe weak, unruly race of men, are they gods? Oh, Thou didst know thenthat in taking one step, in making one movement to cast Thyself down,Thou wouldst be tempting God and have lost all Thy faith in Him, andwouldst have been dashed to pieces against that earth which Thou didstcome to save. And the wise spirit that tempted Thee would haverejoiced. But I ask again, are there many like Thee? And couldst Thoubelieve for one moment that men, too, could face such a temptation? Isthe nature of men such, that they can reject miracle, and at the greatmoments of their life, the moments of their deepest, most agonizingspiritual difficulties, cling only to the free verdict of the heart?Oh, Thou didst know that Thy deed would be recorded in books, would behanded down to remote times and the utmost ends of the earth, and Thoudidst hope that man, following Thee, would cling to God and not ask fora miracle. But Thou didst not know that when man rejects miracle herejects God too; for man seeks not so much God as the miraculous. Andas man cannot bear to be without the miraculous, he will create newmiracles of his own for himself, and will worship deeds of sorcery andwitchcraft, though he might be a hundred times over a rebel, hereticand infidel. Thou didst not come down from the Cross when they shoutedto Thee, mocking and reviling Thee, “Come down from the cross and wewill believe that Thou art He.” Thou didst not come down, for againThou wouldst not enslave man by a miracle, and didst crave faith givenfreely, not based on miracle. Thou didst crave for free love and notthe base raptures of the slave before the might that has overawed himfor ever. But Thou didst think too highly of men therein, for they areslaves, of course, though rebellious by nature. Look round and judge;fifteen centuries have passed, look upon them. Whom hast Thou raised upto Thyself? I swear, man is weaker and baser by nature than Thou hastbelieved him! Can he, can he do what Thou didst? By showing him so muchrespect, Thou didst, as it were, cease to feel for him, for Thou didstask far too much from him—Thou who hast loved him more than Thyself!Respecting him less, Thou wouldst have asked less of him. That wouldhave been more like love, for his burden would have been lighter. He isweak and vile. What though he is everywhere now rebelling against ourpower, and proud of his rebellion? It is the pride of a child and aschoolboy. They are little children rioting and barring out the teacherat school. But their childish delight will end; it will cost them dear.They will cast down temples and drench the earth with blood. But theywill see at last, the foolish children, that, though they are rebels,they are impotent rebels, unable to keep up their own rebellion. Bathedin their foolish tears, they will recognize at last that He who createdthem rebels must have meant to mock at them. They will say this indespair, and their utterance will be a blasphemy which will make themmore unhappy still, for man’s nature cannot bear blasphemy, and in theend always avenges it on itself. And so unrest, confusion andunhappiness—that is the present lot of man after Thou didst bear somuch for their freedom! The great prophet tells in vision and in image,that he saw all those who took part in the first resurrection and thatthere were of each tribe twelve thousand. But if there were so many ofthem, they must have been not men but gods. They had borne Thy cross,they had endured scores of years in the barren, hungry wilderness,living upon locusts and roots—and Thou mayest indeed point with prideat those children of freedom, of free love, of free and splendidsacrifice for Thy name. But remember that they were only somethousands; and what of the rest? And how are the other weak ones toblame, because they could not endure what the strong have endured? Howis the weak soul to blame that it is unable to receive such terriblegifts? Canst Thou have simply come to the elect and for the elect? Butif so, it is a mystery and we cannot understand it. And if it is amystery, we too have a right to preach a mystery, and to teach themthat it’s not the free judgment of their hearts, not love that matters,but a mystery which they must follow blindly, even against theirconscience. So we have done. We have corrected Thy work and havefounded it upon _miracle_, _mystery_ and _authority_. And men rejoicedthat they were again led like sheep, and that the terrible gift thathad brought them such suffering was, at last, lifted from their hearts.Were we right teaching them this? Speak! Did we not love mankind, someekly acknowledging their feebleness, lovingly lightening theirburden, and permitting their weak nature even sin with our sanction?Why hast Thou come now to hinder us? And why dost Thou look silentlyand searchingly at me with Thy mild eyes? Be angry. I don’t want Thylove, for I love Thee not. And what use is it for me to hide anythingfrom Thee? Don’t I know to Whom I am speaking? All that I can say isknown to Thee already. And is it for me to conceal from Thee ourmystery? Perhaps it is Thy will to hear it from my lips. Listen, then.We are not working with Thee, but with _him_—that is our mystery. It’slong—eight centuries—since we have been on _his_ side and not on Thine.Just eight centuries ago, we took from him what Thou didst reject withscorn, that last gift he offered Thee, showing Thee all the kingdoms ofthe earth. We took from him Rome and the sword of Cæsar, and proclaimedourselves sole rulers of the earth, though hitherto we have not beenable to complete our work. But whose fault is that? Oh, the work isonly beginning, but it has begun. It has long to await completion andthe earth has yet much to suffer, but we shall triumph and shall beCæsars, and then we shall plan the universal happiness of man. But Thoumightest have taken even then the sword of Cæsar. Why didst Thou rejectthat last gift? Hadst Thou accepted that last counsel of the mightyspirit, Thou wouldst have accomplished all that man seeks on earth—thatis, some one to worship, some one to keep his conscience, and somemeans of uniting all in one unanimous and harmonious ant‐heap, for thecraving for universal unity is the third and last anguish of men.Mankind as a whole has always striven to organize a universal state.There have been many great nations with great histories, but the morehighly they were developed the more unhappy they were, for they feltmore acutely than other people the craving for world‐wide union. Thegreat conquerors, Timours and Ghenghis‐Khans, whirled like hurricanesover the face of the earth striving to subdue its people, and they toowere but the unconscious expression of the same craving for universalunity. Hadst Thou taken the world and Cæsar’s purple, Thou wouldst havefounded the universal state and have given universal peace. For who canrule men if not he who holds their conscience and their bread in hishands? We have taken the sword of Cæsar, and in taking it, of course,have rejected Thee and followed _him_. Oh, ages are yet to come of theconfusion of free thought, of their science and cannibalism. For havingbegun to build their tower of Babel without us, they will end, ofcourse, with cannibalism. But then the beast will crawl to us and lickour feet and spatter them with tears of blood. And we shall sit uponthe beast and raise the cup, and on it will be written, “Mystery.” Butthen, and only then, the reign of peace and happiness will come formen. Thou art proud of Thine elect, but Thou hast only the elect, whilewe give rest to all. And besides, how many of those elect, those mightyones who could become elect, have grown weary waiting for Thee, andhave transferred and will transfer the powers of their spirit and thewarmth of their heart to the other camp, and end by raising their_free_ banner against Thee. Thou didst Thyself lift up that banner. Butwith us all will be happy and will no more rebel nor destroy oneanother as under Thy freedom. Oh, we shall persuade them that they willonly become free when they renounce their freedom to us and submit tous. And shall we be right or shall we be lying? They will be convincedthat we are right, for they will remember the horrors of slavery andconfusion to which Thy freedom brought them. Freedom, free thought andscience, will lead them into such straits and will bring them face toface with such marvels and insoluble mysteries, that some of them, thefierce and rebellious, will destroy themselves, others, rebellious butweak, will destroy one another, while the rest, weak and unhappy, willcrawl fawning to our feet and whine to us: “Yes, you were right, youalone possess His mystery, and we come back to you, save us fromourselves!”
“ ‘Receiving bread from us, they will see clearly that we take thebread made by their hands from them, to give it to them, without anymiracle. They will see that we do not change the stones to bread, butin truth they will be more thankful for taking it from our hands thanfor the bread itself! For they will remember only too well that in olddays, without our help, even the bread they made turned to stones intheir hands, while since they have come back to us, the very stoneshave turned to bread in their hands. Too, too well will they know thevalue of complete submission! And until men know that, they will beunhappy. Who is most to blame for their not knowing it?—speak! Whoscattered the flock and sent it astray on unknown paths? But the flockwill come together again and will submit once more, and then it will beonce for all. Then we shall give them the quiet humble happiness ofweak creatures such as they are by nature. Oh, we shall persuade themat last not to be proud, for Thou didst lift them up and thereby taughtthem to be proud. We shall show them that they are weak, that they areonly pitiful children, but that childlike happiness is the sweetest ofall. They will become timid and will look to us and huddle close to usin fear, as chicks to the hen. They will marvel at us and will beawe‐stricken before us, and will be proud at our being so powerful andclever, that we have been able to subdue such a turbulent flock ofthousands of millions. They will tremble impotently before our wrath,their minds will grow fearful, they will be quick to shed tears likewomen and children, but they will be just as ready at a sign from us topass to laughter and rejoicing, to happy mirth and childish song. Yes,we shall set them to work, but in their leisure hours we shall maketheir life like a child’s game, with children’s songs and innocentdance. Oh, we shall allow them even sin, they are weak and helpless,and they will love us like children because we allow them to sin. Weshall tell them that every sin will be expiated, if it is done with ourpermission, that we allow them to sin because we love them, and thepunishment for these sins we take upon ourselves. And we shall take itupon ourselves, and they will adore us as their saviors who have takenon themselves their sins before God. And they will have no secrets fromus. We shall allow or forbid them to live with their wives andmistresses, to have or not to have children—according to whether theyhave been obedient or disobedient—and they will submit to us gladly andcheerfully. The most painful secrets of their conscience, all, all theywill bring to us, and we shall have an answer for all. And they will beglad to believe our answer, for it will save them from the greatanxiety and terrible agony they endure at present in making a freedecision for themselves. And all will be happy, all the millions ofcreatures except the hundred thousand who rule over them. For only we,we who guard the mystery, shall be unhappy. There will be thousands ofmillions of happy babes, and a hundred thousand sufferers who havetaken upon themselves the curse of the knowledge of good and evil.Peacefully they will die, peacefully they will expire in Thy name, andbeyond the grave they will find nothing but death. But we shall keepthe secret, and for their happiness we shall allure them with thereward of heaven and eternity. Though if there were anything in theother world, it certainly would not be for such as they. It isprophesied that Thou wilt come again in victory, Thou wilt come withThy chosen, the proud and strong, but we will say that they have onlysaved themselves, but we have saved all. We are told that the harlotwho sits upon the beast, and holds in her hands the _mystery_, shall beput to shame, that the weak will rise up again, and will rend her royalpurple and will strip naked her loathsome body. But then I will standup and point out to Thee the thousand millions of happy children whohave known no sin. And we who have taken their sins upon us for theirhappiness will stand up before Thee and say: “Judge us if Thou canstand darest.” Know that I fear Thee not. Know that I too have been inthe wilderness, I too have lived on roots and locusts, I too prized thefreedom with which Thou hast blessed men, and I too was striving tostand among Thy elect, among the strong and powerful, thirsting “tomake up the number.” But I awakened and would not serve madness. Iturned back and joined the ranks of those _who have corrected Thywork_. I left the proud and went back to the humble, for the happinessof the humble. What I say to Thee will come to pass, and our dominionwill be built up. I repeat, to‐morrow Thou shalt see that obedientflock who at a sign from me will hasten to heap up the hot cindersabout the pile on which I shall burn Thee for coming to hinder us. Forif any one has ever deserved our fires, it is Thou. To‐morrow I shallburn Thee. _Dixi._’ ”
Ivan stopped. He was carried away as he talked, and spoke withexcitement; when he had finished, he suddenly smiled.
Alyosha had listened in silence; towards the end he was greatly movedand seemed several times on the point of interrupting, but restrainedhimself. Now his words came with a rush.
“But ... that’s absurd!” he cried, flushing. “Your poem is in praise ofJesus, not in blame of Him—as you meant it to be. And who will believeyou about freedom? Is that the way to understand it? That’s not theidea of it in the Orthodox Church.... That’s Rome, and not even thewhole of Rome, it’s false—those are the worst of the Catholics, theInquisitors, the Jesuits!... And there could not be such a fantasticcreature as your Inquisitor. What are these sins of mankind they takeon themselves? Who are these keepers of the mystery who have taken somecurse upon themselves for the happiness of mankind? When have they beenseen? We know the Jesuits, they are spoken ill of, but surely they arenot what you describe? They are not that at all, not at all.... Theyare simply the Romish army for the earthly sovereignty of the world inthe future, with the Pontiff of Rome for Emperor ... that’s theirideal, but there’s no sort of mystery or lofty melancholy about it....It’s simple lust of power, of filthy earthly gain, ofdomination—something like a universal serfdom with them asmasters—that’s all they stand for. They don’t even believe in Godperhaps. Your suffering Inquisitor is a mere fantasy.”
“Stay, stay,” laughed Ivan, “how hot you are! A fantasy you say, let itbe so! Of course it’s a fantasy. But allow me to say: do you reallythink that the Roman Catholic movement of the last centuries isactually nothing but the lust of power, of filthy earthly gain? Is thatFather Païssy’s teaching?”
“No, no, on the contrary, Father Païssy did once say something ratherthe same as you ... but of course it’s not the same, not a bit thesame,” Alyosha hastily corrected himself.
“A precious admission, in spite of your ‘not a bit the same.’ I ask youwhy your Jesuits and Inquisitors have united simply for vile materialgain? Why can there not be among them one martyr oppressed by greatsorrow and loving humanity? You see, only suppose that there was onesuch man among all those who desire nothing but filthy material gain—ifthere’s only one like my old Inquisitor, who had himself eaten roots inthe desert and made frenzied efforts to subdue his flesh to makehimself free and perfect. But yet all his life he loved humanity, andsuddenly his eyes were opened, and he saw that it is no great moralblessedness to attain perfection and freedom, if at the same time onegains the conviction that millions of God’s creatures have been createdas a mockery, that they will never be capable of using their freedom,that these poor rebels can never turn into giants to complete thetower, that it was not for such geese that the great idealist dreamthis dream of harmony. Seeing all that he turned back and joined—theclever people. Surely that could have happened?”
“Joined whom, what clever people?” cried Alyosha, completely carriedaway. “They have no such great cleverness and no mysteries andsecrets.... Perhaps nothing but Atheism, that’s all their secret. YourInquisitor does not believe in God, that’s his secret!”
“What if it is so! At last you have guessed it. It’s perfectly true,it’s true that that’s the whole secret, but isn’t that suffering, atleast for a man like that, who has wasted his whole life in the desertand yet could not shake off his incurable love of humanity? In his oldage he reached the clear conviction that nothing but the advice of thegreat dread spirit could build up any tolerable sort of life for thefeeble, unruly, ‘incomplete, empirical creatures created in jest.’ Andso, convinced of this, he sees that he must follow the counsel of thewise spirit, the dread spirit of death and destruction, and thereforeaccept lying and deception, and lead men consciously to death anddestruction, and yet deceive them all the way so that they may notnotice where they are being led, that the poor blind creatures may atleast on the way think themselves happy. And note, the deception is inthe name of Him in Whose ideal the old man had so fervently believedall his life long. Is not that tragic? And if only one such stood atthe head of the whole army ‘filled with the lust of power only for thesake of filthy gain’—would not one such be enough to make a tragedy?More than that, one such standing at the head is enough to create theactual leading idea of the Roman Church with all its armies andJesuits, its highest idea. I tell you frankly that I firmly believethat there has always been such a man among those who stood at the headof the movement. Who knows, there may have been some such even amongthe Roman Popes. Who knows, perhaps the spirit of that accursed old manwho loves mankind so obstinately in his own way, is to be found evennow in a whole multitude of such old men, existing not by chance but byagreement, as a secret league formed long ago for the guarding of themystery, to guard it from the weak and the unhappy, so as to make themhappy. No doubt it is so, and so it must be indeed. I fancy that evenamong the Masons there’s something of the same mystery at the bottom,and that that’s why the Catholics so detest the Masons as their rivalsbreaking up the unity of the idea, while it is so essential that thereshould be one flock and one shepherd.... But from the way I defend myidea I might be an author impatient of your criticism. Enough of it.”
“You are perhaps a Mason yourself!” broke suddenly from Alyosha. “Youdon’t believe in God,” he added, speaking this time very sorrowfully.He fancied besides that his brother was looking at him ironically. “Howdoes your poem end?” he asked, suddenly looking down. “Or was it theend?”
“I meant to end it like this. When the Inquisitor ceased speaking hewaited some time for his Prisoner to answer him. His silence weigheddown upon him. He saw that the Prisoner had listened intently all thetime, looking gently in his face and evidently not wishing to reply.The old man longed for Him to say something, however bitter andterrible. But He suddenly approached the old man in silence and softlykissed him on his bloodless aged lips. That was all His answer. The oldman shuddered. His lips moved. He went to the door, opened it, and saidto Him: ‘Go, and come no more ... come not at all, never, never!’ Andhe let Him out into the dark alleys of the town. The Prisoner wentaway.”
“And the old man?”
“The kiss glows in his heart, but the old man adheres to his idea.”
“And you with him, you too?” cried Alyosha, mournfully.
Ivan laughed.
“Why, it’s all nonsense, Alyosha. It’s only a senseless poem of asenseless student, who could never write two lines of verse. Why do youtake it so seriously? Surely you don’t suppose I am going straight offto the Jesuits, to join the men who are correcting His work? Good Lord,it’s no business of mine. I told you, all I want is to live on tothirty, and then ... dash the cup to the ground!”
“But the little sticky leaves, and the precious tombs, and the bluesky, and the woman you love! How will you live, how will you lovethem?” Alyosha cried sorrowfully. “With such a hell in your heart andyour head, how can you? No, that’s just what you are going away for, tojoin them ... if not, you will kill yourself, you can’t endure it!”
“There is a strength to endure everything,” Ivan said with a coldsmile.
“What strength?”
“The strength of the Karamazovs—the strength of the Karamazovbaseness.”
“To sink into debauchery, to stifle your soul with corruption, yes?”
“Possibly even that ... only perhaps till I am thirty I shall escapeit, and then—”
“How will you escape it? By what will you escape it? That’s impossiblewith your ideas.”
“In the Karamazov way, again.”
“ ‘Everything is lawful,’ you mean? Everything is lawful, is that it?”
Ivan scowled, and all at once turned strangely pale.
“Ah, you’ve caught up yesterday’s phrase, which so offended Miüsov—andwhich Dmitri pounced upon so naïvely, and paraphrased!” he smiledqueerly. “Yes, if you like, ‘everything is lawful’ since the word hasbeen said. I won’t deny it. And Mitya’s version isn’t bad.”
Alyosha looked at him in silence.
“I thought that going away from here I have you at least,” Ivan saidsuddenly, with unexpected feeling; “but now I see that there is noplace for me even in your heart, my dear hermit. The formula, ‘all islawful,’ I won’t renounce—will you renounce me for that, yes?”
Alyosha got up, went to him and softly kissed him on the lips.
“That’s plagiarism,” cried Ivan, highly delighted. “You stole that frommy poem. Thank you though. Get up, Alyosha, it’s time we were going,both of us.”
They went out, but stopped when they reached the entrance of therestaurant.
“Listen, Alyosha,” Ivan began in a resolute voice, “if I am really ableto care for the sticky little leaves I shall only love them,remembering you. It’s enough for me that you are somewhere here, and Ishan’t lose my desire for life yet. Is that enough for you? Take it asa declaration of love if you like. And now you go to the right and I tothe left. And it’s enough, do you hear, enough. I mean even if I don’tgo away to‐morrow (I think I certainly shall go) and we meet again,don’t say a word more on these subjects. I beg that particularly. Andabout Dmitri too, I ask you specially, never speak to me again,” headded, with sudden irritation; “it’s all exhausted, it has all beensaid over and over again, hasn’t it? And I’ll make you one promise inreturn for it. When at thirty, I want to ‘dash the cup to the ground,’wherever I may be I’ll come to have one more talk with you, even thoughit were from America, you may be sure of that. I’ll come on purpose. Itwill be very interesting to have a look at you, to see what you’ll beby that time. It’s rather a solemn promise, you see. And we really maybe parting for seven years or ten. Come, go now to your PaterSeraphicus, he is dying. If he dies without you, you will be angry withme for having kept you. Good‐by, kiss me once more; that’s right, nowgo.”
Ivan turned suddenly and went his way without looking back. It was justas Dmitri had left Alyosha the day before, though the parting had beenvery different. The strange resemblance flashed like an arrow throughAlyosha’s mind in the distress and dejection of that moment. He waiteda little, looking after his brother. He suddenly noticed that Ivanswayed as he walked and that his right shoulder looked lower than hisleft. He had never noticed it before. But all at once he turned too,and almost ran to the monastery. It was nearly dark, and he felt almostfrightened; something new was growing up in him for which he could notaccount. The wind had risen again as on the previous evening, and theancient pines murmured gloomily about him when he entered the hermitagecopse. He almost ran. “Pater Seraphicus—he got that name fromsomewhere—where from?” Alyosha wondered. “Ivan, poor Ivan, and whenshall I see you again?... Here is the hermitage. Yes, yes, that he is,Pater Seraphicus, he will save me—from him and for ever!”
Several times afterwards he wondered how he could on leaving Ivan socompletely forget his brother Dmitri, though he had that morning, onlya few hours before, so firmly resolved to find him and not to give updoing so, even should he be unable to return to the monastery thatnight.



Chapter VI.For Awhile A Very Obscure One

And Ivan, on parting from Alyosha, went home to Fyodor Pavlovitch’shouse. But, strange to say, he was overcome by insufferable depression,which grew greater at every step he took towards the house. There wasnothing strange in his being depressed; what was strange was that Ivancould not have said what was the cause of it. He had often beendepressed before, and there was nothing surprising at his feeling so atsuch a moment, when he had broken off with everything that had broughthim here, and was preparing that day to make a new start and enter upona new, unknown future. He would again be as solitary as ever, andthough he had great hopes, and great—too great—expectations from life,he could not have given any definite account of his hopes, hisexpectations, or even his desires.
Yet at that moment, though the apprehension of the new and unknowncertainly found place in his heart, what was worrying him was somethingquite different. “Is it loathing for my father’s house?” he wondered.“Quite likely; I am so sick of it; and though it’s the last time Ishall cross its hateful threshold, still I loathe it.... No, it’s notthat either. Is it the parting with Alyosha and the conversation I hadwith him? For so many years I’ve been silent with the whole world andnot deigned to speak, and all of a sudden I reel off a rigmarole likethat.” It certainly might have been the youthful vexation of youthfulinexperience and vanity—vexation at having failed to express himself,especially with such a being as Alyosha, on whom his heart hadcertainly been reckoning. No doubt that came in, that vexation, it musthave done indeed; but yet that was not it, that was not it either. “Ifeel sick with depression and yet I can’t tell what I want. Better notthink, perhaps.”
Ivan tried “not to think,” but that, too, was no use. What made hisdepression so vexatious and irritating was that it had a kind ofcasual, external character—he felt that. Some person or thing seemed tobe standing out somewhere, just as something will sometimes obtrudeitself upon the eye, and though one may be so busy with work orconversation that for a long time one does not notice it, yet itirritates and almost torments one till at last one realizes, andremoves the offending object, often quite a trifling and ridiculousone—some article left about in the wrong place, a handkerchief on thefloor, a book not replaced on the shelf, and so on.
At last, feeling very cross and ill‐humored, Ivan arrived home, andsuddenly, about fifteen paces from the garden gate, he guessed what wasfretting and worrying him.
On a bench in the gateway the valet Smerdyakov was sitting enjoying thecoolness of the evening, and at the first glance at him Ivan knew thatthe valet Smerdyakov was on his mind, and that it was this man that hissoul loathed. It all dawned upon him suddenly and became clear. Justbefore, when Alyosha had been telling him of his meeting withSmerdyakov, he had felt a sudden twinge of gloom and loathing, whichhad immediately stirred responsive anger in his heart. Afterwards, ashe talked, Smerdyakov had been forgotten for the time; but still he hadbeen in his mind, and as soon as Ivan parted with Alyosha and waswalking home, the forgotten sensation began to obtrude itself again.“Is it possible that a miserable, contemptible creature like that canworry me so much?” he wondered, with insufferable irritation.
It was true that Ivan had come of late to feel an intense dislike forthe man, especially during the last few days. He had even begun tonotice in himself a growing feeling that was almost of hatred for thecreature. Perhaps this hatred was accentuated by the fact that whenIvan first came to the neighborhood he had felt quite differently. Thenhe had taken a marked interest in Smerdyakov, and had even thought himvery original. He had encouraged him to talk to him, although he hadalways wondered at a certain incoherence, or rather restlessness, inhis mind, and could not understand what it was that so continually andinsistently worked upon the brain of “the contemplative.” Theydiscussed philosophical questions and even how there could have beenlight on the first day when the sun, moon, and stars were only createdon the fourth day, and how that was to be understood. But Ivan soon sawthat, though the sun, moon, and stars might be an interesting subject,yet that it was quite secondary to Smerdyakov, and that he was lookingfor something altogether different. In one way and another, he began tobetray a boundless vanity, and a wounded vanity, too, and that Ivandisliked. It had first given rise to his aversion. Later on, there hadbeen trouble in the house. Grushenka had come on the scene, and therehad been the scandals with his brother Dmitri—they discussed that, too.But though Smerdyakov always talked of that with great excitement, itwas impossible to discover what he desired to come of it. There was, infact, something surprising in the illogicality and incoherence of someof his desires, accidentally betrayed and always vaguely expressed.Smerdyakov was always inquiring, putting certain indirect but obviouslypremeditated questions, but what his object was he did not explain, andusually at the most important moment he would break off and relapseinto silence or pass to another subject. But what finally irritatedIvan most and confirmed his dislike for him was the peculiar, revoltingfamiliarity which Smerdyakov began to show more and more markedly. Notthat he forgot himself and was rude; on the contrary, he always spokevery respectfully, yet he had obviously begun to consider—goodnessknows why!—that there was some sort of understanding between him andIvan Fyodorovitch. He always spoke in a tone that suggested that thosetwo had some kind of compact, some secret between them, that had atsome time been expressed on both sides, only known to them and beyondthe comprehension of those around them. But for a long while Ivan didnot recognize the real cause of his growing dislike and he had onlylately realized what was at the root of it.
With a feeling of disgust and irritation he tried to pass in at thegate without speaking or looking at Smerdyakov. But Smerdyakov rosefrom the bench, and from that action alone, Ivan knew instantly that hewanted particularly to talk to him. Ivan looked at him and stopped, andthe fact that he did stop, instead of passing by, as he meant to theminute before, drove him to fury. With anger and repulsion he looked atSmerdyakov’s emasculate, sickly face, with the little curls combedforward on his forehead. His left eye winked and he grinned as if tosay, “Where are you going? You won’t pass by; you see that we twoclever people have something to say to each other.”
Ivan shook. “Get away, miserable idiot. What have I to do with you?”was on the tip of his tongue, but to his profound astonishment he heardhimself say, “Is my father still asleep, or has he waked?”
He asked the question softly and meekly, to his own surprise, and atonce, again to his own surprise, sat down on the bench. For an instanthe felt almost frightened; he remembered it afterwards. Smerdyakovstood facing him, his hands behind his back, looking at him withassurance and almost severity.
“His honor is still asleep,” he articulated deliberately (“You were thefirst to speak, not I,” he seemed to say). “I am surprised at you,sir,” he added, after a pause, dropping his eyes affectedly, settinghis right foot forward, and playing with the tip of his polished boot.
“Why are you surprised at me?” Ivan asked abruptly and sullenly, doinghis utmost to restrain himself, and suddenly realizing, with disgust,that he was feeling intense curiosity and would not, on any account,have gone away without satisfying it.
“Why don’t you go to Tchermashnya, sir?” Smerdyakov suddenly raised hiseyes and smiled familiarly. “Why I smile you must understand ofyourself, if you are a clever man,” his screwed‐up left eye seemed tosay.
“Why should I go to Tchermashnya?” Ivan asked in surprise.
Smerdyakov was silent again.
“Fyodor Pavlovitch himself has so begged you to,” he said at last,slowly and apparently attaching no significance to his answer. “I putyou off with a secondary reason,” he seemed to suggest, “simply to saysomething.”
“Damn you! Speak out what you want!” Ivan cried angrily at last,passing from meekness to violence.
Smerdyakov drew his right foot up to his left, pulled himself up, butstill looked at him with the same serenity and the same little smile.
“Substantially nothing—but just by way of conversation.”
Another silence followed. They did not speak for nearly a minute. Ivanknew that he ought to get up and show anger, and Smerdyakov stoodbefore him and seemed to be waiting as though to see whether he wouldbe angry or not. So at least it seemed to Ivan. At last he moved to getup. Smerdyakov seemed to seize the moment.
“I’m in an awful position, Ivan Fyodorovitch. I don’t know how to helpmyself,” he said resolutely and distinctly, and at his last word hesighed. Ivan Fyodorovitch sat down again.
“They are both utterly crazy, they are no better than little children,”Smerdyakov went on. “I am speaking of your parent and your brotherDmitri Fyodorovitch. Here Fyodor Pavlovitch will get up directly andbegin worrying me every minute, ‘Has she come? Why hasn’t she come?’and so on up till midnight and even after midnight. And if AgrafenaAlexandrovna doesn’t come (for very likely she does not mean to come atall) then he will be at me again to‐morrow morning, ‘Why hasn’t shecome? When will she come?’—as though I were to blame for it. On theother side it’s no better. As soon as it gets dark, or even before,your brother will appear with his gun in his hands: ‘Look out, yourogue, you soup‐maker. If you miss her and don’t let me know she’sbeen—I’ll kill you before any one.’ When the night’s over, in themorning, he, too, like Fyodor Pavlovitch, begins worrying me to death.‘Why hasn’t she come? Will she come soon?’ And he, too, thinks me toblame because his lady hasn’t come. And every day and every hour theyget angrier and angrier, so that I sometimes think I shall kill myselfin a fright. I can’t depend upon them, sir.”
“And why have you meddled? Why did you begin to spy for DmitriFyodorovitch?” said Ivan irritably.
“How could I help meddling? Though, indeed, I haven’t meddled at all,if you want to know the truth of the matter. I kept quiet from the verybeginning, not daring to answer; but he pitched on me to be hisservant. He has had only one thing to say since: ‘I’ll kill you, youscoundrel, if you miss her,’ I feel certain, sir, that I shall have along fit to‐ morrow.”
“What do you mean by ‘a long fit’?”
“A long fit, lasting a long time—several hours, or perhaps a day ortwo. Once it went on for three days. I fell from the garret that time.The struggling ceased and then began again, and for three days Icouldn’t come back to my senses. Fyodor Pavlovitch sent forHerzenstube, the doctor here, and he put ice on my head and triedanother remedy, too.... I might have died.”
“But they say one can’t tell with epilepsy when a fit is coming. Whatmakes you say you will have one to‐morrow?” Ivan inquired, with apeculiar, irritable curiosity.
“That’s just so. You can’t tell beforehand.”
“Besides, you fell from the garret then.”
“I climb up to the garret every day. I might fall from the garret againto‐morrow. And, if not, I might fall down the cellar steps. I have togo into the cellar every day, too.”
Ivan took a long look at him.
“You are talking nonsense, I see, and I don’t quite understand you,” hesaid softly, but with a sort of menace. “Do you mean to pretend to beill to‐morrow for three days, eh?”
Smerdyakov, who was looking at the ground again, and playing with thetoe of his right foot, set the foot down, moved the left one forward,and, grinning, articulated:
“If I were able to play such a trick, that is, pretend to have afit—and it would not be difficult for a man accustomed to them—I shouldhave a perfect right to use such a means to save myself from death. Foreven if Agrafena Alexandrovna comes to see his father while I am ill,his honor can’t blame a sick man for not telling him. He’d be ashamedto.”
“Hang it all!” Ivan cried, his face working with anger, “why are youalways in such a funk for your life? All my brother Dmitri’s threatsare only hasty words and mean nothing. He won’t kill you; it’s not youhe’ll kill!”
“He’d kill me first of all, like a fly. But even more than that, I amafraid I shall be taken for an accomplice of his when he does somethingcrazy to his father.”
“Why should you be taken for an accomplice?”
“They’ll think I am an accomplice, because I let him know the signalsas a great secret.”
“What signals? Whom did you tell? Confound you, speak more plainly.”
“I’m bound to admit the fact,” Smerdyakov drawled with pedanticcomposure, “that I have a secret with Fyodor Pavlovitch in thisbusiness. As you know yourself (if only you do know it) he has forseveral days past locked himself in as soon as night or even eveningcomes on. Of late you’ve been going upstairs to your room early everyevening, and yesterday you did not come down at all, and so perhaps youdon’t know how carefully he has begun to lock himself in at night, andeven if Grigory Vassilyevitch comes to the door he won’t open to himtill he hears his voice. But Grigory Vassilyevitch does not come,because I wait upon him alone in his room now. That’s the arrangementhe made himself ever since this to‐do with Agrafena Alexandrovna began.But at night, by his orders, I go away to the lodge so that I don’t getto sleep till midnight, but am on the watch, getting up and walkingabout the yard, waiting for Agrafena Alexandrovna to come. For the lastfew days he’s been perfectly frantic expecting her. What he argues is,she is afraid of him, Dmitri Fyodorovitch (Mitya, as he calls him),‘and so,’ says he, ‘she’ll come the back‐way, late at night, to me. Youlook out for her,’ says he, ‘till midnight and later; and if she doescome, you run up and knock at my door or at the window from the garden.Knock at first twice, rather gently, and then three times more quickly,then,’ says he, ‘I shall understand at once that she has come, and willopen the door to you quietly.’ Another signal he gave me in caseanything unexpected happens. At first, two knocks, and then, after aninterval, another much louder. Then he will understand that somethinghas happened suddenly and that I must see him, and he will open to meso that I can go and speak to him. That’s all in case AgrafenaAlexandrovna can’t come herself, but sends a message. Besides, DmitriFyodorovitch might come, too, so I must let him know he is near. Hishonor is awfully afraid of Dmitri Fyodorovitch, so that even ifAgrafena Alexandrovna had come and were locked in with him, and DmitriFyodorovitch were to turn up anywhere near at the time, I should bebound to let him know at once, knocking three times. So that the firstsignal of five knocks means Agrafena Alexandrovna has come, while thesecond signal of three knocks means ‘something important to tell you.’His honor has shown me them several times and explained them. And as inthe whole universe no one knows of these signals but myself and hishonor, so he’d open the door without the slightest hesitation andwithout calling out (he is awfully afraid of calling out aloud). Well,those signals are known to Dmitri Fyodorovitch too, now.”
“How are they known? Did you tell him? How dared you tell him?”
“It was through fright I did it. How could I dare to keep it back fromhim? Dmitri Fyodorovitch kept persisting every day, ‘You are deceivingme, you are hiding something from me! I’ll break both your legs foryou.’ So I told him those secret signals that he might see my slavishdevotion, and might be satisfied that I was not deceiving him, but wastelling him all I could.”
“If you think that he’ll make use of those signals and try to get in,don’t let him in.”
“But if I should be laid up with a fit, how can I prevent him coming inthen, even if I dared prevent him, knowing how desperate he is?”
“Hang it! How can you be so sure you are going to have a fit, confoundyou? Are you laughing at me?”
“How could I dare laugh at you? I am in no laughing humor with thisfear on me. I feel I am going to have a fit. I have a presentiment.Fright alone will bring it on.”
“Confound it! If you are laid up, Grigory will be on the watch. LetGrigory know beforehand; he will be sure not to let him in.”
“I should never dare to tell Grigory Vassilyevitch about the signalswithout orders from my master. And as for Grigory Vassilyevitch hearinghim and not admitting him, he has been ill ever since yesterday, andMarfa Ignatyevna intends to give him medicine to‐morrow. They’ve justarranged it. It’s a very strange remedy of hers. Marfa Ignatyevna knowsof a preparation and always keeps it. It’s a strong thing made fromsome herb. She has the secret of it, and she always gives it to GrigoryVassilyevitch three times a year when his lumbago’s so bad he is almostparalyzed by it. Then she takes a towel, wets it with the stuff, andrubs his whole back for half an hour till it’s quite red and swollen,and what’s left in the bottle she gives him to drink with a specialprayer; but not quite all, for on such occasions she leaves some forherself, and drinks it herself. And as they never take strong drink, Iassure you they both drop asleep at once and sleep sound a very longtime. And when Grigory Vassilyevitch wakes up he is perfectly wellafter it, but Marfa Ignatyevna always has a headache from it. So, ifMarfa Ignatyevna carries out her intention to‐ morrow, they won’t hearanything and hinder Dmitri Fyodorovitch. They’ll be asleep.”
“What a rigmarole! And it all seems to happen at once, as though itwere planned. You’ll have a fit and they’ll both be unconscious,” criedIvan. “But aren’t you trying to arrange it so?” broke from himsuddenly, and he frowned threateningly.
“How could I?... And why should I, when it all depends on DmitriFyodorovitch and his plans?... If he means to do anything, he’ll do it;but if not, I shan’t be thrusting him upon his father.”
“And why should he go to father, especially on the sly, if, as you sayyourself, Agrafena Alexandrovna won’t come at all?” Ivan went on,turning white with anger. “You say that yourself, and all the whileI’ve been here, I’ve felt sure it was all the old man’s fancy, and thecreature won’t come to him. Why should Dmitri break in on him if shedoesn’t come? Speak, I want to know what you are thinking!”
“You know yourself why he’ll come. What’s the use of what I think? Hishonor will come simply because he is in a rage or suspicious on accountof my illness perhaps, and he’ll dash in, as he did yesterday throughimpatience to search the rooms, to see whether she hasn’t escaped himon the sly. He is perfectly well aware, too, that Fyodor Pavlovitch hasa big envelope with three thousand roubles in it, tied up with ribbonand sealed with three seals. On it is written in his own hand, ‘To myangel Grushenka, if she will come,’ to which he added three days later,‘for my little chicken.’ There’s no knowing what that might do.”
“Nonsense!” cried Ivan, almost beside himself. “Dmitri won’t come tosteal money and kill my father to do it. He might have killed himyesterday on account of Grushenka, like the frantic, savage fool he is,but he won’t steal.”
“He is in very great need of money now—the greatest need, IvanFyodorovitch. You don’t know in what need he is,” Smerdyakov explained,with perfect composure and remarkable distinctness. “He looks on thatthree thousand as his own, too. He said so to me himself. ‘My fatherstill owes me just three thousand,’ he said. And besides that,consider, Ivan Fyodorovitch, there is something else perfectly true.It’s as good as certain, so to say, that Agrafena Alexandrovna willforce him, if only she cares to, to marry her—the master himself, Imean, Fyodor Pavlovitch—if only she cares to, and of course she maycare to. All I’ve said is that she won’t come, but maybe she’s lookingfor more than that—I mean to be mistress here. I know myself thatSamsonov, her merchant, was laughing with her about it, telling herquite openly that it would not be at all a stupid thing to do. Andshe’s got plenty of sense. She wouldn’t marry a beggar like DmitriFyodorovitch. So, taking that into consideration, Ivan Fyodorovitch,reflect that then neither Dmitri Fyodorovitch nor yourself and yourbrother, Alexey Fyodorovitch, would have anything after the master’sdeath, not a rouble, for Agrafena Alexandrovna would marry him simplyto get hold of the whole, all the money there is. But if your fatherwere to die now, there’d be some forty thousand for sure, even forDmitri Fyodorovitch whom he hates so, for he’s made no will.... DmitriFyodorovitch knows all that very well.”
A sort of shudder passed over Ivan’s face. He suddenly flushed.
“Then why on earth,” he suddenly interrupted Smerdyakov, “do you adviseme to go to Tchermashnya? What did you mean by that? If I go away, yousee what will happen here.” Ivan drew his breath with difficulty.
“Precisely so,” said Smerdyakov, softly and reasonably, watching Ivanintently, however.
“What do you mean by ‘precisely so’?” Ivan questioned him, with amenacing light in his eyes, restraining himself with difficulty.
“I spoke because I felt sorry for you. If I were in your place I shouldsimply throw it all up ... rather than stay on in such a position,”answered Smerdyakov, with the most candid air looking at Ivan’sflashing eyes. They were both silent.
“You seem to be a perfect idiot, and what’s more ... an awfulscoundrel, too.” Ivan rose suddenly from the bench. He was about topass straight through the gate, but he stopped short and turned toSmerdyakov. Something strange followed. Ivan, in a sudden paroxysm, bithis lip, clenched his fists, and, in another minute, would have flunghimself on Smerdyakov. The latter, anyway, noticed it at the samemoment, started, and shrank back. But the moment passed withoutmischief to Smerdyakov, and Ivan turned in silence, as it seemed inperplexity, to the gate.
“I am going away to Moscow to‐morrow, if you care to know—earlyto‐morrow morning. That’s all!” he suddenly said aloud angrily, andwondered himself afterwards what need there was to say this then toSmerdyakov.
“That’s the best thing you can do,” he responded, as though he hadexpected to hear it; “except that you can always be telegraphed forfrom Moscow, if anything should happen here.”
Ivan stopped again, and again turned quickly to Smerdyakov. But achange had passed over him, too. All his familiarity and carelessnesshad completely disappeared. His face expressed attention andexpectation, intent but timid and cringing.
“Haven’t you something more to say—something to add?” could be read inthe intent gaze he fixed on Ivan.
“And couldn’t I be sent for from Tchermashnya, too—in case anythinghappened?” Ivan shouted suddenly, for some unknown reason raising hisvoice.
“From Tchermashnya, too ... you could be sent for,” Smerdyakovmuttered, almost in a whisper, looking disconcerted, but gazingintently into Ivan’s eyes.
“Only Moscow is farther and Tchermashnya is nearer. Is it to save myspending money on the fare, or to save my going so far out of my way,that you insist on Tchermashnya?”
“Precisely so ...” muttered Smerdyakov, with a breaking voice. Helooked at Ivan with a revolting smile, and again made ready to drawback. But to his astonishment Ivan broke into a laugh, and went throughthe gate still laughing. Any one who had seen his face at that momentwould have known that he was not laughing from lightness of heart, andhe could not have explained himself what he was feeling at thatinstant. He moved and walked as though in a nervous frenzy.



Chapter VII.“It’s Always Worth While Speaking To A Clever Man”

And in the same nervous frenzy, too, he spoke. Meeting FyodorPavlovitch in the drawing‐room directly he went in, he shouted to him,waving his hands, “I am going upstairs to my room, not in to you.Good‐by!” and passed by, trying not even to look at his father. Verypossibly the old man was too hateful to him at that moment; but such anunceremonious display of hostility was a surprise even to FyodorPavlovitch. And the old man evidently wanted to tell him something atonce and had come to meet him in the drawing‐room on purpose. Receivingthis amiable greeting, he stood still in silence and with an ironicalair watched his son going upstairs, till he passed out of sight.
“What’s the matter with him?” he promptly asked Smerdyakov, who hadfollowed Ivan.
“Angry about something. Who can tell?” the valet muttered evasively.
“Confound him! Let him be angry then. Bring in the samovar, and getalong with you. Look sharp! No news?”
Then followed a series of questions such as Smerdyakov had justcomplained of to Ivan, all relating to his expected visitor, and thesequestions we will omit. Half an hour later the house was locked, andthe crazy old man was wandering along through the rooms in excitedexpectation of hearing every minute the five knocks agreed upon. Nowand then he peered out into the darkness, seeing nothing.
It was very late, but Ivan was still awake and reflecting. He sat uplate that night, till two o’clock. But we will not give an account ofhis thoughts, and this is not the place to look into that soul—its turnwill come. And even if one tried, it would be very hard to give anaccount of them, for there were no thoughts in his brain, but somethingvery vague, and, above all, intense excitement. He felt himself that hehad lost his bearings. He was fretted, too, by all sorts of strange andalmost surprising desires; for instance, after midnight he suddenly hadan intense irresistible inclination to go down, open the door, go tothe lodge and beat Smerdyakov. But if he had been asked why, he couldnot have given any exact reason, except perhaps that he loathed thevalet as one who had insulted him more gravely than any one in theworld. On the other hand, he was more than once that night overcome bya sort of inexplicable humiliating terror, which he felt positivelyparalyzed his physical powers. His head ached and he was giddy. Afeeling of hatred was rankling in his heart, as though he meant toavenge himself on some one. He even hated Alyosha, recalling theconversation he had just had with him. At moments he hated himselfintensely. Of Katerina Ivanovna he almost forgot to think, and wonderedgreatly at this afterwards, especially as he remembered perfectly thatwhen he had protested so valiantly to Katerina Ivanovna that he wouldgo away next day to Moscow, something had whispered in his heart,“That’s nonsense, you are not going, and it won’t be so easy to tearyourself away as you are boasting now.”
Remembering that night long afterwards, Ivan recalled with peculiarrepulsion how he had suddenly got up from the sofa and had stealthily,as though he were afraid of being watched, opened the door, gone out onthe staircase and listened to Fyodor Pavlovitch stirring down below,had listened a long while—some five minutes—with a sort of strangecuriosity, holding his breath while his heart throbbed. And why he haddone all this, why he was listening, he could not have said. That“action” all his life afterwards he called “infamous,” and at thebottom of his heart, he thought of it as the basest action of his life.For Fyodor Pavlovitch himself he felt no hatred at that moment, but wassimply intensely curious to know how he was walking down there belowand what he must be doing now. He wondered and imagined how he must bepeeping out of the dark windows and stopping in the middle of the room,listening, listening—for some one to knock. Ivan went out on to thestairs twice to listen like this.
About two o’clock when everything was quiet, and even Fyodor Pavlovitchhad gone to bed, Ivan had got into bed, firmly resolved to fall asleepat once, as he felt fearfully exhausted. And he did fall asleep atonce, and slept soundly without dreams, but waked early, at seveno’clock, when it was broad daylight. Opening his eyes, he was surprisedto feel himself extraordinarily vigorous. He jumped up at once anddressed quickly; then dragged out his trunk and began packingimmediately. His linen had come back from the laundress the previousmorning. Ivan positively smiled at the thought that everything washelping his sudden departure. And his departure certainly was sudden.Though Ivan had said the day before (to Katerina Ivanovna, Alyosha, andSmerdyakov) that he was leaving next day, yet he remembered that he hadno thought of departure when he went to bed, or, at least, had notdreamed that his first act in the morning would be to pack his trunk.At last his trunk and bag were ready. It was about nine o’clock whenMarfa Ignatyevna came in with her usual inquiry, “Where will your honortake your tea, in your own room or downstairs?” He looked almostcheerful, but there was about him, about his words and gestures,something hurried and scattered. Greeting his father affably, and eveninquiring specially after his health, though he did not wait to hearhis answer to the end, he announced that he was starting off in an hourto return to Moscow for good, and begged him to send for the horses.His father heard this announcement with no sign of surprise, and forgotin an unmannerly way to show regret at losing him. Instead of doing so,he flew into a great flutter at the recollection of some importantbusiness of his own.
“What a fellow you are! Not to tell me yesterday! Never mind; we’llmanage it all the same. Do me a great service, my dear boy. Go toTchermashnya on the way. It’s only to turn to the left from the stationat Volovya, only another twelve versts and you come to Tchermashnya.”
“I’m sorry, I can’t. It’s eighty versts to the railway and the trainstarts for Moscow at seven o’clock to‐night. I can only just catch it.”
“You’ll catch it to‐morrow or the day after, but to‐day turn off toTchermashnya. It won’t put you out much to humor your father! If Ihadn’t had something to keep me here, I would have run over myself longago, for I’ve some business there in a hurry. But here I ... it’s notthe time for me to go now.... You see, I’ve two pieces of copse landthere. The Maslovs, an old merchant and his son, will give eightthousand for the timber. But last year I just missed a purchaser whowould have given twelve. There’s no getting any one about here to buyit. The Maslovs have it all their own way. One has to take what they’llgive, for no one here dare bid against them. The priest at Ilyinskoewrote to me last Thursday that a merchant called Gorstkin, a man Iknow, had turned up. What makes him valuable is that he is not fromthese parts, so he is not afraid of the Maslovs. He says he will giveme eleven thousand for the copse. Do you hear? But he’ll only be here,the priest writes, for a week altogether, so you must go at once andmake a bargain with him.”
“Well, you write to the priest; he’ll make the bargain.”
“He can’t do it. He has no eye for business. He is a perfect treasure,I’d give him twenty thousand to take care of for me without a receipt;but he has no eye for business, he is a perfect child, a crow coulddeceive him. And yet he is a learned man, would you believe it? ThisGorstkin looks like a peasant, he wears a blue kaftan, but he is aregular rogue. That’s the common complaint. He is a liar. Sometimes hetells such lies that you wonder why he is doing it. He told me the yearbefore last that his wife was dead and that he had married another, andwould you believe it, there was not a word of truth in it? His wife hasnever died at all, she is alive to this day and gives him a beatingtwice a week. So what you have to find out is whether he is lying orspeaking the truth, when he says he wants to buy it and would giveeleven thousand.”
“I shall be no use in such a business. I have no eye either.”
“Stay, wait a bit! You will be of use, for I will tell you the signs bywhich you can judge about Gorstkin. I’ve done business with him a longtime. You see, you must watch his beard; he has a nasty, thin, redbeard. If his beard shakes when he talks and he gets cross, it’s allright, he is saying what he means, he wants to do business. But if hestrokes his beard with his left hand and grins—he is trying to cheatyou. Don’t watch his eyes, you won’t find out anything from his eyes,he is a deep one, a rogue—but watch his beard! I’ll give you a note andyou show it to him. He’s called Gorstkin, though his real name isLyagavy;[4] but don’t call him so, he will be offended. If you come toan understanding with him, and see it’s all right, write here at once.You need only write: ‘He’s not lying.’ Stand out for eleven thousand;one thousand you can knock off, but not more. Just think! there’s adifference between eight thousand and eleven thousand. It’s as good aspicking up three thousand; it’s not so easy to find a purchaser, andI’m in desperate need of money. Only let me know it’s serious, and I’llrun over and fix it up. I’ll snatch the time somehow. But what’s thegood of my galloping over, if it’s all a notion of the priest’s? Come,will you go?”
“Oh, I can’t spare the time. You must excuse me.”
“Come, you might oblige your father. I shan’t forget it. You’ve noheart, any of you—that’s what it is? What’s a day or two to you? Whereare you going now—to Venice? Your Venice will keep another two days. Iwould have sent Alyosha, but what use is Alyosha in a thing like that?I send you just because you are a clever fellow. Do you suppose I don’tsee that? You know nothing about timber, but you’ve got an eye. Allthat is wanted is to see whether the man is in earnest. I tell you,watch his beard—if his beard shakes you know he is in earnest.”
“You force me to go to that damned Tchermashnya yourself, then?” criedIvan, with a malignant smile.
Fyodor Pavlovitch did not catch, or would not catch, the malignancy,but he caught the smile.
“Then you’ll go, you’ll go? I’ll scribble the note for you at once.”
“I don’t know whether I shall go. I don’t know. I’ll decide on theway.”
“Nonsense! Decide at once. My dear fellow, decide! If you settle thematter, write me a line; give it to the priest and he’ll send it on tome at once. And I won’t delay you more than that. You can go to Venice.The priest will give you horses back to Volovya station.”
The old man was quite delighted. He wrote the note, and sent for thehorses. A light lunch was brought in, with brandy. When FyodorPavlovitch was pleased, he usually became expansive, but to‐day heseemed to restrain himself. Of Dmitri, for instance, he did not say aword. He was quite unmoved by the parting, and seemed, in fact, at aloss for something to say. Ivan noticed this particularly. “He must bebored with me,” he thought. Only when accompanying his son out on tothe steps, the old man began to fuss about. He would have kissed him,but Ivan made haste to hold out his hand, obviously avoiding the kiss.His father saw it at once, and instantly pulled himself up.
“Well, good luck to you, good luck to you!” he repeated from the steps.“You’ll come again some time or other? Mind you do come. I shall alwaysbe glad to see you. Well, Christ be with you!”
Ivan got into the carriage.
“Good‐by, Ivan! Don’t be too hard on me!” the father called for thelast time.
The whole household came out to take leave—Smerdyakov, Marfa andGrigory. Ivan gave them ten roubles each. When he had seated himself inthe carriage, Smerdyakov jumped up to arrange the rug.
“You see ... I am going to Tchermashnya,” broke suddenly from Ivan.Again, as the day before, the words seemed to drop of themselves, andhe laughed, too, a peculiar, nervous laugh. He remembered it longafter.
“It’s a true saying then, that ‘it’s always worth while speaking to aclever man,’ ” answered Smerdyakov firmly, looking significantly atIvan.
The carriage rolled away. Nothing was clear in Ivan’s soul, but helooked eagerly around him at the fields, at the hills, at the trees, ata flock of geese flying high overhead in the bright sky. And all of asudden he felt very happy. He tried to talk to the driver, and he feltintensely interested in an answer the peasant made him; but a minutelater he realized that he was not catching anything, and that he hadnot really even taken in the peasant’s answer. He was silent, and itwas pleasant even so. The air was fresh, pure and cool, the sky bright.The images of Alyosha and Katerina Ivanovna floated into his mind. Buthe softly smiled, blew softly on the friendly phantoms, and they flewaway. “There’s plenty of time for them,” he thought. They reached thestation quickly, changed horses, and galloped to Volovya. “Why is itworth while speaking to a clever man? What did he mean by that?” Thethought seemed suddenly to clutch at his breathing. “And why did I tellhim I was going to Tchermashnya?” They reached Volovya station. Ivangot out of the carriage, and the drivers stood round him bargainingover the journey of twelve versts to Tchermashnya. He told them toharness the horses. He went into the station house, looked round,glanced at the overseer’s wife, and suddenly went back to the entrance.
“I won’t go to Tchermashnya. Am I too late to reach the railway byseven, brothers?”
“We shall just do it. Shall we get the carriage out?”
“At once. Will any one of you be going to the town to‐morrow?”
“To be sure. Mitri here will.”
“Can you do me a service, Mitri? Go to my father’s, to FyodorPavlovitch Karamazov, and tell him I haven’t gone to Tchermashnya. Canyou?”
“Of course I can. I’ve known Fyodor Pavlovitch a long time.”
“And here’s something for you, for I dare say he won’t give youanything,” said Ivan, laughing gayly.
“You may depend on it he won’t.” Mitya laughed too. “Thank you, sir.I’ll be sure to do it.”
At seven o’clock Ivan got into the train and set off to Moscow “Awaywith the past. I’ve done with the old world for ever, and may I have nonews, no echo, from it. To a new life, new places and no looking back!”But instead of delight his soul was filled with such gloom, and hisheart ached with such anguish, as he had never known in his lifebefore. He was thinking all the night. The train flew on, and only atdaybreak, when he was approaching Moscow, he suddenly roused himselffrom his meditation.
“I am a scoundrel,” he whispered to himself.
Fyodor Pavlovitch remained well satisfied at having seen his son off.For two hours afterwards he felt almost happy, and sat drinking brandy.But suddenly something happened which was very annoying and unpleasantfor every one in the house, and completely upset Fyodor Pavlovitch’sequanimity at once. Smerdyakov went to the cellar for something andfell down from the top of the steps. Fortunately, Marfa Ignatyevna wasin the yard and heard him in time. She did not see the fall, but heardhis scream—the strange, peculiar scream, long familiar to her—thescream of the epileptic falling in a fit. They could not tell whetherthe fit had come on him at the moment he was descending the steps, sothat he must have fallen unconscious, or whether it was the fall andthe shock that had caused the fit in Smerdyakov, who was known to beliable to them. They found him at the bottom of the cellar steps,writhing in convulsions and foaming at the mouth. It was thought atfirst that he must have broken something—an arm or a leg—and hurthimself, but “God had preserved him,” as Marfa Ignatyevna expressedit—nothing of the kind had happened. But it was difficult to get himout of the cellar. They asked the neighbors to help and managed itsomehow. Fyodor Pavlovitch himself was present at the whole ceremony.He helped, evidently alarmed and upset. The sick man did not regainconsciousness; the convulsions ceased for a time, but then began again,and every one concluded that the same thing would happen, as hadhappened a year before, when he accidentally fell from the garret. Theyremembered that ice had been put on his head then. There was still icein the cellar, and Marfa Ignatyevna had some brought up. In theevening, Fyodor Pavlovitch sent for Doctor Herzenstube, who arrived atonce. He was a most estimable old man, and the most careful andconscientious doctor in the province. After careful examination, heconcluded that the fit was a very violent one and might have seriousconsequences; that meanwhile he, Herzenstube, did not fully understandit, but that by to‐morrow morning, if the present remedies wereunavailing, he would venture to try something else. The invalid wastaken to the lodge, to a room next to Grigory’s and Marfa Ignatyevna’s.
Then Fyodor Pavlovitch had one misfortune after another to put up withthat day. Marfa Ignatyevna cooked the dinner, and the soup, comparedwith Smerdyakov’s, was “no better than dish‐water,” and the fowl was sodried up that it was impossible to masticate it. To her master’sbitter, though deserved, reproaches, Marfa Ignatyevna replied that thefowl was a very old one to begin with, and that she had never beentrained as a cook. In the evening there was another trouble in storefor Fyodor Pavlovitch; he was informed that Grigory, who had not beenwell for the last three days, was completely laid up by his lumbago.Fyodor Pavlovitch finished his tea as early as possible and lockedhimself up alone in the house. He was in terrible excitement andsuspense. That evening he reckoned on Grushenka’s coming almost as acertainty. He had received from Smerdyakov that morning an assurance“that she had promised to come without fail.” The incorrigible oldman’s heart throbbed with excitement; he paced up and down his emptyrooms listening. He had to be on the alert. Dmitri might be on thewatch for her somewhere, and when she knocked on the window (Smerdyakovhad informed him two days before that he had told her where and how toknock) the door must be opened at once. She must not be a second in thepassage, for fear—which God forbid!—that she should be frightened andrun away. Fyodor Pavlovitch had much to think of, but never had hisheart been steeped in such voluptuous hopes. This time he could sayalmost certainly that she would come!



Book VI. The Russian Monk



Chapter I.Father Zossima And His Visitors

When with an anxious and aching heart Alyosha went into his elder’scell, he stood still almost astonished. Instead of a sick man at hislast gasp, perhaps unconscious, as he had feared to find him, he sawhim sitting up in his chair and, though weak and exhausted, his facewas bright and cheerful, he was surrounded by visitors and engaged in aquiet and joyful conversation. But he had only got up from his bed aquarter of an hour before Alyosha’s arrival; his visitors had gatheredtogether in his cell earlier, waiting for him to wake, having receiveda most confident assurance from Father Païssy that “the teacher wouldget up, and as he had himself promised in the morning, converse oncemore with those dear to his heart.” This promise and indeed every wordof the dying elder Father Païssy put implicit trust in. If he had seenhim unconscious, if he had seen him breathe his last, and yet had hispromise that he would rise up and say good‐by to him, he would not havebelieved perhaps even in death, but would still have expected the deadman to recover and fulfill his promise. In the morning as he lay downto sleep, Father Zossima had told him positively: “I shall not diewithout the delight of another conversation with you, beloved of myheart. I shall look once more on your dear face and pour out my heartto you once again.” The monks, who had gathered for this probably lastconversation with Father Zossima, had all been his devoted friends formany years. There were four of them: Father Iosif and Father Païssy,Father Mihaïl, the warden of the hermitage, a man not very old and farfrom being learned. He was of humble origin, of strong will andsteadfast faith, of austere appearance, but of deep tenderness, thoughhe obviously concealed it as though he were almost ashamed of it. Thefourth, Father Anfim, was a very old and humble little monk of thepoorest peasant class. He was almost illiterate, and very quiet,scarcely speaking to any one. He was the humblest of the humble, andlooked as though he had been frightened by something great and awfulbeyond the scope of his intelligence. Father Zossima had a greataffection for this timorous man, and always treated him with markedrespect, though perhaps there was no one he had known to whom he hadsaid less, in spite of the fact that he had spent years wandering aboutholy Russia with him. That was very long ago, forty years before, whenFather Zossima first began his life as a monk in a poor and littlemonastery at Kostroma, and when, shortly after, he had accompaniedFather Anfim on his pilgrimage to collect alms for their poormonastery.
The whole party were in the bedroom which, as we mentioned before, wasvery small, so that there was scarcely room for the four of them (inaddition to Porfiry, the novice, who stood) to sit round Father Zossimaon chairs brought from the sitting‐room. It was already beginning toget dark, the room was lighted up by the lamps and the candles beforethe ikons.
Seeing Alyosha standing embarrassed in the doorway, Father Zossimasmiled at him joyfully and held out his hand.
“Welcome, my quiet one, welcome, my dear, here you are too. I knew youwould come.”
Alyosha went up to him, bowed down before him to the ground and wept.Something surged up from his heart, his soul was quivering, he wantedto sob.
“Come, don’t weep over me yet,” Father Zossima smiled, laying his righthand on his head. “You see I am sitting up talking; maybe I shall liveanother twenty years yet, as that dear good woman from Vishegorye, withher little Lizaveta in her arms, wished me yesterday. God bless themother and the little girl Lizaveta,” he crossed himself. “Porfiry, didyou take her offering where I told you?”
He meant the sixty copecks brought him the day before by thegood‐humored woman to be given “to some one poorer than me.” Suchofferings, always of money gained by personal toil, are made by way ofpenance voluntarily undertaken. The elder had sent Porfiry the eveningbefore to a widow, whose house had been burnt down lately, and whoafter the fire had gone with her children begging alms. Porfiryhastened to reply that he had given the money, as he had beeninstructed, “from an unknown benefactress.”
“Get up, my dear boy,” the elder went on to Alyosha. “Let me look atyou. Have you been home and seen your brother?” It seemed strange toAlyosha that he asked so confidently and precisely, about one of hisbrothers only—but which one? Then perhaps he had sent him out bothyesterday and to‐day for the sake of that brother.
“I have seen one of my brothers,” answered Alyosha.
“I mean the elder one, to whom I bowed down.”
“I only saw him yesterday and could not find him to‐day,” said Alyosha.
“Make haste to find him, go again to‐morrow and make haste, leaveeverything and make haste. Perhaps you may still have time to preventsomething terrible. I bowed down yesterday to the great suffering instore for him.”
He was suddenly silent and seemed to be pondering. The words werestrange. Father Iosif, who had witnessed the scene yesterday, exchangedglances with Father Païssy. Alyosha could not resist asking:
“Father and teacher,” he began with extreme emotion, “your words aretoo obscure.... What is this suffering in store for him?”
“Don’t inquire. I seemed to see something terrible yesterday ... asthough his whole future were expressed in his eyes. A look came intohis eyes—so that I was instantly horror‐stricken at what that man ispreparing for himself. Once or twice in my life I’ve seen such a lookin a man’s face ... reflecting as it were his future fate, and thatfate, alas, came to pass. I sent you to him, Alexey, for I thought yourbrotherly face would help him. But everything and all our fates arefrom the Lord. ‘Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, itabideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.’ Rememberthat. You, Alexey, I’ve many times silently blessed for your face, knowthat,” added the elder with a gentle smile. “This is what I think ofyou, you will go forth from these walls, but will live like a monk inthe world. You will have many enemies, but even your foes will loveyou. Life will bring you many misfortunes, but you will find yourhappiness in them, and will bless life and will make others blessit—which is what matters most. Well, that is your character. Fathersand teachers,” he addressed his friends with a tender smile, “I havenever till to‐day told even him why the face of this youth is so dearto me. Now I will tell you. His face has been as it were a remembranceand a prophecy for me. At the dawn of my life when I was a child I hadan elder brother who died before my eyes at seventeen. And later on inthe course of my life I gradually became convinced that that brotherhad been for a guidance and a sign from on high for me. For had he notcome into my life, I should never perhaps, so I fancy at least, havebecome a monk and entered on this precious path. He appeared first tome in my childhood, and here, at the end of my pilgrimage, he seems tohave come to me over again. It is marvelous, fathers and teachers, thatAlexey, who has some, though not a great, resemblance in face, seems tome so like him spiritually, that many times I have taken him for thatyoung man, my brother, mysteriously come back to me at the end of mypilgrimage, as a reminder and an inspiration. So that I positivelywondered at so strange a dream in myself. Do you hear this, Porfiry?”he turned to the novice who waited on him. “Many times I’ve seen inyour face as it were a look of mortification that I love Alexey morethan you. Now you know why that was so, but I love you too, know that,and many times I grieved at your mortification. I should like to tellyou, dear friends, of that youth, my brother, for there has been nopresence in my life more precious, more significant and touching. Myheart is full of tenderness, and I look at my whole life at this momentas though living through it again.”

Here I must observe that this last conversation of Father Zossima withthe friends who visited him on the last day of his life has been partlypreserved in writing. Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov wrote it down frommemory, some time after his elder’s death. But whether this was onlythe conversation that took place then, or whether he added to it hisnotes of parts of former conversations with his teacher, I cannotdetermine. In his account, Father Zossima’s talk goes on withoutinterruption, as though he told his life to his friends in the form ofa story, though there is no doubt, from other accounts of it, that theconversation that evening was general. Though the guests did notinterrupt Father Zossima much, yet they too talked, perhaps even toldsomething themselves. Besides, Father Zossima could not have carried onan uninterrupted narrative, for he was sometimes gasping for breath,his voice failed him, and he even lay down to rest on his bed, thoughhe did not fall asleep and his visitors did not leave their seats. Onceor twice the conversation was interrupted by Father Païssy’s readingthe Gospel. It is worthy of note, too, that no one of them supposedthat he would die that night, for on that evening of his life after hisdeep sleep in the day he seemed suddenly to have found new strength,which kept him up through this long conversation. It was like a lasteffort of love which gave him marvelous energy; only for a little time,however, for his life was cut short immediately.... But of that later.I will only add now that I have preferred to confine myself to theaccount given by Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov. It will be shorter andnot so fatiguing, though of course, as I must repeat, Alyosha took agreat deal from previous conversations and added them to it.
Notes of the Life of the deceased Priest and Monk, the Elder Zossima,taken from his own words by Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTES

_(a)_ _Father Zossima’s Brother_

Beloved fathers and teachers, I was born in a distant province in thenorth, in the town of V. My father was a gentleman by birth, but of nogreat consequence or position. He died when I was only two years old,and I don’t remember him at all. He left my mother a small house builtof wood, and a fortune, not large, but sufficient to keep her and herchildren in comfort. There were two of us, my elder brother Markel andI. He was eight years older than I was, of hasty irritable temperament,but kind‐hearted and never ironical. He was remarkably silent,especially at home with me, his mother, and the servants. He did wellat school, but did not get on with his schoolfellows, though he neverquarreled, at least so my mother has told me. Six months before hisdeath, when he was seventeen, he made friends with a political exilewho had been banished from Moscow to our town for freethinking, and leda solitary existence there. He was a good scholar who had gaineddistinction in philosophy in the university. Something made him take afancy to Markel, and he used to ask him to see him. The young man wouldspend whole evenings with him during that winter, till the exile wassummoned to Petersburg to take up his post again at his own request, ashe had powerful friends.
It was the beginning of Lent, and Markel would not fast, he was rudeand laughed at it. “That’s all silly twaddle, and there is no God,” hesaid, horrifying my mother, the servants, and me too. For though I wasonly nine, I too was aghast at hearing such words. We had fourservants, all serfs. I remember my mother selling one of the four, thecook Afimya, who was lame and elderly, for sixty paper roubles, andhiring a free servant to take her place.
In the sixth week in Lent, my brother, who was never strong and had atendency to consumption, was taken ill. He was tall but thin anddelicate‐ looking, and of very pleasing countenance. I suppose hecaught cold, anyway the doctor, who came, soon whispered to my motherthat it was galloping consumption, that he would not live through thespring. My mother began weeping, and, careful not to alarm my brother,she entreated him to go to church, to confess and take the sacrament,as he was still able to move about. This made him angry, and he saidsomething profane about the church. He grew thoughtful, however; heguessed at once that he was seriously ill, and that that was why hismother was begging him to confess and take the sacrament. He had beenaware, indeed, for a long time past, that he was far from well, and hada year before coolly observed at dinner to our mother and me, “My lifewon’t be long among you, I may not live another year,” which seemed nowlike a prophecy.
Three days passed and Holy Week had come. And on Tuesday morning mybrother began going to church. “I am doing this simply for your sake,mother, to please and comfort you,” he said. My mother wept with joyand grief. “His end must be near,” she thought, “if there’s such achange in him.” But he was not able to go to church long, he took tohis bed, so he had to confess and take the sacrament at home.
It was a late Easter, and the days were bright, fine, and full offragrance. I remember he used to cough all night and sleep badly, butin the morning he dressed and tried to sit up in an arm‐chair. That’show I remember him sitting, sweet and gentle, smiling, his face brightand joyous, in spite of his illness. A marvelous change passed overhim, his spirit seemed transformed. The old nurse would come in andsay, “Let me light the lamp before the holy image, my dear.” And oncehe would not have allowed it and would have blown it out.
“Light it, light it, dear, I was a wretch to have prevented you doingit. You are praying when you light the lamp, and I am praying when Irejoice seeing you. So we are praying to the same God.”
Those words seemed strange to us, and mother would go to her room andweep, but when she went in to him she wiped her eyes and lookedcheerful. “Mother, don’t weep, darling,” he would say, “I’ve long tolive yet, long to rejoice with you, and life is glad and joyful.”
“Ah, dear boy, how can you talk of joy when you lie feverish at night,coughing as though you would tear yourself to pieces.”
“Don’t cry, mother,” he would answer, “life is paradise, and we are allin paradise, but we won’t see it, if we would, we should have heaven onearth the next day.”
Every one wondered at his words, he spoke so strangely and positively;we were all touched and wept. Friends came to see us. “Dear ones,” hewould say to them, “what have I done that you should love me so, howcan you love any one like me, and how was it I did not know, I did notappreciate it before?”
When the servants came in to him he would say continually, “Dear, kindpeople, why are you doing so much for me, do I deserve to be waited on?If it were God’s will for me to live, I would wait on you, for all menshould wait on one another.”
Mother shook her head as she listened. “My darling, it’s your illnessmakes you talk like that.”
“Mother, darling,” he would say, “there must be servants and masters,but if so I will be the servant of my servants, the same as they are tome. And another thing, mother, every one of us has sinned against allmen, and I more than any.”
Mother positively smiled at that, smiled through her tears. “Why, howcould you have sinned against all men, more than all? Robbers andmurderers have done that, but what sin have you committed yet, that youhold yourself more guilty than all?”
“Mother, little heart of mine,” he said (he had begun using suchstrange caressing words at that time), “little heart of mine, my joy,believe me, every one is really responsible to all men for all men andfor everything. I don’t know how to explain it to you, but I feel it isso, painfully even. And how is it we went on then living, getting angryand not knowing?”
So he would get up every day, more and more sweet and joyous and fullof love. When the doctor, an old German called Eisenschmidt, came:
“Well, doctor, have I another day in this world?” he would ask, joking.
“You’ll live many days yet,” the doctor would answer, “and months andyears too.”
“Months and years!” he would exclaim. “Why reckon the days? One day isenough for a man to know all happiness. My dear ones, why do wequarrel, try to outshine each other and keep grudges against eachother? Let’s go straight into the garden, walk and play there, love,appreciate, and kiss each other, and glorify life.”
“Your son cannot last long,” the doctor told my mother, as sheaccompanied him to the door. “The disease is affecting his brain.”
The windows of his room looked out into the garden, and our garden wasa shady one, with old trees in it which were coming into bud. The firstbirds of spring were flitting in the branches, chirruping and singingat the windows. And looking at them and admiring them, he begansuddenly begging their forgiveness too: “Birds of heaven, happy birds,forgive me, for I have sinned against you too.” None of us couldunderstand that at the time, but he shed tears of joy. “Yes,” he said,“there was such a glory of God all about me: birds, trees, meadows,sky; only I lived in shame and dishonored it all and did not notice thebeauty and glory.”
“You take too many sins on yourself,” mother used to say, weeping.
“Mother, darling, it’s for joy, not for grief I am crying. Though Ican’t explain it to you, I like to humble myself before them, for Idon’t know how to love them enough. If I have sinned against every one,yet all forgive me, too, and that’s heaven. Am I not in heaven now?”
And there was a great deal more I don’t remember. I remember I wentonce into his room when there was no one else there. It was a brightevening, the sun was setting, and the whole room was lighted up. Hebeckoned me, and I went up to him. He put his hands on my shoulders andlooked into my face tenderly, lovingly; he said nothing for a minute,only looked at me like that.
“Well,” he said, “run and play now, enjoy life for me too.”
I went out then and ran to play. And many times in my life afterwards Iremembered even with tears how he told me to enjoy life for him too.There were many other marvelous and beautiful sayings of his, though wedid not understand them at the time. He died the third week afterEaster. He was fully conscious though he could not talk; up to his lasthour he did not change. He looked happy, his eyes beamed and sought us,he smiled at us, beckoned us. There was a great deal of talk even inthe town about his death. I was impressed by all this at the time, butnot too much so, though I cried a good deal at his funeral. I was youngthen, a child, but a lasting impression, a hidden feeling of it all,remained in my heart, ready to rise up and respond when the time came.So indeed it happened.
_(b) Of the Holy Scriptures in the Life of Father Zossima_

I was left alone with my mother. Her friends began advising her to sendme to Petersburg as other parents did. “You have only one son now,”they said, “and have a fair income, and you will be depriving himperhaps of a brilliant career if you keep him here.” They suggested Ishould be sent to Petersburg to the Cadet Corps, that I mightafterwards enter the Imperial Guard. My mother hesitated for a longtime, it was awful to part with her only child, but she made up hermind to it at last, though not without many tears, believing she wasacting for my happiness. She brought me to Petersburg and put me intothe Cadet Corps, and I never saw her again. For she too died threeyears afterwards. She spent those three years mourning and grieving forboth of us.
From the house of my childhood I have brought nothing but preciousmemories, for there are no memories more precious than those of earlychildhood in one’s first home. And that is almost always so if there isany love and harmony in the family at all. Indeed, precious memoriesmay remain even of a bad home, if only the heart knows how to find whatis precious. With my memories of home I count, too, my memories of theBible, which, child as I was, I was very eager to read at home. I had abook of Scripture history then with excellent pictures, called _AHundred and Four Stories from the Old and New Testament_, and I learnedto read from it. I have it lying on my shelf now, I keep it as aprecious relic of the past. But even before I learned to read, Iremember first being moved to devotional feeling at eight years old. Mymother took me alone to mass (I don’t remember where my brother was atthe time) on the Monday before Easter. It was a fine day, and Iremember to‐day, as though I saw it now, how the incense rose from thecenser and softly floated upwards and, overhead in the cupola, mingledin rising waves with the sunlight that streamed in at the littlewindow. I was stirred by the sight, and for the first time in my life Iconsciously received the seed of God’s word in my heart. A youth cameout into the middle of the church carrying a big book, so large that atthe time I fancied he could scarcely carry it. He laid it on thereading desk, opened it, and began reading, and suddenly for the firsttime I understood something read in the church of God. In the land ofUz, there lived a man, righteous and God‐fearing, and he had greatwealth, so many camels, so many sheep and asses, and his childrenfeasted, and he loved them very much and prayed for them. “It may bethat my sons have sinned in their feasting.” Now the devil came beforethe Lord together with the sons of God, and said to the Lord that hehad gone up and down the earth and under the earth. “And hast thouconsidered my servant Job?” God asked of him. And God boasted to thedevil, pointing to his great and holy servant. And the devil laughed atGod’s words. “Give him over to me and Thou wilt see that Thy servantwill murmur against Thee and curse Thy name.” And God gave up the justman He loved so, to the devil. And the devil smote his children and hiscattle and scattered his wealth, all of a sudden like a thunderboltfrom heaven. And Job rent his mantle and fell down upon the ground andcried aloud, “Naked came I out of my mother’s womb, and naked shall Ireturn into the earth; the Lord gave and the Lord has taken away.Blessed be the name of the Lord for ever and ever.”
Fathers and teachers, forgive my tears now, for all my childhood risesup again before me, and I breathe now as I breathed then, with thebreast of a little child of eight, and I feel as I did then, awe andwonder and gladness. The camels at that time caught my imagination, andSatan, who talked like that with God, and God who gave His servant upto destruction, and His servant crying out: “Blessed be Thy namealthough Thou dost punish me,” and then the soft and sweet singing inthe church: “Let my prayer rise up before Thee,” and again incense fromthe priest’s censer and the kneeling and the prayer. Ever sincethen—only yesterday I took it up—I’ve never been able to read thatsacred tale without tears. And how much that is great, mysterious andunfathomable there is in it! Afterwards I heard the words of mockeryand blame, proud words, “How could God give up the most loved of Hissaints for the diversion of the devil, take from him his children,smite him with sore boils so that he cleansed the corruption from hissores with a pot‐sherd—and for no object except to boast to the devil!‘See what My saint can suffer for My sake.’ ” But the greatness of itlies just in the fact that it is a mystery—that the passing earthlyshow and the eternal verity are brought together in it. In the face ofthe earthly truth, the eternal truth is accomplished. The Creator, justas on the first days of creation He ended each day with praise: “Thatis good that I have created,” looks upon Job and again praises Hiscreation. And Job, praising the Lord, serves not only Him but all Hiscreation for generations and generations, and for ever and ever, sincefor that he was ordained. Good heavens, what a book it is, and whatlessons there are in it! What a book the Bible is, what a miracle, whatstrength is given with it to man! It is like a mold cast of the worldand man and human nature, everything is there, and a law for everythingfor all the ages. And what mysteries are solved and revealed! Godraises Job again, gives him wealth again. Many years pass by, and hehas other children and loves them. But how could he love those new oneswhen those first children are no more, when he has lost them?Remembering them, how could he be fully happy with those new ones,however dear the new ones might be? But he could, he could. It’s thegreat mystery of human life that old grief passes gradually into quiet,tender joy. The mild serenity of age takes the place of the riotousblood of youth. I bless the rising sun each day, and, as before, myhearts sings to meet it, but now I love even more its setting, its longslanting rays and the soft, tender, gentle memories that come withthem, the dear images from the whole of my long, happy life—and overall the Divine Truth, softening, reconciling, forgiving! My life isending, I know that well, but every day that is left me I feel how myearthly life is in touch with a new infinite, unknown, that approachinglife, the nearness of which sets my soul quivering with rapture, mymind glowing and my heart weeping with joy.
Friends and teachers, I have heard more than once, and of late one mayhear it more often, that the priests, and above all the villagepriests, are complaining on all sides of their miserable income andtheir humiliating lot. They plainly state, even in print—I’ve read itmyself—that they are unable to teach the Scriptures to the peoplebecause of the smallness of their means, and if Lutherans and hereticscome and lead the flock astray, they let them lead them astray becausethey have so little to live upon. May the Lord increase the sustenancethat is so precious to them, for their complaint is just, too. But of atruth I say, if any one is to blame in the matter, half the fault isours. For he may be short of time, he may say truly that he isoverwhelmed all the while with work and services, but still it’s notall the time, even he has an hour a week to remember God. And he doesnot work the whole year round. Let him gather round him once a week,some hour in the evening, if only the children at first—the fatherswill hear of it and they too will begin to come. There’s no need tobuild halls for this, let him take them into his own cottage. Theywon’t spoil his cottage, they would only be there one hour. Let himopen that book and begin reading it without grand words orsuperciliousness, without condescension to them, but gently and kindly,being glad that he is reading to them and that they are listening withattention, loving the words himself, only stopping from time to time toexplain words that are not understood by the peasants. Don’t beanxious, they will understand everything, the orthodox heart willunderstand all! Let him read them about Abraham and Sarah, about Isaacand Rebecca, of how Jacob went to Laban and wrestled with the Lord inhis dream and said, “This place is holy”—and he will impress the devoutmind of the peasant. Let him read, especially to the children, how thebrothers sold Joseph, the tender boy, the dreamer and prophet, intobondage, and told their father that a wild beast had devoured him, andshowed him his blood‐ stained clothes. Let him read them how thebrothers afterwards journeyed into Egypt for corn, and Joseph, alreadya great ruler, unrecognized by them, tormented them, accused them, kepthis brother Benjamin, and all through love: “I love you, and loving youI torment you.” For he remembered all his life how they had sold him tothe merchants in the burning desert by the well, and how, wringing hishands, he had wept and besought his brothers not to sell him as a slavein a strange land. And how, seeing them again after many years, heloved them beyond measure, but he harassed and tormented them in love.He left them at last not able to bear the suffering of his heart, flunghimself on his bed and wept. Then, wiping his tears away, he went outto them joyful and told them, “Brothers, I am your brother Joseph!” Lethim read them further how happy old Jacob was on learning that hisdarling boy was still alive, and how he went to Egypt leaving his owncountry, and died in a foreign land, bequeathing his great prophecythat had lain mysteriously hidden in his meek and timid heart all hislife, that from his offspring, from Judah, will come the great hope ofthe world, the Messiah and Saviour.
Fathers and teachers, forgive me and don’t be angry, that like a littlechild I’ve been babbling of what you know long ago, and can teach me ahundred times more skillfully. I only speak from rapture, and forgivemy tears, for I love the Bible. Let him too weep, the priest of God,and be sure that the hearts of his listeners will throb in response.Only a little tiny seed is needed—drop it into the heart of the peasantand it won’t die, it will live in his soul all his life, it will behidden in the midst of his darkness and sin, like a bright spot, like agreat reminder. And there’s no need of much teaching or explanation, hewill understand it all simply. Do you suppose that the peasants don’tunderstand? Try reading them the touching story of the fair Esther andthe haughty Vashti; or the miraculous story of Jonah in the whale.Don’t forget either the parables of Our Lord, choose especially fromthe Gospel of St. Luke (that is what I did), and then from the Acts ofthe Apostles the conversion of St. Paul (that you mustn’t leave out onany account), and from the _Lives of the Saints_, for instance, thelife of Alexey, the man of God and, greatest of all, the happy martyrand the seer of God, Mary of Egypt—and you will penetrate their heartswith these simple tales. Give one hour a week to it in spite of yourpoverty, only one little hour. And you will see for yourselves that ourpeople is gracious and grateful, and will repay you a hundred‐fold.Mindful of the kindness of their priest and the moving words they haveheard from him, they will of their own accord help him in his fieldsand in his house, and will treat him with more respect than before—sothat it will even increase his worldly well‐being too. The thing is sosimple that sometimes one is even afraid to put it into words, for fearof being laughed at, and yet how true it is! One who does not believein God will not believe in God’s people. He who believes in God’speople will see His Holiness too, even though he had not believed in ittill then. Only the people and their future spiritual power willconvert our atheists, who have torn themselves away from their nativesoil.
And what is the use of Christ’s words, unless we set an example? Thepeople is lost without the Word of God, for its soul is athirst for theWord and for all that is good.
In my youth, long ago, nearly forty years ago, I traveled all overRussia with Father Anfim, collecting funds for our monastery, and westayed one night on the bank of a great navigable river with somefishermen. A good‐ looking peasant lad, about eighteen, joined us; hehad to hurry back next morning to pull a merchant’s barge along thebank. I noticed him looking straight before him with clear and tendereyes. It was a bright, warm, still, July night, a cool mist rose fromthe broad river, we could hear the plash of a fish, the birds werestill, all was hushed and beautiful, everything praying to God. Only wetwo were not sleeping, the lad and I, and we talked of the beauty ofthis world of God’s and of the great mystery of it. Every blade ofgrass, every insect, ant, and golden bee, all so marvelously know theirpath, though they have not intelligence, they bear witness to themystery of God and continually accomplish it themselves. I saw the dearlad’s heart was moved. He told me that he loved the forest and theforest birds. He was a bird‐catcher, knew the note of each of them,could call each bird. “I know nothing better than to be in the forest,”said he, “though all things are good.”
“Truly,” I answered him, “all things are good and fair, because all istruth. Look,” said I, “at the horse, that great beast that is so nearto man; or the lowly, pensive ox, which feeds him and works for him;look at their faces, what meekness, what devotion to man, who oftenbeats them mercilessly. What gentleness, what confidence and whatbeauty! It’s touching to know that there’s no sin in them, for all, allexcept man, is sinless, and Christ has been with them before us.”
“Why,” asked the boy, “is Christ with them too?”
“It cannot but be so,” said I, “since the Word is for all. All creationand all creatures, every leaf is striving to the Word, singing glory toGod, weeping to Christ, unconsciously accomplishing this by the mysteryof their sinless life. Yonder,” said I, “in the forest wanders thedreadful bear, fierce and menacing, and yet innocent in it.” And I toldhim how once a bear came to a great saint who had taken refuge in atiny cell in the wood. And the great saint pitied him, went up to himwithout fear and gave him a piece of bread. “Go along,” said he,“Christ be with you,” and the savage beast walked away meekly andobediently, doing no harm. And the lad was delighted that the bear hadwalked away without hurting the saint, and that Christ was with himtoo. “Ah,” said he, “how good that is, how good and beautiful is allGod’s work!” He sat musing softly and sweetly. I saw he understood. Andhe slept beside me a light and sinless sleep. May God bless youth! AndI prayed for him as I went to sleep. Lord, send peace and light to Thypeople!



Chapter II.The Duel

_(c) Recollections of Father Zossima’s Youth before he became a Monk.The Duel_
I spent a long time, almost eight years, in the military cadet schoolat Petersburg, and in the novelty of my surroundings there, many of mychildish impressions grew dimmer, though I forgot nothing. I picked upso many new habits and opinions that I was transformed into a cruel,absurd, almost savage creature. A surface polish of courtesy andsociety manners I did acquire together with the French language.
But we all, myself included, looked upon the soldiers in our service ascattle. I was perhaps worse than the rest in that respect, for I was somuch more impressionable than my companions. By the time we left theschool as officers, we were ready to lay down our lives for the honorof the regiment, but no one of us had any knowledge of the real meaningof honor, and if any one had known it, he would have been the first toridicule it. Drunkenness, debauchery and devilry were what we almostprided ourselves on. I don’t say that we were bad by nature, all theseyoung men were good fellows, but they behaved badly, and I worst ofall. What made it worse for me was that I had come into my own money,and so I flung myself into a life of pleasure, and plunged headlonginto all the recklessness of youth.
I was fond of reading, yet strange to say, the Bible was the one book Inever opened at that time, though I always carried it about with me,and I was never separated from it; in very truth I was keeping thatbook “for the day and the hour, for the month and the year,” though Iknew it not.
After four years of this life, I chanced to be in the town of K. whereour regiment was stationed at the time. We found the people of the townhospitable, rich and fond of entertainments. I met with a cordialreception everywhere, as I was of a lively temperament and was known tobe well off, which always goes a long way in the world. And then acircumstance happened which was the beginning of it all.
I formed an attachment to a beautiful and intelligent young girl ofnoble and lofty character, the daughter of people much respected. Theywere well‐to‐do people of influence and position. They always gave me acordial and friendly reception. I fancied that the young lady looked onme with favor and my heart was aflame at such an idea. Later on I sawand fully realized that I perhaps was not so passionately in love withher at all, but only recognized the elevation of her mind andcharacter, which I could not indeed have helped doing. I was prevented,however, from making her an offer at the time by my selfishness, I wasloath to part with the allurements of my free and licentious bachelorlife in the heyday of my youth, and with my pockets full of money. Idid drop some hint as to my feelings however, though I put off takingany decisive step for a time. Then, all of a sudden, we were orderedoff for two months to another district.
On my return two months later, I found the young lady already marriedto a rich neighboring landowner, a very amiable man, still young thougholder than I was, connected with the best Petersburg society, which Iwas not, and of excellent education, which I also was not. I was sooverwhelmed at this unexpected circumstance that my mind was positivelyclouded. The worst of it all was that, as I learned then, the younglandowner had been a long while betrothed to her, and I had met himindeed many times in her house, but blinded by my conceit I had noticednothing. And this particularly mortified me; almost everybody had knownall about it, while I knew nothing. I was filled with suddenirrepressible fury. With flushed face I began recalling how often I hadbeen on the point of declaring my love to her, and as she had notattempted to stop me or to warn me, she must, I concluded, have beenlaughing at me all the time. Later on, of course, I reflected andremembered that she had been very far from laughing at me; on thecontrary, she used to turn off any love‐making on my part with a jestand begin talking of other subjects; but at that moment I was incapableof reflecting and was all eagerness for revenge. I am surprised toremember that my wrath and revengeful feelings were extremely repugnantto my own nature, for being of an easy temper, I found it difficult tobe angry with any one for long, and so I had to work myself upartificially and became at last revolting and absurd.
I waited for an opportunity and succeeded in insulting my “rival” inthe presence of a large company. I insulted him on a perfectlyextraneous pretext, jeering at his opinion upon an important publicevent—it was in the year 1826[5]—and my jeer was, so people said,clever and effective. Then I forced him to ask for an explanation, andbehaved so rudely that he accepted my challenge in spite of the vastinequality between us, as I was younger, a person of no consequence,and of inferior rank. I learned afterwards for a fact that it was froma jealous feeling on his side also that my challenge was accepted; hehad been rather jealous of me on his wife’s account before theirmarriage; he fancied now that if he submitted to be insulted by me andrefused to accept my challenge, and if she heard of it, she might beginto despise him and waver in her love for him. I soon found a second ina comrade, an ensign of our regiment. In those days though duels wereseverely punished, yet dueling was a kind of fashion among theofficers—so strong and deeply rooted will a brutal prejudice sometimesbe.
It was the end of June, and our meeting was to take place at seveno’clock the next day on the outskirts of the town—and then somethinghappened that in very truth was the turning‐point of my life. In theevening, returning home in a savage and brutal humor, I flew into arage with my orderly Afanasy, and gave him two blows in the face withall my might, so that it was covered with blood. He had not long beenin my service and I had struck him before, but never with suchferocious cruelty. And, believe me, though it’s forty years ago, Irecall it now with shame and pain. I went to bed and slept for aboutthree hours; when I waked up the day was breaking. I got up—I did notwant to sleep any more—I went to the window—opened it, it looked outupon the garden; I saw the sun rising; it was warm and beautiful, thebirds were singing.
“What’s the meaning of it?” I thought. “I feel in my heart as it weresomething vile and shameful. Is it because I am going to shed blood?No,” I thought, “I feel it’s not that. Can it be that I am afraid ofdeath, afraid of being killed? No, that’s not it, that’s not it atall.”... And all at once I knew what it was: it was because I hadbeaten Afanasy the evening before! It all rose before my mind, it allwas as it were repeated over again; he stood before me and I wasbeating him straight on the face and he was holding his arms stifflydown, his head erect, his eyes fixed upon me as though on parade. Hestaggered at every blow and did not even dare to raise his hands toprotect himself. That is what a man has been brought to, and that was aman beating a fellow creature! What a crime! It was as though a sharpdagger had pierced me right through. I stood as if I were struck dumb,while the sun was shining, the leaves were rejoicing and the birds weretrilling the praise of God.... I hid my face in my hands, fell on mybed and broke into a storm of tears. And then I remembered my brotherMarkel and what he said on his death‐bed to his servants: “My dearones, why do you wait on me, why do you love me, am I worth yourwaiting on me?”
“Yes, am I worth it?” flashed through my mind. “After all what am Iworth, that another man, a fellow creature, made in the likeness andimage of God, should serve me?” For the first time in my life thisquestion forced itself upon me. He had said, “Mother, my little heart,in truth we are each responsible to all for all, it’s only that mendon’t know this. If they knew it, the world would be a paradise atonce.”
“God, can that too be false?” I thought as I wept. “In truth, perhaps,I am more than all others responsible for all, a greater sinner thanall men in the world.” And all at once the whole truth in its fulllight appeared to me; what was I going to do? I was going to kill agood, clever, noble man, who had done me no wrong, and by depriving hiswife of happiness for the rest of her life, I should be torturing andkilling her too. I lay thus in my bed with my face in the pillow,heedless how the time was passing. Suddenly my second, the ensign, camein with the pistols to fetch me.
“Ah,” said he, “it’s a good thing you are up already, it’s time we wereoff, come along!”
I did not know what to do and hurried to and fro undecided; we went outto the carriage, however.
“Wait here a minute,” I said to him. “I’ll be back directly, I haveforgotten my purse.”
And I ran back alone, to Afanasy’s little room.
“Afanasy,” I said, “I gave you two blows on the face yesterday, forgiveme,” I said.
He started as though he were frightened, and looked at me; and I sawthat it was not enough, and on the spot, in my full officer’s uniform,I dropped at his feet and bowed my head to the ground.
“Forgive me,” I said.
Then he was completely aghast.
“Your honor ... sir, what are you doing? Am I worth it?”
And he burst out crying as I had done before, hid this face in hishands, turned to the window and shook all over with his sobs. I flewout to my comrade and jumped into the carriage.
“Ready,” I cried. “Have you ever seen a conqueror?” I asked him. “Hereis one before you.”
I was in ecstasy, laughing and talking all the way, I don’t rememberwhat about.
He looked at me. “Well, brother, you are a plucky fellow, you’ll keepup the honor of the uniform, I can see.”
So we reached the place and found them there, waiting us. We wereplaced twelve paces apart; he had the first shot. I stood gayly,looking him full in the face; I did not twitch an eyelash, I lookedlovingly at him, for I knew what I would do. His shot just grazed mycheek and ear.
“Thank God,” I cried, “no man has been killed,” and I seized my pistol,turned back and flung it far away into the wood. “That’s the place foryou,” I cried.
I turned to my adversary.
“Forgive me, young fool that I am, sir,” I said, “for my unprovokedinsult to you and for forcing you to fire at me. I am ten times worsethan you and more, maybe. Tell that to the person whom you hold dearestin the world.”
I had no sooner said this than they all three shouted at me.
“Upon my word,” cried my adversary, annoyed, “if you did not want tofight, why did not you let me alone?”
“Yesterday I was a fool, to‐day I know better,” I answered him gayly.
“As to yesterday, I believe you, but as for to‐day, it is difficult toagree with your opinion,” said he.
“Bravo,” I cried, clapping my hands. “I agree with you there too. Ihave deserved it!”
“Will you shoot, sir, or not?”
“No, I won’t,” I said; “if you like, fire at me again, but it would bebetter for you not to fire.”
The seconds, especially mine, were shouting too: “Can you disgrace theregiment like this, facing your antagonist and begging his forgiveness!If I’d only known this!”
I stood facing them all, not laughing now.
“Gentlemen,” I said, “is it really so wonderful in these days to find aman who can repent of his stupidity and publicly confess hiswrongdoing?”
“But not in a duel,” cried my second again.
“That’s what’s so strange,” I said. “For I ought to have owned my faultas soon as I got here, before he had fired a shot, before leading himinto a great and deadly sin; but we have made our life so grotesque,that to act in that way would have been almost impossible, for onlyafter I have faced his shot at the distance of twelve paces could mywords have any significance for him, and if I had spoken before, hewould have said, ‘He is a coward, the sight of the pistols hasfrightened him, no use to listen to him.’ Gentlemen,” I cried suddenly,speaking straight from my heart, “look around you at the gifts of God,the clear sky, the pure air, the tender grass, the birds; nature isbeautiful and sinless, and we, only we, are sinful and foolish, and wedon’t understand that life is heaven, for we have only to understandthat and it will at once be fulfilled in all its beauty, we shallembrace each other and weep.”
I would have said more but I could not; my voice broke with thesweetness and youthful gladness of it, and there was such bliss in myheart as I had never known before in my life.
“All this as rational and edifying,” said my antagonist, “and in anycase you are an original person.”
“You may laugh,” I said to him, laughing too, “but afterwards you willapprove of me.”
“Oh, I am ready to approve of you now,” said he; “will you shake hands?for I believe you are genuinely sincere.”
“No,” I said, “not now, later on when I have grown worthier and deserveyour esteem, then shake hands and you will do well.”
We went home, my second upbraiding me all the way, while I kissed him.All my comrades heard of the affair at once and gathered together topass judgment on me the same day.
“He has disgraced the uniform,” they said; “let him resign hiscommission.”
Some stood up for me: “He faced the shot,” they said.
“Yes, but he was afraid of his other shot and begged for forgiveness.”
“If he had been afraid of being shot, he would have shot his own pistolfirst before asking forgiveness, while he flung it loaded into theforest. No, there’s something else in this, something original.”
I enjoyed listening and looking at them. “My dear friends andcomrades,” said I, “don’t worry about my resigning my commission, for Ihave done so already. I have sent in my papers this morning and as soonas I get my discharge I shall go into a monastery—it’s with that objectI am leaving the regiment.”
When I had said this every one of them burst out laughing.
“You should have told us of that first, that explains everything, wecan’t judge a monk.”
They laughed and could not stop themselves, and not scornfully, butkindly and merrily. They all felt friendly to me at once, even thosewho had been sternest in their censure, and all the following month,before my discharge came, they could not make enough of me. “Ah, youmonk,” they would say. And every one said something kind to me, theybegan trying to dissuade me, even to pity me: “What are you doing toyourself?”
“No,” they would say, “he is a brave fellow, he faced fire and couldhave fired his own pistol too, but he had a dream the night before thathe should become a monk, that’s why he did it.”
It was the same thing with the society of the town. Till then I hadbeen kindly received, but had not been the object of special attention,and now all came to know me at once and invited me; they laughed at me,but they loved me. I may mention that although everybody talked openlyof our duel, the authorities took no notice of it, because myantagonist was a near relation of our general, and as there had been nobloodshed and no serious consequences, and as I resigned my commission,they took it as a joke. And I began then to speak aloud and fearlessly,regardless of their laughter, for it was always kindly and not spitefullaughter. These conversations mostly took place in the evenings, in thecompany of ladies; women particularly liked listening to me then andthey made the men listen.
“But how can I possibly be responsible for all?” every one would laughin my face. “Can I, for instance, be responsible for you?”
“You may well not know it,” I would answer, “since the whole world haslong been going on a different line, since we consider the veriest liesas truth and demand the same lies from others. Here I have for once inmy life acted sincerely and, well, you all look upon me as a madman.Though you are friendly to me, yet, you see, you all laugh at me.”
“But how can we help being friendly to you?” said my hostess, laughing.The room was full of people. All of a sudden the young lady rose, onwhose account the duel had been fought and whom only lately I hadintended to be my future wife. I had not noticed her coming into theroom. She got up, came to me and held out her hand.
“Let me tell you,” she said, “that I am the first not to laugh at you,but on the contrary I thank you with tears and express my respect foryou for your action then.”
Her husband, too, came up and then they all approached me and almostkissed me. My heart was filled with joy, but my attention wasespecially caught by a middle‐aged man who came up to me with theothers. I knew him by name already, but had never made his acquaintancenor exchanged a word with him till that evening.
_(d) The Mysterious Visitor_

He had long been an official in the town; he was in a prominentposition, respected by all, rich and had a reputation for benevolence.He subscribed considerable sums to the almshouse and the orphan asylum;he was very charitable, too, in secret, a fact which only became knownafter his death. He was a man of about fifty, almost stern inappearance and not much given to conversation. He had been marriedabout ten years and his wife, who was still young, had borne him threechildren. Well, I was sitting alone in my room the following evening,when my door suddenly opened and this gentleman walked in.
I must mention, by the way, that I was no longer living in my formerquarters. As soon as I resigned my commission, I took rooms with an oldlady, the widow of a government clerk. My landlady’s servant waitedupon me, for I had moved into her rooms simply because on my returnfrom the duel I had sent Afanasy back to the regiment, as I feltashamed to look him in the face after my last interview with him. Soprone is the man of the world to be ashamed of any righteous action.
“I have,” said my visitor, “with great interest listened to youspeaking in different houses the last few days and I wanted at last tomake your personal acquaintance, so as to talk to you more intimately.Can you, dear sir, grant me this favor?”
“I can, with the greatest pleasure, and I shall look upon it as anhonor.” I said this, though I felt almost dismayed, so greatly was Iimpressed from the first moment by the appearance of this man. Forthough other people had listened to me with interest and attention, noone had come to me before with such a serious, stern and concentratedexpression. And now he had come to see me in my own rooms. He sat down.
“You are, I see, a man of great strength of character,” he said; “asyou have dared to serve the truth, even when by doing so you riskedincurring the contempt of all.”
“Your praise is, perhaps, excessive,” I replied.
“No, it’s not excessive,” he answered; “believe me, such a course ofaction is far more difficult than you think. It is that which hasimpressed me, and it is only on that account that I have come to you,”he continued. “Tell me, please, that is if you are not annoyed by myperhaps unseemly curiosity, what were your exact sensations, if you canrecall them, at the moment when you made up your mind to askforgiveness at the duel. Do not think my question frivolous; on thecontrary, I have in asking the question a secret motive of my own,which I will perhaps explain to you later on, if it is God’s will thatwe should become more intimately acquainted.”
All the while he was speaking, I was looking at him straight into theface and I felt all at once a complete trust in him and great curiosityon my side also, for I felt that there was some strange secret in hissoul.
“You ask what were my exact sensations at the moment when I asked myopponent’s forgiveness,” I answered; “but I had better tell you fromthe beginning what I have not yet told any one else.” And I describedall that had passed between Afanasy and me, and how I had bowed down tothe ground at his feet. “From that you can see for yourself,” Iconcluded, “that at the time of the duel it was easier for me, for Ihad made a beginning already at home, and when once I had started onthat road, to go farther along it was far from being difficult, butbecame a source of joy and happiness.”
I liked the way he looked at me as he listened. “All that,” he said,“is exceedingly interesting. I will come to see you again and again.”
And from that time forth he came to see me nearly every evening. And weshould have become greater friends, if only he had ever talked ofhimself. But about himself he scarcely ever said a word, yetcontinually asked me about myself. In spite of that I became very fondof him and spoke with perfect frankness to him about all my feelings;“for,” thought I, “what need have I to know his secrets, since I cansee without that that he is a good man? Moreover, though he is such aserious man and my senior, he comes to see a youngster like me andtreats me as his equal.” And I learned a great deal that was profitablefrom him, for he was a man of lofty mind.
“That life is heaven,” he said to me suddenly, “that I have long beenthinking about”; and all at once he added, “I think of nothing elseindeed.” He looked at me and smiled. “I am more convinced of it thanyou are, I will tell you later why.”
I listened to him and thought that he evidently wanted to tell mesomething.
“Heaven,” he went on, “lies hidden within all of us—here it lies hiddenin me now, and if I will it, it will be revealed to me to‐morrow andfor all time.”
I looked at him; he was speaking with great emotion and gazingmysteriously at me, as if he were questioning me.
“And that we are all responsible to all for all, apart from our ownsins, you were quite right in thinking that, and it is wonderful howyou could comprehend it in all its significance at once. And in verytruth, so soon as men understand that, the Kingdom of Heaven will befor them not a dream, but a living reality.”
“And when,” I cried out to him bitterly, “when will that come to pass?and will it ever come to pass? Is not it simply a dream of ours?”
“What then, you don’t believe it,” he said. “You preach it and don’tbelieve it yourself. Believe me, this dream, as you call it, will cometo pass without doubt; it will come, but not now, for every process hasits law. It’s a spiritual, psychological process. To transform theworld, to recreate it afresh, men must turn into another pathpsychologically. Until you have become really, in actual fact, abrother to every one, brotherhood will not come to pass. No sort ofscientific teaching, no kind of common interest, will ever teach men toshare property and privileges with equal consideration for all. Everyone will think his share too small and they will be always envying,complaining and attacking one another. You ask when it will come topass; it will come to pass, but first we have to go through the periodof isolation.”
“What do you mean by isolation?” I asked him.
“Why, the isolation that prevails everywhere, above all in our age—ithas not fully developed, it has not reached its limit yet. For everyone strives to keep his individuality as apart as possible, wishes tosecure the greatest possible fullness of life for himself; but meantimeall his efforts result not in attaining fullness of life butself‐destruction, for instead of self‐realization he ends by arrivingat complete solitude. All mankind in our age have split up into units,they all keep apart, each in his own groove; each one holds aloof,hides himself and hides what he has, from the rest, and he ends bybeing repelled by others and repelling them. He heaps up riches byhimself and thinks, ‘How strong I am now and how secure,’ and in hismadness he does not understand that the more he heaps up, the more hesinks into self‐destructive impotence. For he is accustomed to relyupon himself alone and to cut himself off from the whole; he hastrained himself not to believe in the help of others, in men and inhumanity, and only trembles for fear he should lose his money and theprivileges that he has won for himself. Everywhere in these days menhave, in their mockery, ceased to understand that the true security isto be found in social solidarity rather than in isolated individualeffort. But this terrible individualism must inevitably have an end,and all will suddenly understand how unnaturally they are separatedfrom one another. It will be the spirit of the time, and people willmarvel that they have sat so long in darkness without seeing the light.And then the sign of the Son of Man will be seen in the heavens....But, until then, we must keep the banner flying. Sometimes even if hehas to do it alone, and his conduct seems to be crazy, a man must setan example, and so draw men’s souls out of their solitude, and spurthem to some act of brotherly love, that the great idea may not die.”
Our evenings, one after another, were spent in such stirring andfervent talk. I gave up society and visited my neighbors much lessfrequently. Besides, my vogue was somewhat over. I say this, not asblame, for they still loved me and treated me good‐humoredly, butthere’s no denying that fashion is a great power in society. I began toregard my mysterious visitor with admiration, for besides enjoying hisintelligence, I began to perceive that he was brooding over some planin his heart, and was preparing himself perhaps for a great deed.Perhaps he liked my not showing curiosity about his secret, not seekingto discover it by direct question nor by insinuation. But I noticed atlast, that he seemed to show signs of wanting to tell me something.This had become quite evident, indeed, about a month after he firstbegan to visit me.
“Do you know,” he said to me once, “that people are very inquisitiveabout us in the town and wonder why I come to see you so often. But letthem wonder, for _soon all will be explained_.”
Sometimes an extraordinary agitation would come over him, and almostalways on such occasions he would get up and go away. Sometimes hewould fix a long piercing look upon me, and I thought, “He will saysomething directly now.” But he would suddenly begin talking ofsomething ordinary and familiar. He often complained of headache too.
One day, quite unexpectedly indeed, after he had been talking withgreat fervor a long time, I saw him suddenly turn pale, and his faceworked convulsively, while he stared persistently at me.
“What’s the matter?” I said; “do you feel ill?”—he had just beencomplaining of headache.
“I ... do you know ... I murdered some one.”
He said this and smiled with a face as white as chalk. “Why is it he issmiling?” The thought flashed through my mind before I realizedanything else. I too turned pale.
“What are you saying?” I cried.
“You see,” he said, with a pale smile, “how much it has cost me to saythe first word. Now I have said it, I feel I’ve taken the first stepand shall go on.”
For a long while I could not believe him, and I did not believe him atthat time, but only after he had been to see me three days running andtold me all about it. I thought he was mad, but ended by beingconvinced, to my great grief and amazement. His crime was a great andterrible one.
Fourteen years before, he had murdered the widow of a landowner, awealthy and handsome young woman who had a house in our town. He fellpassionately in love with her, declared his feeling and tried topersuade her to marry him. But she had already given her heart toanother man, an officer of noble birth and high rank in the service,who was at that time away at the front, though she was expecting himsoon to return. She refused his offer and begged him not to come andsee her. After he had ceased to visit her, he took advantage of hisknowledge of the house to enter at night through the garden by theroof, at great risk of discovery. But, as often happens, a crimecommitted with extraordinary audacity is more successful than others.
Entering the garret through the skylight, he went down the ladder,knowing that the door at the bottom of it was sometimes, through thenegligence of the servants, left unlocked. He hoped to find it so, andso it was. He made his way in the dark to her bedroom, where a lightwas burning. As though on purpose, both her maids had gone off to abirthday‐party in the same street, without asking leave. The otherservants slept in the servants’ quarters or in the kitchen on theground‐floor. His passion flamed up at the sight of her asleep, andthen vindictive, jealous anger took possession of his heart, and like adrunken man, beside himself, he thrust a knife into her heart, so thatshe did not even cry out. Then with devilish and criminal cunning hecontrived that suspicion should fall on the servants. He was so base asto take her purse, to open her chest with keys from under her pillow,and to take some things from it, doing it all as it might have beendone by an ignorant servant, leaving valuable papers and taking onlymoney. He took some of the larger gold things, but left smallerarticles that were ten times as valuable. He took with him, too, somethings for himself as remembrances, but of that later. Having done thisawful deed, he returned by the way he had come.
Neither the next day, when the alarm was raised, nor at any time afterin his life, did any one dream of suspecting that he was the criminal.No one indeed knew of his love for her, for he was always reserved andsilent and had no friend to whom he would have opened his heart. He waslooked upon simply as an acquaintance, and not a very intimate one, ofthe murdered woman, as for the previous fortnight he had not evenvisited her. A serf of hers called Pyotr was at once suspected, andevery circumstance confirmed the suspicion. The man knew—indeed hismistress did not conceal the fact—that having to send one of her serfsas a recruit she had decided to send him, as he had no relations andhis conduct was unsatisfactory. People had heard him angrilythreatening to murder her when he was drunk in a tavern. Two daysbefore her death, he had run away, staying no one knew where in thetown. The day after the murder, he was found on the road leading out ofthe town, dead drunk, with a knife in his pocket, and his right handhappened to be stained with blood. He declared that his nose had beenbleeding, but no one believed him. The maids confessed that they hadgone to a party and that the street‐door had been left open till theyreturned. And a number of similar details came to light, throwingsuspicion on the innocent servant.
They arrested him, and he was tried for the murder; but a week afterthe arrest, the prisoner fell sick of a fever and died unconscious inthe hospital. There the matter ended and the judges and the authoritiesand every one in the town remained convinced that the crime had beencommitted by no one but the servant who had died in the hospital. Andafter that the punishment began.
My mysterious visitor, now my friend, told me that at first he was notin the least troubled by pangs of conscience. He was miserable a longtime, but not for that reason; only from regret that he had killed thewoman he loved, that she was no more, that in killing her he had killedhis love, while the fire of passion was still in his veins. But of theinnocent blood he had shed, of the murder of a fellow creature, hescarcely thought. The thought that his victim might have become thewife of another man was insupportable to him, and so, for a long time,he was convinced in his conscience that he could not have actedotherwise.
At first he was worried at the arrest of the servant, but his illnessand death soon set his mind at rest, for the man’s death was apparently(so he reflected at the time) not owing to his arrest or his fright,but a chill he had taken on the day he ran away, when he had lain allnight dead drunk on the damp ground. The theft of the money and otherthings troubled him little, for he argued that the theft had not beencommitted for gain but to avert suspicion. The sum stolen was small,and he shortly afterwards subscribed the whole of it, and much more,towards the funds for maintaining an almshouse in the town. He did thison purpose to set his conscience at rest about the theft, and it’s aremarkable fact that for a long time he really was at peace—he told methis himself. He entered then upon a career of great activity in theservice, volunteered for a difficult and laborious duty, which occupiedhim two years, and being a man of strong will almost forgot the past.Whenever he recalled it, he tried not to think of it at all. He becameactive in philanthropy too, founded and helped to maintain manyinstitutions in the town, did a good deal in the two capitals, and inboth Moscow and Petersburg was elected a member of philanthropicsocieties.
At last, however, he began brooding over the past, and the strain of itwas too much for him. Then he was attracted by a fine and intelligentgirl and soon after married her, hoping that marriage would dispel hislonely depression, and that by entering on a new life and scrupulouslydoing his duty to his wife and children, he would escape from oldmemories altogether. But the very opposite of what he expectedhappened. He began, even in the first month of his marriage, to becontinually fretted by the thought, “My wife loves me—but what if sheknew?” When she first told him that she would soon bear him a child, hewas troubled. “I am giving life, but I have taken life.” Children came.“How dare I love them, teach and educate them, how can I talk to themof virtue? I have shed blood.” They were splendid children, he longedto caress them; “and I can’t look at their innocent candid faces, I amunworthy.”
At last he began to be bitterly and ominously haunted by the blood ofhis murdered victim, by the young life he had destroyed, by the bloodthat cried out for vengeance. He had begun to have awful dreams. But,being a man of fortitude, he bore his suffering a long time, thinking:“I shall expiate everything by this secret agony.” But that hope, too,was vain; the longer it went on, the more intense was his suffering.
He was respected in society for his active benevolence, though everyone was overawed by his stern and gloomy character. But the more he wasrespected, the more intolerable it was for him. He confessed to me thathe had thoughts of killing himself. But he began to be haunted byanother idea—an idea which he had at first regarded as impossible andunthinkable, though at last it got such a hold on his heart that hecould not shake it off. He dreamed of rising up, going out andconfessing in the face of all men that he had committed murder. Forthree years this dream had pursued him, haunting him in differentforms. At last he believed with his whole heart that if he confessedhis crime, he would heal his soul and would be at peace for ever. Butthis belief filled his heart with terror, for how could he carry itout? And then came what happened at my duel.
“Looking at you, I have made up my mind.”
I looked at him.
“Is it possible,” I cried, clasping my hands, “that such a trivialincident could give rise to such a resolution in you?”
“My resolution has been growing for the last three years,” he answered,“and your story only gave the last touch to it. Looking at you, Ireproached myself and envied you.” He said this to me almost sullenly.
“But you won’t be believed,” I observed; “it’s fourteen years ago.”
“I have proofs, great proofs. I shall show them.”
Then I cried and kissed him.
“Tell me one thing, one thing,” he said (as though it all depended uponme), “my wife, my children! My wife may die of grief, and though mychildren won’t lose their rank and property, they’ll be a convict’schildren and for ever! And what a memory, what a memory of me I shallleave in their hearts!”
I said nothing.
“And to part from them, to leave them for ever? It’s for ever, youknow, for ever!”
I sat still and repeated a silent prayer. I got up at last, I feltafraid.
“Well?” He looked at me.
“Go!” said I, “confess. Everything passes, only the truth remains. Yourchildren will understand, when they grow up, the nobility of yourresolution.”
He left me that time as though he had made up his mind. Yet for morethan a fortnight afterwards, he came to me every evening, stillpreparing himself, still unable to bring himself to the point. He mademy heart ache. One day he would come determined and say fervently:
“I know it will be heaven for me, heaven, the moment I confess.Fourteen years I’ve been in hell. I want to suffer. I will take mypunishment and begin to live. You can pass through the world doingwrong, but there’s no turning back. Now I dare not love my neighbor noreven my own children. Good God, my children will understand, perhaps,what my punishment has cost me and will not condemn me! God is not instrength but in truth.”
“All will understand your sacrifice,” I said to him, “if not at once,they will understand later; for you have served truth, the highertruth, not of the earth.”
And he would go away seeming comforted, but next day he would comeagain, bitter, pale, sarcastic.
“Every time I come to you, you look at me so inquisitively as though tosay, ‘He has still not confessed!’ Wait a bit, don’t despise me toomuch. It’s not such an easy thing to do, as you would think. Perhaps Ishall not do it at all. You won’t go and inform against me then, willyou?”
And far from looking at him with indiscreet curiosity, I was afraid tolook at him at all. I was quite ill from anxiety, and my heart was fullof tears. I could not sleep at night.
“I have just come from my wife,” he went on. “Do you understand whatthe word ‘wife’ means? When I went out, the children called to me,‘Good‐by, father, make haste back to read _The Children’s Magazine_with us.’ No, you don’t understand that! No one is wise from anotherman’s woe.”
His eyes were glittering, his lips were twitching. Suddenly he struckthe table with his fist so that everything on it danced—it was thefirst time he had done such a thing, he was such a mild man.
“But need I?” he exclaimed, “must I? No one has been condemned, no onehas been sent to Siberia in my place, the man died of fever. And I’vebeen punished by my sufferings for the blood I shed. And I shan’t bebelieved, they won’t believe my proofs. Need I confess, need I? I amready to go on suffering all my life for the blood I have shed, if onlymy wife and children may be spared. Will it be just to ruin them withme? Aren’t we making a mistake? What is right in this case? And willpeople recognize it, will they appreciate it, will they respect it?”
“Good Lord!” I thought to myself, “he is thinking of other people’srespect at such a moment!” And I felt so sorry for him then, that Ibelieve I would have shared his fate if it could have comforted him. Isaw he was beside himself. I was aghast, realizing with my heart aswell as my mind what such a resolution meant.
“Decide my fate!” he exclaimed again.
“Go and confess,” I whispered to him. My voice failed me, but Iwhispered it firmly. I took up the New Testament from the table, theRussian translation, and showed him the Gospel of St. John, chapterxii. verse 24:
“Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into theground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth muchfruit.”
I had just been reading that verse when he came in. He read it.
“That’s true,” he said, but he smiled bitterly. “It’s terrible thethings you find in those books,” he said, after a pause. “It’s easyenough to thrust them upon one. And who wrote them? Can they have beenwritten by men?”
“The Holy Spirit wrote them,” said I.
“It’s easy for you to prate,” he smiled again, this time almost withhatred.
I took the book again, opened it in another place and showed him theEpistle to the Hebrews, chapter x. verse 31. He read:
“It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.”
He read it and simply flung down the book. He was trembling all over.
“An awful text,” he said. “There’s no denying you’ve picked out fittingones.” He rose from the chair. “Well!” he said, “good‐by, perhaps Ishan’t come again ... we shall meet in heaven. So I have been forfourteen years ‘in the hands of the living God,’ that’s how one mustthink of those fourteen years. To‐morrow I will beseech those hands tolet me go.”
I wanted to take him in my arms and kiss him, but I did not dare—hisface was contorted and somber. He went away.
“Good God,” I thought, “what has he gone to face!” I fell on my kneesbefore the ikon and wept for him before the Holy Mother of God, ourswift defender and helper. I was half an hour praying in tears, and itwas late, about midnight. Suddenly I saw the door open and he came inagain. I was surprised.
“Where have you been?” I asked him.
“I think,” he said, “I’ve forgotten something ... my handkerchief, Ithink.... Well, even if I’ve not forgotten anything, let me stay alittle.”
He sat down. I stood over him.
“You sit down, too,” said he.
I sat down. We sat still for two minutes; he looked intently at me andsuddenly smiled—I remembered that—then he got up, embraced me warmlyand kissed me.
“Remember,” he said, “how I came to you a second time. Do you hear,remember it!”
And he went out.
“To‐morrow,” I thought.
And so it was. I did not know that evening that the next day was hisbirthday. I had not been out for the last few days, so I had no chanceof hearing it from any one. On that day he always had a greatgathering, every one in the town went to it. It was the same this time.After dinner he walked into the middle of the room, with a paper in hishand—a formal declaration to the chief of his department who waspresent. This declaration he read aloud to the whole assembly. Itcontained a full account of the crime, in every detail.
“I cut myself off from men as a monster. God has visited me,” he saidin conclusion. “I want to suffer for my sin!”
Then he brought out and laid on the table all the things he had beenkeeping for fourteen years, that he thought would prove his crime, thejewels belonging to the murdered woman which he had stolen to divertsuspicion, a cross and a locket taken from her neck with a portrait ofher betrothed in the locket, her notebook and two letters; one from herbetrothed, telling her that he would soon be with her, and herunfinished answer left on the table to be sent off next day. He carriedoff these two letters—what for? Why had he kept them for fourteen yearsafterwards instead of destroying them as evidence against him?
And this is what happened: every one was amazed and horrified, everyone refused to believe it and thought that he was deranged, though alllistened with intense curiosity. A few days later it was fully decidedand agreed in every house that the unhappy man was mad. The legalauthorities could not refuse to take the case up, but they too droppedit. Though the trinkets and letters made them ponder, they decided thateven if they did turn out to be authentic, no charge could be based onthose alone. Besides, she might have given him those things as afriend, or asked him to take care of them for her. I heard afterwards,however, that the genuineness of the things was proved by the friendsand relations of the murdered woman, and that there was no doubt aboutthem. Yet nothing was destined to come of it, after all.
Five days later, all had heard that he was ill and that his life was indanger. The nature of his illness I can’t explain, they said it was anaffection of the heart. But it became known that the doctors had beeninduced by his wife to investigate his mental condition also, and hadcome to the conclusion that it was a case of insanity. I betrayednothing, though people ran to question me. But when I wanted to visithim, I was for a long while forbidden to do so, above all by his wife.
“It’s you who have caused his illness,” she said to me; “he was alwaysgloomy, but for the last year people noticed that he was peculiarlyexcited and did strange things, and now you have been the ruin of him.Your preaching has brought him to this; for the last month he wasalways with you.”
Indeed, not only his wife but the whole town were down upon me andblamed me. “It’s all your doing,” they said. I was silent and indeedrejoiced at heart, for I saw plainly God’s mercy to the man who hadturned against himself and punished himself. I could not believe in hisinsanity.
They let me see him at last, he insisted upon saying good‐by to me. Iwent in to him and saw at once, that not only his days, but his hourswere numbered. He was weak, yellow, his hands trembled, he gasped forbreath, but his face was full of tender and happy feeling.
“It is done!” he said. “I’ve long been yearning to see you, why didn’tyou come?”
I did not tell him that they would not let me see him.
“God has had pity on me and is calling me to Himself. I know I amdying, but I feel joy and peace for the first time after so many years.There was heaven in my heart from the moment I had done what I had todo. Now I dare to love my children and to kiss them. Neither my wifenor the judges, nor any one has believed it. My children will neverbelieve it either. I see in that God’s mercy to them. I shall die, andmy name will be without a stain for them. And now I feel God near, myheart rejoices as in Heaven ... I have done my duty.”
He could not speak, he gasped for breath, he pressed my hand warmly,looking fervently at me. We did not talk for long, his wife keptpeeping in at us. But he had time to whisper to me:
“Do you remember how I came back to you that second time, at midnight?I told you to remember it. You know what I came back for? I came tokill you!”
I started.
“I went out from you then into the darkness, I wandered about thestreets, struggling with myself. And suddenly I hated you so that Icould hardly bear it. Now, I thought, he is all that binds me, and heis my judge. I can’t refuse to face my punishment to‐morrow, for heknows all. It was not that I was afraid you would betray me (I nevereven thought of that), but I thought, ‘How can I look him in the faceif I don’t confess?’ And if you had been at the other end of the earth,but alive, it would have been all the same, the thought was unendurablethat you were alive knowing everything and condemning me. I hated youas though you were the cause, as though you were to blame foreverything. I came back to you then, remembering that you had a daggerlying on your table. I sat down and asked you to sit down, and for awhole minute I pondered. If I had killed you, I should have been ruinedby that murder even if I had not confessed the other. But I didn’tthink about that at all, and I didn’t want to think of it at thatmoment. I only hated you and longed to revenge myself on you foreverything. The Lord vanquished the devil in my heart. But let me tellyou, you were never nearer death.”
A week later he died. The whole town followed him to the grave. Thechief priest made a speech full of feeling. All lamented the terribleillness that had cut short his days. But all the town was up in armsagainst me after the funeral, and people even refused to see me. Some,at first a few and afterwards more, began indeed to believe in thetruth of his story, and they visited me and questioned me with greatinterest and eagerness, for man loves to see the downfall and disgraceof the righteous. But I held my tongue, and very shortly after, I leftthe town, and five months later by God’s grace I entered upon the safeand blessed path, praising the unseen finger which had guided me soclearly to it. But I remember in my prayer to this day, the servant ofGod, Mihail, who suffered so greatly.



Chapter III.Conversations And Exhortations Of Father Zossima

_(e) The Russian Monk and his possible Significance_

Fathers and teachers, what is the monk? In the cultivated world theword is nowadays pronounced by some people with a jeer, and by othersit is used as a term of abuse, and this contempt for the monk isgrowing. It is true, alas, it is true, that there are many sluggards,gluttons, profligates and insolent beggars among monks. Educated peoplepoint to these: “You are idlers, useless members of society, you liveon the labor of others, you are shameless beggars.” And yet how manymeek and humble monks there are, yearning for solitude and ferventprayer in peace! These are less noticed, or passed over in silence. Andhow surprised men would be if I were to say that from these meek monks,who yearn for solitary prayer, the salvation of Russia will comeperhaps once more! For they are in truth made ready in peace and quiet“for the day and the hour, the month and the year.” Meanwhile, in theirsolitude, they keep the image of Christ fair and undefiled, in thepurity of God’s truth, from the times of the Fathers of old, theApostles and the martyrs. And when the time comes they will show it tothe tottering creeds of the world. That is a great thought. That starwill rise out of the East.
That is my view of the monk, and is it false? is it too proud? Look atthe worldly and all who set themselves up above the people of God, hasnot God’s image and His truth been distorted in them? They havescience; but in science there is nothing but what is the object ofsense. The spiritual world, the higher part of man’s being is rejectedaltogether, dismissed with a sort of triumph, even with hatred. Theworld has proclaimed the reign of freedom, especially of late, but whatdo we see in this freedom of theirs? Nothing but slavery andself‐destruction! For the world says:
“You have desires and so satisfy them, for you have the same rights asthe most rich and powerful. Don’t be afraid of satisfying them and evenmultiply your desires.” That is the modern doctrine of the world. Inthat they see freedom. And what follows from this right ofmultiplication of desires? In the rich, isolation and spiritualsuicide; in the poor, envy and murder; for they have been given rights,but have not been shown the means of satisfying their wants. Theymaintain that the world is getting more and more united, more and morebound together in brotherly community, as it overcomes distance andsets thoughts flying through the air.
Alas, put no faith in such a bond of union. Interpreting freedom as themultiplication and rapid satisfaction of desires, men distort their ownnature, for many senseless and foolish desires and habits andridiculous fancies are fostered in them. They live only for mutualenvy, for luxury and ostentation. To have dinners, visits, carriages,rank and slaves to wait on one is looked upon as a necessity, for whichlife, honor and human feeling are sacrificed, and men even commitsuicide if they are unable to satisfy it. We see the same thing amongthose who are not rich, while the poor drown their unsatisfied need andtheir envy in drunkenness. But soon they will drink blood instead ofwine, they are being led on to it. I ask you is such a man free? I knewone “champion of freedom” who told me himself that, when he wasdeprived of tobacco in prison, he was so wretched at the privation thathe almost went and betrayed his cause for the sake of getting tobaccoagain! And such a man says, “I am fighting for the cause of humanity.”
How can such a one fight? what is he fit for? He is capable perhaps ofsome action quickly over, but he cannot hold out long. And it’s nowonder that instead of gaining freedom they have sunk into slavery, andinstead of serving the cause of brotherly love and the union ofhumanity have fallen, on the contrary, into dissension and isolation,as my mysterious visitor and teacher said to me in my youth. Andtherefore the idea of the service of humanity, of brotherly love andthe solidarity of mankind, is more and more dying out in the world, andindeed this idea is sometimes treated with derision. For how can a manshake off his habits? What can become of him if he is in such bondageto the habit of satisfying the innumerable desires he has created forhimself? He is isolated, and what concern has he with the rest ofhumanity? They have succeeded in accumulating a greater mass ofobjects, but the joy in the world has grown less.
The monastic way is very different. Obedience, fasting and prayer arelaughed at, yet only through them lies the way to real, true freedom. Icut off my superfluous and unnecessary desires, I subdue my proud andwanton will and chastise it with obedience, and with God’s help Iattain freedom of spirit and with it spiritual joy. Which is mostcapable of conceiving a great idea and serving it—the rich man in hisisolation or the man who has freed himself from the tyranny of materialthings and habits? The monk is reproached for his solitude, “You havesecluded yourself within the walls of the monastery for your ownsalvation, and have forgotten the brotherly service of humanity!” Butwe shall see which will be most zealous in the cause of brotherly love.For it is not we, but they, who are in isolation, though they don’t seethat. Of old, leaders of the people came from among us, and why shouldthey not again? The same meek and humble ascetics will rise up and goout to work for the great cause. The salvation of Russia comes from thepeople. And the Russian monk has always been on the side of the people.We are isolated only if the people are isolated. The people believe aswe do, and an unbelieving reformer will never do anything in Russia,even if he is sincere in heart and a genius. Remember that! The peoplewill meet the atheist and overcome him, and Russia will be one andorthodox. Take care of the peasant and guard his heart. Go on educatinghim quietly. That’s your duty as monks, for the peasant has God in hisheart.
(_f_) _Of Masters and Servants, and of whether it is possible for themto be Brothers in the Spirit_

Of course, I don’t deny that there is sin in the peasants too. And thefire of corruption is spreading visibly, hourly, working from abovedownwards. The spirit of isolation is coming upon the people too.Money‐ lenders and devourers of the commune are rising up. Already themerchant grows more and more eager for rank, and strives to showhimself cultured though he has not a trace of culture, and to this endmeanly despises his old traditions, and is even ashamed of the faith ofhis fathers. He visits princes, though he is only a peasant corrupted.The peasants are rotting in drunkenness and cannot shake off the habit.And what cruelty to their wives, to their children even! All fromdrunkenness! I’ve seen in the factories children of nine years old,frail, rickety, bent and already depraved. The stuffy workshop, the dinof machinery, work all day long, the vile language and the drink, thedrink—is that what a little child’s heart needs? He needs sunshine,childish play, good examples all about him, and at least a little love.There must be no more of this, monks, no more torturing of children,rise up and preach that, make haste, make haste!
But God will save Russia, for though the peasants are corrupted andcannot renounce their filthy sin, yet they know it is cursed by God andthat they do wrong in sinning. So that our people still believe inrighteousness, have faith in God and weep tears of devotion.
It is different with the upper classes. They, following science, wantto base justice on reason alone, but not with Christ, as before, andthey have already proclaimed that there is no crime, that there is nosin. And that’s consistent, for if you have no God what is the meaningof crime? In Europe the people are already rising up against the richwith violence, and the leaders of the people are everywhere leadingthem to bloodshed, and teaching them that their wrath is righteous. Buttheir “wrath is accursed, for it is cruel.” But God will save Russia asHe has saved her many times. Salvation will come from the people, fromtheir faith and their meekness.
Fathers and teachers, watch over the people’s faith and this will notbe a dream. I’ve been struck all my life in our great people by theirdignity, their true and seemly dignity. I’ve seen it myself, I cantestify to it, I’ve seen it and marveled at it, I’ve seen it in spiteof the degraded sins and poverty‐stricken appearance of our peasantry.They are not servile, and even after two centuries of serfdom they arefree in manner and bearing, yet without insolence, and not revengefuland not envious. “You are rich and noble, you are clever and talented,well, be so, God bless you. I respect you, but I know that I too am aman. By the very fact that I respect you without envy I prove mydignity as a man.”
In truth if they don’t say this (for they don’t know how to say thisyet), that is how they act. I have seen it myself, I have known itmyself, and, would you believe it, the poorer our Russian peasant is,the more noticeable is that serene goodness, for the rich among themare for the most part corrupted already, and much of that is due to ourcarelessness and indifference. But God will save His people, for Russiais great in her humility. I dream of seeing, and seem to see clearlyalready, our future. It will come to pass, that even the most corruptof our rich will end by being ashamed of his riches before the poor,and the poor, seeing his humility, will understand and give way beforehim, will respond joyfully and kindly to his honorable shame. Believeme that it will end in that; things are moving to that. Equality is tobe found only in the spiritual dignity of man, and that will only beunderstood among us. If we were brothers, there would be fraternity,but before that, they will never agree about the division of wealth. Wepreserve the image of Christ, and it will shine forth like a preciousdiamond to the whole world. So may it be, so may it be!
Fathers and teachers, a touching incident befell me once. In mywanderings I met in the town of K. my old orderly, Afanasy. It waseight years since I had parted from him. He chanced to see me in themarket‐place, recognized me, ran up to me, and how delighted he was! Hesimply pounced on me: “Master dear, is it you? Is it really you I see?”He took me home with him.
He was no longer in the army, he was married and already had two littlechildren. He and his wife earned their living as costermongers in themarket‐place. His room was poor, but bright and clean. He made me sitdown, set the samovar, sent for his wife, as though my appearance werea festival for them. He brought me his children: “Bless them, Father.”
“Is it for me to bless them? I am only a humble monk. I will pray forthem. And for you, Afanasy Pavlovitch, I have prayed every day sincethat day, for it all came from you,” said I. And I explained that tohim as well as I could. And what do you think? The man kept gazing atme and could not believe that I, his former master, an officer, was nowbefore him in such a guise and position; it made him shed tears.
“Why are you weeping?” said I, “better rejoice over me, dear friend,whom I can never forget, for my path is a glad and joyful one.”
He did not say much, but kept sighing and shaking his head over metenderly.
“What has became of your fortune?” he asked.
“I gave it to the monastery,” I answered; “we live in common.”
After tea I began saying good‐by, and suddenly he brought out half arouble as an offering to the monastery, and another half‐rouble I sawhim thrusting hurriedly into my hand: “That’s for you in yourwanderings, it may be of use to you, Father.”
I took his half‐rouble, bowed to him and his wife, and went outrejoicing. And on my way I thought: “Here we are both now, he at homeand I on the road, sighing and shaking our heads, no doubt, and yetsmiling joyfully in the gladness of our hearts, remembering how Godbrought about our meeting.”
I have never seen him again since then. I had been his master and he myservant, but now when we exchanged a loving kiss with softened hearts,there was a great human bond between us. I have thought a great dealabout that, and now what I think is this: Is it so inconceivable thatthat grand and simple‐hearted unity might in due time become universalamong the Russian people? I believe that it will come to pass and thatthe time is at hand.
And of servants I will add this: In old days when I was young I wasoften angry with servants; “the cook had served something too hot, theorderly had not brushed my clothes.” But what taught me better then wasa thought of my dear brother’s, which I had heard from him inchildhood: “Am I worth it, that another should serve me and be orderedabout by me in his poverty and ignorance?” And I wondered at the timethat such simple and self‐ evident ideas should be so slow to occur toour minds.
It is impossible that there should be no servants in the world, but actso that your servant may be freer in spirit than if he were not aservant. And why cannot I be a servant to my servant and even let himsee it, and that without any pride on my part or any mistrust on his?Why should not my servant be like my own kindred, so that I may takehim into my family and rejoice in doing so? Even now this can be done,but it will lead to the grand unity of men in the future, when a manwill not seek servants for himself, or desire to turn his fellowcreatures into servants as he does now, but on the contrary, will longwith his whole heart to be the servant of all, as the Gospel teaches.
And can it be a dream, that in the end man will find his joy only indeeds of light and mercy, and not in cruel pleasures as now, ingluttony, fornication, ostentation, boasting and envious rivalry of onewith the other? I firmly believe that it is not and that the time is athand. People laugh and ask: “When will that time come and does it looklike coming?” I believe that with Christ’s help we shall accomplishthis great thing. And how many ideas there have been on earth in thehistory of man which were unthinkable ten years before they appeared!Yet when their destined hour had come, they came forth and spread overthe whole earth. So it will be with us, and our people will shine forthin the world, and all men will say: “The stone which the buildersrejected has become the corner‐stone of the building.”
And we may ask the scornful themselves: If our hope is a dream, whenwill you build up your edifice and order things justly by yourintellect alone, without Christ? If they declare that it is they whoare advancing towards unity, only the most simple‐hearted among thembelieve it, so that one may positively marvel at such simplicity. Of atruth, they have more fantastic dreams than we. They aim at justice,but, denying Christ, they will end by flooding the earth with blood,for blood cries out for blood, and he that taketh up the sword shallperish by the sword. And if it were not for Christ’s covenant, theywould slaughter one another down to the last two men on earth. Andthose two last men would not be able to restrain each other in theirpride, and the one would slay the other and then himself. And thatwould come to pass, were it not for the promise of Christ that for thesake of the humble and meek the days shall be shortened.
While I was still wearing an officer’s uniform after my duel, I talkedabout servants in general society, and I remember every one was amazedat me. “What!” they asked, “are we to make our servants sit down on thesofa and offer them tea?” And I answered them: “Why not, sometimes atleast?” Every one laughed. Their question was frivolous and my answerwas not clear; but the thought in it was to some extent right.
(_g_) _Of Prayer, of Love, and of Contact with other Worlds_

Young man, be not forgetful of prayer. Every time you pray, if yourprayer is sincere, there will be new feeling and new meaning in it,which will give you fresh courage, and you will understand that prayeris an education. Remember, too, every day, and whenever you can, repeatto yourself, “Lord, have mercy on all who appear before Thee to‐day.”For every hour and every moment thousands of men leave life on thisearth, and their souls appear before God. And how many of them departin solitude, unknown, sad, dejected that no one mourns for them or evenknows whether they have lived or not! And behold, from the other end ofthe earth perhaps, your prayer for their rest will rise up to Godthough you knew them not nor they you. How touching it must be to asoul standing in dread before the Lord to feel at that instant that,for him too, there is one to pray, that there is a fellow creature lefton earth to love him too! And God will look on you both moregraciously, for if you have had so much pity on him, how much will Hehave pity Who is infinitely more loving and merciful than you! And Hewill forgive him for your sake.
Brothers, have no fear of men’s sin. Love a man even in his sin, forthat is the semblance of Divine Love and is the highest love on earth.Love all God’s creation, the whole and every grain of sand in it. Loveevery leaf, every ray of God’s light. Love the animals, love theplants, love everything. If you love everything, you will perceive thedivine mystery in things. Once you perceive it, you will begin tocomprehend it better every day. And you will come at last to love thewhole world with an all‐ embracing love. Love the animals: God hasgiven them the rudiments of thought and joy untroubled. Do not troubleit, don’t harass them, don’t deprive them of their happiness, don’twork against God’s intent. Man, do not pride yourself on superiority tothe animals; they are without sin, and you, with your greatness, defilethe earth by your appearance on it, and leave the traces of yourfoulness after you—alas, it is true of almost every one of us! Lovechildren especially, for they too are sinless like the angels; theylive to soften and purify our hearts and as it were to guide us. Woe tohim who offends a child! Father Anfim taught me to love children. Thekind, silent man used often on our wanderings to spend the farthingsgiven us on sweets and cakes for the children. He could not pass by achild without emotion. That’s the nature of the man.
At some thoughts one stands perplexed, especially at the sight of men’ssin, and wonders whether one should use force or humble love. Alwaysdecide to use humble love. If you resolve on that once for all, you maysubdue the whole world. Loving humility is marvelously strong, thestrongest of all things, and there is nothing else like it.
Every day and every hour, every minute, walk round yourself and watchyourself, and see that your image is a seemly one. You pass by a littlechild, you pass by, spiteful, with ugly words, with wrathful heart; youmay not have noticed the child, but he has seen you, and your image,unseemly and ignoble, may remain in his defenseless heart. You don’tknow it, but you may have sown an evil seed in him and it may grow, andall because you were not careful before the child, because you did notfoster in yourself a careful, actively benevolent love. Brothers, loveis a teacher; but one must know how to acquire it, for it is hard toacquire, it is dearly bought, it is won slowly by long labor. For wemust love not only occasionally, for a moment, but for ever. Every onecan love occasionally, even the wicked can.
My brother asked the birds to forgive him; that sounds senseless, butit is right; for all is like an ocean, all is flowing and blending; atouch in one place sets up movement at the other end of the earth. Itmay be senseless to beg forgiveness of the birds, but birds would behappier at your side—a little happier, anyway—and children and allanimals, if you were nobler than you are now. It’s all like an ocean, Itell you. Then you would pray to the birds too, consumed by anall‐embracing love, in a sort of transport, and pray that they too willforgive you your sin. Treasure this ecstasy, however senseless it mayseem to men.
My friends, pray to God for gladness. Be glad as children, as the birdsof heaven. And let not the sin of men confound you in your doings. Fearnot that it will wear away your work and hinder its being accomplished.Do not say, “Sin is mighty, wickedness is mighty, evil environment ismighty, and we are lonely and helpless, and evil environment is wearingus away and hindering our good work from being done.” Fly from thatdejection, children! There is only one means of salvation, then takeyourself and make yourself responsible for all men’s sins, that is thetruth, you know, friends, for as soon as you sincerely make yourselfresponsible for everything and for all men, you will see at once thatit is really so, and that you are to blame for every one and for allthings. But throwing your own indolence and impotence on others youwill end by sharing the pride of Satan and murmuring against God.
Of the pride of Satan what I think is this: it is hard for us on earthto comprehend it, and therefore it is so easy to fall into error and toshare it, even imagining that we are doing something grand and fine.Indeed, many of the strongest feelings and movements of our nature wecannot comprehend on earth. Let not that be a stumbling‐block, andthink not that it may serve as a justification to you for anything. Forthe Eternal Judge asks of you what you can comprehend and not what youcannot. You will know that yourself hereafter, for you will behold allthings truly then and will not dispute them. On earth, indeed, we areas it were astray, and if it were not for the precious image of Christbefore us, we should be undone and altogether lost, as was the humanrace before the flood. Much on earth is hidden from us, but to make upfor that we have been given a precious mystic sense of our living bondwith the other world, with the higher heavenly world, and the roots ofour thoughts and feelings are not here but in other worlds. That is whythe philosophers say that we cannot apprehend the reality of things onearth.
God took seeds from different worlds and sowed them on this earth, andHis garden grew up and everything came up that could come up, but whatgrows lives and is alive only through the feeling of its contact withother mysterious worlds. If that feeling grows weak or is destroyed inyou, the heavenly growth will die away in you. Then you will beindifferent to life and even grow to hate it. That’s what I think.
_(h) Can a Man judge his Fellow Creatures? Faith to the End_

Remember particularly that you cannot be a judge of any one. For no onecan judge a criminal, until he recognizes that he is just such acriminal as the man standing before him, and that he perhaps is morethan all men to blame for that crime. When he understands that, he willbe able to be a judge. Though that sounds absurd, it is true. If I hadbeen righteous myself, perhaps there would have been no criminalstanding before me. If you can take upon yourself the crime of thecriminal your heart is judging, take it at once, suffer for himyourself, and let him go without reproach. And even if the law itselfmakes you his judge, act in the same spirit so far as possible, for hewill go away and condemn himself more bitterly than you have done. If,after your kiss, he goes away untouched, mocking at you, do not letthat be a stumbling‐block to you. It shows his time has not yet come,but it will come in due course. And if it come not, no matter; if nothe, then another in his place will understand and suffer, and judge andcondemn himself, and the truth will be fulfilled. Believe that, believeit without doubt; for in that lies all the hope and faith of thesaints.
Work without ceasing. If you remember in the night as you go to sleep,“I have not done what I ought to have done,” rise up at once and do it.If the people around you are spiteful and callous and will not hearyou, fall down before them and beg their forgiveness; for in truth youare to blame for their not wanting to hear you. And if you cannot speakto them in their bitterness, serve them in silence and in humility,never losing hope. If all men abandon you and even drive you away byforce, then when you are left alone fall on the earth and kiss it,water it with your tears and it will bring forth fruit even though noone has seen or heard you in your solitude. Believe to the end, even ifall men went astray and you were left the only one faithful; bring youroffering even then and praise God in your loneliness. And if two of youare gathered together—then there is a whole world, a world of livinglove. Embrace each other tenderly and praise God, for if only in youtwo His truth has been fulfilled.
If you sin yourself and grieve even unto death for your sins or foryour sudden sin, then rejoice for others, rejoice for the righteousman, rejoice that if you have sinned, he is righteous and has notsinned.
If the evil‐doing of men moves you to indignation and overwhelmingdistress, even to a desire for vengeance on the evil‐doers, shun aboveall things that feeling. Go at once and seek suffering for yourself, asthough you were yourself guilty of that wrong. Accept that sufferingand bear it and your heart will find comfort, and you will understandthat you too are guilty, for you might have been a light to theevil‐doers, even as the one man sinless, and you were not a light tothem. If you had been a light, you would have lightened the path forothers too, and the evil‐doer might perhaps have been saved by yourlight from his sin. And even though your light was shining, yet you seemen were not saved by it, hold firm and doubt not the power of theheavenly light. Believe that if they were not saved, they will be savedhereafter. And if they are not saved hereafter, then their sons will besaved, for your light will not die even when you are dead. Therighteous man departs, but his light remains. Men are always savedafter the death of the deliverer. Men reject their prophets and slaythem, but they love their martyrs and honor those whom they have slain.You are working for the whole, you are acting for the future. Seek noreward, for great is your reward on this earth: the spiritual joy whichis only vouchsafed to the righteous man. Fear not the great nor themighty, but be wise and ever serene. Know the measure, know the times,study that. When you are left alone, pray. Love to throw yourself onthe earth and kiss it. Kiss the earth and love it with an unceasing,consuming love. Love all men, love everything. Seek that rapture andecstasy. Water the earth with the tears of your joy and love thosetears. Don’t be ashamed of that ecstasy, prize it, for it is a gift ofGod and a great one; it is not given to many but only to the elect.
_(i) Of Hell and Hell Fire, a Mystic Reflection_

Fathers and teachers, I ponder, “What is hell?” I maintain that it isthe suffering of being unable to love. Once in infinite existence,immeasurable in time and space, a spiritual creature was given on hiscoming to earth, the power of saying, “I am and I love.” Once, onlyonce, there was given him a moment of active _living_ love, and forthat was earthly life given him, and with it times and seasons. Andthat happy creature rejected the priceless gift, prized it and loved itnot, scorned it and remained callous. Such a one, having left theearth, sees Abraham’s bosom and talks with Abraham as we are told inthe parable of the rich man and Lazarus, and beholds heaven and can goup to the Lord. But that is just his torment, to rise up to the Lordwithout ever having loved, to be brought close to those who have lovedwhen he has despised their love. For he sees clearly and says tohimself, “Now I have understanding, and though I now thirst to love,there will be nothing great, no sacrifice in my love, for my earthlylife is over, and Abraham will not come even with a drop of livingwater (that is the gift of earthly active life) to cool the fierythirst of spiritual love which burns in me now, though I despised it onearth; there is no more life for me and will be no more time! Eventhough I would gladly give my life for others, it can never be, forthat life is passed which can be sacrificed for love, and now there isa gulf fixed between that life and this existence.”
They talk of hell fire in the material sense. I don’t go into thatmystery and I shun it. But I think if there were fire in materialsense, they would be glad of it, for I imagine that in material agony,their still greater spiritual agony would be forgotten for a moment.Moreover, that spiritual agony cannot be taken from them, for thatsuffering is not external but within them. And if it could be takenfrom them, I think it would be bitterer still for the unhappycreatures. For even if the righteous in Paradise forgave them,beholding their torments, and called them up to heaven in theirinfinite love, they would only multiply their torments, for they wouldarouse in them still more keenly a flaming thirst for responsive,active and grateful love which is now impossible. In the timidity of myheart I imagine, however, that the very recognition of thisimpossibility would serve at last to console them. For accepting thelove of the righteous together with the impossibility of repaying it,by this submissiveness and the effect of this humility, they willattain at last, as it were, to a certain semblance of that active lovewhich they scorned in life, to something like its outwardexpression.... I am sorry, friends and brothers, that I cannot expressthis clearly. But woe to those who have slain themselves on earth, woeto the suicides! I believe that there can be none more miserable thenthey. They tell us that it is a sin to pray for them and outwardly theChurch, as it were, renounces them, but in my secret heart I believethat we may pray even for them. Love can never be an offense to Christ.For such as those I have prayed inwardly all my life, I confess it,fathers and teachers, and even now I pray for them every day.
Oh, there are some who remain proud and fierce even in hell, in spiteof their certain knowledge and contemplation of the absolute truth;there are some fearful ones who have given themselves over to Satan andhis proud spirit entirely. For such, hell is voluntary and everconsuming; they are tortured by their own choice. For they have cursedthemselves, cursing God and life. They live upon their vindictive pridelike a starving man in the desert sucking blood out of his own body.But they are never satisfied, and they refuse forgiveness, they curseGod Who calls them. They cannot behold the living God without hatred,and they cry out that the God of life should be annihilated, that Godshould destroy Himself and His own creation. And they will burn in thefire of their own wrath for ever and yearn for death and annihilation.But they will not attain to death....

Here Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov’s manuscript ends. I repeat, it isincomplete and fragmentary. Biographical details, for instance, coveronly Father Zossima’s earliest youth. Of his teaching and opinions wefind brought together sayings evidently uttered on very differentoccasions. His utterances during the last few hours have not been keptseparate from the rest, but their general character can be gatheredfrom what we have in Alexey Fyodorovitch’s manuscript.
The elder’s death came in the end quite unexpectedly. For althoughthose who were gathered about him that last evening realized that hisdeath was approaching, yet it was difficult to imagine that it wouldcome so suddenly. On the contrary, his friends, as I observed already,seeing him that night apparently so cheerful and talkative, wereconvinced that there was at least a temporary change for the better inhis condition. Even five minutes before his death, they said afterwardswonderingly, it was impossible to foresee it. He seemed suddenly tofeel an acute pain in his chest, he turned pale and pressed his handsto his heart. All rose from their seats and hastened to him. But thoughsuffering, he still looked at them with a smile, sank slowly from hischair on to his knees, then bowed his face to the ground, stretched outhis arms and as though in joyful ecstasy, praying and kissing theground, quietly and joyfully gave up his soul to God.
The news of his death spread at once through the hermitage and reachedthe monastery. The nearest friends of the deceased and those whose dutyit was from their position began to lay out the corpse according to theancient ritual, and all the monks gathered together in the church. Andbefore dawn the news of the death reached the town. By the morning allthe town was talking of the event, and crowds were flocking from thetown to the monastery. But this subject will be treated in the nextbook; I will only add here that before a day had passed somethinghappened so unexpected, so strange, upsetting, and bewildering in itseffect on the monks and the townspeople, that after all these years,that day of general suspense is still vividly remembered in the town.



PART III



Book VII. Alyosha



Chapter I.The Breath Of Corruption

The body of Father Zossima was prepared for burial according to theestablished ritual. As is well known, the bodies of dead monks andhermits are not washed. In the words of the Church Ritual: “If any oneof the monks depart in the Lord, the monk designated (that is, whoseoffice it is) shall wipe the body with warm water, making first thesign of the cross with a sponge on the forehead of the deceased, on thebreast, on the hands and feet and on the knees, and that is enough.”All this was done by Father Païssy, who then clothed the deceased inhis monastic garb and wrapped him in his cloak, which was, according tocustom, somewhat slit to allow of its being folded about him in theform of a cross. On his head he put a hood with an eight‐corneredcross. The hood was left open and the dead man’s face was covered withblack gauze. In his hands was put an ikon of the Saviour. Towardsmorning he was put in the coffin which had been made ready long before.It was decided to leave the coffin all day in the cell, in the largerroom in which the elder used to receive his visitors and fellow monks.As the deceased was a priest and monk of the strictest rule, theGospel, not the Psalter, had to be read over his body by monks in holyorders. The reading was begun by Father Iosif immediately after therequiem service. Father Païssy desired later on to read the Gospel allday and night over his dead friend, but for the present he, as well asthe Father Superintendent of the Hermitage, was very busy and occupied,for something extraordinary, an unheard‐of, even “unseemly” excitementand impatient expectation began to be apparent in the monks, and thevisitors from the monastery hostels, and the crowds of people flockingfrom the town. And as time went on, this grew more and more marked.Both the Superintendent and Father Païssy did their utmost to calm thegeneral bustle and agitation.
When it was fully daylight, some people began bringing their sick, inmost cases children, with them from the town—as though they had beenwaiting expressly for this moment to do so, evidently persuaded thatthe dead elder’s remains had a power of healing, which would beimmediately made manifest in accordance with their faith. It was onlythen apparent how unquestionably every one in our town had acceptedFather Zossima during his lifetime as a great saint. And those who camewere far from being all of the humbler classes.
This intense expectation on the part of believers displayed with suchhaste, such openness, even with impatience and almost insistence,impressed Father Païssy as unseemly. Though he had long foreseensomething of the sort, the actual manifestation of the feeling wasbeyond anything he had looked for. When he came across any of the monkswho displayed this excitement, Father Païssy began to reprove them.“Such immediate expectation of something extraordinary,” he said,“shows a levity, possible to worldly people but unseemly in us.”
But little attention was paid him and Father Païssy noticed ituneasily. Yet he himself (if the whole truth must be told), secretly atthe bottom of his heart, cherished almost the same hopes and could notbut be aware of it, though he was indignant at the too impatientexpectation around him, and saw in it light‐mindedness and vanity.Nevertheless, it was particularly unpleasant to him to meet certainpersons, whose presence aroused in him great misgivings. In the crowdin the dead man’s cell he noticed with inward aversion (for which heimmediately reproached himself) the presence of Rakitin and of the monkfrom Obdorsk, who was still staying in the monastery. Of both of themFather Païssy felt for some reason suddenly suspicious—though, indeed,he might well have felt the same about others.
The monk from Obdorsk was conspicuous as the most fussy in the excitedcrowd. He was to be seen everywhere; everywhere he was askingquestions, everywhere he was listening, on all sides he was whisperingwith a peculiar, mysterious air. His expression showed the greatestimpatience and even a sort of irritation.
As for Rakitin, he, as appeared later, had come so early to thehermitage at the special request of Madame Hohlakov. As soon as thatgood‐hearted but weak‐minded woman, who could not herself have beenadmitted to the hermitage, waked and heard of the death of FatherZossima, she was overtaken with such intense curiosity that shepromptly dispatched Rakitin to the hermitage, to keep a careful lookout and report to her by letter every half‐hour or so “_everything thattakes place_.” She regarded Rakitin as a most religious and devoutyoung man. He was particularly clever in getting round people andassuming whatever part he thought most to their taste, if he detectedthe slightest advantage to himself from doing so.
It was a bright, clear day, and many of the visitors were throngingabout the tombs, which were particularly numerous round the church andscattered here and there about the hermitage. As he walked round thehermitage, Father Païssy remembered Alyosha and that he had not seenhim for some time, not since the night. And he had no sooner thought ofhim than he at once noticed him in the farthest corner of the hermitagegarden, sitting on the tombstone of a monk who had been famous long agofor his saintliness. He sat with his back to the hermitage and his faceto the wall, and seemed to be hiding behind the tombstone. Going up tohim, Father Païssy saw that he was weeping quietly but bitterly, withhis face hidden in his hands, and that his whole frame was shaking withsobs. Father Païssy stood over him for a little.
“Enough, dear son, enough, dear,” he pronounced with feeling at last.“Why do you weep? Rejoice and weep not. Don’t you know that this is thegreatest of his days? Think only where he is now, at this moment!”
Alyosha glanced at him, uncovering his face, which was swollen withcrying like a child’s, but turned away at once without uttering a wordand hid his face in his hands again.
“Maybe it is well,” said Father Païssy thoughtfully; “weep if you must,Christ has sent you those tears.”
“Your touching tears are but a relief to your spirit and will serve togladden your dear heart,” he added to himself, walking away fromAlyosha, and thinking lovingly of him. He moved away quickly, however,for he felt that he too might weep looking at him.
Meanwhile the time was passing; the monastery services and the requiemsfor the dead followed in their due course. Father Païssy again tookFather Iosif’s place by the coffin and began reading the Gospel. Butbefore three o’clock in the afternoon that something took place towhich I alluded at the end of the last book, something so unexpected byall of us and so contrary to the general hope, that, I repeat, thistrivial incident has been minutely remembered to this day in our townand all the surrounding neighborhood. I may add here, for myselfpersonally, that I feel it almost repulsive to recall that event whichcaused such frivolous agitation and was such a stumbling‐block to many,though in reality it was the most natural and trivial matter. I should,of course, have omitted all mention of it in my story, if it had notexerted a very strong influence on the heart and soul of the chief,though future, hero of my story, Alyosha, forming a crisis andturning‐point in his spiritual development, giving a shock to hisintellect, which finally strengthened it for the rest of his life andgave it a definite aim.
And so, to return to our story. When before dawn they laid FatherZossima’s body in the coffin and brought it into the front room, thequestion of opening the windows was raised among those who were aroundthe coffin. But this suggestion made casually by some one wasunanswered and almost unnoticed. Some of those present may perhaps haveinwardly noticed it, only to reflect that the anticipation of decay andcorruption from the body of such a saint was an actual absurdity,calling for compassion (if not a smile) for the lack of faith and thefrivolity it implied. For they expected something quite different.
And, behold, soon after midday there were signs of something, at firstonly observed in silence by those who came in and out and wereevidently each afraid to communicate the thought in his mind. But bythree o’clock those signs had become so clear and unmistakable, thatthe news swiftly reached all the monks and visitors in the hermitage,promptly penetrated to the monastery, throwing all the monks intoamazement, and finally, in the shortest possible time, spread to thetown, exciting every one in it, believers and unbelievers alike. Theunbelievers rejoiced, and as for the believers some of them rejoicedeven more than the unbelievers, for “men love the downfall and disgraceof the righteous,” as the deceased elder had said in one of hisexhortations.
The fact is that a smell of decomposition began to come from thecoffin, growing gradually more marked, and by three o’clock it wasquite unmistakable. In all the past history of our monastery, no suchscandal could be recalled, and in no other circumstances could such ascandal have been possible, as showed itself in unseemly disorderimmediately after this discovery among the very monks themselves.Afterwards, even many years afterwards, some sensible monks were amazedand horrified, when they recalled that day, that the scandal could havereached such proportions. For in the past, monks of very holy life haddied, God‐fearing old men, whose saintliness was acknowledged by all,yet from their humble coffins, too, the breath of corruption had come,naturally, as from all dead bodies, but that had caused no scandal noreven the slightest excitement. Of course there had been, in formertimes, saints in the monastery whose memory was carefully preserved andwhose relics, according to tradition, showed no signs of corruption.This fact was regarded by the monks as touching and mysterious, and thetradition of it was cherished as something blessed and miraculous, andas a promise, by God’s grace, of still greater glory from their tombsin the future.
One such, whose memory was particularly cherished, was an old monk,Job, who had died seventy years before at the age of a hundred andfive. He had been a celebrated ascetic, rigid in fasting and silence,and his tomb was pointed out to all visitors on their arrival withpeculiar respect and mysterious hints of great hopes connected with it.(That was the very tomb on which Father Païssy had found Alyoshasitting in the morning.) Another memory cherished in the monastery wasthat of the famous Father Varsonofy, who was only recently dead and hadpreceded Father Zossima in the eldership. He was reverenced during hislifetime as a crazy saint by all the pilgrims to the monastery. Therewas a tradition that both of these had lain in their coffins as thoughalive, that they had shown no signs of decomposition when they wereburied and that there had been a holy light in their faces. And somepeople even insisted that a sweet fragrance came from their bodies.
Yet, in spite of these edifying memories, it would be difficult toexplain the frivolity, absurdity and malice that were manifested besidethe coffin of Father Zossima. It is my private opinion that severaldifferent causes were simultaneously at work, one of which was thedeeply‐rooted hostility to the institution of elders as a perniciousinnovation, an antipathy hidden deep in the hearts of many of themonks. Even more powerful was jealousy of the dead man’s saintliness,so firmly established during his lifetime that it was almost aforbidden thing to question it. For though the late elder had won overmany hearts, more by love than by miracles, and had gathered round hima mass of loving adherents, none the less, in fact, rather the more onthat account he had awakened jealousy and so had come to have bitterenemies, secret and open, not only in the monastery but in the worldoutside it. He did no one any harm, but “Why do they think him sosaintly?” And that question alone, gradually repeated, gave rise atlast to an intense, insatiable hatred of him. That, I believe, was whymany people were extremely delighted at the smell of decompositionwhich came so quickly, for not a day had passed since his death. At thesame time there were some among those who had been hitherto reverentlydevoted to the elder, who were almost mortified and personallyaffronted by this incident. This was how the thing happened.
As soon as signs of decomposition had begun to appear, the whole aspectof the monks betrayed their secret motives in entering the cell. Theywent in, stayed a little while and hastened out to confirm the news tothe crowd of other monks waiting outside. Some of the latter shooktheir heads mournfully, but others did not even care to conceal thedelight which gleamed unmistakably in their malignant eyes. And now noone reproached them for it, no one raised his voice in protest, whichwas strange, for the majority of the monks had been devoted to the deadelder. But it seemed as though God had in this case let the minorityget the upper hand for a time.
Visitors from outside, particularly of the educated class, soon wentinto the cell, too, with the same spying intent. Of the peasantry fewwent into the cell, though there were crowds of them at the gates ofthe hermitage. After three o’clock the rush of worldly visitors wasgreatly increased and this was no doubt owing to the shocking news.People were attracted who would not otherwise have come on that day andhad not intended to come, and among them were some personages of highstanding. But external decorum was still preserved and Father Païssy,with a stern face, continued firmly and distinctly reading aloud theGospel, apparently not noticing what was taking place around him,though he had, in fact, observed something unusual long before. But atlast the murmurs, first subdued but gradually louder and moreconfident, reached even him. “It shows God’s judgment is not as man’s,”Father Païssy heard suddenly. The first to give utterance to thissentiment was a layman, an elderly official from the town, known to bea man of great piety. But he only repeated aloud what the monks hadlong been whispering. They had long before formulated this damningconclusion, and the worst of it was that a sort of triumphantsatisfaction at that conclusion became more and more apparent everymoment. Soon they began to lay aside even external decorum and almostseemed to feel they had a sort of right to discard it.
“And for what reason can _this_ have happened,” some of the monks said,at first with a show of regret; “he had a small frame and his flesh wasdried up on his bones, what was there to decay?”
“It must be a sign from heaven,” others hastened to add, and theiropinion was adopted at once without protest. For it was pointed out,too, that if the decomposition had been natural, as in the case ofevery dead sinner, it would have been apparent later, after a lapse ofat least twenty‐four hours, but this premature corruption “was inexcess of nature,” and so the finger of God was evident. It was meantfor a sign. This conclusion seemed irresistible.
Gentle Father Iosif, the librarian, a great favorite of the dead man’s,tried to reply to some of the evil speakers that “this is not heldeverywhere alike,” and that the incorruptibility of the bodies of thejust was not a dogma of the Orthodox Church, but only an opinion, andthat even in the most Orthodox regions, at Athos for instance, theywere not greatly confounded by the smell of corruption, and there thechief sign of the glorification of the saved was not bodilyincorruptibility, but the color of the bones when the bodies have lainmany years in the earth and have decayed in it. “And if the bones areyellow as wax, that is the great sign that the Lord has glorified thedead saint, if they are not yellow but black, it shows that God has notdeemed him worthy of such glory—that is the belief in Athos, a greatplace, where the Orthodox doctrine has been preserved from of old,unbroken and in its greatest purity,” said Father Iosif in conclusion.
But the meek Father’s words had little effect and even provoked amocking retort. “That’s all pedantry and innovation, no use listeningto it,” the monks decided. “We stick to the old doctrine, there are allsorts of innovations nowadays, are we to follow them all?” addedothers.
“We have had as many holy fathers as they had. There they are among theTurks, they have forgotten everything. Their doctrine has long beenimpure and they have no bells even,” the most sneering added.
Father Iosif walked away, grieving the more since he had put forwardhis own opinion with little confidence as though scarcely believing init himself. He foresaw with distress that something very unseemly wasbeginning and that there were positive signs of disobedience. Little bylittle, all the sensible monks were reduced to silence like FatherIosif. And so it came to pass that all who loved the elder and hadaccepted with devout obedience the institution of the eldership wereall at once terribly cast down and glanced timidly in one another’sfaces, when they met. Those who were hostile to the institution ofelders, as a novelty, held up their heads proudly. “There was no smellof corruption from the late elder Varsonofy, but a sweet fragrance,”they recalled malignantly. “But he gained that glory not because he wasan elder, but because he was a holy man.”
And this was followed by a shower of criticism and even blame of FatherZossima. “His teaching was false; he taught that life is a great joyand not a vale of tears,” said some of the more unreasonable. “Hefollowed the fashionable belief, he did not recognize material fire inhell,” others, still more unreasonable, added. “He was not strict infasting, allowed himself sweet things, ate cherry jam with his tea,ladies used to send it to him. Is it for a monk of strict rule to drinktea?” could be heard among some of the envious. “He sat in pride,” themost malignant declared vindictively; “he considered himself a saintand he took it as his due when people knelt before him.” “He abused thesacrament of confession,” the fiercest opponents of the institution ofelders added in a malicious whisper. And among these were some of theoldest monks, strictest in their devotion, genuine ascetics, who hadkept silent during the life of the deceased elder, but now suddenlyunsealed their lips. And this was terrible, for their words had greatinfluence on young monks who were not yet firm in their convictions.The monk from Obdorsk heard all this attentively, heaving deep sighsand nodding his head. “Yes, clearly Father Ferapont was right in hisjudgment yesterday,” and at that moment Father Ferapont himself madehis appearance, as though on purpose to increase the confusion.
I have mentioned already that he rarely left his wooden cell by theapiary. He was seldom even seen at church and they overlooked thisneglect on the ground of his craziness, and did not keep him to therules binding on all the rest. But if the whole truth is to be told,they hardly had a choice about it. For it would have been discreditableto insist on burdening with the common regulations so great an ascetic,who prayed day and night (he even dropped asleep on his knees). If theyhad insisted, the monks would have said, “He is holier than all of usand he follows a rule harder than ours. And if he does not go tochurch, it’s because he knows when he ought to; he has his own rule.”It was to avoid the chance of these sinful murmurs that Father Ferapontwas left in peace.
As every one was aware, Father Ferapont particularly disliked FatherZossima. And now the news had reached him in his hut that “God’sjudgment is not the same as man’s,” and that something had happenedwhich was “in excess of nature.” It may well be supposed that among thefirst to run to him with the news was the monk from Obdorsk, who hadvisited him the evening before and left his cell terror‐stricken.
I have mentioned above, that though Father Païssy, standing firm andimmovable reading the Gospel over the coffin, could not hear nor seewhat was passing outside the cell, he gauged most of it correctly inhis heart, for he knew the men surrounding him, well. He was not shakenby it, but awaited what would come next without fear, watching withpenetration and insight for the outcome of the general excitement.
Suddenly an extraordinary uproar in the passage in open defiance ofdecorum burst on his ears. The door was flung open and Father Ferapontappeared in the doorway. Behind him there could be seen accompanyinghim a crowd of monks, together with many people from the town. They didnot, however, enter the cell, but stood at the bottom of the steps,waiting to see what Father Ferapont would say or do. For they felt witha certain awe, in spite of their audacity, that he had not come fornothing. Standing in the doorway, Father Ferapont raised his arms, andunder his right arm the keen inquisitive little eyes of the monk fromObdorsk peeped in. He alone, in his intense curiosity, could not resistrunning up the steps after Father Ferapont. The others, on thecontrary, pressed farther back in sudden alarm when the door wasnoisily flung open. Holding his hands aloft, Father Ferapont suddenlyroared:
“Casting out I cast out!” and, turning in all directions, he began atonce making the sign of the cross at each of the four walls and fourcorners of the cell in succession. All who accompanied Father Ferapontimmediately understood his action. For they knew he always did thiswherever he went, and that he would not sit down or say a word, till hehad driven out the evil spirits.
“Satan, go hence! Satan, go hence!” he repeated at each sign of thecross. “Casting out I cast out,” he roared again.
He was wearing his coarse gown girt with a rope. His bare chest,covered with gray hair, could be seen under his hempen shirt. His feetwere bare. As soon as he began waving his arms, the cruel irons he woreunder his gown could be heard clanking.
Father Païssy paused in his reading, stepped forward and stood beforehim waiting.
“What have you come for, worthy Father? Why do you offend against goodorder? Why do you disturb the peace of the flock?” he said at last,looking sternly at him.
“What have I come for? You ask why? What is your faith?” shouted FatherFerapont crazily. “I’ve come here to drive out your visitors, theunclean devils. I’ve come to see how many have gathered here while Ihave been away. I want to sweep them out with a birch broom.”
“You cast out the evil spirit, but perhaps you are serving himyourself,” Father Païssy went on fearlessly. “And who can say ofhimself ‘I am holy’? Can you, Father?”
“I am unclean, not holy. I would not sit in an arm‐chair and would nothave them bow down to me as an idol,” thundered Father Ferapont.“Nowadays folk destroy the true faith. The dead man, your saint,” heturned to the crowd, pointing with his finger to the coffin, “did notbelieve in devils. He gave medicine to keep off the devils. And so theyhave become as common as spiders in the corners. And now he has begunto stink himself. In that we see a great sign from God.”
The incident he referred to was this. One of the monks was haunted inhis dreams and, later on, in waking moments, by visions of evilspirits. When in the utmost terror he confided this to Father Zossima,the elder had advised continual prayer and rigid fasting. But when thatwas of no use, he advised him, while persisting in prayer and fasting,to take a special medicine. Many persons were shocked at the time andwagged their heads as they talked over it—and most of all FatherFerapont, to whom some of the censorious had hastened to report this“extraordinary” counsel on the part of the elder.
“Go away, Father!” said Father Païssy, in a commanding voice, “it’s notfor man to judge but for God. Perhaps we see here a ‘sign’ whichneither you, nor I, nor any one of us is able to comprehend. Go,Father, and do not trouble the flock!” he repeated impressively.
“He did not keep the fasts according to the rule and therefore the signhas come. That is clear and it’s a sin to hide it,” the fanatic,carried away by a zeal that outstripped his reason, would not bequieted. “He was seduced by sweetmeats, ladies brought them to him intheir pockets, he sipped tea, he worshiped his belly, filling it withsweet things and his mind with haughty thoughts.... And for this he isput to shame....”
“You speak lightly, Father.” Father Païssy, too, raised his voice. “Iadmire your fasting and severities, but you speak lightly like somefrivolous youth, fickle and childish. Go away, Father, I command you!”Father Païssy thundered in conclusion.
“I will go,” said Ferapont, seeming somewhat taken aback, but still asbitter. “You learned men! You are so clever you look down upon myhumbleness. I came hither with little learning and here I haveforgotten what I did know, God Himself has preserved me in my weaknessfrom your subtlety.”
Father Païssy stood over him, waiting resolutely. Father Ferapontpaused and, suddenly leaning his cheek on his hand despondently,pronounced in a sing‐song voice, looking at the coffin of the deadelder:
“To‐morrow they will sing over him ‘Our Helper and Defender’—a splendidanthem—and over me when I die all they’ll sing will be ‘What earthlyjoy’—a little canticle,”[6] he added with tearful regret. “You areproud and puffed up, this is a vain place!” he shouted suddenly like amadman, and with a wave of his hand he turned quickly and quicklydescended the steps. The crowd awaiting him below wavered; somefollowed him at once and some lingered, for the cell was still open,and Father Païssy, following Father Ferapont on to the steps, stoodwatching him. But the excited old fanatic was not completely silenced.Walking twenty steps away, he suddenly turned towards the setting sun,raised both his arms and, as though some one had cut him down, fell tothe ground with a loud scream.
“My God has conquered! Christ has conquered the setting sun!” heshouted frantically, stretching up his hands to the sun, and fallingface downwards on the ground, he sobbed like a little child, shaken byhis tears and spreading out his arms on the ground. Then all rushed upto him; there were exclamations and sympathetic sobs ... a kind offrenzy seemed to take possession of them all.
“This is the one who is a saint! This is the one who is a holy man!”some cried aloud, losing their fear. “This is he who should be anelder,” others added malignantly.
“He wouldn’t be an elder ... he would refuse ... he wouldn’t serve acursed innovation ... he wouldn’t imitate their foolery,” other voiceschimed in at once. And it is hard to say how far they might have gone,but at that moment the bell rang summoning them to service. All begancrossing themselves at once. Father Ferapont, too, got up and crossinghimself went back to his cell without looking round, still utteringexclamations which were utterly incoherent. A few followed him, but thegreater number dispersed, hastening to service. Father Païssy letFather Iosif read in his place and went down. The frantic outcries ofbigots could not shake him, but his heart was suddenly filled withmelancholy for some special reason and he felt that. He stood still andsuddenly wondered, “Why am I sad even to dejection?” and immediatelygrasped with surprise that his sudden sadness was due to a very smalland special cause. In the crowd thronging at the entrance to the cell,he had noticed Alyosha and he remembered that he had felt at once apang at heart on seeing him. “Can that boy mean so much to my heartnow?” he asked himself, wondering.
At that moment Alyosha passed him, hurrying away, but not in thedirection of the church. Their eyes met. Alyosha quickly turned awayhis eyes and dropped them to the ground, and from the boy’s look alone,Father Païssy guessed what a great change was taking place in him atthat moment.
“Have you, too, fallen into temptation?” cried Father Païssy. “Can yoube with those of little faith?” he added mournfully.
Alyosha stood still and gazed vaguely at Father Païssy, but quicklyturned his eyes away again and again looked on the ground. He stoodsideways and did not turn his face to Father Païssy, who watched himattentively.
“Where are you hastening? The bell calls to service,” he asked again,but again Alyosha gave no answer.
“Are you leaving the hermitage? What, without asking leave, withoutasking a blessing?”
Alyosha suddenly gave a wry smile, cast a strange, very strange, lookat the Father to whom his former guide, the former sovereign of hisheart and mind, his beloved elder, had confided him as he lay dying.And suddenly, still without speaking, waved his hand, as though notcaring even to be respectful, and with rapid steps walked towards thegates away from the hermitage.
“You will come back again!” murmured Father Païssy, looking after himwith sorrowful surprise.



Chapter II.A Critical Moment

Father Païssy, of course, was not wrong when he decided that his “dearboy” would come back again. Perhaps indeed, to some extent, hepenetrated with insight into the true meaning of Alyosha’s spiritualcondition. Yet I must frankly own that it would be very difficult forme to give a clear account of that strange, vague moment in the life ofthe young hero I love so much. To Father Païssy’s sorrowful question,“Are you too with those of little faith?” I could of course confidentlyanswer for Alyosha, “No, he is not with those of little faith. Quitethe contrary.” Indeed, all his trouble came from the fact that he wasof great faith. But still the trouble was there and was so agonizingthat even long afterwards Alyosha thought of that sorrowful day as oneof the bitterest and most fatal days of his life. If the question isasked: “Could all his grief and disturbance have been only due to thefact that his elder’s body had shown signs of premature decompositioninstead of at once performing miracles?” I must answer without beatingabout the bush, “Yes, it certainly was.” I would only beg the readernot to be in too great a hurry to laugh at my young hero’s pure heart.I am far from intending to apologize for him or to justify his innocentfaith on the ground of his youth, or the little progress he had made inhis studies, or any such reason. I must declare, on the contrary, thatI have genuine respect for the qualities of his heart. No doubt a youthwho received impressions cautiously, whose love was lukewarm, and whosemind was too prudent for his age and so of little value, such a youngman might, I admit, have avoided what happened to my hero. But in somecases it is really more creditable to be carried away by an emotion,however unreasonable, which springs from a great love, than to beunmoved. And this is even truer in youth, for a young man who is alwayssensible is to be suspected and is of little worth—that’s my opinion!
“But,” reasonable people will exclaim perhaps, “every young man cannotbelieve in such a superstition and your hero is no model for others.”
To this I reply again, “Yes! my hero had faith, a faith holy andsteadfast, but still I am not going to apologize for him.”
Though I declared above, and perhaps too hastily, that I should notexplain or justify my hero, I see that some explanation is necessaryfor the understanding of the rest of my story. Let me say then, it wasnot a question of miracles. There was no frivolous and impatientexpectation of miracles in his mind. And Alyosha needed no miracles atthe time, for the triumph of some preconceived idea—oh, no, not atall—what he saw before all was one figure—the figure of his belovedelder, the figure of that holy man whom he revered with such adoration.The fact is that all the love that lay concealed in his pure youngheart for every one and everything had, for the past year, beenconcentrated—and perhaps wrongly so—on one being, his beloved elder. Itis true that being had for so long been accepted by him as his ideal,that all his young strength and energy could not but turn towards thatideal, even to the forgetting at the moment “of every one andeverything.” He remembered afterwards how, on that terrible day, he hadentirely forgotten his brother Dmitri, about whom he had been soanxious and troubled the day before; he had forgotten, too, to take thetwo hundred roubles to Ilusha’s father, though he had so warmlyintended to do so the preceding evening. But again it was not miracleshe needed but only “the higher justice” which had been in his beliefoutraged by the blow that had so suddenly and cruelly wounded hisheart. And what does it signify that this “justice” looked for byAlyosha inevitably took the shape of miracles to be wrought immediatelyby the ashes of his adored teacher? Why, every one in the monasterycherished the same thought and the same hope, even those whoseintellects Alyosha revered, Father Païssy himself, for instance. And soAlyosha, untroubled by doubts, clothed his dreams too in the same formas all the rest. And a whole year of life in the monastery had formedthe habit of this expectation in his heart. But it was justice,justice, he thirsted for, not simply miracles.
And now the man who should, he believed, have been exalted above everyone in the whole world, that man, instead of receiving the glory thatwas his due, was suddenly degraded and dishonored! What for? Who hadjudged him? Who could have decreed this? Those were the questions thatwrung his inexperienced and virginal heart. He could not endure withoutmortification, without resentment even, that the holiest of holy menshould have been exposed to the jeering and spiteful mockery of thefrivolous crowd so inferior to him. Even had there been no miracles,had there been nothing marvelous to justify his hopes, why thisindignity, why this humiliation, why this premature decay, “in excessof nature,” as the spiteful monks said? Why this “sign from heaven,”which they so triumphantly acclaimed in company with Father Ferapont,and why did they believe they had gained the right to acclaim it? Whereis the finger of Providence? Why did Providence hide its face “at themost critical moment” (so Alyosha thought it), as though voluntarilysubmitting to the blind, dumb, pitiless laws of nature?
That was why Alyosha’s heart was bleeding, and, of course, as I havesaid already, the sting of it all was that the man he loved aboveeverything on earth should be put to shame and humiliated! Thismurmuring may have been shallow and unreasonable in my hero, but Irepeat again for the third time—and am prepared to admit that it mightbe difficult to defend my feeling—I am glad that my hero showed himselfnot too reasonable at that moment, for any man of sense will alwayscome back to reason in time, but, if love does not gain the upper handin a boy’s heart at such an exceptional moment, when will it? I willnot, however, omit to mention something strange, which came for a timeto the surface of Alyosha’s mind at this fatal and obscure moment. Thisnew something was the harassing impression left by the conversationwith Ivan, which now persistently haunted Alyosha’s mind. At thismoment it haunted him. Oh, it was not that something of thefundamental, elemental, so to speak, faith of his soul had been shaken.He loved his God and believed in Him steadfastly, though he wassuddenly murmuring against Him. Yet a vague but tormenting and evilimpression left by his conversation with Ivan the day before, suddenlyrevived again now in his soul and seemed forcing its way to the surfaceof his consciousness.
It had begun to get dusk when Rakitin, crossing the pine copse from thehermitage to the monastery, suddenly noticed Alyosha, lying facedownwards on the ground under a tree, not moving and apparently asleep.He went up and called him by his name.
“You here, Alexey? Can you have—” he began wondering but broke off. Hehad meant to say, “Can you have come to this?”
Alyosha did not look at him, but from a slight movement Rakitin at oncesaw that he heard and understood him.
“What’s the matter?” he went on; but the surprise in his face graduallypassed into a smile that became more and more ironical.
“I say, I’ve been looking for you for the last two hours. You suddenlydisappeared. What are you about? What foolery is this? You might justlook at me...”
Alyosha raised his head, sat up and leaned his back against the tree.He was not crying, but there was a look of suffering and irritabilityin his face. He did not look at Rakitin, however, but looked away toone side of him.
“Do you know your face is quite changed? There’s none of your famousmildness to be seen in it. Are you angry with some one? Have they beenill‐treating you?”
“Let me alone,” said Alyosha suddenly, with a weary gesture of hishand, still looking away from him.
“Oho! So that’s how we are feeling! So you can shout at people likeother mortals. That is a come‐down from the angels. I say, Alyosha, youhave surprised me, do you hear? I mean it. It’s long since I’ve beensurprised at anything here. I always took you for an educated man....”
Alyosha at last looked at him, but vaguely, as though scarcelyunderstanding what he said.
“Can you really be so upset simply because your old man has begun tostink? You don’t mean to say you seriously believed that he was goingto work miracles?” exclaimed Rakitin, genuinely surprised again.
“I believed, I believe, I want to believe, and I will believe, whatmore do you want?” cried Alyosha irritably.
“Nothing at all, my boy. Damn it all! why, no schoolboy of thirteenbelieves in that now. But there.... So now you are in a temper withyour God, you are rebelling against Him; He hasn’t given promotion, Hehasn’t bestowed the order of merit! Eh, you are a set!”
Alyosha gazed a long while with his eyes half closed at Rakitin, andthere was a sudden gleam in his eyes ... but not of anger with Rakitin.
“I am not rebelling against my God; I simply ‘don’t accept His world.’” Alyosha suddenly smiled a forced smile.
“How do you mean, you don’t accept the world?” Rakitin thought a momentover his answer. “What idiocy is this?”
Alyosha did not answer.
“Come, enough nonsense, now to business. Have you had anything to eatto‐ day?”
“I don’t remember.... I think I have.”
“You need keeping up, to judge by your face. It makes one sorry to lookat you. You didn’t sleep all night either, I hear, you had a meeting inthere. And then all this bobbery afterwards. Most likely you’ve hadnothing to eat but a mouthful of holy bread. I’ve got some sausage inmy pocket; I’ve brought it from the town in case of need, only youwon’t eat sausage....”
“Give me some.”
“I say! You are going it! Why, it’s a regular mutiny, with barricades!Well, my boy, we must make the most of it. Come to my place.... Ishouldn’t mind a drop of vodka myself, I am tired to death. Vodka isgoing too far for you, I suppose ... or would you like some?”
“Give me some vodka too.”
“Hullo! You surprise me, brother!” Rakitin looked at him in amazement.“Well, one way or another, vodka or sausage, this is a jolly finechance and mustn’t be missed. Come along.”
Alyosha got up in silence and followed Rakitin.
“If your little brother Ivan could see this—wouldn’t he be surprised!By the way, your brother Ivan set off to Moscow this morning, did youknow?”
“Yes,” answered Alyosha listlessly, and suddenly the image of hisbrother Dmitri rose before his mind. But only for a minute, and thoughit reminded him of something that must not be put off for a moment,some duty, some terrible obligation, even that reminder made noimpression on him, did not reach his heart and instantly faded out ofhis mind and was forgotten. But, a long while afterwards, Alyosharemembered this.
“Your brother Ivan declared once that I was a ‘liberal booby with notalents whatsoever.’ Once you, too, could not resist letting me know Iwas ‘dishonorable.’ Well! I should like to see what your talents andsense of honor will do for you now.” This phrase Rakitin finished tohimself in a whisper.
“Listen!” he said aloud, “let’s go by the path beyond the monasterystraight to the town. Hm! I ought to go to Madame Hohlakov’s by theway. Only fancy, I’ve written to tell her everything that happened, andwould you believe it, she answered me instantly in pencil (the lady hasa passion for writing notes) that ‘she would never have expected _suchconduct_ from a man of such a reverend character as Father Zossima.’That was her very word: ‘conduct.’ She is angry too. Eh, you are a set!Stay!” he cried suddenly again. He suddenly stopped and taking Alyoshaby the shoulder made him stop too.
“Do you know, Alyosha,” he peeped inquisitively into his eyes, absorbedin a sudden new thought which had dawned on him, and though he waslaughing outwardly he was evidently afraid to utter that new ideaaloud, so difficult he still found it to believe in the strange andunexpected mood in which he now saw Alyosha. “Alyosha, do you knowwhere we had better go?” he brought out at last timidly, andinsinuatingly.
“I don’t care ... where you like.”
“Let’s go to Grushenka, eh? Will you come?” pronounced Rakitin at last,trembling with timid suspense.
“Let’s go to Grushenka,” Alyosha answered calmly, at once, and thisprompt and calm agreement was such a surprise to Rakitin that he almoststarted back.
“Well! I say!” he cried in amazement, but seizing Alyosha firmly by thearm he led him along the path, still dreading that he would change hismind.
They walked along in silence, Rakitin was positively afraid to talk.
“And how glad she will be, how delighted!” he muttered, but lapsed intosilence again. And indeed it was not to please Grushenka he was takingAlyosha to her. He was a practical person and never undertook anythingwithout a prospect of gain for himself. His object in this case wastwofold, first a revengeful desire to see “the downfall of therighteous,” and Alyosha’s fall “from the saints to the sinners,” overwhich he was already gloating in his imagination, and in the secondplace he had in view a certain material gain for himself, of which morewill be said later.
“So the critical moment has come,” he thought to himself with spitefulglee, “and we shall catch it on the hop, for it’s just what we want.”



Chapter III.An Onion

Grushenka lived in the busiest part of the town, near the cathedralsquare, in a small wooden lodge in the courtyard belonging to the houseof the widow Morozov. The house was a large stone building of twostories, old and very ugly. The widow led a secluded life with her twounmarried nieces, who were also elderly women. She had no need to lether lodge, but every one knew that she had taken in Grushenka as alodger, four years before, solely to please her kinsman, the merchantSamsonov, who was known to be the girl’s protector. It was said thatthe jealous old man’s object in placing his “favorite” with the widowMorozov was that the old woman should keep a sharp eye on her newlodger’s conduct. But this sharp eye soon proved to be unnecessary, andin the end the widow Morozov seldom met Grushenka and did not worry herby looking after her in any way. It is true that four years had passedsince the old man had brought the slim, delicate, shy, timid, dreamy,and sad girl of eighteen from the chief town of the province, and muchhad happened since then. Little was known of the girl’s history in thetown and that little was vague. Nothing more had been learnt during thelast four years, even after many persons had become interested in thebeautiful young woman into whom Agrafena Alexandrovna had meanwhiledeveloped. There were rumors that she had been at seventeen betrayed bysome one, some sort of officer, and immediately afterwards abandoned byhim. The officer had gone away and afterwards married, while Grushenkahad been left in poverty and disgrace. It was said, however, thatthough Grushenka had been raised from destitution by the old man,Samsonov, she came of a respectable family belonging to the clericalclass, that she was the daughter of a deacon or something of the sort.
And now after four years the sensitive, injured and pathetic littleorphan had become a plump, rosy beauty of the Russian type, a woman ofbold and determined character, proud and insolent. She had a good headfor business, was acquisitive, saving and careful, and by fair means orfoul had succeeded, it was said, in amassing a little fortune. Therewas only one point on which all were agreed. Grushenka was not easilyto be approached and except her aged protector there had not been oneman who could boast of her favors during those four years. It was apositive fact, for there had been a good many, especially during thelast two years, who had attempted to obtain those favors. But all theirefforts had been in vain and some of these suitors had been forced tobeat an undignified and even comic retreat, owing to the firm andironical resistance they met from the strong‐willed young person. Itwas known, too, that the young person had, especially of late, beengiven to what is called “speculation,” and that she had shown markedabilities in that direction, so that many people began to say that shewas no better than a Jew. It was not that she lent money on interest,but it was known, for instance, that she had for some time past, inpartnership with old Karamazov, actually invested in the purchase ofbad debts for a trifle, a tenth of their nominal value, and afterwardshad made out of them ten times their value.
The old widower Samsonov, a man of large fortune, was stingy andmerciless. He tyrannized over his grown‐up sons, but, for the last yearduring which he had been ill and lost the use of his swollen legs, hehad fallen greatly under the influence of his protégée, whom he had atfirst kept strictly and in humble surroundings, “on Lenten fare,” asthe wits said at the time. But Grushenka had succeeded in emancipatingherself, while she established in him a boundless belief in herfidelity. The old man, now long since dead, had had a large business inhis day and was also a noteworthy character, miserly and hard as flint.Though Grushenka’s hold upon him was so strong that he could not livewithout her (it had been so especially for the last two years), he didnot settle any considerable fortune on her and would not have beenmoved to do so, if she had threatened to leave him. But he hadpresented her with a small sum, and even that was a surprise to everyone when it became known.
“You are a wench with brains,” he said to her, when he gave her eightthousand roubles, “and you must look after yourself, but let me tellyou that except your yearly allowance as before, you’ll get nothingmore from me to the day of my death, and I’ll leave you nothing in mywill either.”
And he kept his word; he died and left everything to his sons, whom,with their wives and children, he had treated all his life as servants.Grushenka was not even mentioned in his will. All this became knownafterwards. He helped Grushenka with his advice to increase her capitaland put business in her way.
When Fyodor Pavlovitch, who first came into contact with Grushenka overa piece of speculation, ended to his own surprise by falling madly inlove with her, old Samsonov, gravely ill as he was, was immenselyamused. It is remarkable that throughout their whole acquaintanceGrushenka was absolutely and spontaneously open with the old man, andhe seems to have been the only person in the world with whom she wasso. Of late, when Dmitri too had come on the scene with his love, theold man left off laughing. On the contrary, he once gave Grushenka astern and earnest piece of advice.
“If you have to choose between the two, father or son, you’d betterchoose the old man, if only you make sure the old scoundrel will marryyou and settle some fortune on you beforehand. But don’t keep on withthe captain, you’ll get no good out of that.”
These were the very words of the old profligate, who felt already thathis death was not far off and who actually died five months later.
I will note, too, in passing, that although many in our town knew ofthe grotesque and monstrous rivalry of the Karamazovs, father and son,the object of which was Grushenka, scarcely any one understood whatreally underlay her attitude to both of them. Even Grushenka’s twoservants (after the catastrophe of which we will speak later) testifiedin court that she received Dmitri Fyodorovitch simply from fear because“he threatened to murder her.” These servants were an old cook,invalidish and almost deaf, who came from Grushenka’s old home, and hergranddaughter, a smart young girl of twenty, who performed the dutiesof a maid. Grushenka lived very economically and her surroundings wereanything but luxurious. Her lodge consisted of three rooms furnishedwith mahogany furniture in the fashion of 1820, belonging to herlandlady.
It was quite dark when Rakitin and Alyosha entered her rooms, yet theywere not lighted up. Grushenka was lying down in her drawing‐room onthe big, hard, clumsy sofa, with a mahogany back. The sofa was coveredwith shabby and ragged leather. Under her head she had two white downpillows taken from her bed. She was lying stretched out motionless onher back with her hands behind her head. She was dressed as thoughexpecting some one, in a black silk dress, with a dainty lace fichu onher head, which was very becoming. Over her shoulders was thrown a laceshawl pinned with a massive gold brooch. She certainly was expectingsome one. She lay as though impatient and weary, her face rather paleand her lips and eyes hot, restlessly tapping the arm of the sofa withthe tip of her right foot. The appearance of Rakitin and Alyosha causeda slight excitement. From the hall they could hear Grushenka leap upfrom the sofa and cry out in a frightened voice, “Who’s there?” But themaid met the visitors and at once called back to her mistress.
“It’s not he, it’s nothing, only other visitors.”
“What can be the matter?” muttered Rakitin, leading Alyosha into thedrawing‐room.
Grushenka was standing by the sofa as though still alarmed. A thickcoil of her dark brown hair escaped from its lace covering and fell onher right shoulder, but she did not notice it and did not put it backtill she had gazed at her visitors and recognized them.
“Ah, it’s you, Rakitin? You quite frightened me. Whom have you brought?Who is this with you? Good heavens, you have brought him!” sheexclaimed, recognizing Alyosha.
“Do send for candles!” said Rakitin, with the free‐and‐easy air of amost intimate friend, who is privileged to give orders in the house.
“Candles ... of course, candles.... Fenya, fetch him a candle.... Well,you have chosen a moment to bring him!” she exclaimed again, noddingtowards Alyosha, and turning to the looking‐glass she began quicklyfastening up her hair with both hands. She seemed displeased.
“Haven’t I managed to please you?” asked Rakitin, instantly almostoffended.
“You frightened me, Rakitin, that’s what it is.” Grushenka turned witha smile to Alyosha. “Don’t be afraid of me, my dear Alyosha, you cannotthink how glad I am to see you, my unexpected visitor. But youfrightened me, Rakitin, I thought it was Mitya breaking in. You see, Ideceived him just now, I made him promise to believe me and I told hima lie. I told him that I was going to spend the evening with my oldman, Kuzma Kuzmitch, and should be there till late counting up hismoney. I always spend one whole evening a week with him making up hisaccounts. We lock ourselves in and he counts on the reckoning beadswhile I sit and put things down in the book. I am the only person hetrusts. Mitya believes that I am there, but I came back and have beensitting locked in here, expecting some news. How was it Fenya let youin? Fenya, Fenya, run out to the gate, open it and look about whetherthe captain is to be seen! Perhaps he is hiding and spying, I amdreadfully frightened.”
“There’s no one there, Agrafena Alexandrovna, I’ve just looked out, Ikeep running to peep through the crack, I am in fear and tremblingmyself.”
“Are the shutters fastened, Fenya? And we must draw the curtains—that’sbetter!” She drew the heavy curtains herself. “He’d rush in at once ifhe saw a light. I am afraid of your brother Mitya to‐day, Alyosha.”
Grushenka spoke aloud, and, though she was alarmed, she seemed veryhappy about something.
“Why are you so afraid of Mitya to‐day?” inquired Rakitin. “I shouldhave thought you were not timid with him, you’d twist him round yourlittle finger.”
“I tell you, I am expecting news, priceless news, so I don’t want Mityaat all. And he didn’t believe, I feel he didn’t, that I should stay atKuzma Kuzmitch’s. He must be in his ambush now, behind FyodorPavlovitch’s, in the garden, watching for me. And if he’s there, hewon’t come here, so much the better! But I really have been to KuzmaKuzmitch’s, Mitya escorted me there. I told him I should stay theretill midnight, and I asked him to be sure to come at midnight to fetchme home. He went away and I sat ten minutes with Kuzma Kuzmitch andcame back here again. Ugh, I was afraid, I ran for fear of meetinghim.”
“And why are you so dressed up? What a curious cap you’ve got on!”
“How curious you are yourself, Rakitin! I tell you, I am expecting amessage. If the message comes, I shall fly, I shall gallop away and youwill see no more of me. That’s why I am dressed up, so as to be ready.”
“And where are you flying to?”
“If you know too much, you’ll get old too soon.”
“Upon my word! You are highly delighted ... I’ve never seen you likethis before. You are dressed up as if you were going to a ball.”Rakitin looked her up and down.
“Much you know about balls.”
“And do you know much about them?”
“I have seen a ball. The year before last, Kuzma Kuzmitch’s son wasmarried and I looked on from the gallery. Do you suppose I want to betalking to you, Rakitin, while a prince like this is standing here.Such a visitor! Alyosha, my dear boy, I gaze at you and can’t believemy eyes. Good heavens, can you have come here to see me! To tell youthe truth, I never had a thought of seeing you and I didn’t think thatyou would ever come and see me. Though this is not the moment now, I amawfully glad to see you. Sit down on the sofa, here, that’s right, mybright young moon. I really can’t take it in even now.... Eh, Rakitin,if only you had brought him yesterday or the day before! But I am gladas it is! Perhaps it’s better he has come now, at such a moment, andnot the day before yesterday.”
She gayly sat down beside Alyosha on the sofa, looking at him withpositive delight. And she really was glad, she was not lying when shesaid so. Her eyes glowed, her lips laughed, but it was a good‐heartedmerry laugh. Alyosha had not expected to see such a kind expression inher face.... He had hardly met her till the day before, he had formedan alarming idea of her, and had been horribly distressed the daybefore by the spiteful and treacherous trick she had played on KaterinaIvanovna. He was greatly surprised to find her now altogether differentfrom what he had expected. And, crushed as he was by his own sorrow,his eyes involuntarily rested on her with attention. Her whole mannerseemed changed for the better since yesterday, there was scarcely anytrace of that mawkish sweetness in her speech, of that voluptuoussoftness in her movements. Everything was simple and good‐natured, hergestures were rapid, direct, confiding, but she was greatly excited.
“Dear me, how everything comes together to‐day!” she chattered onagain. “And why I am so glad to see you, Alyosha, I couldn’t saymyself! If you ask me, I couldn’t tell you.”
“Come, don’t you know why you’re glad?” said Rakitin, grinning. “Youused to be always pestering me to bring him, you’d some object, Isuppose.”
“I had a different object once, but now that’s over, this is not themoment. I say, I want you to have something nice. I am so good‐naturednow. You sit down, too, Rakitin; why are you standing? You’ve sat downalready? There’s no fear of Rakitin’s forgetting to look after himself.Look, Alyosha, he’s sitting there opposite us, so offended that Ididn’t ask him to sit down before you. Ugh, Rakitin is such a one totake offense!” laughed Grushenka. “Don’t be angry, Rakitin, I’m kindto‐day. Why are you so depressed, Alyosha? Are you afraid of me?” Shepeeped into his eyes with merry mockery”
“He’s sad. The promotion has not been given,” boomed Rakitin.
“What promotion?”
“His elder stinks.”
“What? You are talking some nonsense, you want to say something nasty.Be quiet, you stupid! Let me sit on your knee, Alyosha, like this.” Shesuddenly skipped forward and jumped, laughing, on his knee, like anestling kitten, with her right arm about his neck. “I’ll cheer you up,my pious boy. Yes, really, will you let me sit on your knee? You won’tbe angry? If you tell me, I’ll get off?”
Alyosha did not speak. He sat afraid to move, he heard her words, “Ifyou tell me, I’ll get off,” but he did not answer. But there wasnothing in his heart such as Rakitin, for instance, watching himmalignantly from his corner, might have expected or fancied. The greatgrief in his heart swallowed up every sensation that might have beenaroused, and, if only he could have thought clearly at that moment, hewould have realized that he had now the strongest armor to protect himfrom every lust and temptation. Yet in spite of the vagueirresponsiveness of his spiritual condition and the sorrow thatoverwhelmed him, he could not help wondering at a new and strangesensation in his heart. This woman, this “dreadful” woman, had noterror for him now, none of that terror that had stirred in his soul atany passing thought of woman. On the contrary, this woman, dreadedabove all women, sitting now on his knee, holding him in her arms,aroused in him now a quite different, unexpected, peculiar feeling, afeeling of the intensest and purest interest without a trace of fear,of his former terror. That was what instinctively surprised him.
“You’ve talked nonsense enough,” cried Rakitin, “you’d much better giveus some champagne. You owe it me, you know you do!”
“Yes, I really do. Do you know, Alyosha, I promised him champagne onthe top of everything, if he’d bring you? I’ll have some too! Fenya,Fenya, bring us the bottle Mitya left! Look sharp! Though I am sostingy, I’ll stand a bottle, not for you, Rakitin, you’re a toadstool,but he is a falcon! And though my heart is full of something verydifferent, so be it, I’ll drink with you. I long for some dissipation.”
“But what is the matter with you? And what is this message, may I ask,or is it a secret?” Rakitin put in inquisitively, doing his best topretend not to notice the snubs that were being continually aimed athim.
“Ech, it’s not a secret, and you know it, too,” Grushenka said, in avoice suddenly anxious, turning her head towards Rakitin, and drawing alittle away from Alyosha, though she still sat on his knee with her armround his neck. “My officer is coming, Rakitin, my officer is coming.”
“I heard he was coming, but is he so near?”
“He is at Mokroe now; he’ll send a messenger from there, so he wrote; Igot a letter from him to‐day. I am expecting the messenger everyminute.”
“You don’t say so! Why at Mokroe?”
“That’s a long story, I’ve told you enough.”
“Mitya’ll be up to something now—I say! Does he know or doesn’t he?”
“He know! Of course he doesn’t. If he knew, there would be murder. ButI am not afraid of that now, I am not afraid of his knife. Be quiet,Rakitin, don’t remind me of Dmitri Fyodorovitch, he has bruised myheart. And I don’t want to think of that at this moment. I can think ofAlyosha here, I can look at Alyosha ... smile at me, dear, cheer up,smile at my foolishness, at my pleasure.... Ah, he’s smiling, he’ssmiling! How kindly he looks at me! And you know, Alyosha, I’ve beenthinking all this time you were angry with me, because of the daybefore yesterday, because of that young lady. I was a cur, that’s thetruth.... But it’s a good thing it happened so. It was a horrid thing,but a good thing too.” Grushenka smiled dreamily and a little cruelline showed in her smile. “Mitya told me that she screamed out that I‘ought to be flogged.’ I did insult her dreadfully. She sent for me,she wanted to make a conquest of me, to win me over with herchocolate.... No, it’s a good thing it did end like that.” She smiledagain. “But I am still afraid of your being angry.”
“Yes, that’s really true,” Rakitin put in suddenly with genuinesurprise. “Alyosha, she is really afraid of a chicken like you.”
“He is a chicken to you, Rakitin ... because you’ve no conscience,that’s what it is! You see, I love him with all my soul, that’s how itis! Alyosha, do you believe I love you with all my soul?”
“Ah, you shameless woman! She is making you a declaration, Alexey!”
“Well, what of it, I love him!”
“And what about your officer? And the priceless message from Mokroe?”
“That is quite different.”
“That’s a woman’s way of looking at it!”
“Don’t you make me angry, Rakitin.” Grushenka caught him up hotly.“This is quite different. I love Alyosha in a different way. It’s true,Alyosha, I had sly designs on you before. For I am a horrid, violentcreature. But at other times I’ve looked upon you, Alyosha, as myconscience. I’ve kept thinking ‘how any one like that must despise anasty thing like me.’ I thought that the day before yesterday, as I ranhome from the young lady’s. I have thought of you a long time in thatway, Alyosha, and Mitya knows, I’ve talked to him about it. Mityaunderstands. Would you believe it, I sometimes look at you and feelashamed, utterly ashamed of myself.... And how, and since when, I beganto think about you like that, I can’t say, I don’t remember....”
Fenya came in and put a tray with an uncorked bottle and three glassesof champagne on the table.
“Here’s the champagne!” cried Rakitin. “You’re excited, AgrafenaAlexandrovna, and not yourself. When you’ve had a glass of champagne,you’ll be ready to dance. Eh, they can’t even do that properly,” headded, looking at the bottle. “The old woman’s poured it out in thekitchen and the bottle’s been brought in warm and without a cork. Well,let me have some, anyway.”
He went up to the table, took a glass, emptied it at one gulp andpoured himself out another.
“One doesn’t often stumble upon champagne,” he said, licking his lips.“Now, Alyosha, take a glass, show what you can do! What shall we drinkto? The gates of paradise? Take a glass, Grushenka, you drink to thegates of paradise, too.”
“What gates of paradise?”
She took a glass, Alyosha took his, tasted it and put it back.
“No, I’d better not,” he smiled gently.
“And you bragged!” cried Rakitin.
“Well, if so, I won’t either,” chimed in Grushenka, “I really don’twant any. You can drink the whole bottle alone, Rakitin. If Alyosha hassome, I will.”
“What touching sentimentality!” said Rakitin tauntingly; “and she’ssitting on his knee, too! He’s got something to grieve over, but what’sthe matter with you? He is rebelling against his God and ready to eatsausage....”
“How so?”
“His elder died to‐day, Father Zossima, the saint.”
“So Father Zossima is dead,” cried Grushenka. “Good God, I did notknow!” She crossed herself devoutly. “Goodness, what have I been doing,sitting on his knee like this at such a moment!” She started up asthough in dismay, instantly slipped off his knee and sat down on thesofa.
Alyosha bent a long wondering look upon her and a light seemed to dawnin his face.
“Rakitin,” he said suddenly, in a firm and loud voice; “don’t taunt mewith having rebelled against God. I don’t want to feel angry with you,so you must be kinder, too, I’ve lost a treasure such as you have neverhad, and you cannot judge me now. You had much better look at her—doyou see how she has pity on me? I came here to find a wicked soul—Ifelt drawn to evil because I was base and evil myself, and I’ve found atrue sister, I have found a treasure—a loving heart. She had pity on mejust now.... Agrafena Alexandrovna, I am speaking of you. You’ve raisedmy soul from the depths.”
Alyosha’s lips were quivering and he caught his breath.
“She has saved you, it seems,” laughed Rakitin spitefully. “And shemeant to get you in her clutches, do you realize that?”
“Stay, Rakitin.” Grushenka jumped up. “Hush, both of you. Now I’ll tellyou all about it. Hush, Alyosha, your words make me ashamed, for I ambad and not good—that’s what I am. And you hush, Rakitin, because youare telling lies. I had the low idea of trying to get him in myclutches, but now you are lying, now it’s all different. And don’t letme hear anything more from you, Rakitin.”
All this Grushenka said with extreme emotion.
“They are both crazy,” said Rakitin, looking at them with amazement. “Ifeel as though I were in a madhouse. They’re both getting so feeblethey’ll begin crying in a minute.”
“I shall begin to cry, I shall,” repeated Grushenka. “He called me hissister and I shall never forget that. Only let me tell you, Rakitin,though I am bad, I did give away an onion.”
“An onion? Hang it all, you really are crazy.”
Rakitin wondered at their enthusiasm. He was aggrieved and annoyed,though he might have reflected that each of them was just passingthrough a spiritual crisis such as does not come often in a lifetime.But though Rakitin was very sensitive about everything that concernedhimself, he was very obtuse as regards the feelings and sensations ofothers—partly from his youth and inexperience, partly from his intenseegoism.
“You see, Alyosha,” Grushenka turned to him with a nervous laugh. “Iwas boasting when I told Rakitin I had given away an onion, but it’snot to boast I tell you about it. It’s only a story, but it’s a nicestory. I used to hear it when I was a child from Matryona, my cook, whois still with me. It’s like this. Once upon a time there was a peasantwoman and a very wicked woman she was. And she died and did not leave asingle good deed behind. The devils caught her and plunged her into thelake of fire. So her guardian angel stood and wondered what good deedof hers he could remember to tell to God; ‘She once pulled up an onionin her garden,’ said he, ‘and gave it to a beggar woman.’ And Godanswered: ‘You take that onion then, hold it out to her in the lake,and let her take hold and be pulled out. And if you can pull her out ofthe lake, let her come to Paradise, but if the onion breaks, then thewoman must stay where she is.’ The angel ran to the woman and held outthe onion to her. ‘Come,’ said he, ‘catch hold and I’ll pull you out.’And he began cautiously pulling her out. He had just pulled her rightout, when the other sinners in the lake, seeing how she was being drawnout, began catching hold of her so as to be pulled out with her. Butshe was a very wicked woman and she began kicking them. ‘I’m to bepulled out, not you. It’s my onion, not yours.’ As soon as she saidthat, the onion broke. And the woman fell into the lake and she isburning there to this day. So the angel wept and went away. So that’sthe story, Alyosha; I know it by heart, for I am that wicked womanmyself. I boasted to Rakitin that I had given away an onion, but to youI’ll say: ‘I’ve done nothing but give away one onion all my life,that’s the only good deed I’ve done.’ So don’t praise me, Alyosha,don’t think me good, I am bad, I am a wicked woman and you make meashamed if you praise me. Eh, I must confess everything. Listen,Alyosha. I was so anxious to get hold of you that I promised Rakitintwenty‐five roubles if he would bring you to me. Stay, Rakitin, wait!”
She went with rapid steps to the table, opened a drawer, pulled out apurse and took from it a twenty‐five rouble note.
“What nonsense! What nonsense!” cried Rakitin, disconcerted.
“Take it. Rakitin, I owe it you, there’s no fear of your refusing it,you asked for it yourself.” And she threw the note to him.
“Likely I should refuse it,” boomed Rakitin, obviously abashed, butcarrying off his confusion with a swagger. “That will come in veryhandy; fools are made for wise men’s profit.”
“And now hold your tongue, Rakitin, what I am going to say now is notfor your ears. Sit down in that corner and keep quiet. You don’t likeus, so hold your tongue.”
“What should I like you for?” Rakitin snarled, not concealing his ill‐humor. He put the twenty‐five rouble note in his pocket and he feltashamed at Alyosha’s seeing it. He had reckoned on receiving hispayment later, without Alyosha’s knowing of it, and now, feelingashamed, he lost his temper. Till that moment he had thought itdiscreet not to contradict Grushenka too flatly in spite of hersnubbing, since he had something to get out of her. But now he, too,was angry:
“One loves people for some reason, but what have either of you done forme?”
“You should love people without a reason, as Alyosha does.”
“How does he love you? How has he shown it, that you make such a fussabout it?”
Grushenka was standing in the middle of the room; she spoke with heatand there were hysterical notes in her voice.
“Hush, Rakitin, you know nothing about us! And don’t dare to speak tome like that again. How dare you be so familiar! Sit in that corner andbe quiet, as though you were my footman! And now, Alyosha, I’ll tellyou the whole truth, that you may see what a wretch I am! I am nottalking to Rakitin, but to you. I wanted to ruin you, Alyosha, that’sthe holy truth; I quite meant to. I wanted to so much, that I bribedRakitin to bring you. And why did I want to do such a thing? You knewnothing about it, Alyosha, you turned away from me; if you passed me,you dropped your eyes. And I’ve looked at you a hundred times beforeto‐day; I began asking every one about you. Your face haunted my heart.‘He despises me,’ I thought; ‘he won’t even look at me.’ And I felt itso much at last that I wondered at myself for being so frightened of aboy. I’ll get him in my clutches and laugh at him. I was full of spiteand anger. Would you believe it, nobody here dares talk or think ofcoming to Agrafena Alexandrovna with any evil purpose. Old Kuzma is theonly man I have anything to do with here; I was bound and sold to him;Satan brought us together, but there has been no one else. But lookingat you, I thought, I’ll get him in my clutches and laugh at him. Yousee what a spiteful cur I am, and you called me your sister! And nowthat man who wronged me has come; I sit here waiting for a message fromhim. And do you know what that man has been to me? Five years ago, whenKuzma brought me here, I used to shut myself up, that no one might havesight or sound of me. I was a silly slip of a girl; I used to sit heresobbing; I used to lie awake all night, thinking: ‘Where is he now, theman who wronged me? He is laughing at me with another woman, mostlikely. If only I could see him, if I could meet him again, I’d pay himout, I’d pay him out!’ At night I used to lie sobbing into my pillow inthe dark, and I used to brood over it; I used to tear my heart onpurpose and gloat over my anger. ‘I’ll pay him out, I’ll pay him out!’That’s what I used to cry out in the dark. And when I suddenly thoughtthat I should really do nothing to him, and that he was laughing at methen, or perhaps had utterly forgotten me, I would fling myself on thefloor, melt into helpless tears, and lie there shaking till dawn. Inthe morning I would get up more spiteful than a dog, ready to tear thewhole world to pieces. And then what do you think? I began savingmoney, I became hard‐hearted, grew stout—grew wiser, would you say? No,no one in the whole world sees it, no one knows it, but when nightcomes on, I sometimes lie as I did five years ago, when I was a sillygirl, clenching my teeth and crying all night, thinking, ‘I’ll pay himout, I’ll pay him out!’ Do you hear? Well then, now you understand me.A month ago a letter came to me—he was coming, he was a widower, hewanted to see me. It took my breath away; then I suddenly thought: ‘Ifhe comes and whistles to call me, I shall creep back to him like abeaten dog.’ I couldn’t believe myself. Am I so abject? Shall I run tohim or not? And I’ve been in such a rage with myself all this monththat I am worse than I was five years ago. Do you see now, Alyosha,what a violent, vindictive creature I am? I have shown you the wholetruth! I played with Mitya to keep me from running to that other. Hush,Rakitin, it’s not for you to judge me, I am not speaking to you. Beforeyou came in, I was lying here waiting, brooding, deciding my wholefuture life, and you can never know what was in my heart. Yes, Alyosha,tell your young lady not to be angry with me for what happened the daybefore yesterday.... Nobody in the whole world knows what I am goingthrough now, and no one ever can know.... For perhaps I shall take aknife with me to‐day, I can’t make up my mind ...”
And at this “tragic” phrase Grushenka broke down, hid her face in herhands, flung herself on the sofa pillows, and sobbed like a littlechild.
Alyosha got up and went to Rakitin.
“Misha,” he said, “don’t be angry. She wounded you, but don’t be angry.You heard what she said just now? You mustn’t ask too much of humanendurance, one must be merciful.”
Alyosha said this at the instinctive prompting of his heart. He feltobliged to speak and he turned to Rakitin. If Rakitin had not beenthere, he would have spoken to the air. But Rakitin looked at himironically and Alyosha stopped short.
“You were so primed up with your elder’s teaching last night that nowyou have to let it off on me, Alexey, man of God!” said Rakitin, with asmile of hatred.
“Don’t laugh, Rakitin, don’t smile, don’t talk of the dead—he wasbetter than any one in the world!” cried Alyosha, with tears in hisvoice. “I didn’t speak to you as a judge but as the lowest of thejudged. What am I beside her? I came here seeking my ruin, and said tomyself, ‘What does it matter?’ in my cowardliness, but she, after fiveyears in torment, as soon as any one says a word from the heart toher—it makes her forget everything, forgive everything, in her tears!The man who has wronged her has come back, he sends for her and sheforgives him everything, and hastens joyfully to meet him and she won’ttake a knife with her. She won’t! No, I am not like that. I don’t knowwhether you are, Misha, but I am not like that. It’s a lesson to me....She is more loving than we.... Have you heard her speak before of whatshe has just told us? No, you haven’t; if you had, you’d haveunderstood her long ago ... and the person insulted the day beforeyesterday must forgive her, too! She will, when she knows ... and sheshall know.... This soul is not yet at peace with itself, one must betender with it ... there may be a treasure in that soul....”
Alyosha stopped, because he caught his breath. In spite of hisill‐humor Rakitin looked at him with astonishment. He had neverexpected such a tirade from the gentle Alyosha.
“She’s found some one to plead her cause! Why, are you in love withher? Agrafena Alexandrovna, our monk’s really in love with you, you’vemade a conquest!” he cried, with a coarse laugh.
Grushenka lifted her head from the pillow and looked at Alyosha with atender smile shining on her tear‐stained face.
“Let him alone, Alyosha, my cherub; you see what he is, he is not aperson for you to speak to. Mihail Osipovitch,” she turned to Rakitin,“I meant to beg your pardon for being rude to you, but now I don’t wantto. Alyosha, come to me, sit down here.” She beckoned to him with ahappy smile. “That’s right, sit here. Tell me,” she shook him by thehand and peeped into his face, smiling, “tell me, do I love that man ornot? the man who wronged me, do I love him or not? Before you came, Ilay here in the dark, asking my heart whether I loved him. Decide forme, Alyosha, the time has come, it shall be as you say. Am I to forgivehim or not?”
“But you have forgiven him already,” said Alyosha, smiling.
“Yes, I really have forgiven him,” Grushenka murmured thoughtfully.“What an abject heart! To my abject heart!” She snatched up a glassfrom the table, emptied it at a gulp, lifted it in the air and flung iton the floor. The glass broke with a crash. A little cruel line cameinto her smile.
“Perhaps I haven’t forgiven him, though,” she said, with a sort ofmenace in her voice, and she dropped her eyes to the ground as thoughshe were talking to herself. “Perhaps my heart is only getting ready toforgive. I shall struggle with my heart. You see, Alyosha, I’ve grownto love my tears in these five years.... Perhaps I only love myresentment, not him ...”
“Well, I shouldn’t care to be in his shoes,” hissed Rakitin.
“Well, you won’t be, Rakitin, you’ll never be in his shoes. You shallblack my shoes, Rakitin, that’s the place you are fit for. You’ll neverget a woman like me ... and he won’t either, perhaps ...”
“Won’t he? Then why are you dressed up like that?” said Rakitin, with avenomous sneer.
“Don’t taunt me with dressing up, Rakitin, you don’t know all that isin my heart! If I choose to tear off my finery, I’ll tear it off atonce, this minute,” she cried in a resonant voice. “You don’t know whatthat finery is for, Rakitin! Perhaps I shall see him and say: ‘Have youever seen me look like this before?’ He left me a thin, consumptivecry‐baby of seventeen. I’ll sit by him, fascinate him and work him up.‘Do you see what I am like now?’ I’ll say to him; ‘well, and that’senough for you, my dear sir, there’s many a slip twixt the cup and thelip!’ That may be what the finery is for, Rakitin.” Grushenka finishedwith a malicious laugh. “I’m violent and resentful, Alyosha, I’ll tearoff my finery, I’ll destroy my beauty, I’ll scorch my face, slash itwith a knife, and turn beggar. If I choose, I won’t go anywhere now tosee any one. If I choose, I’ll send Kuzma back all he has ever givenme, to‐morrow, and all his money and I’ll go out charing for the restof my life. You think I wouldn’t do it, Rakitin, that I would not dareto do it? I would, I would, I could do it directly, only don’texasperate me ... and I’ll send him about his business, I’ll snap myfingers in his face, he shall never see me again!”
She uttered the last words in an hysterical scream, but broke downagain, hid her face in her hands, buried it in the pillow and shookwith sobs.
Rakitin got up.
“It’s time we were off,” he said, “it’s late, we shall be shut out ofthe monastery.”
Grushenka leapt up from her place.
“Surely you don’t want to go, Alyosha!” she cried, in mournfulsurprise. “What are you doing to me? You’ve stirred up my feeling,tortured me, and now you’ll leave me to face this night alone!”
“He can hardly spend the night with you! Though if he wants to, lethim! I’ll go alone,” Rakitin scoffed jeeringly.
“Hush, evil tongue!” Grushenka cried angrily at him; “you never saidsuch words to me as he has come to say.”
“What has he said to you so special?” asked Rakitin irritably.
“I can’t say, I don’t know. I don’t know what he said to me, it wentstraight to my heart; he has wrung my heart.... He is the first, theonly one who has pitied me, that’s what it is. Why did you not comebefore, you angel?” She fell on her knees before him as though in asudden frenzy. “I’ve been waiting all my life for some one like you, Iknew that some one like you would come and forgive me. I believed that,nasty as I am, some one would really love me, not only with a shamefullove!”
“What have I done to you?” answered Alyosha, bending over her with atender smile, and gently taking her by the hands; “I only gave you anonion, nothing but a tiny little onion, that was all!”
He was moved to tears himself as he said it. At that moment there was asudden noise in the passage, some one came into the hall. Grushenkajumped up, seeming greatly alarmed. Fenya ran noisily into the room,crying out:
“Mistress, mistress darling, a messenger has galloped up,” she cried,breathless and joyful. “A carriage from Mokroe for you, Timofey thedriver, with three horses, they are just putting in fresh horses.... Aletter, here’s the letter, mistress.”
A letter was in her hand and she waved it in the air all the while shetalked. Grushenka snatched the letter from her and carried it to thecandle. It was only a note, a few lines. She read it in one instant.
“He has sent for me,” she cried, her face white and distorted, with awan smile; “he whistles! Crawl back, little dog!”
But only for one instant she stood as though hesitating; suddenly theblood rushed to her head and sent a glow to her cheeks.
“I will go,” she cried; “five years of my life! Good‐by! Good‐by,Alyosha, my fate is sealed. Go, go, leave me all of you, don’t let mesee you again! Grushenka is flying to a new life.... Don’t you rememberevil against me either, Rakitin. I may be going to my death! Ugh! Ifeel as though I were drunk!”
She suddenly left them and ran into her bedroom.
“Well, she has no thoughts for us now!” grumbled Rakitin. “Let’s go, orwe may hear that feminine shriek again. I am sick of all these tearsand cries.”
Alyosha mechanically let himself be led out. In the yard stood acovered cart. Horses were being taken out of the shafts, men wererunning to and fro with a lantern. Three fresh horses were being led inat the open gate. But when Alyosha and Rakitin reached the bottom ofthe steps, Grushenka’s bedroom window was suddenly opened and shecalled in a ringing voice after Alyosha:
“Alyosha, give my greetings to your brother Mitya and tell him not toremember evil against me, though I have brought him misery. And tellhim, too, in my words: ‘Grushenka has fallen to a scoundrel, and not toyou, noble heart.’ And add, too, that Grushenka loved him only onehour, only one short hour she loved him—so let him remember that hourall his life—say, ‘Grushenka tells you to!’ ”
She ended in a voice full of sobs. The window was shut with a slam.
“H’m, h’m!” growled Rakitin, laughing, “she murders your brother Mityaand then tells him to remember it all his life! What ferocity!”
Alyosha made no reply, he seemed not to have heard. He walked fastbeside Rakitin as though in a terrible hurry. He was lost in thoughtand moved mechanically. Rakitin felt a sudden twinge as though he hadbeen touched on an open wound. He had expected something quitedifferent by bringing Grushenka and Alyosha together. Something verydifferent from what he had hoped for had happened.
“He is a Pole, that officer of hers,” he began again, restraininghimself; “and indeed he is not an officer at all now. He served in thecustoms in Siberia, somewhere on the Chinese frontier, some puny littlebeggar of a Pole, I expect. Lost his job, they say. He’s heard now thatGrushenka’s saved a little money, so he’s turned up again—that’s theexplanation of the mystery.”
Again Alyosha seemed not to hear. Rakitin could not control himself.
“Well, so you’ve saved the sinner?” he laughed spitefully. “Have youturned the Magdalene into the true path? Driven out the seven devils,eh? So you see the miracles you were looking out for just now have cometo pass!”
“Hush, Rakitin,” Alyosha answered with an aching heart.
“So you despise me now for those twenty‐five roubles? I’ve sold myfriend, you think. But you are not Christ, you know, and I am notJudas.”
“Oh, Rakitin, I assure you I’d forgotten about it,” cried Alyosha, “youremind me of it yourself....”
But this was the last straw for Rakitin.
“Damnation take you all and each of you!” he cried suddenly, “why thedevil did I take you up? I don’t want to know you from this timeforward. Go alone, there’s your road!”
And he turned abruptly into another street, leaving Alyosha alone inthe dark. Alyosha came out of the town and walked across the fields tothe monastery.



Chapter IV.Cana Of Galilee

It was very late, according to the monastery ideas, when Alyoshareturned to the hermitage; the door‐keeper let him in by a specialentrance. It had struck nine o’clock—the hour of rest and repose aftera day of such agitation for all. Alyosha timidly opened the door andwent into the elder’s cell where his coffin was now standing. There wasno one in the cell but Father Païssy, reading the Gospel in solitudeover the coffin, and the young novice Porfiry, who, exhausted by theprevious night’s conversation and the disturbing incidents of the day,was sleeping the deep sound sleep of youth on the floor of the otherroom. Though Father Païssy heard Alyosha come in, he did not even lookin his direction. Alyosha turned to the right from the door to thecorner, fell on his knees and began to pray.
His soul was overflowing but with mingled feelings; no single sensationstood out distinctly; on the contrary, one drove out another in a slow,continual rotation. But there was a sweetness in his heart and, strangeto say, Alyosha was not surprised at it. Again he saw that coffinbefore him, the hidden dead figure so precious to him, but the weepingand poignant grief of the morning was no longer aching in his soul. Assoon as he came in, he fell down before the coffin as before a holyshrine, but joy, joy was glowing in his mind and in his heart. The onewindow of the cell was open, the air was fresh and cool. “So the smellmust have become stronger, if they opened the window,” thought Alyosha.But even this thought of the smell of corruption, which had seemed tohim so awful and humiliating a few hours before, no longer made himfeel miserable or indignant. He began quietly praying, but he soon feltthat he was praying almost mechanically. Fragments of thought floatedthrough his soul, flashed like stars and went out again at once, to besucceeded by others. But yet there was reigning in his soul a sense ofthe wholeness of things—something steadfast and comforting—and he wasaware of it himself. Sometimes he began praying ardently, he longed topour out his thankfulness and love....
But when he had begun to pray, he passed suddenly to something else,and sank into thought, forgetting both the prayer and what hadinterrupted it. He began listening to what Father Païssy was reading,but worn out with exhaustion he gradually began to doze.
“_And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee;_” readFather Païssy. “_And the mother of Jesus was there; And both Jesus wascalled, and his disciples, to the marriage._”
“Marriage? What’s that?... A marriage!” floated whirling throughAlyosha’s mind. “There is happiness for her, too.... She has gone tothe feast.... No, she has not taken the knife.... That was only atragic phrase.... Well ... tragic phrases should be forgiven, they mustbe. Tragic phrases comfort the heart.... Without them, sorrow would betoo heavy for men to bear. Rakitin has gone off to the back alley. Aslong as Rakitin broods over his wrongs, he will always go off to theback alley.... But the high road ... The road is wide and straight andbright as crystal, and the sun is at the end of it.... Ah!... What’sbeing read?”...
“_And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, Theyhave no wine_” ... Alyosha heard.
“Ah, yes, I was missing that, and I didn’t want to miss it, I love thatpassage: it’s Cana of Galilee, the first miracle.... Ah, that miracle!Ah, that sweet miracle! It was not men’s grief, but their joy Christvisited, He worked His first miracle to help men’s gladness.... ‘He wholoves men loves their gladness, too’ ... He was always repeating that,it was one of his leading ideas.... ‘There’s no living without joy,’Mitya says.... Yes, Mitya.... ‘Everything that is true and good isalways full of forgiveness,’ he used to say that, too” ...
“_Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what has it to do with thee or me? Minehour is not yet come._
“_His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, doit_” ...
“Do it.... Gladness, the gladness of some poor, very poor, people....Of course they were poor, since they hadn’t wine enough even at awedding.... The historians write that, in those days, the people livingabout the Lake of Gennesaret were the poorest that can possibly beimagined ... and another great heart, that other great being, HisMother, knew that He had come not only to make His great terriblesacrifice. She knew that His heart was open even to the simple, artlessmerrymaking of some obscure and unlearned people, who had warmly biddenHim to their poor wedding. ‘Mine hour is not yet come,’ He said, with asoft smile (He must have smiled gently to her). And, indeed, was it tomake wine abundant at poor weddings He had come down to earth? And yetHe went and did as she asked Him.... Ah, he is reading again”....
“_Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filledthem up to the brim._
“_And he saith unto them, Draw out now and bear unto the governor ofthe feast. And they bare it._
“_When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine,and knew not whence it was; (but the servants which drew the waterknew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,_
“_And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth goodwine; and when men have well drunk, that which is worse; but thou hastkept the good wine until now._”
“But what’s this, what’s this? Why is the room growing wider?... Ah,yes ... It’s the marriage, the wedding ... yes, of course. Here are theguests, here are the young couple sitting, and the merry crowd and ...Where is the wise governor of the feast? But who is this? Who? Againthe walls are receding.... Who is getting up there from the greattable? What!... He here, too? But he’s in the coffin ... but he’s here,too. He has stood up, he sees me, he is coming here.... God!”...
Yes, he came up to him, to him, he, the little, thin old man, with tinywrinkles on his face, joyful and laughing softly. There was no coffinnow, and he was in the same dress as he had worn yesterday sitting withthem, when the visitors had gathered about him. His face was uncovered,his eyes were shining. How was this, then? He, too, had been called tothe feast. He, too, at the marriage of Cana in Galilee....
“Yes, my dear, I am called, too, called and bidden,” he heard a softvoice saying over him. “Why have you hidden yourself here, out ofsight? You come and join us too.”
It was his voice, the voice of Father Zossima. And it must be he, sincehe called him!
The elder raised Alyosha by the hand and he rose from his knees.
“We are rejoicing,” the little, thin old man went on. “We are drinkingthe new wine, the wine of new, great gladness; do you see how manyguests? Here are the bride and bridegroom, here is the wise governor ofthe feast, he is tasting the new wine. Why do you wonder at me? I gavean onion to a beggar, so I, too, am here. And many here have given onlyan onion each—only one little onion.... What are all our deeds? Andyou, my gentle one, you, my kind boy, you too have known how to give afamished woman an onion to‐day. Begin your work, dear one, begin it,gentle one!... Do you see our Sun, do you see Him?”
“I am afraid ... I dare not look,” whispered Alyosha.
“Do not fear Him. He is terrible in His greatness, awful in Hissublimity, but infinitely merciful. He has made Himself like unto usfrom love and rejoices with us. He is changing the water into wine thatthe gladness of the guests may not be cut short. He is expecting newguests, He is calling new ones unceasingly for ever and ever.... Therethey are bringing new wine. Do you see they are bringing thevessels....”
Something glowed in Alyosha’s heart, something filled it till it ached,tears of rapture rose from his soul.... He stretched out his hands,uttered a cry and waked up.
Again the coffin, the open window, and the soft, solemn, distinctreading of the Gospel. But Alyosha did not listen to the reading. Itwas strange, he had fallen asleep on his knees, but now he was on hisfeet, and suddenly, as though thrown forward, with three firm rapidsteps he went right up to the coffin. His shoulder brushed againstFather Païssy without his noticing it. Father Païssy raised his eyesfor an instant from his book, but looked away again at once, seeingthat something strange was happening to the boy. Alyosha gazed for halfa minute at the coffin, at the covered, motionless dead man that lay inthe coffin, with the ikon on his breast and the peaked cap with theoctangular cross, on his head. He had only just been hearing his voice,and that voice was still ringing in his ears. He was listening, stillexpecting other words, but suddenly he turned sharply and went out ofthe cell.
He did not stop on the steps either, but went quickly down; his soul,overflowing with rapture, yearned for freedom, space, openness. Thevault of heaven, full of soft, shining stars, stretched vast andfathomless above him. The Milky Way ran in two pale streams from thezenith to the horizon. The fresh, motionless, still night enfolded theearth. The white towers and golden domes of the cathedral gleamed outagainst the sapphire sky. The gorgeous autumn flowers, in the bedsround the house, were slumbering till morning. The silence of earthseemed to melt into the silence of the heavens. The mystery of earthwas one with the mystery of the stars....
Alyosha stood, gazed, and suddenly threw himself down on the earth. Hedid not know why he embraced it. He could not have told why he longedso irresistibly to kiss it, to kiss it all. But he kissed it weeping,sobbing and watering it with his tears, and vowed passionately to loveit, to love it for ever and ever. “Water the earth with the tears ofyour joy and love those tears,” echoed in his soul.
What was he weeping over?
Oh! in his rapture he was weeping even over those stars, which wereshining to him from the abyss of space, and “he was not ashamed of thatecstasy.” There seemed to be threads from all those innumerable worldsof God, linking his soul to them, and it was trembling all over “incontact with other worlds.” He longed to forgive every one and foreverything, and to beg forgiveness. Oh, not for himself, but for allmen, for all and for everything. “And others are praying for me too,”echoed again in his soul. But with every instant he felt clearly and,as it were, tangibly, that something firm and unshakable as that vaultof heaven had entered into his soul. It was as though some idea hadseized the sovereignty of his mind—and it was for all his life and forever and ever. He had fallen on the earth a weak boy, but he rose up aresolute champion, and he knew and felt it suddenly at the very momentof his ecstasy. And never, never, all his life long, could Alyoshaforget that minute.
“Some one visited my soul in that hour,” he used to say afterwards,with implicit faith in his words.
Within three days he left the monastery in accordance with the words ofhis elder, who had bidden him “sojourn in the world.”



Book VIII. Mitya



Chapter I.Kuzma Samsonov

But Dmitri, to whom Grushenka, flying away to a new life, had left herlast greetings, bidding him remember the hour of her love for ever,knew nothing of what had happened to her, and was at that moment in acondition of feverish agitation and activity. For the last two days hehad been in such an inconceivable state of mind that he might easilyhave fallen ill with brain fever, as he said himself afterwards.Alyosha had not been able to find him the morning before, and Ivan hadnot succeeded in meeting him at the tavern on the same day. The peopleat his lodgings, by his orders, concealed his movements.
He had spent those two days literally rushing in all directions,“struggling with his destiny and trying to save himself,” as heexpressed it himself afterwards, and for some hours he even made a dashout of the town on urgent business, terrible as it was to him to losesight of Grushenka for a moment. All this was explained afterwards indetail, and confirmed by documentary evidence; but for the present wewill only note the most essential incidents of those two terrible daysimmediately preceding the awful catastrophe, that broke so suddenlyupon him.
Though Grushenka had, it is true, loved him for an hour, genuinely andsincerely, yet she tortured him sometimes cruelly and mercilessly. Theworst of it was that he could never tell what she meant to do. Toprevail upon her by force or kindness was also impossible: she wouldyield to nothing. She would only have become angry and turned away fromhim altogether, he knew that well already. He suspected, quitecorrectly, that she, too, was passing through an inward struggle, andwas in a state of extraordinary indecision, that she was making up hermind to something, and unable to determine upon it. And so, not withoutgood reason, he divined, with a sinking heart, that at moments she mustsimply hate him and his passion. And so, perhaps, it was, but what wasdistressing Grushenka he did not understand. For him the wholetormenting question lay between him and Fyodor Pavlovitch.
Here, we must note, by the way, one certain fact: he was firmlypersuaded that Fyodor Pavlovitch would offer, or perhaps had offered,Grushenka lawful wedlock, and did not for a moment believe that the oldvoluptuary hoped to gain his object for three thousand roubles. Mityahad reached this conclusion from his knowledge of Grushenka and hercharacter. That was how it was that he could believe at times that allGrushenka’s uneasiness rose from not knowing which of them to choose,which was most to her advantage.
Strange to say, during those days it never occurred to him to think ofthe approaching return of the “officer,” that is, of the man who hadbeen such a fatal influence in Grushenka’s life, and whose arrival shewas expecting with such emotion and dread. It is true that of lateGrushenka had been very silent about it. Yet he was perfectly aware ofa letter she had received a month ago from her seducer, and had heardof it from her own lips. He partly knew, too, what the lettercontained. In a moment of spite Grushenka had shown him that letter,but to her astonishment he attached hardly any consequence to it. Itwould be hard to say why this was. Perhaps, weighed down by all thehideous horror of his struggle with his own father for this woman, hewas incapable of imagining any danger more terrible, at any rate forthe time. He simply did not believe in a suitor who suddenly turned upagain after five years’ disappearance, still less in his speedyarrival. Moreover, in the “officer’s” first letter which had been shownto Mitya, the possibility of his new rival’s visit was very vaguelysuggested. The letter was very indefinite, high‐flown, and full ofsentimentality. It must be noted that Grushenka had concealed from himthe last lines of the letter, in which his return was alluded to moredefinitely. He had, besides, noticed at that moment, he rememberedafterwards, a certain involuntary proud contempt for this missive fromSiberia on Grushenka’s face. Grushenka told him nothing of what hadpassed later between her and this rival; so that by degrees he hadcompletely forgotten the officer’s existence.
He felt that whatever might come later, whatever turn things mighttake, his final conflict with Fyodor Pavlovitch was close upon him, andmust be decided before anything else. With a sinking heart he wasexpecting every moment Grushenka’s decision, always believing that itwould come suddenly, on the impulse of the moment. All of a sudden shewould say to him: “Take me, I’m yours for ever,” and it would all beover. He would seize her and bear her away at once to the ends of theearth. Oh, then he would bear her away at once, as far, far away aspossible; to the farthest end of Russia, if not of the earth, then hewould marry her, and settle down with her incognito, so that no onewould know anything about them, there, here, or anywhere. Then, oh,then, a new life would begin at once!
Of this different, reformed and “virtuous” life (“it must, it must bevirtuous”) he dreamed feverishly at every moment. He thirsted for thatreformation and renewal. The filthy morass, in which he had sunk of hisown free will, was too revolting to him, and, like very many men insuch cases, he put faith above all in change of place. If only it werenot for these people, if only it were not for these circumstances, ifonly he could fly away from this accursed place—he would be altogetherregenerated, would enter on a new path. That was what he believed in,and what he was yearning for.
But all this could only be on condition of the first, the _happy_solution of the question. There was another possibility, a differentand awful ending. Suddenly she might say to him: “Go away. I have justcome to terms with Fyodor Pavlovitch. I am going to marry him and don’twant you”—and then ... but then.... But Mitya did not know what wouldhappen then. Up to the last hour he didn’t know. That must be said tohis credit. He had no definite intentions, had planned no crime. He wassimply watching and spying in agony, while he prepared himself for thefirst, happy solution of his destiny. He drove away any other idea, infact. But for that ending a quite different anxiety arose, a new,incidental, but yet fatal and insoluble difficulty presented itself.
If she were to say to him: “I’m yours; take me away,” how could he takeher away? Where had he the means, the money to do it? It was just atthis time that all sources of revenue from Fyodor Pavlovitch, doleswhich had gone on without interruption for so many years, ceased.Grushenka had money, of course, but with regard to this Mitya suddenlyevinced extraordinary pride; he wanted to carry her away and begin thenew life with her himself, at his own expense, not at hers. He couldnot conceive of taking her money, and the very idea caused him a pangof intense repulsion. I won’t enlarge on this fact or analyze it here,but confine myself to remarking that this was his attitude at themoment. All this may have arisen indirectly and unconsciously from thesecret stings of his conscience for the money of Katerina Ivanovna thathe had dishonestly appropriated. “I’ve been a scoundrel to one of them,and I shall be a scoundrel again to the other directly,” was hisfeeling then, as he explained after: “and when Grushenka knows, shewon’t care for such a scoundrel.”
Where then was he to get the means, where was he to get the fatefulmoney? Without it, all would be lost and nothing could be done, “andonly because I hadn’t the money. Oh, the shame of it!”
To anticipate things: he did, perhaps, know where to get the money,knew, perhaps, where it lay at that moment. I will say no more of thishere, as it will all be clear later. But his chief trouble, I mustexplain however obscurely, lay in the fact that to have that sum heknew of, to _have the right_ to take it, he must first restore KaterinaIvanovna’s three thousand—if not, “I’m a common pickpocket, I’m ascoundrel, and I don’t want to begin a new life as a scoundrel,” Mityadecided. And so he made up his mind to move heaven and earth to returnKaterina Ivanovna that three thousand, and that _first of all_. Thefinal stage of this decision, so to say, had been reached only duringthe last hours, that is, after his last interview with Alyosha, twodays before, on the high‐road, on the evening when Grushenka hadinsulted Katerina Ivanovna, and Mitya, after hearing Alyosha’s accountof it, had admitted that he was a scoundrel, and told him to tellKaterina Ivanovna so, if it could be any comfort to her. After partingfrom his brother on that night, he had felt in his frenzy that it wouldbe better “to murder and rob some one than fail to pay my debt toKatya. I’d rather every one thought me a robber and a murderer, I’drather go to Siberia than that Katya should have the right to say thatI deceived her and stole her money, and used her money to run away withGrushenka and begin a new life! That I can’t do!” So Mitya decided,grinding his teeth, and he might well fancy at times that his brainwould give way. But meanwhile he went on struggling....
Strange to say, though one would have supposed there was nothing leftfor him but despair—for what chance had he, with nothing in the world,to raise such a sum?—yet to the very end he persisted in hoping that hewould get that three thousand, that the money would somehow come to himof itself, as though it might drop from heaven. That is just how it iswith people who, like Dmitri, have never had anything to do with money,except to squander what has come to them by inheritance without anyeffort of their own, and have no notion how money is obtained. A whirlof the most fantastic notions took possession of his brain immediatelyafter he had parted with Alyosha two days before, and threw histhoughts into a tangle of confusion. This is how it was he pitchedfirst on a perfectly wild enterprise. And perhaps to men of that kindin such circumstances the most impossible, fantastic schemes occurfirst, and seem most practical.
He suddenly determined to go to Samsonov, the merchant who wasGrushenka’s protector, and to propose a “scheme” to him, and by meansof it to obtain from him at once the whole of the sum required. Of thecommercial value of his scheme he had no doubt, not the slightest, andwas only uncertain how Samsonov would look upon his freak, supposing hewere to consider it from any but the commercial point of view. ThoughMitya knew the merchant by sight, he was not acquainted with him andhad never spoken a word to him. But for some unknown reason he had longentertained the conviction that the old reprobate, who was lying atdeath’s door, would perhaps not at all object now to Grushenka’ssecuring a respectable position, and marrying a man “to be dependedupon.” And he believed not only that he would not object, but that thiswas what he desired, and, if opportunity arose, that he would be readyto help. From some rumor, or perhaps from some stray word ofGrushenka’s, he had gathered further that the old man would perhapsprefer him to Fyodor Pavlovitch for Grushenka.
Possibly many of the readers of my novel will feel that in reckoning onsuch assistance, and being ready to take his bride, so to speak, fromthe hands of her protector, Dmitri showed great coarseness and want ofdelicacy. I will only observe that Mitya looked upon Grushenka’s pastas something completely over. He looked on that past with infinite pityand resolved with all the fervor of his passion that when onceGrushenka told him she loved him and would marry him, it would mean thebeginning of a new Grushenka and a new Dmitri, free from every vice.They would forgive one another and would begin their lives afresh. Asfor Kuzma Samsonov, Dmitri looked upon him as a man who had exercised afateful influence in that remote past of Grushenka’s, though she hadnever loved him, and who was now himself a thing of the past,completely done with, and, so to say, non‐existent. Besides, Mityahardly looked upon him as a man at all, for it was known to every onein the town that he was only a shattered wreck, whose relations withGrushenka had changed their character and were now simply paternal, andthat this had been so for a long time.
In any case there was much simplicity on Mitya’s part in all this, forin spite of all his vices, he was a very simple‐hearted man. It was aninstance of this simplicity that Mitya was seriously persuaded that,being on the eve of his departure for the next world, old Kuzma mustsincerely repent of his past relations with Grushenka, and that she hadno more devoted friend and protector in the world than this, nowharmless old man.
After his conversation with Alyosha, at the cross‐roads, he hardlyslept all night, and at ten o’clock next morning, he was at the houseof Samsonov and telling the servant to announce him. It was a verylarge and gloomy old house of two stories, with a lodge and outhouses.In the lower story lived Samsonov’s two married sons with theirfamilies, his old sister, and his unmarried daughter. In the lodgelived two of his clerks, one of whom also had a large family. Both thelodge and the lower story were overcrowded, but the old man kept theupper floor to himself, and would not even let the daughter live therewith him, though she waited upon him, and in spite of her asthma wasobliged at certain fixed hours, and at any time he might call her, torun upstairs to him from below.
This upper floor contained a number of large rooms kept purely forshow, furnished in the old‐fashioned merchant style, with longmonotonous rows of clumsy mahogany chairs along the walls, with glasschandeliers under shades, and gloomy mirrors on the walls. All theserooms were entirely empty and unused, for the old man kept to one room,a small, remote bedroom, where he was waited upon by an old servantwith a kerchief on her head, and by a lad, who used to sit on thelocker in the passage. Owing to his swollen legs, the old man couldhardly walk at all, and was only rarely lifted from his leatherarm‐chair, when the old woman supporting him led him up and down theroom once or twice. He was morose and taciturn even with this oldwoman.
When he was informed of the arrival of the “captain,” he at oncerefused to see him. But Mitya persisted and sent his name up again.Samsonov questioned the lad minutely: What he looked like? Whether hewas drunk? Was he going to make a row? The answer he received was: thathe was sober, but wouldn’t go away. The old man again refused to seehim. Then Mitya, who had foreseen this, and purposely brought penciland paper with him, wrote clearly on the piece of paper the words: “Onmost important business closely concerning Agrafena Alexandrovna,” andsent it up to the old man.
After thinking a little Samsonov told the lad to take the visitor tothe drawing‐room, and sent the old woman downstairs with a summons tohis younger son to come upstairs to him at once. This younger son, aman over six foot and of exceptional physical strength, who wasclosely‐shaven and dressed in the European style, though his fatherstill wore a kaftan and a beard, came at once without a comment. Allthe family trembled before the father. The old man had sent for thisgiant, not because he was afraid of the “captain” (he was by no meansof a timorous temper), but in order to have a witness in case of anyemergency. Supported by his son and the servant‐lad, he waddled at lastinto the drawing‐room. It may be assumed that he felt considerablecuriosity. The drawing‐room in which Mitya was awaiting him was a vast,dreary room that laid a weight of depression on the heart. It had adouble row of windows, a gallery, marbled walls, and three immensechandeliers with glass lusters covered with shades.
Mitya was sitting on a little chair at the entrance, awaiting his fatewith nervous impatience. When the old man appeared at the oppositedoor, seventy feet away, Mitya jumped up at once, and with his long,military stride walked to meet him. Mitya was well dressed, in afrock‐coat, buttoned up, with a round hat and black gloves in hishands, just as he had been three days before at the elder’s, at thefamily meeting with his father and brothers. The old man waited forhim, standing dignified and unbending, and Mitya felt at once that hehad looked him through and through as he advanced. Mitya was greatlyimpressed, too, with Samsonov’s immensely swollen face. His lower lip,which had always been thick, hung down now, looking like a bun. Hebowed to his guest in dignified silence, motioned him to a low chair bythe sofa, and, leaning on his son’s arm he began lowering himself on tothe sofa opposite, groaning painfully, so that Mitya, seeing hispainful exertions, immediately felt remorseful and sensitivelyconscious of his insignificance in the presence of the dignified personhe had ventured to disturb.
“What is it you want of me, sir?” said the old man, deliberately,distinctly, severely, but courteously, when he was at last seated.
Mitya started, leapt up, but sat down again. Then he began at oncespeaking with loud, nervous haste, gesticulating, and in a positivefrenzy. He was unmistakably a man driven into a corner, on the brink ofruin, catching at the last straw, ready to sink if he failed. OldSamsonov probably grasped all this in an instant, though his faceremained cold and immovable as a statue’s.
“Most honored sir, Kuzma Kuzmitch, you have no doubt heard more thanonce of my disputes with my father, Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov, whorobbed me of my inheritance from my mother ... seeing the whole town isgossiping about it ... for here every one’s gossiping of what theyshouldn’t ... and besides, it might have reached you through Grushenka... I beg your pardon, through Agrafena Alexandrovna ... AgrafenaAlexandrovna, the lady for whom I have the highest respect and esteem...”
So Mitya began, and broke down at the first sentence. We will notreproduce his speech word for word, but will only summarize the gist ofit. Three months ago, he said, he had of express intention (Mityapurposely used these words instead of “intentionally”) consulted alawyer in the chief town of the province, “a distinguished lawyer,Kuzma Kuzmitch, Pavel Pavlovitch Korneplodov. You have perhaps heard ofhim? A man of vast intellect, the mind of a statesman ... he knows you,too ... spoke of you in the highest terms ...” Mitya broke down again.But these breaks did not deter him. He leapt instantly over the gaps,and struggled on and on.
This Korneplodov, after questioning him minutely, and inspecting thedocuments he was able to bring him (Mitya alluded somewhat vaguely tothese documents, and slurred over the subject with special haste),reported that they certainly might take proceedings concerning thevillage of Tchermashnya, which ought, he said, to have come to him,Mitya, from his mother, and so checkmate the old villain, his father... “because every door was not closed and justice might still find aloophole.” In fact, he might reckon on an additional sum of six or evenseven thousand roubles from Fyodor Pavlovitch, as Tchermashnya wasworth, at least, twenty‐five thousand, he might say twenty‐eightthousand, in fact, “thirty, thirty, Kuzma Kuzmitch, and would youbelieve it, I didn’t get seventeen from that heartless man!” So he,Mitya, had thrown the business up, for the time, knowing nothing aboutthe law, but on coming here was struck dumb by a cross‐claim made uponhim (here Mitya went adrift again and again took a flying leapforward), “so will not you, excellent and honored Kuzma Kuzmitch, bewilling to take up all my claims against that unnatural monster, andpay me a sum down of only three thousand?... You see, you cannot, inany case, lose over it. On my honor, my honor, I swear that. Quite thecontrary, you may make six or seven thousand instead of three.” Aboveall, he wanted this concluded that very day.
“I’ll do the business with you at a notary’s, or whatever it is ... infact, I’m ready to do anything.... I’ll hand over all the deeds ...whatever you want, sign anything ... and we could draw up the agreementat once ... and if it were possible, if it were only possible, thatvery morning.... You could pay me that three thousand, for there isn’ta capitalist in this town to compare with you, and so would save mefrom ... would save me, in fact ... for a good, I might say anhonorable action.... For I cherish the most honorable feelings for acertain person, whom you know well, and care for as a father. I wouldnot have come, indeed, if it had not been as a father. And, indeed,it’s a struggle of three in this business, for it’s fate—that’s afearful thing, Kuzma Kuzmitch! A tragedy, Kuzma Kuzmitch, a tragedy!And as you’ve dropped out long ago, it’s a tug‐ of‐war between two. I’mexpressing it awkwardly, perhaps, but I’m not a literary man. You see,I’m on the one side, and that monster on the other. So you must choose.It’s either I or the monster. It all lies in your hands—the fate ofthree lives, and the happiness of two.... Excuse me, I’m making a messof it, but you understand ... I see from your venerable eyes that youunderstand ... and if you don’t understand, I’m done for ... so yousee!”
Mitya broke off his clumsy speech with that, “so you see!” and jumpingup from his seat, awaited the answer to his foolish proposal. At thelast phrase he had suddenly become hopelessly aware that it had allfallen flat, above all, that he had been talking utter nonsense.
“How strange it is! On the way here it seemed all right, and now it’snothing but nonsense.” The idea suddenly dawned on his despairing mind.All the while he had been talking, the old man sat motionless, watchinghim with an icy expression in his eyes. After keeping him for a momentin suspense, Kuzma Kuzmitch pronounced at last in the most positive andchilling tone:
“Excuse me, we don’t undertake such business.”
Mitya suddenly felt his legs growing weak under him.
“What am I to do now, Kuzma Kuzmitch?” he muttered, with a pale smile.“I suppose it’s all up with me—what do you think?”
“Excuse me....”
Mitya remained standing, staring motionless. He suddenly noticed amovement in the old man’s face. He started.
“You see, sir, business of that sort’s not in our line,” said the oldman slowly. “There’s the court, and the lawyers—it’s a perfect misery.But if you like, there is a man here you might apply to.”
“Good heavens! Who is it? You’re my salvation, Kuzma Kuzmitch,”faltered Mitya.
“He doesn’t live here, and he’s not here just now. He is a peasant, hedoes business in timber. His name is Lyagavy. He’s been haggling withFyodor Pavlovitch for the last year, over your copse at Tchermashnya.They can’t agree on the price, maybe you’ve heard? Now he’s come backagain and is staying with the priest at Ilyinskoe, about twelve verstsfrom the Volovya station. He wrote to me, too, about the business ofthe copse, asking my advice. Fyodor Pavlovitch means to go and see himhimself. So if you were to be beforehand with Fyodor Pavlovitch and tomake Lyagavy the offer you’ve made me, he might possibly—”
“A brilliant idea!” Mitya interrupted ecstatically. “He’s the very man,it would just suit him. He’s haggling with him for it, being asked toomuch, and here he would have all the documents entitling him to theproperty itself. Ha ha ha!”
And Mitya suddenly went off into his short, wooden laugh, startlingSamsonov.
“How can I thank you, Kuzma Kuzmitch?” cried Mitya effusively.
“Don’t mention it,” said Samsonov, inclining his head.
“But you don’t know, you’ve saved me. Oh, it was a true presentimentbrought me to you.... So now to this priest!”
“No need of thanks.”
“I’ll make haste and fly there. I’m afraid I’ve overtaxed yourstrength. I shall never forget it. It’s a Russian says that, KuzmaKuzmitch, a R‐r‐ russian!”
“To be sure!”
Mitya seized his hand to press it, but there was a malignant gleam inthe old man’s eye. Mitya drew back his hand, but at once blamed himselffor his mistrustfulness.
“It’s because he’s tired,” he thought.
“For her sake! For her sake, Kuzma Kuzmitch! You understand that it’sfor her,” he cried, his voice ringing through the room. He bowed,turned sharply round, and with the same long stride walked to the doorwithout looking back. He was trembling with delight.
“Everything was on the verge of ruin and my guardian angel saved me,”was the thought in his mind. And if such a business man as Samsonov (amost worthy old man, and what dignity!) had suggested this course, then... then success was assured. He would fly off immediately. “I will beback before night, I shall be back at night and the thing is done.Could the old man have been laughing at me?” exclaimed Mitya, as hestrode towards his lodging. He could, of course, imagine nothing, butthat the advice was practical “from such a business man” with anunderstanding of the business, with an understanding of this Lyagavy(curious surname!). Or—the old man was laughing at him.
Alas! The second alternative was the correct one. Long afterwards, whenthe catastrophe had happened, old Samsonov himself confessed, laughing,that he had made a fool of the “captain.” He was a cold, spiteful andsarcastic man, liable to violent antipathies. Whether it was the“captain’s” excited face, or the foolish conviction of the “rake andspendthrift,” that he, Samsonov, could be taken in by such acock‐and‐bull story as his scheme, or his jealousy of Grushenka, inwhose name this “scapegrace” had rushed in on him with such a tale toget money which worked on the old man, I can’t tell. But at the instantwhen Mitya stood before him, feeling his legs grow weak under him, andfrantically exclaiming that he was ruined, at that moment the old manlooked at him with intense spite, and resolved to make a laughing‐stockof him. When Mitya had gone, Kuzma Kuzmitch, white with rage, turned tohis son and bade him see to it that that beggar be never seen again,and never admitted even into the yard, or else he’d—
He did not utter his threat. But even his son, who often saw himenraged, trembled with fear. For a whole hour afterwards, the old manwas shaking with anger, and by evening he was worse, and sent for thedoctor.



Chapter II.Lyagavy

So he must drive at full speed, and he had not the money for horses. Hehad forty kopecks, and that was all, all that was left after so manyyears of prosperity! But he had at home an old silver watch which hadlong ceased to go. He snatched it up and carried it to a Jewishwatchmaker who had a shop in the market‐place. The Jew gave him sixroubles for it.
“And I didn’t expect that,” cried Mitya, ecstatically. (He was still ina state of ecstasy.) He seized his six roubles and ran home. At home heborrowed three roubles from the people of the house, who loved him somuch that they were pleased to give it him, though it was all they had.Mitya in his excitement told them on the spot that his fate would bedecided that day, and he described, in desperate haste, the wholescheme he had put before Samsonov, the latter’s decision, his own hopesfor the future, and so on. These people had been told many of theirlodger’s secrets before, and so looked upon him as a gentleman who wasnot at all proud, and almost one of themselves. Having thus collectednine roubles Mitya sent for posting‐horses to take him to the Volovyastation. This was how the fact came to be remembered and establishedthat “at midday, on the day before the event, Mitya had not a farthing,and that he had sold his watch to get money and had borrowed threeroubles from his landlord, all in the presence of witnesses.”
I note this fact, later on it will be apparent why I do so.
Though he was radiant with the joyful anticipation that he would atlast solve all his difficulties, yet, as he drew near Volovya station,he trembled at the thought of what Grushenka might be doing in hisabsence. What if she made up her mind to‐day to go to FyodorPavlovitch? This was why he had gone off without telling her and why heleft orders with his landlady not to let out where he had gone, if anyone came to inquire for him.
“I must, I must get back to‐night,” he repeated, as he was jolted alongin the cart, “and I dare say I shall have to bring this Lyagavy backhere ... to draw up the deed.” So mused Mitya, with a throbbing heart,but alas! his dreams were not fated to be carried out.
To begin with, he was late, taking a short cut from Volovya stationwhich turned out to be eighteen versts instead of twelve. Secondly, hedid not find the priest at home at Ilyinskoe; he had gone off to aneighboring village. While Mitya, setting off there with the sameexhausted horses, was looking for him, it was almost dark.
The priest, a shy and amiable looking little man, informed him at oncethat though Lyagavy had been staying with him at first, he was now atSuhoy Possyolok, that he was staying the night in the forester’scottage, as he was buying timber there too. At Mitya’s urgent requestthat he would take him to Lyagavy at once, and by so doing “save him,so to speak,” the priest agreed, after some demur, to conduct him toSuhoy Possyolok; his curiosity was obviously aroused. But, unluckily,he advised their going on foot, as it would not be “much over” a verst.Mitya, of course, agreed, and marched off with his yard‐long strides,so that the poor priest almost ran after him. He was a very cautiousman, though not old.
Mitya at once began talking to him, too, of his plans, nervously andexcitedly asking advice in regard to Lyagavy, and talking all the way.The priest listened attentively, but gave little advice. He turned offMitya’s questions with: “I don’t know. Ah, I can’t say. How can Itell?” and so on. When Mitya began to speak of his quarrel with hisfather over his inheritance, the priest was positively alarmed, as hewas in some way dependent on Fyodor Pavlovitch. He inquired, however,with surprise, why he called the peasant‐trader Gorstkin, Lyagavy, andobligingly explained to Mitya that, though the man’s name really wasLyagavy, he was never called so, as he would be grievously offended atthe name, and that he must be sure to call him Gorstkin, “or you’ll donothing with him; he won’t even listen to you,” said the priest inconclusion.
Mitya was somewhat surprised for a moment, and explained that that waswhat Samsonov had called him. On hearing this fact, the priest droppedthe subject, though he would have done well to put into words his doubtwhether, if Samsonov had sent him to that peasant, calling him Lyagavy,there was not something wrong about it and he was turning him intoridicule. But Mitya had no time to pause over such trifles. He hurried,striding along, and only when he reached Suhoy Possyolok did he realizethat they had come not one verst, nor one and a half, but at leastthree. This annoyed him, but he controlled himself.
They went into the hut. The forester lived in one half of the hut, andGorstkin was lodging in the other, the better room the other side ofthe passage. They went into that room and lighted a tallow candle. Thehut was extremely overheated. On the table there was a samovar that hadgone out, a tray with cups, an empty rum bottle, a bottle of vodkapartly full, and some half‐eaten crusts of wheaten bread. The visitorhimself lay stretched at full length on the bench, with his coatcrushed up under his head for a pillow, snoring heavily. Mitya stood inperplexity.
“Of course I must wake him. My business is too important. I’ve come insuch haste. I’m in a hurry to get back to‐day,” he said in greatagitation. But the priest and the forester stood in silence, not givingtheir opinion. Mitya went up and began trying to wake him himself; hetried vigorously, but the sleeper did not wake.
“He’s drunk,” Mitya decided. “Good Lord! What am I to do? What am I todo?” And, terribly impatient, he began pulling him by the arms, by thelegs, shaking his head, lifting him up and making him sit on the bench.Yet, after prolonged exertions, he could only succeed in getting thedrunken man to utter absurd grunts, and violent, but inarticulateoaths.
“No, you’d better wait a little,” the priest pronounced at last, “forhe’s obviously not in a fit state.”
“He’s been drinking the whole day,” the forester chimed in.
“Good heavens!” cried Mitya. “If only you knew how important it is tome and how desperate I am!”
“No, you’d better wait till morning,” the priest repeated.
“Till morning? Mercy! that’s impossible!”
And in his despair he was on the point of attacking the sleeping managain, but stopped short at once, realizing the uselessness of hisefforts. The priest said nothing, the sleepy forester looked gloomy.
“What terrible tragedies real life contrives for people,” said Mitya,in complete despair. The perspiration was streaming down his face. Thepriest seized the moment to put before him, very reasonably, that, evenif he succeeded in wakening the man, he would still be drunk andincapable of conversation. “And your business is important,” he said,“so you’d certainly better put it off till morning.” With a gesture ofdespair Mitya agreed.
“Father, I will stay here with a light, and seize the favorable moment.As soon as he wakes I’ll begin. I’ll pay you for the light,” he said tothe forester, “for the night’s lodging, too; you’ll remember DmitriKaramazov. Only, Father, I don’t know what we’re to do with you. Wherewill you sleep?”
“No, I’m going home. I’ll take his horse and get home,” he said,indicating the forester. “And now I’ll say good‐by. I wish you allsuccess.”
So it was settled. The priest rode off on the forester’s horse,delighted to escape, though he shook his head uneasily, wonderingwhether he ought not next day to inform his benefactor FyodorPavlovitch of this curious incident, “or he may in an unlucky hour hearof it, be angry, and withdraw his favor.”
The forester, scratching himself, went back to his room without a word,and Mitya sat on the bench to “catch the favorable moment,” as heexpressed it. Profound dejection clung about his soul like a heavymist. A profound, intense dejection! He sat thinking, but could reachno conclusion. The candle burnt dimly, a cricket chirped; it becameinsufferably close in the overheated room. He suddenly pictured thegarden, the path behind the garden, the door of his father’s housemysteriously opening and Grushenka running in. He leapt up from thebench.
“It’s a tragedy!” he said, grinding his teeth. Mechanically he went upto the sleeping man and looked in his face. He was a lean, middle‐agedpeasant, with a very long face, flaxen curls, and a long, thin, reddishbeard, wearing a blue cotton shirt and a black waistcoat, from thepocket of which peeped the chain of a silver watch. Mitya looked at hisface with intense hatred, and for some unknown reason his curly hairparticularly irritated him.
What was insufferably humiliating was, that after leaving things ofsuch importance and making such sacrifices, he, Mitya, utterly wornout, should with business of such urgency be standing over this dolt onwhom his whole fate depended, while he snored as though there werenothing the matter, as though he’d dropped from another planet.
“Oh, the irony of fate!” cried Mitya, and, quite losing his head, hefell again to rousing the tipsy peasant. He roused him with a sort offerocity, pulled at him, pushed him, even beat him; but after fiveminutes of vain exertions, he returned to his bench in helplessdespair, and sat down.
“Stupid! Stupid!” cried Mitya. “And how dishonorable it all is!”something made him add. His head began to ache horribly. “Should hefling it up and go away altogether?” he wondered. “No, wait tillto‐morrow now. I’ll stay on purpose. What else did I come for? Besides,I’ve no means of going. How am I to get away from here now? Oh, theidiocy of it!”
But his head ached more and more. He sat without moving, andunconsciously dozed off and fell asleep as he sat. He seemed to haveslept for two hours or more. He was waked up by his head aching sounbearably that he could have screamed. There was a hammering in histemples, and the top of his head ached. It was a long time before hecould wake up fully and understand what had happened to him.
At last he realized that the room was full of charcoal fumes from thestove, and that he might die of suffocation. And the drunken peasantstill lay snoring. The candle guttered and was about to go out. Mityacried out, and ran staggering across the passage into the forester’sroom. The forester waked up at once, but hearing that the other roomwas full of fumes, to Mitya’s surprise and annoyance, accepted the factwith strange unconcern, though he did go to see to it.
“But he’s dead, he’s dead! and ... what am I to do then?” cried Mityafrantically.
They threw open the doors, opened a window and the chimney. Mityabrought a pail of water from the passage. First he wetted his own head,then, finding a rag of some sort, dipped it into the water, and put iton Lyagavy’s head. The forester still treated the mattercontemptuously, and when he opened the window said grumpily:
“It’ll be all right, now.”
He went back to sleep, leaving Mitya a lighted lantern. Mitya fussedabout the drunken peasant for half an hour, wetting his head, andgravely resolved not to sleep all night. But he was so worn out thatwhen he sat down for a moment to take breath, he closed his eyes,unconsciously stretched himself full length on the bench and slept likethe dead.
It was dreadfully late when he waked. It was somewhere about nineo’clock. The sun was shining brightly in the two little windows of thehut. The curly‐headed peasant was sitting on the bench and had his coaton. He had another samovar and another bottle in front of him.Yesterday’s bottle had already been finished, and the new one was morethan half empty. Mitya jumped up and saw at once that the cursedpeasant was drunk again, hopelessly and incurably. He stared at him fora moment with wide opened eyes. The peasant was silently and slylywatching him, with insulting composure, and even a sort of contemptuouscondescension, so Mitya fancied. He rushed up to him.
“Excuse me, you see ... I ... you’ve most likely heard from theforester here in the hut. I’m Lieutenant Dmitri Karamazov, the son ofthe old Karamazov whose copse you are buying.”
“That’s a lie!” said the peasant, calmly and confidently.
“A lie? You know Fyodor Pavlovitch?”
“I don’t know any of your Fyodor Pavlovitches,” said the peasant,speaking thickly.
“You’re bargaining with him for the copse, for the copse. Do wake up,and collect yourself. Father Pavel of Ilyinskoe brought me here. Youwrote to Samsonov, and he has sent me to you,” Mitya gaspedbreathlessly.
“You’re l‐lying!” Lyagavy blurted out again. Mitya’s legs went cold.
“For mercy’s sake! It isn’t a joke! You’re drunk, perhaps. Yet you canspeak and understand ... or else ... I understand nothing!”
“You’re a painter!”
“For mercy’s sake! I’m Karamazov, Dmitri Karamazov. I have an offer tomake you, an advantageous offer ... very advantageous offer, concerningthe copse!”
The peasant stroked his beard importantly.
“No, you’ve contracted for the job and turned out a scamp. You’re ascoundrel!”
“I assure you you’re mistaken,” cried Mitya, wringing his hands indespair. The peasant still stroked his beard, and suddenly screwed uphis eyes cunningly.
“No, you show me this: you tell me the law that allows roguery. D’youhear? You’re a scoundrel! Do you understand that?”
Mitya stepped back gloomily, and suddenly “something seemed to hit himon the head,” as he said afterwards. In an instant a light seemed todawn in his mind, “a light was kindled and I grasped it all.” He stood,stupefied, wondering how he, after all a man of intelligence, couldhave yielded to such folly, have been led into such an adventure, andhave kept it up for almost twenty‐four hours, fussing round thisLyagavy, wetting his head.
“Why, the man’s drunk, dead drunk, and he’ll go on drinking now for aweek; what’s the use of waiting here? And what if Samsonov sent me hereon purpose? What if she—? Oh, God, what have I done?”
The peasant sat watching him and grinning. Another time Mitya mighthave killed the fool in a fury, but now he felt as weak as a child. Hewent quietly to the bench, took up his overcoat, put it on without aword, and went out of the hut. He did not find the forester in the nextroom; there was no one there. He took fifty kopecks in small change outof his pocket and put them on the table for his night’s lodging, thecandle, and the trouble he had given. Coming out of the hut he sawnothing but forest all round. He walked at hazard, not knowing whichway to turn out of the hut, to the right or to the left. Hurrying therethe evening before with the priest, he had not noticed the road. He hadno revengeful feeling for anybody, even for Samsonov, in his heart. Hestrode along a narrow forest path, aimless, dazed, without heedingwhere he was going. A child could have knocked him down, so weak was hein body and soul. He got out of the forest somehow, however, and avista of fields, bare after the harvest, stretched as far as the eyecould see.
“What despair! What death all round!” he repeated, striding on and on.
He was saved by meeting an old merchant who was being driven acrosscountry in a hired trap. When he overtook him, Mitya asked the way, andit turned out that the old merchant, too, was going to Volovya. Aftersome discussion Mitya got into the trap. Three hours later theyarrived. At Volovya, Mitya at once ordered posting‐horses to drive tothe town, and suddenly realized that he was appallingly hungry. Whilethe horses were being harnessed, an omelette was prepared for him. Heate it all in an instant, ate a huge hunk of bread, ate a sausage, andswallowed three glasses of vodka. After eating, his spirits and hisheart grew lighter. He flew towards the town, urged on the driver, andsuddenly made a new and “unalterable” plan to procure that “accursedmoney” before evening. “And to think, only to think that a man’s lifeshould be ruined for the sake of that paltry three thousand!” he cried,contemptuously. “I’ll settle it to‐ day.” And if it had not been forthe thought of Grushenka and of what might have happened to her, whichnever left him, he would perhaps have become quite cheerful again....But the thought of her was stabbing him to the heart every moment, likea sharp knife.
At last they arrived, and Mitya at once ran to Grushenka.



Chapter III.Gold‐Mines

This was the visit of Mitya of which Grushenka had spoken to Rakitinwith such horror. She was just then expecting the “message,” and wasmuch relieved that Mitya had not been to see her that day or the daybefore. She hoped that “please God he won’t come till I’m gone away,”and he suddenly burst in on her. The rest we know already. To get himoff her hands she suggested at once that he should walk with her toSamsonov’s, where she said she absolutely must go “to settle hisaccounts,” and when Mitya accompanied her at once, she said good‐by tohim at the gate, making him promise to come at twelve o’clock to takeher home again. Mitya, too, was delighted at this arrangement. If shewas sitting at Samsonov’s she could not be going to FyodorPavlovitch’s, “if only she’s not lying,” he added at once. But hethought she was not lying from what he saw.
He was that sort of jealous man who, in the absence of the belovedwoman, at once invents all sorts of awful fancies of what may behappening to her, and how she may be betraying him, but, when shaken,heartbroken, convinced of her faithlessness, he runs back to her; atthe first glance at her face, her gay, laughing, affectionate face, herevives at once, lays aside all suspicion and with joyful shame abuseshimself for his jealousy.
After leaving Grushenka at the gate he rushed home. Oh, he had so muchstill to do that day! But a load had been lifted from his heart,anyway.
“Now I must only make haste and find out from Smerdyakov whetheranything happened there last night, whether, by any chance, she went toFyodor Pavlovitch; ough!” floated through his mind.
Before he had time to reach his lodging, jealousy had surged up againin his restless heart.
Jealousy! “Othello was not jealous, he was trustful,” observed Pushkin.And that remark alone is enough to show the deep insight of our greatpoet. Othello’s soul was shattered and his whole outlook clouded simplybecause _his ideal was destroyed_. But Othello did not begin hiding,spying, peeping. He was trustful, on the contrary. He had to be led up,pushed on, excited with great difficulty before he could entertain theidea of deceit. The truly jealous man is not like that. It isimpossible to picture to oneself the shame and moral degradation towhich the jealous man can descend without a qualm of conscience. Andyet it’s not as though the jealous were all vulgar and base souls. Onthe contrary, a man of lofty feelings, whose love is pure and full ofself‐sacrifice, may yet hide under tables, bribe the vilest people, andbe familiar with the lowest ignominy of spying and eavesdropping.
Othello was incapable of making up his mind to faithlessness—notincapable of forgiving it, but of making up his mind to it—though hissoul was as innocent and free from malice as a babe’s. It is not sowith the really jealous man. It is hard to imagine what some jealousmen can make up their mind to and overlook, and what they can forgive!The jealous are the readiest of all to forgive, and all women know it.The jealous man can forgive extraordinarily quickly (though, of course,after a violent scene), and he is able to forgive infidelity almostconclusively proved, the very kisses and embraces he has seen, if onlyhe can somehow be convinced that it has all been “for the last time,”and that his rival will vanish from that day forward, will depart tothe ends of the earth, or that he himself will carry her awaysomewhere, where that dreaded rival will not get near her. Of coursethe reconciliation is only for an hour. For, even if the rival diddisappear next day, he would invent another one and would be jealous ofhim. And one might wonder what there was in a love that had to be sowatched over, what a love could be worth that needed such strenuousguarding. But that the jealous will never understand. And yet amongthem are men of noble hearts. It is remarkable, too, that those verymen of noble hearts, standing hidden in some cupboard, listening andspying, never feel the stings of conscience at that moment, anyway,though they understand clearly enough with their “noble hearts” theshameful depths to which they have voluntarily sunk.
At the sight of Grushenka, Mitya’s jealousy vanished, and, for aninstant he became trustful and generous, and positively despisedhimself for his evil feelings. But it only proved that, in his love forthe woman, there was an element of something far higher than he himselfimagined, that it was not only a sensual passion, not only the “curveof her body,” of which he had talked to Alyosha. But, as soon asGrushenka had gone, Mitya began to suspect her of all the low cunningof faithlessness, and he felt no sting of conscience at it.
And so jealousy surged up in him again. He had, in any case, to makehaste. The first thing to be done was to get hold of at least a small,temporary loan of money. The nine roubles had almost all gone on hisexpedition. And, as we all know, one can’t take a step without money.But he had thought over in the cart where he could get a loan. He had abrace of fine dueling pistols in a case, which he had not pawned tillthen because he prized them above all his possessions.
In the “Metropolis” tavern he had some time since made acquaintancewith a young official and had learnt that this very opulent bachelorwas passionately fond of weapons. He used to buy pistols, revolvers,daggers, hang them on his wall and show them to acquaintances. Heprided himself on them, and was quite a specialist on the mechanism ofthe revolver. Mitya, without stopping to think, went straight to him,and offered to pawn his pistols to him for ten roubles. The official,delighted, began trying to persuade him to sell them outright. ButMitya would not consent, so the young man gave him ten roubles,protesting that nothing would induce him to take interest. They partedfriends.
Mitya was in haste; he rushed towards Fyodor Pavlovitch’s by the backway, to his arbor, to get hold of Smerdyakov as soon as possible. Inthis way the fact was established that three or four hours before acertain event, of which I shall speak later on, Mitya had not afarthing, and pawned for ten roubles a possession he valued, though,three hours later, he was in possession of thousands.... But I amanticipating. From Marya Kondratyevna (the woman living near FyodorPavlovitch’s) he learned the very disturbing fact of Smerdyakov’sillness. He heard the story of his fall in the cellar, his fit, thedoctor’s visit, Fyodor Pavlovitch’s anxiety; he heard with interest,too, that his brother Ivan had set off that morning for Moscow.
“Then he must have driven through Volovya before me,” thought Dmitri,but he was terribly distressed about Smerdyakov. “What will happen now?Who’ll keep watch for me? Who’ll bring me word?” he thought. He begangreedily questioning the women whether they had seen anything theevening before. They quite understood what he was trying to find out,and completely reassured him. No one had been there. Ivan Fyodorovitchhad been there the night; everything had been perfectly as usual. Mityagrew thoughtful. He would certainly have to keep watch to‐day, butwhere? Here or at Samsonov’s gate? He decided that he must be on thelook out both here and there, and meanwhile ... meanwhile.... Thedifficulty was that he had to carry out the new plan that he had madeon the journey back. He was sure of its success, but he must not delayacting upon it. Mitya resolved to sacrifice an hour to it: “In an hourI shall know everything, I shall settle everything, and then, then,first of all to Samsonov’s. I’ll inquire whether Grushenka’s there andinstantly be back here again, stay till eleven, and then to Samsonov’sagain to bring her home.” This was what he decided.
He flew home, washed, combed his hair, brushed his clothes, dressed,and went to Madame Hohlakov’s. Alas! he had built his hopes on her. Hehad resolved to borrow three thousand from that lady. And what wasmore, he felt suddenly convinced that she would not refuse to lend itto him. It may be wondered why, if he felt so certain, he had not goneto her at first, one of his own sort, so to speak, instead of toSamsonov, a man he did not know, who was not of his own class, and towhom he hardly knew how to speak.
But the fact was that he had never known Madame Hohlakov well, and hadseen nothing of her for the last month, and that he knew she could notendure him. She had detested him from the first because he was engagedto Katerina Ivanovna, while she had, for some reason, suddenlyconceived the desire that Katerina Ivanovna should throw him over, andmarry the “charming, chivalrously refined Ivan, who had such excellentmanners.” Mitya’s manners she detested. Mitya positively laughed ather, and had once said about her that she was just as lively and at herease as she was uncultivated. But that morning in the cart a brilliantidea had struck him: “If she is so anxious I should not marry KaterinaIvanovna” (and he knew she was positively hysterical upon the subject)“why should she refuse me now that three thousand, just to enable me toleave Katya and get away from her for ever. These spoilt fine ladies,if they set their hearts on anything, will spare no expense to satisfytheir caprice. Besides, she’s so rich,” Mitya argued.
As for his “plan” it was just the same as before; it consisted of theoffer of his rights to Tchermashnya—but not with a commercial object,as it had been with Samsonov, not trying to allure the lady with thepossibility of making a profit of six or seven thousand—but simply as asecurity for the debt. As he worked out this new idea, Mitya wasenchanted with it, but so it always was with him in all hisundertakings, in all his sudden decisions. He gave himself up to everynew idea with passionate enthusiasm. Yet, when he mounted the steps ofMadame Hohlakov’s house he felt a shiver of fear run down his spine. Atthat moment he saw fully, as a mathematical certainty, that this washis last hope, that if this broke down, nothing else was left him inthe world, but to “rob and murder some one for the three thousand.” Itwas half‐past seven when he rang at the bell.
At first fortune seemed to smile upon him. As soon as he was announcedhe was received with extraordinary rapidity. “As though she werewaiting for me,” thought Mitya, and as soon as he had been led to thedrawing‐room, the lady of the house herself ran in, and declared atonce that she was expecting him.
“I was expecting you! I was expecting you! Though I’d no reason tosuppose you would come to see me, as you will admit yourself. Yet, Idid expect you. You may marvel at my instinct, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, butI was convinced all the morning that you would come.”
“That is certainly wonderful, madam,” observed Mitya, sitting downlimply, “but I have come to you on a matter of great importance.... Ona matter of supreme importance for me, that is, madam ... for me alone... and I hasten—”
“I know you’ve come on most important business, Dmitri Fyodorovitch;it’s not a case of presentiment, no reactionary harking back to themiraculous (have you heard about Father Zossima?). This is a case ofmathematics: you couldn’t help coming, after all that has passed withKaterina Ivanovna; you couldn’t, you couldn’t, that’s a mathematicalcertainty.”
“The realism of actual life, madam, that’s what it is. But allow me toexplain—”
“Realism indeed, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. I’m all for realism now. I’veseen too much of miracles. You’ve heard that Father Zossima is dead?”
“No, madam, it’s the first time I’ve heard of it.” Mitya was a littlesurprised. The image of Alyosha rose to his mind.
“Last night, and only imagine—”
“Madam,” said Mitya, “I can imagine nothing except that I’m in adesperate position, and that if you don’t help me, everything will cometo grief, and I first of all. Excuse me for the triviality of theexpression, but I’m in a fever—”
“I know, I know that you’re in a fever. You could hardly fail to be,and whatever you may say to me, I know beforehand. I have long beenthinking over your destiny, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, I am watching over itand studying it.... Oh, believe me, I’m an experienced doctor of thesoul, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”
“Madam, if you are an experienced doctor, I’m certainly an experiencedpatient,” said Mitya, with an effort to be polite, “and I feel that ifyou are watching over my destiny in this way, you will come to my helpin my ruin, and so allow me, at least to explain to you the plan withwhich I have ventured to come to you ... and what I am hoping ofyou.... I have come, madam—”
“Don’t explain it. It’s of secondary importance. But as for help,you’re not the first I have helped, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You have mostlikely heard of my cousin, Madame Belmesov. Her husband was ruined,‘had come to grief,’ as you characteristically express it, DmitriFyodorovitch. I recommended him to take to horse‐breeding, and now he’sdoing well. Have you any idea of horse‐breeding, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?”
“Not the faintest, madam; ah, madam, not the faintest!” cried Mitya, innervous impatience, positively starting from his seat. “I simplyimplore you, madam, to listen to me. Only give me two minutes of freespeech that I may just explain to you everything, the whole plan withwhich I have come. Besides, I am short of time. I’m in a fearfulhurry,” Mitya cried hysterically, feeling that she was just going tobegin talking again, and hoping to cut her short. “I have come indespair ... in the last gasp of despair, to beg you to lend me the sumof three thousand, a loan, but on safe, most safe security, madam, withthe most trustworthy guarantees! Only let me explain—”
“You must tell me all that afterwards, afterwards!” Madame Hohlakovwith a gesture demanded silence in her turn, “and whatever you may tellme, I know it all beforehand; I’ve told you so already. You ask for acertain sum, for three thousand, but I can give you more, immeasurablymore, I will save you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, but you must listen to me.”
Mitya started from his seat again.
“Madam, will you really be so good!” he cried, with strong feeling.“Good God, you’ve saved me! You have saved a man from a violent death,from a bullet.... My eternal gratitude—”
“I will give you more, infinitely more than three thousand!” criedMadame Hohlakov, looking with a radiant smile at Mitya’s ecstasy.
“Infinitely? But I don’t need so much. I only need that fatal threethousand, and on my part I can give security for that sum with infinitegratitude, and I propose a plan which—”
“Enough, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, it’s said and done.” Madame Hohlakov cuthim short, with the modest triumph of beneficence: “I have promised tosave you, and I will save you. I will save you as I did Belmesov. Whatdo you think of the gold‐mines, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?”
“Of the gold‐mines, madam? I have never thought anything about them.”
“But I have thought of them for you. Thought of them over and overagain. I have been watching you for the last month. I’ve watched you ahundred times as you’ve walked past, saying to myself: that’s a man ofenergy who ought to be at the gold‐mines. I’ve studied your gait andcome to the conclusion: that’s a man who would find gold.”
“From my gait, madam?” said Mitya, smiling.
“Yes, from your gait. You surely don’t deny that character can be toldfrom the gait, Dmitri Fyodorovitch? Science supports the idea. I’m allfor science and realism now. After all this business with FatherZossima, which has so upset me, from this very day I’m a realist and Iwant to devote myself to practical usefulness. I’m cured. ‘Enough!’ asTurgenev says.”
“But, madam, the three thousand you so generously promised to lend me—”
“It is yours, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” Madame Hohlakov cut in at once.“The money is as good as in your pocket, not three thousand, but threemillion, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, in less than no time. I’ll make you apresent of the idea: you shall find gold‐mines, make millions, returnand become a leading man, and wake us up and lead us to better things.Are we to leave it all to the Jews? You will found institutions andenterprises of all sorts. You will help the poor, and they will blessyou. This is the age of railways, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You’ll becomefamous and indispensable to the Department of Finance, which is sobadly off at present. The depreciation of the rouble keeps me awake atnight, Dmitri Fyodorovitch; people don’t know that side of me—”
“Madam, madam!” Dmitri interrupted with an uneasy presentiment. “Ishall indeed, perhaps, follow your advice, your wise advice, madam....I shall perhaps set off ... to the gold‐mines.... I’ll come and see youagain about it ... many times, indeed ... but now, that three thousandyou so generously ... oh, that would set me free, and if you couldto‐day ... you see, I haven’t a minute, a minute to lose to‐day—”
“Enough, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, enough!” Madame Hohlakov interruptedemphatically. “The question is, will you go to the gold‐mines or not;have you quite made up your mind? Answer yes or no.”
“I will go, madam, afterwards.... I’ll go where you like ... but now—”
“Wait!” cried Madame Hohlakov. And jumping up and running to a handsomebureau with numerous little drawers, she began pulling out one drawerafter another, looking for something with desperate haste.
“The three thousand,” thought Mitya, his heart almost stopping, “and atthe instant ... without any papers or formalities ... that’s doingthings in gentlemanly style! She’s a splendid woman, if only she didn’ttalk so much!”
“Here!” cried Madame Hohlakov, running back joyfully to Mitya, “here iswhat I was looking for!”
It was a tiny silver ikon on a cord, such as is sometimes worn next theskin with a cross.
“This is from Kiev, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” she went on reverently, “fromthe relics of the Holy Martyr, Varvara. Let me put it on your neckmyself, and with it dedicate you to a new life, to a new career.”
And she actually put the cord round his neck, and began arranging it.In extreme embarrassment, Mitya bent down and helped her, and at lasthe got it under his neck‐tie and collar through his shirt to his chest.
“Now you can set off,” Madame Hohlakov pronounced, sitting downtriumphantly in her place again.
“Madam, I am so touched. I don’t know how to thank you, indeed ... forsuch kindness, but ... If only you knew how precious time is to me....That sum of money, for which I shall be indebted to your generosity....Oh, madam, since you are so kind, so touchingly generous to me,” Mityaexclaimed impulsively, “then let me reveal to you ... though, ofcourse, you’ve known it a long time ... that I love somebody here.... Ihave been false to Katya ... Katerina Ivanovna I should say.... Oh,I’ve behaved inhumanly, dishonorably to her, but I fell in love herewith another woman ... a woman whom you, madam, perhaps, despise, foryou know everything already, but whom I cannot leave on any account,and therefore that three thousand now—”
“Leave everything, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” Madame Hohlakov interrupted inthe most decisive tone. “Leave everything, especially women. Gold‐minesare your goal, and there’s no place for women there. Afterwards, whenyou come back rich and famous, you will find the girl of your heart inthe highest society. That will be a modern girl, a girl of educationand advanced ideas. By that time the dawning woman question will havegained ground, and the new woman will have appeared.”
“Madam, that’s not the point, not at all....” Mitya clasped his handsin entreaty.
“Yes, it is, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, just what you need; the very thingyou’re yearning for, though you don’t realize it yourself. I am not atall opposed to the present woman movement, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Thedevelopment of woman, and even the political emancipation of woman inthe near future—that’s my ideal. I’ve a daughter myself, DmitriFyodorovitch, people don’t know that side of me. I wrote a letter tothe author, Shtchedrin, on that subject. He has taught me so much, somuch about the vocation of woman. So last year I sent him an anonymousletter of two lines: ‘I kiss and embrace you, my teacher, for themodern woman. Persevere.’ And I signed myself, ‘A Mother.’ I thought ofsigning myself ‘A contemporary Mother,’ and hesitated, but I stuck tothe simple ‘Mother’; there’s more moral beauty in that, DmitriFyodorovitch. And the word ‘contemporary’ might have reminded him of‘_The Contemporary_’—a painful recollection owing to the censorship....Good Heavens, what is the matter!”
“Madam!” cried Mitya, jumping up at last, clasping his hands before herin helpless entreaty. “You will make me weep if you delay what you haveso generously—”
“Oh, do weep, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, do weep! That’s a noble feeling ...such a path lies open before you! Tears will ease your heart, and lateron you will return rejoicing. You will hasten to me from Siberia onpurpose to share your joy with me—”
“But allow me, too!” Mitya cried suddenly. “For the last time I entreatyou, tell me, can I have the sum you promised me to‐day, if not, whenmay I come for it?”
“What sum, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?”
“The three thousand you promised me ... that you so generously—”
“Three thousand? Roubles? Oh, no, I haven’t got three thousand,” MadameHohlakov announced with serene amazement. Mitya was stupefied.
“Why, you said just now ... you said ... you said it was as good as inmy hands—”
“Oh, no, you misunderstood me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. In that case youmisunderstood me. I was talking of the gold‐mines. It’s true I promisedyou more, infinitely more than three thousand, I remember it all now,but I was referring to the gold‐mines.”
“But the money? The three thousand?” Mitya exclaimed, awkwardly.
“Oh, if you meant money, I haven’t any. I haven’t a penny, DmitriFyodorovitch. I’m quarreling with my steward about it, and I’ve justborrowed five hundred roubles from Miüsov, myself. No, no, I’ve nomoney. And, do you know, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, if I had, I wouldn’t giveit to you. In the first place I never lend money. Lending money meanslosing friends. And I wouldn’t give it to you particularly. I wouldn’tgive it you, because I like you and want to save you, for all you needis the gold‐mines, the gold‐mines, the gold‐mines!”
“Oh, the devil!” roared Mitya, and with all his might brought his fistdown on the table.
“Aie! Aie!” cried Madame Hohlakov, alarmed, and she flew to the otherend of the drawing‐room.
Mitya spat on the ground, and strode rapidly out of the room, out ofthe house, into the street, into the darkness! He walked like onepossessed, and beating himself on the breast, on the spot where he hadstruck himself two days previously, before Alyosha, the last time hesaw him in the dark, on the road. What those blows upon his breastsignified, _on that spot_, and what he meant by it—that was, for thetime, a secret which was known to no one in the world, and had not beentold even to Alyosha. But that secret meant for him more than disgrace;it meant ruin, suicide. So he had determined, if he did not get hold ofthe three thousand that would pay his debt to Katerina Ivanovna, and soremove from his breast, from _that spot on his breast_, the shame hecarried upon it, that weighed on his conscience. All this will be fullyexplained to the reader later on, but now that his last hope hadvanished, this man, so strong in appearance, burst out crying like alittle child a few steps from the Hohlakovs’ house. He walked on, andnot knowing what he was doing, wiped away his tears with his fist. Inthis way he reached the square, and suddenly became aware that he hadstumbled against something. He heard a piercing wail from an old womanwhom he had almost knocked down.
“Good Lord, you’ve nearly killed me! Why don’t you look where you’regoing, scapegrace?”
“Why, it’s you!” cried Mitya, recognizing the old woman in the dark. Itwas the old servant who waited on Samsonov, whom Mitya had particularlynoticed the day before.
“And who are you, my good sir?” said the old woman, in quite adifferent voice. “I don’t know you in the dark.”
“You live at Kuzma Kuzmitch’s. You’re the servant there?”
“Just so, sir, I was only running out to Prohoritch’s.... But I don’tknow you now.”
“Tell me, my good woman, is Agrafena Alexandrovna there now?” saidMitya, beside himself with suspense. “I saw her to the house some timeago.”
“She has been there, sir. She stayed a little while, and went offagain.”
“What? Went away?” cried Mitya. “When did she go?”
“Why, as soon as she came. She only stayed a minute. She only toldKuzma Kuzmitch a tale that made him laugh, and then she ran away.”
“You’re lying, damn you!” roared Mitya.
“Aie! Aie!” shrieked the old woman, but Mitya had vanished.
He ran with all his might to the house where Grushenka lived. At themoment he reached it, Grushenka was on her way to Mokroe. It was notmore than a quarter of an hour after her departure.
Fenya was sitting with her grandmother, the old cook, Matryona, in thekitchen when “the captain” ran in. Fenya uttered a piercing shriek onseeing him.
“You scream?” roared Mitya, “where is she?”
But without giving the terror‐stricken Fenya time to utter a word, hefell all of a heap at her feet.
“Fenya, for Christ’s sake, tell me, where is she?”
“I don’t know. Dmitri Fyodorovitch, my dear, I don’t know. You may killme but I can’t tell you.” Fenya swore and protested. “You went out withher yourself not long ago—”
“She came back!”
“Indeed she didn’t. By God I swear she didn’t come back.”
“You’re lying!” shouted Mitya. “From your terror I know where she is.”
He rushed away. Fenya in her fright was glad she had got off so easily.But she knew very well that it was only that he was in such haste, orshe might not have fared so well. But as he ran, he surprised bothFenya and old Matryona by an unexpected action. On the table stood abrass mortar, with a pestle in it, a small brass pestle, not much morethan six inches long. Mitya already had opened the door with one handwhen, with the other, he snatched up the pestle, and thrust it in hisside‐pocket.
“Oh, Lord! He’s going to murder some one!” cried Fenya, flinging up herhands.



Chapter IV.In The Dark

Where was he running? “Where could she be except at FyodorPavlovitch’s? She must have run straight to him from Samsonov’s, thatwas clear now. The whole intrigue, the whole deceit was evident.” ...It all rushed whirling through his mind. He did not run to MaryaKondratyevna’s. “There was no need to go there ... not the slightestneed ... he must raise no alarm ... they would run and telldirectly.... Marya Kondratyevna was clearly in the plot, Smerdyakovtoo, he too, all had been bought over!”
He formed another plan of action: he ran a long way round FyodorPavlovitch’s house, crossing the lane, running down Dmitrovsky Street,then over the little bridge, and so came straight to the deserted alleyat the back, which was empty and uninhabited, with, on one side thehurdle fence of a neighbor’s kitchen‐garden, on the other the stronghigh fence, that ran all round Fyodor Pavlovitch’s garden. Here hechose a spot, apparently the very place, where according to thetradition, he knew Lizaveta had once climbed over it: “If she couldclimb over it,” the thought, God knows why, occurred to him, “surely Ican.” He did in fact jump up, and instantly contrived to catch hold ofthe top of the fence. Then he vigorously pulled himself up and satastride on it. Close by, in the garden stood the bath‐house, but fromthe fence he could see the lighted windows of the house too.
“Yes, the old man’s bedroom is lighted up. She’s there!” and he leaptfrom the fence into the garden. Though he knew Grigory was ill and verylikely Smerdyakov, too, and that there was no one to hear him, heinstinctively hid himself, stood still, and began to listen. But therewas dead silence on all sides and, as though of design, completestillness, not the slightest breath of wind.
“And naught but the whispering silence,” the line for some reason roseto his mind. “If only no one heard me jump over the fence! I thinknot.” Standing still for a minute, he walked softly over the grass inthe garden, avoiding the trees and shrubs. He walked slowly, creepingstealthily at every step, listening to his own footsteps. It took himfive minutes to reach the lighted window. He remembered that just underthe window there were several thick and high bushes of elder andwhitebeam. The door from the house into the garden on the left‐handside, was shut; he had carefully looked on purpose to see, in passing.At last he reached the bushes and hid behind them. He held his breath.“I must wait now,” he thought, “to reassure them, in case they heard myfootsteps and are listening ... if only I don’t cough or sneeze.”
He waited two minutes. His heart was beating violently, and, atmoments, he could scarcely breathe. “No, this throbbing at my heartwon’t stop,” he thought. “I can’t wait any longer.” He was standingbehind a bush in the shadow. The light of the window fell on the frontpart of the bush.
“How red the whitebeam berries are!” he murmured, not knowing why.Softly and noiselessly, step by step, he approached the window, andraised himself on tiptoe. All Fyodor Pavlovitch’s bedroom lay openbefore him. It was not a large room, and was divided in two parts by ared screen, “Chinese,” as Fyodor Pavlovitch used to call it. The word“Chinese” flashed into Mitya’s mind, “and behind the screen, isGrushenka,” thought Mitya. He began watching Fyodor Pavlovitch, who waswearing his new striped‐silk dressing‐gown, which Mitya had never seen,and a silk cord with tassels round the waist. A clean, dandified shirtof fine linen with gold studs peeped out under the collar of thedressing‐gown. On his head Fyodor Pavlovitch had the same red bandagewhich Alyosha had seen.
“He has got himself up,” thought Mitya.
His father was standing near the window, apparently lost in thought.Suddenly he jerked up his head, listened a moment, and hearing nothingwent up to the table, poured out half a glass of brandy from a decanterand drank it off. Then he uttered a deep sigh, again stood still amoment, walked carelessly up to the looking‐glass on the wall, with hisright hand raised the red bandage on his forehead a little, and beganexamining his bruises and scars, which had not yet disappeared.
“He’s alone,” thought Mitya, “in all probability he’s alone.”
Fyodor Pavlovitch moved away from the looking‐glass, turned suddenly tothe window and looked out. Mitya instantly slipped away into theshadow.
“She may be there behind the screen. Perhaps she’s asleep by now,” hethought, with a pang at his heart. Fyodor Pavlovitch moved away fromthe window. “He’s looking for her out of the window, so she’s notthere. Why should he stare out into the dark? He’s wild withimpatience.” ... Mitya slipped back at once, and fell to gazing in atthe window again. The old man was sitting down at the table, apparentlydisappointed. At last he put his elbow on the table, and laid his rightcheek against his hand. Mitya watched him eagerly.
“He’s alone, he’s alone!” he repeated again. “If she were here, hisface would be different.”
Strange to say, a queer, irrational vexation rose up in his heart thatshe was not here. “It’s not that she’s not here,” he explained tohimself, immediately, “but that I can’t tell for certain whether she isor not.” Mitya remembered afterwards that his mind was at that momentexceptionally clear, that he took in everything to the slightestdetail, and missed no point. But a feeling of misery, the misery ofuncertainty and indecision, was growing in his heart with everyinstant. “Is she here or not?” The angry doubt filled his heart, andsuddenly, making up his mind, he put out his hand and softly knocked onthe window frame. He knocked the signal the old man had agreed uponwith Smerdyakov, twice slowly and then three times more quickly, thesignal that meant “Grushenka is here!”
The old man started, jerked up his head, and, jumping up quickly, ranto the window. Mitya slipped away into the shadow. Fyodor Pavlovitchopened the window and thrust his whole head out.
“Grushenka, is it you? Is it you?” he said, in a sort of tremblinghalf‐ whisper. “Where are you, my angel, where are you?” He wasfearfully agitated and breathless.
“He’s alone.” Mitya decided.
“Where are you?” cried the old man again; and he thrust his head outfarther, thrust it out to the shoulders, gazing in all directions,right and left. “Come here, I’ve a little present for you. Come, I’llshow you....”
“He means the three thousand,” thought Mitya.
“But where are you? Are you at the door? I’ll open it directly.”
And the old man almost climbed out of the window, peering out to theright, where there was a door into the garden, trying to see into thedarkness. In another second he would certainly have run out to open thedoor without waiting for Grushenka’s answer.
Mitya looked at him from the side without stirring. The old man’sprofile that he loathed so, his pendent Adam’s apple, his hooked nose,his lips that smiled in greedy expectation, were all brightly lightedup by the slanting lamplight falling on the left from the room. Ahorrible fury of hatred suddenly surged up in Mitya’s heart: “There hewas, his rival, the man who had tormented him, had ruined his life!” Itwas a rush of that sudden, furious, revengeful anger of which he hadspoken, as though foreseeing it, to Alyosha, four days ago in thearbor, when, in answer to Alyosha’s question, “How can you say you’llkill our father?” “I don’t know, I don’t know,” he had said then.“Perhaps I shall not kill him, perhaps I shall. I’m afraid he’llsuddenly be so loathsome to me at that moment. I hate his double chin,his nose, his eyes, his shameless grin. I feel a personal repulsion.That’s what I’m afraid of, that’s what may be too much for me.” ...This personal repulsion was growing unendurable. Mitya was besidehimself, he suddenly pulled the brass pestle out of his pocket.

“God was watching over me then,” Mitya himself said afterwards. At thatvery moment Grigory waked up on his bed of sickness. Earlier in theevening he had undergone the treatment which Smerdyakov had describedto Ivan. He had rubbed himself all over with vodka mixed with a secret,very strong decoction, had drunk what was left of the mixture while hiswife repeated a “certain prayer” over him, after which he had gone tobed. Marfa Ignatyevna had tasted the stuff, too, and, being unused tostrong drink, slept like the dead beside her husband.
But Grigory waked up in the night, quite suddenly, and, after amoment’s reflection, though he immediately felt a sharp pain in hisback, he sat up in bed. Then he deliberated again, got up and dressedhurriedly. Perhaps his conscience was uneasy at the thought of sleepingwhile the house was unguarded “in such perilous times.” Smerdyakov,exhausted by his fit, lay motionless in the next room. Marfa Ignatyevnadid not stir. “The stuff’s been too much for the woman,” Grigorythought, glancing at her, and groaning, he went out on the steps. Nodoubt he only intended to look out from the steps, for he was hardlyable to walk, the pain in his back and his right leg was intolerable.But he suddenly remembered that he had not locked the little gate intothe garden that evening. He was the most punctual and precise of men, aman who adhered to an unchangeable routine, and habits that lasted foryears. Limping and writhing with pain he went down the steps andtowards the garden. Yes, the gate stood wide open. Mechanically hestepped into the garden. Perhaps he fancied something, perhaps caughtsome sound, and, glancing to the left he saw his master’s window open.No one was looking out of it then.
“What’s it open for? It’s not summer now,” thought Grigory, andsuddenly, at that very instant he caught a glimpse of somethingextraordinary before him in the garden. Forty paces in front of him aman seemed to be running in the dark, a sort of shadow was moving veryfast.
“Good Lord!” cried Grigory beside himself, and forgetting the pain inhis back, he hurried to intercept the running figure. He took a shortcut, evidently he knew the garden better; the flying figure wenttowards the bath‐house, ran behind it and rushed to the garden fence.Grigory followed, not losing sight of him, and ran, forgettingeverything. He reached the fence at the very moment the man wasclimbing over it. Grigory cried out, beside himself, pounced on him,and clutched his leg in his two hands.
Yes, his foreboding had not deceived him. He recognized him, it was he,the “monster,” the “parricide.”
“Parricide!” the old man shouted so that the whole neighborhood couldhear, but he had not time to shout more, he fell at once, as thoughstruck by lightning.
Mitya jumped back into the garden and bent over the fallen man. InMitya’s hands was a brass pestle, and he flung it mechanically in thegrass. The pestle fell two paces from Grigory, not in the grass but onthe path, in a most conspicuous place. For some seconds he examined theprostrate figure before him. The old man’s head was covered with blood.Mitya put out his hand and began feeling it. He remembered afterwardsclearly, that he had been awfully anxious to make sure whether he hadbroken the old man’s skull, or simply stunned him with the pestle. Butthe blood was flowing horribly; and in a moment Mitya’s fingers weredrenched with the hot stream. He remembered taking out of his pocketthe clean white handkerchief with which he had provided himself for hisvisit to Madame Hohlakov, and putting it to the old man’s head,senselessly trying to wipe the blood from his face and temples. But thehandkerchief was instantly soaked with blood.
“Good heavens! what am I doing it for?” thought Mitya, suddenly pullinghimself together. “If I have broken his skull, how can I find out now?And what difference does it make now?” he added, hopelessly. “If I’vekilled him, I’ve killed him.... You’ve come to grief, old man, so thereyou must lie!” he said aloud. And suddenly turning to the fence, hevaulted over it into the lane and fell to running—the handkerchiefsoaked with blood he held, crushed up in his right fist, and as he ranhe thrust it into the back pocket of his coat. He ran headlong, and thefew passers‐by who met him in the dark, in the streets, rememberedafterwards that they had met a man running that night. He flew backagain to the widow Morozov’s house.
Immediately after he had left it that evening, Fenya had rushed to thechief porter, Nazar Ivanovitch, and besought him, for Christ’s sake,“not to let the captain in again to‐day or to‐morrow.” Nazar Ivanovitchpromised, but went upstairs to his mistress who had suddenly sent forhim, and meeting his nephew, a boy of twenty, who had recently comefrom the country, on the way up told him to take his place, but forgotto mention “the captain.” Mitya, running up to the gate, knocked. Thelad instantly recognized him, for Mitya had more than once tipped him.Opening the gate at once, he let him in, and hastened to inform himwith a good‐humored smile that “Agrafena Alexandrovna is not at homenow, you know.”
“Where is she then, Prohor?” asked Mitya, stopping short.
“She set off this evening, some two hours ago, with Timofey, toMokroe.”
“What for?” cried Mitya.
“That I can’t say. To see some officer. Some one invited her and horseswere sent to fetch her.”
Mitya left him, and ran like a madman to Fenya.



Chapter V.A Sudden Resolution

She was sitting in the kitchen with her grandmother; they were bothjust going to bed. Relying on Nazar Ivanovitch, they had not lockedthemselves in. Mitya ran in, pounced on Fenya and seized her by thethroat.
“Speak at once! Where is she? With whom is she now, at Mokroe?” heroared furiously.
Both the women squealed.
“Aie! I’ll tell you. Aie! Dmitri Fyodorovitch, darling, I’ll tell youeverything directly, I won’t hide anything,” gabbled Fenya, frightenedto death; “she’s gone to Mokroe, to her officer.”
“What officer?” roared Mitya.
“To her officer, the same one she used to know, the one who threw herover five years ago,” cackled Fenya, as fast as she could speak.
Mitya withdrew the hands with which he was squeezing her throat. Hestood facing her, pale as death, unable to utter a word, but his eyesshowed that he realized it all, all, from the first word, and guessedthe whole position. Poor Fenya was not in a condition at that moment toobserve whether he understood or not. She remained sitting on the trunkas she had been when he ran into the room, trembling all over, holdingher hands out before her as though trying to defend herself. She seemedto have grown rigid in that position. Her wide‐opened, scared eyes werefixed immovably upon him. And to make matters worse, both his handswere smeared with blood. On the way, as he ran, he must have touchedhis forehead with them, wiping off the perspiration, so that on hisforehead and his right cheek were blood‐stained patches. Fenya was onthe verge of hysterics. The old cook had jumped up and was staring athim like a mad woman, almost unconscious with terror.
Mitya stood for a moment, then mechanically sank on to a chair next toFenya. He sat, not reflecting but, as it were, terror‐stricken,benumbed. Yet everything was clear as day: that officer, he knew abouthim, he knew everything perfectly, he had known it from Grushenkaherself, had known that a letter had come from him a month before. Sothat for a month, for a whole month, this had been going on, a secretfrom him, till the very arrival of this new man, and he had neverthought of him! But how could he, how could he not have thought of him?Why was it he had forgotten this officer, like that, forgotten him assoon as he heard of him? That was the question that faced him like somemonstrous thing. And he looked at this monstrous thing with horror,growing cold with horror.
But suddenly, as gently and mildly as a gentle and affectionate child,he began speaking to Fenya as though he had utterly forgotten how hehad scared and hurt her just now. He fell to questioning Fenya with anextreme preciseness, astonishing in his position, and though the girllooked wildly at his blood‐stained hands, she, too, with wonderfulreadiness and rapidity, answered every question as though eager to putthe whole truth and nothing but the truth before him. Little by little,even with a sort of enjoyment, she began explaining every detail, notwanting to torment him, but, as it were, eager to be of the utmostservice to him. She described the whole of that day, in great detail,the visit of Rakitin and Alyosha, how she, Fenya, had stood on thewatch, how the mistress had set off, and how she had called out of thewindow to Alyosha to give him, Mitya, her greetings, and to tell him“to remember for ever how she had loved him for an hour.”
Hearing of the message, Mitya suddenly smiled, and there was a flush ofcolor on his pale cheeks. At the same moment Fenya said to him, not abit afraid now to be inquisitive:
“Look at your hands, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. They’re all over blood!”
“Yes,” answered Mitya mechanically. He looked carelessly at his handsand at once forgot them and Fenya’s question.
He sank into silence again. Twenty minutes had passed since he had runin. His first horror was over, but evidently some new fixeddetermination had taken possession of him. He suddenly stood up,smiling dreamily.
“What has happened to you, sir?” said Fenya, pointing to his handsagain. She spoke compassionately, as though she felt very near to himnow in his grief. Mitya looked at his hands again.
“That’s blood, Fenya,” he said, looking at her with a strangeexpression. “That’s human blood, and my God! why was it shed? But ...Fenya ... there’s a fence here” (he looked at her as though setting hera riddle), “a high fence, and terrible to look at. But at dawnto‐morrow, when the sun rises, Mitya will leap over that fence.... Youdon’t understand what fence, Fenya, and, never mind.... You’ll hearto‐morrow and understand ... and now, good‐by. I won’t stand in herway. I’ll step aside, I know how to step aside. Live, my joy.... Youloved me for an hour, remember Mityenka Karamazov so for ever.... Shealways used to call me Mityenka, do you remember?”
And with those words he went suddenly out of the kitchen. Fenya wasalmost more frightened at this sudden departure than she had been whenhe ran in and attacked her.
Just ten minutes later Dmitri went in to Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin, theyoung official with whom he had pawned his pistols. It was by nowhalf‐past eight, and Pyotr Ilyitch had finished his evening tea, andhad just put his coat on again to go to the “Metropolis” to playbilliards. Mitya caught him coming out.
Seeing him with his face all smeared with blood, the young man uttereda cry of surprise.
“Good heavens! What is the matter?”
“I’ve come for my pistols,” said Mitya, “and brought you the money. Andthanks very much. I’m in a hurry, Pyotr Ilyitch, please make haste.”
Pyotr Ilyitch grew more and more surprised; he suddenly caught sight ofa bundle of bank‐notes in Mitya’s hand, and what was more, he hadwalked in holding the notes as no one walks in and no one carriesmoney: he had them in his right hand, and held them outstretched as ifto show them. Perhotin’s servant‐boy, who met Mitya in the passage,said afterwards that he walked into the passage in the same way, withthe money outstretched in his hand, so he must have been carrying themlike that even in the streets. They were all rainbow‐coloredhundred‐rouble notes, and the fingers holding them were covered withblood.
When Pyotr Ilyitch was questioned later on as to the sum of money, hesaid that it was difficult to judge at a glance, but that it might havebeen two thousand, or perhaps three, but it was a big, “fat” bundle.“Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” so he testified afterwards, “seemed unlikehimself, too; not drunk, but, as it were, exalted, lost to everything,but at the same time, as it were, absorbed, as though pondering andsearching for something and unable to come to a decision. He was ingreat haste, answered abruptly and very strangely, and at momentsseemed not at all dejected but quite cheerful.”
“But what _is_ the matter with you? What’s wrong?” cried Pyotr Ilyitch,looking wildly at his guest. “How is it that you’re all covered withblood? Have you had a fall? Look at yourself!”
He took him by the elbow and led him to the glass.
Seeing his blood‐stained face, Mitya started and scowled wrathfully.
“Damnation! That’s the last straw,” he muttered angrily, hurriedlychanging the notes from his right hand to the left, and impulsivelyjerked the handkerchief out of his pocket. But the handkerchief turnedout to be soaked with blood, too (it was the handkerchief he had usedto wipe Grigory’s face). There was scarcely a white spot on it, and ithad not merely begun to dry, but had stiffened into a crumpled ball andcould not be pulled apart. Mitya threw it angrily on the floor.
“Oh, damn it!” he said. “Haven’t you a rag of some sort ... to wipe myface?”
“So you’re only stained, not wounded? You’d better wash,” said PyotrIlyitch. “Here’s a wash‐stand. I’ll pour you out some water.”
“A wash‐stand? That’s all right ... but where am I to put this?”
With the strangest perplexity he indicated his bundle of hundred‐roublenotes, looking inquiringly at Pyotr Ilyitch as though it were for himto decide what he, Mitya, was to do with his own money.
“In your pocket, or on the table here. They won’t be lost.”
“In my pocket? Yes, in my pocket. All right.... But, I say, that’s allnonsense,” he cried, as though suddenly coming out of his absorption.“Look here, let’s first settle that business of the pistols. Give themback to me. Here’s your money ... because I am in great need of them... and I haven’t a minute, a minute to spare.”
And taking the topmost note from the bundle he held it out to PyotrIlyitch.
“But I shan’t have change enough. Haven’t you less?”
“No,” said Mitya, looking again at the bundle, and as though nottrusting his own words he turned over two or three of the topmost ones.
“No, they’re all alike,” he added, and again he looked inquiringly atPyotr Ilyitch.
“How have you grown so rich?” the latter asked. “Wait, I’ll send my boyto Plotnikov’s, they close late—to see if they won’t change it. Here,Misha!” he called into the passage.
“To Plotnikov’s shop—first‐rate!” cried Mitya, as though struck by anidea. “Misha,” he turned to the boy as he came in, “look here, run toPlotnikov’s and tell them that Dmitri Fyodorovitch sends his greetings,and will be there directly.... But listen, listen, tell them to havechampagne, three dozen bottles, ready before I come, and packed as itwas to take to Mokroe. I took four dozen with me then,” he added(suddenly addressing Pyotr Ilyitch); “they know all about it, don’t youtrouble, Misha,” he turned again to the boy. “Stay, listen; tell themto put in cheese, Strasburg pies, smoked fish, ham, caviare, andeverything, everything they’ve got, up to a hundred roubles, or ahundred and twenty as before.... But wait: don’t let them forgetdessert, sweets, pears, water‐melons, two or three or four—no, onemelon’s enough, and chocolate, candy, toffee, fondants; in fact,everything I took to Mokroe before, three hundred roubles’ worth withthe champagne ... let it be just the same again. And remember, Misha,if you are called Misha—His name is Misha, isn’t it?” He turned toPyotr Ilyitch again.
“Wait a minute,” Protr Ilyitch intervened, listening and watching himuneasily, “you’d better go yourself and tell them. He’ll muddle it.”
“He will, I see he will! Eh, Misha! Why, I was going to kiss you forthe commission.... If you don’t make a mistake, there’s ten roubles foryou, run along, make haste.... Champagne’s the chief thing, let thembring up champagne. And brandy, too, and red and white wine, and all Ihad then.... They know what I had then.”
“But listen!” Pyotr Ilyitch interrupted with some impatience. “I say,let him simply run and change the money and tell them not to close, andyou go and tell them.... Give him your note. Be off, Misha! Put yourbest leg forward!”
Pyotr Ilyitch seemed to hurry Misha off on purpose, because the boyremained standing with his mouth and eyes wide open, apparentlyunderstanding little of Mitya’s orders, gazing up with amazement andterror at his blood‐stained face and the trembling bloodstained fingersthat held the notes.
“Well, now come and wash,” said Pyotr Ilyitch sternly. “Put the moneyon the table or else in your pocket.... That’s right, come along. Buttake off your coat.”
And beginning to help him off with his coat, he cried out again:
“Look, your coat’s covered with blood, too!”
“That ... it’s not the coat. It’s only a little here on the sleeve....And that’s only here where the handkerchief lay. It must have soakedthrough. I must have sat on the handkerchief at Fenya’s, and theblood’s come through,” Mitya explained at once with a childlikeunconsciousness that was astounding. Pyotr Ilyitch listened, frowning.
“Well, you must have been up to something; you must have been fightingwith some one,” he muttered.
They began to wash. Pyotr Ilyitch held the jug and poured out thewater. Mitya, in desperate haste, scarcely soaped his hands (they weretrembling, and Pyotr Ilyitch remembered it afterwards). But the youngofficial insisted on his soaping them thoroughly and rubbing them more.He seemed to exercise more and more sway over Mitya, as time went on.It may be noted in passing that he was a young man of sturdy character.
“Look, you haven’t got your nails clean. Now rub your face; here, onyour temples, by your ear.... Will you go in that shirt? Where are yougoing? Look, all the cuff of your right sleeve is covered with blood.”
“Yes, it’s all bloody,” observed Mitya, looking at the cuff of hisshirt.
“Then change your shirt.”
“I haven’t time. You see I’ll ...” Mitya went on with the sameconfiding ingenuousness, drying his face and hands on the towel, andputting on his coat. “I’ll turn it up at the wrist. It won’t be seenunder the coat.... You see!”
“Tell me now, what game have you been up to? Have you been fightingwith some one? In the tavern again, as before? Have you been beatingthat captain again?” Pyotr Ilyitch asked him reproachfully. “Whom haveyou been beating now ... or killing, perhaps?”
“Nonsense!” said Mitya.
“Why ‘nonsense’?”
“Don’t worry,” said Mitya, and he suddenly laughed. “I smashed an oldwoman in the market‐place just now.”
“Smashed? An old woman?”
“An old man!” cried Mitya, looking Pyotr Ilyitch straight in the face,laughing, and shouting at him as though he were deaf.
“Confound it! An old woman, an old man.... Have you killed some one?”
“We made it up. We had a row—and made it up. In a place I know of. Weparted friends. A fool.... He’s forgiven me.... He’s sure to haveforgiven me by now ... if he had got up, he wouldn’t have forgivenme”—Mitya suddenly winked—“only damn him, you know, I say, PyotrIlyitch, damn him! Don’t worry about him! I don’t want to just now!”Mitya snapped out, resolutely.
“Whatever do you want to go picking quarrels with every one for? ...Just as you did with that captain over some nonsense.... You’ve beenfighting and now you’re rushing off on the spree—that’s you all over!Three dozen champagne—what do you want all that for?”
“Bravo! Now give me the pistols. Upon my honor I’ve no time now. Ishould like to have a chat with you, my dear boy, but I haven’t thetime. And there’s no need, it’s too late for talking. Where’s my money?Where have I put it?” he cried, thrusting his hands into his pockets.
“You put it on the table ... yourself.... Here it is. Had youforgotten? Money’s like dirt or water to you, it seems. Here are yourpistols. It’s an odd thing, at six o’clock you pledged them for tenroubles, and now you’ve got thousands. Two or three I should say.”
“Three, you bet,” laughed Mitya, stuffing the notes into theside‐pocket of his trousers.
“You’ll lose it like that. Have you found a gold‐mine?”
“The mines? The gold‐mines?” Mitya shouted at the top of his voice andwent off into a roar of laughter. “Would you like to go to the mines,Perhotin? There’s a lady here who’ll stump up three thousand for you,if only you’ll go. She did it for me, she’s so awfully fond ofgold‐mines. Do you know Madame Hohlakov?”
“I don’t know her, but I’ve heard of her and seen her. Did she reallygive you three thousand? Did she really?” said Pyotr Ilyitch, eyeinghim dubiously.
“As soon as the sun rises to‐morrow, as soon as Phœbus, ever young,flies upwards, praising and glorifying God, you go to her, this MadameHohlakov, and ask her whether she did stump up that three thousand ornot. Try and find out.”
“I don’t know on what terms you are ... since you say it so positively,I suppose she did give it to you. You’ve got the money in your hand,but instead of going to Siberia you’re spending it all.... Where areyou really off to now, eh?”
“To Mokroe.”
“To Mokroe? But it’s night!”
“Once the lad had all, now the lad has naught,” cried Mitya suddenly.
“How ‘naught’? You say that with all those thousands!”
“I’m not talking about thousands. Damn thousands! I’m talking of thefemale character.
Fickle is the heart of womanTreacherous and full of vice;

I agree with Ulysses. That’s what he says.”
“I don’t understand you!”
“Am I drunk?”
“Not drunk, but worse.”
“I’m drunk in spirit, Pyotr Ilyitch, drunk in spirit! But that’senough!”
“What are you doing, loading the pistol?”
“I’m loading the pistol.”
Unfastening the pistol‐case, Mitya actually opened the powder horn, andcarefully sprinkled and rammed in the charge. Then he took the bulletand, before inserting it, held it in two fingers in front of thecandle.
“Why are you looking at the bullet?” asked Pyotr Ilyitch, watching himwith uneasy curiosity.
“Oh, a fancy. Why, if you meant to put that bullet in your brain, wouldyou look at it or not?”
“Why look at it?”
“It’s going into my brain, so it’s interesting to look and see whatit’s like. But that’s foolishness, a moment’s foolishness. Now that’sdone,” he added, putting in the bullet and driving it home with theramrod. “Pyotr Ilyitch, my dear fellow, that’s nonsense, all nonsense,and if only you knew what nonsense! Give me a little piece of papernow.”
“Here’s some paper.”
“No, a clean new piece, writing‐paper. That’s right.”
And taking a pen from the table, Mitya rapidly wrote two lines, foldedthe paper in four, and thrust it in his waistcoat pocket. He put thepistols in the case, locked it up, and kept it in his hand. Then helooked at Pyotr Ilyitch with a slow, thoughtful smile.
“Now, let’s go.”
“Where are we going? No, wait a minute.... Are you thinking of puttingthat bullet in your brain, perhaps?” Pyotr Ilyitch asked uneasily.
“I was fooling about the bullet! I want to live. I love life! You maybe sure of that. I love golden‐haired Phœbus and his warm light....Dear Pyotr Ilyitch, do you know how to step aside?”
“What do you mean by ‘stepping aside’?”
“Making way. Making way for a dear creature, and for one I hate. And tolet the one I hate become dear—that’s what making way means! And to sayto them: God bless you, go your way, pass on, while I—”
“While you—?”
“That’s enough, let’s go.”
“Upon my word. I’ll tell some one to prevent your going there,” saidPyotr Ilyitch, looking at him. “What are you going to Mokroe for, now?”
“There’s a woman there, a woman. That’s enough for you. You shut up.”
“Listen, though you’re such a savage I’ve always liked you.... I feelanxious.”
“Thanks, old fellow. I’m a savage you say. Savages, savages! That’swhat I am always saying. Savages! Why, here’s Misha! I was forgettinghim.”
Misha ran in, post‐haste, with a handful of notes in change, andreported that every one was in a bustle at the Plotnikovs’; “They’recarrying down the bottles, and the fish, and the tea; it will all beready directly.” Mitya seized ten roubles and handed it to PyotrIlyitch, then tossed another ten‐rouble note to Misha.
“Don’t dare to do such a thing!” cried Pyotr Ilyitch. “I won’t have itin my house, it’s a bad, demoralizing habit. Put your money away. Here,put it here, why waste it? It would come in handy to‐morrow, and I daresay you’ll be coming to me to borrow ten roubles again. Why do you keepputting the notes in your side‐pocket? Ah, you’ll lose them!”
“I say, my dear fellow, let’s go to Mokroe together.”
“What should I go for?”
“I say, let’s open a bottle at once, and drink to life! I want todrink, and especially to drink with you. I’ve never drunk with you,have I?”
“Very well, we can go to the ‘Metropolis.’ I was just going there.”
“I haven’t time for that. Let’s drink at the Plotnikovs’, in the backroom. Shall I ask you a riddle?”
“Ask away.”
Mitya took the piece of paper out of his waistcoat pocket, unfolded itand showed it. In a large, distinct hand was written: “I punish myselffor my whole life, my whole life I punish!”
“I will certainly speak to some one, I’ll go at once,” said PyotrIlyitch, after reading the paper.
“You won’t have time, dear boy, come and have a drink. March!”
Plotnikov’s shop was at the corner of the street, next door but one toPyotr Ilyitch’s. It was the largest grocery shop in our town, and by nomeans a bad one, belonging to some rich merchants. They kept everythingthat could be got in a Petersburg shop, grocery of all sort, wines“bottled by the brothers Eliseyev,” fruits, cigars, tea, coffee, sugar,and so on. There were three shop‐assistants and two errand boys alwaysemployed. Though our part of the country had grown poorer, thelandowners had gone away, and trade had got worse, yet the grocerystores flourished as before, every year with increasing prosperity;there were plenty of purchasers for their goods.
They were awaiting Mitya with impatience in the shop. They had vividrecollections of how he had bought, three or four weeks ago, wine andgoods of all sorts to the value of several hundred roubles, paid for incash (they would never have let him have anything on credit, ofcourse). They remembered that then, as now, he had had a bundle ofhundred‐rouble notes in his hand, and had scattered them at random,without bargaining, without reflecting, or caring to reflect what useso much wine and provisions would be to him. The story was told allover the town that, driving off then with Grushenka to Mokroe, he had“spent three thousand in one night and the following day, and had comeback from the spree without a penny.” He had picked up a whole troop ofgypsies (encamped in our neighborhood at the time), who for two daysgot money without stint out of him while he was drunk, and drankexpensive wine without stint. People used to tell, laughing at Mitya,how he had given champagne to grimy‐ handed peasants, and feasted thevillage women and girls on sweets and Strasburg pies. Though to laughat Mitya to his face was rather a risky proceeding, there was muchlaughter behind his back, especially in the tavern, at his owningenuous public avowal that all he had got out of Grushenka by this“escapade” was “permission to kiss her foot, and that was the utmostshe had allowed him.”
By the time Mitya and Pyotr Ilyitch reached the shop, they found a cartwith three horses harnessed abreast with bells, and with Andrey, thedriver, ready waiting for Mitya at the entrance. In the shop they hadalmost entirely finished packing one box of provisions, and were onlywaiting for Mitya’s arrival to nail it down and put it in the cart.Pyotr Ilyitch was astounded.
“Where did this cart come from in such a hurry?” he asked Mitya.
“I met Andrey as I ran to you, and told him to drive straight here tothe shop. There’s no time to lose. Last time I drove with Timofey, butTimofey now has gone on before me with the witch. Shall we be verylate, Andrey?”
“They’ll only get there an hour at most before us, not even that maybe.I got Timofey ready to start. I know how he’ll go. Their pace won’t beours, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. How could it be? They won’t get there anhour earlier!” Andrey, a lanky, red‐haired, middle‐aged driver, wearinga full‐ skirted coat, and with a kaftan on his arm, replied warmly.
“Fifty roubles for vodka if we’re only an hour behind them.”
“I warrant the time, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Ech, they won’t be half anhour before us, let alone an hour.”
Though Mitya bustled about seeing after things, he gave his ordersstrangely, as it were disconnectedly, and inconsecutively. He began asentence and forgot the end of it. Pyotr Ilyitch found himself obligedto come to the rescue.
“Four hundred roubles’ worth, not less than four hundred roubles’worth, just as it was then,” commanded Mitya. “Four dozen champagne,not a bottle less.”
“What do you want with so much? What’s it for? Stay!” cried PyotrIlyitch. “What’s this box? What’s in it? Surely there isn’t fourhundred roubles’ worth here?”
The officious shopmen began explaining with oily politeness that thefirst box contained only half a dozen bottles of champagne, and only“the most indispensable articles,” such as savories, sweets, toffee,etc. But the main part of the goods ordered would be packed and sentoff, as on the previous occasion, in a special cart also with threehorses traveling at full speed, so that it would arrive not more thanan hour later than Dmitri Fyodorovitch himself.
“Not more than an hour! Not more than an hour! And put in more toffeeand fondants. The girls there are so fond of it,” Mitya insisted hotly.
“The fondants are all right. But what do you want with four dozen ofchampagne? One would be enough,” said Pyotr Ilyitch, almost angry. Hebegan bargaining, asking for a bill of the goods, and refused to besatisfied. But he only succeeded in saving a hundred roubles. In theend it was agreed that only three hundred roubles’ worth should besent.
“Well, you may go to the devil!” cried Pyotr Ilyitch, on secondthoughts. “What’s it to do with me? Throw away your money, since it’scost you nothing.”
“This way, my economist, this way, don’t be angry.” Mitya drew him intoa room at the back of the shop. “They’ll give us a bottle heredirectly. We’ll taste it. Ech, Pyotr Ilyitch, come along with me, foryou’re a nice fellow, the sort I like.”
Mitya sat down on a wicker chair, before a little table, covered with adirty dinner‐napkin. Pyotr Ilyitch sat down opposite, and the champagnesoon appeared, and oysters were suggested to the gentlemen.“First‐class oysters, the last lot in.”
“Hang the oysters. I don’t eat them. And we don’t need anything,” criedPyotr Ilyitch, almost angrily.
“There’s no time for oysters,” said Mitya. “And I’m not hungry. Do youknow, friend,” he said suddenly, with feeling, “I never have liked allthis disorder.”
“Who does like it? Three dozen of champagne for peasants, upon my word,that’s enough to make any one angry!”
“That’s not what I mean. I’m talking of a higher order. There’s noorder in me, no higher order. But ... that’s all over. There’s no needto grieve about it. It’s too late, damn it! My whole life has beendisorder, and one must set it in order. Is that a pun, eh?”
“You’re raving, not making puns!”
“Glory be to God in Heaven,Glory be to God in me....

“That verse came from my heart once, it’s not a verse, but a tear.... Imade it myself ... not while I was pulling the captain’s beard,though....”
“Why do you bring him in all of a sudden?”
“Why do I bring him in? Foolery! All things come to an end; all thingsare made equal. That’s the long and short of it.”
“You know, I keep thinking of your pistols.”
“That’s all foolery, too! Drink, and don’t be fanciful. I love life.I’ve loved life too much, shamefully much. Enough! Let’s drink to life,dear boy, I propose the toast. Why am I pleased with myself? I’m ascoundrel, but I’m satisfied with myself. And yet I’m tortured by thethought that I’m a scoundrel, but satisfied with myself. I bless thecreation. I’m ready to bless God and His creation directly, but ... Imust kill one noxious insect for fear it should crawl and spoil lifefor others.... Let us drink to life, dear brother. What can be moreprecious than life? Nothing! To life, and to one queen of queens!”
“Let’s drink to life and to your queen, too, if you like.”
They drank a glass each. Although Mitya was excited and expansive, yethe was melancholy, too. It was as though some heavy, overwhelminganxiety were weighing upon him.
“Misha ... here’s your Misha come! Misha, come here, my boy, drink thisglass to Phœbus, the golden‐haired, of to‐morrow morn....”
“What are you giving it him for?” cried Pyotr Ilyitch, irritably.
“Yes, yes, yes, let me! I want to!”
“E—ech!”
Misha emptied the glass, bowed, and ran out.
“He’ll remember it afterwards,” Mitya remarked. “Woman, I love woman!What is woman? The queen of creation! My heart is sad, my heart is sad,Pyotr Ilyitch. Do you remember Hamlet? ‘I am very sorry, good Horatio!Alas, poor Yorick!’ Perhaps that’s me, Yorick? Yes, I’m Yorick now, anda skull afterwards.”
Pyotr Ilyitch listened in silence. Mitya, too, was silent for a while.
“What dog’s that you’ve got here?” he asked the shopman, casually,noticing a pretty little lap‐dog with dark eyes, sitting in the corner.
“It belongs to Varvara Alexyevna, the mistress,” answered the clerk.“She brought it and forgot it here. It must be taken back to her.”
“I saw one like it ... in the regiment ...” murmured Mitya dreamily,“only that one had its hind leg broken.... By the way, Pyotr Ilyitch, Iwanted to ask you: have you ever stolen anything in your life?”
“What a question!”
“Oh, I didn’t mean anything. From somebody’s pocket, you know. I don’tmean government money, every one steals that, and no doubt you do,too....”
“You go to the devil.”
“I’m talking of other people’s money. Stealing straight out of apocket? Out of a purse, eh?”
“I stole twenty copecks from my mother when I was nine years old. Itook it off the table on the sly, and held it tight in my hand.”
“Well, and what happened?”
“Oh, nothing. I kept it three days, then I felt ashamed, confessed, andgave it back.”
“And what then?”
“Naturally I was whipped. But why do you ask? Have you stolensomething?”
“I have,” said Mitya, winking slyly.
“What have you stolen?” inquired Pyotr Ilyitch curiously.
“I stole twenty copecks from my mother when I was nine years old, andgave it back three days after.”
As he said this, Mitya suddenly got up.
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, won’t you come now?” called Andrey from the doorof the shop.
“Are you ready? We’ll come!” Mitya started. “A few more last wordsand—Andrey, a glass of vodka at starting. Give him some brandy as well!That box” (the one with the pistols) “put under my seat. Good‐by, PyotrIlyitch, don’t remember evil against me.”
“But you’re coming back to‐morrow?”
“Of course.”
“Will you settle the little bill now?” cried the clerk, springingforward.
“Oh, yes, the bill. Of course.”
He pulled the bundle of notes out of his pocket again, picked out threehundred roubles, threw them on the counter, and ran hurriedly out ofthe shop. Every one followed him out, bowing and wishing him good luck.Andrey, coughing from the brandy he had just swallowed, jumped up onthe box. But Mitya was only just taking his seat when suddenly to hissurprise he saw Fenya before him. She ran up panting, clasped her handsbefore him with a cry, and plumped down at his feet.
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear good Dmitri Fyodorovitch, don’t harm mymistress. And it was I told you all about it.... And don’t murder him,he came first, he’s hers! He’ll marry Agrafena Alexandrovna now. That’swhy he’s come back from Siberia. Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear, don’t takea fellow creature’s life!”
“Tut—tut—tut! That’s it, is it? So you’re off there to make trouble!”muttered Pyotr Ilyitch. “Now, it’s all clear, as clear as daylight.Dmitri Fyodorovitch, give me your pistols at once if you mean to behavelike a man,” he shouted aloud to Mitya. “Do you hear, Dmitri?”
“The pistols? Wait a bit, brother, I’ll throw them into the pool on theroad,” answered Mitya. “Fenya, get up, don’t kneel to me. Mitya won’thurt any one, the silly fool won’t hurt any one again. But I say,Fenya,” he shouted, after having taken his seat. “I hurt you just now,so forgive me and have pity on me, forgive a scoundrel.... But itdoesn’t matter if you don’t. It’s all the same now. Now then, Andrey,look alive, fly along full speed!”
Andrey whipped up the horses, and the bells began ringing.
“Good‐by, Pyotr Ilyitch! My last tear is for you!...”
“He’s not drunk, but he keeps babbling like a lunatic,” Pyotr Ilyitchthought as he watched him go. He had half a mind to stay and see thecart packed with the remaining wines and provisions, knowing that theywould deceive and defraud Mitya. But, suddenly feeling vexed withhimself, he turned away with a curse and went to the tavern to playbilliards.
“He’s a fool, though he’s a good fellow,” he muttered as he went. “I’veheard of that officer, Grushenka’s former flame. Well, if he has turnedup.... Ech, those pistols! Damn it all! I’m not his nurse! Let them dowhat they like! Besides, it’ll all come to nothing. They’re a set ofbrawlers, that’s all. They’ll drink and fight, fight and make friendsagain. They are not men who do anything real. What does he mean by ‘I’mstepping aside, I’m punishing myself?’ It’ll come to nothing! He’sshouted such phrases a thousand times, drunk, in the taverns. But nowhe’s not drunk. ‘Drunk in spirit’—they’re fond of fine phrases, thevillains. Am I his nurse? He must have been fighting, his face was allover blood. With whom? I shall find out at the ‘Metropolis.’ And hishandkerchief was soaked in blood.... It’s still lying on my floor....Hang it!”
He reached the tavern in a bad humor and at once made up a game. Thegame cheered him. He played a second game, and suddenly began tellingone of his partners that Dmitri Karamazov had come in for some cashagain—something like three thousand roubles, and had gone to Mokroeagain to spend it with Grushenka.... This news roused singular interestin his listeners. They all spoke of it, not laughing, but with astrange gravity. They left off playing.
“Three thousand? But where can he have got three thousand?”
Questions were asked. The story of Madame Hohlakov’s present wasreceived with skepticism.
“Hasn’t he robbed his old father?—that’s the question.”
“Three thousand! There’s something odd about it.”
“He boasted aloud that he would kill his father; we all heard him,here. And it was three thousand he talked about ...”
Pyotr Ilyitch listened. All at once he became short and dry in hisanswers. He said not a word about the blood on Mitya’s face and hands,though he had meant to speak of it at first.
They began a third game, and by degrees the talk about Mitya died away.But by the end of the third game, Pyotr Ilyitch felt no more desire forbilliards; he laid down the cue, and without having supper as he hadintended, he walked out of the tavern. When he reached the market‐placehe stood still in perplexity, wondering at himself. He realized thatwhat he wanted was to go to Fyodor Pavlovitch’s and find out ifanything had happened there. “On account of some stupid nonsense—asit’s sure to turn out—am I going to wake up the household and make ascandal? Fooh! damn it, is it my business to look after them?”
In a very bad humor he went straight home, and suddenly rememberedFenya. “Damn it all! I ought to have questioned her just now,” hethought with vexation, “I should have heard everything.” And the desireto speak to her, and so find out, became so pressing and importunatethat when he was half‐way home he turned abruptly and went towards thehouse where Grushenka lodged. Going up to the gate he knocked. Thesound of the knock in the silence of the night sobered him and made himfeel annoyed. And no one answered him; every one in the house wasasleep.
“And I shall be making a fuss!” he thought, with a feeling of positivediscomfort. But instead of going away altogether, he fell to knockingagain with all his might, filling the street with clamor.
“Not coming? Well, I will knock them up, I will!” he muttered at eachknock, fuming at himself, but at the same time he redoubled his knockson the gate.



Chapter VI.“I Am Coming, Too!”

But Dmitri Fyodorovitch was speeding along the road. It was a littlemore than twenty versts to Mokroe, but Andrey’s three horses gallopedat such a pace that the distance might be covered in an hour and aquarter. The swift motion revived Mitya. The air was fresh and cool,there were big stars shining in the sky. It was the very night, andperhaps the very hour, in which Alyosha fell on the earth, andrapturously swore to love it for ever and ever.
All was confusion, confusion, in Mitya’s soul, but although many thingswere goading his heart, at that moment his whole being was yearning forher, his queen, to whom he was flying to look on her for the last time.One thing I can say for certain; his heart did not waver for oneinstant. I shall perhaps not be believed when I say that this jealouslover felt not the slightest jealousy of this new rival, who seemed tohave sprung out of the earth. If any other had appeared on the scene,he would have been jealous at once, and would perhaps have stained hisfierce hands with blood again. But as he flew through the night, hefelt no envy, no hostility even, for the man who had been her firstlover.... It is true he had not yet seen him.
“Here there was no room for dispute: it was her right and his; this washer first love which, after five years, she had not forgotten; so shehad loved him only for those five years, and I, how do I come in? Whatright have I? Step aside, Mitya, and make way! What am I now? Noweverything is over apart from the officer—even if he had not appeared,everything would be over ...”
These words would roughly have expressed his feelings, if he had beencapable of reasoning. But he could not reason at that moment. Hispresent plan of action had arisen without reasoning. At Fenya’s firstwords, it had sprung from feeling, and been adopted in a flash, withall its consequences. And yet, in spite of his resolution, there wasconfusion in his soul, an agonizing confusion: his resolution did notgive him peace. There was so much behind that tortured him. And itseemed strange to him, at moments, to think that he had written his ownsentence of death with pen and paper: “I punish myself,” and the paperwas lying there in his pocket, ready; the pistol was loaded; he hadalready resolved how, next morning, he would meet the first warm ray of“golden‐haired Phœbus.”
And yet he could not be quit of the past, of all that he had leftbehind and that tortured him. He felt that miserably, and the thoughtof it sank into his heart with despair. There was one moment when hefelt an impulse to stop Andrey, to jump out of the cart, to pull outhis loaded pistol, and to make an end of everything without waiting forthe dawn. But that moment flew by like a spark. The horses galloped on,“devouring space,” and as he drew near his goal, again the thought ofher, of her alone, took more and more complete possession of his soul,chasing away the fearful images that had been haunting it. Oh, how helonged to look upon her, if only for a moment, if only from a distance!
“She’s now with _him_,” he thought, “now I shall see what she lookslike with him, her first love, and that’s all I want.” Never had thiswoman, who was such a fateful influence in his life, aroused such lovein his breast, such new and unknown feeling, surprising even tohimself, a feeling tender to devoutness, to self‐effacement before her!“I will efface myself!” he said, in a rush of almost hystericalecstasy.
They had been galloping nearly an hour. Mitya was silent, and thoughAndrey was, as a rule, a talkative peasant, he did not utter a word,either. He seemed afraid to talk, he only whipped up smartly his threelean, but mettlesome, bay horses. Suddenly Mitya cried out in horribleanxiety:
“Andrey! What if they’re asleep?”
This thought fell upon him like a blow. It had not occurred to himbefore.
“It may well be that they’re gone to bed, by now, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”
Mitya frowned as though in pain. Yes, indeed ... he was rushing there... with such feelings ... while they were asleep ... she was asleep,perhaps, there too.... An angry feeling surged up in his heart.
“Drive on, Andrey! Whip them up! Look alive!” he cried, beside himself.
“But maybe they’re not in bed!” Andrey went on after a pause. “Timofeysaid they were a lot of them there—”
“At the station?”
“Not at the posting‐station, but at Plastunov’s, at the inn, where theylet out horses, too.”
“I know. So you say there are a lot of them? How’s that? Who are they?”cried Mitya, greatly dismayed at this unexpected news.
“Well, Timofey was saying they’re all gentlefolk. Two from our town—whothey are I can’t say—and there are two others, strangers, maybe morebesides. I didn’t ask particularly. They’ve set to playing cards, soTimofey said.”
“Cards?”
“So, maybe they’re not in bed if they’re at cards. It’s most likely notmore than eleven.”
“Quicker, Andrey! Quicker!” Mitya cried again, nervously.
“May I ask you something, sir?” said Andrey, after a pause. “Only I’mafraid of angering you, sir.”
“What is it?”
“Why, Fenya threw herself at your feet just now, and begged you not toharm her mistress, and some one else, too ... so you see, sir— It’s Iam taking you there ... forgive me, sir, it’s my conscience ... maybeit’s stupid of me to speak of it—”
Mitya suddenly seized him by the shoulders from behind.
“Are you a driver?” he asked frantically.
“Yes, sir.”
“Then you know that one has to make way. What would you say to a driverwho wouldn’t make way for any one, but would just drive on and crushpeople? No, a driver mustn’t run over people. One can’t run over a man.One can’t spoil people’s lives. And if you have spoilt a life—punishyourself.... If only you’ve spoilt, if only you’ve ruined any one’slife—punish yourself and go away.”
These phrases burst from Mitya almost hysterically. Though Andrey wassurprised at him, he kept up the conversation.
“That’s right, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, you’re quite right, one mustn’tcrush or torment a man, or any kind of creature, for every creature iscreated by God. Take a horse, for instance, for some folks, even amongus drivers, drive anyhow. Nothing will restrain them, they just forceit along.”
“To hell?” Mitya interrupted, and went off into his abrupt, shortlaugh. “Andrey, simple soul,” he seized him by the shoulders again,“tell me, will Dmitri Fyodorovitch Karamazov go to hell, or not, whatdo you think?”
“I don’t know, darling, it depends on you, for you are ... you see,sir, when the Son of God was nailed on the Cross and died, He wentstraight down to hell from the Cross, and set free all sinners thatwere in agony. And the devil groaned, because he thought that he wouldget no more sinners in hell. And God said to him, then, ‘Don’t groan,for you shall have all the mighty of the earth, the rulers, the chiefjudges, and the rich men, and shall be filled up as you have been inall the ages till I come again.’ Those were His very words ...”
“A peasant legend! Capital! Whip up the left, Andrey!”
“So you see, sir, who it is hell’s for,” said Andrey, whipping up theleft horse, “but you’re like a little child ... that’s how we look onyou ... and though you’re hasty‐tempered, sir, yet God will forgive youfor your kind heart.”
“And you, do you forgive me, Andrey?”
“What should I forgive you for, sir? You’ve never done me any harm.”
“No, for every one, for every one, you here alone, on the road, willyou forgive me for every one? Speak, simple peasant heart!”
“Oh, sir! I feel afraid of driving you, your talk is so strange.”
But Mitya did not hear. He was frantically praying and muttering tohimself.
“Lord, receive me, with all my lawlessness, and do not condemn me. Letme pass by Thy judgment ... do not condemn me, for I have condemnedmyself, do not condemn me, for I love Thee, O Lord. I am a wretch, butI love Thee. If Thou sendest me to hell, I shall love Thee there, andfrom there I shall cry out that I love Thee for ever and ever.... Butlet me love to the end.... Here and now for just five hours ... tillthe first light of Thy day ... for I love the queen of my soul ... Ilove her and I cannot help loving her. Thou seest my whole heart.... Ishall gallop up, I shall fall before her and say, ‘You are right topass on and leave me. Farewell and forget your victim ... never fretyourself about me!’ ”
“Mokroe!” cried Andrey, pointing ahead with his whip.
Through the pale darkness of the night loomed a solid black mass ofbuildings, flung down, as it were, in the vast plain. The village ofMokroe numbered two thousand inhabitants, but at that hour all wereasleep, and only here and there a few lights still twinkled.
“Drive on, Andrey, I come!” Mitya exclaimed, feverishly.
“They’re not asleep,” said Andrey again, pointing with his whip to thePlastunovs’ inn, which was at the entrance to the village. The sixwindows, looking on the street, were all brightly lighted up.
“They’re not asleep,” Mitya repeated joyously. “Quicker, Andrey!Gallop! Drive up with a dash! Set the bells ringing! Let all know thatI have come. I’m coming! I’m coming, too!”
Andrey lashed his exhausted team into a gallop, drove with a dash andpulled up his steaming, panting horses at the high flight of steps.
Mitya jumped out of the cart just as the innkeeper, on his way to bed,peeped out from the steps curious to see who had arrived.
“Trifon Borissovitch, is that you?”
The innkeeper bent down, looked intently, ran down the steps, andrushed up to the guest with obsequious delight.
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, your honor! Do I see you again?”
Trifon Borissovitch was a thick‐set, healthy peasant, of middle height,with a rather fat face. His expression was severe and uncompromising,especially with the peasants of Mokroe, but he had the power ofassuming the most obsequious countenance, when he had an inkling thatit was to his interest. He dressed in Russian style, with a shirtbuttoning down on one side, and a full‐skirted coat. He had saved agood sum of money, but was for ever dreaming of improving his position.More than half the peasants were in his clutches, every one in theneighborhood was in debt to him. From the neighboring landowners hebought and rented lands which were worked by the peasants, in paymentof debts which they could never shake off. He was a widower, with fourgrown‐up daughters. One of them was already a widow and lived in theinn with her two children, his grandchildren, and worked for him like acharwoman. Another of his daughters was married to a petty official,and in one of the rooms of the inn, on the wall could be seen, amongthe family photographs, a miniature photograph of this official inuniform and official epaulettes. The two younger daughters used to wearfashionable blue or green dresses, fitting tight at the back, and withtrains a yard long, on Church holidays or when they went to pay visits.But next morning they would get up at dawn, as usual, sweep out therooms with a birch‐broom, empty the slops, and clean up after lodgers.
In spite of the thousands of roubles he had saved, Trifon Borissovitchwas very fond of emptying the pockets of a drunken guest, andremembering that not a month ago he had, in twenty‐four hours, made twoif not three hundred roubles out of Dmitri, when he had come on hisescapade with Grushenka, he met him now with eager welcome, scentinghis prey the moment Mitya drove up to the steps.
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear sir, we see you once more!”
“Stay, Trifon Borissovitch,” began Mitya, “first and foremost, where isshe?”
“Agrafena Alexandrovna?” The inn‐keeper understood at once, lookingsharply into Mitya’s face. “She’s here, too ...”
“With whom? With whom?”
“Some strangers. One is an official gentleman, a Pole, to judge fromhis speech. He sent the horses for her from here; and there’s anotherwith him, a friend of his, or a fellow traveler, there’s no telling.They’re dressed like civilians.”
“Well, are they feasting? Have they money?”
“Poor sort of a feast! Nothing to boast of, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”
“Nothing to boast of? And who are the others?”
“They’re two gentlemen from the town.... They’ve come back fromTcherny, and are putting up here. One’s quite a young gentleman, arelative of Mr. Miüsov, he must be, but I’ve forgotten his name ... andI expect you know the other, too, a gentleman called Maximov. He’s beenon a pilgrimage, so he says, to the monastery in the town. He’straveling with this young relation of Mr. Miüsov.”
“Is that all?”
“Yes.”
“Stay, listen, Trifon Borissovitch. Tell me the chief thing: What ofher? How is she?”
“Oh, she’s only just come. She’s sitting with them.”
“Is she cheerful? Is she laughing?”
“No, I think she’s not laughing much. She’s sitting quite dull. She’scombing the young gentleman’s hair.”
“The Pole—the officer?”
“He’s not young, and he’s not an officer, either. Not him, sir. It’sthe young gentleman that’s Mr. Miüsov’s relation ... I’ve forgotten hisname.”
“Kalganov.”
“That’s it, Kalganov!”
“All right. I’ll see for myself. Are they playing cards?”
“They have been playing, but they’ve left off. They’ve been drinkingtea, the official gentleman asked for liqueurs.”
“Stay, Trifon Borissovitch, stay, my good soul, I’ll see for myself.Now answer one more question: are the gypsies here?”
“You can’t have the gypsies now, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. The authoritieshave sent them away. But we’ve Jews that play the cymbals and thefiddle in the village, so one might send for them. They’d come.”
“Send for them. Certainly send for them!” cried Mitya. “And you can getthe girls together as you did then, Marya especially, Stepanida, too,and Arina. Two hundred roubles for a chorus!”
“Oh, for a sum like that I can get all the village together, though bynow they’re asleep. Are the peasants here worth such kindness, DmitriFyodorovitch, or the girls either? To spend a sum like that on suchcoarseness and rudeness! What’s the good of giving a peasant a cigar tosmoke, the stinking ruffian! And the girls are all lousy. Besides, I’llget my daughters up for nothing, let alone a sum like that. They’veonly just gone to bed, I’ll give them a kick and set them singing foryou. You gave the peasants champagne to drink the other day, e—ech!”
For all his pretended compassion for Mitya, Trifon Borissovitch hadhidden half a dozen bottles of champagne on that last occasion, and hadpicked up a hundred‐rouble note under the table, and it had remained inhis clutches.
“Trifon Borissovitch, I sent more than one thousand flying last time Iwas here. Do you remember?”
“You did send it flying. I may well remember. You must have left threethousand behind you.”
“Well, I’ve come to do the same again, do you see?”
And he pulled out his roll of notes, and held them up before theinnkeeper’s nose.
“Now, listen and remember. In an hour’s time the wine will arrive,savories, pies, and sweets—bring them all up at once. That box Andreyhas got is to be brought up at once, too. Open it, and hand champagneimmediately. And the girls, we must have the girls, Marya especially.”
He turned to the cart and pulled out the box of pistols.
“Here, Andrey, let’s settle. Here’s fifteen roubles for the drive, andfifty for vodka ... for your readiness, for your love.... RememberKaramazov!”
“I’m afraid, sir,” faltered Andrey. “Give me five roubles extra, butmore I won’t take. Trifon Borissovitch, bear witness. Forgive myfoolish words ...”
“What are you afraid of?” asked Mitya, scanning him. “Well, go to thedevil, if that’s it!” he cried, flinging him five roubles. “Now, TrifonBorissovitch, take me up quietly and let me first get a look at them,so that they don’t see me. Where are they? In the blue room?”
Trifon Borissovitch looked apprehensively at Mitya, but at onceobediently did his bidding. Leading him into the passage, he wenthimself into the first large room, adjoining that in which the visitorswere sitting, and took the light away. Then he stealthily led Mitya in,and put him in a corner in the dark, whence he could freely watch thecompany without being seen. But Mitya did not look long, and, indeed,he could not see them, he saw her, his heart throbbed violently, andall was dark before his eyes.
She was sitting sideways to the table in a low chair, and beside her,on the sofa, was the pretty youth, Kalganov. She was holding his handand seemed to be laughing, while he, seeming vexed and not looking ather, was saying something in a loud voice to Maximov, who sat the otherside of the table, facing Grushenka. Maximov was laughing violently atsomething. On the sofa sat _he_, and on a chair by the sofa there wasanother stranger. The one on the sofa was lolling backwards, smoking apipe, and Mitya had an impression of a stoutish, broad‐faced, shortlittle man, who was apparently angry about something. His friend, theother stranger, struck Mitya as extraordinarily tall, but he could makeout nothing more. He caught his breath. He could not bear it for aminute, he put the pistol‐ case on a chest, and with a throbbing hearthe walked, feeling cold all over, straight into the blue room to facethe company.
“Aie!” shrieked Grushenka, the first to notice him.



Chapter VII.The First And Rightful Lover

With his long, rapid strides, Mitya walked straight up to the table.
“Gentlemen,” he said in a loud voice, almost shouting, yet stammeringat every word, “I ... I’m all right! Don’t be afraid!” he exclaimed,“I—there’s nothing the matter,” he turned suddenly to Grushenka, whohad shrunk back in her chair towards Kalganov, and clasped his handtightly. “I ... I’m coming, too. I’m here till morning. Gentlemen, mayI stay with you till morning? Only till morning, for the last time, inthis same room?”
So he finished, turning to the fat little man, with the pipe, sittingon the sofa. The latter removed his pipe from his lips with dignity andobserved severely:
“_Panie_, we’re here in private. There are other rooms.”
“Why, it’s you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch! What do you mean?” answeredKalganov suddenly. “Sit down with us. How are you?”
“Delighted to see you, dear ... and precious fellow, I always thought alot of you.” Mitya responded, joyfully and eagerly, at once holding outhis hand across the table.
“Aie! How tight you squeeze! You’ve quite broken my fingers,” laughedKalganov.
“He always squeezes like that, always,” Grushenka put in gayly, with atimid smile, seeming suddenly convinced from Mitya’s face that he wasnot going to make a scene. She was watching him with intense curiosityand still some uneasiness. She was impressed by something about him,and indeed the last thing she expected of him was that he would come inand speak like this at such a moment.
“Good evening,” Maximov ventured blandly on the left. Mitya rushed upto him, too.
“Good evening. You’re here, too! How glad I am to find you here, too!Gentlemen, gentlemen, I—” (He addressed the Polish gentleman with thepipe again, evidently taking him for the most important personpresent.) “I flew here.... I wanted to spend my last day, my last hourin this room, in this very room ... where I, too, adored ... myqueen.... Forgive me, _panie_,” he cried wildly, “I flew here andvowed— Oh, don’t be afraid, it’s my last night! Let’s drink to our goodunderstanding. They’ll bring the wine at once.... I brought this withme.” (Something made him pull out his bundle of notes.) “Allow me,_panie_! I want to have music, singing, a revel, as we had before. Butthe worm, the unnecessary worm, will crawl away, and there’ll be nomore of him. I will commemorate my day of joy on my last night.”
He was almost choking. There was so much, so much he wanted to say, butstrange exclamations were all that came from his lips. The Pole gazedfixedly at him, at the bundle of notes in his hand; looked atGrushenka, and was in evident perplexity.
“If my suverin lady is permitting—” he was beginning.
“What does ‘suverin’ mean? ‘Sovereign,’ I suppose?” interruptedGrushenka. “I can’t help laughing at you, the way you talk. Sit down,Mitya, what are you talking about? Don’t frighten us, please. You won’tfrighten us, will you? If you won’t, I am glad to see you ...”
“Me, me frighten you?” cried Mitya, flinging up his hands. “Oh, pass meby, go your way, I won’t hinder you!...”
And suddenly he surprised them all, and no doubt himself as well, byflinging himself on a chair, and bursting into tears, turning his headaway to the opposite wall, while his arms clasped the back of the chairtight, as though embracing it.
“Come, come, what a fellow you are!” cried Grushenka reproachfully.“That’s just how he comes to see me—he begins talking, and I can’t makeout what he means. He cried like that once before, and now he’s cryingagain! It’s shameful! Why are you crying? _As though you had anythingto cry for!_” she added enigmatically, emphasizing each word with someirritability.
“I ... I’m not crying.... Well, good evening!” He instantly turnedround in his chair, and suddenly laughed, not his abrupt wooden laugh,but a long, quivering, inaudible nervous laugh.
“Well, there you are again.... Come, cheer up, cheer up!” Grushenkasaid to him persuasively. “I’m very glad you’ve come, very glad, Mitya,do you hear, I’m very glad! I want him to stay here with us,” she saidperemptorily, addressing the whole company, though her words wereobviously meant for the man sitting on the sofa. “I wish it, I wish it!And if he goes away I shall go, too!” she added with flashing eyes.
“What my queen commands is law!” pronounced the Pole, gallantly kissingGrushenka’s hand. “I beg you, _panie_, to join our company,” he addedpolitely, addressing Mitya.
Mitya was jumping up with the obvious intention of delivering anothertirade, but the words did not come.
“Let’s drink, _panie_,” he blurted out instead of making a speech.Every one laughed.
“Good heavens! I thought he was going to begin again!” Grushenkaexclaimed nervously. “Do you hear, Mitya,” she went on insistently,“don’t prance about, but it’s nice you’ve brought the champagne. I wantsome myself, and I can’t bear liqueurs. And best of all, you’ve comeyourself. We were fearfully dull here.... You’ve come for a spreeagain, I suppose? But put your money in your pocket. Where did you getsuch a lot?”
Mitya had been, all this time, holding in his hand the crumpled bundleof notes on which the eyes of all, especially of the Poles, were fixed.In confusion he thrust them hurriedly into his pocket. He flushed. Atthat moment the innkeeper brought in an uncorked bottle of champagne,and glasses on a tray. Mitya snatched up the bottle, but he was sobewildered that he did not know what to do with it. Kalganov took itfrom him and poured out the champagne.
“Another! Another bottle!” Mitya cried to the innkeeper, and,forgetting to clink glasses with the Pole whom he had so solemnlyinvited to drink to their good understanding, he drank off his glasswithout waiting for any one else. His whole countenance suddenlychanged. The solemn and tragic expression with which he had enteredvanished completely, and a look of something childlike came into hisface. He seemed to have become suddenly gentle and subdued. He lookedshyly and happily at every one, with a continual nervous little laugh,and the blissful expression of a dog who has done wrong, been punished,and forgiven. He seemed to have forgotten everything, and was lookinground at every one with a childlike smile of delight. He looked atGrushenka, laughing continually, and bringing his chair close up toher. By degrees he had gained some idea of the two Poles, though he hadformed no definite conception of them yet.
The Pole on the sofa struck him by his dignified demeanor and hisPolish accent; and, above all, by his pipe. “Well, what of it? It’s agood thing he’s smoking a pipe,” he reflected. The Pole’s puffy,middle‐aged face, with its tiny nose and two very thin, pointed, dyedand impudent‐looking mustaches, had not so far roused the faintestdoubts in Mitya. He was not even particularly struck by the Pole’sabsurd wig made in Siberia, with love‐locks foolishly combed forwardover the temples. “I suppose it’s all right since he wears a wig,” hewent on, musing blissfully. The other, younger Pole, who was staringinsolently and defiantly at the company and listening to theconversation with silent contempt, still only impressed Mitya by hisgreat height, which was in striking contrast to the Pole on the sofa.“If he stood up he’d be six foot three.” The thought flitted throughMitya’s mind. It occurred to him, too, that this Pole must be thefriend of the other, as it were, a “bodyguard,” and no doubt the bigPole was at the disposal of the little Pole with the pipe. But this allseemed to Mitya perfectly right and not to be questioned. In his moodof doglike submissiveness all feeling of rivalry had died away.
Grushenka’s mood and the enigmatic tone of some of her words hecompletely failed to grasp. All he understood, with thrilling heart,was that she was kind to him, that she had forgiven him, and made himsit by her. He was beside himself with delight, watching her sip herglass of champagne. The silence of the company seemed somehow to strikehim, however, and he looked round at every one with expectant eyes.
“Why are we sitting here though, gentlemen? Why don’t you begin doingsomething?” his smiling eyes seemed to ask.
“He keeps talking nonsense, and we were all laughing,” Kalganov begansuddenly, as though divining his thought, and pointing to Maximov.
Mitya immediately stared at Kalganov and then at Maximov.
“He’s talking nonsense?” he laughed, his short, wooden laugh, seemingsuddenly delighted at something—“ha ha!”
“Yes. Would you believe it, he will have it that all our cavalryofficers in the twenties married Polish women. That’s awful rot, isn’tit?”
“Polish women?” repeated Mitya, perfectly ecstatic.
Kalganov was well aware of Mitya’s attitude to Grushenka, and heguessed about the Pole, too, but that did not so much interest him,perhaps did not interest him at all; what he was interested in wasMaximov. He had come here with Maximov by chance, and he met the Poleshere at the inn for the first time in his life. Grushenka he knewbefore, and had once been with some one to see her; but she had nottaken to him. But here she looked at him very affectionately: beforeMitya’s arrival, she had been making much of him, but he seemed somehowto be unmoved by it. He was a boy, not over twenty, dressed like adandy, with a very charming fair‐ skinned face, and splendid thick,fair hair. From his fair face looked out beautiful pale blue eyes, withan intelligent and sometimes even deep expression, beyond his ageindeed, although the young man sometimes looked and talked quite like achild, and was not at all ashamed of it, even when he was aware of ithimself. As a rule he was very willful, even capricious, though alwaysfriendly. Sometimes there was something fixed and obstinate in hisexpression. He would look at you and listen, seeming all the while tobe persistently dreaming over something else. Often he was listless andlazy, at other times he would grow excited, sometimes, apparently, overthe most trivial matters.
“Only imagine, I’ve been taking him about with me for the last fourdays,” he went on, indolently drawling his words, quite naturallythough, without the slightest affectation. “Ever since your brother, doyou remember, shoved him off the carriage and sent him flying. Thatmade me take an interest in him at the time, and I took him into thecountry, but he keeps talking such rot I’m ashamed to be with him. I’mtaking him back.”
“The gentleman has not seen Polish ladies, and says what isimpossible,” the Pole with the pipe observed to Maximov.
He spoke Russian fairly well, much better, anyway, than he pretended.If he used Russian words, he always distorted them into a Polish form.
“But I was married to a Polish lady myself,” tittered Maximov.
“But did you serve in the cavalry? You were talking about the cavalry.Were you a cavalry officer?” put in Kalganov at once.
“Was he a cavalry officer indeed? Ha ha!” cried Mitya, listeningeagerly, and turning his inquiring eyes to each as he spoke, as thoughthere were no knowing what he might hear from each.
“No, you see,” Maximov turned to him. “What I mean is that those prettyPolish ladies ... when they danced the mazurka with our Uhlans ... whenone of them dances a mazurka with a Uhlan she jumps on his knee like akitten ... a little white one ... and the _pan_‐father and _pan_‐motherlook on and allow it.... They allow it ... and next day the Uhlan comesand offers her his hand.... That’s how it is ... offers her his hand,he he!” Maximov ended, tittering.
“The _pan_ is a _lajdak_!” the tall Pole on the chair growled suddenlyand crossed one leg over the other. Mitya’s eye was caught by his hugegreased boot, with its thick, dirty sole. The dress of both the Poleslooked rather greasy.
“Well, now it’s _lajdak_! What’s he scolding about?” said Grushenka,suddenly vexed.
“_Pani_ Agrippina, what the gentleman saw in Poland were servant girls,and not ladies of good birth,” the Pole with the pipe observed toGrushenka.
“You can reckon on that,” the tall Pole snapped contemptuously.
“What next! Let him talk! People talk, why hinder them? It makes itcheerful,” Grushenka said crossly.
“I’m not hindering them, _pani_,” said the Pole in the wig, with a longlook at Grushenka, and relapsing into dignified silence he sucked hispipe again.
“No, no. The Polish gentleman spoke the truth.” Kalganov got excitedagain, as though it were a question of vast import. “He’s never been inPoland, so how can he talk about it? I suppose you weren’t married inPoland, were you?”
“No, in the Province of Smolensk. Only, a Uhlan had brought her toRussia before that, my future wife, with her mamma and her aunt, andanother female relation with a grown‐up son. He brought her straightfrom Poland and gave her up to me. He was a lieutenant in our regiment,a very nice young man. At first he meant to marry her himself. But hedidn’t marry her, because she turned out to be lame.”
“So you married a lame woman?” cried Kalganov.
“Yes. They both deceived me a little bit at the time, and concealed it.I thought she was hopping; she kept hopping.... I thought it was forfun.”
“So pleased she was going to marry you!” yelled Kalganov, in a ringing,childish voice.
“Yes, so pleased. But it turned out to be quite a different cause.Afterwards, when we were married, after the wedding, that very evening,she confessed, and very touchingly asked forgiveness. ‘I once jumpedover a puddle when I was a child,’ she said, ‘and injured my leg.’ Hehe!”
Kalganov went off into the most childish laughter, almost falling onthe sofa. Grushenka, too, laughed. Mitya was at the pinnacle ofhappiness.
“Do you know, that’s the truth, he’s not lying now,” exclaimedKalganov, turning to Mitya; “and do you know, he’s been married twice;it’s his first wife he’s talking about. But his second wife, do youknow, ran away, and is alive now.”
“Is it possible?” said Mitya, turning quickly to Maximov with anexpression of the utmost astonishment.
“Yes. She did run away. I’ve had that unpleasant experience,” Maximovmodestly assented, “with a _monsieur_. And what was worse, she’d hadall my little property transferred to her beforehand. ‘You’re aneducated man,’ she said to me. ‘You can always get your living.’ Shesettled my business with that. A venerable bishop once said to me: ‘Oneof your wives was lame, but the other was too light‐footed.’ He he!”
“Listen, listen!” cried Kalganov, bubbling over, “if he’s tellinglies—and he often is—he’s only doing it to amuse us all. There’s noharm in that, is there? You know, I sometimes like him. He’s awfullylow, but it’s natural to him, eh? Don’t you think so? Some people arelow from self‐ interest, but he’s simply so, from nature. Only fancy,he claims (he was arguing about it all the way yesterday) that Gogolwrote _Dead Souls_ about him. Do you remember, there’s a landownercalled Maximov in it, whom Nozdryov thrashed. He was charged, do youremember, ‘for inflicting bodily injury with rods on the landownerMaximov in a drunken condition.’ Would you believe it, he claims thathe was that Maximov and that he was beaten! Now can it be so?Tchitchikov made his journey, at the very latest, at the beginning ofthe twenties, so that the dates don’t fit. He couldn’t have beenthrashed then, he couldn’t, could he?”
It was difficult to imagine what Kalganov was excited about, but hisexcitement was genuine. Mitya followed his lead without protest.
“Well, but if they did thrash him!” he cried, laughing.
“It’s not that they thrashed me exactly, but what I mean is—” put inMaximov.
“What do you mean? Either they thrashed you or they didn’t.”
“What o’clock is it, _panie_?” the Pole, with the pipe, asked his tallfriend, with a bored expression. The other shrugged his shoulders inreply. Neither of them had a watch.
“Why not talk? Let other people talk. Mustn’t other people talk becauseyou’re bored?” Grushenka flew at him with evident intention of findingfault. Something seemed for the first time to flash upon Mitya’s mind.This time the Pole answered with unmistakable irritability.
“_Pani_, I didn’t oppose it. I didn’t say anything.”
“All right then. Come, tell us your story,” Grushenka cried to Maximov.“Why are you all silent?”
“There’s nothing to tell, it’s all so foolish,” answered Maximov atonce, with evident satisfaction, mincing a little. “Besides, all that’sby way of allegory in Gogol, for he’s made all the names have ameaning. Nozdryov was really called Nosov, and Kuvshinikov had quite adifferent name, he was called Shkvornev. Fenardi really was calledFenardi, only he wasn’t an Italian but a Russian, and Mamsel Fenardiwas a pretty girl with her pretty little legs in tights, and she had alittle short skirt with spangles, and she kept turning round and round,only not for four hours but for four minutes only, and she bewitchedevery one...”
“But what were you beaten for?” cried Kalganov.
“For Piron!” answered Maximov.
“What Piron?” cried Mitya.
“The famous French writer, Piron. We were all drinking then, a bigparty of us, in a tavern at that very fair. They’d invited me, andfirst of all I began quoting epigrams. ‘Is that you, Boileau? What afunny get‐up!’ and Boileau answers that he’s going to a masquerade,that is to the baths, he he! And they took it to themselves, so I madehaste to repeat another, very sarcastic, well known to all educatedpeople:
Yes, Sappho and Phaon are we!But one grief is weighing on me.You don’t know your way to the sea!

They were still more offended and began abusing me in the most unseemlyway for it. And as ill‐luck would have it, to set things right, I begantelling a very cultivated anecdote about Piron, how he was not acceptedinto the French Academy, and to revenge himself wrote his own epitaph:
Ci‐gît Piron qui ne fut rien,Pas même académicien.

They seized me and thrashed me.”
“But what for? What for?”
“For my education. People can thrash a man for anything,” Maximovconcluded, briefly and sententiously.
“Eh, that’s enough! That’s all stupid, I don’t want to listen. Ithought it would be amusing,” Grushenka cut them short, suddenly.
Mitya started, and at once left off laughing. The tall Pole rose uponhis feet, and with the haughty air of a man, bored and out of hiselement, began pacing from corner to corner of the room, his handsbehind his back.
“Ah, he can’t sit still,” said Grushenka, looking at himcontemptuously. Mitya began to feel anxious. He noticed besides, thatthe Pole on the sofa was looking at him with an irritable expression.
“_Panie!_” cried Mitya, “let’s drink! and the other _pan_, too! Let usdrink.”
In a flash he had pulled three glasses towards him, and filled themwith champagne.
“To Poland, _panovie_, I drink to your Poland!” cried Mitya.
“I shall be delighted, _panie_,” said the Pole on the sofa, withdignity and affable condescension, and he took his glass.
“And the other _pan_, what’s his name? Drink, most illustrious, takeyour glass!” Mitya urged.
“Pan Vrublevsky,” put in the Pole on the sofa.
Pan Vrublevsky came up to the table, swaying as he walked.
“To Poland, _panovie!_” cried Mitya, raising his glass. “Hurrah!”
All three drank. Mitya seized the bottle and again poured out threeglasses.
“Now to Russia, _panovie_, and let us be brothers!”
“Pour out some for us,” said Grushenka; “I’ll drink to Russia, too!”
“So will I,” said Kalganov.
“And I would, too ... to Russia, the old grandmother!” titteredMaximov.
“All! All!” cried Mitya. “Trifon Borissovitch, some more bottles!”
The other three bottles Mitya had brought with him were put on thetable. Mitya filled the glasses.
“To Russia! Hurrah!” he shouted again. All drank the toast except thePoles, and Grushenka tossed off her whole glass at once. The Poles didnot touch theirs.
“How’s this, _panovie_?” cried Mitya, “won’t you drink it?”
Pan Vrublevsky took the glass, raised it and said with a resonantvoice:
“To Russia as she was before 1772.”
“Come, that’s better!” cried the other Pole, and they both emptiedtheir glasses at once.
“You’re fools, you _panovie_,” broke suddenly from Mitya.
“_Panie!_” shouted both the Poles, menacingly, setting on Mitya like acouple of cocks. Pan Vrublevsky was specially furious.
“Can one help loving one’s own country?” he shouted.
“Be silent! Don’t quarrel! I won’t have any quarreling!” criedGrushenka imperiously, and she stamped her foot on the floor. Her faceglowed, her eyes were shining. The effects of the glass she had justdrunk were apparent. Mitya was terribly alarmed.
“_Panovie_, forgive me! It was my fault, I’m sorry. Vrublevsky, _panie_Vrublevsky, I’m sorry.”
“Hold your tongue, you, anyway! Sit down, you stupid!” Grushenkascolded with angry annoyance.
Every one sat down, all were silent, looking at one another.
“Gentlemen, I was the cause of it all,” Mitya began again, unable tomake anything of Grushenka’s words. “Come, why are we sitting here?What shall we do ... to amuse ourselves again?”
“Ach, it’s certainly anything but amusing!” Kalganov mumbled lazily.
“Let’s play faro again, as we did just now,” Maximov tittered suddenly.
“Faro? Splendid!” cried Mitya. “If only the _panovie_—”
“It’s lite, _panovie_,” the Pole on the sofa responded, as it wereunwillingly.
“That’s true,” assented Pan Vrublevsky.
“Lite? What do you mean by ‘lite’?” asked Grushenka.
“Late, _pani_! ‘a late hour’ I mean,” the Pole on the sofa explained.
“It’s always late with them. They can never do anything!” Grushenkaalmost shrieked in her anger. “They’re dull themselves, so they wantothers to be dull. Before you came, Mitya, they were just as silent andkept turning up their noses at me.”
“My goddess!” cried the Pole on the sofa, “I see you’re notwell‐disposed to me, that’s why I’m gloomy. I’m ready, _panie_,” addedhe, addressing Mitya.
“Begin, _panie_,” Mitya assented, pulling his notes out of his pocket,and laying two hundred‐rouble notes on the table. “I want to lose a lotto you. Take your cards. Make the bank.”
“We’ll have cards from the landlord, _panie_,” said the little Pole,gravely and emphatically.
“That’s much the best way,” chimed in Pan Vrublevsky.
“From the landlord? Very good, I understand, let’s get them from him.Cards!” Mitya shouted to the landlord.
The landlord brought in a new, unopened pack, and informed Mitya thatthe girls were getting ready, and that the Jews with the cymbals wouldmost likely be here soon; but the cart with the provisions had not yetarrived. Mitya jumped up from the table and ran into the next room togive orders, but only three girls had arrived, and Marya was not thereyet. And he did not know himself what orders to give and why he had runout. He only told them to take out of the box the presents for thegirls, the sweets, the toffee and the fondants. “And vodka for Andrey,vodka for Andrey!” he cried in haste. “I was rude to Andrey!”
Suddenly Maximov, who had followed him out, touched him on theshoulder.
“Give me five roubles,” he whispered to Mitya. “I’ll stake something atfaro, too, he he!”
“Capital! Splendid! Take ten, here!”
Again he took all the notes out of his pocket and picked out one forten roubles. “And if you lose that, come again, come again.”
“Very good,” Maximov whispered joyfully, and he ran back again. Mitya,too, returned, apologizing for having kept them waiting. The Poles hadalready sat down, and opened the pack. They looked much more amiable,almost cordial. The Pole on the sofa had lighted another pipe and waspreparing to throw. He wore an air of solemnity.
“To your places, gentlemen,” cried Pan Vrublevsky.
“No, I’m not going to play any more,” observed Kalganov, “I’ve lostfifty roubles to them just now.”
“The _pan_ had no luck, perhaps he’ll be lucky this time,” the Pole onthe sofa observed in his direction.
“How much in the bank? To correspond?” asked Mitya.
“That’s according, _panie_, maybe a hundred, maybe two hundred, as muchas you will stake.”
“A million!” laughed Mitya.
“The Pan Captain has heard of Pan Podvysotsky, perhaps?”
“What Podvysotsky?”
“In Warsaw there was a bank and any one comes and stakes against it.Podvysotsky comes, sees a thousand gold pieces, stakes against thebank. The banker says, ‘_Panie_ Podvysotsky, are you laying down thegold, or must we trust to your honor?’ ‘To my honor, _panie_,’ saysPodvysotsky. ‘So much the better.’ The banker throws the dice.Podvysotsky wins. ‘Take it, _panie_,’ says the banker, and pulling outthe drawer he gives him a million. ‘Take it, _panie_, this is yourgain.’ There was a million in the bank. ‘I didn’t know that,’ saysPodvysotsky. ‘_Panie_ Podvysotsky,’ said the banker, ‘you pledged yourhonor and we pledged ours.’ Podvysotsky took the million.”
“That’s not true,” said Kalganov.
“_Panie_ Kalganov, in gentlemanly society one doesn’t say such things.”
“As if a Polish gambler would give away a million!” cried Mitya, butchecked himself at once. “Forgive me, _panie_, it’s my fault again, hewould, he would give away a million, for honor, for Polish honor. Yousee how I talk Polish, ha ha! Here, I stake ten roubles, the knaveleads.”
“And I put a rouble on the queen, the queen of hearts, the prettylittle _panienotchka_, he he!” laughed Maximov, pulling out his queen,and, as though trying to conceal it from every one, he moved right upand crossed himself hurriedly under the table. Mitya won. The roublewon, too.
“A corner!” cried Mitya.
“I’ll bet another rouble, a ‘single’ stake,” Maximov mutteredgleefully, hugely delighted at having won a rouble.
“Lost!” shouted Mitya. “A ‘double’ on the seven!”
The seven too was trumped.
“Stop!” cried Kalganov suddenly.
“Double! Double!” Mitya doubled his stakes, and each time he doubledthe stake, the card he doubled was trumped by the Poles. The roublestakes kept winning.
“On the double!” shouted Mitya furiously.
“You’ve lost two hundred, _panie_. Will you stake another hundred?” thePole on the sofa inquired.
“What? Lost two hundred already? Then another two hundred! Alldoubles!”
And pulling his money out of his pocket, Mitya was about to fling twohundred roubles on the queen, but Kalganov covered it with his hand.
“That’s enough!” he shouted in his ringing voice.
“What’s the matter?” Mitya stared at him.
“That’s enough! I don’t want you to play any more. Don’t!”
“Why?”
“Because I don’t. Hang it, come away. That’s why. I won’t let you go onplaying.”
Mitya gazed at him in astonishment.
“Give it up, Mitya. He may be right. You’ve lost a lot as it is,” saidGrushenka, with a curious note in her voice. Both the Poles rose fromtheir seats with a deeply offended air.
“Are you joking, _panie_?” said the short man, looking severely atKalganov.
“How dare you!” Pan Vrublevsky, too, growled at Kalganov.
“Don’t dare to shout like that,” cried Grushenka. “Ah, youturkey‐cocks!”
Mitya looked at each of them in turn. But something in Grushenka’s facesuddenly struck him, and at the same instant something new flashed intohis mind—a strange new thought!
“_Pani_ Agrippina,” the little Pole was beginning, crimson with anger,when Mitya suddenly went up to him and slapped him on the shoulder.
“Most illustrious, two words with you.”
“What do you want?”
“In the next room, I’ve two words to say to you, something pleasant,very pleasant. You’ll be glad to hear it.”
The little _pan_ was taken aback and looked apprehensively at Mitya. Heagreed at once, however, on condition that Pan Vrublevsky went withthem.
“The bodyguard? Let him come, and I want him, too. I must have him!”cried Mitya. “March, _panovie_!”
“Where are you going?” asked Grushenka, anxiously.
“We’ll be back in one moment,” answered Mitya.
There was a sort of boldness, a sudden confidence shining in his eyes.His face had looked very different when he entered the room an hourbefore.
He led the Poles, not into the large room where the chorus of girls wasassembling and the table was being laid, but into the bedroom on theright, where the trunks and packages were kept, and there were twolarge beds, with pyramids of cotton pillows on each. There was alighted candle on a small deal table in the corner. The small man andMitya sat down to this table, facing each other, while the hugeVrublevsky stood beside them, his hands behind his back. The Poleslooked severe but were evidently inquisitive.
“What can I do for you, _panie_?” lisped the little Pole.
“Well, look here, _panie_, I won’t keep you long. There’s money foryou,” he pulled out his notes. “Would you like three thousand? Take itand go your way.”
The Pole gazed open‐eyed at Mitya, with a searching look.
“Three thousand, _panie_?” He exchanged glances with Vrublevsky.
“Three, _panovie_, three! Listen, _panie_, I see you’re a sensible man.Take three thousand and go to the devil, and Vrublevsky with you—d’youhear? But, at once, this very minute, and for ever. You understandthat, _panie_, for ever. Here’s the door, you go out of it. What haveyou got there, a great‐coat, a fur coat? I’ll bring it out to you.They’ll get the horses out directly, and then—good‐by, _panie_!”
Mitya awaited an answer with assurance. He had no doubts. An expressionof extraordinary resolution passed over the Pole’s face.
“And the money, _panie_?”
“The money, _panie_? Five hundred roubles I’ll give you this moment forthe journey, and as a first installment, and two thousand five hundredto‐ morrow, in the town—I swear on my honor, I’ll get it, I’ll get itat any cost!” cried Mitya.
The Poles exchanged glances again. The short man’s face looked moreforbidding.
“Seven hundred, seven hundred, not five hundred, at once, this minute,cash down!” Mitya added, feeling something wrong. “What’s the matter,_panie_? Don’t you trust me? I can’t give you the whole three thousandstraight off. If I give it, you may come back to her to‐morrow....Besides, I haven’t the three thousand with me. I’ve got it at home inthe town,” faltered Mitya, his spirit sinking at every word he uttered.“Upon my word, the money’s there, hidden.”
In an instant an extraordinary sense of personal dignity showed itselfin the little man’s face.
“What next?” he asked ironically. “For shame!” and he spat on thefloor. Pan Vrublevsky spat too.
“You do that, _panie_,” said Mitya, recognizing with despair that allwas over, “because you hope to make more out of Grushenka? You’re acouple of capons, that’s what you are!”
“This is a mortal insult!” The little Pole turned as red as a crab, andhe went out of the room, briskly, as though unwilling to hear anotherword. Vrublevsky swung out after him, and Mitya followed, confused andcrestfallen. He was afraid of Grushenka, afraid that the _pan_ would atonce raise an outcry. And so indeed he did. The Pole walked into theroom and threw himself in a theatrical attitude before Grushenka.
“_Pani_ Agrippina, I have received a mortal insult!” he exclaimed. ButGrushenka suddenly lost all patience, as though they had wounded her inthe tenderest spot.
“Speak Russian! Speak Russian!” she cried, “not another word of Polish!You used to talk Russian. You can’t have forgotten it in five years.”
She was red with passion.
“_Pani_ Agrippina—”
“My name’s Agrafena, Grushenka, speak Russian or I won’t listen!”
The Pole gasped with offended dignity, and quickly and pompouslydelivered himself in broken Russian:
“_Pani_ Agrafena, I came here to forget the past and forgive it, toforget all that has happened till to‐day—”
“Forgive? Came here to forgive me?” Grushenka cut him short, jumping upfrom her seat.
“Just so, _pani_, I’m not pusillanimous, I’m magnanimous. But I wasastounded when I saw your lovers. Pan Mitya offered me three thousand,in the other room to depart. I spat in the _pan’s_ face.”
“What? He offered you money for me?” cried Grushenka, hysterically. “Isit true, Mitya? How dare you? Am I for sale?”
“_Panie, panie!_” yelled Mitya, “she’s pure and shining, and I havenever been her lover! That’s a lie....”
“How dare you defend me to him?” shrieked Grushenka. “It wasn’t virtuekept me pure, and it wasn’t that I was afraid of Kuzma, but that Imight hold up my head when I met him, and tell him he’s a scoundrel.And he did actually refuse the money?”
“He took it! He took it!” cried Mitya; “only he wanted to get the wholethree thousand at once, and I could only give him seven hundredstraight off.”
“I see: he heard I had money, and came here to marry me!”
“_Pani_ Agrippina!” cried the little Pole. “I’m—a knight, I’m—anobleman, and not a _lajdak_. I came here to make you my wife and Ifind you a different woman, perverse and shameless.”
“Oh, go back where you came from! I’ll tell them to turn you out andyou’ll be turned out,” cried Grushenka, furious. “I’ve been a fool, afool, to have been miserable these five years! And it wasn’t for hissake, it was my anger made me miserable. And this isn’t he at all! Washe like this? It might be his father! Where did you get your wig from?He was a falcon, but this is a gander. He used to laugh and sing tome.... And I’ve been crying for five years, damned fool, abject,shameless I was!”
She sank back in her low chair and hid her face in her hands. At thatinstant the chorus of Mokroe began singing in the room on the left—arollicking dance song.
“A regular Sodom!” Vrublevsky roared suddenly. “Landlord, send theshameless hussies away!”
The landlord, who had been for some time past inquisitively peeping inat the door, hearing shouts and guessing that his guests werequarreling, at once entered the room.
“What are you shouting for? D’you want to split your throat?” he said,addressing Vrublevsky, with surprising rudeness.
“Animal!” bellowed Pan Vrublevsky.
“Animal? And what sort of cards were you playing with just now? I gaveyou a pack and you hid it. You played with marked cards! I could sendyou to Siberia for playing with false cards, d’you know that, for it’sjust the same as false banknotes....”
And going up to the sofa he thrust his fingers between the sofa backand the cushion, and pulled out an unopened pack of cards.
“Here’s my pack unopened!”
He held it up and showed it to all in the room. “From where I stood Isaw him slip my pack away, and put his in place of it—you’re a cheatand not a gentleman!”
“And I twice saw the _pan_ change a card!” cried Kalganov.
“How shameful! How shameful!” exclaimed Grushenka, clasping her hands,and blushing for genuine shame. “Good Lord, he’s come to that!”
“I thought so, too!” said Mitya. But before he had uttered the words,Vrublevsky, with a confused and infuriated face, shook his fist atGrushenka, shouting:
“You low harlot!”
Mitya flew at him at once, clutched him in both hands, lifted him inthe air, and in one instant had carried him into the room on the right,from which they had just come.
“I’ve laid him on the floor, there,” he announced, returning at once,gasping with excitement. “He’s struggling, the scoundrel! But he won’tcome back, no fear of that!...”
He closed one half of the folding doors, and holding the other ajarcalled out to the little Pole:
“Most illustrious, will you be pleased to retire as well?”
“My dear Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” said Trifon Borissovitch, “make themgive you back the money you lost. It’s as good as stolen from you.”
“I don’t want my fifty roubles back,” Kalganov declared suddenly.
“I don’t want my two hundred, either,” cried Mitya, “I wouldn’t take itfor anything! Let him keep it as a consolation.”
“Bravo, Mitya! You’re a trump, Mitya!” cried Grushenka, and there was anote of fierce anger in the exclamation.
The little _pan_, crimson with fury but still mindful of his dignity,was making for the door, but he stopped short and said suddenly,addressing Grushenka:
“_Pani_, if you want to come with me, come. If not, good‐by.”
And swelling with indignation and importance he went to the door. Thiswas a man of character: he had so good an opinion of himself that afterall that had passed, he still expected that she would marry him. Mityaslammed the door after him.
“Lock it,” said Kalganov. But the key clicked on the other side, theyhad locked it from within.
“That’s capital!” exclaimed Grushenka relentlessly. “Serve them right!”



Chapter VIII.Delirium

What followed was almost an orgy, a feast to which all were welcome.Grushenka was the first to call for wine.
“I want to drink. I want to be quite drunk, as we were before. Do youremember, Mitya, do you remember how we made friends here last time!”
Mitya himself was almost delirious, feeling that his happiness was athand. But Grushenka was continually sending him away from her.
“Go and enjoy yourself. Tell them to dance, to make merry, ‘let thestove and cottage dance’; as we had it last time,” she kept exclaiming.She was tremendously excited. And Mitya hastened to obey her. Thechorus were in the next room. The room in which they had been sittingtill that moment was too small, and was divided in two by cottoncurtains, behind which was a huge bed with a puffy feather mattress anda pyramid of cotton pillows. In the four rooms for visitors there werebeds. Grushenka settled herself just at the door. Mitya set an easychair for her. She had sat in the same place to watch the dancing andsinging “the time before,” when they had made merry there. All thegirls who had come had been there then; the Jewish band with fiddlesand zithers had come, too, and at last the long expected cart hadarrived with the wines and provisions.
Mitya bustled about. All sorts of people began coming into the room tolook on, peasants and their women, who had been roused from sleep andattracted by the hopes of another marvelous entertainment such as theyhad enjoyed a month before. Mitya remembered their faces, greeting andembracing every one he knew. He uncorked bottles and poured out winefor every one who presented himself. Only the girls were very eager forthe champagne. The men preferred rum, brandy, and, above all, hotpunch. Mitya had chocolate made for all the girls, and ordered thatthree samovars should be kept boiling all night to provide tea andpunch for everyone to help himself.
An absurd chaotic confusion followed, but Mitya was in his naturalelement, and the more foolish it became, the more his spirits rose. Ifthe peasants had asked him for money at that moment, he would havepulled out his notes and given them away right and left. This wasprobably why the landlord, Trifon Borissovitch, kept hovering aboutMitya to protect him. He seemed to have given up all idea of going tobed that night; but he drank little, only one glass of punch, and kepta sharp look‐out on Mitya’s interests after his own fashion. Heintervened in the nick of time, civilly and obsequiously persuadingMitya not to give away “cigars and Rhine wine,” and, above all, moneyto the peasants as he had done before. He was very indignant, too, atthe peasant girls drinking liqueur, and eating sweets.
“They’re a lousy lot, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” he said. “I’d give them akick, every one of them, and they’d take it as an honor—that’s allthey’re worth!”
Mitya remembered Andrey again, and ordered punch to be sent out to him.“I was rude to him just now,” he repeated with a sinking, softenedvoice. Kalganov did not want to drink, and at first did not care forthe girls’ singing; but after he had drunk a couple of glasses ofchampagne he became extraordinarily lively, strolling about the room,laughing and praising the music and the songs, admiring every one andeverything. Maximov, blissfully drunk, never left his side. Grushenka,too, was beginning to get drunk. Pointing to Kalganov, she said toMitya:
“What a dear, charming boy he is!”
And Mitya, delighted, ran to kiss Kalganov and Maximov. Oh, great werehis hopes! She had said nothing yet, and seemed, indeed, purposely torefrain from speaking. But she looked at him from time to time withcaressing and passionate eyes. At last she suddenly gripped his handand drew him vigorously to her. She was sitting at the moment in thelow chair by the door.
“How was it you came just now, eh? Have you walked in!... I wasfrightened. So you wanted to give me up to him, did you? Did you reallywant to?”
“I didn’t want to spoil your happiness!” Mitya faltered blissfully. Butshe did not need his answer.
“Well, go and enjoy yourself ...” she sent him away once more. “Don’tcry, I’ll call you back again.”
He would run away, and she listened to the singing and looked at thedancing, though her eyes followed him wherever he went. But in anotherquarter of an hour she would call him once more and again he would runback to her.
“Come, sit beside me, tell me, how did you hear about me, and my cominghere yesterday? From whom did you first hear it?”
And Mitya began telling her all about it, disconnectedly, incoherently,feverishly. He spoke strangely, often frowning, and stopping abruptly.
“What are you frowning at?” she asked.
“Nothing.... I left a man ill there. I’d give ten years of my life forhim to get well, to know he was all right!”
“Well, never mind him, if he’s ill. So you meant to shoot yourself to‐morrow! What a silly boy! What for? I like such reckless fellows asyou,” she lisped, with a rather halting tongue. “So you would go anylength for me, eh? Did you really mean to shoot yourself to‐morrow, youstupid? No, wait a little. To‐morrow I may have something to say toyou.... I won’t say it to‐day, but to‐morrow. You’d like it to beto‐day? No, I don’t want to to‐day. Come, go along now, go and amuseyourself.”
Once, however, she called him, as it were, puzzled and uneasy.
“Why are you sad? I see you’re sad.... Yes, I see it,” she added,looking intently into his eyes. “Though you keep kissing the peasantsand shouting, I see something. No, be merry. I’m merry; you be merry,too.... I love somebody here. Guess who it is. Ah, look, my boy hasfallen asleep, poor dear, he’s drunk.”
She meant Kalganov. He was, in fact, drunk, and had dropped asleep fora moment, sitting on the sofa. But he was not merely drowsy from drink;he felt suddenly dejected, or, as he said, “bored.” He was intenselydepressed by the girls’ songs, which, as the drinking went on,gradually became coarse and more reckless. And the dances were as bad.Two girls dressed up as bears, and a lively girl, called Stepanida,with a stick in her hand, acted the part of keeper, and began to “showthem.”
“Look alive, Marya, or you’ll get the stick!”
The bears rolled on the ground at last in the most unseemly fashion,amid roars of laughter from the closely‐packed crowd of men and women.
“Well, let them! Let them!” said Grushenka sententiously, with anecstatic expression on her face. “When they do get a day to enjoythemselves, why shouldn’t folks be happy?”
Kalganov looked as though he had been besmirched with dirt.
“It’s swinish, all this peasant foolery,” he murmured, moving away;“it’s the game they play when it’s light all night in summer.”
He particularly disliked one “new” song to a jaunty dance‐tune. Itdescribed how a gentleman came and tried his luck with the girls, tosee whether they would love him:
The master came to try the girls:Would they love him, would they not?

But the girls could not love the master:
He would beat me cruellyAnd such love won’t do for me.

Then a gypsy comes along and he, too, tries:
The gypsy came to try the girls:Would they love him, would they not?

But they couldn’t love the gypsy either:
He would be a thief, I fear,And would cause me many a tear.

And many more men come to try their luck, among them a soldier:
The soldier came to try the girls:Would they love him, would they not?

But the soldier is rejected with contempt, in two indecent lines, sungwith absolute frankness and producing a furore in the audience. Thesong ends with a merchant:
The merchant came to try the girls:Would they love him, would they not?

And it appears that he wins their love because:
The merchant will make gold for meAnd his queen I’ll gladly be.

Kalvanov was positively indignant.
“That’s just a song of yesterday,” he said aloud. “Who writes suchthings for them? They might just as well have had a railwayman or a Jewcome to try his luck with the girls; they’d have carried all beforethem.”
And, almost as though it were a personal affront, he declared, on thespot, that he was bored, sat down on the sofa and immediately fellasleep. His pretty little face looked rather pale, as it fell back onthe sofa cushion.
“Look how pretty he is,” said Grushenka, taking Mitya up to him. “I wascombing his hair just now; his hair’s like flax, and so thick....”
And, bending over him tenderly, she kissed his forehead. Kalganovinstantly opened his eyes, looked at her, stood up, and with the mostanxious air inquired where was Maximov?
“So that’s who it is you want.” Grushenka laughed. “Stay with me aminute. Mitya, run and find his Maximov.”
Maximov, it appeared, could not tear himself away from the girls, onlyrunning away from time to time to pour himself out a glass of liqueur.He had drunk two cups of chocolate. His face was red, and his nose wascrimson; his eyes were moist and mawkishly sweet. He ran up andannounced that he was going to dance the “sabotière.”
“They taught me all those well‐bred, aristocratic dances when I waslittle....”
“Go, go with him, Mitya, and I’ll watch from here how he dances,” saidGrushenka.
“No, no, I’m coming to look on, too,” exclaimed Kalganov, brushingaside in the most naïve way Grushenka’s offer to sit with him. They allwent to look on. Maximov danced his dance. But it roused no greatadmiration in any one but Mitya. It consisted of nothing but skippingand hopping, kicking up the feet, and at every skip Maximov slapped theupturned sole of his foot. Kalganov did not like it at all, but Mityakissed the dancer.
“Thanks. You’re tired perhaps? What are you looking for here? Would youlike some sweets? A cigar, perhaps?”
“A cigarette.”
“Don’t you want a drink?”
“I’ll just have a liqueur.... Have you any chocolates?”
“Yes, there’s a heap of them on the table there. Choose one, my dearsoul!”
“I like one with vanilla ... for old people. He he!”
“No, brother, we’ve none of that special sort.”
“I say,” the old man bent down to whisper in Mitya’s ear. “That girlthere, little Marya, he he! How would it be if you were to help me makefriends with her?”
“So that’s what you’re after! No, brother, that won’t do!”
“I’d do no harm to any one,” Maximov muttered disconsolately.
“Oh, all right, all right. They only come here to dance and sing, youknow, brother. But damn it all, wait a bit!... Eat and drink and bemerry, meanwhile. Don’t you want money?”
“Later on, perhaps,” smiled Maximov.
“All right, all right....”
Mitya’s head was burning. He went outside to the wooden balcony whichran round the whole building on the inner side, overlooking thecourtyard. The fresh air revived him. He stood alone in a dark corner,and suddenly clutched his head in both hands. His scattered thoughtscame together; his sensations blended into a whole and threw a suddenlight into his mind. A fearful and terrible light! “If I’m to shootmyself, why not now?” passed through his mind. “Why not go for thepistols, bring them here, and here, in this dark dirty corner, make anend?” Almost a minute he stood, undecided. A few hours earlier, when hehad been dashing here, he was pursued by disgrace, by the theft he hadcommitted, and that blood, that blood!... But yet it was easier for himthen. Then everything was over: he had lost her, given her up. She wasgone, for him—oh, then his death sentence had been easier for him; atleast it had seemed necessary, inevitable, for what had he to stay onearth for?
But now? Was it the same as then? Now one phantom, one terror at leastwas at an end: that first, rightful lover, that fateful figure hadvanished, leaving no trace. The terrible phantom had turned intosomething so small, so comic; it had been carried into the bedroom andlocked in. It would never return. She was ashamed, and from her eyes hecould see now whom she loved. Now he had everything to make life happy... but he could not go on living, he could not; oh, damnation! “O God!restore to life the man I knocked down at the fence! Let this fearfulcup pass from me! Lord, thou hast wrought miracles for such sinners asme! But what, what if the old man’s alive? Oh, then the shame of theother disgrace I would wipe away. I would restore the stolen money. I’dgive it back; I’d get it somehow.... No trace of that shame will remainexcept in my heart for ever! But no, no; oh, impossible cowardlydreams! Oh, damnation!”
Yet there was a ray of light and hope in his darkness. He jumped up andran back to the room—to her, to her, his queen for ever! Was not onemoment of her love worth all the rest of life, even in the agonies ofdisgrace? This wild question clutched at his heart. “To her, to heralone, to see her, to hear her, to think of nothing, to forgeteverything, if only for that night, for an hour, for a moment!” Just ashe turned from the balcony into the passage, he came upon the landlord,Trifon Borissovitch. He thought he looked gloomy and worried, andfancied he had come to find him.
“What is it, Trifon Borissovitch? are you looking for me?”
“No, sir.” The landlord seemed disconcerted. “Why should I be lookingfor you? Where have you been?”
“Why do you look so glum? You’re not angry, are you? Wait a bit, youshall soon get to bed.... What’s the time?”
“It’ll be three o’clock. Past three, it must be.”
“We’ll leave off soon. We’ll leave off.”
“Don’t mention it; it doesn’t matter. Keep it up as long as youlike....”
“What’s the matter with him?” Mitya wondered for an instant, and he ranback to the room where the girls were dancing. But she was not there.She was not in the blue room either; there was no one but Kalganovasleep on the sofa. Mitya peeped behind the curtain—she was there. Shewas sitting in the corner, on a trunk. Bent forward, with her head andarms on the bed close by, she was crying bitterly, doing her utmost tostifle her sobs that she might not be heard. Seeing Mitya, she beckonedhim to her, and when he ran to her, she grasped his hand tightly.
“Mitya, Mitya, I loved him, you know. How I have loved him these fiveyears, all that time! Did I love him or only my own anger? No, him,him! It’s a lie that it was my anger I loved and not him. Mitya, I wasonly seventeen then; he was so kind to me, so merry; he used to sing tome.... Or so it seemed to a silly girl like me.... And now, O Lord,it’s not the same man. Even his face is not the same; he’s differentaltogether. I shouldn’t have known him. I drove here with Timofey, andall the way I was thinking how I should meet him, what I should say tohim, how we should look at one another. My soul was faint, and all of asudden it was just as though he had emptied a pail of dirty water overme. He talked to me like a schoolmaster, all so grave and learned; hemet me so solemnly that I was struck dumb. I couldn’t get a word in. Atfirst I thought he was ashamed to talk before his great big Pole. I satstaring at him and wondering why I couldn’t say a word to him now. Itmust have been his wife that ruined him; you know he threw me up to getmarried. She must have changed him like that. Mitya, how shameful itis! Oh, Mitya, I’m ashamed, I’m ashamed for all my life. Curse it,curse it, curse those five years!”
And again she burst into tears, but clung tight to Mitya’s hand and didnot let it go.
“Mitya, darling, stay, don’t go away. I want to say one word to you,”she whispered, and suddenly raised her face to him. “Listen, tell mewho it is I love? I love one man here. Who is that man? That’s what youmust tell me.”
A smile lighted up her face that was swollen with weeping, and her eyesshone in the half darkness.
“A falcon flew in, and my heart sank. ‘Fool! that’s the man you love!’That was what my heart whispered to me at once. You came in and allgrew bright. What’s he afraid of? I wondered. For you were frightened;you couldn’t speak. It’s not them he’s afraid of—could you befrightened of any one? It’s me he’s afraid of, I thought, only me. SoFenya told you, you little stupid, how I called to Alyosha out of thewindow that I’d loved Mityenka for one hour, and that I was going nowto love ... another. Mitya, Mitya, how could I be such a fool as tothink I could love any one after you? Do you forgive me, Mitya? Do youforgive me or not? Do you love me? Do you love me?” She jumped up andheld him with both hands on his shoulders. Mitya, dumb with rapture,gazed into her eyes, at her face, at her smile, and suddenly claspedher tightly in his arms and kissed her passionately.
“You will forgive me for having tormented you? It was through spite Itormented you all. It was for spite I drove the old man out of hismind.... Do you remember how you drank at my house one day and brokethe wine‐glass? I remembered that and I broke a glass to‐day and drank‘to my vile heart.’ Mitya, my falcon, why don’t you kiss me? He kissedme once, and now he draws back and looks and listens. Why listen to me?Kiss me, kiss me hard, that’s right. If you love, well, then, love!I’ll be your slave now, your slave for the rest of my life. It’s sweetto be a slave. Kiss me! Beat me, ill‐treat me, do what you will withme.... And I do deserve to suffer. Stay, wait, afterwards, I won’t havethat....” she suddenly thrust him away. “Go along, Mitya, I’ll come andhave some wine, I want to be drunk, I’m going to get drunk and dance; Imust, I must!” She tore herself away from him and disappeared behindthe curtain. Mitya followed like a drunken man.
“Yes, come what may—whatever may happen now, for one minute I’d givethe whole world,” he thought. Grushenka did, in fact, toss off a wholeglass of champagne at one gulp, and became at once very tipsy. She satdown in the same chair as before, with a blissful smile on her face.Her cheeks were glowing, her lips were burning, her flashing eyes weremoist; there was passionate appeal in her eyes. Even Kalganov felt astir at the heart and went up to her.
“Did you feel how I kissed you when you were asleep just now?” she saidthickly. “I’m drunk now, that’s what it is.... And aren’t you drunk?And why isn’t Mitya drinking? Why don’t you drink, Mitya? I’m drunk,and you don’t drink....”
“I am drunk! I’m drunk as it is ... drunk with you ... and now I’ll bedrunk with wine, too.”
He drank off another glass, and—he thought it strange himself—thatglass made him completely drunk. He was suddenly drunk, although tillthat moment he had been quite sober, he remembered that. From thatmoment everything whirled about him, as though he were delirious. Hewalked, laughed, talked to everybody, without knowing what he wasdoing. Only one persistent burning sensation made itself feltcontinually, “like a red‐hot coal in his heart,” he said afterwards. Hewent up to her, sat beside her, gazed at her, listened to her.... Shebecame very talkative, kept calling every one to her, and beckoned todifferent girls out of the chorus. When the girl came up, she eitherkissed her, or made the sign of the cross over her. In another minuteshe might have cried. She was greatly amused by the “little old man,”as she called Maximov. He ran up every minute to kiss her hands, “eachlittle finger,” and finally he danced another dance to an old song,which he sang himself. He danced with special vigor to the refrain:
The little pig says—umph! umph! umph!The little calf says—moo, moo, moo,The little duck says—quack, quack, quack,The little goose says—ga, ga, ga.The hen goes strutting through the porch;Troo‐roo‐roo‐roo‐roo, she’ll say,Troo‐roo‐roo‐roo‐roo, she’ll say!

“Give him something, Mitya,” said Grushenka. “Give him a present, he’spoor, you know. Ah, the poor, the insulted!... Do you know, Mitya, Ishall go into a nunnery. No, I really shall one day, Alyosha saidsomething to me to‐day that I shall remember all my life.... Yes....But to‐day let us dance. To‐morrow to the nunnery, but to‐day we’lldance. I want to play to‐day, good people, and what of it? God willforgive us. If I were God, I’d forgive every one: ‘My dear sinners,from this day forth I forgive you.’ I’m going to beg forgiveness:‘Forgive me, good people, a silly wench.’ I’m a beast, that’s what Iam. But I want to pray. I gave a little onion. Wicked as I’ve been, Iwant to pray. Mitya, let them dance, don’t stop them. Every one in theworld is good. Every one—even the worst of them. The world’s a niceplace. Though we’re bad the world’s all right. We’re good and bad, goodand bad.... Come, tell me, I’ve something to ask you: come here everyone, and I’ll ask you: Why am I so good? You know I am good. I’m verygood.... Come, why am I so good?”
So Grushenka babbled on, getting more and more drunk. At last sheannounced that she was going to dance, too. She got up from her chair,staggering. “Mitya, don’t give me any more wine—if I ask you, don’tgive it to me. Wine doesn’t give peace. Everything’s going round, thestove, and everything. I want to dance. Let every one see how I dance... let them see how beautifully I dance....”
She really meant it. She pulled a white cambric handkerchief out of herpocket, and took it by one corner in her right hand, to wave it in thedance. Mitya ran to and fro, the girls were quiet, and got ready tobreak into a dancing song at the first signal. Maximov, hearing thatGrushenka wanted to dance, squealed with delight, and ran skippingabout in front of her, humming:
With legs so slim and sides so trimAnd its little tail curled tight.

But Grushenka waved her handkerchief at him and drove him away.
“Sh‐h! Mitya, why don’t they come? Let every one come ... to look on.Call them in, too, that were locked in.... Why did you lock them in?Tell them I’m going to dance. Let them look on, too....”
Mitya walked with a drunken swagger to the locked door, and beganknocking to the Poles with his fist.
“Hi, you ... Podvysotskys! Come, she’s going to dance. She calls you.”
“_Lajdak!_” one of the Poles shouted in reply.
“You’re a _lajdak_ yourself! You’re a little scoundrel, that’s what youare.”
“Leave off laughing at Poland,” said Kalganov sententiously. He too wasdrunk.
“Be quiet, boy! If I call him a scoundrel, it doesn’t mean that Icalled all Poland so. One _lajdak_ doesn’t make a Poland. Be quiet, mypretty boy, eat a sweetmeat.”
“Ach, what fellows! As though they were not men. Why won’t they makefriends?” said Grushenka, and went forward to dance. The chorus brokeinto “Ah, my porch, my new porch!” Grushenka flung back her head, halfopened her lips, smiled, waved her handkerchief, and suddenly, with aviolent lurch, stood still in the middle of the room, lookingbewildered.
“I’m weak....” she said in an exhausted voice. “Forgive me.... I’mweak, I can’t.... I’m sorry.”
She bowed to the chorus, and then began bowing in all directions.
“I’m sorry.... Forgive me....”
“The lady’s been drinking. The pretty lady has been drinking,” voiceswere heard saying.
“The lady’s drunk too much,” Maximov explained to the girls, giggling.
“Mitya, lead me away ... take me,” said Grushenka helplessly. Mityapounced on her, snatched her up in his arms, and carried the preciousburden through the curtains.
“Well, now I’ll go,” thought Kalganov, and walking out of the blueroom, he closed the two halves of the door after him. But the orgy inthe larger room went on and grew louder and louder. Mitya laidGrushenka on the bed and kissed her on the lips.
“Don’t touch me....” she faltered, in an imploring voice. “Don’t touchme, till I’m yours.... I’ve told you I’m yours, but don’t touch me ...spare me.... With them here, with them close, you mustn’t. He’s here.It’s nasty here....”
“I’ll obey you! I won’t think of it ... I worship you!” muttered Mitya.“Yes, it’s nasty here, it’s abominable.”
And still holding her in his arms, he sank on his knees by the bedside.
“I know, though you’re a brute, you’re generous,” Grushenka articulatedwith difficulty. “It must be honorable ... it shall be honorable forthe future ... and let us be honest, let us be good, not brutes, butgood ... take me away, take me far away, do you hear? I don’t want itto be here, but far, far away....”
“Oh, yes, yes, it must be!” said Mitya, pressing her in his arms. “I’lltake you and we’ll fly away.... Oh, I’d give my whole life for one yearonly to know about that blood!”
“What blood?” asked Grushenka, bewildered.
“Nothing,” muttered Mitya, through his teeth. “Grusha, you wanted to behonest, but I’m a thief. But I’ve stolen money from Katya.... Disgrace,a disgrace!”
“From Katya, from that young lady? No, you didn’t steal it. Give it herback, take it from me.... Why make a fuss? Now everything of mine isyours. What does money matter? We shall waste it anyway.... Folks likeus are bound to waste money. But we’d better go and work the land. Iwant to dig the earth with my own hands. We must work, do you hear?Alyosha said so. I won’t be your mistress, I’ll be faithful to you,I’ll be your slave, I’ll work for you. We’ll go to the young lady andbow down to her together, so that she may forgive us, and then we’ll goaway. And if she won’t forgive us, we’ll go, anyway. Take her her moneyand love me.... Don’t love her.... Don’t love her any more. If you loveher, I shall strangle her.... I’ll put out both her eyes with aneedle....”
“I love you. I love only you. I’ll love you in Siberia....”
“Why Siberia? Never mind, Siberia, if you like. I don’t care ... we’llwork ... there’s snow in Siberia.... I love driving in the snow ... andmust have bells.... Do you hear, there’s a bell ringing? Where is thatbell ringing? There are people coming.... Now it’s stopped.”
She closed her eyes, exhausted, and suddenly fell asleep for aninstant. There had certainly been the sound of a bell in the distance,but the ringing had ceased. Mitya let his head sink on her breast. Hedid not notice that the bell had ceased ringing, nor did he notice thatthe songs had ceased, and that instead of singing and drunken clamorthere was absolute stillness in the house. Grushenka opened her eyes.
“What’s the matter? Was I asleep? Yes ... a bell ... I’ve been asleepand dreamt I was driving over the snow with bells, and I dozed. I waswith some one I loved, with you. And far, far away. I was holding youand kissing you, nestling close to you. I was cold, and the snowglistened.... You know how the snow glistens at night when the moonshines. It was as though I was not on earth. I woke up, and my dear oneis close to me. How sweet that is!...”
“Close to you,” murmured Mitya, kissing her dress, her bosom, herhands. And suddenly he had a strange fancy: it seemed to him that shewas looking straight before her, not at him, not into his face, butover his head, with an intent, almost uncanny fixity. An expression ofwonder, almost of alarm, came suddenly into her face.
“Mitya, who is that looking at us?” she whispered.
Mitya turned, and saw that some one had, in fact, parted the curtainsand seemed to be watching them. And not one person alone, it seemed.
He jumped up and walked quickly to the intruder.
“Here, come to us, come here,” said a voice, speaking not loudly, butfirmly and peremptorily.
Mitya passed to the other side of the curtain and stood stock still.The room was filled with people, but not those who had been therebefore. An instantaneous shiver ran down his back, and he shuddered. Herecognized all those people instantly. That tall, stout old man in theovercoat and forage‐cap with a cockade—was the police captain, MihailMakarovitch. And that “consumptive‐looking” trim dandy, “who always hassuch polished boots”—that was the deputy prosecutor. “He has achronometer worth four hundred roubles; he showed it to me.” And thatsmall young man in spectacles.... Mitya forgot his surname though heknew him, had seen him: he was the “investigating lawyer,” from the“school of jurisprudence,” who had only lately come to the town. Andthis man—the inspector of police, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, a man he knewwell. And those fellows with the brass plates on, why are they here?And those other two ... peasants.... And there at the door Kalganovwith Trifon Borissovitch....
“Gentlemen! What’s this for, gentlemen?” began Mitya, but suddenly, asthough beside himself, not knowing what he was doing, he cried aloud,at the top of his voice:
“I un—der—stand!”
The young man in spectacles moved forward suddenly, and stepping up toMitya, began with dignity, though hurriedly:
“We have to make ... in brief, I beg you to come this way, this way tothe sofa.... It is absolutely imperative that you should give anexplanation.”
“The old man!” cried Mitya frantically. “The old man and his blood!...I understand.”
And he sank, almost fell, on a chair close by, as though he had beenmown down by a scythe.
“You understand? He understands it! Monster and parricide! Yourfather’s blood cries out against you!” the old captain of police roaredsuddenly, stepping up to Mitya.
He was beside himself, crimson in the face and quivering all over.
“This is impossible!” cried the small young man. “Mihail Makarovitch,Mihail Makarovitch, this won’t do!... I beg you’ll allow me to speak. Ishould never have expected such behavior from you....”
“This is delirium, gentlemen, raving delirium,” cried the captain ofpolice; “look at him: drunk, at this time of night, in the company of adisreputable woman, with the blood of his father on his hands.... It’sdelirium!...”
“I beg you most earnestly, dear Mihail Makarovitch, to restrain yourfeelings,” the prosecutor said in a rapid whisper to the old policecaptain, “or I shall be forced to resort to—”
But the little lawyer did not allow him to finish. He turned to Mitya,and delivered himself in a loud, firm, dignified voice:
“Ex‐Lieutenant Karamazov, it is my duty to inform you that you arecharged with the murder of your father, Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov,perpetrated this night....”
He said something more, and the prosecutor, too, put in something, butthough Mitya heard them he did not understand them. He stared at themall with wild eyes.



Book IX. The Preliminary Investigation



Chapter I.The Beginning Of Perhotin’s Official Career

Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin, whom we left knocking at the strong lockedgates of the widow Morozov’s house, ended, of course, by making himselfheard. Fenya, who was still excited by the fright she had had two hoursbefore, and too much “upset” to go to bed, was almost frightened intohysterics on hearing the furious knocking at the gate. Though she hadherself seen him drive away, she fancied that it must be DmitriFyodorovitch knocking again, no one else could knock so savagely. Sheran to the house‐porter, who had already waked up and gone out to thegate, and began imploring him not to open it. But having questionedPyotr Ilyitch, and learned that he wanted to see Fenya on very“important business,” the man made up his mind at last to open. PyotrIlyitch was admitted into Fenya’s kitchen, but the girl begged him toallow the house‐porter to be present, “because of her misgivings.” Hebegan questioning her and at once learnt the most vital fact, that is,that when Dmitri Fyodorovitch had run out to look for Grushenka, he hadsnatched up a pestle from the mortar, and that when he returned, thepestle was not with him and his hands were smeared with blood.
“And the blood was simply flowing, dripping from him, dripping!” Fenyakept exclaiming. This horrible detail was simply the product of herdisordered imagination. But although not “dripping,” Pyotr Ilyitch hadhimself seen those hands stained with blood, and had helped to washthem. Moreover, the question he had to decide was not how soon theblood had dried, but where Dmitri Fyodorovitch had run with the pestle,or rather, whether it really was to Fyodor Pavlovitch’s, and how hecould satisfactorily ascertain. Pyotr Ilyitch persisted in returning tothis point, and though he found out nothing conclusive, yet he carriedaway a conviction that Dmitri Fyodorovitch could have gone nowhere butto his father’s house, and that therefore something must have happenedthere.
“And when he came back,” Fenya added with excitement, “I told him thewhole story, and then I began asking him, ‘Why have you got blood onyour hands, Dmitri Fyodorovitch?’ and he answered that that was humanblood, and that he had just killed some one. He confessed it all to me,and suddenly ran off like a madman. I sat down and began thinking,where’s he run off to now like a madman? He’ll go to Mokroe, I thought,and kill my mistress there. I ran out to beg him not to kill her. I wasrunning to his lodgings, but I looked at Plotnikov’s shop, and saw himjust setting off, and there was no blood on his hands then.” (Fenya hadnoticed this and remembered it.) Fenya’s old grandmother confirmed herevidence as far as she was capable. After asking some furtherquestions, Pyotr Ilyitch left the house, even more upset and uneasythan he had been when he entered it.
The most direct and the easiest thing for him to do would have been togo straight to Fyodor Pavlovitch’s, to find out whether anything hadhappened there, and if so, what; and only to go to the police captain,as Pyotr Ilyitch firmly intended doing, when he had satisfied himselfof the fact. But the night was dark, Fyodor Pavlovitch’s gates werestrong, and he would have to knock again. His acquaintance with FyodorPavlovitch was of the slightest, and what if, after he had beenknocking, they opened to him, and nothing had happened? Then FyodorPavlovitch in his jeering way would go telling the story all over thetown, how a stranger, called Perhotin, had broken in upon him atmidnight to ask if any one had killed him. It would make a scandal. Andscandal was what Pyotr Ilyitch dreaded more than anything in the world.
Yet the feeling that possessed him was so strong, that though hestamped his foot angrily and swore at himself, he set off again, not toFyodor Pavlovitch’s but to Madame Hohlakov’s. He decided that if shedenied having just given Dmitri Fyodorovitch three thousand roubles, hewould go straight to the police captain, but if she admitted havinggiven him the money, he would go home and let the matter rest till nextmorning.
It is, of course, perfectly evident that there was even more likelihoodof causing scandal by going at eleven o’clock at night to a fashionablelady, a complete stranger, and perhaps rousing her from her bed to askher an amazing question, than by going to Fyodor Pavlovitch. But thatis just how it is, sometimes, especially in cases like the present one,with the decisions of the most precise and phlegmatic people. PyotrIlyitch was by no means phlegmatic at that moment. He remembered allhis life how a haunting uneasiness gradually gained possession of him,growing more and more painful and driving him on, against his will. Yethe kept cursing himself, of course, all the way for going to this lady,but “I will get to the bottom of it, I will!” he repeated for the tenthtime, grinding his teeth, and he carried out his intention.
It was exactly eleven o’clock when he entered Madame Hohlakov’s house.He was admitted into the yard pretty quickly, but, in response to hisinquiry whether the lady was still up, the porter could give no answer,except that she was usually in bed by that time.
“Ask at the top of the stairs. If the lady wants to receive you, she’llreceive you. If she won’t, she won’t.”
Pyotr Ilyitch went up, but did not find things so easy here. Thefootman was unwilling to take in his name, but finally called a maid.Pyotr Ilyitch politely but insistently begged her to inform her ladythat an official, living in the town, called Perhotin, had called onparticular business, and that if it were not of the greatest importancehe would not have ventured to come. “Tell her in those words, in thosewords exactly,” he asked the girl.
She went away. He remained waiting in the entry. Madame Hohlakovherself was already in her bedroom, though not yet asleep. She had feltupset ever since Mitya’s visit, and had a presentiment that she wouldnot get through the night without the sick headache which always, withher, followed such excitement. She was surprised on hearing theannouncement from the maid. She irritably declined to see him, however,though the unexpected visit at such an hour, of an “official living inthe town,” who was a total stranger, roused her feminine curiosityintensely. But this time Pyotr Ilyitch was as obstinate as a mule. Hebegged the maid most earnestly to take another message in these verywords:
“That he had come on business of the greatest importance, and thatMadame Hohlakov might have cause to regret it later, if she refused tosee him now.”
“I plunged headlong,” he described it afterwards.
The maid, gazing at him in amazement, went to take his message again.Madame Hohlakov was impressed. She thought a little, asked what helooked like, and learned that he was “very well dressed, young and sopolite.” We may note, parenthetically, that Pyotr Ilyitch was a rathergood‐looking young man, and well aware of the fact. Madame Hohlakovmade up her mind to see him. She was in her dressing‐gown and slippers,but she flung a black shawl over her shoulders. “The official” wasasked to walk into the drawing‐room, the very room in which Mitya hadbeen received shortly before. The lady came to meet her visitor, with asternly inquiring countenance, and, without asking him to sit down,began at once with the question:
“What do you want?”
“I have ventured to disturb you, madam, on a matter concerning ourcommon acquaintance, Dmitri Fyodorovitch Karamazov,” Perhotin began.
But he had hardly uttered the name, when the lady’s face showed signsof acute irritation. She almost shrieked, and interrupted him in afury:
“How much longer am I to be worried by that awful man?” she criedhysterically. “How dare you, sir, how could you venture to disturb alady who is a stranger to you, in her own house at such an hour!... Andto force yourself upon her to talk of a man who came here, to this verydrawing‐room, only three hours ago, to murder me, and went stamping outof the room, as no one would go out of a decent house. Let me tell you,sir, that I shall lodge a complaint against you, that I will not let itpass. Kindly leave me at once.... I am a mother.... I ... I—”
“Murder! then he tried to murder you, too?”
“Why, has he killed somebody else?” Madame Hohlakov asked impulsively.
“If you would kindly listen, madam, for half a moment, I’ll explain itall in a couple of words,” answered Perhotin, firmly. “At five o’clockthis afternoon Dmitri Fyodorovitch borrowed ten roubles from me, and Iknow for a fact he had no money. Yet at nine o’clock, he came to see mewith a bundle of hundred‐rouble notes in his hand, about two or threethousand roubles. His hands and face were all covered with blood, andhe looked like a madman. When I asked him where he had got so muchmoney, he answered that he had just received it from you, that you hadgiven him a sum of three thousand to go to the gold‐mines....”
Madame Hohlakov’s face assumed an expression of intense and painfulexcitement.
“Good God! He must have killed his old father!” she cried, clasping herhands. “I have never given him money, never! Oh, run, run!... Don’t sayanother word! Save the old man ... run to his father ... run!”
“Excuse me, madam, then you did not give him money? You remember for afact that you did not give him any money?”
“No, I didn’t, I didn’t! I refused to give it him, for he could notappreciate it. He ran out in a fury, stamping. He rushed at me, but Islipped away.... And let me tell you, as I wish to hide nothing fromyou now, that he positively spat at me. Can you fancy that! But why arewe standing? Ah, sit down.”
“Excuse me, I....”
“Or better run, run, you must run and save the poor old man from anawful death!”
“But if he has killed him already?”
“Ah, good heavens, yes! Then what are we to do now? What do you thinkwe must do now?”
Meantime she had made Pyotr Ilyitch sit down and sat down herself,facing him. Briefly, but fairly clearly, Pyotr Ilyitch told her thehistory of the affair, that part of it at least which he had himselfwitnessed. He described, too, his visit to Fenya, and told her aboutthe pestle. All these details produced an overwhelming effect on thedistracted lady, who kept uttering shrieks, and covering her face withher hands....
“Would you believe it, I foresaw all this! I have that special faculty,whatever I imagine comes to pass. And how often I’ve looked at thatawful man and always thought, that man will end by murdering me. Andnow it’s happened ... that is, if he hasn’t murdered me, but only hisown father, it’s only because the finger of God preserved me, andwhat’s more, he was ashamed to murder me because, in this very place, Iput the holy ikon from the relics of the holy martyr, Saint Varvara, onhis neck.... And to think how near I was to death at that minute, Iwent close up to him and he stretched out his neck to me!... Do youknow, Pyotr Ilyitch (I think you said your name was Pyotr Ilyitch), Idon’t believe in miracles, but that ikon and this unmistakable miraclewith me now—that shakes me, and I’m ready to believe in anything youlike. Have you heard about Father Zossima?... But I don’t know what I’msaying ... and only fancy, with the ikon on his neck he spat at me....He only spat, it’s true, he didn’t murder me and ... he dashed away!But what shall we do, what must we do now? What do you think?”
Pyotr Ilyitch got up, and announced that he was going straight to thepolice captain, to tell him all about it, and leave him to do what hethought fit.
“Oh, he’s an excellent man, excellent! Mihail Makarovitch, I know him.Of course, he’s the person to go to. How practical you are, PyotrIlyitch! How well you’ve thought of everything! I should never havethought of it in your place!”
“Especially as I know the police captain very well, too,” observedPyotr Ilyitch, who still continued to stand, and was obviously anxiousto escape as quickly as possible from the impulsive lady, who would notlet him say good‐by and go away.
“And be sure, be sure,” she prattled on, “to come back and tell me whatyou see there, and what you find out ... what comes to light ... howthey’ll try him ... and what he’s condemned to.... Tell me, we have nocapital punishment, have we? But be sure to come, even if it’s at threeo’clock at night, at four, at half‐past four.... Tell them to wake me,to wake me, to shake me, if I don’t get up.... But, good heavens, Ishan’t sleep! But wait, hadn’t I better come with you?”
“N—no. But if you would write three lines with your own hand, statingthat you did not give Dmitri Fyodorovitch money, it might, perhaps, beof use ... in case it’s needed....”
“To be sure!” Madame Hohlakov skipped, delighted, to her bureau. “Andyou know I’m simply struck, amazed at your resourcefulness, your goodsense in such affairs. Are you in the service here? I’m delighted tothink that you’re in the service here!”
And still speaking, she scribbled on half a sheet of notepaper thefollowing lines:
I’ve never in my life lent to that unhappy man, Dmitri FyodorovitchKaramazov (for, in spite of all, he is unhappy), three thousand roublesto‐day. I’ve never given him money, never: That I swear by all that’sholy!

K. HOHLAKOV.

“Here’s the note!” she turned quickly to Pyotr Ilyitch. “Go, save him.It’s a noble deed on your part!”
And she made the sign of the cross three times over him. She ran out toaccompany him to the passage.
“How grateful I am to you! You can’t think how grateful I am to you forhaving come to me, first. How is it I haven’t met you before? I shallfeel flattered at seeing you at my house in the future. How delightfulit is that you are living here!... Such precision! Such practicalability!... They must appreciate you, they must understand you. Ifthere’s anything I can do, believe me ... oh, I love young people! I’min love with young people! The younger generation are the one prop ofour suffering country. Her one hope.... Oh, go, go!...”
But Pyotr Ilyitch had already run away or she would not have let him goso soon. Yet Madame Hohlakov had made a rather agreeable impression onhim, which had somewhat softened his anxiety at being drawn into suchan unpleasant affair. Tastes differ, as we all know. “She’s by no meansso elderly,” he thought, feeling pleased, “on the contrary I shouldhave taken her for her daughter.”
As for Madame Hohlakov, she was simply enchanted by the young man.“Such sense! such exactness! in so young a man! in our day! and allthat with such manners and appearance! People say the young people ofto‐day are no good for anything, but here’s an example!” etc. So shesimply forgot this “dreadful affair,” and it was only as she wasgetting into bed, that, suddenly recalling “how near death she hadbeen,” she exclaimed: “Ah, it is awful, awful!”
But she fell at once into a sound, sweet sleep.
I would not, however, have dwelt on such trivial and irrelevantdetails, if this eccentric meeting of the young official with the by nomeans elderly widow had not subsequently turned out to be thefoundation of the whole career of that practical and precise young man.His story is remembered to this day with amazement in our town, and Ishall perhaps have something to say about it, when I have finished mylong history of the Brothers Karamazov.



Chapter II.The Alarm

Our police captain, Mihail Makarovitch Makarov, a retired lieutenant‐colonel, was a widower and an excellent man. He had only come to usthree years previously, but had won general esteem, chiefly because he“knew how to keep society together.” He was never without visitors, andcould not have got on without them. Some one or other was always diningwith him; he never sat down to table without guests. He gave regulardinners, too, on all sorts of occasions, sometimes most surprisingones. Though the fare was not _recherché_, it was abundant. Thefish‐pies were excellent, and the wine made up in quantity for what itlacked in quality.
The first room his guests entered was a well‐fitted billiard‐room, withpictures of English race‐horses, in black frames on the walls, anessential decoration, as we all know, for a bachelor’s billiard‐room.There was card‐playing every evening at his house, if only at onetable. But at frequent intervals, all the society of our town, with themammas and young ladies, assembled at his house to dance. Though MihailMakarovitch was a widower, he did not live alone. His widowed daughterlived with him, with her two unmarried daughters, grown‐up girls, whohad finished their education. They were of agreeable appearance andlively character, and though every one knew they would have no dowry,they attracted all the young men of fashion to their grandfather’shouse.
Mihail Makarovitch was by no means very efficient in his work, thoughhe performed his duties no worse than many others. To speak plainly, hewas a man of rather narrow education. His understanding of the limitsof his administrative power could not always be relied upon. It was notso much that he failed to grasp certain reforms enacted during thepresent reign, as that he made conspicuous blunders in hisinterpretation of them. This was not from any special lack ofintelligence, but from carelessness, for he was always in too great ahurry to go into the subject.
“I have the heart of a soldier rather than of a civilian,” he used tosay of himself. He had not even formed a definite idea of thefundamental principles of the reforms connected with the emancipationof the serfs, and only picked it up, so to speak, from year to year,involuntarily increasing his knowledge by practice. And yet he washimself a landowner. Pyotr Ilyitch knew for certain that he would meetsome of Mihail Makarovitch’s visitors there that evening, but he didn’tknow which. As it happened, at that moment the prosecutor, andVarvinsky, our district doctor, a young man, who had only just come tous from Petersburg after taking a brilliant degree at the Academy ofMedicine, were playing whist at the police captain’s. IppolitKirillovitch, the prosecutor (he was really the deputy prosecutor, butwe always called him the prosecutor), was rather a peculiar man, ofabout five and thirty, inclined to be consumptive, and married to a fatand childless woman. He was vain and irritable, though he had a goodintellect, and even a kind heart. It seemed that all that was wrongwith him was that he had a better opinion of himself than his abilitywarranted. And that made him seem constantly uneasy. He had, moreover,certain higher, even artistic, leanings, towards psychology, forinstance, a special study of the human heart, a special knowledge ofthe criminal and his crime. He cherished a grievance on this ground,considering that he had been passed over in the service, and beingfirmly persuaded that in higher spheres he had not been properlyappreciated, and had enemies. In gloomy moments he even threatened togive up his post, and practice as a barrister in criminal cases. Theunexpected Karamazov case agitated him profoundly: “It was a case thatmight well be talked about all over Russia.” But I am anticipating.
Nikolay Parfenovitch Nelyudov, the young investigating lawyer, who hadonly come from Petersburg two months before, was sitting in the nextroom with the young ladies. People talked about it afterwards andwondered that all the gentlemen should, as though intentionally, on theevening of “the crime” have been gathered together at the house of theexecutive authority. Yet it was perfectly simple and happened quitenaturally.
Ippolit Kirillovitch’s wife had had toothache for the last two days,and he was obliged to go out to escape from her groans. The doctor,from the very nature of his being, could not spend an evening except atcards. Nikolay Parfenovitch Nelyudov had been intending for three dayspast to drop in that evening at Mihail Makarovitch’s, so to speakcasually, so as slyly to startle the eldest granddaughter, OlgaMihailovna, by showing that he knew her secret, that he knew it was herbirthday, and that she was trying to conceal it on purpose, so as notto be obliged to give a dance. He anticipated a great deal ofmerriment, many playful jests about her age, and her being afraid toreveal it, about his knowing her secret and telling everybody, and soon. The charming young man was a great adept at such teasing; theladies had christened him “the naughty man,” and he seemed to bedelighted at the name. He was extremely well‐bred, however, of goodfamily, education and feelings, and, though leading a life of pleasure,his sallies were always innocent and in good taste. He was short, anddelicate‐looking. On his white, slender, little fingers he always worea number of big, glittering rings. When he was engaged in his officialduties, he always became extraordinarily grave, as though realizing hisposition and the sanctity of the obligations laid upon him. He had aspecial gift for mystifying murderers and other criminals of thepeasant class during interrogation, and if he did not win theirrespect, he certainly succeeded in arousing their wonder.
Pyotr Ilyitch was simply dumbfounded when he went into the policecaptain’s. He saw instantly that every one knew. They had positivelythrown down their cards, all were standing up and talking. Even NikolayParfenovitch had left the young ladies and run in, looking strenuousand ready for action. Pyotr Ilyitch was met with the astounding newsthat old Fyodor Pavlovitch really had been murdered that evening in hisown house, murdered and robbed. The news had only just reached them inthe following manner.
Marfa Ignatyevna, the wife of old Grigory, who had been knockedsenseless near the fence, was sleeping soundly in her bed and mightwell have slept till morning after the draught she had taken. But, allof a sudden she waked up, no doubt roused by a fearful epileptic screamfrom Smerdyakov, who was lying in the next room unconscious. Thatscream always preceded his fits, and always terrified and upset MarfaIgnatyevna. She could never get accustomed to it. She jumped up and ranhalf‐awake to Smerdyakov’s room. But it was dark there, and she couldonly hear the invalid beginning to gasp and struggle. Then MarfaIgnatyevna herself screamed out and was going to call her husband, butsuddenly realized that when she had got up, he was not beside her inbed. She ran back to the bedstead and began groping with her hands, butthe bed was really empty. Then he must have gone out—where? She ran tothe steps and timidly called him. She got no answer, of course, but shecaught the sound of groans far away in the garden in the darkness. Shelistened. The groans were repeated, and it was evident they came fromthe garden.
“Good Lord! Just as it was with Lizaveta Smerdyastchaya!” she thoughtdistractedly. She went timidly down the steps and saw that the gateinto the garden was open.
“He must be out there, poor dear,” she thought. She went up to the gateand all at once she distinctly heard Grigory calling her by name,“Marfa! Marfa!” in a weak, moaning, dreadful voice.
“Lord, preserve us from harm!” Marfa Ignatyevna murmured, and rantowards the voice, and that was how she found Grigory. But she foundhim not by the fence where he had been knocked down, but about twentypaces off. It appeared later, that he had crawled away on coming tohimself, and probably had been a long time getting so far, losingconsciousness several times. She noticed at once that he was coveredwith blood, and screamed at the top of her voice. Grigory was mutteringincoherently:
“He has murdered ... his father murdered.... Why scream, silly ... run... fetch some one....”
But Marfa continued screaming, and seeing that her master’s window wasopen and that there was a candle alight in the window, she ran thereand began calling Fyodor Pavlovitch. But peeping in at the window, shesaw a fearful sight. Her master was lying on his back, motionless, onthe floor. His light‐colored dressing‐gown and white shirt were soakedwith blood. The candle on the table brightly lighted up the blood andthe motionless dead face of Fyodor Pavlovitch. Terror‐stricken, Marfarushed away from the window, ran out of the garden, drew the bolt ofthe big gate and ran headlong by the back way to the neighbor, MaryaKondratyevna. Both mother and daughter were asleep, but they waked upat Marfa’s desperate and persistent screaming and knocking at theshutter. Marfa, shrieking and screaming incoherently, managed to tellthem the main fact, and to beg for assistance. It happened that Fomahad come back from his wanderings and was staying the night with them.They got him up immediately and all three ran to the scene of thecrime. On the way, Marya Kondratyevna remembered that at about eighto’clock she heard a dreadful scream from their garden, and this was nodoubt Grigory’s scream, “Parricide!” uttered when he caught hold ofMitya’s leg.
“Some one person screamed out and then was silent,” Marya Kondratyevnaexplained as she ran. Running to the place where Grigory lay, the twowomen with the help of Foma carried him to the lodge. They lighted acandle and saw that Smerdyakov was no better, that he was writhing inconvulsions, his eyes fixed in a squint, and that foam was flowing fromhis lips. They moistened Grigory’s forehead with water mixed withvinegar, and the water revived him at once. He asked immediately:
“Is the master murdered?”
Then Foma and both the women ran to the house and saw this time thatnot only the window, but also the door into the garden was wide open,though Fyodor Pavlovitch had for the last week locked himself in everynight and did not allow even Grigory to come in on any pretext. Seeingthat door open, they were afraid to go in to Fyodor Pavlovitch “forfear anything should happen afterwards.” And when they returned toGrigory, the old man told them to go straight to the police captain.Marya Kondratyevna ran there and gave the alarm to the whole party atthe police captain’s. She arrived only five minutes before PyotrIlyitch, so that his story came, not as his own surmise and theory, butas the direct confirmation, by a witness, of the theory held by all, asto the identity of the criminal (a theory he had in the bottom of hisheart refused to believe till that moment).
It was resolved to act with energy. The deputy police inspector of thetown was commissioned to take four witnesses, to enter FyodorPavlovitch’s house and there to open an inquiry on the spot, accordingto the regular forms, which I will not go into here. The districtdoctor, a zealous man, new to his work, almost insisted on accompanyingthe police captain, the prosecutor, and the investigating lawyer.
I will note briefly that Fyodor Pavlovitch was found to be quite dead,with his skull battered in. But with what? Most likely with the sameweapon with which Grigory had been attacked. And immediately thatweapon was found, Grigory, to whom all possible medical assistance wasat once given, described in a weak and breaking voice how he had beenknocked down. They began looking with a lantern by the fence and foundthe brass pestle dropped in a most conspicuous place on the gardenpath. There were no signs of disturbance in the room where FyodorPavlovitch was lying. But by the bed, behind the screen, they picked upfrom the floor a big and thick envelope with the inscription: “Apresent of three thousand roubles for my angel Grushenka, if she iswilling to come.” And below had been added by Fyodor Pavlovitch, “Formy little chicken.” There were three seals of red sealing‐wax on theenvelope, but it had been torn open and was empty: the money had beenremoved. They found also on the floor a piece of narrow pink ribbon,with which the envelope had been tied up.
One piece of Pyotr Ilyitch’s evidence made a great impression on theprosecutor and the investigating magistrate, namely, his idea thatDmitri Fyodorovitch would shoot himself before daybreak, that he hadresolved to do so, had spoken of it to Ilyitch, had taken the pistols,loaded them before him, written a letter, put it in his pocket, etc.When Pyotr Ilyitch, though still unwilling to believe in it, threatenedto tell some one so as to prevent the suicide, Mitya had answeredgrinning: “You’ll be too late.” So they must make haste to Mokroe tofind the criminal, before he really did shoot himself.
“That’s clear, that’s clear!” repeated the prosecutor in greatexcitement. “That’s just the way with mad fellows like that: ‘I shallkill myself to‐ morrow, so I’ll make merry till I die!’ ”
The story of how he had bought the wine and provisions excited theprosecutor more than ever.
“Do you remember the fellow that murdered a merchant called Olsufyev,gentlemen? He stole fifteen hundred, went at once to have his haircurled, and then, without even hiding the money, carrying it almost inhis hand in the same way, he went off to the girls.”
All were delayed, however, by the inquiry, the search, and theformalities, etc., in the house of Fyodor Pavlovitch. It all took timeand so, two hours before starting, they sent on ahead to Mokroe theofficer of the rural police, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch Schmertsov, who hadarrived in the town the morning before to get his pay. He wasinstructed to avoid raising the alarm when he reached Mokroe, but tokeep constant watch over the “criminal” till the arrival of the properauthorities, to procure also witnesses for the arrest, policeconstables, and so on. Mavriky Mavrikyevitch did as he was told,preserving his incognito, and giving no one but his old acquaintance,Trifon Borissovitch, the slightest hint of his secret business. He hadspoken to him just before Mitya met the landlord in the balcony,looking for him in the dark, and noticed at once a change in TrifonBorissovitch’s face and voice. So neither Mitya nor any one else knewthat he was being watched. The box with the pistols had been carriedoff by Trifon Borissovitch and put in a suitable place. Only after fouro’clock, almost at sunrise, all the officials, the police captain, theprosecutor, the investigating lawyer, drove up in two carriages, eachdrawn by three horses. The doctor remained at Fyodor Pavlovitch’s tomake a post‐mortem next day on the body. But he was particularlyinterested in the condition of the servant, Smerdyakov.
“Such violent and protracted epileptic fits, recurring continually fortwenty‐four hours, are rarely to be met with, and are of interest toscience,” he declared enthusiastically to his companions, and as theyleft they laughingly congratulated him on his find. The prosecutor andthe investigating lawyer distinctly remembered the doctor’s saying thatSmerdyakov could not outlive the night.
After these long, but I think necessary explanations, we will return tothat moment of our tale at which we broke off.



Chapter III.The Sufferings Of A Soul, The First Ordeal

And so Mitya sat looking wildly at the people round him, notunderstanding what was said to him. Suddenly he got up, flung up hishands, and shouted aloud:
“I’m not guilty! I’m not guilty of that blood! I’m not guilty of myfather’s blood.... I meant to kill him. But I’m not guilty. Not I.”
But he had hardly said this, before Grushenka rushed from behind thecurtain and flung herself at the police captain’s feet.
“It was my fault! Mine! My wickedness!” she cried, in a heartrendingvoice, bathed in tears, stretching out her clasped hands towards them.“He did it through me. I tortured him and drove him to it. I torturedthat poor old man that’s dead, too, in my wickedness, and brought himto this! It’s my fault, mine first, mine most, my fault!”
“Yes, it’s your fault! You’re the chief criminal! You fury! You harlot!You’re the most to blame!” shouted the police captain, threatening herwith his hand. But he was quickly and resolutely suppressed. Theprosecutor positively seized hold of him.
“This is absolutely irregular, Mihail Makarovitch!” he cried. “You arepositively hindering the inquiry.... You’re ruining the case....” healmost gasped.
“Follow the regular course! Follow the regular course!” cried NikolayParfenovitch, fearfully excited too, “otherwise it’s absolutelyimpossible!...”
“Judge us together!” Grushenka cried frantically, still kneeling.“Punish us together. I will go with him now, if it’s to death!”
“Grusha, my life, my blood, my holy one!” Mitya fell on his kneesbeside her and held her tight in his arms. “Don’t believe her,” hecried, “she’s not guilty of anything, of any blood, of anything!”
He remembered afterwards that he was forcibly dragged away from her byseveral men, and that she was led out, and that when he recoveredhimself he was sitting at the table. Beside him and behind him stoodthe men with metal plates. Facing him on the other side of the tablesat Nikolay Parfenovitch, the investigating lawyer. He kept persuadinghim to drink a little water out of a glass that stood on the table.
“That will refresh you, that will calm you. Be calm, don’t befrightened,” he added, extremely politely. Mitya (he remembered itafterwards) became suddenly intensely interested in his big rings, onewith an amethyst, and another with a transparent bright yellow stone,of great brilliance. And long afterwards he remembered with wonder howthose rings had riveted his attention through all those terrible hoursof interrogation, so that he was utterly unable to tear himself awayfrom them and dismiss them, as things that had nothing to do with hisposition. On Mitya’s left side, in the place where Maximov had beensitting at the beginning of the evening, the prosecutor was now seated,and on Mitya’s right hand, where Grushenka had been, was a rosy‐cheekedyoung man in a sort of shabby hunting‐jacket, with ink and paper beforehim. This was the secretary of the investigating lawyer, who hadbrought him with him. The police captain was now standing by the windowat the other end of the room, beside Kalganov, who was sitting there.
“Drink some water,” said the investigating lawyer softly, for the tenthtime.
“I have drunk it, gentlemen, I have ... but ... come, gentlemen, crushme, punish me, decide my fate!” cried Mitya, staring with terriblyfixed wide‐ open eyes at the investigating lawyer.
“So you positively declare that you are not guilty of the death of yourfather, Fyodor Pavlovitch?” asked the investigating lawyer, softly butinsistently.
“I am not guilty. I am guilty of the blood of another old man but notof my father’s. And I weep for it! I killed, I killed the old man andknocked him down.... But it’s hard to have to answer for that murderwith another, a terrible murder of which I am not guilty.... It’s aterrible accusation, gentlemen, a knock‐down blow. But who has killedmy father, who has killed him? Who can have killed him if I didn’t?It’s marvelous, extraordinary, impossible.”
“Yes, who can have killed him?” the investigating lawyer was beginning,but Ippolit Kirillovitch, the prosecutor, glancing at him, addressedMitya.
“You need not worry yourself about the old servant, GrigoryVassilyevitch. He is alive, he has recovered, and in spite of theterrible blows inflicted, according to his own and your evidence, byyou, there seems no doubt that he will live, so the doctor says, atleast.”
“Alive? He’s alive?” cried Mitya, flinging up his hands. His facebeamed. “Lord, I thank Thee for the miracle Thou has wrought for me, asinner and evildoer. That’s an answer to my prayer. I’ve been prayingall night.” And he crossed himself three times. He was almostbreathless.
“So from this Grigory we have received such important evidenceconcerning you, that—” The prosecutor would have continued, but Mityasuddenly jumped up from his chair.
“One minute, gentlemen, for God’s sake, one minute; I will run to her—”
“Excuse me, at this moment it’s quite impossible,” Nikolay Parfenovitchalmost shrieked. He, too, leapt to his feet. Mitya was seized by themen with the metal plates, but he sat down of his own accord....
“Gentlemen, what a pity! I wanted to see her for one minute only; Iwanted to tell her that it has been washed away, it has gone, thatblood that was weighing on my heart all night, and that I am not amurderer now! Gentlemen, she is my betrothed!” he said ecstatically andreverently, looking round at them all. “Oh, thank you, gentlemen! Oh,in one minute you have given me new life, new heart!... That old manused to carry me in his arms, gentlemen. He used to wash me in the tubwhen I was a baby three years old, abandoned by every one, he was likea father to me!...”
“And so you—” the investigating lawyer began.
“Allow me, gentlemen, allow me one minute more,” interposed Mitya,putting his elbows on the table and covering his face with his hands.“Let me have a moment to think, let me breathe, gentlemen. All this ishorribly upsetting, horribly. A man is not a drum, gentlemen!”
“Drink a little more water,” murmured Nikolay Parfenovitch.
Mitya took his hands from his face and laughed. His eyes wereconfident. He seemed completely transformed in a moment. His wholebearing was changed; he was once more the equal of these men, with allof whom he was acquainted, as though they had all met the day before,when nothing had happened, at some social gathering. We may note inpassing that, on his first arrival, Mitya had been made very welcome atthe police captain’s, but later, during the last month especially,Mitya had hardly called at all, and when the police captain met him, inthe street, for instance, Mitya noticed that he frowned and only bowedout of politeness. His acquaintance with the prosecutor was lessintimate, though he sometimes paid his wife, a nervous and fancifullady, visits of politeness, without quite knowing why, and she alwaysreceived him graciously and had, for some reason, taken an interest inhim up to the last. He had not had time to get to know theinvestigating lawyer, though he had met him and talked to him twice,each time about the fair sex.
“You’re a most skillful lawyer, I see, Nikolay Parfenovitch,” criedMitya, laughing gayly, “but I can help you now. Oh, gentlemen, I feellike a new man, and don’t be offended at my addressing you so simplyand directly. I’m rather drunk, too, I’ll tell you that frankly. Ibelieve I’ve had the honor and pleasure of meeting you, NikolayParfenovitch, at my kinsman Miüsov’s. Gentlemen, gentlemen, I don’tpretend to be on equal terms with you. I understand, of course, in whatcharacter I am sitting before you. Oh, of course, there’s a horriblesuspicion ... hanging over me ... if Grigory has given evidence.... Ahorrible suspicion! It’s awful, awful, I understand that! But tobusiness, gentlemen, I am ready, and we will make an end of it in onemoment; for, listen, listen, gentlemen! Since I know I’m innocent, wecan put an end to it in a minute. Can’t we? Can’t we?”
Mitya spoke much and quickly, nervously and effusively, as though hepositively took his listeners to be his best friends.
“So, for the present, we will write that you absolutely deny the chargebrought against you,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, impressively, andbending down to the secretary he dictated to him in an undertone whatto write.
“Write it down? You want to write that down? Well, write it; I consent,I give my full consent, gentlemen, only ... do you see?... Stay, stay,write this. Of disorderly conduct I am guilty, of violence on a poorold man I am guilty. And there is something else at the bottom of myheart, of which I am guilty, too—but that you need not write down” (heturned suddenly to the secretary); “that’s my personal life, gentlemen,that doesn’t concern you, the bottom of my heart, that’s to say.... Butof the murder of my old father I’m not guilty. That’s a wild idea. It’squite a wild idea!... I will prove you that and you’ll be convinceddirectly.... You will laugh, gentlemen. You’ll laugh yourselves at yoursuspicion!...”
“Be calm, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” said the investigating lawyer evidentlytrying to allay Mitya’s excitement by his own composure. “Before we goon with our inquiry, I should like, if you will consent to answer, tohear you confirm the statement that you disliked your father, FyodorPavlovitch, that you were involved in continual disputes with him. Hereat least, a quarter of an hour ago, you exclaimed that you wanted tokill him: ‘I didn’t kill him,’ you said, ‘but I wanted to kill him.’ ”
“Did I exclaim that? Ach, that may be so, gentlemen! Yes, unhappily, Idid want to kill him ... many times I wanted to ... unhappily,unhappily!”
“You wanted to. Would you consent to explain what motives precisely ledyou to such a sentiment of hatred for your parent?”
“What is there to explain, gentlemen?” Mitya shrugged his shoulderssullenly, looking down. “I have never concealed my feelings. All thetown knows about it—every one knows in the tavern. Only lately Ideclared them in Father Zossima’s cell.... And the very same day, inthe evening I beat my father. I nearly killed him, and I swore I’d comeagain and kill him, before witnesses.... Oh, a thousand witnesses! I’vebeen shouting it aloud for the last month, any one can tell youthat!... The fact stares you in the face, it speaks for itself, itcries aloud, but feelings, gentlemen, feelings are another matter. Yousee, gentlemen”—Mitya frowned—“it seems to me that about feelingsyou’ve no right to question me. I know that you are bound by youroffice, I quite understand that, but that’s my affair, my private,intimate affair, yet ... since I haven’t concealed my feelings in thepast ... in the tavern, for instance, I’ve talked to every one, so ...so I won’t make a secret of it now. You see, I understand, gentlemen,that there are terrible facts against me in this business. I told everyone that I’d kill him, and now, all of a sudden, he’s been killed. Soit must have been me! Ha ha! I can make allowances for you, gentlemen,I can quite make allowances. I’m struck all of a heap myself, for whocan have murdered him, if not I? That’s what it comes to, isn’t it? Ifnot I, who can it be, who? Gentlemen, I want to know, I insist onknowing!” he exclaimed suddenly. “Where was he murdered? How was hemurdered? How, and with what? Tell me,” he asked quickly, looking atthe two lawyers.
“We found him in his study, lying on his back on the floor, with hishead battered in,” said the prosecutor.
“That’s horrible!” Mitya shuddered and, putting his elbows on thetable, hid his face in his right hand.
“We will continue,” interposed Nikolay Parfenovitch. “So what was itthat impelled you to this sentiment of hatred? You have asserted inpublic, I believe, that it was based upon jealousy?”
“Well, yes, jealousy. And not only jealousy.”
“Disputes about money?”
“Yes, about money, too.”
“There was a dispute about three thousand roubles, I think, which youclaimed as part of your inheritance?”
“Three thousand! More, more,” cried Mitya hotly; “more than sixthousand, more than ten, perhaps. I told every one so, shouted it atthem. But I made up my mind to let it go at three thousand. I wasdesperately in need of that three thousand ... so the bundle of notesfor three thousand that I knew he kept under his pillow, ready forGrushenka, I considered as simply stolen from me. Yes, gentlemen, Ilooked upon it as mine, as my own property....”
The prosecutor looked significantly at the investigating lawyer, andhad time to wink at him on the sly.
“We will return to that subject later,” said the lawyer promptly. “Youwill allow us to note that point and write it down; that you lookedupon that money as your own property?”
“Write it down, by all means. I know that’s another fact that tellsagainst me, but I’m not afraid of facts and I tell them against myself.Do you hear? Do you know, gentlemen, you take me for a different sortof man from what I am,” he added, suddenly gloomy and dejected. “Youhave to deal with a man of honor, a man of the highest honor; aboveall—don’t lose sight of it—a man who’s done a lot of nasty things, buthas always been, and still is, honorable at bottom, in his inner being.I don’t know how to express it. That’s just what’s made me wretched allmy life, that I yearned to be honorable, that I was, so to say, amartyr to a sense of honor, seeking for it with a lantern, with thelantern of Diogenes, and yet all my life I’ve been doing filthy thingslike all of us, gentlemen ... that is like me alone. That was amistake, like me alone, me alone!... Gentlemen, my head aches ...” Hisbrows contracted with pain. “You see, gentlemen, I couldn’t bear thelook of him, there was something in him ignoble, impudent, trampling oneverything sacred, something sneering and irreverent, loathsome,loathsome. But now that he’s dead, I feel differently.”
“How do you mean?”
“I don’t feel differently, but I wish I hadn’t hated him so.”
“You feel penitent?”
“No, not penitent, don’t write that. I’m not much good myself, I’m notvery beautiful, so I had no right to consider him repulsive. That’swhat I mean. Write that down, if you like.”
Saying this Mitya became very mournful. He had grown more and moregloomy as the inquiry continued.
At that moment another unexpected scene followed. Though Grushenka hadbeen removed, she had not been taken far away, only into the room nextbut one from the blue room, in which the examination was proceeding. Itwas a little room with one window, next beyond the large room in whichthey had danced and feasted so lavishly. She was sitting there with noone by her but Maximov, who was terribly depressed, terribly scared,and clung to her side, as though for security. At their door stood oneof the peasants with a metal plate on his breast. Grushenka was crying,and suddenly her grief was too much for her, she jumped up, flung upher arms and, with a loud wail of sorrow, rushed out of the room tohim, to her Mitya, and so unexpectedly that they had not time to stopher. Mitya, hearing her cry, trembled, jumped up, and with a yellrushed impetuously to meet her, not knowing what he was doing. But theywere not allowed to come together, though they saw one another. He wasseized by the arms. He struggled, and tried to tear himself away. Ittook three or four men to hold him. She was seized too, and he saw herstretching out her arms to him, crying aloud as they carried her away.When the scene was over, he came to himself again, sitting in the sameplace as before, opposite the investigating lawyer, and crying out tothem:
“What do you want with her? Why do you torment her? She’s done nothing,nothing!...”
The lawyers tried to soothe him. About ten minutes passed like this. Atlast Mihail Makarovitch, who had been absent, came hurriedly into theroom, and said in a loud and excited voice to the prosecutor:
“She’s been removed, she’s downstairs. Will you allow me to say oneword to this unhappy man, gentlemen? In your presence, gentlemen, inyour presence.”
“By all means, Mihail Makarovitch,” answered the investigating lawyer.“In the present case we have nothing against it.”
“Listen, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, my dear fellow,” began the policecaptain, and there was a look of warm, almost fatherly, feeling for theluckless prisoner on his excited face. “I took your AgrafenaAlexandrovna downstairs myself, and confided her to the care of thelandlord’s daughters, and that old fellow Maximov is with her all thetime. And I soothed her, do you hear? I soothed and calmed her. Iimpressed on her that you have to clear yourself, so she mustn’t hinderyou, must not depress you, or you may lose your head and say the wrongthing in your evidence. In fact, I talked to her and she understood.She’s a sensible girl, my boy, a good‐hearted girl, she would havekissed my old hands, begging help for you. She sent me herself, to tellyou not to worry about her. And I must go, my dear fellow, I must goand tell her that you are calm and comforted about her. And so you mustbe calm, do you understand? I was unfair to her; she is a Christiansoul, gentlemen, yes, I tell you, she’s a gentle soul, and not to blamefor anything. So what am I to tell her, Dmitri Fyodorovitch? Will yousit quiet or not?”
The good‐natured police captain said a great deal that was irregular,but Grushenka’s suffering, a fellow creature’s suffering, touched hisgood‐ natured heart, and tears stood in his eyes. Mitya jumped up andrushed towards him.
“Forgive me, gentlemen, oh, allow me, allow me!” he cried. “You’ve theheart of an angel, an angel, Mihail Makarovitch, I thank you for her. Iwill, I will be calm, cheerful, in fact. Tell her, in the kindness ofyour heart, that I am cheerful, quite cheerful, that I shall belaughing in a minute, knowing that she has a guardian angel like you. Ishall have done with all this directly, and as soon as I’m free, I’llbe with her, she’ll see, let her wait. Gentlemen,” he said, turning tothe two lawyers, “now I’ll open my whole soul to you; I’ll pour outeverything. We’ll finish this off directly, finish it off gayly. Weshall laugh at it in the end, shan’t we? But, gentlemen, that woman isthe queen of my heart. Oh, let me tell you that. That one thing I’lltell you now.... I see I’m with honorable men. She is my light, she ismy holy one, and if only you knew! Did you hear her cry, ‘I’ll go todeath with you’? And what have I, a penniless beggar, done for her? Whysuch love for me? How can a clumsy, ugly brute like me, with my uglyface, deserve such love, that she is ready to go to exile with me? Andhow she fell down at your feet for my sake, just now!... and yet she’sproud and has done nothing! How can I help adoring her, how can I helpcrying out and rushing to her as I did just now? Gentlemen, forgive me!But now, now I am comforted.”
And he sank back in his chair and, covering his face with his hands,burst into tears. But they were happy tears. He recovered himselfinstantly. The old police captain seemed much pleased, and the lawyersalso. They felt that the examination was passing into a new phase. Whenthe police captain went out, Mitya was positively gay.
“Now, gentlemen, I am at your disposal, entirely at your disposal. Andif it were not for all these trivial details, we should understand oneanother in a minute. I’m at those details again. I’m at your disposal,gentlemen, but I declare that we must have mutual confidence, you in meand I in you, or there’ll be no end to it. I speak in your interests.To business, gentlemen, to business, and don’t rummage in my soul;don’t tease me with trifles, but only ask me about facts and whatmatters, and I will satisfy you at once. And damn the details!”
So spoke Mitya. The interrogation began again.



Chapter IV.The Second Ordeal

“You don’t know how you encourage us, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, by yourreadiness to answer,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, with an animated air,and obvious satisfaction beaming in his very prominent, short‐sighted,light gray eyes, from which he had removed his spectacles a momentbefore. “And you have made a very just remark about the mutualconfidence, without which it is sometimes positively impossible to geton in cases of such importance, if the suspected party really hopes anddesires to defend himself and is in a position to do so. We, on ourside, will do everything in our power, and you can see for yourself howwe are conducting the case. You approve, Ippolit Kirillovitch?” Heturned to the prosecutor.
“Oh, undoubtedly,” replied the prosecutor. His tone was somewhat cold,compared with Nikolay Parfenovitch’s impulsiveness.
I will note once for all that Nikolay Parfenovitch, who had but latelyarrived among us, had from the first felt marked respect for IppolitKirillovitch, our prosecutor, and had become almost his bosom friend.He was almost the only person who put implicit faith in IppolitKirillovitch’s extraordinary talents as a psychologist and orator andin the justice of his grievance. He had heard of him in Petersburg. Onthe other hand, young Nikolay Parfenovitch was the only person in thewhole world whom our “unappreciated” prosecutor genuinely liked. Ontheir way to Mokroe they had time to come to an understanding about thepresent case. And now as they sat at the table, the sharp‐witted juniorcaught and interpreted every indication on his senior colleague’sface—half a word, a glance, or a wink.
“Gentlemen, only let me tell my own story and don’t interrupt me withtrivial questions and I’ll tell you everything in a moment,” said Mityaexcitedly.
“Excellent! Thank you. But before we proceed to listen to yourcommunication, will you allow me to inquire as to another little factof great interest to us? I mean the ten roubles you borrowed yesterdayat about five o’clock on the security of your pistols, from yourfriend, Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin.”
“I pledged them, gentlemen. I pledged them for ten roubles. What more?That’s all about it. As soon as I got back to town I pledged them.”
“You got back to town? Then you had been out of town?”
“Yes, I went a journey of forty versts into the country. Didn’t youknow?”
The prosecutor and Nikolay Parfenovitch exchanged glances.
“Well, how would it be if you began your story with a systematicdescription of all you did yesterday, from the morning onwards? Allowus, for instance, to inquire why you were absent from the town, andjust when you left and when you came back—all those facts.”
“You should have asked me like that from the beginning,” cried Mitya,laughing aloud, “and, if you like, we won’t begin from yesterday, butfrom the morning of the day before; then you’ll understand how, why,and where I went. I went the day before yesterday, gentlemen, to amerchant of the town, called Samsonov, to borrow three thousand roublesfrom him on safe security. It was a pressing matter, gentlemen, it wasa sudden necessity.”
“Allow me to interrupt you,” the prosecutor put in politely. “Why wereyou in such pressing need for just that sum, three thousand?”
“Oh, gentlemen, you needn’t go into details, how, when and why, and whyjust so much money, and not so much, and all that rigmarole. Why, it’llrun to three volumes, and then you’ll want an epilogue!”
Mitya said all this with the good‐natured but impatient familiarity ofa man who is anxious to tell the whole truth and is full of the bestintentions.
“Gentlemen!”—he corrected himself hurriedly—“don’t be vexed with me formy restiveness, I beg you again. Believe me once more, I feel thegreatest respect for you and understand the true position of affairs.Don’t think I’m drunk. I’m quite sober now. And, besides, being drunkwould be no hindrance. It’s with me, you know, like the saying: ‘Whenhe is sober, he is a fool; when he is drunk, he is a wise man.’ Ha ha!But I see, gentlemen, it’s not the proper thing to make jokes to you,till we’ve had our explanation, I mean. And I’ve my own dignity to keepup, too. I quite understand the difference for the moment. I am, afterall, in the position of a criminal, and so, far from being on equalterms with you. And it’s your business to watch me. I can’t expect youto pat me on the head for what I did to Grigory, for one can’t breakold men’s heads with impunity. I suppose you’ll put me away for him forsix months, or a year perhaps, in a house of correction. I don’t knowwhat the punishment is—but it will be without loss of the rights of myrank, without loss of my rank, won’t it? So you see, gentlemen, Iunderstand the distinction between us.... But you must see that youcould puzzle God Himself with such questions. ‘How did you step? Wheredid you step? When did you step? And on what did you step?’ I shall getmixed up, if you go on like this, and you will put it all down againstme. And what will that lead to? To nothing! And even if it’s nonsenseI’m talking now, let me finish, and you, gentlemen, being men of honorand refinement, will forgive me! I’ll finish by asking you, gentlemen,to drop that conventional method of questioning. I mean, beginning fromsome miserable trifle, how I got up, what I had for breakfast, how Ispat, and where I spat, and so distracting the attention of thecriminal, suddenly stun him with an overwhelming question, ‘Whom didyou murder? Whom did you rob?’ Ha ha! That’s your regulation method,that’s where all your cunning comes in. You can put peasants off theirguard like that, but not me. I know the tricks. I’ve been in theservice, too. Ha ha ha! You’re not angry, gentlemen? You forgive myimpertinence?” he cried, looking at them with a good‐nature that wasalmost surprising. “It’s only Mitya Karamazov, you know, so you canoverlook it. It would be inexcusable in a sensible man; but you canforgive it in Mitya. Ha ha!”
Nikolay Parfenovitch listened, and laughed too. Though the prosecutordid not laugh, he kept his eyes fixed keenly on Mitya, as thoughanxious not to miss the least syllable, the slightest movement, thesmallest twitch of any feature of his face.
“That’s how we have treated you from the beginning,” said NikolayParfenovitch, still laughing. “We haven’t tried to put you out byasking how you got up in the morning and what you had for breakfast. Webegan, indeed, with questions of the greatest importance.”
“I understand. I saw it and appreciated it, and I appreciate still moreyour present kindness to me, an unprecedented kindness, worthy of yournoble hearts. We three here are gentlemen, and let everything be on thefooting of mutual confidence between educated, well‐bred people, whohave the common bond of noble birth and honor. In any case, allow me tolook upon you as my best friends at this moment of my life, at thismoment when my honor is assailed. That’s no offense to you, gentlemen,is it?”
“On the contrary. You’ve expressed all that so well, DmitriFyodorovitch,” Nikolay Parfenovitch answered with dignifiedapprobation.
“And enough of those trivial questions, gentlemen, all those trickyquestions!” cried Mitya enthusiastically. “Or there’s simply no knowingwhere we shall get to! Is there?”
“I will follow your sensible advice entirely,” the prosecutorinterposed, addressing Mitya. “I don’t withdraw my question, however.It is now vitally important for us to know exactly why you needed thatsum, I mean precisely three thousand.”
“Why I needed it?... Oh, for one thing and another.... Well, it was topay a debt.”
“A debt to whom?”
“That I absolutely refuse to answer, gentlemen. Not because I couldn’t,or because I shouldn’t dare, or because it would be damaging, for it’sall a paltry matter and absolutely trifling, but—I won’t, because it’sa matter of principle: that’s my private life, and I won’t allow anyintrusion into my private life. That’s my principle. Your question hasno bearing on the case, and whatever has nothing to do with the case ismy private affair. I wanted to pay a debt. I wanted to pay a debt ofhonor but to whom I won’t say.”
“Allow me to make a note of that,” said the prosecutor.
“By all means. Write down that I won’t say, that I won’t. Write that Ishould think it dishonorable to say. Ech! you can write it; you’venothing else to do with your time.”
“Allow me to caution you, sir, and to remind you once more, if you areunaware of it,” the prosecutor began, with a peculiar and sternimpressiveness, “that you have a perfect right not to answer thequestions put to you now, and we on our side have no right to extort ananswer from you, if you decline to give it for one reason or another.That is entirely a matter for your personal decision. But it is ourduty, on the other hand, in such cases as the present, to explain andset before you the degree of injury you will be doing yourself byrefusing to give this or that piece of evidence. After which I will begyou to continue.”
“Gentlemen, I’m not angry ... I ...” Mitya muttered in a ratherdisconcerted tone. “Well, gentlemen, you see, that Samsonov to whom Iwent then ...”
We will, of course, not reproduce his account of what is known to thereader already. Mitya was impatiently anxious not to omit the slightestdetail. At the same time he was in a hurry to get it over. But as hegave his evidence it was written down, and therefore they hadcontinually to pull him up. Mitya disliked this, but submitted; gotangry, though still good‐humoredly. He did, it is true, exclaim, fromtime to time, “Gentlemen, that’s enough to make an angel out ofpatience!” Or, “Gentlemen, it’s no good your irritating me.”
But even though he exclaimed he still preserved for a time his geniallyexpansive mood. So he told them how Samsonov had made a fool of him twodays before. (He had completely realized by now that he had beenfooled.) The sale of his watch for six roubles to obtain money for thejourney was something new to the lawyers. They were at once greatlyinterested, and even, to Mitya’s intense indignation, thought itnecessary to write the fact down as a secondary confirmation of thecircumstance that he had hardly a farthing in his pocket at the time.Little by little Mitya began to grow surly. Then, after describing hisjourney to see Lyagavy, the night spent in the stifling hut, and so on,he came to his return to the town. Here he began, without beingparticularly urged, to give a minute account of the agonies of jealousyhe endured on Grushenka’s account.
He was heard with silent attention. They inquired particularly into thecircumstance of his having a place of ambush in Marya Kondratyevna’shouse at the back of Fyodor Pavlovitch’s garden to keep watch onGrushenka, and of Smerdyakov’s bringing him information. They laidparticular stress on this, and noted it down. Of his jealousy he spokewarmly and at length, and though inwardly ashamed at exposing his mostintimate feelings to “public ignominy,” so to speak, he evidentlyovercame his shame in order to tell the truth. The frigid severity,with which the investigating lawyer, and still more the prosecutor,stared intently at him as he told his story, disconcerted him at lastconsiderably.
“That boy, Nikolay Parfenovitch, to whom I was talking nonsense aboutwomen only a few days ago, and that sickly prosecutor are not worth mytelling this to,” he reflected mournfully. “It’s ignominious. ‘Bepatient, humble, hold thy peace.’ ” He wound up his reflections withthat line. But he pulled himself together to go on again. When he cameto telling of his visit to Madame Hohlakov, he regained his spirits andeven wished to tell a little anecdote of that lady which had nothing todo with the case. But the investigating lawyer stopped him, and civillysuggested that he should pass on to “more essential matters.” At last,when he described his despair and told them how, when he left MadameHohlakov’s, he thought that he’d “get three thousand if he had tomurder some one to do it,” they stopped him again and noted down thathe had “meant to murder some one.” Mitya let them write it withoutprotest. At last he reached the point in his story when he learned thatGrushenka had deceived him and had returned from Samsonov’s as soon ashe left her there, though she had said that she would stay there tillmidnight.
“If I didn’t kill Fenya then, gentlemen, it was only because I hadn’ttime,” broke from him suddenly at that point in his story. That, too,was carefully written down. Mitya waited gloomily, and was beginning totell how he ran into his father’s garden when the investigating lawyersuddenly stopped him, and opening the big portfolio that lay on thesofa beside him he brought out the brass pestle.
“Do you recognize this object?” he asked, showing it to Mitya.
“Oh, yes,” he laughed gloomily. “Of course I recognize it. Let me havea look at it.... Damn it, never mind!”
“You have forgotten to mention it,” observed the investigating lawyer.
“Hang it all, I shouldn’t have concealed it from you. Do you suppose Icould have managed without it? It simply escaped my memory.”
“Be so good as to tell us precisely how you came to arm yourself withit.”
“Certainly I will be so good, gentlemen.”
And Mitya described how he took the pestle and ran.
“But what object had you in view in arming yourself with such aweapon?”
“What object? No object. I just picked it up and ran off.”
“What for, if you had no object?”
Mitya’s wrath flared up. He looked intently at “the boy” and smiledgloomily and malignantly. He was feeling more and more ashamed athaving told “such people” the story of his jealousy so sincerely andspontaneously.
“Bother the pestle!” broke from him suddenly.
“But still—”
“Oh, to keep off dogs.... Oh, because it was dark.... In case anythingturned up.”
“But have you ever on previous occasions taken a weapon with you whenyou went out, since you’re afraid of the dark?”
“Ugh! damn it all, gentlemen! There’s positively no talking to you!”cried Mitya, exasperated beyond endurance, and turning to thesecretary, crimson with anger, he said quickly, with a note of fury inhis voice:
“Write down at once ... at once ... ‘that I snatched up the pestle togo and kill my father ... Fyodor Pavlovitch ... by hitting him on thehead with it!’ Well, now are you satisfied, gentlemen? Are your mindsrelieved?” he said, glaring defiantly at the lawyers.
“We quite understand that you made that statement just now throughexasperation with us and the questions we put to you, which youconsider trivial, though they are, in fact, essential,” the prosecutorremarked dryly in reply.
“Well, upon my word, gentlemen! Yes, I took the pestle.... What doesone pick things up for at such moments? I don’t know what for. Isnatched it up and ran—that’s all. For to me, gentlemen, _passons_, orI declare I won’t tell you any more.”
He sat with his elbows on the table and his head in his hand. He satsideways to them and gazed at the wall, struggling against a feeling ofnausea. He had, in fact, an awful inclination to get up and declarethat he wouldn’t say another word, “not if you hang me for it.”
“You see, gentlemen,” he said at last, with difficulty controllinghimself, “you see. I listen to you and am haunted by a dream.... It’s adream I have sometimes, you know.... I often dream it—it’s always thesame ... that some one is hunting me, some one I’m awfully afraid of... that he’s hunting me in the dark, in the night ... tracking me, andI hide somewhere from him, behind a door or cupboard, hide in adegrading way, and the worst of it is, he always knows where I am, buthe pretends not to know where I am on purpose, to prolong my agony, toenjoy my terror.... That’s just what you’re doing now. It’s just likethat!”
“Is that the sort of thing you dream about?” inquired the prosecutor.
“Yes, it is. Don’t you want to write it down?” said Mitya, with adistorted smile.
“No; no need to write it down. But still you do have curious dreams.”
“It’s not a question of dreams now, gentlemen—this is realism, this isreal life! I’m a wolf and you’re the hunters. Well, hunt him down!”
“You are wrong to make such comparisons ...” began NikolayParfenovitch, with extraordinary softness.
“No, I’m not wrong, not at all!” Mitya flared up again, though hisoutburst of wrath had obviously relieved his heart. He grew more good‐humored at every word. “You may not trust a criminal or a man on trialtortured by your questions, but an honorable man, the honorableimpulses of the heart (I say that boldly!)—no! That you must believeyou have no right indeed ... but—
Be silent, heart,Be patient, humble, hold thy peace.

Well, shall I go on?” he broke off gloomily.
“If you’ll be so kind,” answered Nikolay Parfenovitch.



Chapter V.The Third Ordeal

Though Mitya spoke sullenly, it was evident that he was trying morethan ever not to forget or miss a single detail of his story. He toldthem how he had leapt over the fence into his father’s garden; how hehad gone up to the window; told them all that had passed under thewindow. Clearly, precisely, distinctly, he described the feelings thattroubled him during those moments in the garden when he longed soterribly to know whether Grushenka was with his father or not. But,strange to say, both the lawyers listened now with a sort of awfulreserve, looked coldly at him, asked few questions. Mitya could gathernothing from their faces.
“They’re angry and offended,” he thought. “Well, bother them!”
When he described how he made up his mind at last to make the “signal”to his father that Grushenka had come, so that he should open thewindow, the lawyers paid no attention to the word “signal,” as thoughthey entirely failed to grasp the meaning of the word in thisconnection: so much so, that Mitya noticed it. Coming at last to themoment when, seeing his father peering out of the window, his hatredflared up and he pulled the pestle out of his pocket, he suddenly, asthough of design, stopped short. He sat gazing at the wall and wasaware that their eyes were fixed upon him.
“Well?” said the investigating lawyer. “You pulled out the weapon and... and what happened then?”
“Then? Why, then I murdered him ... hit him on the head and cracked hisskull.... I suppose that’s your story. That’s it!”
His eyes suddenly flashed. All his smothered wrath suddenly flamed upwith extraordinary violence in his soul.
“Our story?” repeated Nikolay Parfenovitch. “Well—and yours?”
Mitya dropped his eyes and was a long time silent.
“My story, gentlemen? Well, it was like this,” he began softly.“Whether it was some one’s tears, or my mother prayed to God, or a goodangel kissed me at that instant, I don’t know. But the devil wasconquered. I rushed from the window and ran to the fence. My father wasalarmed and, for the first time, he saw me then, cried out, and sprangback from the window. I remember that very well. I ran across thegarden to the fence ... and there Grigory caught me, when I was sittingon the fence.”
At that point he raised his eyes at last and looked at his listeners.They seemed to be staring at him with perfectly unruffled attention. Asort of paroxysm of indignation seized on Mitya’s soul.
“Why, you’re laughing at me at this moment, gentlemen!” he broke offsuddenly.
“What makes you think that?” observed Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“You don’t believe one word—that’s why! I understand, of course, that Ihave come to the vital point. The old man’s lying there now with hisskull broken, while I—after dramatically describing how I wanted tokill him, and how I snatched up the pestle—I suddenly run away from thewindow. A romance! Poetry! As though one could believe a fellow on hisword. Ha ha! You are scoffers, gentlemen!”
And he swung round on his chair so that it creaked.
“And did you notice,” asked the prosecutor suddenly, as though notobserving Mitya’s excitement, “did you notice when you ran away fromthe window, whether the door into the garden was open?”
“No, it was not open.”
“It was not?”
“It was shut. And who could open it? Bah! the door. Wait a bit!” heseemed suddenly to bethink himself, and almost with a start:
“Why, did you find the door open?”
“Yes, it was open.”
“Why, who could have opened it if you did not open it yourselves?”cried Mitya, greatly astonished.
“The door stood open, and your father’s murderer undoubtedly went in atthat door, and, having accomplished the crime, went out again by thesame door,” the prosecutor pronounced deliberately, as though chiselingout each word separately. “That is perfectly clear. The murder wascommitted in the room and _not through the window_; that is absolutelycertain from the examination that has been made, from the position ofthe body and everything. There can be no doubt of that circumstance.”
Mitya was absolutely dumbfounded.
“But that’s utterly impossible!” he cried, completely at a loss. “I ...I didn’t go in.... I tell you positively, definitely, the door was shutthe whole time I was in the garden, and when I ran out of the garden. Ionly stood at the window and saw him through the window. That’s all,that’s all.... I remember to the last minute. And if I didn’t remember,it would be just the same. I know it, for no one knew the signalsexcept Smerdyakov, and me, and the dead man. And he wouldn’t haveopened the door to any one in the world without the signals.”
“Signals? What signals?” asked the prosecutor, with greedy, almosthysterical, curiosity. He instantly lost all trace of his reserve anddignity. He asked the question with a sort of cringing timidity. Hescented an important fact of which he had known nothing, and wasalready filled with dread that Mitya might be unwilling to disclose it.
“So you didn’t know!” Mitya winked at him with a malicious and mockingsmile. “What if I won’t tell you? From whom could you find out? No oneknew about the signals except my father, Smerdyakov, and me: that wasall. Heaven knew, too, but it won’t tell you. But it’s an interestingfact. There’s no knowing what you might build on it. Ha ha! Takecomfort, gentlemen, I’ll reveal it. You’ve some foolish idea in yourhearts. You don’t know the man you have to deal with! You have to dowith a prisoner who gives evidence against himself, to his own damage!Yes, for I’m a man of honor and you—are not.”
The prosecutor swallowed this without a murmur. He was trembling withimpatience to hear the new fact. Minutely and diffusely Mitya told themeverything about the signals invented by Fyodor Pavlovitch forSmerdyakov. He told them exactly what every tap on the window meant,tapped the signals on the table, and when Nikolay Parfenovitch saidthat he supposed he, Mitya, had tapped the signal “Grushenka has come,”when he tapped to his father, he answered precisely that he had tappedthat signal, that “Grushenka had come.”
“So now you can build up your tower,” Mitya broke off, and again turnedaway from them contemptuously.
“So no one knew of the signals but your dead father, you, and the valetSmerdyakov? And no one else?” Nikolay Parfenovitch inquired once more.
“Yes. The valet Smerdyakov, and Heaven. Write down about Heaven. Thatmay be of use. Besides, you will need God yourselves.”
And they had already, of course, begun writing it down. But while theywrote, the prosecutor said suddenly, as though pitching on a new idea:
“But if Smerdyakov also knew of these signals and you absolutely denyall responsibility for the death of your father, was it not he,perhaps, who knocked the signal agreed upon, induced your father toopen to him, and then ... committed the crime?”
Mitya turned upon him a look of profound irony and intense hatred. Hissilent stare lasted so long that it made the prosecutor blink.
“You’ve caught the fox again,” commented Mitya at last; “you’ve got thebeast by the tail. Ha ha! I see through you, Mr. Prosecutor. Youthought, of course, that I should jump at that, catch at yourprompting, and shout with all my might, ‘Aie! it’s Smerdyakov; he’s themurderer.’ Confess that’s what you thought. Confess, and I’ll go on.”
But the prosecutor did not confess. He held his tongue and waited.
“You’re mistaken. I’m not going to shout ‘It’s Smerdyakov,’ ” saidMitya.
“And you don’t even suspect him?”
“Why, do you suspect him?”
“He is suspected, too.”
Mitya fixed his eyes on the floor.
“Joking apart,” he brought out gloomily. “Listen. From the verybeginning, almost from the moment when I ran out to you from behind thecurtain, I’ve had the thought of Smerdyakov in my mind. I’ve beensitting here, shouting that I’m innocent and thinking all the time‘Smerdyakov!’ I can’t get Smerdyakov out of my head. In fact, I, too,thought of Smerdyakov just now; but only for a second. Almost at once Ithought, ‘No, it’s not Smerdyakov.’ It’s not his doing, gentlemen.”
“In that case is there anybody else you suspect?” Nikolay Parfenovitchinquired cautiously.
“I don’t know any one it could be, whether it’s the hand of Heaven orSatan, but ... not Smerdyakov,” Mitya jerked out with decision.
“But what makes you affirm so confidently and emphatically that it’snot he?”
“From my conviction—my impression. Because Smerdyakov is a man of themost abject character and a coward. He’s not a coward, he’s the epitomeof all the cowardice in the world walking on two legs. He has the heartof a chicken. When he talked to me, he was always trembling for fear Ishould kill him, though I never raised my hand against him. He fell atmy feet and blubbered; he has kissed these very boots, literally,beseeching me ‘not to frighten him.’ Do you hear? ‘Not to frightenhim.’ What a thing to say! Why, I offered him money. He’s a pulingchicken—sickly, epileptic, weak‐minded—a child of eight could thrashhim. He has no character worth talking about. It’s not Smerdyakov,gentlemen. He doesn’t care for money; he wouldn’t take my presents.Besides, what motive had he for murdering the old man? Why, he’s verylikely his son, you know—his natural son. Do you know that?”
“We have heard that legend. But you are your father’s son, too, youknow; yet you yourself told every one you meant to murder him.”
“That’s a thrust! And a nasty, mean one, too! I’m not afraid! Oh,gentlemen, isn’t it too base of you to say that to my face? It’s base,because I told you that myself. I not only wanted to murder him, but Imight have done it. And, what’s more, I went out of my way to tell youof my own accord that I nearly murdered him. But, you see, I didn’tmurder him; you see, my guardian angel saved me—that’s what you’ve nottaken into account. And that’s why it’s so base of you. For I didn’tkill him, I didn’t kill him! Do you hear, I did not kill him.”
He was almost choking. He had not been so moved before during the wholeinterrogation.
“And what has he told you, gentlemen—Smerdyakov, I mean?” he addedsuddenly, after a pause. “May I ask that question?”
“You may ask any question,” the prosecutor replied with frigidseverity, “any question relating to the facts of the case, and we are,I repeat, bound to answer every inquiry you make. We found the servantSmerdyakov, concerning whom you inquire, lying unconscious in his bed,in an epileptic fit of extreme severity, that had recurred, possibly,ten times. The doctor who was with us told us, after seeing him, thathe may possibly not outlive the night.”
“Well, if that’s so, the devil must have killed him,” broke suddenlyfrom Mitya, as though until that moment he had been asking himself:“Was it Smerdyakov or not?”
“We will come back to this later,” Nikolay Parfenovitch decided. “Now,wouldn’t you like to continue your statement?”
Mitya asked for a rest. His request was courteously granted. Afterresting, he went on with his story. But he was evidently depressed. Hewas exhausted, mortified and morally shaken. To make things worse theprosecutor exasperated him, as though intentionally, by vexatiousinterruptions about “trifling points.” Scarcely had Mitya describedhow, sitting on the wall, he had struck Grigory on the head with thepestle, while the old man had hold of his left leg, and how he had thenjumped down to look at him, when the prosecutor stopped him to ask himto describe exactly how he was sitting on the wall. Mitya wassurprised.
“Oh, I was sitting like this, astride, one leg on one side of the walland one on the other.”
“And the pestle?”
“The pestle was in my hand.”
“Not in your pocket? Do you remember that precisely? Was it a violentblow you gave him?”
“It must have been a violent one. But why do you ask?”
“Would you mind sitting on the chair just as you sat on the wall thenand showing us just how you moved your arm, and in what direction?”
“You’re making fun of me, aren’t you?” asked Mitya, looking haughtilyat the speaker; but the latter did not flinch.
Mitya turned abruptly, sat astride on his chair, and swung his arm.
“This was how I struck him! That’s how I knocked him down! What more doyou want?”
“Thank you. May I trouble you now to explain why you jumped down, withwhat object, and what you had in view?”
“Oh, hang it!... I jumped down to look at the man I’d hurt ... I don’tknow what for!”
“Though you were so excited and were running away?”
“Yes, though I was excited and running away.”
“You wanted to help him?”
“Help!... Yes, perhaps I did want to help him.... I don’t remember.”
“You don’t remember? Then you didn’t quite know what you were doing?”
“Not at all. I remember everything—every detail. I jumped down to lookat him, and wiped his face with my handkerchief.”
“We have seen your handkerchief. Did you hope to restore him toconsciousness?”
“I don’t know whether I hoped it. I simply wanted to make sure whetherhe was alive or not.”
“Ah! You wanted to be sure? Well, what then?”
“I’m not a doctor. I couldn’t decide. I ran away thinking I’d killedhim. And now he’s recovered.”
“Excellent,” commented the prosecutor. “Thank you. That’s all I wanted.Kindly proceed.”
Alas! it never entered Mitya’s head to tell them, though he rememberedit, that he had jumped back from pity, and standing over the prostratefigure had even uttered some words of regret: “You’ve come to grief,old man—there’s no help for it. Well, there you must lie.”
The prosecutor could only draw one conclusion: that the man had jumpedback “at such a moment and in such excitement simply with the object ofascertaining whether the _only_ witness of his crime were dead; that hemust therefore have been a man of great strength, coolness, decisionand foresight even at such a moment,” ... and so on. The prosecutor wassatisfied: “I’ve provoked the nervous fellow by ‘trifles’ and he hassaid more than he meant to.”
With painful effort Mitya went on. But this time he was pulled upimmediately by Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“How came you to run to the servant, Fedosya Markovna, with your handsso covered with blood, and, as it appears, your face, too?”
“Why, I didn’t notice the blood at all at the time,” answered Mitya.
“That’s quite likely. It does happen sometimes.” The prosecutorexchanged glances with Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“I simply didn’t notice. You’re quite right there, prosecutor,” Mityaassented suddenly.
Next came the account of Mitya’s sudden determination to “step aside”and make way for their happiness. But he could not make up his mind toopen his heart to them as before, and tell them about “the queen of hissoul.” He disliked speaking of her before these chilly persons “whowere fastening on him like bugs.” And so in response to theirreiterated questions he answered briefly and abruptly:
“Well, I made up my mind to kill myself. What had I left to live for?That question stared me in the face. Her first rightful lover had comeback, the man who wronged her but who’d hurried back to offer his love,after five years, and atone for the wrong with marriage.... So I knewit was all over for me.... And behind me disgrace, and thatblood—Grigory’s.... What had I to live for? So I went to redeem thepistols I had pledged, to load them and put a bullet in my brainto‐morrow.”
“And a grand feast the night before?”
“Yes, a grand feast the night before. Damn it all, gentlemen! Do makehaste and finish it. I meant to shoot myself not far from here, beyondthe village, and I’d planned to do it at five o’clock in the morning.And I had a note in my pocket already. I wrote it at Perhotin’s when Iloaded my pistols. Here’s the letter. Read it! It’s not for you I tellit,” he added contemptuously. He took it from his waistcoat pocket andflung it on the table. The lawyers read it with curiosity, and, as isusual, added it to the papers connected with the case.
“And you didn’t even think of washing your hands at Perhotin’s? Youwere not afraid then of arousing suspicion?”
“What suspicion? Suspicion or not, I should have galloped here just thesame, and shot myself at five o’clock, and you wouldn’t have been intime to do anything. If it hadn’t been for what’s happened to myfather, you would have known nothing about it, and wouldn’t have comehere. Oh, it’s the devil’s doing. It was the devil murdered father, itwas through the devil that you found it out so soon. How did you manageto get here so quick? It’s marvelous, a dream!”
“Mr. Perhotin informed us that when you came to him, you held in yourhands ... your blood‐stained hands ... your money ... a lot of money... a bundle of hundred‐rouble notes, and that his servant‐boy saw ittoo.”
“That’s true, gentlemen. I remember it was so.”
“Now, there’s one little point presents itself. Can you inform us,”Nikolay Parfenovitch began, with extreme gentleness, “where did you getso much money all of a sudden, when it appears from the facts, from thereckoning of time, that you had not been home?”
The prosecutor’s brows contracted at the question being asked soplainly, but he did not interrupt Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“No, I didn’t go home,” answered Mitya, apparently perfectly composed,but looking at the floor.
“Allow me then to repeat my question,” Nikolay Parfenovitch went on asthough creeping up to the subject. “Where were you able to procure sucha sum all at once, when by your own confession, at five o’clock thesame day you—”
“I was in want of ten roubles and pledged my pistols with Perhotin, andthen went to Madame Hohlakov to borrow three thousand which shewouldn’t give me, and so on, and all the rest of it,” Mitya interruptedsharply. “Yes, gentlemen, I was in want of it, and suddenly thousandsturned up, eh? Do you know, gentlemen, you’re both afraid now ‘what ifhe won’t tell us where he got it?’ That’s just how it is. I’m not goingto tell you, gentlemen. You’ve guessed right. You’ll never know,” saidMitya, chipping out each word with extraordinary determination. Thelawyers were silent for a moment.
“You must understand, Mr. Karamazov, that it is of vital importance forus to know,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, softly and suavely.
“I understand; but still I won’t tell you.”
The prosecutor, too, intervened, and again reminded the prisoner thathe was at liberty to refuse to answer questions, if he thought it tohis interest, and so on. But in view of the damage he might do himselfby his silence, especially in a case of such importance as—
“And so on, gentlemen, and so on. Enough! I’ve heard that rigmarolebefore,” Mitya interrupted again. “I can see for myself how importantit is, and that this is the vital point, and still I won’t say.”
“What is it to us? It’s not our business, but yours. You are doingyourself harm,” observed Nikolay Parfenovitch nervously.
“You see, gentlemen, joking apart”—Mitya lifted his eyes and lookedfirmly at them both—“I had an inkling from the first that we shouldcome to loggerheads at this point. But at first when I began to give myevidence, it was all still far away and misty; it was all floating, andI was so simple that I began with the supposition of mutual confidenceexisting between us. Now I can see for myself that such confidence isout of the question, for in any case we were bound to come to thiscursed stumbling‐ block. And now we’ve come to it! It’s impossible andthere’s an end of it! But I don’t blame you. You can’t believe it allsimply on my word. I understand that, of course.”
He relapsed into gloomy silence.
“Couldn’t you, without abandoning your resolution to be silent aboutthe chief point, could you not, at the same time, give us some slighthint as to the nature of the motives which are strong enough to induceyou to refuse to answer, at a crisis so full of danger to you?”
Mitya smiled mournfully, almost dreamily.
“I’m much more good‐natured than you think, gentlemen. I’ll tell youthe reason why and give you that hint, though you don’t deserve it. Iwon’t speak of that, gentlemen, because it would be a stain on myhonor. The answer to the question where I got the money would expose meto far greater disgrace than the murder and robbing of my father, if Ihad murdered and robbed him. That’s why I can’t tell you. I can’t forfear of disgrace. What, gentlemen, are you going to write that down?”
“Yes, we’ll write it down,” lisped Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“You ought not to write that down about ‘disgrace.’ I only told youthat in the goodness of my heart. I needn’t have told you. I made you apresent of it, so to speak, and you pounce upon it at once. Oh, well,write—write what you like,” he concluded, with scornful disgust. “I’mnot afraid of you and I can still hold up my head before you.”
“And can’t you tell us the nature of that disgrace?” NikolayParfenovitch hazarded.
The prosecutor frowned darkly.
“No, no, _c’est fini_, don’t trouble yourselves. It’s not worth whilesoiling one’s hands. I have soiled myself enough through you as it is.You’re not worth it—no one is ... Enough, gentlemen. I’m not going on.”
This was said too peremptorily. Nikolay Parfenovitch did not insistfurther, but from Ippolit Kirillovitch’s eyes he saw that he had notgiven up hope.
“Can you not, at least, tell us what sum you had in your hands when youwent into Mr. Perhotin’s—how many roubles exactly?”
“I can’t tell you that.”
“You spoke to Mr. Perhotin, I believe, of having received threethousand from Madame Hohlakov.”
“Perhaps I did. Enough, gentlemen. I won’t say how much I had.”
“Will you be so good then as to tell us how you came here and what youhave done since you arrived?”
“Oh! you might ask the people here about that. But I’ll tell you if youlike.”
He proceeded to do so, but we won’t repeat his story. He told it drylyand curtly. Of the raptures of his love he said nothing, but told themthat he abandoned his determination to shoot himself, owing to “newfactors in the case.” He told the story without going into motives ordetails. And this time the lawyers did not worry him much. It wasobvious that there was no essential point of interest to them here.
“We shall verify all that. We will come back to it during theexamination of the witnesses, which will, of course, take place in yourpresence,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch in conclusion. “And now allow meto request you to lay on the table everything in your possession,especially all the money you still have about you.”
“My money, gentlemen? Certainly. I understand that that is necessary.I’m surprised, indeed, that you haven’t inquired about it before. It’strue I couldn’t get away anywhere. I’m sitting here where I can beseen. But here’s my money—count it—take it. That’s all, I think.”
He turned it all out of his pockets; even the small change—two piecesof twenty copecks—he pulled out of his waistcoat pocket. They countedthe money, which amounted to eight hundred and thirty‐six roubles, andforty copecks.
“And is that all?” asked the investigating lawyer.
“Yes.”
“You stated just now in your evidence that you spent three hundredroubles at Plotnikovs’. You gave Perhotin ten, your driver twenty, hereyou lost two hundred, then....”
Nikolay Parfenovitch reckoned it all up. Mitya helped him readily. Theyrecollected every farthing and included it in the reckoning. NikolayParfenovitch hurriedly added up the total.
“With this eight hundred you must have had about fifteen hundred atfirst?”
“I suppose so,” snapped Mitya.
“How is it they all assert there was much more?”
“Let them assert it.”
“But you asserted it yourself.”
“Yes, I did, too.”
“We will compare all this with the evidence of other persons not yetexamined. Don’t be anxious about your money. It will be properly takencare of and be at your disposal at the conclusion of ... what isbeginning ... if it appears, or, so to speak, is proved that you haveundisputed right to it. Well, and now....”
Nikolay Parfenovitch suddenly got up, and informed Mitya firmly that itwas his duty and obligation to conduct a minute and thorough search “ofyour clothes and everything else....”
“By all means, gentlemen. I’ll turn out all my pockets, if you like.”
And he did, in fact, begin turning out his pockets.
“It will be necessary to take off your clothes, too.”
“What! Undress? Ugh! Damn it! Won’t you search me as I am! Can’t you?”
“It’s utterly impossible, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You must take off yourclothes.”
“As you like,” Mitya submitted gloomily; “only, please, not here, butbehind the curtains. Who will search them?”
“Behind the curtains, of course.”
Nikolay Parfenovitch bent his head in assent. His small face wore anexpression of peculiar solemnity.



Chapter VI.The Prosecutor Catches Mitya

Something utterly unexpected and amazing to Mitya followed. He couldnever, even a minute before, have conceived that any one could behavelike that to him, Mitya Karamazov. What was worst of all, there wassomething humiliating in it, and on their side something “superciliousand scornful.” It was nothing to take off his coat, but he was asked toundress further, or rather not asked but “commanded,” he quiteunderstood that. From pride and contempt he submitted without a word.Several peasants accompanied the lawyers and remained on the same sideof the curtain. “To be ready if force is required,” thought Mitya, “andperhaps for some other reason, too.”
“Well, must I take off my shirt, too?” he asked sharply, but NikolayParfenovitch did not answer. He was busily engaged with the prosecutorin examining the coat, the trousers, the waistcoat and the cap; and itwas evident that they were both much interested in the scrutiny. “Theymake no bones about it,” thought Mitya, “they don’t keep up the mostelementary politeness.”
“I ask you for the second time—need I take off my shirt or not?” hesaid, still more sharply and irritably.
“Don’t trouble yourself. We will tell you what to do,” NikolayParfenovitch said, and his voice was positively peremptory, or so itseemed to Mitya.
Meantime a consultation was going on in undertones between the lawyers.There turned out to be on the coat, especially on the left side at theback, a huge patch of blood, dry, and still stiff. There werebloodstains on the trousers, too. Nikolay Parfenovitch, moreover, inthe presence of the peasant witnesses, passed his fingers along thecollar, the cuffs, and all the seams of the coat and trousers,obviously looking for something—money, of course. He didn’t even hidefrom Mitya his suspicion that he was capable of sewing money up in hisclothes.
“He treats me not as an officer but as a thief,” Mitya muttered tohimself. They communicated their ideas to one another with amazingfrankness. The secretary, for instance, who was also behind thecurtain, fussing about and listening, called Nikolay Parfenovitch’sattention to the cap, which they were also fingering.
“You remember Gridyenko, the copying‐clerk,” observed the secretary.“Last summer he received the wages of the whole office, and pretendedto have lost the money when he was drunk. And where was it found? Why,in just such pipings in his cap. The hundred‐rouble notes were screwedup in little rolls and sewed in the piping.”
Both the lawyers remembered Gridyenko’s case perfectly, and so laidaside Mitya’s cap, and decided that all his clothes must be morethoroughly examined later.
“Excuse me,” cried Nikolay Parfenovitch, suddenly, noticing that theright cuff of Mitya’s shirt was turned in, and covered with blood,“excuse me, what’s that, blood?”
“Yes,” Mitya jerked out.
“That is, what blood? ... and why is the cuff turned in?”
Mitya told him how he had got the sleeve stained with blood lookingafter Grigory, and had turned it inside when he was washing his handsat Perhotin’s.
“You must take off your shirt, too. That’s very important as materialevidence.”
Mitya flushed red and flew into a rage.
“What, am I to stay naked?” he shouted.
“Don’t disturb yourself. We will arrange something. And meanwhile takeoff your socks.”
“You’re not joking? Is that really necessary?” Mitya’s eyes flashed.
“We are in no mood for joking,” answered Nikolay Parfenovitch sternly.
“Well, if I must—” muttered Mitya, and sitting down on the bed, he tookoff his socks. He felt unbearably awkward. All were clothed, while hewas naked, and strange to say, when he was undressed he felt somehowguilty in their presence, and was almost ready to believe himself thathe was inferior to them, and that now they had a perfect right todespise him.
“When all are undressed, one is somehow not ashamed, but when one’s theonly one undressed and everybody is looking, it’s degrading,” he keptrepeating to himself, again and again. “It’s like a dream, I’vesometimes dreamed of being in such degrading positions.” It was amisery to him to take off his socks. They were very dirty, and so werehis underclothes, and now every one could see it. And what was worse,he disliked his feet. All his life he had thought both his big toeshideous. He particularly loathed the coarse, flat, crooked nail on theright one, and now they would all see it. Feeling intolerably ashamedmade him, at once and intentionally, rougher. He pulled off his shirt,himself.
“Would you like to look anywhere else if you’re not ashamed to?”
“No, there’s no need to, at present.”
“Well, am I to stay naked like this?” he added savagely.
“Yes, that can’t be helped for the time.... Kindly sit down here for awhile. You can wrap yourself in a quilt from the bed, and I ... I’llsee to all this.”
All the things were shown to the witnesses. The report of the searchwas drawn up, and at last Nikolay Parfenovitch went out, and theclothes were carried out after him. Ippolit Kirillovitch went out, too.Mitya was left alone with the peasants, who stood in silence, nevertaking their eyes off him. Mitya wrapped himself up in the quilt. Hefelt cold. His bare feet stuck out, and he couldn’t pull the quilt overso as to cover them. Nikolay Parfenovitch seemed to be gone a longtime, “an insufferable time.” “He thinks of me as a puppy,” thoughtMitya, gnashing his teeth. “That rotten prosecutor has gone, too,contemptuous no doubt, it disgusts him to see me naked!”
Mitya imagined, however, that his clothes would be examined andreturned to him. But what was his indignation when Nikolay Parfenovitchcame back with quite different clothes, brought in behind him by apeasant.
“Here are clothes for you,” he observed airily, seeming well satisfiedwith the success of his mission. “Mr. Kalganov has kindly providedthese for this unusual emergency, as well as a clean shirt. Luckily hehad them all in his trunk. You can keep your own socks andunderclothes.”
Mitya flew into a passion.
“I won’t have other people’s clothes!” he shouted menacingly, “give memy own!”
“It’s impossible!”
“Give me my own. Damn Kalganov and his clothes, too!”
It was a long time before they could persuade him. But they succeededsomehow in quieting him down. They impressed upon him that his clothes,being stained with blood, must be “included with the other materialevidence,” and that they “had not even the right to let him have themnow ... taking into consideration the possible outcome of the case.”Mitya at last understood this. He subsided into gloomy silence andhurriedly dressed himself. He merely observed, as he put them on, thatthe clothes were much better than his old ones, and that he disliked“gaining by the change.” The coat was, besides, “ridiculously tight. AmI to be dressed up like a fool ... for your amusement?”
They urged upon him again that he was exaggerating, that Kalganov wasonly a little taller, so that only the trousers might be a little toolong. But the coat turned out to be really tight in the shoulders.
“Damn it all! I can hardly button it,” Mitya grumbled. “Be so good asto tell Mr. Kalganov from me that I didn’t ask for his clothes, andit’s not my doing that they’ve dressed me up like a clown.”
“He understands that, and is sorry ... I mean, not sorry to lend youhis clothes, but sorry about all this business,” mumbled NikolayParfenovitch.
“Confound his sorrow! Well, where now? Am I to go on sitting here?”
He was asked to go back to the “other room.” Mitya went in, scowlingwith anger, and trying to avoid looking at any one. Dressed in anotherman’s clothes he felt himself disgraced, even in the eyes of thepeasants, and of Trifon Borissovitch, whose face appeared, for somereason, in the doorway, and vanished immediately. “He’s come to look atme dressed up,” thought Mitya. He sat down on the same chair as before.He had an absurd nightmarish feeling, as though he were out of hismind.
“Well, what now? Are you going to flog me? That’s all that’s left foryou,” he said, clenching his teeth and addressing the prosecutor. Hewould not turn to Nikolay Parfenovitch, as though he disdained to speakto him.
“He looked too closely at my socks, and turned them inside out onpurpose to show every one how dirty they were—the scoundrel!”
“Well, now we must proceed to the examination of witnesses,” observedNikolay Parfenovitch, as though in reply to Mitya’s question.
“Yes,” said the prosecutor thoughtfully, as though reflecting onsomething.
“We’ve done what we could in your interest, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,”Nikolay Parfenovitch went on, “but having received from you such anuncompromising refusal to explain to us the source from which youobtained the money found upon you, we are, at the present moment—”
“What is the stone in your ring?” Mitya interrupted suddenly, as thoughawakening from a reverie. He pointed to one of the three large ringsadorning Nikolay Parfenovitch’s right hand.
“Ring?” repeated Nikolay Parfenovitch with surprise.
“Yes, that one ... on your middle finger, with the little veins in it,what stone is that?” Mitya persisted, like a peevish child.
“That’s a smoky topaz,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, smiling. “Would youlike to look at it? I’ll take it off ...”
“No, don’t take it off,” cried Mitya furiously, suddenly waking up, andangry with himself. “Don’t take it off ... there’s no need.... Damnit!... Gentlemen, you’ve sullied my heart! Can you suppose that I wouldconceal it from you, if I had really killed my father, that I wouldshuffle, lie, and hide myself? No, that’s not like Dmitri Karamazov,that he couldn’t do, and if I were guilty, I swear I shouldn’t havewaited for your coming, or for the sunrise as I meant at first, butshould have killed myself before this, without waiting for the dawn! Iknow that about myself now. I couldn’t have learnt so much in twentyyears as I’ve found out in this accursed night!... And should I havebeen like this on this night, and at this moment, sitting with you,could I have talked like this, could I have moved like this, could Ihave looked at you and at the world like this, if I had really been themurderer of my father, when the very thought of having accidentallykilled Grigory gave me no peace all night—not from fear—oh, not simplyfrom fear of your punishment! The disgrace of it! And you expect me tobe open with such scoffers as you, who see nothing and believe innothing, blind moles and scoffers, and to tell you another nasty thingI’ve done, another disgrace, even if that would save me from youraccusation! No, better Siberia! The man who opened the door to myfather and went in at that door, he killed him, he robbed him. Who washe? I’m racking my brains and can’t think who. But I can tell you itwas not Dmitri Karamazov, and that’s all I can tell you, and that’senough, enough, leave me alone.... Exile me, punish me, but don’tbother me any more. I’ll say no more. Call your witnesses!”
Mitya uttered his sudden monologue as though he were determined to beabsolutely silent for the future. The prosecutor watched him the wholetime and only when he had ceased speaking, observed, as though it werethe most ordinary thing, with the most frigid and composed air:
“Oh, about the open door of which you spoke just now, we may as wellinform you, by the way, now, of a very interesting piece of evidence ofthe greatest importance both to you and to us, that has been given usby Grigory, the old man you wounded. On his recovery, he clearly andemphatically stated, in reply to our questions, that when, on comingout to the steps, and hearing a noise in the garden, he made up hismind to go into it through the little gate which stood open, before henoticed you running, as you have told us already, in the dark from theopen window where you saw your father, he, Grigory, glanced to theleft, and, while noticing the open window, observed at the same time,much nearer to him, the door, standing wide open—that door which youhave stated to have been shut the whole time you were in the garden. Iwill not conceal from you that Grigory himself confidently affirms andbears witness that you must have run from that door, though, of course,he did not see you do so with his own eyes, since he only noticed youfirst some distance away in the garden, running towards the fence.”
Mitya had leapt up from his chair half‐way through this speech.
“Nonsense!” he yelled, in a sudden frenzy, “it’s a barefaced lie. Hecouldn’t have seen the door open because it was shut. He’s lying!”
“I consider it my duty to repeat that he is firm in his statement. Hedoes not waver. He adheres to it. We’ve cross‐examined him severaltimes.”
“Precisely. I have cross‐examined him several times,” NikolayParfenovitch confirmed warmly.
“It’s false, false! It’s either an attempt to slander me, or thehallucination of a madman,” Mitya still shouted. “He’s simply raving,from loss of blood, from the wound. He must have fancied it when hecame to.... He’s raving.”
“Yes, but he noticed the open door, not when he came to after hisinjuries, but before that, as soon as he went into the garden from thelodge.”
“But it’s false, it’s false! It can’t be so! He’s slandering me fromspite.... He couldn’t have seen it ... I didn’t come from the door,”gasped Mitya.
The prosecutor turned to Nikolay Parfenovitch and said to himimpressively:
“Confront him with it.”
“Do you recognize this object?”
Nikolay Parfenovitch laid upon the table a large and thick officialenvelope, on which three seals still remained intact. The envelope wasempty, and slit open at one end. Mitya stared at it with open eyes.
“It ... it must be that envelope of my father’s, the envelope thatcontained the three thousand roubles ... and if there’s inscribed onit, allow me, ‘For my little chicken’ ... yes—three thousand!” heshouted, “do you see, three thousand, do you see?”
“Of course, we see. But we didn’t find the money in it. It was empty,and lying on the floor by the bed, behind the screen.”
For some seconds Mitya stood as though thunderstruck.
“Gentlemen, it’s Smerdyakov!” he shouted suddenly, at the top of hisvoice. “It’s he who’s murdered him! He’s robbed him! No one else knewwhere the old man hid the envelope. It’s Smerdyakov, that’s clear,now!”
“But you, too, knew of the envelope and that it was under the pillow.”
“I never knew it. I’ve never seen it. This is the first time I’velooked at it. I’d only heard of it from Smerdyakov.... He was the onlyone who knew where the old man kept it hidden, I didn’t know ...” Mityawas completely breathless.
“But you told us yourself that the envelope was under your deceasedfather’s pillow. You especially stated that it was under the pillow, soyou must have known it.”
“We’ve got it written down,” confirmed Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“Nonsense! It’s absurd! I’d no idea it was under the pillow. Andperhaps it wasn’t under the pillow at all.... It was just a chanceguess that it was under the pillow. What does Smerdyakov say? Have youasked him where it was? What does Smerdyakov say? that’s the chiefpoint.... And I went out of my way to tell lies against myself.... Itold you without thinking that it was under the pillow, and now you—Oh, you know how one says the wrong thing, without meaning it. No oneknew but Smerdyakov, only Smerdyakov, and no one else.... He didn’teven tell me where it was! But it’s his doing, his doing; there’s nodoubt about it, he murdered him, that’s as clear as daylight now,”Mitya exclaimed more and more frantically, repeating himselfincoherently, and growing more and more exasperated and excited. “Youmust understand that, and arrest him at once.... He must have killedhim while I was running away and while Grigory was unconscious, that’sclear now.... He gave the signal and father opened to him ... for noone but he knew the signal, and without the signal father would neverhave opened the door....”
“But you’re again forgetting the circumstance,” the prosecutorobserved, still speaking with the same restraint, though with a note oftriumph, “that there was no need to give the signal if the door alreadystood open when you were there, while you were in the garden....”
“The door, the door,” muttered Mitya, and he stared speechless at theprosecutor. He sank back helpless in his chair. All were silent.
“Yes, the door!... It’s a nightmare! God is against me!” he exclaimed,staring before him in complete stupefaction.
“Come, you see,” the prosecutor went on with dignity, “and you canjudge for yourself, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. On the one hand we have theevidence of the open door from which you ran out, a fact whichoverwhelms you and us. On the other side your incomprehensible,persistent, and, so to speak, obdurate silence with regard to thesource from which you obtained the money which was so suddenly seen inyour hands, when only three hours earlier, on your own showing, youpledged your pistols for the sake of ten roubles! In view of all thesefacts, judge for yourself. What are we to believe, and what can wedepend upon? And don’t accuse us of being ‘frigid, cynical, scoffingpeople,’ who are incapable of believing in the generous impulses ofyour heart.... Try to enter into our position ...”
Mitya was indescribably agitated. He turned pale.
“Very well!” he exclaimed suddenly. “I will tell you my secret. I’lltell you where I got the money!... I’ll reveal my shame, that I may nothave to blame myself or you hereafter.”
“And believe me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” put in Nikolay Parfenovitch, ina voice of almost pathetic delight, “that every sincere and completeconfession on your part at this moment may, later on, have an immenseinfluence in your favor, and may, indeed, moreover—”
But the prosecutor gave him a slight shove under the table, and hechecked himself in time. Mitya, it is true, had not heard him.



Chapter VII.Mitya’s Great Secret. Received With Hisses

“Gentlemen,” he began, still in the same agitation, “I want to make afull confession: that money was _my own_.” The lawyers’ faceslengthened. That was not at all what they expected.
“How do you mean?” faltered Nikolay Parfenovitch, “when at five o’clockon the same day, from your own confession—”
“Damn five o’clock on the same day and my own confession! That’snothing to do with it now! That money was my own, my own, that is,stolen by me ... not mine, I mean, but stolen by me, and it was fifteenhundred roubles, and I had it on me all the time, all the time ...”
“But where did you get it?”
“I took it off my neck, gentlemen, off this very neck ... it was here,round my neck, sewn up in a rag, and I’d had it round my neck a longtime, it’s a month since I put it round my neck ... to my shame anddisgrace!”
“And from whom did you ... appropriate it?”
“You mean, ‘steal it’? Speak out plainly now. Yes, I consider that Ipractically stole it, but, if you prefer, I ‘appropriated it.’ Iconsider I stole it. And last night I stole it finally.”
“Last night? But you said that it’s a month since you ... obtainedit?...”
“Yes. But not from my father. Not from my father, don’t be uneasy. Ididn’t steal it from my father, but from her. Let me tell you withoutinterrupting. It’s hard to do, you know. You see, a month ago, I wassent for by Katerina Ivanovna, formerly my betrothed. Do you know her?”
“Yes, of course.”
“I know you know her. She’s a noble creature, noblest of the noble. Butshe has hated me ever so long, oh, ever so long ... and hated me withgood reason, good reason!”
“Katerina Ivanovna!” Nikolay Parfenovitch exclaimed with wonder. Theprosecutor, too, stared.
“Oh, don’t take her name in vain! I’m a scoundrel to bring her into it.Yes, I’ve seen that she hated me ... a long while.... From the veryfirst, even that evening at my lodging ... but enough, enough. You’reunworthy even to know of that. No need of that at all.... I need onlytell you that she sent for me a month ago, gave me three thousandroubles to send off to her sister and another relation in Moscow (asthough she couldn’t have sent it off herself!) and I ... it was just atthat fatal moment in my life when I ... well, in fact, when I’d justcome to love another, her, she’s sitting down below now, Grushenka. Icarried her off here to Mokroe then, and wasted here in two days halfthat damned three thousand, but the other half I kept on me. Well, I’vekept that other half, that fifteen hundred, like a locket round myneck, but yesterday I undid it, and spent it. What’s left of it, eighthundred roubles, is in your hands now, Nikolay Parfenovitch. That’s thechange out of the fifteen hundred I had yesterday.”
“Excuse me. How’s that? Why, when you were here a month ago you spentthree thousand, not fifteen hundred, everybody knows that.”
“Who knows it? Who counted the money? Did I let any one count it?”
“Why, you told every one yourself that you’d spent exactly threethousand.”
“It’s true, I did. I told the whole town so, and the whole town saidso. And here, at Mokroe, too, every one reckoned it was three thousand.Yet I didn’t spend three thousand, but fifteen hundred. And the otherfifteen hundred I sewed into a little bag. That’s how it was,gentlemen. That’s where I got that money yesterday....”
“This is almost miraculous,” murmured Nikolay Parfenovitch.
“Allow me to inquire,” observed the prosecutor at last, “have youinformed any one whatever of this circumstance before, I mean that youhad fifteen hundred left about you a month ago?”
“I told no one.”
“That’s strange. Do you mean absolutely no one?”
“Absolutely no one. No one and nobody.”
“What was your reason for this reticence? What was your motive formaking such a secret of it? To be more precise: You have told us atlast your secret, in your words, so ‘disgraceful,’ though inreality—that is, of course, comparatively speaking—this action, thatis, the appropriation of three thousand roubles belonging to some oneelse, and, of course, only for a time is, in my view at least, only anact of the greatest recklessness and not so disgraceful, when one takesinto consideration your character.... Even admitting that it was anaction in the highest degree discreditable, still, discreditable is not‘disgraceful.’... Many people have already guessed, during this lastmonth, about the three thousand of Katerina Ivanovna’s, that you havespent, and I heard the legend myself, apart from your confession....Mihail Makarovitch, for instance, had heard it, too, so that indeed, itwas scarcely a legend, but the gossip of the whole town. There areindications, too, if I am not mistaken, that you confessed thisyourself to some one, I mean that the money was Katerina Ivanovna’s,and so, it’s extremely surprising to me that hitherto, that is, up tothe present moment, you have made such an extraordinary secret of thefifteen hundred you say you put by, apparently connecting a feeling ofpositive horror with that secret.... It’s not easy to believe that itcould cost you such distress to confess such a secret.... You criedout, just now, that Siberia would be better than confessing it ...”
The prosecutor ceased speaking. He was provoked. He did not conceal hisvexation, which was almost anger, and gave vent to all his accumulatedspleen, disconnectedly and incoherently, without choosing words.
“It’s not the fifteen hundred that’s the disgrace, but that I put itapart from the rest of the three thousand,” said Mitya firmly.
“Why?” smiled the prosecutor irritably. “What is there disgraceful, toyour thinking, in your having set aside half of the three thousand youhad discreditably, if you prefer, ‘disgracefully,’ appropriated? Yourtaking the three thousand is more important than what you did with it.And by the way, why did you do that—why did you set apart that half,for what purpose, for what object did you do it? Can you explain thatto us?”
“Oh, gentlemen, the purpose is the whole point!” cried Mitya. “I put itaside because I was vile, that is, because I was calculating, and to becalculating in such a case is vile ... and that vileness has been goingon a whole month.”
“It’s incomprehensible.”
“I wonder at you. But I’ll make it clearer. Perhaps it really isincomprehensible. You see, attend to what I say. I appropriate threethousand entrusted to my honor, I spend it on a spree, say I spend itall, and next morning I go to her and say, ‘Katya, I’ve done wrong,I’ve squandered your three thousand,’ well, is that right? No, it’s notright—it’s dishonest and cowardly, I’m a beast, with no moreself‐control than a beast, that’s so, isn’t it? But still I’m not athief? Not a downright thief, you’ll admit! I squandered it, but Ididn’t steal it. Now a second, rather more favorable alternative:follow me carefully, or I may get confused again—my head’s goinground—and so, for the second alternative: I spend here only fifteenhundred out of the three thousand, that is, only half. Next day I goand take that half to her: ‘Katya, take this fifteen hundred from me,I’m a low beast, and an untrustworthy scoundrel, for I’ve wasted halfthe money, and I shall waste this, too, so keep me from temptation!’Well, what of that alternative? I should be a beast and a scoundrel,and whatever you like; but not a thief, not altogether a thief, or Ishould not have brought back what was left, but have kept that, too.She would see at once that since I brought back half, I should pay backwhat I’d spent, that I should never give up trying to, that I shouldwork to get it and pay it back. So in that case I should be ascoundrel, but not a thief, you may say what you like, not a thief!”
“I admit that there is a certain distinction,” said the prosecutor,with a cold smile. “But it’s strange that you see such a vitaldifference.”
“Yes, I see a vital difference! Every man may be a scoundrel, andperhaps every man is a scoundrel, but not every one can be a thief, ittakes an arch‐scoundrel to be that. Oh, of course, I don’t know how tomake these fine distinctions ... but a thief is lower than a scoundrel,that’s my conviction. Listen, I carry the money about me a whole month,I may make up my mind to give it back to‐morrow, and I’m a scoundrel nolonger, but I cannot make up my mind, you see, though I’m making up mymind every day, and every day spurring myself on to do it, and yet fora whole month I can’t bring myself to it, you see. Is that right toyour thinking, is that right?”
“Certainly, that’s not right, that I can quite understand, and that Idon’t dispute,” answered the prosecutor with reserve. “And let us giveup all discussion of these subtleties and distinctions, and, if youwill be so kind, get back to the point. And the point is, that you havestill not told us, altogether we’ve asked you, why, in the first place,you halved the money, squandering one half and hiding the other? Forwhat purpose exactly did you hide it, what did you mean to do with thatfifteen hundred? I insist upon that question, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”
“Yes, of course!” cried Mitya, striking himself on the forehead;“forgive me, I’m worrying you, and am not explaining the chief point,or you’d understand in a minute, for it’s just the motive of it that’sthe disgrace! You see, it was all to do with the old man, my deadfather. He was always pestering Agrafena Alexandrovna, and I wasjealous; I thought then that she was hesitating between me and him. SoI kept thinking every day, suppose she were to make up her mind all ofa sudden, suppose she were to leave off tormenting me, and weresuddenly to say to me, ‘I love you, not him; take me to the other endof the world.’ And I’d only forty copecks; how could I take her away,what could I do? Why, I’d be lost. You see, I didn’t know her then, Ididn’t understand her, I thought she wanted money, and that shewouldn’t forgive my poverty. And so I fiendishly counted out the halfof that three thousand, sewed it up, calculating on it, sewed it upbefore I was drunk, and after I had sewn it up, I went off to get drunkon the rest. Yes, that was base. Do you understand now?”
Both the lawyers laughed aloud.
“I should have called it sensible and moral on your part not to havesquandered it all,” chuckled Nikolay Parfenovitch, “for after all whatdoes it amount to?”
“Why, that I stole it, that’s what it amounts to! Oh, God, you horrifyme by not understanding! Every day that I had that fifteen hundred sewnup round my neck, every day and every hour I said to myself, ‘You’re athief! you’re a thief!’ Yes, that’s why I’ve been so savage all thismonth, that’s why I fought in the tavern, that’s why I attacked myfather, it was because I felt I was a thief. I couldn’t make up mymind, I didn’t dare even to tell Alyosha, my brother, about thatfifteen hundred: I felt I was such a scoundrel and such a pickpocket.But, do you know, while I carried it I said to myself at the same timeevery hour: ‘No, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, you may yet not be a thief.’ Why?Because I might go next day and pay back that fifteen hundred to Katya.And only yesterday I made up my mind to tear my amulet off my neck, onmy way from Fenya’s to Perhotin. I hadn’t been able till that moment tobring myself to it. And it was only when I tore it off that I became adownright thief, a thief and a dishonest man for the rest of my life.Why? Because, with that I destroyed, too, my dream of going to Katyaand saying, ‘I’m a scoundrel, but not a thief!’ Do you understand now?Do you understand?”
“What was it made you decide to do it yesterday?” Nikolay Parfenovitchinterrupted.
“Why? It’s absurd to ask. Because I had condemned myself to die at fiveo’clock this morning, here, at dawn. I thought it made no differencewhether I died a thief or a man of honor. But I see it’s not so, itturns out that it does make a difference. Believe me, gentlemen, whathas tortured me most during this night has not been the thought thatI’d killed the old servant, and that I was in danger of Siberia justwhen my love was being rewarded, and Heaven was open to me again. Oh,that did torture me, but not in the same way: not so much as the damnedconsciousness that I had torn that damned money off my breast at lastand spent it, and had become a downright thief! Oh, gentlemen, I tellyou again, with a bleeding heart, I have learnt a great deal thisnight. I have learnt that it’s not only impossible to live a scoundrel,but impossible to die a scoundrel.... No, gentlemen, one must diehonest....”
Mitya was pale. His face had a haggard and exhausted look, in spite ofhis being intensely excited.
“I am beginning to understand you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” the prosecutorsaid slowly, in a soft and almost compassionate tone. “But all this, ifyou’ll excuse my saying so, is a matter of nerves, in my opinion ...your overwrought nerves, that’s what it is. And why, for instance,should you not have saved yourself such misery for almost a month, bygoing and returning that fifteen hundred to the lady who had entrustedit to you? And why could you not have explained things to her, and inview of your position, which you describe as being so awful, why couldyou not have had recourse to the plan which would so naturally haveoccurred to one’s mind, that is, after honorably confessing your errorsto her, why could you not have asked her to lend you the sum needed foryour expenses, which, with her generous heart, she would certainly nothave refused you in your distress, especially if it had been with someguarantee, or even on the security you offered to the merchantSamsonov, and to Madame Hohlakov? I suppose you still regard thatsecurity as of value?”
Mitya suddenly crimsoned.
“Surely you don’t think me such an out and out scoundrel as that? Youcan’t be speaking in earnest?” he said, with indignation, looking theprosecutor straight in the face, and seeming unable to believe hisears.
“I assure you I’m in earnest.... Why do you imagine I’m not serious?”It was the prosecutor’s turn to be surprised.
“Oh, how base that would have been! Gentlemen, do you know, you aretorturing me! Let me tell you everything, so be it. I’ll confess all myinfernal wickedness, but to put you to shame, and you’ll be surprisedyourselves at the depth of ignominy to which a medley of human passionscan sink. You must know that I already had that plan myself, that planyou spoke of, just now, prosecutor! Yes, gentlemen, I, too, have hadthat thought in my mind all this current month, so that I was on thepoint of deciding to go to Katya—I was mean enough for that. But to goto her, to tell her of my treachery, and for that very treachery, tocarry it out, for the expenses of that treachery, to beg for money fromher, Katya (to beg, do you hear, to beg), and go straight from her torun away with the other, the rival, who hated and insulted her—to thinkof it! You must be mad, prosecutor!”
“Mad I am not, but I did speak in haste, without thinking ... of thatfeminine jealousy ... if there could be jealousy in this case, as youassert ... yes, perhaps there is something of the kind,” said theprosecutor, smiling.
“But that would have been so infamous!” Mitya brought his fist down onthe table fiercely. “That would have been filthy beyond everything!Yes, do you know that she might have given me that money, yes, and shewould have given it, too; she’d have been certain to give it, to berevenged on me, she’d have given it to satisfy her vengeance, to showher contempt for me, for hers is an infernal nature, too, and she’s awoman of great wrath. I’d have taken the money, too, oh, I should havetaken it; I should have taken it, and then, for the rest of my life ...oh, God! Forgive me, gentlemen, I’m making such an outcry because I’vehad that thought in my mind so lately, only the day before yesterday,that night when I was having all that bother with Lyagavy, andafterwards yesterday, all day yesterday, I remember, till that happened...”
“Till what happened?” put in Nikolay Parfenovitch inquisitively, butMitya did not hear it.
“I have made you an awful confession,” Mitya said gloomily inconclusion. “You must appreciate it, and what’s more, you must respectit, for if not, if that leaves your souls untouched, then you’ve simplyno respect for me, gentlemen, I tell you that, and I shall die of shameat having confessed it to men like you! Oh, I shall shoot myself! Yes,I see, I see already that you don’t believe me. What, you want to writethat down, too?” he cried in dismay.
“Yes, what you said just now,” said Nikolay Parfenovitch, looking athim in surprise, “that is, that up to the last hour you were stillcontemplating going to Katerina Ivanovna to beg that sum from her.... Iassure you, that’s a very important piece of evidence for us, DmitriFyodorovitch, I mean for the whole case ... and particularly for you,particularly important for you.”
“Have mercy, gentlemen!” Mitya flung up his hands. “Don’t write that,anyway; have some shame. Here I’ve torn my heart asunder before you,and you seize the opportunity and are fingering the wounds in bothhalves.... Oh, my God!”
In despair he hid his face in his hands.
“Don’t worry yourself so, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” observed theprosecutor, “everything that is written down will be read over to youafterwards, and what you don’t agree to we’ll alter as you like. Butnow I’ll ask you one little question for the second time. Has no one,absolutely no one, heard from you of that money you sewed up? That, Imust tell you, is almost impossible to believe.”
“No one, no one, I told you so before, or you’ve not understoodanything! Let me alone!”
“Very well, this matter is bound to be explained, and there’s plenty oftime for it, but meantime, consider; we have perhaps a dozen witnessesthat you yourself spread it abroad, and even shouted almost everywhereabout the three thousand you’d spent here; three thousand, not fifteenhundred. And now, too, when you got hold of the money you hadyesterday, you gave many people to understand that you had broughtthree thousand with you.”
“You’ve got not dozens, but hundreds of witnesses, two hundredwitnesses, two hundred have heard it, thousands have heard it!” criedMitya.
“Well, you see, all bear witness to it. And the word _all_ meanssomething.”
“It means nothing. I talked rot, and every one began repeating it.”
“But what need had you to ‘talk rot,’ as you call it?”
“The devil knows. From bravado perhaps ... at having wasted so muchmoney.... To try and forget that money I had sewn up, perhaps ... yes,that was why ... damn it ... how often will you ask me that question?Well, I told a fib, and that was the end of it, once I’d said it, Ididn’t care to correct it. What does a man tell lies for sometimes?”
“That’s very difficult to decide, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, what makes a mantell lies,” observed the prosecutor impressively. “Tell me, though, wasthat ‘amulet,’ as you call it, on your neck, a big thing?”
“No, not big.”
“How big, for instance?”
“If you fold a hundred‐rouble note in half, that would be the size.”
“You’d better show us the remains of it. You must have them somewhere.”
“Damnation, what nonsense! I don’t know where they are.”
“But excuse me: where and when did you take it off your neck? Accordingto your own evidence you didn’t go home.”
“When I was going from Fenya’s to Perhotin’s, on the way I tore it offmy neck and took out the money.”
“In the dark?”
“What should I want a light for? I did it with my fingers in oneminute.”
“Without scissors, in the street?”
“In the market‐place I think it was. Why scissors? It was an old rag.It was torn in a minute.”
“Where did you put it afterwards?”
“I dropped it there.”
“Where was it, exactly?”
“In the market‐place, in the market‐place! The devil knows whereabouts.What do you want to know for?”
“That’s extremely important, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. It would be materialevidence in your favor. How is it you don’t understand that? Who helpedyou to sew it up a month ago?”
“No one helped me. I did it myself.”
“Can you sew?”
“A soldier has to know how to sew. No knowledge was needed to do that.”
“Where did you get the material, that is, the rag in which you sewedthe money?”
“Are you laughing at me?”
“Not at all. And we are in no mood for laughing, Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”
“I don’t know where I got the rag from—somewhere, I suppose.”
“I should have thought you couldn’t have forgotten it?”
“Upon my word, I don’t remember. I might have torn a bit off my linen.”
“That’s very interesting. We might find in your lodgings to‐morrow theshirt or whatever it is from which you tore the rag. What sort of ragwas it, cloth or linen?”
“Goodness only knows what it was. Wait a bit.... I believe I didn’ttear it off anything. It was a bit of calico.... I believe I sewed itup in a cap of my landlady’s.”
“In your landlady’s cap?”
“Yes. I took it from her.”
“How did you get it?”
“You see, I remember once taking a cap for a rag, perhaps to wipe mypen on. I took it without asking, because it was a worthless rag. Itore it up, and I took the notes and sewed them up in it. I believe itwas in that very rag I sewed them. An old piece of calico, washed athousand times.”
“And you remember that for certain now?”
“I don’t know whether for certain. I think it was in the cap. But, hangit, what does it matter?”
“In that case your landlady will remember that the thing was lost?”
“No, she won’t, she didn’t miss it. It was an old rag, I tell you, anold rag not worth a farthing.”
“And where did you get the needle and thread?”
“I’ll stop now. I won’t say any more. Enough of it!” said Mitya, losinghis temper at last.
“It’s strange that you should have so completely forgotten where youthrew the pieces in the market‐place.”
“Give orders for the market‐place to be swept to‐morrow, and perhapsyou’ll find it,” said Mitya, sneering. “Enough, gentlemen, enough!” hedecided, in an exhausted voice. “I see you don’t believe me! Not for amoment! It’s my fault, not yours. I ought not to have been so ready.Why, why did I degrade myself by confessing my secret to you? It’s ajoke to you. I see that from your eyes. You led me on to it,prosecutor? Sing a hymn of triumph if you can.... Damn you, youtorturers!”
He bent his head, and hid his face in his hands. The lawyers weresilent. A minute later he raised his head and looked at them almostvacantly. His face now expressed complete, hopeless despair, and he satmute and passive as though hardly conscious of what was happening. Inthe meantime they had to finish what they were about. They hadimmediately to begin examining the witnesses. It was by now eighto’clock in the morning. The lights had been extinguished long ago.Mihail Makarovitch and Kalganov, who had been continually in and out ofthe room all the while the interrogation had been going on, had nowboth gone out again. The lawyers, too, looked very tired. It was awretched morning, the whole sky was overcast, and the rain streameddown in bucketfuls. Mitya gazed blankly out of the window.
“May I look out of the window?” he asked Nikolay Parfenovitch,suddenly.
“Oh, as much as you like,” the latter replied.
Mitya got up and went to the window.... The rain lashed against itslittle greenish panes. He could see the muddy road just below thehouse, and farther away, in the rain and mist, a row of poor, black,dismal huts, looking even blacker and poorer in the rain. Mitya thoughtof “Phœbus the golden‐haired,” and how he had meant to shoot himself athis first ray. “Perhaps it would be even better on a morning likethis,” he thought with a smile, and suddenly, flinging his handdownwards, he turned to his “torturers.”
“Gentlemen,” he cried, “I see that I am lost! But she? Tell me abouther, I beseech you. Surely she need not be ruined with me? She’sinnocent, you know, she was out of her mind when she cried last night‘It’s all my fault!’ She’s done nothing, nothing! I’ve been grievingover her all night as I sat with you.... Can’t you, won’t you tell mewhat you are going to do with her now?”
“You can set your mind quite at rest on that score, DmitriFyodorovitch,” the prosecutor answered at once, with evident alacrity.“We have, so far, no grounds for interfering with the lady in whom youare so interested. I trust that it may be the same in the laterdevelopment of the case.... On the contrary, we’ll do everything thatlies in our power in that matter. Set your mind completely at rest.”
“Gentlemen, I thank you. I knew that you were honest, straight‐forwardpeople in spite of everything. You’ve taken a load off my heart....Well, what are we to do now? I’m ready.”
“Well, we ought to make haste. We must pass to examining the witnesseswithout delay. That must be done in your presence and therefore—”
“Shouldn’t we have some tea first?” interposed Nikolay Parfenovitch, “Ithink we’ve deserved it!”
They decided that if tea were ready downstairs (Mihail Makarovitch had,no doubt, gone down to get some) they would have a glass and then “goon and on,” putting off their proper breakfast until a more favorableopportunity. Tea really was ready below, and was soon brought up. Mityaat first refused the glass that Nikolay Parfenovitch politely offeredhim, but afterwards he asked for it himself and drank it greedily. Helooked surprisingly exhausted. It might have been supposed from hisHerculean strength that one night of carousing, even accompanied by themost violent emotions, could have had little effect on him. But he feltthat he could hardly hold his head up, and from time to time all theobjects about him seemed heaving and dancing before his eyes. “A littlemore and I shall begin raving,” he said to himself.



Chapter VIII.The Evidence Of The Witnesses. The Babe

The examination of the witnesses began. But we will not continue ourstory in such detail as before. And so we will not dwell on how NikolayParfenovitch impressed on every witness called that he must give hisevidence in accordance with truth and conscience, and that he wouldafterwards have to repeat his evidence on oath, how every witness wascalled upon to sign the protocol of his evidence, and so on. We willonly note that the point principally insisted upon in the examinationwas the question of the three thousand roubles, that is, was the sumspent here, at Mokroe, by Mitya on the first occasion, a month before,three thousand or fifteen hundred? And again had he spent threethousand or fifteen hundred yesterday? Alas, all the evidence given byevery one turned out to be against Mitya. There was not one in hisfavor, and some witnesses introduced new, almost crushing facts, incontradiction of his, Mitya’s, story.
The first witness examined was Trifon Borissovitch. He was not in theleast abashed as he stood before the lawyers. He had, on the contrary,an air of stern and severe indignation with the accused, which gave himan appearance of truthfulness and personal dignity. He spoke little,and with reserve, waited to be questioned, answered precisely anddeliberately. Firmly and unhesitatingly he bore witness that the sumspent a month before could not have been less than three thousand, thatall the peasants about here would testify that they had heard the sumof three thousand mentioned by Dmitri Fyodorovitch himself. “What a lotof money he flung away on the gypsy girls alone! He wasted a thousand,I daresay, on them alone.”
“I don’t believe I gave them five hundred,” was Mitya’s gloomy commenton this. “It’s a pity I didn’t count the money at the time, but I wasdrunk....”
Mitya was sitting sideways with his back to the curtains. He listenedgloomily, with a melancholy and exhausted air, as though he would say:
“Oh, say what you like. It makes no difference now.”
“More than a thousand went on them, Dmitri Fyodorovitch,” retortedTrifon Borissovitch firmly. “You flung it about at random and theypicked it up. They were a rascally, thievish lot, horse‐stealers,they’ve been driven away from here, or maybe they’d bear witnessthemselves how much they got from you. I saw the sum in your hands,myself—count it I didn’t, you didn’t let me, that’s true enough—but bythe look of it I should say it was far more than fifteen hundred ...fifteen hundred, indeed! We’ve seen money too. We can judge ofamounts....”
As for the sum spent yesterday he asserted that Dmitri Fyodorovitch hadtold him, as soon as he arrived, that he had brought three thousandwith him.
“Come now, is that so, Trifon Borissovitch?” replied Mitya. “Surely Ididn’t declare so positively that I’d brought three thousand?”
“You did say so, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You said it before Andrey. Andreyhimself is still here. Send for him. And in the hall, when you weretreating the chorus, you shouted straight out that you would leave yoursixth thousand here—that is with what you spent before, we mustunderstand. Stepan and Semyon heard it, and Pyotr Fomitch Kalganov,too, was standing beside you at the time. Maybe he’d remember it....”
The evidence as to the “sixth” thousand made an extraordinaryimpression on the two lawyers. They were delighted with this new modeof reckoning; three and three made six, three thousand then and threenow made six, that was clear.
They questioned all the peasants suggested by Trifon Borissovitch,Stepan and Semyon, the driver Andrey, and Kalganov. The peasants andthe driver unhesitatingly confirmed Trifon Borissovitch’s evidence.They noted down, with particular care, Andrey’s account of theconversation he had had with Mitya on the road: “ ‘Where,’ says he, ‘amI, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, going, to heaven or to hell, and shall I beforgiven in the next world or not?’ ”
The psychological Ippolit Kirillovitch heard this with a subtle smile,and ended by recommending that these remarks as to where DmitriFyodorovitch would go should be “included in the case.”
Kalganov, when called, came in reluctantly, frowning and ill‐humored,and he spoke to the lawyers as though he had never met them before inhis life, though they were acquaintances whom he had been meeting everyday for a long time past. He began by saying that “he knew nothingabout it and didn’t want to.” But it appeared that he had heard of the“sixth” thousand, and he admitted that he had been standing close by atthe moment. As far as he could see he “didn’t know” how much moneyMitya had in his hands. He affirmed that the Poles had cheated atcards. In reply to reiterated questions he stated that, after the Poleshad been turned out, Mitya’s position with Agrafena Alexandrovna hadcertainly improved, and that she had said that she loved him. He spokeof Agrafena Alexandrovna with reserve and respect, as though she hadbeen a lady of the best society, and did not once allow himself to callher Grushenka. In spite of the young man’s obvious repugnance at givingevidence, Ippolit Kirillovitch examined him at great length, and onlyfrom him learnt all the details of what made up Mitya’s “romance,” soto say, on that night. Mitya did not once pull Kalganov up. At lastthey let the young man go, and he left the room with unconcealedindignation.
The Poles, too, were examined. Though they had gone to bed in theirroom, they had not slept all night, and on the arrival of the policeofficers they hastily dressed and got ready, realizing that they wouldcertainly be sent for. They gave their evidence with dignity, thoughnot without some uneasiness. The little Pole turned out to be a retiredofficial of the twelfth class, who had served in Siberia as aveterinary surgeon. His name was Mussyalovitch. Pan Vrublevsky turnedout to be an uncertificated dentist. Although Nikolay Parfenovitchasked them questions on entering the room they both addressed theiranswers to Mihail Makarovitch, who was standing on one side, taking himin their ignorance for the most important person and in command, andaddressed him at every word as “Pan Colonel.” Only after severalreproofs from Mihail Makarovitch himself, they grasped that they had toaddress their answers to Nikolay Parfenovitch only. It turned out thatthey could speak Russian quite correctly except for their accent insome words. Of his relations with Grushenka, past and present, PanMussyalovitch spoke proudly and warmly, so that Mitya was roused atonce and declared that he would not allow the “scoundrel” to speak likethat in his presence! Pan Mussyalovitch at once called attention to theword “scoundrel” and begged that it should be put down in the protocol.Mitya fumed with rage.
“He’s a scoundrel! A scoundrel! You can put that down. And put down,too, that, in spite of the protocol I still declare that he’s ascoundrel!” he cried.
Though Nikolay Parfenovitch did insert this in the protocol, he showedthe most praiseworthy tact and management. After sternly reprimandingMitya, he cut short all further inquiry into the romantic aspect of thecase, and hastened to pass to what was essential. One piece of evidencegiven by the Poles roused special interest in the lawyers: that washow, in that very room, Mitya had tried to buy off Pan Mussyalovitch,and had offered him three thousand roubles to resign his claims, sevenhundred roubles down, and the remaining two thousand three hundred “tobe paid next day in the town.” He had sworn at the time that he had notthe whole sum with him at Mokroe, but that his money was in the town.Mitya observed hotly that he had not said that he would be sure to payhim the remainder next day in the town. But Pan Vrublevsky confirmedthe statement, and Mitya, after thinking for a moment admitted,frowning, that it must have been as the Poles stated, that he had beenexcited at the time, and might indeed have said so.
The prosecutor positively pounced on this piece of evidence. It seemedto establish for the prosecution (and they did, in fact, base thisdeduction on it) that half, or a part of, the three thousand that hadcome into Mitya’s hands might really have been left somewhere hidden inthe town, or even, perhaps, somewhere here, in Mokroe. This wouldexplain the circumstance, so baffling for the prosecution, that onlyeight hundred roubles were to be found in Mitya’s hands. Thiscircumstance had been the one piece of evidence which, insignificant asit was, had hitherto told, to some extent, in Mitya’s favor. Now thisone piece of evidence in his favor had broken down. In answer to theprosecutor’s inquiry, where he would have got the remaining twothousand three hundred roubles, since he himself had denied having morethan fifteen hundred, Mitya confidently replied that he had meant tooffer the “little chap,” not money, but a formal deed of conveyance ofhis rights to the village of Tchermashnya, those rights which he hadalready offered to Samsonov and Madame Hohlakov. The prosecutorpositively smiled at the “innocence of this subterfuge.”
“And you imagine he would have accepted such a deed as a substitute fortwo thousand three hundred roubles in cash?”
“He certainly would have accepted it,” Mitya declared warmly. “Why,look here, he might have grabbed not two thousand, but four or six, forit. He would have put his lawyers, Poles and Jews, on to the job, andmight have got, not three thousand, but the whole property out of theold man.”
The evidence of Pan Mussyalovitch was, of course, entered in theprotocol in the fullest detail. Then they let the Poles go. Theincident of the cheating at cards was hardly touched upon. NikolayParfenovitch was too well pleased with them, as it was, and did notwant to worry them with trifles, moreover, it was nothing but afoolish, drunken quarrel over cards. There had been drinking anddisorder enough, that night.... So the two hundred roubles remained inthe pockets of the Poles.
Then old Maximov was summoned. He came in timidly, approached withlittle steps, looking very disheveled and depressed. He had, all thistime, taken refuge below with Grushenka, sitting dumbly beside her, and“now and then he’d begin blubbering over her and wiping his eyes with ablue check handkerchief,” as Mihail Makarovitch described afterwards.So that she herself began trying to pacify and comfort him. The old manat once confessed that he had done wrong, that he had borrowed “tenroubles in my poverty,” from Dmitri Fyodorovitch, and that he was readyto pay it back. To Nikolay Parfenovitch’s direct question, had henoticed how much money Dmitri Fyodorovitch held in his hand, as he musthave been able to see the sum better than any one when he took the notefrom him, Maximov, in the most positive manner, declared that there wastwenty thousand.
“Have you ever seen so much as twenty thousand before, then?” inquiredNikolay Parfenovitch, with a smile.
“To be sure I have, not twenty, but seven, when my wife mortgaged mylittle property. She’d only let me look at it from a distance, boastingof it to me. It was a very thick bundle, all rainbow‐colored notes. AndDmitri Fyodorovitch’s were all rainbow‐colored....”
He was not kept long. At last it was Grushenka’s turn. NikolayParfenovitch was obviously apprehensive of the effect her appearancemight have on Mitya, and he muttered a few words of admonition to him,but Mitya bowed his head in silence, giving him to understand “that hewould not make a scene.” Mihail Makarovitch himself led Grushenka in.She entered with a stern and gloomy face, that looked almost composedand sat down quietly on the chair offered her by Nikolay Parfenovitch.She was very pale, she seemed to be cold, and wrapped herself closelyin her magnificent black shawl. She was suffering from a slightfeverish chill—the first symptom of the long illness which followedthat night. Her grave air, her direct earnest look and quiet mannermade a very favorable impression on every one. Nikolay Parfenovitch waseven a little bit “fascinated.” He admitted himself, when talking aboutit afterwards, that only then had he seen “how handsome the woman was,”for, though he had seen her several times before, he had always lookedupon her as something of a “provincial hetaira.” “She has the mannersof the best society,” he said enthusiastically, gossiping about her ina circle of ladies. But this was received with positive indignation bythe ladies, who immediately called him a “naughty man,” to his greatsatisfaction.
As she entered the room, Grushenka only glanced for an instant atMitya, who looked at her uneasily. But her face reassured him at once.After the first inevitable inquiries and warnings, Nikolay Parfenovitchasked her, hesitating a little, but preserving the most courteousmanner, on what terms she was with the retired lieutenant, DmitriFyodorovitch Karamazov. To this Grushenka firmly and quietly replied:
“He was an acquaintance. He came to see me as an acquaintance duringthe last month.” To further inquisitive questions she answered plainlyand with complete frankness, that, though “at times” she had thoughthim attractive, she had not loved him, but had won his heart as well ashis old father’s “in my nasty spite,” that she had seen that Mitya wasvery jealous of Fyodor Pavlovitch and every one else; but that had onlyamused her. She had never meant to go to Fyodor Pavlovitch, she hadsimply been laughing at him. “I had no thoughts for either of them allthis last month. I was expecting another man who had wronged me. But Ithink,” she said in conclusion, “that there’s no need for you toinquire about that, nor for me to answer you, for that’s my ownaffair.”
Nikolay Parfenovitch immediately acted upon this hint. He againdismissed the “romantic” aspect of the case and passed to the seriousone, that is, to the question of most importance, concerning the threethousand roubles. Grushenka confirmed the statement that three thousandroubles had certainly been spent on the first carousal at Mokroe, and,though she had not counted the money herself, she had heard that it wasthree thousand from Dmitri Fyodorovitch’s own lips.
“Did he tell you that alone, or before some one else, or did you onlyhear him speak of it to others in your presence?” the prosecutorinquired immediately.
To which Grushenka replied that she had heard him say so before otherpeople, and had heard him say so when they were alone.
“Did he say it to you alone once, or several times?” inquired theprosecutor, and learned that he had told Grushenka so several times.
Ippolit Kirillovitch was very well satisfied with this piece ofevidence. Further examination elicited that Grushenka knew, too, wherethat money had come from, and that Dmitri Fyodorovitch had got it fromKaterina Ivanovna.
“And did you never, once, hear that the money spent a month ago was notthree thousand, but less, and that Dmitri Fyodorovitch had saved halfthat sum for his own use?”
“No, I never heard that,” answered Grushenka.
It was explained further that Mitya had, on the contrary, often toldher that he hadn’t a farthing.
“He was always expecting to get some from his father,” said Grushenkain conclusion.
“Did he never say before you ... casually, or in a moment ofirritation,” Nikolay Parfenovitch put in suddenly, “that he intended tomake an attempt on his father’s life?”
“Ach, he did say so,” sighed Grushenka.
“Once or several times?”
“He mentioned it several times, always in anger.”
“And did you believe he would do it?”
“No, I never believed it,” she answered firmly. “I had faith in hisnoble heart.”
“Gentlemen, allow me,” cried Mitya suddenly, “allow me to say one wordto Agrafena Alexandrovna, in your presence.”
“You can speak,” Nikolay Parfenovitch assented.
“Agrafena Alexandrovna!” Mitya got up from his chair, “have faith inGod and in me. I am not guilty of my father’s murder!”
Having uttered these words Mitya sat down again on his chair. Grushenkastood up and crossed herself devoutly before the ikon. “Thanks be toThee, O Lord,” she said, in a voice thrilled with emotion, and stillstanding, she turned to Nikolay Parfenovitch and added:
“As he has spoken now, believe it! I know him. He’ll say anything as ajoke or from obstinacy, but he’ll never deceive you against hisconscience. He’s telling the whole truth, you may believe it.”
“Thanks, Agrafena Alexandrovna, you’ve given me fresh courage,” Mityaresponded in a quivering voice.
As to the money spent the previous day, she declared that she did notknow what sum it was, but had heard him tell several people that he hadthree thousand with him. And to the question where he got the money,she said that he had told her that he had “stolen” it from KaterinaIvanovna, and that she had replied to that that he hadn’t stolen it,and that he must pay the money back next day. On the prosecutor’sasking her emphatically whether the money he said he had stolen fromKaterina Ivanovna was what he had spent yesterday, or what he hadsquandered here a month ago, she declared that he meant the money spenta month ago, and that that was how she understood him.
Grushenka was at last released, and Nikolay Parfenovitch informed herimpulsively that she might at once return to the town and that if hecould be of any assistance to her, with horses for example, or if shewould care for an escort, he ... would be—
“I thank you sincerely,” said Grushenka, bowing to him, “I’m going withthis old gentleman, I am driving him back to town with me, andmeanwhile, if you’ll allow me, I’ll wait below to hear what you decideabout Dmitri Fyodorovitch.”
She went out. Mitya was calm, and even looked more cheerful, but onlyfor a moment. He felt more and more oppressed by a strange physicalweakness. His eyes were closing with fatigue. The examination of thewitnesses was, at last, over. They proceeded to a final revision of theprotocol. Mitya got up, moved from his chair to the corner by thecurtain, lay down on a large chest covered with a rug, and instantlyfell asleep.
He had a strange dream, utterly out of keeping with the place and thetime.
He was driving somewhere in the steppes, where he had been stationedlong ago, and a peasant was driving him in a cart with a pair ofhorses, through snow and sleet. He was cold, it was early in November,and the snow was falling in big wet flakes, melting as soon as ittouched the earth. And the peasant drove him smartly, he had a fair,long beard. He was not an old man, somewhere about fifty, and he had ona gray peasant’s smock. Not far off was a village, he could see theblack huts, and half the huts were burnt down, there were only thecharred beams sticking up. And as they drove in, there were peasantwomen drawn up along the road, a lot of women, a whole row, all thinand wan, with their faces a sort of brownish color, especially one atthe edge, a tall, bony woman, who looked forty, but might have beenonly twenty, with a long thin face. And in her arms was a little babycrying. And her breasts seemed so dried up that there was not a drop ofmilk in them. And the child cried and cried, and held out its littlebare arms, with its little fists blue from cold.
“Why are they crying? Why are they crying?” Mitya asked, as they dashedgayly by.
“It’s the babe,” answered the driver, “the babe weeping.”
And Mitya was struck by his saying, in his peasant way, “the babe,” andhe liked the peasant’s calling it a “babe.” There seemed more pity init.
“But why is it weeping?” Mitya persisted stupidly, “why are its littlearms bare? Why don’t they wrap it up?”
“The babe’s cold, its little clothes are frozen and don’t warm it.”
“But why is it? Why?” foolish Mitya still persisted.
“Why, they’re poor people, burnt out. They’ve no bread. They’re beggingbecause they’ve been burnt out.”
“No, no,” Mitya, as it were, still did not understand. “Tell me why itis those poor mothers stand there? Why are people poor? Why is the babepoor? Why is the steppe barren? Why don’t they hug each other and kiss?Why don’t they sing songs of joy? Why are they so dark from blackmisery? Why don’t they feed the babe?”
And he felt that, though his questions were unreasonable and senseless,yet he wanted to ask just that, and he had to ask it just in that way.And he felt that a passion of pity, such as he had never known before,was rising in his heart, that he wanted to cry, that he wanted to dosomething for them all, so that the babe should weep no more, so thatthe dark‐ faced, dried‐up mother should not weep, that no one shouldshed tears again from that moment, and he wanted to do it at once, atonce, regardless of all obstacles, with all the recklessness of theKaramazovs.
“And I’m coming with you. I won’t leave you now for the rest of mylife, I’m coming with you,” he heard close beside him Grushenka’stender voice, thrilling with emotion. And his heart glowed, and hestruggled forward towards the light, and he longed to live, to live, togo on and on, towards the new, beckoning light, and to hasten, hasten,now, at once!
“What! Where?” he exclaimed opening his eyes, and sitting up on thechest, as though he had revived from a swoon, smiling brightly. NikolayParfenovitch was standing over him, suggesting that he should hear theprotocol read aloud and sign it. Mitya guessed that he had been asleepan hour or more, but he did not hear Nikolay Parfenovitch. He wassuddenly struck by the fact that there was a pillow under his head,which hadn’t been there when he had leant back, exhausted, on thechest.
“Who put that pillow under my head? Who was so kind?” he cried, with asort of ecstatic gratitude, and tears in his voice, as though somegreat kindness had been shown him.
He never found out who this kind man was; perhaps one of the peasantwitnesses, or Nikolay Parfenovitch’s little secretary, hadcompassionately thought to put a pillow under his head; but his wholesoul was quivering with tears. He went to the table and said that hewould sign whatever they liked.
“I’ve had a good dream, gentlemen,” he said in a strange voice, with anew light, as of joy, in his face.



Chapter IX.They Carry Mitya Away

When the protocol had been signed, Nikolay Parfenovitch turned solemnlyto the prisoner and read him the “Committal,” setting forth, that insuch a year, on such a day, in such a place, the investigating lawyerof such‐ and‐such a district court, having examined so‐and‐so (to wit,Mitya) accused of this and of that (all the charges were carefullywritten out) and having considered that the accused, not pleadingguilty to the charges made against him, had brought forward nothing inhis defense, while the witnesses, so‐and‐so, and so‐and‐so, and thecircumstances such‐and‐such testify against him, acting in accordancewith such‐and‐such articles of the Statute Book, and so on, has ruled,that, in order to preclude so‐and‐ so (Mitya) from all means of evadingpursuit and judgment he be detained in such‐and‐such a prison, which hehereby notifies to the accused and communicates a copy of this same“Committal” to the deputy prosecutor, and so on, and so on.
In brief, Mitya was informed that he was, from that moment, a prisoner,and that he would be driven at once to the town, and there shut up in avery unpleasant place. Mitya listened attentively, and only shruggedhis shoulders.
“Well, gentlemen, I don’t blame you. I’m ready.... I understand thatthere’s nothing else for you to do.”
Nikolay Parfenovitch informed him gently that he would be escorted atonce by the rural police officer, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, who happenedto be on the spot....
“Stay,” Mitya interrupted, suddenly, and impelled by uncontrollablefeeling he pronounced, addressing all in the room:
“Gentlemen, we’re all cruel, we’re all monsters, we all make men weep,and mothers, and babes at the breast, but of all, let it be settledhere, now, of all I am the lowest reptile! I’ve sworn to amend, andevery day I’ve done the same filthy things. I understand now that suchmen as I need a blow, a blow of destiny to catch them as with a noose,and bind them by a force from without. Never, never should I have risenof myself! But the thunderbolt has fallen. I accept the torture ofaccusation, and my public shame, I want to suffer and by suffering Ishall be purified. Perhaps I shall be purified, gentlemen? But listen,for the last time, I am not guilty of my father’s blood. I accept mypunishment, not because I killed him, but because I meant to kill him,and perhaps I really might have killed him. Still I mean to fight itout with you. I warn you of that. I’ll fight it out with you to theend, and then God will decide. Good‐by, gentlemen, don’t be vexed withme for having shouted at you during the examination. Oh, I was stillsuch a fool then.... In another minute I shall be a prisoner, but now,for the last time, as a free man, Dmitri Karamazov offers you his hand.Saying good‐by to you, I say it to all men.”
His voice quivered and he stretched out his hand, but NikolayParfenovitch, who happened to stand nearest to him, with a sudden,almost nervous movement, hid his hands behind his back. Mitya instantlynoticed this, and started. He let his outstretched hand fall at once.
“The preliminary inquiry is not yet over,” Nikolay Parfenovitchfaltered, somewhat embarrassed. “We will continue it in the town, andI, for my part, of course, am ready to wish you all success ... in yourdefense.... As a matter of fact, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, I’ve always beendisposed to regard you as, so to speak, more unfortunate than guilty.All of us here, if I may make bold to speak for all, we are all readyto recognize that you are, at bottom, a young man of honor, but, alas,one who has been carried away by certain passions to a somewhatexcessive degree....”
Nikolay Parfenovitch’s little figure was positively majestic by thetime he had finished speaking. It struck Mitya that in another minutethis “boy” would take his arm, lead him to another corner, and renewtheir conversation about “girls.” But many quite irrelevant andinappropriate thoughts sometimes occur even to a prisoner when he isbeing led out to execution.
“Gentlemen, you are good, you are humane, may I see _her_ to say‘good‐by’ for the last time?” asked Mitya.
“Certainly, but considering ... in fact, now it’s impossible except inthe presence of—”
“Oh, well, if it must be so, it must!”
Grushenka was brought in, but the farewell was brief, and of few words,and did not at all satisfy Nikolay Parfenovitch. Grushenka made a deepbow to Mitya.
“I have told you I am yours, and I will be yours. I will follow you forever, wherever they may send you. Farewell; you are guiltless, thoughyou’ve been your own undoing.”
Her lips quivered, tears flowed from her eyes.
“Forgive me, Grusha, for my love, for ruining you, too, with my love.”
Mitya would have said something more, but he broke off and went out. Hewas at once surrounded by men who kept a constant watch on him. At thebottom of the steps to which he had driven up with such a dash the daybefore with Andrey’s three horses, two carts stood in readiness.Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, a sturdy, thick‐set man with a wrinkled face,was annoyed about something, some sudden irregularity. He was shoutingangrily. He asked Mitya to get into the cart with somewhat excessivesurliness.
“When I stood him drinks in the tavern, the man had quite a differentface,” thought Mitya, as he got in. At the gates there was a crowd ofpeople, peasants, women and drivers. Trifon Borissovitch came down thesteps too. All stared at Mitya.
“Forgive me at parting, good people!” Mitya shouted suddenly from thecart.
“Forgive us too!” he heard two or three voices.
“Good‐by to you, too, Trifon Borissovitch!”
But Trifon Borissovitch did not even turn round. He was, perhaps, toobusy. He, too, was shouting and fussing about something. It appearedthat everything was not yet ready in the second cart, in which twoconstables were to accompany Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. The peasant who hadbeen ordered to drive the second cart was pulling on his smock, stoutlymaintaining that it was not his turn to go, but Akim’s. But Akim wasnot to be seen. They ran to look for him. The peasant persisted andbesought them to wait.
“You see what our peasants are, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. They’ve noshame!” exclaimed Trifon Borissovitch. “Akim gave you twenty‐fivecopecks the day before yesterday. You’ve drunk it all and now you cryout. I’m simply surprised at your good‐nature, with our low peasants,Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, that’s all I can say.”
“But what do we want a second cart for?” Mitya put in. “Let’s startwith the one, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch. I won’t be unruly, I won’t runaway from you, old fellow. What do we want an escort for?”
“I’ll trouble you, sir, to learn how to speak to me if you’ve neverbeen taught. I’m not ‘old fellow’ to you, and you can keep your advicefor another time!” Mavriky Mavrikyevitch snapped out savagely, asthough glad to vent his wrath.
Mitya was reduced to silence. He flushed all over. A moment later hefelt suddenly very cold. The rain had ceased, but the dull sky wasstill overcast with clouds, and a keen wind was blowing straight in hisface.
“I’ve taken a chill,” thought Mitya, twitching his shoulders.
At last Mavriky Mavrikyevitch, too, got into the cart, sat downheavily, and, as though without noticing it, squeezed Mitya into thecorner. It is true that he was out of humor and greatly disliked thetask that had been laid upon him.
“Good‐by, Trifon Borissovitch!” Mitya shouted again, and felt himself,that he had not called out this time from good‐nature, butinvoluntarily, from resentment.
But Trifon Borissovitch stood proudly, with both hands behind his back,and staring straight at Mitya with a stern and angry face, he made noreply.
“Good‐by, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, good‐by!” he heard all at once the voiceof Kalganov, who had suddenly darted out. Running up to the cart heheld out his hand to Mitya. He had no cap on.
Mitya had time to seize and press his hand.
“Good‐by, dear fellow! I shan’t forget your generosity,” he criedwarmly.
But the cart moved and their hands parted. The bell began ringing andMitya was driven off.
Kalganov ran back, sat down in a corner, bent his head, hid his face inhis hands, and burst out crying. For a long while he sat like that,crying as though he were a little boy instead of a young man of twenty.Oh, he believed almost without doubt in Mitya’s guilt.
“What are these people? What can men be after this?” he exclaimedincoherently, in bitter despondency, almost despair. At that moment hehad no desire to live.
“Is it worth it? Is it worth it?” exclaimed the boy in his grief.



PART IV



Book X. The Boys



Chapter I.Kolya Krassotkin

It was the beginning of November. There had been a hard frost, elevendegrees Réaumur, without snow, but a little dry snow had fallen on thefrozen ground during the night, and a keen dry wind was lifting andblowing it along the dreary streets of our town, especially about themarket‐place. It was a dull morning, but the snow had ceased.
Not far from the market‐place, close to Plotnikov’s shop, there stood asmall house, very clean both without and within. It belonged to MadameKrassotkin, the widow of a former provincial secretary, who had beendead for fourteen years. His widow, still a nice‐looking woman ofthirty‐two, was living in her neat little house on her private means.She lived in respectable seclusion; she was of a soft but fairlycheerful disposition. She was about eighteen at the time of herhusband’s death; she had been married only a year and had just bornehim a son. From the day of his death she had devoted herself heart andsoul to the bringing up of her precious treasure, her boy Kolya. Thoughshe had loved him passionately those fourteen years, he had caused herfar more suffering than happiness. She had been trembling and faintingwith terror almost every day, afraid he would fall ill, would catchcold, do something naughty, climb on a chair and fall off it, and so onand so on. When Kolya began going to school, the mother devoted herselfto studying all the sciences with him so as to help him, and go throughhis lessons with him. She hastened to make the acquaintance of theteachers and their wives, even made up to Kolya’s schoolfellows, andfawned upon them in the hope of thus saving Kolya from being teased,laughed at, or beaten by them. She went so far that the boys actuallybegan to mock at him on her account and taunt him with being a“mother’s darling.”
But the boy could take his own part. He was a resolute boy,“tremendously strong,” as was rumored in his class, and soon proved tobe the fact; he was agile, strong‐willed, and of an audacious andenterprising temper. He was good at lessons, and there was a rumor inthe school that he could beat the teacher, Dardanelov, at arithmeticand universal history. Though he looked down upon every one, he was agood comrade and not supercilious. He accepted his schoolfellows’respect as his due, but was friendly with them. Above all, he knewwhere to draw the line. He could restrain himself on occasion, and inhis relations with the teachers he never overstepped that last mysticlimit beyond which a prank becomes an unpardonable breach ofdiscipline. But he was as fond of mischief on every possible occasionas the smallest boy in the school, and not so much for the sake ofmischief as for creating a sensation, inventing something, somethingeffective and conspicuous. He was extremely vain. He knew how to makeeven his mother give way to him; he was almost despotic in his controlof her. She gave way to him, oh, she had given way to him for years.The one thought unendurable to her was that her boy had no great lovefor her. She was always fancying that Kolya was “unfeeling” to her, andat times, dissolving into hysterical tears, she used to reproach himwith his coldness. The boy disliked this, and the more demonstrationsof feeling were demanded of him the more he seemed intentionally toavoid them. Yet it was not intentional on his part but instinctive—itwas his character. His mother was mistaken; he was very fond of her. Heonly disliked “sheepish sentimentality,” as he expressed it in hisschoolboy language.
There was a bookcase in the house containing a few books that had beenhis father’s. Kolya was fond of reading, and had read several of themby himself. His mother did not mind that and only wondered sometimes atseeing the boy stand for hours by the bookcase poring over a bookinstead of going to play. And in that way Kolya read some thingsunsuitable for his age.
Though the boy, as a rule, knew where to draw the line in his mischief,he had of late begun to play pranks that caused his mother seriousalarm. It is true there was nothing vicious in what he did, but a wildmad recklessness.
It happened that July, during the summer holidays, that the mother andson went to another district, forty‐five miles away, to spend a weekwith a distant relation, whose husband was an official at the railwaystation (the very station, the nearest one to our town, from which amonth later Ivan Fyodorovitch Karamazov set off for Moscow). ThereKolya began by carefully investigating every detail connected with therailways, knowing that he could impress his schoolfellows when he gothome with his newly acquired knowledge. But there happened to be someother boys in the place with whom he soon made friends. Some of themwere living at the station, others in the neighborhood; there were sixor seven of them, all between twelve and fifteen, and two of them camefrom our town. The boys played together, and on the fourth or fifth dayof Kolya’s stay at the station, a mad bet was made by the foolish boys.Kolya, who was almost the youngest of the party and rather looked downupon by the others in consequence, was moved by vanity or by recklessbravado to bet them two roubles that he would lie down between therails at night when the eleven o’clock train was due, and would liethere without moving while the train rolled over him at full speed. Itis true they made a preliminary investigation, from which it appearedthat it was possible to lie so flat between the rails that the traincould pass over without touching, but to lie there was no joke! Kolyamaintained stoutly that he would. At first they laughed at him, calledhim a little liar, a braggart, but that only egged him on. What piquedhim most was that these boys of fifteen turned up their noses at himtoo superciliously, and were at first disposed to treat him as “a smallboy,” not fit to associate with them, and that was an unendurableinsult.
And so it was resolved to go in the evening, half a mile from thestation, so that the train might have time to get up full speed afterleaving the station. The boys assembled. It was a pitch‐dark nightwithout a moon. At the time fixed, Kolya lay down between the rails.The five others who had taken the bet waited among the bushes below theembankment, their hearts beating with suspense, which was followed byalarm and remorse. At last they heard in the distance the rumble of thetrain leaving the station. Two red lights gleamed out of the darkness;the monster roared as it approached.
“Run, run away from the rails,” the boys cried to Kolya from thebushes, breathless with terror. But it was too late: the train dartedup and flew past. The boys rushed to Kolya. He lay without moving. Theybegan pulling at him, lifting him up. He suddenly got up and walkedaway without a word. Then he explained that he had lain there as thoughhe were insensible to frighten them, but the fact was that he reallyhad lost consciousness, as he confessed long after to his mother. Inthis way his reputation as “a desperate character,” was established forever. He returned home to the station as white as a sheet. Next day hehad a slight attack of nervous fever, but he was in high spirits andwell pleased with himself. The incident did not become known at once,but when they came back to the town it penetrated to the school andeven reached the ears of the masters. But then Kolya’s mother hastenedto entreat the masters on her boy’s behalf, and in the end Dardanelov,a respected and influential teacher, exerted himself in his favor, andthe affair was ignored.
Dardanelov was a middle‐aged bachelor, who had been passionately inlove with Madame Krassotkin for many years past, and had once already,about a year previously, ventured, trembling with fear and the delicacyof his sentiments, to offer her most respectfully his hand in marriage.But she refused him resolutely, feeling that to accept him would be anact of treachery to her son, though Dardanelov had, to judge fromcertain mysterious symptoms, reason for believing that he was not anobject of aversion to the charming but too chaste and tender‐heartedwidow. Kolya’s mad prank seemed to have broken the ice, and Dardanelovwas rewarded for his intercession by a suggestion of hope. Thesuggestion, it is true, was a faint one, but then Dardanelov was such aparagon of purity and delicacy that it was enough for the time being tomake him perfectly happy. He was fond of the boy, though he would havefelt it beneath him to try and win him over, and was severe and strictwith him in class. Kolya, too, kept him at a respectful distance. Helearned his lessons perfectly; he was second in his class, was reservedwith Dardanelov, and the whole class firmly believed that Kolya was sogood at universal history that he could “beat” even Dardanelov. Kolyadid indeed ask him the question, “Who founded Troy?” to whichDardanelov had made a very vague reply, referring to the movements andmigrations of races, to the remoteness of the period, to the mythicallegends. But the question, “Who had founded Troy?” that is, whatindividuals, he could not answer, and even for some reason regarded thequestion as idle and frivolous. But the boys remained convinced thatDardanelov did not know who founded Troy. Kolya had read of thefounders of Troy in Smaragdov, whose history was among the books in hisfather’s bookcase. In the end all the boys became interested in thequestion, who it was that had founded Troy, but Krassotkin would nottell his secret, and his reputation for knowledge remained unshaken.
After the incident on the railway a certain change came over Kolya’sattitude to his mother. When Anna Fyodorovna (Madame Krassotkin) heardof her son’s exploit, she almost went out of her mind with horror. Shehad such terrible attacks of hysterics, lasting with intervals forseveral days, that Kolya, seriously alarmed at last, promised on hishonor that such pranks should never be repeated. He swore on his kneesbefore the holy image, and swore by the memory of his father, at MadameKrassotkin’s instance, and the “manly” Kolya burst into tears like aboy of six. And all that day the mother and son were constantly rushinginto each other’s arms sobbing. Next day Kolya woke up as “unfeeling”as before, but he had become more silent, more modest, sterner, andmore thoughtful.
Six weeks later, it is true, he got into another scrape, which evenbrought his name to the ears of our Justice of the Peace, but it was ascrape of quite another kind, amusing, foolish, and he did not, as itturned out, take the leading part in it, but was only implicated in it.But of this later. His mother still fretted and trembled, but the moreuneasy she became, the greater were the hopes of Dardanelov. It must benoted that Kolya understood and divined what was in Dardanelov’s heartand, of course, despised him profoundly for his “feelings”; he had inthe past been so tactless as to show this contempt before his mother,hinting vaguely that he knew what Dardanelov was after. But from thetime of the railway incident his behavior in this respect also waschanged; he did not allow himself the remotest allusion to the subjectand began to speak more respectfully of Dardanelov before his mother,which the sensitive woman at once appreciated with boundless gratitude.But at the slightest mention of Dardanelov by a visitor in Kolya’spresence, she would flush as pink as a rose. At such moments Kolyawould either stare out of the window scowling, or would investigate thestate of his boots, or would shout angrily for “Perezvon,” the big,shaggy, mangy dog, which he had picked up a month before, brought home,and kept for some reason secretly indoors, not showing him to any ofhis schoolfellows. He bullied him frightfully, teaching him all sortsof tricks, so that the poor dog howled for him whenever he was absentat school, and when he came in, whined with delight, rushed about as ifhe were crazy, begged, lay down on the ground pretending to be dead,and so on; in fact, showed all the tricks he had taught him, not at theword of command, but simply from the zeal of his excited and gratefulheart.
I have forgotten, by the way, to mention that Kolya Krassotkin was theboy stabbed with a penknife by the boy already known to the reader asthe son of Captain Snegiryov. Ilusha had been defending his father whenthe schoolboys jeered at him, shouting the nickname “wisp of tow.”



Chapter II.Children

And so on that frosty, snowy, and windy day in November, KolyaKrassotkin was sitting at home. It was Sunday and there was no school.It had just struck eleven, and he particularly wanted to go out “onvery urgent business,” but he was left alone in charge of the house,for it so happened that all its elder inmates were absent owing to asudden and singular event. Madame Krassotkin had let two little rooms,separated from the rest of the house by a passage, to a doctor’s wifewith her two small children. This lady was the same age as AnnaFyodorovna, and a great friend of hers. Her husband, the doctor, hadtaken his departure twelve months before, going first to Orenburg andthen to Tashkend, and for the last six months she had not heard a wordfrom him. Had it not been for her friendship with Madame Krassotkin,which was some consolation to the forsaken lady, she would certainlyhave completely dissolved away in tears. And now, to add to hermisfortunes, Katerina, her only servant, was suddenly moved the eveningbefore to announce, to her mistress’s amazement, that she proposed tobring a child into the world before morning. It seemed almostmiraculous to every one that no one had noticed the probability of itbefore. The astounded doctor’s wife decided to move Katerina whilethere was still time to an establishment in the town kept by a midwifefor such emergencies. As she set great store by her servant, shepromptly carried out this plan and remained there looking after her. Bythe morning all Madame Krassotkin’s friendly sympathy and energy werecalled upon to render assistance and appeal to some one for help in thecase.
So both the ladies were absent from home, the Krassotkins’ servant,Agafya, had gone out to the market, and Kolya was thus left for a timeto protect and look after “the kids,” that is, the son and daughter ofthe doctor’s wife, who were left alone. Kolya was not afraid of takingcare of the house, besides he had Perezvon, who had been told to lieflat, without moving, under the bench in the hall. Every time Kolya,walking to and fro through the rooms, came into the hall, the dog shookhis head and gave two loud and insinuating taps on the floor with histail, but alas! the whistle did not sound to release him. Kolya lookedsternly at the luckless dog, who relapsed again into obedient rigidity.The one thing that troubled Kolya was “the kids.” He looked, of course,with the utmost scorn on Katerina’s unexpected adventure, but he wasvery fond of the bereaved “kiddies,” and had already taken them apicture‐book. Nastya, the elder, a girl of eight, could read, andKostya, the boy, aged seven, was very fond of being read to by her.Krassotkin could, of course, have provided more diverting entertainmentfor them. He could have made them stand side by side and playedsoldiers with them, or sent them hiding all over the house. He had doneso more than once before and was not above doing it, so much so that areport once spread at school that Krassotkin played horses with thelittle lodgers at home, prancing with his head on one side like atrace‐horse. But Krassotkin haughtily parried this thrust, pointing outthat to play horses with boys of one’s own age, boys of thirteen, wouldcertainly be disgraceful “at this date,” but that he did it for thesake of “the kids” because he liked them, and no one had a right tocall him to account for his feelings. The two “kids” adored him.
But on this occasion he was in no mood for games. He had very importantbusiness of his own before him, something almost mysterious. Meanwhiletime was passing and Agafya, with whom he could have left the children,would not come back from market. He had several times already crossedthe passage, opened the door of the lodgers’ room and looked anxiouslyat “the kids” who were sitting over the book, as he had bidden them.Every time he opened the door they grinned at him, hoping he would comein and would do something delightful and amusing. But Kolya wasbothered and did not go in.
At last it struck eleven and he made up his mind, once for all, that ifthat “damned” Agafya did not come back within ten minutes he should goout without waiting for her, making “the kids” promise, of course, tobe brave when he was away, not to be naughty, not to cry from fright.With this idea he put on his wadded winter overcoat with its catskinfur collar, slung his satchel round his shoulder, and, regardless ofhis mother’s constantly reiterated entreaties that he would always puton goloshes in such cold weather, he looked at them contemptuously ashe crossed the hall and went out with only his boots on. Perezvon,seeing him in his outdoor clothes, began tapping nervously, yetvigorously, on the floor with his tail. Twitching all over, he evenuttered a plaintive whine. But Kolya, seeing his dog’s passionateexcitement, decided that it was a breach of discipline, kept him foranother minute under the bench, and only when he had opened the doorinto the passage, whistled for him. The dog leapt up like a madcreature and rushed bounding before him rapturously.
Kolya opened the door to peep at “the kids.” They were both sitting asbefore at the table, not reading but warmly disputing about something.The children often argued together about various exciting problems oflife, and Nastya, being the elder, always got the best of it. If Kostyadid not agree with her, he almost always appealed to Kolya Krassotkin,and his verdict was regarded as infallible by both of them. This timethe “kids’” discussion rather interested Krassotkin, and he stood stillin the passage to listen. The children saw he was listening and thatmade them dispute with even greater energy.
“I shall never, never believe,” Nastya prattled, “that the old womenfind babies among the cabbages in the kitchen‐garden. It’s winter nowand there are no cabbages, and so the old woman couldn’t have takenKaterina a daughter.”
Kolya whistled to himself.
“Or perhaps they do bring babies from somewhere, but only to those whoare married.”
Kostya stared at Nastya and listened, pondering profoundly.
“Nastya, how silly you are!” he said at last, firmly and calmly. “Howcan Katerina have a baby when she isn’t married?”
Nastya was exasperated.
“You know nothing about it,” she snapped irritably. “Perhaps she has ahusband, only he is in prison, so now she’s got a baby.”
“But is her husband in prison?” the matter‐of‐fact Kostya inquiredgravely.
“Or, I tell you what,” Nastya interrupted impulsively, completelyrejecting and forgetting her first hypothesis. “She hasn’t a husband,you are right there, but she wants to be married, and so she’s beenthinking of getting married, and thinking and thinking of it till nowshe’s got it, that is, not a husband but a baby.”
“Well, perhaps so,” Kostya agreed, entirely vanquished. “But you didn’tsay so before. So how could I tell?”
“Come, kiddies,” said Kolya, stepping into the room. “You’re terriblepeople, I see.”
“And Perezvon with you!” grinned Kostya, and began snapping his fingersand calling Perezvon.
“I am in a difficulty, kids,” Krassotkin began solemnly, “and you musthelp me. Agafya must have broken her leg, since she has not turned uptill now, that’s certain. I must go out. Will you let me go?”
The children looked anxiously at one another. Their smiling facesshowed signs of uneasiness, but they did not yet fully grasp what wasexpected of them.
“You won’t be naughty while I am gone? You won’t climb on the cupboardand break your legs? You won’t be frightened alone and cry?”
A look of profound despondency came into the children’s faces.
“And I could show you something as a reward, a little copper cannonwhich can be fired with real gunpowder.”
The children’s faces instantly brightened. “Show us the cannon,” saidKostya, beaming all over.
Krassotkin put his hand in his satchel, and pulling out a little bronzecannon stood it on the table.
“Ah, you are bound to ask that! Look, it’s on wheels.” He rolled thetoy on along the table. “And it can be fired off, too. It can be loadedwith shot and fired off.”
“And it could kill any one?”
“It can kill any one; you’ve only got to aim at anybody,” andKrassotkin explained where the powder had to be put, where the shotshould be rolled in, showing a tiny hole like a touch‐hole, and toldthem that it kicked when it was fired.
The children listened with intense interest. What particularly strucktheir imagination was that the cannon kicked.
“And have you got any powder?” Nastya inquired.
“Yes.”
“Show us the powder, too,” she drawled with a smile of entreaty.
Krassotkin dived again into his satchel and pulled out a small flaskcontaining a little real gunpowder. He had some shot, too, in a screwof paper. He even uncorked the flask and shook a little powder into thepalm of his hand.
“One has to be careful there’s no fire about, or it would blow up andkill us all,” Krassotkin warned them sensationally.
The children gazed at the powder with an awe‐stricken alarm that onlyintensified their enjoyment. But Kostya liked the shot better.
“And does the shot burn?” he inquired.
“No, it doesn’t.”
“Give me a little shot,” he asked in an imploring voice.
“I’ll give you a little shot; here, take it, but don’t show it to yourmother till I come back, or she’ll be sure to think it’s gunpowder, andwill die of fright and give you a thrashing.”
“Mother never does whip us,” Nastya observed at once.
“I know, I only said it to finish the sentence. And don’t you everdeceive your mother except just this once, until I come back. And so,kiddies, can I go out? You won’t be frightened and cry when I’m gone?”
“We sha—all cry,” drawled Kostya, on the verge of tears already.
“We shall cry, we shall be sure to cry,” Nastya chimed in with timidhaste.
“Oh, children, children, how fraught with peril are your years! There’sno help for it, chickens, I shall have to stay with you I don’t knowhow long. And time is passing, time is passing, oogh!”
“Tell Perezvon to pretend to be dead!” Kostya begged.
“There’s no help for it, we must have recourse to Perezvon. _Ici_,Perezvon.” And Kolya began giving orders to the dog, who performed allhis tricks.
He was a rough‐haired dog, of medium size, with a coat of a sort oflilac‐ gray color. He was blind in his right eye, and his left ear wastorn. He whined and jumped, stood and walked on his hind legs, lay onhis back with his paws in the air, rigid as though he were dead. Whilethis last performance was going on, the door opened and Agafya, MadameKrassotkin’s servant, a stout woman of forty, marked with small‐pox,appeared in the doorway. She had come back from market and had a bagfull of provisions in her hand. Holding up the bag of provisions in herleft hand she stood still to watch the dog. Though Kolya had been soanxious for her return, he did not cut short the performance, and afterkeeping Perezvon dead for the usual time, at last he whistled to him.The dog jumped up and began bounding about in his joy at having donehis duty.
“Only think, a dog!” Agafya observed sententiously.
“Why are you late, female?” asked Krassotkin sternly.
“Female, indeed! Go on with you, you brat.”
“Brat?”
“Yes, a brat. What is it to you if I’m late; if I’m late, you may besure I have good reason,” muttered Agafya, busying herself about thestove, without a trace of anger or displeasure in her voice. She seemedquite pleased, in fact, to enjoy a skirmish with her merry youngmaster.
“Listen, you frivolous young woman,” Krassotkin began, getting up fromthe sofa, “can you swear by all you hold sacred in the world andsomething else besides, that you will watch vigilantly over the kids inmy absence? I am going out.”
“And what am I going to swear for?” laughed Agafya. “I shall look afterthem without that.”
“No, you must swear on your eternal salvation. Else I shan’t go.”
“Well, don’t then. What does it matter to me? It’s cold out; stay athome.”
“Kids,” Kolya turned to the children, “this woman will stay with youtill I come back or till your mother comes, for she ought to have beenback long ago. She will give you some lunch, too. You’ll give themsomething, Agafya, won’t you?”
“That I can do.”
“Good‐by, chickens, I go with my heart at rest. And you, granny,” headded gravely, in an undertone, as he passed Agafya, “I hope you’llspare their tender years and not tell them any of your old woman’snonsense about Katerina. _Ici_, Perezvon!”
“Get along with you!” retorted Agafya, really angry this time.“Ridiculous boy! You want a whipping for saying such things, that’swhat you want!”



Chapter III.The Schoolboy

But Kolya did not hear her. At last he could go out. As he went out atthe gate he looked round him, shrugged up his shoulders, and saying “Itis freezing,” went straight along the street and turned off to theright towards the market‐place. When he reached the last house but onebefore the market‐place he stopped at the gate, pulled a whistle out ofhis pocket, and whistled with all his might as though giving a signal.He had not to wait more than a minute before a rosy‐cheeked boy ofabout eleven, wearing a warm, neat and even stylish coat, darted out tomeet him. This was Smurov, a boy in the preparatory class (two classesbelow Kolya Krassotkin), son of a well‐to‐do official. Apparently hewas forbidden by his parents to associate with Krassotkin, who was wellknown to be a desperately naughty boy, so Smurov was obviously slippingout on the sly. He was—if the reader has not forgotten—one of the groupof boys who two months before had thrown stones at Ilusha. He was theone who told Alyosha Karamazov about Ilusha.
“I’ve been waiting for you for the last hour, Krassotkin,” said Smurovstolidly, and the boys strode towards the market‐place.
“I am late,” answered Krassotkin. “I was detained by circumstances. Youwon’t be thrashed for coming with me?”
“Come, I say, I’m never thrashed! And you’ve got Perezvon with you?”
“Yes.”
“You’re taking him, too?”
“Yes.”
“Ah! if it were only Zhutchka!”
“That’s impossible. Zhutchka’s non‐existent. Zhutchka is lost in themists of obscurity.”
“Ah! couldn’t we do this?” Smurov suddenly stood still. “You see Ilushasays that Zhutchka was a shaggy, grayish, smoky‐looking dog likePerezvon. Couldn’t you tell him this is Zhutchka, and he might believeyou?”
“Boy, shun a lie, that’s one thing; even with a good object—that’sanother. Above all, I hope you’ve not told them anything about mycoming.”
“Heaven forbid! I know what I am about. But you won’t comfort him withPerezvon,” said Smurov, with a sigh. “You know his father, the captain,‘the wisp of tow,’ told us that he was going to bring him a realmastiff pup, with a black nose, to‐day. He thinks that would comfortIlusha; but I doubt it.”
“And how is Ilusha?”
“Ah, he is bad, very bad! I believe he’s in consumption: he is quiteconscious, but his breathing! His breathing’s gone wrong. The other dayhe asked to have his boots on to be led round the room. He tried towalk, but he couldn’t stand. ‘Ah, I told you before, father,’ he said,‘that those boots were no good. I could never walk properly in them.’He fancied it was his boots that made him stagger, but it was simplyweakness, really. He won’t live another week. Herzenstube is lookingafter him. Now they are rich again—they’ve got heaps of money.”
“They are rogues.”
“Who are rogues?”
“Doctors and the whole crew of quacks collectively, and also, ofcourse, individually. I don’t believe in medicine. It’s a uselessinstitution. I mean to go into all that. But what’s that sentimentalityyou’ve got up there? The whole class seems to be there every day.”
“Not the whole class: it’s only ten of our fellows who go to see himevery day. There’s nothing in that.”
“What I don’t understand in all this is the part that Alexey Karamazovis taking in it. His brother’s going to be tried to‐morrow or next dayfor such a crime, and yet he has so much time to spend onsentimentality with boys.”
“There’s no sentimentality about it. You are going yourself now to makeit up with Ilusha.”
“Make it up with him? What an absurd expression! But I allow no one toanalyze my actions.”
“And how pleased Ilusha will be to see you! He has no idea that you arecoming. Why was it, why was it you wouldn’t come all this time?” Smurovcried with sudden warmth.
“My dear boy, that’s my business, not yours. I am going of myselfbecause I choose to, but you’ve all been hauled there by AlexeyKaramazov—there’s a difference, you know. And how do you know? I maynot be going to make it up at all. It’s a stupid expression.”
“It’s not Karamazov at all; it’s not his doing. Our fellows began goingthere of themselves. Of course, they went with Karamazov at first. Andthere’s been nothing of that sort—no silliness. First one went, andthen another. His father was awfully pleased to see us. You know hewill simply go out of his mind if Ilusha dies. He sees that Ilusha’sdying. And he seems so glad we’ve made it up with Ilusha. Ilusha askedafter you, that was all. He just asks and says no more. His father willgo out of his mind or hang himself. He behaved like a madman before.You know he is a very decent man. We made a mistake then. It’s all thefault of that murderer who beat him then.”
“Karamazov’s a riddle to me all the same. I might have made hisacquaintance long ago, but I like to have a proper pride in some cases.Besides, I have a theory about him which I must work out and verify.”
Kolya subsided into dignified silence. Smurov, too, was silent. Smurov,of course, worshiped Krassotkin and never dreamed of putting himself ona level with him. Now he was tremendously interested at Kolya’s sayingthat he was “going of himself” to see Ilusha. He felt that there mustbe some mystery in Kolya’s suddenly taking it into his head to go tohim that day. They crossed the market‐place, in which at that hour weremany loaded wagons from the country and a great number of live fowls.The market women were selling rolls, cottons and threads, etc., intheir booths. These Sunday markets were naïvely called “fairs” in thetown, and there were many such fairs in the year.
Perezvon ran about in the wildest spirits, sniffing about first oneside, then the other. When he met other dogs they zealously smelt eachother over according to the rules of canine etiquette.
“I like to watch such realistic scenes, Smurov,” said Kolya suddenly.“Have you noticed how dogs sniff at one another when they meet? Itseems to be a law of their nature.”
“Yes; it’s a funny habit.”
“No, it’s not funny; you are wrong there. There’s nothing funny innature, however funny it may seem to man with his prejudices. If dogscould reason and criticize us they’d be sure to find just as much thatwould be funny to them, if not far more, in the social relations ofmen, their masters—far more, indeed. I repeat that, because I amconvinced that there is far more foolishness among us. That’s Rakitin’sidea—a remarkable idea. I am a Socialist, Smurov.”
“And what is a Socialist?” asked Smurov.
“That’s when all are equal and all have property in common, there areno marriages, and every one has any religion and laws he likes best,and all the rest of it. You are not old enough to understand that yet.It’s cold, though.”
“Yes, twelve degrees of frost. Father looked at the thermometer justnow.”
“Have you noticed, Smurov, that in the middle of winter we don’t feelso cold even when there are fifteen or eighteen degrees of frost as wedo now, in the beginning of winter, when there is a sudden frost oftwelve degrees, especially when there is not much snow. It’s becausepeople are not used to it. Everything is habit with men, everythingeven in their social and political relations. Habit is the greatmotive‐power. What a funny‐looking peasant!”
Kolya pointed to a tall peasant, with a good‐natured countenance in along sheepskin coat, who was standing by his wagon, clapping togetherhis hands, in their shapeless leather gloves, to warm them. His longfair beard was all white with frost.
“That peasant’s beard’s frozen,” Kolya cried in a loud provocativevoice as he passed him.
“Lots of people’s beards are frozen,” the peasant replied, calmly andsententiously.
“Don’t provoke him,” observed Smurov.
“It’s all right; he won’t be cross; he’s a nice fellow. Good‐by,Matvey.”
“Good‐by.”
“Is your name Matvey?”
“Yes. Didn’t you know?”
“No, I didn’t. It was a guess.”
“You don’t say so! You are a schoolboy, I suppose?”
“Yes.”
“You get whipped, I expect?”
“Nothing to speak of—sometimes.”
“Does it hurt?”
“Well, yes, it does.”
“Ech, what a life!” The peasant heaved a sigh from the bottom of hisheart.
“Good‐by, Matvey.”
“Good‐by. You are a nice chap, that you are.”
The boys went on.
“That was a nice peasant,” Kolya observed to Smurov. “I like talking tothe peasants, and am always glad to do them justice.”
“Why did you tell a lie, pretending we are thrashed?” asked Smurov.
“I had to say that to please him.”
“How do you mean?”
“You know, Smurov, I don’t like being asked the same thing twice. Ilike people to understand at the first word. Some things can’t beexplained. According to a peasant’s notions, schoolboys are whipped,and must be whipped. What would a schoolboy be if he were not whipped?And if I were to tell him we are not, he’d be disappointed. But youdon’t understand that. One has to know how to talk to the peasants.”
“Only don’t tease them, please, or you’ll get into another scrape asyou did about that goose.”
“So you’re afraid?”
“Don’t laugh, Kolya. Of course I’m afraid. My father would be awfullycross. I am strictly forbidden to go out with you.”
“Don’t be uneasy, nothing will happen this time. Hallo, Natasha!” heshouted to a market woman in one of the booths.
“Call me Natasha! What next! My name is Marya,” the middle‐aged marketwoman shouted at him.
“I am so glad it’s Marya. Good‐by!”
“Ah, you young rascal! A brat like you to carry on so!”
“I’m in a hurry. I can’t stay now. You shall tell me next Sunday.”Kolya waved his hand at her, as though she had attacked him and not heher.
“I’ve nothing to tell you next Sunday. You set upon me, you impudentyoung monkey. I didn’t say anything,” bawled Marya. “You want awhipping, that’s what you want, you saucy jackanapes!”
There was a roar of laughter among the other market women round her.Suddenly a man in a violent rage darted out from the arcade of shopsclose by. He was a young man, not a native of the town, with dark,curly hair and a long, pale face, marked with smallpox. He wore a longblue coat and a peaked cap, and looked like a merchant’s clerk. He wasin a state of stupid excitement and brandished his fist at Kolya.
“I know you!” he cried angrily, “I know you!”
Kolya stared at him. He could not recall when he could have had a rowwith the man. But he had been in so many rows in the street that hecould hardly remember them all.
“Do you?” he asked sarcastically.
“I know you! I know you!” the man repeated idiotically.
“So much the better for you. Well, it’s time I was going. Good‐by!”
“You are at your saucy pranks again?” cried the man. “You are at yoursaucy pranks again? I know, you are at it again!”
“It’s not your business, brother, if I am at my saucy pranks again,”said Kolya, standing still and scanning him.
“Not my business?”
“No; it’s not your business.”
“Whose then? Whose then? Whose then?”
“It’s Trifon Nikititch’s business, not yours.”
“What Trifon Nikititch?” asked the youth, staring with loutishamazement at Kolya, but still as angry as ever.
Kolya scanned him gravely.
“Have you been to the Church of the Ascension?” he suddenly asked him,with stern emphasis.
“What Church of Ascension? What for? No, I haven’t,” said the youngman, somewhat taken aback.
“Do you know Sabaneyev?” Kolya went on even more emphatically and evenmore severely.
“What Sabaneyev? No, I don’t know him.”
“Well then you can go to the devil,” said Kolya, cutting short theconversation; and turning sharply to the right he strode quickly on hisway as though he disdained further conversation with a dolt who did noteven know Sabaneyev.
“Stop, heigh! What Sabaneyev?” the young man recovered from hismomentary stupefaction and was as excited as before. “What did he say?”He turned to the market women with a silly stare.
The women laughed.
“You can never tell what he’s after,” said one of them.
“What Sabaneyev is it he’s talking about?” the young man repeated,still furious and brandishing his right arm.
“It must be a Sabaneyev who worked for the Kuzmitchovs, that’s who itmust be,” one of the women suggested.
The young man stared at her wildly.
“For the Kuzmitchovs?” repeated another woman. “But his name wasn’tTrifon. His name’s Kuzma, not Trifon; but the boy said TrifonNikititch, so it can’t be the same.”
“His name is not Trifon and not Sabaneyev, it’s Tchizhov,” put insuddenly a third woman, who had hitherto been silent, listeninggravely. “Alexey Ivanitch is his name. Tchizhov, Alexey Ivanitch.”
“Not a doubt about it, it’s Tchizhov,” a fourth woman emphaticallyconfirmed the statement.
The bewildered youth gazed from one to another.
“But what did he ask for, what did he ask for, good people?” he criedalmost in desperation. “ ‘Do you know Sabaneyev?’ says he. And who thedevil’s to know who is Sabaneyev?”
“You’re a senseless fellow. I tell you it’s not Sabaneyev, butTchizhov, Alexey Ivanitch Tchizhov, that’s who it is!” one of the womenshouted at him impressively.
“What Tchizhov? Who is he? Tell me, if you know.”
“That tall, sniveling fellow who used to sit in the market in thesummer.”
“And what’s your Tchizhov to do with me, good people, eh?”
“How can I tell what he’s to do with you?” put in another. “You oughtto know yourself what you want with him, if you make such a clamorabout him. He spoke to you, he did not speak to us, you stupid. Don’tyou really know him?”
“Know whom?”
“Tchizhov.”
“The devil take Tchizhov and you with him. I’ll give him a hiding, thatI will. He was laughing at me!”
“Will give Tchizhov a hiding! More likely he will give you one. You area fool, that’s what you are!”
“Not Tchizhov, not Tchizhov, you spiteful, mischievous woman. I’ll givethe boy a hiding. Catch him, catch him, he was laughing at me!”
The woman guffawed. But Kolya was by now a long way off, marching alongwith a triumphant air. Smurov walked beside him, looking round at theshouting group far behind. He too was in high spirits, though he wasstill afraid of getting into some scrape in Kolya’s company.
“What Sabaneyev did you mean?” he asked Kolya, foreseeing what hisanswer would be.
“How do I know? Now there’ll be a hubbub among them all day. I like tostir up fools in every class of society. There’s another blockhead,that peasant there. You know, they say ‘there’s no one stupider than astupid Frenchman,’ but a stupid Russian shows it in his face just asmuch. Can’t you see it all over his face that he is a fool, thatpeasant, eh?”
“Let him alone, Kolya. Let’s go on.”
“Nothing could stop me, now I am once off. Hey, good morning, peasant!”
A sturdy‐looking peasant, with a round, simple face and grizzled beard,who was walking by, raised his head and looked at the boy. He seemednot quite sober.
“Good morning, if you are not laughing at me,” he said deliberately inreply.
“And if I am?” laughed Kolya.
“Well, a joke’s a joke. Laugh away. I don’t mind. There’s no harm in ajoke.”
“I beg your pardon, brother, it was a joke.”
“Well, God forgive you!”
“Do you forgive me, too?”
“I quite forgive you. Go along.”
“I say, you seem a clever peasant.”
“Cleverer than you,” the peasant answered unexpectedly, with the samegravity.
“I doubt it,” said Kolya, somewhat taken aback.
“It’s true, though.”
“Perhaps it is.”
“It is, brother.”
“Good‐by, peasant!”
“Good‐by!”
“There are all sorts of peasants,” Kolya observed to Smurov after abrief silence. “How could I tell I had hit on a clever one? I am alwaysready to recognize intelligence in the peasantry.”
In the distance the cathedral clock struck half‐past eleven. The boysmade haste and they walked as far as Captain Snegiryov’s lodging, aconsiderable distance, quickly and almost in silence. Twenty paces fromthe house Kolya stopped and told Smurov to go on ahead and askKaramazov to come out to him.
“One must sniff round a bit first,” he observed to Smurov.
“Why ask him to come out?” Smurov protested. “You go in; they will beawfully glad to see you. What’s the sense of making friends in thefrost out here?”
“I know why I want to see him out here in the frost,” Kolya cut himshort in the despotic tone he was fond of adopting with “small boys,”and Smurov ran to do his bidding.



Chapter IV.The Lost Dog

Kolya leaned against the fence with an air of dignity, waiting forAlyosha to appear. Yes, he had long wanted to meet him. He had heard agreat deal about him from the boys, but hitherto he had alwaysmaintained an appearance of disdainful indifference when he wasmentioned, and he had even “criticized” what he heard about Alyosha.But secretly he had a great longing to make his acquaintance; there wassomething sympathetic and attractive in all he was told about Alyosha.So the present moment was important: to begin with, he had to showhimself at his best, to show his independence, “Or he’ll think of me asthirteen and take me for a boy, like the rest of them. And what arethese boys to him? I shall ask him when I get to know him. It’s a pityI am so short, though. Tuzikov is younger than I am, yet he is half ahead taller. But I have a clever face. I am not good‐looking. I knowI’m hideous, but I’ve a clever face. I mustn’t talk too freely; if Ifall into his arms all at once, he may think—Tfoo! how horrible if heshould think—!”
Such were the thoughts that excited Kolya while he was doing his utmostto assume the most independent air. What distressed him most was hisbeing so short; he did not mind so much his “hideous” face, as being soshort. On the wall in a corner at home he had the year before made apencil‐mark to show his height, and every two months since he anxiouslymeasured himself against it to see how much he had gained. But alas! hegrew very slowly, and this sometimes reduced him almost to despair. Hisface was in reality by no means “hideous”; on the contrary, it wasrather attractive, with a fair, pale skin, freckled. His small, livelygray eyes had a fearless look, and often glowed with feeling. He hadrather high cheekbones; small, very red, but not very thick, lips; hisnose was small and unmistakably turned up. “I’ve a regular pug nose, aregular pug nose,” Kolya used to mutter to himself when he looked inthe looking‐glass, and he always left it with indignation. “But perhapsI haven’t got a clever face?” he sometimes thought, doubtful even ofthat. But it must not be supposed that his mind was preoccupied withhis face and his height. On the contrary, however bitter the momentsbefore the looking‐glass were to him, he quickly forgot them, andforgot them for a long time, “abandoning himself entirely to ideas andto real life,” as he formulated it to himself.
Alyosha came out quickly and hastened up to Kolya. Before he reachedhim, Kolya could see that he looked delighted. “Can he be so glad tosee me?” Kolya wondered, feeling pleased. We may note here, in passing,that Alyosha’s appearance had undergone a complete change since we sawhim last. He had abandoned his cassock and was wearing now a well‐cutcoat, a soft, round hat, and his hair had been cropped short. All thiswas very becoming to him, and he looked quite handsome. His charmingface always had a good‐humored expression; but there was a gentlenessand serenity in his good‐humor. To Kolya’s surprise, Alyosha came outto him just as he was, without an overcoat. He had evidently come inhaste. He held out his hand to Kolya at once.
“Here you are at last! How anxious we’ve been to see you!”
“There were reasons which you shall know directly. Anyway, I am glad tomake your acquaintance. I’ve long been hoping for an opportunity, andhave heard a great deal about you,” Kolya muttered, a littlebreathless.
“We should have met anyway. I’ve heard a great deal about you, too; butyou’ve been a long time coming here.”
“Tell me, how are things going?”
“Ilusha is very ill. He is certainly dying.”
“How awful! You must admit that medicine is a fraud, Karamazov,” criedKolya warmly.
“Ilusha has mentioned you often, very often, even in his sleep, indelirium, you know. One can see that you used to be very, very dear tohim ... before the incident ... with the knife.... Then there’s anotherreason.... Tell me, is that your dog?”
“Yes, Perezvon.”
“Not Zhutchka?” Alyosha looked at Kolya with eyes full of pity. “Is shelost for ever?”
“I know you would all like it to be Zhutchka. I’ve heard all about it.”Kolya smiled mysteriously. “Listen, Karamazov, I’ll tell you all aboutit. That’s what I came for; that’s what I asked you to come out herefor, to explain the whole episode to you before we go in,” he beganwith animation. “You see, Karamazov, Ilusha came into the preparatoryclass last spring. Well, you know what our preparatory class is—a lotof small boys. They began teasing Ilusha at once. I am two classeshigher up, and, of course, I only look on at them from a distance. Isaw the boy was weak and small, but he wouldn’t give in to them; hefought with them. I saw he was proud, and his eyes were full of fire. Ilike children like that. And they teased him all the more. The worst ofit was he was horribly dressed at the time, his breeches were too smallfor him, and there were holes in his boots. They worried him about it;they jeered at him. That I can’t stand. I stood up for him at once, andgave it to them hot. I beat them, but they adore me, do you know,Karamazov?” Kolya boasted impulsively; “but I am always fond ofchildren. I’ve two chickens in my hands at home now—that’s whatdetained me to‐day. So they left off beating Ilusha and I took himunder my protection. I saw the boy was proud. I tell you that, the boywas proud; but in the end he became slavishly devoted to me: he did myslightest bidding, obeyed me as though I were God, tried to copy me. Inthe intervals between the classes he used to run to me at once, and I’dgo about with him. On Sundays, too. They always laugh when an older boymakes friends with a younger one like that; but that’s a prejudice. Ifit’s my fancy, that’s enough. I am teaching him, developing him. Whyshouldn’t I develop him if I like him? Here you, Karamazov, have takenup with all these nestlings. I see you want to influence the youngergeneration—to develop them, to be of use to them, and I assure you thistrait in your character, which I knew by hearsay, attracted me morethan anything. Let us get to the point, though. I noticed that therewas a sort of softness and sentimentality coming over the boy, and youknow I have a positive hatred of this sheepish sentimentality, and Ihave had it from a baby. There were contradictions in him, too: he wasproud, but he was slavishly devoted to me, and yet all at once his eyeswould flash and he’d refuse to agree with me; he’d argue, fly into arage. I used sometimes to propound certain ideas; I could see that itwas not so much that he disagreed with the ideas, but that he wassimply rebelling against me, because I was cool in responding to hisendearments. And so, in order to train him properly, the tenderer hewas, the colder I became. I did it on purpose: that was my idea. Myobject was to form his character, to lick him into shape, to make a manof him ... and besides ... no doubt, you understand me at a word.Suddenly I noticed for three days in succession he was downcast anddejected, not because of my coldness, but for something else, somethingmore important. I wondered what the tragedy was. I have pumped him andfound out that he had somehow got to know Smerdyakov, who was footmanto your late father—it was before his death, of course—and he taughtthe little fool a silly trick—that is, a brutal, nasty trick. He toldhim to take a piece of bread, to stick a pin in it, and throw it to oneof those hungry dogs who snap up anything without biting it, and thento watch and see what would happen. So they prepared a piece of breadlike that and threw it to Zhutchka, that shaggy dog there’s been such afuss about. The people of the house it belonged to never fed it at all,though it barked all day. (Do you like that stupid barking, Karamazov?I can’t stand it.) So it rushed at the bread, swallowed it, and beganto squeal; it turned round and round and ran away, squealing as it ranout of sight. That was Ilusha’s own account of it. He confessed it tome, and cried bitterly. He hugged me, shaking all over. He kept onrepeating ‘He ran away squealing’: the sight of that haunted him. Hewas tormented by remorse, I could see that. I took it seriously. Idetermined to give him a lesson for other things as well. So I mustconfess I wasn’t quite straightforward, and pretended to be moreindignant perhaps than I was. ‘You’ve done a nasty thing,’ I said, ‘youare a scoundrel. I won’t tell of it, of course, but I shall havenothing more to do with you for a time. I’ll think it over and let youknow through Smurov’—that’s the boy who’s just come with me; he’salways ready to do anything for me—‘whether I will have anything to dowith you in the future or whether I give you up for good as ascoundrel.’ He was tremendously upset. I must own I felt I’d gone toofar as I spoke, but there was no help for it. I did what I thought bestat the time. A day or two after, I sent Smurov to tell him that I wouldnot speak to him again. That’s what we call it when two schoolfellowsrefuse to have anything more to do with one another. Secretly I onlymeant to send him to Coventry for a few days and then, if I saw signsof repentance, to hold out my hand to him again. That was my intention.But what do you think happened? He heard Smurov’s message, his eyesflashed. ‘Tell Krassotkin from me,’ he cried, ‘that I will throw breadwith pins to all the dogs—all—all of them!’ ‘So he’s going in for alittle temper. We must smoke it out of him.’ And I began to treat himwith contempt; whenever I met him I turned away or smiledsarcastically. And just then that affair with his father happened. Youremember? You must realize that he was fearfully worked up by what hadhappened already. The boys, seeing I’d given him up, set on him andtaunted him, shouting, ‘Wisp of tow, wisp of tow!’ And he had soonregular skirmishes with them, which I am very sorry for. They seem tohave given him one very bad beating. One day he flew at them all asthey were coming out of school. I stood a few yards off, looking on.And, I swear, I don’t remember that I laughed; it was quite the otherway, I felt awfully sorry for him, in another minute I would have runup to take his part. But he suddenly met my eyes. I don’t know what hefancied; but he pulled out a penknife, rushed at me, and struck at mythigh, here in my right leg. I didn’t move. I don’t mind owning I amplucky sometimes, Karamazov. I simply looked at him contemptuously, asthough to say, ‘This is how you repay all my kindness! Do it again, ifyou like, I’m at your service.’ But he didn’t stab me again; he brokedown, he was frightened at what he had done, he threw away the knife,burst out crying, and ran away. I did not sneak on him, of course, andI made them all keep quiet, so it shouldn’t come to the ears of themasters. I didn’t even tell my mother till it had healed up. And thewound was a mere scratch. And then I heard that the same day he’d beenthrowing stones and had bitten your finger—but you understand now whata state he was in! Well, it can’t be helped: it was stupid of me not tocome and forgive him—that is, to make it up with him—when he was takenill. I am sorry for it now. But I had a special reason. So now I’vetold you all about it ... but I’m afraid it was stupid of me.”
“Oh, what a pity,” exclaimed Alyosha, with feeling, “that I didn’t knowbefore what terms you were on with him, or I’d have come to you longago to beg you to go to him with me. Would you believe it, when he wasfeverish he talked about you in delirium. I didn’t know how much youwere to him! And you’ve really not succeeded in finding that dog? Hisfather and the boys have been hunting all over the town for it. Wouldyou believe it, since he’s been ill, I’ve three times heard him repeatwith tears, ‘It’s because I killed Zhutchka, father, that I am ill now.God is punishing me for it.’ He can’t get that idea out of his head.And if the dog were found and proved to be alive, one might almostfancy the joy would cure him. We have all rested our hopes on you.”
“Tell me, what made you hope that I should be the one to find him?”Kolya asked, with great curiosity. “Why did you reckon on me ratherthan any one else?”
“There was a report that you were looking for the dog, and that youwould bring it when you’d found it. Smurov said something of the sort.We’ve all been trying to persuade Ilusha that the dog is alive, thatit’s been seen. The boys brought him a live hare; he just looked at it,with a faint smile, and asked them to set it free in the fields. And sowe did. His father has just this moment come back, bringing him amastiff pup, hoping to comfort him with that; but I think it only makesit worse.”
“Tell me, Karamazov, what sort of man is the father? I know him, butwhat do you make of him—a mountebank, a buffoon?”
“Oh, no; there are people of deep feeling who have been somehowcrushed. Buffoonery in them is a form of resentful irony against thoseto whom they daren’t speak the truth, from having been for yearshumiliated and intimidated by them. Believe me, Krassotkin, that sortof buffoonery is sometimes tragic in the extreme. His whole life now iscentered in Ilusha, and if Ilusha dies, he will either go mad withgrief or kill himself. I feel almost certain of that when I look at himnow.”
“I understand you, Karamazov. I see you understand human nature,” Kolyaadded, with feeling.
“And as soon as I saw you with a dog, I thought it was Zhutchka youwere bringing.”
“Wait a bit, Karamazov, perhaps we shall find it yet; but this isPerezvon. I’ll let him go in now and perhaps it will amuse Ilusha morethan the mastiff pup. Wait a bit, Karamazov, you will know something ina minute. But, I say, I am keeping you here!” Kolya cried suddenly.“You’ve no overcoat on in this bitter cold. You see what an egoist Iam. Oh, we are all egoists, Karamazov!”
“Don’t trouble; it is cold, but I don’t often catch cold. Let us go in,though, and, by the way, what is your name? I know you are calledKolya, but what else?”
“Nikolay—Nikolay Ivanovitch Krassotkin, or, as they say in officialdocuments, ‘Krassotkin son.’ ” Kolya laughed for some reason, but addedsuddenly, “Of course I hate my name Nikolay.”
“Why so?”
“It’s so trivial, so ordinary.”
“You are thirteen?” asked Alyosha.
“No, fourteen—that is, I shall be fourteen very soon, in a fortnight.I’ll confess one weakness of mine, Karamazov, just to you, since it’sour first meeting, so that you may understand my character at once. Ihate being asked my age, more than that ... and in fact ... there’s alibelous story going about me, that last week I played robbers with thepreparatory boys. It’s a fact that I did play with them, but it’s aperfect libel to say I did it for my own amusement. I have reasons forbelieving that you’ve heard the story; but I wasn’t playing for my ownamusement, it was for the sake of the children, because they couldn’tthink of anything to do by themselves. But they’ve always got somesilly tale. This is an awful town for gossip, I can tell you.”
“But what if you had been playing for your own amusement, what’s theharm?”
“Come, I say, for my own amusement! You don’t play horses, do you?”
“But you must look at it like this,” said Alyosha, smiling. “Grown‐uppeople go to the theater and there the adventures of all sorts ofheroes are represented—sometimes there are robbers and battles, too—andisn’t that just the same thing, in a different form, of course? Andyoung people’s games of soldiers or robbers in their playtime are alsoart in its first stage. You know, they spring from the growing artisticinstincts of the young. And sometimes these games are much better thanperformances in the theater, the only difference is that people gothere to look at the actors, while in these games the young people arethe actors themselves. But that’s only natural.”
“You think so? Is that your idea?” Kolya looked at him intently. “Oh,you know, that’s rather an interesting view. When I go home, I’ll thinkit over. I’ll admit I thought I might learn something from you. I’vecome to learn of you, Karamazov,” Kolya concluded, in a voice full ofspontaneous feeling.
“And I of you,” said Alyosha, smiling and pressing his hand.
Kolya was much pleased with Alyosha. What struck him most was that hetreated him exactly like an equal and that he talked to him just as ifhe were “quite grown up.”
“I’ll show you something directly, Karamazov; it’s a theatricalperformance, too,” he said, laughing nervously. “That’s why I’ve come.”
“Let us go first to the people of the house, on the left. All the boysleave their coats in there, because the room is small and hot.”
“Oh, I’m only coming in for a minute. I’ll keep on my overcoat.Perezvon will stay here in the passage and be dead. _Ici_, Perezvon,lie down and be dead! You see how he’s dead. I’ll go in first andexplore, then I’ll whistle to him when I think fit, and you’ll see,he’ll dash in like mad. Only Smurov must not forget to open the door atthe moment. I’ll arrange it all and you’ll see something.”



Chapter V.By Ilusha’s Bedside

The room inhabited by the family of the retired captain Snegiryov isalready familiar to the reader. It was close and crowded at that momentwith a number of visitors. Several boys were sitting with Ilusha, andthough all of them, like Smurov, were prepared to deny that it wasAlyosha who had brought them and reconciled them with Ilusha, it wasreally the fact. All the art he had used had been to take them, one byone, to Ilusha, without “sheepish sentimentality,” appearing to do socasually and without design. It was a great consolation to Ilusha inhis suffering. He was greatly touched by seeing the almost tenderaffection and sympathy shown him by these boys, who had been hisenemies. Krassotkin was the only one missing and his absence was aheavy load on Ilusha’s heart. Perhaps the bitterest of all his bittermemories was his stabbing Krassotkin, who had been his one friend andprotector. Clever little Smurov, who was the first to make it up withIlusha, thought it was so. But when Smurov hinted to Krassotkin thatAlyosha wanted to come and see him about something, the latter cut himshort, bidding Smurov tell “Karamazov” at once that he knew best whatto do, that he wanted no one’s advice, and that, if he went to seeIlusha, he would choose his own time for he had “his own reasons.”
That was a fortnight before this Sunday. That was why Alyosha had notbeen to see him, as he had meant to. But though he waited, he sentSmurov to him twice again. Both times Krassotkin met him with a curt,impatient refusal, sending Alyosha a message not to bother him anymore, that if he came himself, he, Krassotkin, would not go to Ilushaat all. Up to the very last day, Smurov did not know that Kolya meantto go to Ilusha that morning, and only the evening before, as he partedfrom Smurov, Kolya abruptly told him to wait at home for him nextmorning, for he would go with him to the Snegiryovs’, but warned him onno account to say he was coming, as he wanted to drop in casually.Smurov obeyed. Smurov’s fancy that Kolya would bring back the lost dogwas based on the words Kolya had dropped that “they must be asses notto find the dog, if it was alive.” When Smurov, waiting for anopportunity, timidly hinted at his guess about the dog, Krassotkin flewinto a violent rage. “I’m not such an ass as to go hunting about thetown for other people’s dogs when I’ve got a dog of my own! And how canyou imagine a dog could be alive after swallowing a pin? Sheepishsentimentality, that’s what it is!”
For the last fortnight Ilusha had not left his little bed under theikons in the corner. He had not been to school since the day he metAlyosha and bit his finger. He was taken ill the same day, though for amonth afterwards he was sometimes able to get up and walk about theroom and passage. But latterly he had become so weak that he could notmove without help from his father. His father was terribly concernedabout him. He even gave up drinking and was almost crazy with terrorthat his boy would die. And often, especially after leading him roundthe room on his arm and putting him back to bed, he would run to a darkcorner in the passage and, leaning his head against the wall, he wouldbreak into paroxysms of violent weeping, stifling his sobs that theymight not be heard by Ilusha.
Returning to the room, he would usually begin doing something to amuseand comfort his precious boy; he would tell him stories, funnyanecdotes, or would mimic comic people he had happened to meet, evenimitate the howls and cries of animals. But Ilusha could not bear tosee his father fooling and playing the buffoon. Though the boy triednot to show how he disliked it, he saw with an aching heart that hisfather was an object of contempt, and he was continually haunted by thememory of the “wisp of tow” and that “terrible day.”
Nina, Ilusha’s gentle, crippled sister, did not like her father’sbuffoonery either (Varvara had been gone for some time past toPetersburg to study at the university). But the half‐imbecile motherwas greatly diverted and laughed heartily when her husband begancapering about or performing something. It was the only way she couldbe amused; all the rest of the time she was grumbling and complainingthat now every one had forgotten her, that no one treated her withrespect, that she was slighted, and so on. But during the last few daysshe had completely changed. She began looking constantly at Ilusha’sbed in the corner and seemed lost in thought. She was more silent,quieter, and, if she cried, she cried quietly so as not to be heard.The captain noticed the change in her with mournful perplexity. Theboys’ visits at first only angered her, but later on their merry shoutsand stories began to divert her, and at last she liked them so muchthat, if the boys had given up coming, she would have felt drearywithout them. When the children told some story or played a game, shelaughed and clapped her hands. She called some of them to her andkissed them. She was particularly fond of Smurov.
As for the captain, the presence in his room of the children, who cameto cheer up Ilusha, filled his heart from the first with ecstatic joy.He even hoped that Ilusha would now get over his depression, and thatthat would hasten his recovery. In spite of his alarm about Ilusha, hehad not, till lately, felt one minute’s doubt of his boy’s ultimaterecovery.
He met his little visitors with homage, waited upon them hand and foot;he was ready to be their horse and even began letting them ride on hisback, but Ilusha did not like the game and it was given up. He beganbuying little things for them, gingerbread and nuts, gave them tea andcut them sandwiches. It must be noted that all this time he had plentyof money. He had taken the two hundred roubles from Katerina Ivanovnajust as Alyosha had predicted he would. And afterwards KaterinaIvanovna, learning more about their circumstances and Ilusha’s illness,visited them herself, made the acquaintance of the family, andsucceeded in fascinating the half‐ imbecile mother. Since then she hadbeen lavish in helping them, and the captain, terror‐stricken at thethought that his boy might be dying, forgot his pride and humblyaccepted her assistance.
All this time Doctor Herzenstube, who was called in by KaterinaIvanovna, came punctually every other day, but little was gained by hisvisits and he dosed the invalid mercilessly. But on that Sunday morninga new doctor was expected, who had come from Moscow, where he had agreat reputation. Katerina Ivanovna had sent for him from Moscow atgreat expense, not expressly for Ilusha, but for another object ofwhich more will be said in its place hereafter. But, as he had come,she had asked him to see Ilusha as well, and the captain had been toldto expect him. He hadn’t the slightest idea that Kolya Krassotkin wascoming, though he had long wished for a visit from the boy for whomIlusha was fretting.
At the moment when Krassotkin opened the door and came into the room,the captain and all the boys were round Ilusha’s bed, looking at a tinymastiff pup, which had only been born the day before, though thecaptain had bespoken it a week ago to comfort and amuse Ilusha, who wasstill fretting over the lost and probably dead Zhutchka. Ilusha, whohad heard three days before that he was to be presented with a puppy,not an ordinary puppy, but a pedigree mastiff (a very important point,of course), tried from delicacy of feeling to pretend that he waspleased. But his father and the boys could not help seeing that thepuppy only served to recall to his little heart the thought of theunhappy dog he had killed. The puppy lay beside him feebly moving andhe, smiling sadly, stroked it with his thin, pale, wasted hand. Clearlyhe liked the puppy, but ... it wasn’t Zhutchka; if he could have hadZhutchka and the puppy, too, then he would have been completely happy.
“Krassotkin!” cried one of the boys suddenly. He was the first to seehim come in.
Krassotkin’s entrance made a general sensation; the boys moved away andstood on each side of the bed, so that he could get a full view ofIlusha. The captain ran eagerly to meet Kolya.
“Please come in ... you are welcome!” he said hurriedly. “Ilusha, Mr.Krassotkin has come to see you!”
But Krassotkin, shaking hands with him hurriedly, instantly showed hiscomplete knowledge of the manners of good society. He turned first tothe captain’s wife sitting in her arm‐chair, who was very ill‐humoredat the moment, and was grumbling that the boys stood between her andIlusha’s bed and did not let her see the new puppy. With the greatestcourtesy he made her a bow, scraping his foot, and turning to Nina, hemade her, as the only other lady present, a similar bow. This politebehavior made an extremely favorable impression on the deranged lady.
“There, you can see at once he is a young man that has been wellbrought up,” she commented aloud, throwing up her hands; “but as forour other visitors they come in one on the top of another.”
“How do you mean, mamma, one on the top of another, how is that?”muttered the captain affectionately, though a little anxious on heraccount.
“That’s how they ride in. They get on each other’s shoulders in thepassage and prance in like that on a respectable family. Strange sortof visitors!”
“But who’s come in like that, mamma?”
“Why, that boy came in riding on that one’s back and this one on thatone’s.”
Kolya was already by Ilusha’s bedside. The sick boy turned visiblypaler. He raised himself in the bed and looked intently at Kolya. Kolyahad not seen his little friend for two months, and he was overwhelmedat the sight of him. He had never imagined that he would see such awasted, yellow face, such enormous, feverishly glowing eyes and suchthin little hands. He saw, with grieved surprise, Ilusha’s rapid, hardbreathing and dry lips. He stepped close to him, held out his hand, andalmost overwhelmed, he said:
“Well, old man ... how are you?” But his voice failed him, he couldn’tachieve an appearance of ease; his face suddenly twitched and thecorners of his mouth quivered. Ilusha smiled a pitiful little smile,still unable to utter a word. Something moved Kolya to raise his handand pass it over Ilusha’s hair.
“Never mind!” he murmured softly to him to cheer him up, or perhaps notknowing why he said it. For a minute they were silent again.
“Hallo, so you’ve got a new puppy?” Kolya said suddenly, in a mostcallous voice.
“Ye—es,” answered Ilusha in a long whisper, gasping for breath.
“A black nose, that means he’ll be fierce, a good house‐dog,” Kolyaobserved gravely and stolidly, as if the only thing he cared about wasthe puppy and its black nose. But in reality he still had to do hisutmost to control his feelings not to burst out crying like a child,and do what he would he could not control it. “When it grows up, you’llhave to keep it on the chain, I’m sure.”
“He’ll be a huge dog!” cried one of the boys.
“Of course he will,” “a mastiff,” “large,” “like this,” “as big as acalf,” shouted several voices.
“As big as a calf, as a real calf,” chimed in the captain. “I got onelike that on purpose, one of the fiercest breed, and his parents arehuge and very fierce, they stand as high as this from the floor.... Sitdown here, on Ilusha’s bed, or here on the bench. You are welcome,we’ve been hoping to see you a long time.... You were so kind as tocome with Alexey Fyodorovitch?”
Krassotkin sat on the edge of the bed, at Ilusha’s feet. Though he hadperhaps prepared a free‐and‐easy opening for the conversation on hisway, now he completely lost the thread of it.
“No ... I came with Perezvon. I’ve got a dog now, called Perezvon. ASlavonic name. He’s out there ... if I whistle, he’ll run in. I’vebrought a dog, too,” he said, addressing Ilusha all at once. “Do youremember Zhutchka, old man?” he suddenly fired the question at him.
Ilusha’s little face quivered. He looked with an agonized expression atKolya. Alyosha, standing at the door, frowned and signed to Kolya notto speak of Zhutchka, but he did not or would not notice.
“Where ... is Zhutchka?” Ilusha asked in a broken voice.
“Oh, well, my boy, your Zhutchka’s lost and done for!”
Ilusha did not speak, but he fixed an intent gaze once more on Kolya.Alyosha, catching Kolya’s eye, signed to him vigorously again, but heturned away his eyes pretending not to have noticed.
“It must have run away and died somewhere. It must have died after ameal like that,” Kolya pronounced pitilessly, though he seemed a littlebreathless. “But I’ve got a dog, Perezvon ... A Slavonic name.... I’vebrought him to show you.”
“I don’t want him!” said Ilusha suddenly.
“No, no, you really must see him ... it will amuse you. I brought himon purpose.... He’s the same sort of shaggy dog.... You allow me tocall in my dog, madam?” He suddenly addressed Madame Snegiryov, withinexplicable excitement in his manner.
“I don’t want him, I don’t want him!” cried Ilusha, with a mournfulbreak in his voice. There was a reproachful light in his eyes.
“You’d better,” the captain started up from the chest by the wall onwhich he had just sat down, “you’d better ... another time,” hemuttered, but Kolya could not be restrained. He hurriedly shouted toSmurov, “Open the door,” and as soon as it was open, he blew hiswhistle. Perezvon dashed headlong into the room.
“Jump, Perezvon, beg! Beg!” shouted Kolya, jumping up, and the dogstood erect on its hind‐legs by Ilusha’s bedside. What followed was asurprise to every one: Ilusha started, lurched violently forward, bentover Perezvon and gazed at him, faint with suspense.
“It’s ... Zhutchka!” he cried suddenly, in a voice breaking with joyand suffering.
“And who did you think it was?” Krassotkin shouted with all his might,in a ringing, happy voice, and bending down he seized the dog andlifted him up to Ilusha.
“Look, old man, you see, blind of one eye and the left ear is torn,just the marks you described to me. It was by that I found him. I foundhim directly. He did not belong to any one!” he explained, turningquickly to the captain, to his wife, to Alyosha and then again toIlusha. “He used to live in the Fedotovs’ back‐yard. Though he made hishome there, they did not feed him. He was a stray dog that had run awayfrom the village ... I found him.... You see, old man, he couldn’t haveswallowed what you gave him. If he had, he must have died, he musthave! So he must have spat it out, since he is alive. You did not seehim do it. But the pin pricked his tongue, that is why he squealed. Heran away squealing and you thought he’d swallowed it. He might wellsqueal, because the skin of dogs’ mouths is so tender ... tenderer thanin men, much tenderer!” Kolya cried impetuously, his face glowing andradiant with delight. Ilusha could not speak. White as a sheet, hegazed open‐mouthed at Kolya, with his great eyes almost starting out ofhis head. And if Krassotkin, who had no suspicion of it, had known whata disastrous and fatal effect such a moment might have on the sickchild’s health, nothing would have induced him to play such a trick onhim. But Alyosha was perhaps the only person in the room who realizedit. As for the captain he behaved like a small child.
“Zhutchka! It’s Zhutchka!” he cried in a blissful voice, “Ilusha, thisis Zhutchka, your Zhutchka! Mamma, this is Zhutchka!” He was almostweeping.
“And I never guessed!” cried Smurov regretfully. “Bravo, Krassotkin! Isaid he’d find the dog and here he’s found him.”
“Here he’s found him!” another boy repeated gleefully.
“Krassotkin’s a brick!” cried a third voice.
“He’s a brick, he’s a brick!” cried the other boys, and they beganclapping.
“Wait, wait,” Krassotkin did his utmost to shout above them all. “I’lltell you how it happened, that’s the whole point. I found him, I tookhim home and hid him at once. I kept him locked up at home and did notshow him to any one till to‐day. Only Smurov has known for the lastfortnight, but I assured him this dog was called Perezvon and he didnot guess. And meanwhile I taught the dog all sorts of tricks. Youshould only see all the things he can do! I trained him so as to bringyou a well‐trained dog, in good condition, old man, so as to be able tosay to you, ‘See, old man, what a fine dog your Zhutchka is now!’Haven’t you a bit of meat? He’ll show you a trick that will make youdie with laughing. A piece of meat, haven’t you got any?”
The captain ran across the passage to the landlady, where their cookingwas done. Not to lose precious time, Kolya, in desperate haste, shoutedto Perezvon, “Dead!” And the dog immediately turned round and lay onhis back with its four paws in the air. The boys laughed. Ilusha lookedon with the same suffering smile, but the person most delighted withthe dog’s performance was “mamma.” She laughed at the dog and begansnapping her fingers and calling it, “Perezvon, Perezvon!”
“Nothing will make him get up, nothing!” Kolya cried triumphantly,proud of his success. “He won’t move for all the shouting in the world,but if I call to him, he’ll jump up in a minute. Ici, Perezvon!” Thedog leapt up and bounded about, whining with delight. The captain ranback with a piece of cooked beef.
“Is it hot?” Kolya inquired hurriedly, with a business‐like air, takingthe meat. “Dogs don’t like hot things. No, it’s all right. Look,everybody, look, Ilusha, look, old man; why aren’t you looking? He doesnot look at him, now I’ve brought him.”
The new trick consisted in making the dog stand motionless with hisnose out and putting a tempting morsel of meat just on his nose. Theluckless dog had to stand without moving, with the meat on his nose, aslong as his master chose to keep him, without a movement, perhaps forhalf an hour. But he kept Perezvon only for a brief moment.
“Paid for!” cried Kolya, and the meat passed in a flash from the dog’snose to his mouth. The audience, of course, expressed enthusiasm andsurprise.
“Can you really have put off coming all this time simply to train thedog?” exclaimed Alyosha, with an involuntary note of reproach in hisvoice.
“Simply for that!” answered Kolya, with perfect simplicity. “I wantedto show him in all his glory.”
“Perezvon! Perezvon,” called Ilusha suddenly, snapping his thin fingersand beckoning to the dog.
“What is it? Let him jump up on the bed! _Ici_, Perezvon!” Kolyaslapped the bed and Perezvon darted up by Ilusha. The boy threw botharms round his head and Perezvon instantly licked his cheek. Ilushacrept close to him, stretched himself out in bed and hid his face inthe dog’s shaggy coat.
“Dear, dear!” kept exclaiming the captain. Kolya sat down again on theedge of the bed.
“Ilusha, I can show you another trick. I’ve brought you a littlecannon. You remember, I told you about it before and you said how muchyou’d like to see it. Well, here, I’ve brought it to you.”
And Kolya hurriedly pulled out of his satchel the little bronze cannon.He hurried, because he was happy himself. Another time he would havewaited till the sensation made by Perezvon had passed off, now hehurried on regardless of all consideration. “You are all happy now,” hefelt, “so here’s something to make you happier!” He was perfectlyenchanted himself.
“I’ve been coveting this thing for a long while; it’s for you, old man,it’s for you. It belonged to Morozov, it was no use to him, he had itfrom his brother. I swopped a book from father’s book‐case for it, _AKinsman of Mahomet or Salutary Folly_, a scandalous book published inMoscow a hundred years ago, before they had any censorship. And Morozovhas a taste for such things. He was grateful to me, too....”
Kolya held the cannon in his hand so that all could see and admire it.Ilusha raised himself, and, with his right arm still round the dog, hegazed enchanted at the toy. The sensation was even greater when Kolyaannounced that he had gunpowder too, and that it could be fired off atonce “if it won’t alarm the ladies.” “Mamma” immediately asked to lookat the toy closer and her request was granted. She was much pleasedwith the little bronze cannon on wheels and began rolling it to and froon her lap. She readily gave permission for the cannon to be fired,without any idea of what she had been asked. Kolya showed the powderand the shot. The captain, as a military man, undertook to load it,putting in a minute quantity of powder. He asked that the shot might beput off till another time. The cannon was put on the floor, aimingtowards an empty part of the room, three grains of powder were thrustinto the touch‐hole and a match was put to it. A magnificent explosionfollowed. Mamma was startled, but at once laughed with delight. Theboys gazed in speechless triumph. But the captain, looking at Ilusha,was more enchanted than any of them. Kolya picked up the cannon andimmediately presented it to Ilusha, together with the powder and theshot.
“I got it for you, for you! I’ve been keeping it for you a long time,”he repeated once more in his delight.
“Oh, give it to me! No, give me the cannon!” mamma began begging like alittle child. Her face showed a piteous fear that she would not get it.Kolya was disconcerted. The captain fidgeted uneasily.
“Mamma, mamma,” he ran to her, “the cannon’s yours, of course, but letIlusha have it, because it’s a present to him, but it’s just as good asyours. Ilusha will always let you play with it; it shall belong to bothof you, both of you.”
“No, I don’t want it to belong to both of us, I want it to be minealtogether, not Ilusha’s,” persisted mamma, on the point of tears.
“Take it, mother, here, keep it!” Ilusha cried. “Krassotkin, may I giveit to my mother?” he turned to Krassotkin with an imploring face, asthough he were afraid he might be offended at his giving his present tosome one else.
“Of course you may,” Krassotkin assented heartily, and, taking thecannon from Ilusha, he handed it himself to mamma with a polite bow.She was so touched that she cried.
“Ilusha, darling, he’s the one who loves his mamma!” she said tenderly,and at once began wheeling the cannon to and fro on her lap again.
“Mamma, let me kiss your hand.” The captain darted up to her at onceand did so.
“And I never saw such a charming fellow as this nice boy,” said thegrateful lady, pointing to Krassotkin.
“And I’ll bring you as much powder as you like, Ilusha. We make thepowder ourselves now. Borovikov found out how it’s made—twenty‐fourparts of saltpeter, ten of sulphur and six of birchwood charcoal. It’sall pounded together, mixed into a paste with water and rubbed througha tammy sieve—that’s how it’s done.”
“Smurov told me about your powder, only father says it’s not realgunpowder,” responded Ilusha.
“Not real?” Kolya flushed. “It burns. I don’t know, of course.”
“No, I didn’t mean that,” put in the captain with a guilty face. “Ionly said that real powder is not made like that, but that’s nothing,it can be made so.”
“I don’t know, you know best. We lighted some in a pomatum pot, itburned splendidly, it all burnt away leaving only a tiny ash. But thatwas only the paste, and if you rub it through ... but of course youknow best, I don’t know.... And Bulkin’s father thrashed him on accountof our powder, did you hear?” he turned to Ilusha.
“Yes,” answered Ilusha. He listened to Kolya with immense interest andenjoyment.
“We had prepared a whole bottle of it and he used to keep it under hisbed. His father saw it. He said it might explode, and thrashed him onthe spot. He was going to make a complaint against me to the masters.He is not allowed to go about with me now, no one is allowed to goabout with me now. Smurov is not allowed to either, I’ve got a bad namewith every one. They say I’m a ‘desperate character,’ ” Kolya smiledscornfully. “It all began from what happened on the railway.”
“Ah, we’ve heard of that exploit of yours, too,” cried the captain.“How could you lie still on the line? Is it possible you weren’t theleast afraid, lying there under the train? Weren’t you frightened?”
The captain was abject in his flattery of Kolya.
“N—not particularly,” answered Kolya carelessly. “What’s blasted myreputation more than anything here was that cursed goose,” he said,turning again to Ilusha. But though he assumed an unconcerned air as hetalked, he still could not control himself and was continually missingthe note he tried to keep up.
“Ah! I heard about the goose!” Ilusha laughed, beaming all over. “Theytold me, but I didn’t understand. Did they really take you to thecourt?”
“The most stupid, trivial affair, they made a mountain of a molehill asthey always do,” Kolya began carelessly. “I was walking through themarket‐place here one day, just when they’d driven in the geese. Istopped and looked at them. All at once a fellow, who is an errand‐boyat Plotnikov’s now, looked at me and said, ‘What are you looking at thegeese for?’ I looked at him; he was a stupid, moon‐faced fellow oftwenty. I am always on the side of the peasantry, you know. I liketalking to the peasants.... We’ve dropped behind the peasants—that’s anaxiom. I believe you are laughing, Karamazov?”
“No, Heaven forbid, I am listening,” said Alyosha with a mostgood‐natured air, and the sensitive Kolya was immediately reassured.
“My theory, Karamazov, is clear and simple,” he hurried on again,looking pleased. “I believe in the people and am always glad to givethem their due, but I am not for spoiling them, that is a _sine quanon_ ... But I was telling you about the goose. So I turned to the fooland answered, ‘I am wondering what the goose thinks about.’ He lookedat me quite stupidly, ‘And what does the goose think about?’ he asked.‘Do you see that cart full of oats?’ I said. ‘The oats are dropping outof the sack, and the goose has put its neck right under the wheel togobble them up—do you see?’ ‘I see that quite well,’ he said. ‘Well,’said I, ‘if that cart were to move on a little, would it break thegoose’s neck or not?’ ‘It’d be sure to break it,’ and he grinned allover his face, highly delighted. ‘Come on, then,’ said I, ‘let’s try.’‘Let’s,’ he said. And it did not take us long to arrange: he stood atthe bridle without being noticed, and I stood on one side to direct thegoose. And the owner wasn’t looking, he was talking to some one, so Ihad nothing to do, the goose thrust its head in after the oats ofitself, under the cart, just under the wheel. I winked at the lad, hetugged at the bridle, and crack. The goose’s neck was broken in half.And, as luck would have it, all the peasants saw us at that moment andthey kicked up a shindy at once. ‘You did that on purpose!’ ‘No, not onpurpose.’ ‘Yes, you did, on purpose!’ Well, they shouted, ‘Take him tothe justice of the peace!’ They took me, too. ‘You were there, too,’they said, ‘you helped, you’re known all over the market!’ And, forsome reason, I really am known all over the market,” Kolya addedconceitedly. “We all went off to the justice’s, they brought the goose,too. The fellow was crying in a great funk, simply blubbering like awoman. And the farmer kept shouting that you could kill any number ofgeese like that. Well, of course, there were witnesses. The justice ofthe peace settled it in a minute, that the farmer was to be paid arouble for the goose, and the fellow to have the goose. And he waswarned not to play such pranks again. And the fellow kept blubberinglike a woman. ‘It wasn’t me,’ he said, ‘it was he egged me on,’ and hepointed to me. I answered with the utmost composure that I hadn’t eggedhim on, that I simply stated the general proposition, had spokenhypothetically. The justice of the peace smiled and was vexed withhimself at once for having smiled. ‘I’ll complain to your masters ofyou, so that for the future you mayn’t waste your time on such generalpropositions, instead of sitting at your books and learning yourlessons.’ He didn’t complain to the masters, that was a joke, but thematter was noised abroad and came to the ears of the masters. Theirears are long, you know! The classical master, Kolbasnikov, wasparticularly shocked about it, but Dardanelov got me off again. ButKolbasnikov is savage with every one now like a green ass. Did youknow, Ilusha, he is just married, got a dowry of a thousand roubles,and his bride’s a regular fright of the first rank and the last degree.The third‐class fellows wrote an epigram on it:
Astounding news has reached the class,Kolbasnikov has been an ass.

And so on, awfully funny, I’ll bring it to you later on. I say nothingagainst Dardanelov, he is a learned man, there’s no doubt about it. Irespect men like that and it’s not because he stood up for me.”
“But you took him down about the founders of Troy!” Smurov put insuddenly, unmistakably proud of Krassotkin at such a moment. He wasparticularly pleased with the story of the goose.
“Did you really take him down?” the captain inquired, in a flatteringway. “On the question who founded Troy? We heard of it, Ilusha told meabout it at the time.”
“He knows everything, father, he knows more than any of us!” put inIlusha; “he only pretends to be like that, but really he is top inevery subject....”
Ilusha looked at Kolya with infinite happiness.
“Oh, that’s all nonsense about Troy, a trivial matter. I consider thisan unimportant question,” said Kolya with haughty humility. He had bynow completely recovered his dignity, though he was still a littleuneasy. He felt that he was greatly excited and that he had talkedabout the goose, for instance, with too little reserve, while Alyoshahad looked serious and had not said a word all the time. And the vainboy began by degrees to have a rankling fear that Alyosha was silentbecause he despised him, and thought he was showing off before him. Ifhe dared to think anything like that Kolya would—
“I regard the question as quite a trivial one,” he rapped out again,proudly.
“And I know who founded Troy,” a boy, who had not spoken before, saidsuddenly, to the surprise of every one. He was silent and seemed to beshy. He was a pretty boy of about eleven, called Kartashov. He wassitting near the door. Kolya looked at him with dignified amazement.
The fact was that the identity of the founders of Troy had become asecret for the whole school, a secret which could only be discovered byreading Smaragdov, and no one had Smaragdov but Kolya. One day, whenKolya’s back was turned, Kartashov hastily opened Smaragdov, which layamong Kolya’s books, and immediately lighted on the passage relating tothe foundation of Troy. This was a good time ago, but he felt uneasyand could not bring himself to announce publicly that he too knew whohad founded Troy, afraid of what might happen and of Krassotkin’ssomehow putting him to shame over it. But now he couldn’t resist sayingit. For weeks he had been longing to.
“Well, who did found it?” asked Kolya, turning to him with haughtysuperciliousness. He saw from his face that he really did know and atonce made up his mind how to take it. There was, so to speak, adiscordant note in the general harmony.
“Troy was founded by Teucer, Dardanus, Ilius and Tros,” the boy rappedout at once, and in the same instant he blushed, blushed so, that itwas painful to look at him. But the boys stared at him, stared at himfor a whole minute, and then all the staring eyes turned at once andwere fastened upon Kolya, who was still scanning the audacious boy withdisdainful composure.
“In what sense did they found it?” he deigned to comment at last. “Andwhat is meant by founding a city or a state? What do they do? Did theygo and each lay a brick, do you suppose?”
There was laughter. The offending boy turned from pink to crimson. Hewas silent and on the point of tears. Kolya held him so for a minute.
“Before you talk of a historical event like the foundation of anationality, you must first understand what you mean by it,” headmonished him in stern, incisive tones. “But I attach no consequenceto these old wives’ tales and I don’t think much of universal historyin general,” he added carelessly, addressing the company generally.
“Universal history?” the captain inquired, looking almost scared.
“Yes, universal history! It’s the study of the successive follies ofmankind and nothing more. The only subjects I respect are mathematicsand natural science,” said Kolya. He was showing off and he stole aglance at Alyosha; his was the only opinion he was afraid of there. ButAlyosha was still silent and still serious as before. If Alyosha hadsaid a word it would have stopped him, but Alyosha was silent and “itmight be the silence of contempt,” and that finally irritated Kolya.
“The classical languages, too ... they are simply madness, nothingmore. You seem to disagree with me again, Karamazov?”
“I don’t agree,” said Alyosha, with a faint smile.
“The study of the classics, if you ask my opinion, is simply a policemeasure, that’s simply why it has been introduced into our schools.” Bydegrees Kolya began to get breathless again. “Latin and Greek wereintroduced because they are a bore and because they stupefy theintellect. It was dull before, so what could they do to make thingsduller? It was senseless enough before, so what could they do to makeit more senseless? So they thought of Greek and Latin. That’s myopinion, I hope I shall never change it,” Kolya finished abruptly. Hischeeks were flushed.
“That’s true,” assented Smurov suddenly, in a ringing tone ofconviction. He had listened attentively.
“And yet he is first in Latin himself,” cried one of the group of boyssuddenly.
“Yes, father, he says that and yet he is first in Latin,” echoedIlusha.
“What of it?” Kolya thought fit to defend himself, though the praisewas very sweet to him. “I am fagging away at Latin because I have to,because I promised my mother to pass my examination, and I think thatwhatever you do, it’s worth doing it well. But in my soul I have aprofound contempt for the classics and all that fraud.... You don’tagree, Karamazov?”
“Why ‘fraud’?” Alyosha smiled again.
“Well, all the classical authors have been translated into alllanguages, so it was not for the sake of studying the classics theyintroduced Latin, but solely as a police measure, to stupefy theintelligence. So what can one call it but a fraud?”
“Why, who taught you all this?” cried Alyosha, surprised at last.
“In the first place I am capable of thinking for myself without beingtaught. Besides, what I said just now about the classics beingtranslated our teacher Kolbasnikov has said to the whole of the thirdclass.”
“The doctor has come!” cried Nina, who had been silent till then.
A carriage belonging to Madame Hohlakov drove up to the gate. Thecaptain, who had been expecting the doctor all the morning, rushedheadlong out to meet him. “Mamma” pulled herself together and assumed adignified air. Alyosha went up to Ilusha and began setting his pillowsstraight. Nina, from her invalid chair, anxiously watched him puttingthe bed tidy. The boys hurriedly took leave. Some of them promised tocome again in the evening. Kolya called Perezvon and the dog jumped offthe bed.
“I won’t go away, I won’t go away,” Kolya said hastily to Ilusha. “I’llwait in the passage and come back when the doctor’s gone, I’ll comeback with Perezvon.”
But by now the doctor had entered, an important‐looking person withlong, dark whiskers and a shiny, shaven chin, wearing a bearskin coat.As he crossed the threshold he stopped, taken aback; he probablyfancied he had come to the wrong place. “How is this? Where am I?” hemuttered, not removing his coat nor his peaked sealskin cap. The crowd,the poverty of the room, the washing hanging on a line in the corner,puzzled him. The captain, bent double, was bowing low before him.
“It’s here, sir, here, sir,” he muttered cringingly; “it’s here, you’vecome right, you were coming to us...”
“Sne‐gi‐ryov?” the doctor said loudly and pompously. “Mr. Snegiryov—isthat you?”
“That’s me, sir!”
“Ah!”
The doctor looked round the room with a squeamish air once more andthrew off his coat, displaying to all eyes the grand decoration at hisneck. The captain caught the fur coat in the air, and the doctor tookoff his cap.
“Where is the patient?” he asked emphatically.



Chapter VI.Precocity

“What do you think the doctor will say to him?” Kolya asked quickly.“What a repulsive mug, though, hasn’t he? I can’t endure medicine!”
“Ilusha is dying. I think that’s certain,” answered Alyosha,mournfully.
“They are rogues! Medicine’s a fraud! I am glad to have made youracquaintance, though, Karamazov. I wanted to know you for a long time.I am only sorry we meet in such sad circumstances.”
Kolya had a great inclination to say something even warmer and moredemonstrative, but he felt ill at ease. Alyosha noticed this, smiled,and pressed his hand.
“I’ve long learned to respect you as a rare person,” Kolya mutteredagain, faltering and uncertain. “I have heard you are a mystic and havebeen in the monastery. I know you are a mystic, but ... that hasn’t putme off. Contact with real life will cure you.... It’s always so withcharacters like yours.”
“What do you mean by mystic? Cure me of what?” Alyosha was ratherastonished.
“Oh, God and all the rest of it.”
“What, don’t you believe in God?”
“Oh, I’ve nothing against God. Of course, God is only a hypothesis, but... I admit that He is needed ... for the order of the universe and allthat ... and that if there were no God He would have to be invented,”added Kolya, beginning to blush. He suddenly fancied that Alyosha mightthink he was trying to show off his knowledge and to prove that he was“grown up.” “I haven’t the slightest desire to show off my knowledge tohim,” Kolya thought indignantly. And all of a sudden he felt horriblyannoyed.
“I must confess I can’t endure entering on such discussions,” he saidwith a final air. “It’s possible for one who doesn’t believe in God tolove mankind, don’t you think so? Voltaire didn’t believe in God andloved mankind?” (“I am at it again,” he thought to himself.)
“Voltaire believed in God, though not very much, I think, and I don’tthink he loved mankind very much either,” said Alyosha quietly, gently,and quite naturally, as though he were talking to some one of his ownage, or even older. Kolya was particularly struck by Alyosha’s apparentdiffidence about his opinion of Voltaire. He seemed to be leaving thequestion for him, little Kolya, to settle.
“Have you read Voltaire?” Alyosha finished.
“No, not to say read.... But I’ve read _Candide_ in the Russiantranslation ... in an absurd, grotesque, old translation ... (At itagain! again!)”
“And did you understand it?”
“Oh, yes, everything.... That is ... Why do you suppose I shouldn’tunderstand it? There’s a lot of nastiness in it, of course.... Ofcourse I can understand that it’s a philosophical novel and written toadvocate an idea....” Kolya was getting mixed by now. “I am aSocialist, Karamazov, I am an incurable Socialist,” he announcedsuddenly, apropos of nothing.
“A Socialist?” laughed Alyosha. “But when have you had time to becomeone? Why, I thought you were only thirteen?”
Kolya winced.
“In the first place I am not thirteen, but fourteen, fourteen in afortnight,” he flushed angrily, “and in the second place I am at acomplete loss to understand what my age has to do with it? The questionis what are my convictions, not what is my age, isn’t it?”
“When you are older, you’ll understand for yourself the influence ofage on convictions. I fancied, too, that you were not expressing yourown ideas,” Alyosha answered serenely and modestly, but Kolyainterrupted him hotly:
“Come, you want obedience and mysticism. You must admit that theChristian religion, for instance, has only been of use to the rich andthe powerful to keep the lower classes in slavery. That’s so, isn’tit?”
“Ah, I know where you read that, and I am sure some one told you so!”cried Alyosha.
“I say, what makes you think I read it? And certainly no one told meso. I can think for myself.... I am not opposed to Christ, if you like.He was a most humane person, and if He were alive to‐day, He would befound in the ranks of the revolutionists, and would perhaps play aconspicuous part.... There’s no doubt about that.”
“Oh, where, where did you get that from? What fool have you madefriends with?” exclaimed Alyosha.
“Come, the truth will out! It has so chanced that I have often talkedto Mr. Rakitin, of course, but ... old Byelinsky said that, too, sothey say.”
“Byelinsky? I don’t remember. He hasn’t written that anywhere.”
“If he didn’t write it, they say he said it. I heard that from a ...but never mind.”
“And have you read Byelinsky?”
“Well, no ... I haven’t read all of him, but ... I read the passageabout Tatyana, why she didn’t go off with Onyegin.”
“Didn’t go off with Onyegin? Surely you don’t ... understand thatalready?”
“Why, you seem to take me for little Smurov,” said Kolya, with a grinof irritation. “But please don’t suppose I am such a revolutionist. Ioften disagree with Mr. Rakitin. Though I mention Tatyana, I am not atall for the emancipation of women. I acknowledge that women are asubject race and must obey. _Les femmes tricottent_, as Napoleon said.”Kolya, for some reason, smiled, “And on that question at least I amquite of one mind with that pseudo‐great man. I think, too, that toleave one’s own country and fly to America is mean, worse thanmean—silly. Why go to America when one may be of great service tohumanity here? Now especially. There’s a perfect mass of fruitfulactivity open to us. That’s what I answered.”
“What do you mean? Answered whom? Has some one suggested your going toAmerica already?”
“I must own, they’ve been at me to go, but I declined. That’s betweenourselves, of course, Karamazov; do you hear, not a word to any one. Isay this only to you. I am not at all anxious to fall into the clutchesof the secret police and take lessons at the Chain bridge.
Long will you rememberThe house at the Chain bridge.

Do you remember? It’s splendid. Why are you laughing? You don’t supposeI am fibbing, do you?” (“What if he should find out that I’ve only thatone number of _The Bell_ in father’s bookcase, and haven’t read anymore of it?” Kolya thought with a shudder.)
“Oh, no, I am not laughing and don’t suppose for a moment that you arelying. No, indeed, I can’t suppose so, for all this, alas! is perfectlytrue. But tell me, have you read Pushkin—_Onyegin_, for instance?...You spoke just now of Tatyana.”
“No, I haven’t read it yet, but I want to read it. I have noprejudices, Karamazov; I want to hear both sides. What makes you ask?”
“Oh, nothing.”
“Tell me, Karamazov, have you an awful contempt for me?” Kolya rappedout suddenly and drew himself up before Alyosha, as though he were ondrill. “Be so kind as to tell me, without beating about the bush.”
“I have a contempt for you?” Alyosha looked at him wondering. “Whatfor? I am only sad that a charming nature such as yours should beperverted by all this crude nonsense before you have begun life.”
“Don’t be anxious about my nature,” Kolya interrupted, not withoutcomplacency. “But it’s true that I am stupidly sensitive, crudelysensitive. You smiled just now, and I fancied you seemed to—”
“Oh, my smile meant something quite different. I’ll tell you why Ismiled. Not long ago I read the criticism made by a German who hadlived in Russia, on our students and schoolboys of to‐day. ‘Show aRussian schoolboy,’ he writes, ‘a map of the stars, which he knowsnothing about, and he will give you back the map next day withcorrections on it.’ No knowledge and unbounded conceit—that’s what theGerman meant to say about the Russian schoolboy.”
“Yes, that’s perfectly right,” Kolya laughed suddenly, “exactly so!Bravo the German! But he did not see the good side, what do you think?Conceit may be, that comes from youth, that will be corrected if needbe, but, on the other hand, there is an independent spirit almost fromchildhood, boldness of thought and conviction, and not the spirit ofthese sausage makers, groveling before authority.... But the German wasright all the same. Bravo the German! But Germans want strangling allthe same. Though they are so good at science and learning they must bestrangled.”
“Strangled, what for?” smiled Alyosha.
“Well, perhaps I am talking nonsense, I agree. I am awfully childishsometimes, and when I am pleased about anything I can’t restrain myselfand am ready to talk any stuff. But, I say, we are chattering away hereabout nothing, and that doctor has been a long time in there. Butperhaps he’s examining the mamma and that poor crippled Nina. I likedthat Nina, you know. She whispered to me suddenly as I was coming away,‘Why didn’t you come before?’ And in such a voice, so reproachfully! Ithink she is awfully nice and pathetic.”
“Yes, yes! Well, you’ll be coming often, you will see what she is like.It would do you a great deal of good to know people like that, to learnto value a great deal which you will find out from knowing thesepeople,” Alyosha observed warmly. “That would have more effect on youthan anything.”
“Oh, how I regret and blame myself for not having come sooner!” Kolyaexclaimed, with bitter feeling.
“Yes, it’s a great pity. You saw for yourself how delighted the poorchild was to see you. And how he fretted for you to come!”
“Don’t tell me! You make it worse! But it serves me right. What kept mefrom coming was my conceit, my egoistic vanity, and the beastlywilfullness, which I never can get rid of, though I’ve been strugglingwith it all my life. I see that now. I am a beast in lots of ways,Karamazov!”
“No, you have a charming nature, though it’s been distorted, and Iquite understand why you have had such an influence on this generous,morbidly sensitive boy,” Alyosha answered warmly.
“And you say that to me!” cried Kolya; “and would you believe it, Ithought—I’ve thought several times since I’ve been here—that youdespised me! If only you knew how I prize your opinion!”
“But are you really so sensitive? At your age! Would you believe it,just now, when you were telling your story, I thought, as I watchedyou, that you must be very sensitive!”
“You thought so? What an eye you’ve got, I say! I bet that was when Iwas talking about the goose. That was just when I was fancying you hada great contempt for me for being in such a hurry to show off, and fora moment I quite hated you for it, and began talking like a fool. ThenI fancied—just now, here—when I said that if there were no God He wouldhave to be invented, that I was in too great a hurry to display myknowledge, especially as I got that phrase out of a book. But I swear Iwasn’t showing off out of vanity, though I really don’t know why.Because I was so pleased? Yes, I believe it was because I was sopleased ... though it’s perfectly disgraceful for any one to be gushingdirectly they are pleased, I know that. But I am convinced now that youdon’t despise me; it was all my imagination. Oh, Karamazov, I amprofoundly unhappy. I sometimes fancy all sorts of things, that everyone is laughing at me, the whole world, and then I feel ready tooverturn the whole order of things.”
“And you worry every one about you,” smiled Alyosha.
“Yes, I worry every one about me, especially my mother. Karamazov, tellme, am I very ridiculous now?”
“Don’t think about that, don’t think of it at all!” cried Alyosha. “Andwhat does ridiculous mean? Isn’t every one constantly being or seemingridiculous? Besides, nearly all clever people now are fearfully afraidof being ridiculous, and that makes them unhappy. All I am surprised atis that you should be feeling that so early, though I’ve observed itfor some time past, and not only in you. Nowadays the very childrenhave begun to suffer from it. It’s almost a sort of insanity. The devilhas taken the form of that vanity and entered into the wholegeneration; it’s simply the devil,” added Alyosha, without a trace ofthe smile that Kolya, staring at him, expected to see. “You are likeevery one else,” said Alyosha, in conclusion, “that is, like very manyothers. Only you must not be like everybody else, that’s all.”
“Even if every one is like that?”
“Yes, even if every one is like that. You be the only one not like it.You really are not like every one else, here you are not ashamed toconfess to something bad and even ridiculous. And who will admit somuch in these days? No one. And people have even ceased to feel theimpulse to self‐ criticism. Don’t be like every one else, even if youare the only one.”
“Splendid! I was not mistaken in you. You know how to console one. Oh,how I have longed to know you, Karamazov! I’ve long been eager for thismeeting. Can you really have thought about me, too? You said just nowthat you thought of me, too?”
“Yes, I’d heard of you and had thought of you, too ... and if it’spartly vanity that makes you ask, it doesn’t matter.”
“Do you know, Karamazov, our talk has been like a declaration of love,”said Kolya, in a bashful and melting voice. “That’s not ridiculous, isit?”
“Not at all ridiculous, and if it were, it wouldn’t matter, becauseit’s been a good thing.” Alyosha smiled brightly.
“But do you know, Karamazov, you must admit that you are a littleashamed yourself, now.... I see it by your eyes.” Kolya smiled with asort of sly happiness.
“Why ashamed?”
“Well, why are you blushing?”
“It was you made me blush,” laughed Alyosha, and he really did blush.“Oh, well, I am a little, goodness knows why, I don’t know...” hemuttered, almost embarrassed.
“Oh, how I love you and admire you at this moment just because you arerather ashamed! Because you are just like me,” cried Kolya, in positiveecstasy. His cheeks glowed, his eyes beamed.
“You know, Kolya, you will be very unhappy in your life,” somethingmade Alyosha say suddenly.
“I know, I know. How you know it all beforehand!” Kolya agreed at once.
“But you will bless life on the whole, all the same.”
“Just so, hurrah! You are a prophet. Oh, we shall get on together,Karamazov! Do you know, what delights me most, is that you treat mequite like an equal. But we are not equals, no, we are not, you arebetter! But we shall get on. Do you know, all this last month, I’vebeen saying to myself, ‘Either we shall be friends at once, for ever,or we shall part enemies to the grave!’ ”
“And saying that, of course, you loved me,” Alyosha laughed gayly.
“I did. I loved you awfully. I’ve been loving and dreaming of you. Andhow do you know it all beforehand? Ah, here’s the doctor. Goodness!What will he tell us? Look at his face!”



Chapter VII.Ilusha

The doctor came out of the room again, muffled in his fur coat and withhis cap on his head. His face looked almost angry and disgusted, asthough he were afraid of getting dirty. He cast a cursory glance roundthe passage, looking sternly at Alyosha and Kolya as he did so. Alyoshawaved from the door to the coachman, and the carriage that had broughtthe doctor drove up. The captain darted out after the doctor, and,bowing apologetically, stopped him to get the last word. The poorfellow looked utterly crushed; there was a scared look in his eyes.
“Your Excellency, your Excellency ... is it possible?” he began, butcould not go on and clasped his hands in despair. Yet he still gazedimploringly at the doctor, as though a word from him might still changethe poor boy’s fate.
“I can’t help it, I am not God!” the doctor answered offhand, thoughwith the customary impressiveness.
“Doctor ... your Excellency ... and will it be soon, soon?”
“You must be prepared for anything,” said the doctor in emphatic andincisive tones, and dropping his eyes, he was about to step out to thecoach.
“Your Excellency, for Christ’s sake!” the terror‐stricken captainstopped him again. “Your Excellency! but can nothing, absolutelynothing save him now?”
“It’s not in my hands now,” said the doctor impatiently, “but h’m!...”he stopped suddenly. “If you could, for instance ... send ... yourpatient ... at once, without delay” (the words “at once, withoutdelay,” the doctor uttered with an almost wrathful sternness that madethe captain start) “to Syracuse, the change to the new be‐ne‐ficialclimatic conditions might possibly effect—”
“To Syracuse!” cried the captain, unable to grasp what was said.
“Syracuse is in Sicily,” Kolya jerked out suddenly in explanation. Thedoctor looked at him.
“Sicily! your Excellency,” faltered the captain, “but you’ve seen”—hespread out his hands, indicating his surroundings—“mamma and myfamily?”
“N—no, Sicily is not the place for the family, the family should go toCaucasus in the early spring ... your daughter must go to the Caucasus,and your wife ... after a course of the waters in the Caucasus for herrheumatism ... must be sent straight to Paris to the mental specialistLepelletier; I could give you a note to him, and then ... there mightbe a change—”
“Doctor, doctor! But you see!” The captain flung wide his hands againdespairingly, indicating the bare wooden walls of the passage.
“Well, that’s not my business,” grinned the doctor. “I have only toldyou the answer of medical science to your question as to possibletreatment. As for the rest, to my regret—”
“Don’t be afraid, apothecary, my dog won’t bite you,” Kolya rapped outloudly, noticing the doctor’s rather uneasy glance at Perezvon, who wasstanding in the doorway. There was a wrathful note in Kolya’s voice. Heused the word apothecary instead of doctor on purpose, and, as heexplained afterwards, used it “to insult him.”
“What’s that?” The doctor flung up his head, staring with surprise atKolya. “Who’s this?” he addressed Alyosha, as though asking him toexplain.
“It’s Perezvon’s master, don’t worry about me,” Kolya said incisivelyagain.
“Perezvon?”[7] repeated the doctor, perplexed.
“He hears the bell, but where it is he cannot tell. Good‐by, we shallmeet in Syracuse.”
“Who’s this? Who’s this?” The doctor flew into a terrible rage.
“He is a schoolboy, doctor, he is a mischievous boy; take no notice ofhim,” said Alyosha, frowning and speaking quickly. “Kolya, hold yourtongue!” he cried to Krassotkin. “Take no notice of him, doctor,” herepeated, rather impatiently.
“He wants a thrashing, a good thrashing!” The doctor stamped in aperfect fury.
“And you know, apothecary, my Perezvon might bite!” said Kolya, turningpale, with quivering voice and flashing eyes. “_Ici_, Perezvon!”
“Kolya, if you say another word, I’ll have nothing more to do withyou,” Alyosha cried peremptorily.
“There is only one man in the world who can command NikolayKrassotkin—this is the man”; Kolya pointed to Alyosha. “I obey him,good‐ by!”
He stepped forward, opened the door, and quickly went into the innerroom. Perezvon flew after him. The doctor stood still for five secondsin amazement, looking at Alyosha; then, with a curse, he went outquickly to the carriage, repeating aloud, “This is ... this is ... Idon’t know what it is!” The captain darted forward to help him into thecarriage. Alyosha followed Kolya into the room. He was already byIlusha’s bedside. The sick boy was holding his hand and calling for hisfather. A minute later the captain, too, came back.
“Father, father, come ... we ...” Ilusha faltered in violentexcitement, but apparently unable to go on, he flung his wasted armsround his father and Kolya, uniting them in one embrace, and huggingthem as tightly as he could. The captain suddenly began to shake withdumb sobs, and Kolya’s lips and chin twitched.
“Father, father! How sorry I am for you!” Ilusha moaned bitterly.
“Ilusha ... darling ... the doctor said ... you would be all right ...we shall be happy ... the doctor ...” the captain began.
“Ah, father! I know what the new doctor said to you about me.... Isaw!” cried Ilusha, and again he hugged them both with all hisstrength, hiding his face on his father’s shoulder.
“Father, don’t cry, and when I die get a good boy, another one ...choose one of them all, a good one, call him Ilusha and love himinstead of me....”
“Hush, old man, you’ll get well,” Krassotkin cried suddenly, in a voicethat sounded angry.
“But don’t ever forget me, father,” Ilusha went on, “come to my grave... and, father, bury me by our big stone, where we used to go for ourwalk, and come to me there with Krassotkin in the evening ... andPerezvon ... I shall expect you.... Father, father!”
His voice broke. They were all three silent, still embracing. Nina wascrying quietly in her chair, and at last seeing them all crying,“mamma,” too, burst into tears.
“Ilusha! Ilusha!” she exclaimed.
Krassotkin suddenly released himself from Ilusha’s embrace.
“Good‐by, old man, mother expects me back to dinner,” he said quickly.“What a pity I did not tell her! She will be dreadfully anxious.... Butafter dinner I’ll come back to you for the whole day, for the wholeevening, and I’ll tell you all sorts of things, all sorts of things.And I’ll bring Perezvon, but now I will take him with me, because hewill begin to howl when I am away and bother you. Good‐by!”
And he ran out into the passage. He didn’t want to cry, but in thepassage he burst into tears. Alyosha found him crying.
“Kolya, you must be sure to keep your word and come, or he will beterribly disappointed,” Alyosha said emphatically.
“I will! Oh, how I curse myself for not having come before!” mutteredKolya, crying, and no longer ashamed of it.
At that moment the captain flew out of the room, and at once closed thedoor behind him. His face looked frenzied, his lips were trembling. Hestood before the two and flung up his arms.
“I don’t want a good boy! I don’t want another boy!” he muttered in awild whisper, clenching his teeth. “If I forget thee, Jerusalem, may mytongue—” He broke off with a sob and sank on his knees before thewooden bench. Pressing his fists against his head, he began sobbingwith absurd whimpering cries, doing his utmost that his cries shouldnot be heard in the room.
Kolya ran out into the street.
“Good‐by, Karamazov? Will you come yourself?” he cried sharply andangrily to Alyosha.
“I will certainly come in the evening.”
“What was that he said about Jerusalem?... What did he mean by that?”
“It’s from the Bible. ‘If I forget thee, Jerusalem,’ that is, if Iforget all that is most precious to me, if I let anything take itsplace, then may—”
“I understand, that’s enough! Mind you come! _Ici_, Perezvon!” he criedwith positive ferocity to the dog, and with rapid strides he went home.



Book XI. Ivan



Chapter I.At Grushenka’s

Alyosha went towards the cathedral square to the widow Morozov’s houseto see Grushenka, who had sent Fenya to him early in the morning withan urgent message begging him to come. Questioning Fenya, Alyoshalearned that her mistress had been particularly distressed since theprevious day. During the two months that had passed since Mitya’sarrest, Alyosha had called frequently at the widow Morozov’s house,both from his own inclination and to take messages for Mitya. Threedays after Mitya’s arrest, Grushenka was taken very ill and was ill fornearly five weeks. For one whole week she was unconscious. She was verymuch changed—thinner and a little sallow, though she had for the pastfortnight been well enough to go out. But to Alyosha her face was evenmore attractive than before, and he liked to meet her eyes when he wentin to her. A look of firmness and intelligent purpose had developed inher face. There were signs of a spiritual transformation in her, and asteadfast, fine and humble determination that nothing could shake couldbe discerned in her. There was a small vertical line between her browswhich gave her charming face a look of concentrated thought, almostaustere at the first glance. There was scarcely a trace of her formerfrivolity.
It seemed strange to Alyosha, too, that in spite of the calamity thathad overtaken the poor girl, betrothed to a man who had been arrestedfor a terrible crime, almost at the instant of their betrothal, inspite of her illness and the almost inevitable sentence hanging overMitya, Grushenka had not yet lost her youthful cheerfulness. There wasa soft light in the once proud eyes, though at times they gleamed withthe old vindictive fire when she was visited by one disturbing thoughtstronger than ever in her heart. The object of that uneasiness was thesame as ever—Katerina Ivanovna, of whom Grushenka had even raved whenshe lay in delirium. Alyosha knew that she was fearfully jealous ofher. Yet Katerina Ivanovna had not once visited Mitya in his prison,though she might have done it whenever she liked. All this made adifficult problem for Alyosha, for he was the only person to whomGrushenka opened her heart and from whom she was continually askingadvice. Sometimes he was unable to say anything.
Full of anxiety he entered her lodging. She was at home. She hadreturned from seeing Mitya half an hour before, and from the rapidmovement with which she leapt up from her chair to meet him he saw thatshe had been expecting him with great impatience. A pack of cards dealtfor a game of “fools” lay on the table. A bed had been made up on theleather sofa on the other side and Maximov lay, half‐reclining, on it.He wore a dressing‐ gown and a cotton nightcap, and was evidently illand weak, though he was smiling blissfully. When the homeless old manreturned with Grushenka from Mokroe two months before, he had simplystayed on and was still staying with her. He arrived with her in rainand sleet, sat down on the sofa, drenched and scared, and gazed mutelyat her with a timid, appealing smile. Grushenka, who was in terriblegrief and in the first stage of fever, almost forgot his existence inall she had to do the first half‐ hour after her arrival. Suddenly shechanced to look at him intently: he laughed a pitiful, helpless littlelaugh. She called Fenya and told her to give him something to eat. Allthat day he sat in the same place, almost without stirring. When it gotdark and the shutters were closed, Fenya asked her mistress:
“Is the gentleman going to stay the night, mistress?”
“Yes; make him a bed on the sofa,” answered Grushenka.
Questioning him more in detail, Grushenka learned from him that he hadliterally nowhere to go, and that “Mr. Kalganov, my benefactor, told mestraight that he wouldn’t receive me again and gave me five roubles.”
“Well, God bless you, you’d better stay, then,” Grushenka decided inher grief, smiling compassionately at him. Her smile wrung the oldman’s heart and his lips twitched with grateful tears. And so thedestitute wanderer had stayed with her ever since. He did not leave thehouse even when she was ill. Fenya and her grandmother, the cook, didnot turn him out, but went on serving him meals and making up his bedon the sofa. Grushenka had grown used to him, and coming back fromseeing Mitya (whom she had begun to visit in prison before she wasreally well) she would sit down and begin talking to “Maximushka” abouttrifling matters, to keep her from thinking of her sorrow. The old manturned out to be a good story‐teller on occasions, so that at last hebecame necessary to her. Grushenka saw scarcely any one else besideAlyosha, who did not come every day and never stayed long. Her oldmerchant lay seriously ill at this time, “at his last gasp” as theysaid in the town, and he did, in fact, die a week after Mitya’s trial.Three weeks before his death, feeling the end approaching, he made hissons, their wives and children, come upstairs to him at last and badethem not leave him again. From that moment he gave strict orders to hisservants not to admit Grushenka and to tell her if she came, “Themaster wishes you long life and happiness and tells you to forget him.”But Grushenka sent almost every day to inquire after him.
“You’ve come at last!” she cried, flinging down the cards and joyfullygreeting Alyosha, “and Maximushka’s been scaring me that perhaps youwouldn’t come. Ah, how I need you! Sit down to the table. What will youhave—coffee?”
“Yes, please,” said Alyosha, sitting down at the table. “I am veryhungry.”
“That’s right. Fenya, Fenya, coffee,” cried Grushenka. “It’s been madea long time ready for you. And bring some little pies, and mind theyare hot. Do you know, we’ve had a storm over those pies to‐day. I tookthem to the prison for him, and would you believe it, he threw themback to me: he would not eat them. He flung one of them on the floorand stamped on it. So I said to him: ‘I shall leave them with thewarder; if you don’t eat them before evening, it will be that yourvenomous spite is enough for you!’ With that I went away. We quarreledagain, would you believe it? Whenever I go we quarrel.”
Grushenka said all this in one breath in her agitation. Maximov,feeling nervous, at once smiled and looked on the floor.
“What did you quarrel about this time?” asked Alyosha.
“I didn’t expect it in the least. Only fancy, he is jealous of thePole. ‘Why are you keeping him?’ he said. ‘So you’ve begun keepinghim.’ He is jealous, jealous of me all the time, jealous eating andsleeping! He even took it into his head to be jealous of Kuzma lastweek.”
“But he knew about the Pole before?”
“Yes, but there it is. He has known about him from the very beginning,but to‐day he suddenly got up and began scolding about him. I amashamed to repeat what he said. Silly fellow! Rakitin went in as I cameout. Perhaps Rakitin is egging him on. What do you think?” she addedcarelessly.
“He loves you, that’s what it is: he loves you so much. And now he isparticularly worried.”
“I should think he might be, with the trial to‐morrow. And I went tohim to say something about to‐morrow, for I dread to think what’s goingto happen then. You say that he is worried, but how worried I am! Andhe talks about the Pole! He’s too silly! He is not jealous ofMaximushka yet, anyway.”
“My wife was dreadfully jealous over me, too,” Maximov put in his word.
“Jealous of you?” Grushenka laughed in spite of herself. “Of whom couldshe have been jealous?”
“Of the servant girls.”
“Hold your tongue, Maximushka, I am in no laughing mood now; I feelangry. Don’t ogle the pies. I shan’t give you any; they are not goodfor you, and I won’t give you any vodka either. I have to look afterhim, too, just as though I kept an almshouse,” she laughed.
“I don’t deserve your kindness. I am a worthless creature,” saidMaximov, with tears in his voice. “You would do better to spend yourkindness on people of more use than me.”
“Ech, every one is of use, Maximushka, and how can we tell who’s ofmost use? If only that Pole didn’t exist, Alyosha. He’s taken it intohis head to fall ill, too, to‐day. I’ve been to see him also. And Ishall send him some pies, too, on purpose. I hadn’t sent him any, butMitya accused me of it, so now I shall send some! Ah, here’s Fenya witha letter! Yes, it’s from the Poles—begging again!”
Pan Mussyalovitch had indeed sent an extremely long andcharacteristically eloquent letter in which he begged her to lend himthree roubles. In the letter was enclosed a receipt for the sum, with apromise to repay it within three months, signed by Pan Vrublevsky aswell. Grushenka had received many such letters, accompanied by suchreceipts, from her former lover during the fortnight of herconvalescence. But she knew that the two Poles had been to ask afterher health during her illness. The first letter Grushenka got from themwas a long one, written on large notepaper and with a big family creston the seal. It was so obscure and rhetorical that Grushenka put itdown before she had read half, unable to make head or tail of it. Shecould not attend to letters then. The first letter was followed nextday by another in which Pan Mussyalovitch begged her for a loan of twothousand roubles for a very short period. Grushenka left that letter,too, unanswered. A whole series of letters had followed—one everyday—all as pompous and rhetorical, but the loan asked for, graduallydiminishing, dropped to a hundred roubles, then to twenty‐five, to ten,and finally Grushenka received a letter in which both the Poles beggedher for only one rouble and included a receipt signed by both.
Then Grushenka suddenly felt sorry for them, and at dusk she went roundherself to their lodging. She found the two Poles in great poverty,almost destitution, without food or fuel, without cigarettes, in debtto their landlady. The two hundred roubles they had carried off fromMitya at Mokroe had soon disappeared. But Grushenka was surprised attheir meeting her with arrogant dignity and self‐assertion, with thegreatest punctilio and pompous speeches. Grushenka simply laughed, andgave her former admirer ten roubles. Then, laughing, she told Mitya ofit and he was not in the least jealous. But ever since, the Poles hadattached themselves to Grushenka and bombarded her daily with requestsfor money and she had always sent them small sums. And now that dayMitya had taken it into his head to be fearfully jealous.
“Like a fool, I went round to him just for a minute, on the way to seeMitya, for he is ill, too, my Pole,” Grushenka began again with nervoushaste. “I was laughing, telling Mitya about it. ‘Fancy,’ I said, ‘myPole had the happy thought to sing his old songs to me to the guitar.He thought I would be touched and marry him!’ Mitya leapt upswearing.... So, there, I’ll send them the pies! Fenya, is it thatlittle girl they’ve sent? Here, give her three roubles and pack a dozenpies up in a paper and tell her to take them. And you, Alyosha, be sureto tell Mitya that I did send them the pies.”
“I wouldn’t tell him for anything,” said Alyosha, smiling.
“Ech! You think he is unhappy about it. Why, he’s jealous on purpose.He doesn’t care,” said Grushenka bitterly.
“On purpose?” queried Alyosha.
“I tell you you are silly, Alyosha. You know nothing about it, with allyour cleverness. I am not offended that he is jealous of a girl likeme. I would be offended if he were not jealous. I am like that. I amnot offended at jealousy. I have a fierce heart, too. I can be jealousmyself. Only what offends me is that he doesn’t love me at all. I tellyou he is jealous now _on purpose_. Am I blind? Don’t I see? He begantalking to me just now of that woman, of Katerina, saying she was thisand that, how she had ordered a doctor from Moscow for him, to try andsave him; how she had ordered the best counsel, the most learned one,too. So he loves her, if he’ll praise her to my face, more shame tohim! He’s treated me badly himself, so he attacked me, to make out I amin fault first and to throw it all on me. ‘You were with your Polebefore me, so I can’t be blamed for Katerina,’ that’s what it amountsto. He wants to throw the whole blame on me. He attacked me on purpose,on purpose, I tell you, but I’ll—”
Grushenka could not finish saying what she would do. She hid her eyesin her handkerchief and sobbed violently.
“He doesn’t love Katerina Ivanovna,” said Alyosha firmly.
“Well, whether he loves her or not, I’ll soon find out for myself,”said Grushenka, with a menacing note in her voice, taking thehandkerchief from her eyes. Her face was distorted. Alyosha sawsorrowfully that from being mild and serene, it had become sullen andspiteful.
“Enough of this foolishness,” she said suddenly; “it’s not for that Isent for you. Alyosha, darling, to‐morrow—what will happen to‐morrow?That’s what worries me! And it’s only me it worries! I look at everyone and no one is thinking of it. No one cares about it. Are youthinking about it even? To‐morrow he’ll be tried, you know. Tell me,how will he be tried? You know it’s the valet, the valet killed him!Good heavens! Can they condemn him in place of the valet and will noone stand up for him? They haven’t troubled the valet at all, havethey?”
“He’s been severely cross‐examined,” observed Alyosha thoughtfully;“but every one came to the conclusion it was not he. Now he is lyingvery ill. He has been ill ever since that attack. Really ill,” addedAlyosha.
“Oh, dear! couldn’t you go to that counsel yourself and tell him thewhole thing by yourself? He’s been brought from Petersburg for threethousand roubles, they say.”
“We gave these three thousand together—Ivan, Katerina Ivanovna andI—but she paid two thousand for the doctor from Moscow herself. Thecounsel Fetyukovitch would have charged more, but the case has becomeknown all over Russia; it’s talked of in all the papers and journals.Fetyukovitch agreed to come more for the glory of the thing, becausethe case has become so notorious. I saw him yesterday.”
“Well? Did you talk to him?” Grushenka put in eagerly.
“He listened and said nothing. He told me that he had already formedhis opinion. But he promised to give my words consideration.”
“Consideration! Ah, they are swindlers! They’ll ruin him. And why didshe send for the doctor?”
“As an expert. They want to prove that Mitya’s mad and committed themurder when he didn’t know what he was doing”; Alyosha smiled gently;“but Mitya won’t agree to that.”
“Yes; but that would be the truth if he had killed him!” criedGrushenka. “He was mad then, perfectly mad, and that was my fault,wretch that I am! But, of course, he didn’t do it, he didn’t do it! Andthey are all against him, the whole town. Even Fenya’s evidence went toprove he had done it. And the people at the shop, and that official,and at the tavern, too, before, people had heard him say so! They areall, all against him, all crying out against him.”
“Yes, there’s a fearful accumulation of evidence,” Alyosha observedgrimly.
“And Grigory—Grigory Vassilyevitch—sticks to his story that the doorwas open, persists that he saw it—there’s no shaking him. I went andtalked to him myself. He’s rude about it, too.”
“Yes, that’s perhaps the strongest evidence against him,” said Alyosha.
“And as for Mitya’s being mad, he certainly seems like it now,”Grushenka began with a peculiarly anxious and mysterious air. “Do youknow, Alyosha, I’ve been wanting to talk to you about it for a longtime. I go to him every day and simply wonder at him. Tell me, now,what do you suppose he’s always talking about? He talks and talks and Ican make nothing of it. I fancied he was talking of somethingintellectual that I couldn’t understand in my foolishness. Only hesuddenly began talking to me about a babe—that is, about some child.‘Why is the babe poor?’ he said. ‘It’s for that babe I am going toSiberia now. I am not a murderer, but I must go to Siberia!’ What thatmeant, what babe, I couldn’t tell for the life of me. Only I cried whenhe said it, because he said it so nicely. He cried himself, and Icried, too. He suddenly kissed me and made the sign of the cross overme. What did it mean, Alyosha, tell me? What is this babe?”
“It must be Rakitin, who’s been going to see him lately,” smiledAlyosha, “though ... that’s not Rakitin’s doing. I didn’t see Mityayesterday. I’ll see him to‐day.”
“No, it’s not Rakitin; it’s his brother Ivan Fyodorovitch upsettinghim. It’s his going to see him, that’s what it is,” Grushenka began,and suddenly broke off. Alyosha gazed at her in amazement.
“Ivan’s going? Has he been to see him? Mitya told me himself that Ivanhasn’t been once.”
“There ... there! What a girl I am! Blurting things out!” exclaimedGrushenka, confused and suddenly blushing. “Stay, Alyosha, hush! SinceI’ve said so much I’ll tell the whole truth—he’s been to see him twice,the first directly he arrived. He galloped here from Moscow at once, ofcourse, before I was taken ill; and the second time was a week ago. Hetold Mitya not to tell you about it, under any circumstances; and notto tell any one, in fact. He came secretly.”
Alyosha sat plunged in thought, considering something. The newsevidently impressed him.
“Ivan doesn’t talk to me of Mitya’s case,” he said slowly. “He’s saidvery little to me these last two months. And whenever I go to see him,he seems vexed at my coming, so I’ve not been to him for the last threeweeks. H’m!... if he was there a week ago ... there certainly has beena change in Mitya this week.”
“There has been a change,” Grushenka assented quickly. “They have asecret, they have a secret! Mitya told me himself there was a secret,and such a secret that Mitya can’t rest. Before then, he wascheerful—and, indeed, he is cheerful now—but when he shakes his headlike that, you know, and strides about the room and keeps pulling atthe hair on his right temple with his right hand, I know there issomething on his mind worrying him.... I know! He was cheerful before,though, indeed, he is cheerful to‐day.”
“But you said he was worried.”
“Yes, he is worried and yet cheerful. He keeps on being irritable for aminute and then cheerful and then irritable again. And you know,Alyosha, I am constantly wondering at him—with this awful thing hangingover him, he sometimes laughs at such trifles as though he were a babyhimself.”
“And did he really tell you not to tell me about Ivan? Did he say,‘Don’t tell him’?”
“Yes, he told me, ‘Don’t tell him.’ It’s you that Mitya’s most afraidof. Because it’s a secret: he said himself it was a secret. Alyosha,darling, go to him and find out what their secret is and come and tellme,” Grushenka besought him with sudden eagerness. “Set my mind at restthat I may know the worst that’s in store for me. That’s why I sent foryou.”
“You think it’s something to do with you? If it were, he wouldn’t havetold you there was a secret.”
“I don’t know. Perhaps he wants to tell me, but doesn’t dare to. Hewarns me. There is a secret, he tells me, but he won’t tell me what itis.”
“What do you think yourself?”
“What do I think? It’s the end for me, that’s what I think. They allthree have been plotting my end, for Katerina’s in it. It’s allKaterina, it all comes from her. She is this and that, and that meansthat I am not. He tells me that beforehand—warns me. He is planning tothrow me over, that’s the whole secret. They’ve planned it together,the three of them—Mitya, Katerina, and Ivan Fyodorovitch. Alyosha, I’vebeen wanting to ask you a long time. A week ago he suddenly told methat Ivan was in love with Katerina, because he often goes to see her.Did he tell me the truth or not? Tell me, on your conscience, tell methe worst.”
“I won’t tell you a lie. Ivan is not in love with Katerina Ivanovna, Ithink.”
“Oh, that’s what I thought! He is lying to me, shameless deceiver,that’s what it is! And he was jealous of me just now, so as to put theblame on me afterwards. He is stupid, he can’t disguise what he isdoing; he is so open, you know.... But I’ll give it to him, I’ll giveit to him! ‘You believe I did it,’ he said. He said that to me, to me.He reproached me with that! God forgive him! You wait, I’ll make it hotfor Katerina at the trial! I’ll just say a word then ... I’ll telleverything then!”
And again she cried bitterly.
“This I can tell you for certain, Grushenka,” Alyosha said, getting up.“First, that he loves you, loves you more than any one in the world,and you only, believe me. I know. I do know. The second thing is that Idon’t want to worm his secret out of him, but if he’ll tell me ofhimself to‐ day, I shall tell him straight out that I have promised totell you. Then I’ll come to you to‐day, and tell you. Only ... I fancy... Katerina Ivanovna has nothing to do with it, and that the secret isabout something else. That’s certain. It isn’t likely it’s aboutKaterina Ivanovna, it seems to me. Good‐by for now.”
Alyosha shook hands with her. Grushenka was still crying. He saw thatshe put little faith in his consolation, but she was better for havinghad her sorrow out, for having spoken of it. He was sorry to leave herin such a state of mind, but he was in haste. He had a great manythings to do still.



Chapter II.The Injured Foot

The first of these things was at the house of Madame Hohlakov, and hehurried there to get it over as quickly as possible and not be too latefor Mitya. Madame Hohlakov had been slightly ailing for the last threeweeks: her foot had for some reason swollen up, and though she was notin bed, she lay all day half‐reclining on the couch in her boudoir, ina fascinating but decorous _déshabillé_. Alyosha had once noted withinnocent amusement that, in spite of her illness, Madame Hohlakov hadbegun to be rather dressy—top‐knots, ribbons, loose wrappers, had madetheir appearance, and he had an inkling of the reason, though hedismissed such ideas from his mind as frivolous. During the last twomonths the young official, Perhotin, had become a regular visitor atthe house.
Alyosha had not called for four days and he was in haste to go straightto Lise, as it was with her he had to speak, for Lise had sent a maidto him the previous day, specially asking him to come to her “aboutsomething very important,” a request which, for certain reasons, hadinterest for Alyosha. But while the maid went to take his name in toLise, Madame Hohlakov heard of his arrival from some one, andimmediately sent to beg him to come to her “just for one minute.”Alyosha reflected that it was better to accede to the mamma’s request,or else she would be sending down to Lise’s room every minute that hewas there. Madame Hohlakov was lying on a couch. She was particularlysmartly dressed and was evidently in a state of extreme nervousexcitement. She greeted Alyosha with cries of rapture.
“It’s ages, ages, perfect ages since I’ve seen you! It’s a wholeweek—only think of it! Ah, but you were here only four days ago, onWednesday. You have come to see Lise. I’m sure you meant to slip intoher room on tiptoe, without my hearing you. My dear, dear AlexeyFyodorovitch, if you only knew how worried I am about her! But of thatlater, though that’s the most important thing, of that later. DearAlexey Fyodorovitch, I trust you implicitly with my Lise. Since thedeath of Father Zossima—God rest his soul!” (she crossed herself)—“Ilook upon you as a monk, though you look charming in your new suit.Where did you find such a tailor in these parts? No, no, that’s not thechief thing—of that later. Forgive me for sometimes calling youAlyosha; an old woman like me may take liberties,” she smiledcoquettishly; “but that will do later, too. The important thing is thatI shouldn’t forget what is important. Please remind me of it yourself.As soon as my tongue runs away with me, you just say ‘the importantthing?’ Ach! how do I know now what is of most importance? Ever sinceLise took back her promise—her childish promise, Alexey Fyodorovitch—tomarry you, you’ve realized, of course, that it was only the playfulfancy of a sick child who had been so long confined to her chair—thankGod, she can walk now!... that new doctor Katya sent for from Moscowfor your unhappy brother, who will to‐morrow—But why speak of to‐morrow? I am ready to die at the very thought of to‐morrow. Ready todie of curiosity.... That doctor was with us yesterday and saw Lise....I paid him fifty roubles for the visit. But that’s not the point,that’s not the point again. You see, I’m mixing everything up. I am insuch a hurry. Why am I in a hurry? I don’t understand. It’s awful how Iseem growing unable to understand anything. Everything seems mixed upin a sort of tangle. I am afraid you are so bored you will jump up andrun away, and that will be all I shall see of you. Goodness! Why are wesitting here and no coffee? Yulia, Glafira, coffee!”
Alyosha made haste to thank her, and said that he had only just hadcoffee.
“Where?”
“At Agrafena Alexandrovna’s.”
“At ... at that woman’s? Ah, it’s she has brought ruin on every one. Iknow nothing about it though. They say she has become a saint, thoughit’s rather late in the day. She had better have done it before. Whatuse is it now? Hush, hush, Alexey Fyodorovitch, for I have so much tosay to you that I am afraid I shall tell you nothing. This awful trial... I shall certainly go, I am making arrangements. I shall be carriedthere in my chair; besides I can sit up. I shall have people with me.And, you know, I am a witness. How shall I speak, how shall I speak? Idon’t know what I shall say. One has to take an oath, hasn’t one?”
“Yes; but I don’t think you will be able to go.”
“I can sit up. Ah, you put me out! Ah! this trial, this savage act, andthen they are all going to Siberia, some are getting married, and allthis so quickly, so quickly, everything’s changing, and atlast—nothing. All grow old and have death to look forward to. Well, sobe it! I am weary. This Katya, _cette charmante personne_, hasdisappointed all my hopes. Now she is going to follow one of yourbrothers to Siberia, and your other brother is going to follow her, andwill live in the nearest town, and they will all torment one another.It drives me out of my mind. Worst of all—the publicity. The story hasbeen told a million times over in all the papers in Moscow andPetersburg. Ah! yes, would you believe it, there’s a paragraph that Iwas ‘a dear friend’ of your brother’s ——, I can’t repeat the horridword. Just fancy, just fancy!”
“Impossible! Where was the paragraph? What did it say?”
“I’ll show you directly. I got the paper and read it yesterday. Here,in the Petersburg paper _Gossip_. The paper began coming out this year.I am awfully fond of gossip, and I take it in, and now it pays meout—this is what gossip comes to! Here it is, here, this passage. Readit.”
And she handed Alyosha a sheet of newspaper which had been under herpillow.
It was not exactly that she was upset, she seemed overwhelmed andperhaps everything really was mixed up in a tangle in her head. Theparagraph was very typical, and must have been a great shock to her,but, fortunately perhaps, she was unable to keep her mind fixed on anyone subject at that moment, and so might race off in a minute tosomething else and quite forget the newspaper.
Alyosha was well aware that the story of the terrible case had spreadall over Russia. And, good heavens! what wild rumors about his brother,about the Karamazovs, and about himself he had read in the course ofthose two months, among other equally credible items! One paper hadeven stated that he had gone into a monastery and become a monk, inhorror at his brother’s crime. Another contradicted this, and statedthat he and his elder, Father Zossima, had broken into the monasterychest and “made tracks from the monastery.” The present paragraph inthe paper _Gossip_ was under the heading, “The Karamazov Case atSkotoprigonyevsk.” (That, alas! was the name of our little town. I hadhitherto kept it concealed.) It was brief, and Madame Hohlakov was notdirectly mentioned in it. No names appeared, in fact. It was merelystated that the criminal, whose approaching trial was making such asensation—retired army captain, an idle swaggerer, and reactionarybully—was continually involved in amorous intrigues, and particularlypopular with certain ladies “who were pining in solitude.” One suchlady, a pining widow, who tried to seem young though she had a grown‐updaughter, was so fascinated by him that only two hours before the crimeshe offered him three thousand roubles, on condition that he wouldelope with her to the gold mines. But the criminal, counting onescaping punishment, had preferred to murder his father to get thethree thousand rather than go off to Siberia with the middle‐agedcharms of his pining lady. This playful paragraph finished, of course,with an outburst of generous indignation at the wickedness of parricideand at the lately abolished institution of serfdom. Reading it withcuriosity, Alyosha folded up the paper and handed it back to MadameHohlakov.
“Well, that must be me,” she hurried on again. “Of course I am meant.Scarcely more than an hour before, I suggested gold mines to him, andhere they talk of ‘middle‐aged charms’ as though that were my motive!He writes that out of spite! God Almighty forgive him for themiddle‐aged charms, as I forgive him! You know it’s— Do you know who itis? It’s your friend Rakitin.”
“Perhaps,” said Alyosha, “though I’ve heard nothing about it.”
“It’s he, it’s he! No ‘perhaps’ about it. You know I turned him out ofthe house.... You know all that story, don’t you?”
“I know that you asked him not to visit you for the future, but why itwas, I haven’t heard ... from you, at least.”
“Ah, then you’ve heard it from him! He abuses me, I suppose, abuses medreadfully?”
“Yes, he does; but then he abuses every one. But why you’ve given himup I haven’t heard from him either. I meet him very seldom now, indeed.We are not friends.”
“Well, then, I’ll tell you all about it. There’s no help for it, I’llconfess, for there is one point in which I was perhaps to blame. Only alittle, little point, so little that perhaps it doesn’t count. You see,my dear boy”—Madame Hohlakov suddenly looked arch and a charming,though enigmatic, smile played about her lips—“you see, I suspect ...You must forgive me, Alyosha. I am like a mother to you.... No, no;quite the contrary. I speak to you now as though you were myfather—mother’s quite out of place. Well, it’s as though I wereconfessing to Father Zossima, that’s just it. I called you a monk justnow. Well, that poor young man, your friend, Rakitin (Mercy on us! Ican’t be angry with him. I feel cross, but not very), that frivolousyoung man, would you believe it, seems to have taken it into his headto fall in love with me. I only noticed it later. At first—a monthago—he only began to come oftener to see me, almost every day; though,of course, we were acquainted before. I knew nothing about it ... andsuddenly it dawned upon me, and I began to notice things with surprise.You know, two months ago, that modest, charming, excellent young man,Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin, who’s in the service here, began to be aregular visitor at the house. You met him here ever so many timesyourself. And he is an excellent, earnest young man, isn’t he? He comesonce every three days, not every day (though I should be glad to seehim every day), and always so well dressed. Altogether, I love youngpeople, Alyosha, talented, modest, like you, and he has almost the mindof a statesman, he talks so charmingly, and I shall certainly,certainly try and get promotion for him. He is a future diplomat. Onthat awful day he almost saved me from death by coming in the night.And your friend Rakitin comes in such boots, and always stretches themout on the carpet.... He began hinting at his feelings, in fact, andone day, as he was going, he squeezed my hand terribly hard. My footbegan to swell directly after he pressed my hand like that. He had metPyotr Ilyitch here before, and would you believe it, he is alwaysgibing at him, growling at him, for some reason. I simply looked at theway they went on together and laughed inwardly. So I was sitting herealone—no, I was laid up then. Well, I was lying here alone and suddenlyRakitin comes in, and only fancy! brought me some verses of his owncomposition—a short poem, on my bad foot: that is, he described my footin a poem. Wait a minute—how did it go?
A captivating little foot.

It began somehow like that. I can never remember poetry. I’ve got ithere. I’ll show it to you later. But it’s a charming thing—charming;and, you know, it’s not only about the foot, it had a good moral, too,a charming idea, only I’ve forgotten it; in fact, it was just the thingfor an album. So, of course, I thanked him, and he was evidentlyflattered. I’d hardly had time to thank him when in comes PyotrIlyitch, and Rakitin suddenly looked as black as night. I could seethat Pyotr Ilyitch was in the way, for Rakitin certainly wanted to saysomething after giving me the verses. I had a presentiment of it; butPyotr Ilyitch came in. I showed Pyotr Ilyitch the verses and didn’t saywho was the author. But I am convinced that he guessed, though he won’town it to this day, and declares he had no idea. But he says that onpurpose. Pyotr Ilyitch began to laugh at once, and fell to criticizingit. ‘Wretched doggerel,’ he said they were, ‘some divinity student musthave written them,’ and with such vehemence, such vehemence! Then,instead of laughing, your friend flew into a rage. ‘Good gracious!’ Ithought, ‘they’ll fly at each other.’ ‘It was I who wrote them,’ saidhe. ‘I wrote them as a joke,’ he said, ‘for I think it degrading towrite verses.... But they are good poetry. They want to put a monumentto your Pushkin for writing about women’s feet, while I wrote with amoral purpose, and you,’ said he, ‘are an advocate of serfdom. You’veno humane ideas,’ said he. ‘You have no modern enlightened feelings,you are uninfluenced by progress, you are a mere official,’ he said,‘and you take bribes.’ Then I began screaming and imploring them. And,you know, Pyotr Ilyitch is anything but a coward. He at once took upthe most gentlemanly tone, looked at him sarcastically, listened, andapologized. ‘I’d no idea,’ said he. ‘I shouldn’t have said it, if I hadknown. I should have praised it. Poets are all so irritable,’ he said.In short, he laughed at him under cover of the most gentlemanly tone.He explained to me afterwards that it was all sarcastic. I thought hewas in earnest. Only as I lay there, just as before you now, I thought,‘Would it, or would it not, be the proper thing for me to turn Rakitinout for shouting so rudely at a visitor in my house?’ And, would youbelieve it, I lay here, shut my eyes, and wondered, would it be theproper thing or not. I kept worrying and worrying, and my heart beganto beat, and I couldn’t make up my mind whether to make an outcry ornot. One voice seemed to be telling me, ‘Speak,’ and the other ‘No,don’t speak.’ And no sooner had the second voice said that than I criedout, and fainted. Of course, there was a fuss. I got up suddenly andsaid to Rakitin, ‘It’s painful for me to say it, but I don’t wish tosee you in my house again.’ So I turned him out. Ah! AlexeyFyodorovitch, I know myself I did wrong. I was putting it on. I wasn’tangry with him at all, really; but I suddenly fancied—that was what didit—that it would be such a fine scene.... And yet, believe me, it wasquite natural, for I really shed tears and cried for several daysafterwards, and then suddenly, one afternoon, I forgot all about it. Soit’s a fortnight since he’s been here, and I kept wondering whether hewould come again. I wondered even yesterday, then suddenly last nightcame this _Gossip_. I read it and gasped. Who could have written it? Hemust have written it. He went home, sat down, wrote it on the spot,sent it, and they put it in. It was a fortnight ago, you see. But,Alyosha, it’s awful how I keep talking and don’t say what I want tosay. Ah! the words come of themselves!”
“It’s very important for me to be in time to see my brother to‐day,”Alyosha faltered.
“To be sure, to be sure! You bring it all back to me. Listen, what isan aberration?”
“What aberration?” asked Alyosha, wondering.
“In the legal sense. An aberration in which everything is pardonable.Whatever you do, you will be acquitted at once.”
“What do you mean?”
“I’ll tell you. This Katya ... Ah! she is a charming, charmingcreature, only I never can make out who it is she is in love with. Shewas with me some time ago and I couldn’t get anything out of her.Especially as she won’t talk to me except on the surface now. She isalways talking about my health and nothing else, and she takes up sucha tone with me, too. I simply said to myself, ‘Well, so be it. I don’tcare’... Oh, yes. I was talking of aberration. This doctor has come.You know a doctor has come? Of course, you know it—the one whodiscovers madmen. You wrote for him. No, it wasn’t you, but Katya. It’sall Katya’s doing. Well, you see, a man may be sitting perfectly saneand suddenly have an aberration. He may be conscious and know what heis doing and yet be in a state of aberration. And there’s no doubt thatDmitri Fyodorovitch was suffering from aberration. They found out aboutaberration as soon as the law courts were reformed. It’s all the goodeffect of the reformed law courts. The doctor has been here andquestioned me about that evening, about the gold mines. ‘How did heseem then?’ he asked me. He must have been in a state of aberration. Hecame in shouting, ‘Money, money, three thousand! Give me threethousand!’ and then went away and immediately did the murder. ‘I don’twant to murder him,’ he said, and he suddenly went and murdered him.That’s why they’ll acquit him, because he struggled against it and yethe murdered him.”
“But he didn’t murder him,” Alyosha interrupted rather sharply. He feltmore and more sick with anxiety and impatience.
“Yes, I know it was that old man Grigory murdered him.”
“Grigory?” cried Alyosha.
“Yes, yes; it was Grigory. He lay as Dmitri Fyodorovitch struck himdown, and then got up, saw the door open, went in and killed FyodorPavlovitch.”
“But why, why?”
“Suffering from aberration. When he recovered from the blow DmitriFyodorovitch gave him on the head, he was suffering from aberration; hewent and committed the murder. As for his saying he didn’t, he verylikely doesn’t remember. Only, you know, it’ll be better, ever so muchbetter, if Dmitri Fyodorovitch murdered him. And that’s how it musthave been, though I say it was Grigory. It certainly was DmitriFyodorovitch, and that’s better, ever so much better! Oh! not betterthat a son should have killed his father, I don’t defend that. Childrenought to honor their parents, and yet it would be better if it were he,as you’d have nothing to cry over then, for he did it when he wasunconscious or rather when he was conscious, but did not know what hewas doing. Let them acquit him—that’s so humane, and would show what ablessing reformed law courts are. I knew nothing about it, but they saythey have been so a long time. And when I heard it yesterday, I was sostruck by it that I wanted to send for you at once. And if he isacquitted, make him come straight from the law courts to dinner withme, and I’ll have a party of friends, and we’ll drink to the reformedlaw courts. I don’t believe he’d be dangerous; besides, I’ll invite agreat many friends, so that he could always be led out if he didanything. And then he might be made a justice of the peace or somethingin another town, for those who have been in trouble themselves make thebest judges. And, besides, who isn’t suffering from aberrationnowadays?—you, I, all of us are in a state of aberration, and there areever so many examples of it: a man sits singing a song, suddenlysomething annoys him, he takes a pistol and shoots the first person hecomes across, and no one blames him for it. I read that lately, and allthe doctors confirm it. The doctors are always confirming; they confirmanything. Why, my Lise is in a state of aberration. She made me cryagain yesterday, and the day before, too, and to‐day I suddenlyrealized that it’s all due to aberration. Oh, Lise grieves me so! Ibelieve she’s quite mad. Why did she send for you? Did she send for youor did you come of yourself?”
“Yes, she sent for me, and I am just going to her.” Alyosha got upresolutely.
“Oh, my dear, dear Alexey Fyodorovitch, perhaps that’s what’s mostimportant,” Madame Hohlakov cried, suddenly bursting into tears. “Godknows I trust Lise to you with all my heart, and it’s no matter hersending for you on the sly, without telling her mother. But forgive me,I can’t trust my daughter so easily to your brother Ivan Fyodorovitch,though I still consider him the most chivalrous young man. But onlyfancy, he’s been to see Lise and I knew nothing about it!”
“How? What? When?” Alyosha was exceedingly surprised. He had not satdown again and listened standing.
“I will tell you; that’s perhaps why I asked you to come, for I don’tknow now why I did ask you to come. Well, Ivan Fyodorovitch has been tosee me twice, since he came back from Moscow. First time he came as afriend to call on me, and the second time Katya was here and he camebecause he heard she was here. I didn’t, of course, expect him to comeoften, knowing what a lot he has to do as it is, _vous comprenez, cetteaffaire et la mort terrible de votre papa_. But I suddenly heard he’dbeen here again, not to see me but to see Lise. That’s six days agonow. He came, stayed five minutes, and went away. And I didn’t hear ofit till three days afterwards, from Glafira, so it was a great shock tome. I sent for Lise directly. She laughed. ‘He thought you wereasleep,’ she said, ‘and came in to me to ask after your health.’ Ofcourse, that’s how it happened. But Lise, Lise, mercy on us, how shedistresses me! Would you believe it, one night, four days ago, justafter you saw her last time, and had gone away, she suddenly had a fit,screaming, shrieking, hysterics! Why is it I never have hysterics?Then, next day another fit, and the same thing on the third, andyesterday too, and then yesterday that aberration. She suddenlyscreamed out, ‘I hate Ivan Fyodorovitch. I insist on your never lettinghim come to the house again.’ I was struck dumb at these amazing words,and answered, ‘On what grounds could I refuse to see such an excellentyoung man, a young man of such learning too, and so unfortunate?’—forall this business is a misfortune, isn’t it? She suddenly burst outlaughing at my words, and so rudely, you know. Well, I was pleased; Ithought I had amused her and the fits would pass off, especially as Iwanted to refuse to see Ivan Fyodorovitch anyway on account of hisstrange visits without my knowledge, and meant to ask him for anexplanation. But early this morning Lise waked up and flew into apassion with Yulia and, would you believe it, slapped her in the face.That’s monstrous; I am always polite to my servants. And an hour latershe was hugging Yulia’s feet and kissing them. She sent a message to methat she wasn’t coming to me at all, and would never come and see meagain, and when I dragged myself down to her, she rushed to kiss me,crying, and as she kissed me, she pushed me out of the room withoutsaying a word, so I couldn’t find out what was the matter. Now, dearAlexey Fyodorovitch, I rest all my hopes on you, and, of course, mywhole life is in your hands. I simply beg you to go to Lise and findout everything from her, as you alone can, and come back and tellme—me, her mother, for you understand it will be the death of me,simply the death of me, if this goes on, or else I shall run away. Ican stand no more. I have patience; but I may lose patience, and then... then something awful will happen. Ah, dear me! At last, PyotrIlyitch!” cried Madame Hohlakov, beaming all over as she saw Perhotinenter the room. “You are late, you are late! Well, sit down, speak, putus out of suspense. What does the counsel say. Where are you off to,Alexey Fyodorovitch?”
“To Lise.”
“Oh, yes. You won’t forget, you won’t forget what I asked you? It’s aquestion of life and death!”
“Of course, I won’t forget, if I can ... but I am so late,” mutteredAlyosha, beating a hasty retreat.
“No, be sure, be sure to come in; don’t say ‘If you can.’ I shall dieif you don’t,” Madame Hohlakov called after him, but Alyosha hadalready left the room.



Chapter III.A Little Demon

Going in to Lise, he found her half reclining in the invalid‐chair, inwhich she had been wheeled when she was unable to walk. She did notmove to meet him, but her sharp, keen eyes were simply riveted on hisface. There was a feverish look in her eyes, her face was pale andyellow. Alyosha was amazed at the change that had taken place in her inthree days. She was positively thinner. She did not hold out her handto him. He touched the thin, long fingers which lay motionless on herdress, then he sat down facing her, without a word.
“I know you are in a hurry to get to the prison,” Lise said curtly,“and mamma’s kept you there for hours; she’s just been telling youabout me and Yulia.”
“How do you know?” asked Alyosha.
“I’ve been listening. Why do you stare at me? I want to listen and I dolisten, there’s no harm in that. I don’t apologize.”
“You are upset about something?”
“On the contrary, I am very happy. I’ve only just been reflecting forthe thirtieth time what a good thing it is I refused you and shall notbe your wife. You are not fit to be a husband. If I were to marry youand give you a note to take to the man I loved after you, you’d take itand be sure to give it to him and bring an answer back, too. If youwere forty, you would still go on taking my love‐letters for me.”
She suddenly laughed.
“There is something spiteful and yet open‐hearted about you,” Alyoshasmiled to her.
“The open‐heartedness consists in my not being ashamed of myself withyou. What’s more, I don’t want to feel ashamed with you, just with you.Alyosha, why is it I don’t respect you? I am very fond of you, but Idon’t respect you. If I respected you, I shouldn’t talk to you withoutshame, should I?”
“No.”
“But do you believe that I am not ashamed with you?”
“No, I don’t believe it.”
Lise laughed nervously again; she spoke rapidly.
“I sent your brother, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, some sweets in prison.Alyosha, you know, you are quite pretty! I shall love you awfully forhaving so quickly allowed me not to love you.”
“Why did you send for me to‐day, Lise?”
“I wanted to tell you of a longing I have. I should like some one totorture me, marry me and then torture me, deceive me and go away. Idon’t want to be happy.”
“You are in love with disorder?”
“Yes, I want disorder. I keep wanting to set fire to the house. I keepimagining how I’ll creep up and set fire to the house on the sly; itmust be on the sly. They’ll try to put it out, but it’ll go on burning.And I shall know and say nothing. Ah, what silliness! And how bored Iam!”
She waved her hand with a look of repulsion.
“It’s your luxurious life,” said Alyosha, softly.
“Is it better, then, to be poor?”
“Yes, it is better.”
“That’s what your monk taught you. That’s not true. Let me be rich andall the rest poor, I’ll eat sweets and drink cream and not give any toany one else. Ach, don’t speak, don’t say anything,” she shook her handat him, though Alyosha had not opened his mouth. “You’ve told me allthat before, I know it all by heart. It bores me. If I am ever poor, Ishall murder somebody, and even if I am rich, I may murder some one,perhaps—why do nothing! But do you know, I should like to reap, cut therye? I’ll marry you, and you shall become a peasant, a real peasant;we’ll keep a colt, shall we? Do you know Kalganov?”
“Yes.”
“He is always wandering about, dreaming. He says, ‘Why live in reallife? It’s better to dream. One can dream the most delightful things,but real life is a bore.’ But he’ll be married soon for all that; he’sbeen making love to me already. Can you spin tops?”
“Yes.”
“Well, he’s just like a top: he wants to be wound up and set spinningand then to be lashed, lashed, lashed with a whip. If I marry him, I’llkeep him spinning all his life. You are not ashamed to be with me?”
“No.”
“You are awfully cross, because I don’t talk about holy things. I don’twant to be holy. What will they do to one in the next world for thegreatest sin? You must know all about that.”
“God will censure you.” Alyosha was watching her steadily.
“That’s just what I should like. I would go up and they would censureme, and I would burst out laughing in their faces. I should dreadfullylike to set fire to the house, Alyosha, to our house; you still don’tbelieve me?”
“Why? There are children of twelve years old, who have a longing to setfire to something and they do set things on fire, too. It’s a sort ofdisease.”
“That’s not true, that’s not true; there may be children, but that’snot what I mean.”
“You take evil for good; it’s a passing crisis, it’s the result of yourillness, perhaps.”
“You do despise me, though! It’s simply that I don’t want to do good, Iwant to do evil, and it has nothing to do with illness.”
“Why do evil?”
“So that everything might be destroyed. Ah, how nice it would be ifeverything were destroyed! You know, Alyosha, I sometimes think ofdoing a fearful lot of harm and everything bad, and I should do it fora long while on the sly and suddenly every one would find it out. Everyone will stand round and point their fingers at me and I would look atthem all. That would be awfully nice. Why would it be so nice,Alyosha?”
“I don’t know. It’s a craving to destroy something good or, as you say,to set fire to something. It happens sometimes.”
“I not only say it, I shall do it.”
“I believe you.”
“Ah, how I love you for saying you believe me. And you are not lyingone little bit. But perhaps you think that I am saying all this onpurpose to annoy you?”
“No, I don’t think that ... though perhaps there is a little desire todo that in it, too.”
“There is a little. I never can tell lies to you,” she declared, with astrange fire in her eyes.
What struck Alyosha above everything was her earnestness. There was nota trace of humor or jesting in her face now, though, in old days, funand gayety never deserted her even at her most “earnest” moments.
“There are moments when people love crime,” said Alyosha thoughtfully.
“Yes, yes! You have uttered my thought; they love crime, every oneloves crime, they love it always, not at some ‘moments.’ You know, it’sas though people have made an agreement to lie about it and have liedabout it ever since. They all declare that they hate evil, but secretlythey all love it.”
“And are you still reading nasty books?”
“Yes, I am. Mamma reads them and hides them under her pillow and Isteal them.”
“Aren’t you ashamed to destroy yourself?”
“I want to destroy myself. There’s a boy here, who lay down between therailway lines when the train was passing. Lucky fellow! Listen, yourbrother is being tried now for murdering his father and every one loveshis having killed his father.”
“Loves his having killed his father?”
“Yes, loves it; every one loves it! Everybody says it’s so awful, butsecretly they simply love it. I for one love it.”
“There is some truth in what you say about every one,” said Alyoshasoftly.
“Oh, what ideas you have!” Lise shrieked in delight. “And you a monk,too! You wouldn’t believe how I respect you, Alyosha, for never tellinglies. Oh, I must tell you a funny dream of mine. I sometimes dream ofdevils. It’s night; I am in my room with a candle and suddenly thereare devils all over the place, in all the corners, under the table, andthey open the doors; there’s a crowd of them behind the doors and theywant to come and seize me. And they are just coming, just seizing me.But I suddenly cross myself and they all draw back, though they don’tgo away altogether, they stand at the doors and in the corners,waiting. And suddenly I have a frightful longing to revile God aloud,and so I begin, and then they come crowding back to me, delighted, andseize me again and I cross myself again and they all draw back. It’sawful fun. it takes one’s breath away.”
“I’ve had the same dream, too,” said Alyosha suddenly.
“Really?” cried Lise, surprised. “I say, Alyosha, don’t laugh, that’sawfully important. Could two different people have the same dream?”
“It seems they can.”
“Alyosha, I tell you, it’s awfully important,” Lise went on, withreally excessive amazement. “It’s not the dream that’s important, butyour having the same dream as me. You never lie to me, don’t lie now:is it true? You are not laughing?”
“It’s true.”
Lise seemed extraordinarily impressed and for half a minute she wassilent.
“Alyosha, come and see me, come and see me more often,” she saidsuddenly, in a supplicating voice.
“I’ll always come to see you, all my life,” answered Alyosha firmly.
“You are the only person I can talk to, you know,” Lise began again. “Italk to no one but myself and you. Only you in the whole world. And toyou more readily than to myself. And I am not a bit ashamed with you,not a bit. Alyosha, why am I not ashamed with you, not a bit? Alyosha,is it true that at Easter the Jews steal a child and kill it?”
“I don’t know.”
“There’s a book here in which I read about the trial of a Jew, who tooka child of four years old and cut off the fingers from both hands, andthen crucified him on the wall, hammered nails into him and crucifiedhim, and afterwards, when he was tried, he said that the child diedsoon, within four hours. That was ‘soon’! He said the child moaned,kept on moaning and he stood admiring it. That’s nice!”
“Nice?”
“Nice; I sometimes imagine that it was I who crucified him. He wouldhang there moaning and I would sit opposite him eating pineapple_compote_. I am awfully fond of pineapple _compote_. Do you like it?”
Alyosha looked at her in silence. Her pale, sallow face was suddenlycontorted, her eyes burned.
“You know, when I read about that Jew I shook with sobs all night. Ikept fancying how the little thing cried and moaned (a child of fouryears old understands, you know), and all the while the thought ofpineapple _compote_ haunted me. In the morning I wrote a letter to acertain person, begging him _particularly_ to come and see me. He cameand I suddenly told him all about the child and the pineapple_compote_. _All_ about it, _all_, and said that it was nice. He laughedand said it really was nice. Then he got up and went away. He was onlyhere five minutes. Did he despise me? Did he despise me? Tell me, tellme, Alyosha, did he despise me or not?” She sat up on the couch, withflashing eyes.
“Tell me,” Alyosha asked anxiously, “did you send for that person?”
“Yes, I did.”
“Did you send him a letter?”
“Yes.”
“Simply to ask about that, about that child?”
“No, not about that at all. But when he came, I asked him about that atonce. He answered, laughed, got up and went away.”
“That person behaved honorably,” Alyosha murmured.
“And did he despise me? Did he laugh at me?”
“No, for perhaps he believes in the pineapple _compote_ himself. He isvery ill now, too, Lise.”
“Yes, he does believe in it,” said Lise, with flashing eyes.
“He doesn’t despise any one,” Alyosha went on. “Only he does notbelieve any one. If he doesn’t believe in people, of course, he doesdespise them.”
“Then he despises me, me?”
“You, too.”
“Good,” Lise seemed to grind her teeth. “When he went out laughing, Ifelt that it was nice to be despised. The child with fingers cut off isnice, and to be despised is nice....”
And she laughed in Alyosha’s face, a feverish malicious laugh.
“Do you know, Alyosha, do you know, I should like—Alyosha, save me!”She suddenly jumped from the couch, rushed to him and seized him withboth hands. “Save me!” she almost groaned. “Is there any one in theworld I could tell what I’ve told you? I’ve told you the truth, thetruth. I shall kill myself, because I loathe everything! I don’t wantto live, because I loathe everything! I loathe everything, everything.Alyosha, why don’t you love me in the least?” she finished in a frenzy.
“But I do love you!” answered Alyosha warmly.
“And will you weep over me, will you?”
“Yes.”
“Not because I won’t be your wife, but simply weep for me?”
“Yes.”
“Thank you! It’s only your tears I want. Every one else may punish meand trample me under foot, every one, every one, not excepting _anyone_. For I don’t love any one. Do you hear, not any one! On thecontrary, I hate him! Go, Alyosha; it’s time you went to your brother”;she tore herself away from him suddenly.
“How can I leave you like this?” said Alyosha, almost in alarm.
“Go to your brother, the prison will be shut; go, here’s your hat. Givemy love to Mitya, go, go!”
And she almost forcibly pushed Alyosha out of the door. He looked ather with pained surprise, when he was suddenly aware of a letter in hisright hand, a tiny letter folded up tight and sealed. He glanced at itand instantly read the address, “To Ivan Fyodorovitch Karamazov.” Helooked quickly at Lise. Her face had become almost menacing.
“Give it to him, you must give it to him!” she ordered him, tremblingand beside herself. “To‐day, at once, or I’ll poison myself! That’s whyI sent for you.”
And she slammed the door quickly. The bolt clicked. Alyosha put thenote in his pocket and went straight downstairs, without going back toMadame Hohlakov; forgetting her, in fact. As soon as Alyosha had gone,Lise unbolted the door, opened it a little, put her finger in the crackand slammed the door with all her might, pinching her finger. Tenseconds after, releasing her finger, she walked softly, slowly to herchair, sat up straight in it and looked intently at her blackenedfinger and at the blood that oozed from under the nail. Her lips werequivering and she kept whispering rapidly to herself:
“I am a wretch, wretch, wretch, wretch!”



Chapter IV.A Hymn And A Secret

It was quite late (days are short in November) when Alyosha rang at theprison gate. It was beginning to get dusk. But Alyosha knew that hewould be admitted without difficulty. Things were managed in our littletown, as everywhere else. At first, of course, on the conclusion of thepreliminary inquiry, relations and a few other persons could onlyobtain interviews with Mitya by going through certain inevitableformalities. But later, though the formalities were not relaxed,exceptions were made for some, at least, of Mitya’s visitors. So muchso, that sometimes the interviews with the prisoner in the room setaside for the purpose were practically _tête‐à‐tête_.
These exceptions, however, were few in number; only Grushenka, Alyoshaand Rakitin were treated like this. But the captain of the police,Mihail Mihailovitch, was very favorably disposed to Grushenka. Hisabuse of her at Mokroe weighed on the old man’s conscience, and when helearned the whole story, he completely changed his view of her. Andstrange to say, though he was firmly persuaded of his guilt, yet afterMitya was once in prison, the old man came to take a more and morelenient view of him. “He was a man of good heart, perhaps,” he thought,“who had come to grief from drinking and dissipation.” His first horrorhad been succeeded by pity. As for Alyosha, the police captain was veryfond of him and had known him for a long time. Rakitin, who had of latetaken to coming very often to see the prisoner, was one of the mostintimate acquaintances of the “police captain’s young ladies,” as hecalled them, and was always hanging about their house. He gave lessonsin the house of the prison superintendent, too, who, though scrupulousin the performance of his duties, was a kind‐ hearted old man. Alyosha,again, had an intimate acquaintance of long standing with thesuperintendent, who was fond of talking to him, generally on sacredsubjects. He respected Ivan Fyodorovitch, and stood in awe of hisopinion, though he was a great philosopher himself; “self‐ taught,” ofcourse. But Alyosha had an irresistible attraction for him. During thelast year the old man had taken to studying the Apocryphal Gospels, andconstantly talked over his impressions with his young friend. He usedto come and see him in the monastery and discussed for hours togetherwith him and with the monks. So even if Alyosha were late at theprison, he had only to go to the superintendent and everything was madeeasy. Besides, every one in the prison, down to the humblest warder,had grown used to Alyosha. The sentry, of course, did not trouble himso long as the authorities were satisfied.
When Mitya was summoned from his cell, he always went downstairs, tothe place set aside for interviews. As Alyosha entered the room he cameupon Rakitin, who was just taking leave of Mitya. They were bothtalking loudly. Mitya was laughing heartily as he saw him out, whileRakitin seemed grumbling. Rakitin did not like meeting Alyosha,especially of late. He scarcely spoke to him, and bowed to him stiffly.Seeing Alyosha enter now, he frowned and looked away, as though he wereentirely absorbed in buttoning his big, warm, fur‐trimmed overcoat.Then he began looking at once for his umbrella.
“I must mind not to forget my belongings,” he muttered, simply to saysomething.
“Mind you don’t forget other people’s belongings,” said Mitya, as ajoke, and laughed at once at his own wit. Rakitin fired up instantly.
“You’d better give that advice to your own family, who’ve always been aslave‐driving lot, and not to Rakitin,” he cried, suddenly tremblingwith anger.
“What’s the matter? I was joking,” cried Mitya. “Damn it all! They areall like that,” he turned to Alyosha, nodding towards Rakitin’shurriedly retreating figure. “He was sitting here, laughing andcheerful, and all at once he boils up like that. He didn’t even nod toyou. Have you broken with him completely? Why are you so late? I’ve notbeen simply waiting, but thirsting for you the whole morning. But nevermind. We’ll make up for it now.”
“Why does he come here so often? Surely you are not such greatfriends?” asked Alyosha. He, too, nodded at the door through whichRakitin had disappeared.
“Great friends with Rakitin? No, not as much as that. Is it likely—apig like that? He considers I am ... a blackguard. They can’tunderstand a joke either, that’s the worst of such people. They neverunderstand a joke, and their souls are dry, dry and flat; they remindme of prison walls when I was first brought here. But he is a cleverfellow, very clever. Well, Alexey, it’s all over with me now.”
He sat down on the bench and made Alyosha sit down beside him.
“Yes, the trial’s to‐morrow. Are you so hopeless, brother?” Alyoshasaid, with an apprehensive feeling.
“What are you talking about?” said Mitya, looking at him ratheruncertainly. “Oh, you mean the trial! Damn it all! Till now we’ve beentalking of things that don’t matter, about this trial, but I haven’tsaid a word to you about the chief thing. Yes, the trial is to‐morrow;but it wasn’t the trial I meant, when I said it was all over with me.Why do you look at me so critically?”
“What do you mean, Mitya?”
“Ideas, ideas, that’s all! Ethics! What is ethics?”
“Ethics?” asked Alyosha, wondering.
“Yes; is it a science?”
“Yes, there is such a science ... but ... I confess I can’t explain toyou what sort of science it is.”
“Rakitin knows. Rakitin knows a lot, damn him! He’s not going to be amonk. He means to go to Petersburg. There he’ll go in for criticism ofan elevating tendency. Who knows, he may be of use and make his owncareer, too. Ough! they are first‐rate, these people, at making acareer! Damn ethics, I am done for, Alexey, I am, you man of God! Ilove you more than any one. It makes my heart yearn to look at you. Whowas Karl Bernard?”
“Karl Bernard?” Alyosha was surprised again.
“No, not Karl. Stay, I made a mistake. Claude Bernard. What was he?Chemist or what?”
“He must be a savant,” answered Alyosha; “but I confess I can’t tellyou much about him, either. I’ve heard of him as a savant, but whatsort I don’t know.”
“Well, damn him, then! I don’t know either,” swore Mitya. “A scoundrelof some sort, most likely. They are all scoundrels. And Rakitin willmake his way. Rakitin will get on anywhere; he is another Bernard. Ugh,these Bernards! They are all over the place.”
“But what is the matter?” Alyosha asked insistently.
“He wants to write an article about me, about my case, and so begin hisliterary career. That’s what he comes for; he said so himself. He wantsto prove some theory. He wants to say ‘he couldn’t help murdering hisfather, he was corrupted by his environment,’ and so on. He explainedit all to me. He is going to put in a tinge of Socialism, he says. Butthere, damn the fellow, he can put in a tinge if he likes, I don’tcare. He can’t bear Ivan, he hates him. He’s not fond of you, either.But I don’t turn him out, for he is a clever fellow. Awfully conceited,though. I said to him just now, ‘The Karamazovs are not blackguards,but philosophers; for all true Russians are philosophers, and thoughyou’ve studied, you are not a philosopher—you are a low fellow.’ Helaughed, so maliciously. And I said to him, ‘_De ideabus non estdisputandum_.’ Isn’t that rather good? I can set up for being aclassic, you see!” Mitya laughed suddenly.
“Why is it all over with you? You said so just now,” Alyoshainterposed.
“Why is it all over with me? H’m!... The fact of it is ... if you takeit as a whole, I am sorry to lose God—that’s why it is.”
“What do you mean by ‘sorry to lose God’?”
“Imagine: inside, in the nerves, in the head—that is, these nerves arethere in the brain ... (damn them!) there are sort of little tails, thelittle tails of those nerves, and as soon as they begin quivering ...that is, you see, I look at something with my eyes and then they beginquivering, those little tails ... and when they quiver, then an imageappears ... it doesn’t appear at once, but an instant, a second, passes... and then something like a moment appears; that is, not amoment—devil take the moment!—but an image; that is, an object, or anaction, damn it! That’s why I see and then think, because of thosetails, not at all because I’ve got a soul, and that I am some sort ofimage and likeness. All that is nonsense! Rakitin explained it all tome yesterday, brother, and it simply bowled me over. It’s magnificent,Alyosha, this science! A new man’s arising—that I understand.... Andyet I am sorry to lose God!”
“Well, that’s a good thing, anyway,” said Alyosha.
“That I am sorry to lose God? It’s chemistry, brother, chemistry!There’s no help for it, your reverence, you must make way forchemistry. And Rakitin does dislike God. Ough! doesn’t he dislike Him!That’s the sore point with all of them. But they conceal it. They telllies. They pretend. ‘Will you preach this in your reviews?’ I askedhim. ‘Oh, well, if I did it openly, they won’t let it through,’ hesaid. He laughed. ‘But what will become of men then?’ I asked him,‘without God and immortal life? All things are lawful then, they can dowhat they like?’ ‘Didn’t you know?’ he said laughing, ‘a clever man cando what he likes,’ he said. ‘A clever man knows his way about, butyou’ve put your foot in it, committing a murder, and now you arerotting in prison.’ He says that to my face! A regular pig! I used tokick such people out, but now I listen to them. He talks a lot ofsense, too. Writes well. He began reading me an article last week. Icopied out three lines of it. Wait a minute. Here it is.”
Mitya hurriedly pulled out a piece of paper from his pocket and read:
“ ‘In order to determine this question, it is above all essential toput one’s personality in contradiction to one’s reality.’ Do youunderstand that?”
“No, I don’t,” said Alyosha. He looked at Mitya and listened to himwith curiosity.
“I don’t understand either. It’s dark and obscure, but intellectual.‘Every one writes like that now,’ he says, ‘it’s the effect of theirenvironment.’ They are afraid of the environment. He writes poetry,too, the rascal. He’s written in honor of Madame Hohlakov’s foot. Ha haha!”
“I’ve heard about it,” said Alyosha.
“Have you? And have you heard the poem?”
“No.”
“I’ve got it. Here it is. I’ll read it to you. You don’t know—I haven’ttold you—there’s quite a story about it. He’s a rascal! Three weeks agohe began to tease me. ‘You’ve got yourself into a mess, like a fool,for the sake of three thousand, but I’m going to collar a hundred andfifty thousand. I am going to marry a widow and buy a house inPetersburg.’ And he told me he was courting Madame Hohlakov. She hadn’tmuch brains in her youth, and now at forty she has lost what she had.‘But she’s awfully sentimental,’ he says; ‘that’s how I shall get holdof her. When I marry her, I shall take her to Petersburg and there Ishall start a newspaper.’ And his mouth was simply watering, the beast,not for the widow, but for the hundred and fifty thousand. And he mademe believe it. He came to see me every day. ‘She is coming round,’ hedeclared. He was beaming with delight. And then, all of a sudden, hewas turned out of the house. Perhotin’s carrying everything before him,bravo! I could kiss the silly old noodle for turning him out of thehouse. And he had written this doggerel. ‘It’s the first time I’vesoiled my hands with writing poetry,’ he said. ‘It’s to win her heart,so it’s in a good cause. When I get hold of the silly woman’s fortune,I can be of great social utility.’ They have this social justificationfor every nasty thing they do! ‘Anyway it’s better than your Pushkin’spoetry,’ he said, ‘for I’ve managed to advocate enlightenment even inthat.’ I understand what he means about Pushkin, I quite see that, ifhe really was a man of talent and only wrote about women’s feet. Butwasn’t Rakitin stuck up about his doggerel! The vanity of thesefellows! ‘On the convalescence of the swollen foot of the object of myaffections’—he thought of that for a title. He’s a waggish fellow.
A captivating little foot,Though swollen and red and tender!The doctors come and plasters put,But still they cannot mend her.
Yet, ’tis not for her foot I dread—A theme for Pushkin’s muse more fit—It’s not her foot, it is her head:I tremble for her loss of wit!
For as her foot swells, strange to say,Her intellect is on the wane—Oh, for some remedy I prayThat may restore both foot and brain!

He is a pig, a regular pig, but he’s very arch, the rascal! And hereally has put in a progressive idea. And wasn’t he angry when shekicked him out! He was gnashing his teeth!”
“He’s taken his revenge already,” said Alyosha. “He’s written aparagraph about Madame Hohlakov.”
And Alyosha told him briefly about the paragraph in _Gossip_.
“That’s his doing, that’s his doing!” Mitya assented, frowning. “That’shim! These paragraphs ... I know ... the insulting things that havebeen written about Grushenka, for instance.... And about Katya, too....H’m!”
He walked across the room with a harassed air.
“Brother, I cannot stay long,” Alyosha said, after a pause. “To‐morrowwill be a great and awful day for you, the judgment of God will beaccomplished ... I am amazed at you, you walk about here, talking of Idon’t know what ...”
“No, don’t be amazed at me,” Mitya broke in warmly. “Am I to talk ofthat stinking dog? Of the murderer? We’ve talked enough of him. I don’twant to say more of the stinking son of Stinking Lizaveta! God willkill him, you will see. Hush!”
He went up to Alyosha excitedly and kissed him. His eyes glowed.
“Rakitin wouldn’t understand it,” he began in a sort of exaltation;“but you, you’ll understand it all. That’s why I was thirsting for you.You see, there’s so much I’ve been wanting to tell you for ever solong, here, within these peeling walls, but I haven’t said a word aboutwhat matters most; the moment never seems to have come. Now I can waitno longer. I must pour out my heart to you. Brother, these last twomonths I’ve found in myself a new man. A new man has risen up in me. Hewas hidden in me, but would never have come to the surface, if ithadn’t been for this blow from heaven. I am afraid! And what do I careif I spend twenty years in the mines, breaking ore with a hammer? I amnot a bit afraid of that—it’s something else I am afraid of now: thatthat new man may leave me. Even there, in the mines, under‐ground, Imay find a human heart in another convict and murderer by my side, andI may make friends with him, for even there one may live and love andsuffer. One may thaw and revive a frozen heart in that convict, one maywait upon him for years, and at last bring up from the dark depths alofty soul, a feeling, suffering creature; one may bring forth anangel, create a hero! There are so many of them, hundreds of them, andwe are all to blame for them. Why was it I dreamed of that ‘babe’ atsuch a moment? ‘Why is the babe so poor?’ That was a sign to me at thatmoment. It’s for the babe I’m going. Because we are all responsible forall. For all the ‘babes,’ for there are big children as well as littlechildren. All are ‘babes.’ I go for all, because some one must go forall. I didn’t kill father, but I’ve got to go. I accept it. It’s allcome to me here, here, within these peeling walls. There are numbers ofthem there, hundreds of them underground, with hammers in their hands.Oh, yes, we shall be in chains and there will be no freedom, but then,in our great sorrow, we shall rise again to joy, without which mancannot live nor God exist, for God gives joy: it’s His privilege—agrand one. Ah, man should be dissolved in prayer! What should I beunderground there without God? Rakitin’s laughing! If they drive Godfrom the earth, we shall shelter Him underground. One cannot exist inprison without God; it’s even more impossible than out of prison. Andthen we men underground will sing from the bowels of the earth aglorious hymn to God, with Whom is joy. Hail to God and His joy! I loveHim!”
Mitya was almost gasping for breath as he uttered his wild speech. Heturned pale, his lips quivered, and tears rolled down his cheeks.
“Yes, life is full, there is life even underground,” he began again.“You wouldn’t believe, Alexey, how I want to live now, what a thirstfor existence and consciousness has sprung up in me within thesepeeling walls. Rakitin doesn’t understand that; all he cares about isbuilding a house and letting flats. But I’ve been longing for you. Andwhat is suffering? I am not afraid of it, even if it were beyondreckoning. I am not afraid of it now. I was afraid of it before. Do youknow, perhaps I won’t answer at the trial at all.... And I seem to havesuch strength in me now, that I think I could stand anything, anysuffering, only to be able to say and to repeat to myself every moment,‘I exist.’ In thousands of agonies—I exist. I’m tormented on therack—but I exist! Though I sit alone on a pillar—I exist! I see thesun, and if I don’t see the sun, I know it’s there. And there’s a wholelife in that, in knowing that the sun is there. Alyosha, my angel, allthese philosophies are the death of me. Damn them! Brother Ivan—”
“What of brother Ivan?” interrupted Alyosha, but Mitya did not hear.
“You see, I never had any of these doubts before, but it was all hiddenaway in me. It was perhaps just because ideas I did not understand weresurging up in me, that I used to drink and fight and rage. It was tostifle them in myself, to still them, to smother them. Ivan is notRakitin, there is an idea in him. Ivan is a sphinx and is silent; he isalways silent. It’s God that’s worrying me. That’s the only thingthat’s worrying me. What if He doesn’t exist? What if Rakitin’sright—that it’s an idea made up by men? Then if He doesn’t exist, manis the chief of the earth, of the universe. Magnificent! Only how is hegoing to be good without God? That’s the question. I always come backto that. For whom is man going to love then? To whom will he bethankful? To whom will he sing the hymn? Rakitin laughs. Rakitin saysthat one can love humanity without God. Well, only a sniveling idiotcan maintain that. I can’t understand it. Life’s easy for Rakitin.‘You’d better think about the extension of civic rights, or even ofkeeping down the price of meat. You will show your love for humanitymore simply and directly by that, than by philosophy.’ I answered him,‘Well, but you, without a God, are more likely to raise the price ofmeat, if it suits you, and make a rouble on every copeck.’ He lost histemper. But after all, what is goodness? Answer me that, Alexey.Goodness is one thing with me and another with a Chinaman, so it’s arelative thing. Or isn’t it? Is it not relative? A treacherousquestion! You won’t laugh if I tell you it’s kept me awake two nights.I only wonder now how people can live and think nothing about it.Vanity! Ivan has no God. He has an idea. It’s beyond me. But he issilent. I believe he is a free‐mason. I asked him, but he is silent. Iwanted to drink from the springs of his soul—he was silent. But once hedid drop a word.”
“What did he say?” Alyosha took it up quickly.
“I said to him, ‘Then everything is lawful, if it is so?’ He frowned.‘Fyodor Pavlovitch, our papa,’ he said, ‘was a pig, but his ideas wereright enough.’ That was what he dropped. That was all he said. That wasgoing one better than Rakitin.”
“Yes,” Alyosha assented bitterly. “When was he with you?”
“Of that later; now I must speak of something else. I have said nothingabout Ivan to you before. I put it off to the last. When my businesshere is over and the verdict has been given, then I’ll tell yousomething. I’ll tell you everything. We’ve something tremendous onhand.... And you shall be my judge in it. But don’t begin about thatnow; be silent. You talk of to‐morrow, of the trial; but, would youbelieve it, I know nothing about it.”
“Have you talked to the counsel?”
“What’s the use of the counsel? I told him all about it. He’s a soft,city‐bred rogue—a Bernard! But he doesn’t believe me—not a bit of it.Only imagine, he believes I did it. I see it. ‘In that case,’ I askedhim, ‘why have you come to defend me?’ Hang them all! They’ve got adoctor down, too, want to prove I’m mad. I won’t have that! KaterinaIvanovna wants to do her ‘duty’ to the end, whatever the strain!” Mityasmiled bitterly. “The cat! Hard‐hearted creature! She knows that I saidof her at Mokroe that she was a woman of ‘great wrath.’ They repeatedit. Yes, the facts against me have grown numerous as the sands of thesea. Grigory sticks to his point. Grigory’s honest, but a fool. Manypeople are honest because they are fools: that’s Rakitin’s idea.Grigory’s my enemy. And there are some people who are better as foesthan friends. I mean Katerina Ivanovna. I am afraid, oh, I am afraidshe will tell how she bowed to the ground after that four thousand.She’ll pay it back to the last farthing. I don’t want her sacrifice;they’ll put me to shame at the trial. I wonder how I can stand it. Goto her, Alyosha, ask her not to speak of that in the court, can’t you?But damn it all, it doesn’t matter! I shall get through somehow. Idon’t pity her. It’s her own doing. She deserves what she gets. I shallhave my own story to tell, Alexey.” He smiled bitterly again. “Only ...only Grusha, Grusha! Good Lord! Why should she have such suffering tobear?” he exclaimed suddenly, with tears. “Grusha’s killing me; thethought of her’s killing me, killing me. She was with me just now....”
“She told me she was very much grieved by you to‐day.”
“I know. Confound my temper! It was jealousy. I was sorry, I kissed heras she was going. I didn’t ask her forgiveness.”
“Why didn’t you?” exclaimed Alyosha.
Suddenly Mitya laughed almost mirthfully.
“God preserve you, my dear boy, from ever asking forgiveness for afault from a woman you love. From one you love especially, howevergreatly you may have been in fault. For a woman—devil only knows whatto make of a woman! I know something about them, anyway. But tryacknowledging you are in fault to a woman. Say, ‘I am sorry, forgiveme,’ and a shower of reproaches will follow! Nothing will make herforgive you simply and directly, she’ll humble you to the dust, bringforward things that have never happened, recall everything, forgetnothing, add something of her own, and only then forgive you. And eventhe best, the best of them do it. She’ll scrape up all the scrapingsand load them on your head. They are ready to flay you alive, I tellyou, every one of them, all these angels without whom we cannot live! Itell you plainly and openly, dear boy, every decent man ought to beunder some woman’s thumb. That’s my conviction—not conviction, butfeeling. A man ought to be magnanimous, and it’s no disgrace to a man!No disgrace to a hero, not even a Cæsar! But don’t ever beg her pardonall the same for anything. Remember that rule given you by your brotherMitya, who’s come to ruin through women. No, I’d better make it up toGrusha somehow, without begging pardon. I worship her, Alexey, worshipher. Only she doesn’t see it. No, she still thinks I don’t love herenough. And she tortures me, tortures me with her love. The past wasnothing! In the past it was only those infernal curves of hers thattortured me, but now I’ve taken all her soul into my soul and throughher I’ve become a man myself. Will they marry us? If they don’t, Ishall die of jealousy. I imagine something every day.... What did shesay to you about me?”
Alyosha repeated all Grushenka had said to him that day. Mityalistened, made him repeat things, and seemed pleased.
“Then she is not angry at my being jealous?” he exclaimed. “She is aregular woman! ‘I’ve a fierce heart myself!’ Ah, I love such fiercehearts, though I can’t bear any one’s being jealous of me. I can’tendure it. We shall fight. But I shall love her, I shall love herinfinitely. Will they marry us? Do they let convicts marry? That’s thequestion. And without her I can’t exist....”
Mitya walked frowning across the room. It was almost dark. He suddenlyseemed terribly worried.
“So there’s a secret, she says, a secret? We have got up a plot againsther, and Katya is mixed up in it, she thinks. No, my good Grushenka,that’s not it. You are very wide of the mark, in your foolish feminineway. Alyosha, darling, well, here goes! I’ll tell you our secret!”
He looked round, went close up quickly to Alyosha, who was standingbefore him, and whispered to him with an air of mystery, though inreality no one could hear them: the old warder was dozing in thecorner, and not a word could reach the ears of the soldiers on guard.
“I will tell you all our secret,” Mitya whispered hurriedly. “I meantto tell you later, for how could I decide on anything without you? Youare everything to me. Though I say that Ivan is superior to us, you aremy angel. It’s your decision will decide it. Perhaps it’s you that issuperior and not Ivan. You see, it’s a question of conscience, questionof the higher conscience—the secret is so important that I can’t settleit myself, and I’ve put it off till I could speak to you. But anywayit’s too early to decide now, for we must wait for the verdict. As soonas the verdict is given, you shall decide my fate. Don’t decide it now.I’ll tell you now. You listen, but don’t decide. Stand and keep quiet.I won’t tell you everything. I’ll only tell you the idea, withoutdetails, and you keep quiet. Not a question, not a movement. You agree?But, goodness, what shall I do with your eyes? I’m afraid your eyeswill tell me your decision, even if you don’t speak. Oo! I’m afraid!Alyosha, listen! Ivan suggests my _escaping_. I won’t tell you thedetails: it’s all been thought out: it can all be arranged. Hush, don’tdecide. I should go to America with Grusha. You know I can’t livewithout Grusha! What if they won’t let her follow me to Siberia? Dothey let convicts get married? Ivan thinks not. And without Grusha whatshould I do there underground with a hammer? I should only smash myskull with the hammer! But, on the other hand, my conscience? I shouldhave run away from suffering. A sign has come, I reject the sign. Ihave a way of salvation and I turn my back on it. Ivan says that inAmerica, ‘with the good‐will,’ I can be of more use than underground.But what becomes of our hymn from underground? What’s America? Americais vanity again! And there’s a lot of swindling in America, too, Iexpect. I should have run away from crucifixion! I tell you, you know,Alexey, because you are the only person who can understand this.There’s no one else. It’s folly, madness to others, all I’ve told youof the hymn. They’ll say I’m out of my mind or a fool. I am not out ofmy mind and I am not a fool. Ivan understands about the hymn, too. Heunderstands, only he doesn’t answer—he doesn’t speak. He doesn’tbelieve in the hymn. Don’t speak, don’t speak. I see how you look! Youhave already decided. Don’t decide, spare me! I can’t live withoutGrusha. Wait till after the trial!”
Mitya ended beside himself. He held Alyosha with both hands on hisshoulders, and his yearning, feverish eyes were fixed on his brother’s.
“They don’t let convicts marry, do they?” he repeated for the thirdtime in a supplicating voice.
Alyosha listened with extreme surprise and was deeply moved.
“Tell me one thing,” he said. “Is Ivan very keen on it, and whose ideawas it?”
“His, his, and he is very keen on it. He didn’t come to see me atfirst, then he suddenly came a week ago and he began about it straightaway. He is awfully keen on it. He doesn’t ask me, but orders me toescape. He doesn’t doubt of my obeying him, though I showed him all myheart as I have to you, and told him about the hymn, too. He told mehe’d arrange it; he’s found out about everything. But of that later.He’s simply set on it. It’s all a matter of money: he’ll pay tenthousand for escape and give me twenty thousand for America. And hesays we can arrange a magnificent escape for ten thousand.”
“And he told you on no account to tell me?” Alyosha asked again.
“To tell no one, and especially not you; on no account to tell you. Heis afraid, no doubt, that you’ll stand before me as my conscience.Don’t tell him I told you. Don’t tell him, for anything.”
“You are right,” Alyosha pronounced; “it’s impossible to decideanything before the trial is over. After the trial you’ll decide ofyourself. Then you’ll find that new man in yourself and he willdecide.”
“A new man, or a Bernard who’ll decide _à la_ Bernard, for I believeI’m a contemptible Bernard myself,” said Mitya, with a bitter grin.
“But, brother, have you no hope then of being acquitted?”
Mitya shrugged his shoulders nervously and shook his head. “Alyosha,darling, it’s time you were going,” he said, with a sudden haste.“There’s the superintendent shouting in the yard. He’ll be heredirectly. We are late; it’s irregular. Embrace me quickly. Kiss me!Sign me with the cross, darling, for the cross I have to bearto‐morrow.”
They embraced and kissed.
“Ivan,” said Mitya suddenly, “suggests my escaping; but, of course, hebelieves I did it.”
A mournful smile came on to his lips.
“Have you asked him whether he believes it?” asked Alyosha.
“No, I haven’t. I wanted to, but I couldn’t. I hadn’t the courage. ButI saw it from his eyes. Well, good‐by!”
Once more they kissed hurriedly, and Alyosha was just going out, whenMitya suddenly called him back.
“Stand facing me! That’s right!” And again he seized Alyosha, puttingboth hands on his shoulders. His face became suddenly quite pale, sothat it was dreadfully apparent, even through the gathering darkness.His lips twitched, his eyes fastened upon Alyosha.
“Alyosha, tell me the whole truth, as you would before God. Do youbelieve I did it? Do you, do you in yourself, believe it? The wholetruth, don’t lie!” he cried desperately.
Everything seemed heaving before Alyosha, and he felt something like astab at his heart.
“Hush! What do you mean?” he faltered helplessly.
“The whole truth, the whole, don’t lie!” repeated Mitya.
“I’ve never for one instant believed that you were the murderer!” brokein a shaking voice from Alyosha’s breast, and he raised his right handin the air, as though calling God to witness his words.
Mitya’s whole face was lighted up with bliss.
“Thank you!” he articulated slowly, as though letting a sigh escape himafter fainting. “Now you have given me new life. Would you believe it,till this moment I’ve been afraid to ask you, you, even you. Well, go!You’ve given me strength for to‐morrow. God bless you! Come, go along!Love Ivan!” was Mitya’s last word.
Alyosha went out in tears. Such distrustfulness in Mitya, such lack ofconfidence even to him, to Alyosha—all this suddenly opened beforeAlyosha an unsuspected depth of hopeless grief and despair in the soulof his unhappy brother. Intense, infinite compassion overwhelmed himinstantly. There was a poignant ache in his torn heart. “Love Ivan!”—hesuddenly recalled Mitya’s words. And he was going to Ivan. He badlywanted to see Ivan all day. He was as much worried about Ivan as aboutMitya, and more than ever now.



Chapter V.Not You, Not You!

On the way to Ivan he had to pass the house where Katerina Ivanovna wasliving. There was light in the windows. He suddenly stopped andresolved to go in. He had not seen Katerina Ivanovna for more than aweek. But now it struck him that Ivan might be with her, especially onthe eve of the terrible day. Ringing, and mounting the staircase, whichwas dimly lighted by a Chinese lantern, he saw a man coming down, andas they met, he recognized him as his brother. So he was just comingfrom Katerina Ivanovna.
“Ah, it’s only you,” said Ivan dryly. “Well, good‐by! You are going toher?”
“Yes.”
“I don’t advise you to; she’s upset and you’ll upset her more.”
A door was instantly flung open above, and a voice cried suddenly:
“No, no! Alexey Fyodorovitch, have you come from him?”
“Yes, I have been with him.”
“Has he sent me any message? Come up, Alyosha, and you, IvanFyodorovitch, you must come back, you must. Do you hear?”
There was such a peremptory note in Katya’s voice that Ivan, after amoment’s hesitation, made up his mind to go back with Alyosha.
“She was listening,” he murmured angrily to himself, but Alyosha heardit.
“Excuse my keeping my greatcoat on,” said Ivan, going into the drawing‐room. “I won’t sit down. I won’t stay more than a minute.”
“Sit down, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” said Katerina Ivanovna, though sheremained standing. She had changed very little during this time, butthere was an ominous gleam in her dark eyes. Alyosha rememberedafterwards that she had struck him as particularly handsome at thatmoment.
“What did he ask you to tell me?”
“Only one thing,” said Alyosha, looking her straight in the face, “thatyou would spare yourself and say nothing at the trial of what” (he wasa little confused) “... passed between you ... at the time of yourfirst acquaintance ... in that town.”
“Ah! that I bowed down to the ground for that money!” She broke into abitter laugh. “Why, is he afraid for me or for himself? He asks me tospare—whom? Him or myself? Tell me, Alexey Fyodorovitch!”
Alyosha watched her intently, trying to understand her.
“Both yourself and him,” he answered softly.
“I am glad to hear it,” she snapped out maliciously, and she suddenlyblushed.
“You don’t know me yet, Alexey Fyodorovitch,” she said menacingly. “AndI don’t know myself yet. Perhaps you’ll want to trample me under footafter my examination to‐morrow.”
“You will give your evidence honorably,” said Alyosha; “that’s allthat’s wanted.”
“Women are often dishonorable,” she snarled. “Only an hour ago I wasthinking I felt afraid to touch that monster ... as though he were areptile ... but no, he is still a human being to me! But did he do it?Is he the murderer?” she cried, all of a sudden, hysterically, turningquickly to Ivan. Alyosha saw at once that she had asked Ivan thatquestion before, perhaps only a moment before he came in, and not forthe first time, but for the hundredth, and that they had ended byquarreling.
“I’ve been to see Smerdyakov.... It was you, you who persuaded me thathe murdered his father. It’s only you I believed!” she continued, stilladdressing Ivan. He gave her a sort of strained smile. Alyosha startedat her tone. He had not suspected such familiar intimacy between them.
“Well, that’s enough, anyway,” Ivan cut short the conversation. “I amgoing. I’ll come to‐morrow.” And turning at once, he walked out of theroom and went straight downstairs.
With an imperious gesture, Katerina Ivanovna seized Alyosha by bothhands.
“Follow him! Overtake him! Don’t leave him alone for a minute!” shesaid, in a hurried whisper. “He’s mad! Don’t you know that he’s mad? Heis in a fever, nervous fever. The doctor told me so. Go, run afterhim....”
Alyosha jumped up and ran after Ivan, who was not fifty paces ahead ofhim.
“What do you want?” He turned quickly on Alyosha, seeing that he wasrunning after him. “She told you to catch me up, because I’m mad. Iknow it all by heart,” he added irritably.
“She is mistaken, of course; but she is right that you are ill,” saidAlyosha. “I was looking at your face just now. You look very ill,Ivan.”
Ivan walked on without stopping. Alyosha followed him.
“And do you know, Alexey Fyodorovitch, how people do go out of theirmind?” Ivan asked in a voice suddenly quiet, without a trace ofirritation, with a note of the simplest curiosity.
“No, I don’t. I suppose there are all kinds of insanity.”
“And can one observe that one’s going mad oneself?”
“I imagine one can’t see oneself clearly in such circumstances,”Alyosha answered with surprise.
Ivan paused for half a minute.
“If you want to talk to me, please change the subject,” he saidsuddenly.
“Oh, while I think of it, I have a letter for you,” said Alyoshatimidly, and he took Lise’s note from his pocket and held it out toIvan. They were just under a lamp‐post. Ivan recognized the handwritingat once.
“Ah, from that little demon!” he laughed maliciously, and, withoutopening the envelope, he tore it into bits and threw it in the air. Thebits were scattered by the wind.
“She’s not sixteen yet, I believe, and already offering herself,” hesaid contemptuously, striding along the street again.
“How do you mean, offering herself?” exclaimed Alyosha.
“As wanton women offer themselves, to be sure.”
“How can you, Ivan, how can you?” Alyosha cried warmly, in a grievedvoice. “She is a child; you are insulting a child! She is ill; she isvery ill, too. She is on the verge of insanity, too, perhaps.... I hadhoped to hear something from you ... that would save her.”
“You’ll hear nothing from me. If she is a child I am not her nurse. Bequiet, Alexey. Don’t go on about her. I am not even thinking about it.”
They were silent again for a moment.
“She will be praying all night now to the Mother of God to show her howto act to‐morrow at the trial,” he said sharply and angrily again.
“You ... you mean Katerina Ivanovna?”
“Yes. Whether she’s to save Mitya or ruin him. She’ll pray for lightfrom above. She can’t make up her mind for herself, you see. She hasnot had time to decide yet. She takes me for her nurse, too. She wantsme to sing lullabies to her.”
“Katerina Ivanovna loves you, brother,” said Alyosha sadly.
“Perhaps; but I am not very keen on her.”
“She is suffering. Why do you ... sometimes say things to her that giveher hope?” Alyosha went on, with timid reproach. “I know that you’vegiven her hope. Forgive me for speaking to you like this,” he added.
“I can’t behave to her as I ought—break off altogether and tell her sostraight out,” said Ivan, irritably. “I must wait till sentence ispassed on the murderer. If I break off with her now, she will avengeherself on me by ruining that scoundrel to‐morrow at the trial, for shehates him and knows she hates him. It’s all a lie—lie upon lie! As longas I don’t break off with her, she goes on hoping, and she won’t ruinthat monster, knowing how I want to get him out of trouble. If onlythat damned verdict would come!”
The words “murderer” and “monster” echoed painfully in Alyosha’s heart.
“But how can she ruin Mitya?” he asked, pondering on Ivan’s words.“What evidence can she give that would ruin Mitya?”
“You don’t know that yet. She’s got a document in her hands, in Mitya’sown writing, that proves conclusively that he did murder FyodorPavlovitch.”
“That’s impossible!” cried Alyosha.
“Why is it impossible? I’ve read it myself.”
“There can’t be such a document!” Alyosha repeated warmly. “There can’tbe, because he’s not the murderer. It’s not he murdered father, nothe!”
Ivan suddenly stopped.
“Who is the murderer then, according to you?” he asked, with apparentcoldness. There was even a supercilious note in his voice.
“You know who,” Alyosha pronounced in a low, penetrating voice.
“Who? You mean the myth about that crazy idiot, the epileptic,Smerdyakov?”
Alyosha suddenly felt himself trembling all over.
“You know who,” broke helplessly from him. He could scarcely breathe.
“Who? Who?” Ivan cried almost fiercely. All his restraint suddenlyvanished.
“I only know one thing,” Alyosha went on, still almost in a whisper,“_it wasn’t you_ killed father.”
“ ‘Not you’! What do you mean by ‘not you’?” Ivan was thunderstruck.
“It was not you killed father, not you!” Alyosha repeated firmly.
The silence lasted for half a minute.
“I know I didn’t. Are you raving?” said Ivan, with a pale, distortedsmile. His eyes were riveted on Alyosha. They were standing again undera lamp‐post.
“No, Ivan. You’ve told yourself several times that you are themurderer.”
“When did I say so? I was in Moscow.... When have I said so?” Ivanfaltered helplessly.
“You’ve said so to yourself many times, when you’ve been alone duringthese two dreadful months,” Alyosha went on softly and distinctly asbefore. Yet he was speaking now, as it were, not of himself, not of hisown will, but obeying some irresistible command. “You have accusedyourself and have confessed to yourself that you are the murderer andno one else. But you didn’t do it: you are mistaken: you are not themurderer. Do you hear? It was not you! God has sent me to tell you so.”
They were both silent. The silence lasted a whole long minute. Theywere both standing still, gazing into each other’s eyes. They were bothpale. Suddenly Ivan began trembling all over, and clutched Alyosha’sshoulder.
“You’ve been in my room!” he whispered hoarsely. “You’ve been there atnight, when he came.... Confess ... have you seen him, have you seenhim?”
“Whom do you mean—Mitya?” Alyosha asked, bewildered.
“Not him, damn the monster!” Ivan shouted, in a frenzy. “Do you knowthat he visits me? How did you find out? Speak!”
“Who is _he_! I don’t know whom you are talking about,” Alyoshafaltered, beginning to be alarmed.
“Yes, you do know ... or how could you—? It’s impossible that you don’tknow.”
Suddenly he seemed to check himself. He stood still and seemed toreflect. A strange grin contorted his lips.
“Brother,” Alyosha began again, in a shaking voice, “I have said thisto you, because you’ll believe my word, I know that. I tell you onceand for all, it’s not you. You hear, once for all! God has put it intomy heart to say this to you, even though it may make you hate me fromthis hour.”
But by now Ivan had apparently regained his self‐control.
“Alexey Fyodorovitch,” he said, with a cold smile, “I can’t endureprophets and epileptics—messengers from God especially—and you knowthat only too well. I break off all relations with you from this momentand probably for ever. I beg you to leave me at this turning. It’s theway to your lodgings, too. You’d better be particularly careful not tocome to me to‐day! Do you hear?”
He turned and walked on with a firm step, not looking back.
“Brother,” Alyosha called after him, “if anything happens to youto‐day, turn to me before any one!”
But Ivan made no reply. Alyosha stood under the lamp‐post at the crossroads, till Ivan had vanished into the darkness. Then he turned andwalked slowly homewards. Both Alyosha and Ivan were living in lodgings;neither of them was willing to live in Fyodor Pavlovitch’s empty house.Alyosha had a furnished room in the house of some working people. Ivanlived some distance from him. He had taken a roomy and fairlycomfortable lodge attached to a fine house that belonged to awell‐to‐do lady, the widow of an official. But his only attendant was adeaf and rheumatic old crone who went to bed at six o’clock everyevening and got up at six in the morning. Ivan had become remarkablyindifferent to his comforts of late, and very fond of being alone. Hedid everything for himself in the one room he lived in, and rarelyentered any of the other rooms in his abode.
He reached the gate of the house and had his hand on the bell, when hesuddenly stopped. He felt that he was trembling all over with anger.Suddenly he let go of the bell, turned back with a curse, and walkedwith rapid steps in the opposite direction. He walked a mile and a halfto a tiny, slanting, wooden house, almost a hut, where MaryaKondratyevna, the neighbor who used to come to Fyodor Pavlovitch’skitchen for soup and to whom Smerdyakov had once sung his songs andplayed on the guitar, was now lodging. She had sold their little house,and was now living here with her mother. Smerdyakov, who was ill—almostdying—had been with them ever since Fyodor Pavlovitch’s death. It wasto him Ivan was going now, drawn by a sudden and irresistibleprompting.



Chapter VI.The First Interview With Smerdyakov

This was the third time that Ivan had been to see Smerdyakov since hisreturn from Moscow. The first time he had seen him and talked to himwas on the first day of his arrival, then he had visited him once more,a fortnight later. But his visits had ended with that second one, sothat it was now over a month since he had seen him. And he had scarcelyheard anything of him.
Ivan had only returned five days after his father’s death, so that hewas not present at the funeral, which took place the day before he cameback. The cause of his delay was that Alyosha, not knowing his Moscowaddress, had to apply to Katerina Ivanovna to telegraph to him, andshe, not knowing his address either, telegraphed to her sister andaunt, reckoning on Ivan’s going to see them as soon as he arrived inMoscow. But he did not go to them till four days after his arrival.When he got the telegram, he had, of course, set off post‐haste to ourtown. The first to meet him was Alyosha, and Ivan was greatly surprisedto find that, in opposition to the general opinion of the town, herefused to entertain a suspicion against Mitya, and spoke openly ofSmerdyakov as the murderer. Later on, after seeing the police captainand the prosecutor, and hearing the details of the charge and thearrest, he was still more surprised at Alyosha, and ascribed hisopinion only to his exaggerated brotherly feeling and sympathy withMitya, of whom Alyosha, as Ivan knew, was very fond.
By the way, let us say a word or two of Ivan’s feeling to his brotherDmitri. He positively disliked him; at most, felt sometimes acompassion for him, and even that was mixed with great contempt, almostrepugnance. Mitya’s whole personality, even his appearance, wasextremely unattractive to him. Ivan looked with indignation on KaterinaIvanovna’s love for his brother. Yet he went to see Mitya on the firstday of his arrival, and that interview, far from shaking Ivan’s beliefin his guilt, positively strengthened it. He found his brotheragitated, nervously excited. Mitya had been talkative, but veryabsent‐minded and incoherent. He used violent language, accusedSmerdyakov, and was fearfully muddled. He talked principally about thethree thousand roubles, which he said had been “stolen” from him by hisfather.
“The money was mine, it was my money,” Mitya kept repeating. “Even if Ihad stolen it, I should have had the right.”
He hardly contested the evidence against him, and if he tried to turn afact to his advantage, it was in an absurd and incoherent way. Hehardly seemed to wish to defend himself to Ivan or any one else. Quitethe contrary, he was angry and proudly scornful of the charges againsthim; he was continually firing up and abusing every one. He onlylaughed contemptuously at Grigory’s evidence about the open door, anddeclared that it was “the devil that opened it.” But he could not bringforward any coherent explanation of the fact. He even succeeded ininsulting Ivan during their first interview, telling him sharply thatit was not for people who declared that “everything was lawful,” tosuspect and question him. Altogether he was anything but friendly withIvan on that occasion. Immediately after that interview with Mitya,Ivan went for the first time to see Smerdyakov.
In the railway train on his way from Moscow, he kept thinking ofSmerdyakov and of his last conversation with him on the evening beforehe went away. Many things seemed to him puzzling and suspicious. Butwhen he gave his evidence to the investigating lawyer Ivan saidnothing, for the time, of that conversation. He put that off till hehad seen Smerdyakov, who was at that time in the hospital.
Doctor Herzenstube and Varvinsky, the doctor he met in the hospital,confidently asserted in reply to Ivan’s persistent questions, thatSmerdyakov’s epileptic attack was unmistakably genuine, and weresurprised indeed at Ivan asking whether he might not have been shammingon the day of the catastrophe. They gave him to understand that theattack was an exceptional one, the fits persisting and recurringseveral times, so that the patient’s life was positively in danger, andit was only now, after they had applied remedies, that they couldassert with confidence that the patient would survive. “Though it mightwell be,” added Doctor Herzenstube, “that his reason would be impairedfor a considerable period, if not permanently.” On Ivan’s askingimpatiently whether that meant that he was now mad, they told him thatthis was not yet the case, in the full sense of the word, but thatcertain abnormalities were perceptible. Ivan decided to find out forhimself what those abnormalities were.
At the hospital he was at once allowed to see the patient. Smerdyakovwas lying on a truckle‐bed in a separate ward. There was only one otherbed in the room, and in it lay a tradesman of the town, swollen withdropsy, who was obviously almost dying; he could be no hindrance totheir conversation. Smerdyakov grinned uncertainly on seeing Ivan, andfor the first instant seemed nervous. So at least Ivan fancied. Butthat was only momentary. For the rest of the time he was struck, on thecontrary, by Smerdyakov’s composure. From the first glance Ivan had nodoubt that he was very ill. He was very weak; he spoke slowly, seemingto move his tongue with difficulty; he was much thinner and sallower.Throughout the interview, which lasted twenty minutes, he keptcomplaining of headache and of pain in all his limbs. His thinemasculate face seemed to have become so tiny; his hair was ruffled,and his crest of curls in front stood up in a thin tuft. But in theleft eye, which was screwed up and seemed to be insinuating something,Smerdyakov showed himself unchanged. “It’s always worth while speakingto a clever man.” Ivan was reminded of that at once. He sat down on thestool at his feet. Smerdyakov, with painful effort, shifted hisposition in bed, but he was not the first to speak. He remained dumb,and did not even look much interested.
“Can you talk to me?” asked Ivan. “I won’t tire you much.”
“Certainly I can,” mumbled Smerdyakov, in a faint voice. “Has yourhonor been back long?” he added patronizingly, as though encouraging anervous visitor.
“I only arrived to‐day.... To see the mess you are in here.”
Smerdyakov sighed.
“Why do you sigh? You knew of it all along,” Ivan blurted out.
Smerdyakov was stolidly silent for a while.
“How could I help knowing? It was clear beforehand. But how could Itell it would turn out like that?”
“What would turn out? Don’t prevaricate! You’ve foretold you’d have afit; on the way down to the cellar, you know. You mentioned the veryspot.”
“Have you said so at the examination yet?” Smerdyakov queried withcomposure.
Ivan felt suddenly angry.
“No, I haven’t yet, but I certainly shall. You must explain a greatdeal to me, my man; and let me tell you, I am not going to let you playwith me!”
“Why should I play with you, when I put my whole trust in you, as inGod Almighty?” said Smerdyakov, with the same composure, only for amoment closing his eyes.
“In the first place,” began Ivan, “I know that epileptic fits can’t betold beforehand. I’ve inquired; don’t try and take me in. You can’tforetell the day and the hour. How was it you told me the day and thehour beforehand, and about the cellar, too? How could you tell that youwould fall down the cellar stairs in a fit, if you didn’t sham a fit onpurpose?”
“I had to go to the cellar anyway, several times a day, indeed,”Smerdyakov drawled deliberately. “I fell from the garret just in thesame way a year ago. It’s quite true you can’t tell the day and hour ofa fit beforehand, but you can always have a presentiment of it.”
“But you did foretell the day and the hour!”
“In regard to my epilepsy, sir, you had much better inquire of thedoctors here. You can ask them whether it was a real fit or a sham;it’s no use my saying any more about it.”
“And the cellar? How could you know beforehand of the cellar?”
“You don’t seem able to get over that cellar! As I was going down tothe cellar, I was in terrible dread and doubt. What frightened me mostwas losing you and being left without defense in all the world. So Iwent down into the cellar thinking, ‘Here, it’ll come on directly,it’ll strike me down directly, shall I fall?’ And it was through thisfear that I suddenly felt the spasm that always comes ... and so I wentflying. All that and all my previous conversation with you at the gatethe evening before, when I told you how frightened I was and spoke ofthe cellar, I told all that to Doctor Herzenstube and NikolayParfenovitch, the investigating lawyer, and it’s all been written downin the protocol. And the doctor here, Mr. Varvinsky, maintained to allof them that it was just the thought of it brought it on, theapprehension that I might fall. It was just then that the fit seizedme. And so they’ve written it down, that it’s just how it must havehappened, simply from my fear.”
As he finished, Smerdyakov drew a deep breath, as though exhausted.
“Then you have said all that in your evidence?” said Ivan, somewhattaken aback. He had meant to frighten him with the threat of repeatingtheir conversation, and it appeared that Smerdyakov had alreadyreported it all himself.
“What have I to be afraid of? Let them write down the whole truth,”Smerdyakov pronounced firmly.
“And have you told them every word of our conversation at the gate?”
“No, not to say every word.”
“And did you tell them that you can sham fits, as you boasted then?”
“No, I didn’t tell them that either.”
“Tell me now, why did you send me then to Tchermashnya?”
“I was afraid you’d go away to Moscow; Tchermashnya is nearer, anyway.”
“You are lying; you suggested my going away yourself; you told me toget out of the way of trouble.”
“That was simply out of affection and my sincere devotion to you,foreseeing trouble in the house, to spare you. Only I wanted to sparemyself even more. That’s why I told you to get out of harm’s way, thatyou might understand that there would be trouble in the house, andwould remain at home to protect your father.”
“You might have said it more directly, you blockhead!” Ivan suddenlyfired up.
“How could I have said it more directly then? It was simply my fearthat made me speak, and you might have been angry, too. I might wellhave been apprehensive that Dmitri Fyodorovitch would make a scene andcarry away that money, for he considered it as good as his own; but whocould tell that it would end in a murder like this? I thought that hewould only carry off the three thousand that lay under the master’smattress in the envelope, and you see, he’s murdered him. How could youguess it either, sir?”
“But if you say yourself that it couldn’t be guessed, how could I haveguessed and stayed at home? You contradict yourself!” said Ivan,pondering.
“You might have guessed from my sending you to Tchermashnya and not toMoscow.”
“How could I guess it from that?”
Smerdyakov seemed much exhausted, and again he was silent for a minute.
“You might have guessed from the fact of my asking you not to go toMoscow, but to Tchermashnya, that I wanted to have you nearer, forMoscow’s a long way off, and Dmitri Fyodorovitch, knowing you are notfar off, would not be so bold. And if anything had happened, you mighthave come to protect me, too, for I warned you of GrigoryVassilyevitch’s illness, and that I was afraid of having a fit. Andwhen I explained those knocks to you, by means of which one could go into the deceased, and that Dmitri Fyodorovitch knew them all through me,I thought that you would guess yourself that he would be sure to dosomething, and so wouldn’t go to Tchermashnya even, but would stay.”
“He talks very coherently,” thought Ivan, “though he does mumble;what’s the derangement of his faculties that Herzenstube talked of?”
“You are cunning with me, damn you!” he exclaimed, getting angry.
“But I thought at the time that you quite guessed,” Smerdyakov parriedwith the simplest air.
“If I’d guessed, I should have stayed,” cried Ivan.
“Why, I thought that it was because you guessed, that you went away insuch a hurry, only to get out of trouble, only to run away and saveyourself in your fright.”
“You think that every one is as great a coward as yourself?”
“Forgive me, I thought you were like me.”
“Of course, I ought to have guessed,” Ivan said in agitation; “and Idid guess there was some mischief brewing on your part ... only you arelying, you are lying again,” he cried, suddenly recollecting. “Do youremember how you went up to the carriage and said to me, ‘It’s alwaysworth while speaking to a clever man’? So you were glad I went away,since you praised me?”
Smerdyakov sighed again and again. A trace of color came into his face.
“If I was pleased,” he articulated rather breathlessly, “it was simplybecause you agreed not to go to Moscow, but to Tchermashnya. For it wasnearer, anyway. Only when I said these words to you, it was not by wayof praise, but of reproach. You didn’t understand it.”
“What reproach?”
“Why, that foreseeing such a calamity you deserted your own father, andwould not protect us, for I might have been taken up any time forstealing that three thousand.”
“Damn you!” Ivan swore again. “Stay, did you tell the prosecutor andthe investigating lawyer about those knocks?”
“I told them everything just as it was.”
Ivan wondered inwardly again.
“If I thought of anything then,” he began again, “it was solely of somewickedness on your part. Dmitri might kill him, but that he wouldsteal—I did not believe that then.... But I was prepared for anywickedness from you. You told me yourself you could sham a fit. Whatdid you say that for?”
“It was just through my simplicity, and I never have shammed a fit onpurpose in my life. And I only said so then to boast to you. It wasjust foolishness. I liked you so much then, and was open‐hearted withyou.”
“My brother directly accuses you of the murder and theft.”
“What else is left for him to do?” said Smerdyakov, with a bitter grin.“And who will believe him with all the proofs against him? GrigoryVassilyevitch saw the door open. What can he say after that? But nevermind him! He is trembling to save himself.”
He slowly ceased speaking; then suddenly, as though on reflection,added:
“And look here again. He wants to throw it on me and make out that itis the work of my hands—I’ve heard that already. But as to my beingclever at shamming a fit: should I have told you beforehand that Icould sham one, if I really had had such a design against your father?If I had been planning such a murder could I have been such a fool asto give such evidence against myself beforehand? And to his son, too!Upon my word! Is that likely? As if that could be, such a thing hasnever happened. No one hears this talk of ours now, except Providenceitself, and if you were to tell of it to the prosecutor and NikolayParfenovitch you might defend me completely by doing so, for who wouldbe likely to be such a criminal, if he is so open‐hearted beforehand?Any one can see that.”
“Well,” and Ivan got up to cut short the conversation, struck bySmerdyakov’s last argument. “I don’t suspect you at all, and I thinkit’s absurd, indeed, to suspect you. On the contrary, I am grateful toyou for setting my mind at rest. Now I am going, but I’ll come again.Meanwhile, good‐by. Get well. Is there anything you want?”
“I am very thankful for everything. Marfa Ignatyevna does not forgetme, and provides me anything I want, according to her kindness. Goodpeople visit me every day.”
“Good‐by. But I shan’t say anything of your being able to sham a fit,and I don’t advise you to, either,” something made Ivan say suddenly.
“I quite understand. And if you don’t speak of that, I shall saynothing of that conversation of ours at the gate.”
Then it happened that Ivan went out, and only when he had gone a dozensteps along the corridor, he suddenly felt that there was an insultingsignificance in Smerdyakov’s last words. He was almost on the point ofturning back, but it was only a passing impulse, and muttering,“Nonsense!” he went out of the hospital.
His chief feeling was one of relief at the fact that it was notSmerdyakov, but Mitya, who had committed the murder, though he mighthave been expected to feel the opposite. He did not want to analyze thereason for this feeling, and even felt a positive repugnance at pryinginto his sensations. He felt as though he wanted to make haste toforget something. In the following days he became convinced of Mitya’sguilt, as he got to know all the weight of evidence against him. Therewas evidence of people of no importance, Fenya and her mother, forinstance, but the effect of it was almost overpowering. As to Perhotin,the people at the tavern, and at Plotnikov’s shop, as well as thewitnesses at Mokroe, their evidence seemed conclusive. It was thedetails that were so damning. The secret of the knocks impressed thelawyers almost as much as Grigory’s evidence as to the open door.Grigory’s wife, Marfa, in answer to Ivan’s questions, declared thatSmerdyakov had been lying all night the other side of the partitionwall. “He was not three paces from our bed,” and that although she wasa sound sleeper she waked several times and heard him moaning, “He wasmoaning the whole time, moaning continually.”
Talking to Herzenstube, and giving it as his opinion that Smerdyakovwas not mad, but only rather weak, Ivan only evoked from the old man asubtle smile.
“Do you know how he spends his time now?” he asked; “learning lists ofFrench words by heart. He has an exercise‐book under his pillow withthe French words written out in Russian letters for him by some one, hehe he!”
Ivan ended by dismissing all doubts. He could not think of Dmitriwithout repulsion. Only one thing was strange, however. Alyoshapersisted that Dmitri was not the murderer, and that “in allprobability” Smerdyakov was. Ivan always felt that Alyosha’s opinionmeant a great deal to him, and so he was astonished at it now. Anotherthing that was strange was that Alyosha did not make any attempt totalk about Mitya with Ivan, that he never began on the subject and onlyanswered his questions. This, too, struck Ivan particularly.
But he was very much preoccupied at that time with something quiteapart from that. On his return from Moscow, he abandoned himselfhopelessly to his mad and consuming passion for Katerina Ivanovna. Thisis not the time to begin to speak of this new passion of Ivan’s, whichleft its mark on all the rest of his life: this would furnish thesubject for another novel, which I may perhaps never write. But Icannot omit to mention here that when Ivan, on leaving KaterinaIvanovna with Alyosha, as I’ve related already, told him, “I am notkeen on her,” it was an absolute lie: he loved her madly, though attimes he hated her so that he might have murdered her. Many causeshelped to bring about this feeling. Shattered by what had happened withMitya, she rushed on Ivan’s return to meet him as her one salvation.She was hurt, insulted and humiliated in her feelings. And here the manhad come back to her, who had loved her so ardently before (oh! sheknew that very well), and whose heart and intellect she considered sosuperior to her own. But the sternly virtuous girl did not abandonherself altogether to the man she loved, in spite of the Karamazovviolence of his passions and the great fascination he had for her. Shewas continually tormented at the same time by remorse for havingdeserted Mitya, and in moments of discord and violent anger (and theywere numerous) she told Ivan so plainly. This was what he had called toAlyosha “lies upon lies.” There was, of course, much that was false init, and that angered Ivan more than anything.... But of all this later.
He did, in fact, for a time almost forget Smerdyakov’s existence, andyet, a fortnight after his first visit to him, he began to be hauntedby the same strange thoughts as before. It’s enough to say that he wascontinually asking himself, why was it that on that last night inFyodor Pavlovitch’s house he had crept out on to the stairs like athief and listened to hear what his father was doing below? Why had herecalled that afterwards with repulsion? Why next morning, had he beensuddenly so depressed on the journey? Why, as he reached Moscow, had hesaid to himself, “I am a scoundrel”? And now he almost fancied thatthese tormenting thoughts would make him even forget Katerina Ivanovna,so completely did they take possession of him again. It was just afterfancying this, that he met Alyosha in the street. He stopped him atonce, and put a question to him:
“Do you remember when Dmitri burst in after dinner and beat father, andafterwards I told you in the yard that I reserved ‘the right todesire’?... Tell me, did you think then that I desired father’s deathor not?”
“I did think so,” answered Alyosha, softly.
“It was so, too; it was not a matter of guessing. But didn’t you fancythen that what I wished was just that ‘one reptile should devouranother’; that is, just that Dmitri should kill father, and as soon aspossible ... and that I myself was even prepared to help to bring thatabout?”
Alyosha turned rather pale, and looked silently into his brother’sface.
“Speak!” cried Ivan, “I want above everything to know what you thoughtthen. I want the truth, the truth!”
He drew a deep breath, looking angrily at Alyosha before his answercame.
“Forgive me, I did think that, too, at the time,” whispered Alyosha,and he did not add one softening phrase.
“Thanks,” snapped Ivan, and, leaving Alyosha, he went quickly on hisway. From that time Alyosha noticed that Ivan began obviously to avoidhim and seemed even to have taken a dislike to him, so much so thatAlyosha gave up going to see him. Immediately after that meeting withhim, Ivan had not gone home, but went straight to Smerdyakov again.



Chapter VII.The Second Visit To Smerdyakov

By that time Smerdyakov had been discharged from the hospital. Ivanknew his new lodging, the dilapidated little wooden house, divided intwo by a passage on one side of which lived Marya Kondratyevna and hermother, and on the other, Smerdyakov. No one knew on what terms helived with them, whether as a friend or as a lodger. It was supposedafterwards that he had come to stay with them as Marya Kondratyevna’sbetrothed, and was living there for a time without paying for board orlodging. Both mother and daughter had the greatest respect for him andlooked upon him as greatly superior to themselves.
Ivan knocked, and, on the door being opened, went straight into thepassage. By Marya Kondratyevna’s directions he went straight to thebetter room on the left, occupied by Smerdyakov. There was a tiledstove in the room and it was extremely hot. The walls were gay withblue paper, which was a good deal used however, and in the cracks underit cockroaches swarmed in amazing numbers, so that there was acontinual rustling from them. The furniture was very scanty: twobenches against each wall and two chairs by the table. The table ofplain wood was covered with a cloth with pink patterns on it. There wasa pot of geranium on each of the two little windows. In the cornerthere was a case of ikons. On the table stood a little copper samovarwith many dents in it, and a tray with two cups. But Smerdyakov hadfinished tea and the samovar was out. He was sitting at the table on abench. He was looking at an exercise‐book and slowly writing with apen. There was a bottle of ink by him and a flat iron candlestick, butwith a composite candle. Ivan saw at once from Smerdyakov’s face thathe had completely recovered from his illness. His face was fresher,fuller, his hair stood up jauntily in front, and was plastered down atthe sides. He was sitting in a parti‐colored, wadded dressing‐gown,rather dirty and frayed, however. He had spectacles on his nose, whichIvan had never seen him wearing before. This trifling circumstancesuddenly redoubled Ivan’s anger: “A creature like that and wearingspectacles!”
Smerdyakov slowly raised his head and looked intently at his visitorthrough his spectacles; then he slowly took them off and rose from thebench, but by no means respectfully, almost lazily, doing the leastpossible required by common civility. All this struck Ivan instantly;he took it all in and noted it at once—most of all the look inSmerdyakov’s eyes, positively malicious, churlish and haughty. “What doyou want to intrude for?” it seemed to say; “we settled everythingthen; why have you come again?” Ivan could scarcely control himself.
“It’s hot here,” he said, still standing, and unbuttoned his overcoat.
“Take off your coat,” Smerdyakov conceded.
Ivan took off his coat and threw it on a bench with trembling hands. Hetook a chair, moved it quickly to the table and sat down. Smerdyakovmanaged to sit down on his bench before him.
“To begin with, are we alone?” Ivan asked sternly and impulsively. “Canthey overhear us in there?”
“No one can hear anything. You’ve seen for yourself: there’s apassage.”
“Listen, my good fellow; what was that you babbled, as I was leavingthe hospital, that if I said nothing about your faculty of shammingfits, you wouldn’t tell the investigating lawyer all our conversationat the gate? What do you mean by _all_? What could you mean by it? Wereyou threatening me? Have I entered into some sort of compact with you?Do you suppose I am afraid of you?”
Ivan said this in a perfect fury, giving him to understand with obviousintention that he scorned any subterfuge or indirectness and meant toshow his cards. Smerdyakov’s eyes gleamed resentfully, his left eyewinked, and he at once gave his answer, with his habitual composure anddeliberation. “You want to have everything above‐board; very well, youshall have it,” he seemed to say.
“This is what I meant then, and this is why I said that, that you,knowing beforehand of this murder of your own parent, left him to hisfate, and that people mightn’t after that conclude any evil about yourfeelings and perhaps of something else, too—that’s what I promised notto tell the authorities.”
Though Smerdyakov spoke without haste and obviously controllinghimself, yet there was something in his voice, determined and emphatic,resentful and insolently defiant. He stared impudently at Ivan. A mistpassed before Ivan’s eyes for the first moment.
“How? What? Are you out of your mind?”
“I’m perfectly in possession of all my faculties.”
“Do you suppose I _knew_ of the murder?” Ivan cried at last, and hebrought his fist violently on the table. “What do you mean by‘something else, too’? Speak, scoundrel!”
Smerdyakov was silent and still scanned Ivan with the same insolentstare.
“Speak, you stinking rogue, what is that ‘something else, too’?”
“The ‘something else’ I meant was that you probably, too, were verydesirous of your parent’s death.”
Ivan jumped up and struck him with all his might on the shoulder, sothat he fell back against the wall. In an instant his face was bathedin tears. Saying, “It’s a shame, sir, to strike a sick man,” he driedhis eyes with a very dirty blue check handkerchief and sank into quietweeping. A minute passed.
“That’s enough! Leave off,” Ivan said peremptorily, sitting down again.“Don’t put me out of all patience.”
Smerdyakov took the rag from his eyes. Every line of his puckered facereflected the insult he had just received.
“So you thought then, you scoundrel, that together with Dmitri I meantto kill my father?”
“I didn’t know what thoughts were in your mind then,” said Smerdyakovresentfully; “and so I stopped you then at the gate to sound you onthat very point.”
“To sound what, what?”
“Why, that very circumstance, whether you wanted your father to bemurdered or not.”
What infuriated Ivan more than anything was the aggressive, insolenttone to which Smerdyakov persistently adhered.
“It was you murdered him?” he cried suddenly.
Smerdyakov smiled contemptuously.
“You know of yourself, for a fact, that it wasn’t I murdered him. And Ishould have thought that there was no need for a sensible man to speakof it again.”
“But why, why had you such a suspicion about me at the time?”
“As you know already, it was simply from fear. For I was in such aposition, shaking with fear, that I suspected every one. I resolved tosound you, too, for I thought if you wanted the same as your brother,then the business was as good as settled and I should be crushed like afly, too.”
“Look here, you didn’t say that a fortnight ago.”
“I meant the same when I talked to you in the hospital, only I thoughtyou’d understand without wasting words, and that being such a sensibleman you wouldn’t care to talk of it openly.”
“What next! Come answer, answer, I insist: what was it ... what could Ihave done to put such a degrading suspicion into your mean soul?”
“As for the murder, you couldn’t have done that and didn’t want to, butas for wanting some one else to do it, that was just what you didwant.”
“And how coolly, how coolly he speaks! But why should I have wanted it;what grounds had I for wanting it?”
“What grounds had you? What about the inheritance?” said Smerdyakovsarcastically, and, as it were, vindictively. “Why, after your parent’sdeath there was at least forty thousand to come to each of you, andvery likely more, but if Fyodor Pavlovitch got married then to thatlady, Agrafena Alexandrovna, she would have had all his capital madeover to her directly after the wedding, for she’s plenty of sense, sothat your parent would not have left you two roubles between the threeof you. And were they far from a wedding, either? Not a hair’s‐breadth:that lady had only to lift her little finger and he would have runafter her to church, with his tongue out.”
Ivan restrained himself with painful effort.
“Very good,” he commented at last. “You see, I haven’t jumped up, Ihaven’t knocked you down, I haven’t killed you. Speak on. So, accordingto you, I had fixed on Dmitri to do it; I was reckoning on him?”
“How could you help reckoning on him? If he killed him, then he wouldlose all the rights of a nobleman, his rank and property, and would gooff to exile; so his share of the inheritance would come to you andyour brother Alexey Fyodorovitch in equal parts; so you’d each have notforty, but sixty thousand each. There’s not a doubt you did reckon onDmitri Fyodorovitch.”
“What I put up with from you! Listen, scoundrel, if I had reckoned onany one then, it would have been on you, not on Dmitri, and I swear Idid expect some wickedness from you ... at the time.... I remember myimpression!”
“I thought, too, for a minute, at the time, that you were reckoning onme as well,” said Smerdyakov, with a sarcastic grin. “So that it wasjust by that more than anything you showed me what was in your mind.For if you had a foreboding about me and yet went away, you as good assaid to me, ‘You can murder my parent, I won’t hinder you!’ ”
“You scoundrel! So that’s how you understood it!”
“It was all that going to Tchermashnya. Why! You were meaning to go toMoscow and refused all your father’s entreaties to go toTchermashnya—and simply at a foolish word from me you consented atonce! What reason had you to consent to Tchermashnya? Since you went toTchermashnya with no reason, simply at my word, it shows that you musthave expected something from me.”
“No, I swear I didn’t!” shouted Ivan, grinding his teeth.
“You didn’t? Then you ought, as your father’s son, to have had me takento the lock‐up and thrashed at once for my words then ... or at least,to have given me a punch in the face on the spot, but you were not abit angry, if you please, and at once in a friendly way acted on myfoolish word and went away, which was utterly absurd, for you ought tohave stayed to save your parent’s life. How could I help drawing myconclusions?”
Ivan sat scowling, both his fists convulsively pressed on his knees.
“Yes, I am sorry I didn’t punch you in the face,” he said with a bittersmile. “I couldn’t have taken you to the lock‐up just then. Who wouldhave believed me and what charge could I bring against you? But thepunch in the face ... oh, I’m sorry I didn’t think of it. Though blowsare forbidden, I should have pounded your ugly face to a jelly.”
Smerdyakov looked at him almost with relish.
“In the ordinary occasions of life,” he said in the same complacent andsententious tone in which he had taunted Grigory and argued with himabout religion at Fyodor Pavlovitch’s table, “in the ordinary occasionsof life, blows on the face are forbidden nowadays by law, and peoplehave given them up, but in exceptional occasions of life people stillfly to blows, not only among us but all over the world, be it even thefullest Republic of France, just as in the time of Adam and Eve, andthey never will leave off, but you, even in an exceptional case, didnot dare.”
“What are you learning French words for?” Ivan nodded towards theexercise‐book lying on the table.
“Why shouldn’t I learn them so as to improve my education, supposingthat I may myself chance to go some day to those happy parts ofEurope?”
“Listen, monster.” Ivan’s eyes flashed and he trembled all over. “I amnot afraid of your accusations; you can say what you like about me, andif I don’t beat you to death, it’s simply because I suspect you of thatcrime and I’ll drag you to justice. I’ll unmask you.”
“To my thinking, you’d better keep quiet, for what can you accuse meof, considering my absolute innocence? and who would believe you? Onlyif you begin, I shall tell everything, too, for I must defend myself.”
“Do you think I am afraid of you now?”
“If the court doesn’t believe all I’ve said to you just now, the publicwill, and you will be ashamed.”
“That’s as much as to say, ‘It’s always worth while speaking to asensible man,’ eh?” snarled Ivan.
“You hit the mark, indeed. And you’d better be sensible.”
Ivan got up, shaking all over with indignation, put on his coat, andwithout replying further to Smerdyakov, without even looking at him,walked quickly out of the cottage. The cool evening air refreshed him.There was a bright moon in the sky. A nightmare of ideas and sensationsfilled his soul. “Shall I go at once and give information againstSmerdyakov? But what information can I give? He is not guilty, anyway.On the contrary, he’ll accuse me. And in fact, why did I set off forTchermashnya then? What for? What for?” Ivan asked himself. “Yes, ofcourse, I was expecting something and he is right....” And heremembered for the hundredth time how, on the last night in hisfather’s house, he had listened on the stairs. But he remembered it nowwith such anguish that he stood still on the spot as though he had beenstabbed. “Yes, I expected it then, that’s true! I wanted the murder, Idid want the murder! Did I want the murder? Did I want it? I must killSmerdyakov! If I don’t dare kill Smerdyakov now, life is not worthliving!”
Ivan did not go home, but went straight to Katerina Ivanovna andalarmed her by his appearance. He was like a madman. He repeated allhis conversation with Smerdyakov, every syllable of it. He couldn’t becalmed, however much she tried to soothe him: he kept walking about theroom, speaking strangely, disconnectedly. At last he sat down, put hiselbows on the table, leaned his head on his hands and pronounced thisstrange sentence: “If it’s not Dmitri, but Smerdyakov who’s themurderer, I share his guilt, for I put him up to it. Whether I did, Idon’t know yet. But if he is the murderer, and not Dmitri, then, ofcourse, I am the murderer, too.”
When Katerina Ivanovna heard that, she got up from her seat without aword, went to her writing‐table, opened a box standing on it, took outa sheet of paper and laid it before Ivan. This was the document ofwhich Ivan spoke to Alyosha later on as a “conclusive proof” thatDmitri had killed his father. It was the letter written by Mitya toKaterina Ivanovna when he was drunk, on the very evening he met Alyoshaat the crossroads on the way to the monastery, after the scene atKaterina Ivanovna’s, when Grushenka had insulted her. Then, partingfrom Alyosha, Mitya had rushed to Grushenka. I don’t know whether hesaw her, but in the evening he was at the “Metropolis,” where he gotthoroughly drunk. Then he asked for pen and paper and wrote a documentof weighty consequences to himself. It was a wordy, disconnected,frantic letter, a drunken letter in fact. It was like the talk of adrunken man, who, on his return home, begins with extraordinary heattelling his wife or one of his household how he has just been insulted,what a rascal had just insulted him, what a fine fellow he is on theother hand, and how he will pay that scoundrel out; and all that atgreat length, with great excitement and incoherence, with drunken tearsand blows on the table. The letter was written on a dirty piece ofordinary paper of the cheapest kind. It had been provided by the tavernand there were figures scrawled on the back of it. There was evidentlynot space enough for his drunken verbosity and Mitya not only filledthe margins but had written the last line right across the rest. Theletter ran as follows:
FATAL KATYA: To‐morrow I will get the money and repay your threethousand and farewell, woman of great wrath, but farewell, too, mylove! Let us make an end! To‐morrow I shall try and get it from everyone, and if I can’t borrow it, I give you my word of honor I shall goto my father and break his skull and take the money from under thepillow, if only Ivan has gone. If I have to go to Siberia for it, I’llgive you back your three thousand. And farewell. I bow down to theground before you, for I’ve been a scoundrel to you. Forgive me! No,better not forgive me, you’ll be happier and so shall I! Better Siberiathan your love, for I love another woman and you got to know her toowell to‐day, so how can you forgive? I will murder the man who’s robbedme! I’ll leave you all and go to the East so as to see no one again.Not _her_ either, for you are not my only tormentress; she is too.Farewell!    P.S.—I write my curse, but I adore you! I hear it in my heart. One    string is left, and it vibrates. Better tear my heart in two! I    shall kill myself, but first of all that cur. I shall tear three    thousand from him and fling it to you. Though I’ve been a scoundrel    to you, I am not a thief! You can expect three thousand. The cur    keeps it under his mattress, in pink ribbon. I am not a thief, but    I’ll murder my thief. Katya, don’t look disdainful. Dmitri is not a    thief! but a murderer! He has murdered his father and ruined    himself to hold his ground, rather than endure your pride. And he    doesn’t love you.    P.P.S.—I kiss your feet, farewell! P.P.P.S.—Katya, pray to God that    some one’ll give me the money. Then I shall not be steeped in gore,    and if no one does—I shall! Kill me!

Your slave and enemy,D. KARAMAZOV.

When Ivan read this “document” he was convinced. So then it was hisbrother, not Smerdyakov. And if not Smerdyakov, then not he, Ivan. Thisletter at once assumed in his eyes the aspect of a logical proof. Therecould be no longer the slightest doubt of Mitya’s guilt. The suspicionnever occurred to Ivan, by the way, that Mitya might have committed themurder in conjunction with Smerdyakov, and, indeed, such a theory didnot fit in with the facts. Ivan was completely reassured. The nextmorning he only thought of Smerdyakov and his gibes with contempt. Afew days later he positively wondered how he could have been sohorribly distressed at his suspicions. He resolved to dismiss him withcontempt and forget him. So passed a month. He made no further inquiryabout Smerdyakov, but twice he happened to hear that he was very illand out of his mind.
“He’ll end in madness,” the young doctor Varvinsky observed about him,and Ivan remembered this. During the last week of that month Ivanhimself began to feel very ill. He went to consult the Moscow doctorwho had been sent for by Katerina Ivanovna just before the trial. Andjust at that time his relations with Katerina Ivanovna became acutelystrained. They were like two enemies in love with one another. KaterinaIvanovna’s “returns” to Mitya, that is, her brief but violentrevulsions of feeling in his favor, drove Ivan to perfect frenzy.Strange to say, until that last scene described above, when Alyoshacame from Mitya to Katerina Ivanovna, Ivan had never once, during thatmonth, heard her express a doubt of Mitya’s guilt, in spite of those“returns” that were so hateful to him. It is remarkable, too, thatwhile he felt that he hated Mitya more and more every day, he realizedthat it was not on account of Katya’s “returns” that he hated him, butjust _because he was the murderer of his father_. He was conscious ofthis and fully recognized it to himself.
Nevertheless, he went to see Mitya ten days before the trial andproposed to him a plan of escape—a plan he had obviously thought over along time. He was partly impelled to do this by a sore place still leftin his heart from a phrase of Smerdyakov’s, that it was to his, Ivan’s,advantage that his brother should be convicted, as that would increasehis inheritance and Alyosha’s from forty to sixty thousand roubles. Hedetermined to sacrifice thirty thousand on arranging Mitya’s escape. Onhis return from seeing him, he was very mournful and dispirited; hesuddenly began to feel that he was anxious for Mitya’s escape, not onlyto heal that sore place by sacrificing thirty thousand, but for anotherreason. “Is it because I am as much a murderer at heart?” he askedhimself. Something very deep down seemed burning and rankling in hissoul. His pride above all suffered cruelly all that month. But of thatlater....
When, after his conversation with Alyosha, Ivan suddenly decided withhis hand on the bell of his lodging to go to Smerdyakov, he obeyed asudden and peculiar impulse of indignation. He suddenly remembered howKaterina Ivanovna had only just cried out to him in Alyosha’s presence:“It was you, you, persuaded me of his” (that is, Mitya’s) “guilt!” Ivanwas thunderstruck when he recalled it. He had never once tried topersuade her that Mitya was the murderer; on the contrary, he hadsuspected himself in her presence, that time when he came back fromSmerdyakov. It was _she_, she, who had produced that “document” andproved his brother’s guilt. And now she suddenly exclaimed: “I’ve beenat Smerdyakov’s myself!” When had she been there? Ivan had knownnothing of it. So she was not at all so sure of Mitya’s guilt! And whatcould Smerdyakov have told her? What, what, had he said to her? Hisheart burned with violent anger. He could not understand how he could,half an hour before, have let those words pass and not have cried outat the moment. He let go of the bell and rushed off to Smerdyakov. “Ishall kill him, perhaps, this time,” he thought on the way.



Chapter VIII.The Third And Last Interview With Smerdyakov

When he was half‐way there, the keen dry wind that had been blowingearly that morning rose again, and a fine dry snow began fallingthickly. It did not lie on the ground, but was whirled about by thewind, and soon there was a regular snowstorm. There were scarcely anylamp‐posts in the part of the town where Smerdyakov lived. Ivan strodealone in the darkness, unconscious of the storm, instinctively pickingout his way. His head ached and there was a painful throbbing in histemples. He felt that his hands were twitching convulsively. Not farfrom Marya Kondratyevna’s cottage, Ivan suddenly came upon a solitarydrunken little peasant. He was wearing a coarse and patched coat, andwas walking in zigzags, grumbling and swearing to himself. Thensuddenly he would begin singing in a husky drunken voice:
“Ach, Vanka’s gone to Petersburg;I won’t wait till he comes back.”

But he broke off every time at the second line and began swearingagain; then he would begin the same song again. Ivan felt an intensehatred for him before he had thought about him at all. Suddenly herealized his presence and felt an irresistible impulse to knock himdown. At that moment they met, and the peasant with a violent lurchfell full tilt against Ivan, who pushed him back furiously. The peasantwent flying backwards and fell like a log on the frozen ground. Heuttered one plaintive “O—oh!” and then was silent. Ivan stepped up tohim. He was lying on his back, without movement or consciousness. “Hewill be frozen,” thought Ivan, and he went on his way to Smerdyakov’s.
In the passage, Marya Kondratyevna, who ran out to open the door with acandle in her hand, whispered that Smerdyakov was very ill, “It’s notthat he’s laid up, but he seems not himself, and he even told us totake the tea away; he wouldn’t have any.”
“Why, does he make a row?” asked Ivan coarsely.
“Oh, dear, no, quite the contrary, he’s very quiet. Only please don’ttalk to him too long,” Marya Kondratyevna begged him. Ivan opened thedoor and stepped into the room.
It was over‐heated as before, but there were changes in the room. Oneof the benches at the side had been removed, and in its place had beenput a large old mahogany leather sofa, on which a bed had been made up,with fairly clean white pillows. Smerdyakov was sitting on the sofa,wearing the same dressing‐gown. The table had been brought out in frontof the sofa, so that there was hardly room to move. On the table lay athick book in yellow cover, but Smerdyakov was not reading it. Heseemed to be sitting doing nothing. He met Ivan with a slow silentgaze, and was apparently not at all surprised at his coming. There wasa great change in his face; he was much thinner and sallower. His eyeswere sunken and there were blue marks under them.
“Why, you really are ill?” Ivan stopped short. “I won’t keep you long,I won’t even take off my coat. Where can one sit down?”
He went to the other end of the table, moved up a chair and sat down onit.
“Why do you look at me without speaking? I’ve only come with onequestion, and I swear I won’t go without an answer. Has the young lady,Katerina Ivanovna, been with you?”
Smerdyakov still remained silent, looking quietly at Ivan as before.Suddenly, with a motion of his hand, he turned his face away.
“What’s the matter with you?” cried Ivan.
“Nothing.”
“What do you mean by ‘nothing’?”
“Yes, she has. It’s no matter to you. Let me alone.”
“No, I won’t let you alone. Tell me, when was she here?”
“Why, I’d quite forgotten about her,” said Smerdyakov, with a scornfulsmile, and turning his face to Ivan again, he stared at him with a lookof frenzied hatred, the same look that he had fixed on him at theirlast interview, a month before.
“You seem very ill yourself, your face is sunken; you don’t look likeyourself,” he said to Ivan.
“Never mind my health, tell me what I ask you.”
“But why are your eyes so yellow? The whites are quite yellow. Are youso worried?” He smiled contemptuously and suddenly laughed outright.
“Listen; I’ve told you I won’t go away without an answer!” Ivan cried,intensely irritated.
“Why do you keep pestering me? Why do you torment me?” said Smerdyakov,with a look of suffering.
“Damn it! I’ve nothing to do with you. Just answer my question and I’llgo away.”
“I’ve no answer to give you,” said Smerdyakov, looking down again.
“You may be sure I’ll make you answer!”
“Why are you so uneasy?” Smerdyakov stared at him, not simply withcontempt, but almost with repulsion. “Is this because the trial beginsto‐ morrow? Nothing will happen to you; can’t you believe that at last?Go home, go to bed and sleep in peace, don’t be afraid of anything.”
“I don’t understand you.... What have I to be afraid of to‐morrow?”Ivan articulated in astonishment, and suddenly a chill breath of feardid in fact pass over his soul. Smerdyakov measured him with his eyes.
“You don’t understand?” he drawled reproachfully. “It’s a strange thinga sensible man should care to play such a farce!”
Ivan looked at him speechless. The startling, incredibly supercilioustone of this man who had once been his valet, was extraordinary initself. He had not taken such a tone even at their last interview.
“I tell you, you’ve nothing to be afraid of. I won’t say anything aboutyou; there’s no proof against you. I say, how your hands are trembling!Why are your fingers moving like that? Go home, _you_ did not murderhim.”
Ivan started. He remembered Alyosha.
“I know it was not I,” he faltered.
“Do you?” Smerdyakov caught him up again.
Ivan jumped up and seized him by the shoulder.
“Tell me everything, you viper! Tell me everything!”
Smerdyakov was not in the least scared. He only riveted his eyes onIvan with insane hatred.
“Well, it was you who murdered him, if that’s it,” he whisperedfuriously.
Ivan sank back on his chair, as though pondering something. He laughedmalignantly.
“You mean my going away. What you talked about last time?”
“You stood before me last time and understood it all, and youunderstand it now.”
“All I understand is that you are mad.”
“Aren’t you tired of it? Here we are face to face; what’s the use ofgoing on keeping up a farce to each other? Are you still trying tothrow it all on me, to my face? _You_ murdered him; you are the realmurderer, I was only your instrument, your faithful servant, and it wasfollowing your words I did it.”
“_Did_ it? Why, did you murder him?” Ivan turned cold.
Something seemed to give way in his brain, and he shuddered all overwith a cold shiver. Then Smerdyakov himself looked at him wonderingly;probably the genuineness of Ivan’s horror struck him.
“You don’t mean to say you really did not know?” he falteredmistrustfully, looking with a forced smile into his eyes. Ivan stillgazed at him, and seemed unable to speak.
Ach, Vanka’s gone to Petersburg;I won’t wait till he comes back,

suddenly echoed in his head.
“Do you know, I am afraid that you are a dream, a phantom sittingbefore me,” he muttered.
“There’s no phantom here, but only us two and one other. No doubt he ishere, that third, between us.”
“Who is he? Who is here? What third person?” Ivan cried in alarm,looking about him, his eyes hastily searching in every corner.
“That third is God Himself—Providence. He is the third beside us now.Only don’t look for Him, you won’t find Him.”
“It’s a lie that you killed him!” Ivan cried madly. “You are mad, orteasing me again!”
Smerdyakov, as before, watched him curiously, with no sign of fear. Hecould still scarcely get over his incredulity; he still fancied thatIvan knew everything and was trying to “throw it all on him to hisface.”
“Wait a minute,” he said at last in a weak voice, and suddenly bringingup his left leg from under the table, he began turning up his trouserleg. He was wearing long white stockings and slippers. Slowly he tookoff his garter and fumbled to the bottom of his stocking. Ivan gazed athim, and suddenly shuddered in a paroxysm of terror.
“He’s mad!” he cried, and rapidly jumping up, he drew back, so that heknocked his back against the wall and stood up against it, stiff andstraight. He looked with insane terror at Smerdyakov, who, entirelyunaffected by his terror, continued fumbling in his stocking, as thoughhe were making an effort to get hold of something with his fingers andpull it out. At last he got hold of it and began pulling it out. Ivansaw that it was a piece of paper, or perhaps a roll of papers.Smerdyakov pulled it out and laid it on the table.
“Here,” he said quietly.
“What is it?” asked Ivan, trembling.
“Kindly look at it,” Smerdyakov answered, still in the same low tone.
Ivan stepped up to the table, took up the roll of paper and beganunfolding it, but suddenly he drew back his fingers, as though fromcontact with a loathsome reptile.
“Your hands keep twitching,” observed Smerdyakov, and he deliberatelyunfolded the bundle himself. Under the wrapper were three packets ofhundred‐rouble notes.
“They are all here, all the three thousand roubles; you need not countthem. Take them,” Smerdyakov suggested to Ivan, nodding at the notes.Ivan sank back in his chair. He was as white as a handkerchief.
“You frightened me ... with your stocking,” he said, with a strangegrin.
“Can you really not have known till now?” Smerdyakov asked once more.
“No, I did not know. I kept thinking of Dmitri. Brother, brother! Ach!”He suddenly clutched his head in both hands.
“Listen. Did you kill him alone? With my brother’s help or without?”
“It was only with you, with your help, I killed him, and DmitriFyodorovitch is quite innocent.”
“All right, all right. Talk about me later. Why do I keep on trembling?I can’t speak properly.”
“You were bold enough then. You said ‘everything was lawful,’ and howfrightened you are now,” Smerdyakov muttered in surprise. “Won’t youhave some lemonade? I’ll ask for some at once. It’s very refreshing.Only I must hide this first.”
And again he motioned at the notes. He was just going to get up andcall at the door to Marya Kondratyevna to make some lemonade and bringit them, but, looking for something to cover up the notes that shemight not see them, he first took out his handkerchief, and as itturned out to be very dirty, took up the big yellow book that Ivan hadnoticed at first lying on the table, and put it over the notes. Thebook was _The Sayings of the Holy Father Isaac the Syrian_. Ivan readit mechanically.
“I won’t have any lemonade,” he said. “Talk of me later. Sit down andtell me how you did it. Tell me all about it.”
“You’d better take off your greatcoat, or you’ll be too hot.” Ivan, asthough he’d only just thought of it, took off his coat, and, withoutgetting up from his chair, threw it on the bench.
“Speak, please, speak.”
He seemed calmer. He waited, feeling sure that Smerdyakov would tellhim _all_ about it.
“How it was done?” sighed Smerdyakov. “It was done in a most naturalway, following your very words.”
“Of my words later,” Ivan broke in again, apparently with completeself‐ possession, firmly uttering his words, and not shouting asbefore. “Only tell me in detail how you did it. Everything, as ithappened. Don’t forget anything. The details, above everything, thedetails, I beg you.”
“You’d gone away, then I fell into the cellar.”
“In a fit or in a sham one?”
“A sham one, naturally. I shammed it all. I went quietly down the stepsto the very bottom and lay down quietly, and as I lay down I gave ascream, and struggled, till they carried me out.”
“Stay! And were you shamming all along, afterwards, and in thehospital?”
“No, not at all. Next day, in the morning, before they took me to thehospital, I had a real attack and a more violent one than I’ve had foryears. For two days I was quite unconscious.”
“All right, all right. Go on.”
“They laid me on the bed. I knew I’d be the other side of thepartition, for whenever I was ill, Marfa Ignatyevna used to put methere, near them. She’s always been very kind to me, from my birth up.At night I moaned, but quietly. I kept expecting Dmitri Fyodorovitch tocome.”
“Expecting him? To come to you?”
“Not to me. I expected him to come into the house, for I’d no doubtthat he’d come that night, for being without me and getting no news,he’d be sure to come and climb over the fence, as he used to, and dosomething.”
“And if he hadn’t come?”
“Then nothing would have happened. I should never have brought myselfto it without him.”
“All right, all right ... speak more intelligibly, don’t hurry; aboveall, don’t leave anything out!”
“I expected him to kill Fyodor Pavlovitch. I thought that was certain,for I had prepared him for it ... during the last few days.... He knewabout the knocks, that was the chief thing. With his suspiciousness andthe fury which had been growing in him all those days, he was bound toget into the house by means of those taps. That was inevitable, so Iwas expecting him.”
“Stay,” Ivan interrupted; “if he had killed him, he would have takenthe money and carried it away; you must have considered that. Whatwould you have got by it afterwards? I don’t see.”
“But he would never have found the money. That was only what I toldhim, that the money was under the mattress. But that wasn’t true. Ithad been lying in a box. And afterwards I suggested to FyodorPavlovitch, as I was the only person he trusted, to hide the envelopewith the notes in the corner behind the ikons, for no one would haveguessed that place, especially if they came in a hurry. So that’s wherethe envelope lay, in the corner behind the ikons. It would have beenabsurd to keep it under the mattress; the box, anyway, could be locked.But all believe it was under the mattress. A stupid thing to believe.So if Dmitri Fyodorovitch had committed the murder, finding nothing, hewould either have run away in a hurry, afraid of every sound, as alwayshappens with murderers, or he would have been arrested. So I couldalways have clambered up to the ikons and have taken away the moneynext morning or even that night, and it would have all been put down toDmitri Fyodorovitch. I could reckon upon that.”
“But what if he did not kill him, but only knocked him down?”
“If he did not kill him, of course, I would not have ventured to takethe money, and nothing would have happened. But I calculated that hewould beat him senseless, and I should have time to take it then, andthen I’d make out to Fyodor Pavlovitch that it was no one but DmitriFyodorovitch who had taken the money after beating him.”
“Stop ... I am getting mixed. Then it was Dmitri after all who killedhim; you only took the money?”
“No, he didn’t kill him. Well, I might as well have told you now thathe was the murderer.... But I don’t want to lie to you now, because ...because if you really haven’t understood till now, as I see for myself,and are not pretending, so as to throw your guilt on me to my veryface, you are still responsible for it all, since you knew of themurder and charged me to do it, and went away knowing all about it. Andso I want to prove to your face this evening that you are the only realmurderer in the whole affair, and I am not the real murderer, though Idid kill him. You are the rightful murderer.”
“Why, why, am I a murderer? Oh, God!” Ivan cried, unable to restrainhimself at last, and forgetting that he had put off discussing himselftill the end of the conversation. “You still mean that Tchermashnya?Stay, tell me, why did you want my consent, if you really tookTchermashnya for consent? How will you explain that now?”
“Assured of your consent, I should have known that you wouldn’t havemade an outcry over those three thousand being lost, even if I’d beensuspected, instead of Dmitri Fyodorovitch, or as his accomplice; on thecontrary, you would have protected me from others.... And when you gotyour inheritance you would have rewarded me when you were able, all therest of your life. For you’d have received your inheritance through me,seeing that if he had married Agrafena Alexandrovna, you wouldn’t havehad a farthing.”
“Ah! Then you intended to worry me all my life afterwards,” snarledIvan. “And what if I hadn’t gone away then, but had informed againstyou?”
“What could you have informed? That I persuaded you to go toTchermashnya? That’s all nonsense. Besides, after our conversation youwould either have gone away or have stayed. If you had stayed, nothingwould have happened. I should have known that you didn’t want it done,and should have attempted nothing. As you went away, it meant youassured me that you wouldn’t dare to inform against me at the trial,and that you’d overlook my having the three thousand. And, indeed, youcouldn’t have prosecuted me afterwards, because then I should have toldit all in the court; that is, not that I had stolen the money or killedhim—I shouldn’t have said that—but that you’d put me up to the theftand the murder, though I didn’t consent to it. That’s why I needed yourconsent, so that you couldn’t have cornered me afterwards, for whatproof could you have had? I could always have cornered you, revealingyour eagerness for your father’s death, and I tell you the public wouldhave believed it all, and you would have been ashamed for the rest ofyour life.”
“Was I then so eager, was I?” Ivan snarled again.
“To be sure you were, and by your consent you silently sanctioned mydoing it.” Smerdyakov looked resolutely at Ivan. He was very weak andspoke slowly and wearily, but some hidden inner force urged him on. Heevidently had some design. Ivan felt that.
“Go on,” he said. “Tell me what happened that night.”
“What more is there to tell! I lay there and I thought I heard themaster shout. And before that Grigory Vassilyevitch had suddenly got upand came out, and he suddenly gave a scream, and then all was silenceand darkness. I lay there waiting, my heart beating; I couldn’t bearit. I got up at last, went out. I saw the window open on the left intothe garden, and I stepped to the left to listen whether he was sittingthere alive, and I heard the master moving about, sighing, so I knew hewas alive. ‘Ech!’ I thought. I went to the window and shouted to themaster, ‘It’s I.’ And he shouted to me, ‘He’s been, he’s been; he’s runaway.’ He meant Dmitri Fyodorovitch had been. ‘He’s killed Grigory!’‘Where?’ I whispered. ‘There, in the corner,’ he pointed. He waswhispering, too. ‘Wait a bit,’ I said. I went to the corner of thegarden to look, and there I came upon Grigory Vassilyevitch lying bythe wall, covered with blood, senseless. So it’s true that DmitriFyodorovitch has been here, was the thought that came into my head, andI determined on the spot to make an end of it, as GrigoryVassilyevitch, even if he were alive, would see nothing of it, as helay there senseless. The only risk was that Marfa Ignatyevna might wakeup. I felt that at the moment, but the longing to get it done came overme, till I could scarcely breathe. I went back to the window to themaster and said, ‘She’s here, she’s come; Agrafena Alexandrovna hascome, wants to be let in.’ And he started like a baby. ‘Where is she?’he fairly gasped, but couldn’t believe it. ‘She’s standing there,’ saidI. ‘Open.’ He looked out of the window at me, half believing and halfdistrustful, but afraid to open. ‘Why, he is afraid of me now,’ Ithought. And it was funny. I bethought me to knock on the window‐framethose taps we’d agreed upon as a signal that Grushenka had come, in hispresence, before his eyes. He didn’t seem to believe my word, but assoon as he heard the taps, he ran at once to open the door. He openedit. I would have gone in, but he stood in the way to prevent mepassing. ‘Where is she? Where is she?’ He looked at me, all of atremble. ‘Well,’ thought I, ‘if he’s so frightened of me as all that,it’s a bad look out!’ And my legs went weak with fright that hewouldn’t let me in or would call out, or Marfa Ignatyevna would run up,or something else might happen. I don’t remember now, but I must havestood pale, facing him. I whispered to him, ‘Why, she’s there, there,under the window; how is it you don’t see her?’ I said. ‘Bring herthen, bring her.’ ‘She’s afraid,’ said I; ‘she was frightened at thenoise, she’s hidden in the bushes; go and call to her yourself from thestudy.’ He ran to the window, put the candle in the window.‘Grushenka,’ he cried, ‘Grushenka, are you here?’ Though he cried that,he didn’t want to lean out of the window, he didn’t want to move awayfrom me, for he was panic‐stricken; he was so frightened he didn’t dareto turn his back on me. ‘Why, here she is,’ said I. I went up to thewindow and leaned right out of it. ‘Here she is; she’s in the bush,laughing at you, don’t you see her?’ He suddenly believed it; he wasall of a shake—he was awfully crazy about her—and he leaned right outof the window. I snatched up that iron paper‐weight from his table; doyou remember, weighing about three pounds? I swung it and hit him onthe top of the skull with the corner of it. He didn’t even cry out. Heonly sank down suddenly, and I hit him again and a third time. And thethird time I knew I’d broken his skull. He suddenly rolled on his back,face upwards, covered with blood. I looked round. There was no blood onme, not a spot. I wiped the paper‐weight, put it back, went up to theikons, took the money out of the envelope, and flung the envelope onthe floor and the pink ribbon beside it. I went out into the garden allof a tremble, straight to the apple‐tree with a hollow in it—you knowthat hollow. I’d marked it long before and put a rag and a piece ofpaper ready in it. I wrapped all the notes in the rag and stuffed itdeep down in the hole. And there it stayed for over a fortnight. I tookit out later, when I came out of the hospital. I went back to my bed,lay down and thought, ‘If Grigory Vassilyevitch has been killedoutright it may be a bad job for me, but if he is not killed andrecovers, it will be first‐rate, for then he’ll bear witness thatDmitri Fyodorovitch has been here, and so he must have killed him andtaken the money.’ Then I began groaning with suspense and impatience,so as to wake Marfa Ignatyevna as soon as possible. At last she got upand she rushed to me, but when she saw Grigory Vassilyevitch was notthere, she ran out, and I heard her scream in the garden. And that setit all going and set my mind at rest.”
He stopped. Ivan had listened all the time in dead silence withoutstirring or taking his eyes off him. As he told his story Smerdyakovglanced at him from time to time, but for the most part kept his eyesaverted. When he had finished he was evidently agitated and wasbreathing hard. The perspiration stood out on his face. But it wasimpossible to tell whether it was remorse he was feeling, or what.
“Stay,” cried Ivan, pondering. “What about the door? If he only openedthe door to you, how could Grigory have seen it open before? ForGrigory saw it before you went.”
It was remarkable that Ivan spoke quite amicably, in a different tone,not angry as before, so if any one had opened the door at that momentand peeped in at them, he would certainly have concluded that they weretalking peaceably about some ordinary, though interesting, subject.
“As for that door and Grigory Vassilyevitch’s having seen it open,that’s only his fancy,” said Smerdyakov, with a wry smile. “He is not aman, I assure you, but an obstinate mule. He didn’t see it, but fanciedhe had seen it, and there’s no shaking him. It’s just our luck he tookthat notion into his head, for they can’t fail to convict DmitriFyodorovitch after that.”
“Listen ...” said Ivan, beginning to seem bewildered again and makingan effort to grasp something. “Listen. There are a lot of questions Iwant to ask you, but I forget them ... I keep forgetting and gettingmixed up. Yes. Tell me this at least, why did you open the envelope andleave it there on the floor? Why didn’t you simply carry off theenvelope?... When you were telling me, I thought you spoke about it asthough it were the right thing to do ... but why, I can’tunderstand....”
“I did that for a good reason. For if a man had known all about it, asI did for instance, if he’d seen those notes before, and perhaps hadput them in that envelope himself, and had seen the envelope sealed upand addressed, with his own eyes, if such a man had done the murder,what should have made him tear open the envelope afterwards, especiallyin such desperate haste, since he’d know for certain the notes must bein the envelope? No, if the robber had been some one like me, he’dsimply have put the envelope straight in his pocket and got away withit as fast as he could. But it’d be quite different with DmitriFyodorovitch. He only knew about the envelope by hearsay; he had neverseen it, and if he’d found it, for instance, under the mattress, he’dhave torn it open as quickly as possible to make sure the notes were init. And he’d have thrown the envelope down, without having time tothink that it would be evidence against him. Because he was not anhabitual thief and had never directly stolen anything before, for he isa gentleman born, and if he did bring himself to steal, it would not beregular stealing, but simply taking what was his own, for he’d told thewhole town he meant to before, and had even bragged aloud before everyone that he’d go and take his property from Fyodor Pavlovitch. I didn’tsay that openly to the prosecutor when I was being examined, but quitethe contrary, I brought him to it by a hint, as though I didn’t see itmyself, and as though he’d thought of it himself and I hadn’t promptedhim; so that Mr. Prosecutor’s mouth positively watered at mysuggestion.”
“But can you possibly have thought of all that on the spot?” criedIvan, overcome with astonishment. He looked at Smerdyakov again withalarm.
“Mercy on us! Could any one think of it all in such a desperate hurry?It was all thought out beforehand.”
“Well ... well, it was the devil helped you!” Ivan cried again. “No,you are not a fool, you are far cleverer than I thought....”
He got up, obviously intending to walk across the room. He was interrible distress. But as the table blocked his way, and there washardly room to pass between the table and the wall, he only turnedround where he stood and sat down again. Perhaps the impossibility ofmoving irritated him, as he suddenly cried out almost as furiously asbefore.
“Listen, you miserable, contemptible creature! Don’t you understandthat if I haven’t killed you, it’s simply because I am keeping you toanswer to‐morrow at the trial. God sees,” Ivan raised his hand,“perhaps I, too, was guilty; perhaps I really had a secret desire formy father’s ... death, but I swear I was not as guilty as you think,and perhaps I didn’t urge you on at all. No, no, I didn’t urge you on!But no matter, I will give evidence against myself to‐morrow at thetrial. I’m determined to! I shall tell everything, everything. Butwe’ll make our appearance together. And whatever you may say against meat the trial, whatever evidence you give, I’ll face it; I am not afraidof you. I’ll confirm it all myself! But you must confess, too! Youmust, you must; we’ll go together. That’s how it shall be!”
Ivan said this solemnly and resolutely and from his flashing eyes aloneit could be seen that it would be so.
“You are ill, I see; you are quite ill. Your eyes are yellow,”Smerdyakov commented, without the least irony, with apparent sympathyin fact.
“We’ll go together,” Ivan repeated. “And if you won’t go, no matter,I’ll go alone.”
Smerdyakov paused as though pondering.
“There’ll be nothing of the sort, and you won’t go,” he concluded atlast positively.
“You don’t understand me,” Ivan exclaimed reproachfully.
“You’ll be too much ashamed, if you confess it all. And, what’s more,it will be no use at all, for I shall say straight out that I neversaid anything of the sort to you, and that you are either ill (and itlooks like it, too), or that you’re so sorry for your brother that youare sacrificing yourself to save him and have invented it all againstme, for you’ve always thought no more of me than if I’d been a fly. Andwho will believe you, and what single proof have you got?”
“Listen, you showed me those notes just now to convince me.”
Smerdyakov lifted the book off the notes and laid it on one side.
“Take that money away with you,” Smerdyakov sighed.
“Of course, I shall take it. But why do you give it to me, if youcommitted the murder for the sake of it?” Ivan looked at him with greatsurprise.
“I don’t want it,” Smerdyakov articulated in a shaking voice, with agesture of refusal. “I did have an idea of beginning a new life withthat money in Moscow or, better still, abroad. I did dream of it,chiefly because ‘all things are lawful.’ That was quite right what youtaught me, for you talked a lot to me about that. For if there’s noeverlasting God, there’s no such thing as virtue, and there’s no needof it. You were right there. So that’s how I looked at it.”
“Did you come to that of yourself?” asked Ivan, with a wry smile.
“With your guidance.”
“And now, I suppose, you believe in God, since you are giving back themoney?”
“No, I don’t believe,” whispered Smerdyakov.
“Then why are you giving it back?”
“Leave off ... that’s enough!” Smerdyakov waved his hand again. “Youused to say yourself that everything was lawful, so now why are you soupset, too? You even want to go and give evidence against yourself....Only there’ll be nothing of the sort! You won’t go to give evidence,”Smerdyakov decided with conviction.
“You’ll see,” said Ivan.
“It isn’t possible. You are very clever. You are fond of money, I knowthat. You like to be respected, too, for you’re very proud; you are fartoo fond of female charms, too, and you mind most of all about livingin undisturbed comfort, without having to depend on any one—that’s whatyou care most about. You won’t want to spoil your life for ever bytaking such a disgrace on yourself. You are like Fyodor Pavlovitch, youare more like him than any of his children; you’ve the same soul as hehad.”
“You are not a fool,” said Ivan, seeming struck. The blood rushed tohis face. “You are serious now!” he observed, looking suddenly atSmerdyakov with a different expression.
“It was your pride made you think I was a fool. Take the money.”
Ivan took the three rolls of notes and put them in his pocket withoutwrapping them in anything.
“I shall show them at the court to‐morrow,” he said.
“Nobody will believe you, as you’ve plenty of money of your own; youmay simply have taken it out of your cash‐box and brought it to thecourt.”
Ivan rose from his seat.
“I repeat,” he said, “the only reason I haven’t killed you is that Ineed you for to‐morrow, remember that, don’t forget it!”
“Well, kill me. Kill me now,” Smerdyakov said, all at once lookingstrangely at Ivan. “You won’t dare do that even!” he added, with abitter smile. “You won’t dare to do anything, you, who used to be sobold!”
“Till to‐morrow,” cried Ivan, and moved to go out.
“Stay a moment.... Show me those notes again.”
Ivan took out the notes and showed them to him. Smerdyakov looked atthem for ten seconds.
“Well, you can go,” he said, with a wave of his hand. “IvanFyodorovitch!” he called after him again.
“What do you want?” Ivan turned without stopping.
“Good‐by!”
“Till to‐morrow!” Ivan cried again, and he walked out of the cottage.
The snowstorm was still raging. He walked the first few steps boldly,but suddenly began staggering. “It’s something physical,” he thoughtwith a grin. Something like joy was springing up in his heart. He wasconscious of unbounded resolution; he would make an end of the waveringthat had so tortured him of late. His determination was taken, “and nowit will not be changed,” he thought with relief. At that moment hestumbled against something and almost fell down. Stopping short, hemade out at his feet the peasant he had knocked down, still lyingsenseless and motionless. The snow had almost covered his face. Ivanseized him and lifted him in his arms. Seeing a light in the littlehouse to the right he went up, knocked at the shutters, and asked theman to whom the house belonged to help him carry the peasant to thepolice‐station, promising him three roubles. The man got ready and cameout. I won’t describe in detail how Ivan succeeded in his object,bringing the peasant to the police‐station and arranging for a doctorto see him at once, providing with a liberal hand for the expenses. Iwill only say that this business took a whole hour, but Ivan was wellcontent with it. His mind wandered and worked incessantly.
“If I had not taken my decision so firmly for to‐morrow,” he reflectedwith satisfaction, “I should not have stayed a whole hour to look afterthe peasant, but should have passed by, without caring about his beingfrozen. I am quite capable of watching myself, by the way,” he thoughtat the same instant, with still greater satisfaction, “although theyhave decided that I am going out of my mind!”
Just as he reached his own house he stopped short, asking himselfsuddenly hadn’t he better go at once to the prosecutor and tell himeverything. He decided the question by turning back to the house.“Everything together to‐morrow!” he whispered to himself, and, strangeto say, almost all his gladness and self‐satisfaction passed in oneinstant.
As he entered his own room he felt something like a touch of ice on hisheart, like a recollection or, more exactly, a reminder, of somethingagonizing and revolting that was in that room now, at that moment, andhad been there before. He sank wearily on his sofa. The old womanbrought him a samovar; he made tea, but did not touch it. He sat on thesofa and felt giddy. He felt that he was ill and helpless. He wasbeginning to drop asleep, but got up uneasily and walked across theroom to shake off his drowsiness. At moments he fancied he wasdelirious, but it was not illness that he thought of most. Sitting downagain, he began looking round, as though searching for something. Thishappened several times. At last his eyes were fastened intently on onepoint. Ivan smiled, but an angry flush suffused his face. He sat a longtime in his place, his head propped on both arms, though he lookedsideways at the same point, at the sofa that stood against the oppositewall. There was evidently something, some object, that irritated himthere, worried him and tormented him.



Chapter IX.The Devil. Ivan’s Nightmare

I am not a doctor, but yet I feel that the moment has come when I mustinevitably give the reader some account of the nature of Ivan’sillness. Anticipating events I can say at least one thing: he was atthat moment on the very eve of an attack of brain fever. Though hishealth had long been affected, it had offered a stubborn resistance tothe fever which in the end gained complete mastery over it. Though Iknow nothing of medicine, I venture to hazard the suggestion that hereally had perhaps, by a terrible effort of will, succeeded in delayingthe attack for a time, hoping, of course, to check it completely. Heknew that he was unwell, but he loathed the thought of being ill atthat fatal time, at the approaching crisis in his life, when he neededto have all his wits about him, to say what he had to say boldly andresolutely and “to justify himself to himself.”
He had, however, consulted the new doctor, who had been brought fromMoscow by a fantastic notion of Katerina Ivanovna’s to which I havereferred already. After listening to him and examining him the doctorcame to the conclusion that he was actually suffering from somedisorder of the brain, and was not at all surprised by an admissionwhich Ivan had reluctantly made him. “Hallucinations are quite likelyin your condition,” the doctor opined, “though it would be better toverify them ... you must take steps at once, without a moment’s delay,or things will go badly with you.” But Ivan did not follow thisjudicious advice and did not take to his bed to be nursed. “I amwalking about, so I am strong enough, if I drop, it’ll be differentthen, any one may nurse me who likes,” he decided, dismissing thesubject.
And so he was sitting almost conscious himself of his delirium and, asI have said already, looking persistently at some object on the sofaagainst the opposite wall. Some one appeared to be sitting there,though goodness knows how he had come in, for he had not been in theroom when Ivan came into it, on his return from Smerdyakov. This was aperson or, more accurately speaking, a Russian gentleman of aparticular kind, no longer young, _qui faisait la cinquantaine_, as theFrench say, with rather long, still thick, dark hair, slightly streakedwith gray and a small pointed beard. He was wearing a brownish reeferjacket, rather shabby, evidently made by a good tailor though, and of afashion at least three years old, that had been discarded by smart andwell‐to‐do people for the last two years. His linen and his longscarf‐like neck‐tie were all such as are worn by people who aim atbeing stylish, but on closer inspection his linen was not over‐cleanand his wide scarf was very threadbare. The visitor’s check trouserswere of excellent cut, but were too light in color and too tight forthe present fashion. His soft fluffy white hat was out of keeping withthe season.
In brief there was every appearance of gentility on straitened means.It looked as though the gentleman belonged to that class of idlelandowners who used to flourish in the times of serfdom. He hadunmistakably been, at some time, in good and fashionable society, hadonce had good connections, had possibly preserved them indeed, but,after a gay youth, becoming gradually impoverished on the abolition ofserfdom, he had sunk into the position of a poor relation of the bestclass, wandering from one good old friend to another and received bythem for his companionable and accommodating disposition and as being,after all, a gentleman who could be asked to sit down with any one,though, of course, not in a place of honor. Such gentlemen ofaccommodating temper and dependent position, who can tell a story, takea hand at cards, and who have a distinct aversion for any duties thatmay be forced upon them, are usually solitary creatures, eitherbachelors or widowers. Sometimes they have children, but if so, thechildren are always being brought up at a distance, at some aunt’s, towhom these gentlemen never allude in good society, seeming ashamed ofthe relationship. They gradually lose sight of their childrenaltogether, though at intervals they receive a birthday or Christmasletter from them and sometimes even answer it.
The countenance of the unexpected visitor was not so much good‐natured,as accommodating and ready to assume any amiable expression as occasionmight arise. He had no watch, but he had a tortoise‐shell lorgnette ona black ribbon. On the middle finger of his right hand was a massivegold ring with a cheap opal stone in it.
Ivan was angrily silent and would not begin the conversation. Thevisitor waited and sat exactly like a poor relation who had come downfrom his room to keep his host company at tea, and was discreetlysilent, seeing that his host was frowning and preoccupied. But he wasready for any affable conversation as soon as his host should begin it.All at once his face expressed a sudden solicitude.
“I say,” he began to Ivan, “excuse me, I only mention it to remind you.You went to Smerdyakov’s to find out about Katerina Ivanovna, but youcame away without finding out anything about her, you probably forgot—”
“Ah, yes,” broke from Ivan and his face grew gloomy with uneasiness.“Yes, I’d forgotten ... but it doesn’t matter now, never mind, tillto‐morrow,” he muttered to himself, “and you,” he added, addressing hisvisitor, “I should have remembered that myself in a minute, for thatwas just what was tormenting me! Why do you interfere, as if I shouldbelieve that you prompted me, and that I didn’t remember it of myself?”
“Don’t believe it then,” said the gentleman, smiling amicably, “what’sthe good of believing against your will? Besides, proofs are no help tobelieving, especially material proofs. Thomas believed, not because hesaw Christ risen, but because he wanted to believe, before he saw. Lookat the spiritualists, for instance.... I am very fond of them ... onlyfancy, they imagine that they are serving the cause of religion,because the devils show them their horns from the other world. That,they say, is a material proof, so to speak, of the existence of anotherworld. The other world and material proofs, what next! And if you cometo that, does proving there’s a devil prove that there’s a God? I wantto join an idealist society, I’ll lead the opposition in it, I’ll say Iam a realist, but not a materialist, he he!”
“Listen,” Ivan suddenly got up from the table. “I seem to bedelirious.... I am delirious, in fact, talk any nonsense you like, Idon’t care! You won’t drive me to fury, as you did last time. But Ifeel somehow ashamed.... I want to walk about the room.... I sometimesdon’t see you and don’t even hear your voice as I did last time, but Ialways guess what you are prating, for it’s I, _I myself speaking, notyou_. Only I don’t know whether I was dreaming last time or whether Ireally saw you. I’ll wet a towel and put it on my head and perhapsyou’ll vanish into air.”
Ivan went into the corner, took a towel, and did as he said, and with awet towel on his head began walking up and down the room.
“I am so glad you treat me so familiarly,” the visitor began.
“Fool,” laughed Ivan, “do you suppose I should stand on ceremony withyou? I am in good spirits now, though I’ve a pain in my forehead ...and in the top of my head ... only please don’t talk philosophy, as youdid last time. If you can’t take yourself off, talk of somethingamusing. Talk gossip, you are a poor relation, you ought to talkgossip. What a nightmare to have! But I am not afraid of you. I’ll getthe better of you. I won’t be taken to a mad‐house!”
“_C’est charmant_, poor relation. Yes, I am in my natural shape. Forwhat am I on earth but a poor relation? By the way, I am listening toyou and am rather surprised to find you are actually beginning to takeme for something real, not simply your fancy, as you persisted indeclaring last time—”
“Never for one minute have I taken you for reality,” Ivan cried with asort of fury. “You are a lie, you are my illness, you are a phantom.It’s only that I don’t know how to destroy you and I see I must sufferfor a time. You are my hallucination. You are the incarnation ofmyself, but only of one side of me ... of my thoughts and feelings, butonly the nastiest and stupidest of them. From that point of view youmight be of interest to me, if only I had time to waste on you—”
“Excuse me, excuse me, I’ll catch you. When you flew out at Alyoshaunder the lamp‐post this evening and shouted to him, ‘You learnt itfrom _him_! How do you know that _he_ visits me?’ you were thinking ofme then. So for one brief moment you did believe that I really exist,”the gentleman laughed blandly.
“Yes, that was a moment of weakness ... but I couldn’t believe in you.I don’t know whether I was asleep or awake last time. Perhaps I wasonly dreaming then and didn’t see you really at all—”
“And why were you so surly with Alyosha just now? He is a dear; I’vetreated him badly over Father Zossima.”
“Don’t talk of Alyosha! How dare you, you flunkey!” Ivan laughed again.
“You scold me, but you laugh—that’s a good sign. But you are ever somuch more polite than you were last time and I know why: that greatresolution of yours—”
“Don’t speak of my resolution,” cried Ivan, savagely.
“I understand, I understand, _c’est noble, c’est charmant_, you aregoing to defend your brother and to sacrifice yourself ... _C’estchevaleresque_.”
“Hold your tongue, I’ll kick you!”
“I shan’t be altogether sorry, for then my object will be attained. Ifyou kick me, you must believe in my reality, for people don’t kickghosts. Joking apart, it doesn’t matter to me, scold if you like,though it’s better to be a trifle more polite even to me. ‘Fool,flunkey!’ what words!”
“Scolding you, I scold myself,” Ivan laughed again, “you are myself,myself, only with a different face. You just say what I am thinking ...and are incapable of saying anything new!”
“If I am like you in my way of thinking, it’s all to my credit,” thegentleman declared, with delicacy and dignity.
“You choose out only my worst thoughts, and what’s more, the stupidones. You are stupid and vulgar. You are awfully stupid. No, I can’tput up with you! What am I to do, what am I to do?” Ivan said throughhis clenched teeth.
“My dear friend, above all things I want to behave like a gentleman andto be recognized as such,” the visitor began in an excess ofdeprecating and simple‐hearted pride, typical of a poor relation. “I ampoor, but ... I won’t say very honest, but ... it’s an axiom generallyaccepted in society that I am a fallen angel. I certainly can’tconceive how I can ever have been an angel. If I ever was, it must havebeen so long ago that there’s no harm in forgetting it. Now I onlyprize the reputation of being a gentlemanly person and live as I can,trying to make myself agreeable. I love men genuinely, I’ve beengreatly calumniated! Here when I stay with you from time to time, mylife gains a kind of reality and that’s what I like most of all. Yousee, like you, I suffer from the fantastic and so I love the realism ofearth. Here, with you, everything is circumscribed, here all isformulated and geometrical, while we have nothing but indeterminateequations! I wander about here dreaming. I like dreaming. Besides, onearth I become superstitious. Please don’t laugh, that’s just what Ilike, to become superstitious. I adopt all your habits here: I’ve grownfond of going to the public baths, would you believe it? and I go andsteam myself with merchants and priests. What I dream of is becomingincarnate once for all and irrevocably in the form of some merchant’swife weighing eighteen stone, and of believing all she believes. Myideal is to go to church and offer a candle in simple‐hearted faith,upon my word it is. Then there would be an end to my sufferings. I likebeing doctored too; in the spring there was an outbreak of smallpox andI went and was vaccinated in a foundling hospital—if only you knew howI enjoyed myself that day. I subscribed ten roubles in the cause of theSlavs!... But you are not listening. Do you know, you are not at allwell this evening? I know you went yesterday to that doctor ... well,what about your health? What did the doctor say?”
“Fool!” Ivan snapped out.
“But you are clever, anyway. You are scolding again? I didn’t ask outof sympathy. You needn’t answer. Now rheumatism has come in again—”
“Fool!” repeated Ivan.
“You keep saying the same thing; but I had such an attack of rheumatismlast year that I remember it to this day.”
“The devil have rheumatism!”
“Why not, if I sometimes put on fleshly form? I put on fleshly form andI take the consequences. Satan _sum et nihil humanum a me alienumputo_.”
“What, what, Satan _sum et nihil humanum_ ... that’s not bad for thedevil!”
“I am glad I’ve pleased you at last.”
“But you didn’t get that from me.” Ivan stopped suddenly, seemingstruck. “That never entered my head, that’s strange.”
“_C’est du nouveau, n’est‐ce pas?_ This time I’ll act honestly andexplain to you. Listen, in dreams and especially in nightmares, fromindigestion or anything, a man sees sometimes such artistic visions,such complex and real actuality, such events, even a whole world ofevents, woven into such a plot, with such unexpected details from themost exalted matters to the last button on a cuff, as I swear LeoTolstoy has never invented. Yet such dreams are sometimes seen not bywriters, but by the most ordinary people, officials, journalists,priests.... The subject is a complete enigma. A statesman confessed tome, indeed, that all his best ideas came to him when he was asleep.Well, that’s how it is now, though I am your hallucination, yet just asin a nightmare, I say original things which had not entered your headbefore. So I don’t repeat your ideas, yet I am only your nightmare,nothing more.”
“You are lying, your aim is to convince me you exist apart and are notmy nightmare, and now you are asserting you are a dream.”
“My dear fellow, I’ve adopted a special method to‐day, I’ll explain itto you afterwards. Stay, where did I break off? Oh, yes! I caught coldthen, only not here but yonder.”
“Where is yonder? Tell me, will you be here long? Can’t you go away?”Ivan exclaimed almost in despair. He ceased walking to and fro, satdown on the sofa, leaned his elbows on the table again and held hishead tight in both hands. He pulled the wet towel off and flung it awayin vexation. It was evidently of no use.
“Your nerves are out of order,” observed the gentleman, with acarelessly easy, though perfectly polite, air. “You are angry with meeven for being able to catch cold, though it happened in a most naturalway. I was hurrying then to a diplomatic _soirée_ at the house of alady of high rank in Petersburg, who was aiming at influence in theMinistry. Well, an evening suit, white tie, gloves, though I was Godknows where and had to fly through space to reach your earth.... Ofcourse, it took only an instant, but you know a ray of light from thesun takes full eight minutes, and fancy in an evening suit and openwaistcoat. Spirits don’t freeze, but when one’s in fleshly form, well... in brief, I didn’t think, and set off, and you know in thoseethereal spaces, in the water that is above the firmament, there’s sucha frost ... at least one can’t call it frost, you can fancy, 150degrees below zero! You know the game the village girls play—theyinvite the unwary to lick an ax in thirty degrees of frost, the tongueinstantly freezes to it and the dupe tears the skin off, so it bleeds.But that’s only in 30 degrees, in 150 degrees I imagine it would beenough to put your finger on the ax and it would be the end of it ...if only there could be an ax there.”
“And can there be an ax there?” Ivan interrupted, carelessly anddisdainfully. He was exerting himself to the utmost not to believe inthe delusion and not to sink into complete insanity.
“An ax?” the guest interrupted in surprise.
“Yes, what would become of an ax there?” Ivan cried suddenly, with asort of savage and insistent obstinacy.
“What would become of an ax in space? _Quelle idée!_ If it were to fallto any distance, it would begin, I think, flying round the earthwithout knowing why, like a satellite. The astronomers would calculatethe rising and the setting of the ax, _Gatzuk_ would put it in hiscalendar, that’s all.”
“You are stupid, awfully stupid,” said Ivan peevishly. “Fib morecleverly or I won’t listen. You want to get the better of me byrealism, to convince me that you exist, but I don’t want to believe youexist! I won’t believe it!”
“But I am not fibbing, it’s all the truth; the truth is unhappilyhardly ever amusing. I see you persist in expecting something big ofme, and perhaps something fine. That’s a great pity, for I only givewhat I can—”
“Don’t talk philosophy, you ass!”
“Philosophy, indeed, when all my right side is numb and I am moaningand groaning. I’ve tried all the medical faculty: they can diagnosebeautifully, they have the whole of your disease at their finger‐tips,but they’ve no idea how to cure you. There was an enthusiastic littlestudent here, ‘You may die,’ said he, ‘but you’ll know perfectly whatdisease you are dying of!’ And then what a way they have sending peopleto specialists! ‘We only diagnose,’ they say, ‘but go to such‐and‐sucha specialist, he’ll cure you.’ The old doctor who used to cure allsorts of disease has completely disappeared, I assure you, now thereare only specialists and they all advertise in the newspapers. Ifanything is wrong with your nose, they send you to Paris: there, theysay, is a European specialist who cures noses. If you go to Paris,he’ll look at your nose; I can only cure your right nostril, he’ll tellyou, for I don’t cure the left nostril, that’s not my speciality, butgo to Vienna, there there’s a specialist who will cure your leftnostril. What are you to do? I fell back on popular remedies, a Germandoctor advised me to rub myself with honey and salt in the bath‐house.Solely to get an extra bath I went, smeared myself all over and it didme no good at all. In despair I wrote to Count Mattei in Milan. He sentme a book and some drops, bless him, and, only fancy, Hoff’s maltextract cured me! I bought it by accident, drank a bottle and a half ofit, and I was ready to dance, it took it away completely. I made up mymind to write to the papers to thank him, I was prompted by a feelingof gratitude, and only fancy, it led to no end of a bother: not asingle paper would take my letter. ‘It would be very reactionary,’ theysaid, ‘no one will believe it. _Le diable n’existe point._ You’d betterremain anonymous,’ they advised me. What use is a letter of thanks ifit’s anonymous? I laughed with the men at the newspaper office; ‘It’sreactionary to believe in God in our days,’ I said, ‘but I am thedevil, so I may be believed in.’ ‘We quite understand that,’ they said.‘Who doesn’t believe in the devil? Yet it won’t do, it might injure ourreputation. As a joke, if you like.’ But I thought as a joke itwouldn’t be very witty. So it wasn’t printed. And do you know, I havefelt sore about it to this day. My best feelings, gratitude, forinstance, are literally denied me simply from my social position.”
“Philosophical reflections again?” Ivan snarled malignantly.
“God preserve me from it, but one can’t help complaining sometimes. Iam a slandered man. You upbraid me every moment with being stupid. Onecan see you are young. My dear fellow, intelligence isn’t the onlything! I have naturally a kind and merry heart. ‘I also writevaudevilles of all sorts.’ You seem to take me for Hlestakov grown old,but my fate is a far more serious one. Before time was, by some decreewhich I could never make out, I was pre‐destined ‘to deny’ and yet I amgenuinely good‐hearted and not at all inclined to negation. ‘No, youmust go and deny, without denial there’s no criticism and what would ajournal be without a column of criticism?’ Without criticism it wouldbe nothing but one ‘hosannah.’ But nothing but hosannah is not enoughfor life, the hosannah must be tried in the crucible of doubt and soon, in the same style. But I don’t meddle in that, I didn’t create it,I am not answerable for it. Well, they’ve chosen their scapegoat,they’ve made me write the column of criticism and so life was madepossible. We understand that comedy; I, for instance, simply ask forannihilation. No, live, I am told, for there’d be nothing without you.If everything in the universe were sensible, nothing would happen.There would be no events without you, and there must be events. Soagainst the grain I serve to produce events and do what’s irrationalbecause I am commanded to. For all their indisputable intelligence, mentake this farce as something serious, and that is their tragedy. Theysuffer, of course ... but then they live, they live a real life, not afantastic one, for suffering is life. Without suffering what would bethe pleasure of it? It would be transformed into an endless churchservice; it would be holy, but tedious. But what about me? I suffer,but still, I don’t live. I am x in an indeterminate equation. I am asort of phantom in life who has lost all beginning and end, and who haseven forgotten his own name. You are laughing— no, you are notlaughing, you are angry again. You are for ever angry, all you careabout is intelligence, but I repeat again that I would give away allthis super‐stellar life, all the ranks and honors, simply to betransformed into the soul of a merchant’s wife weighing eighteen stoneand set candles at God’s shrine.”
“Then even you don’t believe in God?” said Ivan, with a smile ofhatred.
“What can I say?—that is, if you are in earnest—”
“Is there a God or not?” Ivan cried with the same savage intensity.
“Ah, then you are in earnest! My dear fellow, upon my word I don’tknow. There! I’ve said it now!”
“You don’t know, but you see God? No, you are not some one apart, youare myself, you are I and nothing more! You are rubbish, you are myfancy!”
“Well, if you like, I have the same philosophy as you, that would betrue. _Je pense, donc je suis_, I know that for a fact; all the rest,all these worlds, God and even Satan—all that is not proved, to mymind. Does all that exist of itself, or is it only an emanation ofmyself, a logical development of my ego which alone has existed forever: but I make haste to stop, for I believe you will be jumping up tobeat me directly.”
“You’d better tell me some anecdote!” said Ivan miserably.
“There is an anecdote precisely on our subject, or rather a legend, notan anecdote. You reproach me with unbelief, you see, you say, yet youdon’t believe. But, my dear fellow, I am not the only one like that. Weare all in a muddle over there now and all through your science. Oncethere used to be atoms, five senses, four elements, and then everythinghung together somehow. There were atoms in the ancient world even, butsince we’ve learned that you’ve discovered the chemical molecule andprotoplasm and the devil knows what, we had to lower our crest. There’sa regular muddle, and, above all, superstition, scandal; there’s asmuch scandal among us as among you, you know; a little more in fact,and spying, indeed, for we have our secret police department whereprivate information is received. Well, this wild legend belongs to ourmiddle ages—not yours, but ours—and no one believes it even among us,except the old ladies of eighteen stone, not your old ladies I mean,but ours. We’ve everything you have, I am revealing one of our secretsout of friendship for you; though it’s forbidden. This legend is aboutParadise. There was, they say, here on earth a thinker and philosopher.He rejected everything, ‘laws, conscience, faith,’ and, above all, thefuture life. He died; he expected to go straight to darkness and deathand he found a future life before him. He was astounded and indignant.‘This is against my principles!’ he said. And he was punished for that... that is, you must excuse me, I am just repeating what I heardmyself, it’s only a legend ... he was sentenced to walk a quadrillionkilometers in the dark (we’ve adopted the metric system, you know) andwhen he has finished that quadrillion, the gates of heaven would beopened to him and he’ll be forgiven—”
“And what tortures have you in the other world besides the quadrillionkilometers?” asked Ivan, with a strange eagerness.
“What tortures? Ah, don’t ask. In old days we had all sorts, but nowthey have taken chiefly to moral punishments—‘the stings of conscience’and all that nonsense. We got that, too, from you, from the softeningof your manners. And who’s the better for it? Only those who have gotno conscience, for how can they be tortured by conscience when theyhave none? But decent people who have conscience and a sense of honorsuffer for it. Reforms, when the ground has not been prepared for them,especially if they are institutions copied from abroad, do nothing butmischief! The ancient fire was better. Well, this man, who wascondemned to the quadrillion kilometers, stood still, looked round andlay down across the road. ‘I won’t go, I refuse on principle!’ Take thesoul of an enlightened Russian atheist and mix it with the soul of theprophet Jonah, who sulked for three days and nights in the belly of thewhale, and you get the character of that thinker who lay across theroad.”
“What did he lie on there?”
“Well, I suppose there was something to lie on. You are not laughing?”
“Bravo!” cried Ivan, still with the same strange eagerness. Now he waslistening with an unexpected curiosity. “Well, is he lying there now?”
“That’s the point, that he isn’t. He lay there almost a thousand yearsand then he got up and went on.”
“What an ass!” cried Ivan, laughing nervously and still seeming to bepondering something intently. “Does it make any difference whether helies there for ever or walks the quadrillion kilometers? It would takea billion years to walk it?”
“Much more than that. I haven’t got a pencil and paper or I could workit out. But he got there long ago, and that’s where the story begins.”
“What, he got there? But how did he get the billion years to do it?”
“Why, you keep thinking of our present earth! But our present earth mayhave been repeated a billion times. Why, it’s become extinct, beenfrozen; cracked, broken to bits, disintegrated into its elements, again‘the water above the firmament,’ then again a comet, again a sun, againfrom the sun it becomes earth—and the same sequence may have beenrepeated endlessly and exactly the same to every detail, most unseemlyand insufferably tedious—”
“Well, well, what happened when he arrived?”
“Why, the moment the gates of Paradise were open and he walked in,before he had been there two seconds, by his watch (though to mythinking his watch must have long dissolved into its elements on theway), he cried out that those two seconds were worth walking not aquadrillion kilometers but a quadrillion of quadrillions, raised to thequadrillionth power! In fact, he sang ‘hosannah’ and overdid it so,that some persons there of lofty ideas wouldn’t shake hands with him atfirst—he’d become too rapidly reactionary, they said. The Russiantemperament. I repeat, it’s a legend. I give it for what it’s worth. Sothat’s the sort of ideas we have on such subjects even now.”
“I’ve caught you!” Ivan cried, with an almost childish delight, asthough he had succeeded in remembering something at last. “Thatanecdote about the quadrillion years, I made up myself! I was seventeenthen, I was at the high school. I made up that anecdote and told it toa schoolfellow called Korovkin, it was at Moscow.... The anecdote is socharacteristic that I couldn’t have taken it from anywhere. I thoughtI’d forgotten it ... but I’ve unconsciously recalled it—I recalled itmyself—it was not you telling it! Thousands of things are unconsciouslyremembered like that even when people are being taken to execution ...it’s come back to me in a dream. You are that dream! You are a dream,not a living creature!”
“From the vehemence with which you deny my existence,” laughed thegentleman, “I am convinced that you believe in me.”
“Not in the slightest! I haven’t a hundredth part of a grain of faithin you!”
“But you have the thousandth of a grain. Homeopathic doses perhaps arethe strongest. Confess that you have faith even to the ten‐thousandthof a grain.”
“Not for one minute,” cried Ivan furiously. “But I should like tobelieve in you,” he added strangely.
“Aha! There’s an admission! But I am good‐natured. I’ll come to yourassistance again. Listen, it was I caught you, not you me. I told youyour anecdote you’d forgotten, on purpose, so as to destroy your faithin me completely.”
“You are lying. The object of your visit is to convince me of yourexistence!”
“Just so. But hesitation, suspense, conflict between belief anddisbelief—is sometimes such torture to a conscientious man, such as youare, that it’s better to hang oneself at once. Knowing that you areinclined to believe in me, I administered some disbelief by telling youthat anecdote. I lead you to belief and disbelief by turns, and I havemy motive in it. It’s the new method. As soon as you disbelieve in mecompletely, you’ll begin assuring me to my face that I am not a dreambut a reality. I know you. Then I shall have attained my object, whichis an honorable one. I shall sow in you only a tiny grain of faith andit will grow into an oak‐tree—and such an oak‐tree that, sitting on it,you will long to enter the ranks of ‘the hermits in the wilderness andthe saintly women,’ for that is what you are secretly longing for.You’ll dine on locusts, you’ll wander into the wilderness to save yoursoul!”
“Then it’s for the salvation of my soul you are working, is it, youscoundrel?”
“One must do a good work sometimes. How ill‐humored you are!”
“Fool! did you ever tempt those holy men who ate locusts and prayedseventeen years in the wilderness till they were overgrown with moss?”
“My dear fellow, I’ve done nothing else. One forgets the whole worldand all the worlds, and sticks to one such saint, because he is a veryprecious diamond. One such soul, you know, is sometimes worth a wholeconstellation. We have our system of reckoning, you know. The conquestis priceless! And some of them, on my word, are not inferior to you inculture, though you won’t believe it. They can contemplate such depthsof belief and disbelief at the same moment that sometimes it reallyseems that they are within a hair’s‐breadth of being ‘turned upsidedown,’ as the actor Gorbunov says.”
“Well, did you get your nose pulled?”[8]
“My dear fellow,” observed the visitor sententiously, “it’s better toget off with your nose pulled than without a nose at all. As anafflicted marquis observed not long ago (he must have been treated by aspecialist) in confession to his spiritual father—a Jesuit. I waspresent, it was simply charming. ‘Give me back my nose!’ he said, andhe beat his breast. ‘My son,’ said the priest evasively, ‘all thingsare accomplished in accordance with the inscrutable decrees ofProvidence, and what seems a misfortune sometimes leads toextraordinary, though unapparent, benefits. If stern destiny hasdeprived you of your nose, it’s to your advantage that no one can everpull you by your nose.’ ‘Holy father, that’s no comfort,’ cried thedespairing marquis. ‘I’d be delighted to have my nose pulled every dayof my life, if it were only in its proper place.’ ‘My son,’ sighs thepriest, ‘you can’t expect every blessing at once. This is murmuringagainst Providence, who even in this has not forgotten you, for if yourepine as you repined just now, declaring you’d be glad to have yournose pulled for the rest of your life, your desire has already beenfulfilled indirectly, for when you lost your nose, you were led by thenose.’ ”
“Fool, how stupid!” cried Ivan.
“My dear friend, I only wanted to amuse you. But I swear that’s thegenuine Jesuit casuistry and I swear that it all happened word for wordas I’ve told you. It happened lately and gave me a great deal oftrouble. The unhappy young man shot himself that very night when he gothome. I was by his side till the very last moment. Those Jesuitconfessionals are really my most delightful diversion at melancholymoments. Here’s another incident that happened only the other day. Alittle blonde Norman girl of twenty—a buxom, unsophisticated beautythat would make your mouth water—comes to an old priest. She bends downand whispers her sin into the grating. ‘Why, my daughter, have youfallen again already?’ cries the priest. ‘O Sancta Maria, what do Ihear! Not the same man this time, how long is this going on? Aren’t youashamed!’ ‘_Ah, mon père_,’ answers the sinner with tears of penitence,‘_ça lui fait tant de plaisir, et à moi si peu de peine!_’ Fancy, suchan answer! I drew back. It was the cry of nature, better than innocenceitself, if you like. I absolved her sin on the spot and was turning togo, but I was forced to turn back. I heard the priest at the gratingmaking an appointment with her for the evening—though he was an old manhard as flint, he fell in an instant! It was nature, the truth ofnature asserted its rights! What, you are turning up your nose again?Angry again? I don’t know how to please you—”
“Leave me alone, you are beating on my brain like a hauntingnightmare,” Ivan moaned miserably, helpless before his apparition. “Iam bored with you, agonizingly and insufferably. I would give anythingto be able to shake you off!”
“I repeat, moderate your expectations, don’t demand of me ‘everythinggreat and noble’ and you’ll see how well we shall get on,” said thegentleman impressively. “You are really angry with me for not havingappeared to you in a red glow, with thunder and lightning, withscorched wings, but have shown myself in such a modest form. You arewounded, in the first place, in your esthetic feelings, and, secondly,in your pride. How could such a vulgar devil visit such a great man asyou! Yes, there is that romantic strain in you, that was so derided byByelinsky. I can’t help it, young man, as I got ready to come to you Idid think as a joke of appearing in the figure of a retired general whohad served in the Caucasus, with a star of the Lion and the Sun on mycoat. But I was positively afraid of doing it, for you’d have thrashedme for daring to pin the Lion and the Sun on my coat, instead of, atleast, the Polar Star or the Sirius. And you keep on saying I amstupid, but, mercy on us! I make no claim to be equal to you inintelligence. Mephistopheles declared to Faust that he desired evil,but did only good. Well, he can say what he likes, it’s quite theopposite with me. I am perhaps the one man in all creation who lovesthe truth and genuinely desires good. I was there when the Word, Whodied on the Cross, rose up into heaven bearing on His bosom the soul ofthe penitent thief. I heard the glad shrieks of the cherubim singingand shouting hosannah and the thunderous rapture of the seraphim whichshook heaven and all creation, and I swear to you by all that’s sacred,I longed to join the choir and shout hosannah with them all. The wordhad almost escaped me, had almost broken from my lips ... you know howsusceptible and esthetically impressionable I am. But common sense—oh,a most unhappy trait in my character—kept me in due bounds and I letthe moment pass! For what would have happened, I reflected, what wouldhave happened after my hosannah? Everything on earth would have beenextinguished at once and no events could have occurred. And so, solelyfrom a sense of duty and my social position, I was forced to suppressthe good moment and to stick to my nasty task. Somebody takes all thecredit of what’s good for Himself, and nothing but nastiness is leftfor me. But I don’t envy the honor of a life of idle imposture, I amnot ambitious. Why am I, of all creatures in the world, doomed to becursed by all decent people and even to be kicked, for if I put onmortal form I am bound to take such consequences sometimes? I know, ofcourse, there’s a secret in it, but they won’t tell me the secret foranything, for then perhaps, seeing the meaning of it, I might bawlhosannah, and the indispensable minus would disappear at once, and goodsense would reign supreme throughout the whole world. And that, ofcourse, would mean the end of everything, even of magazines andnewspapers, for who would take them in? I know that at the end of allthings I shall be reconciled. I, too, shall walk my quadrillion andlearn the secret. But till that happens I am sulking and fulfill mydestiny though it’s against the grain—that is, to ruin thousands forthe sake of saving one. How many souls have had to be ruined and howmany honorable reputations destroyed for the sake of that one righteousman, Job, over whom they made such a fool of me in old days! Yes, tillthe secret is revealed, there are two sorts of truths for me—one, theirtruth, yonder, which I know nothing about so far, and the other my own.And there’s no knowing which will turn out the better.... Are youasleep?”
“I might well be,” Ivan groaned angrily. “All my stupid ideas—outgrown,thrashed out long ago, and flung aside like a dead carcass—you presentto me as something new!”
“There’s no pleasing you! And I thought I should fascinate you by myliterary style. That hosannah in the skies really wasn’t bad, was it?And then that ironical tone _à la_ Heine, eh?”
“No, I was never such a flunkey! How then could my soul beget a flunkeylike you?”
“My dear fellow, I know a most charming and attractive young Russiangentleman, a young thinker and a great lover of literature and art, theauthor of a promising poem entitled _The Grand Inquisitor_. I was onlythinking of him!”
“I forbid you to speak of _The Grand Inquisitor_,” cried Ivan, crimsonwith shame.
“And the _Geological Cataclysm_. Do you remember? That was a poem,now!”
“Hold your tongue, or I’ll kill you!”
“You’ll kill me? No, excuse me, I will speak. I came to treat myself tothat pleasure. Oh, I love the dreams of my ardent young friends,quivering with eagerness for life! ‘There are new men,’ you decidedlast spring, when you were meaning to come here, ‘they propose todestroy everything and begin with cannibalism. Stupid fellows! theydidn’t ask my advice! I maintain that nothing need be destroyed, thatwe only need to destroy the idea of God in man, that’s how we have toset to work. It’s that, that we must begin with. Oh, blind race of menwho have no understanding! As soon as men have all of them deniedGod—and I believe that period, analogous with geological periods, willcome to pass—the old conception of the universe will fall of itselfwithout cannibalism, and, what’s more, the old morality, and everythingwill begin anew. Men will unite to take from life all it can give, butonly for joy and happiness in the present world. Man will be lifted upwith a spirit of divine Titanic pride and the man‐ god will appear.From hour to hour extending his conquest of nature infinitely by hiswill and his science, man will feel such lofty joy from hour to hour indoing it that it will make up for all his old dreams of the joys ofheaven. Every one will know that he is mortal and will accept deathproudly and serenely like a god. His pride will teach him that it’suseless for him to repine at life’s being a moment, and he will lovehis brother without need of reward. Love will be sufficient only for amoment of life, but the very consciousness of its momentariness willintensify its fire, which now is dissipated in dreams of eternal lovebeyond the grave’... and so on and so on in the same style. Charming!”
Ivan sat with his eyes on the floor, and his hands pressed to his ears,but he began trembling all over. The voice continued.
“The question now is, my young thinker reflected, is it possible thatsuch a period will ever come? If it does, everything is determined andhumanity is settled for ever. But as, owing to man’s inveteratestupidity, this cannot come about for at least a thousand years, everyone who recognizes the truth even now may legitimately order his lifeas he pleases, on the new principles. In that sense, ‘all things arelawful’ for him. What’s more, even if this period never comes to pass,since there is anyway no God and no immortality, the new man may wellbecome the man‐god, even if he is the only one in the whole world, andpromoted to his new position, he may lightheartedly overstep all thebarriers of the old morality of the old slave‐man, if necessary. Thereis no law for God. Where God stands, the place is holy. Where I standwill be at once the foremost place ... ‘all things are lawful’ andthat’s the end of it! That’s all very charming; but if you want toswindle why do you want a moral sanction for doing it? But that’s ourmodern Russian all over. He can’t bring himself to swindle without amoral sanction. He is so in love with truth—”
The visitor talked, obviously carried away by his own eloquence,speaking louder and louder and looking ironically at his host. But hedid not succeed in finishing; Ivan suddenly snatched a glass from thetable and flung it at the orator.
“_Ah, mais c’est bête enfin_,” cried the latter, jumping up from thesofa and shaking the drops of tea off himself. “He remembers Luther’sinkstand! He takes me for a dream and throws glasses at a dream! It’slike a woman! I suspected you were only pretending to stop up yourears.”
A loud, persistent knocking was suddenly heard at the window. Ivanjumped up from the sofa.
“Do you hear? You’d better open,” cried the visitor; “it’s your brotherAlyosha with the most interesting and surprising news, I’ll be bound!”
“Be silent, deceiver, I knew it was Alyosha, I felt he was coming, andof course he has not come for nothing; of course he brings ‘news,’ ”Ivan exclaimed frantically.
“Open, open to him. There’s a snowstorm and he is your brother._Monsieur sait‐il le temps qu’il fait? C’est à ne pas mettre un chiendehors_.”
The knocking continued. Ivan wanted to rush to the window, butsomething seemed to fetter his arms and legs. He strained every effortto break his chains, but in vain. The knocking at the window grewlouder and louder. At last the chains were broken and Ivan leapt upfrom the sofa. He looked round him wildly. Both candles had almostburnt out, the glass he had just thrown at his visitor stood before himon the table, and there was no one on the sofa opposite. The knockingon the window frame went on persistently, but it was by no means soloud as it had seemed in his dream; on the contrary, it was quitesubdued.
“It was not a dream! No, I swear it was not a dream, it all happenedjust now!” cried Ivan. He rushed to the window and opened the movablepane.
“Alyosha, I told you not to come,” he cried fiercely to his brother.“In two words, what do you want? In two words, do you hear?”
“An hour ago Smerdyakov hanged himself,” Alyosha answered from theyard.
“Come round to the steps, I’ll open at once,” said Ivan, going to openthe door to Alyosha.



Chapter X.“It Was He Who Said That”

Alyosha coming in told Ivan that a little over an hour ago MaryaKondratyevna had run to his rooms and informed him Smerdyakov had takenhis own life. “I went in to clear away the samovar and he was hangingon a nail in the wall.” On Alyosha’s inquiring whether she had informedthe police, she answered that she had told no one, “but I flew straightto you, I’ve run all the way.” She seemed perfectly crazy, Alyoshareported, and was shaking like a leaf. When Alyosha ran with her to thecottage, he found Smerdyakov still hanging. On the table lay a note: “Idestroy my life of my own will and desire, so as to throw no blame onany one.” Alyosha left the note on the table and went straight to thepolice captain and told him all about it. “And from him I’ve comestraight to you,” said Alyosha, in conclusion, looking intently intoIvan’s face. He had not taken his eyes off him while he told his story,as though struck by something in his expression.
“Brother,” he cried suddenly, “you must be terribly ill. You look anddon’t seem to understand what I tell you.”
“It’s a good thing you came,” said Ivan, as though brooding, and nothearing Alyosha’s exclamation. “I knew he had hanged himself.”
“From whom?”
“I don’t know. But I knew. Did I know? Yes, he told me. He told me sojust now.”
Ivan stood in the middle of the room, and still spoke in the samebrooding tone, looking at the ground.
“Who is _he_?” asked Alyosha, involuntarily looking round.
“He’s slipped away.”
Ivan raised his head and smiled softly.
“He was afraid of you, of a dove like you. You are a ‘pure cherub.’Dmitri calls you a cherub. Cherub!... the thunderous rapture of theseraphim. What are seraphim? Perhaps a whole constellation. But perhapsthat constellation is only a chemical molecule. There’s a constellationof the Lion and the Sun. Don’t you know it?”
“Brother, sit down,” said Alyosha in alarm. “For goodness’ sake, sitdown on the sofa! You are delirious; put your head on the pillow,that’s right. Would you like a wet towel on your head? Perhaps it willdo you good.”
“Give me the towel: it’s here on the chair. I just threw it downthere.”
“It’s not here. Don’t worry yourself. I know where it is—here,” saidAlyosha, finding a clean towel, folded up and unused, by Ivan’sdressing‐ table in the other corner of the room. Ivan looked strangelyat the towel: recollection seemed to come back to him for an instant.
“Stay”—he got up from the sofa—“an hour ago I took that new towel fromthere and wetted it. I wrapped it round my head and threw it down here... How is it it’s dry? There was no other.”
“You put that towel on your head?” asked Alyosha.
“Yes, and walked up and down the room an hour ago ... Why have thecandles burnt down so? What’s the time?”
“Nearly twelve.”
“No, no, no!” Ivan cried suddenly. “It was not a dream. He was here; hewas sitting here, on that sofa. When you knocked at the window, I threwa glass at him ... this one. Wait a minute. I was asleep last time, butthis dream was not a dream. It has happened before. I have dreams now,Alyosha ... yet they are not dreams, but reality. I walk about, talkand see ... though I am asleep. But he was sitting here, on that sofathere.... He is frightfully stupid, Alyosha, frightfully stupid.” Ivanlaughed suddenly and began pacing about the room.
“Who is stupid? Of whom are you talking, brother?” Alyosha askedanxiously again.
“The devil! He’s taken to visiting me. He’s been here twice, almostthree times. He taunted me with being angry at his being a simple deviland not Satan, with scorched wings, in thunder and lightning. But he isnot Satan: that’s a lie. He is an impostor. He is simply a devil—apaltry, trivial devil. He goes to the baths. If you undressed him,you’d be sure to find he had a tail, long and smooth like a Danishdog’s, a yard long, dun color.... Alyosha, you are cold. You’ve been inthe snow. Would you like some tea? What? Is it cold? Shall I tell herto bring some? _C’est à ne pas mettre un chien dehors._...”
Alyosha ran to the washing‐stand, wetted the towel, persuaded Ivan tosit down again, and put the wet towel round his head. He sat downbeside him.
“What were you telling me just now about Lise?” Ivan began again. (Hewas becoming very talkative.) “I like Lise. I said something nastyabout her. It was a lie. I like her ... I am afraid for Katyato‐morrow. I am more afraid of her than of anything. On account of thefuture. She will cast me off to‐morrow and trample me under foot. Shethinks that I am ruining Mitya from jealousy on her account! Yes, shethinks that! But it’s not so. To‐morrow the cross, but not the gallows.No, I shan’t hang myself. Do you know, I can never commit suicide,Alyosha. Is it because I am base? I am not a coward. Is it from love oflife? How did I know that Smerdyakov had hanged himself? Yes, it was_he_ told me so.”
“And you are quite convinced that there has been some one here?” askedAlyosha.
“Yes, on that sofa in the corner. You would have driven him away. Youdid drive him away: he disappeared when you arrived. I love your face,Alyosha. Did you know that I loved your face? And _he_ is myself,Alyosha. All that’s base in me, all that’s mean and contemptible. Yes,I am a romantic. He guessed it ... though it’s a libel. He isfrightfully stupid; but it’s to his advantage. He has cunning, animalcunning—he knew how to infuriate me. He kept taunting me with believingin him, and that was how he made me listen to him. He fooled me like aboy. He told me a great deal that was true about myself, though. Ishould never have owned it to myself. Do you know, Alyosha,” Ivan addedin an intensely earnest and confidential tone, “I should be awfullyglad to think that it was _he_ and not I.”
“He has worn you out,” said Alyosha, looking compassionately at hisbrother.
“He’s been teasing me. And you know he does it so cleverly, socleverly. ‘Conscience! What is conscience? I make it up for myself. Whyam I tormented by it? From habit. From the universal habit of mankindfor the seven thousand years. So let us give it up, and we shall begods.’ It was he said that, it was he said that!”
“And not you, not you?” Alyosha could not help crying, looking franklyat his brother. “Never mind him, anyway; have done with him and forgethim. And let him take with him all that you curse now, and never comeback!”
“Yes, but he is spiteful. He laughed at me. He was impudent, Alyosha,”Ivan said, with a shudder of offense. “But he was unfair to me, unfairto me about lots of things. He told lies about me to my face. ‘Oh, youare going to perform an act of heroic virtue: to confess you murderedyour father, that the valet murdered him at your instigation.’ ”
“Brother,” Alyosha interposed, “restrain yourself. It was not youmurdered him. It’s not true!”
“That’s what he says, he, and he knows it. ‘You are going to perform anact of heroic virtue, and you don’t believe in virtue; that’s whattortures you and makes you angry, that’s why you are so vindictive.’ Hesaid that to me about me and he knows what he says.”
“It’s you say that, not he,” exclaimed Alyosha mournfully, “and you sayit because you are ill and delirious, tormenting yourself.”
“No, he knows what he says. ‘You are going from pride,’ he says.‘You’ll stand up and say it was I killed him, and why do you writhewith horror? You are lying! I despise your opinion, I despise yourhorror!’ He said that about me. ‘And do you know you are longing fortheir praise—“he is a criminal, a murderer, but what a generous soul;he wanted to save his brother and he confessed.” ’ That’s a lie,Alyosha!” Ivan cried suddenly, with flashing eyes. “I don’t want thelow rabble to praise me, I swear I don’t! That’s a lie! That’s why Ithrew the glass at him and it broke against his ugly face.”
“Brother, calm yourself, stop!” Alyosha entreated him.
“Yes, he knows how to torment one. He’s cruel,” Ivan went on,unheeding. “I had an inkling from the first what he came for. ‘Grantingthat you go through pride, still you had a hope that Smerdyakov mightbe convicted and sent to Siberia, and Mitya would be acquitted, whileyou would only be punished with moral condemnation’ (‘Do you hear?’ helaughed then)—‘and some people will praise you. But now Smerdyakov’sdead, he has hanged himself, and who’ll believe you alone? But yet youare going, you are going, you’ll go all the same, you’ve decided to go.What are you going for now?’ That’s awful, Alyosha. I can’t endure suchquestions. Who dare ask me such questions?”
“Brother,” interposed Alyosha—his heart sank with terror, but he stillseemed to hope to bring Ivan to reason—“how could he have told you ofSmerdyakov’s death before I came, when no one knew of it and there wasno time for any one to know of it?”
“He told me,” said Ivan firmly, refusing to admit a doubt. “It was allhe did talk about, if you come to that. ‘And it would be all right ifyou believed in virtue,’ he said. ‘No matter if they disbelieve you,you are going for the sake of principle. But you are a little pig likeFyodor Pavlovitch, and what do you want with virtue? Why do you want togo meddling if your sacrifice is of no use to any one? Because youdon’t know yourself why you go! Oh, you’d give a great deal to knowyourself why you go! And can you have made up your mind? You’ve notmade up your mind. You’ll sit all night deliberating whether to go ornot. But you will go; you know you’ll go. You know that whichever wayyou decide, the decision does not depend on you. You’ll go because youwon’t dare not to go. Why won’t you dare? You must guess that foryourself. That’s a riddle for you!’ He got up and went away. You cameand he went. He called me a coward, Alyosha! _Le mot de l’énigme_ isthat I am a coward. ‘It is not for such eagles to soar above theearth.’ It was he added that—he! And Smerdyakov said the same. He mustbe killed! Katya despises me. I’ve seen that for a month past. EvenLise will begin to despise me! ‘You are going in order to be praised.’That’s a brutal lie! And you despise me too, Alyosha. Now I am going tohate you again! And I hate the monster, too! I hate the monster! Idon’t want to save the monster. Let him rot in Siberia! He’s begunsinging a hymn! Oh, to‐morrow I’ll go, stand before them, and spit intheir faces!”
He jumped up in a frenzy, flung off the towel, and fell to pacing upand down the room again. Alyosha recalled what he had just said. “Iseem to be sleeping awake.... I walk, I speak, I see, but I am asleep.”It seemed to be just like that now. Alyosha did not leave him. Thethought passed through his mind to run for a doctor, but he was afraidto leave his brother alone: there was no one to whom he could leavehim. By degrees Ivan lost consciousness completely at last. He stillwent on talking, talking incessantly, but quite incoherently, and evenarticulated his words with difficulty. Suddenly he staggered violently;but Alyosha was in time to support him. Ivan let him lead him to hisbed. Alyosha undressed him somehow and put him to bed. He sat watchingover him for another two hours. The sick man slept soundly, withoutstirring, breathing softly and evenly. Alyosha took a pillow and laydown on the sofa, without undressing.
As he fell asleep he prayed for Mitya and Ivan. He began to understandIvan’s illness. “The anguish of a proud determination. An earnestconscience!” God, in Whom he disbelieved, and His truth were gainingmastery over his heart, which still refused to submit. “Yes,” thethought floated through Alyosha’s head as it lay on the pillow, “yes,if Smerdyakov is dead, no one will believe Ivan’s evidence; but he willgo and give it.” Alyosha smiled softly. “God will conquer!” he thought.“He will either rise up in the light of truth, or ... he’ll perish inhate, revenging on himself and on every one his having served the causehe does not believe in,” Alyosha added bitterly, and again he prayedfor Ivan.



Book XII. A Judicial Error



Chapter I.The Fatal Day

At ten o’clock in the morning of the day following the events I havedescribed, the trial of Dmitri Karamazov began in our district court.
I hasten to emphasize the fact that I am far from esteeming myselfcapable of reporting all that took place at the trial in full detail,or even in the actual order of events. I imagine that to mentioneverything with full explanation would fill a volume, even a very largeone. And so I trust I may not be reproached, for confining myself towhat struck me. I may have selected as of most interest what was ofsecondary importance, and may have omitted the most prominent andessential details. But I see I shall do better not to apologize. I willdo my best and the reader will see for himself that I have done all Ican.
And, to begin with, before entering the court, I will mention whatsurprised me most on that day. Indeed, as it appeared later, every onewas surprised at it, too. We all knew that the affair had aroused greatinterest, that every one was burning with impatience for the trial tobegin, that it had been a subject of talk, conjecture, exclamation andsurmise for the last two months in local society. Every one knew, too,that the case had become known throughout Russia, but yet we had notimagined that it had aroused such burning, such intense, interest inevery one, not only among ourselves, but all over Russia. This becameevident at the trial this day.
Visitors had arrived not only from the chief town of our province, butfrom several other Russian towns, as well as from Moscow andPetersburg. Among them were lawyers, ladies, and even severaldistinguished personages. Every ticket of admission had been snatchedup. A special place behind the table at which the three judges sat wasset apart for the most distinguished and important of the men visitors;a row of arm‐chairs had been placed there—something exceptional, whichhad never been allowed before. A large proportion—not less than half ofthe public—were ladies. There was such a large number of lawyers fromall parts that they did not know where to seat them, for every tickethad long since been eagerly sought for and distributed. I saw at theend of the room, behind the platform, a special partition hurriedly putup, behind which all these lawyers were admitted, and they thoughtthemselves lucky to have standing room there, for all chairs had beenremoved for the sake of space, and the crowd behind the partition stoodthroughout the case closely packed, shoulder to shoulder.
Some of the ladies, especially those who came from a distance, madetheir appearance in the gallery very smartly dressed, but the majorityof the ladies were oblivious even of dress. Their faces betrayedhysterical, intense, almost morbid, curiosity. A peculiarfact—established afterwards by many observations—was that almost allthe ladies, or, at least the vast majority of them, were on Mitya’sside and in favor of his being acquitted. This was perhaps chieflyowing to his reputation as a conqueror of female hearts. It was knownthat two women rivals were to appear in the case. One of them—KaterinaIvanovna—was an object of general interest. All sorts of extraordinarytales were told about her, amazing anecdotes of her passion for Mitya,in spite of his crime. Her pride and “aristocratic connections” wereparticularly insisted upon (she had called upon scarcely any one in thetown). People said she intended to petition the Government for leave toaccompany the criminal to Siberia and to be married to him somewhere inthe mines. The appearance of Grushenka in court was awaited with noless impatience. The public was looking forward with anxious curiosityto the meeting of the two rivals—the proud aristocratic girl and “thehetaira.” But Grushenka was a more familiar figure to the ladies of thedistrict than Katerina Ivanovna. They had already seen “the woman whohad ruined Fyodor Pavlovitch and his unhappy son,” and all, almostwithout exception, wondered how father and son could be so in love with“such a very common, ordinary Russian girl, who was not even pretty.”
In brief, there was a great deal of talk. I know for a fact that therewere several serious family quarrels on Mitya’s account in our town.Many ladies quarreled violently with their husbands over differences ofopinion about the dreadful case, and it was only natural that thehusbands of these ladies, far from being favorably disposed to theprisoner, should enter the court bitterly prejudiced against him. Infact, one may say pretty certainly that the masculine, as distinguishedfrom the feminine, part of the audience were biased against theprisoner. There were numbers of severe, frowning, even vindictivefaces. Mitya, indeed, had managed to offend many people during his stayin the town. Some of the visitors were, of course, in excellent spiritsand quite unconcerned as to the fate of Mitya personally. But all wereinterested in the trial, and the majority of the men were certainlyhoping for the conviction of the criminal, except perhaps the lawyers,who were more interested in the legal than in the moral aspect of thecase.
Everybody was excited at the presence of the celebrated lawyer,Fetyukovitch. His talent was well known, and this was not the firsttime he had defended notorious criminal cases in the provinces. And ifhe defended them, such cases became celebrated and long remembered allover Russia. There were stories, too, about our prosecutor and aboutthe President of the Court. It was said that Ippolit Kirillovitch wasin a tremor at meeting Fetyukovitch, and that they had been enemiesfrom the beginning of their careers in Petersburg, that though oursensitive prosecutor, who always considered that he had been aggrievedby some one in Petersburg because his talents had not been properlyappreciated, was keenly excited over the Karamazov case, and was evendreaming of rebuilding his flagging fortunes by means of it,Fetyukovitch, they said, was his one anxiety. But these rumors were notquite just. Our prosecutor was not one of those men who lose heart inface of danger. On the contrary, his self‐confidence increased with theincrease of danger. It must be noted that our prosecutor was in generaltoo hasty and morbidly impressionable. He would put his whole soul intosome case and work at it as though his whole fate and his whole fortunedepended on its result. This was the subject of some ridicule in thelegal world, for just by this characteristic our prosecutor had gaineda wider notoriety than could have been expected from his modestposition. People laughed particularly at his passion for psychology. Inmy opinion, they were wrong, and our prosecutor was, I believe, acharacter of greater depth than was generally supposed. But with hisdelicate health he had failed to make his mark at the outset of hiscareer and had never made up for it later.
As for the President of our Court, I can only say that he was a humaneand cultured man, who had a practical knowledge of his work andprogressive views. He was rather ambitious, but did not concern himselfgreatly about his future career. The great aim of his life was to be aman of advanced ideas. He was, too, a man of connections and property.He felt, as we learnt afterwards, rather strongly about the Karamazovcase, but from a social, not from a personal standpoint. He wasinterested in it as a social phenomenon, in its classification and itscharacter as a product of our social conditions, as typical of thenational character, and so on, and so on. His attitude to the personalaspect of the case, to its tragic significance and the persons involvedin it, including the prisoner, was rather indifferent and abstract, aswas perhaps fitting, indeed.
The court was packed and overflowing long before the judges made theirappearance. Our court is the best hall in the town—spacious, lofty, andgood for sound. On the right of the judges, who were on a raisedplatform, a table and two rows of chairs had been put ready for thejury. On the left was the place for the prisoner and the counsel forthe defense. In the middle of the court, near the judges, was a tablewith the “material proofs.” On it lay Fyodor Pavlovitch’s white silkdressing‐gown, stained with blood; the fatal brass pestle with whichthe supposed murder had been committed; Mitya’s shirt, with ablood‐stained sleeve; his coat, stained with blood in patches over thepocket in which he had put his handkerchief; the handkerchief itself,stiff with blood and by now quite yellow; the pistol loaded by Mitya atPerhotin’s with a view to suicide, and taken from him on the sly atMokroe by Trifon Borissovitch; the envelope in which the three thousandroubles had been put ready for Grushenka, the narrow pink ribbon withwhich it had been tied, and many other articles I don’t remember. Inthe body of the hall, at some distance, came the seats for the public.But in front of the balustrade a few chairs had been placed forwitnesses who remained in the court after giving their evidence.
At ten o’clock the three judges arrived—the President, one honoraryjustice of the peace, and one other. The prosecutor, of course, enteredimmediately after. The President was a short, stout, thick‐set man offifty, with a dyspeptic complexion, dark hair turning gray and cutshort, and a red ribbon, of what Order I don’t remember. The prosecutorstruck me and the others, too, as looking particularly pale, almostgreen. His face seemed to have grown suddenly thinner, perhaps in asingle night, for I had seen him looking as usual only two days before.The President began with asking the court whether all the jury werepresent.
But I see I can’t go on like this, partly because some things I did nothear, others I did not notice, and others I have forgotten, but most ofall because, as I have said before, I have literally no time or spaceto mention everything that was said and done. I only know that neitherside objected to very many of the jurymen. I remember the twelvejurymen—four were petty officials of the town, two were merchants, andsix peasants and artisans of the town. I remember, long before thetrial, questions were continually asked with some surprise, especiallyby ladies: “Can such a delicate, complex and psychological case besubmitted for decision to petty officials and even peasants?” and “Whatcan an official, still more a peasant, understand in such an affair?”All the four officials in the jury were, in fact, men of no consequenceand of low rank. Except one who was rather younger, they weregray‐headed men, little known in society, who had vegetated on apitiful salary, and who probably had elderly, unpresentable wives andcrowds of children, perhaps even without shoes and stockings. At most,they spent their leisure over cards and, of course, had never read asingle book. The two merchants looked respectable, but were strangelysilent and stolid. One of them was close‐shaven, and was dressed inEuropean style; the other had a small, gray beard, and wore a redribbon with some sort of a medal upon it on his neck. There is no needto speak of the artisans and the peasants. The artisans ofSkotoprigonyevsk are almost peasants, and even work on the land. Two ofthem also wore European dress, and, perhaps for that reason, weredirtier and more uninviting‐looking than the others. So that one mightwell wonder, as I did as soon as I had looked at them, “what men likethat could possibly make of such a case?” Yet their faces made astrangely imposing, almost menacing, impression; they were stern andfrowning.
At last the President opened the case of the murder of FyodorPavlovitch Karamazov. I don’t quite remember how he described him. Thecourt usher was told to bring in the prisoner, and Mitya made hisappearance. There was a hush through the court. One could have heard afly. I don’t know how it was with others, but Mitya made a mostunfavorable impression on me. He looked an awful dandy in a brand‐newfrock‐coat. I heard afterwards that he had ordered it in Moscowexpressly for the occasion from his own tailor, who had his measure. Hewore immaculate black kid gloves and exquisite linen. He walked in withhis yard‐long strides, looking stiffly straight in front of him, andsat down in his place with a most unperturbed air.
At the same moment the counsel for defense, the celebratedFetyukovitch, entered, and a sort of subdued hum passed through thecourt. He was a tall, spare man, with long thin legs, with extremelylong, thin, pale fingers, clean‐shaven face, demurely brushed, rathershort hair, and thin lips that were at times curved into somethingbetween a sneer and a smile. He looked about forty. His face would havebeen pleasant, if it had not been for his eyes, which, in themselvessmall and inexpressive, were set remarkably close together, with onlythe thin, long nose as a dividing line between them. In fact, there wassomething strikingly birdlike about his face. He was in evening dressand white tie.
I remember the President’s first questions to Mitya, about his name,his calling, and so on. Mitya answered sharply, and his voice was sounexpectedly loud that it made the President start and look at theprisoner with surprise. Then followed a list of persons who were totake part in the proceedings—that is, of the witnesses and experts. Itwas a long list. Four of the witnesses were not present—Miüsov, who hadgiven evidence at the preliminary inquiry, but was now in Paris; MadameHohlakov and Maximov, who were absent through illness; and Smerdyakov,through his sudden death, of which an official statement from thepolice was presented. The news of Smerdyakov’s death produced a suddenstir and whisper in the court. Many of the audience, of course, had notheard of the sudden suicide. What struck people most was Mitya’s suddenoutburst. As soon as the statement of Smerdyakov’s death was made, hecried out aloud from his place:
“He was a dog and died like a dog!”
I remember how his counsel rushed to him, and how the Presidentaddressed him, threatening to take stern measures, if such anirregularity were repeated. Mitya nodded and in a subdued voicerepeated several times abruptly to his counsel, with no show of regret:
“I won’t again, I won’t. It escaped me. I won’t do it again.”
And, of course, this brief episode did him no good with the jury or thepublic. His character was displayed, and it spoke for itself. It wasunder the influence of this incident that the opening statement wasread. It was rather short, but circumstantial. It only stated the chiefreasons why he had been arrested, why he must be tried, and so on. Yetit made a great impression on me. The clerk read it loudly anddistinctly. The whole tragedy was suddenly unfolded before us,concentrated, in bold relief, in a fatal and pitiless light. I rememberhow, immediately after it had been read, the President asked Mitya in aloud impressive voice:
“Prisoner, do you plead guilty?”
Mitya suddenly rose from his seat.
“I plead guilty to drunkenness and dissipation,” he exclaimed, again ina startling, almost frenzied, voice, “to idleness and debauchery. Imeant to become an honest man for good, just at the moment when I wasstruck down by fate. But I am not guilty of the death of that old man,my enemy and my father. No, no, I am not guilty of robbing him! I couldnot be. Dmitri Karamazov is a scoundrel, but not a thief.”
He sat down again, visibly trembling all over. The President againbriefly, but impressively, admonished him to answer only what wasasked, and not to go off into irrelevant exclamations. Then he orderedthe case to proceed. All the witnesses were led up to take the oath.Then I saw them all together. The brothers of the prisoner were,however, allowed to give evidence without taking the oath. After anexhortation from the priest and the President, the witnesses were ledaway and were made to sit as far as possible apart from one another.Then they began calling them up one by one.



Chapter II.Dangerous Witnesses

I do not know whether the witnesses for the defense and for theprosecution were separated into groups by the President, and whether itwas arranged to call them in a certain order. But no doubt it was so. Ionly know that the witnesses for the prosecution were called first. Irepeat I don’t intend to describe all the questions step by step.Besides, my account would be to some extent superfluous, because in thespeeches for the prosecution and for the defense the whole course ofthe evidence was brought together and set in a strong and significantlight, and I took down parts of those two remarkable speeches in full,and will quote them in due course, together with one extraordinary andquite unexpected episode, which occurred before the final speeches, andundoubtedly influenced the sinister and fatal outcome of the trial.
I will only observe that from the first moments of the trial onepeculiar characteristic of the case was conspicuous and observed byall, that is, the overwhelming strength of the prosecution as comparedwith the arguments the defense had to rely upon. Every one realized itfrom the first moment that the facts began to group themselves round asingle point, and the whole horrible and bloody crime was graduallyrevealed. Every one, perhaps, felt from the first that the case wasbeyond dispute, that there was no doubt about it, that there could bereally no discussion, and that the defense was only a matter of form,and that the prisoner was guilty, obviously and conclusively guilty. Iimagine that even the ladies, who were so impatiently longing for theacquittal of the interesting prisoner, were at the same time, withoutexception, convinced of his guilt. What’s more, I believe they wouldhave been mortified if his guilt had not been so firmly established, asthat would have lessened the effect of the closing scene of thecriminal’s acquittal. That he would be acquitted, all the ladies,strange to say, were firmly persuaded up to the very last moment. “Heis guilty, but he will be acquitted, from motives of humanity, inaccordance with the new ideas, the new sentiments that had come intofashion,” and so on, and so on. And that was why they had crowded intothe court so impatiently. The men were more interested in the contestbetween the prosecutor and the famous Fetyukovitch. All were wonderingand asking themselves what could even a talent like Fetyukovitch’s makeof such a desperate case; and so they followed his achievements, stepby step, with concentrated attention.
But Fetyukovitch remained an enigma to all up to the very end, up tohis speech. Persons of experience suspected that he had some design,that he was working towards some object, but it was almost impossibleto guess what it was. His confidence and self‐reliance wereunmistakable, however. Every one noticed with pleasure, moreover, thathe, after so short a stay, not more than three days, perhaps, among us,had so wonderfully succeeded in mastering the case and “had studied itto a nicety.” People described with relish, afterwards, how cleverly hehad “taken down” all the witnesses for the prosecution, and as far aspossible perplexed them and, what’s more, had aspersed their reputationand so depreciated the value of their evidence. But it was supposedthat he did this rather by way of sport, so to speak, for professionalglory, to show nothing had been omitted of the accepted methods, forall were convinced that he could do no real good by such disparagementof the witnesses, and probably was more aware of this than any one,having some idea of his own in the background, some concealed weapon ofdefense, which he would suddenly reveal when the time came. Butmeanwhile, conscious of his strength, he seemed to be divertinghimself.
So, for instance, when Grigory, Fyodor Pavlovitch’s old servant, whohad given the most damning piece of evidence about the open door, wasexamined, the counsel for the defense positively fastened upon him whenhis turn came to question him. It must be noted that Grigory enteredthe hall with a composed and almost stately air, not the leastdisconcerted by the majesty of the court or the vast audience listeningto him. He gave evidence with as much confidence as though he had beentalking with his Marfa, only perhaps more respectfully. It wasimpossible to make him contradict himself. The prosecutor questionedhim first in detail about the family life of the Karamazovs. The familypicture stood out in lurid colors. It was plain to ear and eye that thewitness was guileless and impartial. In spite of his profound reverencefor the memory of his deceased master, he yet bore witness that he hadbeen unjust to Mitya and “hadn’t brought up his children as he should.He’d have been devoured by lice when he was little, if it hadn’t beenfor me,” he added, describing Mitya’s early childhood. “It wasn’t faireither of the father to wrong his son over his mother’s property, whichwas by right his.”
In reply to the prosecutor’s question what grounds he had for assertingthat Fyodor Pavlovitch had wronged his son in their money relations,Grigory, to the surprise of every one, had no proof at all to bringforward, but he still persisted that the arrangement with the son was“unfair,” and that he ought “to have paid him several thousand roublesmore.” I must note, by the way, that the prosecutor asked this questionwhether Fyodor Pavlovitch had really kept back part of Mitya’sinheritance with marked persistence of all the witnesses who could beasked it, not excepting Alyosha and Ivan, but he obtained no exactinformation from any one; all alleged that it was so, but were unableto bring forward any distinct proof. Grigory’s description of the sceneat the dinner‐table, when Dmitri had burst in and beaten his father,threatening to come back to kill him, made a sinister impression on thecourt, especially as the old servant’s composure in telling it, hisparsimony of words and peculiar phraseology, were as effective aseloquence. He observed that he was not angry with Mitya for havingknocked him down and struck him on the face; he had forgiven him longago, he said. Of the deceased Smerdyakov he observed, crossing himself,that he was a lad of ability, but stupid and afflicted, and, worsestill, an infidel, and that it was Fyodor Pavlovitch and his elder sonwho had taught him to be so. But he defended Smerdyakov’s honestyalmost with warmth, and related how Smerdyakov had once found themaster’s money in the yard, and, instead of concealing it, had taken itto his master, who had rewarded him with a “gold piece” for it, andtrusted him implicitly from that time forward. He maintainedobstinately that the door into the garden had been open. But he wasasked so many questions that I can’t recall them all.
At last the counsel for the defense began to cross‐examine him, and thefirst question he asked was about the envelope in which FyodorPavlovitch was supposed to have put three thousand roubles for “acertain person.” “Have you ever seen it, you, who were for so manyyears in close attendance on your master?” Grigory answered that he hadnot seen it and had never heard of the money from any one “tilleverybody was talking about it.” This question about the envelopeFetyukovitch put to every one who could conceivably have known of it,as persistently as the prosecutor asked his question about Dmitri’sinheritance, and got the same answer from all, that no one had seen theenvelope, though many had heard of it. From the beginning every onenoticed Fetyukovitch’s persistence on this subject.
“Now, with your permission I’ll ask you a question,” Fetyukovitch said,suddenly and unexpectedly. “Of what was that balsam, or, rather,decoction, made, which, as we learn from the preliminary inquiry, youused on that evening to rub your lumbago, in the hope of curing it?”
Grigory looked blankly at the questioner, and after a brief silencemuttered, “There was saffron in it.”
“Nothing but saffron? Don’t you remember any other ingredient?”
“There was milfoil in it, too.”
“And pepper perhaps?” Fetyukovitch queried.
“Yes, there was pepper, too.”
“Etcetera. And all dissolved in vodka?”
“In spirit.”
There was a faint sound of laughter in the court.
“You see, in spirit. After rubbing your back, I believe, you drank whatwas left in the bottle with a certain pious prayer, only known to yourwife?”
“I did.”
“Did you drink much? Roughly speaking, a wine‐glass or two?”
“It might have been a tumbler‐full.”
“A tumbler‐full, even. Perhaps a tumbler and a half?”
Grigory did not answer. He seemed to see what was meant.
“A glass and a half of neat spirit—is not at all bad, don’t you think?You might see the gates of heaven open, not only the door into thegarden?”
Grigory remained silent. There was another laugh in the court. ThePresident made a movement.
“Do you know for a fact,” Fetyukovitch persisted, “whether you wereawake or not when you saw the open door?”
“I was on my legs.”
“That’s not a proof that you were awake.” (There was again laughter inthe court.) “Could you have answered at that moment, if any one hadasked you a question—for instance, what year it is?”
“I don’t know.”
“And what year is it, Anno Domini, do you know?”
Grigory stood with a perplexed face, looking straight at his tormentor.Strange to say, it appeared he really did not know what year it was.
“But perhaps you can tell me how many fingers you have on your hands?”
“I am a servant,” Grigory said suddenly, in a loud and distinct voice.“If my betters think fit to make game of me, it is my duty to sufferit.”
Fetyukovitch was a little taken aback, and the President intervened,reminding him that he must ask more relevant questions. Fetyukovitchbowed with dignity and said that he had no more questions to ask of thewitness. The public and the jury, of course, were left with a grain ofdoubt in their minds as to the evidence of a man who might, whileundergoing a certain cure, have seen “the gates of heaven,” and who didnot even know what year he was living in. But before Grigory left thebox another episode occurred. The President, turning to the prisoner,asked him whether he had any comment to make on the evidence of thelast witness.
“Except about the door, all he has said is true,” cried Mitya, in aloud voice. “For combing the lice off me, I thank him; for forgiving myblows, I thank him. The old man has been honest all his life and asfaithful to my father as seven hundred poodles.”
“Prisoner, be careful in your language,” the President admonished him.
“I am not a poodle,” Grigory muttered.
“All right, it’s I am a poodle myself,” cried Mitya. “If it’s aninsult, I take it to myself and I beg his pardon. I was a beast andcruel to him. I was cruel to Æsop too.”
“What Æsop?” the President asked sternly again.
“Oh, Pierrot ... my father, Fyodor Pavlovitch.”
The President again and again warned Mitya impressively and verysternly to be more careful in his language.
“You are injuring yourself in the opinion of your judges.”
The counsel for the defense was equally clever in dealing with theevidence of Rakitin. I may remark that Rakitin was one of the leadingwitnesses and one to whom the prosecutor attached great significance.It appeared that he knew everything; his knowledge was amazing, he hadbeen everywhere, seen everything, talked to everybody, knew everydetail of the biography of Fyodor Pavlovitch and all the Karamazovs. Ofthe envelope, it is true, he had only heard from Mitya himself. But hedescribed minutely Mitya’s exploits in the “Metropolis,” all hiscompromising doings and sayings, and told the story of CaptainSnegiryov’s “wisp of tow.” But even Rakitin could say nothing positiveabout Mitya’s inheritance, and confined himself to contemptuousgeneralities.
“Who could tell which of them was to blame, and which was in debt tothe other, with their crazy Karamazov way of muddling things so that noone could make head or tail of it?” He attributed the tragic crime tothe habits that had become ingrained by ages of serfdom and thedistressed condition of Russia, due to the lack of appropriateinstitutions. He was, in fact, allowed some latitude of speech. Thiswas the first occasion on which Rakitin showed what he could do, andattracted notice. The prosecutor knew that the witness was preparing amagazine article on the case, and afterwards in his speech, as we shallsee later, quoted some ideas from the article, showing that he had seenit already. The picture drawn by the witness was a gloomy and sinisterone, and greatly strengthened the case for the prosecution. Altogether,Rakitin’s discourse fascinated the public by its independence and theextraordinary nobility of its ideas. There were even two or threeoutbreaks of applause when he spoke of serfdom and the distressedcondition of Russia.
But Rakitin, in his youthful ardor, made a slight blunder, of which thecounsel for the defense at once adroitly took advantage. Answeringcertain questions about Grushenka, and carried away by the loftiness ofhis own sentiments and his success, of which he was, of course,conscious, he went so far as to speak somewhat contemptuously ofAgrafena Alexandrovna as “the kept mistress of Samsonov.” He would havegiven a good deal to take back his words afterwards, for Fetyukovitchcaught him out over it at once. And it was all because Rakitin had notreckoned on the lawyer having been able to become so intimatelyacquainted with every detail in so short a time.
“Allow me to ask,” began the counsel for the defense, with the mostaffable and even respectful smile, “you are, of course, the same Mr.Rakitin whose pamphlet, _The Life of the Deceased Elder, FatherZossima_, published by the diocesan authorities, full of profound andreligious reflections and preceded by an excellent and devoutdedication to the bishop, I have just read with such pleasure?”
“I did not write it for publication ... it was published afterwards,”muttered Rakitin, for some reason fearfully disconcerted and almostashamed.
“Oh, that’s excellent! A thinker like you can, and indeed ought to,take the widest view of every social question. Your most instructivepamphlet has been widely circulated through the patronage of thebishop, and has been of appreciable service.... But this is the chiefthing I should like to learn from you. You stated just now that youwere very intimately acquainted with Madame Svyetlov.” (It must benoted that Grushenka’s surname was Svyetlov. I heard it for the firsttime that day, during the case.)
“I cannot answer for all my acquaintances.... I am a young man ... andwho can be responsible for every one he meets?” cried Rakitin, flushingall over.
“I understand, I quite understand,” cried Fetyukovitch, as though he,too, were embarrassed and in haste to excuse himself. “You, like anyother, might well be interested in an acquaintance with a young andbeautiful woman who would readily entertain the _élite_ of the youth ofthe neighborhood, but ... I only wanted to know ... It has come to myknowledge that Madame Svyetlov was particularly anxious a couple ofmonths ago to make the acquaintance of the younger Karamazov, AlexeyFyodorovitch, and promised you twenty‐five roubles, if you would bringhim to her in his monastic dress. And that actually took place on theevening of the day on which the terrible crime, which is the subject ofthe present investigation, was committed. You brought Alexey Karamazovto Madame Svyetlov, and did you receive the twenty‐five roubles fromMadame Svyetlov as a reward, that’s what I wanted to hear from you?”
“It was a joke.... I don’t see of what interest that can be to you....I took it for a joke ... meaning to give it back later....”
“Then you did take— But you have not given it back yet ... or haveyou?”
“That’s of no consequence,” muttered Rakitin, “I refuse to answer suchquestions.... Of course I shall give it back.”
The President intervened, but Fetyukovitch declared he had no morequestions to ask of the witness. Mr. Rakitin left the witness‐box notabsolutely without a stain upon his character. The effect left by thelofty idealism of his speech was somewhat marred, and Fetyukovitch’sexpression, as he watched him walk away, seemed to suggest to thepublic “this is a specimen of the lofty‐minded persons who accuse him.”I remember that this incident, too, did not pass off without anoutbreak from Mitya. Enraged by the tone in which Rakitin had referredto Grushenka, he suddenly shouted “Bernard!” When, after Rakitin’scross‐ examination, the President asked the prisoner if he had anythingto say, Mitya cried loudly:
“Since I’ve been arrested, he has borrowed money from me! He is acontemptible Bernard and opportunist, and he doesn’t believe in God; hetook the bishop in!”
Mitya, of course, was pulled up again for the intemperance of hislanguage, but Rakitin was done for. Captain Snegiryov’s evidence was afailure, too, but from quite a different reason. He appeared in raggedand dirty clothes, muddy boots, and in spite of the vigilance andexpert observation of the police officers, he turned out to behopelessly drunk. On being asked about Mitya’s attack upon him, herefused to answer.
“God bless him. Ilusha told me not to. God will make it up to meyonder.”
“Who told you not to tell? Of whom are you talking?”
“Ilusha, my little son. ‘Father, father, how he insulted you!’ He saidthat at the stone. Now he is dying....”
The captain suddenly began sobbing, and plumped down on his kneesbefore the President. He was hurriedly led away amidst the laughter ofthe public. The effect prepared by the prosecutor did not come off atall.
Fetyukovitch went on making the most of every opportunity, and amazedpeople more and more by his minute knowledge of the case. Thus, forexample, Trifon Borissovitch made a great impression, of course, veryprejudicial to Mitya. He calculated almost on his fingers that on hisfirst visit to Mokroe, Mitya must have spent three thousand roubles,“or very little less. Just think what he squandered on those gypsygirls alone! And as for our lousy peasants, it wasn’t a case offlinging half a rouble in the street, he made them presents oftwenty‐five roubles each, at least, he didn’t give them less. And whata lot of money was simply stolen from him! And if any one did steal, hedid not leave a receipt. How could one catch the thief when he wasflinging his money away all the time? Our peasants are robbers, youknow; they have no care for their souls. And the way he went on withthe girls, our village girls! They’re completely set up since then, Itell you, they used to be poor.” He recalled, in fact, every item ofexpense and added it all up. So the theory that only fifteen hundredhad been spent and the rest had been put aside in a little bag seemedinconceivable.
“I saw three thousand as clear as a penny in his hands, I saw it withmy own eyes; I should think I ought to know how to reckon money,” criedTrifon Borissovitch, doing his best to satisfy “his betters.”
When Fetyukovitch had to cross‐examine him, he scarcely tried to refutehis evidence, but began asking him about an incident at the firstcarousal at Mokroe, a month before the arrest, when Timofey and anotherpeasant called Akim had picked up on the floor in the passage a hundredroubles dropped by Mitya when he was drunk, and had given them toTrifon Borissovitch and received a rouble each from him for doing so.“Well,” asked the lawyer, “did you give that hundred roubles back toMr. Karamazov?” Trifon Borissovitch shuffled in vain.... He wasobliged, after the peasants had been examined, to admit the finding ofthe hundred roubles, only adding that he had religiously returned itall to Dmitri Fyodorovitch “in perfect honesty, and it’s only becausehis honor was in liquor at the time, he wouldn’t remember it.” But, ashe had denied the incident of the hundred roubles till the peasants hadbeen called to prove it, his evidence as to returning the money toMitya was naturally regarded with great suspicion. So one of the mostdangerous witnesses brought forward by the prosecution was againdiscredited.
The same thing happened with the Poles. They took up an attitude ofpride and independence; they vociferated loudly that they had both beenin the service of the Crown, and that “Pan Mitya” had offered themthree thousand “to buy their honor,” and that they had seen a large sumof money in his hands. Pan Mussyalovitch introduced a terrible numberof Polish words into his sentences, and seeing that this only increasedhis consequence in the eyes of the President and the prosecutor, grewmore and more pompous, and ended by talking in Polish altogether. ButFetyukovitch caught them, too, in his snares. Trifon Borissovitch,recalled, was forced, in spite of his evasions, to admit that PanVrublevsky had substituted another pack of cards for the one he hadprovided, and that Pan Mussyalovitch had cheated during the game.Kalganov confirmed this, and both the Poles left the witness‐box withdamaged reputations, amidst laughter from the public.
Then exactly the same thing happened with almost all the most dangerouswitnesses. Fetyukovitch succeeded in casting a slur on all of them, anddismissing them with a certain derision. The lawyers and experts werelost in admiration, and were only at a loss to understand what goodpurpose could be served by it, for all, I repeat, felt that the casefor the prosecution could not be refuted, but was growing more and moretragically overwhelming. But from the confidence of the “greatmagician” they saw that he was serene, and they waited, feeling that“such a man” had not come from Petersburg for nothing, and that he wasnot a man to return unsuccessful.



Chapter III.The Medical Experts And A Pound Of Nuts

The evidence of the medical experts, too, was of little use to theprisoner. And it appeared later that Fetyukovitch had not reckoned muchupon it. The medical line of defense had only been taken up through theinsistence of Katerina Ivanovna, who had sent for a celebrated doctorfrom Moscow on purpose. The case for the defense could, of course, losenothing by it and might, with luck, gain something from it. There was,however, an element of comedy about it, through the difference ofopinion of the doctors. The medical experts were the famous doctor fromMoscow, our doctor, Herzenstube, and the young doctor, Varvinsky. Thetwo latter appeared also as witnesses for the prosecution.
The first to be called in the capacity of expert was DoctorHerzenstube. He was a gray and bald old man of seventy, of middleheight and sturdy build. He was much esteemed and respected by everyone in the town. He was a conscientious doctor and an excellent andpious man, a Hernguter or Moravian brother, I am not quite sure which.He had been living amongst us for many years and behaved with wonderfuldignity. He was a kind‐hearted and humane man. He treated the sick poorand peasants for nothing, visited them in their slums and huts, andleft money for medicine, but he was as obstinate as a mule. If once hehad taken an idea into his head, there was no shaking it. Almost everyone in the town was aware, by the way, that the famous doctor had,within the first two or three days of his presence among us, utteredsome extremely offensive allusions to Doctor Herzenstube’squalifications. Though the Moscow doctor asked twenty‐five roubles fora visit, several people in the town were glad to take advantage of hisarrival, and rushed to consult him regardless of expense. All thesehad, of course, been previously patients of Doctor Herzenstube, and thecelebrated doctor had criticized his treatment with extreme harshness.Finally, he had asked the patients as soon as he saw them, “Well, whohas been cramming you with nostrums? Herzenstube? He, he!” DoctorHerzenstube, of course, heard all this, and now all the three doctorsmade their appearance, one after another, to be examined.
Doctor Herzenstube roundly declared that the abnormality of theprisoner’s mental faculties was self‐evident. Then giving his groundsfor this opinion, which I omit here, he added that the abnormality wasnot only evident in many of the prisoner’s actions in the past, but wasapparent even now at this very moment. When he was asked to explain howit was apparent now at this moment, the old doctor, with simple‐hearteddirectness, pointed out that the prisoner on entering the court had “anextraordinary air, remarkable in the circumstances”; that he had“marched in like a soldier, looking straight before him, though itwould have been more natural for him to look to the left where, amongthe public, the ladies were sitting, seeing that he was a great admirerof the fair sex and must be thinking much of what the ladies are sayingof him now,” the old man concluded in his peculiar language.
I must add that he spoke Russian readily, but every phrase was formedin German style, which did not, however, trouble him, for it had alwaysbeen a weakness of his to believe that he spoke Russian perfectly,better indeed than Russians. And he was very fond of using Russianproverbs, always declaring that the Russian proverbs were the best andmost expressive sayings in the whole world. I may remark, too, that inconversation, through absent‐mindedness he often forgot the mostordinary words, which sometimes went out of his head, though he knewthem perfectly. The same thing happened, though, when he spoke German,and at such times he always waved his hand before his face as thoughtrying to catch the lost word, and no one could induce him to go onspeaking till he had found the missing word. His remark that theprisoner ought to have looked at the ladies on entering roused awhisper of amusement in the audience. All our ladies were very fond ofour old doctor; they knew, too, that having been all his life abachelor and a religious man of exemplary conduct, he looked upon womenas lofty creatures. And so his unexpected observation struck every oneas very queer.
The Moscow doctor, being questioned in his turn, definitely andemphatically repeated that he considered the prisoner’s mentalcondition abnormal in the highest degree. He talked at length and witherudition of “aberration” and “mania,” and argued that, from all thefacts collected, the prisoner had undoubtedly been in a condition ofaberration for several days before his arrest, and, if the crime hadbeen committed by him, it must, even if he were conscious of it, havebeen almost involuntary, as he had not the power to control the morbidimpulse that possessed him.
But apart from temporary aberration, the doctor diagnosed mania, whichpremised, in his words, to lead to complete insanity in the future. (Itmust be noted that I report this in my own words, the doctor made useof very learned and professional language.) “All his actions are incontravention of common sense and logic,” he continued. “Not to referto what I have not seen, that is, the crime itself and the wholecatastrophe, the day before yesterday, while he was talking to me, hehad an unaccountably fixed look in his eye. He laughed unexpectedlywhen there was nothing to laugh at. He showed continual andinexplicable irritability, using strange words, ‘Bernard!’ ‘Ethics!’and others equally inappropriate.” But the doctor detected mania, aboveall, in the fact that the prisoner could not even speak of the threethousand roubles, of which he considered himself to have been cheated,without extraordinary irritation, though he could speak comparativelylightly of other misfortunes and grievances. According to all accounts,he had even in the past, whenever the subject of the three thousandroubles was touched on, flown into a perfect frenzy, and yet he wasreported to be a disinterested and not grasping man.
“As to the opinion of my learned colleague,” the Moscow doctor addedironically in conclusion, “that the prisoner would, on entering thecourt, have naturally looked at the ladies and not straight before him,I will only say that, apart from the playfulness of this theory, it isradically unsound. For though I fully agree that the prisoner, onentering the court where his fate will be decided, would not naturallylook straight before him in that fixed way, and that that may really bea sign of his abnormal mental condition, at the same time I maintainthat he would naturally not look to the left at the ladies, but, on thecontrary, to the right to find his legal adviser, on whose help all hishopes rest and on whose defense all his future depends.” The doctorexpressed his opinion positively and emphatically.
But the unexpected pronouncement of Doctor Varvinsky gave the lasttouch of comedy to the difference of opinion between the experts. Inhis opinion the prisoner was now, and had been all along, in aperfectly normal condition, and, although he certainly must have beenin a nervous and exceedingly excited state before his arrest, thismight have been due to several perfectly obvious causes, jealousy,anger, continual drunkenness, and so on. But this nervous conditionwould not involve the mental aberration of which mention had just beenmade. As to the question whether the prisoner should have looked to theleft or to the right on entering the court, “in his modest opinion,”the prisoner would naturally look straight before him on entering thecourt, as he had in fact done, as that was where the judges, on whomhis fate depended, were sitting. So that it was just by lookingstraight before him that he showed his perfectly normal state of mindat the present. The young doctor concluded his “modest” testimony withsome heat.
“Bravo, doctor!” cried Mitya, from his seat, “just so!”
Mitya, of course, was checked, but the young doctor’s opinion had adecisive influence on the judges and on the public, and, as appearedafterwards, every one agreed with him. But Doctor Herzenstube, whencalled as a witness, was quite unexpectedly of use to Mitya. As an oldresident in the town who had known the Karamazov family for years, hefurnished some facts of great value for the prosecution, and suddenly,as though recalling something, he added:
“But the poor young man might have had a very different life, for hehad a good heart both in childhood and after childhood, that I know.But the Russian proverb says, ‘If a man has one head, it’s good, but ifanother clever man comes to visit him, it would be better still, forthen there will be two heads and not only one.’ ”
“One head is good, but two are better,” the prosecutor put inimpatiently. He knew the old man’s habit of talking slowly anddeliberately, regardless of the impression he was making and of thedelay he was causing, and highly prizing his flat, dull and alwaysgleefully complacent German wit. The old man was fond of making jokes.
“Oh, yes, that’s what I say,” he went on stubbornly. “One head is good,but two are much better, but he did not meet another head with wits,and his wits went. Where did they go? I’ve forgotten the word.” He wenton, passing his hand before his eyes, “Oh, yes, _spazieren_.”
“Wandering?”
“Oh, yes, wandering, that’s what I say. Well, his wits went wanderingand fell in such a deep hole that he lost himself. And yet he was agrateful and sensitive boy. Oh, I remember him very well, a little chapso high, left neglected by his father in the back yard, when he ranabout without boots on his feet, and his little breeches hanging by onebutton.”
A note of feeling and tenderness suddenly came into the honest oldman’s voice. Fetyukovitch positively started, as though scentingsomething, and caught at it instantly.
“Oh, yes, I was a young man then.... I was ... well, I was forty‐fivethen, and had only just come here. And I was so sorry for the boy then;I asked myself why shouldn’t I buy him a pound of ... a pound of what?I’ve forgotten what it’s called. A pound of what children are very fondof, what is it, what is it?” The doctor began waving his hands again.“It grows on a tree and is gathered and given to every one....”
“Apples?”
“Oh, no, no. You have a dozen of apples, not a pound.... No, there area lot of them, and all little. You put them in the mouth and crack.”
“Nuts?”
“Quite so, nuts, I say so.” The doctor repeated in the calmest way asthough he had been at no loss for a word. “And I bought him a pound ofnuts, for no one had ever bought the boy a pound of nuts before. And Ilifted my finger and said to him, ‘Boy, _Gott der Vater_.’ He laughedand said, ‘_Gott der Vater_.’... ‘_Gott der Sohn_.’ He laughed againand lisped, ‘_Gott der Sohn_.’ ‘_Gott der heilige Geist_.’ Then helaughed and said as best he could, ‘_Gott der heilige Geist_.’ I wentaway, and two days after I happened to be passing, and he shouted to meof himself, ‘Uncle, _Gott der Vater, Gott der Sohn_,’ and he had onlyforgotten ‘_Gott der heilige Geist_.’ But I reminded him of it and Ifelt very sorry for him again. But he was taken away, and I did not seehim again. Twenty‐ three years passed. I am sitting one morning in mystudy, a white‐haired old man, when there walks into the room ablooming young man, whom I should never have recognized, but he held uphis finger and said, laughing, ‘_Gott der Vater, Gott der Sohn_, and_Gott der heilige Geist_. I have just arrived and have come to thankyou for that pound of nuts, for no one else ever bought me a pound ofnuts; you are the only one that ever did.’ And then I remembered myhappy youth and the poor child in the yard, without boots on his feet,and my heart was touched and I said, ‘You are a grateful young man, foryou have remembered all your life the pound of nuts I bought you inyour childhood.’ And I embraced him and blessed him. And I shed tears.He laughed, but he shed tears, too ... for the Russian often laughswhen he ought to be weeping. But he did weep; I saw it. And now,alas!...”
“And I am weeping now, German, I am weeping now, too, you saintly man,”Mitya cried suddenly.
In any case the anecdote made a certain favorable impression on thepublic. But the chief sensation in Mitya’s favor was created by theevidence of Katerina Ivanovna, which I will describe directly. Indeed,when the witnesses _à décharge_, that is, called by the defense, begangiving evidence, fortune seemed all at once markedly more favorable toMitya, and what was particularly striking, this was a surprise even tothe counsel for the defense. But before Katerina Ivanovna was called,Alyosha was examined, and he recalled a fact which seemed to furnishpositive evidence against one important point made by the prosecution.



Chapter IV.Fortune Smiles On Mitya

It came quite as a surprise even to Alyosha himself. He was notrequired to take the oath, and I remember that both sides addressed himvery gently and sympathetically. It was evident that his reputation forgoodness had preceded him. Alyosha gave his evidence modestly and withrestraint, but his warm sympathy for his unhappy brother wasunmistakable. In answer to one question, he sketched his brother’scharacter as that of a man, violent‐tempered perhaps and carried awayby his passions, but at the same time honorable, proud and generous,capable of self‐sacrifice, if necessary. He admitted, however, that,through his passion for Grushenka and his rivalry with his father, hisbrother had been of late in an intolerable position. But he repelledwith indignation the suggestion that his brother might have committed amurder for the sake of gain, though he recognized that the threethousand roubles had become almost an obsession with Mitya; that helooked upon them as part of the inheritance he had been cheated of byhis father, and that, indifferent as he was to money as a rule, hecould not even speak of that three thousand without fury. As for therivalry of the two “ladies,” as the prosecutor expressed it—that is, ofGrushenka and Katya—he answered evasively and was even unwilling toanswer one or two questions altogether.
“Did your brother tell you, anyway, that he intended to kill yourfather?” asked the prosecutor. “You can refuse to answer if you thinknecessary,” he added.
“He did not tell me so directly,” answered Alyosha.
“How so? Did he indirectly?”
“He spoke to me once of his hatred for our father and his fear that atan extreme moment ... at a moment of fury, he might perhaps murderhim.”
“And you believed him?”
“I am afraid to say that I did. But I never doubted that some higherfeeling would always save him at the fatal moment, as it has indeedsaved him, for it was not he killed my father,” Alyosha said firmly, ina loud voice that was heard throughout the court.
The prosecutor started like a war‐horse at the sound of a trumpet.
“Let me assure you that I fully believe in the complete sincerity ofyour conviction and do not explain it by or identify it with youraffection for your unhappy brother. Your peculiar view of the wholetragic episode is known to us already from the preliminaryinvestigation. I won’t attempt to conceal from you that it is highlyindividual and contradicts all the other evidence collected by theprosecution. And so I think it essential to press you to tell me whatfacts have led you to this conviction of your brother’s innocence andof the guilt of another person against whom you gave evidence at thepreliminary inquiry?”
“I only answered the questions asked me at the preliminary inquiry,”replied Alyosha, slowly and calmly. “I made no accusation againstSmerdyakov of myself.”
“Yet you gave evidence against him?”
“I was led to do so by my brother Dmitri’s words. I was told what tookplace at his arrest and how he had pointed to Smerdyakov before I wasexamined. I believe absolutely that my brother is innocent, and if hedidn’t commit the murder, then—”
“Then Smerdyakov? Why Smerdyakov? And why are you so completelypersuaded of your brother’s innocence?”
“I cannot help believing my brother. I know he wouldn’t lie to me. Isaw from his face he wasn’t lying.”
“Only from his face? Is that all the proof you have?”
“I have no other proof.”
“And of Smerdyakov’s guilt you have no proof whatever but yourbrother’s word and the expression of his face?”
“No, I have no other proof.”
The prosecutor dropped the examination at this point. The impressionleft by Alyosha’s evidence on the public was most disappointing. Therehad been talk about Smerdyakov before the trial; some one had heardsomething, some one had pointed out something else, it was said thatAlyosha had gathered together some extraordinary proofs of hisbrother’s innocence and Smerdyakov’s guilt, and after all there wasnothing, no evidence except certain moral convictions so natural in abrother.
But Fetyukovitch began his cross‐examination. On his asking Alyoshawhen it was that the prisoner had told him of his hatred for his fatherand that he might kill him, and whether he had heard it, for instance,at their last meeting before the catastrophe, Alyosha started as heanswered, as though only just recollecting and understanding something.
“I remember one circumstance now which I’d quite forgotten myself. Itwasn’t clear to me at the time, but now—”
And, obviously only now for the first time struck by an idea, herecounted eagerly how, at his last interview with Mitya that eveningunder the tree, on the road to the monastery, Mitya had struck himselfon the breast, “the upper part of the breast,” and had repeated severaltimes that he had a means of regaining his honor, that that means washere, here on his breast. “I thought, when he struck himself on thebreast, he meant that it was in his heart,” Alyosha continued, “that hemight find in his heart strength to save himself from some awfuldisgrace which was awaiting him and which he did not dare confess evento me. I must confess I did think at the time that he was speaking ofour father, and that the disgrace he was shuddering at was the thoughtof going to our father and doing some violence to him. Yet it was justthen that he pointed to something on his breast, so that I remember theidea struck me at the time that the heart is not on that part of thebreast, but below, and that he struck himself much too high, just belowthe neck, and kept pointing to that place. My idea seemed silly to meat the time, but he was perhaps pointing then to that little bag inwhich he had fifteen hundred roubles!”
“Just so,” Mitya cried from his place. “That’s right, Alyosha, it wasthe little bag I struck with my fist.”
Fetyukovitch flew to him in hot haste entreating him to keep quiet, andat the same instant pounced on Alyosha. Alyosha, carried away himselfby his recollection, warmly expressed his theory that this disgrace wasprobably just that fifteen hundred roubles on him, which he might havereturned to Katerina Ivanovna as half of what he owed her, but which hehad yet determined not to repay her and to use for anotherpurpose—namely, to enable him to elope with Grushenka, if sheconsented.
“It is so, it must be so,” exclaimed Alyosha, in sudden excitement. “Mybrother cried several times that half of the disgrace, half of it (hesaid _half_ several times) he could free himself from at once, but thathe was so unhappy in his weakness of will that he wouldn’t do it ...that he knew beforehand he was incapable of doing it!”
“And you clearly, confidently remember that he struck himself just onthis part of the breast?” Fetyukovitch asked eagerly.
“Clearly and confidently, for I thought at the time, ‘Why does hestrike himself up there when the heart is lower down?’ and the thoughtseemed stupid to me at the time ... I remember its seeming stupid ...it flashed through my mind. That’s what brought it back to me just now.How could I have forgotten it till now? It was that little bag he meantwhen he said he had the means but wouldn’t give back that fifteenhundred. And when he was arrested at Mokroe he cried out—I know, I wastold it—that he considered it the most disgraceful act of his life thatwhen he had the means of repaying Katerina Ivanovna half (half, note!)what he owed her, he yet could not bring himself to repay the money andpreferred to remain a thief in her eyes rather than part with it. Andwhat torture, what torture that debt has been to him!” Alyoshaexclaimed in conclusion.
The prosecutor, of course, intervened. He asked Alyosha to describeonce more how it had all happened, and several times insisted on thequestion, “Had the prisoner seemed to point to anything? Perhaps he hadsimply struck himself with his fist on the breast?”
“But it was not with his fist,” cried Alyosha; “he pointed with hisfingers and pointed here, very high up.... How could I have socompletely forgotten it till this moment?”
The President asked Mitya what he had to say to the last witness’sevidence. Mitya confirmed it, saying that he had been pointing to thefifteen hundred roubles which were on his breast, just below the neck,and that that was, of course, the disgrace, “A disgrace I cannot deny,the most shameful act of my whole life,” cried Mitya. “I might haverepaid it and didn’t repay it. I preferred to remain a thief in hereyes rather than give it back. And the most shameful part of it wasthat I knew beforehand I shouldn’t give it back! You are right,Alyosha! Thanks, Alyosha!”
So Alyosha’s cross‐examination ended. What was important and strikingabout it was that one fact at least had been found, and even thoughthis were only one tiny bit of evidence, a mere hint at evidence, itdid go some little way towards proving that the bag had existed and hadcontained fifteen hundred roubles and that the prisoner had not beenlying at the preliminary inquiry when he alleged at Mokroe that thosefifteen hundred roubles were “his own.” Alyosha was glad. With aflushed face he moved away to the seat assigned to him. He keptrepeating to himself: “How was it I forgot? How could I have forgottenit? And what made it come back to me now?”
Katerina Ivanovna was called to the witness‐box. As she enteredsomething extraordinary happened in the court. The ladies clutchedtheir lorgnettes and opera‐glasses. There was a stir among the men:some stood up to get a better view. Everybody alleged afterwards thatMitya had turned “white as a sheet” on her entrance. All in black, sheadvanced modestly, almost timidly. It was impossible to tell from herface that she was agitated; but there was a resolute gleam in her darkand gloomy eyes. I may remark that many people mentioned that shelooked particularly handsome at that moment. She spoke softly butclearly, so that she was heard all over the court. She expressedherself with composure, or at least tried to appear composed. ThePresident began his examination discreetly and very respectfully, asthough afraid to touch on “certain chords,” and showing considerationfor her great unhappiness. But in answer to one of the first questionsKaterina Ivanovna replied firmly that she had been formerly betrothedto the prisoner, “until he left me of his own accord...” she addedquietly. When they asked her about the three thousand she had entrustedto Mitya to post to her relations, she said firmly, “I didn’t give himthe money simply to send it off. I felt at the time that he was ingreat need of money.... I gave him the three thousand on theunderstanding that he should post it within the month if he cared to.There was no need for him to worry himself about that debt afterwards.”
I will not repeat all the questions asked her and all her answers indetail. I will only give the substance of her evidence.
“I was firmly convinced that he would send off that sum as soon as hegot money from his father,” she went on. “I have never doubted hisdisinterestedness and his honesty ... his scrupulous honesty ... inmoney matters. He felt quite certain that he would receive the moneyfrom his father, and spoke to me several times about it. I knew he hada feud with his father and have always believed that he had beenunfairly treated by his father. I don’t remember any threat uttered byhim against his father. He certainly never uttered any such threatbefore me. If he had come to me at that time, I should have at oncerelieved his anxiety about that unlucky three thousand roubles, but hehad given up coming to see me ... and I myself was put in such aposition ... that I could not invite him.... And I had no right,indeed, to be exacting as to that money,” she added suddenly, and therewas a ring of resolution in her voice. “I was once indebted to him forassistance in money for more than three thousand, and I took it,although I could not at that time foresee that I should ever be in aposition to repay my debt.”
There was a note of defiance in her voice. It was then Fetyukovitchbegan his cross‐examination.
“Did that take place not here, but at the beginning of youracquaintance?” Fetyukovitch suggested cautiously, feeling his way,instantly scenting something favorable. I must mention in parenthesisthat, though Fetyukovitch had been brought from Petersburg partly atthe instance of Katerina Ivanovna herself, he knew nothing about theepisode of the four thousand roubles given her by Mitya, and of her“bowing to the ground to him.” She concealed this from him and saidnothing about it, and that was strange. It may be pretty certainlyassumed that she herself did not know till the very last minute whethershe would speak of that episode in the court, and waited for theinspiration of the moment.
No, I can never forget those moments. She began telling her story. Shetold everything, the whole episode that Mitya had told Alyosha, and herbowing to the ground, and her reason. She told about her father and hergoing to Mitya, and did not in one word, in a single hint, suggest thatMitya had himself, through her sister, proposed they should “send himKaterina Ivanovna” to fetch the money. She generously concealed thatand was not ashamed to make it appear as though she had of her ownimpulse run to the young officer, relying on something ... to beg himfor the money. It was something tremendous! I turned cold and trembledas I listened. The court was hushed, trying to catch each word. It wassomething unexampled. Even from such a self‐willed and contemptuouslyproud girl as she was, such an extremely frank avowal, such sacrifice,such self‐immolation, seemed incredible. And for what, for whom? Tosave the man who had deceived and insulted her and to help, in howeversmall a degree, in saving him, by creating a strong impression in hisfavor. And, indeed, the figure of the young officer who, with arespectful bow to the innocent girl, handed her his last four thousandroubles—all he had in the world—was thrown into a very sympathetic andattractive light, but ... I had a painful misgiving at heart! I feltthat calumny might come of it later (and it did, in fact, it did). Itwas repeated all over the town afterwards with spiteful laughter thatthe story was perhaps not quite complete—that is, in the statement thatthe officer had let the young lady depart “with nothing but arespectful bow.” It was hinted that something was here omitted.
“And even if nothing had been omitted, if this were the whole story,”the most highly respected of our ladies maintained, “even then it’svery doubtful whether it was creditable for a young girl to behave inthat way, even for the sake of saving her father.”
And can Katerina Ivanovna, with her intelligence, her morbidsensitiveness, have failed to understand that people would talk likethat? She must have understood it, yet she made up her mind to telleverything. Of course, all these nasty little suspicions as to thetruth of her story only arose afterwards and at the first moment allwere deeply impressed by it. As for the judges and the lawyers, theylistened in reverent, almost shame‐faced silence to Katerina Ivanovna.The prosecutor did not venture upon even one question on the subject.Fetyukovitch made a low bow to her. Oh, he was almost triumphant! Muchground had been gained. For a man to give his last four thousand on agenerous impulse and then for the same man to murder his father for thesake of robbing him of three thousand—the idea seemed too incongruous.Fetyukovitch felt that now the charge of theft, at least, was as goodas disproved. “The case” was thrown into quite a different light. Therewas a wave of sympathy for Mitya. As for him.... I was told that onceor twice, while Katerina Ivanovna was giving her evidence, he jumped upfrom his seat, sank back again, and hid his face in his hands. But whenshe had finished, he suddenly cried in a sobbing voice:
“Katya, why have you ruined me?” and his sobs were audible all over thecourt. But he instantly restrained himself, and cried again:
“Now I am condemned!”
Then he sat rigid in his place, with his teeth clenched and his armsacross his chest. Katerina Ivanovna remained in the court and sat downin her place. She was pale and sat with her eyes cast down. Those whowere sitting near her declared that for a long time she shivered allover as though in a fever. Grushenka was called.
I am approaching the sudden catastrophe which was perhaps the finalcause of Mitya’s ruin. For I am convinced, so is every one—all thelawyers said the same afterwards—that if the episode had not occurred,the prisoner would at least have been recommended to mercy. But of thatlater. A few words first about Grushenka.
She, too, was dressed entirely in black, with her magnificent blackshawl on her shoulders. She walked to the witness‐box with her smooth,noiseless tread, with the slightly swaying gait common in women of fullfigure. She looked steadily at the President, turning her eyes neitherto the right nor to the left. To my thinking she looked very handsomeat that moment, and not at all pale, as the ladies alleged afterwards.They declared, too, that she had a concentrated and spitefulexpression. I believe that she was simply irritated and painfullyconscious of the contemptuous and inquisitive eyes of ourscandal‐loving public. She was proud and could not stand contempt. Shewas one of those people who flare up, angry and eager to retaliate, atthe mere suggestion of contempt. There was an element of timidity, too,of course, and inward shame at her own timidity, so it was not strangethat her tone kept changing. At one moment it was angry, contemptuousand rough, and at another there was a sincere note of self‐condemnation. Sometimes she spoke as though she were taking a desperateplunge; as though she felt, “I don’t care what happens, I’ll sayit....” Apropos of her acquaintance with Fyodor Pavlovitch, sheremarked curtly, “That’s all nonsense, and was it my fault that hewould pester me?” But a minute later she added, “It was all my fault. Iwas laughing at them both—at the old man and at him, too—and I broughtboth of them to this. It was all on account of me it happened.”
Samsonov’s name came up somehow. “That’s nobody’s business,” shesnapped at once, with a sort of insolent defiance. “He was mybenefactor; he took me when I hadn’t a shoe to my foot, when my familyhad turned me out.” The President reminded her, though very politely,that she must answer the questions directly, without going off intoirrelevant details. Grushenka crimsoned and her eyes flashed.
The envelope with the notes in it she had not seen, but had only heardfrom “that wicked wretch” that Fyodor Pavlovitch had an envelope withnotes for three thousand in it. “But that was all foolishness. I wasonly laughing. I wouldn’t have gone to him for anything.”
“To whom are you referring as ‘that wicked wretch’?” inquired theprosecutor.
“The lackey, Smerdyakov, who murdered his master and hanged himselflast night.”
She was, of course, at once asked what ground she had for such adefinite accusation; but it appeared that she, too, had no grounds forit.
“Dmitri Fyodorovitch told me so himself; you can believe him. The womanwho came between us has ruined him; she is the cause of it all, let metell you,” Grushenka added. She seemed to be quivering with hatred, andthere was a vindictive note in her voice.
She was again asked to whom she was referring.
“The young lady, Katerina Ivanovna there. She sent for me, offered mechocolate, tried to fascinate me. There’s not much true shame abouther, I can tell you that....”
At this point the President checked her sternly, begging her tomoderate her language. But the jealous woman’s heart was burning, andshe did not care what she did.
“When the prisoner was arrested at Mokroe,” the prosecutor asked,“every one saw and heard you run out of the next room and cry out:‘It’s all my fault. We’ll go to Siberia together!’ So you alreadybelieved him to have murdered his father?”
“I don’t remember what I felt at the time,” answered Grushenka. “Everyone was crying out that he had killed his father, and I felt that itwas my fault, that it was on my account he had murdered him. But whenhe said he wasn’t guilty, I believed him at once, and I believe him nowand always shall believe him. He is not the man to tell a lie.”
Fetyukovitch began his cross‐examination. I remember that among otherthings he asked about Rakitin and the twenty‐five roubles “you paid himfor bringing Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov to see you.”
“There was nothing strange about his taking the money,” sneeredGrushenka, with angry contempt. “He was always coming to me for money:he used to get thirty roubles a month at least out of me, chiefly forluxuries: he had enough to keep him without my help.”
“What led you to be so liberal to Mr. Rakitin?” Fetyukovitch asked, inspite of an uneasy movement on the part of the President.
“Why, he is my cousin. His mother was my mother’s sister. But he’salways besought me not to tell any one here of it, he is so dreadfullyashamed of me.”
This fact was a complete surprise to every one; no one in the town norin the monastery, not even Mitya, knew of it. I was told that Rakitinturned purple with shame where he sat. Grushenka had somehow heardbefore she came into the court that he had given evidence againstMitya, and so she was angry. The whole effect on the public, ofRakitin’s speech, of his noble sentiments, of his attacks upon serfdomand the political disorder of Russia, was this time finally ruined.Fetyukovitch was satisfied: it was another godsend. Grushenka’scross‐examination did not last long and, of course, there could benothing particularly new in her evidence. She left a very disagreeableimpression on the public; hundreds of contemptuous eyes were fixed uponher, as she finished giving her evidence and sat down again in thecourt, at a good distance from Katerina Ivanovna. Mitya was silentthroughout her evidence. He sat as though turned to stone, with hiseyes fixed on the ground.
Ivan was called to give evidence.



Chapter V.A Sudden Catastrophe

I may note that he had been called before Alyosha. But the usher of thecourt announced to the President that, owing to an attack of illness orsome sort of fit, the witness could not appear at the moment, but wasready to give his evidence as soon as he recovered. But no one seemedto have heard it and it only came out later.
His entrance was for the first moment almost unnoticed. The principalwitnesses, especially the two rival ladies, had already beenquestioned. Curiosity was satisfied for the time; the public wasfeeling almost fatigued. Several more witnesses were still to be heard,who probably had little information to give after all that had beengiven. Time was passing. Ivan walked up with extraordinary slowness,looking at no one, and with his head bowed, as though plunged in gloomythought. He was irreproachably dressed, but his face made a painfulimpression, on me at least: there was an earthy look in it, a look likea dying man’s. His eyes were lusterless; he raised them and lookedslowly round the court. Alyosha jumped up from his seat and moaned“Ah!” I remember that, but it was hardly noticed.
The President began by informing him that he was a witness not on oath,that he might answer or refuse to answer, but that, of course, he mustbear witness according to his conscience, and so on, and so on. Ivanlistened and looked at him blankly, but his face gradually relaxed intoa smile, and as soon as the President, looking at him in astonishment,finished, he laughed outright.
“Well, and what else?” he asked in a loud voice.
There was a hush in the court; there was a feeling of somethingstrange. The President showed signs of uneasiness.
“You ... are perhaps still unwell?” he began, looking everywhere forthe usher.
“Don’t trouble yourself, your excellency, I am well enough and can tellyou something interesting,” Ivan answered with sudden calmness andrespectfulness.
“You have some special communication to make?” the President went on,still mistrustfully.
Ivan looked down, waited a few seconds and, raising his head, answered,almost stammering:
“No ... I haven’t. I have nothing particular.”
They began asking him questions. He answered, as it were, reluctantly,with extreme brevity, with a sort of disgust which grew more and moremarked, though he answered rationally. To many questions he answeredthat he did not know. He knew nothing of his father’s money relationswith Dmitri. “I wasn’t interested in the subject,” he added. Threats tomurder his father he had heard from the prisoner. Of the money in theenvelope he had heard from Smerdyakov.
“The same thing over and over again,” he interrupted suddenly, with alook of weariness. “I have nothing particular to tell the court.”
“I see you are unwell and understand your feelings,” the Presidentbegan.
He turned to the prosecutor and the counsel for the defense to invitethem to examine the witness, if necessary, when Ivan suddenly asked inan exhausted voice:
“Let me go, your excellency, I feel very ill.”
And with these words, without waiting for permission, he turned to walkout of the court. But after taking four steps he stood still, as thoughhe had reached a decision, smiled slowly, and went back.
“I am like the peasant girl, your excellency ... you know. How does itgo? ‘I’ll stand up if I like, and I won’t if I don’t.’ They were tryingto put on her sarafan to take her to church to be married, and shesaid, ‘I’ll stand up if I like, and I won’t if I don’t.’... It’s insome book about the peasantry.”
“What do you mean by that?” the President asked severely.
“Why, this,” Ivan suddenly pulled out a roll of notes. “Here’s themoney ... the notes that lay in that envelope” (he nodded towards thetable on which lay the material evidence), “for the sake of which ourfather was murdered. Where shall I put them? Mr. Superintendent, takethem.”
The usher of the court took the whole roll and handed it to thePresident.
“How could this money have come into your possession if it is the samemoney?” the President asked wonderingly.
“I got them from Smerdyakov, from the murderer, yesterday.... I waswith him just before he hanged himself. It was he, not my brother,killed our father. He murdered him and I incited him to do it ... Whodoesn’t desire his father’s death?”
“Are you in your right mind?” broke involuntarily from the President.
“I should think I am in my right mind ... in the same nasty mind as allof you ... as all these ... ugly faces.” He turned suddenly to theaudience. “My father has been murdered and they pretend they arehorrified,” he snarled, with furious contempt. “They keep up the shamwith one another. Liars! They all desire the death of their fathers.One reptile devours another.... If there hadn’t been a murder, they’dhave been angry and gone home ill‐humored. It’s a spectacle they want!_Panem et circenses_. Though I am one to talk! Have you any water? Giveme a drink for Christ’s sake!” He suddenly clutched his head.
The usher at once approached him. Alyosha jumped up and cried, “He isill. Don’t believe him: he has brain fever.” Katerina Ivanovna roseimpulsively from her seat and, rigid with horror, gazed at Ivan. Mityastood up and greedily looked at his brother and listened to him with awild, strange smile.
“Don’t disturb yourselves. I am not mad, I am only a murderer,” Ivanbegan again. “You can’t expect eloquence from a murderer,” he addedsuddenly for some reason and laughed a queer laugh.
The prosecutor bent over to the President in obvious dismay. The twoother judges communicated in agitated whispers. Fetyukovitch pricked uphis ears as he listened: the hall was hushed in expectation. ThePresident seemed suddenly to recollect himself.
“Witness, your words are incomprehensible and impossible here. Calmyourself, if you can, and tell your story ... if you really havesomething to tell. How can you confirm your statement ... if indeed youare not delirious?”
“That’s just it. I have no proof. That cur Smerdyakov won’t send youproofs from the other world ... in an envelope. You think of nothingbut envelopes—one is enough. I’ve no witnesses ... except one,perhaps,” he smiled thoughtfully.
“Who is your witness?”
“He has a tail, your excellency, and that would be irregular! _Lediable n’existe point!_ Don’t pay attention: he is a paltry, pitifuldevil,” he added suddenly. He ceased laughing and spoke as it were,confidentially. “He is here somewhere, no doubt—under that table withthe material evidence on it, perhaps. Where should he sit if not there?You see, listen to me. I told him I don’t want to keep quiet, and hetalked about the geological cataclysm ... idiocy! Come, release themonster ... he’s been singing a hymn. That’s because his heart islight! It’s like a drunken man in the street bawling how ‘Vanka went toPetersburg,’ and I would give a quadrillion quadrillions for twoseconds of joy. You don’t know me! Oh, how stupid all this business is!Come, take me instead of him! I didn’t come for nothing.... Why, why iseverything so stupid?...”
And he began slowly, and as it were reflectively, looking round himagain. But the court was all excitement by now. Alyosha rushed towardshim, but the court usher had already seized Ivan by the arm.
“What are you about?” he cried, staring into the man’s face, andsuddenly seizing him by the shoulders, he flung him violently to thefloor. But the police were on the spot and he was seized. He screamedfuriously. And all the time he was being removed, he yelled andscreamed something incoherent.
The whole court was thrown into confusion. I don’t remember everythingas it happened. I was excited myself and could not follow. I only knowthat afterwards, when everything was quiet again and every oneunderstood what had happened, the court usher came in for a reprimand,though he very reasonably explained that the witness had been quitewell, that the doctor had seen him an hour ago, when he had a slightattack of giddiness, but that, until he had come into the court, he hadtalked quite consecutively, so that nothing could have beenforeseen—that he had, in fact, insisted on giving evidence. But beforeevery one had completely regained their composure and recovered fromthis scene, it was followed by another. Katerina Ivanovna had an attackof hysterics. She sobbed, shrieking loudly, but refused to leave thecourt, struggled, and besought them not to remove her. Suddenly shecried to the President:
“There is more evidence I must give at once ... at once! Here is adocument, a letter ... take it, read it quickly, quickly! It’s a letterfrom that monster ... that man there, there!” she pointed to Mitya. “Itwas he killed his father, you will see that directly. He wrote to mehow he would kill his father! But the other one is ill, he is ill, heis delirious!” she kept crying out, beside herself.
The court usher took the document she held out to the President, andshe, dropping into her chair, hiding her face in her hands, beganconvulsively and noiselessly sobbing, shaking all over, and stiflingevery sound for fear she should be ejected from the court. The documentshe had handed up was that letter Mitya had written at the “Metropolis”tavern, which Ivan had spoken of as a “mathematical proof.” Alas! itsmathematical conclusiveness was recognized, and had it not been forthat letter, Mitya might have escaped his doom or, at least, that doomwould have been less terrible. It was, I repeat, difficult to noticeevery detail. What followed is still confused to my mind. The Presidentmust, I suppose, have at once passed on the document to the judges, thejury, and the lawyers on both sides. I only remember how they beganexamining the witness. On being gently asked by the President whethershe had recovered sufficiently, Katerina Ivanovna exclaimedimpetuously:
“I am ready, I am ready! I am quite equal to answering you,” she added,evidently still afraid that she would somehow be prevented from givingevidence. She was asked to explain in detail what this letter was andunder what circumstances she received it.
“I received it the day before the crime was committed, but he wrote itthe day before that, at the tavern—that is, two days before hecommitted the crime. Look, it is written on some sort of bill!” shecried breathlessly. “He hated me at that time, because he had behavedcontemptibly and was running after that creature ... and because heowed me that three thousand.... Oh! he was humiliated by that threethousand on account of his own meanness! This is how it happened aboutthat three thousand. I beg you, I beseech you, to hear me. Three weeksbefore he murdered his father, he came to me one morning. I knew he wasin want of money, and what he wanted it for. Yes, yes—to win thatcreature and carry her off. I knew then that he had been false to meand meant to abandon me, and it was I, I, who gave him that money, whooffered it to him on the pretext of his sending it to my sister inMoscow. And as I gave it him, I looked him in the face and said that hecould send it when he liked, ‘in a month’s time would do.’ How, howcould he have failed to understand that I was practically telling himto his face, ‘You want money to be false to me with your creature, sohere’s the money for you. I give it to you myself. Take it, if you haveso little honor as to take it!’ I wanted to prove what he was, and whathappened? He took it, he took it, and squandered it with that creaturein one night.... But he knew, he knew that I knew all about it. Iassure you he understood, too, that I gave him that money to test him,to see whether he was so lost to all sense of honor as to take it fromme. I looked into his eyes and he looked into mine, and he understoodit all and he took it—he carried off my money!”
“That’s true, Katya,” Mitya roared suddenly, “I looked into your eyesand I knew that you were dishonoring me, and yet I took your money.Despise me as a scoundrel, despise me, all of you! I’ve deserved it!”
“Prisoner,” cried the President, “another word and I will order you tobe removed.”
“That money was a torment to him,” Katya went on with impulsive haste.“He wanted to repay it me. He wanted to, that’s true; but he neededmoney for that creature, too. So he murdered his father, but he didn’trepay me, and went off with her to that village where he was arrested.There, again, he squandered the money he had stolen after the murder ofhis father. And a day before the murder he wrote me this letter. He wasdrunk when he wrote it. I saw it at once, at the time. He wrote it fromspite, and feeling certain, positively certain, that I should nevershow it to any one, even if he did kill him, or else he wouldn’t havewritten it. For he knew I shouldn’t want to revenge myself and ruinhim! But read it, read it attentively—more attentively, please—and youwill see that he had described it all in his letter, all beforehand,how he would kill his father and where his money was kept. Look,please, don’t overlook that, there’s one phrase there, ‘I shall killhim as soon as Ivan has gone away.’ So he thought it all out beforehandhow he would kill him,” Katerina Ivanovna pointed out to the court withvenomous and malignant triumph. Oh! it was clear she had studied everyline of that letter and detected every meaning underlining it. “If hehadn’t been drunk, he wouldn’t have written to me; but, look,everything is written there beforehand, just as he committed the murderafter. A complete program of it!” she exclaimed frantically.
She was reckless now of all consequences to herself, though, no doubt,she had foreseen them even a month ago, for even then, perhaps, shakingwith anger, she had pondered whether to show it at the trial or not.Now she had taken the fatal plunge. I remember that the letter was readaloud by the clerk, directly afterwards, I believe. It made anoverwhelming impression. They asked Mitya whether he admitted havingwritten the letter.
“It’s mine, mine!” cried Mitya. “I shouldn’t have written it, if Ihadn’t been drunk!... We’ve hated each other for many things, Katya,but I swear, I swear I loved you even while I hated you, and you didn’tlove me!”
He sank back on his seat, wringing his hands in despair. The prosecutorand counsel for the defense began cross‐examining her, chiefly toascertain what had induced her to conceal such a document and to giveher evidence in quite a different tone and spirit just before.
“Yes, yes. I was telling lies just now. I was lying against my honorand my conscience, but I wanted to save him, for he has hated anddespised me so!” Katya cried madly. “Oh, he has despised me horribly,he has always despised me, and do you know, he has despised me from thevery moment that I bowed down to him for that money. I saw that.... Ifelt it at once at the time, but for a long time I wouldn’t believe it.How often I have read it in his eyes, ‘You came of yourself, though.’Oh, he didn’t understand, he had no idea why I ran to him, he cansuspect nothing but baseness, he judged me by himself, he thought everyone was like himself!” Katya hissed furiously, in a perfect frenzy.“And he only wanted to marry me, because I’d inherited a fortune,because of that, because of that! I always suspected it was because ofthat! Oh, he is a brute! He was always convinced that I should betrembling with shame all my life before him, because I went to himthen, and that he had a right to despise me for ever for it, and so tobe superior to me—that’s why he wanted to marry me! That’s so, that’sall so! I tried to conquer him by my love—a love that knew no bounds. Ieven tried to forgive his faithlessness; but he understood nothing,nothing! How could he understand indeed? He is a monster! I onlyreceived that letter the next evening: it was brought me from thetavern—and only that morning, only that morning I wanted to forgive himeverything, everything—even his treachery!”
The President and the prosecutor, of course, tried to calm her. I can’thelp thinking that they felt ashamed of taking advantage of herhysteria and of listening to such avowals. I remember hearing them sayto her, “We understand how hard it is for you; be sure we are able tofeel for you,” and so on, and so on. And yet they dragged the evidenceout of the raving, hysterical woman. She described at last withextraordinary clearness, which is so often seen, though only for amoment, in such over‐wrought states, how Ivan had been nearly drivenout of his mind during the last two months trying to save “the monsterand murderer,” his brother.
“He tortured himself,” she exclaimed, “he was always trying to minimizehis brother’s guilt and confessing to me that he, too, had never lovedhis father, and perhaps desired his death himself. Oh, he has a tender,over‐ tender conscience! He tormented himself with his conscience! Hetold me everything, everything! He came every day and talked to me ashis only friend. I have the honor to be his only friend!” she criedsuddenly with a sort of defiance, and her eyes flashed. “He had beentwice to see Smerdyakov. One day he came to me and said, ‘If it was notmy brother, but Smerdyakov committed the murder’ (for the legend wascirculating everywhere that Smerdyakov had done it), ‘perhaps I too amguilty, for Smerdyakov knew I didn’t like my father and perhapsbelieved that I desired my father’s death.’ Then I brought out thatletter and showed it him. He was entirely convinced that his brotherhad done it, and he was overwhelmed by it. He couldn’t endure thethought that his own brother was a parricide! Only a week ago I sawthat it was making him ill. During the last few days he has talkedincoherently in my presence. I saw his mind was giving way. He walkedabout, raving; he was seen muttering in the streets. The doctor fromMoscow, at my request, examined him the day before yesterday and toldme that he was on the eve of brain fever—and all on his account, onaccount of this monster! And last night he learnt that Smerdyakov wasdead! It was such a shock that it drove him out of his mind ... and allthrough this monster, all for the sake of saving the monster!”
Oh, of course, such an outpouring, such an avowal is only possible oncein a lifetime—at the hour of death, for instance, on the way to thescaffold! But it was in Katya’s character, and it was such a moment inher life. It was the same impetuous Katya who had thrown herself on themercy of a young profligate to save her father; the same Katya who hadjust before, in her pride and chastity, sacrificed herself and hermaidenly modesty before all these people, telling of Mitya’s generousconduct, in the hope of softening his fate a little. And now, again,she sacrificed herself; but this time it was for another, and perhapsonly now—perhaps only at this moment—she felt and knew how dear thatother was to her! She had sacrificed herself in terror for him,conceiving all of a sudden that he had ruined himself by his confessionthat it was he who had committed the murder, not his brother, she hadsacrificed herself to save him, to save his good name, his reputation!
And yet one terrible doubt occurred to one—was she lying in herdescription of her former relations with Mitya?—that was the question.No, she had not intentionally slandered him when she cried that Mityadespised her for her bowing down to him! She believed it herself. Shehad been firmly convinced, perhaps ever since that bow, that thesimple‐hearted Mitya, who even then adored her, was laughing at her anddespising her. She had loved him with an hysterical, “lacerated” loveonly from pride, from wounded pride, and that love was not like love,but more like revenge. Oh! perhaps that lacerated love would have growninto real love, perhaps Katya longed for nothing more than that, butMitya’s faithlessness had wounded her to the bottom of her heart, andher heart could not forgive him. The moment of revenge had come uponher suddenly, and all that had been accumulating so long and sopainfully in the offended woman’s breast burst out all at once andunexpectedly. She betrayed Mitya, but she betrayed herself, too. And nosooner had she given full expression to her feelings than the tensionof course was over and she was overwhelmed with shame. Hysterics beganagain: she fell on the floor, sobbing and screaming. She was carriedout. At that moment Grushenka, with a wail, rushed towards Mitya beforethey had time to prevent her.
“Mitya,” she wailed, “your serpent has destroyed you! There, she hasshown you what she is!” she shouted to the judges, shaking with anger.At a signal from the President they seized her and tried to remove herfrom the court. She wouldn’t allow it. She fought and struggled to getback to Mitya. Mitya uttered a cry and struggled to get to her. He wasoverpowered.
Yes, I think the ladies who came to see the spectacle must have beensatisfied—the show had been a varied one. Then I remember the Moscowdoctor appeared on the scene. I believe the President had previouslysent the court usher to arrange for medical aid for Ivan. The doctorannounced to the court that the sick man was suffering from a dangerousattack of brain fever, and that he must be at once removed. In answerto questions from the prosecutor and the counsel for the defense hesaid that the patient had come to him of his own accord the day beforeyesterday and that he had warned him that he had such an attack comingon, but he had not consented to be looked after. “He was certainly notin a normal state of mind: he told me himself that he saw visions whenhe was awake, that he met several persons in the street, who were dead,and that Satan visited him every evening,” said the doctor, inconclusion. Having given his evidence, the celebrated doctor withdrew.The letter produced by Katerina Ivanovna was added to the materialproofs. After some deliberation, the judges decided to proceed with thetrial and to enter both the unexpected pieces of evidence (given byIvan and Katerina Ivanovna) on the protocol.
But I will not detail the evidence of the other witnesses, who onlyrepeated and confirmed what had been said before, though all with theircharacteristic peculiarities. I repeat, all was brought together in theprosecutor’s speech, which I shall quote immediately. Every one wasexcited, every one was electrified by the late catastrophe, and allwere awaiting the speeches for the prosecution and the defense withintense impatience. Fetyukovitch was obviously shaken by KaterinaIvanovna’s evidence. But the prosecutor was triumphant. When all theevidence had been taken, the court was adjourned for almost an hour. Ibelieve it was just eight o’clock when the President returned to hisseat and our prosecutor, Ippolit Kirillovitch, began his speech.



Chapter VI.The Prosecutor’s Speech. Sketches Of Character

Ippolit Kirillovitch began his speech, trembling with nervousness, withcold sweat on his forehead, feeling hot and cold all over by turns. Hedescribed this himself afterwards. He regarded this speech as his_chef‐d’œuvre_, the _chef‐d’œuvre_ of his whole life, as his swan‐song.He died, it is true, nine months later of rapid consumption, so that hehad the right, as it turned out, to compare himself to a swan singinghis last song. He had put his whole heart and all the brain he had intothat speech. And poor Ippolit Kirillovitch unexpectedly revealed thatat least some feeling for the public welfare and “the eternal question”lay concealed in him. Where his speech really excelled was in itssincerity. He genuinely believed in the prisoner’s guilt; he wasaccusing him not as an official duty only, and in calling for vengeancehe quivered with a genuine passion “for the security of society.” Eventhe ladies in the audience, though they remained hostile to IppolitKirillovitch, admitted that he made an extraordinary impression onthem. He began in a breaking voice, but it soon gained strength andfilled the court to the end of his speech. But as soon as he hadfinished, he almost fainted.
“Gentlemen of the jury,” began the prosecutor, “this case has made astir throughout Russia. But what is there to wonder at, what is thereso peculiarly horrifying in it for us? We are so accustomed to suchcrimes! That’s what’s so horrible, that such dark deeds have ceased tohorrify us. What ought to horrify us is that we are so accustomed toit, and not this or that isolated crime. What are the causes of ourindifference, our lukewarm attitude to such deeds, to such signs of thetimes, ominous of an unenviable future? Is it our cynicism, is it thepremature exhaustion of intellect and imagination in a society that issinking into decay, in spite of its youth? Is it that our moralprinciples are shattered to their foundations, or is it, perhaps, acomplete lack of such principles among us? I cannot answer suchquestions; nevertheless they are disturbing, and every citizen not onlymust, but ought to be harassed by them. Our newborn and still timidpress has done good service to the public already, for without it weshould never have heard of the horrors of unbridled violence and moraldegradation which are continually made known by the press, not merelyto those who attend the new jury courts established in the presentreign, but to every one. And what do we read almost daily? Of thingsbeside which the present case grows pale, and seems almost commonplace.But what is most important is that the majority of our national crimesof violence bear witness to a widespread evil, now so general among usthat it is difficult to contend against it.
“One day we see a brilliant young officer of high society, at the veryoutset of his career, in a cowardly underhand way, without a pang ofconscience, murdering an official who had once been his benefactor, andthe servant girl, to steal his own I.O.U. and what ready money he couldfind on him; ‘it will come in handy for my pleasures in the fashionableworld and for my career in the future.’ After murdering them, he putspillows under the head of each of his victims; he goes away. Next, ayoung hero ‘decorated for bravery’ kills the mother of his chief andbenefactor, like a highwayman, and to urge his companions to join himhe asserts that ‘she loves him like a son, and so will follow all hisdirections and take no precautions.’ Granted that he is a monster, yetI dare not say in these days that he is unique. Another man will notcommit the murder, but will feel and think like him, and is asdishonorable in soul. In silence, alone with his conscience, he askshimself perhaps, ‘What is honor, and isn’t the condemnation ofbloodshed a prejudice?’
“Perhaps people will cry out against me that I am morbid, hysterical,that it is a monstrous slander, that I am exaggerating. Let them sayso—and heavens! I should be the first to rejoice if it were so! Oh,don’t believe me, think of me as morbid, but remember my words; if onlya tenth, if only a twentieth part of what I say is true—even so it’sawful! Look how our young people commit suicide, without askingthemselves Hamlet’s question what there is beyond, without a sign ofsuch a question, as though all that relates to the soul and to whatawaits us beyond the grave had long been erased in their minds andburied under the sands. Look at our vice, at our profligates. FyodorPavlovitch, the luckless victim in the present case, was almost aninnocent babe compared with many of them. And yet we all knew him, ‘helived among us!’...
“Yes, one day perhaps the leading intellects of Russia and of Europewill study the psychology of Russian crime, for the subject is worthit. But this study will come later, at leisure, when all the tragictopsy‐turvydom of to‐day is farther behind us, so that it’s possible toexamine it with more insight and more impartiality than I can do. Nowwe are either horrified or pretend to be horrified, though we reallygloat over the spectacle, and love strong and eccentric sensationswhich tickle our cynical, pampered idleness. Or, like little children,we brush the dreadful ghosts away and hide our heads in the pillow soas to return to our sports and merriment as soon as they have vanished.But we must one day begin life in sober earnest, we must look atourselves as a society; it’s time we tried to grasp something of oursocial position, or at least to make a beginning in that direction.
“A great writer[9] of the last epoch, comparing Russia to a swifttroika galloping to an unknown goal, exclaims, ‘Oh, troika, birdliketroika, who invented thee!’ and adds, in proud ecstasy, that all thepeoples of the world stand aside respectfully to make way for therecklessly galloping troika to pass. That may be, they may stand aside,respectfully or no, but in my poor opinion the great writer ended hisbook in this way either in an access of childish and naïve optimism, orsimply in fear of the censorship of the day. For if the troika weredrawn by his heroes, Sobakevitch, Nozdryov, Tchitchikov, it could reachno rational goal, whoever might be driving it. And those were theheroes of an older generation, ours are worse specimens still....”
At this point Ippolit Kirillovitch’s speech was interrupted byapplause. The liberal significance of this simile was appreciated. Theapplause was, it’s true, of brief duration, so that the President didnot think it necessary to caution the public, and only looked severelyin the direction of the offenders. But Ippolit Kirillovitch wasencouraged; he had never been applauded before! He had been all hislife unable to get a hearing, and now he suddenly had an opportunity ofsecuring the ear of all Russia.
“What, after all, is this Karamazov family, which has gained such anunenviable notoriety throughout Russia?” he continued. “Perhaps I amexaggerating, but it seems to me that certain fundamental features ofthe educated class of to‐day are reflected in this family picture—only,of course, in miniature, ‘like the sun in a drop of water.’ Think ofthat unhappy, vicious, unbridled old man, who has met with such amelancholy end, the head of a family! Beginning life of noble birth,but in a poor dependent position, through an unexpected marriage hecame into a small fortune. A petty knave, a toady and buffoon, offairly good, though undeveloped, intelligence, he was, above all, amoneylender, who grew bolder with growing prosperity. His abject andservile characteristics disappeared, his malicious and sarcasticcynicism was all that remained. On the spiritual side he wasundeveloped, while his vitality was excessive. He saw nothing in lifebut sensual pleasure, and he brought his children up to be the same. Hehad no feelings for his duties as a father. He ridiculed those duties.He left his little children to the servants, and was glad to be rid ofthem, forgot about them completely. The old man’s maxim was _Après moile déluge_. He was an example of everything that is opposed to civicduty, of the most complete and malignant individualism. ‘The world mayburn for aught I care, so long as I am all right,’ and he was allright; he was content, he was eager to go on living in the same way foranother twenty or thirty years. He swindled his own son and spent hismoney, his maternal inheritance, on trying to get his mistress fromhim. No, I don’t intend to leave the prisoner’s defense altogether tomy talented colleague from Petersburg. I will speak the truth myself, Ican well understand what resentment he had heaped up in his son’s heartagainst him.
“But enough, enough of that unhappy old man; he has paid the penalty.Let us remember, however, that he was a father, and one of the typicalfathers of to‐day. Am I unjust, indeed, in saying that he is typical ofmany modern fathers? Alas! many of them only differ in not openlyprofessing such cynicism, for they are better educated, more cultured,but their philosophy is essentially the same as his. Perhaps I am apessimist, but you have agreed to forgive me. Let us agree beforehand,you need not believe me, but let me speak. Let me say what I have tosay, and remember something of my words.
“Now for the children of this father, this head of a family. One ofthem is the prisoner before us, all the rest of my speech will dealwith him. Of the other two I will speak only cursorily.
“The elder is one of those modern young men of brilliant education andvigorous intellect, who has lost all faith in everything. He has deniedand rejected much already, like his father. We have all heard him, hewas a welcome guest in local society. He never concealed his opinions,quite the contrary in fact, which justifies me in speaking ratheropenly of him now, of course, not as an individual, but as a member ofthe Karamazov family. Another personage closely connected with the casedied here by his own hand last night. I mean an afflicted idiot,formerly the servant, and possibly the illegitimate son, of FyodorPavlovitch, Smerdyakov. At the preliminary inquiry, he told me withhysterical tears how the young Ivan Karamazov had horrified him by hisspiritual audacity. ‘Everything in the world is lawful according tohim, and nothing must be forbidden in the future—that is what he alwaystaught me.’ I believe that idiot was driven out of his mind by thistheory, though, of course, the epileptic attacks from which hesuffered, and this terrible catastrophe, have helped to unhinge hisfaculties. But he dropped one very interesting observation, which wouldhave done credit to a more intelligent observer, and that is, indeed,why I’ve mentioned it: ‘If there is one of the sons that is like FyodorPavlovitch in character, it is Ivan Fyodorovitch.’
“With that remark I conclude my sketch of his character, feeling itindelicate to continue further. Oh, I don’t want to draw any furtherconclusions and croak like a raven over the young man’s future. We’veseen to‐day in this court that there are still good impulses in hisyoung heart, that family feeling has not been destroyed in him by lackof faith and cynicism, which have come to him rather by inheritancethan by the exercise of independent thought.
“Then the third son. Oh, he is a devout and modest youth, who does notshare his elder brother’s gloomy and destructive theory of life. He hassought to cling to the ‘ideas of the people,’ or to what goes by thatname in some circles of our intellectual classes. He clung to themonastery, and was within an ace of becoming a monk. He seems to me tohave betrayed unconsciously, and so early, that timid despair whichleads so many in our unhappy society, who dread cynicism and itscorrupting influences, and mistakenly attribute all the mischief toEuropean enlightenment, to return to their ‘native soil,’ as they say,to the bosom, so to speak, of their mother earth, like frightenedchildren, yearning to fall asleep on the withered bosom of theirdecrepit mother, and to sleep there for ever, only to escape thehorrors that terrify them.
“For my part I wish the excellent and gifted young man every success; Itrust that his youthful idealism and impulse towards the ideas of thepeople may never degenerate, as often happens, on the moral side intogloomy mysticism, and on the political into blind chauvinism—twoelements which are even a greater menace to Russia than the prematuredecay, due to misunderstanding and gratuitous adoption of Europeanideas, from which his elder brother is suffering.”
Two or three people clapped their hands at the mention of chauvinismand mysticism. Ippolit Kirillovitch had been, indeed, carried away byhis own eloquence. All this had little to do with the case in hand, tosay nothing of the fact of its being somewhat vague, but the sickly andconsumptive man was overcome by the desire to express himself once inhis life. People said afterwards that he was actuated by unworthymotives in his criticism of Ivan, because the latter had on one or twooccasions got the better of him in argument, and Ippolit Kirillovitch,remembering it, tried now to take his revenge. But I don’t know whetherit was true. All this was only introductory, however, and the speechpassed to more direct consideration of the case.
“But to return to the eldest son,” Ippolit Kirillovitch went on. “He isthe prisoner before us. We have his life and his actions, too, beforeus; the fatal day has come and all has been brought to the surface.While his brothers seem to stand for ‘Europeanism’ and ‘the principlesof the people,’ he seems to represent Russia as she is. Oh, not allRussia, not all! God preserve us, if it were! Yet, here we have her,our mother Russia, the very scent and sound of her. Oh, he isspontaneous, he is a marvelous mingling of good and evil, he is a loverof culture and Schiller, yet he brawls in taverns and plucks out thebeards of his boon companions. Oh, he, too, can be good and noble, butonly when all goes well with him. What is more, he can be carried offhis feet, positively carried off his feet by noble ideals, but only ifthey come of themselves, if they fall from heaven for him, if they neednot be paid for. He dislikes paying for anything, but is very fond ofreceiving, and that’s so with him in everything. Oh, give him everypossible good in life (he couldn’t be content with less), and put noobstacle in his way, and he will show that he, too, can be noble. He isnot greedy, no, but he must have money, a great deal of money, and youwill see how generously, with what scorn of filthy lucre, he will flingit all away in the reckless dissipation of one night. But if he has notmoney, he will show what he is ready to do to get it when he is ingreat need of it. But all this later, let us take events in theirchronological order.
“First, we have before us a poor abandoned child, running about theback‐ yard ‘without boots on his feet,’ as our worthy and esteemedfellow citizen, of foreign origin, alas! expressed it just now. Irepeat it again, I yield to no one the defense of the criminal. I amhere to accuse him, but to defend him also. Yes, I, too, am human; I,too, can weigh the influence of home and childhood on the character.But the boy grows up and becomes an officer; for a duel and otherreckless conduct he is exiled to one of the remote frontier towns ofRussia. There he led a wild life as an officer. And, of course, heneeded money, money before all things, and so after prolonged disputeshe came to a settlement with his father, and the last six thousand wassent him. A letter is in existence in which he practically gives up hisclaim to the rest and settles his conflict with his father over theinheritance on the payment of this six thousand.
“Then came his meeting with a young girl of lofty character andbrilliant education. Oh, I do not venture to repeat the details; youhave only just heard them. Honor, self‐sacrifice were shown there, andI will be silent. The figure of the young officer, frivolous andprofligate, doing homage to true nobility and a lofty ideal, was shownin a very sympathetic light before us. But the other side of the medalwas unexpectedly turned to us immediately after in this very court.Again I will not venture to conjecture why it happened so, but therewere causes. The same lady, bathed in tears of long‐concealedindignation, alleged that he, he of all men, had despised her for heraction, which, though incautious, reckless perhaps, was still dictatedby lofty and generous motives. He, he, the girl’s betrothed, looked ather with that smile of mockery, which was more insufferable from himthan from any one. And knowing that he had already deceived her (he haddeceived her, believing that she was bound to endure everything fromhim, even treachery), she intentionally offered him three thousandroubles, and clearly, too clearly, let him understand that she wasoffering him money to deceive her. ‘Well, will you take it or not, areyou so lost to shame?’ was the dumb question in her scrutinizing eyes.He looked at her, saw clearly what was in her mind (he’s admitted herebefore you that he understood it all), appropriated that three thousandunconditionally, and squandered it in two days with the new object ofhis affections.
“What are we to believe then? The first legend of the young officersacrificing his last farthing in a noble impulse of generosity anddoing reverence to virtue, or this other revolting picture? As a rule,between two extremes one has to find the mean, but in the present casethis is not true. The probability is that in the first case he wasgenuinely noble, and in the second as genuinely base. And why? Becausehe was of the broad Karamazov character—that’s just what I am leadingup to—capable of combining the most incongruous contradictions, andcapable of the greatest heights and of the greatest depths. Rememberthe brilliant remark made by a young observer who has seen theKaramazov family at close quarters—Mr. Rakitin: ‘The sense of their owndegradation is as essential to those reckless, unbridled natures as thesense of their lofty generosity.’ And that’s true, they needcontinually this unnatural mixture. Two extremes at the same moment, orthey are miserable and dissatisfied and their existence is incomplete.They are wide, wide as mother Russia; they include everything and putup with everything.
“By the way, gentlemen of the jury, we’ve just touched upon that threethousand roubles, and I will venture to anticipate things a little. Canyou conceive that a man like that, on receiving that sum and in such away, at the price of such shame, such disgrace, such utter degradation,could have been capable that very day of setting apart half that sum,that very day, and sewing it up in a little bag, and would have had thefirmness of character to carry it about with him for a whole monthafterwards, in spite of every temptation and his extreme need of it!Neither in drunken debauchery in taverns, nor when he was flying intothe country, trying to get from God knows whom, the money so essentialto him to remove the object of his affections from being tempted by hisfather, did he bring himself to touch that little bag! Why, if only toavoid abandoning his mistress to the rival of whom he was so jealous,he would have been certain to have opened that bag and to have stayedat home to keep watch over her, and to await the moment when she wouldsay to him at last ‘I am yours,’ and to fly with her far from theirfatal surroundings.
“But no, he did not touch his talisman, and what is the reason he givesfor it? The chief reason, as I have just said, was that when she wouldsay, ‘I am yours, take me where you will,’ he might have thewherewithal to take her. But that first reason, in the prisoner’s ownwords, was of little weight beside the second. While I have that moneyon me, he said, I am a scoundrel, not a thief, for I can always go tomy insulted betrothed, and, laying down half the sum I havefraudulently appropriated, I can always say to her, ‘You see, I’vesquandered half your money, and shown I am a weak and immoral man, and,if you like, a scoundrel’ (I use the prisoner’s own expressions), ‘butthough I am a scoundrel, I am not a thief, for if I had been a thief, Ishouldn’t have brought you back this half of the money, but should havetaken it as I did the other half!’ A marvelous explanation! Thisfrantic, but weak man, who could not resist the temptation of acceptingthe three thousand roubles at the price of such disgrace, this very mansuddenly develops the most stoical firmness, and carries about athousand roubles without daring to touch it. Does that fit in at allwith the character we have analyzed? No, and I venture to tell you howthe real Dmitri Karamazov would have behaved in such circumstances, ifhe really had brought himself to put away the money.
“At the first temptation—for instance, to entertain the woman with whomhe had already squandered half the money—he would have unpicked hislittle bag and have taken out some hundred roubles, for why should hehave taken back precisely half the money, that is, fifteen hundredroubles? why not fourteen hundred? He could just as well have said thenthat he was not a thief, because he brought back fourteen hundredroubles. Then another time he would have unpicked it again and takenout another hundred, and then a third, and then a fourth, and beforethe end of the month he would have taken the last note but one, feelingthat if he took back only a hundred it would answer the purpose, for athief would have stolen it all. And then he would have looked at thislast note, and have said to himself, ‘It’s really not worth while togive back one hundred; let’s spend that, too!’ That’s how the realDmitri Karamazov, as we know him, would have behaved. One cannotimagine anything more incongruous with the actual fact than this legendof the little bag. Nothing could be more inconceivable. But we shallreturn to that later.”
After touching upon what had come out in the proceedings concerning thefinancial relations of father and son, and arguing again and again thatit was utterly impossible, from the facts known, to determine which wasin the wrong, Ippolit Kirillovitch passed to the evidence of themedical experts in reference to Mitya’s fixed idea about the threethousand owing him.



Chapter VII.An Historical Survey

“The medical experts have striven to convince us that the prisoner isout of his mind and, in fact, a maniac. I maintain that he is in hisright mind, and that if he had not been, he would have behaved morecleverly. As for his being a maniac, that I would agree with, but onlyin one point, that is, his fixed idea about the three thousand. Yet Ithink one might find a much simpler cause than his tendency toinsanity. For my part I agree thoroughly with the young doctor whomaintained that the prisoner’s mental faculties have always beennormal, and that he has only been irritable and exasperated. The objectof the prisoner’s continual and violent anger was not the sum itself;there was a special motive at the bottom of it. That motive isjealousy!”
Here Ippolit Kirillovitch described at length the prisoner’s fatalpassion for Grushenka. He began from the moment when the prisoner wentto the “young person’s” lodgings “to beat her”—“I use his ownexpression,” the prosecutor explained—“but instead of beating her, heremained there, at her feet. That was the beginning of the passion. Atthe same time the prisoner’s father was captivated by the same youngperson—a strange and fatal coincidence, for they both lost their heartsto her simultaneously, though both had known her before. And sheinspired in both of them the most violent, characteristically Karamazovpassion. We have her own confession: ‘I was laughing at both of them.’Yes, the sudden desire to make a jest of them came over her, and sheconquered both of them at once. The old man, who worshiped money, atonce set aside three thousand roubles as a reward for one visit fromher, but soon after that, he would have been happy to lay his propertyand his name at her feet, if only she would become his lawful wife. Wehave good evidence of this. As for the prisoner, the tragedy of hisfate is evident; it is before us. But such was the young person’s‘game.’ The enchantress gave the unhappy young man no hope until thelast moment, when he knelt before her, stretching out hands that werealready stained with the blood of his father and rival. It was in thatposition that he was arrested. ‘Send me to Siberia with him, I havebrought him to this, I am most to blame,’ the woman herself cried, ingenuine remorse at the moment of his arrest.
“The talented young man, to whom I have referred already, Mr. Rakitin,characterized this heroine in brief and impressive terms: ‘She wasdisillusioned early in life, deceived and ruined by a betrothed, whoseduced and abandoned her. She was left in poverty, cursed by herrespectable family, and taken under the protection of a wealthy oldman, whom she still, however, considers as her benefactor. There wasperhaps much that was good in her young heart, but it was embitteredtoo early. She became prudent and saved money. She grew sarcastic andresentful against society.’ After this sketch of her character it maywell be understood that she might laugh at both of them simply frommischief, from malice.
“After a month of hopeless love and moral degradation, during which hebetrayed his betrothed and appropriated money entrusted to his honor,the prisoner was driven almost to frenzy, almost to madness bycontinual jealousy—and of whom? His father! And the worst of it wasthat the crazy old man was alluring and enticing the object of hisaffection by means of that very three thousand roubles, which the sonlooked upon as his own property, part of his inheritance from hismother, of which his father was cheating him. Yes, I admit it was hardto bear! It might well drive a man to madness. It was not the money,but the fact that this money was used with such revolting cynicism toruin his happiness!”
Then the prosecutor went on to describe how the idea of murdering hisfather had entered the prisoner’s head, and illustrated his theory withfacts.
“At first he only talked about it in taverns—he was talking about itall that month. Ah, he likes being always surrounded with company, andhe likes to tell his companions everything, even his most diabolicaland dangerous ideas; he likes to share every thought with others, andexpects, for some reason, that those he confides in will meet him withperfect sympathy, enter into all his troubles and anxieties, take hispart and not oppose him in anything. If not, he flies into a rage andsmashes up everything in the tavern. [Then followed the anecdote aboutCaptain Snegiryov.] Those who heard the prisoner began to think at lastthat he might mean more than threats, and that such a frenzy might turnthreats into actions.”
Here the prosecutor described the meeting of the family at themonastery, the conversations with Alyosha, and the horrible scene ofviolence when the prisoner had rushed into his father’s house justafter dinner.
“I cannot positively assert,” the prosecutor continued, “that theprisoner fully intended to murder his father before that incident. Yetthe idea had several times presented itself to him, and he haddeliberated on it—for that we have facts, witnesses, and his own words.I confess, gentlemen of the jury,” he added, “that till to‐day I havebeen uncertain whether to attribute to the prisoner consciouspremeditation. I was firmly convinced that he had pictured the fatalmoment beforehand, but had only pictured it, contemplating it as apossibility. He had not definitely considered when and how he mightcommit the crime.
“But I was only uncertain till to‐day, till that fatal document waspresented to the court just now. You yourselves heard that young lady’sexclamation, ‘It is the plan, the program of the murder!’ That is howshe defined that miserable, drunken letter of the unhappy prisoner.And, in fact, from that letter we see that the whole fact of the murderwas premeditated. It was written two days before, and so we know nowfor a fact that, forty‐eight hours before the perpetration of histerrible design, the prisoner swore that, if he could not get moneynext day, he would murder his father in order to take the envelope withthe notes from under his pillow, as soon as Ivan had left. ‘As soon asIvan had gone away’—you hear that; so he had thought everything out,weighing every circumstance, and he carried it all out just as he hadwritten it. The proof of premeditation is conclusive; the crime musthave been committed for the sake of the money, that is stated clearly,that is written and signed. The prisoner does not deny his signature.
“I shall be told he was drunk when he wrote it. But that does notdiminish the value of the letter, quite the contrary; he wrote whendrunk what he had planned when sober. Had he not planned it when sober,he would not have written it when drunk. I shall be asked: Then why didhe talk about it in taverns? A man who premeditates such a crime issilent and keeps it to himself. Yes, but he talked about it before hehad formed a plan, when he had only the desire, only the impulse to it.Afterwards he talked less about it. On the evening he wrote that letterat the ‘Metropolis’ tavern, contrary to his custom he was silent,though he had been drinking. He did not play billiards, he sat in acorner, talked to no one. He did indeed turn a shopman out of his seat,but that was done almost unconsciously, because he could never enter atavern without making a disturbance. It is true that after he had takenthe final decision, he must have felt apprehensive that he had talkedtoo much about his design beforehand, and that this might lead to hisarrest and prosecution afterwards. But there was nothing for it; hecould not take his words back, but his luck had served him before, itwould serve him again. He believed in his star, you know! I mustconfess, too, that he did a great deal to avoid the fatal catastrophe.‘To‐morrow I shall try and borrow the money from every one,’ as hewrites in his peculiar language, ‘and if they won’t give it to me,there will be bloodshed.’ ”
Here Ippolit Kirillovitch passed to a detailed description of allMitya’s efforts to borrow the money. He described his visit toSamsonov, his journey to Lyagavy. “Harassed, jeered at, hungry, afterselling his watch to pay for the journey (though he tells us he hadfifteen hundred roubles on him—a likely story), tortured by jealousy athaving left the object of his affections in the town, suspecting thatshe would go to Fyodor Pavlovitch in his absence, he returned at lastto the town, to find, to his joy, that she had not been near hisfather. He accompanied her himself to her protector. (Strange to say,he doesn’t seem to have been jealous of Samsonov, which ispsychologically interesting.) Then he hastens back to his ambush in theback gardens, and there learns that Smerdyakov is in a fit, that theother servant is ill—the coast is clear and he knows the ‘signals’—whata temptation! Still he resists it; he goes off to a lady who has forsome time been residing in the town, and who is highly esteemed amongus, Madame Hohlakov. That lady, who had long watched his career withcompassion, gave him the most judicious advice, to give up hisdissipated life, his unseemly love‐affair, the waste of his youth andvigor in pot‐house debauchery, and to set off to Siberia to the gold‐mines: ‘that would be an outlet for your turbulent energies, yourromantic character, your thirst for adventure.’ ”
After describing the result of this conversation and the moment whenthe prisoner learnt that Grushenka had not remained at Samsonov’s, thesudden frenzy of the luckless man worn out with jealousy and nervousexhaustion, at the thought that she had deceived him and was now withhis father, Ippolit Kirillovitch concluded by dwelling upon the fatalinfluence of chance. “Had the maid told him that her mistress was atMokroe with her former lover, nothing would have happened. But she losther head, she could only swear and protest her ignorance, and if theprisoner did not kill her on the spot, it was only because he flew inpursuit of his false mistress.
“But note, frantic as he was, he took with him a brass pestle. Whythat? Why not some other weapon? But since he had been contemplatinghis plan and preparing himself for it for a whole month, he wouldsnatch up anything like a weapon that caught his eye. He had realizedfor a month past that any object of the kind would serve as a weapon,so he instantly, without hesitation, recognized that it would serve hispurpose. So it was by no means unconsciously, by no meansinvoluntarily, that he snatched up that fatal pestle. And then we findhim in his father’s garden—the coast is clear, there are no witnesses,darkness and jealousy. The suspicion that she was there, with him, withhis rival, in his arms, and perhaps laughing at him at that moment—tookhis breath away. And it was not mere suspicion, the deception was open,obvious. She must be there, in that lighted room, she must be behindthe screen; and the unhappy man would have us believe that he stole upto the window, peeped respectfully in, and discreetly withdrew, forfear something terrible and immoral should happen. And he tries topersuade us of that, us, who understand his character, who know hisstate of mind at the moment, and that he knew the signals by which hecould at once enter the house.” At this point Ippolit Kirillovitchbroke off to discuss exhaustively the suspected connection ofSmerdyakov with the murder. He did this very circumstantially, andevery one realized that, although he professed to despise thatsuspicion, he thought the subject of great importance.



Chapter VIII.A Treatise On Smerdyakov

“To begin with, what was the source of this suspicion?” (IppolitKirillovitch began.) “The first person who cried out that Smerdyakovhad committed the murder was the prisoner himself at the moment of hisarrest, yet from that time to this he had not brought forward a singlefact to confirm the charge, nor the faintest suggestion of a fact. Thecharge is confirmed by three persons only—the two brothers of theprisoner and Madame Svyetlov. The elder of these brothers expressed hissuspicions only to‐day, when he was undoubtedly suffering from brainfever. But we know that for the last two months he has completelyshared our conviction of his brother’s guilt and did not attempt tocombat that idea. But of that later. The younger brother has admittedthat he has not the slightest fact to support his notion ofSmerdyakov’s guilt, and has only been led to that conclusion from theprisoner’s own words and the expression of his face. Yes, thatastounding piece of evidence has been brought forward twice to‐ day byhim. Madame Svyetlov was even more astounding. ‘What the prisoner tellsyou, you must believe; he is not a man to tell a lie.’ That is all theevidence against Smerdyakov produced by these three persons, who areall deeply concerned in the prisoner’s fate. And yet the theory ofSmerdyakov’s guilt has been noised about, has been and is stillmaintained. Is it credible? Is it conceivable?”
Here Ippolit Kirillovitch thought it necessary to describe thepersonality of Smerdyakov, “who had cut short his life in a fit ofinsanity.” He depicted him as a man of weak intellect, with asmattering of education, who had been thrown off his balance byphilosophical ideas above his level and certain modern theories ofduty, which he learnt in practice from the reckless life of his master,who was also perhaps his father—Fyodor Pavlovitch; and, theoretically,from various strange philosophical conversations with his master’selder son, Ivan Fyodorovitch, who readily indulged in this diversion,probably feeling dull or wishing to amuse himself at the valet’sexpense. “He spoke to me himself of his spiritual condition during thelast few days at his father’s house,” Ippolit Kirillovitch explained;“but others too have borne witness to it—the prisoner himself, hisbrother, and the servant Grigory—that is, all who knew him well.
“Moreover, Smerdyakov, whose health was shaken by his attacks ofepilepsy, had not the courage of a chicken. ‘He fell at my feet andkissed them,’ the prisoner himself has told us, before he realized howdamaging such a statement was to himself. ‘He is an epileptic chicken,’he declared about him in his characteristic language. And the prisonerchose him for his confidant (we have his own word for it) and hefrightened him into consenting at last to act as a spy for him. In thatcapacity he deceived his master, revealing to the prisoner theexistence of the envelope with the notes in it and the signals by meansof which he could get into the house. How could he help telling him,indeed? ‘He would have killed me, I could see that he would have killedme,’ he said at the inquiry, trembling and shaking even before us,though his tormentor was by that time arrested and could do him noharm. ‘He suspected me at every instant. In fear and trembling Ihastened to tell him every secret to pacify him, that he might see thatI had not deceived him and let me off alive.’ Those are his own words.I wrote them down and I remember them. ‘When he began shouting at me, Iwould fall on my knees.’
“He was naturally very honest and enjoyed the complete confidence ofhis master, ever since he had restored him some money he had lost. Soit may be supposed that the poor fellow suffered pangs of remorse athaving deceived his master, whom he loved as his benefactor. Personsseverely afflicted with epilepsy are, so the most skillful doctors tellus, always prone to continual and morbid self‐reproach. They worry overtheir ‘wickedness,’ they are tormented by pangs of conscience, oftenentirely without cause; they exaggerate and often invent all sorts offaults and crimes. And here we have a man of that type who had reallybeen driven to wrong‐doing by terror and intimidation.
“He had, besides, a strong presentiment that something terrible wouldbe the outcome of the situation that was developing before his eyes.When Ivan Fyodorovitch was leaving for Moscow, just before thecatastrophe, Smerdyakov besought him to remain, though he was too timidto tell him plainly what he feared. He confined himself to hints, buthis hints were not understood.
“It must be observed that he looked on Ivan Fyodorovitch as aprotector, whose presence in the house was a guarantee that no harmwould come to pass. Remember the phrase in Dmitri Karamazov’s drunkenletter, ‘I shall kill the old man, if only Ivan goes away.’ So IvanFyodorovitch’s presence seemed to every one a guarantee of peace andorder in the house.
“But he went away, and within an hour of his young master’s departureSmerdyakov was taken with an epileptic fit. But that’s perfectlyintelligible. Here I must mention that Smerdyakov, oppressed by terrorand despair of a sort, had felt during those last few days that one ofthe fits from which he had suffered before at moments of strain, mightbe coming upon him again. The day and hour of such an attack cannot, ofcourse, be foreseen, but every epileptic can feel beforehand that he islikely to have one. So the doctors tell us. And so, as soon as IvanFyodorovitch had driven out of the yard, Smerdyakov, depressed by hislonely and unprotected position, went to the cellar. He went down thestairs wondering if he would have a fit or not, and what if it were tocome upon him at once. And that very apprehension, that very wonder,brought on the spasm in his throat that always precedes such attacks,and he fell unconscious into the cellar. And in this perfectly naturaloccurrence people try to detect a suspicion, a hint that he wasshamming an attack _on purpose_. But, if it were on purpose, thequestion arises at once, what was his motive? What was he reckoning on?What was he aiming at? I say nothing about medicine: science, I amtold, may go astray: the doctors were not able to discriminate betweenthe counterfeit and the real. That may be so, but answer me onequestion: what motive had he for such a counterfeit? Could he, had hebeen plotting the murder, have desired to attract the attention of thehousehold by having a fit just before?
“You see, gentlemen of the jury, on the night of the murder, there werefive persons in Fyodor Pavlovitch’s—Fyodor Pavlovitch himself (but hedid not kill himself, that’s evident); then his servant, Grigory, buthe was almost killed himself; the third person was Grigory’s wife,Marfa Ignatyevna, but it would be simply shameful to imagine hermurdering her master. Two persons are left—the prisoner and Smerdyakov.But, if we are to believe the prisoner’s statement that he is not themurderer, then Smerdyakov must have been, for there is no otheralternative, no one else can be found. That is what accounts for theartful, astounding accusation against the unhappy idiot who committedsuicide yesterday. Had a shadow of suspicion rested on any one else,had there been any sixth person, I am persuaded that even the prisonerwould have been ashamed to accuse Smerdyakov, and would have accusedthat sixth person, for to charge Smerdyakov with that murder isperfectly absurd.
“Gentlemen, let us lay aside psychology, let us lay aside medicine, letus even lay aside logic, let us turn only to the facts and see what thefacts tell us. If Smerdyakov killed him, how did he do it? Alone orwith the assistance of the prisoner? Let us consider the firstalternative—that he did it alone. If he had killed him it must havebeen with some object, for some advantage to himself. But not having ashadow of the motive that the prisoner had for the murder—hatred,jealousy, and so on—Smerdyakov could only have murdered him for thesake of gain, in order to appropriate the three thousand roubles he hadseen his master put in the envelope. And yet he tells anotherperson—and a person most closely interested, that is, theprisoner—everything about the money and the signals, where the envelopelay, what was written on it, what it was tied up with, and, above all,told him of those signals by which he could enter the house. Did he dothis simply to betray himself, or to invite to the same enterprise onewho would be anxious to get that envelope for himself? ‘Yes,’ I shallbe told, ‘but he betrayed it from fear.’ But how do you explain this? Aman who could conceive such an audacious, savage act, and carry it out,tells facts which are known to no one else in the world, and which, ifhe held his tongue, no one would ever have guessed!
“No, however cowardly he might be, if he had plotted such a crime,nothing would have induced him to tell any one about the envelope andthe signals, for that was as good as betraying himself beforehand. Hewould have invented something, he would have told some lie if he hadbeen forced to give information, but he would have been silent aboutthat. For, on the other hand, if he had said nothing about the money,but had committed the murder and stolen the money, no one in the worldcould have charged him with murder for the sake of robbery, since noone but he had seen the money, no one but he knew of its existence inthe house. Even if he had been accused of the murder, it could onlyhave been thought that he had committed it from some other motive. Butsince no one had observed any such motive in him beforehand, and everyone saw, on the contrary, that his master was fond of him and honoredhim with his confidence, he would, of course, have been the last to besuspected. People would have suspected first the man who had a motive,a man who had himself declared he had such motives, who had made nosecret of it; they would, in fact, have suspected the son of themurdered man, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Had Smerdyakov killed and robbedhim, and the son been accused of it, that would, of course, have suitedSmerdyakov. Yet are we to believe that, though plotting the murder, hetold that son, Dmitri, about the money, the envelope, and the signals?Is that logical? Is that clear?
“When the day of the murder planned by Smerdyakov came, we have himfalling downstairs in a _feigned_ fit—with what object? In the firstplace that Grigory, who had been intending to take his medicine, mightput it off and remain on guard, seeing there was no one to look afterthe house, and, in the second place, I suppose, that his master seeingthat there was no one to guard him, and in terror of a visit from hisson, might redouble his vigilance and precaution. And, most of all, Isuppose that he, Smerdyakov, disabled by the fit, might be carried fromthe kitchen, where he always slept, apart from all the rest, and wherehe could go in and out as he liked, to Grigory’s room at the other endof the lodge, where he was always put, shut off by a screen three pacesfrom their own bed. This was the immemorial custom established by hismaster and the kind‐hearted Marfa Ignatyevna, whenever he had a fit.There, lying behind the screen, he would most likely, to keep up thesham, have begun groaning, and so keeping them awake all night (asGrigory and his wife testified). And all this, we are to believe, thathe might more conveniently get up and murder his master!
“But I shall be told that he shammed illness on purpose that he mightnot be suspected and that he told the prisoner of the money and thesignals to tempt him to commit the murder, and when he had murdered himand had gone away with the money, making a noise, most likely, andwaking people, Smerdyakov got up, am I to believe, and went in—whatfor? To murder his master a second time and carry off the money thathad already been stolen? Gentlemen, are you laughing? I am ashamed toput forward such suggestions, but, incredible as it seems, that’s justwhat the prisoner alleges. When he had left the house, had knockedGrigory down and raised an alarm, he tells us Smerdyakov got up, wentin and murdered his master and stole the money! I won’t press the pointthat Smerdyakov could hardly have reckoned on this beforehand, and haveforeseen that the furious and exasperated son would simply come to peepin respectfully, though he knew the signals, and beat a retreat,leaving Smerdyakov his booty. Gentlemen of the jury, I put thisquestion to you in earnest; when was the moment when Smerdyakov couldhave committed his crime? Name that moment, or you can’t accuse him.
“But, perhaps, the fit was a real one, the sick man suddenly recovered,heard a shout, and went out. Well—what then? He looked about him andsaid, ‘Why not go and kill the master?’ And how did he know what hadhappened, since he had been lying unconscious till that moment? Butthere’s a limit to these flights of fancy.
“ ‘Quite so,’ some astute people will tell me, ‘but what if they werein agreement? What if they murdered him together and shared themoney—what then?’ A weighty question, truly! And the facts to confirmit are astounding. One commits the murder and takes all the troublewhile his accomplice lies on one side shamming a fit, apparently toarouse suspicion in every one, alarm in his master and alarm inGrigory. It would be interesting to know what motives could haveinduced the two accomplices to form such an insane plan.
“But perhaps it was not a case of active complicity on Smerdyakov’spart, but only of passive acquiescence; perhaps Smerdyakov wasintimidated and agreed not to prevent the murder, and foreseeing thathe would be blamed for letting his master be murdered, withoutscreaming for help or resisting, he may have obtained permission fromDmitri Karamazov to get out of the way by shamming a fit—‘you maymurder him as you like; it’s nothing to me.’ But as this attack ofSmerdyakov’s was bound to throw the household into confusion, DmitriKaramazov could never have agreed to such a plan. I will waive thatpoint however. Supposing that he did agree, it would still follow thatDmitri Karamazov is the murderer and the instigator, and Smerdyakov isonly a passive accomplice, and not even an accomplice, but merelyacquiesced against his will through terror.
“But what do we see? As soon as he is arrested the prisoner instantlythrows all the blame on Smerdyakov, not accusing him of being hisaccomplice, but of being himself the murderer. ‘He did it alone,’ hesays. ‘He murdered and robbed him. It was the work of his hands.’Strange sort of accomplices who begin to accuse one another at once!And think of the risk for Karamazov. After committing the murder whilehis accomplice lay in bed, he throws the blame on the invalid, whomight well have resented it and in self‐preservation might well haveconfessed the truth. For he might well have seen that the court wouldat once judge how far he was responsible, and so he might well havereckoned that if he were punished, it would be far less severely thanthe real murderer. But in that case he would have been certain to makea confession, yet he has not done so. Smerdyakov never hinted at theircomplicity, though the actual murderer persisted in accusing him anddeclaring that he had committed the crime alone.
“What’s more, Smerdyakov at the inquiry volunteered the statement thatit was _he_ who had told the prisoner of the envelope of notes and ofthe signals, and that, but for him, he would have known nothing aboutthem. If he had really been a guilty accomplice, would he so readilyhave made this statement at the inquiry? On the contrary, he would havetried to conceal it, to distort the facts or minimize them. But he wasfar from distorting or minimizing them. No one but an innocent man, whohad no fear of being charged with complicity, could have acted as hedid. And in a fit of melancholy arising from his disease and thiscatastrophe he hanged himself yesterday. He left a note written in hispeculiar language, ‘I destroy myself of my own will and inclination soas to throw no blame on any one.’ What would it have cost him to add:‘I am the murderer, not Karamazov’? But that he did not add. Did hisconscience lead him to suicide and not to avowing his guilt?
“And what followed? Notes for three thousand roubles were brought intothe court just now, and we were told that they were the same that layin the envelope now on the table before us, and that the witness hadreceived them from Smerdyakov the day before. But I need not recall thepainful scene, though I will make one or two comments, selecting suchtrivial ones as might not be obvious at first sight to every one, andso may be overlooked. In the first place, Smerdyakov must have givenback the money and hanged himself yesterday from remorse. And onlyyesterday he confessed his guilt to Ivan Karamazov, as the latterinforms us. If it were not so, indeed, why should Ivan Fyodorovitchhave kept silence till now? And so, if he has confessed, then why, Iask again, did he not avow the whole truth in the last letter he leftbehind, knowing that the innocent prisoner had to face this terribleordeal the next day?
“The money alone is no proof. A week ago, quite by chance, the factcame to the knowledge of myself and two other persons in this courtthat Ivan Fyodorovitch had sent two five per cent. coupons of fivethousand each—that is, ten thousand in all—to the chief town of theprovince to be changed. I only mention this to point out that any onemay have money, and that it can’t be proved that these notes are thesame as were in Fyodor Pavlovitch’s envelope.
“Ivan Karamazov, after receiving yesterday a communication of suchimportance from the real murderer, did not stir. Why didn’t he reportit at once? Why did he put it all off till morning? I think I have aright to conjecture why. His health had been giving way for a weekpast: he had admitted to a doctor and to his most intimate friends thathe was suffering from hallucinations and seeing phantoms of the dead:he was on the eve of the attack of brain fever by which he has beenstricken down to‐day. In this condition he suddenly heard ofSmerdyakov’s death, and at once reflected, ‘The man is dead, I canthrow the blame on him and save my brother. I have money. I will take aroll of notes and say that Smerdyakov gave them me before his death.’You will say that was dishonorable: it’s dishonorable to slander eventhe dead, and even to save a brother. True, but what if he slanderedhim unconsciously? What if, finally unhinged by the sudden news of thevalet’s death, he imagined it really was so? You saw the recent scene:you have seen the witness’s condition. He was standing up and wasspeaking, but where was his mind?
“Then followed the document, the prisoner’s letter written two daysbefore the crime, and containing a complete program of the murder. Why,then, are we looking for any other program? The crime was committedprecisely according to this program, and by no other than the writer ofit. Yes, gentlemen of the jury, it went off without a hitch! He did notrun respectfully and timidly away from his father’s window, though hewas firmly convinced that the object of his affections was with him.No, that is absurd and unlikely! He went in and murdered him. Mostlikely he killed him in anger, burning with resentment, as soon as helooked on his hated rival. But having killed him, probably with oneblow of the brass pestle, and having convinced himself, after carefulsearch, that she was not there, he did not, however, forget to put hishand under the pillow and take out the envelope, the torn cover ofwhich lies now on the table before us.
“I mention this fact that you may note one, to my thinking, verycharacteristic circumstance. Had he been an experienced murderer andhad he committed the murder for the sake of gain only, would he haveleft the torn envelope on the floor as it was found, beside the corpse?Had it been Smerdyakov, for instance, murdering his master to rob him,he would have simply carried away the envelope with him, withouttroubling himself to open it over his victim’s corpse, for he wouldhave known for certain that the notes were in the envelope—they hadbeen put in and sealed up in his presence—and had he taken the envelopewith him, no one would ever have known of the robbery. I ask you,gentlemen, would Smerdyakov have behaved in that way? Would he haveleft the envelope on the floor?
“No, this was the action of a frantic murderer, a murderer who was nota thief and had never stolen before that day, who snatched the notesfrom under the pillow, not like a thief stealing them, but as thoughseizing his own property from the thief who had stolen it. For that wasthe idea which had become almost an insane obsession in DmitriKaramazov in regard to that money. And pouncing upon the envelope,which he had never seen before, he tore it open to make sure whetherthe money was in it, and ran away with the money in his pocket, evenforgetting to consider that he had left an astounding piece of evidenceagainst himself in that torn envelope on the floor. All because it wasKaramazov, not Smerdyakov, he didn’t think, he didn’t reflect, and howshould he? He ran away; he heard behind him the servant cry out; theold man caught him, stopped him and was felled to the ground by thebrass pestle.
“The prisoner, moved by pity, leapt down to look at him. Would youbelieve it, he tells us that he leapt down out of pity, out ofcompassion, to see whether he could do anything for him. Was that amoment to show compassion? No; he jumped down simply to make certainwhether the only witness of his crime were dead or alive. Any otherfeeling, any other motive would be unnatural. Note that he took troubleover Grigory, wiped his head with his handkerchief and, convincinghimself he was dead, he ran to the house of his mistress, dazed andcovered with blood. How was it he never thought that he was coveredwith blood and would be at once detected? But the prisoner himselfassures us that he did not even notice that he was covered with blood.That may be believed, that is very possible, that always happens atsuch moments with criminals. On one point they will show diabolicalcunning, while another will escape them altogether. But he was thinkingat that moment of one thing only—where was _she_? He wanted to find outat once where she was, so he ran to her lodging and learnt anunexpected and astounding piece of news—she had gone off to Mokroe tomeet her first lover.”



Chapter IX.The Galloping Troika. The End Of The Prosecutor’s Speech.

Ippolit Kirillovitch had chosen the historical method of exposition,beloved by all nervous orators, who find in its limitation a check ontheir own eager rhetoric. At this moment in his speech he went off intoa dissertation on Grushenka’s “first lover,” and brought forwardseveral interesting thoughts on this theme.
“Karamazov, who had been frantically jealous of every one, collapsed,so to speak, and effaced himself at once before this first lover. Whatmakes it all the more strange is that he seems to have hardly thoughtof this formidable rival. But he had looked upon him as a remotedanger, and Karamazov always lives in the present. Possibly he regardedhim as a fiction. But his wounded heart grasped instantly that thewoman had been concealing this new rival and deceiving him, because hewas anything but a fiction to her, because he was the one hope of herlife. Grasping this instantly, he resigned himself.
“Gentlemen of the jury, I cannot help dwelling on this unexpected traitin the prisoner’s character. He suddenly evinces an irresistible desirefor justice, a respect for woman and a recognition of her right tolove. And all this at the very moment when he had stained his handswith his father’s blood for her sake! It is true that the blood he hadshed was already crying out for vengeance, for, after having ruined hissoul and his life in this world, he was forced to ask himself at thatsame instant what he was and what he could be now to her, to thatbeing, dearer to him than his own soul, in comparison with that formerlover who had returned penitent, with new love, to the woman he hadonce betrayed, with honorable offers, with the promise of a reformedand happy life. And he, luckless man, what could he give her now, whatcould he offer her?
“Karamazov felt all this, knew that all ways were barred to him by hiscrime and that he was a criminal under sentence, and not a man withlife before him! This thought crushed him. And so he instantly flew toone frantic plan, which, to a man of Karamazov’s character, must haveappeared the one inevitable way out of his terrible position. That wayout was suicide. He ran for the pistols he had left in pledge with hisfriend Perhotin and on the way, as he ran, he pulled out of his pocketthe money, for the sake of which he had stained his hands with hisfather’s gore. Oh, now he needed money more than ever. Karamazov woulddie, Karamazov would shoot himself and it should be remembered! To besure, he was a poet and had burnt the candle at both ends all his life.‘To her, to her! and there, oh, there I will give a feast to the wholeworld, such as never was before, that will be remembered and talked oflong after! In the midst of shouts of wild merriment, reckless gypsysongs and dances I shall raise the glass and drink to the woman I adoreand her new‐found happiness! And then, on the spot, at her feet, Ishall dash out my brains before her and punish myself! She willremember Mitya Karamazov sometimes, she will see how Mitya loved her,she will feel for Mitya!’
“Here we see in excess a love of effect, a romantic despair andsentimentality, and the wild recklessness of the Karamazovs. Yes, butthere is something else, gentlemen of the jury, something that criesout in the soul, throbs incessantly in the mind, and poisons the heartunto death—that _something_ is conscience, gentlemen of the jury, itsjudgment, its terrible torments! The pistol will settle everything, thepistol is the only way out! But _beyond_—I don’t know whether Karamazovwondered at that moment ‘What lies beyond,’ and whether Karamazovcould, like Hamlet, wonder ‘What lies beyond.’ No, gentlemen of thejury, they have their Hamlets, but we still have our Karamazovs!”
Here Ippolit Kirillovitch drew a minute picture of Mitya’spreparations, the scene at Perhotin’s, at the shop, with the drivers.He quoted numerous words and actions, confirmed by witnesses, and thepicture made a terrible impression on the audience. The guilt of thisharassed and desperate man stood out clear and convincing, when thefacts were brought together.
“What need had he of precaution? Two or three times he almostconfessed, hinted at it, all but spoke out.” (Then followed theevidence given by witnesses.) “He even cried out to the peasant whodrove him, ‘Do you know, you are driving a murderer!’ But it wasimpossible for him to speak out, he had to get to Mokroe and there tofinish his romance. But what was awaiting the luckless man? Almost fromthe first minute at Mokroe he saw that his invincible rival was perhapsby no means so invincible, that the toast to their new‐found happinesswas not desired and would not be acceptable. But you know the facts,gentlemen of the jury, from the preliminary inquiry. Karamazov’striumph over his rival was complete and his soul passed into quite anew phase, perhaps the most terrible phase through which his soul haspassed or will pass.
“One may say with certainty, gentlemen of the jury,” the prosecutorcontinued, “that outraged nature and the criminal heart bring their ownvengeance more completely than any earthly justice. What’s more,justice and punishment on earth positively alleviate the punishment ofnature and are, indeed, essential to the soul of the criminal at suchmoments, as its salvation from despair. For I cannot imagine the horrorand moral suffering of Karamazov when he learnt that she loved him,that for his sake she had rejected her first lover, that she wassummoning him, Mitya, to a new life, that she was promising himhappiness—and when? When everything was over for him and nothing waspossible!
“By the way, I will note in parenthesis a point of importance for thelight it throws on the prisoner’s position at the moment. This woman,this love of his, had been till the last moment, till the very instantof his arrest, a being unattainable, passionately desired by him butunattainable. Yet why did he not shoot himself then, why did herelinquish his design and even forget where his pistol was? It was justthat passionate desire for love and the hope of satisfying it thatrestrained him. Throughout their revels he kept close to his adoredmistress, who was at the banquet with him and was more charming andfascinating to him than ever—he did not leave her side, abasing himselfin his homage before her.
“His passion might well, for a moment, stifle not only the fear ofarrest, but even the torments of conscience. For a moment, oh, only fora moment! I can picture the state of mind of the criminal hopelesslyenslaved by these influences—first, the influence of drink, of noiseand excitement, of the thud of the dance and the scream of the song,and of her, flushed with wine, singing and dancing and laughing to him!Secondly, the hope in the background that the fatal end might still befar off, that not till next morning, at least, they would come and takehim. So he had a few hours and that’s much, very much! In a few hoursone can think of many things. I imagine that he felt something likewhat criminals feel when they are being taken to the scaffold. Theyhave another long, long street to pass down and at walking pace, pastthousands of people. Then there will be a turning into another streetand only at the end of that street the dread place of execution! Ifancy that at the beginning of the journey the condemned man, sittingon his shameful cart, must feel that he has infinite life still beforehim. The houses recede, the cart moves on—oh, that’s nothing, it’sstill far to the turning into the second street and he still looksboldly to right and to left at those thousands of callously curiouspeople with their eyes fixed on him, and he still fancies that he isjust such a man as they. But now the turning comes to the next street.Oh, that’s nothing, nothing, there’s still a whole street before him,and however many houses have been passed, he will still think there aremany left. And so to the very end, to the very scaffold.
“This I imagine is how it was with Karamazov then. ‘They’ve not hadtime yet,’ he must have thought, ‘I may still find some way out, oh,there’s still time to make some plan of defense, and now, now—she is sofascinating!’
“His soul was full of confusion and dread, but he managed, however, toput aside half his money and hide it somewhere—I cannot otherwiseexplain the disappearance of quite half of the three thousand he hadjust taken from his father’s pillow. He had been in Mokroe more thanonce before, he had caroused there for two days together already, heknew the old big house with all its passages and outbuildings. Iimagine that part of the money was hidden in that house, not longbefore the arrest, in some crevice, under some floor, in some corner,under the roof. With what object? I shall be asked. Why, thecatastrophe may take place at once, of course; he hadn’t yet consideredhow to meet it, he hadn’t the time, his head was throbbing and hisheart was with _her_, but money—money was indispensable in any case!With money a man is always a man. Perhaps such foresight at such amoment may strike you as unnatural? But he assures us himself that amonth before, at a critical and exciting moment, he had halved hismoney and sewn it up in a little bag. And though that was not true, aswe shall prove directly, it shows the idea was a familiar one toKaramazov, he had contemplated it. What’s more, when he declared at theinquiry that he had put fifteen hundred roubles in a bag (which neverexisted) he may have invented that little bag on the inspiration of themoment, because he had two hours before divided his money and hiddenhalf of it at Mokroe till morning, in case of emergency, simply not tohave it on himself. Two extremes, gentlemen of the jury, remember thatKaramazov can contemplate two extremes and both at once.
“We have looked in the house, but we haven’t found the money. It maystill be there or it may have disappeared next day and be in theprisoner’s hands now. In any case he was at her side, on his kneesbefore her, she was lying on the bed, he had his hands stretched out toher and he had so entirely forgotten everything that he did not evenhear the men coming to arrest him. He hadn’t time to prepare any lineof defense in his mind. He was caught unawares and confronted with hisjudges, the arbiters of his destiny.
“Gentlemen of the jury, there are moments in the execution of ourduties when it is terrible for us to face a man, terrible on hisaccount, too! The moments of contemplating that animal fear, when thecriminal sees that all is lost, but still struggles, still means tostruggle, the moments when every instinct of self‐preservation rises upin him at once and he looks at you with questioning and suffering eyes,studies you, your face, your thoughts, uncertain on which side you willstrike, and his distracted mind frames thousands of plans in aninstant, but he is still afraid to speak, afraid of giving himselfaway! This purgatory of the spirit, this animal thirst forself‐preservation, these humiliating moments of the human soul, areawful, and sometimes arouse horror and compassion for the criminal evenin the lawyer. And this was what we all witnessed then.
“At first he was thunderstruck and in his terror dropped some verycompromising phrases. ‘Blood! I’ve deserved it!’ But he quicklyrestrained himself. He had not prepared what he was to say, what answerhe was to make, he had nothing but a bare denial ready. ‘I am notguilty of my father’s death.’ That was his fence for the moment andbehind it he hoped to throw up a barricade of some sort. His firstcompromising exclamations he hastened to explain by declaring that hewas responsible for the death of the servant Grigory only. ‘Of thatbloodshed I am guilty, but who has killed my father, gentlemen, who haskilled him? Who can have killed him, _if not I_?’ Do you hear, he askedus that, us, who had come to ask him that question! Do you hear thatphrase uttered with such premature haste—‘if not I’—the animal cunning,the naïveté, the Karamazov impatience of it? ‘I didn’t kill him and youmustn’t think I did! I wanted to kill him, gentlemen, I wanted to killhim,’ he hastens to admit (he was in a hurry, in a terrible hurry),‘but still I am not guilty, it is not I murdered him.’ He concedes tous that he wanted to murder him, as though to say, you can see foryourselves how truthful I am, so you’ll believe all the sooner that Ididn’t murder him. Oh, in such cases the criminal is often amazinglyshallow and credulous.
“At that point one of the lawyers asked him, as it were incidentally,the most simple question, ‘Wasn’t it Smerdyakov killed him?’ Then, aswe expected, he was horribly angry at our having anticipated him andcaught him unawares, before he had time to pave the way to choose andsnatch the moment when it would be most natural to bring inSmerdyakov’s name. He rushed at once to the other extreme, as he alwaysdoes, and began to assure us that Smerdyakov could not have killed him,was not capable of it. But don’t believe him, that was only hiscunning; he didn’t really give up the idea of Smerdyakov; on thecontrary, he meant to bring him forward again; for, indeed, he had noone else to bring forward, but he would do that later, because for themoment that line was spoiled for him. He would bring him forwardperhaps next day, or even a few days later, choosing an opportunity tocry out to us, ‘You know I was more skeptical about Smerdyakov thanyou, you remember that yourselves, but now I am convinced. He killedhim, he must have done!’ And for the present he falls back upon agloomy and irritable denial. Impatience and anger prompted him,however, to the most inept and incredible explanation of how he lookedinto his father’s window and how he respectfully withdrew. The worst ofit was that he was unaware of the position of affairs, of the evidencegiven by Grigory.
“We proceeded to search him. The search angered, but encouraged him,the whole three thousand had not been found on him, only half of it.And no doubt only at that moment of angry silence, the fiction of thelittle bag first occurred to him. No doubt he was conscious himself ofthe improbability of the story and strove painfully to make it soundmore likely, to weave it into a romance that would sound plausible. Insuch cases the first duty, the chief task of the investigating lawyers,is to prevent the criminal being prepared, to pounce upon himunexpectedly so that he may blurt out his cherished ideas in all theirsimplicity, improbability and inconsistency. The criminal can only bemade to speak by the sudden and apparently incidental communication ofsome new fact, of some circumstance of great importance in the case, ofwhich he had no previous idea and could not have foreseen. We had sucha fact in readiness—that was Grigory’s evidence about the open doorthrough which the prisoner had run out. He had completely forgottenabout that door and had not even suspected that Grigory could have seenit.
“The effect of it was amazing. He leapt up and shouted to us, ‘ThenSmerdyakov murdered him, it was Smerdyakov!’ and so betrayed the basisof the defense he was keeping back, and betrayed it in its mostimprobable shape, for Smerdyakov could only have committed the murderafter he had knocked Grigory down and run away. When we told him thatGrigory saw the door was open before he fell down, and had heardSmerdyakov behind the screen as he came out of his bedroom—Karamazovwas positively crushed. My esteemed and witty colleague, NikolayParfenovitch, told me afterwards that he was almost moved to tears atthe sight of him. And to improve matters, the prisoner hastened to tellus about the much‐talked‐of little bag—so be it, you shall hear thisromance!
“Gentlemen of the jury, I have told you already why I consider thisromance not only an absurdity, but the most improbable invention thatcould have been brought forward in the circumstances. If one tried fora bet to invent the most unlikely story, one could hardly find anythingmore incredible. The worst of such stories is that the triumphantromancers can always be put to confusion and crushed by the verydetails in which real life is so rich and which these unhappy andinvoluntary story‐tellers neglect as insignificant trifles. Oh, theyhave no thought to spare for such details, their minds are concentratedon their grand invention as a whole, and fancy any one daring to pullthem up for a trifle! But that’s how they are caught. The prisoner wasasked the question, ‘Where did you get the stuff for your little bagand who made it for you?’ ‘I made it myself.’ ‘And where did you getthe linen?’ The prisoner was positively offended, he thought it almostinsulting to ask him such a trivial question, and would you believe it,his resentment was genuine! But they are all like that. ‘I tore it offmy shirt.’ ‘Then we shall find that shirt among your linen to‐morrow,with a piece torn off.’ And only fancy, gentlemen of the jury, if wereally had found that torn shirt (and how could we have failed to findit in his chest of drawers or trunk?) that would have been a fact, amaterial fact in support of his statement! But he was incapable of thatreflection. ‘I don’t remember, it may not have been off my shirt, Isewed it up in one of my landlady’s caps.’ ‘What sort of a cap?’ ‘Itwas an old cotton rag of hers lying about.’ ‘And do you remember thatclearly?’ ‘No, I don’t.’ And he was angry, very angry, and yet imaginenot remembering it! At the most terrible moments of man’s life, forinstance when he is being led to execution, he remembers just suchtrifles. He will forget anything but some green roof that has flashedpast him on the road, or a jackdaw on a cross—that he will remember. Heconcealed the making of that little bag from his household, he musthave remembered his humiliating fear that some one might come in andfind him needle in hand, how at the slightest sound he slipped behindthe screen (there is a screen in his lodgings).
“But, gentlemen of the jury, why do I tell you all this, all thesedetails, trifles?” cried Ippolit Kirillovitch suddenly. “Just becausethe prisoner still persists in these absurdities to this moment. He hasnot explained anything since that fatal night two months ago, he hasnot added one actual illuminating fact to his former fantasticstatements; all those are trivialities. ‘You must believe it on myhonor.’ Oh, we are glad to believe it, we are eager to believe it, evenif only on his word of honor! Are we jackals thirsting for human blood?Show us a single fact in the prisoner’s favor and we shall rejoice; butlet it be a substantial, real fact, and not a conclusion drawn from theprisoner’s expression by his own brother, or that when he beat himselfon the breast he must have meant to point to the little bag, in thedarkness, too. We shall rejoice at the new fact, we shall be the firstto repudiate our charge, we shall hasten to repudiate it. But nowjustice cries out and we persist, we cannot repudiate anything.”
Ippolit Kirillovitch passed to his final peroration. He looked asthough he was in a fever, he spoke of the blood that cried forvengeance, the blood of the father murdered by his son, with the basemotive of robbery! He pointed to the tragic and glaring consistency ofthe facts.
“And whatever you may hear from the talented and celebrated counsel forthe defense,” Ippolit Kirillovitch could not resist adding, “whatevereloquent and touching appeals may be made to your sensibilities,remember that at this moment you are in a temple of justice. Rememberthat you are the champions of our justice, the champions of our holyRussia, of her principles, her family, everything that she holdssacred! Yes, you represent Russia here at this moment, and your verdictwill be heard not in this hall only but will reëcho throughout thewhole of Russia, and all Russia will hear you, as her champions and herjudges, and she will be encouraged or disheartened by your verdict. Donot disappoint Russia and her expectations. Our fatal troika dashes onin her headlong flight perhaps to destruction and in all Russia forlong past men have stretched out imploring hands and called a halt toits furious reckless course. And if other nations stand aside from thattroika that may be, not from respect, as the poet would fain believe,but simply from horror. From horror, perhaps from disgust. And well itis that they stand aside, but maybe they will cease one day to do soand will form a firm wall confronting the hurrying apparition and willcheck the frenzied rush of our lawlessness, for the sake of their ownsafety, enlightenment and civilization. Already we have heard voices ofalarm from Europe, they already begin to sound. Do not tempt them! Donot heap up their growing hatred by a sentence justifying the murder ofa father by his son!”
Though Ippolit Kirillovitch was genuinely moved, he wound up his speechwith this rhetorical appeal—and the effect produced by him wasextraordinary. When he had finished his speech, he went out hurriedlyand, as I have mentioned before, almost fainted in the adjoining room.There was no applause in the court, but serious persons were pleased.The ladies were not so well satisfied, though even they were pleasedwith his eloquence, especially as they had no apprehensions as to theupshot of the trial and had full trust in Fetyukovitch. “He will speakat last and of course carry all before him.”
Every one looked at Mitya; he sat silent through the whole of theprosecutor’s speech, clenching his teeth, with his hands clasped, andhis head bowed. Only from time to time he raised his head and listened,especially when Grushenka was spoken of. When the prosecutor mentionedRakitin’s opinion of her, a smile of contempt and anger passed over hisface and he murmured rather audibly, “The Bernards!” When IppolitKirillovitch described how he had questioned and tortured him atMokroe, Mitya raised his head and listened with intense curiosity. Atone point he seemed about to jump up and cry out, but controlledhimself and only shrugged his shoulders disdainfully. People talkedafterwards of the end of the speech, of the prosecutor’s feat inexamining the prisoner at Mokroe, and jeered at Ippolit Kirillovitch.“The man could not resist boasting of his cleverness,” they said.
The court was adjourned, but only for a short interval, a quarter of anhour or twenty minutes at most. There was a hum of conversation andexclamations in the audience. I remember some of them.
“A weighty speech,” a gentleman in one group observed gravely.
“He brought in too much psychology,” said another voice.
“But it was all true, the absolute truth!”
“Yes, he is first rate at it.”
“He summed it all up.”
“Yes, he summed us up, too,” chimed in another voice. “Do you remember,at the beginning of his speech, making out we were all like FyodorPavlovitch?”
“And at the end, too. But that was all rot.”
“And obscure too.”
“He was a little too much carried away.”
“It’s unjust, it’s unjust.”
“No, it was smartly done, anyway. He’s had long to wait, but he’s hadhis say, ha ha!”
“What will the counsel for the defense say?”
In another group I heard:
“He had no business to make a thrust at the Petersburg man like that;‘appealing to your sensibilities’—do you remember?”
“Yes, that was awkward of him.”
“He was in too great a hurry.”
“He is a nervous man.”
“We laugh, but what must the prisoner be feeling?”
“Yes, what must it be for Mitya?”
In a third group:
“What lady is that, the fat one, with the lorgnette, sitting at theend?”
“She is a general’s wife, divorced, I know her.”
“That’s why she has the lorgnette.”
“She is not good for much.”
“Oh, no, she is a piquante little woman.”
“Two places beyond her there is a little fair woman, she is prettier.”
“They caught him smartly at Mokroe, didn’t they, eh?”
“Oh, it was smart enough. We’ve heard it before, how often he has toldthe story at people’s houses!”
“And he couldn’t resist doing it now. That’s vanity.”
“He is a man with a grievance, he he!”
“Yes, and quick to take offense. And there was too much rhetoric, suchlong sentences.”
“Yes, he tries to alarm us, he kept trying to alarm us. Do you rememberabout the troika? Something about ‘They have Hamlets, but we have, sofar, only Karamazovs!’ That was cleverly said!”
“That was to propitiate the liberals. He is afraid of them.”
“Yes, and he is afraid of the lawyer, too.”
“Yes, what will Fetyukovitch say?”
“Whatever he says, he won’t get round our peasants.”
“Don’t you think so?”
A fourth group:
“What he said about the troika was good, that piece about the othernations.”
“And that was true what he said about other nations not standing it.”
“What do you mean?”
“Why, in the English Parliament a Member got up last week and speakingabout the Nihilists asked the Ministry whether it was not high time tointervene, to educate this barbarous people. Ippolit was thinking ofhim, I know he was. He was talking about that last week.”
“Not an easy job.”
“Not an easy job? Why not?”
“Why, we’d shut up Kronstadt and not let them have any corn. Wherewould they get it?”
“In America. They get it from America now.”
“Nonsense!”
But the bell rang, all rushed to their places. Fetyukovitch mounted thetribune.



Chapter X.The Speech For The Defense. An Argument That Cuts Both Ways

All was hushed as the first words of the famous orator rang out. Theeyes of the audience were fastened upon him. He began very simply anddirectly, with an air of conviction, but not the slightest trace ofconceit. He made no attempt at eloquence, at pathos, or emotionalphrases. He was like a man speaking in a circle of intimate andsympathetic friends. His voice was a fine one, sonorous andsympathetic, and there was something genuine and simple in the verysound of it. But every one realized at once that the speaker mightsuddenly rise to genuine pathos and “pierce the heart with untoldpower.” His language was perhaps more irregular than IppolitKirillovitch’s, but he spoke without long phrases, and indeed, withmore precision. One thing did not please the ladies: he kept bendingforward, especially at the beginning of his speech, not exactly bowing,but as though he were about to dart at his listeners, bending his longspine in half, as though there were a spring in the middle that enabledhim to bend almost at right angles.
At the beginning of his speech he spoke rather disconnectedly, withoutsystem, one may say, dealing with facts separately, though, at the end,these facts formed a whole. His speech might be divided into two parts,the first consisting of criticism in refutation of the charge,sometimes malicious and sarcastic. But in the second half he suddenlychanged his tone, and even his manner, and at once rose to pathos. Theaudience seemed on the look‐out for it, and quivered with enthusiasm.
He went straight to the point, and began by saying that although hepracticed in Petersburg, he had more than once visited provincial townsto defend prisoners, of whose innocence he had a conviction or at leasta preconceived idea. “That is what has happened to me in the presentcase,” he explained. “From the very first accounts in the newspapers Iwas struck by something which strongly prepossessed me in theprisoner’s favor. What interested me most was a fact which often occursin legal practice, but rarely, I think, in such an extreme and peculiarform as in the present case. I ought to formulate that peculiarity onlyat the end of my speech, but I will do so at the very beginning, for itis my weakness to go to work directly, not keeping my effects inreserve and economizing my material. That may be imprudent on my part,but at least it’s sincere. What I have in my mind is this: there is anoverwhelming chain of evidence against the prisoner, and at the sametime not one fact that will stand criticism, if it is examinedseparately. As I followed the case more closely in the papers my ideawas more and more confirmed, and I suddenly received from theprisoner’s relatives a request to undertake his defense. I at oncehurried here, and here I became completely convinced. It was to breakdown this terrible chain of facts, and to show that each piece ofevidence taken separately was unproved and fantastic, that I undertookthe case.”
So Fetyukovitch began.
“Gentlemen of the jury,” he suddenly protested, “I am new to thisdistrict. I have no preconceived ideas. The prisoner, a man ofturbulent and unbridled temper, has not insulted me. But he hasinsulted perhaps hundreds of persons in this town, and so prejudicedmany people against him beforehand. Of course I recognize that themoral sentiment of local society is justly excited against him. Theprisoner is of turbulent and violent temper. Yet he was received insociety here; he was even welcome in the family of my talented friend,the prosecutor.”
(N.B. At these words there were two or three laughs in the audience,quickly suppressed, but noticed by all. All of us knew that theprosecutor received Mitya against his will, solely because he hadsomehow interested his wife—a lady of the highest virtue and moralworth, but fanciful, capricious, and fond of opposing her husband,especially in trifles. Mitya’s visits, however, had not been frequent.)
“Nevertheless I venture to suggest,” Fetyukovitch continued, “that inspite of his independent mind and just character, my opponent may haveformed a mistaken prejudice against my unfortunate client. Oh, that isso natural; the unfortunate man has only too well deserved suchprejudice. Outraged morality, and still more outraged taste, is oftenrelentless. We have, in the talented prosecutor’s speech, heard a sternanalysis of the prisoner’s character and conduct, and his severecritical attitude to the case was evident. And, what’s more, he wentinto psychological subtleties into which he could not have entered, ifhe had the least conscious and malicious prejudice against theprisoner. But there are things which are even worse, even more fatal insuch cases, than the most malicious and consciously unfair attitude. Itis worse if we are carried away by the artistic instinct, by the desireto create, so to speak, a romance, especially if God has endowed uswith psychological insight. Before I started on my way here, I waswarned in Petersburg, and was myself aware, that I should find here atalented opponent whose psychological insight and subtlety had gainedhim peculiar renown in legal circles of recent years. But profound aspsychology is, it’s a knife that cuts both ways.” (Laughter among thepublic.) “You will, of course, forgive me my comparison; I can’t boastof eloquence. But I will take as an example any point in theprosecutor’s speech.
“The prisoner, running away in the garden in the dark, climbed over thefence, was seized by the servant, and knocked him down with a brasspestle. Then he jumped back into the garden and spent five minutes overthe man, trying to discover whether he had killed him or not. And theprosecutor refuses to believe the prisoner’s statement that he ran toold Grigory out of pity. ‘No,’ he says, ‘such sensibility is impossibleat such a moment, that’s unnatural; he ran to find out whether the onlywitness of his crime was dead or alive, and so showed that he hadcommitted the murder, since he would not have run back for any otherreason.’
“Here you have psychology; but let us take the same method and apply itto the case the other way round, and our result will be no lessprobable. The murderer, we are told, leapt down to find out, as aprecaution, whether the witness was alive or not, yet he had left inhis murdered father’s study, as the prosecutor himself argues, anamazing piece of evidence in the shape of a torn envelope, with aninscription that there had been three thousand roubles in it. ‘If hehad carried that envelope away with him, no one in the world would haveknown of that envelope and of the notes in it, and that the money hadbeen stolen by the prisoner.’ Those are the prosecutor’s own words. Soon one side you see a complete absence of precaution, a man who haslost his head and run away in a fright, leaving that clew on the floor,and two minutes later, when he has killed another man, we are entitledto assume the most heartless and calculating foresight in him. But evenadmitting this was so, it is psychological subtlety, I suppose, thatdiscerns that under certain circumstances I become as bloodthirsty andkeen‐sighted as a Caucasian eagle, while at the next I am as timid andblind as a mole. But if I am so bloodthirsty and cruelly calculatingthat when I kill a man I only run back to find out whether he is aliveto witness against me, why should I spend five minutes looking after myvictim at the risk of encountering other witnesses? Why soak myhandkerchief, wiping the blood off his head so that it may be evidenceagainst me later? If he were so cold‐hearted and calculating, why nothit the servant on the head again and again with the same pestle so asto kill him outright and relieve himself of all anxiety about thewitness?
“Again, though he ran to see whether the witness was alive, he leftanother witness on the path, that brass pestle which he had taken fromthe two women, and which they could always recognize afterwards astheirs, and prove that he had taken it from them. And it is not asthough he had forgotten it on the path, dropped it through carelessnessor haste, no, he had flung away his weapon, for it was found fifteenpaces from where Grigory lay. Why did he do so? Just because he wasgrieved at having killed a man, an old servant; and he flung away thepestle with a curse, as a murderous weapon. That’s how it must havebeen, what other reason could he have had for throwing it so far? Andif he was capable of feeling grief and pity at having killed a man, itshows that he was innocent of his father’s murder. Had he murdered him,he would never have run to another victim out of pity; then he wouldhave felt differently; his thoughts would have been centered onself‐preservation. He would have had none to spare for pity, that isbeyond doubt. On the contrary, he would have broken his skull insteadof spending five minutes looking after him. There was room for pity andgood‐feeling just because his conscience had been clear till then. Herewe have a different psychology. I have purposely resorted to thismethod, gentlemen of the jury, to show that you can prove anything byit. It all depends on who makes use of it. Psychology lures even mostserious people into romancing, and quite unconsciously. I am speakingof the abuse of psychology, gentlemen.”
Sounds of approval and laughter, at the expense of the prosecutor, wereagain audible in the court. I will not repeat the speech in detail; Iwill only quote some passages from it, some leading points.



Chapter XI.There Was No Money. There Was No Robbery

There was one point that struck every one in Fetyukovitch’s speech. Heflatly denied the existence of the fatal three thousand roubles, andconsequently, the possibility of their having been stolen.
“Gentlemen of the jury,” he began. “Every new and unprejudiced observermust be struck by a characteristic peculiarity in the present case,namely, the charge of robbery, and the complete impossibility ofproving that there was anything to be stolen. We are told that moneywas stolen—three thousand roubles—but whether those roubles everexisted, nobody knows. Consider, how have we heard of that sum, and whohas seen the notes? The only person who saw them, and stated that theyhad been put in the envelope, was the servant, Smerdyakov. He hadspoken of it to the prisoner and his brother, Ivan Fyodorovitch, beforethe catastrophe. Madame Svyetlov, too, had been told of it. But not oneof these three persons had actually seen the notes, no one butSmerdyakov had seen them.
“Here the question arises, if it’s true that they did exist, and thatSmerdyakov had seen them, when did he see them for the last time? Whatif his master had taken the notes from under his bed and put them backin his cash‐box without telling him? Note, that according toSmerdyakov’s story the notes were kept under the mattress; the prisonermust have pulled them out, and yet the bed was absolutely unrumpled;that is carefully recorded in the protocol. How could the prisoner havefound the notes without disturbing the bed? How could he have helpedsoiling with his blood‐ stained hands the fine and spotless linen withwhich the bed had been purposely made?
“But I shall be asked: What about the envelope on the floor? Yes, it’sworth saying a word or two about that envelope. I was somewhatsurprised just now to hear the highly talented prosecutor declare ofhimself—of himself, observe—that but for that envelope, but for itsbeing left on the floor, no one in the world would have known of theexistence of that envelope and the notes in it, and therefore of theprisoner’s having stolen it. And so that torn scrap of paper is, by theprosecutor’s own admission, the sole proof on which the charge ofrobbery rests, ‘otherwise no one would have known of the robbery, norperhaps even of the money.’ But is the mere fact that that scrap ofpaper was lying on the floor a proof that there was money in it, andthat that money had been stolen? Yet, it will be objected, Smerdyakovhad seen the money in the envelope. But when, when had he seen it forthe last time, I ask you that? I talked to Smerdyakov, and he told methat he had seen the notes two days before the catastrophe. Then whynot imagine that old Fyodor Pavlovitch, locked up alone in impatientand hysterical expectation of the object of his adoration, may havewhiled away the time by breaking open the envelope and taking out thenotes. ‘What’s the use of the envelope?’ he may have asked himself.‘She won’t believe the notes are there, but when I show her the thirtyrainbow‐colored notes in one roll, it will make more impression, youmay be sure, it will make her mouth water.’ And so he tears open theenvelope, takes out the money, and flings the envelope on the floor,conscious of being the owner and untroubled by any fears of leavingevidence.
“Listen, gentlemen, could anything be more likely than this theory andsuch an action? Why is it out of the question? But if anything of thesort could have taken place, the charge of robbery falls to the ground;if there was no money, there was no theft of it. If the envelope on thefloor may be taken as evidence that there had been money in it, why mayI not maintain the opposite, that the envelope was on the floor becausethe money had been taken from it by its owner?
“But I shall be asked what became of the money if Fyodor Pavlovitchtook it out of the envelope since it was not found when the policesearched the house? In the first place, part of the money was found inthe cash‐box, and secondly, he might have taken it out that morning orthe evening before to make some other use of it, to give or send itaway; he may have changed his idea, his plan of action completely,without thinking it necessary to announce the fact to Smerdyakovbeforehand. And if there is the barest possibility of such anexplanation, how can the prisoner be so positively accused of havingcommitted murder for the sake of robbery, and of having actuallycarried out that robbery? This is encroaching on the domain of romance.If it is maintained that something has been stolen, the thing must beproduced, or at least its existence must be proved beyond doubt. Yet noone had ever seen these notes.
“Not long ago in Petersburg a young man of eighteen, hardly more than aboy, who carried on a small business as a costermonger, went in broaddaylight into a moneychanger’s shop with an ax, and with extraordinary,typical audacity killed the master of the shop and carried off fifteenhundred roubles. Five hours later he was arrested, and, except fifteenroubles he had already managed to spend, the whole sum was found onhim. Moreover, the shopman, on his return to the shop after the murder,informed the police not only of the exact sum stolen, but even of thenotes and gold coins of which that sum was made up, and those verynotes and coins were found on the criminal. This was followed by a fulland genuine confession on the part of the murderer. That’s what I callevidence, gentlemen of the jury! In that case I know, I see, I touchthe money, and cannot deny its existence. Is it the same in the presentcase? And yet it is a question of life and death.
“Yes, I shall be told, but he was carousing that night, squanderingmoney; he was shown to have had fifteen hundred roubles—where did heget the money? But the very fact that only fifteen hundred could befound, and the other half of the sum could nowhere be discovered, showsthat that money was not the same, and had never been in any envelope.By strict calculation of time it was proved at the preliminary inquirythat the prisoner ran straight from those women servants to Perhotin’swithout going home, and that he had been nowhere. So he had been allthe time in company and therefore could not have divided the threethousand in half and hidden half in the town. It’s just thisconsideration that has led the prosecutor to assume that the money ishidden in some crevice at Mokroe. Why not in the dungeons of the castleof Udolpho, gentlemen? Isn’t this supposition really too fantastic andtoo romantic? And observe, if that supposition breaks down, the wholecharge of robbery is scattered to the winds, for in that case whatcould have become of the other fifteen hundred roubles? By what miraclecould they have disappeared, since it’s proved the prisoner wentnowhere else? And we are ready to ruin a man’s life with such tales!
“I shall be told that he could not explain where he got the fifteenhundred that he had, and every one knew that he was without moneybefore that night. Who knew it, pray? The prisoner has made a clear andunflinching statement of the source of that money, and if you will haveit so, gentlemen of the jury, nothing can be more probable than thatstatement, and more consistent with the temper and spirit of theprisoner. The prosecutor is charmed with his own romance. A man of weakwill, who had brought himself to take the three thousand so insultinglyoffered by his betrothed, could not, we are told, have set aside halfand sewn it up, but would, even if he had done so, have unpicked itevery two days and taken out a hundred, and so would have spent it allin a month. All this, you will remember, was put forward in a tone thatbrooked no contradiction. But what if the thing happened quitedifferently? What if you’ve been weaving a romance, and about quite adifferent kind of man? That’s just it, you have invented quite adifferent man!
“I shall be told, perhaps, there are witnesses that he spent on one dayall that three thousand given him by his betrothed a month before thecatastrophe, so he could not have divided the sum in half. But who arethese witnesses? The value of their evidence has been shown in courtalready. Besides, in another man’s hand a crust always seems larger,and no one of these witnesses counted that money; they all judgedsimply at sight. And the witness Maximov has testified that theprisoner had twenty thousand in his hand. You see, gentlemen of thejury, psychology is a two‐ edged weapon. Let me turn the other edge nowand see what comes of it.
“A month before the catastrophe the prisoner was entrusted by KaterinaIvanovna with three thousand roubles to send off by post. But thequestion is: is it true that they were entrusted to him in such aninsulting and degrading way as was proclaimed just now? The firststatement made by the young lady on the subject was different,perfectly different. In the second statement we heard only cries ofresentment and revenge, cries of long‐concealed hatred. And the veryfact that the witness gave her first evidence incorrectly, gives us aright to conclude that her second piece of evidence may have beenincorrect also. The prosecutor will not, dare not (his own words) touchon that story. So be it. I will not touch on it either, but will onlyventure to observe that if a lofty and high‐ principled person, such asthat highly respected young lady unquestionably is, if such a person, Isay, allows herself suddenly in court to contradict her firststatement, with the obvious motive of ruining the prisoner, it is clearthat this evidence has been given not impartially, not coolly. Have notwe the right to assume that a revengeful woman might have exaggeratedmuch? Yes, she may well have exaggerated, in particular, the insult andhumiliation of her offering him the money. No, it was offered in such away that it was possible to take it, especially for a man so easy‐goingas the prisoner, above all, as he expected to receive shortly from hisfather the three thousand roubles that he reckoned was owing to him. Itwas unreflecting of him, but it was just his irresponsible want ofreflection that made him so confident that his father would give himthe money, that he would get it, and so could always dispatch the moneyentrusted to him and repay the debt.
“But the prosecutor refuses to allow that he could the same day haveset aside half the money and sewn it up in a little bag. That’s not hischaracter, he tells us, he couldn’t have had such feelings. But yet hetalked himself of the broad Karamazov nature; he cried out about thetwo extremes which a Karamazov can contemplate at once. Karamazov isjust such a two‐sided nature, fluctuating between two extremes, thateven when moved by the most violent craving for riotous gayety, he canpull himself up, if something strikes him on the other side. And on theother side is love—that new love which had flamed up in his heart, andfor that love he needed money; oh, far more than for carousing with hismistress. If she were to say to him, ‘I am yours, I won’t have FyodorPavlovitch,’ then he must have money to take her away. That was moreimportant than carousing. Could a Karamazov fail to understand it? Thatanxiety was just what he was suffering from—what is there improbable inhis laying aside that money and concealing it in case of emergency?
“But time passed, and Fyodor Pavlovitch did not give the prisoner theexpected three thousand; on the contrary, the latter heard that hemeant to use this sum to seduce the woman he, the prisoner, loved. ‘IfFyodor Pavlovitch doesn’t give the money,’ he thought, ‘I shall be putin the position of a thief before Katerina Ivanovna.’ And then the ideapresented itself to him that he would go to Katerina Ivanovna, laybefore her the fifteen hundred roubles he still carried round his neck,and say, ‘I am a scoundrel, but not a thief.’ So here we have already atwofold reason why he should guard that sum of money as the apple ofhis eye, why he shouldn’t unpick the little bag, and spend it a hundredat a time. Why should you deny the prisoner a sense of honor? Yes, hehas a sense of honor, granted that it’s misplaced, granted it’s oftenmistaken, yet it exists and amounts to a passion, and he has provedthat.
“But now the affair becomes even more complex; his jealous tormentsreach a climax, and those same two questions torture his fevered brainmore and more: ‘If I repay Katerina Ivanovna, where can I find themeans to go off with Grushenka?’ If he behaved wildly, drank, and madedisturbances in the taverns in the course of that month, it was perhapsbecause he was wretched and strained beyond his powers of endurance.These two questions became so acute that they drove him at last todespair. He sent his younger brother to beg for the last time for thethree thousand roubles, but without waiting for a reply, burst inhimself and ended by beating the old man in the presence of witnesses.After that he had no prospect of getting it from any one; his fatherwould not give it him after that beating.
“The same evening he struck himself on the breast, just on the upperpart of the breast where the little bag was, and swore to his brotherthat he had the means of not being a scoundrel, but that still he wouldremain a scoundrel, for he foresaw that he would not use that means,that he wouldn’t have the character, that he wouldn’t have thewill‐power to do it. Why, why does the prosecutor refuse to believe theevidence of Alexey Karamazov, given so genuinely and sincerely, sospontaneously and convincingly? And why, on the contrary, does he forceme to believe in money hidden in a crevice, in the dungeons of thecastle of Udolpho?
“The same evening, after his talk with his brother, the prisoner wrotethat fatal letter, and that letter is the chief, the most stupendousproof of the prisoner having committed robbery! ‘I shall beg from everyone, and if I don’t get it I shall murder my father and shall take theenvelope with the pink ribbon on it from under his mattress as soon asIvan has gone.’ A full program of the murder, we are told, so it musthave been he. ‘It has all been done as he wrote,’ cries the prosecutor.
“But in the first place, it’s the letter of a drunken man and writtenin great irritation; secondly, he writes of the envelope from what hehas heard from Smerdyakov again, for he has not seen the envelopehimself; and thirdly, he wrote it indeed, but how can you prove that hedid it? Did the prisoner take the envelope from under the pillow, didhe find the money, did that money exist indeed? And was it to get moneythat the prisoner ran off, if you remember? He ran off post‐haste notto steal, but to find out where she was, the woman who had crushed him.He was not running to carry out a program, to carry out what he hadwritten, that is, not for an act of premeditated robbery, but he ransuddenly, spontaneously, in a jealous fury. Yes! I shall be told, butwhen he got there and murdered him he seized the money, too. But did hemurder him after all? The charge of robbery I repudiate withindignation. A man cannot be accused of robbery, if it’s impossible tostate accurately what he has stolen; that’s an axiom. But did he murderhim without robbery, did he murder him at all? Is that proved? Isn’tthat, too, a romance?”



Chapter XII.And There Was No Murder Either

“Allow me, gentlemen of the jury, to remind you that a man’s life is atstake and that you must be careful. We have heard the prosecutorhimself admit that until to‐day he hesitated to accuse the prisoner ofa full and conscious premeditation of the crime; he hesitated till hesaw that fatal drunken letter which was produced in court to‐day. ‘Allwas done as written.’ But, I repeat again, he was running to her, toseek her, solely to find out where she was. That’s a fact that can’t bedisputed. Had she been at home, he would not have run away, but wouldhave remained at her side, and so would not have done what he promisedin the letter. He ran unexpectedly and accidentally, and by that timevery likely he did not even remember his drunken letter. ‘He snatchedup the pestle,’ they say, and you will remember how a whole edifice ofpsychology was built on that pestle—why he was bound to look at thatpestle as a weapon, to snatch it up, and so on, and so on. A verycommonplace idea occurs to me at this point: What if that pestle hadnot been in sight, had not been lying on the shelf from which it wassnatched by the prisoner, but had been put away in a cupboard? It wouldnot have caught the prisoner’s eye, and he would have run away withouta weapon, with empty hands, and then he would certainly not have killedany one. How then can I look upon the pestle as a proof ofpremeditation?
“Yes, but he talked in the taverns of murdering his father, and twodays before, on the evening when he wrote his drunken letter, he wasquiet and only quarreled with a shopman in the tavern, because aKaramazov could not help quarreling, forsooth! But my answer to thatis, that, if he was planning such a murder in accordance with hisletter, he certainly would not have quarreled even with a shopman, andprobably would not have gone into the tavern at all, because a personplotting such a crime seeks quiet and retirement, seeks to effacehimself, to avoid being seen and heard, and that not from calculation,but from instinct. Gentlemen of the jury, the psychological method is atwo‐edged weapon, and we, too, can use it. As for all this shouting intaverns throughout the month, don’t we often hear children, ordrunkards coming out of taverns shout, ‘I’ll kill you’? but they don’tmurder any one. And that fatal letter—isn’t that simply drunkenirritability, too? Isn’t that simply the shout of the brawler outsidethe tavern, ‘I’ll kill you! I’ll kill the lot of you!’ Why not, whycould it not be that? What reason have we to call that letter ‘fatal’rather than absurd? Because his father has been found murdered, becausea witness saw the prisoner running out of the garden with a weapon inhis hand, and was knocked down by him: therefore, we are told,everything was done as he had planned in writing, and the letter wasnot ‘absurd,’ but ‘fatal.’
“Now, thank God! we’ve come to the real point: ‘since he was in thegarden, he must have murdered him.’ In those few words: ‘since he_was_, then he _must_’ lies the whole case for the prosecution. He wasthere, so he must have. And what if there is no _must_ about it, evenif he was there? Oh, I admit that the chain of evidence—thecoincidences—are really suggestive. But examine all these factsseparately, regardless of their connection. Why, for instance, does theprosecution refuse to admit the truth of the prisoner’s statement thathe ran away from his father’s window? Remember the sarcasms in whichthe prosecutor indulged at the expense of the respectful and ‘pious’sentiments which suddenly came over the murderer. But what if therewere something of the sort, a feeling of religious awe, if not offilial respect? ‘My mother must have been praying for me at thatmoment,’ were the prisoner’s words at the preliminary inquiry, and sohe ran away as soon as he convinced himself that Madame Svyetlov wasnot in his father’s house. ‘But he could not convince himself bylooking through the window,’ the prosecutor objects. But why couldn’the? Why? The window opened at the signals given by the prisoner. Someword might have been uttered by Fyodor Pavlovitch, some exclamationwhich showed the prisoner that she was not there. Why should we assumeeverything as we imagine it, as we make up our minds to imagine it? Athousand things may happen in reality which elude the subtlestimagination.
“ ‘Yes, but Grigory saw the door open and so the prisoner certainly wasin the house, therefore he killed him.’ Now about that door, gentlemenof the jury.... Observe that we have only the statement of one witnessas to that door, and he was at the time in such a condition, that— Butsupposing the door was open; supposing the prisoner has lied in denyingit, from an instinct of self‐defense, natural in his position;supposing he did go into the house—well, what then? How does it followthat because he was there he committed the murder? He might have dashedin, run through the rooms; might have pushed his father away; mighthave struck him; but as soon as he had made sure Madame Svyetlov wasnot there, he may have run away rejoicing that she was not there andthat he had not killed his father. And it was perhaps just because hehad escaped from the temptation to kill his father, because he had aclear conscience and was rejoicing at not having killed him, that hewas capable of a pure feeling, the feeling of pity and compassion, andleapt off the fence a minute later to the assistance of Grigory afterhe had, in his excitement, knocked him down.
“With terrible eloquence the prosecutor has described to us thedreadful state of the prisoner’s mind at Mokroe when love again laybefore him calling him to new life, while love was impossible for himbecause he had his father’s bloodstained corpse behind him and beyondthat corpse—retribution. And yet the prosecutor allowed him love, whichhe explained, according to his method, talking about his drunkencondition, about a criminal being taken to execution, about it beingstill far off, and so on and so on. But again I ask, Mr. Prosecutor,have you not invented a new personality? Is the prisoner so coarse andheartless as to be able to think at that moment of love and of dodgesto escape punishment, if his hands were really stained with hisfather’s blood? No, no, no! As soon as it was made plain to him thatshe loved him and called him to her side, promising him new happiness,oh! then, I protest he must have felt the impulse to suicide doubled,trebled, and must have killed himself, if he had his father’s murder onhis conscience. Oh, no! he would not have forgotten where his pistolslay! I know the prisoner: the savage, stony heartlessness ascribed tohim by the prosecutor is inconsistent with his character. He would havekilled himself, that’s certain. He did not kill himself just because‘his mother’s prayers had saved him,’ and he was innocent of hisfather’s blood. He was troubled, he was grieving that night at Mokroeonly about old Grigory and praying to God that the old man wouldrecover, that his blow had not been fatal, and that he would not haveto suffer for it. Why not accept such an interpretation of the facts?What trustworthy proof have we that the prisoner is lying?
“But we shall be told at once again, ‘There is his father’s corpse! Ifhe ran away without murdering him, who did murder him?’ Here, I repeat,you have the whole logic of the prosecution. Who murdered him, if nothe? There’s no one to put in his place.
“Gentlemen of the jury, is that really so? Is it positively, actuallytrue that there is no one else at all? We’ve heard the prosecutor counton his fingers all the persons who were in that house that night. Theywere five in number; three of them, I agree, could not have beenresponsible—the murdered man himself, old Grigory, and his wife. Thereare left then the prisoner and Smerdyakov, and the prosecutordramatically exclaims that the prisoner pointed to Smerdyakov becausehe had no one else to fix on, that had there been a sixth person, evena phantom of a sixth person, he would have abandoned the charge againstSmerdyakov at once in shame and have accused that other. But, gentlemenof the jury, why may I not draw the very opposite conclusion? There aretwo persons—the prisoner and Smerdyakov. Why can I not say that youaccuse my client, simply because you have no one else to accuse? Andyou have no one else only because you have determined to excludeSmerdyakov from all suspicion.
“It’s true, indeed, Smerdyakov is accused only by the prisoner, his twobrothers, and Madame Svyetlov. But there are others who accuse him:there are vague rumors of a question, of a suspicion, an obscurereport, a feeling of expectation. Finally, we have the evidence of acombination of facts very suggestive, though, I admit, inconclusive. Inthe first place we have precisely on the day of the catastrophe thatfit, for the genuineness of which the prosecutor, for some reason, hasfelt obliged to make a careful defense. Then Smerdyakov’s suddensuicide on the eve of the trial. Then the equally startling evidencegiven in court to‐day by the elder of the prisoner’s brothers, who hadbelieved in his guilt, but has to‐day produced a bundle of notes andproclaimed Smerdyakov as the murderer. Oh, I fully share the court’sand the prosecutor’s conviction that Ivan Karamazov is suffering frombrain fever, that his statement may really be a desperate effort,planned in delirium, to save his brother by throwing the guilt on thedead man. But again Smerdyakov’s name is pronounced, again there is asuggestion of mystery. There is something unexplained, incomplete. Andperhaps it may one day be explained. But we won’t go into that now. Ofthat later.
“The court has resolved to go on with the trial, but, meantime, I mightmake a few remarks about the character‐sketch of Smerdyakov drawn withsubtlety and talent by the prosecutor. But while I admire his talent Icannot agree with him. I have visited Smerdyakov, I have seen him andtalked to him, and he made a very different impression on me. He wasweak in health, it is true; but in character, in spirit, he was by nomeans the weak man the prosecutor has made him out to be. I found inhim no trace of the timidity on which the prosecutor so insisted. Therewas no simplicity about him, either. I found in him, on the contrary,an extreme mistrustfulness concealed under a mask of _naïveté_, and anintelligence of considerable range. The prosecutor was too simple intaking him for weak‐minded. He made a very definite impression on me: Ileft him with the conviction that he was a distinctly spitefulcreature, excessively ambitious, vindictive, and intensely envious. Imade some inquiries: he resented his parentage, was ashamed of it, andwould clench his teeth when he remembered that he was the son of‘stinking Lizaveta.’ He was disrespectful to the servant Grigory andhis wife, who had cared for him in his childhood. He cursed and jeeredat Russia. He dreamed of going to France and becoming a Frenchman. Heused often to say that he hadn’t the means to do so. I fancy he lovedno one but himself and had a strangely high opinion of himself. Hisconception of culture was limited to good clothes, clean shirt‐frontsand polished boots. Believing himself to be the illegitimate son ofFyodor Pavlovitch (there is evidence of this), he might well haveresented his position, compared with that of his master’s legitimatesons. They had everything, he nothing. They had all the rights, theyhad the inheritance, while he was only the cook. He told me himselfthat he had helped Fyodor Pavlovitch to put the notes in the envelope.The destination of that sum—a sum which would have made his career—musthave been hateful to him. Moreover, he saw three thousand roubles innew rainbow‐colored notes. (I asked him about that on purpose.) Oh,beware of showing an ambitious and envious man a large sum of money atonce! And it was the first time he had seen so much money in the handsof one man. The sight of the rainbow‐colored notes may have made amorbid impression on his imagination, but with no immediate results.
“The talented prosecutor, with extraordinary subtlety, sketched for usall the arguments for and against the hypothesis of Smerdyakov’s guilt,and asked us in particular what motive he had in feigning a fit. But hemay not have been feigning at all, the fit may have happened quitenaturally, but it may have passed off quite naturally, and the sick manmay have recovered, not completely perhaps, but still regainingconsciousness, as happens with epileptics.
“The prosecutor asks at what moment could Smerdyakov have committed themurder. But it is very easy to point out that moment. He might havewaked up from deep sleep (for he was only asleep—an epileptic fit isalways followed by a deep sleep) at that moment when the old Grigoryshouted at the top of his voice ‘Parricide!’ That shout in the dark andstillness may have waked Smerdyakov whose sleep may have been lesssound at the moment: he might naturally have waked up an hour before.
“Getting out of bed, he goes almost unconsciously and with no definitemotive towards the sound to see what’s the matter. His head is stillclouded with his attack, his faculties are half asleep; but, once inthe garden, he walks to the lighted windows and he hears terrible newsfrom his master, who would be, of course, glad to see him. His mindsets to work at once. He hears all the details from his frightenedmaster, and gradually in his disordered brain there shapes itself anidea—terrible, but seductive and irresistibly logical. To kill the oldman, take the three thousand, and throw all the blame on to his youngmaster. A terrible lust of money, of booty, might seize upon him as herealized his security from detection. Oh! these sudden and irresistibleimpulses come so often when there is a favorable opportunity, andespecially with murderers who have had no idea of committing a murderbeforehand. And Smerdyakov may have gone in and carried out his plan.With what weapon? Why, with any stone picked up in the garden. But whatfor, with what object? Why, the three thousand which means a career forhim. Oh, I am not contradicting myself—the money may have existed. Andperhaps Smerdyakov alone knew where to find it, where his master keptit. And the covering of the money—the torn envelope on the floor?
“Just now, when the prosecutor was explaining his subtle theory thatonly an inexperienced thief like Karamazov would have left the envelopeon the floor, and not one like Smerdyakov, who would have avoidedleaving a piece of evidence against himself, I thought as I listenedthat I was hearing something very familiar, and, would you believe it,I have heard that very argument, that very conjecture, of how Karamazovwould have behaved, precisely two days before, from Smerdyakov himself.What’s more, it struck me at the time. I fancied that there was anartificial simplicity about him; that he was in a hurry to suggest thisidea to me that I might fancy it was my own. He insinuated it, as itwere. Did he not insinuate the same idea at the inquiry and suggest itto the talented prosecutor?
“I shall be asked, ‘What about the old woman, Grigory’s wife? She heardthe sick man moaning close by, all night.’ Yes, she heard it, but thatevidence is extremely unreliable. I knew a lady who complained bitterlythat she had been kept awake all night by a dog in the yard. Yet thepoor beast, it appeared, had only yelped once or twice in the night.And that’s natural. If any one is asleep and hears a groan he wakes up,annoyed at being waked, but instantly falls asleep again. Two hourslater, again a groan, he wakes up and falls asleep again; and the samething again two hours later—three times altogether in the night. Nextmorning the sleeper wakes up and complains that some one has beengroaning all night and keeping him awake. And it is bound to seem so tohim: the intervals of two hours of sleep he does not remember, he onlyremembers the moments of waking, so he feels he has been waked up allnight.
“But why, why, asks the prosecutor, did not Smerdyakov confess in hislast letter? Why did his conscience prompt him to one step and not toboth? But, excuse me, conscience implies penitence, and the suicide maynot have felt penitence, but only despair. Despair and penitence aretwo very different things. Despair may be vindictive andirreconcilable, and the suicide, laying his hands on himself, may wellhave felt redoubled hatred for those whom he had envied all his life.
“Gentlemen of the jury, beware of a miscarriage of justice! What isthere unlikely in all I have put before you just now? Find the error inmy reasoning; find the impossibility, the absurdity. And if there isbut a shade of possibility, but a shade of probability in mypropositions, do not condemn him. And is there only a shade? I swear byall that is sacred, I fully believe in the explanation of the murder Ihave just put forward. What troubles me and makes me indignant is thatof all the mass of facts heaped up by the prosecution against theprisoner, there is not a single one certain and irrefutable. And yetthe unhappy man is to be ruined by the accumulation of these facts.Yes, the accumulated effect is awful: the blood, the blood drippingfrom his fingers, the bloodstained shirt, the dark night resoundingwith the shout ‘Parricide!’ and the old man falling with a broken head.And then the mass of phrases, statements, gestures, shouts! Oh! thishas so much influence, it can so bias the mind; but, gentlemen of thejury, can it bias your minds? Remember, you have been given absolutepower to bind and to loose, but the greater the power, the moreterrible its responsibility.
“I do not draw back one iota from what I have said just now, butsuppose for one moment I agreed with the prosecution that my lucklessclient had stained his hands with his father’s blood. This is onlyhypothesis, I repeat; I never for one instant doubt of his innocence.But, so be it, I assume that my client is guilty of parricide. Even so,hear what I have to say. I have it in my heart to say something more toyou, for I feel that there must be a great conflict in your hearts andminds.... Forgive my referring to your hearts and minds, gentlemen ofthe jury, but I want to be truthful and sincere to the end. Let us allbe sincere!”
At this point the speech was interrupted by rather loud applause. Thelast words, indeed, were pronounced with a note of such sincerity thatevery one felt that he really might have something to say, and thatwhat he was about to say would be of the greatest consequence. But thePresident, hearing the applause, in a loud voice threatened to clearthe court if such an incident were repeated. Every sound was hushed andFetyukovitch began in a voice full of feeling quite unlike the tone hehad used hitherto.



Chapter XIII.A Corrupter Of Thought

“It’s not only the accumulation of facts that threatens my client withruin, gentlemen of the jury,” he began, “what is really damning for myclient is one fact—the dead body of his father. Had it been an ordinarycase of murder you would have rejected the charge in view of thetriviality, the incompleteness, and the fantastic character of theevidence, if you examine each part of it separately; or, at least, youwould have hesitated to ruin a man’s life simply from the prejudiceagainst him which he has, alas! only too well deserved. But it’s not anordinary case of murder, it’s a case of parricide. That impresses men’sminds, and to such a degree that the very triviality and incompletenessof the evidence becomes less trivial and less incomplete even to anunprejudiced mind. How can such a prisoner be acquitted? What if hecommitted the murder and gets off unpunished? That is what every one,almost involuntarily, instinctively, feels at heart.
“Yes, it’s a fearful thing to shed a father’s blood—the father who hasbegotten me, loved me, not spared his life for me, grieved over myillnesses from childhood up, troubled all his life for my happiness,and has lived in my joys, in my successes. To murder such afather—that’s inconceivable. Gentlemen of the jury, what is a father—areal father? What is the meaning of that great word? What is the greatidea in that name? We have just indicated in part what a true father isand what he ought to be. In the case in which we are now so deeplyoccupied and over which our hearts are aching—in the present case, thefather, Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov, did not correspond to thatconception of a father to which we have just referred. That’s themisfortune. And indeed some fathers are a misfortune. Let us examinethis misfortune rather more closely: we must shrink from nothing,gentlemen of the jury, considering the importance of the decision youhave to make. It’s our particular duty not to shrink from any idea,like children or frightened women, as the talented prosecutor happilyexpresses it.
“But in the course of his heated speech my esteemed opponent (and hewas my opponent before I opened my lips) exclaimed several times, ‘Oh,I will not yield the defense of the prisoner to the lawyer who has comedown from Petersburg. I accuse, but I defend also!’ He exclaimed thatseveral times, but forgot to mention that if this terrible prisoner wasfor twenty‐three years so grateful for a mere pound of nuts given himby the only man who had been kind to him, as a child in his father’shouse, might not such a man well have remembered for twenty‐three yearshow he ran in his father’s back‐yard, ‘without boots on his feet andwith his little trousers hanging by one button’—to use the expressionof the kind‐hearted doctor, Herzenstube?
“Oh, gentlemen of the jury, why need we look more closely at thismisfortune, why repeat what we all know already? What did my clientmeet with when he arrived here, at his father’s house, and why depictmy client as a heartless egoist and monster? He is uncontrolled, he iswild and unruly—we are trying him now for that—but who is responsiblefor his life? Who is responsible for his having received such anunseemly bringing up, in spite of his excellent disposition and hisgrateful and sensitive heart? Did any one train him to be reasonable?Was he enlightened by study? Did any one love him ever so little in hischildhood? My client was left to the care of Providence like a beast ofthe field. He thirsted perhaps to see his father after long years ofseparation. A thousand times perhaps he may, recalling his childhood,have driven away the loathsome phantoms that haunted his childishdreams and with all his heart he may have longed to embrace and toforgive his father! And what awaited him? He was met by cynical taunts,suspicions and wrangling about money. He heard nothing but revoltingtalk and vicious precepts uttered daily over the brandy, and at last hesaw his father seducing his mistress from him with his own money. Oh,gentlemen of the jury, that was cruel and revolting! And that old manwas always complaining of the disrespect and cruelty of his son. Heslandered him in society, injured him, calumniated him, bought up hisunpaid debts to get him thrown into prison.
“Gentlemen of the jury, people like my client, who are fierce, unruly,and uncontrolled on the surface, are sometimes, most frequently indeed,exceedingly tender‐hearted, only they don’t express it. Don’t laugh,don’t laugh at my idea! The talented prosecutor laughed mercilesslyjust now at my client for loving Schiller—loving the sublime andbeautiful! I should not have laughed at that in his place. Yes, suchnatures—oh, let me speak in defense of such natures, so often and socruelly misunderstood—these natures often thirst for tenderness,goodness, and justice, as it were, in contrast to themselves, theirunruliness, their ferocity—they thirst for it unconsciously. Passionateand fierce on the surface, they are painfully capable of loving woman,for instance, and with a spiritual and elevated love. Again do notlaugh at me, this is very often the case in such natures. But theycannot hide their passions—sometimes very coarse—and that isconspicuous and is noticed, but the inner man is unseen. Their passionsare quickly exhausted; but, by the side of a noble and lofty creaturethat seemingly coarse and rough man seeks a new life, seeks to correcthimself, to be better, to become noble and honorable, ‘sublime andbeautiful,’ however much the expression has been ridiculed.
“I said just now that I would not venture to touch upon my client’sengagement. But I may say half a word. What we heard just now was notevidence, but only the scream of a frenzied and revengeful woman, andit was not for her—oh, not for her!—to reproach him with treachery, forshe has betrayed him! If she had had but a little time for reflectionshe would not have given such evidence. Oh, do not believe her! No, myclient is not a monster, as she called him!
“The Lover of Mankind on the eve of His Crucifixion said: ‘I am theGood Shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for his sheep, sothat not one of them might be lost.’ Let not a man’s soul be lostthrough us!
“I asked just now what does ‘father’ mean, and exclaimed that it was agreat word, a precious name. But one must use words honestly,gentlemen, and I venture to call things by their right names: such afather as old Karamazov cannot be called a father and does not deserveto be. Filial love for an unworthy father is an absurdity, animpossibility. Love cannot be created from nothing: only God can createsomething from nothing.
“ ‘Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath,’ the apostle writes,from a heart glowing with love. It’s not for the sake of my client thatI quote these sacred words, I mention them for all fathers. Who hasauthorized me to preach to fathers? No one. But as a man and a citizenI make my appeal—_vivos voco!_ We are not long on earth, we do manyevil deeds and say many evil words. So let us all catch a favorablemoment when we are all together to say a good word to each other.That’s what I am doing: while I am in this place I take advantage of myopportunity. Not for nothing is this tribune given us by the highestauthority—all Russia hears us! I am not speaking only for the fathershere present, I cry aloud to all fathers: ‘Fathers, provoke not yourchildren to wrath.’ Yes, let us first fulfill Christ’s injunctionourselves and only then venture to expect it of our children. Otherwisewe are not fathers, but enemies of our children, and they are not ourchildren, but our enemies, and we have made them our enemies ourselves.‘What measure ye mete it shall be measured unto you again’—it’s not Iwho say that, it’s the Gospel precept, measure to others according asthey measure to you. How can we blame children if they measure usaccording to our measure?
“Not long ago a servant girl in Finland was suspected of havingsecretly given birth to a child. She was watched, and a box of which noone knew anything was found in the corner of the loft, behind somebricks. It was opened and inside was found the body of a new‐born childwhich she had killed. In the same box were found the skeletons of twoother babies which, according to her own confession, she had killed atthe moment of their birth.
“Gentlemen of the jury, was she a mother to her children? She gavebirth to them, indeed; but was she a mother to them? Would any oneventure to give her the sacred name of mother? Let us be bold,gentlemen, let us be audacious even: it’s our duty to be so at thismoment and not to be afraid of certain words and ideas like the Moscowwomen in Ostrovsky’s play, who are scared at the sound of certainwords. No, let us prove that the progress of the last few years hastouched even us, and let us say plainly, the father is not merely hewho begets the child, but he who begets it and does his duty by it.
“Oh, of course, there is the other meaning, there is the otherinterpretation of the word ‘father,’ which insists that any father,even though he be a monster, even though he be the enemy of hischildren, still remains my father simply because he begot me. But thisis, so to say, the mystical meaning which I cannot comprehend with myintellect, but can only accept by faith, or, better to say, _on faith_,like many other things which I do not understand, but which religionbids me believe. But in that case let it be kept outside the sphere ofactual life. In the sphere of actual life, which has, indeed, its ownrights, but also lays upon us great duties and obligations, in thatsphere, if we want to be humane—Christian, in fact—we must, or oughtto, act only upon convictions justified by reason and experience, whichhave been passed through the crucible of analysis; in a word, we mustact rationally, and not as though in dream and delirium, that we maynot do harm, that we may not ill‐treat and ruin a man. Then it will bereal Christian work, not only mystic, but rational andphilanthropic....”
There was violent applause at this passage from many parts of thecourt, but Fetyukovitch waved his hands as though imploring them to lethim finish without interruption. The court relapsed into silence atonce. The orator went on.
“Do you suppose, gentlemen, that our children as they grow up and beginto reason can avoid such questions? No, they cannot, and we will notimpose on them an impossible restriction. The sight of an unworthyfather involuntarily suggests tormenting questions to a young creature,especially when he compares him with the excellent fathers of hiscompanions. The conventional answer to this question is: ‘He begot you,and you are his flesh and blood, and therefore you are bound to lovehim.’ The youth involuntarily reflects: ‘But did he love me when hebegot me?’ he asks, wondering more and more. ‘Was it for my sake hebegot me? He did not know me, not even my sex, at that moment, at themoment of passion, perhaps, inflamed by wine, and he has onlytransmitted to me a propensity to drunkenness—that’s all he’s done forme.... Why am I bound to love him simply for begetting me when he hascared nothing for me all my life after?’
“Oh, perhaps those questions strike you as coarse and cruel, but do notexpect an impossible restraint from a young mind. ‘Drive nature out ofthe door and it will fly in at the window,’ and, above all, let us notbe afraid of words, but decide the question according to the dictatesof reason and humanity and not of mystic ideas. How shall it bedecided? Why, like this. Let the son stand before his father and askhim, ‘Father, tell me, why must I love you? Father, show me that I mustlove you,’ and if that father is able to answer him and show him goodreason, we have a real, normal, parental relation, not resting onmystical prejudice, but on a rational, responsible and strictlyhumanitarian basis. But if he does not, there’s an end to the familytie. He is not a father to him, and the son has a right to look uponhim as a stranger, and even an enemy. Our tribune, gentlemen of thejury, ought to be a school of true and sound ideas.”
(Here the orator was interrupted by irrepressible and almost franticapplause. Of course, it was not the whole audience, but a good half ofit applauded. The fathers and mothers present applauded. Shrieks andexclamations were heard from the gallery, where the ladies weresitting. Handkerchiefs were waved. The President began ringing his bellwith all his might. He was obviously irritated by the behavior of theaudience, but did not venture to clear the court as he had threatened.Even persons of high position, old men with stars on their breasts,sitting on specially reserved seats behind the judges, applauded theorator and waved their handkerchiefs. So that when the noise died down,the President confined himself to repeating his stern threat to clearthe court, and Fetyukovitch, excited and triumphant, continued hisspeech.)
“Gentlemen of the jury, you remember that awful night of which so muchhas been said to‐day, when the son got over the fence and stood face toface with the enemy and persecutor who had begotten him. I insist mostemphatically it was not for money he ran to his father’s house: thecharge of robbery is an absurdity, as I proved before. And it was notto murder him he broke into the house, oh, no! If he had had thatdesign he would, at least, have taken the precaution of arming himselfbeforehand. The brass pestle he caught up instinctively without knowingwhy he did it. Granted that he deceived his father by tapping at thewindow, granted that he made his way in—I’ve said already that I do notfor a moment believe that legend, but let it be so, let us suppose itfor a moment. Gentlemen, I swear to you by all that’s holy, if it hadnot been his father, but an ordinary enemy, he would, after runningthrough the rooms and satisfying himself that the woman was not there,have made off, post‐haste, without doing any harm to his rival. Hewould have struck him, pushed him away perhaps, nothing more, for hehad no thought and no time to spare for that. What he wanted to knowwas where she was. But his father, his father! The mere sight of thefather who had hated him from his childhood, had been his enemy, hispersecutor, and now his unnatural rival, was enough! A feeling ofhatred came over him involuntarily, irresistibly, clouding his reason.It all surged up in one moment! It was an impulse of madness andinsanity, but also an impulse of nature, irresistibly and unconsciously(like everything in nature) avenging the violation of its eternal laws.
“But the prisoner even then did not murder him—I maintain that, I crythat aloud!—no, he only brandished the pestle in a burst of indignantdisgust, not meaning to kill him, not knowing that he would kill him.Had he not had this fatal pestle in his hand, he would have onlyknocked his father down perhaps, but would not have killed him. As heran away, he did not know whether he had killed the old man. Such amurder is not a murder. Such a murder is not a parricide. No, themurder of such a father cannot be called parricide. Such a murder canonly be reckoned parricide by prejudice.
“But I appeal to you again and again from the depths of my soul; didthis murder actually take place? Gentlemen of the jury, if we convictand punish him, he will say to himself: ‘These people have done nothingfor my bringing up, for my education, nothing to improve my lot,nothing to make me better, nothing to make me a man. These people havenot given me to eat and to drink, have not visited me in prison andnakedness, and here they have sent me to penal servitude. I am quits, Iowe them nothing now, and owe no one anything for ever. They are wickedand I will be wicked. They are cruel and I will be cruel.’ That is whathe will say, gentlemen of the jury. And I swear, by finding him guiltyyou will only make it easier for him: you will ease his conscience, hewill curse the blood he has shed and will not regret it. At the sametime you will destroy in him the possibility of becoming a new man, forhe will remain in his wickedness and blindness all his life.
“But do you want to punish him fearfully, terribly, with the most awfulpunishment that could be imagined, and at the same time to save him andregenerate his soul? If so, overwhelm him with your mercy! You willsee, you will hear how he will tremble and be horror‐struck. ‘How can Iendure this mercy? How can I endure so much love? Am I worthy of it?’That’s what he will exclaim.
“Oh, I know, I know that heart, that wild but grateful heart, gentlemenof the jury! It will bow before your mercy; it thirsts for a great andloving action, it will melt and mount upwards. There are souls which,in their limitation, blame the whole world. But subdue such a soul withmercy, show it love, and it will curse its past, for there are manygood impulses in it. Such a heart will expand and see that God ismerciful and that men are good and just. He will be horror‐stricken; hewill be crushed by remorse and the vast obligation laid upon himhenceforth. And he will not say then, ‘I am quits,’ but will say, ‘I amguilty in the sight of all men and am more unworthy than all.’ Withtears of penitence and poignant, tender anguish, he will exclaim:‘Others are better than I, they wanted to save me, not to ruin me!’ Oh,this act of mercy is so easy for you, for in the absence of anythinglike real evidence it will be too awful for you to pronounce: ‘Yes, heis guilty.’
“Better acquit ten guilty men than punish one innocent man! Do youhear, do you hear that majestic voice from the past century of ourglorious history? It is not for an insignificant person like me toremind you that the Russian court does not exist for the punishmentonly, but also for the salvation of the criminal! Let other nationsthink of retribution and the letter of the law, we will cling to thespirit and the meaning—the salvation and the reformation of the lost.If this is true, if Russia and her justice are such, she may go forwardwith good cheer! Do not try to scare us with your frenzied troikas fromwhich all the nations stand aside in disgust. Not a runaway troika, butthe stately chariot of Russia will move calmly and majestically to itsgoal. In your hands is the fate of my client, in your hands is the fateof Russian justice. You will defend it, you will save it, you willprove that there are men to watch over it, that it is in good hands!”



Chapter XIV.The Peasants Stand Firm

This was how Fetyukovitch concluded his speech, and the enthusiasm ofthe audience burst like an irresistible storm. It was out of thequestion to stop it: the women wept, many of the men wept too, even twoimportant personages shed tears. The President submitted, and evenpostponed ringing his bell. The suppression of such an enthusiasm wouldbe the suppression of something sacred, as the ladies cried afterwards.The orator himself was genuinely touched.
And it was at this moment that Ippolit Kirillovitch got up to makecertain objections. People looked at him with hatred. “What? What’s themeaning of it? He positively dares to make objections,” the ladiesbabbled. But if the whole world of ladies, including his wife, hadprotested he could not have been stopped at that moment. He was pale,he was shaking with emotion, his first phrases were evenunintelligible, he gasped for breath, could hardly speak clearly, lostthe thread. But he soon recovered himself. Of this new speech of his Iwill quote only a few sentences.
“... I am reproached with having woven a romance. But what is thisdefense if not one romance on the top of another? All that was lackingwas poetry. Fyodor Pavlovitch, while waiting for his mistress, tearsopen the envelope and throws it on the floor. We are even told what hesaid while engaged in this strange act. Is not this a flight of fancy?And what proof have we that he had taken out the money? Who heard whathe said? The weak‐minded idiot, Smerdyakov, transformed into a Byronichero, avenging society for his illegitimate birth—isn’t this a romancein the Byronic style? And the son who breaks into his father’s houseand murders him without murdering him is not even a romance—this is asphinx setting us a riddle which he cannot solve himself. If hemurdered him, he murdered him, and what’s the meaning of his murderinghim without having murdered him—who can make head or tail of this?
“Then we are admonished that our tribune is a tribune of true and soundideas and from this tribune of ‘sound ideas’ is heard a solemndeclaration that to call the murder of a father ‘parricide’ is nothingbut a prejudice! But if parricide is a prejudice, and if every child isto ask his father why he is to love him, what will become of us? Whatwill become of the foundations of society? What will become of thefamily? Parricide, it appears, is only a bogy of Moscow merchants’wives. The most precious, the most sacred guarantees for the destinyand future of Russian justice are presented to us in a perverted andfrivolous form, simply to attain an object—to obtain the justificationof something which cannot be justified. ‘Oh, crush him by mercy,’ criesthe counsel for the defense; but that’s all the criminal wants, andto‐morrow it will be seen how much he is crushed. And is not thecounsel for the defense too modest in asking only for the acquittal ofthe prisoner? Why not found a charity in the honor of the parricide tocommemorate his exploit among future generations? Religion and theGospel are corrected—that’s all mysticism, we are told, and ours is theonly true Christianity which has been subjected to the analysis ofreason and common sense. And so they set up before us a false semblanceof Christ! ‘What measure ye mete so it shall be meted unto you again,’cried the counsel for the defense, and instantly deduces that Christteaches us to measure as it is measured to us—and this from the tribuneof truth and sound sense! We peep into the Gospel only on the eve ofmaking speeches, in order to dazzle the audience by our acquaintancewith what is, anyway, a rather original composition, which may be ofuse to produce a certain effect—all to serve the purpose! But whatChrist commands us is something very different: He bids us beware ofdoing this, because the wicked world does this, but we ought to forgiveand to turn the other cheek, and not to measure to our persecutors asthey measure to us. This is what our God has taught us and not that toforbid children to murder their fathers is a prejudice. And we will notfrom the tribune of truth and good sense correct the Gospel of ourLord, Whom the counsel for the defense deigns to call only ‘thecrucified lover of humanity,’ in opposition to all orthodox Russia,which calls to Him, ‘For Thou art our God!’ ”
At this the President intervened and checked the over‐zealous speaker,begging him not to exaggerate, not to overstep the bounds, and so on,as presidents always do in such cases. The audience, too, was uneasy.The public was restless: there were even exclamations of indignation.Fetyukovitch did not so much as reply; he only mounted the tribune tolay his hand on his heart and, with an offended voice, utter a fewwords full of dignity. He only touched again, lightly and ironically,on “romancing” and “psychology,” and in an appropriate place quoted,“Jupiter, you are angry, therefore you are wrong,” which provoked aburst of approving laughter in the audience, for Ippolit Kirillovitchwas by no means like Jupiter. Then, _à propos_ of the accusation thathe was teaching the young generation to murder their fathers,Fetyukovitch observed, with great dignity, that he would not evenanswer. As for the prosecutor’s charge of uttering unorthodox opinions,Fetyukovitch hinted that it was a personal insinuation and that he hadexpected in this court to be secure from accusations “damaging to myreputation as a citizen and a loyal subject.” But at these words thePresident pulled him up, too, and Fetyukovitch concluded his speechwith a bow, amid a hum of approbation in the court. And IppolitKirillovitch was, in the opinion of our ladies, “crushed for good.”
Then the prisoner was allowed to speak. Mitya stood up, but said verylittle. He was fearfully exhausted, physically and mentally. The lookof strength and independence with which he had entered in the morninghad almost disappeared. He seemed as though he had passed through anexperience that day, which had taught him for the rest of his lifesomething very important he had not understood till then. His voice wasweak, he did not shout as before. In his words there was a new note ofhumility, defeat and submission.
“What am I to say, gentlemen of the jury? The hour of judgment has comefor me, I feel the hand of God upon me! The end has come to an erringman! But, before God, I repeat to you, I am innocent of my father’sblood! For the last time I repeat, it wasn’t I killed him! I waserring, but I loved what is good. Every instant I strove to reform, butI lived like a wild beast. I thank the prosecutor, he told me manythings about myself that I did not know; but it’s not true that Ikilled my father, the prosecutor is mistaken. I thank my counsel, too.I cried listening to him; but it’s not true that I killed my father,and he needn’t have supposed it. And don’t believe the doctors. I amperfectly sane, only my heart is heavy. If you spare me, if you let mego, I will pray for you. I will be a better man. I give you my wordbefore God I will! And if you will condemn me, I’ll break my sword overmy head myself and kiss the pieces. But spare me, do not rob me of myGod! I know myself, I shall rebel! My heart is heavy, gentlemen ...spare me!”
He almost fell back in his place: his voice broke: he could hardlyarticulate the last phrase. Then the judges proceeded to put thequestions and began to ask both sides to formulate their conclusions.
But I will not describe the details. At last the jury rose to retirefor consultation. The President was very tired, and so his last chargeto the jury was rather feeble. “Be impartial, don’t be influenced bythe eloquence of the defense, but yet weigh the arguments. Rememberthat there is a great responsibility laid upon you,” and so on and soon.
The jury withdrew and the court adjourned. People could get up, moveabout, exchange their accumulated impressions, refresh themselves atthe buffet. It was very late, almost one o’clock in the night, butnobody went away: the strain was so great that no one could think ofrepose. All waited with sinking hearts; though that is, perhaps, toomuch to say, for the ladies were only in a state of hystericalimpatience and their hearts were untroubled. An acquittal, theythought, was inevitable. They all prepared themselves for a dramaticmoment of general enthusiasm. I must own there were many among the men,too, who were convinced that an acquittal was inevitable. Some werepleased, others frowned, while some were simply dejected, not wantinghim to be acquitted. Fetyukovitch himself was confident of his success.He was surrounded by people congratulating him and fawning upon him.
“There are,” he said to one group, as I was told afterwards, “there areinvisible threads binding the counsel for the defense with the jury.One feels during one’s speech if they are being formed. I was aware ofthem. They exist. Our cause is won. Set your mind at rest.”
“What will our peasants say now?” said one stout, cross‐looking, pock‐marked gentleman, a landowner of the neighborhood, approaching a groupof gentlemen engaged in conversation.
“But they are not all peasants. There are four government clerks amongthem.”
“Yes, there are clerks,” said a member of the district council, joiningthe group.
“And do you know that Nazaryev, the merchant with the medal, ajuryman?”
“What of him?”
“He is a man with brains.”
“But he never speaks.”
“He is no great talker, but so much the better. There’s no need for thePetersburg man to teach him: he could teach all Petersburg himself.He’s the father of twelve children. Think of that!”
“Upon my word, you don’t suppose they won’t acquit him?” one of ouryoung officials exclaimed in another group.
“They’ll acquit him for certain,” said a resolute voice.
“It would be shameful, disgraceful, not to acquit him!” cried theofficial. “Suppose he did murder him—there are fathers and fathers!And, besides, he was in such a frenzy.... He really may have donenothing but swing the pestle in the air, and so knocked the old mandown. But it was a pity they dragged the valet in. That was simply anabsurd theory! If I’d been in Fetyukovitch’s place, I should simplyhave said straight out: ‘He murdered him; but he is not guilty, hang itall!’ ”
“That’s what he did, only without saying, ‘Hang it all!’ ”
“No, Mihail Semyonovitch, he almost said that, too,” put in a thirdvoice.
“Why, gentlemen, in Lent an actress was acquitted in our town who hadcut the throat of her lover’s lawful wife.”
“Oh, but she did not finish cutting it.”
“That makes no difference. She began cutting it.”
“What did you think of what he said about children? Splendid, wasn’tit?”
“Splendid!”
“And about mysticism, too!”
“Oh, drop mysticism, do!” cried some one else; “think of Ippolit andhis fate from this day forth. His wife will scratch his eyes outto‐morrow for Mitya’s sake.”
“Is she here?”
“What an idea! If she’d been here she’d have scratched them out incourt. She is at home with toothache. He he he!”
“He he he!”
In a third group:
“I dare say they will acquit Mitenka, after all.”
“I should not be surprised if he turns the ‘Metropolis’ upside down to‐morrow. He will be drinking for ten days!”
“Oh, the devil!”
“The devil’s bound to have a hand in it. Where should he be if nothere?”
“Well, gentlemen, I admit it was eloquent. But still it’s not the thingto break your father’s head with a pestle! Or what are we coming to?”
“The chariot! Do you remember the chariot?”
“Yes; he turned a cart into a chariot!”
“And to‐morrow he will turn a chariot into a cart, just to suit hispurpose.”
“What cunning chaps there are nowadays! Is there any justice to be hadin Russia?”
But the bell rang. The jury deliberated for exactly an hour, neithermore nor less. A profound silence reigned in the court as soon as thepublic had taken their seats. I remember how the jurymen walked intothe court. At last! I won’t repeat the questions in order, and, indeed,I have forgotten them. I remember only the answer to the President’sfirst and chief question: “Did the prisoner commit the murder for thesake of robbery and with premeditation?” (I don’t remember the exactwords.) There was a complete hush. The foreman of the jury, theyoungest of the clerks, pronounced, in a clear, loud voice, amidst thedeathlike stillness of the court:
“Yes, guilty!”
And the same answer was repeated to every question: “Yes, guilty!” andwithout the slightest extenuating comment. This no one had expected;almost every one had reckoned upon a recommendation to mercy, at least.The deathlike silence in the court was not broken—all seemed petrified:those who desired his conviction as well as those who had been eagerfor his acquittal. But that was only for the first instant, and it wasfollowed by a fearful hubbub. Many of the men in the audience werepleased. Some were rubbing their hands with no attempt to conceal theirjoy. Those who disagreed with the verdict seemed crushed, shruggedtheir shoulders, whispered, but still seemed unable to realize this.But how shall I describe the state the ladies were in? I thought theywould create a riot. At first they could scarcely believe their ears.Then suddenly the whole court rang with exclamations: “What’s themeaning of it? What next?” They leapt up from their places. They seemedto fancy that it might be at once reconsidered and reversed. At thatinstant Mitya suddenly stood up and cried in a heartrending voice,stretching his hands out before him:
“I swear by God and the dreadful Day of Judgment I am not guilty of myfather’s blood! Katya, I forgive you! Brothers, friends, have pity onthe other woman!”
He could not go on, and broke into a terrible sobbing wail that washeard all over the court in a strange, unnatural voice unlike his own.From the farthest corner at the back of the gallery came a piercingshriek—it was Grushenka. She had succeeded in begging admittance to thecourt again before the beginning of the lawyers’ speeches. Mitya wastaken away. The passing of the sentence was deferred till next day. Thewhole court was in a hubbub but I did not wait to hear. I only remembera few exclamations I heard on the steps as I went out.
“He’ll have a twenty years’ trip to the mines!”
“Not less.”
“Well, our peasants have stood firm.”
“And have done for our Mitya.”



EPILOGUE



Chapter I.Plans For Mitya’s Escape

Very early, at nine o’clock in the morning, five days after the trial,Alyosha went to Katerina Ivanovna’s to talk over a matter of greatimportance to both of them, and to give her a message. She sat andtalked to him in the very room in which she had once receivedGrushenka. In the next room Ivan Fyodorovitch lay unconscious in a highfever. Katerina Ivanovna had immediately after the scene at the trialordered the sick and unconscious man to be carried to her house,disregarding the inevitable gossip and general disapproval of thepublic. One of the two relations who lived with her had departed toMoscow immediately after the scene in court, the other remained. But ifboth had gone away, Katerina Ivanovna would have adhered to herresolution, and would have gone on nursing the sick man and sitting byhim day and night. Varvinsky and Herzenstube were attending him. Thefamous doctor had gone back to Moscow, refusing to give an opinion asto the probable end of the illness. Though the doctors encouragedKaterina Ivanovna and Alyosha, it was evident that they could not yetgive them positive hopes of recovery.
Alyosha came to see his sick brother twice a day. But this time he hadspecially urgent business, and he foresaw how difficult it would be toapproach the subject, yet he was in great haste. He had anotherengagement that could not be put off for that same morning, and therewas need of haste.
They had been talking for a quarter of an hour. Katerina Ivanovna waspale and terribly fatigued, yet at the same time in a state ofhysterical excitement. She had a presentiment of the reason why Alyoshahad come to her.
“Don’t worry about his decision,” she said, with confident emphasis toAlyosha. “One way or another he is bound to come to it. He must escape.That unhappy man, that hero of honor and principle—not he, not DmitriFyodorovitch, but the man lying the other side of that door, who hassacrificed himself for his brother,” Katya added, with flashingeyes—“told me the whole plan of escape long ago. You know he hasalready entered into negotiations.... I’ve told you somethingalready.... You see, it will probably come off at the third _étape_from here, when the party of prisoners is being taken to Siberia. Oh,it’s a long way off yet. Ivan Fyodorovitch has already visited thesuperintendent of the third _étape_. But we don’t know yet who will bein charge of the party, and it’s impossible to find that out so longbeforehand. To‐morrow perhaps I will show you in detail the whole planwhich Ivan Fyodorovitch left me on the eve of the trial in case ofneed.... That was when—do you remember?—you found us quarreling. He hadjust gone down‐stairs, but seeing you I made him come back; do youremember? Do you know what we were quarreling about then?”
“No, I don’t,” said Alyosha.
“Of course he did not tell you. It was about that plan of escape. Hehad told me the main idea three days before, and we began quarrelingabout it at once and quarreled for three days. We quarreled because,when he told me that if Dmitri Fyodorovitch were convicted he wouldescape abroad with that creature, I felt furious at once—I can’t tellyou why, I don’t know myself why.... Oh, of course, I was furious thenabout that creature, and that she, too, should go abroad with Dmitri!”Katerina Ivanovna exclaimed suddenly, her lips quivering with anger.“As soon as Ivan Fyodorovitch saw that I was furious about that woman,he instantly imagined I was jealous of Dmitri and that I still lovedDmitri. That is how our first quarrel began. I would not give anexplanation, I could not ask forgiveness. I could not bear to thinkthat such a man could suspect me of still loving that ... and when Imyself had told him long before that I did not love Dmitri, that Iloved no one but him! It was only resentment against that creature thatmade me angry with him. Three days later, on the evening you came, hebrought me a sealed envelope, which I was to open at once, if anythinghappened to him. Oh, he foresaw his illness! He told me that theenvelope contained the details of the escape, and that if he died orwas taken dangerously ill, I was to save Mitya alone. Then he left memoney, nearly ten thousand—those notes to which the prosecutor referredin his speech, having learnt from some one that he had sent them to bechanged. I was tremendously impressed to find that Ivan Fyodorovitchhad not given up his idea of saving his brother, and was confiding thisplan of escape to me, though he was still jealous of me and stillconvinced that I loved Mitya. Oh, that was a sacrifice! No, you cannotunderstand the greatness of such self‐sacrifice, Alexey Fyodorovitch. Iwanted to fall at his feet in reverence, but I thought at once that hewould take it only for my joy at the thought of Mitya’s being saved(and he certainly would have imagined that!), and I was so exasperatedat the mere possibility of such an unjust thought on his part that Ilost my temper again, and instead of kissing his feet, flew into a furyagain! Oh, I am unhappy! It’s my character, my awful, unhappycharacter! Oh, you will see, I shall end by driving him, too, toabandon me for another with whom he can get on better, like Dmitri. But... no, I could not bear it, I should kill myself. And when you came inthen, and when I called to you and told him to come back, I was soenraged by the look of contempt and hatred he turned on me that—do youremember?—I cried out to you that it was he, he alone who had persuadedme that his brother Dmitri was a murderer! I said that malicious thingon purpose to wound him again. He had never, never persuaded me thathis brother was a murderer. On the contrary, it was I who persuadedhim! Oh, my vile temper was the cause of everything! I paved the way tothat hideous scene at the trial. He wanted to show me that he was anhonorable man, and that, even if I loved his brother, he would not ruinhim for revenge or jealousy. So he came to the court ... I am the causeof it all, I alone am to blame!”
Katya never had made such confessions to Alyosha before, and he feltthat she was now at that stage of unbearable suffering when even theproudest heart painfully crushes its pride and falls vanquished bygrief. Oh, Alyosha knew another terrible reason of her present misery,though she had carefully concealed it from him during those days sincethe trial; but it would have been for some reason too painful to him ifshe had been brought so low as to speak to him now about that. She wassuffering for her “treachery” at the trial, and Alyosha felt that herconscience was impelling her to confess it to him, to him, Alyosha,with tears and cries and hysterical writhings on the floor. But hedreaded that moment and longed to spare her. It made the commission onwhich he had come even more difficult. He spoke of Mitya again.
“It’s all right, it’s all right, don’t be anxious about him!” she beganagain, sharply and stubbornly. “All that is only momentary, I know him,I know his heart only too well. You may be sure he will consent toescape. It’s not as though it would be immediately; he will have timeto make up his mind to it. Ivan Fyodorovitch will be well by that timeand will manage it all himself, so that I shall have nothing to do withit. Don’t be anxious; he will consent to run away. He has agreedalready: do you suppose he would give up that creature? And they won’tlet her go to him, so he is bound to escape. It’s you he’s most afraidof, he is afraid you won’t approve of his escape on moral grounds. Butyou must generously _allow_ it, if your sanction is so necessary,”Katya added viciously. She paused and smiled.
“He talks about some hymn,” she went on again, “some cross he has tobear, some duty; I remember Ivan Fyodorovitch told me a great dealabout it, and if you knew how he talked!” Katya cried suddenly, withfeeling she could not repress, “if you knew how he loved that wretchedman at the moment he told me, and how he hated him, perhaps, at thesame moment. And I heard his story and his tears with sneering disdain.Brute! Yes, I am a brute. I am responsible for his fever. But that manin prison is incapable of suffering,” Katya concluded irritably. “Cansuch a man suffer? Men like him never suffer!”
There was a note of hatred and contemptuous repulsion in her words. Andyet it was she who had betrayed him. “Perhaps because she feels howshe’s wronged him she hates him at moments,” Alyosha thought tohimself. He hoped that it was only “at moments.” In Katya’s last wordshe detected a challenging note, but he did not take it up.
“I sent for you this morning to make you promise to persuade himyourself. Or do you, too, consider that to escape would bedishonorable, cowardly, or something ... unchristian, perhaps?” Katyaadded, even more defiantly.
“Oh, no. I’ll tell him everything,” muttered Alyosha. “He asks you tocome and see him to‐day,” he blurted out suddenly, looking her steadilyin the face. She started, and drew back a little from him on the sofa.
“Me? Can that be?” she faltered, turning pale.
“It can and ought to be!” Alyosha began emphatically, growing moreanimated. “He needs you particularly just now. I would not have openedthe subject and worried you, if it were not necessary. He is ill, he isbeside himself, he keeps asking for you. It is not to be reconciledwith you that he wants you, but only that you would go and showyourself at his door. So much has happened to him since that day. Herealizes that he has injured you beyond all reckoning. He does not askyour forgiveness—‘It’s impossible to forgive me,’ he says himself—butonly that you would show yourself in his doorway.”
“It’s so sudden....” faltered Katya. “I’ve had a presentiment all thesedays that you would come with that message. I knew he would ask me tocome. It’s impossible!”
“Let it be impossible, but do it. Only think, he realizes for the firsttime how he has wounded you, the first time in his life; he had nevergrasped it before so fully. He said, ‘If she refuses to come I shall beunhappy all my life.’ Do you hear? though he is condemned to penalservitude for twenty years, he is still planning to be happy—is notthat piteous? Think—you must visit him; though he is ruined, he isinnocent,” broke like a challenge from Alyosha. “His hands are clean,there is no blood on them! For the sake of his infinite sufferings inthe future visit him now. Go, greet him on his way into thedarkness—stand at his door, that is all.... You ought to do it, youought to!” Alyosha concluded, laying immense stress on the word“ought.”
“I ought to ... but I cannot....” Katya moaned. “He will look at me....I can’t.”
“Your eyes ought to meet. How will you live all your life, if you don’tmake up your mind to do it now?”
“Better suffer all my life.”
“You ought to go, you ought to go,” Alyosha repeated with mercilessemphasis.
“But why to‐day, why at once?... I can’t leave our patient—”
“You can for a moment. It will only be a moment. If you don’t come, hewill be in delirium by to‐night. I would not tell you a lie; have pityon him!”
“Have pity on _me!_” Katya said, with bitter reproach, and she burstinto tears.
“Then you will come,” said Alyosha firmly, seeing her tears. “I’ll goand tell him you will come directly.”
“No, don’t tell him so on any account,” cried Katya in alarm. “I willcome, but don’t tell him beforehand, for perhaps I may go, but not goin.... I don’t know yet—”
Her voice failed her. She gasped for breath. Alyosha got up to go.
“And what if I meet any one?” she said suddenly, in a low voice,turning white again.
“That’s just why you must go now, to avoid meeting any one. There willbe no one there, I can tell you that for certain. We will expect you,”he concluded emphatically, and went out of the room.



Chapter II.For A Moment The Lie Becomes Truth

He hurried to the hospital where Mitya was lying now. The day after hisfate was determined, Mitya had fallen ill with nervous fever, and wassent to the prison division of the town hospital. But at the request ofseveral persons (Alyosha, Madame Hohlakov, Lise, etc.), DoctorVarvinsky had put Mitya not with other prisoners, but in a separatelittle room, the one where Smerdyakov had been. It is true that therewas a sentinel at the other end of the corridor, and there was agrating over the window, so that Varvinsky could be at ease about theindulgence he had shown, which was not quite legal, indeed; but he wasa kind‐hearted and compassionate young man. He knew how hard it wouldbe for a man like Mitya to pass at once so suddenly into the society ofrobbers and murderers, and that he must get used to it by degrees. Thevisits of relations and friends were informally sanctioned by thedoctor and overseer, and even by the police captain. But only Alyoshaand Grushenka had visited Mitya. Rakitin had tried to force his way intwice, but Mitya persistently begged Varvinsky not to admit him.
Alyosha found him sitting on his bed in a hospital dressing‐gown,rather feverish, with a towel, soaked in vinegar and water, on hishead. He looked at Alyosha as he came in with an undefined expression,but there was a shade of something like dread discernible in it. He hadbecome terribly preoccupied since the trial; sometimes he would besilent for half an hour together, and seemed to be pondering somethingheavily and painfully, oblivious of everything about him. If he rousedhimself from his brooding and began to talk, he always spoke with akind of abruptness and never of what he really wanted to say. He lookedsometimes with a face of suffering at his brother. He seemed to be moreat ease with Grushenka than with Alyosha. It is true, he scarcely spoketo her at all, but as soon as she came in, his whole face lighted upwith joy.
Alyosha sat down beside him on the bed in silence. This time Mitya waswaiting for Alyosha in suspense, but he did not dare ask him aquestion. He felt it almost unthinkable that Katya would consent tocome, and at the same time he felt that if she did not come, somethinginconceivable would happen. Alyosha understood his feelings.
“Trifon Borissovitch,” Mitya began nervously, “has pulled his whole innto pieces, I am told. He’s taken up the flooring, pulled apart theplanks, split up all the gallery, I am told. He is seeking treasure allthe time—the fifteen hundred roubles which the prosecutor said I’dhidden there. He began playing these tricks, they say, as soon as hegot home. Serve him right, the swindler! The guard here told meyesterday; he comes from there.”
“Listen,” began Alyosha. “She will come, but I don’t know when. Perhapsto‐day, perhaps in a few days, that I can’t tell. But she will come,she will, that’s certain.”
Mitya started, would have said something, but was silent. The news hada tremendous effect on him. It was evident that he would have likedterribly to know what had been said, but he was again afraid to ask.Something cruel and contemptuous from Katya would have cut him like aknife at that moment.
“This was what she said among other things; that I must be sure to setyour conscience at rest about escaping. If Ivan is not well by then shewill see to it all herself.”
“You’ve spoken of that already,” Mitya observed musingly.
“And you have repeated it to Grusha,” observed Alyosha.
“Yes,” Mitya admitted. “She won’t come this morning.” He looked timidlyat his brother. “She won’t come till the evening. When I told heryesterday that Katya was taking measures, she was silent, but she sether mouth. She only whispered, ‘Let her!’ She understood that it wasimportant. I did not dare to try her further. She understands now, Ithink, that Katya no longer cares for me, but loves Ivan.”
“Does she?” broke from Alyosha.
“Perhaps she does not. Only she is not coming this morning,” Mityahastened to explain again; “I asked her to do something for me. Youknow, Ivan is superior to all of us. He ought to live, not us. He willrecover.”
“Would you believe it, though Katya is alarmed about him, she scarcelydoubts of his recovery,” said Alyosha.
“That means that she is convinced he will die. It’s because she isfrightened she’s so sure he will get well.”
“Ivan has a strong constitution, and I, too, believe there’s every hopethat he will get well,” Alyosha observed anxiously.
“Yes, he will get well. But she is convinced that he will die. She hasa great deal of sorrow to bear...” A silence followed. A grave anxietywas fretting Mitya.
“Alyosha, I love Grusha terribly,” he said suddenly in a shaking voice,full of tears.
“They won’t let her go out there to you,” Alyosha put in at once.
“And there is something else I wanted to tell you,” Mitya went on, witha sudden ring in his voice. “If they beat me on the way or out there, Iwon’t submit to it. I shall kill some one, and shall be shot for it.And this will be going on for twenty years! They speak to me rudely asit is. I’ve been lying here all night, passing judgment on myself. I amnot ready! I am not able to resign myself. I wanted to sing a ‘hymn’;but if a guard speaks rudely to me, I have not the strength to bear it.For Grusha I would bear anything ... anything except blows.... But shewon’t be allowed to come there.”
Alyosha smiled gently.
“Listen, brother, once for all,” he said. “This is what I think aboutit. And you know that I would not tell you a lie. Listen: you are notready, and such a cross is not for you. What’s more, you don’t needsuch a martyr’s cross when you are not ready for it. If you hadmurdered our father, it would grieve me that you should reject yourpunishment. But you are innocent, and such a cross is too much for you.You wanted to make yourself another man by suffering. I say, onlyremember that other man always, all your life and wherever you go; andthat will be enough for you. Your refusal of that great cross will onlyserve to make you feel all your life an even greater duty, and thatconstant feeling will do more to make you a new man, perhaps, than ifyou went there. For there you would not endure it and would repine, andperhaps at last would say: ‘I am quits.’ The lawyer was right aboutthat. Such heavy burdens are not for all men. For some they areimpossible. These are my thoughts about it, if you want them so much.If other men would have to answer for your escape, officers orsoldiers, then I would not have ‘allowed’ you,” smiled Alyosha. “Butthey declare—the superintendent of that _étape_ told Ivan himself—thatif it’s well managed there will be no great inquiry, and that they canget off easily. Of course, bribing is dishonest even in such a case,but I can’t undertake to judge about it, because if Ivan and Katyacommissioned me to act for you, I know I should go and give bribes. Imust tell you the truth. And so I can’t judge of your own action. Butlet me assure you that I shall never condemn you. And it would be astrange thing if I could judge you in this. Now I think I’ve gone intoeverything.”
“But I do condemn myself!” cried Mitya. “I shall escape, that wassettled apart from you; could Mitya Karamazov do anything but run away?But I shall condemn myself, and I will pray for my sin for ever. That’show the Jesuits talk, isn’t it? Just as we are doing?”
“Yes.” Alyosha smiled gently.
“I love you for always telling the whole truth and never hidinganything,” cried Mitya, with a joyful laugh. “So I’ve caught my Alyoshabeing Jesuitical. I must kiss you for that. Now listen to the rest;I’ll open the other side of my heart to you. This is what I planned anddecided. If I run away, even with money and a passport, and even toAmerica, I should be cheered up by the thought that I am not runningaway for pleasure, not for happiness, but to another exile as bad,perhaps, as Siberia. It is as bad, Alyosha, it is! I hate that America,damn it, already. Even though Grusha will be with me. Just look at her;is she an American? She is Russian, Russian to the marrow of her bones;she will be homesick for the mother country, and I shall see every hourthat she is suffering for my sake, that she has taken up that cross forme. And what harm has she done? And how shall I, too, put up with therabble out there, though they may be better than I, every one of them?I hate that America already! And though they may be wonderful atmachinery, every one of them, damn them, they are not of my soul. Ilove Russia, Alyosha, I love the Russian God, though I am a scoundrelmyself. I shall choke there!” he exclaimed, his eyes suddenly flashing.His voice was trembling with tears. “So this is what I’ve decided,Alyosha, listen,” he began again, mastering his emotion. “As soon as Iarrive there with Grusha, we will set to work at once on the land, insolitude, somewhere very remote, with wild bears. There must be someremote parts even there. I am told there are still Redskins there,somewhere, on the edge of the horizon. So to the country of the _Lastof the Mohicans_, and there we’ll tackle the grammar at once, Grushaand I. Work and grammar—that’s how we’ll spend three years. And by thattime we shall speak English like any Englishman. And as soon as we’velearnt it—good‐by to America! We’ll run here to Russia as Americancitizens. Don’t be uneasy—we would not come to this little town. We’dhide somewhere, a long way off, in the north or in the south. I shallbe changed by that time, and she will, too, in America. The doctorsshall make me some sort of wart on my face—what’s the use of theirbeing so mechanical!—or else I’ll put out one eye, let my beard grow ayard, and I shall turn gray, fretting for Russia. I dare say they won’trecognize us. And if they do, let them send us to Siberia. I don’tcare. It will show it’s our fate. We’ll work on the land here, too,somewhere in the wilds, and I’ll make up as an American all my life.But we shall die on our own soil. That’s my plan, and it shan’t bealtered. Do you approve?”
“Yes,” said Alyosha, not wanting to contradict him. Mitya paused for aminute and said suddenly:
“And how they worked it up at the trial! Didn’t they work it up!”
“If they had not, you would have been convicted just the same,” saidAlyosha, with a sigh.
“Yes, people are sick of me here! God bless them, but it’s hard,” Mityamoaned miserably. Again there was silence for a minute.
“Alyosha, put me out of my misery at once!” he exclaimed suddenly.“Tell me, is she coming now, or not? Tell me? What did she say? How didshe say it?”
“She said she would come, but I don’t know whether she will cometo‐day. It’s hard for her, you know,” Alyosha looked timidly at hisbrother.
“I should think it is hard for her! Alyosha, it will drive me out of mymind. Grusha keeps looking at me. She understands. My God, calm myheart: what is it I want? I want Katya! Do I understand what I want?It’s the headstrong, evil Karamazov spirit! No, I am not fit forsuffering. I am a scoundrel, that’s all one can say.”
“Here she is!” cried Alyosha.
At that instant Katya appeared in the doorway. For a moment she stoodstill, gazing at Mitya with a dazed expression. He leapt impulsively tohis feet, and a scared look came into his face. He turned pale, but atimid, pleading smile appeared on his lips at once, and with anirresistible impulse he held out both hands to Katya. Seeing it, sheflew impetuously to him. She seized him by the hands, and almost byforce made him sit down on the bed. She sat down beside him, and stillkeeping his hands pressed them violently. Several times they bothstrove to speak, but stopped short and again gazed speechless with astrange smile, their eyes fastened on one another. So passed twominutes.
“Have you forgiven me?” Mitya faltered at last, and at the same momentturning to Alyosha, his face working with joy, he cried, “Do you hearwhat I am asking, do you hear?”
“That’s what I loved you for, that you are generous at heart!” brokefrom Katya. “My forgiveness is no good to you, nor yours to me; whetheryou forgive me or not, you will always be a sore place in my heart, andI in yours—so it must be....” She stopped to take breath. “What have Icome for?” she began again with nervous haste: “to embrace your feet,to press your hands like this, till it hurts—you remember how in MoscowI used to squeeze them—to tell you again that you are my god, my joy,to tell you that I love you madly,” she moaned in anguish, and suddenlypressed his hand greedily to her lips. Tears streamed from her eyes.Alyosha stood speechless and confounded; he had never expected what hewas seeing.
“Love is over, Mitya!” Katya began again, “but the past is painfullydear to me. Know that you will always be so. But now let what mighthave been come true for one minute,” she faltered, with a drawn smile,looking into his face joyfully again. “You love another woman, and Ilove another man, and yet I shall love you for ever, and you will loveme; do you know that? Do you hear? Love me, love me all your life!” shecried, with a quiver almost of menace in her voice.
“I shall love you, and ... do you know, Katya,” Mitya began, drawing adeep breath at each word, “do you know, five days ago, that sameevening, I loved you.... When you fell down and were carried out ...All my life! So it will be, so it will always be—”
So they murmured to one another frantic words, almost meaningless,perhaps not even true, but at that moment it was all true, and theyboth believed what they said implicitly.
“Katya,” cried Mitya suddenly, “do you believe I murdered him? I knowyou don’t believe it now, but then ... when you gave evidence....Surely, surely you did not believe it!”
“I did not believe it even then. I’ve never believed it. I hated you,and for a moment I persuaded myself. While I was giving evidence Ipersuaded myself and believed it, but when I’d finished speaking I leftoff believing it at once. Don’t doubt that! I have forgotten that Icame here to punish myself,” she said, with a new expression in hervoice, quite unlike the loving tones of a moment before.
“Woman, yours is a heavy burden,” broke, as it were, involuntarily fromMitya.
“Let me go,” she whispered. “I’ll come again. It’s more than I can bearnow.”
She was getting up from her place, but suddenly uttered a loud screamand staggered back. Grushenka walked suddenly and noiselessly into theroom. No one had expected her. Katya moved swiftly to the door, butwhen she reached Grushenka, she stopped suddenly, turned as white aschalk and moaned softly, almost in a whisper:
“Forgive me!”
Grushenka stared at her and, pausing for an instant, in a vindictive,venomous voice, answered:
“We are full of hatred, my girl, you and I! We are both full of hatred!As though we could forgive one another! Save him, and I’ll worship youall my life.”
“You won’t forgive her!” cried Mitya, with frantic reproach.
“Don’t be anxious, I’ll save him for you!” Katya whispered rapidly, andshe ran out of the room.
“And you could refuse to forgive her when she begged your forgivenessherself?” Mitya exclaimed bitterly again.
“Mitya, don’t dare to blame her; you have no right to!” Alyosha criedhotly.
“Her proud lips spoke, not her heart,” Grushenka brought out in a toneof disgust. “If she saves you I’ll forgive her everything—”
She stopped speaking, as though suppressing something. She could notyet recover herself. She had come in, as appeared afterwards,accidentally, with no suspicion of what she would meet.
“Alyosha, run after her!” Mitya cried to his brother; “tell her ... Idon’t know ... don’t let her go away like this!”
“I’ll come to you again at nightfall,” said Alyosha, and he ran afterKatya. He overtook her outside the hospital grounds. She was walkingfast, but as soon as Alyosha caught her up she said quickly:
“No, before that woman I can’t punish myself! I asked her forgivenessbecause I wanted to punish myself to the bitter end. She would notforgive me.... I like her for that!” she added, in an unnatural voice,and her eyes flashed with fierce resentment.
“My brother did not expect this in the least,” muttered Alyosha. “Hewas sure she would not come—”
“No doubt. Let us leave that,” she snapped. “Listen: I can’t go withyou to the funeral now. I’ve sent them flowers. I think they still havemoney. If necessary, tell them I’ll never abandon them.... Now leaveme, leave me, please. You are late as it is—the bells are ringing forthe service.... Leave me, please!”



Chapter III.Ilusha’s Funeral. The Speech At The Stone

He really was late. They had waited for him and had already decided tobear the pretty flower‐decked little coffin to the church without him.It was the coffin of poor little Ilusha. He had died two days afterMitya was sentenced. At the gate of the house Alyosha was met by theshouts of the boys, Ilusha’s schoolfellows. They had all beenimpatiently expecting him and were glad that he had come at last. Therewere about twelve of them, they all had their school‐bags or satchelson their shoulders. “Father will cry, be with father,” Ilusha had toldthem as he lay dying, and the boys remembered it. Kolya Krassotkin wasthe foremost of them.
“How glad I am you’ve come, Karamazov!” he cried, holding out his handto Alyosha. “It’s awful here. It’s really horrible to see it. Snegiryovis not drunk, we know for a fact he’s had nothing to drink to‐day, buthe seems as if he were drunk ... I am always manly, but this is awful.Karamazov, if I am not keeping you, one question before you go in?”
“What is it, Kolya?” said Alyosha.
“Is your brother innocent or guilty? Was it he killed your father orwas it the valet? As you say, so it will be. I haven’t slept for thelast four nights for thinking of it.”
“The valet killed him, my brother is innocent,” answered Alyosha.
“That’s what I said,” cried Smurov.
“So he will perish an innocent victim!” exclaimed Kolya; “though he isruined he is happy! I could envy him!”
“What do you mean? How can you? Why?” cried Alyosha surprised.
“Oh, if I, too, could sacrifice myself some day for truth!” said Kolyawith enthusiasm.
“But not in such a cause, not with such disgrace and such horror!” saidAlyosha.
“Of course ... I should like to die for all humanity, and as fordisgrace, I don’t care about that—our names may perish. I respect yourbrother!”
“And so do I!” the boy, who had once declared that he knew who hadfounded Troy, cried suddenly and unexpectedly, and he blushed up to hisears like a peony as he had done on that occasion.
Alyosha went into the room. Ilusha lay with his hands folded and hiseyes closed in a blue coffin with a white frill round it. His thin facewas hardly changed at all, and strange to say there was no smell ofdecay from the corpse. The expression of his face was serious and, asit were, thoughtful. His hands, crossed over his breast, lookedparticularly beautiful, as though chiseled in marble. There wereflowers in his hands and the coffin, inside and out, was decked withflowers, which had been sent early in the morning by Lise Hohlakov. Butthere were flowers too from Katerina Ivanovna, and when Alyosha openedthe door, the captain had a bunch in his trembling hands and wasstrewing them again over his dear boy. He scarcely glanced at Alyoshawhen he came in, and he would not look at any one, even at his crazyweeping wife, “mamma,” who kept trying to stand on her crippled legs toget a nearer look at her dead boy. Nina had been pushed in her chair bythe boys close up to the coffin. She sat with her head pressed to itand she too was no doubt quietly weeping. Snegiryov’s face lookedeager, yet bewildered and exasperated. There was something crazy abouthis gestures and the words that broke from him. “Old man, dear oldman!” he exclaimed every minute, gazing at Ilusha. It was his habit tocall Ilusha “old man,” as a term of affection when he was alive.
“Father, give me a flower, too; take that white one out of his hand andgive it me,” the crazy mother begged, whimpering. Either because thelittle white rose in Ilusha’s hand had caught her fancy or that shewanted one from his hand to keep in memory of him, she movedrestlessly, stretching out her hands for the flower.
“I won’t give it to any one, I won’t give you anything,” Snegiryovcried callously. “They are his flowers, not yours! Everything is his,nothing is yours!”
“Father, give mother a flower!” said Nina, lifting her face wet withtears.
“I won’t give away anything and to her less than any one! She didn’tlove Ilusha. She took away his little cannon and he gave it to her,”the captain broke into loud sobs at the thought of how Ilusha had givenup his cannon to his mother. The poor, crazy creature was bathed innoiseless tears, hiding her face in her hands.
The boys, seeing that the father would not leave the coffin and that itwas time to carry it out, stood round it in a close circle and began tolift it up.
“I don’t want him to be buried in the churchyard,” Snegiryov wailedsuddenly; “I’ll bury him by the stone, by our stone! Ilusha told me to.I won’t let him be carried out!”
He had been saying for the last three days that he would bury him bythe stone, but Alyosha, Krassotkin, the landlady, her sister and allthe boys interfered.
“What an idea, bury him by an unholy stone, as though he had hangedhimself!” the old landlady said sternly. “There in the churchyard theground has been crossed. He’ll be prayed for there. One can hear thesinging in church and the deacon reads so plainly and verbally that itwill reach him every time just as though it were read over his grave.”
At last the captain made a gesture of despair as though to say, “Takehim where you will.” The boys raised the coffin, but as they passed themother, they stopped for a moment and lowered it that she might saygood‐ by to Ilusha. But on seeing that precious little face, which forthe last three days she had only looked at from a distance, shetrembled all over and her gray head began twitching spasmodically overthe coffin.
“Mother, make the sign of the cross over him, give him your blessing,kiss him,” Nina cried to her. But her head still twitched like anautomaton and with a face contorted with bitter grief she began,without a word, beating her breast with her fist. They carried thecoffin past her. Nina pressed her lips to her brother’s for the lasttime as they bore the coffin by her. As Alyosha went out of the househe begged the landlady to look after those who were left behind, butshe interrupted him before he had finished.
“To be sure, I’ll stay with them, we are Christians, too.” The oldwoman wept as she said it.
They had not far to carry the coffin to the church, not more than threehundred paces. It was a still, clear day, with a slight frost. Thechurch bells were still ringing. Snegiryov ran fussing and distractedafter the coffin, in his short old summer overcoat, with his head bareand his soft, old, wide‐brimmed hat in his hand. He seemed in a stateof bewildered anxiety. At one minute he stretched out his hand tosupport the head of the coffin and only hindered the bearers, atanother he ran alongside and tried to find a place for himself there. Aflower fell on the snow and he rushed to pick it up as thougheverything in the world depended on the loss of that flower.
“And the crust of bread, we’ve forgotten the crust!” he cried suddenlyin dismay. But the boys reminded him at once that he had taken thecrust of bread already and that it was in his pocket. He instantlypulled it out and was reassured.
“Ilusha told me to, Ilusha,” he explained at once to Alyosha. “I wassitting by him one night and he suddenly told me: ‘Father, when mygrave is filled up crumble a piece of bread on it so that the sparrowsmay fly down, I shall hear and it will cheer me up not to be lyingalone.’ ”
“That’s a good thing,” said Alyosha, “we must often take some.”
“Every day, every day!” said the captain quickly, seeming cheered atthe thought.
They reached the church at last and set the coffin in the middle of it.The boys surrounded it and remained reverently standing so, all throughthe service. It was an old and rather poor church; many of the ikonswere without settings; but such churches are the best for praying in.During the mass Snegiryov became somewhat calmer, though at times hehad outbursts of the same unconscious and, as it were, incoherentanxiety. At one moment he went up to the coffin to set straight thecover or the wreath, when a candle fell out of the candlestick herushed to replace it and was a fearful time fumbling over it, then hesubsided and stood quietly by the coffin with a look of blankuneasiness and perplexity. After the Epistle he suddenly whispered toAlyosha, who was standing beside him, that the Epistle had not beenread properly but did not explain what he meant. During the prayer,“Like the Cherubim,” he joined in the singing but did not go on to theend. Falling on his knees, he pressed his forehead to the stone floorand lay so for a long while.
At last came the funeral service itself and candles were distributed.The distracted father began fussing about again, but the touching andimpressive funeral prayers moved and roused his soul. He seemedsuddenly to shrink together and broke into rapid, short sobs, which hetried at first to smother, but at last he sobbed aloud. When they begantaking leave of the dead and closing the coffin, he flung his armsabout, as though he would not allow them to cover Ilusha, and begangreedily and persistently kissing his dead boy on the lips. At lastthey succeeded in persuading him to come away from the step, butsuddenly he impulsively stretched out his hand and snatched a fewflowers from the coffin. He looked at them and a new idea seemed todawn upon him, so that he apparently forgot his grief for a minute.Gradually he seemed to sink into brooding and did not resist when thecoffin was lifted up and carried to the grave. It was an expensive onein the churchyard close to the church, Katerina Ivanovna had paid forit. After the customary rites the grave‐ diggers lowered the coffin.Snegiryov with his flowers in his hands bent down so low over the opengrave that the boys caught hold of his coat in alarm and pulled himback. He did not seem to understand fully what was happening. When theybegan filling up the grave, he suddenly pointed anxiously at thefalling earth and began trying to say something, but no one could makeout what he meant, and he stopped suddenly. Then he was reminded thathe must crumble the bread and he was awfully excited, snatched up thebread and began pulling it to pieces and flinging the morsels on thegrave.
“Come, fly down, birds, fly down, sparrows!” he muttered anxiously.
One of the boys observed that it was awkward for him to crumble thebread with the flowers in his hands and suggested he should give themto some one to hold for a time. But he would not do this and seemedindeed suddenly alarmed for his flowers, as though they wanted to takethem from him altogether. And after looking at the grave, and as itwere, satisfying himself that everything had been done and the breadhad been crumbled, he suddenly, to the surprise of every one, turned,quite composedly even, and made his way homewards. But his steps becamemore and more hurried, he almost ran. The boys and Alyosha kept up withhim.
“The flowers are for mamma, the flowers are for mamma! I was unkind tomamma,” he began exclaiming suddenly.
Some one called to him to put on his hat as it was cold. But he flungthe hat in the snow as though he were angry and kept repeating, “Iwon’t have the hat, I won’t have the hat.” Smurov picked it up andcarried it after him. All the boys were crying, and Kolya and the boywho discovered about Troy most of all. Though Smurov, with thecaptain’s hat in his hand, was crying bitterly too, he managed, as heran, to snatch up a piece of red brick that lay on the snow of thepath, to fling it at the flock of sparrows that was flying by. Hemissed them, of course, and went on crying as he ran. Half‐way,Snegiryov suddenly stopped, stood still for half a minute, as thoughstruck by something, and suddenly turning back to the church, rantowards the deserted grave. But the boys instantly overtook him andcaught hold of him on all sides. Then he fell helpless on the snow asthough he had been knocked down, and struggling, sobbing, and wailing,he began crying out, “Ilusha, old man, dear old man!” Alyosha and Kolyatried to make him get up, soothing and persuading him.
“Captain, give over, a brave man must show fortitude,” muttered Kolya.
“You’ll spoil the flowers,” said Alyosha, “and mamma is expecting them,she is sitting crying because you would not give her any before.Ilusha’s little bed is still there—”
“Yes, yes, mamma!” Snegiryov suddenly recollected, “they’ll take awaythe bed, they’ll take it away,” he added as though alarmed that theyreally would. He jumped up and ran homewards again. But it was not faroff and they all arrived together. Snegiryov opened the door hurriedlyand called to his wife with whom he had so cruelly quarreled justbefore:
“Mamma, poor crippled darling, Ilusha has sent you these flowers,” hecried, holding out to her a little bunch of flowers that had beenfrozen and broken while he was struggling in the snow. But at thatinstant he saw in the corner, by the little bed, Ilusha’s little boots,which the landlady had put tidily side by side. Seeing the old,patched, rusty‐ looking, stiff boots he flung up his hands and rushedto them, fell on his knees, snatched up one boot and, pressing his lipsto it, began kissing it greedily, crying, “Ilusha, old man, dear oldman, where are your little feet?”
“Where have you taken him away? Where have you taken him?” the lunaticcried in a heartrending voice. Nina, too, broke into sobs. Kolya ranout of the room, the boys followed him. At last Alyosha too went out.
“Let them weep,” he said to Kolya, “it’s no use trying to comfort themjust now. Let us wait a minute and then go back.”
“No, it’s no use, it’s awful,” Kolya assented. “Do you know,Karamazov,” he dropped his voice so that no one could hear them, “Ifeel dreadfully sad, and if it were only possible to bring him back,I’d give anything in the world to do it.”
“Ah, so would I,” said Alyosha.
“What do you think, Karamazov? Had we better come back here to‐night?He’ll be drunk, you know.”
“Perhaps he will. Let us come together, you and I, that will be enough,to spend an hour with them, with the mother and Nina. If we all cometogether we shall remind them of everything again,” Alyosha suggested.
“The landlady is laying the table for them now—there’ll be a funeraldinner or something, the priest is coming; shall we go back to it,Karamazov?”
“Of course,” said Alyosha.
“It’s all so strange, Karamazov, such sorrow and then pancakes afterit, it all seems so unnatural in our religion.”
“They are going to have salmon, too,” the boy who had discovered aboutTroy observed in a loud voice.
“I beg you most earnestly, Kartashov, not to interrupt again with youridiotic remarks, especially when one is not talking to you and doesn’tcare to know whether you exist or not!” Kolya snapped out irritably.The boy flushed crimson but did not dare to reply.
Meantime they were strolling slowly along the path and suddenly Smurovexclaimed:
“There’s Ilusha’s stone, under which they wanted to bury him.”
They all stood still by the big stone. Alyosha looked and the wholepicture of what Snegiryov had described to him that day, how Ilusha,weeping and hugging his father, had cried, “Father, father, how heinsulted you,” rose at once before his imagination.
A sudden impulse seemed to come into his soul. With a serious andearnest expression he looked from one to another of the bright,pleasant faces of Ilusha’s schoolfellows, and suddenly said to them:
“Boys, I should like to say one word to you, here at this place.”
The boys stood round him and at once bent attentive and expectant eyesupon him.
“Boys, we shall soon part. I shall be for some time with my twobrothers, of whom one is going to Siberia and the other is lying atdeath’s door. But soon I shall leave this town, perhaps for a longtime, so we shall part. Let us make a compact here, at Ilusha’s stone,that we will never forget Ilusha and one another. And whatever happensto us later in life, if we don’t meet for twenty years afterwards, letus always remember how we buried the poor boy at whom we once threwstones, do you remember, by the bridge? and afterwards we all grew sofond of him. He was a fine boy, a kind‐hearted, brave boy, he felt forhis father’s honor and resented the cruel insult to him and stood upfor him. And so in the first place, we will remember him, boys, all ourlives. And even if we are occupied with most important things, if weattain to honor or fall into great misfortune—still let us remember howgood it was once here, when we were all together, united by a good andkind feeling which made us, for the time we were loving that poor boy,better perhaps than we are. My little doves—let me call you so, for youare very like them, those pretty blue birds, at this minute as I lookat your good dear faces. My dear children, perhaps you won’t understandwhat I am saying to you, because I often speak very unintelligibly, butyou’ll remember it all the same and will agree with my words some time.You must know that there is nothing higher and stronger and morewholesome and good for life in the future than some good memory,especially a memory of childhood, of home. People talk to you a greatdeal about your education, but some good, sacred memory, preserved fromchildhood, is perhaps the best education. If a man carries many suchmemories with him into life, he is safe to the end of his days, and ifone has only one good memory left in one’s heart, even that maysometime be the means of saving us. Perhaps we may even grow wickedlater on, may be unable to refrain from a bad action, may laugh atmen’s tears and at those people who say as Kolya did just now, ‘I wantto suffer for all men,’ and may even jeer spitefully at such people.But however bad we may become—which God forbid—yet, when we recall howwe buried Ilusha, how we loved him in his last days, and how we havebeen talking like friends all together, at this stone, the cruelest andmost mocking of us—if we do become so—will not dare to laugh inwardlyat having been kind and good at this moment! What’s more, perhaps, thatone memory may keep him from great evil and he will reflect and say,‘Yes, I was good and brave and honest then!’ Let him laugh to himself,that’s no matter, a man often laughs at what’s good and kind. That’sonly from thoughtlessness. But I assure you, boys, that as he laughs hewill say at once in his heart, ‘No, I do wrong to laugh, for that’s nota thing to laugh at.’ ”
“That will be so, I understand you, Karamazov!” cried Kolya, withflashing eyes.
The boys were excited and they, too, wanted to say something, but theyrestrained themselves, looking with intentness and emotion at thespeaker.
“I say this in case we become bad,” Alyosha went on, “but there’s noreason why we should become bad, is there, boys? Let us be, first andabove all, kind, then honest and then let us never forget each other! Isay that again. I give you my word for my part that I’ll never forgetone of you. Every face looking at me now I shall remember even forthirty years. Just now Kolya said to Kartashov that we did not care toknow whether he exists or not. But I cannot forget that Kartashovexists and that he is not blushing now as he did when he discovered thefounders of Troy, but is looking at me with his jolly, kind, dearlittle eyes. Boys, my dear boys, let us all be generous and brave likeIlusha, clever, brave and generous like Kolya (though he will be everso much cleverer when he is grown up), and let us all be as modest, asclever and sweet as Kartashov. But why am I talking about those two?You are all dear to me, boys, from this day forth, I have a place in myheart for you all, and I beg you to keep a place in your hearts for me!Well, and who has united us in this kind, good feeling which we shallremember and intend to remember all our lives? Who, if not Ilusha, thegood boy, the dear boy, precious to us for ever! Let us never forgethim. May his memory live for ever in our hearts from this time forth!”
“Yes, yes, for ever, for ever!” the boys cried in their ringing voices,with softened faces.
“Let us remember his face and his clothes and his poor little boots,his coffin and his unhappy, sinful father, and how boldly he stood upfor him alone against the whole school.”
“We will remember, we will remember,” cried the boys. “He was brave, hewas good!”
“Ah, how I loved him!” exclaimed Kolya.
“Ah, children, ah, dear friends, don’t be afraid of life! How good lifeis when one does something good and just!”
“Yes, yes,” the boys repeated enthusiastically.
“Karamazov, we love you!” a voice, probably Kartashov’s, criedimpulsively.
“We love you, we love you!” they all caught it up. There were tears inthe eyes of many of them.
“Hurrah for Karamazov!” Kolya shouted ecstatically.
“And may the dead boy’s memory live for ever!” Alyosha added again withfeeling.
“For ever!” the boys chimed in again.
“Karamazov,” cried Kolya, “can it be true what’s taught us in religion,that we shall all rise again from the dead and shall live and see eachother again, all, Ilusha too?”
“Certainly we shall all rise again, certainly we shall see each otherand shall tell each other with joy and gladness all that has happened!”Alyosha answered, half laughing, half enthusiastic.
“Ah, how splendid it will be!” broke from Kolya.
“Well, now we will finish talking and go to his funeral dinner. Don’tbe put out at our eating pancakes—it’s a very old custom and there’ssomething nice in that!” laughed Alyosha. “Well, let us go! And now wego hand in hand.”
“And always so, all our lives hand in hand! Hurrah for Karamazov!”Kolya cried once more rapturously, and once more the boys took up hisexclamation: “Hurrah for Karamazov!”