ACT I.
SCENE I. An Orchard near OLIVER'S house.
[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM.]
ORLANDO.As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion,--bequeathed me bywill but poor a thousand crowns, and, as thou say'st, charged mybrother, on his blessing, to breed me well: and there begins mysadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and report speaksgoldenly of his profit: for my part, he keeps me rustically athome, or, to speak more properly, stays me here at home unkept:for call you that keeping for a gentleman of my birth thatdiffers not from the stalling of an ox? His horses are bredbetter; for, besides that they are fair with their feeding, theyare taught their manage, and to that end riders dearlyhired; but I, his brother, gain nothing under him but growth;for the which his animals on his dunghills are as much bound tohim as I. Besides this nothing that he so plentifully gives me,the something that nature gave me, his countenance seems to takefrom me: he lets me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of abrother, and as much as in him lies, mines my gentility withmy education. This is it, Adam, that grieves me; and the spiritof my father, which I think is within me, begins to mutinyagainst this servitude; I will no longer endure it, though yet Iknow no wise remedy how to avoid it.
ADAM.Yonder comes my master, your brother.
ORLANDO.Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will shake me up.
[ADAM retires]
[Enter OLIVER.]
OLIVER.Now, sir! what make you here?
ORLANDO.Nothing: I am not taught to make anything.
OLIVER.What mar you then, sir?
ORLANDO.Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God made, apoor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
OLIVER.Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.
ORLANDO.Shall I keep your hogs, and eat husks with them? Whatprodigal portion have I spent that I should come to such penury?
OLIVER.Know you where you are, sir?
ORLANDO.O, sir, very well: here in your orchard.
OLIVER.Know you before whom, sir?
ORLANDO.Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know you aremy eldest brother: and in the gentle condition of blood, youshould so know me. The courtesy of nations allows you my betterin that you are the first-born; but the same tradition takes notaway my blood, were there twenty brothers betwixt us: I have asmuch of my father in me as you, albeit; I confess, your comingbefore me is nearer to his reverence.
OLIVER.What, boy!
ORLANDO.Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
OLIVER.Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
ORLANDO.I am no villain: I am the youngest son of Sir Rowland deBois: he was my father; and he is thrice a villain that says sucha father begot villains. Wert thou not my brother, I would nottake this hand from thy throat till this other had pulled outthy tongue for saying so: thou has railed on thyself.
ADAM.[Coming forward] Sweet masters, be patient; for yourfather's remembrance, be at accord.
OLIVER.Let me go, I say.
ORLANDO.I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My fathercharged you in his will to give me good education: you havetrained me like a peasant, obscuring and hiding from me allgentleman-like qualities: the spirit of my father grows strong inme, and I will no longer endure it: therefore, allow me suchexercises as may become a gentleman, or give me the poorallottery my father left me by testament; with that I will gobuy my fortunes.
OLIVER.And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent? Well, sir,get you in; I will not long be troubled with you: you shallhave some part of your will: I pray you leave me.
ORLANDO.I no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
OLIVER.Get you with him, you old dog.
ADAM.Is "old dog" my reward? Most true, I have lost my teeth inyour service.--God be with my old master! he would not havespoke such a word.
[Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM.]
OLIVER.Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will physicyour rankness, and yet give no thousand crowns neither.Holla, Dennis!
[Enter DENNIS.]
DENNIS.Calls your worship?
OLIVER.Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
DENNIS.So please you, he is here at the door and importunes access toyou.
OLIVER.Call him in.
[Exit DENNIS.]
--'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.
[Enter CHARLES.]
CHARLES.Good morrow to your worship.
OLIVER.Good Monsieur Charles!--what's the new news at the new court?
CHARLES.There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news; thatis, the old duke is banished by his younger brother the new duke;and three or four loving lords have put themselves into voluntaryexile with him, whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
OLIVER.Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be banishedwith her father?
CHARLES.O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves her,--beingever from their cradles bred together,--that she would havefollowed her exile, or have died to stay behind her. She is atthe court, and no less beloved of her uncle than his owndaughter; and never two ladies loved as they do.
OLIVER.Where will the old duke live?
CHARLES.They say he is already in the Forest of Arden, and a manymerry men with him; and there they live like the old Robin Hoodof England: they say many young gentlemen flock to him every day,and fleet the time carelessly, as they did in the golden world.
OLIVER.What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?
CHARLES.Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a matter. I amgiven, sir, secretly to understand that your younger brother,Orlando, hath a disposition to come in disguis'd against me totry a fall. To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit;and he that escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit himwell. Your brother is but young and tender; and, for your love, Iwould be loath to foil him, as I must, for my own honour, if hecome in: therefore, out of my love to you, I came hither toacquaint you withal; that either you might stay him from hisintendment, or brook such disgrace well as he shall run into; inthat it is thing of his own search, and altogether against mywill.
OLIVER.Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which thou shaltfind I will most kindly requite. I had myself notice of mybrother's purpose herein, and have by underhand means laboured todissuade him from it; but he is resolute. I'll tell thee,Charles, it is the stubbornest young fellow of France; full ofambition, an envious emulator of every man's good parts, a secretand villainous contriver against me his natural brother:therefore use thy discretion: I had as lief thou didst break hisneck as his finger. And thou wert best look to't; for if thoudost him any slight disgrace, or if he do not mightily gracehimself on thee, he will practise against thee by poison, entrapthee by some treacherous device, and never leave thee till hehath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other: for, Iassure thee, and almost with tears I speak it, there is not oneso young and so villainous this day living. I speak but brotherlyof him; but should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I mustblush and weep, and thou must look pale and wonder.
CHARLES.I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he cometo-morrow I'll give him his payment. If ever he go alone againI'll never wrestle for prize more: and so, God keep your worship!
[Exit.]
OLIVER.Farewell, good Charles.--Now will I stir this gamester: Ihope I shall see an end of him: for my soul, yet I know notwhy, hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle; never schooledand yet learned; full of noble device; of all sorts enchantinglybeloved; and, indeed, so much in the heart of the world, andespecially of my own people, who best know him, that I amaltogether misprised: but it shall not be so long; thiswrestler shall clear all: nothing remains but that I kindle theboy thither, which now I'll go about.
[Exit.]


SCENE II. A Lawn before the DUKE'S Palace.
[Enter ROSALIND and CELIA.]
CELIA.I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
ROSALIND.Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of; and wouldyou yet I were merrier? Unless you could teach me to forget abanished father, you must not learn me how to remember anyextraordinary pleasure.
CELIA.Herein I see thou lov'st me not with the full weight that Ilove thee; if my uncle, thy banished father, had banished thyuncle, the duke my father, so thou hadst been still with me,I could have taught my love to take thy father for mine; sowouldst thou, if the truth of thy love to me were so righteouslytempered as mine is to thee.
ROSALIND.Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to rejoice inyours.
CELIA.You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is like tohave; and, truly, when he dies thou shalt be his heir: for whathe hath taken away from thy father perforce, I will render theeagain in affection: by mine honour, I will; and when I break thatoath, let me turn monster; therefore, my sweet Rose, my dearRose, be merry.
ROSALIND.From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports: let me see; whatthink you of falling in love?
CELIA.Marry, I pr'ythee, do, to make sport withal: but love no manin good earnest, nor no further in sport neither than withsafety of a pure blush thou mayst in honour come off again.
ROSALIND.What shall be our sport, then?
CELIA.Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from herwheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
ROSALIND.I would we could do so; for her benefits are mightilymisplaced: and the bountiful blind woman doth most mistake inher gifts to women.
CELIA.'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce makeshonest; and those that she makes honest she makes veryill-favouredly.
ROSALIND.Nay; now thou goest from Fortune's office to Nature's: Fortunereigns in gifts of the world, not in the lineaments of Nature.
CELIA.No; when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she not byFortune fall into the fire?--Though Nature hath given us wit toflout at Fortune, hath not Fortune sent in this fool to cut offthe argument?
[Enter TOUCHSTONE.]
ROSALIND.Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, whenFortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of Nature's wit.
CELIA.Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, butNature's, who perceiveth our natural wits too dull to reason ofsuch goddesses, and hath sent this natural for our whetstone: foralways the dullness of the fool is the whetstone of the wits.--How now, wit? whither wander you?
TOUCHSTONE.Mistress, you must come away to your father.
CELIA.Were you made the messenger?
TOUCHSTONE.No, by mine honour; but I was bid to come for you.
ROSALIND.Where learned you that oath, fool?
TOUCHSTONE.Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they weregood pancakes, and swore by his honour the mustard was naught:now, I'll stand to it, the pancakes were naught and themustard was good: and yet was not the knight forsworn.
CELIA.How prove you that, in the great heap of your knowledge?
ROSALIND.Ay, marry; now unmuzzle your wisdom.
TOUCHSTONE.Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and swearby your beards that I am a knave.
CELIA.By our beards, if we had them, thou art.
TOUCHSTONE.By my knavery, if I had it, then I were: but if you swear by thatthat is not, you are not forsworn: no more was this knight,swearing by his honour, for he never had any; or if he had, hehad sworn it away before ever he saw those pancackes or thatmustard.
CELIA.Pr'ythee, who is't that thou mean'st?
TOUCHSTONE.One that old Frederick, your father, loves.
CELIA.My father's love is enough to honour him enough: speakno more of him: you'll be whipp'd for taxation one of these days.
TOUCHSTONE.The more pity that fools may not speak wisely whatwise men do foolishly.
CELIA.By my troth, thou sayest true: for since the little wit thatfools have was silenced, the little foolery that wise menhave makes a great show. Here comes Monsieur Le Beau.
ROSALIND.With his mouth full of news.
CELIA.Which he will put on us as pigeons feed their young.
ROSALIND.Then shall we be news-crammed.
CELIA.All the better; we shall be the more marketable.
[Enter LE BEAU.]
Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau. What's the news?
LE BEAU.Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.
CELIA.Sport! of what colour?
LE BEAU.What colour, madam? How shall I answer you?
ROSALIND.As wit and fortune will.
TOUCHSTONE.Or as the destinies decrees.
CELIA.Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.
TOUCHSTONE.Nay, if I keep not my rank,--
ROSALIND.Thou losest thy old smell.
LE BEAU.You amaze me, ladies; I would have told you of goodwrestling, which you have lost the sight of.
ROSALIND.Yet tell us the manner of the wrestling.
LE BEAU.I will tell you the beginning, and, if it please yourladyships, you may see the end; for the best is yet to do;and here, where you are, they are coming to perform it.
CELIA.Well,--the beginning, that is dead and buried.
LE BEAU.There comes an old man and his three sons,--
CELIA.I could match this beginning with an old tale.
LE BEAU.Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence, withbills on their necks,--
ROSALIND.'Be it known unto all men by these presents,'--
LE BEAU.The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the duke'swrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him, and broke three ofhis ribs, that there is little hope of life in him: so he servedthe second, and so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,their father, making such pitiful dole over them that all thebeholders take his part with weeping.
ROSALIND.Alas!
TOUCHSTONE.But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies have lost?
LE BEAU.Why, this that I speak of.
TOUCHSTONE.Thus men may grow wiser every day! It is the first timethat ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport for ladies.
CELIA.Or I, I promise thee.
ROSALIND.But is there any else longs to see this broken musicin his sides? is there yet another dotes upon rib-breaking?--Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?
LE BEAU.You must, if you stay here: for here is the placeappointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to perform it.
CELIA.Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.
[Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, ORLANDO, CHARLES, andAttendants.]
DUKE FREDERICK.Come on; since the youth will not be entreated, his own peril onhis forwardness.
ROSALIND.Is yonder the man?
LE BEAU.Even he, madam.
CELIA.Alas, he is too young: yet he looks successfully.
DUKE FREDERICK.How now, daughter and cousin? are you crept hither to see thewrestling?
ROSALIND.Ay, my liege; so please you give us leave.
DUKE FREDERICK.You will take little delight in it, I can tell you,there is such odds in the men. In pity of the challenger's youthI would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated.Speak to him, ladies; see if you can move him.
CELIA.Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.
DUKE FREDERICK.Do so; I'll not be by.
[DUKE FREDERICK goes apart.]
LE BEAU.Monsieur the challenger, the princesses call for you.
ORLANDO.I attend them with all respect and duty.
ROSALIND.Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?
ORLANDO.No, fair princess; he is the general challenger: I comebut in, as others do, to try with him the strength of my youth.
CELIA.Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your years.You have seen cruel proof of this man's strength: if you sawyourself with your eyes, or knew yourself with your judgment,the fear of your adventure would counsel you to a more equalenterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to embrace yourown safety and give over this attempt.
ROSALIND.Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore bemisprised: we will make it our suit to the duke that thewrestling might not go forward.
ORLANDO.I beseech you, punish me not with your hard thoughts: wherein Iconfess me much guilty to deny so fair and excellent ladiesanything. But let your fair eyes and gentle wishes gowith me to my trial: wherein if I be foiled there is but oneshamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one dead that iswilling to be so: I shall do my friends no wrong, for I have noneto lament me: the world no injury, for in it I have nothing; onlyin the world I fill up a place, which may be better suppliedwhen I have made it empty.
ROSALIND.The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
CELIA.And mine to eke out hers.
ROSALIND.Fare you well. Pray heaven, I be deceived in you!
CELIA.Your heart's desires be with you.
CHARLES.Come, where is this young gallant that is so desirousto lie with his mother earth?
ORLANDO.Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
DUKE FREDERICK.You shall try but one fall.
CHARLES.No; I warrant your grace, you shall not entreat him toa second, that have so mightily persuaded him from a first.
ORLANDO.You mean to mock me after; you should not have mocked me before;but come your ways.
ROSALIND.Now, Hercules be thy speed, young man!
CELIA.I would I were invisible, to catch the strong fellow by the leg.
[CHARLES and ORLANDO wrestle.]
ROSALIND.O excellent young man!
CELIA.If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who should down.
[CHARLES is thrown. Shout.]
DUKE FREDERICK.No more, no more.
ORLANDO.Yes, I beseech your grace; I am not yet well breathed.
DUKE FREDERICK.How dost thou, Charles?
LE BEAU.He cannot speak, my lord.
DUKE FREDERICK.Bear him away.
[CHARLES is borne out.]
What is thy name, young man?
ORLANDO.Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Bois.
DUKE FREDERICK.I would thou hadst been son to some man else.The world esteem'd thy father honourable,But I did find him still mine enemy:Thou shouldst have better pleas'd me with this deedHadst thou descended from another house.But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth;I would thou hadst told me of another father.
[Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, Train, and LE BEAU.]
CELIA.Were I my father, coz, would I do this?
ORLANDO.I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,His youngest son;--and would not change that callingTo be adopted heir to Frederick.
ROSALIND.My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,And all the world was of my father's mind:Had I before known this young man his son,I should have given him tears unto entreatiesEre he should thus have ventur'd.
CELIA.Gentle cousin,Let us go thank him, and encourage him:My father's rough and envious dispositionSticks me at heart.--Sir, you have well deserv'd:If you do keep your promises in loveBut justly, as you have exceeded promise,Your mistress shall be happy.
ROSALIND.Gentleman,
[Giving him a chain from her neck.]
Wear this for me; one out of suits with fortune,That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.--Shall we go, coz?
CELIA.Ay.--Fare you well, fair gentleman.
ORLANDO.Can I not say, I thank you? My better partsAre all thrown down; and that which here stands upIs but a quintain, a mere lifeless block.
ROSALIND.He calls us back: my pride fell with my fortunes:I'll ask him what he would.--Did you call, sir?--Sir, you have wrestled well, and overthrownMore than your enemies.
CELIA.Will you go, coz?
ROSALIND.Have with you.--Fare you well.
[Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA.]
ORLANDO.What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?I cannot speak to her, yet she urg'd conference.O poor Orlando! thou art overthrown:Or Charles, or something weaker, masters thee.
[Re-enter LE BEAU.]
LE BEAU.Good sir, I do in friendship counsel youTo leave this place. Albeit you have deserv'dHigh commendation, true applause, and love,Yet such is now the duke's condition,That he misconstrues all that you have done.The Duke is humorous; what he is, indeed,More suits you to conceive than I to speak of.
ORLANDO.I thank you, sir: and pray you tell me this;Which of the two was daughter of the dukeThat here was at the wrestling?
LE BEAU.Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;But yet, indeed, the smaller is his daughter:The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,To keep his daughter company; whose lovesAre dearer than the natural bond of sisters.But I can tell you that of late this dukeHath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,Grounded upon no other argumentBut that the people praise her for her virtuesAnd pity her for her good father's sake;And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the ladyWill suddenly break forth.--Sir, fare you well!Hereafter, in a better world than this,I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
ORLANDO.I rest much bounden to you: fare you well!
[Exit LE BEAU.]
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:--But heavenly Rosalind!
[Exit.]


SCENE III. A Room in the Palace.
[Enter CELIA and ROSALIND.]
CELIA.Why, cousin; why, Rosalind;--Cupid have mercy!--Not a word?
ROSALIND.Not one to throw at a dog.
CELIA.No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon curs, throwsome of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.
ROSALIND.Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one shouldbe lamed with reasons and the other mad without any.
CELIA.But is all this for your father?
ROSALIND.No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how fullof briers is this working-day world!
CELIA.They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in holidayfoolery; if we walk not in the trodden paths, our verypetticoats will catch them.
ROSALIND.I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.
CELIA.Hem them away.
ROSALIND.I would try, if I could cry hem and have him.
CELIA.Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
ROSALIND.O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself.
CELIA.O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in despite ofa fall.--But, turning these jests out of service, let us talk ingood earnest: is it possible, on such a sudden, you should fallinto so strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
ROSALIND.The duke my father loved his father dearly.
CELIA.Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly?By this kind of chase I should hate him, for my father hatedhis father dearly; yet I hate not Orlando.
ROSALIND.No, 'faith, hate him not, for my sake.
CELIA.Why should I not? doth he not deserve well?
ROSALIND.Let me love him for that; and do you love him becauseI do.--Look, here comes the duke.
CELIA.With his eyes full of anger.
[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords.]
DUKE FREDERICK.Mistress, despatch you with your safest haste,And get you from our court.
ROSALIND.Me, uncle?
DUKE FREDERICK.You, cousin:Within these ten days if that thou be'st foundSo near our public court as twenty miles,Thou diest for it.
ROSALIND.I do beseech your grace,Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:If with myself I hold intelligence,Or have acquaintance with mine own desires;If that I do not dream, or be not frantic,--As I do trust I am not,--then, dear uncle,Never so much as in a thought unbornDid I offend your highness.
DUKE FREDERICK.Thus do all traitors;If their purgation did consist in words,They are as innocent as grace itself:--Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
ROSALIND.Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
DUKE FREDERICK.Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.
ROSALIND.So was I when your highness took his dukedom;So was I when your highness banish'd him:Treason is not inherited, my lord:Or, if we did derive it from our friends,What's that to me? my father was no traitor!Then, good my liege, mistake me not so muchTo think my poverty is treacherous.
CELIA.Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
DUKE FREDERICK.Ay, Celia: we stay'd her for your sake,Else had she with her father rang'd along.
CELIA.I did not then entreat to have her stay;It was your pleasure, and your own remorse:I was too young that time to value her;But now I know her: if she be a traitor,Why so am I: we still have slept together,Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together;And wheresoe'er we went, like Juno's swans,Still we went coupled and inseparable.
DUKE FREDERICK.She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,Her very silence, and her patienceSpeak to the people, and they pity her.Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name;And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuousWhen she is gone: then open not thy lips;Firm and irrevocable is my doomWhich I have pass'd upon her;--she is banish'd.
CELIA.Pronounce that sentence, then, on me, my liege:I cannot live out of her company.
DUKE FREDERICK.You are a fool.--You, niece, provide yourself:If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,And in the greatness of my word, you die.
[Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords.]
CELIA.O my poor Rosalind! whither wilt thou go?Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.I charge thee be not thou more griev'd than I am.
ROSALIND.I have more cause.
CELIA.Thou hast not, cousin;Pr'ythee be cheerful: know'st thou not the dukeHath banish'd me, his daughter?
ROSALIND.That he hath not.
CELIA.No! hath not? Rosalind lacks, then, the loveWhich teacheth thee that thou and I am one:Shall we be sund'red? shall we part, sweet girl?No; let my father seek another heir.Therefore devise with me how we may fly,Whither to go, and what to bear with us:And do not seek to take your charge upon you,To bear your griefs yourself, and leave me out;For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.
ROSALIND.Why, whither shall we go?
CELIA.To seek my uncle in the Forest of Arden.
ROSALIND.Alas! what danger will it be to us,Maids as we are, to travel forth so far?Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
CELIA.I'll put myself in poor and mean attire,And with a kind of umber smirch my face;The like do you; so shall we pass along,And never stir assailants.
ROSALIND.Were it not better,Because that I am more than common tall,That I did suit me all points like a man?A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,A boar spear in my hand; and,--in my heartLie there what hidden woman's fear there will,--We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,As many other mannish cowards haveThat do outface it with their semblances.
CELIA.What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
ROSALIND.I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page,And, therefore, look you call me Ganymede.But what will you be call'd?
CELIA.Something that hath a reference to my state:No longer Celia, but Aliena.
ROSALIND.But, cousin, what if we assay'd to stealThe clownish fool out of your father's court?Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
CELIA.He'll go along o'er the wide world with me;Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,And get our jewels and our wealth together;Devise the fittest time and safest wayTo hide us from pursuit that will be madeAfter my flight. Now go we in contentTo liberty, and not to banishment.
[Exeunt.]


ACT II.
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
[Enter DUKE Senior, AMIENS, and other LORDS, in the dress offoresters.]
DUKE SENIOR.Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,Hath not old custom made this life more sweetThan that of painted pomp? Are not these woodsMore free from peril than the envious court?Here feel we not the penalty of Adam,--The seasons' difference: as the icy fangAnd churlish chiding of the winter's wind,Which when it bites and blows upon my body,Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say,'This is no flattery: these are counsellorsThat feelingly persuade me what I am.'Sweet are the uses of adversity;Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;And this our life, exempt from public haunt,Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,Sermons in stones, and good in everything.I would not change it.
AMIENS.Happy is your grace,That can translate the stubbornness of fortuneInto so quiet and so sweet a style.
DUKE SENIOR.Come, shall we go and kill us venison?And yet it irks me, the poor dappled fools,Being native burghers of this desert city,Should, in their own confines, with forked headsHave their round haunches gor'd.
FIRST LORD.Indeed, my lord,The melancholy Jaques grieves at that;And, in that kind, swears you do more usurpThan doth your brother that hath banish'd you.To-day my lord of Amiens and myselfDid steal behind him as he lay alongUnder an oak, whose antique root peeps outUpon the brook that brawls along this wood:To the which place a poor sequester'd stag,That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,Did come to languish; and, indeed, my lord,The wretched animal heav'd forth such groans,That their discharge did stretch his leathern coatAlmost to bursting; and the big round tearsCours'd one another down his innocent noseIn piteous chase: and thus the hairy fool,Much marked of the melancholy Jaques,Stood on the extremest verge of the swift brook,Augmenting it with tears.
DUKE SENIOR.But what said Jaques?Did he not moralize this spectacle?
FIRST LORD.O, yes, into a thousand similes.First, for his weeping into the needless stream;'Poor deer,' quoth he 'thou mak'st a testamentAs worldlings do, giving thy sum of moreTo that which had too much:' then, being there alone,Left and abandoned of his velvet friends;''Tis right'; quoth he; 'thus misery doth partThe flux of company:' anon, a careless herd,Full of the pasture, jumps along by himAnd never stays to greet him; 'Ay,' quoth Jaques,'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens;'Tis just the fashion; wherefore do you lookUpon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'Thus most invectively he pierceth throughThe body of the country, city, court,Yea, and of this our life: swearing that weAre mere usurpers, tyrants, and what's worse,To fright the animals, and to kill them upIn their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
DUKE SENIOR.And did you leave him in this contemplation?
SECOND LORD.We did, my lord, weeping and commentingUpon the sobbing deer.
DUKE SENIOR.Show me the place:I love to cope him in these sullen fits,For then he's full of matter.
FIRST LORD.I'll bring you to him straight.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE II. A Room in the Palace.
[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and Attendants.]
DUKE FREDERICK.Can it be possible that no man saw them?It cannot be: some villains of my courtAre of consent and sufferance in this.
FIRST LORD.I cannot hear of any that did see her.The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,Saw her a-bed; and in the morning earlyThey found the bed untreasur'd of their mistress.
SECOND LORD.My lord, the roynish clown, at whom so oftYour grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.Hesperia, the princess' gentlewoman,Confesses that she secretly o'erheardYour daughter and her cousin much commendThe parts and graces of the wrestlerThat did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;And she believes, wherever they are gone,That youth is surely in their company.
DUKE FREDERICK.Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither:If he be absent, bring his brother to me,I'll make him find him: do this suddenly;And let not search and inquisition quailTo bring again these foolish runaways.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE III. Before OLIVER'S House.
[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting.]
ORLANDO.Who's there?
ADAM.What, my young master?--O my gentle master!O my sweet master! O you memoryOf old Sir Rowland! why, what make you here?Why are you virtuous? why do people love you?And wherefore are you gentle, strong, and valiant?Why would you be so fond to overcomeThe bonny prizer of the humorous duke?Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.Know you not, master, to some kind of menTheir graces serve them but as enemies?No more do yours; your virtues, gentle master,Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.O, what a world is this, when what is comelyEnvenoms him that bears it!
ORLANDO.Why, what's the matter?
ADAM.O unhappy youth,Come not within these doors; within this roofThe enemy of all your graces lives:Your brother,--no, no brother; yet the son--Yet not the son; I will not call him son--Of him I was about to call his father,--Hath heard your praises; and this night he meansTo burn the lodging where you use to lie,And you within it: if he fail of that,He will have other means to cut you off;I overheard him and his practices.This is no place; this house is but a butchery:Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
ORLANDO.Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
ADAM.No matter whither, so you come not here.
ORLANDO.What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food?Or with a base and boisterous sword enforceA thievish living on the common road?This I must do, or know not what to do:Yet this I will not do, do how I can:I rather will subject me to the maliceOf a diverted blood and bloody brother.
ADAM.But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,The thrifty hire I sav'd under your father,Which I did store to be my foster-nurse,When service should in my old limbs lie lame,And unregarded age in corners thrown;Take that: and He that doth the ravens feed,Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;All this I give you. Let me be your servant;Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty:For in my youth I never did applyHot and rebellious liquors in my blood;Nor did not with unbashful forehead wooThe means of weakness and debility;Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,Frosty, but kindly: let me go with you;I'll do the service of a younger manIn all your business and necessities.
ORLANDO.O good old man; how well in thee appearsThe constant service of the antique world,When service sweat for duty, not for meed!Thou art not for the fashion of these times,Where none will sweat but for promotion;And having that, do choke their service upEven with the having: it is not so with thee.But, poor old man, thou prun'st a rotten tree,That cannot so much as a blossom yieldIn lieu of all thy pains and husbandry:But come thy ways, we'll go along together;And ere we have thy youthful wages spentWe'll light upon some settled low content.
ADAM.Master, go on; and I will follow theeTo the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.--From seventeen years till now almost fourscoreHere lived I, but now live here no more.At seventeen years many their fortunes seek;But at fourscore it is too late a week:Yet fortune cannot recompense me betterThan to die well and not my master's debtor.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE IV. The Forest of Arden.
[Enter ROSALIND in boy's clothes, CELIA dressed like ashepherdess, and TOUCHSTONE.]
ROSALIND.O Jupiter! how weary are my spirits!
TOUCHSTONE.I care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.
ROSALIND.I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel,and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort the weaker vessel, asdoublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat;therefore, courage, good Aliena.
CELIA.I pray you bear with me; I can go no further.
TOUCHSTONE.For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear you:yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you; for I think youhave no money in your purse.
ROSALIND.Well, this is the forest of Arden.
TOUCHSTONE.Ay, now am I in Arden: the more fool I; when I was athome I was in a better place; but travellers must be content.
ROSALIND.Ay, be so, good Touchstone.--Look you, who comes here?, ayoung man and an old in solemn talk.
[Enter CORIN and SILVIUS.]
CORIN.That is the way to make her scorn you still.
SILVIUS.O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
CORIN.I partly guess; for I have lov'd ere now.
SILVIUS.No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess;Though in thy youth thou wast as true a loverAs ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:But if thy love were ever like to mine,--As sure I think did never man love so,--How many actions most ridiculousHast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
CORIN.Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
SILVIUS.O, thou didst then never love so heartily:If thou remember'st not the slightest follyThat ever love did make thee run into,Thou hast not lov'd:Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,Thou hast not lov'd:Or if thou hast not broke from companyAbruptly, as my passion now makes me,Thou hast not lov'd: O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!
[Exit Silvius.]
ROSALIND.Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,I have by hard adventure found mine own.
TOUCHSTONE.And I mine. I remember, when I was in love, I broke mysword upon a stone, and bid him take that for coming a-night toJane Smile: and I remember the kissing of her batlet, and thecow's dugs that her pretty chapp'd hands had milk'd: and Iremember the wooing of a peascod instead of her; from whom I tooktwo cods, and giving her them again, said with weeping tears,'Wear these for my sake.' We that are true lovers run intostrange capers; but as all is mortal in nature, so is all naturein love mortal in folly.
ROSALIND.Thou speak'st wiser than thou art 'ware of.
TOUCHSTONE.Nay, I shall ne'er be 'ware of mine own wit till I break my shinsagainst it.
ROSALIND.Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passionIs much upon my fashion.
TOUCHSTONE.And mine: but it grows something stale with me.
CELIA.I pray you, one of you question yond manIf he for gold will give us any food:I faint almost to death.
TOUCHSTONE.Holla, you clown!
ROSALIND.Peace, fool; he's not thy kinsman.
CORIN.Who calls?
TOUCHSTONE.Your betters, sir.
CORIN.Else are they very wretched.
ROSALIND.Peace, I say.--Good even to you, friend.
CORIN.And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.
ROSALIND.I pr'ythee, shepherd, if that love or goldCan in this desert place buy entertainment,Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed:Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd,And faints for succour.
CORIN.Fair sir, I pity her,And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,My fortunes were more able to relieve her:But I am shepherd to another man,And do not shear the fleeces that I graze:My master is of churlish disposition,And little recks to find the way to heavenBy doing deeds of hospitality:Besides, his cote, his flocks, and bounds of feed,Are now on sale; and at our sheepcote now,By reason of his absence, there is nothingThat you will feed on; but what is, come see,And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
ROSALIND.What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
CORIN.That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,That little cares for buying anything.
ROSALIND.I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,Buy thou the cottage, pasture, and the flock,And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
CELIA.And we will mend thy wages. I like this place,And willingly could waste my time in it.
CORIN.Assuredly the thing is to be sold:Go with me: if you like, upon report,The soil, the profit, and this kind of life,I will your very faithful feeder be,And buy it with your gold right suddenly.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE V. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others.]
AMIENS.        SONG    Under the greenwood tree,    Who loves to lie with me,    And turn his merry note    Unto the sweet bird's throat, Come hither, come hither, come hither;    Here shall he see    No enemy But winter and rough weather.
JAQUES.More, more, I pr'ythee, more.
AMIENS.It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
JAQUES.I thank it. More, I pr'ythee, more. I can suck melancholyout of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. More, I pr'ythee, more.
AMIENS.My voice is ragged; I know I cannot please you.
JAQUES.I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to sing.Come, more: another stanza. Call you them stanzas?
AMIENS.What you will, Monsieur Jaques.
JAQUES.Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me nothing.Will you sing?
AMIENS.More at your request than to please myself.
JAQUES.Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you: butthat they call compliment is like the encounter of two dog-apes;and when a man thanks me heartily, methinks have given him apenny, and he renders me the beggarly thanks. Come, sing; andyou that will not, hold your tongues.
AMIENS.Well, I'll end the song.--Sirs, cover the while: the duke willdrink under this tree:--he hath been all this day to look you.
JAQUES.And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is toodisputable for my company: I think of as many matters as he;but I give heaven thanks, and make no boast of them. Come,warble, come.
      SONG[All together here.]    Who doth ambition shun,    And loves to live i' the sun,    Seeking the food he eats,    And pleas'd with what he gets, Come hither, come hither, come hither.    Here shall he see    No enemy But winter and rough weather.
JAQUES.I'll give you a verse to this note that I madeyesterday in despite of my invention.
AMIENS.And I'll sing it.
JAQUES.Thus it goes:
    If it do come to pass    That any man turn ass,    Leaving his wealth and ease    A stubborn will to please, Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame;    Here shall he see    Gross fools as he, An if he will come to me.
AMIENS.What's that "ducdame?"
JAQUES.'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a circle. I'llgo sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll rail against all thefirst-born of Egypt.
AMIENS.And I'll go seek the duke; his banquet is prepared.
[Exeunt severally.]


SCENE VI. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM.]
ADAM.Dear master, I can go no further: O, I die for food! Herelie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell, kind master.
ORLANDO.Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live alittle; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little. If this uncouthforest yield anything savage, I will either be food for it orbring it for food to thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thypowers. For my sake be comfortable: hold death awhile at thearm's end: I will here be with thee presently; and if I bringthee not something to eat, I'll give thee leave to die: but ifthou diest before I come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Wellsaid! thou look'st cheerily: and I'll be with thee quickly.--Yetthou liest in the bleak air: come, I will bear thee to someshelter; and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner if therelive anything in this desert. Cheerily, good Adam!
[Exeunt.]


SCENE VII. Another part of the Forest.
[A table set. Enter DUKE Senior, AMIENS, and others.]
DUKE SENIOR.I think he be transform'd into a beast;For I can nowhere find him like a man.
FIRST LORD.My lord, he is but even now gone hence;Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
DUKE SENIOR.If he, compact of jars, grow musical,We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.Go, seek him; tell him I would speak with him.
FIRST LORD.He saves my labour by his own approach.
[Enter JAQUES.]
DUKE SENIOR.Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,That your poor friends must woo your company?What! you look merrily!
JAQUES.A fool, a fool!--I met a fool i' the forest,A motley fool;--a miserable world!--As I do live by food, I met a fool,Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,In good set terms,--and yet a motley fool.'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I: 'No, sir,' quoth he,'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune.'And then he drew a dial from his poke,And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:Thus we may see,' quoth he, 'how the world wags;'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine;And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hearThe motley fool thus moral on the time,My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,That fools should be so deep contemplative;And I did laugh sans intermissionAn hour by his dial.--O noble fool!A worthy fool!--Motley's the only wear.
DUKE SENIOR.What fool is this?
JAQUES.O worthy fool!--One that hath been a courtier,And says, if ladies be but young and fair,They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,--Which is as dry as the remainder biscuitAfter a voyage,--he hath strange places cramm'dWith observation, the which he ventsIn mangled forms.-O that I were a fool!I am ambitious for a motley coat.
DUKE SENIOR.Thou shalt have one.
JAQUES.It is my only suit,Provided that you weed your better judgmentsOf all opinion that grows rank in themThat I am wise. I must have libertyWithal, as large a charter as the wind,To blow on whom I please; for so fools have:And they that are most galled with my folly,They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:He that a fool doth very wisely hitDoth very foolishly, although he smart,Not to seem senseless of the bob; if not,The wise man's folly is anatomiz'dEven by the squandering glances of the fool.Invest me in my motley; give me leaveTo speak my mind, and I will through and throughCleanse the foul body of the infected world,If they will patiently receive my medicine.
DUKE SENIOR.Fie on thee! I can tell what thou wouldst do.
JAQUES.What, for a counter, would I do but good?
DUKE SENIOR.Most mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin;For thou thyself hast been a libertine,As sensual as the brutish sting itself;And all the embossed sores and headed evilsThat thou with license of free foot hast caughtWouldst thou disgorge into the general world.
JAQUES.Why, who cries out on prideThat can therein tax any private party?Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,Till that the weary very means do ebb?What woman in the city do I nameWhen that I say, The city-woman bearsThe cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?Who can come in and say that I mean her,When such a one as she, such is her neighbour?Or what is he of basest functionThat says his bravery is not on my cost,--Thinking that I mean him,--but therein suitsHis folly to the metal of my speech?There then; how then? what then? Let me see whereinMy tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,Why then, my taxing like a wild-goose flies,Unclaim'd of any man.--But who comes here?
[Enter ORLANDO, with his sword drawn.]
ORLANDO.Forbear, and eat no more.
JAQUES.Why, I have eat none yet.
ORLANDO.Nor shalt not, till necessity be serv'd.
JAQUES.Of what kind should this cock come of?
DUKE SENIOR.Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress:Or else a rude despiser of good manners,That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
ORLANDO.You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny pointOf bare distress hath ta'en from me the showOf smooth civility: yet am I inland bred,And know some nurture. But forbear, I say;He dies that touches any of this fruitTill I and my affairs are answered.
JAQUES.An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.
DUKE SENIOR.What would you have? your gentleness shall forceMore than your force move us to gentleness.
ORLANDO.I almost die for food, and let me have it.
DUKE SENIOR.Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.
ORLANDO.Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:I thought that all things had been savage here;And therefore put I on the countenanceOf stern commandment. But whate'er you areThat in this desert inaccessible,Under the shade of melancholy boughs,Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time;If ever you have look'd on better days,If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,If ever sat at any good man's feast,If ever from your eyelids wip'd a tear,And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
DUKE SENIOR.True is it that we have seen better days,And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church,And sat at good men's feasts, and wip'd our eyesOf drops that sacred pity hath engender'd:And therefore sit you down in gentleness,And take upon command what help we have,That to your wanting may be minister'd.
ORLANDO.Then but forbear your food a little while,Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn,And give it food. There is an old poor manWho after me hath many a weary stepLimp'd in pure love: till he be first suffic'd,--Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,--I will not touch a bit.
DUKE SENIOR.Go find him out.And we will nothing waste till you return.
ORLANDO.I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!
[Exit.]
DUKE SENIOR.Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy;This wide and universal theatrePresents more woeful pageants than the sceneWherein we play in.
JAQUES.All the world's a stage,And all the men and women merely players;They have their exits and their entrances;And one man in his time plays many parts,His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms;Then the whining school-boy, with his satchelAnd shining morning face, creeping like snailUnwillingly to school. And then the lover,Sighing like furnace, with a woeful balladMade to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard,Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,Seeking the bubble reputationEven in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,In fair round belly with good capon lin'd,With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,Full of wise saws and modern instances;And so he plays his part. The sixth age shiftsInto the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,With spectacles on nose and pouch on side;His youthful hose, well sav'd, a world too wideFor his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,Turning again toward childish treble, pipesAnd whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,That ends this strange eventful history,Is second childishness and mere oblivion;Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.
[Re-enter ORLANDO with ADAM.]
DUKE SENIOR.Welcome. Set down your venerable burden,And let him feed.
ORLANDO.I thank you most for him.
ADAM.So had you need;I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.
DUKE SENIOR.Welcome; fall to: I will not trouble youAs yet, to question you about your fortunes.--Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.
[AMIENS sings.]      SONG       I.   Blow, blow, thou winter wind,   Thou art not so unkind     As man's ingratitude;   Thy tooth is not so keen,   Because thou art not seen,     Although thy breath be rude.Heigh-ho! sing heigh-ho! unto the green holly:Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:   Then, heigh-ho, the holly!     This life is most jolly.
       II.   Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,   That dost not bite so nigh     As benefits forgot:   Though thou the waters warp,   Thy sting is not so sharp     As friend remember'd not.Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! &c.
DUKE SENIOR.If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,--As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,And as mine eye doth his effigies witnessMost truly limn'd and living in your face,--Be truly welcome hither: I am the dukeThat lov'd your father. The residue of your fortune,Go to my cave and tell me.--Good old man,Thou art right welcome as thy master is;Support him by the arm.--Give me your hand,And let me all your fortunes understand.
[Exeunt]


ACT III.
SCENE I. A Room in the Palace.
[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, OLIVER, Lords and Attendants.]
DUKE FREDERICK.Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:But were I not the better part made mercy,I should not seek an absent argumentOf my revenge, thou present. But look to it:Find out thy brother wheresoe'er he is:Seek him with candle; bring him dead or livingWithin this twelvemonth, or turn thou no moreTo seek a living in our territory.Thy lands, and all things that thou dost call thineWorth seizure, do we seize into our hands,Till thou canst quit thee by thy brother's mouthOf what we think against thee.
OLIVER.O that your highness knew my heart in this!I never lov'd my brother in my life.
DUKE FREDERICK.More villain thou.--Well, push him out of doors,And let my officers of such a natureMake an extent upon his house and lands:Do this expediently, and turn him going.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE II. The Forest of Arden.
[Enter ORLANDO, with a paper.]
ORLANDO.Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love;  And thou, thrice-crowned queen of night, surveyWith thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,  Thy huntress' name, that my full life doth sway.O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books,  And in their barks my thoughts I'll character,That every eye which in this forest looks  Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree,The fair, the chaste, and unexpressive she.
[Exit.]
[Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE.]
CORIN.And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?
TOUCHSTONE.Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a goodlife; but in respect that it is a shepherd's life, it is naught.In respect that it is solitary, I like it very well; but inrespect that it is private, it is a very vile life. Now inrespect it is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in respectit is not in the court, it is tedious. As it is a spare life,look you, it fits my humour well; but as there is no moreplenty in it, it goes much against my stomach. Hast anyphilosophy in thee, shepherd?
CORIN.No more but that I know the more one sickens, the worse atease he is; and that he that wants money, means, and content, iswithout three good friends; that the property of rain is to wet,and fire to burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep; and that agreat cause of the night is lack of the sun; that he that hathlearned no wit by nature nor art may complain of good breeding,or comes of a very dull kindred.
TOUCHSTONE.Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in court,shepherd?
CORIN.No, truly.
TOUCHSTONE.Then thou art damned.
CORIN.Nay, I hope,--
TOUCHSTONE.Truly, thou art damned, like an ill-roasted egg, all on one side.
CORIN.For not being at court? Your reason.
TOUCHSTONE.Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never saw'st goodmanners; if thou never saw'st good manners, then thy manners mustbe wicked; and wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Thou artin a parlous state, shepherd.
CORIN.Not a whit, Touchstone; those that are good manners at thecourt are as ridiculous in the country as the behaviour of thecountry is most mockable at the court. You told me you salute notat the court, but you kiss your hands; that courtesy would beuncleanly if courtiers were shepherds.
TOUCHSTONE.Instance, briefly; come, instance.
CORIN.Why, we are still handling our ewes; and their fells,you know, are greasy.
TOUCHSTONE.Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? and is not thegrease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of a man?Shallow, shallow: a better instance, I say; come.
CORIN.Besides, our hands are hard.
TOUCHSTONE.Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again: a moresounder instance; come.
CORIN.And they are often tarred over with the surgery of oursheep; and would you have us kiss tar? The courtier's handsare perfumed with civet.
TOUCHSTONE.Most shallow man! thou worm's-meat in respect of a goodpiece of flesh indeed!--Learn of the wise, and perpend: civet isof a baser birth than tar,--the very uncleanly flux of a cat.Mend the instance, shepherd.
CORIN.You have too courtly a wit for me: I'll rest.
TOUCHSTONE.Wilt thou rest damned? God help thee, shallow man!God make incision in thee! thou art raw.
CORIN.Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get that Iwear, owe no man hate, envy no man's happiness, glad of othermen's good, content with my harm; and the greatest of mypride is to see my ewes graze and my lambs suck.
TOUCHSTONE.That is another simple sin in you: to bring the ewesand the rams together, and to offer to get your living by thecopulation of cattle; to be bawd to a bell-wether; and to betraya she-lamb of a twelvemonth to crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,out of all reasonable match. If thou be'st not damned for this,the devil himself will have no shepherds; I cannot see else howthou shouldst 'scape.
CORIN.Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
[Enter ROSALIND, reading a paper.]
ROSALIND.  'From the east to western Ind,  No jewel is like Rosalind.  Her worth, being mounted on the wind,  Through all the world bears Rosalind.  All the pictures fairest lin'd  Are but black to Rosalind.  Let no face be kept in mind  But the fair of Rosalind.'
TOUCHSTONE.I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners, andsuppers, and sleeping hours excepted. It is the rightbutter-women's rank to market.
ROSALIND.Out, fool!
TOUCHSTONE.For a taste:--  If a hart do lack a hind,  Let him seek out Rosalind.  If the cat will after kind,  So be sure will Rosalind.  Winter garments must be lin'd,  So must slender Rosalind.  They that reap must sheaf and bind,--  Then to cart with Rosalind.  Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,  Such a nut is Rosalind.  He that sweetest rose will find  Must find love's prick, and Rosalind.
This is the very false gallop of verses: why do you infectyourself with them?
ROSALIND.Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
TOUCHSTONE.Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
ROSALIND.I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it with amedlar. Then it will be the earliest fruit in the country:for you'll be rotten ere you be half ripe, and that's the rightvirtue of the medlar.
TOUCHSTONE.You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the forest judge.
[Enter CELIA, reading a paper.]
ROSALIND.Peace!Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.
CELIA.   'Why should this a desert be?      For it is unpeopled? No;    Tongues I'll hang on every tree      That shall civil sayings show:    Some, how brief the life of man      Runs his erring pilgrimage,    That the streching of a span      Buckles in his sum of age.    Some, of violated vows      'Twixt the souls of friend and friend;    But upon the fairest boughs,      Or at every sentence end,    Will I Rosalinda write,      Teaching all that read to know    The quintessence of every sprite      Heaven would in little show.    Therefore heaven nature charg'd      That one body should be fill'd    With all graces wide-enlarg'd:      Nature presently distill'd    Helen's cheek, but not her heart;      Cleopatra's majesty;    Atalanta's better part;      Sad Lucretia's modesty.    Thus Rosalind of many parts      By heavenly synod was devis'd,    Of many faces, eyes, and hearts,      To have the touches dearest priz'd.    Heaven would that she these gifts should have,      And I to live and die her slave.'
ROSALIND.O most gentle Jupiter!--What tedious homily of love haveyou wearied your parishioners withal, and never cried 'Havepatience, good people!'
CELIA.How now! back, friends; shepherd, go off a little:--gowith him, sirrah.
TOUCHSTONE.Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat; though notwith bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
[Exeunt CORIN and TOUCHSTONE.]
CELIA.Didst thou hear these verses?
ROSALIND.O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some ofthem had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
CELIA.That's no matter; the feet might bear the verses.
ROSALIND.Ay, but the feet were lame, and could not bear themselveswithout the verse, and therefore stood lamely in the verse.
CELIA.But didst thou hear without wondering how thy nameshould be hanged and carved upon these trees?
ROSALIND.I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder before youcame; for look here what I found on a palm-tree: I was neverso berhymed since Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat,which I can hardly remember.
CELIA.Trow you who hath done this?
ROSALIND.Is it a man?
CELIA.And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.Change you colour?
ROSALIND.I pray thee, who?
CELIA.O lord, lord! it is a hard matter for friends to meet; butmountains may be removed with earthquakes, and so encounter.
ROSALIND.Nay, but who is it?
CELIA.Is it possible?
ROSALIND.Nay, I pr'ythee now, with most petitionary vehemence,tell me who it is.
CELIA.O wonderful, wonderful, most wonderful wonderful! and yetagain wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping!
ROSALIND.Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I amcaparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in mydisposition? One inch of delay more is a South-sea of discovery.I pr'ythee tell me who is it? quickly, and speak apace. I wouldthou couldst stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed manout of thy mouth, as wine comes out of narrow-mouth'd bottle;either too much at once or none at all. I pr'ythee take the corkout of thy mouth that I may drink thy tidings.
CELIA.So you may put a man in your belly.
ROSALIND.Is he of God's making? What manner of man?Is his head worth a hat or his chin worth a beard?
CELIA.Nay, he hath but a little beard.
ROSALIND.Why, God will send more if the man will be thankful: let me staythe growth of his beard, if thou delay me not the knowledge ofhis chin.
CELIA.It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler'sheels and your heart both in an instant.
ROSALIND.Nay, but the devil take mocking: speak sad brow and true maid.
CELIA.I' faith, coz, 'tis he.
ROSALIND.Orlando?
CELIA.Orlando.
ROSALIND.Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and hose?--What did he when thou saw'st him? What said he? How look'd he?Wherein went he? What makes he here? Did he ask for me? Whereremains he? How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou seehim again? Answer me in one word.
CELIA.You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a word toogreat for any mouth of this age's size. To say ay and no tothese particulars is more than to answer in a catechism.
ROSALIND.But doth he know that I am in this forest, and inman's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the day he wrestled?
CELIA.It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the propositions ofa lover:--but take a taste of my finding him, and relish it withgood observance. I found him under a tree, like a dropp'd acorn.
ROSALIND.It may well be called Jove's tree, when it drops forth suchfruit.
CELIA.Give me audience, good madam.
ROSALIND.Proceed.
CELIA.There lay he, stretched along like a wounded knight.
ROSALIND.Though it be pity to see such a sight, it wellbecomes the ground.
CELIA.Cry, "holla!" to thy tongue, I pr'ythee; it curvetsunseasonably. He was furnished like a hunter.
ROSALIND.O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.
CELIA.I would sing my song without a burden: thou bring'st meout of tune.
ROSALIND.Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must speak.Sweet, say on.
CELIA.You bring me out.--Soft! comes he not here?
ROSALIND.'Tis he: slink by, and note him.
{CELIA and ROSALIND retire.]
[Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES.]
JAQUES.I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had aslief have been myself alone.
ORLANDO.And so had I; but yet, for fashion's sake, I thank youtoo for your society.
JAQUES.God buy you: let's meet as little as we can.
ORLANDO.I do desire we may be better strangers.
JAQUES.I pray you, mar no more trees with writing love songs intheir barks.
ORLANDO.I pray you, mar no more of my verses with reading themill-favouredly.
JAQUES.Rosalind is your love's name?
ORLANDO.Yes, just.
JAQUES.I do not like her name.
ORLANDO.There was no thought of pleasing you when she was christened.
JAQUES.What stature is she of?
ORLANDO.Just as high as my heart.
JAQUES.You are full of pretty answers. Have you not beenacquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them out ofrings?
ORLANDO.Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, fromwhence you have studied your questions.
JAQUES.You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of Atalanta'sheels. Will you sit down with me? and we two will railagainst our mistress the world, and all our misery.
ORLANDO.I will chide no breather in the world but myself, againstwhom I know most faults.
JAQUES.The worst fault you have is to be in love.
ORLANDO.'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue. I amweary of you.
JAQUES.By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found you.
ORLANDO.He is drowned in the brook; look but in, and you shall see him.
JAQUES.There I shall see mine own figure.
ORLANDO.Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
JAQUES.I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good Signior Love.
ORLANDO.I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur Melancholy.
[Exit JAQUES.--CELIA and ROSALIND come forward.]
ROSALIND.I will speak to him like a saucy lacquey,and under that habit play the knave with him.--Do you hear,forester?
ORLANDO.Very well: what would you?
ROSALIND.I pray you, what is't o'clock?
ORLANDO.You should ask me what time o' day; there's no clock in theforest.
ROSALIND.Then there is no true lover in the forest, else sighingevery minute and groaning every hour would detect the lazy footof time as well as a clock.
ORLANDO.And why not the swift foot of time? had not that been as proper?
ROSALIND.By no means, sir. Time travels in divers paces with diverspersons. I'll tell you who time ambles withal, who time trotswithal, who time gallops withal, and who he stands still withal.
ORLANDO.I pr'ythee, who doth he trot withal?
ROSALIND.Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between thecontract of her marriage and the day it is solemnized; if theinterim be but a se'nnight, time's pace is so hard that itseems the length of seven year.
ORLANDO.Who ambles time withal?
ROSALIND.With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that hathnot the gout: for the one sleeps easily because he cannot study,and the other lives merrily because he feels no pain; the onelacking the burden of lean and wasteful learning, the otherknowing no burden of heavy tedious penury. These time ambleswithal.
ORLANDO.Who doth he gallop withal?
ROSALIND.With a thief to the gallows; for though he go as softlyas foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.
ORLANDO.Who stays it still withal?
ROSALIND.With lawyers in the vacation; for they sleep between termand term, and then they perceive not how time moves.
ORLANDO.Where dwell you, pretty youth?
ROSALIND.With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the skirts ofthe forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
ORLANDO.Are you native of this place?
ROSALIND.As the coney, that you see dwell where she is kindled.
ORLANDO.Your accent is something finer than you could purchase inso removed a dwelling.
ROSALIND.I have been told so of many: but indeed an old religiousuncle of mine taught me to speak, who was in his youth an inlandman; one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell in love.I have heard him read many lectures against it; and I thank God Iam not a woman, to be touched with so many giddy offences as hehath generally taxed their whole sex withal.
ORLANDO.Can you remember any of the principal evils that he laidto the charge of women?
ROSALIND.There were none principal; they were all like one anotheras halfpence are; every one fault seeming monstrous till hisfellow fault came to match it.
ORLANDO.I pr'ythee recount some of them.
ROSALIND.No; I will not cast away my physic but on those that aresick. There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our youngplants with carving "Rosalind" on their barks; hangs odes uponhawthorns, and elegies on brambles; all, forsooth, deifying thename of Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger, I would givehim some good counsel, for he seems to have the quotidian of loveupon him.
ORLANDO.I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me your remedy.
ROSALIND.There is none of my uncle's marks upon you; he taught me how toknow a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sure you are notprisoner.
ORLANDO.What were his marks?
ROSALIND.A lean cheek; which you have not: a blue eye and sunken;which you have not: an unquestionable spirit; which you have not:a beard neglected; which you have not: but I pardon you for that,for simply your having in beard is a younger brother's revenue:--then your hose should be ungartered, your bonnet unbanded, yoursleeve unbuttoned, your shoe untied, and every thing about youdemonstrating a careless desolation. But you are no such man; youare rather point-device in your accoutrements, as loving yourselfthan seeming the lover of any other.
ORLANDO.Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
ROSALIND.Me believe it! you may as soon make her that you lovebelieve it; which, I warrant, she is apter to do than to confessshe does: that is one of the points in the which women still givethe lie to their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he thathangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind is so admired?
ORLANDO.I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of Rosalind, Iam that he, that unfortunate he.
ROSALIND.But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
ORLANDO.Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
ROSALIND.Love is merely a madness; and, I tell you, deserves aswell a dark house and a whip as madmen do: and the reason whythey are not so punished and cured is, that the lunacy is soordinary that the whippers are in love too. Yet I profess curingit by counsel.
ORLANDO.Did you ever cure any so?
ROSALIND.Yes, one; and in this manner. He was to imagine me hislove, his mistress; and I set him every day to woo me: at whichtime would I, being but a moonish youth, grieve, be effeminate,changeable, longing and liking; proud, fantastical, apish,shallow, inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles; for everypassion something and for no passion truly anything, as boys andwomen are for the most part cattle of this colour; would now likehim, now loathe him; then entertain him, then forswear him; nowweep for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor from hismad humour of love to a living humour of madness; which was, toforswear the full stream of the world and to live in a nookmerely monastic. And thus I cured him; and this way will I takeupon me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's heart,that there shall not be one spot of love in 't.
ORLANDO.I would not be cured, youth.
ROSALIND.I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind, andcome every day to my cote and woo me.
ORLANDO.Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me where it is.
ROSALIND.Go with me to it, and I'll show it you: and, by the way,you shall tell me where in the forest you live. Will you go?
ORLANDO.With all my heart, good youth.
ROSALIND.Nay, you must call me Rosalind.--Come, sister, will you go?
[Exeunt.]


SCENE III. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY; JAQUES at a distance observingthem.]
TOUCHSTONE.Come apace, good Audrey; I will fetch up your goats,Audrey. And how, Audrey? am I the man yet? Doth my simplefeature content you?
AUDREY.Your features! Lord warrant us! what features?
TOUCHSTONE.I am here with thee and thy goats, as the mostcapricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
JAQUES.[Aside] O knowledge ill-inhabited! worse than Jove in a thatch'dhouse!
TOUCHSTONE.When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor a man'sgood wit seconded with the forward child understanding, itstrikes a man more dead than a great reckoning in a littleroom.--Truly, I would the gods had made thee poetical.
AUDREY.I do not know what "poetical" is: is it honest in deed andword? is it a true thing?
TOUCHSTONE.No, truly: for the truest poetry is the most feigning;and lovers are given to poetry; and what they swear in poetrymay be said, as lovers, they do feign.
AUDREY.Do you wish, then, that the gods had made me poetical?
TOUCHSTONE.I do, truly, for thou swear'st to me thou art honest;now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some hope thou didstfeign.
AUDREY.Would you not have me honest?
TOUCHSTONE.No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favoured; for honestycoupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
JAQUES.[Aside] A material fool!
AUDREY.Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods make mehonest!
TOUCHSTONE.Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut wereto put good meat into an unclean dish.
AUDREY.I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
TOUCHSTONE.Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness! sluttishnessmay come hereafter. But be it as it may be, I will marry thee:and to that end I have been with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicarof the next village; who hath promised to meet me in this placeof the forest, and to couple us.
JAQUES.[Aside] I would fain see this meeting.
AUDREY.Well, the gods give us joy!
TOUCHSTONE.Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart, staggerin this attempt; for here we have no temple but the wood, noassembly but horn-beasts. But what though? Courage! As hornsare odious, they are necessary. It is said,--"Many a man knows noend of his goods;" right! many a man has good horns and knows noend of them. Well, that is the dowry of his wife; 'tis none ofhis own getting. Horns? Ever to poor men alone?--No, no; thenoblest deer hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single mantherefore blessed? No: as a walled town is more worthier than avillage, so is the forehead of a married man more honourable thanthe bare brow of a bachelor: and by how much defence is betterthan no skill, by so much is horn more precious than to want.Here comes Sir Oliver.
[Enter SIR OLIVER MARTEXT.]
Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met. Will you despatch ushere under this tree, or shall we go with you to your chapel?
MARTEXT.Is there none here to give the woman?
TOUCHSTONE.I will not take her on gift of any man.
MARTEXT.Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
JAQUES.[Discovering himself.] Proceed, proceed; I'll give her.
TOUCHSTONE.Good even, good Master 'What-ye-call't': how do you, sir?You are very well met: God 'ild you for your last company: Iam very glad to see you:--even a toy in hand here, sir:--nay;pray be covered.
JAQUES.Will you be married, motley?
TOUCHSTONE.As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb, andthe falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and as pigeonsbill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
JAQUES.And will you, being a man of your breeding, be marriedunder a bush, like a beggar? Get you to church and have a goodpriest that can tell you what marriage is: this fellow willbut join you together as they join wainscot; then one of you willprove a shrunk panel, and like green timber, warp, warp.
TOUCHSTONE.[Aside] I am not in the mind but I were better to bemarried of him than of another: for he is not like to marryme well; and not being well married, it will be a good excusefor me hereafter to leave my wife.
JAQUES.Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
TOUCHSTONE.Come, sweet Audrey;We must be married or we must live in bawdry.Farewell, good Master Oliver!--Not--  "O sweet Oliver,   O brave Oliver,  Leave me not behind thee."But,--  "Wind away,--   Begone, I say,  I will not to wedding with thee."
[Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE, and AUDREY.]
MARTEXT.'Tis no matter; ne'er a fantastical knave of them allshall flout me out of my calling.
[Exit.]


SCENE IV. Another part of the Forest. Before a Cottage.
[Enter ROSALIND and CELIA.]
ROSALIND.Never talk to me; I will weep.
CELIA.Do, I pr'ythee; but yet have the grace to consider thattears do not become a man.
ROSALIND.But have I not cause to weep?
CELIA.As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
ROSALIND.His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
CELIA.Something browner than Judas's: marry, his kisses are Judas's ownchildren.
ROSALIND.I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.
CELIA.An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
ROSALIND.And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch of holybread.
CELIA.He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana: a nun ofwinter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously; the very iceof chastity is in them.
ROSALIND.But why did he swear he would come this morning, and comes not?
CELIA.Nay, certainly, there is no truth in him.
ROSALIND.Do you think so?
CELIA.Yes; I think he is not a pick-purse nor a horse-stealer; butfor his verity in love, I do think him as concave as a coveredgoblet or a worm-eaten nut.
ROSALIND.Not true in love?
CELIA.Yes, when he is in; but I think he is not in.
ROSALIND.You have heard him swear downright he was.
CELIA.'Was' is not 'is': besides, the oath of a lover is nostronger than the word of a tapster; they are both theconfirmer of false reckonings. He attends here in the foreston the duke, your father.
ROSALIND.I met the duke yesterday, and had much question withhim. He asked me of what parentage I was; I told him, of as goodas he; so he laughed and let me go. But what talk we of fatherswhen there is such a man as Orlando?
CELIA.O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses, speaks bravewords, swears brave oaths, and breaks them bravely, quitetraverse, athwart the heart of his lover; as a puny tilter,that spurs his horse but on one side, breaks his staff like anoble goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly guides.--Who comes here?
[Enter CORIN.]
CORIN.Mistress and master, you have oft enquiredAfter the shepherd that complain'd of love,Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,Praising the proud disdainful shepherdessThat was his mistress.
CELIA.Well, and what of him?
CORIN.If you will see a pageant truly play'dBetween the pale complexion of true loveAnd the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,Go hence a little, and I shall conduct you,If you will mark it.
ROSALIND.O, come, let us remove:The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.Bring us to this sight, and you shall sayI'll prove a busy actor in their play.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE V. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE.]
SILVIUS.Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe:Say that you love me not; but say not soIn bitterness. The common executioner,Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,Falls not the axe upon the humbled neckBut first begs pardon. Will you sterner beThan he that dies and lives by bloody drops?
[Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, at a distance.]
PHEBE.I would not be thy executioner:I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye:'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,That eyes,--that are the frail'st and softest things,Who shut their coward gates on atomies,--Should be called tyrants, butchers, murderers!Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee:Now counterfeit to swoon; why, now fall down;Or, if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers.Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remainsSome scar of it; lean upon a rush,The cicatrice and capable impressureThy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes,Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not;Nor, I am sure, there is not force in eyesThat can do hurt.
SILVIUS.O dear Phebe,If ever,--as that ever may be near,--You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,Then shall you know the wounds invisibleThat love's keen arrows make.
PHEBE.But till that timeCome not thou near me; and when that time comesAfflict me with thy mocks, pity me not;As till that time I shall not pity thee.
ROSALIND.[Advancing] And why, I pray you? Who might be your mother,That you insult, exult, and all at once,Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty,--As, by my faith, I see no more in youThan without candle may go dark to bed,--Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?I see no more in you than in the ordinaryOf nature's sale-work:--Od's my little life,I think she means to tangle my eyes too!--No, faith, proud mistress, hope not after it;'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,That can entame my spirits to your worship.--You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,Like foggy south, puffing with wind and rain?You are a thousand times a properer manThan she a woman. 'Tis such fools as youThat makes the world full of ill-favour'd children:'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her;And out of you she sees herself more properThan any of her lineaments can show her;--But, mistress, know yourself; down on your knees,And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love:For I must tell you friendly in your ear,--Sell when you can; you are not for all markets:Cry the man mercy; love him; take his offer;Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.So take her to thee, shepherd;--fare you well.
PHEBE.Sweet youth, I pray you chide a year together:I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.
ROSALIND.He's fall'n in love with your foulness, and she'll fallin love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as she answers theewith frowning looks, I'll sauce her with bitter words.--Why lookyou so upon me?
PHEBE.For no ill-will I bear you.
ROSALIND.I pray you do not fall in love with me,For I am falser than vows made in wine:Besides, I like you not.--If you will know my house,'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.--Will you go, sister?--Shepherd, ply her hard.--Come, sister.--Shepherdess, look on him better,And be not proud; though all the world could see,None could be so abused in sight as he.Come to our flock.
[Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN.]
PHEBE.Dead shepherd! now I find thy saw of might;'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'
SILVIUS.Sweet Phebe,--
PHEBE.Ha! what say'st thou, Silvius?
SILVIUS.Sweet Phebe, pity me.
PHEBE.Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
SILVIUS.Wherever sorrow is, relief would be:If you do sorrow at my grief in love,By giving love, your sorrow and my griefWere both extermin'd.
PHEBE.Thou hast my love: is not that neighbourly?
SILVIUS.I would have you.
PHEBE.Why, that were covetousness.Silvius, the time was that I hated thee;And yet it is not that I bear thee love:But since that thou canst talk of love so well,Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,I will endure; and I'll employ thee too:But do not look for further recompenseThan thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.
SILVIUS.So holy and so perfect is my love,And I in such a poverty of grace,That I shall think it a most plenteous cropTo glean the broken ears after the manThat the main harvest reaps: lose now and thenA scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.
PHEBE.Know'st thou the youth that spoke to me erewhile?
SILVIUS.Not very well; but I have met him oft;And he hath bought the cottage and the boundsThat the old carlot once was master of.
PHEBE.Think not I love him, though I ask for him;'Tis but a peevish boy:--yet he talks well;--But what care I for words? yet words do wellWhen he that speaks them pleases those that hear.It is a pretty youth:--not very pretty:--But, sure, he's proud; and yet his pride becomes him:He'll make a proper man: the best thing in himIs his complexion; and faster than his tongueDid make offence, his eye did heal it up.He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall;His leg is but so-so; and yet 'tis well:There was a pretty redness in his lip;A little riper and more lusty redThan that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the differenceBetwixt the constant red and mingled damask.There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd himIn parcels as I did, would have gone nearTo fall in love with him: but, for my part,I love him not, nor hate him not; and yetI have more cause to hate him than to love him:For what had he to do to chide at me?He said mine eyes were black, and my hair black;And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:I marvel why I answer'd not again:But that's all one; omittance is no quittance.I'll write to him a very taunting letter,And thou shalt bear it: wilt thou, Silvius?
SILVIUS.Phebe, with all my heart.
PHEBE.I'll write it straight,The matter's in my head and in my heart:I will be bitter with him and passing short:Go with me, Silvius.
[Exeunt.]


ACT IV.
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
[Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and JAQUES.]
JAQUES.I pr'ythee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted with thee.
ROSALIND.They say you are a melancholy fellow.
JAQUES.I am so; I do love it better than laughing.
ROSALIND.Those that are in extremity of either are abominablefellows, and betray themselves to every modern censure worsethan drunkards.
JAQUES.Why, 'tis good to be sad and say nothing.
ROSALIND.Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
JAQUES.I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which isemulation; nor the musician's, which is fantastical; nor thecourtier's, which is proud; nor the soldier's, which isambitious; nor the lawyer's, which is politic; nor the lady's,which is nice; nor the lover's, which is all these: but it isa melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples, extractedfrom many objects: and, indeed, the sundry contemplation of mytravels; in which my often rumination wraps me in a mosthumorous sadness.
ROSALIND.A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to besad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see other men's;then to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyesand poor hands.
JAQUES.Yes, I have gained my experience.
ROSALIND.And your experience makes you sad: I had rather have a fool tomake me merry than experience to make me sad; and to travel forit too.
[Enter ORLANDO.]
ORLANDO.Good day, and happiness, dear Rosalind!
JAQUES.Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.
ROSALIND.Farewell, monsieur traveller: look you lisp and wear strangesuits; disable all the benefits of your own country; be outof love with your nativity, and almost chide God for makingyou that countenance you are; or I will scarce think you haveswam in a gondola.
[Exit JAQUES.]
Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been all this while?You a lover!--An you serve me such another trick, never comein my sight more.
ORLANDO.My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
ROSALIND.Break an hour's promise in love! He that will divide aminute into a thousand parts, and break but a part of thethousand part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may be saidof him that Cupid hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I'llwarrant him heart-whole.
ORLANDO.Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
ROSALIND.Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight: Ihad as lief be wooed of a snail.
ORLANDO.Of a snail!
ROSALIND.Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he carrieshis house on his head; a better jointure, I think, than youmake a woman: besides, he brings his destiny with him.
ORLANDO.What's that?
ROSALIND.Why, horns; which such as you are fain to be beholding toyour wives for: but he comes armed in his fortune, and preventsthe slander of his wife.
ORLANDO.Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.
ROSALIND.And I am your Rosalind.
CELIA.It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a Rosalind ofa better leer than you.
ROSALIND.Come, woo me, woo me; for now I am in a holiday humour,and like enough to consent.--What would you say to me now, anI were your very very Rosalind?
ORLANDO.I would kiss before I spoke.
ROSALIND.Nay, you were better speak first; and when you weregravelled for lack of matter, you might take occasion to kiss.Very good orators, when they are out, they will spit; and forlovers lacking,--God warn us!--matter, the cleanliest shift isto kiss.
ORLANDO.How if the kiss be denied?
ROSALIND.Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.
ORLANDO.Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
ROSALIND.Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress; or Ishould think my honesty ranker than my wit.
ORLANDO.What, of my suit?
ROSALIND.Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.Am not I your Rosalind?
ORLANDO.I take some joy to say you are, because I would be talking ofher.
ROSALIND.Well, in her person, I say I will not have you.
ORLANDO.Then, in mine own person, I die.
ROSALIND.No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is almost sixthousand years old, and in all this time there was not any mandied in his own person, videlicet, in a love-cause. Troilus hadhis brains dashed out with a Grecian club; yet he did what hecould to die before; and he is one of the patterns of love.Leander, he would have lived many a fair year, though Hero hadturned nun, if it had not been for a hot midsummer night; for,good youth, he went but forth to wash him in the Hellespont, and,being taken with the cramp, was drowned; and the foolishchroniclers of that age found it was--Hero of Sestos. But theseare all lies; men have died from time to time, and worms haveeaten them, but not for love.
ORLANDO.I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind; for, Iprotest, her frown might kill me.
ROSALIND.By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now Iwill be your Rosalind in a more coming-on disposition; andask me what you will, I will grant it.
ORLANDO.Then love me, Rosalind.
ROSALIND.Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays, and all.
ORLANDO.And wilt thou have me?
ROSALIND.Ay, and twenty such.
ORLANDO.What sayest thou?
ROSALIND.Are you not good?
ORLANDO.I hope so.
ROSALIND.Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?--Come,sister, you shall be the priest, and marry us.--Give me yourhand, Orlando:--What do you say, sister?
ORLANDO.Pray thee, marry us.
CELIA.I cannot say the words.
ROSALIND.You must begin,--'Will you, Orlando'--
CELIA.Go to:--Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?
ORLANDO.I will.
ROSALIND.Ay, but when?
ORLANDO.Why, now; as fast as she can marry us.
ROSALIND.Then you must say,--'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
ORLANDO.I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
ROSALIND.I might ask you for your commission; but,--I do takethee, Orlando, for my husband:--there's a girl goes before thepriest; and, certainly, a woman's thought runs before heractions.
ORLANDO.So do all thoughts; they are winged.
ROSALIND.Now tell me how long you would have her, after you have possessedher.
ORLANDO.For ever and a day.
ROSALIND.Say "a day," without the "ever." No, no, Orlando: men areApril when they woo, December when they wed: maids are May whenthey are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives. I willbe more jealous of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen;more clamorous than a parrot against rain; more new-fangled thanan ape; more giddy in my desires than a monkey: I will weep fornothing, like Diana in the fountain, and I will do that when youare disposed to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and that whenthou are inclined to sleep.
ORLANDO.But will my Rosalind do so?
ROSALIND.By my life, she will do as I do.
ORLANDO.O, but she is wise.
ROSALIND.Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the wiser,the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's wit, and it willout at the casement; shut that, and it will out at the keyhole;stop that, 'twill fly with the smoke out at the chimney.
ORLANDO.A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say,--'Wit,whither wilt?'
ROSALIND.Nay, you might keep that check for it, till you met your wife'swit going to your neighbour's bed.
ORLANDO.And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
ROSALIND.Marry, to say,--she came to seek you there. You shall nevertake her without her answer, unless you take her without hertongue. O, that woman that cannot make her fault her husband'soccasion, let her never nurse her child herself, for she willbreed it like a fool.
ORLANDO.For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
ROSALIND.Alas, dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours!
ORLANDO.I must attend the duke at dinner; by two o'clock Iwill be with thee again.
ROSALIND.Ay, go your ways, go your ways; I knew what you wouldprove; my friends told me as much, and I thought no less:--thatflattering tongue of yours won me:--'tis but one cast away,and so,--come death!--Two o'clock is your hour?
ORLANDO.Ay, sweet Rosalind.
ROSALIND.By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend me, andby all pretty oaths that are not dangerous, if you break one jotof your promise, or come one minute behind your hour, I willthink you the most pathetical break-promise, and the most hollowlover, and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind, that maybe chosen out of the gross band of the unfaithful: thereforebeware my censure, and keep your promise.
ORLANDO.With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my Rosalind: so,adieu!
ROSALIND.Well, Time is the old justice that examines all suchoffenders, and let time try: adieu!
[Exit ORLANDO.]
CELIA.You have simply misus'd our sex in your love-prate: we musthave your doublet and hose plucked over your head, and showthe world what the bird hath done to her own nest.
ROSALIND.O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou didst knowhow many fathom deep I am in love! But it cannot be sounded:my affection hath an unknown bottom, like the bay of Portugal.
CELIA.Or rather, bottomless; that as fast as you pour affectionin, it runs out.
ROSALIND.No; that same wicked bastard of Venus, that was begot ofthought, conceived of spleen, and born of madness; that blindrascally boy, that abuses every one's eyes, because his own areout, let him be judge how deep I am in love.--I'll tell thee,Aliena, I cannot be out of the sight of Orlando: I'll go finda shadow, and sigh till he come.
CELIA.And I'll sleep.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE II. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter JAQUES and Lords, in the habit of Foresters.]
JAQUES.Which is he that killed the deer?
LORD.Sir, it was I.
JAQUES.Let's present him to the duke, like a Roman conqueror; andit would do well to set the deer's horns upon his head for abranch of victory.--Have you no song, forester, for this purpose?
LORD.Yes, sir.
JAQUES.Sing it; 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it make noiseenough.
     SONG.
  1. What shall he have that kill'd the deer?  2. His leather skin and horns to wear.        1. Then sing him home:           [The rest shall bear this burden.]  Take thou no scorn to wear the horn;  It was a crest ere thou wast born.        1. Thy father's father wore it;        2. And thy father bore it;All.  The horn, the horn, the lusty horn,      Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE III. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter ROSALIND and CELIA.]
ROSALIND.How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock?And here much Orlando!
CELIA.I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he hathta'en his bow and arrows, and is gone forth--to sleep. Look,who comes here.
[Enter SILVIUS.]
SILVIUS.My errand is to you, fair youth;--My gentle Phebe did bid me give you this:
[Giving a letter.]
I know not the contents; but, as I guessBy the stern brow and waspish actionWhich she did use as she was writing of it,It bears an angry tenor: pardon me,I am but as a guiltless messenger.
ROSALIND.Patience herself would startle at this letter,And play the swaggerer; bear this, bear all:She says I am not fair; that I lack manners;She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,Were man as rare as Phoenix. Od's my will!Her love is not the hare that I do hunt;Why writes she so to me?--Well, shepherd, well,This is a letter of your own device.
SILVIUS.No, I protest, I know not the contents: Phebe did write it.
ROSALIND.Come, come, you are a fool,And turn'd into the extremity of love.I saw her hand: she has a leathern hand,A freestone-colour'd hand: I verily did thinkThat her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands;She has a huswife's hand: but that's no matter:I say she never did invent this letter:This is a man's invention, and his hand.
SILVIUS.Sure, it is hers.
ROSALIND.Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style;A style for challengers: why, she defies me,Like Turk to Christian: women's gentle brainCould not drop forth such giant-rude invention,Such Ethiop words, blacker in their effectThan in their countenance.--Will you hear the letter?
SILVIUS.So please you, for I never heard it yet;Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
ROSALIND.She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.[Reads]  'Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,  That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?'
Can a woman rail thus?
SILVIUS.Call you this railing?
ROSALIND.  'Why, thy godhead laid apart,   Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?'
Did you ever hear such railing?
  'Whiles the eye of man did woo me,   That could do no vengeance to me.'--
Meaning me a beast.--
  'If the scorn of your bright eyne   Have power to raise such love in mine,   Alack, in me what strange effect   Would they work in mild aspect?   Whiles you chid me, I did love;   How then might your prayers move?   He that brings this love to thee   Little knows this love in me:   And by him seal up thy mind;   Whether that thy youth and kind   Will the faithful offer take   Of me and all that I can make;   Or else by him my love deny,   And then I'll study how to die.'
SILVIUS.Call you this chiding?
CELIA.Alas, poor shepherd!
ROSALIND.Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity.--Wilt thou lovesuch a woman?--What, to make thee an instrument, and play falsestrains upon thee! Not to be endured!--Well, go your way to her,--for I see love hath made thee a tame snake,--and say this toher;--that if she love me, I charge her to love thee; if she willnot, I will never have her unless thou entreat for her.--If yoube a true lover, hence, and not a word; for here comes morecompany.
[Exit SILVIUS.]
[Enter OLIVER.]
OLIVER.Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,Where in the purlieus of this forest standsA sheep-cote fenc'd about with olive trees?
CELIA.West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom:The rank of osiers, by the murmuring stream,Left on your right hand, brings you to the place.But at this hour the house doth keep itself;There's none within.
OLIVER.If that an eye may profit by a tongue,Then should I know you by description;Such garments, and such years: 'The boy is fair,Of female favour, and bestows himselfLike a ripe sister: the woman low,And browner than her brother.' Are not youThe owner of the house I did inquire for?
CELIA.It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.
OLIVER.Orlando doth commend him to you both;And to that youth he calls his RosalindHe sends this bloody napkin:--are you he?
ROSALIND.I am: what must we understand by this?
OLIVER.Some of my shame; if you will know of meWhat man I am, and how, and why, and where,This handkerchief was stain'd.
CELIA.I pray you, tell it.
OLIVER.When last the young Orlando parted from you,He left a promise to return againWithin an hour; and, pacing through the forest,Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,And, mark, what object did present itself!Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age,And high top bald with dry antiquity,A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,Lay sleeping on his back: about his neckA green and gilded snake had wreath'd itself,Who, with her head nimble in threats, approach'dThe opening of his mouth; but suddenly,Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,And with indented glides did slip awayInto a bush: under which bush's shadeA lioness, with udders all drawn dry,Lay couching, head on ground, with cat-like watch,When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tisThe royal disposition of that beastTo prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:This seen, Orlando did approach the man,And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
CELIA.O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;And he did render him the most unnaturalThat liv'd amongst men.
OLIVER.And well he might so do,For well I know he was unnatural.
ROSALIND.But, to Orlando:--did he leave him there,Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?
OLIVER.Twice did he turn his back, and purpos'd so;But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,And nature, stronger than his just occasion,Made him give battle to the lioness,Who quickly fell before him; in which hurtlingFrom miserable slumber I awak'd.
CELIA.Are you his brother?
ROSALIND.Was it you he rescued?
CELIA.Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
OLIVER.'Twas I; but 'tis not I: I do not shameTo tell you what I was, since my conversionSo sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
ROSALIND.But, for the bloody napkin?--
OLIVER.By and by.When from the first to last, betwixt us two,Tears our recountments had most kindly bath'd,As, how I came into that desert place;--In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,Committing me unto my brother's love,Who led me instantly unto his cave,There stripp'd himself, and here upon his armThe lioness had torn some flesh away,Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted,And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound,And, after some small space, being strong at heart,He sent me hither, stranger as I am,To tell this story, that you might excuseHis broken promise, and to give this napkin,Dy'd in his blood, unto the shepherd-youthThat he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
[ROSALIND faints.]
CELIA.Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!
OLIVER.Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
CELIA.There is more in it:--Cousin--Ganymede!
OLIVER.Look, he recovers.
ROSALIND.I would I were at home.
CELIA.We'll lead you thither:--I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
OLIVER.Be of good cheer, youth:--you a man?--You lack a man's heart.
ROSALIND.I do so, I confess it. Ah, sir, a body would thinkthis was well counterfeited. I pray you tell your brother howwell I counterfeited.--Heigh-ho!--
OLIVER.This was not counterfeit; there is too great testimonyin your complexion that it was a passion of earnest.
ROSALIND.Counterfeit, I assure you.
OLIVER.Well then, take a good heart, and counterfeit to be a man.
ROSALIND.So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
CELIA.Come, you look paler and paler: pray you draw homewards.--Good sir, go with us.
OLIVER.That will I, for I must bear answer backHow you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
ROSALIND.I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend mycounterfeiting to him.--Will you go?
[Exeunt.]


ACT V.
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY.]
TOUCHSTONE.We shall find a time, Audrey; patience, gentle Audrey.
AUDREY.Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old gentleman'ssaying.
TOUCHSTONE.A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile Martext.But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the forest lays claim toyou.
AUDREY.Ay, I know who 'tis: he hath no interest in me in theworld: here comes the man you mean.
[Enter WILLIAM.]
TOUCHSTONE.It is meat and drink to me to see a clown: By my troth,we that have good wits have much to answer for; we shall beflouting; we cannot hold.
WILLIAM.Good even, Audrey.
AUDREY.God ye good even, William.
WILLIAM.And good even to you, sir.
TOUCHSTONE.Good even, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thyhead; nay, pr'ythee, be covered. How old are you, friend?
WILLIAM.Five and twenty, sir.
TOUCHSTONE.A ripe age. Is thy name William?
WILLIAM.William, sir.
TOUCHSTONE.A fair name. Wast born i' the forest here?
WILLIAM.Ay, sir, I thank God.
TOUCHSTONE."Thank God;"--a good answer. Art rich?
WILLIAM.Faith, sir, so-so.
TOUCHSTONE."So-so" is good, very good, very excellent good:--andyet it is not; it is but so-so. Art thou wise?
WILLIAM.Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
TOUCHSTONE.Why, thou say'st well. I do now remember a saying; 'Thefool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself tobe a fool.' The heathen philosopher, when he had a desire to eata grape, would open his lips when he put it into his mouth;meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and lips to open.You do love this maid?
WILLIAM.I do, sir.
TOUCHSTONE.Give me your hand. Art thou learned?
WILLIAM.No, sir.
TOUCHSTONE.Then learn this of me:--to have is to have; for it is a figure inrhetoric that drink, being poured out of cup into a glass, byfilling the one doth empty the other; for all your writers doconsent that ipse is he; now, you are not ipse, for I am he.
WILLIAM.Which he, sir?
TOUCHSTONE.He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you clown,abandon,--which is in the vulgar, leave,--the society,--whichin the boorish is company,--of this female,--which in the commonis woman,--which together is abandon the society of this female;or, clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better understanding,diest; or, to wit, I kill thee, make thee away, translate thylife into death, thy liberty into bondage: I will deal in poisonwith thee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy with theein faction; will o'er-run thee with policy; I will kill thee ahundred and fifty ways; therefore tremble and depart.
AUDREY.Do, good William.
WILLIAM.God rest you merry, sir.
[Exit.]
[Enter CORIN.]
CORIN.Our master and mistress seek you; come away, away!
TOUCHSTONE.Trip, Audrey, trip, Audrey;--I attend, I attend.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE II. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER.]
ORLANDO.Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you shouldlike her? that but seeing you should love her? and loving woo?and, wooing, she should grant? and will you persever to enjoyher?
OLIVER.Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the povertyof her, the small acquaintance, my sudden wooing, nor her suddenconsenting; but say with me, I love Aliena; say, with her, thatshe loves me; consent with both, that we may enjoy each other: itshall be to your good; for my father's house, and all the revenuethat was old Sir Rowland's will I estate upon you, and herelive and die a shepherd.
ORLANDO.You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow: thither willI invite the duke and all's contented followers. Go you andprepare Aliena; for, look you, here comes my Rosalind.
[Enter ROSALIND.]
ROSALIND.God save you, brother.
OLIVER.And you, fair sister.
[Exit.]
ROSALIND.O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see theewear thy heart in a scarf!
ORLANDO.It is my arm.
ROSALIND.I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws of a lion.
ORLANDO.Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
ROSALIND.Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to swoonwhen he show'd me your handkercher?
ORLANDO.Ay, and greater wonders than that.
ROSALIND.O, I know where you are:--nay, 'tis true: there was neveranything so sudden but the fight of two rams and Caesar'sthrasonical brag of "I came, saw, and overcame:" for your brotherand my sister no sooner met, but they looked; no sooner looked,but they loved; no sooner loved, but they sighed; no soonersighed, but they asked one another the reason; no sooner knew thereason, but they sought the remedy: and in these degrees havethey made pair of stairs to marriage, which they will climbincontinent, or else be incontinent before marriage: they are inthe very wrath of love, and they will together: clubs cannot partthem.
ORLANDO.They shall be married to-morrow; and I will bid the duketo the nuptial. But O, how bitter a thing it is to look intohappiness through another man's eyes! By so much the more shall Ito-morrow be at the height of heart-heaviness, by how much Ishall think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
ROSALIND.Why, then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
ORLANDO.I can live no longer by thinking.
ROSALIND.I will weary you, then, no longer with idle talking. Knowof me then,--for now I speak to some purpose,--that I know youare a gentleman of good conceit: I speak not this that you shouldbear a good opinion of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know youare; neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in somelittle measure draw a belief from you, to do yourself good, andnot to grace me. Believe then, if you please, that I can dostrange things: I have, since I was three year old, conversedwith a magician, most profound in his art and yet not damnable.If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture criesit out, when your brother marries Aliena, shall you marry her:--I know into what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is notimpossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient to you, to sether before your eyes to-morrow, human as she is, and without anydanger.
ORLANDO.Speak'st thou in sober meanings?
ROSALIND.By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I say Iam a magician. Therefore put you in your best array, bid yourfriends; for if you will be married to-morrow, you shall; andto Rosalind, if you will. Look, here comes a lover of mine, and alover of hers.
[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE.]
PHEBE.Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,To show the letter that I writ to you.
ROSALIND.I care not if I have: it is my studyTo seem despiteful and ungentle to you:You are there follow'd by a faithful shepherd;Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
PHEBE.Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
SILVIUS.It is to be all made of sighs and tears;--And so am I for Phebe.
PHEBE.And I for Ganymede.
ORLANDO.And I for Rosalind.
ROSALIND.And I for no woman.
SILVIUS.It is to be all made of faith and service;--And so am I for Phebe.
PHEBE.And I for Ganymede.
ORLANDO.And I for Rosalind.
ROSALIND.And I for no woman.
SILVIUS.It is to be all made of fantasy,All made of passion, and all made of wishes;All adoration, duty, and observance,All humbleness, all patience, and impatience,All purity, all trial, all observance;--And so am I for Phebe.
PHEBE.And so am I for Ganymede.
ORLANDO.And so am I for Rosalind.
ROSALIND.And so am I for no woman.
PHEBE.[To ROSALIND.] If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
SILVIUS.[To PHEBE.] If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
ORLANDO.If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
ROSALIND.Why do you speak too,--'Why blame you me to love you?'
ORLANDO.To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
ROSALIND.Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling of Irish wolvesagainst the moon.--[to SILVIUS] I will help you if I can;--[to PHEBE] I would love you if I could.--To-morrow meet me all together.--[to PHEBE] I will marry you if ever I marry woman, and I'll bemarried to-morrow:--[to ORLANDO] I will satisfy you if ever I satisfied man, and youshall be married to-morrow:--[to SILVIUS] I will content you if what pleases you contents you,and you shall be married to-morrow.[to ORLANDO] As you love Rosalind, meet.[to SILVIUS] As you love Phebe, meet;--and as I love no woman, I'll meet.--So, fare you well; I haveleft you commands.
SILVIUS.I'll not fail, if I live.
PHEBE.              Nor I.
ORLANDO.                       Nor I.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE III. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY.]
TOUCHSTONE.To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey; to-morrow will we bemarried.
AUDREY.I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is nodishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the world. Herecome two of the banished duke's pages.
[Enter two Pages.]
FIRST PAGE.Well met, honest gentleman.
TOUCHSTONE.By my troth, well met. Come sit, sit, and a song.
SECOND PAGE.We are for you: sit i' the middle.
FIRST PAGE.Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking, or spitting, orsaying we are hoarse, which are the only prologues to a badvoice?
SECOND PAGE.I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two gipsies on ahorse.
    SONG.      I. It was a lover and his lass,  With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, That o'er the green corn-field did pass  In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,  When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding: Sweet lovers love the spring.
       II. Between the acres of the rye,  With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, These pretty country folks would lie,  In the spring time, &c.
      III. This carol they began that hour,  With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, How that a life was but a flower,  In the spring time, &c.
      IV. And therefore take the present time,  With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino, For love is crowned with the prime,  In the spring time, &c.
TOUCHSTONE.Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no greatmatter in the ditty, yet the note was very untimeable.
FIRST PAGE.You are deceived, sir; we kept time, we lost not our time.
TOUCHSTONE.By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear sucha foolish song. God be with you; and God mend your voices! Come,Audrey.
[Exeunt.]


SCENE IV. Another part of the Forest.
[Enter DUKE Senior, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER, and CELIA.]
DUKE SENIOR.Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boyCan do all this that he hath promised?
ORLANDO.I sometimes do believe and sometimes do not:As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.
[Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE.]
ROSALIND.Patience once more, whiles our compact is urg'd:--
[To the Duke.]
You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,You will bestow her on Orlando here?
DUKE SENIOR.That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
ROSALIND.[To Orlando.] And you say you will have her when I bring her?
ORLANDO.That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
ROSALIND.[To Phebe.] You say you'll marry me, if I be willing?
PHEBE.That will I, should I die the hour after.
ROSALIND.But if you do refuse to marry me,You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
PHEBE.So is the bargain.
ROSALIND.[To Silvius.] You say that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
SILVIUS.Though to have her and death were both one thing.
ROSALIND.I have promis'd to make all this matter even.Keep you your word, O duke, to give your daughter;--You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter;--Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me;Or else, refusing me, to wed this shepherd:--Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry herIf she refuse me:--and from hence I go,To make these doubts all even.
[Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA.]
DUKE SENIOR.I do remember in this shepherd-boySome lively touches of my daughter's favour.
ORLANDO.My lord, the first time that I ever saw himMethought he was a brother to your daughter:But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,And hath been tutor'd in the rudimentsOf many desperate studies by his uncle,Whom he reports to be a great magician,Obscured in the circle of this forest.
JAQUES.There is, sure, another flood toward, and these couples arecoming to the ark. Here comes a pair of very strange beastswhich in all tongues are called fools.
[Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY.]
TOUCHSTONE.Salutation and greeting to you all!
JAQUES.Good my lord, bid him welcome. This is the motley-mindedgentleman that I have so often met in the forest: he hathbeen a courtier, he swears.
TOUCHSTONE.If any man doubt that, let him put me to my purgation.I have trod a measure; I have flattered a lady; I have beenpolitic with my friend, smooth with mine enemy; I have undonethree tailors; I have had four quarrels, and like to have foughtone.
JAQUES.And how was that ta'en up?
TOUCHSTONE.Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the seventh cause.
JAQUES.How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.
DUKE SENIOR.I like him very well.
TOUCHSTONE.God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I press inhere, sir, amongst the rest of the country copulatives, to swearand to forswear; according as marriage binds and blood breaks:--Apoor virgin, sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own; apoor humour of mine, sir, to take that that no man else will;rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a poor-house; as yourpearl in your foul oyster.
DUKE SENIOR.By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
TOUCHSTONE.According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.
JAQUES.But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the quarrel onthe seventh cause?
TOUCHSTONE.Upon a lie seven times removed;--bear your body moreseeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir, I did dislike the cut of acertain courtier's beard; he sent me word, if I said his beardwas not cut well, he was in the mind it was: this is called theRetort courteous. If I sent him word again it was not well cut,he would send me word he cut it to please himself: this is calledthe Quip modest. If again, it was not well cut, he disabled myjudgment: this is called the Reply churlish. If again, it was notwell cut, he would answer I spake not true: this is called theReproof valiant. If again, it was not well cut, he would say Ilie: this is called the Countercheck quarrelsome: and so, to theLie circumstantial, and the Lie direct.
JAQUES.And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
TOUCHSTONE.I durst go no further than the Lie circumstantial, norhe durst not give me the Lie direct; and so we measuredswords and parted.
JAQUES.Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
TOUCHSTONE.O, sir, we quarrel in print by the book, as you havebooks for good manners: I will name you the degrees. The first,the Retort courteous; the second, the Quip modest; the third, theReply churlish; the fourth, the Reproof valiant; the fifth, theCountercheck quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with circumstance;the seventh, the Lie direct. All these you may avoid but the LieDirect; and you may avoid that too with an 'If'. I knew whenseven justices could not take up a quarrel; but when the partieswere met themselves, one of them thought but of an 'If', as: 'Ifyou said so, then I said so;' and they shook hands, and sworebrothers. Your 'If' is the only peace-maker;--much virtue in'If.'
JAQUES.Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at anything, andyet a fool.
DUKE SENIOR.He uses his folly like a stalking-horse, and under thepresentation of that he shoots his wit.
[Enter HYMEN, leading ROSALIND in woman's clothes; and CELIA.]
[Still MUSIC.]
HYMEN. Then is there mirth in heaven, When earthly things made even         Atone together. Good duke, receive thy daughter; Hymen from heaven brought her,         Yea, brought her hither, That thou mightst join her hand with his, Whose heart within his bosom is.
ROSALIND.[To DUKE SENIOR.] To you I give myself, for I am yours.[To ORLANDO.] To you I give myself, for I am yours.
DUKE SENIOR.If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
ORLANDO.If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
PHEBE.If sight and shape be true,Why then, my love, adieu!
ROSALIND.[To DUKE SENIOR.] I'll have no father, if you be not he;--[To ORLANDO.] I'll have no husband, if you be not he;--[To PHEBE.] Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
HYMEN.  Peace, ho! I bar confusion:  'Tis I must make conclusion    Of these most strange events:  Here's eight that must take hands  To join in Hymen's bands,    If truth holds true contents.[To ORLANDO and ROSALIND.] You and you no cross shall part:[To OLIVER and CELIA.] You and you are heart in heart;[To PHEBE.] You to his love must accord,Or have a woman to your lord:--[To TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY.] You and you are sure together,As the winter to foul weather.Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,Feed yourselves with questioning,That reason wonder may diminish,How thus we met, and these things finish.
     SONG  Wedding is great Juno's crown;    O blessed bond of board and bed!  'Tis Hymen peoples every town;    High wedlock then be honoured;  Honour, high honour, and renown,  To Hymen, god of every town!
DUKE SENIOR.O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!Even daughter, welcome in no less degree.
PHEBE.[To SILVIUS.] I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
[Enter JAQUES DE BOIS.]
JAQUES DE BOIS.Let me have audience for a word or two;I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,That bring these tidings to this fair assembly:--Duke Frederick, hearing how that every dayMen of great worth resorted to this forest,Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,In his own conduct, purposely to takeHis brother here, and put him to the sword:And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;Where, meeting with an old religious man,After some question with him, was convertedBoth from his enterprise and from the world;His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,And all their lands restored to them againThat were with him exil'd. This to be trueI do engage my life.
DUKE SENIOR.Welcome, young man:Thou offer'st fairly to thy brother's wedding:To one, his lands withheld; and to the other,A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.First, in this forest, let us do those endsThat here were well begun and well begot:And after, every of this happy number,That have endur'd shrewd days and nights with us,Shall share the good of our returned fortune,According to the measure of their states.Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity,And fall into our rustic revelry:--Play, music!--and you brides and bridegrooms all,With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
JAQUES.Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,The duke hath put on a religious life,And thrown into neglect the pompous court?
JAQUES DE BOIS.He hath.
JAQUES.To him will I: out of these convertitesThere is much matter to be heard and learn'd.--[To DUKE SENIOR] You to your former honour I bequeath;Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:--[To ORLANDO] You to a love that your true faith doth merit:--[To OLIVER] You to your land, and love, and great allies:--[To SILVIUS] You to a long and well-deserved bed:--[To TOUCHSTONE] And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyageIs but for two months victuall'd.--So to your pleasures;I am for other than for dancing measures.
DUKE SENIOR.Stay, Jaques, stay.
JAQUES.To see no pastime I; what you would haveI'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.
[Exit.]
DUKE SENIOR.Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.
[A dance.]


EPILOGUE
ROSALIND.It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue; butit is no more unhandsome than to see the lord the prologue.If it be true that good wine needs no bush, 'tis true that a goodplay needs no epilogue. Yet to good wine they do use good bushes;and good plays prove the better by the help of good epilogues.What a case am I in, then, that am neither a good epilogue norcannot insinuate with you in the behalf of a good play! I am notfurnished like a beggar; therefore to beg will not become me: myway is to conjure you; and I'll begin with the women. I chargeyou, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as much ofthis play as please you: and I charge you, O men, for the loveyou bear to women;--as I perceive by your simpering, none of youhates them,--that between you and the women the play may please.If I were a woman, I would kiss as many of you as had beards thatpleased me, complexions that liked me, and breaths that I defiednot; and, I am sure, as many as have good beards, or good faces,or sweet breaths, will, for my kind offer, when I make curtsy,bid me farewell.
[Exeunt.]